{"name":"Researches Into The History Of Playing Cards","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1816__singer___researches_into_the_history_of_playing_cards.pdf","mytitle":"Researches Into The History Of Playing Cards","mylang":"de"}
RESEARCHES
INTO THE HISTORY OF
PLAYING CARDS;
WITH ILLUSTRATIONS
#rtgtn of $tinting
AND
ENGRAVING ON WOOD.
By SAMUEL WELLER SINGER.
LONDON:
PRINTED BY T. BENSLEY AND SON
FOR ROBERT TRIPHOOK, N° 23, OLD BOND STFEET.
1816.
• '/}t*?n ir///. ' /ttctr///_ '/it /// C> tty^ttft-t/
/■t/ ■ y.i'tttr/ ran ,
• ■
• • • • . « • • : •
• . • • • ••
TO
WILLIAM ROSCOE, ESQ.
IN TESTIMONY OF
THE HIGHEST ADMIRATION OF HIS DOMESTIC AND PATRIOTIC VIRTUES,
AND IN GRATEFUL REMEMBRANCE OF THE PLEASURE DERIVED
FROM HIS WRITINGS,
THE FOLLOWING PAGES ARE DEDICATED,
BY HIS OBEDIENT AND FAITHFUL SERVANT,
THE AUTHOR.
I
I
\
/
<
TWO HUNDRED AND FIFTY COPIES ARE PRINTED, WHICH ARE DISPOSED OF IN THE
FOLLOWING MANNER.
SUBSCRIBERS.
HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE PRINCE REGENT.
HIS MAJESTY'S LIBRARY.
LIBRARY OF THE LONDON INSTITUTION.
LIBRARY OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
LIBRARY OF THE ALFRED SOCIETY.
C. Abbott, Esq. Temple.
Joseph Abbot, Esq. Dublin.
J. Adolphus, Esq. Pump Court, Temple.
N.Ainsworth, Esq. Newton, near Middlewich.
E. F. Akers, Esq. Berrymead Priory, Acton.
Hon. E. Arundel, Wardour Castle.
Right Hon. and Rev. Lord Aston.
Messrs. J. & A. Arch, Cornhill. 12 Copies.
B.
Rev. E. Balme, Russell Place.
Messrs. Barry and Son, Bristol. 4 Copies.
Right Hon. The Earl of Besborough.
Rev. W. Beloe, Kensington.
W. Bentham, Esq. Gower Street.
Messrs. Beilby and Co. Birmingham.
James Bindley, Esq. Stamp Office.
T. F. Billam, Esq. Leeds.
Philip Bliss, Esq. St. John's Coll. Oxford.
The Marquess of Blandford.
William liolland, Esq. Adelphi Terrace.
J. Bolton, Esq.
Mr. liooth, Duke Street, Portland Place.
John Broadley, Esq. Hull.
Henry Broadley, Esq. Trinity Coll. Cambr.
Mr. John Broster, Chester.
Sir Egerton Brydges, Bart. M. P.
E. Bury, Esq. Newton St. Leu, Bath.
Dr. A. P. Buchan, Percy Street.
Messrs. Budd and Calkin, Pall Mall. 3 Copies.
C.
John Caley, Esq. Gray's Inn Square.
J. Chamier, Esq. Grosvenor Place.
Messrs. E. Charnley and Son, Newcastle.
J. Clarke, Esq. Doughty Street.
Mr. Clarke, New Bond Street.
G. Cooper, Esq.
T. Cole, Esq. Bristol.
Mr. Constable.
Mr. Coombe, Leicester.
J. Crosse, Esq. Hull.
R. P. Cruden, Esq. Gravesend.
Miss Currer, Eshton Hall, Skipton.
D.
P. Dauncey, Esq.
Debbieg, Esq. Park Street, Baker Street
Cholmondeley Deriug, Esq. Lockleys, Herts.
Rev. T. F. Dibdin, Kensin to n.
I. D'Israeli, Esq.
viii SUBSCRIBERS.
J. Dobree, Esq. Old Broad Street.
F.Douec, Esq. Charlotte Street, Portland Place.
E.
Mr. John Ebers, Bond Street. 2 Copies.
F.
J. Fitchett, Esq. Warrington.
Mr. Floyer.
Mr. Forster, St. Martin's Lane. 3 Copies.
F. Freeling, Esq. Post Office.
Geo. Freer, Esq. Birmingham.
Hookham Frere, Esq.
Mr. J . Fry, Bristol. 2 Copies.
J. S. Furlong, Esq. Dublin.
G.
Octavius Gilchrist, Esq. Stamford.
J. P. Glen, Esq. Broad Street Place.
John Goodford, Esq. Yeovill.
Mr. Godwin, Bath.
Right Hon. Thomas Grenville, M. P.
Mr. Grapel, Liverpool.
Mr. Gutch, Bristol.
H.
Lord Viscount Harberton.
J. P. Hanrott, Esq. Lincoln's Inn.
Mr. Joseph Harding.
J. Haslewood, Esq. Conduit Street.
Richard Heber, Esq. Hodnet Hall, Salop.
George Hibbert, Esq. Clapham.
T. Hill, Esq. New Inn.
C. Hodges, Esq. St. James's Street.
J. Holford, Esq. Chancery Lane.
R. H. Hobson, Esq. Liverpool.
J. Hyde, Esq. Manchester.
J.
The Countess of Jersey.
Mr. Jones, Dublin.
L.
Robert Lang, Esq. Portland Place.
Sir H. Lawson, Bart.
J. Lane, Esq. Lympstone, Devon.
Mr. Laing, Edinburgh. 3 Copies.
Messrs. Lackington and Co. 6 Copies.
Earl of Leitrim.
Mr. Charles Lewis.
Lord Viscount Lismore.
Joseph Littledale, Esq. Gray's Inn.
Edward Littledale, Esq. Gray's Inn.
A. Littledale, Esq.
Messrs. Longman and Co. 24 Copies.
C. Lutwidge, Esq. Hull.
E. Lydiatt, Esq.
M.
J. J. Masquerier, Esq. Seymour Street.
Mr. N. Mahon, Dublin. 3 Copies.
Rev. Daniel Macneil, Dublin.
Mr. Major, Smithfield. 6 Copies.
J. H. Markland, Esq. Temple.
Mr. Maclean, Sackville Street.
Mr. Mercier, Anglesea Str. Dublin. 2 Copies.
Rev. John Mitford, Benhall, Suffolk.
W. H. Miller, Esq. Camberwell.
James Midgeley, Esq. Rochdale.
W. Monck Mason, Esq. Dublin.
N.
Rev. Archdeacon Nares, Reading.
Hon. Geo. Nassau, Charles Str. Berkeley Sq.
G. Neunberg, Esq. Stamford.
J. Nichols, Esq. Highbury.
Mr. J. Noel, Castle Street.
Hon. F. North, St. James's Place.
O.
Right Hon. Lord Ossulston.
W. Y. Ottley, Esq. Kensington.
A. Oswald, Esq. Edinburgh.
P.
Messrs. Payne and Foss, Pall Mall. 4 Copies.
James Perry, Esq. Tavistock House.
Roger Pettiward, Esq . FinboroughHall, Suffolk.
J. D. Phelps, Esq. Lincoln's Inn.
J. Plunkett, Esq. Rock Savage, near Dublin.
SUBSCRIBERS
Thomas Ponton, Esq. Hill Street.
Rev. D. F. Pryce, Harwich.
W. Prest, Esq. Lawrence Lane.
R.
R. Ray, Esq. Gower Street.
Mr. A. A. Renouard, Paris. 3 Copies.
James Rimington, Esq. Bath.
Messrs. Robinson and Sons, Leeds. 6 Copies.
W. Roscoe, Esq. Liverpool.
Mr. Rodford, Bookseller, Hull.
His Grace the Duke of Rutland, K. G.
3.
Mr. Setchell, Bookseller. 4 Copies.
Mr. John Sheepshanks, Leeds.
Rev. Lancelot Sharpe, Mark Lane.
Rev. R. Slaney, Penkridge, Stafford.
Rich. Simmons, Esq. Albany.
G. J. Singer, Esq.
J. P. Southgate, Esq. Forest Hill.
Rev. T. Speidell, St. John s College, Oxford.
Right Hon. Earl Spencer, K. G
A. Strettell, Esq.
Sir M. M. Sykes, Bart. M. P.
T.
George Watson Taylor, Esq. Saville Row.
John Temple, E9q. Brompton.
Messrs. Todd, York. 2 Copies.
Dawson Turner, Esq. Yarmouth.
U.
Right Hon. Viscount Valentia, Arley Hall.
Mr. Upham, Bath. 1 Copies.
E. V. Utterson, Esq. Hermitage, Stanmore.
Mr. Upcott, London Institution.
G. Urquhart, Esq.
A. Urquhart, Esq. East India House.
W.
Mrs. Watson.
Messrs. Warder, Exchange Alley. 4 Copies.
Rev. Stephen Weston, Edward St. Portman Sq.
Rev. Henry White, Lichfield.
Mr. Wheatley, Strand.
Roger Wilbraham Esq. Stratton Street.
B. G. Windus, Esq. Bishopgate Street.
Mr. E. Wilson, Cornhill. 2 Copies.
Mr. Wilson, Hull. 8 Copies.
Y.
Right Hon. Lord Yarborough.
Reserved for the Claims of the Universities, &c. 11 Copies.
PREFACE.
Preface to a trifle of this nature may
seem an unnecessary appendage, yet in
conformity with custom, and impressed
with that anxious feeling which attends
a literary novice on his first appeal to a
critical tribunal, I shall offer a few words by way of
introduction.
This has alternately been considered the most in
teresting, and the dullest part of a book ; but the
common consent of authors in all ages has made it
an almost necessary accompaniment of every species of
literary composition. Prefaces may not unaptly be com
pared to letters of recommendation written by a partial
friend, and must be received by those to whom they
are addressed with the same indulgence. In this part
of the writer's and the reader's intercourse, it is allow
able to descend from the dignity of authorship, to un
bend from austere forms and dry formalities; it is here
that the writer may without offence obtrude himself
upon the reader, and explain his pretensions to hold
Xll
converse with him for a season : with this view I pro
ceed to state what may be expected on the present
occasion.
It had some time been my intention to have given a
translation of the- learned Bullet's " tlechcrch.es sur les
Cartes a Jouer" when accident threw in my way the
very early pack of German cards which are engraved
in the following work : this led to the perusal of the
ingenious papers upon the subject in the eighth volume
of the Archaeologia. The subsequent acquisition of the
curious Essay by Brietkopf, and the kind communica
tions and friendly aid of Francis Douce, Esq. whose
collection was freely thrown open to me, led to an
alteration of plan, and materials having accumulated,
what was at first intended to have formed a small pam
phlet, has grown up into a formidable volume.
A subject which was deemed by a first-rate scholar
worthy of his attention, may be supposed not entirely
uninteresting. Dr. Hyde, the learned orientalist, who
has published a very curious book upon Chess, an
nounced his intention of giving the world a History of
Cards. Whether more serious objects diverted his
attention, or whether he was disappointed in his en
quiries, and found the results too unimportant for his
purpose, I know not; but his promise to the public
was never made good ; nor among his papers which
have been preserved, is there any evidence of his having
made collections on the subject. Those who take in
• * •
Xlll
terest in researches of this kind, will join me in regret
ting that we have been deprived of the information
which his great learning and extensive reading would
have enabled him to furnish, particularly from those
sources whence most was to be expected, the oriental
writers. It is feared the reader, in perusing the follow
ing pages, will have but too much cause to lament that
the subject has fallen into the hands of so unworthy
a successor.
The first section is devoted to the Origin of Cards.
The principal novelty consists in the specimens of ori
ental cards, and in the opinions built upon them. ,1
trust the deductions drawn from the materials collected
are not overstrained, but such only as are warranted by
the evidence adduced. In enquiries of this nature it is
unfortunately necessary to call in the aid of conjecture ;
for it has been justly observed, that those who would fix
the epoch of the invention or the nation to whom it
belongs, must be enabled to draw their materials from
very recondite sources, and that but little assistance is
to be derived from European writers.
The history of Playing-cards is so intimately con
nected with the origin of the arts of Engraving on Wood
and Printing, that a large portion of the second section
will be found devoted to a consideration of the pro
bable source whence those arts were derived. If the
account which gives the honor of the invention of Xylo
xiv
graphy to the Card-makers be credited, it will be ob
vious that we owe the rise of that art
" Which breathes a soul into our silent walls,"
to these objects of amusement: and this circumstance
gives to the whole inquiry more importance, and a
higher degree of interest. The sketch of Typographical
history here attempted, it is believed, may lay claim to
the merit of being the most complete which has been
hitherto given to the English reader, and at the same
time will, I trust, be considered the most impartial ; at
least, I have endeavoured to divest my mind of preju
dice, and have given the evidence fairly on both sides
of the question, deducing from it the conclusions which
a mature consideration seemed to warrant. It is to be
regretted that on this subject so much must still be left
in uncertainty.
The third section embraces what scanty information
could be collected respecting some of the principal and
most interesting of the games at cards.
These inquiries may perhaps have been deemed of
more importance than the reader will be pleased to allow
to them, for objects which have long engaged the atten
tion, acquire a consequence in our estimation, with
which those whose pursuits are of a different nature,
cannot reasonably be expected to have any sympathy.
But there are a few individuals who have declared
XV
themselves interested in the subjects here treated, whose
approbation, if obtained, will amply repay my labours.
I could not expect that a work of this nature should
have any claim to popular favour, and indeed the small
impression which has been taken off, demonstrates my
expectations in this respect.
Unused to literary composition, and engaged in avo
cations of more immediate and indispensable necessity,
the following pages, compiled at remote intervals of
leisure, will no doubt bear marks of the desultory man
ner in which they have been composed, and of the want
of skill in the writer. I have no better apology to offer
for all imperfections of style and arrangement in the
book: and I urge not this to deprecate criticism, sensi
ble of the truth of the assertion, " that the disadvan
tages under which an author labours are no excuse for
the imperfections of his work." But anxious it should
be understood that I am not unconscious of some of its
defects, which would have been avoided, had my abili
ties equalled the desire I felt to justify the partiality of
those at whose instance, and under whose patronage, it
has been written.
Of the Prints, which may be considered the most
interesting feature in the present work, I may be per
mitted to speak in terms of just commendation; they do
honour to the artists employed.1 The typographical
1 Mr. Swaine for the Engravings on Copper. Mr. E. Byfield for those on Wood.
XVI
execution is in character with all the beautiful produc
tions of Mr. Bensley's press : England has reason to be
proud of the perfection to which this art has arrived in
his hands.
To hope for fame or profit from an undertaking of
such limited interest would be unreasonable; and amid
thefumum et opes strepitumque of this period big with
the fate of nations, what writer of Archaeological nugce
can expect to be heard, even if he possessed the taste
and graceful diction of aWarton?
It is however only by comparison that the value and
utility of any human pursuit can be appreciated; per
haps those who spend no small portion of their lives in
examining the form of a crystal, or settling the genus of
an insect, are more usefully, and certainly more inno
cently employed, than some of the heroes of the his
toric muse. The besoin d'agir reigns in every bosom,
and it is well for those of whose amusements it may be
said that they are at least harmless ; at the same time,
they only are the truly well employed, whose lives are
devoted to the amelioration of the condition of their
fellow beings.
North End, Fulham, Feb. \Qth, 1816.
SECTION THE FIRST.
ON
THE ORIGIN OF CARDS.
DI QUELLE CARTE, E DI QUEL MAZZO STRANO
L'ORIGINE CERCANDE, E IL PRIMO ARCANO.
Bettinelli II Giuoco delie Curiepoema, Canto I.
RESEARCHES INTO THE HISTORY
OF
PLAYING CARDS, &c.
HE origin of many of the most important
inventions of human ingenuity, notwith
standing the influence they have had on
the progress of civilization, seems lost in
the darkness and obscurity of the tradi
tionary annals of remote ages. Most of
them have, however, met with that atten
tion from curious inquirers into the his
tory of manners and customs, Avhich their
respective importance has appeared to deserve. And among the
rest, the games, sports, and pastimes, which took their rise with the
dawn of refinement and civil polish, have been considered among
the most interesting objects of research.
The game of chess in particular has been fortunate in the atten
tion which has been paid to its history and probable origin, by the
learned, and the curious ; while Cards, which will be found in the
sequel to be intimately connected with chess, and certainly not of
much less interest, have met with but few inquirers into their his
tory, and from those few but very cursory attention.
B
2
As we presume the origin of Cards to be much anterior to the
period" usually affixed to their invention, our attempt will be to
trace their origin backward, as the traveller ascends a river to seek
its source ; and, though we may not discover the spring-head, yet
will this retrograde journey along the stream of time be at
tended with its advantages ; as in its course we shall probably meet
with much that is of curiosity and interest to beguile the tedium of
the way. Proceed we, therefore, to notice the earliest mention of
them, by writers of various European nations, passing from one
country to another in regular order.
According to Breitkopf, and Heinectcen, a* book printed in the
fifteenth century, mentions the year 1300 as the precise period of
the introduction of Cards into Germany ; and the former observes,
that the information may be relied on with some degree of confi
dence, as it coincides with evidence derived from the old town3
books of several German cities ; in which Cards are not named pre
vious to that period, but that in many of rather subsequent date
they are expressly mentioned.
France, it should seem, cannot boast a prior acquaintance with
them ; for those* who have appealed to a decree of St. Louis as a
testimony, have assuredly been mistaken: it appears to allude
• The reigns of Charles V. or VI. of
France, about the close of the fourteenth
century. Menesthier, Biblioth. cu-
RIEUSE ET INSTRUCTIVE, t. H. p. 174;
followed by Bullet, Schoepflinius, Fabri-
cius, Fournier, Daniel, St. Foix, and num
berless other writers.
1 Das Gulden Spiel, printed by
Gunther Zeiner, Augsburg, 1472, folio.
Tit. 5. I2un ret lias epiel tol tmtrrto bit ate ic?>
gtUetn ban, 00 iet te sommen in teutacfelanB Her
rratrn, in Htm jar Da man salt ban trim eeburt tKX*
etnV fciribunUttt jar.
» That of Augsburg, 1275, which is at
tested by the emperor Rudolph I. al-
th >ugh it mentions other games, makes no
mention of Cards. The ancient Code of
Nuremberg, wherein gambling high is
prohibited, between the years 1286 and
1299, does not enumerate them among
other common games. But in a later one,
of 1380-4, Cards are mentioned among the
games which are permitted. Breitkopf
presumes that if the other old town
books in Germany were examined, it is
more than probable the precise time of
their first introduction into that country
might be fixed.
4 Papillon Trait6 Historique de la
Gravure en Bois, &c. Tom. I. p. 80.
3
to dice and chess only. Cards make their appearance, in the
annals of Provence about the year 1361, and it appears, that the
knave, (Valtt,) was then designated by the name of Tuchim, the
appellation by which a formidable band of robbers were known,
who, at that time were committing horrible ravages in the Comtat
Venaissin.* Their further progress in France is presumed to be
proved from the mention made of them in the chronicle of Petit Jean
de Saintre* under the reign of Charles V. and from a decree of that
monarch against gaming in 1369- It appears, therefore, that the
Germans and the French became acquainted with them about the
same time. A recent discovery of M. Van Praet seems, however,
to establish it as certain, that Cards were known in France, at least
as early as 1341. He has found them mentioned in a MS. belong
ing to M. Lancelot, entitled " Renard le Contrefait."
Si comme fols et folles sont
Qui pour gaigner au bordel vont
Jouent aux des, aux Cartes aux tables
Qui a Dieu ne sont délectables.
This romance appears by some subsequent verses to have been
« Tuchim. Pillard, Traitre, Rebelle.
Roquefort, Glossaire de la Langue Ro
mane, in voce.
1 Hist, et Chronique de Provence j>âr
Cesar Nostradamus, Lyon, 1614, the
popes, it is said, were obliged to preach a
crusade against them.
3 The passage is as follows: Iehâ de
Saître pour celle nuit sen va coucher en la
châbre de l'Escuier q luy diet mo Jilz Saître
jay grât regret que nous laissez mais je suis
tresjoyeulx de vostre bien et puis dist aux
autres paiges du roy qui entour Salctre es-
toient or advisez mes enfntis nesse pas belle
chose que du bien faire Sf destre doulx hû-
ble Sf paisible Sf a chascun gracieulx ; Vez
cy vostre cbpagnon q" pour estre tel, a ac
quis la grace du roy, Sf de sa roye Sf de
tous. Et vous qui estes noiseux joueux de
Cartes Sf des dez, Sf Suivez deshonnetes gës
tavernes Sf Cabaretz ne pour battre quen
vous face ne vous puis chastier, dont par
ainsi combien que de lieux vous estes tant pf
croisses si vous ne mandez Sf plus chetifs Sf
medians serez: en disant ces parolles to5 fu
ret defpouillez Sf sen vôt coucher. Ch. xx.
Cards are not named in the decree of
1369 : various games are enumerated in a
circumstantial manner: " tous geux de dez,
de Tables, de Palmes, de Quilles, de Palet,
de Soûles, de Bailles; et tous autres tels
geux qui ne cheént point a exercer, ne habi
liter nos diz subgez a fait Sf usage d'armé,
a la defence de notre dit Royaume, sur peine
B 2
4
composed by its anonymous author in a period of 13 years, i. e. from
1328 to 1341."
The circumstance of the fleurs de lis being found in every court
card, has been adduced as a proof that Cards were invented in
France ; but they are likewise found among the ornaments of the
Romans at an early period, and also on the sceptres and crowns of
the emperors of the west, in the middle ages, and on those of the
kings of Castile, and of England, before the Norman conquest.
But the early Cards of which we have given specimens, will be
found not to bear this mark of French origin ; the circumstance can
only be considered, therefore, as an indication of the taste for armorial
devices, prevalent at the time they were first known in France, and
not any proof or assumption that they were invented there.
Cards are mentioned as being in common use among the Italians
at the end of the thirteenth century.1 Tirabcschi quotes a MS. of the
date of 1299, in which they are expressly named.
We should, however, be enabled to boast a still earlier acquaint
ance with them in England, if the prohibition of the synod of Wor
cester, De Ludo Regis et Reginae,1 in the year 1240, or the passage
from the wardrobe Rolls of Edward 1st, quoted by Anstis* could
de quarante sols parisiis. Ordonnances des Gough says, " it rather seems to refer to
Roys de France, t. v. p. 172. the King and Queen of Twelfth day, dc-
* Jansen Essai sur l'Hist. de la Gra- rived from the Roman Saturnalia; it may,
vure, t. I. p. 99. Paris 1808, 8vo. the however, have referred to Chess, which
whole of this extract will be found in the must have been brought from Asia by the
Appendix. crusaders previous to this period.
1 Storia della Letteratvjra Ital- * History of the Order of the Garter,
liana, t. vi. part 2. p. 402. V. 2. p. 307, where he cites the following
' Du Fresne Gloss. T. ii. p. 2, pag. passage, from the Wardrobe Rolls of the
154, in voce Ludi de Rege et Regina. 6th year of Edw. I. " Waltero Sturton ad
" Svnodus Wigorniensis, an. 1240, cap. 38, opus regis ad ludendum ad quatuor reges,
Prohibernus etiam Clericis, ne intersint viii. s. v. d." This game, Anstis conjec-
ludis in honestis, vel ludant ad aleas vel tures, might be cards, wherein are -Kings
taxillos : nec sustineant Ludos fieri de of four suits. He thinks the game of
Re^e et Regina, nec arietes levari, nec some antiquity, from the application of
palestras publicas fieri."—videtur innui the word Knave to a youth placed next
ludus quem vulgo Chartarum dicimus the King and Queen, and being as it were
si quidem ea aetate notus fuerit. Mr. their son, in which sense that term was
5
be applied to Cards ; but it is the opinion of several of our most
able antiquaries, that they relate to other games.
Spain has found a champion for her claims to the invention of
them in the Abbé Rive,' who was induced, from the consideration of
the term Naibi, by which Cards were known among the Italians
about the year 1393, to suppose that they were brought into Italy
by the Spaniards, at the time when they entered Sicily and Calabria
under the Castilian princes, in 1267, and under Peter III. of Arra-
gon, about 1282, because the term which continued to designate
Cards among them until the fifteenth century, is nearly similar to that
by which they are known to the Spaniards even to this day.
The Spaniards call their Cards Naipes, which w ord ' Bullet de
rives from the Biscayan Napa, signifying flat, even. The relation
which this signification has to Cards, is not so obvious as Bullet
imagines, and the Abbé Rive justly observes, that the learned men
of Spain must be more competent judges : he therefore refers to the
great Spanish Dictionary, in which it is said, that the word Naipes,1
used. Chaucer says, " The King of Nor
thumberland begot a knave child ; " and
this use of the word is frequent in his
poems. In France also, this card is called
Vatlet, a name given to the King's son.
1 Eclaircissements Historiques sur Pln-
vention des Cartes a Jouer, 8vo. Paris, 1 780.
1 Naipea, carte á jouer. Ba. Naypes,
cartes en vieux Espagnol, de la le terme
Naibis que Ion trouve dans la vie Latine
de Saint Bernadin, qui signifie des cartes
á jouer & non pas un cornet comme l'ont
cru les continuateurs de Bollandus, et les
nouveaux Editeurs de Ducange. Me-
MOIBES SUR LA LANGUE CeLTIQUE, fol.
Besancon, 1760. t. iii. p. 192. La racine
de ce mot et Napa plat, uni, il designe fort
bien les Cartes, et repond á la significa
tion du mot Latin Charta. Recherches,
p. 134.
3 Naipe, s. m. Carton cortado ala pro
porción de la vigessima quarta parte de
un pliego común, en que se pintan con
diversos colores algunas figuras, en nume
ro determinado, para jugar a varios jue
gos, formando un numero di quarenta ú
quarenta y ocho cartas, dividas en quatro
palos ó manjares que son oros, copas es
padas, y bastos, y en cada uno de estos,
tres figuras, que se llaman Rey, Caballo,
y Sota, y los demás por los números hasta
siete ó nueve, llamándose el primero, as.
Tainarid quiere que sea nombre Arábigo, y
lo misino el Bróceme ; pero comunmente
se juzga que les dio este nombre por la
primercifra que se les puso, que fué unaN
y una P con que se significaba el nombre
de su inventor Nicolao Pepin : y de ahi
con pequeña corupcion se dixe Naipe.
Lat. Charta pieta Lusoria. Diccionario
de la Lengua Castellana. Madrid,
1734, fol. t. iv. p. 645.
In the Dictionario Trilingüe del
Castellana Bascuence, (San Sebas
6
is derived from the initial letters of the name of the inventor of
Cards, N. P. Nicolao Pepin, in consequence of which he thinks
himself authorised to consider the Spaniards as the inventors. Whe
ther this etymology be more probable than that of Bullet, or whe
ther the name of the supposed inventor has not rather been manu
factured from the denomination of Cards, may be reasonably
doubted, as there have been so many similar fables invented to illus
trate historical doubts.
The earliest mention of Cards, however, among the Spaniards,
is that adduced by the Abbi Rive from Gutery's Translation' of
Guevara's Epistles: and this testimony, it must be confessed, is very
doubtful, as it does not occur in the original Spanish text of any of
the editions.
The prohibition of them, by John I. king of Castile, in 1387, is
less disputable.1
It is not improbable that the Spaniards were acquainted with
Cards at a much earlier period ; we cannot however consider, that
we have any thing like proof of their having been the inventors, but
they probably derived them immediately from their Moorish invaders.
tian, 1745, T. ii. pag. 110,) is the following
explanation of the term : Naipe, es voz
Bascongada, naipea, a.unque nolos usamos,
de naiquerer, y voluntad, y pepca, debaxo,
inferior, ya los naipes les quadra el nombre,
por que debaxo, u en la parte inferior, es-
tan las figuras, 6 palos, y se rcparten que-
dandose ocultos, y debaxo ; y por que es-
to excita, y se junta con el deseo y querer
veneer, y ganar, bien se lo di6 el nombre
de naipes, Carta, y en adelante naipea.
haX.Charta Lusoria.
1 Antonio de Guevara, Archbishop of
Mondonedo, Historiographer to Charles V.
The first Spanish edition of his " Epis-
tolas Familiares," was printed at Vallado-
lid in 1539- Of Gutery's French transla
tion, the first edition appeared in 1588, at
Lyons, in 4to. In which Alphonso XI. of
Castile is said to have prohibited Cards,
among the other games in the Statutes of
the Order of the Band, in 1332. The
passage stands thus " Commandoit leur
ordre, que nul des Chevaliers de la Bande
osast jouer argent aux cartes ou dez, fyc.
It is, however, extraordinary that none of
the Spanish editions, nor the Italian, Ger
man, or English translations of these let
ters, contain a syllable about Cards in this
passage ; the whole of the Abbe" Rive's
Hypothesis therefore rests upon the testi
mony of Gutery's translation, and the fable
of their name being derived from the
initials of their inventor : slender grounds
upon which to establish an historical fact.
1 See Appendix.
7
It is so difficult to account for the Spanish name of Cards, Naipes,'
from Spanish idioms, that Breitkopf was induced to seek its
origin from the Arabic: the mixture of which with the Spanish
language is well known, the conjecture and deduction are very
ingenious. He says, " I was confirmed in my opinion by the sig
nification of the Hebrew word Naibes, for the old Italian name of
Cards, Naibi, resembles the Hebrew word still more, and in both lan
guages it denotes sorcery, fortune-telling, prediction, fyc. This applies
much better to Cards, than the Biscayan word Napa, fiat, even, as
there is a certain foresight required in almost every game of Cards.
That the Spaniards should transform b into p, is perfectly natural ;
b is by them pronounced v."
And this opinion of Breitkopf is still further confirmed by the cir
cumstance of the denomination of the Knave, Tuchim, which seems to
partake much more of Arabic than French origin. Tuchán, in Arabic,
signifying darkness, obscurity, it might probably be bestowed upon this
band of depredators, on account of their concealment in forests and
obscure places. The Eastern origin of Cards appears still more pro
bable, when we consider that we owe the introduction of chess among
us to that people. The term Naipes is as much of oriental origin as
the name of chess, Ssed renge, or Hundred Cares, by which it is
known among the Arabians. And on reference to Cobarruvias1 for
his explanation of the term, we find that he cites authority in sup
port of its Arabic derivation.3 The learned 4 Salvini has also thrown
1 Cards are also called Naipes in the 3 In the Arabic, Nabaa signifies, he
Portuguese language. has emitted a gentle voice, as sorcerers do ;
1 Naipes. Libro disenquadernado en from which root are derived Naba, the
que se lee comunmente en todas estados Sorcerer's drum, and Nabi, a prophet or
que pudiera estar en el catalogo de los re- fortune-teller. Eichorn in his Introduc-
provados. Dixeronse naipes de la cifra tion to the Old Testament explains the
primera que tuvieron ; en la qual se en- Hebrew words Nabi, Nabiim, by divine
cerrava el nombre del inventor. Eran un inspiration, and by individuals acting from
N y P. y de alii les pareció llamarlos nai- divine inspiration. Court de Gebelin
pes ; pero las dichas letras dezian Nicolao derives it from an oriental word Nap, which
Pepin. Tamarid piensa ser Arábigo, y lo is said to denote as much as, to take, to
mismo el Brocence. Tesoko de la Len- hold.
gva Castellana. Madrid, 1674, folio. 4 Naibi cioé Carte a giocare, in Ispag-
< c f ~> -J
8
out the same conjecture on the origin of the word Naibi, and even
has gone so far as to say, that it is probable, for the knowledge of
cards, we are indebted to the Moors.
History points distinctly at the road by which the Europeans may
have derived their knowledge of Cards from this nation. The Sara
cens having spread with rapidity over Asia and Africa, had at
tempted to cross the early as the seventh century. In the year
652 they invaded Sicily, which they had completely conquered,
by the year 832. We find them in Spain in the year 710, and
about 731 they penetrated through Languedoc into France as far
as Aries, and continued in possession of the southern parts of
Spain until the year 1492. About the year 842, they proceeded
from Sicily to Calabria,' and a few years afterwards to Rome
and the Tuscan territory. They maintained themselves in different
parts of Italy until the tenth century, and their power was such,
that the pope and other Italian princes made use of their assist
ance in their wars with each other. In the beginning of the tenth
century, a party of Saracens settled on the borders of Piedmont,
penetrated as far as the Alps in the Valais, and safety from their in
roads was purchased by ceding to them a tract of country among
the mountains, about the middle of the same century.1
Their long continuance in the immediate vicinity of the Italian,
Spanish, and French people, and their consequent communication
nuolo Naipes, forse venuta in Ispagna,
come molte altre dall' Arabo : e forse le
Carte medesime venner da' Mori. Salvini.
Annot. sopra la Fiera di Buonarotti. Fi-
renze 1726, fol. p. 393.
1 They settled at Bari on the coast of
Calabria, whither the Prince of Beneven-
to had invited £hem to assist him against
the Prince of Salerno ; on which occasion
they took possession of the town. Even
after their expulsion from Sicily, when the
remainder were brought back to Apulia,
as prisoners, by the Emperor Frederic II,
in the year 1221, and Nocera was their
appointed residence, they were in Italy at
an earlier period than the Spaniards, who
only found their way there about 1267,
with the two Castilian Princes ; or in the
reign of Peter of Arragon, about 1282.
2 Mukatohi, t. v. p. 422, relates that
they occupied the convent of St. Mauri
tius in the Valais, and plundered and mur
dered travellers : but that in the treaty of
peace with Hugo, King of Italy, they were
promised the mountainous district between
Italy and Suabia to settle in.
9
with them, afforded these nations opportunities of becoming ac
quainted with their literature, arts, customs, and amusements. It is
by no means necessary to suppose, that one nation derived an ac
quaintance with this game from the other ; they might each have
obtained it immediately from these oriental hordes themselves.
They were at that time an enlightened people, compared with the
inhabitants of Europe, and as it is acknowledged that we are in
debted to them for the dawn of science and letters, and certainly for
the game of chess, why may we not also have derived from them
our knowledge of Playing-cards ? which seem to owe their origin to
a different modification of the same principle. An objection may
be started that the Alcoran forbids all games of chance, but it is
not necessary to suppose, that hazardous betting or playing for
stakes, which among us is generally connected with the game, was
usual with them ; or, perhaps, they knew how to avoid transgres
sing the law in that respect, as well as they do with regard to the
prohibition of the use of wine. At least, the Moors are now fond
of playing at ombre in secret : according to Host, they learnt this
game from the Spaniards," Niebuhr2 says, that he saw European
Cards among the Greeks at Cairo, but not among the Mahometans;
but he found the latter playing at Cards in Bombay, and that on his
appearance they hid their money.
All this does not, however, prove that the Arabians were the in
ventors; in the same way that they obtained the game of chess from
India through the Persians : 3 they may have derived Cards from
• Host's Efferetninger om Maroks og
Fes. Kiobenh. 1779,4to.
1 Niebuhr, Voyage en Arabie, T. 1.
p. 140. Amst. 1776. 4to. Les Arabes ap-
pellent le jeu des Cartes. Lab-el Kamar.
J'ai vu a Bombay des vieux marchands
Arabes jouer avec des Cartes chinoises.
Elles sont incommodes, Je me souviens
d'avoir vu jouer quatre personnes, dont
chacun en eut tant, qu' a peine pouvoit
elles les tenir dans les deux mains.
3 The Persians did not, however, obtain
the game of Chess from India, until the
age of the great Cosroes, or Cosru, in the
middle of the sixth century. It reached
China nearly about the same period, in
the reign of the Emperor Wu-Ti. But it
was most probably unknown in Europe
previous to the crusades. The first writ
ten mention of the game among the Euro
peans, is in some of the old romances of
the Round Table ; they, however, mention
C
10
them, or some other nation. There cannot, however, be a doubt,
that they were introduced by their means into Europe, although it
is now in vain we seek direct evidence of the fact. Had the work"
which the learned Hyde projected on this subject come down to us,
it would no doubt have set the question at rest, and thrown much
light on the kind of Cards in use, and on the games played with
them among the oriental nations. To develope this part of their
history, much skill in the languages of the East would be requisite,
and it is to be desired that some curious orientalist may at a future
period think the subject worthy an attentive inquiry.
It has been asserted that Cards and Dice were invented by the
Lydians, during the affliction of a famine in the reign of Atys ; but,
setting aside the improbability of the relation, the passage of Hero
dotus1 from whence the deduction is made, does not warrant the
mention of Cards in any degree. Among all the games mentioned
by the antient Greek and Roman writers, there is not one which
can, with good foundation, be supposed to designate cards ; we may
therefore safely conclude that they were unknown to them ; for, pos
sessing as we do, so many writers who have given a minute detail
of their habits and manners, both public and private, had they been
then in use, some mention of them would certainly have been made.
Ovid 3 has on one occasion enumerated several games, proper to be
it as in use at the time of King Arthur ;
but this, among many other anachronisms
common to them, can only be accepted as
a proof, that it was known at the time they
wrote. The game did not reach us before
the twelfth century ; it is therefore impos
sible that the ivory chess men with Ara
bic inscriptions, formerly shewn among the
treasures of the abbey of St. Dennis, could
have belonged to Charlemagne ; or that a
Bavarian Prince should have been killed
by a blow with a Chess board at the court
of King Pepin. Hyde thinks the mistake
may have arisen by confounding the game
of Draughts,(Ludus Latrunculorumjvrhich
was known to the Romans by that name,
with Chess. Latro had the same signifi
cation with the old Teutonic word Schach,
both of which signify robbery, and robber,
according to Du Fresne. From Schach also
is derived the word Schcecher (scoundrel.)
1 We gather from the preface to his
book de Ludis Orientalibus, that he
had prepared an appendix " in quo eril
Historia Chartiludii, # Hist. Cuftkc et
Dimnee, Sfc. I have been unable to ob
tain infomation whether the work, or hia
collections for it, exist in MS.
1 Herodot. lib. i.
3 De Arte Amandi, lib. ii.
11
known by a young person who would mix with society, but among
them Cards find no place ; surely, had they been known to him, or
in use at Rome in his time, he would have particularized them
among the rest ; and the languages of Greece and Rome have not
any known term by which Cards could have been designated.
St. Cyprian' has been quoted as making mention of Cards, and
asserting that they formerly contained the images of Pagan idols,
which the Christians transformed into the modern figures. Upon
examination, however, we find nothing in his works to bear out
the assertion : it is not unlikely the mistake arose from the de
scription which he has given of the game then played at Carthage,
which appears to have been the same with Draughts* and Dice
1 Ce que St. Cyprien dit dans un Trait6
qu'il a fait sur cette matiere est fort outre.
II dit qui c'est Mercure le Dieu des Payens
qui a invente le Jeu des Cartes, qu' il s'y fit
peindre et qu'il ordonna qu'a l'entredu Jeu
on lui sacrifieroit ; que ce sacrifice consis-
toit a baiser la Carte ou le De, ou a re-
pandre du vin a l'honneur de cette pein-
ture ? que les Chrestiens nont fait que
changer les images, qu'au lieu de mercure
ils ont mis l'image d'un Roy. Pictet in
his morals, torn. vi. p. 233. Geneva, 1709,
12mo.
St. Cyprian lived at Carthage about the
commencement of the third century, and
died a martyr in the time of the persecu
tions, under the Emperor Gallienus, A. D.
258. In his works there is no treatise on
games, but a dissertation " de Spectaculis,"
and another " de Aleatoribus," ascribed to
him. In neither of which is any thing to
be found, which warrants the assertion of
Pictet; his mistake may have, however,
arisen from the following passsages : " Cum
enimquidamhoc malum et tam perniciosum
studium adinvenit, instinctu solius zabuli,
qui eum artibus suis repleverat ; hanc ergo
artem ostendit, quam et colendam scu/ptu-
ris cum sua imagine fabricavit. Statuit
autem imaginem suam cum nominis sui
subscriptione, suggerente sibi amico, qui ut
hanc artem excogitaret in pectore subjecit.
Sic ergo, se in imagine speciosa demon-
strans, alto quodam loco condidit ; et in
Sinus suos hanc aleaj tabulam gestans
et quasi ipse lusoret adinventor hujus ma-
litiae appareret, cujus nomen a Dei servis
nominari non deberet." De Aleatoribus.
" Si cum origine sua et institutione quae-
ratur, causam profert aut idolum aut daemo-
nium aut mortuum. Ita diabolus artifex,
quia idolatriam per se nudam sciebat hor-
reri, Spectaculis miscuit ut per voluptatem
posset amari. . . . Ergo ut taceam, qujdquid
latius idolatria probat, quam vana sunt ipsa
certamina lites in coloribus, contentiones
in cursibus, favores in honoribus, &c." De
Spectaculis.
It is evident that St. Cyprian does not
say here what Pictet has quoted from him.
The Lites in Coloribus probably refers to
the two colours of the men in the Ludus
Latrunculorum, or game of Draughts.
1 The game at Draughts, in its original
form, was certainly, like Chess, a military
game, and called Ludus Latrunculorum by
C 2
12
among the Romans. A writer' of the sixteenth century has given a
more singular, although somewhat analogous origin to them; and
probably derived from the same source.
It should seem that some writers have supposed the word Aha, to
have signified Cards, and others have been misled by the term
Tabcllas Lasorias, otherwise it would be impossible to account for
the Romans ; for Latro, in the early age of
the republic, signified a soldier ; probably
from the Greek word xoilpov, merces, because
they served for hire. See Steph. The-
saur. Lino. Gr*. t. ii. p. 603. In the
Latin of the middle ages Latrunculus de
noted light troops, pracursores exercitus;
milites levis armaturce. Du Fresne Gloss.
t. ii. p. 38. The board was called Tabula
Latriincutaria, and the men, Calculi, or La-
trones. The conqueror was called Imperator.
Ovid mentions the game DeArte Amandi,
lib. ii. v. 207, lib. iii. v. 357, 60. See Ges-
neri Thes. Lat. Ling. t. iii. p. 40.
Mr. Christie, in his curious and learned
" Inquiry into the Antient Greek Game,"
p. 18, says, " It is probable that this game
might have become a common relaxation
amongst the soldiers of the Roman empire,
and have served as the amusement of their
leisure hours, when in garrison. From the
frequent intercourse they had at last with
the Germans, that people learnt the use of
this military game, and they seem to have
continued something like it to this day,
nearly in the unadorned state in which the
Romans practised it ; exhibiting, with
some difference, an imperfect circumven
tion of the pieces ; and, like the Romans,
keeping up the tradition respecting the
object of the game in its military state, by
calling it the game of Mounds, and, at last,
simply the Mounds : thus, Damm, Gerrna-
nice, a Mound ; and perhaps damen, to
play at mounds ; which may have been the
source from whence the French and other
nations in the south of Europe have taken
the names for this game. In French,
Dames, le jeu des Dames ; Italice, // giuo-
co del/e Dame; Hispanice, el juego de las
Damas. And this will be no prejudice to
my hypothesis, because among whatever
nations practising this game the central
mark has been retained, there have always
been found along with it the seeds, as it
were, of the modern Chess ; and it was
owing to the Romans having departed from
that original form of the Tlerleia, that we
became acquainted with the game of
Draughts."
' The Playe of Cards is an invention of
the Devill, which he found out, that he
might the easilier bring in ydolatrie
amongst men. For the Kings and Coate
Cards that we use nowe, were in olde time
the images of idols and false gods : which
since they that would seeme christians,
have chaunged into Charlemaigne, Launce-
lot, Hector, and such like names, be
cause they would not seeme to imitate
their idolatrie therein, and yet maintaine
the playe itself.—A Treatise whereinDicing,
Dauncing, Vaine Playes, and Enterludes,
with other idle Pastimes, commonly used on
the Sabbath day, are reproved by the Aw
thoritie of the Word of God and Auntient
Writers. Made Dialogue-wise, by John
Northbrooke.
At London by H. Bynneman, for G.
Bishop, without date, B. L.
\
13
the many false deductions drawn from writers of the middle ages
respecting the first mention of Cards by them. From the first ages
of the church, the councils by their decrees, the fathers by their cen
sures, the princes by their laws, proscribed games of chance ; and
Dice, Osselets, Trictrac, &c. are expressly mentioned, but Cards are
never spoken of.
The romances which were written in the eleventh, twelfth, thir
teenth, and fourteenth centuries, may be presumed to contain a tole
rably faithful picture, if not of the times in which the stories are
laid, at least of the times in which they were written, for the unin
formed minds of the authors rendered it likely they would describe
what was passing before them in regard to habits and customs;
thus giving the manners of their own to former ages, without attend
ing to the incongruity of the anachronism : it is this, perhaps, which
constitutes the most interesting feature of these rude productions;
and thus what at the time of their composition was a material defect,
has now become one of the chief sources of estimation.
The chroniclers of the same period do not confine themselves to
the public events of their times, but descend to particulars of pri
vate life, describing the actions, manners, and even the conversa
tion of their cotemporaries with such exactness and naivelt, that it
is possible to imagine we see them, hear them, and live with them.
But neither the former nor the latter have mentioned Cards among
the games in use ; we must, of course, conclude they, were then un
known in Europe.
Court de Gebelin 1 has, however, attempted to prove that a kind of
Cards were in use among the Egyptians, in the seventh century be
fore our present sera, the figures of which he supposes have been
transmitted from age to age, and have reached us. It would indeed,
however, be a most extraordinary circumstance that Cards should
have existed in Egypt at so early a period ; and that the Greeks
1 Le Monde Primitif analyst et compare so tations Mikes, torn. 1. Paris 1781. Dis-
avec le Monde Moderne, torn. viii. or, Dm- sertation vime. Sur le Jeu des Tarocs.
14
and Romans should not have brought them to Europe, or that they
were not introduced by the Carthaginian armies into Spain and
Italy ; and that this should have been effected only by the Ara
bians, who did not reach Egypt before the seventh century after
Christ, about the year 635.
He has fixed upon the ancient ' Tarocco Cards, at present used
only in a few places ; which, according to him, are susceptible of
several important explanations, and they were in his opinion either
an allegory expressed in ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics relating to
their philosophy and religion ; or a book containing the history of
the creation of the world and of the three first ages, proceeding from
Mercury himself ; and that the four suits represent the four states or
orders of political society. He grounds this Egyptian origin of the
game upon the circumstance that the whole foundation of it may be
resolved in different ways into the number seven, 1 which was sacred
with the Egyptians, and in a most elaborate dissertation has endea
voured to establish his extraordinary hypothesis. He also found a
correspondent arrangement in an ancient Chinese monument, com
municated to him by M. Bertin, 3 in which were seventy-seven
figures in combinations of seven.
He asserts that it is from the Egyptians,4 or Gipsies, when they
' The game of Tarocco will be explain
ed more at large in a future page ; it may,
however, be as well to observe, that it con
sists, 1 . Of the figures which are called
Tarocchi, which are said to contain this
allegory ; 2. Of the four suits, of Spade,
Coppe, Denari, and Bastorii.
1 Court de Gebelin considers that the
21 figures of the Tarocchi may be resolv
ed into 3 times 7 ; the 14 Cards of each
suit into twice 7 ; for the fool has no num
ber and belongs to no suit. But surely the
barbarous modern Tarocco Cards have not
any claim to such remote antiquity; the
suits in the common game have undergone
many changes, and so must these figures.
Some packs have 41 Tarocchi ; how would
they be divided into sevens? The Queen
was probably not in the game, if derived
from Egypt; this reduces the number in
each suit to 13. These considerations
make against this fanciful system. His
account of the allegories represented on
these Cards, will be found in the Appendix.
^ Bertin, Memoires sur la Chine, de
scribes this monument at length, and has
given an engraving of it ; he supposes it to
be of as early date as the commencement of
the Chinese monarchy, but it would be dif
ficult to find what relation it has to Cards.
4 It does not seem so absolutely certain
that Gipsies are of Egyptian origin, as
15
were dispersed over Europe, that we derive the custom of making
Cards the basis of fortune-telling, and a sort of oracle; and, lastly,
he explains the name Tarocco, by means of the ancient languages of
the East ; and in the allegorical description of the game he deduces
it from Ta and Rog, the royal road ; whilst in the historical descrip
tion, he derives it from A-Rosch, and with the article T. Ta-Rosch,
Mercury. There have not been wanting admirers of this explana
tion of the origin of the game, and indeed his conjecture that
Cards are of high antiquity, and of oriental origin, will be readily
subscribed to by every one ; but for the rest of his theory, plausible
and ingenious as it may at first appear, upon mature consideration,
we must, with Breitkopf, consider it vague and unfounded. The
Italians and Spaniards having preserved the old Arabic name of
Cards, Naibi, which agrees equally well with the use to which Gip
sies apply Cards in prediction, sorcery, and fortune-telling ; it
seems unnecessary to seek their origin in such a strained and far
fetched etymology.
There appear such striking analogies and strong resemblances be
tween the game of Chess and Cards in their first simple form, that
the origin of them from thence may be deduced with a high degree of
probability. In the early Cards we have the King, Knight, and
Knave, and the numerical cards, or common soldiers. The oriental
game of Chess has also its King, Vizier, and Horseman, and its pawns,
Gebelin presumes. Some Latin writers 1427, pretending to be christians of Lower
call them Mgyptii, the Italians call them Egypt expelled by the Saracens. Ac-
Zingari, the Spaniards Gitanos, the French cording to Pasquier, Recherches, 1. iv. c. 19,
Bohemiens, and others, Saraceni ; at all their women were already practising for-
events Cards were known in Europe tune-telling ; they were banished from
prior to the appearance of those wander- thence in 1560. Chandler, in his Travels,
ing tribes. According to Miinster, in his p. 224, says, that he met some wandering
Cosmology, B. iii. c. v. they first came about in Asia Minor ; they were called
to Germany in 1417, with a passport of Adzinkari, and seem to have been jugglers.
King Sigismund of Bohemia. They in- In Hungary they still exist in numbers,
contestably derived their denomination and form a distinct class of people ; they
from the different countries from which are settled in some villages which consist
they migrated. They got to France in entirely of them.
16
or common soldiers. But the parties at Cards are doubled,' there
are four, instead of two of each ; this, indeed, is the only variation,
for it will be shewn in the sequel that the apparent deviation from
the number of the pieces at Chess is easily accounted for.
The game of Tarocco, with its twofold series of figures and images,
is also most probably of Eastern origin, for the modern 1 Hindu
Cards bear a strong resemblance, both in point of number and ar
rangement, to this game; the combination of the simple game derived
from Chess, with the additional figures, must have been of course a
subsequent improvement : the adherence of the Asiatic nations to
their original customs, makes it more than likely that this game is of
' In Mr. Christie's account of the In
dian Game of Chess, a more close simili
tude will be traced between Cards and
that game, than could have been supposed
on a transient glance at the subject.
" This Indian game, called Chaturanga,
or Chess, or the Four Kings, represents
four princes with their troops, forming
two allied armies on each side." And in
a note on this passage, Mr. Christie says,
" A game of considerable ingenuity, I am
informed, is practised in Germany, consist
ing of two Chess-boards joined together
laterally. It is played by two persons on
each side, each of whom is concerned to de
fend his own game, at the same time that
he co-operates with his ally, to distress, by
every means in his power, the two armies
opposed to them." Inquiry into the An-
tient Greek Game, supposed to have been
invented by Palamedes, p. 74. This ar
rangement affords a most striking simila
rity to thefourfold game which the Indian
Chess appears to have been, and whose
form so nearly resembles the game at
Cards, as readily to admit of the surmise,
that they are merely a variation of that
game, and took their rise from the same
source.
1 By the kindness of Mr. Douce, I am
enabled to present the reader with a spe
cimen of an exquisitely beautiful pack in
his possession. There appear to be ninety-
six cards, consisting of seven suits, the
numerical cards running from one to ten,
and the figured cards of each suit, which
are only two in number, seem to represent
a Schah, or King, and a horseman or Vi
zier. Besides the seven suits there are
twelve other figured cards, which are
probably correspondent with the Taroc-
chi, in the European game. Mr. Douce
is also in possession of a pack of Round
Cards, which correspond with these in
number, and also in the suits represented
on them ; but the figured cards vary con
siderably. The originals of the cards here
represented, are painted on ivory with
much delicacy, and highly illuminated with
gold, in the manner of the miniatures in
missals and manuscripts. It was probably
such Cards as these which Niebuhr says he
saw the Arabian merchants playing with
at Bombay, and which he calls Chinese
Cards : it is true that those he saw might
have been of Chinese manufacture, but it
will be seen that the Cards in general use
in China are quite of a different nature.
>
17
high antiquity among them, we cannot imagine that they derived it
from the European nations, for they have been slow to adopt their
manners, or their amusements, and the complicated form of this very
game is an argument against such a supposition.
From hence it may be fairly supposed, that the game of Cards,
like the game of Chess, travelled from India to the Arabians ; parti
cularly as it seems that the Gipsies were originally Indians," driven
from their country ; and as they traversed the north of Asia and
Africa before they reached Europe, introduced the game of Cards into
those countries, from whence it passed over to Europe long before
them. What were the objects represented on the oriental Cards, or
the games played with them, at their first introduction into Europe,
we have now no means of satisfactorily ascertaining; but we may pre
sume it is probable that they were not very remotely different from the
Old Italian and Spanish Cards, and the four suits, Spade, (swords,)
Coppe, (cups,) Denari, (money,) and Bastone, (clubs,) adopted both
by the Italians and Spaniards, were probably the suits of the Eastern
game, as some of these objects are still retained in their modern Cards.
But the solution of these questions must be left to future inquirers,
who can visit the only sources of information upon these points, the
oriental writers, or the intelligent and learned natives of the East.
That they have written instructions for playing their games, there
can be no doubt, and that they have a traditional, if not a written
account, of the origin of Cards, is also to be presumed.
It is, however, extremely probable, that the ancient original game
of the East, whether it had little or much resemblance to Chess,
and whether military or not, was first adopted by all nations, be
fore they invented their own national games : and that they also
played the games of their own invention with these Eastern Cards,
before they underwent any change. This, we may presume, was
the game in its simplest form, consisting of thirty-six cards only ;
1 See Appendix, and Grellman on the Brand's Popular Antiquities, by Ellis.
Gipsies, by Raper, Lond. 1787, 4to. and Loud. 1813, 4to. vol. ii. p. 431.
D
18
the more complicated game resembling Tarocco, was most undoubt
edly of later invention, and may not have been introduced into
Europe, until a subsequent period.
We shall now proceed to inquire how far it is probable one na
tion adopted them from the other, and in what manner a few altera
tions produced new sorts of Cards, and new games. It is difficult
to decide which European nation has the fairest claim to the first
written mention of Cards, for the term Alea,' cannot, with any foun
dation, be supposed to have been ever intended to designate them.
Should the game mentioned in the Wardrobe Rolls of Edward I.
under the denomination " Quatuor Reges," 1 be admitted as indi
cating Cards, we should be possessed of the first written mention of
the game hitherto discovered ; and it seems probable, that either
Cards or Chess3 are meant ; for it should be observed, that one of
the oriental names of the latter has been thus translated. Mr.
Gough's 4 objection to the Crusaders having introduced the game
among us, is, that they had something else to do ; but this is quite
overruled by the preservation of a very curious edict,5 which shews
the state of gaming in the Christian army, commanded by Richard I.
King of England, and Philip of France, during the crusade in
the year 1190. Indeed, upon the whole, it is, perhaps, almost as
probable that we derived our knowledge of Cards from this source,
as from our continental neighbours ; the principal objection seems
■ See Appendix.
1 Anstis, Order of the Garter, v. ii. p.
307- vide supra, p. 4.
3 See above, p. 16. and Mb. Chris
tie's Inquiry into the Antient Greek Game
supposed to have been invented by Palame-
des. Lond. 1801, 4to.
« Archaeologia, v. viii. p. 156.
3 By Benedictus Abbas,\. Vit. Ricard. I.
ed. Hearnii, torn. ii. p. 610. No person
in the army is permitted to play at any
sort of game for money, except knights
and clergymen ; who in one whole day
and night shall not, each, lose more than
twenty shillings, on pain of forfeiting
one hundred shillings to the archbishop
of the army. The two Kings may play
for what they please ; but their attendants
not for more than twenty shillings, other
wise they are to be whipped naked through
the army for three days, &c. And in a
MS. in the Brit. Museum, Harl. 4690,
Richard is described playing at Chess in
this expedition :
And Kyng Rychard stode and playe,
At the Chesse in his galley.
19
to be, the silence of the statutes in which various games are enume
rated and prohibited, but in which cards are not included, though
equally objectionable with coytes, dice, &c. We may be certain,
however, that they were in use some time previous to 1464, for in
the Parliament Rolls' of that year, they are mentioned among
other articles which are not to be imported : this prohibition, which
was made upon the petition of the English artificers collectively,
should seem to indicate that they were then manufactured here.
It is remarkable that we have very few references to the game, until
after the year 1500, but the practice of playing must have been very
common in the reign of Henry VII. for among his private expenses,
money for losses at Cards appears to have been several times issued ; 1
and Margaret, the daughter of that monarch, played at Cards soon
after her arrival at Edinburgh, on her marriage to James IV. of
Scotland.3 They are also mentioned in a statute of the eleventh
year of the reign of Henry VII.* that is, in 1496.
It has been objected, that had Cards been introduced into
England previous to the reign of Richard II. Chaucer, who died
in 1400, would have made some mention of them ; 5 yet, in speaking
of amusements, he only says,
Chep tiancen anb thep plap at ches anti tables;5
and this is an objection which deserves much consideration.
That Cards are mentioned in the Complaynt of Sir David Lind
say, has been already pointed out by Mr. Warton,7 and it is sin-
• 4 Edw. IV. Rot Pari. Membr. vi.
among the rest are mentioned, Dyces, Te-
nys Balles, Cardesfor pleiying, in contra
distinction to Gardes for wolle, or white-
wyre. For this reference I am indebted
to Mr. Nichols.
1 Archaeologia, viii. p. 136, in note.
3 Leland's Collectanea, App. iii. p. 284.
The Kynge came prively to the said cas-
tell, and entered within the chammer with
a small cumpany, whare he founde the
Queene playing at Cardes.
« 11 Henry VII. cap. 2.
5 By Mr. Gough, Archaeologia, loc. cit.
6 Franklin's Tale, 1. 11212.
» Hist. Eng. Poet. II. 31 7. An old
anonymous Scotch Poem of Covetice is
also cited by Warton, in which they are
mentioned. See Anc. Sc. Poems, from the
Bannatyne MS. 12mo. Edinb. 1770, p. l68>
D 2
20
gular, that a knowledge of the game is mentioned as an accom
plishment in the character of a bishop.
Bullet 1 has insisted that we derive our knowledge of Cards from
the French nation ; and he further says, it will be seen from the
term Knave, which we use to designate the (Valet,) that the game
was unknown to us until that term came to signify a servant. In
this deduction, however, he is mistaken, for Chaucer says, of the
King of Northumberland,
©n hto he gat a fenabe fhtlde anon ; 1
thus the word Knave seems to have signified with us a male child,
or a boy servant, even in the time of Chaucer.
Among the monies issued from the Exchequer, A. D. 1300, 28
Edw. I. are some entries of money issued to his son Edward, for
his use in playing at different games. Among these, however, Cards
are not specified. Edward II. was then in his seventeenth year.3
It is also said, that if paper was necessary for the composition
of Cards, England would not have furnished any in the fourteenth
century, the art of paper-making not being introduced into Eng
land before the reign of Henry VII.;4 but Cards must surely have
been made of other substances: it should seem, that parchment
was equally proper for the purpose; and we find the oriental Cards
are painted on thin tablets of wood, or ivory.
From the whole of the evidence before us, we have only a pro
bability that Cards were known in England soon after the second
crusade, at the latter end of the thirteenth century. We have, how
ever, certain proof that they were known here, at least, for some
time previous to 1464 ; but whether we obtained them, in common
with our neighbours, from the East, or received them from the Spa-
1 Recherches sur les Cartes a joiier, To the same prince, March 10. " ad
p. 137. Judendum ad creag' et alios ludos per
1 Man of Lawes Tale, 1. 5135, see Mr. vices, 10s.
Tyrwhitt's Glossary, in voce. ,. . , . . , ,
' . , , ... „T , . i ad ludendum per vices ad aleas
3 Archaeologia, vm. 158. " Johanni ca- talos
merario domiui Edwardi fili regis pro den'
per eundem lib' predicto domini suo per What creag was does not appear : might it
vices ad ludendum ad diversos ludos per ma- not have been some game or Cards t
nus proprias ibidem, 9 die. Feb. 10s." * Archaeologia, u6i supra.
21
niards, Italians, or French, remains to be proved. It is very proba
ble they were not in common use at their first introduction, but con
fined to the Court and houses of the great ; but that they were very
generally known here, early in the fifteenth century, and then played
by the idle of all classes.
It has been already mentioned, that an Italian manuscript,
written about the year 1299, entitled " Trattato del Governo della
Famiglia," by Pipozzo di Sandro, a Florentine, contains the earliest
written mention of them, not only among the Italians, but in
Europe, if we except the passage in the Wardrobe Rolls of Ed
ward I.' If this MS. be absolutely of the date assigned to it by
Tiraboschi,* it not only proves the very early knowledge the Italians
had of Cards, but that they were also known by the appellation
of Carte, as well as that of Naibi, at this early period.
• Vocabolario della Crusca Venezia,
1763, t. i. p. 424. § xii. " Carte diciamo
anche a un mazzo di carte dipinte, delle
quali ci serviamo per giucare. Lat. alea
charta Insorta. Trat. gov. f'am. Se giu-
cherà di danari, o cosi, o alle carte, gli
apparecchierai la ria, fyc."
Afterward, in the Table of Authors,
torn. v. p. 302, we find the following no
tice of the MS. " Trat. gov. fam. Trat
tato del governo della famiglia ; Testo a
penna, che fu del Pasciuto, e che ora pari
mente tra' MSS. de' Dini si conserva.*
Alcuna volta abbiamo citato un altro Tes
to di pari antichità che si conserva tra'
MSS. de' Venturi, del quale talora abbia
mo addiato le pagine. The note referred
to, says : " * Questo Testo è in foglio, e
sembra scritto sul principio del 1400. E
diviso in quattro parti per soddisfare a
quattro demande, che ivi si suppongono
fatte da una Madre di famiglia a un suo
Direttore Spirituale. Il testo Venturi è
mancante in fine. Un altro testo ne ram
menta il Redi nelle Annotazioni al Diti
rambo presso di se." Redi, had also quoted
this MS. in proof of the invention of spec
tacles in Italy. As the passage is curious I
will subjoin it. " Aft truovo cosie gravoso
di anni, che non arei va/lenza di leggieri e
servere senza vetri appellati okiali; truovati
novellamente per comodità deltipoveri veki,
quando affiebolano del vedere."
1 Storia della Letteratura, t. vi.
P. II. p. 402. Modena, 1792. 4to. Zani
Materiali per Servire alla Storia dell' Ori
gine e Progressi dell' Incisione in Rame e
in Legno. Parma, 1802, 8vo. p. 79, 154,
160. In the latter passage of his book,
Zani throws a doubt upon the subject
of the date of the manuscript used by
the compilers of the Vocabolario della
Crusca, and seems to think it is probable,
that although the manuscript possessed by
Redi was of the date of 1299, that the
copy quoted by them was not older than
the commencement of the fourteenth cen
tury. This does not appear to be a very
important point, as the difference would
be but that of a very few years. Zani,
22
The first Game known to the Italians, and which was probably
played with the very Cards obtained from the Arabians, if it
be not the Eastern game itself, was undoubtedly the game called
Trappola.1 Of this game nothing is now known, but it was proba
bly extremely simple; it consisted of four suits, possibly like those on
the first Eastern Cards : these were Spade, (swords,) Coppe, (cups, or
chalices,) Denari, (pieces of money,) and Bastoni, (clubs or sticks ;)
each of these suits had three figured cards, Re, Cavallo, Fante, King,
Knight, or Horseman, and Servant or Knave ; which, with the six
numeral cards of each suit, 1, 2, 7, 8, 9» 10, made together thirty-six
cards, and formed a pack. The coincidence in point of number with
the pieces at Chess, is here very striking ; and if the Indian game of
Chess was a fourfold game, which we have every reason to suppose it
was, the analogy between them is complete. It should be remarked,
that some packs of the Chinese cards consist also of this number ; and
it is probable that those in which the number is increased, are of
the same nature with the more complex Indian game, and would be
found to resemble the European Tarocco. Italian writers agree in
making Trappola the earliest game used in Italy. Garzoni 1 calls it
says that what strengthens his opinion,
is, the reflection that Pctrarca, in his
book " de Rtmediis utriusque fortunet,
in the first dialogue, speaks of de Pilee
ludo, de ludo aleee # calculorum, de ludo
taxillorum prospero, de ludo palestrarum,
and does not in the slightest degree allude
to, or mention Cards. In Book ii. Dialog.
139, " de adverso ludo taxillorum," he is
also silent about them. Petrarca was born
in 1304, and died in 1374. Hence Zani
concludes, that at the time Petrarca wrote
this work, Cards were not in use in Italy.
1 Trappola is explained in the Voca-
bolaria della Crusca, by Cosa ingennese,
insidia, una sorta di rete; and Trappola-
tqre. by ingannatore giuntatore. Menage
derives it from Trappa : it is probably of
Celtic origin. We presume its application
to Cards is connected with its analogical
signification.
In Silesia, according to Brietkopf, the
Old Trappola Cards are still in common
use among the country people. They
consist of thirty-six cards, and their muti
lated names betray their Italian origin ;
as the Reh, Cuvall, Fantell, SfC. The suits
have retained the Italian names.
* Garzoni Piazza Universale di Tutte
le Prqfessioni del Mondo. Venet. 1589.
" Ahuni altri son giuochi da Taierne come
la Mora, le Piastrel/e, le Chiave; e le
Carte, o communi, o Taroccki di nuova in-
ventione, secondo il Volaterrano. Discorso
23
the common game, and Tarocco the new invention, and quolcs the
authority of Volaterano. The Trappola Cards, which are still in use in
Italy, Spain, and Germany, at the same time they corroborate their
antiquity, prove that this game, being the most ancient in Europe,
passed the boundaries of Italy, and was generally played, before
the other national games were invented.
The chronicle of Giovanni Morelli,' who began to write his work
in 1393, mentions them under the denomination of Naibi, but con
siders them as a childish game. And Temanza 1 has adduced a cir
de 'Giocatori in universale Sf in particolare,
p. 564. He goes on to describe the game
minutely, thus : " ove si vedono Denari,
Coppe, Spade, Bastoni, diece, nove, otto,
sette, sei, cinque, quattro, tre, due, FAsso, il
Re, la Reina, il Cavallo, il Fante, il Mon
do, la Giustitia, PAngelo, il Sole, la Luna,
la Stella, il Fuoco, il Diavolo, la Morte,
l Impicciato, il Vecchio, la Ruota, la For
tezza, l'Amore, il Carro, la Temperanza, il
Papa, la Papessa, fImperatrice, CImpera
tore, il Pugatello, il Matto."
1 Chronica di Giovanni Morelli, first
published with the " Historia Antica di
Ricordano Ma/espini, by Manni, at Flo
rence, 1718, p. 270. " Non giuocare a
Zara, ni ad altro giuoco di dadi; fa de'
giuochi che usano i fanciulli; agli aliossi,
alla trottola, a' ferri, a naibi, a coderdo-
ne e simili." There is reason to believe,
although Morelli makes the Naibi a pue
rile game, that it is playing cards which
are here meant by that term. If they had
been only a game for children, there would
not have been a necessity of preaching
against, and interdicting them. Rive
thinks, " that when Cards were first intro
duced into Italy, they were decried, and
consequently given to children to amuse
them, on account of their gay colours
and grotesque figures." He adds, " But
time, which unceasingly mines the bar
riers which manners oppose to licentious
ness, insensibly led away the Italians, and
inspired them with a passion for Cards."
Etrennes, p. 30.
1 Lettere Pittoriche, t. v. p. 320. In a
letter to Count Algarotti, Temanza sends
him this curious extract: " mccccxli. adì
xi Otubrio. Conciosia che l'arte & mes-
tier delle carte, e figure stampide, che se
fano in Venezia è vegnudo a total deft'ac-
tion, e questa sia per la gran quantità de
carte da zugar, e fegure depente stampide,
le qual vien fate de fuora de Venezia, ala
qual cosa è da meter remedio, che i diti
maestri, i quali sono assaii in fameja habi-
ano più presto utilidade, che i forestieri.
Sia ordenado, e statuido, come anchora i
diti maestri ne ha supplicado, che da mo
in avante non possa vegnir over esser con-
dutto in questa Terra alcun lavorerio dela
predicta arte, che sia stampido, o depento
in tella o in carta, come sono anchone e
carte da zugare, e cadaun altra lavorerio
dela so arte facto a penello, e stampido,
soto pena di perder i lavori condutti, &c.
He extracted it from the " Legge di catti
no della Arte," of the Venetian artists. It
should appear, that, as this curious docu
ment says, the art of making Cards and
printed figures had then come to decay,
24.
cumstantial proof of their being manufactured at Venice, long pre
vious to 1441, in which year a remonstrance was presented to the
senate of that city by the Card-makers, in which they complain of
" the injury they sustain by the daily importation of Cards and
printed figures which are made out of Venice ; by which their art
is brought to total decay." And it seems that the Card-makers
then formed a considerable body, which argues that the use and
manufacture of Cards in Italy was not then of recent date.
Saint Bernardin of Sienna ' is said to have preached against their
that they must have previously been in a
flourishing state, and that they had flou
rished for a sufficient period to have cre
ated a numerous body of artists (assai in
fameja.) The phrasey*egure depentestam-
pide shews that it was then the custom to
colour prints, in the same manner as play
ing Cards; the great quantity of Cards
and printed figures which were daily
brought into Venice, were undoubtedly
the production of the Paduans and other
neighbouring Stales, and also of the Ger
man Briefmahlers.
1 Sermo XLII contra Aharum ludos.
Artie. III. cap. ii. p. 315. we read, " Et
idem est judicium sicut de tabulariis, ita
etiam de tabellis, taxil/is, taxillorum. Ter-
tii autem participiantes suntqui fuint par-
ticipes ex naibis seu carticellis, de
quibus innumerabilia mala egrediuntur;"
and at cap. iii. p. 316, he repeats: Sed
etiam contra omnes tabuhiria, taxillos,
carticellas. Sicut sunt tabularia taxilli, 8f
Carticell.k site naibi. Sermon S. Ber
nardin. Venez. 1591, t. 1. The life of
this saint is inserted in the Acta Sancto
rum of the Bollandists, Maii, Tomus quin-
tus, Vit. I. Antiquior. Auctore Berna-
bao Senensi coavo, from which it appears
that he did not begin to write his Ser
mons until 1440, and that on his return to
Sienna, about 1430, " ludi vero taxillorum
non solum suo jussu deleti fuere, sed coram
Gubernatore hujus Reipublica .naibes,
taxillos, tessera, Sf instrumenta in super lig-
nea, super qua avare irreligiosi ludi jie-
bant, combustos, esse pracepit. Bernini,
in his 1stor. delle Eresie, Venez. 1724, t. iv.
p. 157, relates that St. Bernardin, preach
ing at Bologna, on the 5th May, 1423,
against the use of Playing Cards, to which
the Bolognese had been long excessively
addicted, his hearers were so much moved
by his sermon, that they made a fire in
the public place where he was preaching,
and threw all their Cards into it. The
maker and painter of these Cards, weeping
and lamenting, thus addressed the saint :
" I have not learned, Father, any other art
but that of painting Cards : if you deprive
me of that, you deprive me of life, and
my destitute family of the honest means
of sustenance." The saint in a cheerful
manner, immediately replies, " Si nescit
aliud pingere ; banc imaginem pinge, nec te
omnino pingebit ;" * and thus saying and
taking a little tablet, he formed a Sun with
its resplendent rays, and in the midst of it,
more lovely than the Sun, the name ofJe-us,
with this, at that time unused, sign IHS.
The man promptly obeys the saint ; and so
numerous were the purchasers of the new
manufacture, that he speedily became rich.
• Sic.
25
use in 1423, and it is remarkable that in the passages cited, they
are mentioned under both their appellations, Naibis seu Carticellis.
Saint Antonine," archbishop of Florence, who died in 1459, also
thus designates them. They are likewise mentioned in the Opuscula
of Filippo Beroaldo,' printed in 1499- Pulci, in his Morgante
Maggiore, alludes to Cards under the name of Naibi.1 And Pla-
tina, who died in 1481, in his book " de Honesta Voluptate," men
tions them among other games, and calls them " Chartis variis imagi-
nibus pictis.
It should seem probable, that the Tarocco Cards were not
introduced until some time after the Trappola, yet a Pack be
longing to Filippo Maria Visconti, Duke of Milan* in the year
■ Summa Theologica, fol. 1740. p. 2.
cap. xxiii. col. 315. " Circa hoc capitu-
lum notandum primo quod ludus alea: secun
dum Guillelmum intelligititr omnis ludus,
qui innititur fortuna, ut ludus taxillorum.
Et idem videtur de Chartis, vel Naibis,
quamvis sit ibi aliquid industries, principal
liter tatnen estfortuna. J^udus autem scac-
corum non estfortuna: ; sed industrial
Ludus etiam pilot non est fortunes sed ex-
ercitii." And further on, col. 326. Defac-
toribus et venditoribus alearum, # taxillo
rum # Chartarum seu n aiborum, fuco-
rum sertorum seu coronarum mulierum ca
pillarum capitis, £fc.
* Declamatio lepidissima ebriosi scorta-
toris Aleatoris de vitiositate disceptantium.
Bonon. 1499« After having said, " inter
ceteras nationes Studiosissimi tesserarice lu-
sionis Aleatoresque maximi Germani fuisse
produntur, he adds, Utinam possent e vita
in totam abdicari tollique tessera, char-
TULiE lusori«, sicutijampridem tali sub-
lati sunt : Et lusio talaria abdicata.
* gridava il Gigante
Tu se qui Re di Naibi, o di Scacchi,
Colmio battaglio convien ch'io t' ammacchi.
Canto 7. Ottava 62.
4 Tiraboschi, Stor. della. Letterat.
t. vi. p. 1196. Zani Materialise, p. 185.
The account is taken from the " Vita
Phi/ippi Maria Vicecomitis Mediolanensi-
utn Ducis Tertii, Autore Petro Candida.
Cap. lxi . p. 33. Medio/ani apud M. Ma-
latesta, \630. This life is also printed in
the Rer. Italic. Script, of Muratori,
vol. xx. p. 986, 1019- the passage is as
follows : " Variis etiam ludendi modis ab
adolescentia usus est; nam modo pila
se exercebat, nunc folliculo : plerumque eo
ludi genere, qui ex imaginibus depictis Jit,
in quo praecipue oblectatus est adeo ut in
tegrum eorum ludum mille & quingentis
aureis emerit,auctorevelin primisMartiani
Derthonensi ejus Secretario, qui Deurum
imaginis,sabjectasc[VLehisanimaliumJiguras,
& avium miro ingenio, summaque industria
perfecit." From the description here given
of these Cards, and the very great sum
of 500 Gold Scudi paid for them, we may
imagine that they were among the choicest
specimens of art at that period : the Deo-
rum imagines, and the animalium 2f avium
fguras, should seem to indicate that they
were of the species called Tarocchi.
26
1430, appear, from the description of them, to have been of the
former species. The Trappola game is said to have been repre
sented in an illumination of a MS. book of Offices, * executed for
Alfonso III. of Ferrara, before the year 1500; and Tarocco in a
Fresco picture, painted by Niccolo dell 'Abate in the institute at
Bologna, where four soldiers are represented playing. This picture
must have been painted between 1540 and 1550 ; at which time
another proof exists, that Tarocco was commonly played, in a poem,
under the title of an Invective against the game, published in 1550.*
But that Cards were commonly used in Italy, and various games
played with them at an early period of the fifteenth century, is
proved by the express mention Lorenzo de Medici makes of them,
in a Canzone printed among the Canti Carnascialeschi; ' in which the
games of Basset, (la Bassetto,) and the Flush, (il FrussoJ are also
mentioned : and the latter is said to be in daily use among the
country people. These Canzoni are known to have been youthful
compositions of Lorenzo, who died in 1492, at the age of forty-four.
We may, therefore, safely infer that as Cards were then in common
■ Bettinelli Giuoco delle Carte
Poemetto, Canto ii. note 13. "A me non
venne scoperto monumento di ciò più an
tico di una miniatura d' uffizio ecclesiastico
nella Estense, in cui son chiaramente di
pinte le carte italiane, e comuni di cop
pe, 6pade, bastoni, al tempo ci' Alfonso
III. Duca di Ferrara, cioè poco dopo il
1500. £ di quella pittura a fresco, che si
vede in Bologna nel Palagio del Istituto,
la qual rappresenta in un fregio quattro
soldati giuocanti alle carte ; e quelle sono
appunto, come le usate oggidì nel Tarocco.
Or Niccolò dall' Abate dipinse colà per
mio credere tra il 1540, e il 1550. Sicché
da dugento, e più anni non si è fatta mu
tazione in cosa, che par di sua natura sì
leggera,, e sì mutabile.
% Invettiva contra il Giuoco del Tarocco
rfiFLAVio Alberto Lollio 8vo. Venezia
per Gabriel Giolito, 1550. I have not been
fortunate enough to meet with this poem.
} Canti Carnascialeschi. Cosmopoli (Flo
rence) 1780, 2 v. 8vo. Canto de* Bericu-
ocolaj, t. i. p. 7.
Convien giucare e spender buon quattrini.'
Noi abbiam carte a fare alla Bassetta,
E convien che 1' un alza a 1' altra metta ;
Poi di quà e di là spesso si getta,
Le Carte, e tira a te, 9e tu indovini.
O tre, o quattro, o sotto, o sopra chiedi,
Questa Basseta e spacciativa giuoco
E ritto ritto fassi in ogni loco
E sola ha questa mal eh ei dura poco
Il Frussi ci è eh' è un giuoco maladetto
Ma lo fanno oggi infino a Contadini.
27
use, and a variety of games played with them, they must have been
known among the Italians at a much earlier period.
In the year 1526, a curious volume was printed at Rome, con
taining the celebrated Berni's Capitolo on the game of Primiera,
with a facetious mock commentary by some wit, styling himself
Messer Pietropaulo da San Chirico.' In the course of this com
• Capìtolo del Gioco della Primiera col
commento di Messer Pietropaulo da San
Chirico. Stampata in Roma nell anno.
m.d.xxvi. per F. Mìntio Calvo, 4to. The
volume is extremely rare ; the copy before
me is from the Pinelli collection ; ano
ther is among the treasures of Italian
literature,possessed by R. Wilbraham, Esq.
The Poem without the commentary has
been several times printed in the collec
tions of Poesie Burlesche, and among the
works of Berni ; but of the commentary,
the edition here cited is, I believe, the
only one. Messer Paolo da San Chirico,
was probably Francesco Berni himself : it
is remarkable that Rolli, who published a
collection of these Capitoli Burlesche,
Loud. 1721-3. 2 v. 8vo.and who has written
a few notes on the very Poem in question,
in conjunction with Salvini, seems not
to have known such a book was in exist
ence. I shall here give the passages
referred to above, in the words of their
author. The games at Cards mentioned
are besides Primero, Bassetto, Cricca,
Trionfi, Trionfi-piccoli, il Flusso, Tren
tuno, Noviera, Sestiero, Quintiera, and
Ronfia. " Un altra più piacevolone di cos
tui per intrattenere un poco più la festa,
et dar piacere alla brigata, a guardare le
dipinture, ha trovato che Tarocchi sono
un bel gioco, et purgli essere in regno suo
quando ha in mano un numero di dugento
carte che a pena le può tenere, et per non
essere appostato le mescola cosi il meglio
che può sotto la tavola, viso proprio di
Tarocco colui a chi piace questo gioco»
che altro non vuol dir Tarocco che ignoc-
co, sciocco, balocco degno di star fuor for-
nari e calzolari et plebei a giocarse in tut
to di un Carlino in quarto a Tarocchi, o
a Trionfi, o a Sminchiate che si sia, che ad
ogni modo tutto importa minchioneria et
dapocagine, pascendo l'occhio col Sole, et
con la Luna et col Dodici come fanno i
puti. Sig. D.
di chi ne fusse l'inventore, o di chi
la illustrasse primamente, poca certezza si
ha, ne è quella poca, confirmata per auto
rità di fede degni, alcuni dicono del Mag
nifico Lorenzo de Medici et raccontano non
so che novella d'una Badia la quale perche
in verità l'opera non merita il pregio et io
ne potrei narrandola, haver cosi mal grado
come buono, lascerò cercare a più curiosi,
altri vogliono che il Re Ferrando di Na
poli, quello che tanto magnificamente
opero la trovasse, altri il Re Mattia Un-
ghero, molti la Reina Isabella, certi altri
il gran Siniscalco. In breve perche questa
osservatione è cosi superflua come la pri
ma, lasceremo medesimamente trovare a
chi desidera sapere quanti barili de vino
desse Aceste ad Enea, o come havesse no
me la balia d'Anchise et cotali altre curio-
sita peggio che quelle dell' ovo et della
gallina. Io per me se ne fussi domandato
direi che ella è stata sempre, et sarà sem
pre, et sono d' opinione che non le carte
la trovassero ma ella trovasse le carte.
Sig. A. ». rev.
E 2
28
mentary, the game, its laws, and the mode of playing it, are fully ex
plained ; and it is put in comparison with other games then in use.
Nine or ten different games at Cards are enumerated, to all of which
the commentator prefers the game of Primero. But what also is an
important feature in this singular little book, is the mention which
is made of the Tarocchi. " Another," says he, " as more pleasing,
prolonging the entertainment, and giving pleasure to the company
in looking at the paintings, has found that the Tarocchi are an
excellent game ; and he seems to be in his glory, when he has in
hand to the number of two hundred cards, which he can scarcely
hold, and which, not to be overlooked, he shuffles as well as he can
under the table. Let him look to it, who is pleased with the game
of Tarocco, that the only signification of this word Tarocco, is stupid,
foolish, simple, fit only to be used by Bakers, Coblers, and the vul
gar, to play at most for the fourth part of a Carlino, at Tarocchi, or
at Trionji, or any Sminchiate whatever : which in every way signifies
only foolery and idleness, feasting the eye with the Sun, and the
Moon, and the twelve (signs) as children do." We shall have occa
sion again to recur to this interesting volume, it will therefore be merely
necessary here to observe, that the number of games enumerated,
and the circumstance of many of them being mentioned as only
fit to be played by the vulgar, surely establishes it beyond doubt,
that Cards must have been long known in Italy. Indeed, in one
instance, the commentator attributes the invention of the game of
Ron/a to King Ferdinand ; and in another place, speaking of Cards,
he says humourously, " We have but little certainty who was the in
ventor, or who, in the first instance, developed the game, nor is that
little confirmed by authority to be relied on. Some say it was Lo
renzo de Medici the Magnificent, and relate I know not what tale of an
Abbot : the which truly, for that the affair is not worth the trouble,
and I cannot relate it, be it well or ill done, I have thus left to
be sought by the more curious. Others will have it, that Ferdi
nand of Naples, he who so distinguished himself, was the inventor.
Others Matthias, King of Hungary ; many the Queen Isabella ;
29
some the Grand Seneschal. In short, because this observation is as
superfluous as the first, we shall leave the search to those who are
desirous of knowing how many barrels of wine Acestes gave to
./Eneas ; or what was the name of Anchises' nurse ; and the like
curiosities, worse than the Egg and the Chicken : for my part, were
I asked, I should say that they ever were, and ever will be : and I
am of opinion that they did not find the Cards, but that the Cards
found them."
Some Italians writers 1 have placed the invention of the game of
Tarocco during the period of the civil dissensions of the Guelfs
and Ghibellines, and have even said, the figures on the Tarocchi
relate to events which took place in Italy at that period. It does
not appear that there is solid foundation for this assertion, and if
the figures on those Cards have any relation to such historical events,
it surely cannot have been the modern Tarocchi, which these writers
have alluded to. It should seem from a passage in Garzoni's 1 de
scription of what he calls the new-invented game of Tarocco, that
he only alludes to an alteration of the suits in the cards used at it :
this was the adoption of the French, Pique, Coeur, Trefle, and Car-
reaux, instead of the Italian or Spanish suits of Spade, Coppe Denari,
and Bastoni; and thus Volaterrano's evidence, which he adduces,
may have only related to a change in the form of the game, and
not to the invention of it. Perhaps also the figures of the Tarocchi
themselves were changed, according to the fancy of the different
fabricators of them : other alterations have taken place, and the
game of Minchiate has the number of the Tarocchi increased to
forty, and with the fool, (il Matto) to forty-one : of these, thirty-
five are numbered, the remaining five unnumbered ones are called
1 In the notes to the Poem of Bertuldo cenda de Ceremei Guelfi, e Lambertazzi
con Bertuldino, written in the Bolognese Ghibcllini, cosl il Valdemnsi da Prusilio
dialect, and printed at Bologna in 1736, ne distese la varia fortuna." p. 98.
4to. it is said of this game, " trovarvisi 1 Garzoni loc. cit. He continues his de-
dentro semi di buon fine, e di scelta eru- scription by observing, " e con le carte
dizione, e U Ginerbelti ne scrisse la storia, fine, Cuori, Fiori e la Picche dove che si
ed origine, facendo vedere, che i Tarroc- guoca & Tarocchi, a Primiera, a Trionfit-
chini non sono altro, se non la tragica fac- ti, a Trapolla, alia Bassetta, e altri simili.
30
Arie, and distinguished as the five highest cards : these are the Sun»
Moon, Star, World, and Fame; the whole number of the pack is
ninety-seven ; the forty-one figured cards are called Tarocchi, the
fifty-two cards of the four suits, Cartiglie; and at Munich they
have increased the number of Cards to one hundred and three in
this game, by doubling the twenty-one Tarocchi, the fool, and the
Ace, King, and Knave of hearts. The Minchiate appears to be only
another name for the Tarocchi, and both games are still played in
Italy. In a future page we shall have occasion to revert to them,
and they will then be more fully described.
It has been shewn that Cards were known in the southern pro
vinces of France about the year 1361,' and it is supposed that
it was the Eastern or Trappola game. Another account, however,
places the invention of them in France, to the year 1392 ; from the
circumstance of fifty-six sous having been paid to Jacquemin Grin-
gonneur, a painter, for three packs (Jeux) of Cards, for the amuse
ment of Charles VI. during his unfortunate mental incapacity.*
Bullet has used much ingenuity to shew that they were invented in
France, during the reign of Charles V. ; but it appears that they
were known there as early as the year 1341 ; 3 there is no question,
however, but that Cards were then painted, and not printed: conse^-
quently, it is probable that they were not in general use, but con
fined to the court and higher classes. Guillaume de Machau,* in
1 Supra, p. 3. 4 Bullet Recherches, p. 16.
1 Menestrier Biblioth. Curieuse et In- Garde te, ami, qu' aux Dex ne joue
structive, t. ii. p. 174. 12mo. Et que pas ton temps ni aloue;
The circumstance is taken from a MS. Car c'ost chose trop deshonneste,
Account Book of Ch. Poupart, Treasurer A Prince qui quiert vie honneste :
to Charles VI. in which is the following Car il ne vient pas de franchise
entry. " Donne a Jacquemin Gringon- Eins est fond6 sur convoitise ;
neur Peintre pour trois jeux de Cartes a Et si monstre on si sa maniere
or &. a diverses couleurs, de plusieurs de- Que maint en parle en derriere.
vises pour porter devers ledit Seigneur Mais s'un petit ti wes esbattre.
Roi, pour son ebatement, cinquante-six Joue xx gros ou xxim
sols parisiis." A Dames &. a Pucelettes
3 Jansen Hist, de la Gravure, t. i. p. 99. De cuer & de pensees nettes :
v. supra, p. 3.
31
v
a poem entitled Confort d'Amy, addressed to Charles V. the year he
ascended the throne, (1364,) inveighs against Dice, but does not
mention Cards ; which he would probably have done, had they
been known to him, as the reason he adduces for interdicting Dice,
would have equally operated against Cards.
The game of Piquet appears to have been invented in the reign
of Charles VII. It has been said that its invention took its rise
from a Ballet danced at the court of that Monarch ; ' but it seems
quite as probable, that this game furnished the device for the Ballet,
as it has done at a later period.* At all events the origin of
the figures may be attributed to very different causes ; the whole
arrangement of them shews that they were modelled after the Eastern
or Trappola Cards, only filling up the chasm in the numbers,
3, 4, 5, 6.
Although we must entirely differ in opinion from those who have
attributed the invention of Cards to the French nation at this
period,3 yet it should seem, that about this time, the figures and
Et si tu gaignes leur argent
Donne le tantost a leur gent
Et li tien aussi sans plus dire :
Et si tu pers n'en fais que rire.
1 Daniel, Memoires de Trevoux, 1720,
p. 934.
1 En 1676, on representa sur le Theatre
de l'Hotel de Guinegaud une Comedie de
Thomas Corneille en cinq actes, intitulee
h Triomphe des Dames, qui n'a point €te
imprimee, et dont le Ballet du Jeu de Pi
quet etoit un des Intermedes. Les quatres
Valets parurent d'abord, avec leurs halle-
bardes, pour faire place ; ensuite les Rois
aniverent successivement, donnant la main
aux dames dont la queue etoit portee par
quatre Esclaves : le premier de ces Esclaves
representoit la Paume ; le second, le Bil-
lard ; le troisieme les Dez ; le quatrieme
le Trictrac. Le Rois, les Dames, & les
Valets, apres avoir forme, par leurs dan-
ses, des tierces & des quatorzes ; 8c apres
s'etre ranges, tous les noirs d'un cot6 &
les rouges de l'autre finirent par un contre-
danse ou toutes les couleurs etoient me
lees confusement & sans suite. Theatre
Francoise, t. ii. p. 472. Menestrier was,
I think, the author of a curious vo
lume, entitled " Des Ballets Anciens et
Modernes. Paris 1682. 12mo." in which
this Ballet is referred to ; but he has not
there thrown out any idea upon the origin
of the game of Piquet. It is said that
while the English were in possession of
Paris and half his kingdom, Charles VII.
shewed La Hire the preparations for an
intended Ballet, asking his opinion of
them. Upon which La Hire answered,
By my faith, Sire, I think it is impossible
to lose a kingdom more gaily.
s This opinion of the origin of Cards in
France, seems to have taken its rise with
Menestrier, who is followed by Daniel
and Bullet, from which sources all the later
32
suits of the original Cards underwent a change, and that those
which are now in general use were then adopted. According to
an explanation which has been given of the figures, the Queen
of Spades, which on the French Cards is named Pallas, was
meant to represent Joan of Arc, the Maid of Orleans : if this was
the case, and it was intended as a tribute to her memory, the
adoption must of course have been after the year 1421, in which
she rendered them such signal service, and probably before the
close of the reign of Charles VII. who died in 1461. The argu
ments used by Bullet" to establish the fact of their invention in
France in the reign of Charles V. are deduced from the objects
represented on them, from the names and costume given to the
French Court cards, and from the negative proof of finding no pre
vious mention of them. His presumption from the use of the Fleur
de lis 1 upon them has been already answered : the names of the
figured cards seem to have been of later invention. The King of
Spades, (Pique,) bears the name of David; that of Clubs (Trefle,)
the name of Alexander; that of Hearts (Coeurs,) Charlemagne; and
that of Diamonds (Carreaux,) the name of Cesar: the Knave of
Spades is called Ogier; that of Clubs, Lancelot; that of Hearts, la
Hire; and that of Diamonds, Hector. The Queens are also named in
like manner: the Queen of Spades is named Pallas; of Clubs, Ar~
gine; of Hearts, Judic; and of Diamonds, Rachel.3 Daniel, in his
French writers have copied their accounts,
and they have been implicitly followed by
most writers of other nations who have
had occasion to mention the subject.
1 Recherches sur les Cartes a Joiier,
passim.
1 Supra, p. 4. Bullet has also given
the invention of the Magnetic Compass to
the French, from the circumstance of the
Fleur de lis being generally found at the
Northern extremity of the index. His
supposition, however, has better grounds
of probability; he has given a curious
passage from the Tesoretto of Brunetto
Latint, which he composed at Paris in
1260, wherein this instrument is clearly
designated ; and another from Guyot de
Provins, who lived about 1200, in which
it is mentioned and called a Marinette.
Recherches, p. 42.
3 Some French Cards which I possess,
and which appear to be of the seventeenth
century, have inscribed on the King of
Hearts, Charle, and not Charlemagne ; and
on the Knave of Clubs Angoulesme, in
stead of Lancelot. This would seem more
33
Dissertation on the Game of Piquet,1 has conjectured that the four
Queens are intended to represent four principal female characters
in the reign of Charles VII. ; the Queen of Spades, Pallas, god
dess of war and wisdom, the only one of the first order, who
persevered in observing the strictest celibacy ; he thinks strikingly
allusive to the Maid of Orleans, in whom these three attributes of
the goddess, martial character, wisdom, and chastity, are found
united ; Charles VII. he says, probably out of gratitude for the ser
vices received at her hands, gave her a place in this military game.
The Queen of Clubs, is called Argine, which he conceives to be the
Anagram of Regina, and therefore to represent Mary of Anjou, wife of
Charles VII. Rachel is the Queen of Diamonds, who appears from
the Scriptures to have been celebrated for her beauty ; and therefore,
he thinks, chosen to represent Charles's mistress Agnes Sorel, who
was called the Lady of Beauty, from a castle upon the Marne which
he gave her, in gallant allusion to her personal charms. Judith, the
Queen of Hearts, he thinks, was intended to represent Isabel of
Bavaria, mother to Charles VII. and wife of Charles VI. and to
establish the supposition, he draws an ingenious historical parallel
between her, and the Empress Judith, wife of Louis the Debonnair.
Bullet allows this explanation to be very plausible, but says it
suffers some very material difficulties ; he thinks it is not to be sup
posed that a Christian heroine would have been designated by an
Heathen Deity : or that Rachel should have been chosen to repre
sent Agnes Sorel. He says it is also improbable that Mary of An
jou, Queen to Charles VII. would have been placed in the game on
a level with Joan of Arc and Agnes Sorel. The names Argine and
Judic gave rise to a conjecture in his mind, that as these words are
only to be found in the Breton language, in which Argine signifies the
strongly to indicate the reign of Charles about 1430. This monarch, properly speak-
VII. as the period at which the Cards ing, cannot be said to have commenced
were thus named. his reign until that year ; for the Duke of
1 Memoires de Trevoux, 1710, p. 934. Bedford was regent, and Henry VI. had
He says the invention cannot be traced been acknowledged King, after the death
further than the time of Charles VII. of Charles VI.
t
34
Beautiful, and Judic, Queen-twee.' Anne of Brittany, who was suc
cessively Queen of Charles VIII. and Louis XIII. was intended
to have been represented both by the Queen of Clubs and of Hearts :
he dwells on her character with delight, and cites numerous pas
sages from cotemporary writers in proof of her beauty and various
merits as a Queen and mother of her people, but he adduces nothing
like proof of his conjecture.
Charles VII. is said, by Daniel, to have been meant by David,
which is the name of the King of Spades : and he draws a kind of
parallel between them. To this Bullet demurs, and says that the
Kings on the French Cards represent those monarchs only, by whose
names they are designated, and the game being military, four war
like monarchs have been chosen. Every game may be considered a
species of combat, and that of Cards has most particularly the appear
ance ; we find Kings, and those renowned for military prowess,
emblematic of the chiefs of armies ; the Knaves, (ValetsJ symbolical
of the vassals of feudal times, in whom consisted the principal strength
of the state. The other cards seem to refer properly to the residue of
the people of whom the armies were composed ; the Queen appears
to have been introduced into the game by the gallantry of the French,
and was probably derived from them, and introduced by the Italians
and Spaniards in the more complex game of Tarocco. Bullet, who
has been reproached with his attempt to deduce every word from a
Bas-Breton or Celtic origin, has given explanations of the terms
Dame, Valet, according to his favourite system ; 1 and he does not
1 Ar article La: Gin Belle. JudRe'me:
Dye Deux foix. Recherches, 103.
1 " Dame est une terme Francois : ilvient
du Celtique Dam, qui signifioit persoune
distingu£e de 1'un ou de l'autre sexe :
Sieur, Seigneur, Dame, on trouve souvent
dans nos vieux Livres, Dame Diex, pour
Seigneur Dieu. Les paysans en quelques
endroits de Franche-Comte disent Oui
Dame, pour Oui Monsieur. Ce mot est en
core en usage dans son compose Vidame le
Vidame d'Amiens, le Vidame de Chartres."
In a note on this passage Bullet has
cited many of the earlier French writers as
authorities; and he says, the ancient chro
nicles have indifferently Damp, Dan, Dam,
Dant. Of Dam comes the diminutives
Damoisel, Damoiseau, which formerly sig
nified Seigneur, and he adduces numerous
instances from the French chroniclers.
Edward the Black prince is styled Da
moisel by Froissart. But it must be con
35
entirely agree with Daniel in making Hector, Lancelot,' Ogier, and
la Hire, intended for personages of distinction in the annals of
France.
He imagines, but without foundation, that the Spaniards derived
Cards from France by the way of Biscay, and sustains his hypo
thesis by the supposition that the word Naipes is of Basque origin ;
fessed, that a more probable and obvious
origin of the word, may be found in the
Latin Dominus.
Valet et un mot François. Was en
Celtique signifie général un homme de
service comme il y a deux genres de ser
vices, l'un qui se rend dans la maison &
pour les affaires domestiques ; l'autre qui
se rend au dehors & dans les armées ; le
mot Was jusqu'au neuvième siècle a sig
nifié indifferement des domestiques & des
gens de guerre. Depuis ce temps il ne
s'est pris que dans ce dernier sens jusqùau
règne de François I. On ne soudoyoit
point autrefois ceux qui composoient les
armées, ainsi qu' on le fait aujour-d'hui.
Le Prince ou le seigneur donnoit une
terre ou fief à charge du service militaire.
Celui qui à raison de cette terre ou fief,
étoit tenu de venir à l'armée, s'apelloit
Vas, ou Vassal. Comme il n'y avoit alors
que ces Vassaux qui portassent les armes,
on les nomma aussi Milites, Guerriers.
Lorsqu' on eut institué la chevalerie, on
qualifia Chevaliers, ceux de ces Vassaux
qui l'avoient reçue : 8c en appella Vaslets,
Vaselets, Varlets, Valiez, les fils des Vas
saux, des plus grands Seigneurs, des Sou
veraines même, qui n'avoient pas encore
été armés Chevaliers. On donnoit aussi a
ces Valets le nom d'Ecuyers, Scutarii ;
parce qu'ils portoient l'ecu ou bouclier du
Chevalier, auquel ils s'attachoient pour
faire leurs premieres armes. Dans les der
nières années du règne de Charles V. Var-
let ou Valet se prenoit pour Ecuyer & pour
domestique. Ce terme a present ne sig
nifie plus qu' un serviteur.
As, nom d'une des Cartes, n'a de signifi
cation qui puisse convenir a ce jeu en au
cun langue qu'en Celtique, ou il signifie,
commencement, premier. C'est effective
ment pour ce nombre que 1' As est mis.
Recherches, &c. 57. Here again, misled
by his prejudice in favour of Celtic origins,
Bullet has asserted what is not correctly
true. The Roman As, is as much expres
sive of unity, as his pretended Celtic term
can be, and it was most probably from
this source, the name of the card was de
rived. The term Valettus, was also in use
among the Latin writers of the middle
ages, under the same acceptation with the
French word Valet.
1 Hector, according to Daniel, repre
sents Hector de Galard Captain of the
Guard to Louis XI. Bullet thinks the
son of Priam is meant, from whom, through
his son Astyanax, by them called Fran-
cion, the writers of the eleventh and five
following centuries make the Kings of
France descend in a right line; and he says,
" On some old Cards we read Hector de
Troye, Lancelot du Lac, Ogier, and la Hire."
" Ogier, is not deemed a fabulous person
age ; his tomb is still existing in the church
of the monastery of St. Faron, at Meaux.
La Hire is the famous Etienne de Vig-
nolles, who contributed so much by his
valour to re-establish the tottering throne
of Charles VII. He was surnamed La
Hire.
F 2
36
but it seems more probable that the French derived the knowledge
of them from the Spaniards, if they did not derive them from the
oriental hordes already mentioned. It is to be presumed, that until
Cards were multiplied by other means than painting them by
hand, they could not be very generally disseminated among all
ranks of the community ; but that they were in use among the higher
classes of society in France, previous to the reign of Charles VI. in
which their invention has been laid, cannot be doubted. It is most
probable that Cards, when first introduced into that nation, had the
Eastern or Trappola suits, which, the Italians and Spaniards alone,
have still retained on those in common use among them. The
change of the suits may have taken its rise in France, but much
licence has been also used by the Germans in the adoption of flowers,
plants, and animals, instead of these objects. The Piquet pack is
supposed by Breitkopf ' to have originally consisted, like the com
mon pack, of fifty-two ; but it will be remembered that the old
Trappola Cards had but thirty-six in the pack.
Although it does not appear in the least likely that the Spaniards
invented Cards, and though we must abandon the fable of the name
of the inventor, unsupported as it is by authority of sufficient weight,
yet that they were very early acquainted with them is in a high
degree probable. The character of their two principal national
games, Ombre and Quadrille, demonstrates that they took their rise in
a chivalric age. The Spaniards have continued to use the term
Naipes, and have not, like the Italians, adopted the word Carte
Ombre also is played in France with these Spanish Cards, and
there is some reason to think this was the case in England on its first
introduction. A traveller in Spain, in the early part of the sixteenth
century, represents the people as passionately fond of Cards,* and
■ Den Urnsprung der Spielkarten, p. 32. scribes the Spaniards, in his time, as most
1 A Flemish author, (Eckeloo,) who passionately addicted to gaming.—" His-
flourished about 1540, and had travelled in pani homines omnium quosnovi et maxi-
France, Italy and Spain, published a trea- me ludunt, et natura ad ludum maxiine
tise " de Alta" under the feigned name propensi."—and again, " Jam diu longe
of Pascasius Justus j in which he de- lateque Hispanias lustranti mini saepe con
37
says that " he has travelled many leagues in that kingdom without
being able to procure the necessaries of life, not even bread or wine,
but that in every miserable village, Cards were to be bought." They
appear to have carried their passion for this game with them to the
New World, and they are represented to have fabricated them of the
leaves of a tree, and even of leather.'
It appears from some Dialogues written for the use of school
boys by Vives? a Spaniard who died in 1541, that both Spanish and
French Cards were in use in the Netherlands at the period he wrote,
as he distinguishes them by the suits represented on them, and that
the Spanish Cards had no tens in the pack : the game described by
him, is that called Trionfo, or Triumph. And in another volume of
Latin Dialogues, written about the same period, and printed at Ant
werp in 1533, we find French Cards in use; and it is remarkable, that
tigit, ut cum multis locis nihil eorum quae
ad victum faciunt, non panem, non vinum
invenire possent; tamen nunquam Castel-
lum aut vicum ullum aded abjectum et
obscurum transire potui, in quo non car-
tulae vaenirent." Pascas. Justus de Aha,
p. 40, 41. Edit. Elzev. 1642. 18mo.
1 Hist. Generate des Voyages, torn. xlvi.
p. 180.
De la Vega, Historia de la Conquista de
Florida. This circumstance is also pointed
out by Matthioli, in his Comment on Dios-
corides,—" Idem et Copey in Hispaniola
folio duplo majore et crassiore refert qui-
bus pro Chartis Lusoriis Hispani uteban-
tur." Matthioli Opera. Basil 1674, p. 139.
2 There are several editions of this
book ; the one I quote from was printed at
Lyons in 1572, 8vo. accompanied by a
French translation. I will here give the
passage alluded to in French, as a large
extract from the Dialogue in Latin, will
find a place in the Appendix.
" Lupianus. Voila deux paires de cartes
entieres, Tune est d'Espagne, l'autre de
France. Valdaura. Celles d'Espagne ne
semble pas bonne.—hup. Pourquoy ? Val.
Parceque les dix y defaillent. Lup. Les
Espagnols n'ont pas accoustume d'en avoir
comme les Francois : car les cartes d'Es
pagne aussi bien que les Fran§oises sont
divisees en quatre bandes : les Espagnols
ont des Monnoyes dories, des Coupes, des
Bastons, des Espees : les Francoises ont
des Coeurs, des Quarreaux, des Trefles 8t
des Pales (ou Picques.) En un chacun
famille y a le Roi, la Roine, le Chevalier,
l'un, le deux, le trois, le quatre, le cinq,
le six, le sept, le huit, le neuf. Les Fran
coises ont aussi le dix : Et aux Espagnols
les Escus & les Tasses sont de plus grand
valeur en petit nombre : au contraire sont
les Espees et Bastons : Et aux Francois
le plus est tousjours le meilleur."—One of
the interlocutors also asks in which way
he shall deal, from left to right, in the
Dutch manner : or from right to left, in
the Spanish fashion I
38
the suit of Diamonds, (Carreaux,) are called by this writer Denarii,
and Spades, (Piques,) Ligones.' It has been already mentioned, that
they were prohibited by an edict of John I. King of Castile in 1387.*
This prohibition, far from having diminished the frequency of their
use, served only to render the passion for them more violent, and it
was again found necessary in the next century for the government to
interfere. Ferdinand V. called the Catholic, who ascended the throne
in 1474, promulgated more severe laws and penalties against Card-
players.3
Herrera* mentions, that upon the conquest of Mexico by the
Spaniards, Montezuma took great pleasure in seeing them play at
Cards ; this was in the year 1519, and it shews that this amusement
must, for some time previous, have been common in Old Spain ;
Charles V. in 1518 succeeded to the crown of that kingdom, as
well as to the new conquests and treasures of the Western World,
whilst his other most extensive dominions made his monarchy nearly
universal ; it is not therefore extraordinary that games, and gaming
in general, should at this time have been very prevalent in a nation,
then at its meridian of splendour and greatness.
The Spanish Pack consists, like the German, of forty-eight cards
only, the tens in the former, and the aces in the latter, being omitted.
The Arabic word Naipes, by which they still continue to be named,
has already been sufficiently noted.5 Their suits are similar to those
of the Italians, and are what we have already called the Trappola
1 Dialogi lxiii. per Hadrianum Bar- to have been what the Italians call Trent-
landum.—et Augustinii Reymarii Dialo- una, or Thirty-one, and the Cards a full
gus unus de Ludo Chartarum. Antverpite, French Piquet pack.
1534. 8vo. Rex pro ternione habetur. * Supra, p. 6.
Regina dualis instar esto, Pedissequus mo- 3 The passage from Marineus Siculus is
nada, Unariae Chartulse ende cada, Dena- very curious, and will be found in the Ap-
riae decada Valeto. Unus et trigessimus pendix, as given by Thiers Traite des Jeux
numerus ludum absolvito. The names et Divertissements. Paris, 1686, 8vo. p. 186.
of the suits are thus given, Diamonds, 4 Herrera Hist, de la Ind. dec. 8. lib. 7.
Denarii; Clubs, Trifoliorum; Spades, Li- c. 8.
gones; Hearts, Corda. The game appears 5 Supra, p. 7.
39
Suits, and presumed of Eastern origin : they are named in Spanish
Espadas, Copas, Oros, and Bastos.' Like the Italians and Germans,
they have no Queen in the Pack ; the figured cards are the Rey,
Caballo, Sota,1 representing a King, Horseman, and Servant.
Cervantes, in the second part of Don Quixote,1 in the Dialogue
1 Cobarruvias says, " We call one of
the four suits at Cards Bastones, or Bas
tos, (Clubs,) on which we have given the
representation of that object. It is well
known that games, which consist in con
quering and being conquered, have a war
like semblance, as the games of" Chess,
Tables, and others, and particularly the
game of Cards. For this reason four ob
jects have been represented on them, which
produce the most hurtful and mortal
effects to mankind. The first is Swords,
by which men are drawn into open dan
ger; and, notwithstanding these arms are
of iron, not less dangerous are those of
gold, (Oros,) since for gold, so many mur
ders and robberies have taken place in the
world. And Ovid says justly,
Ferro nocentius Aurum.
Clubs were the second weapons used by
men, for they succeeded fists, (Punadas)
from whence proceeds the term (Pugna,)
Combat ; and Clubs, (Bastones,) and Blud
geons, (Porras,) are the same weapon, for
they both terminate in the form of a leek :
from whence the term (porrazos) blows,
and (Apporease) to cudgel. Swords fol
lowed, which have destroyed such millions
of the human species. Yet I demur in
respect to Cups (Copas,) which seem to
have been invented rather to give life than
death ; but see what is said in Ecclesiastes,
c. xxxvii. Propter crapulam multi obierunt.
And we have brawls and quarrels in our
Cups, and many have died in these frays ;
over them also we settle our differences
and compromise our disputes, &c." Te-
soro delta Leng. Castell. in voce Boston.
1 Sota es una de las figuras de los Nay-
pes que representa el infante, o el Solda-
do : dixose Sota de Soto, porque esta de-
baxo del Rey, y del Cauallo, y assi dezi-
mos sota comitre, y sota cavallerico, &c.
Tesoro, de Cobarruvias, in voce.
I have given this explanation of the
name of the Sota, because it will be found
to agree with the other European names
in its import; the French Valet, the
English Knave, the Italian Fante, the
German Knecht, have the same signifi
cation in their respective languages. Fan
te, Infante, Valet, Knave, and Knecht, all
formerly signified a male servant, or un
derling, among other significations. The
Germans call this card Unter, or Unter-
man, and the superior card, (the Caballo in
Spanish,) Ober, or Oberman. It should
here be observed, that in all the Packs
of Tarocco Cards that I have seen, the
Queen is added to each suit, thus making
the Pack, exclusive of the Tarocchi, to
consist of fifty-six cards.
3 I willhereextractthe passage from Don
Quixote in the original, of which no ex
isting translation gives an adequate idea,
and it will perhaps please the lover of
Spanish literature to be spared the trouble
of reference.
" La tercera entender la antiguedad de
los Nat/pes, que per lo menos ya se usaban
en tiempo, del Emperador Carlo Magno,
segun puede colegirse de las palabras que
vuesa merced dice que dixo Durandarte,
paciencia y barajar ; y esta razon y modo
de hablar no lo pudo aprender encantado,
sino quando no lo estaba en Francia y
40
between the Licentiate and his Hero, has with exquisite ironical
humour ridiculed inquiries like this in which we are here engaged,
and makes the Scholar draw an inference from a proverbial expres
sion derived from Barajar,' which signifies to shuffle the Cards, that
they must have been known in the time of Charlemagne, because
Durandarte is said by Don Quixote to have used the phrase in the
Cave of Montesinos.
The migration of Cards from Italy to Germany may be pre
sumed with some degree of certainty. The vicinity of the two na
tions, and the frequency of intercourse between them, renders it
likely that early in the thirteenth century, they found their way into
that country, and this is in some degree corroborated by the
mention made of them in the German book Das Guldin Spiel,
already quoted.1 A conjecture of the means by which they may have
been introduced is afforded in the history of that period : for about
en tiempo del referido Emperador Carlo
Magno; y esta averiguacion me viene
pintaparada para el otro libro que voy
componiendo, que es Supplemento de Vir-
gilio Polidoro en la invencion de los anti-
guedades, y creo que en el suyo no se acor-
do de poner los de las Naypes, como la
pondre y ahora que sera de mucha impor-
tancia ; y mas alegando autor tan grave y
tan verdadero, como es el Senor Duran
darte." Parte II. cap. xxiv.
1 In a note to this passage, (Paciencia
y barajar, Patience and shuffle the Cards.)
Pellicer says, " The ironical manner in
which the author here speaks of the origin
of Cards, is plainly seen. Of the same
stock, and from the same source, came that
which was current, in the seventeenth cen
tury, among the Andalusian gamesters.
Respecting their inventor, who was sup
posed to be a certain countryman, there
were three opinions; some said that he
was a Frenchman, because the first Cards
came from France into Spain ; others that
he was a Fleming, on account of the in
vention of the game of Cent, (los Cientos,)
by the ladies of that province ; and others
that he was a native of Madrid, and that
having there lost his all, he took his way
toward Seville, with an intention of seeing
that city : that at Orgaz, a place in the king
dom of Toledo, he learned and exercised
the trade of a mason, where, in memory
of his occupation and dexterity at it, he
built a famous chimney : that he was after
ward waiter at an inn in the Sierra Morena,
but some extraordinary accidents which
befell hiin, obliged him to seek service in
Penaflor as a lamplighter, from whence he
passed to Seville. After having become a
sword cutler, he died there, being burnt
for coining. This was the father and in
ventor of Cards, according to the Apo
cryphal memoirs of the gamblers, who
often curse and renounce him. Faxardo,
Fiel desengafto contra la Ociosidad." Quix
ote Illustrado, t. vi. p. 344.
1 Supra, p. 2.
41
sixty years Italy had been unmolested by German troops, when it
was again visited by them about the year 1310/ under the Emperor
Henry VII. who advanced with his army as far as Rome, in 1312.
Now it is probable, as the game was then in use among the Italians,
that the German soldiers learned it of them, and at their return in
troduced it among their countrymen : it should seem that the Cards
first used in Germany must have had the Trappola suits, for in the
next century we find that the German Briefmahlers, or Cardmakers,
exported their Cards all over Italy, into Sicily, and more remote
parts of the world.1
The Germans originally called their Cards Briefe, which in the
modern acceptation, signifies Letters ; it had formerly, there can be
no doubt, a different meaning, and indeed, it should seem to have
signified any written instrument, or paper. Cards may have been
so denominated from their similarity to the little images with inscrip
tions, or from the circumstance of their being the production of the
fabricators of books.3 But they were also known by the term Kar-
ten, and it is remarkable, that the name of Briefmahler, applied to
the artists who manufactured these Images, Books, and Cards, ap
pears to have taken its rise at a subsequent period ; for they are first
designated in the Old Town Books of the Suabian and Franconian
cities, by the terms Kartenmahler or Kartenmacher. This is also
another argument that Cards were derived by the Germans, from
the Italians ; the etymology of the term Karten, is evidently from
1 Muratori, Annali £ Italia, t. viii.
p. 299 and 314.
1 This is gathered from records at Ulm,
by Breitkopf; in which city they were
admitted into the Merchants' Guild at an
early period of the fifteenth century, when
they appear to have exported Cards by
hogsheads at a time. A very early pack
engraved on copper-plates, of which spe
cimens have been given in Breitkopf's
Book, have the Trappola suits.
3 This is suggested by Breitkopf, Urs-
prung der Spielkarten, t. ii. p. 157. With
out any previous acquaintance with this
circumstance, a most ingenious similar
conjecture had occurred to ray friend Mr.
Ottley, and will be found in the interest
ing work on the History of Engraving,
which he is now preparing for the press.
Every lover of the art will be pleased to
hear, that a work of this kind, which has
long been a desideratum in the literature
of Europe, is in such able hands.
G
42
Carte, or Cartone. The other German appellation, Briefe, still pre
vails in many parts of Germany among the lower orders of people,
who when they play at Cards, use the following expressions : How
many Briefe have you? Who deals the Briefe? I want a Brief,' &c.
At what time the Germans adopted the suits which have become
a distinguishing character of their Cards,* Schellen, Bells, Hertzen,
Hearts, Griin, Green, and Eicheln, Acorns, is not known ; but they
1 SOU bit! hast Du Xrirfir ? KBri picit Die
3>rirft ? SPu fffrft fin "Brief, &c. Brietkopf
Ursprung der Spielkarlen, 2 Theil.p. 157.
* The devices on Cards seem to have
been very much varied in Germany at an
early period, and instead of the usual suits,
above enumerated, other objects, such as
the human figure, various animals, birds,
plants, fruit, and flowers, &c. were substi
tuted. Much invention and taste are fre
quently displayed in the design and ar
rangement of these objects. I am enabled,
by the kindness of Mr. Ottley, to present
the reader with accurate fac-similes of
part of a pack from the originals among his
valuable collections of prints of the early
masters ; one of them bears the mark of
Erhardt Schoeu. The skill and spirit with
which they are here imitated by the en
graver, Mr. E. Byfield, merits every praise.
43
had also other objects represented on them at an early period of the
fifteenth century. We have many such variations among the speci
mens which accompany this work, and they appear to have used the
licence arbitrarily.
But the Germans subsequently, like other nations, invented and
adopted games of their own : Landsknecht,' or Lansquenet, is the
oldest German game at Cards. Its name, which signifies a Soldier,
1 The word Lansknechte appears to
have been sometimes spelt Lanzenknecht,
or Lanz-Knecht : its military and German
origin is sufficiently obvious; it signifies
the Foot-soldier, just as Reafrige Knecht
means Horse Soldier. The Foot Soldiers
were at that period armed with lances.
Breitkopf cites an opinion of Matthias
Quade, in the Deiitschett Natiott Herrlich-
keit, who places their origin at the time
of the invasion of Germany by the Huns,
in the tenth century. He accounts them
the fifth order of Germans, who had origi
nally but four; the Clergy, the Nobility,
the Citizens, and the Peasantry, to which
were added this order of Landsknechte,
taken from among the latter, to defend
their country against the invaders. They
preferred being called Landsknechte to the
name of Kriegsleute, Soldiers ; they were
called Lantz, and Labantz, by the Hunga
rians in the sixteenth century. The inha
G 2
seems to indicate that it was invented, or at least first played, by
men engaged in the military profession ; in a very short time it
spread beyond the limits of Germany. If it be the same game
which has come down to us, and that now bears the name, its in
vention required no mighty effort of genius, and it might easily be
learned and played by the common soldiers. That it was the origi
nal Arabian game, does not appear likely, or the French, who pro
bably knew that game before the Germans, would not have adopted
the German name : but there is no doubt it was played with the
original Eastern or Trappola Cards, before the German change of
suits was made. The time of its invention is a matter of uncer
tainty : it is said to have been known in France, about 1392, in
the reign of Charles VI. ; and Breitkopf thinks, if this circum
stance could be fully established, it might be inferred with some
degree of probability, that it was this very same Lansquenet which the
Europeans learned of the Arabians, and that it was the first game
played wherever Cards penetrated.
But he considers it a matter of difficulty to assign that epoch
with certainty for its introduction into France, and he rather inclines
to think, although the term, as designating a Foot soldier, was then
known there, that the game was not introduced until a later period.
Circumstances point to the commencement of the war in the Nether
lands under Maximilian I. about the year 1494 or 1495, as the most
probable time of its introduction ; the manufacturers of Cards in
Germany were then a numerous and flourishing body, and the game
very generally played.
Toward the close of the fourteenth, and in the beginning of
the fifteenth century, numbers of poor dissolute people were wan-
bitants of the country have been called the Landskncchte is found in the Panoplia,
Landliutt by some old German writers, or Book of Trades, &c. engraved by Jost
and their servants (Knechte,) might there- Amnion, published at Frankfort in 1568;
fore be properly called La7idsk»echte. The and one of the attendants or knaves, who
term Lansquenet among the French, in the carries a pike or halbert in the second plate
sixteenth century, seems to have signified of engraved Cards, may also be supposed to
merely Foot Soldier. A representation of he a personification of the same character.
45
dering about in the provinces of Upper Germany, who lived by
plundering the inhabitants. They Avere, probably, partly the rem
nant of disbanded troops employed during the hostilities of the
allied Suabian cities, against their princes and bishops, and partly the
ruined inhabitants of the villages that were laid waste during that
contest. On account of their robberies they were commonly called
Bloodsuckers, Blutzapfen, but they were sometimes joined by leaders
from among the superior orders of society, reduced to indigence
by the same cause, and they then assumed the denomination of
Landsnechte, which at an earlier period signified merely a Soldier.
The Emperor Maximilian I. had employed them in his service,
when he undertook his expedition against the Italian States ; but
more particularly in the Netherlands. At the termination of hosti
lities, when he no longer needed their services, these Landsknechte re
turned to Germany, and in their way they marched through some
part of the French dominions. The term continued to designate
hired troops even at the beginning of the seventeenth century, but on
account of the depredations they committed it was every where a
hateful term of reproach.
Among other very curious Cards in the collection of Mr. Douce,
is part of a pack of which the second plate affords specimens : the
suits, five in number, are Hares, Parrots, Pinks, Roses, and Colum
bines: there are four figured cards to each suit, King, Queen, and two
Landsknechte, or Knaves ; one probably intended for the King's, and
the other the Queen's attendant. The numerical cards in each suit
appear to have been ten in number,1 the disposition of the objects
' Babtsch, in his Peintrc Graveur, of the figured cards in the game of Taroc-
vol. x. p. 70. 75. has described sixty-five co, to which I am strongly inclined to
of these cards, but as he had never seen suspect that these cards belong. It will
any tens among those which had come be evident, that as there are five suits, of
under his cognizance, he erroneously con- fourteen cards each, the number of the
eludes that one of the figured cards re- pack would be, when complete, seventy,
presented that number, notwithstanding They were made at Cologne, and possibly
Heinecken had asserted that tens were are of as early date as 1470. Mr. Ottley
found in the pack. Bartsch does not seem is in possession of some round prints, by
to have been aware of the augmentation Martin Schoen, of the same size and style
46
on them, is singularly fanciful and ingenious. The animals and
figures are very artist-like, and they are engraved in a superior
manner. From the evidence of style, they should seem to be by Mar
tin Schoen ; and the costume of the figures, which belongs to the fif
teenth century, seems conclusively to establish the fact. It is very
extraordinary that we have here, as in the oriental Cards, the num
ber of suits increased ; a strong circumstance in favour of their
derivation from the East. Another pack, in the same gentleman's
possession, have the names of Great Eastern Potentates inscribed
under the figures of the four Kings ; these Cards are engraved on
wood, and are evidently of German workmanship. The number
and variety of such packs of German manufacture, is a sufficient
proof that they were in great request : most of those which we have
seen are uncoloured," and printed on stout paper, not card, or paste
board, which was probably not then in use : of course the coloured
packs were more expensive, and consequently not so much in re
quest; or the uncoloured specimens may possibly have been impres
sions from the blocks, not intended to play with, but merely as prints.
The warlike outline of the game at Cards, and its general resem
blance to Chess, is obvious : a more close examination of this simi
larity may lead to the cause of the changes adopted in the figures
and suits. To begin with the figures ; the antient Persian game of
Chess consisted of the following pieces, which were thus named
when they reached Europe.1
1 2 3 4 A 6
Schach. Pherz. Phil. Aspen Suar. Ruch, Beydal.
The King. The Vizier, or General. The Elephant. The Horseman. The Dromedary. Foot Soldier
of execution ; which appear to have been
intended for a species of Heraldic Cards,
as they consist of figures holding shields,
whereon are various coats of arms.
1 Mr. Douce has, however, the greatest
portion of a pack with the usual German
suits, spiritedly designed and engraved on
wood, which are coloured in a simple
manner, red and green, apparently by
means of a Stensil : they are printed on
stout paper. Those early and rudely exe
cuted German cards, of which a complete
pack has been engraved for this work, are
evidentlycoloured in this manner, and bear
every appearance of being a production
of the early part of the fifteenth century.
1 No European nation has the game of
Chess in its original form ; it has experi-
47
In the imitation of this arrangement at Cards, only half the
figures were taken,' selecting the most essential characters, thus :
12 3 4
The King. The General, or Horseman. The Knave, or Fante. The Numerical Cards.
When Chess was first introduced into France, the pieces were
no doubt called by the Persian names, but in process of time these
names were partly changed by translation, and partly modified by
a French termination.
Schach was converted by translation into Roy, the King. Pherz,
enced, every where, some change : Hyde
has compared these changes in his Disser
tation De Shahiludio. He takes the Per
sian game for a standard, as nearest the
original form ; but even this has undergone
some alteration. The European names
are as follows :
The German. Konig Konigin Laufer Springer Thuntt, or Elephant. Bauern
The French. Roy Reine Fou Chevalier la Tour Pions
The Italian. IU Reina Alfiere Caralli Rocchi, or Torri Pedine
The Spaniard. Rey Reyna Alfil Caballo
The Russian. Ship
The English. King Queen Bishop Knight Rook Pawns
1 Referring to the Indian Chess, or
game of the Four Kings, Mr. Christie
says " Our surprise at this fourfold game
may cease : the two Kings on each side
can be no other than the two inviolable
Camel Ruch Asp Pil Shah j
Queen
Do we wonder at the height of the
Queen, as represented upon our European
boards ? This will account for it. She is
hardly discernible from the King ; their
size is equal, and their carving nearly the
same. The politeness of the more liberal
Chess players induces them sometimes to
announce the warning check, when her
safety is threatened ; which amounts nearly
to a concession of inviolability to her per
son, equally with the King. Let one of
pieces: their attendants are the offensive
armed assistants. We will invest them
with their dignities, and arrange them in
their martial order :
| Shah Pil Asp Ruch || Camel
1 2 3 1 *
King
the above Kings change his sex, and we
shall account for this degree of courtesy."
Inquiry, p. 74.
It must also be remembered, that the
Queen, both at Chess and Cards, is of
European, and most likely of French in
vention. The Hindu Cards in the posses
sion of Mr. Douce have no Queens, and
it has been seen that the early Italian,
Spanish, and German Cards, have a
Knight or Horseman instead of a Queen*
48
the Vizier, became Fercia, Fierce, Fierge, Vierge, and was of course
at last converted into a Lady, Dame. The Elephant, Phil, was
easily altered into Fol, or the modern Fou. Of the Horseman,
Aspensuar, they made the Cavalier, or Knight. The Dromedary,
Ruch, was changed into a Castle, Tour, or Tower ; probably from
being confounded with the Elephant, which is represented carrying
a small Tower or Castle on his back. The Foot Soldiers, Beydal,
were retained by the name of Pions, Pawns.
Just as it was the lot of the Vizier at Chess to be converted into
a Lady, it happened at Cards that the gallantry of the French
changed the Horseman or General into a Queen : and thus arose
the three figures on their Cards, Roy, Dame, Valet. It should be
observed, that the Queen was found in addition to the other three
figured cards of each suit in the Old Italian Tarocco Cards. It is
remarkable that the suits are termed familice,* by some Latin writers
who mention the game ; and as the words Valet, Knave, and Fante,
have been said to signify a King's son, a Royal Family may have been
intended ; in the Tarocco game, it was probably a King and Queen,
with an attendant or servant for each. How the additional figures,
called the Tarocchi, arose, we know not ; but it has been already
observed, that they are found on the modern Hindu Cards, and that
1 Mr. Douce in a very curious and in
teresting paper on the European names of
Chess-men, printed in Vol. XI. of the
Archaeologia, to which the reader is refer
red, says : " It is agreed that the term is
borrowed from the Eastern word Pherz,
which means a counsellor or general of an
army ; for it is well known that the game,
however since corrupted, was originally a
military one : and it is proper to make this
remark now, as it will apply in discussing
the changes of the other pieces. The
military spirit of the Asiatic game is still
preserved in the method of playing, but
the warlike characters of the actors have
been almost entirely converted into those
composing the principal classes of a well
regulated society; such as Kings, Queens,
Knights, Bishops, Fools, and Peasants."—
" Much confusion has arisen from the arbi
trary changes of the names as well as the
forms of Chess-men by different nations.
Some have retained the forms whilst they
have altered the names, and others, the
names after having changed the forms.
Thus it happened at Cards ; we retain the
Spanish terms of Clubs and Spades, whilst
we have adopted the French suits."
1 Mr. Douce observes, that " The wri
ters of the middle ages in speaking of
Chess-men, universally stile therafamilite."
Archseologia, t. xi. p. 409.
49
they are of Eastern origin appears at least highly probable, the
circumstance of an allegory or fable being intended in them, adding
strength to the conjecture. The fondness of the people of the East
ern world for this mode of conveying instruction is every where
manifest ; perhaps the moralization of Chess might be traced to them,
as its emblematic signification was apparently meditated by the
Inventor.
The beautiful pack of Hindu Cards, of which specimens accom
pany this work, consists of the seven following Suits ; Suns, repre
sented by gold disks ; Moons, or silver disks ; Crowns or Turbans,
Cushions, Harps, Letters,' Swords ; of each of these Suits there are
ten numerical, and two figured or Court Cards, which appear to
represent a sovereign, and a general or chief. Besides these there
are twelve Cards apparently of no suit, but on which are groups of
figures, some male and some female ; among them is the following
very curious and extraordinary groupe of Tumblers.1
' It is a kind of oblong square writing, explain its signification to me, which is
in the form of a letter ; it may be observed " Letters Patent."
in the Hand of the horseman represented 1 In the collection from whence these
on the third Card in the 1st Plate at p. 16. cards were obtained, there exists a curious
The ground on which is the written in- Hindu drawing, representing the same
scription is silver, the characters black, subject, in which this groupe of figures is
Sir William Ouseley was kind enough to repeated with some other curious acces-
H
50
These twelve Cards are what we have considered as correspond
ing with the Tarocchi in the European game ; 1 they appear to be
quite unconnected with any of the Suits. We were at first led to
suppose that the number of human figures on each of these cards
might denote its value in the game, but they do not appear to be in
regular numerical progression from one to twelve, although nearly so;
and it therefore became necessary to abandon the supposition as
untenable.
The correspondence of this very curious Pack of Cards in point
of number with the usual pack of European Tarocco Cards is nearly
exact, and affords a strong reason for presuming they are of that
species. Whether the Hindoos have other Cards in which the num
ber is less, and the form more simple, we have been unable to learn ;
those packs which we have seen, have been exactly conformable in
regard to the objects represented on the numerical Cards, while the
figured Cards vary considerably, and various Packs differ in the form,
size, and degree of skill with which they have been executed. The
Pack from which the Cards engraved for this work were taken, are
sories. The feats of the Oriental Tum
blers, if these representation's may be
credited as faithful, far exceed any thing
displayed in the most enterprizing Euro
pean exhibitions of the same kind. In
one part of the drawing above mentioned,
a woman is represented suspended by her
hair, which is loosely knotted to the top
of a pole ; she sustains in each hand a
child by the hair of its head in the same
manner; the pole to which she is suspend
ed is balanced on the shoulders of a man,
who stands on the back of another, while
the latter stands upon his feet, and bends
himself at the middle, so. that his back
forms an horizontal line, and his breast
seemingly rests over the point of a formi
dable sharp stake.
' On one of them is represented a figure
in European Costume, of rather a modern
cast ; he is seated in a chair, and proba
bly represents the party for whom the
Cards were executed : it has been before
remarked, that they are painted on ivory
with much delicacy. The backs are gilt,
or rather clouded with gold ; this is un
doubtedly to answer the same purpose as
the coloured or Tarotte backs of European
Cards. It is remarkable that the Chinese
Cards are also for the most part either
coloured or spotted on the backs. I have
seen part of another Pack of circular
ivory Hindu Cards, which are in the col
lection of Viscount Harberton, who kindly
offered me the free use of them ; the sub
jects represented on them are in every
respect the same as on those from whence
the Engravings in this work have been
made, the stile of Art very similar : they
are finished with all the delicacy of Eu
ropean miniature-paintings.
51
very beautiful specimens of the graphic skill of this extraordinary peo
ple. The complicated form of these Cards, if our supposition that
they are of the Tarocco kind be admitted, would render it very un
likely that they were imitations of the European game. The adhe
rence of this people to their own inventions and amusements, may also
be urged against the probability oftheir having adopted them, the cir
cumstance of the number of suits being seven, while those in the
European game are but four, is extraordinary, as they most pro
bably have one common origin : those who are best acquainted with
the obligation Europe owes to the Eastern world, will not have
much hesitation in deciding to whom the invention belongs.
The cause of the European change in the suits has been explained
on the supposition that the original Eastern Cards represented
allegorically the orders or ranks of society, and that the Europeans
had the same object in view in the representations upon theirs.
Thus the suits on the Italian and Spanish Cards have been said to
signify, by Spade, or Swords, the Nobility ; Coppe, Cups or Cha
lices, the Clergy ; Denari, Money, the Citizens ; Bastoni, Clubs or
Sticks, the Peasantry. The French suits have also been illustrated
in the same manner ; the analogy appears striking, and the deduc
tion replete with ingenuity.1 Pique, it has been supposed, was
1 la a dissertation upon Cards printed
in the " Memoires pour l'Histoire des
Sciences et Belles Lettres," for the year
1720, they are supposed to be emble
matic of the wants of war; thus As, or
Ace, is said to mean, Money ; Trefie, fo
rage ; Pique, Pikes or Powder Shovels ;
Carreau, Arrows, Stones, Lead to fire
with ; and Coeurs, Hearts, to signify the
courage of the Soldiers. Bullet has given
a similar explanation :—" II y a quatre
couleurs dans ce jeu, pour representor les
quatres quadrilles des carrousels. Le
Coeur signifie le courage, la valeur si ne-
cessaire dans les batailles : le Pique, les
armes offensives, dont la principale etoit
alors la pique ou la lance. Les Armes
defensives sont marquees par le Carreau,
qui est un bouclier losange. Le Trefie
qui est un signe de la fertilite 8c de la
bont6 des paturages, indique l'abondance
des fourrages, principalement necessaire h
une annee, dans ce temps la, ou elle etoit
presque toute composed de Gendarmerie.
Rien ne paroit oppose a ce plan, que les
Dames, qui ne semblent pas devoir se
trouver dans le tumulte des Armes. Mais
elles ne paroitront point d^placees dans
un jeu militaire, si Ton fait attention au
genre de galanterie qui regnoit pour
lors." &c. Recherches sur les Cartes a
jouer, p. 77.*
h 2
52
intended for the point of a Lance or Pike, used by Knights in their
justs, and therefore represents the first order, or nobles ; Coeur,
Hearts, to denote the Clergy ; the hint may have been taken from
some scriptural expressions, " a heart of unbelief."—" With the
heart man believeth, &c." Trefie, Clover or Trefoil, signified the
Husbandmen, or Cultivators of the soil, who formed the middle
class of the community, before the increased cultivation of arts,
manufactures, and commerce, had congregated men together in
numbers, and formed great cities. Carreau, the end or head of an
arrow, represented the Vassals, or lowest class of the community,
from among whom the common soldiers or archers were taken.'
The suits of the German Cards are presumed to have the same sym
bolical origin, and if we may judge of the date of their adoption
from the objects represented upon them, it becomes exceedingly
probable that they are of greater antiquity than the French suits,
and date at least as early as the fourteenth century. Schellen, Little
Bells, were anciently the ornament of the dress of Princes and the
Nobility : * such bells were also tyed to Hawks ; it is well known
1 Carreau, has also been explained as
signifying square stones, or pavement, and
thus alluding to the lowest order of the
community, v. Menestrier, Bibl. Curieuse.
Passim.
1 Bttcelinus has given figures of several
princes of the House of Brunswick, deco
rated with this princely ornament> of dis
tinction, among others Guelpho II. and his
consort Ermengarda, who flourished about
the years 1002-24; they have girdles stud
ded with these Bells. Wulphid, who lived
about 1 138, is represented with a kind of
necklace of Bells; the Emperor Henry VI.
who died in 1197, has also a girdle; and
Otto IV. a collar of them. Another
prince is represented with a shoulder belt
decorated with Bells, which hangs down
his back, and reaches to his legs. As this
ornament appears to have bttcu prevalent
with princes from the eleventh, to the
thirteenth century, it may be presumed
that the alteration of the suits took place
soon after the introduction of Cards into
Germany, v. Bueelini Germania. Topo-
Chronostemmatographica. Sacr. et Prof.
Aug. Viudel. 1662. fol. some of these
figures have been copied, and are given in
Breitkopfs Book, and in Jansen Orig. de
la Gravure. Bucelinus probably copied
these figures, says Breitkopf, from the Old
German Chronicle of the Guelphs in the
Convent of Weingarten, from whence also
Eccard took the representation in his
Origines Gueljicte. This Chronicle, he con
siders, not older than the commencement of
the fifteenth century, but the figures, he
thinks, are certainly copies of more ancient
originals. Keyder, in his Travels, v. i. let
ter 6. mentions some statues ofthe Dukes of
53
that great personages generally rode with a Hawk on their hand, as
a mark of their quality ; these, therefore, are used as a type of that
order of society. Herzen, Hearts, denote the Clergy, as in the
French Cards ; Griin, Green, or leaves, has the same relation to the
Husbandman as Trefle ; Eicheln, Eichenolz, Acorns or Oak, the
Woodmen, Peasants and Slaves employed in labour. Whether this
allegory was intended by the inventors of Cards, may, however,
admit of doubt. It seems more reasonable to suppose, that it had
its origin in the fertile imaginations of some speculative minds in
more recent times;" but it is not extraordinary, that during the last
three centuries, various other emblematic meanings should have
been assigned to them.1
Brunswick with the same ornament, which
stand in the Palace Yard at Brunswick ;
and also some portraits in the Town Hall
at Lunenberg, which are likewise repre
sented with this singular mark of distinc
tion."
1 The remarkable predilection for alle
gory among all the nations of the East,
renders it probable that Cards, like Chess,
were intended to convey instruction in this
manner. The Hindoos are not, like the
Chinese, addicted to gaming, from the spi
rit of play, but they amuse themselves,
both with Chess and Cards, by way of
recreation. Helvetius in his work on the
Mind, says, " In those countries where the
sciences have been, cultivated, where the
desire of writing is still preserved, where
the people, however, are subject to arbi
trary power, where consequently truth can
only present herself under some emblem,
it is certain, that authors must insensibly
contract the habit of thinking only in alle
gory. It was to point out to some tyrant
the injustice of his oppressions, the harsh
ness with which he treated his subjects,
and the reciprocal and necessary depend-
ance which unites the people and the
sovereign, that an Indian philosopher,
it is said, invented Chess. He gave les
sons in it to the tyrant, made him remark
that if in his game the pieces became use
less after the loss of their King, so the
King after his pieces were taken, was
utterly unable to defend himself, and that
in either case the game was equally lost."
De rEsprit, t. ii. p. 139. c. xxix. Paris
1758. 8vo.
1 In some of the old Facetite, we recol
lect to have read a Tale of a Friar, who,
thinking to pull out his Breviary, displays
a pack of Cards, which some mischievous
wit had substituted for it ; not at all dis
concerted by the circumstance, he explains
to the people that he makes use of them
as a Breviary, and in a most ingenious
manner applies the different cards to this
purpose. A story of somewhat similar
nature, forms one of the popular books of
amusement with the lower classes among
us, even to the present day ; we have heard
it narrated by one of the itinerant venders
of Chap-Books, with much naivet6 within
a short time. The title of this curious
morsel is, " A New Game at Cards be
tween a Nobleman in London, and one of
54
Court de Gebelin has seized upon this supposed allegorical
meaning, and made it the groundwork of his fanciful explanation of
the Tarocco Cards. The idea is by no means of modern date, for
we have seen that Cobarruvias, ' who wrote before the year 1611,
has made them emblematical of War, and has also explained the
figurative meaning of the Suits on the Spanish Cards, in a manner
somewhat similar. It is still the opinion of many learned persons,
that there was much recondite knowledge intended to be conveyed
in them ; and it must be confessed, it is not improbable such an
idea should have been conceived by the inventor : it is generally
credited, that this was the case with regard to the game of Chess,
and Cards may with equal probability be supposed to have been
intended to afford instruction, couched under the form of amuse
ment, in the same manner.
It affords us much pleasure, that we have it in our power to lay
before the reader a most ingenious Essay on the subject, by a Gen
tleman, who has employed his valuable leisure in an inquiry of this
kind, in which he has demonstrated the possibility, that Cards may
in some way or other be connected with the science of astronomy.
We shall not anticipate the subject by any farther remarks at pre
sent, bul content ourselves with referring the reader to the Appendix,
in which he will find it treated with much learning and ingenuity, in
a Paper with which we have been favoured by Dr. A. P. Buchan.
A German writer, of the seventeenth century, has shewn that
these allegories of the Suits were then prevailing notions also in that
country ; and a moral writer of the same period, has deduced from
the circumstance of the initial letters of the German Suits, forming
the word SARG, Death,* another curious inference.
his Servants. Shewing how the Servant 1 Lehman De Varii Ludendi Generibus.
converts his Cards into a compleat Alma- Budissaj, 1680, p. 50.—Alii ex literis ini-
nack, by which he divides the Year into tialibus colorum istorum, atlCf fethfllftt,
Months, Weeks, Days, Hours, and Mi- SMthd, itoth, untl dftrtin, finen &atg
nutes. He likewise forms them into a composuere quia charts lusoriae saepe fuint
Monitor, or Prayer-Book, &c." marsupii et lusoris sepulchrum.
1 Supra, p. 39-
55
Hence it will be obvious, how the employment of Cards in divi
nation and fortune telling arose ; it will be presently shewn that
this application of them was prevalent early in the sixteenth
century ; and as the Gipsies, under the denomination of Adzinkari,
exercised the craft of jugglers, sorcerers, and fortune tellers, in Asia,
it is not improbable, if Cards found their way to Europe by their
means, that this usage was obtained at the same time.
The English names of the suits are in part adopted from the Spa
nish, and partly from the French ; yet it is singular that the suits on
our Cards are altogether those of the latter nation. It has been seen
in a former page,' that a Latin writer of the sixteenth century called
the suit of Spades, Ligones; the resemblance of the object represented
on Cards of that Suit, to one of the forms of the agricultural spade
is striking, and hence we may account for the origin of this deno
mination ; the similarity of sound between the Spanish term Spada,
and the English word Spade, may also have led to the adoption of it.
The French call the suit of Clubs Trefle, from its resemblance
to the Trefoil leaf : although we have obtained the form of the object
from them, we have retained the Spanish name Bastos, literally
translated. In admitting also the French suit Carreaux, we have in
some degree gone bevond the licence of translation, in calling it
Diamonds/ Of the remaining Suit, Hearts, it is merely necessary
to remark, that we have adopted both the name, and the object,
from the French Cards.
The figured, or Court Cards, were formerly called Coat1 Cards;
and Strutt says, " I conceive the name implied coated figures, that
is, men and women who wore coats, in contradistinction to the
other devices of flowers and animals not of the human species."*
1 Supra, p. 38, note Nation. 4to. 2d Edition. Lond. 1810. p.2£)l.
2 Diamonds appear to have been for- * Thus Sir John Harington, in his Me-
merly called Picks, which is nothing more tamorphosis of Ajax, says " When Bru-
than the adoption of the French Pique, tus had discarded the kings and queens
v. Minshew's Guide to the Tongues, art. out of the pack, and shewed himself sworn
Diamonds. enemy to all the Coate Cardes, then crept
5 Sports and Pastimes of the English in many new forms of government."
56
The Pack of Cards is also continually by our older writers termed a
Paire, or Pair of Cards,' which circumstance has not hitherto been
explained satisfactorily ; it has been suggested, that anciently two
Packs of Cards were used, as is sometimes still the case at Quadrille ;
one pack being laid by the side of the player who is to deal the next
time. But this explanation will not apply in cases where evidently
but one pack is designated ; the fact appears to be, that Pair and
Pack were formerly synonimous, and the expression was obviously
derived from the Italian, in which language Paio,1 Pair, has the
same latitude ; and it is remarkable that the Italians use the phrase,
un Paio di Carte da giucare, for a Pack of Cards.
The reader may not be displeased with the following Table of
the names by which Cards and the Suits on them are known in some
of the European languages.
English.
Cards, Playing Cards.
German.
Karten, Spielkarten
Briefe
Dutch.
Kaarten, Speelkarten
Flemish.
Kaart, Speelkaarten
Danish.
Kort, Spilkort
Swedish.
Kort
Kartii
Russian.
Prussian.
Karty
French.
Cartes, Cartes & joiier |
Italian.
Naipes> Carte da giu
care
Naipes Cartas
Portuguese.
3Naipe,Cartas dejogar
It may also be proper here to observe, that in the Gazophyla-
cium Lingua Persarum of Padre Angelo, printed in 1684, the Per-
' In an old play, called " The longer
thou livest the morefoole thou arte," (Oar-
rick collection, vol.1. IB,) Idleness de
sires Moros the clown to looke at hit booke,
and shews him a paier of cardes : and in
another old play, entitled " A Woman
Killed with Kindness," a pair of Cards
and Counters are mentioned. Roger As-
cham, in his Toxophilus, calls them a
paier of cardes, and says they cost not past
twopence. N umerous other instances might
be adduced, but these are sufficient for
our present purpose.
1 VOCABOLARIO DELLA CrUSCA inVOCe
" Talora si dice Paio a un Corpo solo d'una
cosa ancorche si divida in dimolte parti,
come un Paio di Carte da giucare, un Paio
di scacchi." Thus also we have in some
old writers a Payre of Tables, a Payre of
beedes (for a Rosary), v. Palsgrave's
ECLAIRCISSEMENT DE LA LaNGUE Fran
chise, 1530. Folio. Sig. 1. 2. The Pack
of Cards was sometimes termed a Stock,
as in the following passage in the old Mo
rality of Three Ladies of London, " Now
all the Cards in the Stock are dealt about,
&c." We have somewhere seen them
termed a Deck of Cards.
3 Yet it appears that Naipe in Portu
guese rather signifies the Suits than the
57
sian name of Cards is given thus, >jts^S=», and in ihe Fabrica
Lingua Arabica, published by the Society of the Propaganda at
Rome in 1639> the Arabic name is also to be found ^x^\jjj, We
have been unable to trace them in the Oriental writers for reasons
before assigned. In the principal languages of Europe the following
are the names of the Suits.
In English, Diamonds Clubs Hearts Spades
German, 1 Rauten, Schellen Kreuzen, Eicheln Herzen, Rothe Spaten,Grune,Laub
Dutch, Ruyten Claver Herten Schoppen
Italian, Quadri, Denari Fiori, Mattoni, Cuori, Coppe Picche, Spade
Bastoni
Spanish, Ladrillos, Dineros Bastos, Palos Coracones, Copas Picas Spadas
Portuguese, Oiros, Ouros Paos Copas .... Espadas
French, Carreau Trefle Coeurs Piques
THE NAMES OF THE FIGURED CARDS ARE AS FOLLOWS.
English.
King
Queen
Knave
French. Italian. Spanish. Portuguae.
Roi Re Rey Rey
Reine Reina, Cavallo Reyna, Caballo Reyna, Cavallo
Valet Fante Soto Soto
Konig
Obermann
Untermann
The Chinese have been described as strongly addicted to gaming
of every description, and it would have excited some surprize in us
to have found them ignorant of Cards ; the grotesque appear
ance of the figures on modern European court Cards, bears no small
degree of resemblance to some representations of the human form in
the more rude and early attempts of the Chinese at depicting it.
This resemblance has been frequently remarked, but has never, we
Cards, the following passages from the
abridgment of the Vocabulario of Blu-
teau I have subjoined for the curious
reader.
Naipe o metal das Cartas dejogar, v.g.
" o naipe do trunfo he pdos ; hum naipe in-
teiro sao todas as Cartas do mesmo metal.
Metal. ^ Metal das Cartas de jogar,
naipe; Jigura, e cor d'ellas. " que metal
he? oiros copas, fyc. the Ace is also some
times called Basto, as it is in Spanish.
According to Vieyra, a Pack of Cards in
Portuguese is called Barkalho de Cartas.
1 Whether the Germans, in the infinite
diversity of objects we find substituted for
the usual Suits on some of their ornamental
Cards, continued to call them by the or
dinary terms, we know not, but it is highly
probable they did ; for what can be more
unlike a club, than the object on the Suit
known by that name among us, and which
we have shewn is derived from the Spa
nish custom of representing a club on one
of their Cards.
58
believe, led to the inquiry, whether it was probable that the Euro
peans obtained the knowledge of Cards from thence. ' As it is certain
that they practised the art of engraving on wood many centuries
before it was known in Europe ; and as the European Card-makers
are considered by some to have first introduced that art, a con
jecture might be hazarded, that they obtained both Cards, and
this mode of multiplying them, from China, by means of some of
the early adventurers, who for purposes of commerce are known to
have reached that country as early as the twelfth century. We have
however no record to offer in proof of this conjecture, but the pre
sumption is very strong that the Chinese were acquainted with this
game before it was known in Europe; for the Portuguese Missionaries
found it in use there among the common people, to whom one or
two travellers have said it is peculiar, and that it is not played by
persons of distinction. An exquisite Chinese painting, which we
have seen in the possession of a zealous and tasteful lover of the Arts,
is at variance with this assertion, for a family ofdistinction are therein
represented, amusing themselves with Cards similar in form to those
of which we have here given specimens. That they are the common
amusement of the lower orders seems strongly to support the proba
bility of their having been long common among them, and is at the
' Zani says, that " the Abbe Tressan
shewed him when he was at Paris a Pack
of Chinese Cards, and told him that a Ve
netian was the first who brought Cards
from China to Venice, and that city was
the first place in Europe where they were
known. I should willingly record the name
of this Venetian (continues Zani), and the
year in which he brought them to his na
tive land, if the Abbe Tressan had pleased
to have put me in possession of these cir
cumstances. But whether from jealousy,
or some other motive, he refused to favour
me with them, after repeated applications
made to him for the purpose by one of my
friends."
" This traveller could have been no other
than Niccolo Polo, who with his brother
Matteo, returned from China about 1269,
or else the celebrated Marco Polo, son of
the above Niccolo, who went with his father
and his uncle in their second voyage to
that great empire. Notwithstanding, Ti-
raboschi, who names these travellers, and
who had read the Travels of Marco, both
in the printed text and in various manu
scripts, makes not the slightest mention
of such an occurrence, I shall wait there
fore until the Abbe Tressan gives to the
world his Memoir relative to Cards."
Zani Origine e progress! dell In
cisions in Rame in Legno, p. 192.
59
same time an argumeut against the supposition ofSemedo,' that they
were introduced by Europeans ; the partiality, and tenacious adher
ence, which the Chinese manifest to their own peculiar customs and
amusements, and their tardiness to adopt those of other nations, also
militates against this opinion.
The Cards in common use in China are made of pasteboard,
equal if not superior to any manufactured in Europe. The objects
or suits represented on them do not seem to have much relation to
those on either the Hindoo or European Cards. They are printed
in black from engraved blocks of wood, and those Cards which have
figures represented on them, have many of them no small degree of
resemblance to our modern Court Cards. The following specimens
are from the cabinet of the same kind friend Avhose collection has
already been so frequently referred to.
"itIE
1 Alvaro Semedo, the Portuguese mis
sionary, in his Account of China published
at Rome in 1643, remarks, that the Chi
nese have Cards, which he says are similar
to those used by the Europeans, save that
they are entirely black, but he seems to
think that they have obtained the know
ledge of them from Europe. He says, they
are not played at by the nobility and gra
ver sort of people, but only by the lower
orders. The passage in the original is as
follows : " II giuoco delle Carte, che sono
simili alle nostra nellaforma efigure, benche
tuttt nere e senza colori, ha penetrato anche
in quest' ultima parte; e proprio della
genteplebea, che dalli nobili non vieni un
to."
Relatio NE DELLA ClNA. RoMA 1643,
4to. p. 87.
I 2
60
We have given two Cards of each Suit, and eight figured Cards ;
one of these suits is evidently intended for money, the other may
probably represent the bamboo.
Their cards vary materially in size ; the largest we have seen
are much smaller than any European Cards now in use ; some of
them have the backs coloured, this is the case with the Pack from
whence the present specimens are copied : in which they are of a
beautiful bright crimson.
They are not always of the same form, nor are the objects
represented on them uniformly the same, as will be obvious by com-
61
paring the following fac similes copied from Breitkopf's work with
those above given.
The Pack, consisting of thirty Cards, from which our specimens
were selected, appears conformable in regard to the Suits with
some which Breitkopf has engraved, but they are much smaller.
In a supplemental note to his Origin of Cards, he says, " After
this work was printed I met with two sorts of Chinese Cards in the
cabinet of M. Link, at Leipzic. One consists of four suits, not
distinguished by colours, but by marks and numbers over the Cards,
and large and rude characters. They are one inch and a half broad,
and a little more than two inches long. Each Suit consists of nine
Cards ; the backs are black."
" The other Pack is narrower, one inch and a quarter broad,
and three inches long, it has only three 1 Suits, one consisting of a
kind of worm with the head like a bird ; the other of crowned men's
heads ; the third of small squares. Each Suit has ten Cards, but
the figures on the tenth are perfectly distinct from those of the other
' I am rather inclined to think, that there
are but two Suits on these Chinese Cards,
and that the Cards which are marked with
the human figure are correspondent with
the Court Cards or Honours in the Euro
pean game, or with the superior pieces at
Chess. If my conjecture is well founded,
the circumstance would afford a strong
argument in favour of the derivation of
Cards from Chess.
62
nine; perhaps they may be only ornaments introduced by the
maker, for they are different in another Pack of these Cards which
is in the cabinet at Jena. The backs of the Pack at Leipzic are Ta-
rotUs, and of the Pack at Jena the backs are white : they are made
of pasteboard, formed by pasting 4, 5, or 6 sheets of paper toge-
gether, which are easily split or separated from each other.*'
The two Cards here given are part of the above Pack, selected
from those engraved by Breitkopf : it was thought desirable to give
the curious Reader these various specimens, as they convey more
complete ideas of the Cards used by this singular nation than could
have been given by the most laboured and exact description.
One of the Suits he describes as a kind of worm with a head like
a bird ; but neither his own engraving, nor the Pack before us,
warrant this assertion : the object which he thus mistook is what
we have supposed to represent the bamboo.
Three of the cards are marked with a kind of oval stamp printed
in red ink over the impression in black : on two of them it is twice
impressed, and on one other it occurs only once. What purpose this
is intended for, whether to mark some peculiar card and alter its
value in the game, or whether Cards are subject in China to a duty,
63
and this be the government mark, or that of the maker, we know
not. Mr. Gough1 appears to have possessed a similar Pack, in
which he remarks the circumstance of this red stamp occurring on
three of the Cards.
Niebuhr relates, that he saw Chinese Cards in use at Bombay,*
but his description of them seems rather to designate the Hindu
Cards, than those of the Chinese : he also mentions, that the Chinese
export their Cards in considerable quantities. Breitkopf says, he
was told by a gentleman who had been at Canton, that the Cards in
use there are painted and embellished with extraordinary figures ;
none of the painted or embellished Cards had been seen by Breit
kopf, nor does he seem to have been acquainted with the Hindu
Cards, of which kind I suspect were those described by his friend,
as well as those seen by Niebuhr at Bombay. NieuhofF3 mentions the
use of Cards and Dice in China, which he also says are played at
only by the lower orders, and that persons of distinction play at
Chess. The passion which the Chinese have for gaming has been at
times attempted to be repressed, by manifestoes issued by several of
the emperors ; and one of them, in order to deler the higher classes,
after having made it penal for any of them to play at games of
chance, permitted the lowest and most degraded class, the chair
men, who are generally despised, to play at them : but the experi
ment is said not to have had the desired success.*
1 Mr. Gough says, " I have also a Pack
of Chinese Cards, made of the same mate
rials as European, and charged with various
devices to no great or regular numbers.
The whole Pack consists of only thirty
Cards, and of these nine have human faces,
one whole length figure, and one, two faces
one under the other. The whole length
figure has on it a red stamp with charac
ters, and there are two such stamps on one
of thefaces." Observations on Cards.
Arch^ologia, vii. p. 171*.
1 V. supra, p. 9-
3 Embassy to China, p. 22j. This is a
remarkable corroboration of what Semedo
had before said, unless we suppose that
NieuhofF followed him implicitly without
inquiring for himself: as is too often the
case with travellers, who, in digesting the
relation of their travels in their studies at
home, call in the aid of writers who have
gone before them.
4 Art Militaire des Chinois, trad, par
Arniot, public par M. DeGuignes. Paris,
1772, 4to. p. 38.—Le Comte speaks of the
Chinese hazarding their estates, houses,
children and wives, on a card. Present
State of China, p. 292.
64
The application of Cards to various modes of divination, and
their use by conjurors and fortune tellers, may also in some degree
be considered as indicative of their Oriental origin, for these arts of
Grammarye are generally considered to have taken their rise in the
East. That Cards were applied to these purposes at an early period
after their introduction into Europe seems probable, for we find the
itinerant venders of sweetmeats using them as a kind of lottery at
the close of the 15th century. And we have evidence that they were
extensively applied to the purposes of divination in Italy early in
the 16th century, in a most beautiful volume, entitled Le Sorti* by
Francesco Marcolini, printed in 1540, which we have reason to
suspect may not have been the first work of its kind. This very cu
rious and interesting book is now of great rarity ; probably there
are not three copies of it in England, for even in Italy it is very
rarely to be met with, and bears a high price, on account of the
beauty of the wood cuts, from the designs of Giuseppe Salviati,
with which it is decorated. The questions which it resolves are 50
in number, thirteen of which regard men, and thirteen relate to
women, the remaining twenty-four are common to both : the mode
in which they are resolved is by a kind of oracular triplet, to which
you are directed by drawing one or two cards.
The decorations of the volume consist of a series of emblematic
figures representing the Vices, Virtues, Passions, &c. each of which
governs two pages of that part of the volume which refers to the
metrical answers, and which in their turn are in custody of the cele
brated philosophers of antiquity, each of whom presides over forty-
five of these answers. The title or frontispiece is a very masterly
emblematical engraving on wood, drawn with great spirit; the name
of the artist appears in a small tablet at the bottom of the Print, thus,
" Joseph Porta Garafagninus." The principal part of the design
is a group of figures consulting the volume ; immediately behind
is another of three philosophers, one of whom holds an orrery,
and under an arch, more remote, is a group at a table, like
wise consulting the book of fate ; above this design is the title
65
in five lines, and on the reverse, in an architectural frame, a
spirited portrait of the author and publisher, Francesco Marcolini.'
The decorative wood cuts above referred to, are very numerous,
and many of them very beautiful ; great numbers of them afterwards
served to decorate the Capriccios of that odd genius Doni, who seems
to have been employed by Marcolini to write some of his whimsical
productions as vehicles for these wood cuts. The following beautiful
subject, which occurs at folio lxvii, and which is intended as a
representation of Penitence, is selected as a specimen, which it is
presumed will justify the warmest panegyric ; at the same time it
must be confessed, that all the designs are not of equal beauty ; some
1 Le Sobti di Francesco Marcoli
ni DA FORLI INTITOLATE GlARDINO DI
Pensieri alio Illustrissimo Signore Her-
eole Estense Duca di Ferrara. This title
is in five lines of capitals at the top of the
beautiful wood cut above described : at the
end, in the centre of an embellished shield,
the very elegant device of Marcolini, em
blematic of Time bringing Truth to light,
who is assailed by Envy, under which is
the register, and colophon, thus, " In
Venetia per Francesco Marcolini
da forli negli anni del slgnore
MDXXXX del mese di Ottobre." There
was a second edition printed in 1550,
which I have seen, but it is very far in
ferior in point of beauty; it is obvious
that the wood-cuts could not possibly be
such good impressions; the whole book is
also more carelessly executed.
K
66
of them are extravagant and outri : the artist, like others who have
affected to imitate the sublimities of Michelagnolo, often fails in the
attempt, and falls into absurdities and distortions, which, instead of
ideas of grandeur or spirit, excite only those of caricatura. Yet,
notwithstanding this occasional failure, the volume may be pro
nounced on the whole one of the most desirable among those nume
rous works which display the xylographic skill of the Italians in
the sixteenth century.
It is not unlikely that Francesco Marcolini took his idea of this
book of fate from the Triompho di Fortuna,' published by Sigis-
mondo Fanti of Ferrara, which was also printed at Venice in the
year 1526, and which, singular as it may seem, is furnished with
the papal privilege, and dedicated to Clement VII, the then reign
ing Pontiff. The general arrangement and plan of the two works
is similar, but in Fanti's book, which also abounds with xylogra
phic decorations of a ruder kind, the interpreters of fate are signs of
the zodiac, the constellations, the sybils, and various astrological
personages ; and the questions are resolved by metrical answers
delivered in four line stanzas, to which the inquirer is directed,
either by throwing a pair of dice, or by the accidental choice of a
number on a dial which contains twenty-one figures. The richly
decorated title of this book also displays considerable merit in the
design, and some of the engravings in the course of the volume are
well drawn ; but it is upon the whole but a gothic specimen of the
art, and cannot in this respect be compared with Le Sorti.
' Triompho di Fortuna di Sigis-
mondo Fanti, Ferrarese. This title is
printed in red capitals on a scroll at the top
ofa very spirited wood cut, serving as fron
tispiece. The description of this volume
would occupy more space than I can allot
to it : it is equally rare, but not equally
beautiful with the preceding. The colo
phon is as follows; " Impresso in la inclita
Citta di Venegia per Agostino da Portese.
Nel anno dil virgineo parto MDXXVI.
Nelmese di Genaro, ad instatia di Iiacomo
Giunta Mercatate Florentino Con il privi-
legio di Clemente Papa VII. & del Senato
Veneto a requisitione di l'Autore, Come
appare nelli Suoi Registri. Cum gratia &
Privilegio." Beneath is the Register and
the device of the Giunti, a fleur de lis
with i. a.
V
67
When the greater part of the foregoing sheets were printed, our
friend Mr. Douce, in referring to his memoranda, found one he had
made of a miniature in a manuscript in the library of the Duke of
Roxburgh, wherein a courtly group was represented playing at
Cards, and which manuscript he considered to be at least as early as
the close of the fourteenth century. Upon inquiry it appeared, that
when the noble collection in which Mr. Douce had seen it was
dispersed, it had been purchased by Sir Egerton Brydges, of Lee
Priory, in Kent, and upon application to that gentleman, the most
prompt and polite attention was paid to our inquiries, and followed
by the loan of the volume, and permission to have an engraving
made from it. The manuscript was formerly in the Lamoignon col
lection, and was called by Baillet Le Roman du Roi Artus, but it
appears he was mistaken, and that it is Roman du Roy Meliadus :
it contains a great many limnings in rather a rude style of art, some
of which are mere outlines, and others are completely illuminated,
but they appear to be all by the hand of the same artist, and there is
no reason to doubt that they were executed about the period at which
the manuscript was written. The one from which the reader is now
presented with a faithful engraving, was slightly shadowed in with
colour, but not finished by the illuminator.
This may perhaps, on several accounts, be considered one of the
most important discoveries which have been made, regarding the
history of Cards, for it not only shews that they were in use in
France at a much earlier period than has been hitherto presumed,
thus destroying the assertions of Bullet, Menestrier, and Daniel,
but it likewise demonstrates the probable truth of the conjecture we
have thrown out, that the Trappola Suits were first generally used
wherever Cards were introduced, and that the adoption of other
objects on the French and German Cards was a subsequent innova
tion. It also renders it still more highly probable that these Trap
pola Cards were those derived from the East in the first instance.
It will be remarked, that the Suits designated upon those Cards
whose faces are displayed are the two and four of Denari or money,
k 2
68
and the two of Bastone or clubs. It is evidently a King and three
noblemen who are represented playing; another nobleman is intently
looking on, and two others are in attendance.
It affords us much pleasure to be the means of thus rescuing this
curious and interesting document from oblivion, and it cannot but
be agreeable to those who take any interest in these inquiries : let
us be grateful to the diligent and tasteful discoverer, and to the
liberality of the present possessor.
It is remarkable that no mention of the game occurs, as far as
we could discover by an examination of that part of the manuscript
to which the miniature is affixed, and indeed it appears that many
of the decorations of the volume have no reference to the events
related. This is also frequently the case in early printed books which
have graphic ornaments ; but it cannot be fairly urged as any argu
ment that the embellishments of the Roman de Meliadus, are poste
rior to the writing of the manuscript, at least in any degree which
would affect the early date of this very curious limning. We must
69
therefore qualify our conclusion in a former page, where we have
said, that the silence of writers until the fourteenth century might
be considered a demonstration that Cards were then unknown in
Europe, for this document disproves that assumption, and it is
not improbable that chance may some day produce written evidence
which will corroborate it, and even establish the fact of their being
used in Europe at a much more early period.
Until this shall be the case, the foregoing pages, it is hoped,
will be found to contain more authentic information upon the sub
ject than has hitherto been offered. If the conjecture here thrown
out, of the oriental origin of Cards, and their derivation from Chess,
be allowed to have much probability, there can be no doubt but
that it would be possible to establish it more fully, by directing
inquiries among the intelligent natives of the East, or by an exami
nation of their writers, from both of which sources we have been
unable to derive any of our evidence.
It would be unjust to pass over in silence the advantage we have
derived in this part of our inquiry from the very ingenious Essay
of Breilkopf, whom, if he had been less imbued with prejudice in
favour of his native country, we should have been enabled to follow
with more implicit faith. The authorities adduced by him, those
cited by the Abbe Rive, and Bullet, have for the most part been
referred to, and scrupulously examined ; good fortune has thrown
much additional matter in our way, of which we have endeavoured
to make the best possible use.
Much however still remains to be done, for though we have
shewn the probability of the origin of Cards among the same extra
ordinary people to whom the invention of Chess is attributed, and
even demonstrated that it may be considered only an extension or
alteration of that game ; yet there can be no doubt that more ex
tended researches properly directed, in the hands of a scholar, whose
leisure and learning qualified him for the task, would lead to more
decisive conclusions. The learned Hyde was in every respect fully
competent to have atchieved this, his labours would have afforded com
70
plete satisfaction, it is to be regretted that he did not fulfil the
promise he made of giving a history of the origin of cards. Europe
for the last two centuries has for the most part been contented to
acquiesce in the assertions of some French writers, that they had
their rise in France at a late period of the fourteenth century : the
fallacy of this opinion is now clearly manifest, and those desirous
of pursuing the subject, are at least here shewn the road it will be
necessary for them to take.
In the next Section the connexion of the History of Cards with
the origin of the Arts of Printing and Engraving on Wood, will be
considered, giving a degree of importance to the inquiry, which,
independently of this connexion, the subject might not be deemed to
possess.
This connexion is of the closest kind, for the rise of these arts
has been by many writers traced to the fabricators of cards : we
shall perhaps have an advantage over many of our predecessors in
this part of the investigation, as we have no national prejudice to
indulge.
SECTION THE SECOND.
OF
THE XYLOGRAPHIC AND TYPOGRAPHIC ARTS,
AS CONNECTED WITH
THE HISTORY OF CARDS.
OF THE
AS CONNECTED WITH
THE HISTORY OF CARDS.
EFORE we proceed to speak of the manufac
ture of Cards, and the probable period at
which they were first multiplied by printing,
in Europe, we may be indulged in saying
something respecting the origin of the Xylo-
graphic and Typographic Arts ; by the former
is understood the art of making impressions
from designs or characters carved in relief on
blocks of wood, by the latter, the art of printing with moveable
types of metal, as now practised throughout Europe.
All those arts which are connected with others preceding them,
and Avhich take their rise from progressive combinations of several
already in existence, have their origins necessarily involved in much
obscurity; this arises from the circumstance of these beginnings
having been passed over unobserved by those who have recorded the
sudden appearance of the later invention, which has generally been
of more importance, value, or utility. Hence it is now extremely
difficult for the inquirer to penetrate through the darkness of remote
ages, to develope the true origin of such arts, and trace the grada
tions by which they arrived at perfection. The rude attempts which
led the way to this perfection, were not valued by cotemporaries,
who were far from expecting that new combinations would pro
gressively introduce other branches as sources of industry; or pave
the way to an increase of human knowledge, affording at the same
time the means of maintaining and preserving it.
L
74
This is particularly the case with regard to that sublime inven
tion, the art of Printing, whose introduction must ever be consi
dered, one of the most important and interesting events in the history
of civilised Europe. To elucidate its history fully, cannot be ex
pected from the limits necessarily prescribed by the nature of the
present work; but to pass it over in silence would be highly
reprehensible : its connexion with the subject here discussed is too
intimate, and its importance too great, to admit of a mere hint at
their connexion.
In tracing the origin of most complicated arts, it is difficult to
decide upon the exact period which gave rise to the first germs.
Several more or less civilized people, in regions far distant from
each other, and without the probability of communication, have
yet been found to practise similar arts, and to be possessed of
similar inventions, differing somewhat in the degree of perfection to
which they had been brought. It is not therefore impossible that
the Chinese and other Asiatic nations may have known and prac
tised the Art of Engraving on Blocks of Wood, and making im
pressions from them, and yet that Europe may not have derived
this art from thence, but owe it to the inventive skill of some master
genius of her own.
That the xylographic art was the precursor of the art of printing,
and that the latter owes its rise to it, is universally acknowledged,
but the period of its invention, or adoption in Europe is equally
obscure and uncertain.
It has been supposed, that this art was known at a very early
period in the East, from the circumstance of their coloured stuffs,'
which are asserted to be of very high antiquity, being appa-
' Pliny has described the Egyptian pro- apparet in velis: sed in cortinam pigment*
cess of forming their painted vestments in ferventh mersa, post momentum extrahun-
a curious passage in his xxxv Book. " Pin- tur picta. Mirumque, cum sit ttnus in cor-
gunt et vestes in Mgypto inter pauca mira- tina colos, ex Mo alius atque alius Jit in
bili genere, Candida vela postquam attrivere veste, accipientis medicamenti qualitate mu-
illinentes non coloribus, sed colorem sorben- tatus. A'ec postea ablui potest : ita cortina
tibus medicamentis. Hoc cum J'ecere, non non dubie confusura colores, si pictos acci
75
rently printed by stamps or blocks of Avood, in the same manner as
the European cotton prints. But presuming the art of engraving
on wood to be of Eastern origin, we have no certain clue to guide
us to the epoch of its introduction into Europe: the silence of
the early travellers who have left memorials of their travels in the
East, is much to be regretted, for neither Carpini, St. Quentin, Ru-
bruquis, nor Marco Polo, have given the least hint upon the sub
ject.
Those travellers who visited Asia at a later period, when the art
had made considerable progress in Europe, have asserted the inven
tion to belong to that ingenious and ancient nation, the Chinese,1
and that the Europeans derived their knowledge of it from them ;
and although it would be difficult to substantiate this assertion by
direct proof, it must be confessed, that, as far as regards tabular
printing, there is no reason to doubt its probability.2 It is true,
pent, digerit ex uno, pingitque dum co-
quit," fyc. Lib. xxxv. C. 42. Brotier in
a note on this passage observes, " Viget
adhuc ars ilia maxime in India. His re-
pertis, quam facilis fuit apud Si?ias typo
graphic inventiof" Hist. Nat. Paris,
1779, 12° T. vi. p. 395, note 57. Breit-
kopf adduces the evidence of Sonnerat in
his Voyage to the East Indies and China,
and of Schulz, and Savary : the former
says, that in Asiatic Turkey the contours
of the flowers in their coloured cottons
are printed with stamps, but they are
finished by being painted by hand. There
is a manufacture of this kind at Aleppo,
but he thinks the art has been obtained
from the Europeans. Others are decisively
of opinion that the art was brought from
the East to Europe. The German word
Zifz(Chintz), according to Breitkopf, in the
language of Hindostan signifies a flower.
Savary describes the Indian mode of print
ing cottons, which he says is by means of
a perforated pattern, or stensil. Diet, du
Commerce, T. iv. p. 798. A distinct ac
count of their process is found in a Persian
author who wrote about 1317; the inven
tion is laid about the years 927 and 1 100.
1 It is certain that the Portuguese Mis
sionaries on their first visit to Japan, in
1549, found the art of block printing in
use there; and Giovanni di Barros speaks
of printed books, and particularly a cos-
mographieal work which he obtained in
China. Alvaro Semedo says, " Nella stam-
pa par che la Cina tenga il primo luogo :
perche conforme alii loro libri, si servono
di quella da 1600 anni." Relatione
della Cina, p. 47.
2 Kircher, in the following passage, ju
diciously distinguishes between the art
practised in China and the typographic
art, as invented and practised in Europe.
" Multa prseterea in China reperta ante
nostras in Europa inventiones, spectantur,
et ad tria potissimum revocantur. Pri-
mum est typographic inventum, quod in
quo consistat explico.
L 2
76
the discovery of the passage to India by the Portuguese, did not
take place until forty years after the invention of printing, but
the conformity between some European and Asiatic customs, even
as early, as the twelfth century, seems to indicate a more ready in
tercourse than is generally suspected; and Mendoza1 has expressly
asserted, that the Germans obtained their knowledge of the type-
graphic art from China, by means of the merchants who came from
thence to Russia by the way of Arabia Felix and the Red Sea, and
who found their way from Russia into Germany. Be this as it
may, it will become us to proceed with caution ; and, as there are
other equally probable means of accounting for the origin of these
" Certum est Europaam inventionem
praestare Sinicae, eo quod Sinenses non
secus ac apud nos imagines, suos libros
imprimant; librum enim edituri, tot ta-
bulas ligneas habere oportet, quot in libra
folia sunt; ex hisce primum incipiunt in-
cidere, et deinde ex prima tabula literis
incisa tot imprimunt exemplaria, quot ex-
emplaribus opus habent; deinde procedunt
ad secundam, etsic de caeteris: Atquehoc
pacto integras saepe domos tabulis typo
graphies implent; et ide6 valde diffeit a
nostra typographica inventione, in qua
non singula? voces, uti Sinica lingua pos-
tulat suis inciduntur peculiaribus tabulis,
sed literae, ut vulgo notuin est, juxta al-
phabeticum dispositionem ex receptaculis,
singulis literis correspondentibus collecta;,
in voces et periodos forinantur; deinde
impresso folio, denuo dissolutae literae,
singulae suis redduntur cellulis; quae res
et minoris laboris est, et universale artis
combinatorial opus. De hoc itaque in-
vento, uti Sinis olim nihil innotuit, ita
quoquc typographicum inventum Europae
primo, eo modo, quo dixi, competit; ima-
ginum enim imprimendarum ratio uti in-
ventionis nomen non meretur, ita quoquc
et Sinica typographia ; cum natura doceat
in tabulis incisarum imaginum rimas, ubt
atramento oppletae fuerint, pressure adhi-
bita in charta imaginem incisam relin-
quere." Athanasii Kircherii China
Illustrata. Amst. 1667, folio. Cap.
de Inventionibus d Sinis usitatis, p. 222.
" Mendoza Historia de las Cosas mas
notables del gran Reyiio de la China.
Roma, 1585, 8vo. After relating that the
general opinion in Europe was in favour
of the invention of printing by Gutenberg,
he says, that the Chinese affirm its first
origin was among them, and the inventor
was a man whom they reverence as a saint.
He proceeds, " de donde se deribo y traxo
mucho aitos despues que ellos tenian el lusso
al reyno de Alemania por la Ruscia y Mos-
cabia : pordonde tienen por muy cierto se
puede venir por tierra: y que mercaderes
que venian de alia il dicho reyno, por el
mar vermejo, y Arabia la felice, trageron,
libros de donde Joan Cuthembergo (aqui-
en las histories hazen auclor) tomo moti-
vo." Cap. srei. The whole chapter is
curious; the title of it is, *• De quanto
mas antigua es la costumbre de estampar
los libros en este reyno que en nuestra
Europa."
77
important arts, to offer them in succession to the consideration of
the reader.
That the xylographic art was exercised by the Chinese at a
period long antecedent to its possible origin in Europe, is now uni
versally admitted; and, according to Du Halde and the Mission
aries, the art of printing from engraved blocks of wood was exer
cised by them near fifty years before the Christian aera. The nature
of their language, which contains such an endless variety of sym
bolic figures, would have rendered any attempt at the use of move
able types abortive,' and thus the ancient mode of tabular or xylo
graphic printing is still the only method they use. The process
which has been described by various writers1 is briefly as follows.
1 Yet the ingenuity of the Europeans
has in some measure overcome the diffi
culty, for the ingenious Breitkopf, who
distinguished himself by many improve
ments in the art of printing, put forth in
the year 1789 a Specimen of Chinese Cha
racters formed from moveable pieces Ex-
emplum Typographies Sinica. e typis mobi-
libus compositum. Lipsiae e Typographic
Autoris, 1789, 4to.
I know not whether he found encou
ragement to pursue the matter farther;
but the recent publication in France of
that great national work, the Chinese
Dictionary, under the superintendence of
M. De Guignes, is another monument
of the perseverance and extraordinary skill
of Europeans in the typographic art. Per
haps the obstinate prejudices of the Chi
nese in favour of their own customs, in
arts as in every thing, is the most insu.
perable obstacle both to the adoption of
the press, and any attempt of this kind.
1 Du Halde Description de la Chine,
Tom. II. p. 299, 4to. 1736.
Semedo Relatione della Cina, p.
47. As his relation is curious I will tran
scribe it: the reader will be surprised to
see, that the lithographic as well as the
xylographic art was practised by the Chi
nese at this period.
" In printing, it seemeth that China ought
to have the precedence of other nations ;
for according to their books they have used
it these 1600 years; but it is not (as I said
before) like unto ours in Europe. For their
letters are engraven in tables of wood.
The author of the book ordereth what kind
of letter he will have, either great, little, or
middle sized ; or rather he giveth his ma
nuscript to the graver; who maketh his"
tables of the same bigness with the sheets
that are given him; and pasting the leaves
upon the tables with the wrong side out
wards, he engraveth the Jetters as he find-
eth them ; with much facility and exact
ness, and without making any errata;
their writing not being on both sides the
paper, as among us, but on one side only;
and the reason that their books seem to be
written on both sides is, because the white
side is hidden within the fold.
They print likewise with tables of stone;
with this difference, that then the paper
is made all black, and the letters remain
white; because when they print thus, they
lay the ink upon the superficies of the
stone, but in the tables of wood, they put
78
The subject to be engraved is drawn or written accurately upon
very thin paper, which suffers the object to be distinctly seen on
the reverse; this paper is pasted or cemented, with the written or
drawn side downward, upon a piece of pear tree, or other close
grained wood, of the required size, which has been previously
smoothed and made very true, the design or writing being distinctly
seen from the transparency of the paper; the artist proceeds to cut
away the wood with sharp instruments in all those parts where he
finds nothing traced, leaving the design or writing in relief ; it is
obvious that in printing a book as many blocks are required as there
are pages. The press, which should appear to be altogether an
European invention, was not used by the Chinese, nor have they
yet adopted it. Their mode of taking impressions from these blocks
is as follows: the block is securely fixed in a level position, and the
printer has two brushes, one rather stiffer than the other; with the
one he spreads the ink equally over the surface of the characters
or design upon the block, and it is said that he can take off three
or four impressions without renewing the ink in the brush, which
is of a broad flat form, and can be used at either end. The second
brush he uses to pass over the paper, pressing lightly, in order to
take the impression, which, from the absorbent nature of the paper
used, is readily done; sometimes a rubber is substituted for this
second brush, and in this simple manner does the Chinese artisan
effect his purpose, with a neatness and precision which is not ex
it only in the hollow of the engraving, printed as often as they please, without
This last manner of printing serveth only any new expense or trouble in setting for
for epitaphs, pictures, trees, mountains, the press, as there is in our printing. Every
and such like things, whereof they do de- one hath the liberty to print what he pleas-
sire to have the memories preserved; and eth without the supervising, censure, or
they have very many prints of this kind, licence, of any one; and with so small
The stones which serve for this use, are of charges, that for every 100 letters perfectly
a proper and particular kind ; their wood- engraved in the manner abovesaid, they
en tables are made of the best pear tree, pay no more than fourpence halfpenny ;
So that any work which they print (as they and yet every letter consists of many
do in great numbers) remaineth always en- strokes." Old English Translation.
tire in the print of the tables, to be re-
79
ceeded by the best productions of the European printer, even in the
present improved state of the art.
It will be manifest that the beauty of the work will depend en
tirely upon the degree of skill of the scribe or copyist: many of
their books are of very great beauty, and their modern productions
evince that they have improved very much in the arts of design : the
address of their engravers upon wood is very manifest, and their
execution is reported to be extremely rapid. One disadvantage
attends this mode of printing, which is the vast accumulation of
blocks, and the room required to preserve them when they are out
of use : it is said the place where they are deposited is generally
mentioned in the preface of the work ; but it has also its conveni
ences, for, as in the modern European process of stereotype print
ing, a small number of copies may be pulled off just sufficient
to meet the demand, and a new edition can be made at pleasure,
without incurring the expense of composition. ' After having
printed thirty or forty thousand copies these blocks will again
bear retouching.
Their books are printed but on one side, and two pages are some
times engraved on one block; the paper, when printed off, is then
folded in the middle, the two blank pages inward, and when the
work is bound or sewed together the plait or fold forms the outer
margin, so that every leaf appears as if printed on both sides. Du
Halde says, that one man can print ten thousand leaves in a day in
the manner above described, but it must be confessed that this num
ber is an exaggeration beyond all possibility of belief.
1 It may be observed that moveable cha- s'imprime a Peking. On imprime aussi
racters are not entirely unknown in China, quelquefois de la meme maniere quelques
as is testified in the following passage from livrets qui ont peu d'etendue."
Grosier Relation de la Chine, t. 2. " L'usage de nos presses n'est point
p. 438. 8vo. Paris, 1787. connue dans les Imprimeries Chinoises :
" Les Chinois, n'ignorent pas l'usage de les planches gravees, qui ne sont que de
nos caracteres mobiles, ils ont aussi les bois, et le papier qu'on ne trempe point
leurs, non en fonte mais en bois. C'est dans l'eau d'alun, ne pourroient supporter
avec ces caracteres qu'on corrige tous cette pression."
les trois mois L'Etat de la Chine, qui
80
Sir George Staunton' has accounted very satisfactorily for the
reason why the simple art of xylographic printing should have taken
its rise in China, rather than among the two great nations of antiquity,
or in Europe in her uncivilized state, for " unlike to the rest of
the world, where valour and military talents, occasionally united
with natural eloquence, were originally the foundation of all wealth
and greatness, while literature was little more than an amusement;
the study of the written morals, history, and policy of China, was
the only road not merely to power and honour, but to every indivi
dual employment in the state. The necessity, therefore, for such a
multiplicity of copies of works of learning for all persons in the mid
dling as well as upper classes of life, in the most populous of all
empires, was the early and natural parent of the art of printing, as
it is still practised among them."
1 Sir George Staunton's account is some
what at variance with that of Grosier: he
says, " It has sometimes been thought in
Europe, that moveable types were a pre
ferable invention to that of the Chinese;
but they seldom can be applicable to the
impression of writings in a language con
sisting like theirs, of a vast variety of cha
racters, if each character be considered a
letter in the alphabet. The compositor in
a printing office easily distributes the four
and twenty letters of an alphabetic lan
guage. He at once perceives where each
is to be found. He distinguishes them at
a glance. His hands acquire even the ha
bit of reaching rapidly, without looking
for them, as the fingers learn to touch the
keys of a harpsichord without turning the
eyes toward them. Were there many
thousands of such keys, it is obvious that
no such habit could be acquired, nor
could the keys be within reach. The prac
tice were equally impossible, in printing
with eighty thousand moveable types,
for of that number of different charac
ters the Chinese tongue consists. It ha«
not, indeed, occurred to the artists of
China to form moveable and separate
types, for each of the minute strokes or
elements, of which such characters are
composed, as has been attempted some
years since in Germany. It is possible
that such a practice might be found to an
swer notwithstanding the difficulty which
must arise from the minuteness of the
type necessary for each particular stroke;
and the further difficulty, of uniting, in
the impression, the several strokes, mark
ed by separate types, of a Chinese charac
ter, which does not exist in printed Euro
pean languages, where the letters of the
same word seldom touch each other. The
Chinese are contented, whenever the same
characters very frequently occur, as in
public Kalendars and Gazettes, to use
types for such, cut apart, and occasionally
inserted within the frames where they are
wanted." Embassy to China, vol. 3.
p. 109. 8vo. edition.
81
We have been fortunate enough to meet with an original Chinese
Block, formerly in the possession of Mr. Astle, and as the best ex
emplification of the subject an Impression from it is here subjoined.
X i S i f # # 1L T -g- Fn
^ 4? 8 i I f » * S 1
ftiflff fill
p p ^ # ^ # M W «3 rill
M # # J& ^ 5 ^ 5 # l-fl
# •* $ at m -k jg ^
A tk T <fc pT i£ & ffK r,
3
El
M
m
Another block of this kind, most skilfully engraved on both
sides, is in possession of Mr. Douce; and in the Museum at the
Indja House may be seen a block prepared for the engraver, with
the design pasted upon it ready for him to cut, with other imple
ments used by the Chinese in their process of printing.
It appears that the Japanese* use the same method as the Chi
' M. Langlés observes, that among the
Japanese " L'introduction de l'art typo
graphique ne date pas d'une époque bien
reculée, et n'a pas fait plus de progrés
chez eux que chez les Chinois; ils impri
ment avec des planches de bois gravées en
lelief, et ne connoissent pas nos caractères
mobiles; ils n'impriment que sur un côté
du papier, lequel est trop mince pour sup
porter le reimposition; la premiere impres
sion perce d'outre en outre." Voyages de
P. C. Thunberg au Japon publiée par M.
Langlés. T. 4. 8vo. 1796. T. 3. p. 114.
And in a note to this passage, he says,
" les Japonois ont ils reçu l'imprimerie
des Chinois ou des Tatars ? On peut
élever la même question sur tous les autres
arts. Mais quand les Japonois les auraient
reçu des Chinois, ceux-ci, n'en seroient
pas plus autorisés a s'en attribuer l'inven
tion: ils ne peuvent faire remonter, par
exemple, celle de la typographie au-delà
du dixième siècle de notre ère vulgaire,
selon les PP. Couplet" et Duhalde;1 au
reste, il n'est pas inutile d'observer que le
premier ne parle pas d'invention, mais dit
seulement sub hoc (imperatore Mim Çum)
typographia capit. " On commença d'im
primer sous l'empereur Mim Cum," que
Du Halde nomme Mingtsong, vers 925 de
l'ère vulgaire. Quelques auteurs, tels que
Spizeliut,1 Trigault,* Mendoça,* Maffii,
* Monarch Sinic. Tabula Chronolog. à la suite
du Confucius sive Scientia Sinensis, p. f>5.
1 Descript. de la Chine, T. t. p. 41*.
3 De re lillcraria SLncnji, p. 800.
prétendent que le9 Chinois connoissent
l'art typographique dès le cinquième siècle
avant J. C. mais nous ne pouvons douter
que cet art ne soit aussi ancien au Thibet6
qu'a la Chine, et il est resté dans toutes
ces contrée, grossijers et imparfait, faute de
caractères mobiles et des presses, deux in
ventions réservées au génie des Européens.
A la vérité, il y a tout lieu de croire que
la premiere idée de cet art leur a été sug
gérée par les livres ou les fragmens Chi
nois que des négocians auront apportés de
la Tatarie par la Russie, ou de la Chine
par l'Inde et le golfe Arabique. C'est
l'opinion du jésuite Mendoça; elle me
paroit appuyée sur la coincidence assez
frappante de l'invention de la boussole, de
la poudre à Canon, et de l'imprimerie dont
les Européens se trouvèrent enrichie en
moins d'un siècle. La conformité de nos
premiers essais dans ce dernier art avec
les procédés des Orientaux, ne doit
laisser aucun doute. On commença par
graver des pages entières sur des planches
de bois; on essaya ensuite de tailler des
caractères mobiles en buix, on les assem-
bloit et on les assujettoit en passant
dans la tige un bout de corde a boy
aux. Enfin un artiste ingénieux (Fust
ou Schaeffer) imagina de polytyper chaque
lettre par le moyen de la frappe et de la
fonte. Il faut convenir que la simplicité
4 De Christiana expeditione apud Sinas.
» Historia de las Cosas mas notables de la Cina,
Lib. III. c.xvi.
6 Alphabetuin Tibetanum, Pars 1. p. 000.
83
nesc, with whom they possess most arts in common. There is some
difference in the periods assigned for the invention of the art in
China by European writers: it should appear by the note of M-
Langles cited below, that the probable period was at least prior to
the tenth century of the Christian sera. He has also remarked, that
the first essays in the typographical art of the Europeans, the Dona-
tuses, and the Block Books, resemble the Chinese books, in that
they are printed on one side only, and also in the simplicity of the
mechanical means used to print them, which was indeed the same
process of rubbing off, practised by the Chinese. He observes, that
the circumstance is striking of the invention of the Compass, of Gun
powder, and Printing, about the same period; Europe was enriched
with all three of them in less than a century.
It must be confessed, that the block books, both in their appear
ance and the process used to engrave and print them, bear the
most striking resemblance to the Chinese books, which are embel
lished with cuts. This resemblance, it may be argued, is possibly
accidental, and as we have no record of the art having been brought
from China to Europe, all that can be done is to shew it is not im
probable that it was brought from thence: it is true, Mendoza and
Ramusio have both asserted, that the art of printing was obtained from
China; for this it would be vain to contend; it is the xjiographic
art alone which could have been obtained. Typography, or the Art
of Printing with moveable characters, and the Press, there can be
no doubt, are European inventions.
It is remarkable, that the description of the Chinese process
given by Du Halde, should bear so exact a resemblance to that
used by the early Formschneider, or engraver on wood in Germany,
described by Brietkopf', as to make it obvious almost beyond the
et la regularity de nos lettres a pu les ment encore les difKrens caracteres orien-
inspirer cette idee et en faciliter l'execu- taux; on n'a meme fait, jusqu'a present,
tion, tandis que nous soiumes obliges que des essais peu satisfaisans pour im-
d'epuiser toutes les resources de la typo- primer le Chinois en caracteres mobiles."
graphie, parvenue deja a un haut degre 1 Ursprung der Holzschueidekunst J I.
de perfection pour rendre bien iinparfaite- Thiel. p. 1(30.
84
possibility of doubt, that the Europeans derived it from thence.
He says, " After the artist had planed a plank of pear-tree wood,
and neatly shaven and polished it with a piece of sharp iron, or
glass, he either pasted the design inverted upon the wood, or if he
was an adept in his art, he rubbed it off on the plank. In the
former case, the original drawing was entirely destroyed, and he cut
in the wood, whatever design he found upon it, exactly in the
manner he saw it; in the latter case, it was in his power to correct
whatever was not distinctly expressed. He then cut with a small
sharp instrument on each side all the lines in the design before him,
and leaving whatever was marked with colour, he chiselled the
remaining wood away with other instruments, and thus when his
labour was completed, all the lines which formed the object repre
sented in the drawing, existed in relievo. To make impressions of
his work, he took lampblack, dissolved it in water, and reduced it
to the consistence of paint; or instead, he used common black ink,
as is still sometimes done by cardmakers; poured some of it on a
wooden trencher, and filled a long-haired brush with it, which he
passed over his wooden plank or block, and in this manner he
covered the prominent lines of his wood-cut with as much colour as
was necessary for an impression. He then laid wet paper upon it,
and passed over it a smooth broad piece of wood, or a thick horse
hair brush smoothed with oil, and continued this operation to and
fro, until he perceived that all the lines of the wood plank were
imprinted on the paper, which was then removed from the block,
and his work was finished." This is precisely a similar account to
that given by those who have described the Chinese method; and
although the dark veil of obscurity is drawn over the name of the
travellers ,who brought this important invention to Europe, the
route by which they may have found their way, pointed out by the
Jesuit Mendoza, is sufficiently probable.
The following curious relation of Marco Polo, who was in
China for eighteen years, about the middle of the thirteenth
century, will make it manifest that the Chinese then practised
85
a mode of printing or stamping
proof of the early practice in the
pressions from seals, or stamps. 1
1 The passage, as printed in Ramusio,
is as follows. " Della sorte della moneta
di carta, che fa fare il gran Can, quali
corre per tutto il suo dominio." Cap. 18.
In questa Città di Cambalù e la zecca del
gran Can, il quale veramente ha l'alchimia,
però che fa fare la moneta in questo modo.
Egli fa pigliare i scorzi de gli arbori mori,
le foglie de' quali mangiano i vermicelli,
che producono la seta, &, tolgono quelle
scorze sottili che sono tra la scorza grossa,
& il fusto dell'arbore, & le tritano & pes
tano, & poi con colla le reducono in forma
di carta bambagina, & tutte son nere, &
quando son fatte, le fa tagliare in parte
grande, & picciole, & sono fórme di moneta
quadra, & più longhe, che larghe. Ne fa
adunque fare una picciola, che vale un
denaro d'un picciolo tornese, & l'altra
d'un grosso d'argento Venetiano, un'altra
è di valuta di due grossi, un'altra di cinque,
di dieci, 8c altra d'un bisante, altra di due,
altra di tre, &cosi si procede sin'al numero
di dieci bisanti, & tutte queste carte, overo
monete, sono fatte con tant'auttorità, &
solennità,"come s'elle fossero d'oro, o d'ar
gento puro, perche in ciascuna moneta
molti officiali, che a questo sono deputati,
vi scrivono il loro nome, ponendovi cias
cuno il suo segno, & quando del tutto è
fatta, com'ella dee essere, il capo di quelli
per il Signor deputato, imbratta di cina-
prio la bolla concessagli, 8t l'impronta
sopra la moneta, si che la forma della
bolla tinta nel cinaprio, vi rimane im
pressa." Navigationi et Viaggi Raccolto
da Ramusio, T. II. fol. 29.
Ramusio boasts in the preface to this
volume, that he has printed the Voyages
of M. Polo, " by means of several manu-
wilh coloured ink, and is another
Eastern world of making such im-
He says, " In this city of Cam-
scripts written upwards of two hundred
years previous to his time, (as he believes)
perfectly correct, and by far more faith
fully than those which had then been
printed.—It is extraordinary, that in two
Latin editions which I have seen, this
chapter is considerably abridged: instead
of the ample account of the process of
making this paper money, the following
brief one is substituted: " Moneta magni
Cham non Jit de auro vel argento, ant alio
metallo, sed corticem accipiunt medium ab
arbore mori, hunc consolidate atque in
particulas varias Sf rotundas, magnas et
parvas scindunt atque regale imprimunt
signum," &c. It is true the Latin text
would sufficiently establish the fact of the
seal or stamp being printed on this paper
money, but the detail, as found in Ra
musio, is much more satisfactory ; how it
has arisen that Muller, (who published an
edition of the book in Latin in 1671,)
should have omitted these additions from
the Italian text, as he has mentioned the
discrepancies which existed between it, the
old Latin text, and his own, I am at a loss
to imagine. It is said that these Travels were
written in Latin, by a Genoese gentleman,
from the dictation of Marco Polo, while
in prison; that copies were quickly multi
plied, and that they were immediately ren
dered into Italian: this text, therefore, as
Ramusio took great pains in the collation
of manuscripts, and from his residence
at Venice, had better opportunities than
Muller, is perhaps, on the whole, to be
preferred before any other; it is generally
more full and circumstantial than the
Latin, and I should think at least of equal
authority. Colomesius, in his " liecueil
86
bald * is the treasury of the great Cham, who may be truly said to
be an adept in alchemy, for he makes money in the following
manner. He causes the bark to be taken from the mulberry trees,
whose leaves are eaten by the worms that produce silk, and taking
that thin rind which is between the rough bark and the trunk of the
tree, it is washed and pounded, and then with size reduced into the
form of paper: it is quite black, and when finished it is cut into
large and small pieces, which form a sort of square money, 1 rather
longer than it is wide. He causes some small ones to be made,
which are of the value of a small penny, tournois; and others of the
value of a Venetian silver groat ; others of the value of two groats ;
others of five, of ten; some others of one Besan, of two, of three,
and so on as far as to the value of ten Besans. And all this paper,
or money, is made with as much authority and solemnity, as if it
was of fine gold or silver, for on each piece of money several officers,
who are deputed for that purpose, write their names, each one affix
ing his mark, and when all is finished as it should be, the principal
de Particularitez," says, that Vossius shew
ed him an ancient edition of Marco Po
lo's Voyages, in 8vo. containing many
things not in Ramusio's text; but he
does not mention whether this edition was
in Italian or Latin.
The above curious passage has given
rise to a Dissertation of M. Langles, on
the Paper Money of the Ancients, pub
lished in the Memoirs of the French In
stitute. (Memoires de Litterature et Beaux
Arts, T. IV. p. 1 15.) In which, although
it is the chief evidence he has to adduce,
he is contented to take the relation from a
French Version, published in the Collec
tion of Bergeron, at Amsterdam, in 1735:
he establishes the verity of this relation by
other undoubted testimony, and particu
larly from the Traveller's Manual, Hhabyb
ds-seir, of Mirkhoud : he does not however
assert, that European financiers adopted the
idea from the Chinese, although he deems
it probable. The whole of the Memoir is
curious and well deserving perusal.
' Cambalu, Khanbalek, the City of Pe-
kin, then so called. •
* Specimens of this paper money are no
doubt still in existence; for, according to
M. Langles, it seems the Chinese " hold
them in the highest estimation, and seek
eagerly to possess them, particularly when
they are building their houses. Those
who have the good fortune to procure
any, suspend them to the principal
beams of their dwelling as a great cu
riosity, and even as a kind of talisman;
for many connect certain superstitious
notions with them, and believe that they
will preserve the house and its inhabitants
from all manner of accidents. Memoires
de Litt. ubi supra.
87
officer, deputed by the Cham, smears with cinnabar the seal consigned
to him, and imprints it upon the money, so that the figure of the seal
coloured in cinnabar remains impressed upon it."
There can be little doubt, as this circumstance arrested the atten
tion of Marco Polo, that the xylographic art then exercised by the
same people, must have made a strong impression on him, unless
we can conceive it was familiar to him, and that he had previously
seen it in use at Venice; but even then we may be surprized at his
silence, and no more probable reason can be offered to account for
his omission of it, than that he deemed it of too little importance:
it should be recollected it was not then the wonderful art which two
centuries afterward astonished and enlightened Europe, and which,
by many, in that rude age was attributed to magic and supernatural
agency. It is much to be regretted that he had no motive to induce
him to afford us his testimony on the subject; for as most of his facts
have been established by the evidence of other travellers in later
times, his book has become one of those which may be cited with
some degree of safety, although it was long considered little more
than a tissue of romantic and improbable fabling.
Ramusio, who appears to have taken considerable interest in the
relations of Marco Polo, directed his inquiries among the Oriental
merchants who frequented Venice, in order to ascertain what degree
of credit was attached to them. Among others, he applied to a
well-informed Persian, named Chaggi Memet, who had been at
Succuir and Campion, and from him he obtained much information,
that established the verity of many of the circumstances related in
Marco Polo's voyage. He says he learned from him, " That they
have the art of printing in that country, by which they print their
books: and desiring to ascertain whether their method of printing
was similar to that practised in Europe, he accompanied him one day
to the printing office of M. Tomaso Giunti, at San Giuliano, in order
to let him see it: and when the Persian had seen the letters of pewter,
and printing presses, he said there appeared to him a great similarity
88
between them."' This inquiry of Ramusio's is extraordinary, as
Marco Polo does not mention the art of printing, nor even the
xylographic art; but the curious passage respecting the fabrication
of paper money, cited from him above, decisively proves that the
art of printing, or stamping with a coloured menstruum, was then
practised in the East, and there is no reason to doubt but that block
printing was also in use there; although for some reason, which it is
now difficult to divine, no mention is made of it in the relation of
this intelligent and observing traveller.
We proceed to notice the arts of a similar kind, which were
practised by the Etruscans and the Romans, who are known to have
used stamps of wood and metal with which they marked their earthen
ware*, and it will scarcely admit of doubt, that the latter at-
' For the satisfaction of the curious reader
J transcribe the original passages. " Mi
pare necessario ch'io particolarmente de
scriva quel poco che gli anni passati hebbi
venturà d'intendere (da un huomo Per
siano di molto bello ingenio e giudìcio) chi
amato Chaggi Memet, nativo della pro
vincia di Chilàn, appresso al mare Caspio,
d'una città detta Tabas. Et era personal
mente stato fino in Succuir, essendo dipoi
in Venetia quelli mesi venuto con molta
quantità di detto Rheubarbo." " che
egli era stato a Succuir 8c Campion Cittadi
della provincia de Tanguth nel principio
del stato del gran Cane:" and afterwards
he gives " un breve sommario fattomi dal
sudetto Chaggi Memet, d'alcuni pochi
particolari della Citta di Campion & di
quella gente;" among which is the follow
ing memorandum: " Hanno la stampa in
quel paese: con quale stampano suoi libri:
et desiderando io chiarirmi se quel loro
modo di stampare è simile al nostro di
qua, lo condussi un giorno nella stamparia
di M. Tomaso Giunti à San Giuliano, per
fargliela vedere: il quale vedute le lettere
di stagno, & li torcholi con che si stampa,
disse parergli che havessero insieme grande
similitudine." Ramusio Raccolta di Vi
aggi, T. II. fo. 14, 16. Edizione di 1574.
1 Niebuhr found in Egypt on the spot
where the city of Athribis is supposed to
have stood, a fragment of glazed earthen
ware, on which figures appeared to have
been impressed when the clay was in a
soft state. He has given an engraving of
it. Voyages en Arabic. T. 1, p. 98. Tab.
XI. Fig. A.
The skill of the Etruscans, or rather of
the Greeks, in ornamenting their vases, is
well known, from the splendid work of
Sir William Hamilton. According to
Caylus, the process of laying on the
coloured ground of the figures is sup
posed to have been effected by means of
a pierced metal plate, now commonly
called a stensil. That theancients impressed
written characters upon their earthen ves
sels, by means of types or stamps, appears
certain : in digging for the foundations of
buildings at the ancient Arctium, Arezzo,
and at Pesaro, the ancient Pisaurum, ma
ny fragments and vessels were found, with
characters thus impressed upon them, as
V
89
tempted to make impressions upon other materials. The exactness
and precision' with which some of the figures are many times repeat
ed on the painted covers of mummies, seems to indicate some me
chanical mode of producing them. The coloured stuffs which have
been already mentioned as of high antiquity in India,' were also
common to the Egyptians, as may be seen by the passage cited from
Pliny in a former page.
The Stampillce, or Metal Stamps, consisting of monograms,
names, marks of goods, &c. in use among the Romans, afford ex
amples of such a near approach to the art of printing, as first prac
tised, that it is truly extraordinary there is no remaining evidence
of its having been exercised by them, unless we suppose that they
were acquainted with it, and did not choose to adopt it for some
reasons of state policy.
The custom of sealing, or stamping with coloured inks appears
to be of the highest antiquity in the East,* and is still practised
there : the Romans may have derived it from thence, and possibly
impressed their signatures and monograms with a thick ink, by
means of these Stampillae, at least that they were equally applica
ble to this purpose may be fully demonstrated. We are enabled, by
the kind indulgence of a much valued friend, to present the reader
with Impressions from some of the Original Stamps, numerous spe-
Passeri relates in his Istoria della Pittura
in Majolica, printed in the Raccolta d'O-
puscoli di Calogera. Ven. 1758.
' It is somewhat remarkable, that a si
milar art was found to exist among the
inhabitants of the Islands in the Pacific,
upon their discovery by Captain Cook.
He obtained some of the Stamps with
which they printed the borders upon their
garments. These borders are described
as being executed in the same manner the
Europeans print their cottons; and the
patterns though rude, neatly executed,
and not deficient in taste.
1 This is proved by many passages in
the Scriptures; by the passage cited in a
former page from Marco Polo; and the
modern practice is mentioned by Della
Valle, Dapper, and Olearius, the latter
of whom describes the ink as a kind of
paste. I have seen some Chinese red ink
of a most beautiful colour, in the posses
sion of a friend, which appears of this de
scription ; and though it readily dries when
applied to paper, it ever preserves its paste
like form in the mass; at least it has done
so for two or three years.
N
90
cimens of which enrich the very valuable Cabinet from whence they
were obtained.
SIWSAj IoSneiI
A
AMPL
AVCG
This became the more desirable, as it has never yet been done,
and as it will show how nearly the ancients approached to the inven
tion of this valuable art. For we have here the art itself in its first
or simplest form ; and although we have no evidence to adduce of
the ancients having used them for the purpose of making impres
sions with ink, there is nothing which renders such an application
of them improbable.
The practice prevalent among the successors of Charlemagne,
and the Frankish monarchs,' of affixing their signatures to written
1 Muratori, inhis "Antiquitatesltalica,
T. 3. Dissert. 35. p. 118." mentions such
seals with deeply carved letters : what he
says of the beauty and elegance of some
of the monograms used by the successors
of Charlemagne is particularly worthy of
\ remark. " Scilicet inter monogrammata
Augustorum et Regum, qua in Diplomatis
a tempore Caroli Magni per aliquot sacula
visuntur—nonnulla interdum occurrunt mi
ni delineata characteribus tanta elegantia
ac linearum ductu adeo delicato ac unifor-
mis impressis, utfacta mihi suspicio fuerit
non calamo sed stabili aliqua tabella fuisse
wnogrammata ilia efformata." Papen-
broch, in his Propyl. Antiquar. in Barin-
gii Clavis Diplomatica, p. 273, quotes a
similar passage from Wilthenii Annal. San-
Maximin. " Inveniri aliqua Henrici Regis
IV. Imp. III. tanquam propria ejus manu
firmata, cum monogrammate grandi, tequa-
bili et eleganti : sed quod clare apparet Typo
impressum esse, non calamo ductum." It
has been said, that Maximilian the first
used three seals, termed Drie stamp, in
order to prevent the counterfeiting his sig
nature; but this assertion has been contro
verted, as there is no monogram of that
monarch in existence, which appears to
have been formed in this manner. It is,
91
documents by means of such seals or stamps, is another instance of
the application of the art; and it seems likely these stamps were at
first made of wood. Possibly such wooden stamps were also used in
the formation of the Bracteata1 or hollow coins ; and even these me
tal stamps, which appear to have been cast, and not engraved,
would require a mould or pattern, which was probably carved
in wood : yet these applications of the art may be said to have
but a remote connexion with xylography. On the decline of the
Roman Empire the Franks, who possessed themselves of the Roman
territories, were not so uncivilized but that the arts had made some
progress among them : their inclination to cultivate the science
of Architecture is demonstrated in the numerous churches* they
erected, not after the noble Grecian and Roman models, it is true,
but in that bold and fanciful stile, since denominated the Gothic ;
which, although it approach not to the grand simplicity of the art
among the two great nations of antiquity, yet, in its complicate ar
rangement, and admirable disposition of its parts, required genius
to invent, and uncommon geometrical skill in the execution.
however, only conjectured that these seals
were made of wood; for Charlemagne
brought with him from Italy all the arts,
and employed numberless artists and arti
ficers in the decoration of his palaces ; and
these seals may have been cut in metal, or
cast, as were the Roman Tessera.
* The Stamps by which they were form
ed were most probably cut in alto relievo;
for it appears from several edicts, " defal-
sis monetis," at this early period, that it
was an easy matter to counterfeit them.
The figures on them are extremely rude
and barbarous. The Romans are known
to have sometimes cast their coins, and
the sharpness of the relief was occasionally
afterwards increased by stamping them
with a die. V. Caylus Recueil d'Antiqui-
tes, T. I. p. 286. Memoires de VAcad.
des Imcript. T. II. and VII. Perhaps as
these moulds were of earth, they were
formed by wooden stamps cut in relief.
1 The first churches built were probably
the work of Romans who were converted
to Christianity. In the fourth century
there >were Bishops at Mentz, Worms,
Spire, Strasburgh, and Cologne. At the
commencement of the fifth century, the
splendid church of St. John, at Metz, was
pillaged and destroyed by Attila. The
minster at Strasburgh was built in the year
510; that of Ulm, A. D. 596. The num
ber of erections considerably increased
under Charlemagne. It is the opinion of
some writers, that the Mosque of Santa
Sophia, at Constantinople, and the Ara
bian Mosque, at Cordova, served as mo
dels for most of the sacred edifices of ce
lebrity, which were afterward erected in
the Gothic stile.
N 2
92
In the reign of Charlemagne,' arts and manufactures were widely
diffused throughout the extended limit of his empire, and Breitkopf
has said, " that the number of artists and artisans who then flourished,
and were dispersed all over Germany, cannot be contemplated without
astonishment, which increases when it is ascertained that soon after
his death artists were sent for from thence to Italy ; a requisition of
Pontiff John VIII. in the ninth century to Anno, Bishop of Frey-
singen, to send him an organ builder, may be particularly noticed,
as affording decisive evidence of the superiority and skill of German
artisans at this period."
"When Christianity became more universally spread over the face
of Europe, the cultivation and consequent diffusion of knowledge
of every kind was greatly increased by the foundation of monaste
ries and religious houses, in which it is well known that lay brothers
were admitted, who were occupied in the practice of mechanical
and other arts, which were consequently propagated wherever they
were established.1
■ The Stewards of Charlemagne's farms
were directed to procure and receive good
artists. " Ut unusquisque Judex in suo
ministerio bonos habeat artifices, id est,
fabros ferrarios et aurifices vel argentarios
•—tornatores—et reliquos ministcriales,
quos numerandum longum est." See this
Emperor's Capitularia de Villis, cap. xxv.
in Heineccii Corpus Jur. Germ. Antiq.
Halle, 1738. 4to. p. 614.
* BROWER,inhis Antiquitates Fuldemes,
L.i.c. 1 1, says, That many of the monks de
voted themselves to the arts of painting, sta
tuary, and working in metals. This is also
confirmed by Goldastius, RerumAlatnanni-
carum Scriptores, Tom. i. p. 109. And
another German writer in the History of
the famous Monastery of Hirschau, says,
" The tenth abbot William, in 1069, re
built and enlarged the monastery : at that
time there were 150 monks, of which those
who were not capable of clerical occupa
tions, were engaged in other labours of a
mechanical nature. Twelve of the most
learned were employed in copying manu
scripts; there were beside sixty lay-bro
thers, all of whom were artisans ; as car
penters, masons, bricklayers, 8cc. : there
were also fifty assistants in lay habits who
performed the more servile part of daily
labour." v. Trithemii in Chronicon Hir-
saugensis.
The establishment of schools in these
Monastical Institutions was regulated by
an edict of Charlemagne, who also ordered
them to instruct the people by means of
passages taken from the scriptures. It
is possible that to this circumstance we
owe those numerous manuscripts which
come down to us of Biblical Histories,
generally embellished with rude designs of
the subjects of the principal events re
corded, and which are known under the
various titles of Biblia Pauperum, Specu-
93
On the emergence of Europe from its uncivilized state, the
monks were the first who devoted themselves to the study of archi
tecture, which was much cultivated by them, and arrived at a high
degree of perfection in their hands. Calligraphy was also another
art which received considerable attention ; and when the essential
parts of each of these arts had arrived at a certain degree of ad
vancement, decoration and ornament were sought for, and gave
rise to the arts of design and sculpture, among them. The former
served to enrich and illustrate their manuscripts and missals, the
latter their altars, shrines, choirs, and stalls, with carvings in relief ;
Mosaic work, painting, and glass-staining, were also practised with
considerable success ; and even at this remote period of time suffi
ciently numerous monuments of their labours exist, to demonstrate
that these arts arrived at a high degree of perfection in their hands.
It has been said that the sculptures or carvings in wood
which enrich many parts of some of the earliest monuments of
Ecclesiastical architecture, might have led to the invention of the
Xylographic art ; the figures in relievo which are seen on fonts,
stalls, and monuments, may have furnished the idea of the first
engraved blocks from which impressions were taken. It is suffici
ently remarkable that the Sister or Chalcograpbic art,' is also sup-
him Humana: Salvationis, Ars Memorandi,
Vita Christi, fyc. Public instruction too
was aimed at in the carvings, paintings, and
glass staining of these religious orders.
It is remarkable that the first attempts of
the Xylographic art to supply the place of
the labours of the monastic scribes, was
made upon these very works ; and it must
be confessed by all who have had oppor
tunities of comparing them, that they bear
no small degree of resemblance to the
manuscripts, those which are coloured
more particularly. A very ancient cut of
St. Bridget, which I saw in the collection
of Lord Spencer, and which is most pro
bably, at least, of the fourteenth century,
seemed to have been coloured by means of
a stensil or pierced metal plate,with colours
of the same nature with those used in paint
ing these designs in manuscripts. The out
line appeared to have been taken off with
the same grey distempered colour with
which the early block books are printed,
and in the same manner, by friction with a
brush or rubber, as is evident on inspection
of the back of the print. Of this singular
curiosity, it is the intention of Mr. Ottley,
to present us with an exact fac-simile in
his History of Engraving.
1 This subject will also be fully illus
trated in Mr. Ottley's History of En
graving. The discovery of an impres
94.
posed to have had its origin by mere accidental discovery, From the
plate engraved by the Goldsmiths, for the purpose of being filled with
Niello, and that it was perpetuated by the natural desire of the
artist to have some memorial of works on which he had bestowed
much labour and skill.
These arts were used by the monks as auxiliaries to facilitate
their labours in conveying instruction to the people. The mysteries of
Christianity, the events of Sacred History, but above all the legends
of Saints, were thus conveyed to them, in a more lively manner than
by oral instruction. The exactness with which some of the beautiful
initial letters in early ornamented MSS. are repeated, makes it almost
certain that they had some mechanical mode of multiplying the out
line : this was most probably effected by means of a stamp engraved
on wood,' and if there is any foundation for the supposition, it was
then but a short step to the rude figures of saints, &c. which are sup
posed to have been the first productions of the art with a view to
impression on paper.
Italy, ever the mother and nurse of the arts of design and sculp
ture, after the dreadful devastations she suffered, was yet the first
sion from a Pax, engraved for the pur
pose of being filled with Niello, has esta
blished the claim of Finiguerra to the in
vention ; and, it is hoped, put an end to
all controversy. The fortunate discoverer
of this circumstance was the Abate Pietro
Zani, who has given an accurate fac-simile
of the print, and ample proofs on the sub
ject, in his Materiali per sercire alia Storia
dell' Origine e de Progresn delV Incisione
in liame e in Legno. Parma 1 802, 8vo. ; a
work w hich we have had frequent occasion
to refer to in the course of our inquiry. In
justice to my friend Mr. Ottley, it should
be observed, that some time before he was
made acquainted with the discovery of
Zani, and the consequent proof which it
afforded, he had drawn up a brief essay on
the subject ; in which he had pointed out
the same facts, and established them. Mr
O. is in possession of an impression from
another Pax, also engraved by Finiguerra,
with a fac-simile of which the curious in
Chalcography will be favoured in his forth
coming work.
' It is worthy of remark, that the art of
Printing was in many places first exercised
in religious houses. At Rome, for instance,
in the Soubiaco Monastery; atParis, in the
Sorbonne ; in England, at Westminser and
St. Albans. Upon inspection of the " Boke
of Hawking, Hunting, 8cc. by Dame Juli
ana Berners," printed at the latter place, it
forcibly struck me, that the coats of arms
in various coloured inks, and the initials
printed in red, were impressed by the hand
with stamps cut in wood, and not by means
of the press.
95
country where these arts revived and received cultivation, and also
the first country where these pictorial helps to devotion would be sup
posed to have had their birth. The Italians, it is well known, exer
cised the arts of design and sculpture several centuries previous to the
introduction of those arts among the more northern nations of Europe,
and their intercourse with the people of the Eastern world, even as
early as the eleventh century, supposing the art to have been derived
from thence, would naturally make us look for its European origin
among them.
That this was the case we should have the strongest possible
reasons for concluding, if the very interesting account of the labours
of the two Cunio given by Papillon, could be received as an un
doubted fact. It has of late, however, obtained that attention which
its truth-like semblance should have claimed for it long since. Zani
has patiently investigated it, and adduced some facts which clearly
establish the points relating to the existence of the family, and to
the occurrence of the name of Alberico frequently in its annals.
Mr. Ottley has entered much at large into the question, and sup
ported the arguments of Zani in its fa vour, in a very able manner ;
this precludes the necessity of enlarging upon it here, and we shall
content ourselves with giving the relation as it is to be found in
Papillon's work, in the note beneath.1 Merely observing that there
1 Papillon's relation is as follows : at his leisure. We discoursed together
" When a young man, I was employed concerning the prints thatwere in them,and
hy my father almost every working day, to upon the antiquity of wood engraving,
go out arranging and hanging our papers Here is the description of those ancient
for the decoration of rooms. In 1719 or books, such as I wrote it before him, and
1720, 1 was at the village of Bagneux near which he was kind enough to explain and
Mont Rouge, at M. de Greder's, a Swiss dictate to me.
captain, who had a very pretty house there. " In a Cartouche, or frontispiece, of
After having decorated a closet for him, grotesque and gothjc, yet agreeable, orna-
he got me to paste some paper, resembling ments, about nine inches long, by six
Mosaic, on the shelves of his library. One inches high ; with the arms, no doubt, of
afternoon he surprised me occupied in the Cunio at the top; are rudely engraved,
reading a book, which caused him to shew on the same block, these words in bad La
me several very old ones he had borrowed tin, or ancient gothic Italian, with many
of a Swiss officer, his friend, to examine abbreviations :
96
is no apparent motive which could induce the Swiss gentleman to
impose upon an unsuspicious young man a story, which, if a fabri
" THE CHIVALROUS ACTIONS IN FIGURES
of the great and magnanimous Macedo
nian King, the worthy and valiant Alex
ander; dedicated, presented, and humbly
offered to the most holy father the Pope,
Honorius IV. the glory and support of the
church : and to our illustrious and gene
rous father and mother, by us Alexander
Alberico Cunio, Knight, and Isabella Cunio,
twin brother and sister; first reduced,
imagined, and attempted to be done in re
lief, with a small knife, on blocks of wood
smoothed and polished by that learned and
dear sister, continued and compleated unit
edly, at Ravenna ; after eight pictures of
our invention, painted six times as large
as here represented, engraved, explained in
verse, and thus marked on the paper, to
perpetuate the number, and to be enabled
to give them to our friends and relations
in gratitude, friendship, and affection.
This was done and finished when each of
us were only sixteen years old." He pro
ceeds : " This Cartouche is surrounded by
a strong line tV of an inch thick, some
light strokes form the shadows of the orna
ments which are unequally executed with
out precision. The impression was made
with a pale indigo blue in distemper, and
according to appearance, with nothing
but the hand passed several times over the
paper when laid upon the block, in the
same simple manner as the Card-makers
do their directions and wrappers of Cards.
The ground or great field of the engraving
having been imperfectly cut out in some
parts and having received part of thecolour,
has smeared the paper, which is greyish,
and has occasioned the following words to
be written on the lower margin, pointing
out a remedy. They are in gothic Italian,
which M. de Greder had some difficulty
to decipher, and were certainlywrote by the
hand of the Chevalier Cunio, or his sister:
on this proof, apparently the first taken
from the block, they are thus here tran
slated :
The ground of the blocks must be more cut
away, in order that the paper may not
touch it any more in making the impres
sion.
" Following this frontispiece are the sub
jects of the eight pictures engraved on
wood, and of the same size surrounded
with a similar strong line, and also some
light strokes denoting the shadows. To
each of these prints, at the bottom between
the strong line of the frame and another
placed about afinger'sbreadth from it, there
are four Latin verses engraved on the block,
which explain the subject poetically, and
above is the title of each of them. All
the impressions are similar to that of the
frontispiece, being spotty or greyish, as if
the paper had not been moistened or damp
ed before they were made. The figures
passably designed, although in a semi-
gothic taste, are pretty well characterised
and draped. It is perceptible that the arts
of design were then beginning by degrees
to resume their vigour in Italy. Under the
principal figures their names are engraven,
such as Alexander, Philip, Darius, Cain-
paspe, &c.
" First Subject. Alexander mounted
on Bucephalus, whom he has tamed ; on a
stone are these words : Isabel. Cunio, pinx.
If scalp.
" Second Subject. The passage of
the Granicus; near the trunk of a tree
these words are engraved : Alb. Cunio, Equ .
pinx. Isabel. Cunio, scalp.
" Third Subject. Alexander cutting
the Gordian knot. On the pedestal of a
97
cation, must have been composed with much more skill, attention,
and research, than is usual where a mere playful imposition for the
column are these words : Alexan. Albe. Cu
nio, Equ. fins, et scalp.
" Fourth Subject. Alexander in the
tent of Darius. This subject is one of the
best composed and engraved of the whole
collection. On an end of drapery these
words are engraven : Isabel. Cunio, pinxit
if scalp.
" Fifth Subject. Alexander gene
rously giving his mistress Campaspe to
Apelles, who was painting her picture.
The figure of this beauty is very pleasing.
The painter appears transported with joy
at his good fortune. On the floor in a
sort of antique table, are these words :
Alex. Alb. Cunio, Eques. pinx. if scalp.
" Sixth Subject. The famous battle
of Arbella. Upon a mound of earth are
these words : Alex. Alb. Equ. if Isabel
Cunia, pictor if scalp. This subject is also
one of the best composed, designed, and
engraved.
" SeventhSubject. Porus vanquished,
is brought before Alexander. This design
is equally beautiful and remarkable, as it is
very nearly like, in point of composition,
that of the same subject by the celebrated
Le Brun : it would even almost seem that
he had copied this print. Alexander and
Porus have each equally an air of grandeur
and magnanimity. On a stone near a
bush, are engraved these words : Isabel
Cunio, pinx. if scalp.
" Eighth Subject. The glory and
the great triumph of Alexander, upon his
entry into Babylon. This piece is pretty
well composed, and like the sixth, was done
by the brother and sister conjointly; as
these characters engraved at the base of a
wall testify : Alex. Alb. Equ. if Isabel Cu
nio, pictor if scalp. At the top, this print
has been torn ; a piece, about three inches
in length, by one inch in height, iswanting.
" Upon the blank leaf which follows this
last print, are these words badly written in
old Swiss characters, hardly legible, be
cause they had been written with pale ink.
" This precious volume was given to my
grandfather, John James Turine, native of
Berne, by the illustrious Count Cunio,
chief magistrate of Imola, who honoured
him with his courteous friendship. It is,
of all my books, that which I esteem the
most, on account of the mode in which it
came into our family ; and on account of
the science, the valour, the beauty, and the
noble and generous intention of the ami
able twins, Cunio, to gratify their relations
and friends. The following is their singu
lar and curious history, as my venerable
father has related it to me frequently, and
I have had it written more fairly than I
could have done it.
" What follows is written with blacker
ink, in the same kind of characters as the
preceding, but much better formed.
" The young and amiable Cunio, twin
brother and sister, were the first children
of the son of Count Cunio, who had them
by a noble and beautiful Veronese lady,
related to the family of Pope Honorius
IV. when he was but yet a cardinal. This
juvenile nobleman had espoused the young
lady clandestinely without the knowledge
of any of their relations, who, having dis
covered it from her pregnancy, they caused
the marriage to be dissolved, and banished
the priest who married the two lovers.
The noble young lady equally fearing the
anger of her father and that of Count
Cunio, took refuge with one of her aunts,
where she was delivered of these twins.
08
sake of recreation is intended. That the character of Papillon for
veracity was undoubted, is acknowledged even by those who have
Nevertheless Count Cunio, out of regard
for his son, whom he obliged to marry
another lady of noble family, permitted
him to have these children brought up in
his house ; and this was done with all the
tenderness and care in their education
possible, as well on the part of the Count,
as on that of his son's wife, who conceived
such an affection for Isabella Cunio, that
she loved and cherished her as if she had
been her own daughter; equally loving
Alexander Alberico Cunio her brother,
who as well as his sister was of a mind
richly endowed, and of a most amiable
disposition. They both profited well by
the lessons they received from their mas
ters in the various sciences, particularly
Isabella, who at thirteen years was alrea
dy considered a prodigy ; for she knew
and wrote Latin perfectly, composed vers
es, understood geometry, had skill in
music, could play on several instruments,
and began to design and paint with taste
and delicacy. Her brother emulated her
example, and strove to equal her, yet
confessed frequently that he felt he could
never arrive at her degree of perfection.
He was nevertheless one of the most ami
able young men in Italy; in beauty he
equalled his sister, and was possessed of
courage and nobleness of soul, together
with an uncommon degree of facility in
acquiring and perfecting himself in all
things to which he applied. They were
the delight of their friends, and perfectly
loved each other; so that the pleasure or
chagrin of the one was participated by the
other. At fourteen years of age this young
gentleman knew the horse manege, was
well practised in arms, and in all the ex
ercises of a young man of quality; he also
knew Latin, and painted very well.
" The troubles of Italy having occasion
ed his father to take up arms, he was at
his repeated solicitation suffered to ac
company him in that same year,* to make
his first campaign under his eye. He had
the command of a squadron of twenty-five
horsemen, with whom, for his first essay,
he attacked and put to flight almost two
hundred of the enemy, after a vigorous re
sistance; but his courage having carried
him too far in the pursuit, he found him
self surrounded by some of the flying sol
diers, from whom, with unequalled valour,
he nevertheless succeeded in rescuing him
self, without other injury than a wound
in his left arm. His father, who was hast
ening to his succour, met him returning
with one of the enemy's standards, with
which he had bound up his wound. He
embraced him, overjoyed at his brilliant
achievements ; and at the same time, as
his wound was not very considerable, and
wishing to reward such extraordinary va
lour upon the spot, he conferred upon
him the honour of knighthood (although
he was a Knight already in right of birth),
performing the ceremony in the place
where he had given such manifest proofs
of his extraordinary courage.
" The young man was so transported
with delight at this honour, which he re
ceived in sight of the troops his father
commanded (then become Count Cunio,
from the death of his father, which had
recently happened), that, wounded as he
was, he immediately asked his permission
to go and see his mother, to inform her of
the glory and honour he had just acquired;
this the Count the more readily granted,
as he was glad to have an opportunity of
• i. e. In his fourteenth.
99
not given credit to this relation ;
tion that he did not invent it.
testifying to that noble and afflicted lady
(who had continued to remain with her
aunt a few miles from Ravenna) the love
and esteem which he had ever continued
to entertain for her; and of which he would
certainly have given realisation, by re-es
tablishing their marriage, and by espous
ing her publicly, if he had not felt bound
to retain the wife his father had obliged
him to take, by whom he had also several
children.
" The new knight set out, therefore, im
mediately, escorted by the remains of his
troop, out of which 8 or 10 men were
killed or wounded. With this equipage
and escort, who bore testimony to his va
lour wherever they passed, he arrived at
the dwelling of his mother, with whom he
staid two days; after which he went to Ra
venna, to render a similar mark of respect
to his father's wife, who was so charmed
with his noble achievements, and his at
tention to her, that she herself conducted
him by the hand to the apartment of the
charming Isabella, who seeing his arm in
a sling, was at first much alarmed. He
remained a few days in this city; but, im
patient to return to his father, to achieve
new exploits, he took his departure, al
though he was not yet well of his wound.
The Count reprimanded him for not hav
ing sent back his troop, and for not re
maining at Ravenna until he was cured.
He would not permit him to act during
the rest of the campaign; and he sent him
home shortly after, when his arm was per
fectly healed, saying to him pleasantly,
that he wished not to be outdone by him
during the remainder of the time they
should continue in action that year. It
was soon after this that Isabella and he be
nd Heinecken asserts his convic-
It would, if admitted, afford an
gan to compose and execute the pictures
of the Actions of Alexander. He made
a second campaign with his father ; after
which he continued to work at these pic
tures conjointly with Isabella, who set
about reducing them, and engraving them
on blocks of wood. After these pieces
were finished, and they had printed
and presented them to Pope Honorius,
and to their friends and relations, the
young knight joined the army for the
fourth time, accompanied by a young no
bleman, one of his friends, called Pan-
dulphio, who, enamoured of the amiable
Isabella, was desirous of signalizing him
self, that he might be more worthy of her,
before he espoused her. But this last cam
paign proved fatal to the Cavalier Cunio,
who was slain by numberless sword-
wounds at the side of his friend, who was
dangerously wounded in attempting his
defence. Isabella was so much affected
by the death of her dear brother, which
occurred when he was not quite nineteen
years old, that she determined never to
marry : after this event she did nothing
but languish, and died when she had
scarce completed her twentieth year.
" The death of this beautiful and learn
ed young lady was followed by that of her
lover, who had still hoped by his atten
tions and attachment to engage her at
length to make him happy,—and also by
that of her mother, who could not survive
the loss of her beloved children. The
Count Cunio, who had been deeply afflict
ed by the death of his son, could scarcely
support that of his daughter. Even the
Countess Cunio, who loved Isabella very
tenderly, fell ill with grief for her loss:
and the Count would have sunk under it
02
100
isolated record of the existence of the Xylographic art in Italy at
the close of the fifteenth century, and would also lead us to suspect
that it was an art which had been already long familiar to that nation,
and thus tend to account for the reason of the silence of Marco
Polo, upon the subject of the exercise of it among the Chinese.
It is to be regretted that there is no connective chain of evidence
which might unite this solitary example with the end of the fourteenth,
or beginning of the fifteenth century ; at which period it is certain
that the art was commonly exercised : for the wood-cut representing
a surgeon named Scoting with the supposed date of 1384, discovered
cer who possessed this copy, the friend of
M. de Greder, was one of the descendants
of this Jan. Jacq. Turine, who was his
mother's ancestor. The death of M. de
Greder, which took place some years ago,
prevents me from being able to learn
where this book is now to be seen, so that
its authenticity might be established in the
eyes of the public, and that which 1 have
written receive confirmation. There is
every reason to suppose, however, that
the copy which was given to Pope Hono-
rius may be preserved in the Library of the
Vatican at Rome." This is the simple and
interesting relation of Papillon, which
certainly does not appear in the least like
a fabrication for the purpose of deceiving
the reader. Indeed those who have not
given it their credence, have vouched for
the simplicity and integrity of Papillon,
and have thought that it was possible his
informant, M. de Greder, might have either
been mistaken in the date, or have intend
ed a harmless piece of raillery, in deceiv
ing this unsuspicious and zealous young
man. If this was the case, it is rarely
that so well contrived a fraud originates
from such motives, and in such a sudden
manner; indeed this latter supposition is
altogether so incongruous, as to have no
place in our belief.
also, had he not been supported by his
manly fortitude. Happily the health of
the Countess was by degrees reestablished.
" Some years afterwards the generous
Count Cunio gave my grandfather this
copy of the Actions of Alexander, bound
as now it is;* I have had the leaves of pa
per added, upon which I have caused this
history to be written."
"It is very certain," says Papillon, "from
the name of Pope Honorius the IVth en
graved on the title of these ancient prints
of the Actions of Alexander, that this
precious monument of Wood Engraving
and impression was executed between the
years 1284 and 1285; because that Pope
to whom it was dedicated and presented,
only governed the church during two
years, from the second of April, 1285, to
the third day of the same month in the
year 1287. Thus the epoch of this ancient
engraving is anterior to all the most an
cient books printed in Europe, that are at
present known. Mr. Spirchtvel, the offi-
• Papillon, in a note to this passage, says, " This
ancient and gothic binding was made of thin wooden
boards, covered with leather, flowered in compart
ments, as if stamped or marked simply with an iron
a little hot without gilding. The worms had attack
ed this cover, which is pierced by them in many
places."
101
in the public library at Lyons, proved in the sequel, to have been
made two centuries older than its real date by the ignorance of the
discoverer, who mistook the old Arabic numeral figure 5 for 3. It is
true that a seal or stamp, supposed to have been engraved on wood,
bearing the name of one Plebanus of Augsburg, and the date 1407,
was found impressed on many manuscripts and books, in the library
of the monastery of Rothengburg in Upper Bavaria ; yet even this
is not with certainty known to have been engraved on wood, and
the date which stands thus mcccca. has been doubted. Other en
gravings on wood have been brought forward as executed at a very
early period of the fifteenth century, but it has been from similar
mistakes in the discoverers.
Thus Paul Von Stetten published an account of a Biblia Pau-
perum engraved by Frederick Mauker and Hans Huring of Nord-
lingen in 1414, which he found in the library of the Carmelites at
Augsburg. But when other more accurate eyes examined the book,
it appeared that he had mistaken the figure of 7 for 1, and that the
authentic date was 1474.
Baron Von Hupsch of Cologne, published in 1787, an account
of some wood-cuts which he presumed to have been engraved there
in 1420. But Breitkopf asserts that they were part of the prints of
a Biblia Pauperum, in which it was intended to have given the
explanations by means of moveable characters beneath the cuts, and
that consequently they were most probably posterior to 1470. He
does not give his reasons for this conclusion ; but he says, as no such
edition of the Biblia Pauperum is known, the work does not ap
pear to have been ever completed.'
The earliest dated specimen of the Xylographic art hitherto dis
covered, which can be adduced as an undoubted document, is the
celebrated cut of St. Christopher bearing the infant Jesus, with a
metrical inscription and the year 1423 at the bottom : we owe the
discovery of this curious and interesting monument to Heinecken,
who found it pasted in the interior of the cover of a MS. volume
' These instances are cited on the authority of Breitkopf.
102
in the library of the Chartreuse at Buxheim in Suabia. In the same
volume was also another cut, evidently of the same period, and pro
bably by the same artist, the subject of which is the Annunciation.
This volume is entitled Laus Virginis, and is now with its valuable
contents in the magnificent collection of Earl Spencer. The inscrip
tion at the bottom of the cut, which is printed with black ink, and
has been afterwards coloured apparently by means of a stensil, is as
follows :
Crfstoferi factem tote quacunque turns, \ jfttllestnw €€€€°t
3(lle nempe Die matte mala turn morterfe. J p. tertto.
As descriptions of both these cuts are to be found in Mr. Dibdin's
Catalogue of Books printed in the fifteenth Century, in the col
lection of Lord Spencer, and portions of each of them are there
engraved ; and as it is Mr. Ottley's intention to give an accu
rate fae-simile of the St. Christopher, and a reduced representation
of the Annunciation, it will not be necessary to enter into any detail
upon the subject.
These Cuts are considered by Mr. Ottley as bearing evidence in
the style of design, that they arc the production of Italian artists,
but the circumstance of their being found in Germany, and the
Gothic inscriptions on them, are something to urge against this
opinion. They cannot, however, be considered as fixing the epoch
of the Invention of the Art, for they are evidently not the produc
tions of its extreme infancy; many of the specimens afforded by the
very curious collection of Cuts published from the original Blocks
by Bekker,' have a manifest claim to precedence.
1 Gravures en Bois des Anciem Maitres
Allemands tirees des Planches Originates
recueillies par J. A. Derschau, publiees
avec un discours sur la nature et VHistoire
de la Gravure en Bois, par R. Z. Bekker.
Gotha, 1808-10. 2 parties enfol. at/ant.
This work affords specimens of the very
rudest beginnings of the xylographic art
in Europe, and also a series, showing its
gradual advances toward that perfection
to which it arrived at the commencement
of the sixteenth century. It is very inter
esting to trace the progressive steps by
which this art was advanced from these
rude gothic representations in outline, to
the elaborate and beautiful productions
which bear the name of Holbein, Albert
Durer, and Hans Lutzelburger. The sub-
103
These cuts are both of them coloured, and apparently by means
of pierced metal plates, commonly called Stensils, in the manner
used to colour the ancient playing Cards. In common with most
jects of many of these cuts may also serve
as documents, illustrating the history of
manners, costume, and even the mode of
thinking, at this remarkable period. Bek-
ker's patriotism, like that of Breitkopf and
Heinecken, has led him to conclude, that
the Germans were the first European na
tion who exercised the art; but he thinks
it is more probable that its beginnings were
the figures of saints, than the figures on
Playing Cards. Among them are several
repetitions of the subject of St. Christo
pher, which appears to have been a fa
vourite one with these ancient artists, as
was the legend of this saint with the elder
poets of our own nation ; for beside the
author of the Metrical Lives of the Saints,
quoted by Warton, it has been versified
by William Warner, the author of that
excellent, and in many parts, highly
poetical, Poem of Albion's England. The
former describes St. Christopher thus:
" Four and twenti feete he was longe and thikk
and brod inouh."
As an agreeable specimen of Warner's
style of narration I will transcribe his ac
count of this Giant Saint.
There was a man of stature bigge,
And bigge withall in minde,
For serve he would, yet one than whom
None greater he might find.
He hearing that the Emperor
Was in the world most great,
Came to his court, was entertaynd,
And serving him at meate,
It chanced that the Divell was nam'd,
Whereat the Emperor him blest ;
Whereas untill he knew the cause,
The pagan would not rest.
But when he heard his Lord to fear
The Divell his ghostly foe,
He left his service, and to seek
And serve the Divell did goe :
Of Heaven or Hell, God or the Divell
He erst nor hear'd nor cared,
Alone he sought to serve the same
That would by none be dared.
He met (who soone is met) the Divell,
Was entertayned, they walke,
Till coming to a crosse, the Divell
Did fearfully it balke.
The Servant musing, questioned
His master of his feare,
One Christ, quoth he, with dread I mind
When does a crosse appeare.
Then serve thyself the Gyant said,
That Christ to serve I'll seeke;
For him he ask'd a Hermit, who
Advised him to be meeke;
By which, by faith, and workes of alms,
Would sought for Christ be found,
And how and where to practice these
He gave directions sound.
Then he that scorned his service late
To greatest Potentates,
Even at a common ferry now
To carry all awaites ;
Thus doing long, as with a Child
He over once did waide,
Under his loade midway he faintes
From sinking hardly staide :
Admiring how, and asking who,
Was Answered of the Childe,
As on his shoulders Christ he bore,
By being humbly milde,
So through humilitie his soul
To Christ was reconcilde.
And of his carriage Cubist ofer
Should thenceforth be his name.
104
productions of the period to which they belong, they set the laws of
perspective at defiance. Many dateless performances of the same
kind, which may be of the latter end of the fourteenth cenlury, or
beginning of the fifteenth, are in existence: they are generally no
more than rude outlines, having been intended to pass through
the hands of the Illuminist, without whose aid some parts of the
subject or design would be totally unintelligible.
Having explained fully why Cards are to be presumed, with
great reason, of Eastern Origin, and the possibility of their being
only a varied modification of Chess, we should have been happy to
have demonstrated that they were in use in the East previous to the
first notice of them in European writers: this our ignorance of ori
ental languages has possibly deprived us of the pleasure of doing;
but we trust that the hints here thrown out may excite some more
competent hand to pursue the inquiry in those sources whence only
complete satisfaction on this head is to be derived.
The same cause precluded us from giving any account of the
manner in which the ancient Cards, in use in the Eastern World,
were formed ; whether by printing or painting ; but that both the
Chinese and Hindoos made them of paper, there can be no doubt,
as the art of manufacturing it from cotton is of the highest antiquity
among them, and it is not doubted that the Europeans derived their
knowledge of it from them. This cotton paper was so stout and
smooth, as to render it highly proper for the purpose: it is pre
sumed that pasteboard, as now formed by cementing together several
sheets of paper, is a later European invention, which has probably
given rise to the name of Cards, from the Italian Cartone ;' and it
1 Vossius, in his Etymologicon Lingua La- furrows or lines, as ypauptiy, in Greek; sen-
time, voce Charta, derives it from %apnjf, bere, exarare, in Latin; rita, Islandic;
and cites a curious etymology of it by writan, in Saxon; wryten, ryten, in old
Eustathius, who deduces it from %apa<r<ruj, Flemish. The ancient Danish terms for
which is, says Vossius, insculpo, inscribo, Runic characters run, ryn, also have the
imprimo. It is curious that in most an- same signification. This proves that the
cient languages the words, which signify first kind of writing was by making an
to write, are drawn from roots which ex- incision, and not by superficial mark-
press the action of graving, or tracing ing.
105
has been seen lhal they bore the name of Carte, as well as that of
Naibi, in Italy, at the close of the thirteenth century.
But that paper was not the only material of which they formed
their cards, may be fairly presumed, as we see that they now use
thin leaves or tablets of ivory. That they were at first designed and
painted by hand, must likewise be concluded: and there can be
no reason to doubt that this was also the case at their first introduc
tion in Europe. It has been seen that in the year 1392, a compa
ratively small price was paid for three packs or games of cards,
painted for Charles the Vlth of France;' and it appears that the
very considerable sum of fifteen hundred gold crowns was paid by
the Duke of Milan for a single pack, in the year 1430. All that
can be inferred from this circumstance is, that the cards painted for
the latter were richly embellished, and of very superior workman
ship.
To this period also may be referred a splendid pack, described
by Lanzi? which he had seen in the cabinet of Count Giacomo Du-
1 It is the opinion of my friend Mr.
Ottley, that, unless some more expedi
tious mode of fabricating Cards than paint
ing them had been then in use, it would
have been impossible for Gringonneur to
furnish three packs for the very trifling
sum of fifty sous, when we see that the
Duke of Milan, at a period very little
posterior, paid the enormous sum of five
hundred gold crowns for a single pack.
With deference to this opinion, I submit
that it is possible the Cards of Gringon
neur were very rude performances, seeing
that a mad King could have but little dis
crimination in works of art. And as it ap
pears that those painted forthe Duke of Mi
lan were of the Tarocco kind, which, from
the number of figured Cards, were more
susceptible of ornament, and in point of
number perhaps nearly equal to three packs
of common Cards, we may fairly suppose
the difference in the quantity and quality
of labour, could operate even to the ex
traordinary degree of disparity which is
found in the sums paid. At the same
time the expression " a or et a diverse
couleurs" seems to imply, that Gringon-
neur's Cards were painted, and not print
ed : it should be observed too, that he is
called Peintre. Had there been any solid
ground for Mr. Ottley's conjecture, the
French writers would have seized upon it
with avidity.
'Ea questa epoca (cioi il principio del
1400.) par da ridurre quelle antichi carte
da giuoco, che nel ricco gabinetto avev'
adunate il Sig. Conte Giacomo Durazzo
gia Ambasciatore Cesareo in Venezia; pas-
sate ora in quella del Sig. Marchese Giro-
lamo suo nipote. Sono di grandezza su-
periore d'assai alle odierne, e di assai forte
impasto, simile alle carte bambagine de'
P
106
razzo; they were much larger than the cards in modern use, the
figures painted on gold grounds, the paper of which they were made
similar to that used in early manuscripts, the suits those in common
use among the Italians; clubs, swords, and pence. The style of
art similar to that of Jacobello del Fiore, but Lanzi was told by
experienced judges that the outline of them was printed, and the
colour filled in by means of stensil plates, and says they are the most
ancient monument of this kind with which he is acquainted.
If Lanzi, and those whom he consulted, are right in their judg
ment that these cards have their outlines really printed, and if the
period to which they are assigned be correct, they must be consi
dered as a most important document in support of the origin of the
xylographic art among the Cardmakers; and a strong argument
might be deduced from them in favour of the claims of Italy to the
earliest exercise of the art. The gold grounds upon which they are
said to be painted manifest that cards, after the invention of the
mode of multiplying them by mechanical means, continued to be
more richly decorated for personages of distinction than for the
people, in the same manner that books, and particularly missals,
continued to be written, and richly embellished, long after the in
vention of Printing.
It was much about the period when Calligraphy, and the other
elegant arts which had hitherto been almost exclusively cultivated
in religious houses, left their monastic abodes, and became diffused
among and cultivated by the laity, that the productions of the
xylographic art also seem to have considerably increased, if not to
have had their rise. It becomes therefore a very plausible con
jecture, that this art, which had as yet been confined to the purpose
codici antichi. Vi sono espresse le figure cobello del Fiore, il lavori a periti e paruto
in campo d'oro nel modo che si e descritto a stampa, i colori dati per traforo. Morni-
a pag. 36. e sono tre Regi; e in oltre due rnento piu antico non so in tal genere.
Donne, due Fanti, uno a cavallo, ed ha Lanzi Storia Pittorica cTItalia. T. I.
ciascuno o bastone, o spada, o denajo, .... p. 86. Ediz. di Milano 1809. 8ro.
Jl disegno molto avvicinasi a quello di Ja-
107
of producing the rude images of saints, and oilier devotional ob
jects, migrated with them from the convents where it had hitherto
been only practised, and was eagerly seized upon by the painters
of cards and images, as a means of very much abridging their
labours in the production of these objects, which they had till then
been accustomed to paint and design by hand. It seems certain
that cards were in pretty general use, at least very early in the
fourteenth century, and probably long before the adoption of this
art in the manufacture of them.
The demand for these fascinating objects, when it became possi
ble to attain them at a moderate price, would naturally increase;
and thus the art of engraving on wood arose to considerable con
sequence, and the productions of it soon became a most important
article of commerce : this supposition is countenanced by the cir
cumstance of the names Kartenmacher and Kartenmahler occurring
earlier in the rolls of the corporations of the German cities than
either the appellation Bildermahler, Bildermacher, or Briefmahlers.
At Augsburg, in 1418, the Kartenmachers are mentioned in the town
book;' the Cardmakers were, however, also employed in engrav
ing devotional images, as well as the objects of their own peculiar
profession; for at Ulm,1 Brietkopf says, they have still a tradition,
that they were formerly called Bildermachers.
1 Breitkopf Ursprung der Spielkarten,
II. Thiel, p. 159.
" Augsburg (says M. Roch, upon the
authority of Breitkopf), may after all lay
strong claim to be considered the first seat
of the art of engraving on wood. For,
although we do not find playing at cards
prohibited in this city until 1461, yet in
none of the cities of Germany do we find
the engravers on wood registered among
the Burgesses so early as in this city,
where the Cardmakers are mentioned in the
town roll (Biirgerbuche) as early as 1418.
From this circumstance, says he, it may
be inferred, that they also were the first
who extended their trade without the li
mits of that city." He says also, " It is a
well founded conjecture which gives the
wood cut of St. Christopher, with the
date of 1423, to Augsburg."
1 The same authority says, " It is highly
probable, considering the great number of
Cardmakers who were completely and suf
ficiently employed in that branch of the
art, that the secession of (Bildermahler's)
painters of images, took place between the
years 1400-1430; and they were, by the
appellation of Briefmahler, distinguished
from the Cardmakers, who, on account of
the extensive sale of their cards abroad,
had adopted its foreign name." Ibid.
160.
P 2
108
In Suabia, where the xylographic art flourished at a very early
period at Algau and other parts of that province, the common
people still denominate all coloured papers and prints Halgen and
Halglein (saints and little saints), which proves how common such
objects must have been among them at a more remote period, and
affords a strong inference that they were the first objects produced
by this art, on its first adoption there. ' 1
When these Bildermachers applied themselves also to the fabri
cation of Cards, which soon became popular and in great request,
their former appellation was probably lost in that of their newly
adopted business, although both objects continued to be manufac
tured by the same artist. It has been already mentioned, that Cards
were at first known in Germany by the appellation Briefe, and thus
the artists who manufactured them were called Brief-mahlers (lite
rally sheet painters); it is rather extraordinary, therefore, that the
term Karterrnacher, should have been the name by which they are
found to be first mentioned. The name of Brief-mahler, as applied
to Cardmakers, and of Briefe, as signifying Cards, can only be
accounted for by the circumstance of their being manufactured by
the same persons who fabricated the images of saints with moral
sentences.
Whatever may have been the origin of the xylographic art, there
1 " The Word Dominotier evidently
comes from the Latin Dominus;" says
Breitkopf, " it is the denomination which
the French at that time gave to the image
of God, of Christ, and of the Saints.
These kind of images of saints were
known by the name of Les grecs-bons
Dieux among the common people of
France a long time after. Nothing can
be more evident than the imitation of the
Netherland Heilige Printers (Saint Print
ers), and of the German Ha/gen and Hal
glein (saints and little saints), from the
French name Dominotier. Equally striking
is the similarity in the denomination of
coloured paper, Dominoterie, with the cus
tom still prevalent in Suabia, of calling
all painted sheets of paper Halglein. The
art of making coloured and marbled paper
is acknowledged by the French themselves
to be a German invention, and imported
from thence into France." Ibid. 175.
It is remarkable, that this argument has
been made use of by Mr. Ottley, who was
not aware that it had been adduced by
Breitkopf. Mr. O. derived his informa
tion from Mr. Fuseli. The passage will
be found in a note at page 85 of his His
tory of Engraving.
109
is very little doubt, that, from these Cardmakers and fabricators of
images of saints,' we derive the invention of printing in its first rude
form, as it appears in the Block books : for it has been clearly
shewn, that they printed and sold books at a later period;1 and that
these Block books excited the idea of the invention of moveable
characters is pretty generally allowed. The gradual progress from
these images with inscriptions to copies of the historical drawings an
nexed to the biblical histories was natural and easy; a series of these
would, of course, follow, with explanations annexed, engraved on
the same block. These aids to the devotion of the people were suc
ceeded by the Donatuses, or brief grammars for the instruction
of youth; which are recorded not only to have led the way to
the invention of Typography, but to have been among the first
books attempted to be executed with moveable types. Thus we
have a sufficiently obvious explanation of the manner in which
the Art of Printing arose: it remains to examine the claims of
Mentz, and of Harlem, to the meed of fame which its invention
confers.
The Germans, for more than a century, by all writers who re
corded the origin of this sublime art, were considered the inventors;
1 The striking resemblance of many of
these early wood cuts of saints, both in
shape, size, and style, to the early play
ing cards, of which we have given fac
similes, is sufficient to warrant the suppo
sition that they were the production of the
same artists. It would, however, be dif
ficult to decide which object took the
precedence, and was first engraved : con
fessing that, for our own part, we incline
to the opinion which gives it to the objects
of devotion.
2 Heinecken, Idee general* cTune Cot-
lection d'Estampes, p. 252, mentions a
small volume in quarto, with the following
Colophon : (tin fistec ^Sudjurm auf &U
lerfjauU (£ich ; ge&rucfet ju JBa&fmbecjj
bon %anjen£rpeff=8l£aler hpntimfeant
apartepn Da fmDt man jsic ju liauffm
unO jjepnti gerecht un
31 are. This proves clearly that the Britff-
malers, or Cardmakers, printed and sold
books at a late period of the sixteenth
century; and at page 287 he says, " I
might also mention Jitnghaims of Nurem-
burg, who, at the beginning of his edition
of the Ent"krist, in 1472, calls himself
Priefmaler. I could also cite Hans Spo-
rer, who thus designates himself at the
end of the Ars Moriendi, printed by him
in H73, feang £>porer 1473 hat
put!) pruff=moler. But we know not whe
ther they were also at the same time Illu-
minists and Engravers in wood."
110
and honourable mention had been made of their ingenuity and in
ventive skill in conferring so great a benefit upon mankind. Their
pretensions had never been disputed during this period, when living
witnesses could have established or destroyed their claims : but
about the middle of the sixteenth century, the city of Harlem ad
vanced her pretensions, and, upon traditionary evidence, without a
single written or printed document to support it, aimed at wresting
the wreath from the brow of Gutenberg, to place it on that of one of
her own citizens; and, in order the more effectually to do this, she
deemed it expedient to accuse the Germans of theft in having stolen
the art from thence. Let us examine with care, and with an unpre
judiced mind, the testimonies in her behalf, that we may decide im
partially; and the most simple means will be to take them in chro
nological succession.
Adrian Junius was a physician, established at Harlem, where
he wrote his Batavia, a brief History and Topographical Descrip
tion of Holland, which he appears to have completed in the begin
ning of the year 1575; but his death in the month of June of that
year, apparently prevented the publication, and it did not issue
from the press until 1588, when it was printed at Leyden by Ra-
phelengius. In this work, describing the city of Harlem, he takes
occasion to relate the following tradition, which will be found in the
note below, in his own words : " " There lived, one hundred and
' " Dicam igitur, quod accepi a senibus, tario jure possidebat) is ipse, qui nunc
St auctoritate gravibus, & Reipub. ad mi- laudem inventae artis Typographies reci-
nistratione claris, quique a majoribus suis divam justis vindiciis ac sacramentis repe-
ita accepisse gravissimo testimonio confir- tit, ab aliis nefarie possessam & occupatam,
marunt, quorum auctoritas jure pondus summo jure omnium triumphorum laurea,
habere debeat ad faciendam fidem. Ha- majore donandus. Is forte in suburbano
bitavit ante annos centum duodetriginta nemore spatiatus (ut solent sumpto cibo
Harlemi in asdibus satis splendidis (ut do- aut festis diebus cives, qui otio abundant)
cumento esse potest fabrica, qua; in hunc ccepit faginos cortices principio in litera-
usque diem perstat integra) foro imminen- rum typos conformare, quibus inversa ra-
tibus e regione Palatii Regalis, Lauren- tione sigillatim chartaa impressis versicu-
tius Joannes, cognomento iEdituus Cus- lum unuin atque alterum animi gratia du-
tdsve, (quod tunc opimum & honorificum cebat, nepotibus, generi sui liberis, exem-
munus familia, eo nomine clara, haeredi- plum futurum. Quod ubi feliciter succes
Ill
twenty-eight years ago, at Harlem, in a handsome house (that may
be still seen, as it exists in its pristine condition) opposite the market
place, in the vicinity of the royal palace, Laurence John, surnamed
serat, ccepit animo altiora (ut erat ingenio
magtio & subacto) agitare, primumque
omnium atramenti scriptorii genus gluti-
nosius tenaciusque, quod vulgare lituras
trahere experiretur, cum genero suo Tho-
toa Petro, qui quaternos liberos reliquit,
omnes ferme consulari dignitate functos
(quod e& dico, ut artem in familia honesta
& ingenuS., haud servili, natam intelligant
omnes) excogitavit, inde etiam pinaces to
las figuratas additis characteribus expressit.
Quo in genere vidi ab ipso excusa adver
saria, operarum rudimentuin, paginis so
lum adversis, haud opistographis : is liber
erat vernaculo sermone ab auctore con-
scriptus anonymo, titulum praeferens, Spe
culum nostra: salutis. In quibus id obser-
vatum fuerat inter prima artis incunabula
(ut nunquam ulla simul &. reperta & abso-
luta est) uti paginae aversae, glutine com
missar, cohsrescerent, ne illae ipsae vacuaj
deformitatem adferrent. Postea faginas
formas plumbeis mutavit, has deinceps
stanneas fecit, quo solidior minusque flex-
ilis esset materia, durabiliorque : e quo
rum typorum reliquiis, qua? superfuerant,
conflata cenophora vetustiora adhuc hodie
visuntur in Laurentianis illis, quas dixi,
aedibus, in forum prospectantibus, habi-
tatis postea a suo pronepote Gerardo Tho-
ma, quem honoris causa nomino, cive
claro, ante paucos hos annos vita defuncto
sene. Faventibus, ut fit, invento novo
studiis hominum, quum nova merx, nun
quam antea visa, emptores undique exci-
ret cum huberrimo quaestu, crevit simul
artis amor, crevit ministerium, additi fa
miliar operarum ministri, prima mali labes,
quos inter Joannes quidam, sive is (ut fert
suspicio) Faustus fuerit ominoso cognomi-
ne, hero suo infidus & infaustus, sive alius
eo nomine, non magnopere laboro, quod
silentum umbras inquietare nolim, conta-
gione conscientiae quondam, dum viverent,
tactas. Is ad operas excusorias sacramento
dictus, postquam artem jungendorum cha-
racterum, fusilium typorum peritiam, quae-
que alia earn ad rem spectant, percalluisse
sibi visus est, captato opportuno tempore,
quo non potuit magis idoneum inveniri,
ipsanocte, qua? Christi natalitiis solennis
est, qua cuncti promiscue lustralibus sacris
operari solent, choragium omne typorum
involat, instrumentorum herilium, ei arti-
ficio comparatorum, supellectilem conva-
sat, deinde cum fure domo se proripit,
Amstelodamum principid adit, inde Co-
loniam Agrippinam, donee Magontiacum
perventum est, ceu ad asyli aram, ubi quasi
extra telorum jactum (quod dicitur) positus
tut6 degeret, suorumque furtorum aperta
officina fructum huberem meteret. Niinirum
ex ea intra vertentis anni spacium, ad an
num a nato Christo 1442. iis ipsis typis,
quibus Harlemi Laurentius fuerat usus,
prodisse in lucem certum est Alexandri
Galli doctrinale, quae Grammatica cele*
berrimo tunc in usu erat, cum Petri His-
pani tractatibus, prima fcetura. Ista sunt
ferme, quas a senibus annosis, fide dignis,
& qui tradita de manu in manum quasi ax-
dentern taedam in decursu acceperant, olim
intellexi, & alios, eadem referentes attest-
antesque comperi. Memini narrasse mihi
Nicolaum Galium, pueritiae meae formato-
rem, hominem, ferrea memoria & longS
canitie venerabilem, qu6d puer non semel
audierit Cornelium quendam bibliopegum,
ac senio gravem, nec octogenario minorem
(qui in eadem officina subministrum ege-
rat) tanta animi contentione ac fervore
commemorantem rei gestae seriem, inveuti
112
Coster (from an honourable and lucrative post hereditary in his
family). This citizen of Harlem, walking one afternoon in a
wood near the city, hegan to carve some letters reversed upon a
piece of bark of the beech-tree, which for amusement he impressed
upon paper, and thus printed a line or two for the instruction of his
grandchildren. Having happily succeeded in this, and being a
man of great ingenuity, he meditated the achievement of higher
objects ; and in conjunction with his son-in-law, Thomas Peter (who
left four sons, all of whom attained the consular dignity), he invented
a more glutinous kind of writing-ink, because he found that which
was in common use unfit for his purpose, as it sunk and blurred ;
and then he imagined a means of forming whole pages of wood with
letters cut upon them, of which kind I have seen some essays exe
cuted by him, in a work printed only on one side, being a book by
an anonymous writer, entitled Speculum nostra Salutis, in which it is
remarkable that in the infancy of printing (for nothing at its first
invention is complete,) the backs of the pages were pasted together,
that they might not, by being vacant, deform its appearance. Af
terward he changed his beechen pages for leaden ones, and in the
sequel these leaden ones for pewter, as being a less flexible and
much harder substance. Of the remains of these types, when they
were melted down, those old wine-pots were made which are now to
be seen in the house formerly inhabited by Laurence, looking into
the market-place, in which afterwards lived his great-grandson, Ge
rard Thomas, a gentleman of reputation, whom I have pleasure in
(ut ab hero acceperat) rationem, rudis artis
polituram & incrementum, aliaque id ge
nus, ut invito quoque prae rei indignitate
lachryinae erumperent, quoties de plagio
inciderat mentio : turn vero ob ereptam
furto gloriam sic ira exardescere solere
senem, ut etiam lictoris exemplum euin
fuisse editurum in plagiarium appareret,
si vita illi superfuisset : turn devovere con-
suevisse diris ultricibus sacrileguni caput,
noctesque illas damnare atque execrari,
quas una cum scelere illo communi in cu-
bili per aliquot menses exegisset. Quae
non dissonant a verbis Quirini Talesii Con-
sulis, eadem fere ex ore librarii ejusdem se
oliin accepisse mihi confessi." Hadriani
Janii Batavia. Lugduni Butavorum ex
Officina Plantiniana apud Franciscum Ra-
phelcngium, 1588. Mo. p. 255.
113
naming to the honour of the family, and who died but a very few
years since. A new invention rarely fails to excite curiosity ; and
when this new commodity, the like of which had never been seen
before, excited purchasers, to the advantage of the inventor, the ad
miration of the art increased, the number of dependents and work
men was multiplied, the beginning of all the evil : among them was
one John, whether (as I suspect) he had the ominous name of Faus-
tus, unfaithful and unfortunate (Infaustus) to his master, or whe
ther it was really a person of that name, I shall not take much pains
to inquire, as I am unwilling to disturb the quiet of the silent shades,
and awake their suffering, from consciousness of their past actions in
this life. This man, bound by oath to keep the secret of Printing,
when he thought he had learned the art of joining the letters, the
method of casting the types, and other things of that nature, taking
the most convenient time it was possible he could find, on Christ
mas eve, when every one was employed in the customary lustral
sacrifices, seizes the collection of types and all the implements his
master had got together, and with one accomplice marches off to
Amsterdam, from thence to Cologne, and at length settled at Mentz,
as at an asylum of security, where he might proceed to work with
the tools and materials (quod dicitur) which he had stolen. It is
certain, that in the space of a year, viz. in the year of our Lord
1442, the Doctrinale of Alexander Gallus, a grammar much used
at that time, with the Tract of Peter of Spain, came forth there
from the same types which Laurence had used at Harlem."
This is the most important part of the relation of Junius, the
particulars of which he says he had from two reputable men, of very
advanced age; the one, Nicholas Galius, who had been his school
master; the other, Quirinius Talesius, his intimate friend and cor
respondent. Nicholas Galius when a boy, had received the informa
tion from Cornelius, a bookbinder, upwards of eighty, who is said
to have been in the service of Coster at the time the alleged robbery
was committed, and who always shed tears when he mentioned the
circumstance, reflecting on the loss his good master had sustained,
Q
114
not only in his substance, but in his honour, by the roguery of this
servant, his former associate and bedfellow. Quirinus Talesius in
formed him he had received his information from the same source.
This account is supported by the testimony of Theodore Volck-
ard Coornhert, who, in the Dedication of his Dutch version of
Cicero's Offices, printed at Harlem in 1561, inscribed to the Chief
Magistrate and Senators of the city, felicitates them upon the
honour it derives from the invention of the Typographic Art,
which circumstance he also expressly says he learned from the oral
relation of grave elderly persons, who not only mentioned the fa
mily of the inventor, but his name and surname, described his first
rude impressions, and pointed out the house where he had lived.
He says he was induced, not by envy of the honour of others, but
by the love of truth, in what he has said, in vindication of the glory
of the city of Harlem, and its claim to the invention.
Ludovico Guicciardini, in his description of the Low Countries,
first printed in Italian by Plantin at Antwerp, in 1565, refers also
to this subject in his account of Harlem; his words are as follows
* "In questa Terra non solo per voce
publica de gli habitatori, 8t di altri Hollan-
desi, ma ancora per alcuni scrittori, 8c per
altre memorie, si truova che fu prima
mente inventata l'arte dello imprimere, &
stampare lettere & caratteri in foglie al
modo d' hoggi, impero venendo l'autore a
morte inanzi, che l'arte fusse in perfettioue
& consideration, il servidore suo (secondo
dicono) andò a dimonare a Maganza, ove
dando lume di quella scienza, fu raccolto
allegramente, & quivi dato opera con ogni
diligentia, a tanto negotio, ne vennero all'
intero notitia, &, total perfettione, onde è
poi volata 8t inveterata la fama, che di
quella citta sia uscita l'arte & la scienza
della stampa : quel che ne sia alla verità
non posso ne voglio giudicare, bastando
mi d'haverne tocco un motto, per non
progiudicare a questa Terra 8c Regione.
Ma veggiamo quel che ne dice Polydoro
Vergilio nel suo trattato de Invento-
ribus Rerum: Joannes Cuthemburgus
natione Teutonicus, equestri vir dignitate,
ut ab ejus civibus accepimus primus uhininni
in oppido Germania: quam Moguntiam vo-
cant, hanc imprìmendarum litterarum artem
exeogitavit, primumque ibi exercere capit ;
non minore industria reperto ab eodem,
proutferunt, auctore, novo atramenti gene
ris, quo nunc litterarum impressores utun-
tur. Decimo-sexto deinde anno, qui fuit
salutis humane mcccclviii. quidam nomi
ne Conradus, homo ilidem Germanus, Ro
mani primo in Italiam attulit, quam dein
Nicolaas Jenson Ga/licus, primus mirum
in modum illustravit : qua; passim hac tem
pestate per totum fere terrarum orbem flo
ret." -Aggiugnero ben' io hor' questo
d' avautagio, che li Portoghesi dicono St
115
" In this city not only by the public assertion of its inhabitants,
and of other Hollanders, but also by the testimony of some writers,
and other memorials, we find that the art of printing and stamping
letters and characters on paper, as now practised, was invented.
And that the inventor dying before the art was brought to perfec
tion, and consequent estimation, his servant (as it is said) went to
dwell at Mentz, where, showing the light of this art, he was re
ceived with joy, and setting himself diligently to work there with
much success, the art became generally known and entirely per
fected; from whence has arisen, and become universal, the report,
that from that city (Mentz) is derived the art and science of print
ing: let what may be the truth, I cannot, nor will I, decide; it is
enough that I have said thus much to avoid prejudicing this city
and country."
He then proceeds to cite the passage from Polydore Vergil,
which gives the invention to Mentz and Gutenburg, and says he
ought not to have omitted the name of Aldus ; forgetting, that when
Polydore wrote his book de Inventoribus Rerum, Aldus had only com
menced printing. After an eulogy of that illustrious printer, he briefly
states the advantages of the art, and then says, " I will here add
this much more, the Portuguese say, and some write, that the art
of printing was invented in that great, rich, and highly civilized
province of China, in the East Indies ; and, according to the affir
mation of the inhabitants, it has been in use there a thousand years."
Although the character of Guicciardini has been impeached, as
always leaning towards the honour and glory of his adopted coun
try,' and in other matters attributing to her inventions which be-
qualcuno scrive, come l'arte della Stainpa, di tutti i Pjesi Bassi Anversa ap-
si truova in quella grande, ricca e ben' presso Christ. Plantino. mdlxxxviii.
politiata Provincia della Cina, all' Indie folio, p. 260.
Orientali, & secondo che li habitalori af- ' Dr. Burney has accused Guicciar-
fermano, sono gia migliaia d'anni che dini of unjustly attributing the invention
l'usano : &c. of that style of Composition in Music,
Lodovico Gucciakdini Descbittione called figurative harmony, to the Fie-
116
longed to his native land : yet in the present instance he cannot be
said to state the circumstances of the case unfairly, and it even ap
pears that he did not give full credit to the claims of the inhabitants
of Harlem.
His hesitation, marked by the phrase, " as it is said," and the
circumstance of his declining to decide upon the probability of the
relation, manifests his disbelief; and after saying he relates the story
of the invention of printing not to injure the city of Harlem, he im
mediately proceeds, " but hear what Polydore Vergil says on this
subject," adducing his testimony in favour of Mentz; and in the
sequel he indicates his belief of the Oriental derivation of the art.
This, therefore, must be considered but a very unsatisfactory testi
mony to the validity of the claim set up by the city of Harlem, yet
it has been considered one of the strong holds of the cause, as af
fording the most impartial and unprejudiced corroboration of Ju-
nius's relation.
In the year 1628 Scriverius put forth his book in Dutch, which
he calls Laurels for Laurence Coster:' he has inscribed it in a me
trical Dedication to the chief Magistrates of Harlem, and, what is
remarkable, it is printed by their printer in ordinary.
mings. His words are remarkable : " L.
Guicciardini, a renegade Italian, settled
at Antwerp in the service of the Emperor
Charles the Fifth, seems in his History of
the Low Countries, determined to give
the people among whom he lived, the ho
nour of every useful as well as ornamental
invention, in order to flatter his patron
and benefactors, even at the expense of
his native country, from which he had no
further hopes." Hist, of Music. 11.449.
* Petri Scriverii Laure-Crans voor
Laurens Coster van Harlem eerste vinder
dande Boeck~druckery. Tot Harlem, By
Adriaen Rooman, Ordinaris Slads Boeck-
drucker, 1628. 4ro. It is sometimes found
appended to Samuel Ampzing's Beschry-
vitige ende lof der Stad Harlem in Holland'
Printed at the same place in the same year.
Scriverius's dissertation is inserted in the
Monumenta Typographica of Wolfius, hav
ing been translated into Latin for that
purpose by George Quapner. It will not
be necessary to recommend this valuable
collection of Wolfius to those who are at
all conversant with the History of Print
ing; but, in favour of the Tyro who may
be desirous of investigating the subject,
it may be as well to mention that it con
tains a complete body of authentic mate
rials, as well as the whole of what had
been written on the subject up to the pe-
117
After adducing the evidence of Junius, Coornhert, and Guicci-
ardini, he submits to the reader a fragment of a manuscript dia
logue on the invention of Printing by John Van Zuren, which he
says was written previous to the year 1561; and in which, with
the same shew of disinterested candour we have seen possessed by
the other two champions of the cause, Van Zuren asserts that the
art of Printing was invented at Harlem, that the house in which the
art was first exercised existed in his time, and that in its very in
fancy it was from thence carried to Mentz ; but as Scriverius only
recovered a fragment of this dialogue, we are left in the dark with
regard to the proofs of Van Zuren's assertions.
The further evidence adduced by Scriverius is the passage in the
Cologne Chronicle, in which the author asserts, upon the authority of
Ulric Zell, " that although this art was first invented at Mentz in
the mode which is now commonly practised, yet the first idea is
found in Holland, in the Donatuses which were before printed
there. And from thence is taken the beginning of this art ; and it
is a more masterly and subtler discovery than this same ancient
manner was, and it became at length still more complete."' This
riod of its publication at Hamburgh in
1740, in two thick volumes in 12mo.
1 I subjoin the passage in the original
quoted by Scriverius, as the translation
above differs in a few particulars from that
given by Mr. Dibdin in the Bibliotheca
Spenceriana.
" Item wie wail die kiinst is vonden tzo
Mentz, als vurss up die wijse, als dan nu
gemeynlich gebruicht wirt, so is doch die
eyrstt vurbyldung vonden in Hollant vyss
die Donaten, die daeselffst vur der tzijt ge-
druckt syn. hid van id vyss den is genom-
men dat begynne der vurss Kunst. ind is vill
meysterlicher ind subtilicher vonden dan dc-
selve manier was, vnd ye lenger ye mere
kunstlicher warden. Cronica Vander
Hilliger Stat Van Coellen, 1499,
fol. I must confess the above passage
conveys to me no other meaning than that
of Printing having taken its rise in Ger
many, and of the idea alone being derived
from those xylographic specimens, or block
books, which had been previously execu
ted in Holland. In the sequel it will be
seen that the author of this Chronicle, who
derived his information from Ulric Zell,
calls Gutenburg the first inventor of Print
ing. What else can be understood by the
distinction he makes between the two pro
cesses, calling the German method "more
masterly and subtiler" than the Dutch or
ancient manner ? Scriverius, who was the
first to adduce this passage as giving testi
mony in favour of Harlem, only contended
for the invention of moveable types of
118
passage, he argues, testifies that the inventor at Mentz was excited
to the practice of the art by the example which the Donatuses' printed
in Holland offered to him : but he does not attempt to take the
merit of the perfection of moveable metal types from the Germans ;
he is contented to insist upon the first invention and practice of the
art by Coster at Harlem. In adopting the relation of Junius, how
ever, he finds some parts of it which require modifying to obtain
implicit belief, and he therefore changes the bark of the beech-tree to
a branch of oak which had been blown down by the wind, from which
Coster having cut a piece, and carved upon it some letters for his
amusement, he envelops it with paper and falls asleep : this piece of
wood being moist from having lain in the rain or some other cause,
communicates an impression to the paper the colour of its sap, and
leaves the forms of the letters carved upon it marked upon the
paper ; observing this when he awakes, it excites in him the
idea of the art of Printing, which he carries into effect first with
blocks of wood on which letters reversed were carved, and at length
by means of moveable letters separately engraved. Junius had
asserted that Coster proceeded to print from types of beech-bark ;
Scriverius insists upon his printing his first essays with engraved
blocks of wood, and accused Junius of not having examined with
sufficient attention the Speculum humanee Salvationis, which he sup
posed to have been printed with moveable wooden types, while
Scriverius contends that they are obviously of metal.
It is this Speculum humanee, Salvationis upon which the claims of
Harlem might have been more safely grounded than upon a tradi
tion which, to say the least of it, has a very strong air of fable, and
which it should appear was current in the world, and was related of
wood there. But surely this does not war- marian. It was formerly well understood
rant even that assumption. to signify an elementary book of instruo
* It may be as well to mention here that tion both by the French and English. See
the Donatus was a brief elementary gram- a curious note in Walton's Hist, of Ens;-
mar for the instruction of youth, so called lish Poetry, Vol. 1. p. 281.
probably from iElius Donatus the gram-
119
Gutemberg at Mentz at least twenty years before Junius applied it
to Coster. Anton-Francesco Doni, a facetious Italian writer, in his
" Mondi" a collection of extravagant dialogues printed at Venice in
1552, will be found to have given currency to a similar rhodomon-
tade of the invention of the art, by him applied to John of Mentz,
instead of Laurence of Harlem. It will be seen in the passage from
Doni, given below,1 that he says he found it Avritten in a German
1 " Dubbioso. From whence do you say
John of Mentz drew this secret?
" Sbandito. — — — —
" Dubbioso. How did he find out the
invention of Printing; for of other things
it signifies not to tell me.
" Sbandito. I find a book written in
German which relates that this man, being
in a kind of frenzy, amused himself at
a certain time of the year in cutting a
stem or root of fern, a plant known to all
the world, which being in sap, oozed out
a kind of viscous matter : from this ap
pearance, and seeing that it made a kind
of mark, he applied it to paper and made
an impression with it; and as it came not
well at first, he cut the second time more
cleanly, and less sap came from it; thus
on a little paper he made several impres
sions. This sap was the cause of the in
vention of ink and the types to print with ;
casting them afterwards with moulds, and
other methods, were easy matters, as it
was after him to find twenty-five and fifty
different letters for the improvement of the
art, and to engrave them in pear-tree, box,
or service wood."
The obscure and affected style of Doni
renders it difficult to translate this passage,
nor am 1 certain that I have given the ex
act sense of it everywhere; and as his book
is hy no means of common occurrence, I
have deemed it right to subjoin the origi
nal text, that the reader may not be led
into error by any mistaking of the sense
on my part.
" Dubbioso. Dove volete voi dire che
Giovanni di Magontia cavasse questo secreto.
" Sbandito. — — — —
" Dubbioso. Come trovò egli (cioè Gi
ovanni di Magonza o Gutttnberg) l'inven-
tione della stampare, che dell' altre cose non
accade dirmi nulla.
" Sba n dito. Io mi trovo un libro scritto
in Todesco, il quale dice che essendo questo
huomo in questa frenesia, s'abbatti in un
certo tempo de ranno a tagliare un gambo
d'una felce, herba nota a tutto il mando,
la quale essendo in succhio; gettava una
cosa viscosa, per quei segni, et per vedere al
cuni segni che ella fa, l'accostò al foglio et
rimase improntato, et non venendo bene alla
prima tagliò la seconda molto più netta
mente, et manco licore ne venne fuori ; così
sopra un poco di carta n'impresse molte.
Questa pania fu cagione di trovare tinchi
ostro, et i polzoni della zecca, di far gFim-
pronti, il gettarle poi conforme, et altre
misure glifufacil cosa, si come è stato dopo
lui di trovarne venticinque et cinquanta, per
accrescimento dell'arte, diverse lettere ; il ta
gliare in pero, in busso, et in sorbo.
"Dubbioso. Et Parte d'intagliar in
rame è stata mirabile, et viverà con gli
anni dell'eternità. Ma cotesto Todesco ebbe
il cervello molto sottile.
" Sbandito. Chi cerca trova; se quel
gambo avesse gettato per tutto, non era
120
book ; but it is strongly to be suspected that it had its origin in his
own inventive fancy. Be this as it may, there can be little doubt
that the account given by Junius, as it is posterior by a period of at
least twenty years, was in some way or other founded upon it. It
has been frequently found a brief way of accounting for inventions
whose origins were unknown, to attribute them to accidental occur
rences, and many have been the plausible stories invented to ac
count for the rise of arts. It is certain that many great discoveries
have been made by accident ; but the love of mankind for the mar
vellous has assuredly added to the number of facts a number of idle
stories of a similar cast.
This relation of Junius was strongly contested by several writers
at the commencement of the seventeenth century, and among others
by the celebrated Naude,1 who has displayed the incongruities and
improbabilities of it in an able manner, although the then imperfect
state of typographical knowledge has been the cause of his commit
ting a few mistakes.
It was nevertheless implicitly believed and related by Bertius,1
Boxhornius,3 Joseph Scaliger,* and others ; but as they have not
brought forward any new evidence in support of it, there will be no
necessity for further mention of them.
The testimony of Atkyns,5 and the record which he pretended to
nulla, ma egli s'abbatti che quei segni ge-
mevano, et il restante era asciutto." I
Mondi del Doni, Libro prima, pag. 28.
Finegia, per Francesco Marcolini, 1552,
4to.
1 Additions a FHistoire du Roy Louis
XI. reprinted in the third volume of Du-
fresnoy's edition of the Memoires de Corn-
mines, Bruxelles, 1723. 8ro.
* In Commentariis Rerum Germanica-
rum.
3 De Typographies Artis Inventione et
Iriventoribus Dissertatio. Lugd. Bat. 1640.
4 InConfutatio Fabulee Burdonum. Lugd.
Bat. 1617, 12roo. And yet, if we may
judge from the following passage, Scaliger
was not an advocate for Harlem beyond
what relates to xylographic printing. "At-
qui aliter rudimenta artis inchoata sunt.
Nam non ex discretis et singularibus typis
inter sejunctis, ut hodieJit, captum est im-
primi, sed in pagellis ligneis, quibus literal
incisee evant. Qui modus excudendi in nostri
Hollandia Harlemi inventusfuit, ubi etiam
hodie aides ostenduntur, in quibus inventor
artis earn primam peric/itatus est."
i The Origin and Growth of Printing.
London, 1664, 4/o. This person is sus
pected to have invented the story which
he pretended to have found in a record
121
have discovered, have been insisted on by later champions of the
cause of Harlem ; but as there is good reason to believe that it was
an invention for sinister purposes, it does not seem necessary to ad
duce it here.
In 1740 Seiz' published at Harlem his brief account of the in
vention of printing, which was written on occasion of the supposed
thi I'd jubilee of its invention, in which he has collected and digested
all the evidence in favour of Coster. The only additional testimo
nies he has brought forward are all of them posterior to the account
of Junius, and founded upon it ; indeed his book is little more than
an enlarged edition of Scriverius.
But in 1765 appeared the most powerful advocate for the cause
of Harlem, the celebrated and very erudite Meerman, who, in his
Origines Typographies, with much ingenuity, has attempted to esta
blish the verily of the relation which gives the invention to that city
and to Coster ; and as this is the most important work which
espouses their cause, we shall bestow some pains upon an examina
tion of his arguments, which are principally founded on the ac
counts of Junius, Van Zuyren, Coornhert, and Guicciardini, toge-
among the papers belonging to the see of
Canterbury, and which makes the king,
Henry VI, employ an emissary to decoy a
printer from Harlem, who succeeds in
bringing off Frederic Corsellis, the first
printer in England, according to Atkins.
But his story is so full of incongruities,
and has already been so completely re
futed, that it were vain to enter more at
large into it. He makes Gutenburg the
inventor of printing, and places him at
Harlem ; and mentioning the claim of
Mentz, he says, " it is known that city
gained the art by the brother of one of the
workmen of Harlem, who had learnt it at
home of his brother, and after set up for
himself at Mentz." In short, it is a weak
invention grounded on a very imperfect
view of the story of Coster, with much
confusion of dates, names, and places; and
yet although he makes no mention of Cos
ter, Meerman has eagerly caught at his
fabulous narration, and endeavoured to
make it subservient to the purpose of
strengthening his cause.
' Het Derde Jubelyaar der uitgevondene
der Boekdruk-Konst. Haerlem Gedrukt
by Isaak en Johannes Enxchede Ordinaris
Stads-drukkers, 1740. This book has also
a pompous dedication by the printers to
burgomasters of the city. It was in the
succeeding vear again put forth in Latin,
" in gratiam exterorum," as it is expressed
in the title, and dedicated to the Archbi
shop of Canterbury : it is embellished with
prints of the statue erected to Coster, of
the medals struck in his honour, and- with
a view of his house.
R
122
ther with the evidence which the Speculum affords, and some other
early books printed in Holland or the Low Countries, which he has
gratuitously given to Coster and to Harlem.
The opinion of Meerman claims respect, as it appears that his
decision was the consequence of very minute and patient inquiry ;
for in a letter, written in 1757, to his friend Wagenaar,' who had
requested his opinion upon the origin of the invention of printing,
he points out the improbability of the story of Coster. His argu
ments are founded on the silence of all writers, and particularly of
the Dutch, previous to the time of Junius; and he urges the nume
rous undoubted testimonies in favour of Mentz, as a proof that the
art had its origin there, and not at Harlem : he expresses his inten
tion of waiting the publication of the documents discovered by
Schoepflin, and the expected acquisition of several of the books
printed at Mentz, previous to publishing his essay. It is apparent
from these circumstances, that his first intention was to have advo
cated the cause, which his patriotism subsequently furnished him
with reasons for abandoning and combating. Meerman's learning
and integrity were undoubted; and though we may be inclined to
allow that this change of opinion was made from conviction, it
should be observed, that he does not display much keenness as a
typographical antiquary : his arguments are wavering and weak;
some of them indeed evince that his mind was not entirely made up
upon the subject, and he was too readily persuaded of the truth of
an hypothesis, which he felt interested in supporting from patriotic
feeling.
He took infinite pains however to establish the verity of the story
told by Junius: he traced out the history of Laurence J anszoou,
whom he attempts to prove was Custos of the church of St. Bavon
at Harlem in the years 1423, 1426, 1432 and 1433; but he
shows that Junius was in error in asserting that the office was
1 This letter is given at length by San- naire Bibliographique du XVme Steele,"
tander, in the first volume of " Diction- p. 14.
123
hereditary in his family, and that it was probable he was called 1
Coster from the situation he held. He does not insist upon the
invention of metal types by him, but asserts his claim to the inven
tion of moveable characters of wood,1 with which he says the Specu
lum was printed. He says that Cosier died in 1440, aged 70; and
that he was succeeded in the printing business, either by his son in
law, Thomas Peter, or by his grandchildren, Peter, Andrew, and
Thomas, by whom he supposes several editions of the Speculum
were executed ; and he attributes to them the editions of Vegetius,
Thomas d Kempis, and the Historia Alexandri Magni, which are
printed with the types used by Ketelar and cle Leempt, established
at Utrecht in 1473. He also imagines that the edition of Thomas
a- Kempis was the last work printed by the heirs of Janszoon or Cos
ter, and that it was executed in 1472 ; that they soon after disposed
of their materials and quitted the employment ; as the use of fusile
types was about that time universally diffused through Holland, by
the settling of Theodore Martens at Alost.3 Peter and Andrew, the
two eldest grandsons of Coster, perished, he says, in the civil war
in 1492.
' " Ex premissis colligere est quam gra-
viter lapsi fuerint Junius, eumque secuti
Scriverius ceterique ad unum omnes, qui
Laurentii originem e familia Costerorum
repetunt nomen hoc adepta ex munere
seditui belgice .Coster quod hereditario
jure possedit." Orig. Typ. T. 1. p. 48.
1 Contrary to the express testimony of
Junius, who attributes to Coster the in
vention and use of metal types, Meerman
asserts that all the impressions of Coster
were effected by means of moveable cha
racters of wood. " Prototypographorum
nostrum, ante epocham Moguntinam vivis
ereptum, sejunclis litteris non ex metallo,
verum ligno usum fuisse consequens erit."
Orig. Typ. T. 1. p. 81.
3 The first book printed in the Low
Countries, which is furnished with the
place and date, is the Speculum conver
sions peccatorum," by Diomsius de Leu-
wis or Rikel. Printed in a very neat go-
thic character, in small 4to.: it is in Earl
Spencer's collection. The colophon is as
follows :
Impressum. Alosti in Flandria.
Anno. M° CCCC°. LXXIJI.
This is presumed to have been printed by
Theodoric or Thierri Martens; he war
also the first who printed at Antwerp, in
1476, and exercisixl the art at Louvain
from the close of the fifteenth century un
til 1528. The first two books he printed
at Alost are in the same kind of type used
by John of Westphalia at Louvain, in
society with whom he is said to have
printed the Liber Predicabilium at Alost,
in 1474. 1 have before me S. Chrisostomi
R 2
124
He does not very clearly establish the identity of this Laurence
Janszoon with the Laurence mentioned by Junius: he is obliged to
make some gratuitous suppositions for the purpose ; and though he
has been at considerable pains in making out the genealogy of the fa
mily, it is far from certain that his suppositions are founded in fact.
Meerman acknowledges that characters engraved on beech bark
would not answer the purpose of making impressions; that it is ne
cessary to suppose Junius in error in this particular, and that we
should substitute here, a piece of beech, instead of the bark. He
supposes that the fragment of an Horarium, discovered by Enschede
the printer at Harlem, and which contained in eight pages in 16"" the
alphabet, the Lord's prayer, &c. was the original attempt of Coster.
The types of this Horarium, it should be remarked, if the fac simile
given by Meerman be correct, do not resemble those of the Specu
lum; add to this, that it is Opisthographic, or printed on both sides
of the vellum, apparently with moveable types, and the improba
bility of this supposition will be sufficiently obvious.
It has been seen, in the relation of Junius, that John Fust, the
associate and father in law of Schoeffer, was accused by him of
being the author of the pretended robbery, and to have carried
off the types and implements of Coster; but Meerman and the
other partizans of Harlem, found some difficulty in giving credit to
an accusation of this kind ; it seemed palpably improbable that a
de Providentia Dei, printed by him at
Alost in 1487, with a more regular and
smaller gothic character; his Greek type
is similar to that used by Gourmont at
Paris. I have an edition of the Idylls of
Theocritus, printed by him at Louvain in
1528, which was bound up at the end of
the Aristophanes of Gourmont. Meerman
might have adduced Ketelaer and De
Leempt, who printed at Utrecht in Hol
land, in 1473, but he was most probably
ignorant of their existence until his work
was nearly finished; or perhaps he did not
believe that they had printed there so
early : it will be seen that he has given all
the productions of these early Utrecht
printers with which he was acquainted, to
the heirs of Laurence Janszoon. It is wor
thy of remark, that Theodoric Martens is
called in his epitaph De erste Leterdruc-
kere van Duitschland Vrankerijke en desen
Nederlanden; that is, " the first printer of
Germany, France, and the Netherlands."
An epitaph upon him, by Erasmus, is
given by Marchand, in his Dictionnaire
Historique. T. 11. p. 89-
125
man of the condition and property of Fust should have been a ser
vant to Coster. Scriverius therefore throws his suspicions with no
small degree of effrontery upon John Gaensfleish, or Gutenburg;
but Meerman saw the impossibility of making this accusation
agree with authentic documents produced by Schoepflin, from
which it appears that Gutenburg was established at Strasbourg from
about 1430, and that it was slill his place of residence in 1444; he
therefore has recourse to a presumption, that the robber, John,
mentioned by Junius, was John Gaensfleisch, senior,* brother of
John Gutenburg, who, although noble by birth, was constrained
by the mediocrity of his means to quit his native city of Menlz, and
to seek, like his brother, the means of subsistence by industry.1 He
adds, that this John Gaensfleisch, senior, having heard of the ty
pographic art established at Harlem, proceeded thither, and entered
into the service of Laurence Janszoon, with the intention of learning
the art, then an entire secret, by which he might, on his return to
his native place, derive considerable advantage. It was under these
circumstances, and about the year l43o, that his brother, John
Gutenburg, having been to the fair at Aix la Chapelle, on business,
determined to go and see his brother at Harlem; where he himself
obtained such an insight into the printing business, as to enable him
to practise it on his return to Strasburg :3 and that his brother John
1 The common occurrence of the name pog. de Gutenburg, p. 33; or Oberlin An-
John among the early printers gave Scri- nalesde la Vitde Gutemburg, p. 10, 11.
verius and Meerman excellent opportunity '"Extra clubium mihi visum est, infi-
to choose among them the John to whose dum hunc tamulum fuisse ipsum Joaimem
charge the robbery of Coster was laid. Gaensfleisch seniorem, ortu Moguntiuum...
Thus we have John Gaensfleisch or Guten- hie enim, nobilis licet genere, attainen
burg, John Fust, John Meidenbach, pauper, fratris ad exemplum victum extra
John Petersheim. Meerman having been patriam quaesivisse videtur." Grig. Typ.
misled by Kuchler, in his apology tor Gu- T. 1. p. 90, 91. " Senior postquam de
tenburg, has made two persons out of typographeio Harlemensi aliquid rescivis-
one, for it is certain that there never was set, illi se ut ministrum tradidit, hoc ani-
but one John Gaensfleisch of Sulgeloch, mo, ut incognitam hucusque artem edoc-
otherwise Gutenburg, who was at all en- tus uberrimos cxiude in patria fructus col-
gaged in the printing business, as may be ligeiet." lb. p. 174-5.
seen by reference to Fischer AJonum. Ty- 3 " Vcro simile ergo est, lo. Gaensfleis^
126
Gaensfleisch, senior, about the year 1440 stole away from Harlem,
&c. as related by Junius above. That after printing at Mentz, with
the stolen characters of wood, the Doctrinale of Alexander Gallus and
another tract of Peter of Spain, perceiving their defects, he supplied
their place by types of metal; but as the preparation of these re
quired much time and expense, he continued printing with wooden
blocks in the interim, different works, such as Donatuses, Alphabets,
Catholicons, Confessionals, &c. that at length, after many difficulties,
and with the assistance of his associates, Gutenberg, Meidenbach,
Fust, and others, he succeeded in printing with metal types the
famous Latin Bible without date.
Hypothesis and conjecture are not proofs: Meerman, like the
other advocates of Harlem, has had recourse to the Speculum and
other rude unappropriated productions of the typographic art, which
he has attributed to Coster ; but he has gone further, he has seized
upon some Editiones Ancipites to make out a series of books from
the year 1430 to 1472. These books, which he has attributed to the
heirs of Coster, are now known to have proceeded from the press of
Ketelcer and De Leempt, established at Utrecht, and having disco
vered this circumstance when nearly at the close of his labours, he
was obliged to avoid the inference which it afforded, by a presump
tion that Ketelaer and De Leempt might have become possessors of
the types used at Harlem by the successors of Coster.' Upon the
whole, it does not appear that the cause of Harlem was very mate-
chium juniorem, sive Gutenbergium, qui
nundinas Aquisgranenses quacstus gra
tia frequentare erat solitus, non longe dis-
situm ab hac urbe Belgium circa ann.
1435 adiisse, f'ratremque suum Laurentii
ministrutn cominus salutasse, a quo ex
artis secretis nonnulla hausit, atque Ar-
gentorati in usus convertere studuit suos."
Ibid. p. 198.
1 " Typos quibus heredes Laurentius Jo.
fil. excuderunt Historiam Alexandri Magrii,
ct forte tria alia opera diet. cap. § 7. re-
censita, posthac in manus pervenisse Ni-
colai Ketelaer, et Gerardi De Leempt,
primorum Ultrajecti impressorum; ut pote
qui iisdem usi sunt ad secundam partem
Historian Scholastic®, editam in Trajecto
inferiori 1473, fol. Eodemque charactere
etiam alios libros absque anni, loci vel
impressoris indicio vulgatos videre licuit,
qui num officinse Laurentiana?, an ver6
his typographis Ultrajectensibus debean-
tur, definiri vix potest." Orig. T. 2. p. 8.
127
rially benefited by his labours, for he seized with avidity upon
every thing which had the least appearance of favouring her cause»
without attending to the degree of authenticity by which it was sup
ported. Thus the palpable forgery of Atkins was eagerly adduced in
support of his hypothesis of the two brothers. He accuses Seiz of
having imagined an absurd chronological list of books printed by
Coster, and furnishes one himself still more objectionable: he adds
to the robbery of Coster, mentioned by Junius, the robbery of his
heirs, about the year 1459, by the pretended Corsellis, a being
whose very existence is perhaps even more to be doubted than that
of his hero.1
The discrepancies and improbabilities of Meerman's work have
been pointed out in a lively manner, but perhaps with too much
petulance, by Lambinet,1 and examined and refuted by Santander:3
it had previously been the subject of animadversion to Fournier,*
Heinecken,' and the greater number of writers who have touched on
the history of typography, since its publication; but it was reserved
for an ingenious and tasteful critic in matters pertaining to the his
tory and progress of Art, to establish some of his positions in a
more complete and satisfactory way, by connecting them with cer-
1 In Meerman's French Letter to Dr.
Ducarel, printed in the Appendix to
Messrs. Bovvyer and Nichols's Orig. of
Printing, he says, " Mon intention étoit
de révoquer en doute les prétensions de'
Harlem, qui ont été fort mal appuyées
jusq'à present : mais j'ai fait tant de nou
velles découvertes qui m'ont fait changer
de sentiment. En effet il me paroit fort
clair, qu on a trouvé à Harlem l'art d'im
primer en types de bois, mobiles et qu'on
les a changés à Mayence en types de me
tal premièrement sculptés, ensuite fondus.
J'ai découvert le premier, par des docu-
mens authentiques qu'il y a eu deux Jo
hannes Gaeiujieisch, un le vieux qui à été
le valet de Laurent Coster, et qui a de-
couvert quelque chose de l'art a Johannes
Gaensjieisch lejeune, autrement dit Guten
berg." Ibid. p. 203-4.
1 Origine de L'Imprimerie. Paris, 1810.
2 vol. 8vo.
3 Dictionnaire Bibliographique du quin
zième siècle. Bruxelles, 1805. 3 vol. 8vo.
See his Essai Historique sur l'Origine de
l'Imprimerie, prefixed to the first volume.
4 Traites Historiques et Critiques sur
l'origine et le progrès de l'Imprimerie. Pa
ris, 1758-61. 8vo.
5 Idée générale d'une collection d'Es
tampes, avec une dissertation sur l'origine
de la gravure et sur les premiers Livre»
d'Images. Leipsic et Vienne, 1771.
8vo.
128
lain facts, which had escaped the researches of Meerman and the
other strenuous advocates of Harlem. We have much satisfaction
in the consciousness, that the public owe to our suggestions the ex
tended inquiry into the history of the xylographic and typographic
arts, which Mr. Ottley' has instituted; and although we have taken
a different view of the subject, we are not the less sensible of the
ingenuity of his arguments, and the skill which he has shewn hi
advocating the cause he has adopted. This gentleman is the first
who has attempted to demonstrate that the style of art which per
vades the Biblia Pauperum, the Speculum Humana Salvationist and
the Historia ex Cantico Canticorum, is that which prevailed in Hol
land and the Low Countries, thus tending to prove that they were
executed there.
It would be presumption to enter the lists with a judge so com
petent to decide upon the country to which the stvle of art, which
pervades these rude performances, belongs, if such puerile efforts
can be said to have any distinguishing character of this kind ; but it
will be allowed, that the evidence founded upon this parity of style
is equivocal; nor is the argument to be derived from the language
of the text of the Belgic copies of the Speculum more decisive. An
ingenious friend, well acquainted with the literature of the Ger
mans, Flemings, and Dutch, informs us that the language of the
Speculum has not any thing in it which renders it peculiarly the pro
perty of Holland more than of Flanders in the fifteenth century.
Of these three books an ample and interesting account will be
' Enquiry into the Origin and Early
History of Engraving in Copper and upon
Wood. 1815. 4/o. Mr. Ottley's first pur
pose was only an enquiry into the early
history of Chalcography, which was ex
tended at the suggestion of the present
writer, to include the art of engraving on
wood, which of course involved some
thing of the invention of typography.
The enquiries of Mr. Ottley have necessa
rily abridged that portion of the present
work which is devoted to the same subject;
and it is only in consequence of the pro
mise made in the prospectus long 'since
circulated, that it now contains a view ofthe
origin of these arts. We are much indebted
to the liberality of Mr.Ottley for the indul
gence of referring to his work as yet un
published; and for the use of that portion
of the printed sheets which contains the
history of xylography and typography.
129
found in Mr. Ottley's work, and they are also described in Mr.
Dibdin's Bibliotheca Spenceriana; the most important of them in
regard to its supposed connexion with the invention of typography,
is the Speculum Humana Salvationis, and as we possess a copy
of the celebrated edition which is printed partly with engraved
wooden blocks, and partly with moveable types, we may be in
dulged in offering a few remarks upon the conclusions drawn by
Mr. Ottley, from a minute examination of it." It has been seen,
that it was this work which the earliest advocate of Harlem, and
promulgator of the history of Laurence Janszoon or Coster, had
fixed upon as being one of his first productions: could any proof be
adduced of this circumstance, and could the traditions respecting
Coster be rendered as certain and indubitable, as those respecting
Gutenburg, we should still hesitate to allow him the precedence in
the invention, for the silence of all writers until after the period of
the publication of Junius's account, would then afford a fair pre
sumption that he was considered rather the imitator of an art already
invented, than the inventor of it.
If it were possible to prove that the Speculum was printed about
the year 1440, which is the supposed date affixed to it by the be-
' Mr. Ottley has bestowed infinite pains
and attention in comparing the copies,
and examining the types, of the Speculum,
and has satisfactorily shown, that the edi
tion which has been hitherto considered
the first, which is in Latin, with the text
printed partly with moveable type and
partly with wooden blocks, should, in fu
ture, be considered the third in order ; that
the edition formerly accounted the second
Latin copy must have been the first; and
that of the two Dutch copies, that which
was called the first Dutch is the last print
ed of the whole; and that the edition de
nominated the second Dutch takes its place
immediately after the first Latin edition,
and is in fact the second in order. This is
the more extraordinary, as it would be na
tural to suppose that the edition which has
the text printed partly with blocks and
partly with types, the first essay of some
one to whom the invention of moveable
characters had occurred, or been commu
nicated, during the period he was engaged
in engraving it; and we do not see the ad
vantage which is derived to the cause of
Harlem from this discovery. Mr. Ottley
has examined and compared the Water
marks of the two editions of the Speculum,
fac similes of which are given in his work :
he finds them for the most part similar to
those in paper used in books printed in
Holland and the Low Countries in the
fifteenth century.
S
130
lievers in Junius's account; or it* it could even be demonstrated that
it was executed previously to the Psalter of 1457; to the Bible,
which we have every reason to believe was printed about the year
1450-5; or to the Letters of Indulgence of Nicholas V. in 1455, it
must be confessed the cause of Coster and of Harlem would derive
much support from it; but all that has been attempted by Mr.
Ottley, is to show that it is probable it was executed previous
to the year 1472." This may be allowed to him, and that it was
executed in Holland, or the Netherlands, with moveable types, and
yet the cause of Gutenburg and Mentz suffer no injury by the ad- •
mission ; for supposing that the Speculum was executed in Holland,
or the Netherlands, with moveable metal t}-pes about 1470, and
that it is the rude essay of a tyro in the art, does it follow that it
Avas the production of Harlem, or of Coster ? slill less does it prove
that it led the way to the invention and perfection of typography,
for it would be indeed a strange anachronism, to suppose that a
rude attempt at invention or imitation of 1470 could have given rise
to an art already arrived at the highest point of perfection in 1450.
It is generally admitted that the rudeness of any typographical or
xylographical performance is no exact criterion of its early date.
It is somewhat extraordinary that the wood cuts of St. Christopher
and the Annunciation, both of which were executed in 1423, are
printed with black ink and the press ; while many of the block
books, which are doubtless posterior performances, are rubbed off by
hand, in the manner the Cardmakers printed their cards ; and that
' Mr. Ottley has permitted me to cite lication and the first publication of the
his own words. " But the supposition that Speculum, which is a longer interval than
this work is of so high an antiquity, is not there is any reason to suppose really took
necessary to our present purpose : it will place between them, the Speculum must
suffice, if it be admitted (and this cannot then have been published in the year
well be denied) that the first edition of 1470; that is, two or three years before
" The Book of Canticles" was printed only the first dated book, printed in any part
a few years before the third edition. For of the Low Countries ; which is all that
were we to place the first edition of the we have, at present, undertaken to esta-
work no earlier than 1465, and admit blish." Enquiry into the Hist, of Engrav-
that five years elapsed between that pub- ing, p. 235.
131
the ink is a kind of umber coloured distemper: how is this to be
accounted for ? unless we suppose the impressions of those curious
xylographical monuments are much posterior to the date of the en
graving. If the memorandum respecting the binding of the Biblia
Paupentm, Ars Memorandi, and Apocalypse, cited by Mr. Dibdin,
upon the authority of Mr. Horn,1 could be depended upon as cor
rect, it would be certain that these works were executed previous to
1430 ; but it must be confessed, that it is more than probable that
Mr. Horn had mistaken the figure 7 for 2 ; the error would easily
arise from the resemblance of those two figures in old Arabic nu
merals : yet even supposing Mr. Horn correct, there is no proof
that the Speculum is a contemporary performance. Mr. Ottley ar
gues from the similarity of style in the design, and the knack of the
execution: surely these are not infallible guides; and more certain
demonstration seems necessary in a decision of so much importance.
The scrupulous and accurate attention bestowed by Mr. Ottley
1 " Mr. Horn—a gentleman long and
well known for his familiar acquaintance
with books printed abroad—was in pos
session of a copy of the Biblia Pauperum,
of the Ars Memorandi, and of the Apoca
lypse, all bound in one volume'; which
volume had upon the exterior of the cover,
the following words stamped, at the ex
tremity of the binding, towards the edge
of the squares: " Hie Liber Relegatasfuit
per Plebanum— Ecclesie— Anno Domini
142(8)" Mr. Horn having broken up the
volume, and parted with its contents, was
enabled to supply me with the foregoing
information upon the strength of his me
mory alone; but he is quite confident of
the three following particulars: 1. That
the works contained in this volume, were,
as have just been mentioned: 2. That the
binding was the ancient legitimate one,
and that the treatises had not been subse
quently introduced into it : and 3. That
the date was 142 odd—but positively an
terior to the year 1430." Bibliotheca
Spenceriana, vol. 1. p. 5. note. Mr. Dib
din thinks the Ars Memorandi has the ap
pearance of being much earlier executed
than either of the other two books men
tioned above ; indeed he places it first in
his list of block books. The existence of a
species of signature in the Biblia Paupe
rum mightbe urged in proofof its being ex
ecuted posterior to 1470. If the date at the
beginning of Hartlieb's Chiromancy (for
which see Heinecken Idee d'une Collect,
d'Estampes, p. 479) could be considered
that of its execution, and not that of its
composition, we should however be in
possession of an instance of the use of
signatures in the year 1448, but it is al
most certain that the latter is the case, and
that it was executed after the invention
of moveable types, and the general use
of signatures.
s2
132
upon the type of the Speculum, entitles his opinion to much re
spect ; and it is not impossible that the conclusion he has drawn
may be just . he conjectures that it was cast in plaster, or argilla
ceous moulds. There appears but one objection which can be
urged against this supposition, and that is the infinite variety in the
form and appearance of the same letter, diphthong, or ligature,
throughout the work,' ten different forms of the same character or
type may sometimes be observed in one page. The supposition
" that a sufficient quantity of type for printing could only be ob
tained by moulds often renewed upon the characters before cast,"
is inadmissible, for it is impossible to deny that the first prototype
or punch from which the first mould was formed, must have been
carved or engraved by hand, and as in modern typography, this
one character would suffice for the multiplication of moulds or ma
trices ad infinitum, without having recourse to the more imperfect
expedient suggested.
The argument deduced from the imperfect process pursued in
the formation of the type, and the rudeness of the execution of the
Speculum, is, that it was an attempt at invention, and not an imita
tion of the more perfect art exercised by the artists at Mentz. Mr.
Ottley has observed, " that the rude and unregistered appearance
of the right margin in the text of the Dutch Speculum cannot be
ascribed to the printer's want of care or accuracy, but it is onljr to
be accounted for by the supposition, that the improved method of
spacing out the lines, so as to make them Of an equal length, had
not yet been thought of when the book was printed, or at least that
■ This is very remarkable in two instan- lar. No. 20, left hand column, under the
ces, particularly in my copy, Mr. Ottley subject of the Brazen Candlestick, at the
having referred to the numbers of the bottom, the word 3!pSte six times repeated
pages marked with ink, I shall make use at the beginning of lines, and the same
of the same liberty. No. 19, right hand striking difference occurs in every letter,
column under the subject of the Ark of no two of them are exactly alike. Is it
the Tabernacle, lines 16, 20, 22, 25, the possible that the great variety in the form
word SlCCha four times repeated, and no of these characters could arise in the man-
one letter in either of the repetitions simi- ner supposed ?
VS'S
it was entirely unknown to the printer of that work but be
cause it was unknown to the printer of the Speculum, does it follow
that it was then unknown? the perfect press work, and great
regularity of the earliest books of the Mentz printers, was not
every where successfully imitated, and there are but few produc
tions of contemporary artists which will bear comparison with them
in this respect. Add to this, that we have numerous examples
which would demonstrate that rudeness and imperfection of execu
tion are no direct testimony of the age of printed books. The first
productions of Fust and SchcefFer are masterpieces of art; while
many books long posterior are clumsy and imperfect performances ;
it is evident that the degree of skill in the printer would entirely
govern this matter : thus the Gesta Christi, supposed to have been
printed at Spire, by Peter Drach,' is an instance of barbarous ty
pography, which was produced posterior to 1470, as it has signa
tures, which were certainly not in use previous to that year.
We have already observed that this very circumstance might
be adduced as a proof that the Biblia Pauperum has no claim
to be considered of so early a date, for what are the alphabetical
marks over each central subject, but a species of signature, intended
to guide the bookbinder in placing and arranging the leaves?
Lord Spencer has recently obtained a fragment of an edition of
Cato's Distichs, evidently printed with the same moveable types
used in printing the Speculum : Mr. Dibdin considers the discovery
of this curious fragment, as throwing " reflected light on the hypo
thesis of Mr. Ottley." It is printed upon vellum or parchment, and
the right margin is quite as irregular or unregistered as in the Dutch
Speculum, but it is Opisthographic, or printed on both sides, and
therefore seems to evince that the printer, though by no means a
skilful one, was somewhat advanced in the practice of his art, A
fac-simile of part of this fragment is. given by Mr Dibdin in the
Bibliotheca Spenceriana.1
1 Bibliotheca Spenceriana, vol. 3. p. 338. 1 Vol. 4. p. 474.
134
As neither that gentleman nor Mr. Oltley have given any spe
cimen of the type of the Speculum as it stands in the work itself,' we
have caused the first three lines of the Prohemium to be accurately
copied, and engraved on wood ; the fac-simile is executed with all
possible accuracy, and might, from its exact resemblance to the
original, afford an argument to those who have considered the Specu
lum to have been printed with separate types, engraved on wood or
metal, and not with cast type.
ttobetmuitstftamfiiptfi ttouetttnptldtiottttf
cm? ttottt? * ttottf ? fprmia bom* ftlttatftf
*gpett?tf WW* wile $ fimo i #pmfo egptf
To this we have subjoined a specimen of the xylographic part of
the text of the same book, taken from the first page of the body of
the Avork ; and we have caused it to be printed in the same kind of
coloured ink which distinguishes the pages executed with wooden
blocks in the original ; it will at once be seen that the characters of
both specimens are upon the same model, and are probably the
production of the same hand ; at any rate it is most probable the
same calligraphist furnished the prototype of both.
jtdfiit (;tzilfJ fotofoms
*3u am ft*} t/M * moDf wpadfifc
Bin tyttpt&t 'rmo rsfansre
$ ob raufi ereato: otm arctmft Govern ctm
Specimens of the cuts in the Speculum have been given both by
Mr. Dibdin and Mr. Ottley ; and a most complete analysis and
careful examination of it may be found in the work of the latter of
1 Mr. Ottley has however caused to be plete series in the same manner of the
engraved on copper, facsimiles of all the characters used in the two pages of the
letters, characters, ligatures, &c. used in Dutch Speculum, which are printed with
the Speculum ; and has also given a com- types of a smaller size.
135
those gentlemen above cited ; and as it will be in the hands of every
one interested in these inquiries* we shall content ourselves with
referring the reader to it.
Meerman thought he had discovered a series of books printed
in the office of Laurence Janszoon by his heirs, whom he supposes
continued to exercise the typographic art at Harlem until 1472.
He attributes to them the two Latin editions of the Speculum and
that which has hitherto been considered the second Dutch edition :
he presumes that they subsequently changed the form of their types,
abandoning the rude and heavy type of the Speculum, and adopting
a lighter and more regular character, but still using sculptile or
scidpto-fusile types, with which he says they printed the Historia
Alexandri magni de pradiis;—Flavii Renati epitoma de re Militari ;—
B. Hieronymi Liber de Viris Illustribus ; and an edition of Thomas d
Kempis, all in folio. These books are printed with a singular but
not inelegant gothic type, which is not at all on the same model
with the type of the Speculum, nor indeed does it resemble that of
any other printer of the Low Countries or Holland, in the fifteenth
century ; but one of the books printed with it has the name of the
printers, Ketelar $ de Leempt, and the date and place where printed,
by which it appears it was executed at Utrecht in 1473 ; we may there
fore with safety presume all the other books in this type were also
executed by them : these books are for the most part without dates,
as well as without the name of the printer ; a list of them is given
below, and the fac-simile of the two first lines of the Claudiani de
Raptu Proserpina;, given in page 138, will enable the reader to
decide with how much propriety Meerman attributed these books
to the successors of Coster.
It has been seen above that he was ignorant of any book existing
with the name of a printer executed with these types, at the time
he attributed them to the Harlem printers ; and the expedient he
adopted to explain this circumstance, when he discovered it, is
also there noticed. Ketelaer and de Leempt, may be considered
the first printers Holland has to boast : they were also most probably
136
natives of that country : their types it will be seen bear no resem
blance to those of the German printers, nor indeed to those used by
Theodore Martens, or John of Westphalia.
The grounds then for supposing the Speculum to have been
printed previous to the productions of the Mentz printers, are,
according to Mr. Ottley, the similarity in the style of design and
execution, to the Historia ex Cantico Canticorum and Biblia Pau-
perum ; but the only evidence that either of these block books
was executed at an early period of the fifteenth century, is the re
collection of Mr. Horn, respecting the inscription on the binding of
one of them, and we are not certain whether this anecdote relates to
the edition in which this resemblance has been traced. Allowing
to Mr. Ottley all he contends for, that the Speculum was executed
in Holland previous to 1472, which is before any book is known to
have been executed there with moveable types, where is the neces
sity of admitting that it was executed by Coster at Harlem, or that
it was one of the books which led the way to the invention of Typo
graphy ? It may have been the production of some ingenious Forrn-
schneider in Holland or Flanders, who having heard of the wonder
ful art invented in Germany, set about attempting to produce
moveable characters, and as he was totally unacquainted with the
process of the German printers, his more imperfect method of cast
ing type in moulds of clay or plaster, produced the rude characters
with which the Speculum and Catonis Disticha were printed. Upon
the introduction of the more perfect art by Ketelaer and de Leempt,
or Theodore Martens, these rude and imperfect characters gave
place to the regular types which were produced by it : this may
account for the very few productions executed in the type of the
Speculum.
The first book printed in Holland Avith a date was executed at
Utrecht by Ketelaer and dc Leempt in the year 1473 ; it is the
Petri Comestoris Historia Scholastica super Novum Testamentum. To
the same printers also belong the books Meerman attributed to the
heirs or successors of Coster : he has given a specimen of the types
137
of one of them in his Origines Typographic^ : the number of books
printed by Ketelaer and de Leempt appears to have been consider
able; there are already fifteen registered by bibliographers, and
there are no doubt many which have escaped their notice.1 Of these
the only one which bears the names of the printers is the Co-
mestorius. We know not upon what ground Mr. Ottley has doubt
ed whether it was printed at Utrecht : the following is the Colophon.
Scholastica hystoria sup nouu testamentu cum additionibz at% incidentijs.
explicit felicit*. Impressa i trajecto inferiori per magistros Nycolaum
Ketelar § Gherardu de Leempt. M°.cccc0Lxxiij°.
This appears plainly enough expressed to place it beyond
doubt ; for what else can be meant by Trajecto inferiore but lower
Utrecht ? It is remarkable, that of the fourteen other books printed
with the. same types as the Historia Scholastica but one has any date
affixed ; that one is the Historia Ecclesiastica of Eusebius, which
is in Lord Spencer's collection, at the end of which is the date
1 The following books printed by Kete
laer and de Leempt, are mentioned in the
Bibliotheca Spenceriana.
Eusebius Historia Ecclesiastica 1474
Claudianus de Raptu Proserpina s. a.
Cornelius Gallus s. a.
Plutarchi Dicteria s. a.
Sedulius s. a.
Vegetius s. a.
Petrarcha de Vera Sapientia s. a.
Sidonius Apollinaris s. a.
All in folio ; to which may be added the
following, mentioned by Santander.
Comestor. Secunda pars Hhtoria Scho
lastica in Nov. Test. 1473.
Guidonis Columna Hist, destruct. Troyte.
s. a.
Defensorium Fidei contra Judaos. s. a.
Thorn. Aquinatis de Rege et Regno s. a.
Historia Alexandri Magni depraliis. s.a.
Thomas a Kernpis Opera Varia. s. a.
Hieronymi de Viris Illustribus. s. a.
Also all in folio.
Speaking of the Vegetius printed by
Ketelaer and de Leempt, Mr. Dibdin says,
" This edition has not escaped Meerman ;
in the Orig. Typog. vol. 1. cvi. cviii. no
tice is taken of several works printed in
the same character with that of the present
and the second fac simile in the viith
one :
plate, vol. i. presents us with the first four
lines or title of this book. This fac simile
may be sufficient to direct us in a know
ledge of the type of Ketelaer; but it is far
from being completely accurate. Meer
man had rather a whimsical notion, that
these types were first used by the heirs or
successors of Laurence Coster at Harlem,
who adopted them on rejecting the rude
ones of Coster himself; and who after
wards sold them to Ketelaer and de Leempt.
Jansen has thought proper to adopt this
whimsical and, in all probability, falla
cious supposition. De 1'Invention de rim-
primerie, fyc. 1809. 8vo. p. 346-7." Bib
liotheca Spencebiana. vol. ii. p. 455.
138
Mcccc lxxiiijo. We have before us the Claudiani Sicuk de Raptu Pro-
serpina, one among the remaining number, from which we have
caused the first two lines, or title of the work, to be copied and en
graved on wood : perhaps a more faithful and exact fac simile was
never executed.
Clatftiam fault *viri Tprimis bo&fttmi ftp raptu
psofcrpmc^ggria prima fceroica uip'it felictf
It will be found, by comparing it with Meerman's copper-plate
specimen of the types of the Vegetius, that this is a much more true
representation of the types of Ketelaer and his associate.
Mr. Ottley has observed, that the type of the Speculum abounds
with ligatures, and thinks that this circumstance affords an argument
strongly favourable to its antiquity : the type of the Historia Scho-
lastica and the other books printed at Utrecht, is equally remark
able, on the contrary, for the infrequency of their occurrence. If
we could imagine that the type of the Speculum was engraved, and
not cast, we should have a ready solution of this singularity ; for,
supposing them to have been formed either of wood or metal, by
joining together the most usual combinations of letters on one piece,
it gave a greater body to the character or type, and made it less
liable to warp or bend. With the exception of the different editions
of the Speculum, and Lord Spencer's fragment of the Catonis Dis~
ticha, we have no other books hitherto discovered exactly in the
same type ; the books printed in the Low Countries on the first in
troduction of the art there, and the earliest books printed in Holland,
are executed with types of quite a different character. It has fallen
in our way to observe but one book in which the form of the type is
nearly similar, and this is an edition of the Sermons of Saint Ber
nard, in Dutch, executed at the end of the fifteenth century at
■
139
Zwoll, in Holland, by Peter Van Os it is in the collection of Mr.
Douce, who has also a fragment of an edition of the Ars Moriendi,
in Dutch, executed by the same printer, in a broad faced type of
the same general character, but not so like, as that used in the <Se/ -
mones S. Bernardi. It is somewhat singular, that in this edition of
the Ars Moriendi, a fragment, or part of one of the cuts, of an edi
tion of the Biblia Pauperum, is used as an ornament at the head of
one of the chapters.
In 1483 the blocks with which the cuts of the Speculum were
printed, served to embellish an edition in Flemish, printed by John
Veldener at Culemburg, who had caused them to be sawed or cut
down the central pillar which divided the two subjects, to accom
modate them to the size of his page. This edition is described by
Heinecken to have been in small quarto. ,
Mr. Dibdin1 and Heinecken1 have both remarked, that Velde
ner was fond of embellishing the books he printed with wood cuts,
and the latter has supposed, that if he was not an engraver on wood
himself, he must have had them in his service. It is possible, there
fore, that he may have been originally a Form Schneider, and having
subsequently turned his attention to printing when the fame of the
art had reached Holland, his first essays may have been the type
with which the text of the Speculum and the Catonis Disticha is
printed. The imperfect mode in which that type has been produced,
whether by casting or engraving, may have been subsequently aban
doned by him, when he found that by a more subtle method, much
time was to be saved, and greater uniformity produced ; the types
he used in the Historia Sancta Cruets are not on the same model, it
1 The following is the title of this curi- te zwolle Tnden iaer ons heren. m. cccc en
ous volume, which is a thick folio. xcv. op os heren hemeluaerts avont inde
SERMON ES BERNARDI IN TUYTSSCHE. meye
_ _ , , , T of gode in alte tijt
(Colophon.) 1^ & J
Ditboeck is ghee$ndet to zwolle in den » Bibliotheca Spenceriana. Vol. III. p.
stichte van vtricht ter eren godes ende 349.
Z'under lieuer mocder maria en oeck med i Met d'une Collection complette d'Es-
ot heylen salichejt alte ghoeder Kerstene tampes. p. 459.
meschc bi mi peter os van breda, wonede ,
140
is true; but when his old and imperfect method was changed for the
new process, the puncheons which had been used for making his
moulds of clay or plaster would by no means serve for the production
of matrices in metal, and he would be under the necessity of aban
doning them altogether, and forming new ones, for delineating
which another scribe may have been employed, another model
adopted. It may be objected, that this is only opposing one con
jecture to another ; we arc sorry that we have nothing more certain
to offer. The Abbe Mercier de St. Leger communicated an extract
to Heinecken from the colophon of a book printed at Louvain by
Veldener in 1476, containing a curious passage, in which he asserts,
that he understood the art of cutting, engraving, and founding
characters, and of designing and painting figures." But even sup
posing Veldener not to have engraved, or caused to be engraved, the
cuts of the Speculum, and the characters of the text, as he became
subsequently possessed of them, had there been any tradition ac
companying them respecting Cosier or Harlem, it would surely have
reached us by his means, for he printed two editions of the Fasci
culus Temporum, an universal chronicle : the first in Latin at Lou
vain in 1476 ; the second at Utrecht, in Dutch, in 1480. In this
chronicle, under the year 1450, the invention of printing is men
tioned, and attributed to Mentz ; surely if the claim set up by Hol
land had any foundation, it would have met with some notice, for
Veldener, if he was not the first publisher, must have had direct or in
direct communication with the printer of the Speculum, or his heirs,
and communicative as he seems to have been on other occasions, he
would never have withheld his testimony on this subject. The first
authentic and undoubted book with a date, printed at Harlem, is
the Formula Noviciorum, printed by John Andriesson in 1483;
while at Utrecht we have evidence of the art having been success-
1 Salve, si te forsan amice delecte no- ni Veldener, cui q certa manu insculpendi,
visse juvabit quis hujus volurainis iinpres- celandi, intorculandi, caracterandi assit
sorie artis magister atq, pductor fuerit : ac- industria, adde & figurandi & effigiendi, &
cipio huic artifici nomen esse mgro Julian- si quid in arte secreti est, &c.
141
fully practised in 1473, at Deventer in 1476, at Louvain and Alost
in 1473, and at Brussels about the same period. We can scarcely
imagine that if the art had its birth at Harlem, this would have been
the case ; nor do we think the argument, deducing the silence of
cotemporary authorities from the rude and imperfect essays of the
Harlem printers having been deemed unworthy of notice, more pro
bable. Surely a singular and important invention like this, would
have met with attention, even supposing it not to have been brought
to perfection : and what probable reason can be assigned, why no
books printed at Harlem should be found with an earlier date, if
the art continued to be exercised there without intermission from the
period of Coster's death until 1472 or 1473 ?
In the library of the Marquess of Blandford there is a curious
series of prints, apparently intended for an edition of the Speculum
Humana Salvationis; they are arranged four on a page, and are
printed with black ink by means of the press, and on both sides of
the paper ; the number of printed leaves is thirty-three, the last of
which has but one subject impressed upon it. The number of sub
jects is two hundred and fifty-seven ; they are not accompanied by
any printed text, or explanation of the subjects represented, but
have brief written descriptions, sometimes in Latin, and sometimes
in German, over each print.
Ifrudeness ofexecution could be received as any certain testimony
of antiquity, these prints might readily be conceived to take pre
cedence of those in the Dutch Speculum, and they somewhat resem
ble in style the cuts of the Apocalypsis S. Joannis: the first print is the
fall of Lucifer. Another edition of the Speculum, supposed to be
printed by G. Zainer, in which the text is executed with moveable
types, in forty-five chapters, with one hundred and ninety-two vig
nettes, is described by Heinecken,' and a more ample account of it
given by Mr. Dibdin.*
1 Idee dune Collection cTEstampes, p. 1 Bibliotheca Spetweriana, Vol. 4. p. 9.
465.
142
We are happy to have it in our power to exhibit the subjoined
fac-simile of one of the prints in this extraordinary volume, the
subject the marriage of the Virgin Mary ; it is rather a favourable
specimen of the style in which they are executed.
The volume which contains these singularly curious cuts was
formerly in the collection of the Cardinal de Brienne, and has been
described by the Abbe Laire ;' it contains also, as he has noticed, a
■ Index Libror. ab invents Typog. ad annum 1500. Tom. 1. p. 4.
143
MS. decorated with rude drawings, entitled, " Compilatio Librorum
totius Biblice ab Adam usque ad Christum, a fratre Johanne de Utino
ordinis minorurn diocesis Aquileiensis ;" who terminates his dedicatory
epistle to the Patriarch of Aquileia thus, " banc cariham manu pro
pria in civitate Utini Aquileiensis diocesis, Anno Domino Mille°. ccc°.iiiiij°
de mense Januarii, cum eis Jiguris conscripsi. Laire asserts, that this
is the original manuscript; and says it is decorated with illumina
tions which are not bad, considering the time when they were exe
cuted. Now it is remarkable, that the water-marks of the paper
throughout the volume, both in the manuscript above cited and in
the leaves upon which the cuts are impressed, are the same : that
which most frequently occurs is the following, marked No. 1.
No. 2.
Indeed there is but one other, and that is found only on two or
three of the latter leaves of the manuscript part of the volume, where
the paper is evidently of a different texture. We have however
thought it best to have it also copied ; and it is here subjoined, and
marked No. 2.
Now, supposing the assertion of Laire could be depended on,
144
and the manuscript in question could be considered of the date
assigned to it (1344), we should here have one of the earliest attested
specimens of the xylographic art. It is evident, that Laire had not
observed the water-marks, for he says, the wood-cuts very much re
semble those in the Miroir de I'humain lignaige, thrice printed at
Lyons, from the year 1479 to 1483, but that they are much
ruder. According to Santander, the water-mark most prevalent in
this volume, is found on the paper of books printed by Lucas Bran-
dis de Schass, at Lubec in 1475, and by Rodt and Wenzler at
Basle. It is most probable, therefore, that this curious work was
the production of one of those artists ; and we rather incline to the
supposition that it may have been executed by Lucas de Brandis ;
for in the Rudimentum Naviciorum, printed by him in 1475, a great
number of wood-cuts are introduced, many of which resemble, in
point of style, those in the work we are describing. The motive for
introducing a description of this singular xylographic production in
this place, was to afford the reader an opportunity of comparing a
specimen of it with the specimens from the Dutch Speculum, which
are given by Mr. Dibdin and Mr. Ottley. Had the advocates for
Harlem stumbled upon any thing half so conclusive as the date of
the manuscript in this case, they would have urged it as a strong
and irrefragable argument in favour of their cause. It is possible
that copies of this curious work exist with a printed text or descrip
tion subjoined, but no copy of it appears to have been known to
Heinecken, unless we suppose the German Speculum which he de
scribes as printed by Bernhard Richel at Basle in 1476, to have
been decorated with these cuts; he describes them however of the
size of playing cards, and it is obvious that those we are describing
are larger ; but as every day shews us that we are not at the end of
our typographical discoveries, we may reasonably hope that some
future bibliographer will be enabled to set this matter at rest, by
finding a copy with the printed, text, the date, and name of the
printer. A work exclusively on these block books, brought forward
in an unostentatious form, and containing fac-similes of the princi-
V
145
pal ones, is slill a desideratum; for as Heinecken's work was de
voted to other objects, it could hardly be expected that he should
enter more largely into this curious department of Bibliography.
Inquiries into the origin of Customs and Inventions, which are
rarely mentioned in the early written annals of nations, may be
sometimes successfully illustrated by calling in the aid of traditional
evidence preserved among the people, and handed down from age
to age : for although these traditions are not entitled to the same
kind of respect which historical evidence or the testimony of records
claims, yet they may occasionally assist conjecture, and be received
with indulgence in the absence of more decisive proofs ; especially
when they serve to elucidate the origin of an art, whose beginning
can scarcely be traced through the maze of obscurity in which its
earliest essays are concealed. But at the same time it would be
required, that such evidence should be unattended with suspicious
circumstances, that there should be no appearance of collusion, or
attempt at deceit in the witnesses ; that the facts should at least be
probable ; and that there should be no direct and positive testimony
which contradicted them.
Let us see if the claims of Harlem and Laurence Coster are thus
supported ; for, setting aside the improbabilities of the relation of
Junius and the want of contemporary evidence, are there no suspi
cious circumstances attending the fact of the Magistracy and States
General of the city being always directly or indirectly concerned in
the promulgation of these pretensions ? thus, Junius, Coornheert
and Guicciardini, Scriverius and Seiz, all dedicate their works to
them. Van Zuren' was Scabinus or Sheriff, and afterwards Burgo
master of the city, and as he is the earliest authority adduced, is it
not possible that the information of Coornhert, and the reports al-
' There is a most exquisitely engraved are the following verses.
Portrait of him by H. Goltzius, from a Corporis effigiem express* quam Goltzius cere,
picture by Heemskirk, which is very rare : Heemskerkus docta pinxit et ante manu
at the top is inscribed, " Joannes Zurenus Tuncinerat formcefloremi gratia maior.
A9 Aetat. 71. Domini 88." at the bottom Plurima nuncfaciem ruga senilis arat.
V
146
hided to by Guicciardini, may have had their origin in his asser
tions? Quirinus Talesius," one of Junius's authorities, was also
Burgomaster, and as he lived until 1573 it is impossible that he
could have heard the relation from the mouth of old Cornelius the
bookbinder,"" who lived with Laurence Coster in 1428 ! ! It may
also be remarked, that the publication of the Batavia of Junius be
ing posthumous, gave opportunity of interpolation if deceit was
intended ; and the Dialogue of Van Zuren, of which a fragment
was recovered by Scriverius, may have been a fabrication. Scrive-
rius3 is one of the most determined advocates of the cause of Harlem;
he suffers not little objections to stand in his w ay, but adapts the rela-
1 Santandcr has made an important re
mark respecting Quirinus Talesius, who,
he observes, was Secretary to Erasmus for
some years: it is not possible therefore to
conceive, that Erasmus could have been
ignorant of a story related by his Secretary
to Junius; if Erasmus knew it, it is diffi
cult to conceive that he should have passed
over so remarkable a circumstance in si
lence, when he had such numerous occa
sions to speak of the typographic a"rt and
its history, as he was united in the strictest
bonds of friendship with Theodore Mar
tens of Alost, a celebrated printer, and
probably the first who exercised the art in
Belgium. Erasmus would have the strong
est motives for recording the fact if he
had known it, or believed it true, as it
would have reflected honour on his native
land : but on the contrary, if he mentions
the invention of the art, he always attri
butes it to Mentz, and has not even hinted
at the pretensions of Harlem.
1 Mr. Ottley, in a note, p. 185, has at
tempted to shew the probability of Nicho
las Galius the schoolmaster having heard
this relation from old Cornelius the book
binder, but he admits the improbability
of Quirinus Talesius having derived his
information from him; he says, " It is
scarcely possible, unless we suppose both
Cornelius and Talesius to have reached
the age of nearly an hundred, that the
latter should have heard the story from
the mouth of the former;" and proceeds
to offer a proposition, that we should sup
pose his informant was a younger Corne
lius, relation and successor to the former.
Junius however asserts it was the same
individual, and Meerman makes no diffi
culty of assuring us it was. Mr. O. ob
serves, " this conclusion is little calculated
to give weight to Cornelius's testimony,
and it ill accords with the belief that Jaus-
zoon or Coster died in 1440, for Cornelius
could at most have been only ten or twelve
years of age when he lived with Coster in
1440." Would it not be a more ready
solution to suppose, that Junius's popular
tradition related to the year 1470, instead
of 1440? all difficulties of this kind would
then vanish.
3 The reader may see some odd stories
of the amorous propensities of Scriverius,
related upon the authority of Isaac Vos-
sius, in the Colomesiana. V. the collection
published by Des Maizeaux, under the
title of Scaligerana, Thuana, Perroniana,
Pithoeuna et Colomesiana. Amsterdam,
1740. Tom. I. p. 534-5.
147
tions of Junius and others to his own conceptions, and the necessi
ties of the case, by alteration without scruple, and sings Io triumphe
on all occasions.'
Such a resolute champion as this, supposing him to have been
free from any intention to deceive, would be easily deceived
himself ; his book was not only inscribed to the States, but printed
by their printer with all the luxury of typography, embellished
with the portrait of their hero, Coster, his statue, and (mirabile dic-
tu) a representation of his office with all its appendages, himself
busily employed in correcting the press ! a number of separate co
pies were taken off besides those appended to Ampzing's description
of Harlem, and probably at the expense of the States, to establish
their favourite point; this circumstance seems to evince they were
determined not to lose the honour of the invention by neglecting to
assert their claims. But that the fable had their sanction, and pro
bably its origin among them, no writer would have been hardy
enough to have endeavoured to impose upon their belief so impro
bable a relation.
This story of Coster, therefore, like , an unsupported tradition,
must fail of obtaining our credence; and Harlem, having chosen to
connect her claims with it so inseparably, must consequently forfeit
her pretensions to the honour of the invention : indeed it is ob
vious, that, independent of this tradition, there is little which can
be urged in favour of her claims, for the first book printed within
her walls which is furnished with a date, was not executed before the
year 1483. This circumstance alone has a strong tendency to shake
our faith in the assertions of her advocates ; for it seems unreason
able to suppose, that if the art had its origin among her sons, it
should have lain dormant so long a period, and that when the
' The following verses were written by Harlemi archetypos praelaque nata scias
Scriverius, and were afterwards inscribed Extulit hie, monstranie Deo, Laurbntius artem.
over the door of the house at Harlem, Diwimukre yirum hunc, di8Simulare Deum «t.
where Coster is said to have exercised the After this, would not any one imagine
art. that the proofs of the invention of typo-
Vana quid archetypos & prala Mogdntia jactas ? graphy by Coster were incontrovertible?
u2
U8
fame of this art, and the attention it excited, became spread through
all the states of Europe she should still continue in her lethargy,
nor rouse herself until a period much later than many of her neigh
bouring cities. That she should have had no one to advocate her
claims, and urge her pretensions, when it was not yet too late to
have established their verity by unsuspicious evidence, at a time too
when Germany was claiming and receiving the honour in the most
public manner on all occasions. Yet such is the fact, that no
author, no work of the fifteenth century or the commencement of
the sixteenth, can be found, which affords the slightest support to
her pretensions.
There can be little doubt that the typographic art owes its origin
to ideas excited by the rude attempts of the Formschneidcr; and it is
possible, as the author of the Cologne Chronicle has related, on the
authority of Ulric Zell, that the Donatuses of Holland may have
suggested them, but this makes nothing for the cause of Coster and
Harlem : these Donatuses were most probably xylographic produc
tions, and we think if the passage in that Chronicle be attentively
considered, it will sanction this inference. The wood cut of St.
Bridget,' in Lord Spencer's collection, of which Mr. Ottley has
given a fac-simile, and which he attributes to some artist of the Low
Countries at the close of the fourteenth century, may with a much
greater degree of certainty be given to Germany, for, if we mistake
not, there is a German inscription upon the print, and as it ap
pears that St. Bridget was a favourite subject with the artists of Ger
many, it becomes highly probable, this very curious and early xy
lographic specimen was executed there. The circumstance of the
wood cuts of St. Christopher and of the Annunciation having been
found at Buxheim, also point out that country as the place where
they were executed, and there are such numerous rude specimens
in existence, which bear evident marks of having been executed in
Germany, that we cannot doubt but the art was very early exercised,
1 See supra, page 93, in note.
149
if not invented, there. If, therefore, the invention of typography
owes any thing to the suggestions of the engravers on wood in Hol
land, it can only have been the adaptation of the xylographic art
to the purpose of printing books, or the excitation of the train of
ideas which led to the discovery of moveable types.
Having shewn the grounds upon which the city of Harlem lays
claim to the invention of printing, it may be necessary briefly to ad
duce the evidence in favour of the city of Mentz ; the reader will
then have an opportunity of comparing them together, and of mak
ing his decision. Contemporary documents, and incontrovertible
facts, are the only solid grounds upon which the history of discove
ries can with safety be founded ; but man}r of the writers who have
transmitted memorials of this extraordinary invention to posterity,
have either wilfully or ignorantly perverted those which have come
to their knowledge, and others have been content to promulgate
hearsay reports; thus has the early history of this divine art been
embroiled, until it appeared as if nothing certain was known upon
the subject. The simplest method would have been to have relied
implicitly upon the evidence of the original testimonies of contem
poraries, and the evidence afforded by the undoubted early typo
graphical monuments; to these may now be added the documents
discovered by Schoepflin and others in the archives at Mentz. The
most remarkable of which are, 1°. the process between Gutenberg
and the heirs of Andrew Dritzehen, which dates in 1439: first pub
lished in the Vindiciae Typographicae.' 2°. The documents of the
process in 1455, between John Fust and Gutenburg relative to
money lent to the latter by the former, for the purpose of carrying on
the printing business; this may be found in the collection of Wol-
fius, and in Koehler.1 3°. The transaction between Gutenberg, his
brother and three of his cousins, with the abbess and nuns of the
convent of St. Clair at Mentz, dated the 20th of July, 1459> disco-
1 Among his Documenla at the end of burgi, 1740. 2 torn. 12° Ehrerenrettung
the Vindiciae Typographies, No. 2. Iohaun Guten bergs, 4to. Leipsic, 1741.
2 Monumenta Typographies. Ham-
150
vered by M. Bodman, and first published by Fischer,' in which
Gutenburg mentions the books (printed by him) he had already
given to that convent, and engages to give them all which he shall
in future print. 5°. The Act by which the Archbishop Elector of
Mentz admits Gutenburg among the number of noble attendants in
his household, dated at Eltvill in 1465.1 6°. The letter of Conrad
Humery to the Archbishop of Mentz, in which he engages not to
sell to any foreigner the typographic apparatus of Gutenburg, of
which he had become the proprietor by favour of the Archbishop :
it is dated at Mentz in 1468.1 Others of less importance are cited
in the note below,* and it is upon a comparison of these incontesti-
ble evidences with the testimony of writers who were contemporaries
of Gutenberg, or who wrote immediately after the invention and
promulgation of the art of printing, that the following summary of
facts is given.
Henne or John Gcensfieisch of Sulgeloch, surnamed Gutenburg,
Avas born about the close of the fourteenth century at Mentz ; his
father's name also appears to have been Henne or John, his mo
ther's name is unknown. He is supposed to have had two brothers,
and it is certain that he had two sisters, who were both nuns in the
convent of St. Clair at Mentz. Although of noble birth, it should
seem that his fortunes were but slender : without this powerful in-
1 Essai sur les Monumens Typogra-
phiques de Jean Gutenburg, 4to. May-
ence, An. X.
1 Also published in Kohler's Life of Gu
tenburg, above cited.
3 Scriptores Her. Mogunt. Tom. III. p.
424.
♦ 7°. An Act of Accommodation made
by Conrad the III. Archbishop of Mentz,
between the nobility and commonalty of
Mentz in 1430, published by Kohler.
8° The Act by which Gutenberg releases
the GreJ/ier of Mentz, whom he had caus
ed to be arrested for arrears of rent due to
him by that city, published in the Vindicia.
Typog. Documenta, No. 1.
9° The Rolls called Helbeling Zollbuch,
or registers of the imposts levied from )439
to 1445 on account of the war in Alsatia.
Extracts are given by Schoepflin. Docu
menta, No. 7, 8.
10° Two Acts relative to the sale of the
revenues derived by Gutenburg from the
city of Mentz, dated in 1441, 1442. Pub
lished by Schoepflin. Documenta, No. 5, 6.
1 1° The Diploma by which the Arch
bishop Elector Adolphus receives Guten
berg among the Gentlemen of his House
hold. Published by Kohler.
centive to action; his ingenuity, and his love of the ingenious arts,
would not perhaps have been sufficient to have excited him to the
exertion necessary for the perfection of the sublime invention, to
which he appears to have so just, a claim, and which will carry
down his name to posterity as one of the greatest benefactors of
mankind. The manner in which he passed his youth, it were now
vain to inquire; suffice it, that he appears to have left Mentz, and to
have been settled at Strasburg, where we find him in 1424, as ap
pears from a letter addressed by him to his sister Bertha. His father
died in 1430, and he appears still to have been absent from Mentz ;
we have further evidence that he was at Strasburg in 1434, for at
the instance of the senate of Mentz, he releases Nicolas the Greffier,
whom he had caused to be arrested for 310 florins, due to him by
that city.' It has been seen that Meerman places the pretended
journey of Gulenburg to the fair of Aix la Chapelle in 1435, and
his subsequent visit to his brother at Harlem, where he learned the
typographic art ; but it does not appear that he was absent from
Strasburg : Meerman's account is therefore without foundation.
In 1436' we find Gutenburg still at Strasburg, where he is asso
ciated with Andrew Dritzehen and others ; and in 1437 he appears
before the ecclesiastical court to answer to the suit of Anne zur Isern
Thiire,* to whom he appears to have made a promise of marriage,
and whom it should seem he married in the sequel, as the name of
Anne Gutenberg appears upon the rolls of contribution in that
city. In 1439 Gutenburg's name is found in some public records of
Strasburg :3 it is in this year that Seiz* makes Gutenburg take a
journey to Harlem, and engage himself as a servant to Laurence
Coster, in order to learn the secret of the art of printing ; and in
1440 the pretended robbery of Coster by him is said to have hap
pened. It is also in this year the process instituted by George Drit
zehen, brother of his late partner, took place. It appears by the
■ Schoepflin. Documenta, No. 1. 3 Ibidem. Documenta, No. VI.
1 Vindiciie Typog. p. 17, ct Documenta, 4 Annus Tertius Secularis Invents Arlis
No. VI. Typographies Harlemi, 1741. 8vo. p. 136.
152
documents relative to this suit, which have been published by
Schoeprlin," that Gutenburg was occupied by other arts besides
that of printing; he had taught Andrew Dritzehen the art of polish
ing glass, and others bordering upon the marvellous. That he had
subsequently associated himself with John Riff, Andrew Heilman,
and the above Andrew Dritzehen, to whom he had engaged to re
veal all his secrets in these arts on certain conditions; that Andrew
Dritzehen dying, Gutenburg refused to admit his brothers into the
concern, upon which they brought this process, and he was con
demned to pay to them what was due to their brother, according to
the articles entered into between him and Gutenberg. By some of
the very curious depositions concerning this process, it clearly ap
pears, that one of the principal of these secret and wonderful arts
was the invention of printing; and it should seem, that moveable
characters were then used by him, but whether of wood or metal we
have no means of determining. The following declarations of some
of the witnesses are too curious and interesting to be omitted.
" Anne, wife of John Scultheiss, workman in wood, declared that
Laurence Beildeck came one day to her house to seek her cousin,
Nicholas Dritzehen, and said to him, My dear Nicholas Dritzehen,
the late Andrew Dritzehen has left four pieces lying in a press ; Gu
tenburg has begged that they may be taken out and separated, in
order that no one may see what they are, for he would not have any
one see them."1 John Scultheiss declared, " that after the death of
Andrew Dritzehen, Laurence Beildeck being come to his house, to
see Nicholas Dritzehen, brother to the defunct, had said to him,
Andrew Dritzehen, your brother, has left four pieces lying in a
press : John Gutenburg has requested you will take them out and
place them separately upon the press, because then no one can see
' Documenta, No. 2. selig hat iiij St'ucke in einer prcssen ligen,
1 Frouwe Ennel Hanns Scultheisen do hatt Guttenberg gebctten das ir die usz
frouwe des holtzmans hat geseit das Lo- dcr pressen nement und die von einander
rentz Beldeck zu einer zit inn'ir hus kom- legent uff das man nit gewissen kune was
men sy zu Claus Diitzehen irem vetter es sy dann er hatt nit gerne das das je-
und sprach zu ime, lieber Claus Dritzehen mand sihet.
153
what they are.'" Conrad Sahspach declared, " that Andrew
Heilman came one day to him in Kremer gasse (a place or street so
named) and said to him, My dear Conrad, Andrew Dritzehen is
dead ; you made the presses, and you know for what purpose ; go
and take out the pieces from the press, and decompose them, then
no one will know what they are/'1 Laurence Beildeck declared
" that John Gutenburg sent him one day to Nicholas Dritzehen,
after the death of his brother Andrew, to tell him, not to shew any
one the press that he had ; which this Avitness accordingly did. He
requested him also, to take the trouble to go to the press and open
the two screws, that then the pieces would separate of themselves ;
and that he had only to lay them within or upon the press, and by
this means no one could see or divine what it was/'3 This witness
likewise declared, " that he well knew Gutenburg had sent his ser
vant a little before Christmas to the two Andrews, to get the forms,
and that they were there recast under his own eye, because there
were some of them which were not to his mind. But that after the
death of Andrew, this witness knowing many people were curious
to see the press, Gutenburg told him to send to the press, for he
' — und sprach da Lorenz Beildeck zu
Claus Dritzehen, Andres Dritzehen uwer
bruder selige hat iiij Stiicke undenan inn
einer pressen ligen, da hat uch Hanns
Gutemberg gebetten das ir die presse le-
gent von einander so kan man net geseken
was das ist.
1 und sprack zu ime lieber CQrad als
Andres Dritzehen abgangen ist da hastu
die pressen gemacht und weist umb die
sache do gang dohin und nym die Stiicke
usz der pressen und zerlcge sii von einan
der so weis nyemand was es ist.
3 Lorenz Beildeek het geseit das Johann
Gutenberg jn su einer Zit geschikt het zu
Claus Dritzehen sagen das er die presse
die er hiinder jm hett nieman oigete zoi-
gete, das ouch diser Gezug det, und rctte
ouch one und sprach so vil un gon iiber
die presse und die init den zweyin wurbe-
lin uff dun so vielent die stiicke voneinan-
der, dieselben stiicke solt er dann in die
presse oder uff die presse lege so kunde
darnack niemand gesehen noch utgeme-
rekeu.
Dirre gezuge hat ouch geseit das er wol
wisse das Gutenberg unlange vor Wihnah-
ten sinen Knecht sante zu den beden An-
dressen, alle formen zu holen, und jn zoch
ettliche formen ruwete. Do noch do Andres
selige abeginge, und dirre gezuge wol
wuste das lute gem hettent die presse ge
sehen, do spreche Gutenberg sii soltent
noch der pressen senden erforhte das man
sii sehe, do sante er sinen Knecht darin sii
zur legen.
x
154
feared it would be seen; and that he sent his own servant to decom
pose it." Hans Dunne, Goldsmith, declared, " that it was about
three years since, that Gutenberg had caused him to gain three
hundred florins, merely for what concerned printing/"
Here then we have manifest proof that this art had occupied
Gutenberg for several years previous to 1439, and the most scep
tical advocate for Coster and Harlem will hardly refuse his credence
to such circumstantial evidence: whether Gutenburg at this period
used blocks, or characters of wood, or types of metal, it is perhaps
not now possible to determine; but the' circumstance of a goldsmith
having been employed, seems to favour the supposition that they
were of metal. The press had been set up at the house of Andrew
Dritzehen, but it does not appear that the typographic art obtained
the exclusive attention of Gutenburg while he resided at Slrasburg;
it was not until his removal to Mentz that it had his undivided and
entire attention, and that the art arrived at such a degree of perfec
tion, as to make it a source of admiration and wonder. From another
document among those furnished by this process, it appears that An
drew Dritzehen had become surely for the payment of several sums
for quantities of lead purchased by Gutenburg; this circumstance
gives colour also to the surmise about the use of metal types in these
early attempts.1
It does not appear that the year in which Gutenburg quitted
Strasburg and took up his abode at Mentz is correctly known ; his
name appears on the rolls at Strasburg in 1444,3 and yet it should
seem that he had hired the house called Zum jungen, where he first
established his press at Mentz in 1443. Oberlin places his return
to Mentz between the years 1445-1450.* As none of the books
printed by Gutenberg have his name affixed to them, and perhaps
but one of them has any designation of the year, and place where
1 Hans Dunne der goltsmyt hat gescit, hiirt kaufft hettent, biirge worden, das er
das er vor dryen jorcn odtr do by Guten- auch vergolten vnd bezahlt hette.
berg by den hundert guldin abc verdienet 3 Sclioepflin. Docunienta, No. 7.
habe alleine das zu dein trucken gehoret. 4 Annales de la Vie de Jean Gutenburg.
1 So were auch Andres Drytzehen an vil Strasbourg, 1801. Svo. p. 19.
euden do sie bli vnd anders das dazu ge-
155
printed,' it would be in vain now to attempt a chronological 1 tat of
his productions ; there is however some reason to suppose that his
first essays were brief works of a popular nature, and in general
request, such as the elementary grammar termed a Donatus, and
other books consisting of but few pages, and which required only a
small quantity of types to execute them.
In 1450 Gutenburg entered into a kind of partnership with John
Fust, or Faust, a rich citizen of Mcntz, for the purpose of establish
ing a press there, and for the furtherance of the printing business, to
which his own means do not appear to have been competent.1 The
sums advanced by Fust to Gutenburg, under whose superintendence
1 The Catholicon of Johannis Balbi
de Janua. Wurdtwein, in his Bibliotheca
Moguntina, 1787, 4to. p. 66, describes
this volume fully ; and all the authorities
are cited, and the most important of them
extracted, in the Bibliotheca Spenceriana,
toI. in. p. 32. The types are said to be
essentially different from those used by
Fust and Schoeffer, and to be exactly si
milar to those in the Vocabulary executed
at Eltvil, or Elfeld, in 1467, and again in
1469- Eltvil is near to Mentz, and was
the residence of the Archbishop Elector.
Conrad Humery is supposed to have fur
nished Gutenburg with the means of esta
blishing his press again after his separation
from Fust; and in 1465, when Gutenberg
passed into the service of the Elector, the
printing office was of course ceded to him.
Henry Bechtermuntze was most probably
the principal workman, and the office
when removed to Eltvil continued under
his care. Nicolas Bechtermuntze, his bro
ther, and Wiegand Spies, finished the
edition of 1467, for Henry died during the
impression. The colophon is given by
Laire, T. i. p. 51, and by Santarit/er, T.
in. p. 467- 8. Mr. Dibdin has inadvertently
said, that the name of Wiegand Spies does
not appear in the colophon. This is suffi
cient proof that the Catholicon of 1460 was
printed by Gutenburg; but there are other
strong reasons for attributing it to him :
for these 1 must refer the reader to Fischer,
in his Essai, Sue. p. 84. The colophon is
interesting, and remarkable for its modes
ty ; we have pleasure in subjoining it.
£lttsjj3fmi presidio cuius nutu infam
ttum Itngue fiunt trigerte. £Dm q; nuo
isepe puulisi reuelat quoQ stapientibujs
celat. t}\t libec egcejn'ug. catholicon.
fctucc i'ncarnaciom'0 annus S^cccclt; 81U
tna in ucbe magunttna nacfonig indite
gennanice. £Duam Die clemencia tarn
alto ingenii lumine. bono q; gtuito. ct«
terijS teccai/ nacionibus prefecce. t'llu0=
trace q; Dignitatusf esft jj3on calami,
sitili. aut penne smffcagio. fj mica pa*
tconaV formal q; eoncocoia pporeione
et mobulo. imprestfuja atq; eonteetusr
esst.
limine tibi jsancte patec nato cu aamine
jsacco. Hatttf et Ijonor ono tcino trilm=
atur et uno (tccleuie lauDe libro hoc ca=
tgolice plau&e £Dui lauDare piam srcm=
pec non linqttc madam. 3D(£SD. (B1&SI-.
1 Trithemii Annales Hirsaugenses ad
ami. 1450.
z 2
156
the establishment was carried into effect, having become very con
siderable, the result was a litigation between them. Fust instituting
a process against Gutenburg for the recovery of 2020 gold florins,
which he had furnished, and the interest accruing thereon. Guten
burg in his reply states, that the first 800 florins had not been paid
him at once, according to the contract, and that they had been em
ployed in preparations for the work; that in regard to the other
sums, he offered to render an account; and he thought he was not
liable to pay the interest. The Judges having taken the depositions
of each party, Gutenburg was sentenced to pay the interest, as well
as that part of the capital which his accounts proved to have been
employed for his particular use. Fust obtained the record of this
sentence from Helmasperger, the notary, on the 6th of November,
1455." By this it should seem that the undertaking was of such
magnitude as to require very large sums of money; and it is sup
posed that the celebrated Latin bible was produced by Gutenburg
during this short association with Fust; that is, between the years
1450-1455. Trithemius however relates, that the first book printed
by Gutenburg and Fust was a vocabulary or Catholicon, executed
with wooden blocks.
The consequence of this dissolution of partnership between Gu
tenburg and Fust, was, that Gutenburg was obliged to cede to Fust
all the moulds, types, presses, and utensils, which were previously
engaged to him as surely for the payment of the sums he had ad
vanced. Gutenburg probably sought immediately to re-establish
his printing materials ; for an act, referred to above, to which he
was a principal party in the year 1459/ proves incontestibly, that
1 Seckenburgii Selecta juris et historia- Monumens Typographiques de Gutenburg.
rum, T. 1. p. 48, Sfc.
Kohler Ehrenrettung, p. 54. " Vndvmb die bucher, die ich Henne ob-
Foumier Origine de l'Imprimerie primi- gen. gegeben han zu der Liberey des vorrren.
tive. Paris, 1759. 8vo. p. 116. Closters, die szollen beliben bystendig°vnd
1 First published by Fischer : a French ewklichen by derselben liberey vnd sal
translation is inserted in Oberlin's Annates vnd will ich Henne obgen. deme selben
de Gutenburg. The passage is given in Closter in ire liberey, auch furters <reben
the original German from the Essai sur les vnd reichen die bucher, die sie vnd ire Nach-
157
he still remained at Mentz; and in this curious document the men
tion of the books which he had already printed, and which he may
in future print, demonstrates that he was engaged in the printing
business, and that he continued the exercise of his art from the
period of his separation from Fust until 1465, when being received
among the gentlemen of the household of the Elector of Mentz with
a competent pension, he quitted it entirely;1 he appears not long to
have survived this appointment, for he died in February 1468.
The books Gutenburg printed, from the circumstance of none
of them bearing his name, are not certainly known ; but it is not
doubted that he executed an edition of the bible : we are inclined to
attribute to him that which is said to be in the characters afterwards
used by Albert Pfister at Bamberg,1 rather than that which has
been hitherto supposed to be executed by him, for the following
reasons : in the year 1804 Fischer published at Mentz an account
of a curious typographical fragment he had discovered,3 and which,
with much probability, he attributes to the press of Gutenburg; it is
part of a Calendar or Almanack for the year 1457, printed with
moveable characters in oblong folio. It was in the course of his
researches among some old useless papers, which had been thrown
kommen gebruchent zu geistlichen frommen
zcerken vnd zu irme Godesdinst, es sy zum
lesen zum singen, oder wie sie daz gebru
chent nach den Regelen vis ordens die ich
Henne vorgen han tun trucken, nu, oderfur-
ters trucken mag, ahferre sie der gebruchens,
ane geuerde." Of which the following is
the sense. " And with regard to the books
that I, Henne (or John) above named,
have given to the library of the convent,
they are to remain in the said library for
ever. And I, John, above named, shall
and will further give and present to the
said conventj for their library and for the
use of the nuns present and future, and
for the purposes of their religious devotion,
either for reading, or for singing, or in
whatever manner they may chuse to use
them, according to the rules of their order,
the books which I John have already
printed, or which I may in future print," file.
■ First published in Kohler's Ehrenret-
tung Johan Gutenbergs.
1 For an ample description of this Bible,
see Bibliotheca Spenceriana, vol. i. p. 7.
Mr. Dibdin has given fac-similes of the
types of this and the Mazarine bible^
which will enable the reader to judge of
the degree of probability of the above con
jecture.
3 Notice du Premier Monument Typo-
graphique en caracteres mobiles, avec date
connuejusqu'h cejour. A Mayence, 1804.
4/o.
158
out of the archives at Mentz, that he made this discovery: it served
as a cover to a book of accounts of the year 1457 : the types resem
ble those of some fragments of a Donatus which he had previously
discovered, and of which he published an account and fac-simile in
a former work. It is natural, says he, to suppose that an almanack
which was to serve for the year 1457 must have been printed at the
end of the preceding year, and hence it is certain that this fragment
was executed in 1456.
In 1808 I. C. F. Von Aretin, director of the library at Munich,
published an account of another highly curious typographic disco
very," being a metrical Exhortation to excite the states of Christen
dom to a crusade against the Turks, executed in the year 1454 : it
consists of five leaves, four of which are printed on both sides : there
are twenty lines on a page, and though the whole of it is in verse,
it is printed as prose, and the lines run one into the other ; the com
mencement of each line being marked by a capital letter, and fur
ther distinguished by a red mark passed through it by the illuminator.
The title of this interesting early typographical monument is
€pn manug crteteljett totW lite Imrfte*
Toward the bottom of the first page is the following passage,
from whence the year in which it was executed is gathered.
8uch toer&cn Uts tar ru twiner scfttn
Ofefteren Hit ru jetche Ues btmmete torn :
SUg ma jelet not!) tun geburt uSeabxt
ifl. cccc. In. tar
fifetebe toocue uu tt'tj trase Ua bp
elan ttatitatts bfo esta intcbu
1 t ier diefruhestenimiverml Iristorischtn vered. This fac-simile is of the w hole
Folgen der Erfindung der Buchdrucker- Tract, containing five leaves; and is cu-
kiutst. Munchen, 1808. <Mo. With a rious as being a production of the newly
complete fac-simile of the earliest speci- invented Lithographic process.
men of German printing hitherto disco-
159
This is also in the same type with the Donatus and Almanack
described by Fischer, and as far as the fac-similes published enable
us to judge, it is the same with the large type which is used at the
commencement of the Letters of Indulgence of 1455; but what ap
pears certain is, that the bible, commonly called Schelhorn's bible,
and which has been attributed to Pfister at Bamberg by Camus and
Mr. Dibdin, is printed in the same type. The reasons of those Bib
liographers for attributing this bible to Pfister are, that the same
type is used in the Histories of Joseph, Daniel, Judith, and Esther,
printed by him at Bamberg in 1462.
From the discovery of the two very curious typographical monu
ments described above, which were certainly executed in 1454 and
1456, we must draw one of the following conclusions; either that
they are the productions of Gutenburg, or that Pfister printed at
Bamberg at a much earlier period than has hitherto been suspected,
and that they were executed by him. The German Exhortation, a
complete fac-simile of the Avhole of which has been published by
Aretin, has all the marks of an early essay in the art ; for the lines
are irregularly spaced, and the right hand margin is not in register,
the lines being of unequal length ; and it has altogether the air
of a rude performance, at least quite as much so as the Catonis
Disticha, printed in the types of the Speculum. The circumstance
of the type being larger and more rude, than that used in the Bible
usually attributed to Gutenburg, has some weight in deciding our
opinion that Schelhorn was right in his supposition, and that the
Bible executed in the types afterwards used by Pfister was the pro
duction of Gutenberg, for we can scarcely believe that Pfister
printed so early as 1454, in which year we have seen these types
were in use.
A very singular passage from a manuscript by Paul of Prague
which bears the date of 1459," preserved in the public library at
*
1 This curious passage was first printed further notice of it appeared in the Allge-
in a journal published at Warsaw in 1788. meinc Litteraturzeitung, 1791- No. 258.
CDer Pohlnische Bibtiolhek. e. ix.) Some p. 636. " Libuipagus est artifex sculpens
160
Cracow, has been adduced as a proof of the early exercise of the
art at Bamberg ; and although the definition of the word Libripagus
is expressed in sufficiently barbarous terms, yet it is evident that the
author had been a witness of the wonders produced by the typo
graphic art, but had not comprehended the means by which they
were effected.
This is not the place to enter more at large into the subject, and
we must content ourselves with having thrown out the hint, leaving
it to the future historian of typography to decide upon its claim to
attention. Already has this inquiry occupied more space than was
intended, and we must now proceed to adduce the testimonies in
favour of Mentz, in the fifteenth century, with as much brevity as
possible. The first in order is the barbarous metrical inscription
placed by the corrector of the press at the end of an edition of the
Institutes of Justinian, printed by Schoeffer in 1468,' which point
out Mentz as the birth-place of the art, and give the invention to
Gutenberg, Fust, and Schoeffer.
In the Chronicle printed by Philip de Lignamine at Rome, in
1474, the latter part of which is presumed to have been compiled
by him, arc the following interesting notices, which are considered
subti/iter in laminibus areis, ferrets ac lig-
neis solidi /igni, atque a/iis, imagines, scrip-
turani et oinne quodlibet, vt prius imprimat
papyro aut parieti aut asseri mundo. Scin-
dit omne quod cupit et est homoJ'aciens ta-
lia cum picturis ; et tempore mei Bambergee
quidam sculpsit integrant Bibliam super la
mella*, et in quatuor septimanis totam Bib
liam in pergameno subti/i prasignavit sculp-
turam." Sprengcr in his account of Early
Printing at Bamberg (Aelteste Buchdruc-
kergeschichte von Bamberg, Nuremberg
1800), has laid considerable stress on this
document; and it has been cited and re
marked upon by Camus Mem. de /'lustitut.
Litterature et Beaux Arts, T. 1 1 . Supple
ment, by FischerMontimens Typog.de Guten
berg, p.65.—by Duuituu Analyse des Opini
ons sur rOrig. de T Irnprimerie, and by Lam-
binet preface a I'Origine de PIrnprimerie.
1 Quos genuit ambos urbs Moguntina
Ioannes
Librorum insignes prothocharag-
niaticos
Cum quibus optatum Petrus venit ad
Polyandrum
Cursu posterior, introeundo prior.
The two Johns in the above extract are
Gutenburg and Fust; Peter is Schoeffer,
who began the last, but arrived the^/i'rif at
the perfection of the art. These verses
consist of 24 lines in the original, but
there is nothing important in them, except
the four lines quoted above: the reader
may see them in IVurdtwein Bibliotheca
Moguntina, p. 91, tt seq.
161
the earliest printed memorandums upon this subject, they occur
under the years 1458 and 1464. 1 44 James surnamed Gutenburg,
a native of Strasburg, and another whose name was Fust, printed
letters on parchment with metal types, skilfully executing 300 sheets
daily, at Mentz, a city of Germany. John surnamed Mentelin, at
Strasburg, a city of the same province, also skilled in this same art,
printed the same number of sheets daily." Six leaves beyond this
passage, under the year 1464, is the notice of Schweynheim and
Pannartz and Ulric Han cited below. There are some inaccuracies
in this account : Gutenburg is called James, and made a native of
Strasburg ; but it is upon the whole well entitled to credit. It may
be remarked, that by the 300 sheets which Lignamine asserts they
printed in one day, must have been meant 300 impressions of one
sheet.
The Chronicle of Eusebius was continued to the year 1449, by
Matteo Palmieri of Florence, and further brought down to the year
1481, by Matteo Palmieri of Pisa, who died in 1483. Under the year
1457, he says,1 " John Gutenburg, zumjungen, a nobleman at Mentz
on the Rhine, invented the art of printing in 1440, the knowledge
of which is at this time dispersed almost in every part of the world/'
1 For a copious and interesting account
of this chronicle, consult the Biblioth.
Spencer. Vol. iii. p. 251, from whence the
following extracts are transcribed : " la-
cobus cognornto Gutenburgo : patria Ar-
gentinus & quidam alter cui nomen Fustus
imprimeudaty litteral/ in membranis cum
metallicis formis periti trecentas cartas
quisq, eo^ p diem facere innotescut apud
Magutiam Germanice ciuitateni. loaiines
quoq> Mentelinus nuncupatus apud Argen-
tinam ejusdem puincie cantatem: ac in eo-
dem artificio peritus totidem cartas p diem
Tprimere agnoscitur."
" Conradus suueynem : ac Arnold us
pannarcz Vdalricus Galius parte ex alia
Teuthones librarii insignes Roma ueniete
primi imprimendorum librorum artem in
Italian! introduxere trecetas cartas per
diem imprimentes."
1 " Quantum literarum studiosi Germa-
iiis debeant nullo satis dicendi genere ex-
priini potest. Namque a Joanne Guten
berg zum Jungen Equite Moguntia; Rhe-
ni Solerti ingenis librorum imprimendo
rum ratio an. 1440, inventa hoc tempore
in omnes fere orbis partes propagatur, qua
omnis antiquitas parvo aere comparata
posterioribus infiniti voluminibus legitur."
As I have not the means of consulting the
original, the reader will take this quota
tion from Palmieri upon the authority of
Malinkrot de. ortit et Progressu Artis
Typog.
Y
162
Daunou says the words Maguntia Rheni are so disposed in the ori
ginal text, that they signify indifferently either that Gutenberg was
of Mentz, or that he invented the art there.
Henry Wirtzburg de Vach, the continuator of the Fasciculus
Temporum1 by Werner Rolewinck, attributes the invention to Mentz,
but is silent in regard to the name of the inventor. The venerable
father of English Typography made use of the Fasciculus Temporum
to aid him in his continuation of Trevisa's translation of Higden's
Polychronicon, and copies the account of the invention, which he
attributes without scruple to Mentz. Under the year 1455 he says,
" About this time the crafte of emprynting was first found at Mo-
gounce in Almayne."
As Caxton was abroad for thirty years, that is from 1441 to
1471, and must have been particularly desirous of obtaining correct
information on the subject of an invention which he was seeking to
learn, with a view to the introduction of it into England at his
return, it is surely not too much to affirm that he could not possibly
be ignorant of the place where the art was first exercised. This
testimony of Caxton's is the more valuable, as it is known that he
learned and first practised the art in the Low Countries ; his resi
dence, according to his own account, was for the most part in Hol
land, Zealand, and Flanders : had the typographic art taken its rise
at Harlem, it is surely too evident that it could not possibly have
been unknown to him, and had he known it, he would not have
failed to record it.
' The first edition of the Fasciculus
Temporum was printed at Cologne in 1474,
by Therhoernen ; another edition was
printed by Veldener at Louvain, 1476;
and a Flemish Translation in 1480, by the
same printer. Mr. Dibdin, in his Typo
graphical Antiquities, Vol. i. p. 149, note,
says there is a Dutch translation of this
last date : if this is the case, it would be
almost conclusive evidence in favour of
Mentz, if it should also be found to at
tribute the invention to that city. The
passage is as follows in the Latin text:—
" Librorum impressionis scientia subtilis-
sima omnibus seculis inaudita circa haec
tempora reperitur in Maguntina. Hsbc
est ars artium, scientia scientiarum, per
cujus celeritatis exercitationem thesaurus
desiderabilis sapientias.et scientia?, quern
omncs homines per instinctum natures de-
siderunt," &c.
163
Jacopo di Bergamo in his Supplementum Chronicaram, first printed
at Venice in 1483, under the year 1458, has a vague account of the
invention, and names Gutenburg, Fust, and Jenson, as the inventors
in the opinion of different authorities ; but he decidedly gives it to
Germany.'
Donato Bosio, in his Chronicle printed at Milan by Zarotus in
1492, under the year 1457, attributes the invention to Gutenburg
alone.1
Sabellico, in his Enneades, or Rhapsody on Universal History,
Venice, 1498,3 has also called Gutenburg the inventor, as does
Fulgosio in his Dictorum et Factorum Memorabilia, first written in
Italian about 1483, but published only in a Latin translation in
1508.
Polydore Vergil, in his book de Inventoribus Rerum, the first
edition of which was printed in 1499? says that a German, named
Peter, invented printing ; but in a subsequent edition he corrects
his error, and substitutes the name of John Gutenburg.5
1 " Ars imprimendi Libros his tempori-
bus in Germania primum enata est, quam
alii repertam asserunt a Guttenbergo Ar
gentine), alii aquodam alio, nomine Fusto,
alii a Nicolao Jenson prsedicant, &c.
This passage is cited by Scriverius, (from
the Brescia edition of 1485, of the Supp/e-
mentum Cronicarum,) from whose citation
1 transcribe.
s " Hoc anno (i.e. 1457,) salutifera doc-
trinarum omnium imprimendorum libro-
rum ars, authore Joanne Gutembergio,
Germano reperta est."
3 " Per idem tempus libraria impressio
apud Italos vulgari coepta est, res sane
memorabilis, nec minore admiratione dig-
na, sed multo admirabilior futura, si non
adeo vulgari contigisset ; mirum et vix
credibile dictu, sed verius vero, tantum
literarum uno die opificem unum formare,
quantum vix biennis velocissimus queat
librarius. Commentum id Theutonicum,
fuitque ab initio in multa, ut debuit, ad
miratione nec minore quaestu. Pulcher-
rimi invenli autor Joannes Gutembergius,
equestri vir dignitate, Maguntiaque res
primum tentata est majore quidem fiducia,
quam spe, annis circiter sexdecim, prius
quam in Italia res ccepta sit vulgari, &c."
Enneadis X. lib. vi.
4 De Joanne Gutenbergio Argentinen-
si ; omnem mechanics artis effectum, non
recentis modo, verum etiam antiquse, illud
superavit, quod scribendo Guttenburgius
Argentinensis ostendit, primum a se in-
venta imprimendarum literarum scientia.
Nam non solum uno die imprimendo plura
scribere, quam uno anno calamis docuit.
Diet, et Fact. Memorabilia. Lib. VII.
cap. xi.
s " Itaque Joannes Gutenburgius na-
tione Teutonicus equestri vir dignitate, ut
ab ejus civibus accepimus, primus omnium
in oppido Germanise, quam Moguntiam
164
But perhaps of all the printed accounts of the discovery of the
typographic art which the fifteenth century affords, none is more
curious, or so important, as that afforded by the Cologne Chronicle.
We have already had occasion to recur to this very interesting docu
ment, and shall now lay before the reader those passages which
relate to this subject,1 referring him to the note below for an extract
in the original language, given upon the faith of Scriverius. " Item,
this most revered art was first discovered at Mentz on the Rhine in
Germany; and it is a great honour to the German nation, that such
ingenious men were found in it. This happened in the year of our
Lord mccccxl ; and from that time until the year mccccl, the art,
and what pertains thereto, was rendered more perfect. In the year
of our Lord mccccl, which was a golden year, then men began to
print, and the first book printed was the Bible in Latin, and it was
printed in a larger character than that with which men now print
Mass-Books. Item, although this art was first invented at Mentz,
vocant, hanc iinprimendarum literarum
artem excogitavit, primumque ibi ea ex-
erceri ccepit; non minore industria re-
perto ab eodem, prout ferunt, auctore, no
vo atramenti genere, quo nunc literarum
impressores tantum utuntur." &c. De ln-
ventoribus Rerum. Lib. II. cap. vii.
1 " Item dese hoicwurdige Kunst vurss
is vonden aller eyrst in Duytschlant tzo
Mentz am Rijne. Ind dat is d'duytscher
nacion eyn groisse eirlicbeit, dat sulche
synrjiche mynschen syn dae tzo vynden.
Ind dat is geschiet by den iairen vns heren
anno dni mccccxl. ind van der zijt an bis
men scbreue L. wart udersoicht die Kunst
ind wal dair zogehoirt. Ind in den iairen
vns beren do men Sehreyff mccccl. do
was eyn gulden iair, do began men tzo
drucken, ind was dat eyrst boich dat men
druckde die Bybel zo latijn, ind wart ge-
druckt myt eynre grouer scbrifft as is die
schrifft, dae men nu Mysscboicher mit
druckt. Item wie wail die Kunst is von
den tzo Mentz, als vurss up die wijse, als
dan nu gemeynlicb gebruicht wirt, so is
docb die eyrst vurbyldung vonden in Hol-
lant vyss den Donaten, die daeselffst vur
der tzijt gedruckt syn. Ind van ind vyss
den is genommen dat begynne der vurss
Kunst. ind is vill meysterlicher ind sub-
tilicber vonden dan dieselue mauier was,
vnd ye lenger ye mere Kunstlicher wur-
den." " Mer der eyrste vinder der
druckerye is gewest eyn Burger tzo Mentz.
ind was geboren van Straissburch. ind
hiesch joncker Johan Gudenburcb. Item
van Mentz is die vurss kunst. komen aire
eyrst tzo Coellen. Dairnae tzo Strais-
burch, ind dairnae tzo Venedige. Dat be
gynne ind vortganck der vurs kunst hait
myr muntlich vertzelt d'Eirsame man
Meyster Vlrieb Tzell van Hanauwe boich-
drucker zo Coellen noch zertzijt anno
mccccxciv. durcb den die kunst. vurs is
zo Coellen kommen."
165
in the mode which is now commonly practised, yet the first idea is
found in Holland, in the Donatuses which were before printed there,
And from thence is taken the beginning of this art, and it is a more
masterly and subtler discovery than this same ancient manner was,
and it became at length still more complete." •
After correcting Onmibonus Leonicenus, for calling Jenson the
inventor of printing, the chronicler proceeds thus : " The first in
ventor of printing was a citizen of Menlz, and was born at Stras-
burg, and was called John Gudenburch. Item, from Mentz the
art before-mentioned first came to Cologne, from thence to Stras-
burg, and from thence to Venice. The beginning and progress of
the before-mentioned art was told me, by word of mouth, by the
worthy man, Master Ulrich Tzell of Hanault, printer at Cologne in
the present year mccccxcix. by whom the foremcntioned art is
come to Cologne, &c." Mr. Dibdin, whose authority upon this
subject is the weightiest that could be possibly adduced, says,
" There is good reason to believe the chief facts relating to the
origin and progress of the art of printing (in this relation ) to be
correct ;" ' and concludes by saying that " the evidence of Ulric
Zell appears to be as honest as it is curious." It appears to us that
this viva-voce testimony of a cotemporary witness places the matter
beyond doubt. We have already sufficiently observed upon the
passage wherein mention is made of the idea of the art being de
rived from the Donatuses executed in Holland.
Trithemius, who was born in 1462, and died in 1516, mentions
the invention of the art of printing in several of his works ; but the
most important and the most detailed account is that which is found
in his Annates Monasterii Hirsaugensis, under the year 1440. We
should have made his testimony precede those already cited, but
that his work was not printed until the latter part of the seventeenth
century. His testimony is as follows :*
1 Bibl. Spencer. Vol. iii. p. 283-4. lG90.—"HistemporibusincivitateMogun-
1 Trithemii Annates Monasterii Hirsau- una Germanise prope Rhenum, et non in
gensis, fol. p. 109. typisMonast. St. Galli, Italia, ut quidem falso scripserunt, inventa
1G6
" At this time, in the city of Mentz on the Rhine in Germany,
and not in Italy, as some have erroneously written, that wonderful
and then unheard of art of printing and characterizing books was
invented and devised by John Gutenberger, a citizen of Mentz,
who having expended almost the whole of his property in the in
vention of this art, and on account of the difficulties which he ex
perienced on all sides, was about to abandon it altogether ; when
by the advice and through the means of John Fust, likewise a citizen
of Mentz, he succeeded in bringing it to perfection. At first they
formed (i.e. engraved) the characters or letters in written order on
blocks of wood, and in this manner they printed the Vocabulary call
ed a Catholicon. But with these forms (or blocks) they could print
nothing else, because the characters could not be transposed in these
tablets, but were engraved thereon, as we have said. To this inven
tion succeeded a more subtle one, for they found out the means of
casting the forms of all the letters of the alphabet, which they called
et excogitata est ars ilia mirabilis et prius
inaudita imprimendi et characterizandi li-
bros per Joannem Guttenberger, civera
Moguntinum, qui cum oiiinem pene sub-
stantiam suam pro inventione hujus artis
exposuisset, et nimia difficultate laborans,
jam in isto, jam in alio deficeret, jamque
prope esset, ut desperatus negotium inter-
mitteret, consilio tandem et impensis Jo-
annis Fust, aequo civis Moguntini, rem
perfecit incceptam. In primis igitur cha-
racteribus litteraruin in tabulis ligneis per
ordinem scriptis, formisque compositis,
Vocabularium, Catholicon nuncupatum,
impresserunt, sed cum iisdem formis nihil
aliud potuerant imprimere, eo quod cha-
racteres non fuerunt amovibiles de tabulis,
sed insculpti, sicut diximus. Post haec
inventis successerunt subtiliora, invene-
runtque moclum fundendi formas omnium
latine alphabet! literarum, quas ipsi ma
trices nominabant, ex quibus rursuui aeneos
sive stanneos characteres fundebant,ad om-
nem pressuram sufficientes, quo prius ma-
nibus sculpebant. Et revera sicuti ante
30 ferine annos ex ore Petri Opilionis
de Gernsheim, civis Moguntini, qui gener
erat primi artis inventoris, audivi magnam
a primo inventionis suae tempore ha;c ars
impressoria habuit difficuttatem. Impres-
suri namque Biblia, priusquam tertium
complesseret in opere quaternionem, plus-
quam 4000 florenorum exposuerunt. Pe-
trus autem memoratus Gpilio, tunc famu
lus, postea gener, sicut diximus inventoris
primi, Joannis Fust, homo ingeniosus &
prudens faciliorem modum fundendi cha
racteres excogitavit, & artem ut nunc est,
complevit. Et hi tres imprimendi modum
aliquandiu tenuerunt occultum, quousque
per famulos sine quorum ministcrio artcm
ipsam exercere non poterant, divulgatus
fuit, in Argentinenses primo, & paulatim
in oiniies nationcs."
167
matrices, from which again ihey cast characters of copper or tin of
sufficient hardness to resist the necessary pressure, which they had
before engraved by hand. And truly, as I learned thirty years since
from Peter Opilio (SchoefFer) de Gernsheim, citizen of Mentz, who
was the son in law of the first inventor of this art, great difficulties
were experienced after the first invention of this art of printing, for
in printing the Bible, before they had completed the third quaternion
(or gathering of four sheets) 4000 florins were expended. This
Peter SchoefFer, whom we have above mentioned, first servant and
afterward son-in-law to the first inventor John Fust, as we have said,
an ingenious and sagacious man, discovered the more easy method
of casting the types, and thus the art was reduced to the complete
state in which it now is. These three kept this method of printing
secret for some time, until it was divulged by some of their work
men, without whose aid this art could not have been exercised : it
was first developed at Strasbourg, and soon became known to other
nations. And thus much of the admirable and subtle art of print
ing may suffice— the first inventors were citizens of Mentz. These
three first inventors of printing (videlicet) John Gutenberger, John
Fust, and Peter SchoefFer his son-in-law, lived at Mentz, in the
house called Zum Jungen, which has ever since been called the
Printing Office/'
There is some obscurity in this account of Trithemius, particu
larly in the passage which relates to the first process by which types
were cast, and Meerman, who was an advocate for sculpto-fusile
types, or types of which the body was cast and the letter engraved,
supposes it to mean that this mode was first practised by Fust and
Gutenburg; this, however, is not a matter of much importance; it is
sufficiently clear in what is of more consequence, it fixes the
merit of the invention of typography tipon Gutenburg and Fust,
the perfection of moveable types it gives to SchoefFer, from whom
the information was derived ; this is direct, and conclusive cotern-
porary evidence. Trithemius completed his Annals in 1514, and,
as he says, he had the information from SchoefFer about thirty years
lt>8
before ; this brings us back to 1484, when Schoeffer, though advanced
in years, was still living, and Trithemius himself, who died in 1516,
was about twenty-two years old. The Annates Monasterii Hirsaugensis
were not printed until the year 1690, when they issued from the press
of the monastery of St. Gall. But it is somewhat remarkable that in
the colophon appended to another work of the same writer, the son
and successor of Peter Schoeffer has left his evidence, which though it
differs from the above relation, affords some additional particu
lars, which render it a highly valuable document; the book is,
" Trithemii Chronicon de Origine Regum Geiitis Francorum," and the
very curious colophon will be found accurately copied in the note.'
It is evidently a partial account, and the name of Gutenburg is
studiously omitted, at the same time that Fust is said to have
been the first inventor, and is called " artis primarii autoris."
In this brief Sketch it becomes necessary that we should confine
ourselves to the most important evidence alone ; we shall there
fore pass over the host of writers at the commencement of the six
teenth century,1 whose testimony is in favour of Mentz, for the
greater number of them had no other foundation for their vague
1 Imprcssum & completum est praescns
chronicarum opus anno Domini m d xv.
in vigilia Margaretse virginis, in nobili fa-
mosaquc urbe Moguntina, cujus artis im-
pressorias inventrice prima per Johannem
Schaffer nepotem quondam honesti viri
Johannis Fusth, civis Moguntini, memo-
ratse artis primarii auctoris. Qui tandem
imprimendi artem proprio genio excogi-
tare specularique coepit anno Dominic*
nativitatis M cccc L. indictione XIII. reg-
nante iliustrissimo Romanor. Imperatore
Frederico III. praesidente sanctae Mogun-
tinas sedi Reverendissimi in Christo Patre,
Domino Theodorico, Pincerna de Erbach
Principe Electore. Anno autem mcccclii.
perfecit deduxitque earn (divina favente
gratia) in opus imprimendi, opera tamen
&, multis necessariis adinventionibus Petri
Schofferi de Gernsheim ministri suique
filii adoptivi, cui etiam filiam suam Chris-
tinam Fusthen pro digna laborum mul-
tarumquc adinventionum remuneratione
nuptui dedit. Retinuerunt autem hi duo
jam praenominati Joannes Fusthen & Pe-
trus Schoffer hanc artem in secreto (omni
bus ministris ac familiaribus eoruui, ne
illam quoque modo manifestarent jureju-
rando adstrictis) quoad tandem anno Do
mini mcccclxii. per cosdem familiarcs
in diversas terrarum provincias divulgara
baud parvum sumpsit incrementum."
1 Heinecken says, " On pourra former
une Bibliotheque entiere de tousles Iivres
imprimes en Europejusqu'en 1560 qui par-
lent de 1'invention de la typographic par
Gutenberg, par Faust 8c par Schoeffer."*
Idee i;c. p. 279, in Note.
169
accounts than the evidence afforded by the Colophons of the first
printed books, occasionally assisted by tradition. We may however
just mention that Wimpheling,1 who died in 1508, says, that John
Gutenburg, after having invented printing at Strasburg in 1440,
went to Mentz, and there perfected the art, leaving John Mentelin
at Strasburg engaged in the prosecution of the same object. Sebas
tian \funster,1 in the earlier editions of his Cosmography, gives the
invention to Gutenburg alone, but in the later editions he asso
ciates with him John Fust and John Meydenbach. This is the sole
authority for making Meydenbach a coadjutor of Gutenburg, and
it must be confessed that it is doubtful evidence. If he really was
an associate of the first Mentz printers, it is most probable that his
department was that of Formschneider, or engraver on wood. A very
curious volume executed by him, or one of his name, at Mentz in
1491, now lies before us; it is entitled Ortus Sajiitatis, and com
prises five divisions, or treatises, viz. de Herbis, de Animalibus, de
Avibus, dePiscibus § de Lapidibus; it is replete with rude wood cuts
of plants, animals, &c. in many of which the human figure is intro
duced : they may be compared in point of style to the cuts in the
" Apocalypse," and the " Ars Manendi." To this work is appended
an unusually long colophon, part of which will be found in a note
beneath.' It may be remarked that he calls himself Jacobus impres-
1 Anno Christi 1440. Friderico III. Ro- est. Primus ejus auctor & inventor Joan-
manorum Imp. regnante, magnum quod- nes Gutenbergius, qui zum jungen dice-
dam, ac pene divinum beneficium,collatum batur, isque cives alios duos Moguntinos
est universo, lerrarum orbi, a Johanne Gu- adjutores habuit Joannem Faustum &
tenburg (ex ordine equestri) Argentinensi, Joannem Medenbachium, qui artem hanc
novo scribendi genere reperto. Is enim in secreto tenuerunt, famulis de ea non
primus impressoriam artem, quam Latini- propalanda jurejurando constrictis. Cos-
ores excusoriam vocant, in urbe Argenti- mographia, lib. III. cap. 180. Basil, 1559.
nensi invenitindeMoguntiam veniens ean- fol.
dem feliciter complevit. Rer. Germanicar. 3 omnia hec in hoc orto sanitatis
cap. 65. , hoc est pnti opere seu libro plenu reperies.
1 " Ab anno 1440 usque ad 1450 nobilis Quem quidem librum omni diligetia col-
imprimendi ars Moguntise reperta est, ea lectum & elaboratum. intelligibili caractere
Moguntia Coloniam, deinde Argentinam propriis impensis Jacobus meydenbach
& Basileam atque postea Venetias delata ciuis Moguntinus luculetissime impressit.
z
170
sor, and in speaking of the invention of printing at Mentz makes no
mention of having assisted or taken any part in the perfection of the
art. We should rather conjecture, notwithstanding Meydenbach calls
himself Impressor, that he had exercised the art of a Formschneider or
engraver on wood : the whole of the cuts in this book were intended
to be illuminated, as the colophon clearly points out, but in the copy
before us only a portion of them are rudely coloured.
It may further be remarked, that Fust and SchoefFer, in the sub
scriptions to the books printed by them, lay no claim to the inven
tion, but only to the perfection of the art. While the subscription to
the Catholicon, which is universally admitted to have been executed
by Gutenberg, is also silent on this head; but the modest formula in
which he has pointed out the novelty of the means by which it was
produced, attributing the honour to his country, and the glory to
God, has something in it of an eloquent sublimity, which fills us with
admiration of his character.
To resume in a few words; the most probable origin and pro
gress of the art may be thus deduced; tabular or block printing, ap
plied to the multiplication of figures of Saints, and playing cards,
appears to have been the first step, which, it is possible, may have
been derived from the East. Inscriptions under and upon these ob
jects of devotion, and subsequently a collection of these in the form
of a book, followed ; from thence was elicited the idea of multiplying
the Donatuses, or elementary books for children in the same manner.
These and the books of devotional figures, may have been first pro
duced in Holland, according to the testimony of Ulric Zell. Pre
vious to 1440 Gutenburg had conceived at Strasburg the idea of
sumaq; adhibuit diligentiam. operaq; max- Impressum est autem hoc ipin in inclita
ima vt singule herbe ac singuli flores. suos ciuitate Moguntina. que ab antiquis aurea
naturales colores. ac anialia ipsa, volucres. Moguntia dicta, ac a magis id est sapien-
pisces deniq; & alia in hoc preclarissimo tibus vt ferlur priinitus f'undata. in qua
ope descripta. sues sicuti eas natura pro- nobilissima ciuitate & ars ac scientia hec
duxit haberet effigies & figuras. Hoc subtilissima caracterizandi seu imprimendi
modo lectitanti prodesse ac intuentem ob- fuit pritnu inuenta." &c.
lectare impressor ipse Jacobus voluit.
171
printing with moveable types, and it is most likely his first essays
were with engraved wooden characters, to which he subsequently
may have substituted engraved characters of metal ; to these suc
ceeded, probably after his removal to Mentz, cast metal types pro
duced from moulds in an imperfect manner, compared with that
which was subsequently invented by Schoeffer, and to which he lays
claim. These it is true are not positive facts, but deductions from
existing evidence much more probable than the conjectural and
incongruous traditions in favour of other persons, and other coun
tries. Such at least are the impressions made upon our minds by
an attentive perusal of all that has been written upon the subject,
and confirmed by examination of the most important monuments
of early typography which have come down to us; such also we
trust will be the impression upon the minds of our readers, if we have
been sufficiently explicit ; but as the subject is only incidental, we
have been constrained to omit much which might have been urged,
in further confirmation of the claims of Gutenburg to be considered
the Inventor of Printing.
To return to the art of engraving on wood, and the earliest ex
isting specimens of it.—Although we have given credit to Papillon's
account of the Cunio family and their work, this at present remains
an insulated instance of the exercise of the art at so early a period ;
and it is still a desideratum that some discovery may bring us ac
quainted with other xylographic productions of Italian artists, which
may connect this solitary instance with the next century.
Indeed, with regard to existing specimens, the Germans must
be confessed to possess better evidence of the early exercise of the
art than the Italians have hitherto produced, for we must still consi
der the wood cuts of St. Christopher, and the Annunciation, as
productions of German artists, until we have more certain proof
of their having been produced in Italy than what is afforded by the
style of design. Besides that the great number of early dateless
specimens, which are indisputably productions of Germany, af
forded by the curious collection of Bekker before cited, would be suf
z 2
172
ficient to shew that the Germans were more assiduous in the practice
and cultivation of this art than their neighbours, who have few if
any specimens of the same kind to oppose to them.
One of the most curious, and to us one of the most important,
specimens of early German xylography, is the very curious pack of
cards, engraved on wood in outline in a rude manner, the whole of
which we have caused to be copied, to accompany this work : as
they have already been the subject of a Dissertation, b}' that emi
nent antiquary, Mr. Gough, we shall lay before the reader his ac
count of them.
" Dr. Stukeley exhibited to the Society of Antiquaries, Nov. 9»
1763, drawings of a complete pack of cards, copied from the paste
board cover of an old book made up of several layers of cards.
These were purchased at the sale of the Doctor's coins, May 15,
1766, by Mr. Tutet, a worthy member of this Society, who bound
them up in his neat and careful manner in two volumes, inserting
in the first leaf of the first volume the following account of them.
* The ancient cards in this volume with others (duplicates) and the
drawings in the second volume were purchased by me out of the
collection of Dr. Stukeley. The drawings were produced by the
Doctor November 9> 1763, to the Society of Antiquaries, observing
that the cards had been given him by Thomas Rawlinson, Esq. be
ing two pieces of the cover of an old book supposed to be Claudian,
printed before 1500, and that there was a leaf or two of Erasmus's
Adages pasted between the layers of the cards, which being laid
stratum super stratum, composed two pasteboards, and made the
cover of the book. The Doctor took the pains to separate the cards,
out of which I have chosen a complete pack, and the better to pre
serve so singular a curiosity, have had it bound together with the
abovementioned drawings and some French cards. It is observable
in these antient cards that there are no aces nor queens, but instead
of the latter are knights On the antiquity of playing cards see
Recherches historiques sur les cartes a jouer by Bullet, who thinks
they were not invented before the latter end of the XIV century;
II.
III.
VII.
VIII.
173
see also the IdSe generate d'une Collection complette d'Estampes.
M. C. TV
" Upon Mr. Tutet's death I purchased these two volumes at his
sale, and having so long ago as April 1775 communicated some
observations on the subject to this Society, who were then pleased to
order them to be inserted in their Archaeologia, I withheld them till
I could enlarge my observations with new lights, or till some abler
hand had taken up the subject. It has been touched on, but not
investigated to that extent which it appears capable of, in three
Memoirs preceding this; in one of which reference is made to Mr.
Tutet's cards, and they are, I know not by what accident, repre
sented as farfrom complete, and therefore little could be inferredfrom
them. I have therefore been induced to resume this subject, and to
add to former remarks those of foreign writers who have almost ex-
hausted it. And this must serve as an apology for so large a detail
of their ideas.
" The original cards Dr. Stukeley deemed much more antient than
the French account of their invention and use among them. They
consisted of four different suits as the modern ones do, but had nei
ther ace nor queen. The king, knight, and knave made the court
cards ; on every duce was the card-maker's arms, two cross mallets,
with which he supposes they stamped the cards. Whereas the first
French cards which were in Charles the Sixth's time were drawn and
coloured by hand, and thence called Tabella, or Pagellce pictce.
" The suits were composed of bells, hearts, leaves, and acorns.
These the Doctor conceived represented the four several orders of
men among us The bells are such as were usually tied to hawks,
and denoted the Nobility, who generally rode with a hawk on their
hand as a mark of their quality. In the tapestry of Bayeux, Harold
is twice represented thus, carrying a copy of Edward the Confes
sor's will to the Norman duke.
" By hearts, he says, are denoted Ecclesiastics. In the room of
these the Spanish cards have copas or chalices, as more symbolical
of the order. The first hint of hearts seem to have been taken from
174
some scriptural expressions ; " a heart of unbelief," " with the heart
man believeth," &c. Methinks this is full as ingenious as the deri
vation from chceur, because priests are always in the choir.
" The leaves allude to the Gentry, who possess lands, manors,
woods, parks, &c.
** The acorns signify the Peasants, woodmen, forresters, hunters,
and farmers.
" On the duce of acorns besides the cardmakers arms is what the
Doctor calls a white hart couchant. From this circumstance he in
fers the boasted antiquity of these cards; it being the known badge
of our king Richard II. On the back of the curious picture of this
prince at Wilton (one of the earliest paintings in oil-colours we are
acquainted with), painted by Van Eyk, and afterwards engraved
by Hollar, is the white hart couchant in the same attitude as on this
card. Our cards are therefore so far from being an imitation of the
French, that there seems reason to think the invention our own and
of much older date.
" The knave of acorns holds a cross-bow wherewith they used to
shoot deer."
" Upon this paper of Dr. Stukeley I beg leave to make some
observations.
" The Doctor in supposing that cards made in the reign of Ri
chard II. prove the " invention our own and of much older date"
than that in France, forgot that Charles VI. of France, and our Ri
chard II. were contemporaries. So that allowing cards were abso
lutely first invented in France to amuse the French king after he had
fallen into a melancholy habit (for his disorder amounted to nothing
more than incapacity for business and affairs of state, not to mis*
chievous frenzy) which was not till about 1391 or 1392, the priority
among us (if indeed such priority existed) could not have been
above twelve years : for Richard's reign began 1377 and ended 1399,
and between the invention of cards in France and the deposal of
Richard, there was time enough to introduce this game into the
175
court of a dissipated luxurious young monarch, and even to improve
upon the manner of making the cards.
" Most unfortunately for his conjecture the beast on the duce of
acorns appears more like an unicorn than a hart. I have however
caused it to be here copied. But admitting it to be an hart, as it
will be clearly made out that these cards are Spanish and not English,
it must pass for one of the ferce natures that haunt the woods
of oaks." *
1
It will be evident that these cards, as they bear the German suits,
have been the production of a German Cardmaker, and we are
surprised that Mr. Gough should have called them Spanish, when
in the sequel of his paper he has shewn that the Spanish cards are
essentially different : from their general appearance they may claim
to be considered as productions of at least an early part of the fif
teenth century. They are designed rudely, and coloured with much
simplicity, by means of stensil plates, as almost all the early speci-
1 Archsologia, vol. 8. pp. 152 et seq.
176
cimens of this art, with which we are acquainted, also appear to have
been. The edition of Claudian, from the cover of which they were
taken, was dated before 1500; the binding, it should appear, was
the original one, but the date of it could not have been anterior to
1500, as no edition of Erasmus's Adages was executed prior to
that year.
It may be presumed that the cards of which the pasteboard was
formed, are of much earlier date, for we may conclude that they
were such as had been some time in use for the purpose of playing
with, and were not applied to the formation of pasteboard, until
they were rendered unfit for their former use, by having become
soiled or worn. The covers of books have of late been a fertile
source of typographical and xylographical discoveries. The atten
tion of those who have the care and custody of old libraries has been
particularly called to the examination of them,' and in consequence
many curious fragments have been rescued from entire oblivion.
These curious cards may with safety be placed among the earliest
known specimens, at least we can say that none we have seen ap
pear to have so high a claim to precedence; they are just what it
might have been imagined the earliest printed cards would be, rude
outlines, daubed over with one or two simple colours; those used in
the present instance, appear to have been red and green. The dress
and character of the figured cards sufficiently demonstrate that ihey
are a production of the fifteenth century; it is not impossible that
they may belong to the earlier part of it. Heinecken1 found in the
library of the Stadt House at Ulm, an old manuscript chronicle of
that city, finished in 1474, under the rubric of which was written
the following memorandum. " Playing cards were sent in large
bales into Italy, Sicily, and other parts, by sea, getting in exchange
spices and other merchandize. By this it may be seen how numerous
the Cardmakers and Painters dwelling here must have been."
• By the learned Oberlin, in a letter published in the Magazin Encyclopedique for
1803, torn. vii. p. 16.
1 Heinecken, Idee Generale, p. 244.
177
The eye accustomed to examine the xylographic productions of
the fifteenth century, will readily find sufficient proof in the appear
ance of these cards to demonstrate the period to which they belong.
The complete pack consists of forty-eight, nine numerical cards,
and King, Knave, Knight, in each suit, the aces being omitted.
It may be as well here to observe, that the cap and dress of the
Knave in the above card bears a strong resemblance to that of
Abner in the 18th cut of the Speculum.
In Germany the workmen employed to cut or engrave blocks
for purposes of impression, were called Formschiieiders, and were
distinguished as a kind of corporation or body to themselves, and
in the very spirited Book of Trades,1 engraved on wood from the
1 The first edition appears to have been continent, Sfc. Jost Ammon was born at
published at Frankfort in 1564, 4to. with Zuric in 1539; his engravings on wood
German verses beneath each cut; and an- are very numerous, living at a time when
other edition with descriptions in Latin it was the fashion to decorate almost every
verse by Hartman Schopper appeared in book with wood cuts; he was much em-
the year 1568, in 12mo. under the title of ployed by the booksellers, particularly by
IIANOnAlA Omnium illiberalium mechani- Feyrabend at Frankfort on the Main : we
carum aut sedentariarum artium genera shall shortly have occasion to present the
2 A
178
The number, the perfection, and beauty of the productions of
the xylographic art throughout the whole course of the sixteenth
century, sufficiently mark the esteem in which it was held. The
same curious and beautiful little volume also affords us a represen
tation of the Briefmahler or painter of cards and images, which does
not possess less interest than that of the wood cutter; and here we
have direct proof of the means used to colour cards and wood cuts :
the artist is using a stensil plate and broad flat brush, by which
means his operation was much shortened. Several pots of colour,
reader with some beautiful specimens of a
pack of cards executed by him. Ammon
died at Nuremburgin 1591, his portrait is
in Fuessli's Lives of the Painters. It has
been said, and with some degree of pro
bability, that the representation of the
Formschneider above is the portrait of the
artist himself. Under it are the following
verses.
Eximias Regum species hominumque Deumque
Omnia Phidiaca corpora sculpo maim.
Dcnique Pictoriis quicquid manus aemula ducit,
Id digiti possunt arte pnlire mei.
Effigies Regum ligno servata vel sere,
Innumeros vivit post sua fata dies.
Dives & xternis par ilia deabus habetur,
Quae caelo fuerit nobilitata meo.
Nanque senescentis videt omnia secula mundi,
Vt Dominant talem charta loquatur anus.
179
and more brushes of the same form with that he is using, lie on the
chest by his side,'
We will here transcribe Breitkopf's account of the process used by
the Briefmahlers. " Their method (says he) of enlivening their wood
cuts with colours, and thus imitating the original painting or drawing,
was extremely simple. It was not done singly, figure by figure, and
stroke by stroke, with small pencils : but the whole sheet was covered
at once with colour, by means of large flat brushes. They took paste
board, pasted the impression of their print upon it, and cut out all the
parts of it which were to receive the same colour. Thus they formed
as many pierced pieces of pasteboard, called Patronen (stensils) as
there were colours in the painting or design. The colours perfected
the picture, and supplied the forms of many parts which were not
expressed by the lines of the wood cut." " This method of colour
ing prints was also effected by means of a large round stiff long-
1 This cut is called 3|Uumi'nator 3|nta=
gl tUIUl. Briefmahler. And is accompa
nied by the following verses.
Effigies variis distiiiguo coloribus omnes,
Quas habitu pietor simpliciore dedit.
Hie me peniculus iuvat ofliciosus in omni
Parte, meumque vagis vestibus ornat opus.
Cuique suum tribuo quem debet habere colorem,
Materiis cultus omnibus addo suos.
Vtimur argenti, radiantis & utimur auri
Munere, cum rerum postulat ordo vices.
Omnibus his furias pictoribus imprecor omnes.
Qui bene nec pingunt, nec vigilanter agunt.
2 a 2
180
haired brush. The colour being poured on a wooden trencher, and
the brush moderately filled with it; the stensil or Patrone was laid
over the print to be coloured, and the brush passed over all the
pierced parts of it, by which means the print was charged with co
lour in all those parts. The process was so rapid, that even now
when they speak of dispatch in works of art, in Suabia and other
places where the business of Briefmahler was exercised, they talk of
painting all the twelve apostles at one stroke."' This expression also
manifests that it was not uncommon to have the twelve apostles, or
a number of saints, &c. engraved on one block, and printed on one
sheet; it was also the case with regard to playing cards, which
were converted into books of moral instruction, as the following
instances will manifest. In the Bibliotheca Universalis of Conrad
Gesner, under the article de ludis, mention is made of cards with
sentences from the ancient poets; of others, with French verses, and
with sentences from the bible in German, as being sold by Wechel
at Paris. The beautiful pack of cards, engraved by Jost Amnion,
of which the succeeding pages afford specimens, is accompanied by
moral distichs in Latin and German, and were published in the
form of a small volume in 4to. as well as for the purpose of playing
cards. Their moral intention was apparently to inculcate the ad
vantages of Industry and Learning over Idleness and Drunkenness.
The subjects are for the most part treated humourously; the four
suits are books, printers balls, wine pots, and drinking cups. We
shall give a brief description of the subject on each card, and pro
ceed to present the reader with fac-similes of some of the most in
teresting cards of each suit, beginning with that of books, emblema
tical of learning, the deuce of which suit contains the following spi-
1 Breitkopj undRochUrsprung der Holz- arum: & alia; cum rythmis Gallicis: &
shniedekunst. Th. II. p. 161. This phrase alias in Germania cum sententiis Biblicis
is passed into a kind of proverb ; " Alle lingua vernacula.
zwolf Apostel auf einen Strich Mahlen." Pandectarum site partitionum universa-
2 Chartas Lusorite variis in locis im- Hum Conradi Gesiteri. Tiguri, 1548,
presse, elegantissime aut Parisiis apud folio, de Grammatica Titulus XII.
Wcchelium cum sententiis veterum poet- Art. de ludis. p. 17.
181
rited representation of the ancient Bookbinder, accompanied by
Latin and German verses of H. S. de Gustrou.*
Duin compingendis libris Phoebciam iuto
Castra, sacri merito pars Heliconis ero
Parvula fastidire cave : nam gratia magna
Exiguis rebus saepe subesse solet.
Wzil ity Dten Den fiunaten trzy
flipit TBurtjer btn&tn manc^erlep,
l^off t$ man toett) mid? jsciiat?eii gletefc
tin d3ltcdlcm in orgs pbotbt IHctcl),
l£ut trick tcrac^t ntcfjt gdjlecfcteg Ding,
§>cfjatD hot toajs eg fitr nut?ung bring.
1 De Murr, in his " Bibliotheque de
Peinture, de Sculpture, et de Gravure,
Francfort, 1770, \2mo. V. 2. p. 470,
mentions them among the works of Jost
Ammon thus, " Charta Lusoria tetras-
tichis illustrataper Janum Heinricum Scro-
terum de Gustrou Noriberga, 1588, 4to."
It seems however probable that thev had
182
The Trey of Books exhibits the following whimsical and hu
mourous representation of the wolf turned schoolmaster.
Quanta cuculligero pietas Lupo, amorque fidelis,
Ansi ris in sobolem sit, tabula ista docet.
Dii tibi flammam anima firment, Lupe, relligionis
Ni titulo, simulans mella, venena paras.
Cftte ttetpltrt) ess Dcr snolff tftut memett
Q9tt Dteen <0anscu gro00 bn& ftlctncn,
J&agjselb letcfctltclj em jeuttman,
Slug* Dijscr tftgur mcrcfictt fiau,
M tounjscli Dtv ?toar ?u 0olctien Dtngen
d$lucfr, Iteber ftHolff, ^dr abet 0tngen,
?^a0!5 du bitter Her (Potts forest 0ci}cw,
'Betfiiljrist Die armen d&angelem.
been some time used as playing cards be- the ace of printers balls, so that he was
fore they were thus collected together in a most probably the publisher. It has been
volume, and accompanied by metrical in- already mentioned that Jost Ammon was
scriptions, and Sigismund Feyrabend's principally employed in decorating books
name occurs in the German verses under printed by him.
183
The four is a representation of a Bibliomaniac at his desk : this
subject, taken from the Navis Stultifera of Sebastian Brandt, is
already familiar to the reader, having been introduced to his notice
in Mr. Dibdin's Bibliomania. He will not however object to being
furnished with another portrait of this " first foole of all the whole
navie." The Poetical expositor has not clearly understood what the
following cut was intended for, his verses only refer to the vanity of
particular studies. In this cut we have omitted the upper part, as
it is a mere repetition of the same objects somewhat differently
grouped, and the two specimens above, sufficiently shew the inge
nious manner in which they are arranged.
The verses which accompany our Bibliomaniac are as follows.
Sicne animi dubius per noctes plurima volvens
Perque dies, mentem dividis usque tuam
Dum trino unitum rimaris nomine Numen?
Cede : hominum mens hie nil operosa valet.
?&amtt du mugtf; auj«j grimDen fre?
tolas €tott£ anfang, ttjtm, toejsen m,
fl©it fetlen grtUen, ssorg fctiD Mag.
$lag$t Du Dem Ijert? bcpD nacljt btiD tag,
Lass ab, tjie tjst Dew toit? fctti) fiunjst,
$te tj3t all Dem fcermmfft bmb mmt
184
The Jive of books represents a ludicrous but somewhat indelicate
subject : a drunken pedlar has set down a basket of hornbooks and
breviaries, which an ape is busily emptying, two other apes are
tormenting the poor devil as he lies on the ground; the verses ex
press the advantages of sobriety, and the disadvantages—of'the op
posite vice.
The six represents a lover playing on the lute to his mistress; the
verses imply that " Music is the food of Love."
The seven is an emblem of music : a lady, or modern Saint Ce
cilia, is playing on the organ, of which a youth at the back is
blowing the bellows. The verses are in praise of music.
The eight displays a lover and his mistress singing madrigals.
The verses are also in praise of vocal music.
The nine has some interest, as representing a lady playing on the
virginals, an instrument now forgotten.
CZdetl tct) mem fcert?, toelcfyai olwe fill
fiJon arbett mat, erget?en tmll
£pt meim d&egang, toerD icij, Ijab acljt
Zu rucfi bott etm barren berlacljt.
Mn Da bersipott Her Qfrum gsang,
©er bleibt em #arr gem lebenlang.
The ludicrous attitude of the fool in the back ground will not
escape the attention of those who are interested in representations
of this singular appendage to the household of persons of distinction
in ancient times.
185
The tens in this pack appear to hold the place of the Queen in
other European cards, they each have a lady upon them richly ha
bited, and the value of the card is indicated by the Roman numeral
X on a scroll in the corner.
The Knave or Untermann is a valet or page with a sword in his
left hand. ' .
The Knight or Obermann, a gentleman with a sword by his side,
a cap with feathers in his left hand, and a book in his right,
The King is on horseback, the horse richly caparisoned, and
bears in his right hand a book, in his left a sceptre.
In our haste to give the reader specimens of this beautiful pack
of Cards, we had nearly omitted the ace of books. It has, however,
nothing very remarkable, being only a large book laid open, and
surrounded by foliage. This notice of it is here inserted that the
description of the pack may be complete.
The Ace of Printers' Balls has on it a shield with arms, probably
those of some German city, as Nuremberg, or Francfort. Under
this card are the following Latin and German verses, in the latter of
which Sigismund Feyrabend's name is mentioned : they are here
transcribed.
Triptolemus veluti mundi olim sparsit in usus,
Faecunda frugum semina dia manu :
Arte typographica sic secla futura secundat,
Cujus in hac tabula signa decora nitent.
d&letcfe Metier Criptolemug fcat,
fllptt UXaitnn ftorn una aller ^at.
c&tftltc^ tagamet Die gan?e Welt,
J&auon gte sttclj noc^ jet? etljelt
aisto mtm mtt ftimjsttettfjer $anD,
Oil eMet fcungt twrclj alle JLana,
£>tgmunut iffc^rabertD tioeit gepretftt.
ttUel$0 happen Dtee Cafel toefct.
2 B
186
The deuce of this suit contains the following spirited representa
tion of an ancient press, with the mode of operating : it is accom
panied by the subjoined verses.
Vestra quod, 6 Superi, nunquam peritura per orbem
Fama volat, nostri est munus id auspicii, .
Premia quin dabitis nostro bene digna labore,
Divitias Juno, Bacche benigne Me rum ?
2£ajai0 etor nam toett imb brett ofcn ?afcl
Ctfiennt, gelobt tootrut uberall,
$abt ft, jr d&otter algemew,
%\x Dancfcen bnsrcr fcungt allem
marumb tnolt \\yc Dann vm nictjt gcbcit
mm tout, bua tbltn ^aft ton iReben i
187
The trey affords us the following interesting group, which is
singularly appropriate to the subject of the present work, accompa
nied by the following lines.
Sum tua, vicisti, vitae 6 mihi dulce levamen
Sit tibi cura mei, Sit mihi cura tui.
O suave imperium, vel nectare dulcius, unum
In geminis ubi cor, mens amor & studium.
ijasst getoomten eoler $ore,
3Icij tottt nun oem mn tyc uno Doit*
2$a Icbct dSott, too ^ann bn& aHeib
^tiocn men^en getn, em £>eel, em letb.
b b2
188
The four represents two porters carrying between them, on a
porter's horse, a bale of paper surmounted by a tall wine pot. The
Latin verses, as they are a panegyric of the typographic art, are
subjoined.
Quos prisci quondam longo scripsere labore,
Dant sere impressos secula nostra libros.
Et dubitabis adhuc mirari Teutonis artes ?
Sed velut ars crescit, crescit ita heu odium.
The Jive exhibits a gay scene: a lover gaily drest, his arm
round his mistress, skipping to the sound of the pipe and tabor,
which is played by a characteristic figure to his right.
The six, though gross, is a very humourous representation. It
is the immersion of a fool into a tub of water, as a corrective for
his amorous propensities ; this is effected by a sturdy wench in a
state of nudity, who under pretext of bestowing on him her ca
resses, has invited him to seat himself on the brink of the vessel,
and is precipitating him into it by main force.
The seven exhibits a quarrelsome couple ; the lady looks like a
determined shrew, and the husband is in the act of threatening
wholesome correction with a stout cudgel. The verses, both Latin
and German, inculcate the maxim, that there is no greater curse
than a bad wife.
Nulla uxore mala res est deterior, ausu
Quae superat pestem, & nigra aconita, suo.
Desine, fuste malum qui pellere niteris, uno
Pulso, bis quinis panditur hospitium.
The eight represents a woman busily engaged purchasing a fowl
and eggs of a huckster, who is seated, and engaging her attention
by every means in his power, while an accomplice behind her is
detaching the woman's purse from her girdle.
189
The nine presents us with a group of soldiers, two of whom are
disputing over a division of spoil by lot, the other with his arque-
buss on his shoulder is standing centry. We shall transcribe both
the Latin and German verses.
Et qua sors nobis tribuit spolia inclita ab auro,
Parte dicata tibi, parte dicata mihi.
Alea nos doceat, cui cedant omnia, quid si
Perdidero ? veniunt vt bona, sic pereunt.
Ctlctl un0 W glucft cm 15zutt vztify
asegctjeret $at, 00 tocr fern gletclj
^otttt nut etnan&et tfjeiUen, ?tx>at;
Wtv mew me^nung gant? una gar,
IBtr jspteltcu mtt ?toe? Odurffeln Drem,
Ztttt eg 0olt fcaben gar allctir.
Wznn tcl# tev&pitl, toag gert baran ?
Iciest ubcrftommcn, leic^t bertyatt.
The ten as before ; a lady in a rich habit, with a printer's ball
in her hand.
The Knave; a soldier resting on his firelock.
The Knight in a rich habit, with a spear staff in his hand.
The King, on horseback, in rich habiliments, his sceptre in one
hand and the suit in the other. The verses on these three last cards
laudatory of the art of printing.
190
On the ace of wine pots we have the following spirited repre
sentation of the vintage.
Divinum vinum donum est ; sed ut ebrius Aethnam
Impleat ardentem, vina venena facit.
Qui sapias, ingluviem fugias : nam pocula pleno
Jejunoque simul noxia damna ferunt.
ti&ottg sab t$t Klein, tma nutans til
3&em flEcnscljen brtngt o\)\\ masfc tmD ;tll:
€in toiler Eapff dSottg dPaben gut
?©en I2Ietn in gifft berfteljren fl&ut.
CUttetu fur fclug genaltcn 0eut,
tfleucty tfullerev, bnD trincft Den Witxn
Q&tmtiLxtf), j®aim Die truncficnljeit
aollcn bnb Ictjvcu sctjaaen gett.
The deuce of wine pots; a rustic couple dancing with all the
hilarity produced by a cup of good wine.
The trey ; a man and his wife at dinner. The man has his bottle
and drinking horn in his hand, and is sleeping: the wife is taking
a deep draught from a tankard; a dog in front is seizing a capon
from the table, and bearing it away in his mouth.
The four; a drunken couple, the husband belabouring his Xan-
tippe, who holds him hard by the hair, to prevent herself from quite
reaching the ground ; she is in the act of falling. The verses in
culcate the necessity of proper discipline in families.
The Jive; Bacchus mounted on a tub, a satyr piping with his
companion a goat, a peasant with a basket of grapes at his back
making an offering of his favourite fruit to the jolly god.
The six represents the subjoined spirited little design of a game
at backgammon.
Et quia sors varios in vita perficit actus ;
Sorte volunt juvenes ludere, forte senes.
Illo e more tibi vitra haec sic defero, perdens
Vt bibat, & damni lucra benigna ferat.
The early German artists seem to have been best pleased with
humourous subjects, they are much more frequently treated by them
than by the Italians; those who are conversant with the productions
of the graphic art in the sixteenth century will readily subscribe to
192
this remark; Jost Amnion indeed seems to have been most emi
nently successful in treating them. The fool, who takes so promi
nent a place in the dramas of our Great Dramatic Bard, seems to
have been a particular favourite also with this artist. The following
humourous little vignette is on the seven of wine pots in this beauti
ful pack of cards.
Fingis amicitiam, Felis, lususquc, jocosque,
Fauci bus aftectans fercula nostra tuis :
Frustra assentaris, Cate, nobis : i pete Regum,
I pete magnorum tecta superba Ducum.
fluff Dasfc du mbgst Den prateu mem
^erreijsjsen nut Den ?eenen Detu,
frcunDltcli Du Diet) ?u mtr, gcscllst
fluent fcat?elem : jfiirtoar Du jstcilgft
?&te fucfys jstfjtcant? Dem fcergebltcfc an
T3e? etm barren : patb Dtc^ tynDan,
d5ro0!8cn fcerrn getuD jfucijjs 0cfjtoant?er Iteb,
£>re&len Docl? me^r alg anDer 5Eneto.
The eight and nine are instances of elegant arrangement of the
objects which represent the suits ; the eight is a kind of grotesque
mandrake, the wine pots spring from it as branches, a panther is at
the root; in the nine, it is a vine which springs from one of the pots,
the rest are arranged on its branches, a bird is in the centre.
193
The ten, as in the other suits, is a female richly dressed, with a
wine pot in her hand.
The Knave is the following spirited representation of the Lands
Knechte; it will serve as an example of the masterly and dashing
style in which the larger figures on these cards are executed.
Et tua castra sequor multos jam Bacche per annos,
Quae tandem famulo dona parata tuo ?
Pauperiem innumeros morbos, mortemque perennem,
Strenuus haec noster praemia miles habet.
&it tyab icft €Dler I5ac^e nun
Mil 3]ar geutent, G2£Ja$ tjat mem lolm?
armut, ftrancftfcett, una Cone* pent,
£>eo tc$ Den ttetnen j^tenent mem.
The Knight, as in the former cases, represents a nobleman, but
with a wine pot in his hand.
2 c
194
The King on horseback, as before, but less richly habited, his
steed and his coronet decorated with vine leaves, his sceptre in one
hand, and a wine pot in the other.
The ace of drinking cups is supported by two goldsmiths, one
shoulders the crucible tongs, the other the forge bellows.
On the deuce of this suit we have the following very elaborate
and interesting cut, which required much skill in the Formschneider,
and is equally creditable to the designer. It is here copied with
much spirit and accuracy by the same ingenious artist we have
already had occasion to mention, Mr. E. Byfield.
Ut quondam Amphion fera traxit carmine saxa
Grata movens homini gaudia, grata Deo :
Haud aliter facimus. Tu vivas moestus in aevum,
Munera qui spernis nostra, Melancholice.
195
We subjoin the German verses on this card : they appear to be
a free version of the Latin.
fl!n& gleicij toie mit Des lichen gem,
gmp^ion gut Die fatten ^>tem
XetDegen tyet, unD ?tt ii>m ?og5
(0rfreH)et au$ Die hotter i^ortj:
aijso tijtm toir mit btusetm ©gang :
OBleib du tratorig Dein leibenlang,
&>zv du tinker fining je bttDje,
CJeracljt ejst fl^elancolice.
The trey presents us with the separation of a lover and his mis
tress; he is on horseback, and she is weeping bitterly, and is sup
posed to address him in the following strain :
Dumte suspiro, dum te desidero solum,
Tecum dulce putans vivere, dulce mori,
Spemque metumque inter miseram me deseris : heu quam
Quod juvat in terris, vel breve, vel nihil est.
We had omitted to notice that the set of these cards, which
we here describe, have been formed from one of the little books
before mentioned ; the accompanying verses are pasted on the backs
of the cards. Notwithstanding the numerous impressions which it
is most likely were taken off, copies of this little book, or complete
packs of the cards, are at the present day of the utmost rarity, even
in Germany. We were assured by the parties from whom the pre
sent set were obtained, that another complete copy would with dif
ficulty be found, even in the most celebrated collections in that
country. Single cards of various packs are to be found in the ca
binets of some curious collectors, but we know not of any other
complete set of these decorated cards in this country.
c c 2
196
Thefour has a love scene of a different nature : the singularity
of the fountain, the water spouting from the ears of the fool's cap,
need not be pointed out.
Dum lasciva procum Phyllis scrmone fatigat,
Fercula quae, portat, dat male cauta cani :
Sic nos, dum turpi venamur gaudia luxu,
Flebile post tergum devorat exitium.
dSleicb tote Diss lOunDlcm bnbcttJctnT,
flHetl Iteb bnD licb bet etnanDet gtefcn
CJnD fturt?tDeil jsucben bnerlaubt,
3£te ftbcljm in itytt $>ptw$ beraubt :
^otbut aucb bn0, tortl toir, mercbt cbn,
CJnaer Saturn bnD gant?e$ lebn
auff toolluat get? en, Innnerucfc
plot?ltctj ber?ern Dais bnglucfc.
197
Thefae; two sturdy combatants attacking each other with the
broad sword, two quarter staves lie at their feet with the sheaths of
their weapons.
The six; a huntsman with a spear and two couple of hounds.
This is a very spirited cut.
The seven is interesting, as being a representation of that impor
tant personage, a cook : he is surrounded by the implements of his
profession. There is a repetition of this subject in the Book of
Trades by our artist.
The eight; two monkies, the one drinking, the other, a deformed
monster, eating fruit.
The nine represents the well known fable of the wolf and the
stork. This card has the artist's mark, i a, on a tablet in the
middle.
The ten is a lady richly habited, as before.
The Knave ; another Lands hiechte armed with a large pole axe,
a tremendous long sword, and a dagger; his back is towards the
spectator.
The Knight; an artist with a pallet, maulstick, and pencils, a
drinking cup in his right hand.
The King ; a Turkish sultan on a richly caparisoned horse.
Dull as a mere catalogue of cards may appear, it was deemed
proper to give a brief account of the whole of this very rare and
curious pack in this place, as they have entirely escaped the notice
of Mr. Bartsch,' of whom it is the opinion, that Jost Ammon never
engraved on wood, but merely furnished the designs for some other
Formschneider ; this assertion he grounds upon the circumstance of
some of the wood cuts after his designs having the monogram or
mark of the engraver, as well as that of the designer. Jost Ammon
is said to have applied himself to painting in oil, painting on glass,
designing for book prints, and engraving on copper, which last art
he exercised with considerable skill. His application appears to have
1 Peintre Geaveur, Tom. ix. p. 351. et seq. where a copious, but incomplete,
list of his works will be found.
198
been astonishing. Sandrart relates, upon the authority of his pupil,
George Keller, that during the four years he lived with him, he had
produced designs enough to have loaded a waggon. The spirit of
the designs in his Book of Trades, and on these cards, is perhaps
not exceeded by any wood cuts of the same period, when numbers
of excellent artists flourished, and the quantity of engravings execu
ted both on wood and on copper is almost beyond belief.
The number, the variety, and beauty of these decorated cards
manifest that they were very much in request in the sixteenth cen
tury, but they appear to have been peculiar to Germany, France,
and the Low Countries; at least no Italian cards of this kind have
come under our notice. The earliest Trappola cards engraved on
wood, which we have seen, is part of two or three packs in the col
lection of Mr. Douce, of which we have given specimens in the
Plate of Trappola Cards. They were taken from the covers of a
book, like the early German pack before described, but are pro
bably not of earlier dale than the middle of the sixteenth century.
The manner in which they are formed is by pasting together three
pieces of paper : the two outer pieces forming the back and front of
the card are printed, the one with the suit or device, the other with
a kind of ornamental figure and the word iesi. which we presume
intimates the city of that name where they were manufactured ; in
deed the ace of Dcnari has a kind of legend round the piece of
money represented on it, in which the word occurs again, thus, iesi
fece*** antonio Za****; but the whole of the inscription is so
much obliterated by the colouring of the card, that it is with some
difficulty we have deciphered part of it, the rest is entirely illegible.
The printed back of the card was left wider than the other two
pieces of which it is formed, and the edges of it folded over upon
the front, and when pasted down formed a kind of border: as there
are parts of at least three packs, and among them several duplicates,
we find that the ornaments on the backs of these cards were varied
at the caprice of the card-maker. One of the devices we have here
copied. Another of them has a figure of Neptune, and still be-
199
neath the word iesi. but the majority of them have a kind of spot
ted figure, somewhat resembling the printed papers used by trunk-
makers to line their boxes.
These cards all of them betray their having been much used at
play, previous to their application to the formation of pasteboard;
and one of the figured cards of the suit of cups has been lost in one
of the packs, and its place supplied by a numerical card of the
same suit, upon which is written in an old hand the word Cavallo.
The pack in this instance appears to have consisted of forty-eight
cards, the numerical cards running from one to ten; the two figured
cards, a King, Jle, and Knight, Cavallo. They are coloured with
the same simplicity which marks the early German cards, and the
two colours are the same, red and green, which appear also to have
been laid on by means of pierced patterns, or stensils, as in the
former case.
200
The question, to which of the two nations, Italy, or Germany,
the honour of first printing cards belongs? is involved in the origin
of the xylographic art, for there can be no doubt that this art was
very soon after its discovery applied to the purpose of multiplying
them, if they did not give rise to the invention. The decree of the
senate of Venice, cited in a former part of this work,1 clearly ma
nifests that cards, and other images, had been printed in that city
long before the year 1443, for the art is described as having then
come to decay, in consequence of the importation of these objects ;
and it would require some time for an art to flourish and create a
number of artists, and then a considerable period must elapse be
fore the rivalry of foreigners could supplant them, and bring about
their ruin.
Zani1 has cited a passage from a Dialogue written by Pietro
Aretino, in which he makes a Paduan card-maker hold a conference
with cards, and boast of his skill in his art, and likewise mention
some very old cards which he keeps for their antiquity, and the ho
nour of his profession. Now this dialogue was written before the
' Page 23, supra. a native of Padua, by profession a card-
* Materiali, x. pp. 72. 73. J 50. The maker, as may be seen by the following
Dialogue is entitled " Le Carte Parlanti." passages, where he makes him thus address
The first edition was printed at Venice by the cards : " Giurandovi per la protezion
Bartolommeo detto V Imperador, 1545, 8vo ; di voi, che più mi cóntento del nome di Car-
that from which Zani quotes was printed tajo, che non faceua il Verino di quello di
at Venice per Marco Ginammie, 1651. in Filosofo"—and again " Et ho più piacere
8TO: the following are the passages to which nel vedermi scritto nelle carte, che il Buo-
he refers : Carte. Quelle carte vecchie naroti nelle statue Bench'io son certo
che tu tieni in serbo per memoria della che nel comparir là un pajo di belle carte,
loro antichità," &c. " Padovano. Il vos- si sa che non pud aver fatte se non il Pa
tio avermi rammentato le carte vecchis- dovano, come anche la Capella senza altre
sime, chio tengo per reputazione del mes- lettere s'intenda per opera di Miche/agnolo."
tier di voi, mi reca in istupore circa il lor And in another place the cards say " Circa
essere state per tante mani di giuocatori, la mentione del Buonaroti potressi dire che
ne havere macula veruna." son più quegli, che conoscono te per unico in
The satirist, says Zani, should have Jar carte, tarocchi, e germini che lui per
mentioned the maker of these cards, and singolare nel dipingere, nello inscolpire, e
he ought the more to have done it because nello edificare."
he has put the dialogue into the mouth of
201
year 1543, in which the first edition appeared, and the superlative,
vecchissime (extremely old), which Arelino uses, makes it evident
that the cards mentioned must at least have been of the preceding
century.
It is much to be regretted that so few Italian xylographic spe
cimens of the fifteenth century have come down to us; no writer
with which we are acquainted has mentioned cards of that period
engraved on wood, unless we admit the painted cards described
by Lanzi to have had their outlines printed, nor have any come
under our notice which could be attributed to that country, and
which appeared to have been executed before 1500; indeed but few
Italian cards are now to be met with, even of the sixteenth century,
while the Germans may boast of very numerous specimens, many of
them masterpieces of art, and most of them decorated and embel
lished with devices displaying much ingenuity and fancy. Yet the
number of engravers on wood in Italy must have been considerable,
and the demand for cards not less extensive than it was in Germany ;
the sole reason which can be adduced to account for the paucity of
specimens of Italian cards, is, that they were probably executed
with less pretensions as works of art, and therefore had not the same
claim to preservation which the German cards have; it may be ob
served that the Germans made their cards vehicles of instruction, and
sometimes published them in the form of a book with verses accom
panying them, while we have no record of the Italians having done
this : the German cards have thus been preserved as series of prints,
while the more rude Italian cards have not been deemed worthy of
preservation.
It is not only the infancy of xylography, but also that of the
chalcographic art, which is intimately connected with this subject;
for among the very earliest specimens of the latter, have been consi
dered the series of old Italian prints, known to collectors on the
continent by the appellation of the Giuoco di Tarocchi, consisting of
a series of fifty pieces divided into five classes or decades, and repre
senting the orders or ranks of society, the sciences, virtues, liberal
2 D
202
and mechanical arts, &c. Each class is marked with one of the let
ters a. b. c. d. e. at the left hand corner at bottom, and the opposite
one has the number of the series in Arabic numerals; beneath the
print is the name of the subject, as Papa. Rhetorica. Misero.
Fameio. Artixan. Zintilomo. Chavalier. Doxe. Poesia. &c.
accompanied by the number again in Roman numerals. We are en
abled by the kindness of Mr. Ottley to present our readers with two
specimens; the Pope, and Rhetoric, faithfully copied from the ori
ginals in his possession, and we beg to refer to his valuable History of
Engraving for a copious description of the whole series, and critical
examination of them, with a conjecture in regard to the artist and
city which produced them. Some connoisseurs have supposed that
these prints were engraved by Maso Finiguerra, and others have
attributed them to Andrea Mantegna; but Zani says they were
certainly mistaken, and has preferred giving them to an artist who
flourished at Venice, or Padua : he founds his supposition in some
measure on the orthography of the names engraved beneath them,
which he says are in the dialect of Venice. Mr. Ottley, whose
opinion on the subject may be safely followed, has shewn that
there is much greater probability of their being the production of
a Florentine artist. We shall enter no further into this matter, as
it will be before the reader in a much more perfect tbrm in the
work of that gentleman above cited, contenting ourselves with re
marking, that it has not been clearly demonstrated that these are
what they are called, Tarocchi cards, although in conformity with
the general opinion we have given them admission as such in this
work; but the following reasons seem to militate against the suppo
sition that they were intended originally for that purpose.
We shall not make the size a principal objection, although we
have no instance to adduce of any early cards equally large; but no
other cards of the Tarocco kind, with which we are acquainted,
have the same objects represented on them, and if they are of iliat
species, Where are the cards with the common suits, which should ac
company them? for Zani's supposition, that the letters which mark
c RJHLTOBJCK XX111
203
the classes or decades were intended to denote the suits, is hardly
admissible. He says, " I have found the letters thus explained:
a. Tutto, all; b. Bastone, Clubs; c. Coppe, Cups; d. Datiari, Mo
ney; e. Spade, Swords;"— But if this was the case, what was to de
note the numerical value of the card, surely not the number beneath
it, for this proceeds in arithmetical progression from 1 to 50 ? Zani
however, further says, that in the copy of these cards which he
possesses, the class which is usually marked with an e. is marked s.
which answers better for Spada; but in the original copy e must be
read for Epie, French: he might have added, with equal probability,
for Espadn, Spanish, if his explanation be at all admissible.
Whether these very curious prints were intended for playing
cards of the Tarocco kind or no, cannot perhaps now therefore with
certainty be ascertained, but they are not the less curious monu
ments of the infancy of the valuable art of engraving on copper :
they are in the same dry hard manner which characterises most of
the early specimens of the Italian School, and bear no remote re
semblance in manner, and style of design, to the prints in that very
curious book, the Monte Sancto di Dio, which, as it was executed at
Florence, seems to give much probability to Mr. Ottley's hypo
thesis. In the designs there is much merit, particularly in the
youth bearing a vase, denominated Fameio, among those possessed
by Mr. Douce, who has ten of them; and a very spirited personifi
cation of Astrology, one of the four possessed by Mr. Triphook;
Mr. Lloyd, whose collection of early specimens of the chalcographic
art, is perhaps without a rival in this country, has also a portion of
this same set; and Mr. George Cumberland is in possession of nearly
a complete copy of the whole series. They are described, but with
some confusion, by Bartsch ; and Mr. Ottley's list will be found both
more complete, and more correct.
1 Zani says, that he also saw at Bologna, Die. Resurrexit. A. Mortuis., that
in the library of the Institute, a print of it formed one of a series of the twelve Apos-
St. John the Evangelist, by the same ano- ties. The Saint is represented sitting and
nymous artist. He judged, from the fol- writing with the right hand the words, " In
lowing passage of Scripture engraved on principio," &c.
it, Descendit. Ad. infera. tercia.
2 D 2
204
By the same anonymous artist who engraved this series of prints,
Zani says he had also seen, in the cabinet of Signor Torres at Na
ples, a pack of cards, which it should seem had the Italian or Trap-
pola suits represented on them, for he describes the King of Denari
as having inscribed upon it r. filippo. upon the Queen of the same
suit was ^lena. and on the Knight serafino. The King of Coppe
was marked lvcio cecilio. r. and the Queen polissena.
It may be questioned whether these cards, if they were of the
same size, and in the same style with these supposed Tarocchi, are
not part of the same pack ; and it would go far to show that this set
of prints are what they have been called, if this circumstance was
clearly established; but, if we rightly understand the dimensions
given by Zani, the cards he mentions were much smaller.'
It is singular that some of the earliest specimens of engraving on
copper, both in Italy and Germany, are playing cards ; it may serve
to show the great demand there must have been for them at that
period, and how eagerly the card-makers seized upon this mode of
shortening their labour.
Zani mentions the circumstance of the greater part of the early
Italian prints being executed with a pale ink of a grayish tint; but
he had seen one set of these Tarocchi in the cabinet of the Duke de
Cassano Serra at Naples, which were printed with very black ink,
" nere d'un color piu che Vinchiostro," and for this reason he thinks
that those are mistaken who suppose that all the early engravers
made their impressions with this pale tint, but that it arises from
their not having met with good impressions. He is not borne out in
this supposition by facts, and it is more probable that the black im
pressions are very much posterior to the others. It is a remarkable
coincidence, that this pale coloured ink should also seem to have
been used by the early wood engravers, in making impressions from
their blocks. The honour of the invention of the chalcographic art
• Dello stesso Artefice ho anche asser- quello di D. Ciccia di Lucca, alte 3 pollici
vato in Napoli im altro Guioco di carte e 6 linee, large '2 e 4 con un picciola cor-
non compito, alcune di queste nel gabi- nice. Materiali, &c. p. 71.
netto dei Signori Terres, e alcune altre in
205
is now demonstrated to be due to Maso Finiguerra ; the researches
of Zani and Mr. Otlley have established his claim upon the most
solid grounds : whether the xylographic art took its rise in Italy or
Germany, cannot so clearly and satisfactorily be proved; the claim
must remain in abeyance between these nations, until some future
discovery may lead to the decision.
Among the earliest as well as most elegant specimens of engraved
cards executed in the fifteenth century, is the pack before adverted
to at page 45, as in the possession of Mr. Douce, and which are
there said to resemble the works of Martin Schoen; they are interest
ing, not only as specimens of the ingenuity exercised in inventing va
rieties of ornamental cards at this period, but as examples ofthe high
pitch of perfection to which the graphic art had attained soon after
its invention. These cards consist ofJive suits; hares, parrots, pinks,
roses, and columbines : each suit has four figured or court cards ; King,
Queen, Knight, and Knave, so that a complete pack would consist of
seventy cards, of which we have only seen thirty-six. Bartsch has
given descriptions of such of them as he had seen, but he does not
attempt to decide upon the artist who engraved them, merely calling
them the work of an anonymous artist of the fifteenth century. The
ingenuity displayed in the arrangement of the objects upon the nu
merical cards, will be sufficiently apparent from the four of parrots
and nine of rabbits, which are exhibited among our specimens in
the second plate of engraved cards ; and an idea of the figured cards
may be obtained from the Knave of rabbits and of parrots given in
the same plate: four more of these cards are copied in Strutt's
Sports and Pastimes, but his copies do not afford so correct a re
presentation of the style of the engraver as the very excellent fac
similes which Mr. Swaine has executed for this work. Mr. Douce's
specimens are fortunately accompanied by the frontispiece or wrap
per intended for these cards, consisting of three crowns, emblematic
of Cologne, and a scroll upon which wc read Salve. Felix. Colo-
nia. so that whoever was the artist, it appears he was then resident
in that city.
The ace of hares is accompanied by a scroll, upon which is en
graved " Felix me die quisquis turba parte quiet.'
The King represents a Sultan on horseback, galloping toward
the left; the hare is running in the right hand corner.
The Queen is richly habited, her robe spotted with fteurs de lis,
and an inscription embroidered on the border; she is mounted on a
palfrey richly caparisoned, her head dress of a singular form sur
mounted by a coronet : she is riding toward the left, and the hare
is seated in the upper part to the right.
One of the couriers or Knaves is represented in the plate of fac
similes. The other has a bow and arrows in his right hand, and
holds the hilt of his scimeter in the left; the scimeter and his quiver
at his side. He is running toward the left, and the hare is seated
before him in the lower part of the print.
The ace of parrots has also a scroll, upon which is written Recte
quidquid fadmits venit ex atto.
The King is riding toward the right, flourishing a sceptre in his
left hand; the parrot is behind him toward the upper part of the
circle.
■ This inscription is given on the authority of Bartsch Peintre Graveur, T. x. p. 75.
207
The Queen of this suit is also riding toward the right, her horse
holds down his head; part of her mantle is flying off behind: the
parrot is in the upper part before her.
One of the Knaves is copied in the accompanying plate; the
other is armed in the same manner with a singular and formidable
kind of mace, consisting of a spiked globe of iron attached by a
chain to a long wooden handle, so as to form a kind of flail: We
are informed this is a weapon which is still to be seen in foreign
arsenals; and one of our Guildhall giants is so armed. This knave
is running toward the right, the parrot is in the upper part of the
print.
The ace of pinks has upon a scroll the motto Fortuna opes auferre,
non animum potest.
The King is here also riding toward the right; he has the bridle
in his left hand, and a sceptre in the right ; on the trappings of his
horse is part of a German inscription, the pink is behind him.
The Queen of pinks is seen in profile, riding toward the right;
the bridle is in her left hand, the other rests upon her thigh; on the
saddle-cloth are embroidered two hands, joined together in token of
union, with a sprig or root of some kind, accompanied by the M^*G
probably the emblem of the lady intended to be here represented :
the pink is in the upper part of the print behind her.
One of the Knaves has a halberd on his right shoulder, a fur cap
with feathers, and is running toward the right : the pink is toward
the bottom of the circle on the right.
The other Knave has a halberd on his left shoulder ; his left hand
rests on his hip; his face is turned toward the spectator, but he is
running to the right : before him in the upper part of the print is
the pink.
The ace of roses has a scroll with Pepulit vires casus animo que
tulit equo : the latter part of this inscription was omitted by Bartsch
in his description ; it is possible that he could not make it out, as
there are several singular abbreviations.
The King has his face turned toward the spectator, but is riding
208
toward the right; his saddle-cloth is studded with fieurs de lis; his
sceptre is in his right hand, the bridle in his left : the rose is behind
him in the upper part of the circle.
The Queen is riding toward the right; she has the bridle in her
right hand, and bears a hawk upon her left; her dress is richly em
broidered and bordered with ermine : the rose is in the upper part
of the print behind her.
The two Knaves we have not seen; Bartsch describes one of them
as carrying a bow on his shoulder, and having a quiver full of ar
rows, and a sword by his side, and running toward the right, with
the rose above on the right. The other he also had not seen.
The ace of columbines (Bartsch calls them larkspurs) bears writ
ten on a scroll, Par Me superis, cut par dies et fortuna fuit.
The King is on horseback going toward the left; his sceptre in
the right hand, the bridle in the left : the columbine in the upper
part of the circle to the right.
The Queen> not on horseback as Bartsch has described her, but
mounted on a mule, her full front toward the spectator, and riding
toward the left; her head-dress of a singular form, and a richly or
namented bridle with bells hanging to it ; the columbine is above
to the right.
The Knaves of this suit we have not seen, but one of them is thus
described by Bartsch ; he is on foot going toward the left, and hold
ing in his right hand a lance which rests on his shoulder; the left
hand on the hilt of his sword : the columbine above to the left.
There are many other packs of engraved cards which were exe
cuted about the latter end of the fifteenth century in Germany, parts
of a few sets are described by Bartsch. Some of them have
the suits marked by animals, others by flowers, and some again by
birds and the human figure. Mr. Douce has also specimens of se
veral varieties of this kind, but the dry detail of description would,
we fear, wear out the patience of our readers ; we shall, therefore,
content ourselves with referring to the work of Bartsch above cited,
for notices of some other packs of cards engraved on copper.
209
The Germans varied the objects represented on their cards as
suits, at pleasure, and there is evidence existing that cards with
Italian suits were fabricated by them in the fifteenth century; for a
very curious pack, engraved on copper, is described by Breitkopf,
part of which he had seen in the cabinet of M. Silberrad at Nurem
berg, and he mentions a complete pack of them as existing in the
collection of Count Gersdorf at Bareuth. In his second plate he
has given specimens of them, and says " they belong to the latter
part of the fifteenth century, and appear to have been the work of
a goldsmith. The artist has filled the intermediate spaces on the
numerical cards with various devices of human figures, and animals.
The pack consisted of fifty-two cards, having King, Queen, Knave,
and ten numerical cards in each suit; they are about five inches
long and three broad. On the deuce of swords there is a scroll with
an inscription and a date, which appears to have been intended for
the year 1486; but Breitkopfs fac-similes are but loosely executed,
and there is perhaps no dependance to be placed upon their accu
racy. The suits are marked by swords, cups, clubs, and pomegranates,
this last suit is instead of denari or money. Bartsch, who has mention
ed this pack, and described some of the cards, says nothing respecting
the date, but it is probable he had not seen the deuce of swords, the
card upon which it occurs. There are other marks by which these
cards might, we think, be appropriated, but for this purpose it
would be necessary to have access to the originals, and opportunity
of closely examining them.
Among the infinite variety of decorated cards which Germany
produced, the kindness of friends has enabled us to offer some spe
cimens of considerable merit : four have been already given at page
42, from the collection of Mr. Ottley ; and we shall now present
the reader with four others of considerable interest and beauty from
the same gentleman's collection. The cabinet of Mr. Douce is ex
tremely rich in these decorated cards, and it was with difficulty we
could resist the temptation of adding a few more specimens, but
prudence dictated the necessity of keeping some limit, as these ela
2 E
210
borate fac-similes arc not obtained without incurring considerable
expense; and it is presumed, that the prints of this kind which the
work contains, and which constitute its principal merit, will be
deemed sufficiently numerous.
The suits in the pack to which the following cards belong, are
the ordinary German objects, Hearts, Leaves, Dells, and Acorns.
Upon the Knave of hearts we have the following representation of
the itinerant barber, accompanied by his squirrel, and bearing
about him the implements of his profession.
His dress may appear somewhat gay, but it should seem to
have been the common one of his fraternity at that period, for
in the book of trades, by Jost Amnion, before referred to, is a
delineation of an interior of a barber's shop, in which the principal
operator is represented in a similar costume.
The Knave of leaves presents us with another profession, a
Scribe; and we should imagine that in this set of cards, the various
211
trades may have formed part of the subjects represented. The en
gravers and the publishers of these decorated cards had, no doubt, a
view to their answering a double purpose ; they were purchased not
only as playing cards, but as a series of instructive and amusing
prints.
Hence, perhaps, arose the idea of making them vehicles of in
struction. In the hands of Thomas Murner, at the begininng of
the sixteenth century, they were applied to the purpose of teaching
the elements of logic, and the Institutes of Justinian ; the reader
need not be informed how frequently in more recent times they
have been made the instruments of communicating knowledge to
the young : there is scarcely a branch of human learning to which
attempts have not been made of adapting them.
The deuce of bells we have chosen, because it affords a striking
and beautiful specimen of what has been accounted in this art an
2e 2
212
impossibility ; the cross hatching in the print beneath is a sufficient
answer to all those who have contended that metal plates must have
been used by Albert Durer, and other artists of his time, for that
wood was incapable of producing these effects.
The subject of this card is evidently intended for a barbaric King
and his attendant : the sovereign is marked by his crown or tiara
and sceptre ; and the hawk on his hand is, as we have before observed,
a mark of nobility, or royalty. Those who are acquainted with the
process of wood engraving will be best able to appreciate the labour
and skill requisite to produce the following beautiful specimen of the
art. It may be allowed to us, perhaps, here to observe, that we
do not think this the proper province of xylography, for effects
of this kind are produced by that art with infinite labour, which the
burin would produce on copper with the utmost facility; and there
fore nothing is gained, but the advantage of working the print with
the text by means of the common printer's press. The more wood cuts
213
approach to the simplicity of mere outline drawings, with only slight
hatching, as indications of shadow, the greater the degree of beauty
and spirit they generally seem to possess. Perhaps more exquisite spe
cimens of the application of this art to the purpose of decorative print
ing cannot be adduced, than the beautiful little embellishments of this
kind which accompany the late editions of the poems of Mr. Rogers.
They were drawn on the blocks by the tasteful pencil of Stothard,
and are, consequently, for the most part exact transcripts of his
designs.
The last card of this kind which we shall introduce is the sLv of
acorns.
We are not quite certain whether it may have formed one of the
set to which the three foregoing cards belong; the arrangement of the
figures, and the style of design, indeed, do not seem to countenance
the supposition. The subject is a wedding, and we have here again
our old friend, the fool, playing the part of minstrel or fidler to the
procession on this festive occasion.
214
A modern writer has expressed his surprise that no improvement
has taken place in the figures on cards, and has endeavoured to
account for it: had he been acquainted with these beautiful cards
produced in Germany nearly three centuries since, his surprise
would have increased, and he would have deemed it strange, that
in the rage for innovation and improvement we should have conti
nued content with the grotesque and unmeaning figures upon ours,
when such admirable examples had been held out to us. by our
neighbours. But the German cards have degenerated into the
same kind of rudeness; and all attempts at introducing cards with
better designs have failed, as well in that country as in France, of
obtaining universal encouragement; yet there have not been want
ing ingenious artists who have made the attempt, and cards in
which the figures are dressed in modern costume, well drawn and
coloured, have been offered as substitutes, but without any great
degree of success; our readers will no doubt be familiar with similar
attempts on the part of some ingenious card-makers in England ;
but so pertinaciously have the original figures been adhered to, that
although the improvement has been applauded and the cards ad
mired, they have rather been purchased as curiosities than for use,
and for the serious purpose of playing, the old figures have ever
been preferred. An ingenious artist of the name of Gubitz, in
Germany, has recently engraved the figured cards in a very neat
manner on blocks of wood, but it would be difficult to obtain universal
sanction for them, and we doubt not that the majority of mankind
will still prefer the old tasteless objects to these new and more
agreeable ones : perhaps the writer above cited has given the true
solution of this problem : it will be found in the note beneath.1
1 In the present age while the people when it would cost no more to have them
value themselves so much for their good impressed with more agreeable objects ?
taste, and support with such avidity every But while cards are only used for interest,
adventurer's proposal for embellishing the and not amusement, it is thought of no
most trivial works, how is it, that they re- consequence whether they are well or ill
main satisfied with those insipid figures painted. Anecdotes, Historical and IAte-
which are presented to them upon cards, rary, 1796. 8vo. p. 10.
215
As an example of what the moderns have attempted, the reader
is presented with the following copy of one of the cards engraved
by Gubitz, above mentioned.
It has been a question whence the grotesque figures on modern
court cards could have been derived; we have before observed, that
they bear no distant resemblance to some of the representations of
the human figure among the Chinese, and it will be seen that their
modern cards are charged with similar designs; but we have no
certain clue to guide us in ascertaining whether they were thence
derived. The figures in Mexican hieroglyphical paintings also afford
objects very resemblant to those on our court cards, but there is not
any reason for supposing that with them they have any connexion.
Perhaps we ought to seek no further than the rude wood-cuts of the
fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, many of which are as remote from
being correct representations of humanity, as are the singular ob
jects depicted on the figured cards of the present times.
It may be expected that we should enter somewhat more fully
into the application of cards to purposes of instruction, which we
216
have only hinted at in a former page. The first who sought to make
them subservient to this purpose was Thomas Murner,' a learned
Minorite friar of the order of St. Francis, who flourished at the
commencement of the sixteenth century, and being engaged in
teaching philosophy, first at Cracovia, and afterwards at Friburg,
perceived that his young pupils were disgusted with the formalities
of a treatise of logic, which was placed in their hands to teach them
the terms of dialectic science. He imagined a new method of ex
citing their attention, by composing one himself, in the manner of
a game at cards, which, in the form of a pleasing recreation, en
gaged them to pursue the subject, and insensibly surmount the diffi
culties of this dry and repulsive study. So successful were his en
deavours, that the extraordinary and rapid progress of his scholars
caused him at first to be suspected as a magician; and, to justify
himself, he was obliged to produce his new invented game, and de
monstrate to the rectors of the university the means by which such
wonders were effected, who not only highly approved, but applauded
his invention, and admired it, as something more than human.
This game, according to Menestrier, was composed of 52 cards,
on which were depicted, Bells, Crabs, Fish, Acorns, Scorpions,
Turbans, Hearts, Swallows, Suns, Stars, Pigeons, Crescents, Cats,
Shields, Crowns, and Serpents; but in what manner these objects
were applied to the inculcation of logical rules and dialectic terms*
we shall not attempt to describe; so far from simplifying the sub
ject is it, that we doubt whether the most profound logician of the
present day would comprehend it. A new edition by Balesdens
was published about the middle of the succeeding century. It
appears to have been a kind of system of artificial memory, ap-
1 A curious article, under the name of lectice metnoria: # novus Petri Hi/spani
Murner, will be found in Marchand Die- Textus emendatus. Cum jucundo pictasma-
tionnaire Historique, to which we have tis exercitio: Eruditi viris f. Thome Mur-
here to acknowledge our obligations. The ner Argentini: ordinis minorum theo/ogie
title of his book, as there given, is erro- doctoris eximii." It was printed at Stras-
neous; it is as follows: " Logica memo- burg, by John Gruninger, in 1509, in 4to.
raliva Charti ludium logice $ive totius dia-
217
plied to this particular science ; Ave have seen the same unmean
ing objects used in later times for the purpose of giving a kind
of locality to ideas, upon the principle of association. This has
been the foundation of all the arts of memory. Erasmus, in one
of his Dialogues," has ridiculed these royal roads to the sciences,
and seems to have had this then recent system of Murner in his
eye. The success and popularity of this book gave rise at a future
period to numerous applications of cards for purposes of instruc
tion; and it is remarkable, that not only those studies which merely
require sight and memory, as geography, chronology, genealogy,
heraldry, mythology, and history; but also those which demand
the application of thought and reasoning, have been attempted to be
inculcated by these means. Logic and jurisprudence, for instance,
it should seem, were the first to which the system was applied.
That Murner's attempt was the model upon which all subsequent
ones were founded, cannot be doubted, and the number of games
which were published in the commencement of the seventeenth cen
tury is astonishing. We have seen the attempt renewed in our own
times, and there is scarcely a branch of juvenile education which
has not been thus treated; but it is doubtful whether any advantage
is derived from this playful mode of instruction: is it not apt to di
minish the disposition for serious application, so necessary, but so
rarely found in youth?
Des Marets, of the French Academy, composed three or four
games of this kind; *' Le Jcu des Rois de France." " Des Dames
renommees." " Des Metamorphoses ;" and " De la Geographic"
M. De Brianville published a set of Heraldic Cards at Lyons, in
the form of a small duodecimo volume, in 1660 ;* and as he com-
1 Ars Notoria Erasmi CotLOQUiA. que circulos, & in his descriptas voces
Lugd. Bat. ap Eheviros, \636, p. 569. partim Grsecas, partim Latinas, partim
" Erasm. Audio Artem esse quamdam no- Hebraicas, aliosque Barbaricarum lingua-
toriam, qua; hxc praestet, ut Homo, mi- rum." " Des. Ego aliam artem non
nimo negotio perdiscat omnes disciplinas novi, quam curam amorem, & assiduita-
liberales. Des. Quid audio? vidisti codi- tern."
cem. Erasm. Varias animantium forma, * Jeu de Cartes du Blason, imprime a
draconuin, leonum Leopardorum, varios- Lyon chez Ben. Coral en 1660. l6ino.
2 B
218
posed his game of the arms of the sovereign princes of the north, of
Italy, Spain, and of France, some of the arms by design or chance
were distributed on the Knaves, which gave great umbrage to those
who were so scurvily treated : the poor unfortunate contriver of the
cards was persecuted, his plates seized by the magistrates, and he
was obliged to conciliate favour, by changing his Knaves into
Princes and Knights. Mr. Haslewood has a pack of heraldic cards
published in England about the close of the seventeenth centu
ry;1 and Mr. Boswell, who had seen a similar set, remarked to us,
that there might be an unlucky appropriation of the Knaves in such
an arrangement. We were not then aware of this story of Brian-
ville.
In 1678 Anthony Bulifon, a Lyons bookseller, established him
self at Naples, and published these cards, with the descriptions
translated into Italian. A society of young men, who assembled
weekly at his house, formed themselves into an Academy, taking
their designation from these cards, and calling themselves Academici
Armoristi.
In 1682 D. Casimir Freschet presented to the Doge and Senate
of Venice a pack of Cards, with the arms of the nobles of Venice,
published under the title of Li Pregi della Nobilta Veneta abozzati in
un Giuoco d'Arme di tutte le Famiglie, acknowledging in his preface
that they were formed upon the model of the heraldic cards of Bri-
anville.
Jn 1650 Pere Guichet, a Minorite, published an Art of Logic,
in the form of a game at cards.1 Whether this was a reimpression
of Murner's book, or a new one on the same model, we know not.
Menestrier himself published in 1690 an heraldic game at cards;'
• In the Observator, No. 239, for Fe
bruary 12, 168', is the following adver
tisement : " Cards, containing the arms of
the kings, and all the lords spiritual and
tempora} of England. Printed for John
Nicholson, and sold by E. Evets at the
Green Dragon in St. Pauls Church Yard."
1 " Ars ratiocinandi lepida, multarum
Imaginum Festivitate contexta, totius Lo-
gices fundamenta complectens in Charti
Ludium redacta a Patre Guischel Ordinis
Minorum." Salinurii, Harnault, 1650. 4to.
J " Jeu de Cartes du Blasou contenant
les Armcs des Princes des principales par-
219
indeed the good Jesuit seems so enchanted with these ingenious
card devices, that he thinks no other game affords such means
of blending amusement with instruction.
The idea, however, may perhaps have arisen from the applica
tion of the game of chess to inculcate a system of morals, in the
hands of Jacopo da Ciesole, and other early writers. But chess
itself is not the only game which has been moralized, for the chace
has been also made subservient to the purpose of teaching the com
mandments of the divine law, and the eschewing of the seven deadly
sins in an ancient French moralization, called " Le Livre du Roy
Modus."' Arithmetic and geometry had long before been taught by
a species of game at chess, and it is probable that Murner derived
his idea from some of these sources. A treatise on morals, disci
pline, and conversation, in the form of a game at cards, is referred
to by Echard, as existing among the Imperial MSS. at Vienna,
but he does not mention the date of it.1
It will not be necessary that we should enter into a particular
description of the packs of satirical cards which have occurred to us;
they are not very numerous, and have but remote relation to our sub
ject, for they may be considered rather as a series of prints than cards,
ties de 1'Europe, par le Pere C. F. Me-
nestrier. Lyon, Amaulry, 1692." 12mo.
1 " Le Livre du Roy Modus & de la
Royne Ratio, lequel fait mention com
ment on doit deviser de toutes manieres de
Chasse, &c. Chambery imprime par An-
toine Neyret, I486." folio. To judge by
tbe title, this work would seem to relate
simply to Hunting, Hawking, &c. but
some of the manuscript copies give in a
more ample rubric a notion of its nature;
thus, " Le Livre du Roy Modus, qui, sous
les termes de la Chasse des Bestes de toute
esp£ce moralise lcs dites Bestes, les dix
Commandemens de la loy, les sept Pech6s
mortels, &c. Et parlc de Dieu le Pere
qui envoya a son Tils la cause de Ratio et
de Sathan, et de Dieu le PiIs, qui jugea
contre Sathan ; du St. Esprit qui determina
les ames du monde, et la chair a Sathan;
de la Bataille des Vices et des Vertus; du
Roy d'Orgueil, qui fit defier le Roy Mo
dus; du Songc de Pestilence, &,c."
Marchand says this work resembles the
Belial, or processus seu consolatio Peccato-
rum, which the reader may find analysed
in Mr. Dibdin's Bibliotheca Spenceriana,
vol.3, p. 182, &c.
Another French work is cited by Mar
chand, in which Christ's Passion is moral
ized, and applied to the chace of the stag.
1 Joannis Teutonus Tractatus de Mori-
bus &. Disciplina Humana; Conversations,
Chartarum Lusum VI. Capitibus expo-
nens. Echardi de Scriptor. Ecclesiasticis.
T. ii. p. 821.
2f 2
220
and the form of a pack of cards was only a commodious and popu
lar mode of arrangement. It is questionable whether ihey were used
for ihe purpose of playing, though marked with the suits and ex
tending to the usual number of a pack of playing cards. Those we
have seen have been a series of projects, intended as a satire upon
the South Sea bubble, and another of the events previous and subse
quent to the Revolution of 1688, in which the catholic James and
his Queen are severely satirized. Another pack is referred to in the
minutes of the Society of Antiquaries, as having been exhibited to
the Society by Sir Joseph Banks in 1731 : they contained a kind
of history of the Spanish Invasion.
There were, no doubt, numerous sets of prints of this kind pub
lished at various periods of the last and preceding century, but
these are all that have come under our notice.
It has been already observed, that it is difficult to decide whe
ther we obtained our cards immediately from France, and at what
period they first reached us : to settle the period at which they were
first made in England is not less difficult. The year 1465 is the
earliest date at which we find any express public notice of cards, and
it is remarkable that it should be in some measure a kind of act to .
prohibit their importation: this circumstance seems to point to their
being already manufactured here; but Mr. Barrington' gathers
from a Proclamation of Elizabeth, and another, of her successor,
that Ave did not then make many cards in England. He also says,
" there is little doubt but that the cards used during the reign of
Philip and Mary, and probably the more early part of Elizabeth,
were Spanish, though they were afterwards changed for the French,
being of a more simple figure, and more easily imported." Mr.
Barrington was furnished by Mr. Astle with a curious old block of
wood, upon which was engraved the cover of a pack of cards, and
' Archaeologia. Vol. viii. p. 141. The proclamations he cites are in the library of
the Society of Antiquaries.
221
as this block has by good fortune fallen into our hands, we shall
6ubjoin an impression of it.
Certa&mniB
f aitirjs par
Mr. Barrington read the name inscribed on this block errone
ously, Cartas Jinnas faictes par Je Hauvola y Edward Warman ;
whereas it evidently appears Jehan Volay was meant, although the
words from the carelessness of the Engraver are somewhat disjointed.
" The first words of the inscription, says Mr. B., viz. Cartas
Jinnas (superfine Cards) are Spanish, which are followed by two of
French, viz. faides par (or made by) Jean Hauvola y, (y is generally
used in Spanish for the conjunction and) and the two last words,
viz. Edward Warman, were not in the block of wood when first
cut into."
222
He continues, " now I conceive that this advertisement was used
by a card-maker resident in France, who notified the wares he had
to sell in the Spanish terms of Cartas finnas, because those that had
been made in Spain, at that time were in great vogue. The two
words which follow are French, faides par, which were probably
in that language, that the French reader might more readily under
stand the advertisement."—" But this is not the whole that may be
inferred from this curious cover, for at each corner are the figures
from which the four suits of cards are denominated in Spain, viz.
Cups, Swords, Clubs, and pieces of Money, whilst at the top are the
arms of Castile and Leon. It seems fairly therefore to be inferred
from the superscription on this cover, that cards could not be then
disposed of to advantage in France, unless there was some appear
ance of their having been originally brought from Spain."
Mr. Cough' observes, " that this cover contains a motley in
scription of Spanish and French, intermixed," which he conceives
is to be read thus : Cartas finnan
fatctejs par
3Seljan Olola?
" The insertion of Edward Warman's name in so very different a
type, is a proof that he was the vender of such cards in a far later
period. Upon inquiry I am informed, by my friend Mr Herbert,
that a person of the name of Warman kept a stationer's shop some
where in Bishopsgate-street, or Norton Falgate, about fifty years
ago, and it is not improbable that he sold these cards, and caused
this insertion to be made in the block. Mr. Herbert could not re
collect his christian name. If I am not mistaken (continues Mr.
G.) this extraordinary block once belonged to Mr. Ames, who has,
however, taken no notice of it in his History of Printing."
It appears to us that it may not be impossible this block is of
EnglisK manufacture, and only intended to convey a notion, that
the cards which it enveloped were foreign, in order to obtain a
* Archasologia. Vol. viii. p. 168*.
223
higher price for them, if they were held in greater esteem ; and the
jumble of French and Spanish together in the inscription upon it,
gives colour to this supposition. That Spanish cards were an object
of curiosity at the commencement of the last century, and brought
a high price, compared with the current value of English cards, we
ascertain from the advertisement beneath;' at the same time it shews
that at this period, at least, the Spanish cards were different from
ours, and consequently not in common use.
Towards the close of Elizabeth's reign, patents were so frequently
granted, by favour, that the House of Commons deemed it necessary
to make some inquiries respecting them ; at this period, among nu
merous others, a patent was granted to Edward Darcy * for cards.
This patent of Darcy's for making cards is in the Society of An
tiquaries' library, where there is a prohibition against their future
importation into England after July 20, 1615 ; as the art of making
them was then brought to perfection in this country. There is also
■ ADVERTISEMENT.
" Spanish Cards, lately brought from
Vigo. Being pleasant to the eye by their
curious colours and quite different from
ours, may be had at 1*. a pack at M".
Baldwins in Warwick Lane." Post-Man.
Dec. —15. 1702.
For this, and some subsequent extracts
from old newspapers, we are indebted to
Mr. Haslewood, a gentleman whose zeal
and perseverance in the investigation of
our literary antiquities, can only be ex
ceeded by the liberality with which he
communicates the results of his researches
to those engaged in similar pursuits, on all
occasions.
* " On the mention of the monopoly of
cards, Sir Walter Raleigh blushed. Upon
reading tiie patents, Mr. Hakewell of Lin
coln's Inn, stood up, and' asked thus; Is
not bread there? Bread ! quoth one; Bread!
quoth another ; This voice seems strange,
quoth another. No, quoth Mr. Hacket,
if order be not taken herein, bread will be
there before the next Parliamerit."
Among the Patents enumerated on this
occasion were the following, besides this
of Darcy's.
To John Spelman, a patent to make
paper.
To Richard Watkins and James Ro
berts, a licence to print almanacks.
To Richard Wrighte, to print the His
tory of Cornelius Tacitus.
To John Norden, to print Speculum
Britannise.
To Sir Henry Singer, touching the
printing of school bookes.
To Thomas Morley, to print Songes in
three parts.
To Thomas Wight and Bonham Nor
ton, to print law bookes.
V. Herbert's Ames, vol. 3. p. J 764.
224
the Lord Treasurer's letter for 5s. to be paid to him for every gross
of cards, dated October 29, 16 15.
At this period, therefore, it is probable the block in question
may have been fabricated, for the prejudice of many might still
lean to the foreign cards : it has frequently been found that a pro
hibition was tantamount to a strong recommendation, and the per
tinacity with which some contraband articles of foreign manufacture
are still sought, and purchased without any solid reason for the pre
ference, is a striking exemplification of this.
It seems indeed strange that an article which required so little
skill in its construction, should have so long been received at the
hands of foreigners; it certainly was not that we wanted arlists
competent to the task of fabricating them in a very superior manner,
for we have evidence that the art of engraving on wood was exercised
here with considerable success long before.
An engraver on Avood seems to have been an indispensable per
sonage in every printing-office, for the books of our early printers,
like those of their cotemporaries on the continent, are full of wood
cuts : we have only to instance the Chronicles of Holingshed and
Fox's Martyrs. It was not until the latter part of the sixteenth
century that engravings on copper were used as embellishments for
books in England. We gather from the advertisement prefixed to
Sir John Harington's translation of Orlando Furioso, that it is one
of the earliest books in which copper-plate prints are to be found.
We cannot resist the temptation of presenting the reader with a fac
simile of a spirited and interesting wood-cut, serving as a frontispiece
to Recorde's Ground of Artes,1 and which has a further claim to our
1 " The groud ofartes teachyng the worke The bokys verdicte.
and practice of Arithmetike, moch neces- To please, or dysplease, sure I am,
sary for all states of men. After a more But not of one sorte, to euery man
easyer &. exacter sorte, then any lyke bath
hyiherto ben set forth: with dyuers newe
additions, as by the table doth partly ap-
peare. By Robert Recorde." On the re
verse of the title are the following quaint
lines*
To please the beste sorte wold I faync
The frowarde to dysplease I am certaine.
Imprynted at London in Powls Church
yarde at the sygne of the Brazen Serpent
by R. Wolfe. 1543. 8vo>
225
notice, from the circumstance of furnishing us with the name of the
artist, who will be confessed to have well understood his art. We are
informed the cut was used in a Flemish book of the same period.
It affords also an exhibition of the mode of playing the Rithmo-
machia, or philosopher's game, or the method of teaching arithme
tic by counters, and is altogether one of those interesting represen
tations of domestic life, which the tasteful antiquary knows how to
appreciate. One of the standing figures has no remote resemblance
to some of the effigies of Erasmus.
Holbein, it is well known, designed many of these wood cut em
bellishments for books, and the influence of his example ought to
have had a more extensive operation in improving the art among
us : but it must be confessed, that instances of tolerable design, or
careful execution, are somewhat rare among tfie xylographical pro
ductions of this country at that period.
That the cards then in use were not very superb performances,
whether of foreign or English manufacture, may be concluded from
the price they were sold at, which we find specified in a very curious
passage of Roger Ascham's Toxophilus,' first printed in 1545.
1 A man no shoter, (not longe agoo) for him, that a man might pleye for a litle
wolde defende playing at cardes & dise, if at cardes and dyse, and also a man might
it were honestly used, to be as honest a shote away all that euer he had. He sayd
pastime as youre shotinge : for he layed a payre of cardes cost not past ii.d. and that
2 G
226
The prohibition of foreign cards probably operated a change in
the condition of the English card-makers; their numbers seem in a
short time to have much increased, so that in the year 1629 they
were of sufficient consideration to be associated into a company, for
the establishing of which letters patent were granted by Charles I.*
but whether they were less skilful than their foreign competitors, or
whether the cards imported from abroad were furnished at a cheaper
rate, or perhaps preferred by the consumer from some capricious
reason, it does not seem that they were enabled to stand their ground
against them for a very long period. During the puritanical times
which succeeded the fall of Charles, times of turbulence and trouble,
it could not be expected that a very large demand for them would
be made ; but there can be no doubt that when the nation became
settled under the government of the gay and dissipated court of
Charles the Second, they were in considerable request ; yet in defi
ance of the statutes, which were perhaps not severely enforced
against the importation of them, they were still brought in and ex
posed publicly for sale, so that the poor card-makers were reduced
to the necessity of again requesting the interference of the govern
ment in the latter part of his reign.
they neded not so moche reparation as
bowe and shaftes, they wolde neuer hurte
a man his hande, nor neuer weare his gere.
A man shulde neuer slee a man with shoting
wyde at the cardes. In wete and drye, hote
and coulde, they woulde neuer forsake a
man, he shewed what great varietie there
is in them for euerye mans capacitie : If
one game were harde, he myght easelye
learne another: If a man haue a good
game there is greate pleasure in it : If he
haue an ill game, the payne is shorte, for
he may soone gyue it ouer, and hope for a
better: with many other mo reasons. But at
the last he concluded, that betwixt play inge
and shoting, well used, or ill used there was
no difference: but that there was lesse coste
and trouble, and a greate deale more plea
sure in playing, then in shotynge.
Aschams Toiophilus, Land. 1545.
Sig. D. iiii. redo.
1 The Company of Cardmakers was in
corporated by Letters Patent of Charles
the First, the 22d of October, 1629, under
the title of The Master, Wardens, and
Commonalty of the Mistery of the Makers
of Playing-Cards of the City of London.
Rec. Roil. Pat. 4. Car. I. p. 22. No. 6.
This Corporation, says Maitland, is go
verned by a master, two wardens, and eigh
teen assistants ; but have neither livery nor
hall to transact their affairs in.
History of London, p. 6*03.
Ed. 1739, fol.
227
In consequence of a Petition from the Company of Card-makers,
a proclamation was issued at the close of the year 1684, for the strict
observance of the laws in force against the importation of foreign
playing cards, directing the seizure of them wherever they might
be found." And the company, for the better co-operation with
government, at the same lime established an office for sealing all
playing cards of English make, and regulating the price at which
they were to be sold; stating, in their advertisements,1 that many
« Whitehall, Nov. 20.
His Majesty has been pleased to cause
a proclamation to be published, prohibiting
the importation of foreign playing-cards,
and for seizing such as are or shall be im
ported.
Charles R.
Whereas by the laws and statutes of this
realm, all foreign playing cards (amongst
divers other foreign manufactures) are pro
hibited to be imported, under penalty .of
forfeiture ; Yet notwithstanding, as We
are given to understand by the humble
petition of the master, wardens, and assist
ants of the company of card-makers of
London, divers of our subjects and others,
are so hardy, to bring into this kingdom
great quantities of foreign playing-cards,
and publicly to expose the same to sale,
in contempt of Us and Our laws, and to the
great impoverishment of the poor artificers
of the said company, and other our subjects
employed in making the said manufacture;
We, taking the same into Our serious con
sideration, and being desirous in this par
ticular, as We always hitherto have been,
in the whole course of Our government, to
encourage manufactures within this Our
kingdom wherein Our subjects are main
tained in good estate, and trade increased,
are graciously pleased, with the advice of
Our privy council, by this Our Royal Pro
clamation, to command and direct, that all
laws now in force, prohibiting the impor
tation of any foreign playing cards, be
duely put in execution by all Our officers
and other persons concerned : And that
all foreign playing cards already imported,
be forthwith searched for, seized and con
demned, and all such as make resistance
therein, proceeded against according to the
utmost rigour of the law : Hereby strictly
commanding and requiring all justices of
the peace, mayors, sheriffs, bayliffs, con
stables, and other offices whatsoever, to be
from time to time aiding and assisting in
all things requisite for and touching the
due observation and execution of the said
laws, and of this Our Royal Proclamation,
at their perils. Given at our court at
Whitehall the seventh day of November,
1684. In the six and thirtieth year of our
reign.—Gazette, Nov. 27—Dec. 1, 1684.
' Advertisement.—These are to give
notice, That for the better encouragement
ofthe manufacture ofmaking playing cards
in England, and for the preventing the
importation of foreign cards, an office is
erected in Silver Street in Bloomsbury,
pursuant to his Majesties Letters Patents,
for sealing all playing cards of English
make. The price will be put upon each
pack. At this office they will be sold as
well by retail as wholesale.
Gazette, April 21—24, 1684.
All persons concerned are desired to
2 G 2
228
hundred poor people were employed in the fabrication of them, who
were deprived of the means of earning their existence by the con
traband introduction of the foreign cards.
In the succeeding year the company announced, by public ad
vertisement, that they had appointed a surveyor who was to examine
the quality of the cards previous to sealing ; asserting that the cards
so approved and sealed, were far superior to those usually made
previous to the establishment of the office ; and in the same year are
various announcements in the papers of the times for the sale of large
quantities of these improved cards, apparently intended for exporta
tion ; it will appear by the advertisements beneath,' that they were
afforded at very moderate prices.
take notice, that for the better encourage
ment of the manufacture of making of
playing cards in England, (wherein many
hundred poor people are employed) by
directions of his Majesties Letters Patents
(pursuant to charters and directions of the
late King James and King Charles) an
office is erected in Silver Street, in Blooms-
bury, for sealing all playing cards of Eng
lish make (which will be there first sur-
veyed) that the frauds practised in the
making of English cards may be prevented,
and the foreign cards (which are brought
in contrary to law) may be discovered.
The price of all cards will be put upon
each pack, to the end that none under pre
tence of sealing the cards, may sell the
same at dearer rates, and it will thereby
appear, that the very best cards shall be
sold in London by the last retailer, at four
pence the pack, and others at cheaper
rates.—Ib. Jp. 28—May 1, 1684.
The last advertisement is repeated three
or four times in the Gazette, without alte
ration, within a short period after the above
date.
' Advertisement. These are to give
notice, That at the Card Office in Silver-
street, in Bloomsbury, all sorts of playing
cards surveyed and sealed, are to be sold
at reasonable rates, which Robert Whit
field, Master Card-maker, appointed by
approbation of the Company of Card-
makers, to be surveyor of the same, has
certified under his hand to be much better in
their several sorts, than any of like sorts
visually made and sold by the card-makers
of London, before the erection of the said
office. Gazette, May 0,8, June I, 1 685, and
repeated in the following Gazette.
Advertisement. These are to give no
tice, That there will be exposed to sale,
in a short time, by inch of candle, all
sorts of playing cards, surveyed by Robert
Whitfield, Master Card-maker, appointed
by approbation of the Company of Card-
makers for that purpose, who hath certified
under his hand, that the said cards are
much better in their several kinds than any
ofthe like sorts heretofore usually made and
sold. A further account will be given of
the lots and prizes and place of sale in a -
few days.—Gazette, June 29—July 2, 1685,
and in following Gazette.
Advertisement. There will be exposed
to sale by the caudle at the Marine and
229
It should appear that the right of importing foreign cards was
among the monopolies of government in the reign of Elizabeth,
at least it is asserted that this was the case by an anonymous writer,"
who has not given any proof of his assertion ; but it is somewhat cor
roborated by the letter of the Lord Treasurer, mentioned in a former
page, in which he claims five shillings for every gross of cards im
ported.
The Spanish government, we are informed, still monopolize the
manufacture of them. Cards have long ceased to be imported from
abroad, the superiority of those manufactured in England at length
triumphed over all competition of this kind; and we now manufac
ture immense quantities for the foreign market, many of them have
the suits common to the Italians and Spaniards, and those in
tended for the Spanish settlements, are marked as being de la real
fabrica, de Madrid, para las Indias.1 The heavy duty which cards
intended for home consumption now bear, and the numbers annu
ally consumed, make them no mean source of revenue to govern
ment.
We shall here take leave of this part of our subject, which, from
its connection with the history of one of the most important arts
Carolina Coffee-house in Birchin Lane
near the Royal Exchange, .on Wednesday
the 12th of August next, at eight of the
clock in the forenoon, all sorts of playing
cards in small lots, surveyed by Robert
Whitfield, master card-maker, appointed
by approbation of the company of card-
makers, for that purpose, who hath cer
tified under his hand that the said cards
are much better in their several kinds than
any of the like sorts heretofore usually
made and sold. The prises, viz. the mat-
triss at 10s. Gd. per gross, fine mattrisses at
12s. per gross, fines at l6s. per gross, and
the superfines at 21s. per gross: the bidder
to advance 6d. per gross upon each bid
ding. They are to be seen from eight to
twelve in the forenoon, and from three to
seven in the afternoon, from Thursday the
1 6th of this instant July, to the day of sale,
next door below the Dog Tavern in Bow-
lane.
The particulars of the several lots may
be had at Adiel Mills house, at the Pea
cock at Amen-corner, and at John Mat
thias Owen's at the White-Hart in Bread-
street, and at Edward Durel's, at the Pea
cock in Paternoster Row, London.
Gazette, July 16—20, and 23—27, and
Jug. 3—6.
1 Naval History of Great Britain, 1779,
8vo.
1 We have one pack of this kind manufac
tured in England : upon the four of Dineros
is inscribed, " CartasJinissimos, de la Real
fabrica de Madrid, por Juan Solesio y
■ Hijos, 1804.
230
devised by the ingenuity of man, derives a degree of interest which
abstractedly it could not have possessed.
Whatever may have been the origin of cards, it seems at least
probable that they were in use in Europe previous to the invention
or adoption of the xylographic art, whose origin is involved in the
same obscurity which envelopes that of printing. At what time the
application of xylography to the purpose of multiplying cards took
place, it is not now possible to ascertain with certainty ; but there
can be no doubt that they were among the first objects it produced,
and we have every reason to conclude that they were printed from
engraved blocks of wood, at least as early as the commencement of
the fourteenth century, if they were not derived together with this
art from the eastern world at an earlier period; a supposition which
is not entirely devoid of probability.
SECTION THE THIRD.
ON SOME OF
THE PRINCIPAL GAMES AT CARDS.
GENERA VERO LIDENDI CHARTIS MULTO SUNT INTRICATORIA, ADEO, UT
QUIS STELLAS POTIUS NUMERARE POSSIT, Ql'AM ISTA LUSUUM GENERA SIQUI-
DEM NULLUS FERME PAGUS TAM OBSCURUS EST, QUI NON CERTUSI SIBI LU-
DENDI GENUS IN CHARTIS FINXERIT.
Isthmanma dc variii Ijutauli grncribm, Bndmr. 1680, <Ho. p. 49.
ON
SOME OF THE PRINCIPAL GAMES
AT
CARDS.
S Chess is allowed to be symbolical of war, and
cards are in all probability derived from an exten
sion of the pieces in that game, we might naturally
expect that the earliest game played with them
would be an emblem of a warlike combat. We
have in vain endeavoured to trace this early game,
which must have been very simple in its construction, and ob
tained at the time cards were first brought from the East; there
can be no doubt that those European games which bear marks
of military origin, as Ombre, Quadrille, and Lansquenet, were derived
from it. Every game indeed may be considered a species of com
bat, but cards have more particularly the appearance of a military
origin; kings, knights, squires, and common soldiers, constitute the
pack, and it is generally admitted that the introduction of the queen
into the game is attributable to the gallantry of the French nation,
at a comparatively late period.
In the seventeenth century a game was commonly played with
cards in France called " Le Jeu de la Guerre," ' which from its sim
plicity might have been continued by tradition from the first simple
oriental game. It was played with a piquet pack, with the addition
of four other cards to which the names were given of Strength, Death,
1 This game is fully described in " ha Maison ties Jcux Academiques," printed at
Paris in 1G6S. 12mo.
2 II
234
the General^ and the Prisoner of War : it might be played by two or
more persons ; the king was the highest card, the next was the queen,
then the card called the general, the prisoner was next in order, and
the knaves followed, the aces were of less value ; upon the ace of
spades was represented a cannoneer; upon that of clubs a soldier
with a drawn sword, designating the infantry; that of diamonds a
battalion; and the ace of hearts represented the cavalry. To enter
further into detail of the manner it was played would be useless ; we
shall merely remark, that it was more a game of chance than skill.
The suits retained on the Spanish and Italian cards to the pre
sent day, and which were formerly called the Trappola suits, suf
ficiently designate that the game was in its origin military, and we
have seen that a Spanish writer' of the sixteenth century has ex
plained their allusion to war: these suits we have good reason to
suppose were also upon the cards first brought from the East, for
one or two of them are still to be found among those on the modern
Hindoo cards.
LANSQUENET.
The German game of Lansqut net* which, as has been before ob
served, betrays its military origin in its name, is a mere game of
1 Cobarruvias, in tiis Tesoro della I.en-
gua Costeifaiia, v. page 39, ante.
1 Lansquenet, which is a kind of Basset
or Pharo under another name, (says Bet-
tinelli), was much in use at Paris and Ver
sailles in the last century. It was prohi
bited with other games of hazard in Trance,
Germany, and Italy.— Notes to the second
canto of his poem upon cards before cited.
Bullet, iu his book on cards, has an
article respecting this game, which he
mentions with a few others because they
afford him an opportunity of producing a
few of his Celtic etymologies, some of
which are sufficiently ingenious : the fol
lowing are annexed to this article. "Land
allemand, vient cvidemnent du celtique :
Lan Sol, terrein terre. — Knecht signifie
enfant gallon valet, domestique, serf. La
premiere de ces significations aura attire
les autres. Nous voyons effectiveinent
que dans toutes les langues, on a etendu
le terme qui designe Enfant, a signifier
Valet, domestique. Nahhar en Hebrew,
Enfant Valet. Pais Pa'idion en Cirec,
Enfant, Valet. Puer en Latin Enfant, Va
let. Mosso en Espagnol, Enfant, Valet.
Garfon en Francois, Enfant, Valet. Cen
pronocez Ken, en Celtique, Engendrer :
Kenet Enfant : de la Knecht dans la Ian-
gue Allemande."— Recherches, p. 152.
Carabin, a term at this game to desig
nate an occasional player, who just takes
the chance ofa card or two and then ceases
235
chance, as played of late years ; but it is possible that the old Ger
man same differed from the modern one. De Murr has asserted
that it was known in France as well as Germany as early as the
year 1392, but he has not given his authority for the fact.3 The
following interesting wood cut, by Antony of Worms, represents
two of these Lanzen Knecht at play at this game, or Trappola.
to play, Bullet says, was so called from a
kind of horseman, in the times of Hen.
IV. and Louis XIII. armed with carbines,
who annoyed the enemy by firing at them
and immediately retiring. Another term,
Porter un MommoH, at this game he has
derived from momerie masque, mascarade,
which he says all come from mamua,
momiia, in Celtic a mask!!
1 Brietkogf Ursprung der Spielkai ten,
1 Th. p. 36.
C II 2
236
TRAPPOLA.
Trappola,1 which is probably the most ancient European game at
cards, was played with thirty-six cards, of which number we have
already observed the earliest packs only consisted. As at the game
of piquet, there were no deuces, treys, fours, and Jives, in the pack.
Nine cards were dealt to each player, which, if four played,
consumed the whole thirty-six ; but if two only played, eighteen
cards would remain in the stock. We much regret that we have
been unable to trace any description of the manner in which this
game was played, as it would, no doubt, throw light upon the na
ture of the games obtained from the East: and tend to settle the
point whether it was a game of chance or skill.
TAROCCO.
The reader is already apprised that we consider this complex
game as of Eastern origin, but it must not be concealed that Italian
writers, for the most part, deem it an invention peculiar to Italy.
Baretti * exults in the superiority of Tarocco and Minchiate, over
the national games of France, Spain, and England, and thinks they
rank as much above Piquet, Ombre, and Whist, as Chess does above
Polish Drafts. He says that Tarocco is played in many parts of Italy,
but is chiefly prevalent in Piedmont and Lombardy. The pack of cards
with which Tarocco is played, consists of two parts; the first is fifty-six
cards of the usual Italian suits, Spade, Coppe, Bastoni, and Denari ; in
each of these suits there are ten numerical cards, and King, Queen,
Knight, and Knave: the cards of this part of the pack, excepting the
four kings, are called Cartacce. The other part consists of twenty-two
cards, and will be found copied in three plates which accompany this
• Trappola, a kind of game at cards, 1 Manners and Customs of Italy, vol. ii,
says Flokio, in his World of Words, p. 217. London, 17G8. 8vo.
1611. fol.
237
work, twenty-one of these are called Tarocchi,' and the twenty-second II
Matto, or the fool. The Tarocchi are numbered, and their names are
engraved beneath them, but as we have copied from a pack fabricated
in France or Germany, it may be as well to mention that we have
enumerated them by their Italian appellations, in a note at page 23.
These cards, according to 1 Baretti, are called i Trionfi, and he says
that " both this game and Minchiate may be played by only two,
or only three people in several ways; but the most ingenious games,
and those which are the most in use, are played by four people,
more especially one which is played by one against three, much
after the ruling principle of Ombre, and another played two
against two, not unlike whist." In a curious little French book,3
of games published in 1668, which we shall have frequent occasion
to quote, it is remarked, that the Swiss and Germans prefer Tarocco
to any other game; and that the reason it was not earlier known in
France was, that the French are apt to be contented with the abridg
ment of every thing, and that few persons were acquainted with the
method of playing it. After describing the cards, the author mentions
various methods of playing with them, we shall content ourselves with
describing one or two of these games. That which he calls Triomphe
forcee, may be played at by any number of persons from two upwards;
five cards are dealt to each person, and he who is fortunate enough
to hold the fool, or thejuggler, takes up what he has staked upon the
game. He who holds the card named strength, or La Force, takes up
twice as much ; and if Death, (La Mort) falls to his lot, he ulti
mately sweeps the board in spite of all attempts to prevent it.
If any one hold either of the cards above mentioned, and has with-
• Tarocchi a voce efapwxpi, qua deno-
tant'ur sodales Mi, qui cibi caussa ad lusum
conveniunt. hac Alciat. Monosini Florio
Italicae Ling. Venet. 1608. p. 34.
Tarocchi, a kind of playing-cards, called
Taroks or Terrestrial Trumps.—Florio in
Voce.
1 The whole of Baretti's short chapter
on cards will be found in the Appendix.
3 La Maison des Jeux Academiques con-
tenant un recueil general de tons les jeux
divertissam pour se rtjouir If passer le temps
agreab/ement, augmentee de la Loterie plai-
sante, a. Paris, chez Etienne Loyson, 1668.
12mo.
238
drawn what he is entitled to from the board, he still continues play
ing for the remaining stake, and he who makes the most tricks
gains it.
" With these cards the Swiss play a three-handed game, in
which all the cards but three are dealt, which the dealer takes
into his hand, and discards three inferior cards in their room :
the game is made to consist in three deals, at the termination of
which, he who has made the most points wins. The cards have each
of them a certain numerical value; thus le Monde, the world, isJive ;
the Juggler, and the four kings, Jive each ; the queensJive each, and
so on. The fool counts for three, and has the privileges of being
never taken, nor does he take any other card, but when a card of
higher value is played upon him, a substitute is taken from the
tricks or cards won by the holder, and he is made to supply its
place ; he is of all suits, and therefore may be played in any case of
difficulty or danger, when he is said to serve for an excuse." These
descriptions are somewhat too brief to be entirely intelligible, we
shall therefore describe another game played with these cards, with
which Court de Gebelin supplies us, who obtained it from a friend
well acquainted with the game.
Two persons only play, but three hands are dealt, the cards are
distributed five at a lime, each player holds twenty-five cards,
twenty-five are in the third parcel, or corps de reserve, and three are
left, which the dealer may take in, discarding three others as before
described. The Tarocchi, which Gebelin calls les Atous, are not all
of the same numerical value, L'Estoile, No. xvn, La Lune xviii,
Le Soleil xix, Le Jugement xx, Le Monde xxi, are called the five
great Atous: and the first five numbers, viz. Le Bateleur, La Pa-
pesse, L'lmperatrice, L'Etnpereur, and Le Pape, are called the little
Atous. If a player has three of the greater, or three of the lesser, he
counts five points; if he has four he counts ten : and fifteen if he has
five of either of them. Ten of these Atous, or Tarocchi, in a hand,
count for ten points more. Thirteen of them are equivalent to fif
teen points, independent of their other combinations. Seven cards
239
in this game are called Tarots par excellence, viz. Le Monde xxi, Le
Mat, or fool : the Juggler, or Bateleur i. and the four kings. Any
one having two out of the three first of these, says to his antagonist,
qui ne I'a ; and if he cannot answer him by shewing the third of
them, he who asks the question marks five points ; and should he
have all the three he makes fifteen : sequences, or flushes of four
cards, mark five points.
The fool takes nothing, nothing can take him ; he is one of the
Atous, and is considered to be of every suit. If a king is played,
and you have not the queen to form a sequence, you play \\\e fool,
and this is called an excuse. The fool, with two kings, counts five
points ; with three kings fifteen points. A king taken, or killed,
marks five points for him who takes him. If the Pagad or Juggler
is taken, the party taking him also marks five points. The principal
drift of the game is to take from your adversary the cards which are
of the highest numerical value, and to do all in your power to form
sequences: the chief point for the adverse party to attend to is to
save his high figured cards, and to endeavour to draw them from the
other player's hand, by making slight sacrifices of minor cards.
The dealer for whom the discarded cards count, is not allowed
to throw out Atous or kings ; he would by this means have too
great an advantage, in saving himself from the risk of play. All
that he is allowed to do is to discard a sequence, which will count
for him, and may form him a renounce, which will be a double
advantage.
The game is generally one hundred, as at Piquet, with this dif
ference, that it is not he who first arrives at one hundred, when a
game is begun, who wins, but he who can then reckon the greatest
number of points. To count the points which you may hold in
your hand each of the seven Tarocchi nobili before named with a
common numerical card marks 5 points. The Queen and one card
marks 4; the Knight and one card marks 3; the Knave and one, 6;
two common cards together, 1 : this is in shewing. The number of
points which one player has above the other are all that reckon for
240
him, and the cards are played until the one or the other arrive at
one hundred, or till the game is finished.
The reader is already apprized that this game was in use in Italy
at a very early period of the sixteenth century, and that it has been
treated as an invention of that country by many writers who have
mentioned it. There seems quite as much reason, however, to at
tribute it to the eastern world ; and we have remarked that the modern
Hindoo cards appear to be of the Tarocco kind.
We gather from the following passage in Cleland's Institution of
a nobleman,' that Tarocco was played in England in the early part
of the reign of James I. Chap. 24, of House Games. " His Ma
jesties permission of honest house games, as Cardes, French Cardes,
called Taraux, Tables and such like plaies, is sufficient to protect
you from the blame of those learned men, who think them hazards;
as for myself, I thinke it great simplicitie and rusticitie in a noble
man to be ignorant of any of them, when he cometh into companie:
yea I would wish you to be so perfit in them all, that you may not
be deceived or cousened at play."
Minchiate is chiefly in vogue all over Tuscany ; it is only a dif
ferent modification of Tarocco, in which we have seen that the Ta-
rocchi consist of twenty-one figured cards and the Matto; while in
Minchiate they are increased to forty and the Matto, which is still
retained. In the latter part of the year 1803 a paper was read at
the Society of Antiquaries, describing this game; it was from the
pen of Robert Smith, Esq. who accompanied it with the present of
a pack of Minchiate cards and a treatise on the game, which are
now preserved in the archives of the Society.1 We shall follow Mr.
Smith's description, illustrating it from a very copious account of
1 nPn-IlAIAEIA. The Institution of a Young Nobleman, by James Cleland, Lond.
1607, 4to.
* Archaeologia, vol. xv. p. 140.
MINCHIATE.
241
the game which occurs in the notes to the Heroi-comic Poem of II
Malmantile Racquistato. " There is no game on the cards, of which
I have any knowledge (says Mr. Smith,) that requires closer atten
tion, or a more ready talent for figures, or greater exercise of the
memory, than this of Minchiate. It is held in high estimation
among the fashionable circles in Tuscany, where almost every body
exclaims in the language of the treatise, ' b senza dubbio il piu no-
bile di tutti i giuochi che siensi mai potuti inventare colle carte/ "
A minchiate pack consists of ninety-seven cards, fifty-six of
which are as before, of the four ordinary suits, and are called car-
tiglie or cartacce : the Tarocchi are increased to the number of forty,
and with the fool or matto make forty-one. Of the forty cards which
compose the tarocchi, thirty-five are numbered, and five not num
bered. On the first five of the numbered cards are coloured repre
sentations of a juggler, an empress, an emperor, a pope, and a lover
wooing his mistress; a combination perhaps not Avholly accidental.
These are called tarocchi nobili or papi, and he who holds any of
them counts for the first, Jive points, and for each of the other four,
three points. Those cards numbered x. xin. xx. xxvin.to xxxv.
inclusive, count five points each ; the remaining numbered cards,
called carte ignobili, do not count in sequences, but take the inferior
cards. The five unnumbered cards are called Arie, and represent
Stella, a star ; Luna, the moon ; Sole, the sun ; Mondo, the world ;
and Trombe, the trumpet. These cards will be found on the third
plate of Tarocchi among those we have engraved ; the Trombe is there
called Le Jugement, and marked No. xx. They each of them count
for ten points, independent of their respective powers in a verzicola,
a species of sequence peculiar to this game, which is of greater or
less value according to the quality of each card separately, and to
the whole in combination. The regular verzicola is composed of
three or more cards of the tarocchi in sequence, as i, n, in ; n, in,
iv; in, mi, v ; or I, n, in, mi ; n, in, iv, v; i, n, in, mi, v ;
all which are called verzicole of popes. The numbered cards xxvin,
xxvini, xxx, are called a verzicola of tarocchi, or of thirty; xxxi,
2 i
242
xxxii, xxxiii, a verzicola di sopratrenti, or above thirty; and
xxxiii, xxxiv, xxxv, a verzicola di rossi, from the red colour of
those cards. There is also a verzicola of arie, composed either of
three arie in sequence, or of one or two arte in conjunction with
certain of the numbered cards, as sole, mondo, and trombe, in which
are three arie; or the numbered card xxxv, stella and luna, in which
are but two arie; or xxxiiii, xxxv, and stella, in which there is
one only. Hence the first verzicola of arie, which consists of three arie,
counts thirty points, the second twenty-five, and the last twenty.
Besides the regular Verzicola, there are others called irregular
Verzicole; and these also count according to the value of the cards
composing them. Three Kings, or four Kings, form an irregular
Verzicola; so likewise ace, matto and trombe; x, xx, xxx; xx,
xxx, xl; and i, xm, xxviii.
The Matto, or fool, is the last of these figured cards, and, although
not numbered, is in order No. xli, and counts for five points : it
forms no part of a Verzicola, and yet counts with it in all cases for a
certain number of points. This card has many peculiar privileges,
and seems to be one of the most important in the game; it is consi
dered of every suit, and may at any time be played to save a trump
or high card, and exchanged so as to pass again into the hand of the
fortunate holder : it never takes any other card, but it is also never
taken, except the player has taken no card from his adversary which
he can give in exchange for it.' The four Kings also count for five
each, and are esteemed also noble cards, Carte nobili, of which the
Verzicole are formed.
The game is played by four persons at most, and then twenty-
one cards are dealt to each : if three persons only play, twenty-five
1 Thus the following proverbs are de- Servir come il nove di Tarocchi, i. e. ad
rived from this game. Riuscir come il ogni cosa. To serve as the nine at Ta-
Fante 6 Matto de Tarrocchi, i. e. che serve rocchi, viz. good at all things, nothing
a nulla, che e otioso. coming amiss, signifying in all games.—
To prove to be the Knave of the Ta- Torriano's Ital. Proverbs, p. 211. Lond.
rocchi, viz. good for nothing, being as well 1G66. folio,
left out as put in.
243
cards are dealt. As it would be next to impossible for any one io
learn this game from a mere description of the operations at it, and
as we may exhaust our reader's patience by dwelling longer On the
minulias of it, we shall content ourselves with referring him to the
Appendix, in which he will find the ample description of it given
by the Italian writers above cited.
The origin of the term Tarocchi is not easily traced, for Court de
Gebelin's explanation can scarcely be admitted. Breitkopf has
given the following observations, which he thinks may lead to the
true etymology of the word. " The French call the cards with
printed or dotted backs, Tarots ; in the articles between the French
cardmakers in 1594, the Taroticrs are particularly mentioned as
Ouvriers qui font des Tarots.'"
" The French are, perhaps, the inventors of these printed
backs, which save the cardmakers the trouble of selecting pure
and spotless white paper in order that no mark or spot may be
tray a card to the players. The Tarocchi must be older however,
for they are so called by Volaterrano one hundred years before.
As the French also call small ivory dice Tarots, which are mark
ed with black spots on the sides, these may have first excited
the idea of marking the backs of cards in this manner; the figures on
many of the TarottSes have some resemblance to the arrangement of
these spots on the dice. Specimens were not long since to be found
in the pattern books of the letter-founders in the Netherlands, who
furnished the cardmakers with them, and announce them by the
name of Tarottees diverses. They were sometimes cast in moulds,
and sometimes formed either of wood or wire; the fabrication of
thein gave occupation to the French Ouvriers qui font des Tarots.
Hence the Diet, de Trevoux says of this word, ' TarotS, il n'a
d'usage qu'en cette phrase : 4 des Cartes tarot6es, pour dire des cartes
marquSeSj imprimees de rayes noires par dessons :' and under the
phrase, * jeu de tarots; elles ont d'ordinaires Venters impriniS de
divers compartimens. Lusorium foliorum cxternorum species/ And
1 See the Diet. Enct/clopedique, Tom. 32. p. 692. Edit, de Neufckate/.
2 i 2
244
in the Diet, de l'Academie ' Tarots, sorte de Cartes a jouer, qui
sont marquSes d'autres figures que les notres, et dont le dos est imprimi
de grisaille in compartimens.' If the Italians, continues Breitkopf,
first applied these printed backs to the new cards, it is possible that
the cards derived their name from that circumstance,' &c.
" The German cardmakers call these printed backs of cards Mu-
sinmg, probably from opus musivum, a mosaic, to which they have
indeed some resemblance."
PRIMERO.
" I take it," says Minshew, " thai it is called Primera because
it hath the first place at the play of the cardes.'" Cobarruvias defines
1 Primera, the game called Primero at
cards. Minshew, in voce. The following
portion of one of the Spanish and English
Dialogues at the end of Minshew's Spa
nish Dictionary, will, in some measure,
illustrate the method of playing this game
in the reign of Elizabeth.
" R. Here are the cards, what shall we
play at ?—L. Let us play at Loaclam.—M.
It is a play of much patience.—L. Then
let it be at Trumpe.—M. Let that be for
old men.—L. At Mount Sant.—M. It
makes my head to be in a swoune to be
always counting.— L. Lesse will the play
of Chilindron like you.—M. That is for
women by the fire side.—L. It is not, but
that you will not have any game of vertue
but sweepe stake play.— M. Wherefore
should we waste time, but that which we
must pawne, let us sell our right as they
say.—R. Yea, but ones substance made
up, let there be no haste Jo lose ones mo
ney.—L. And, moreover, when they win
a man's money from him, they straight
way take him out of care.—M. Behold
here are the cardes, let us play at thirtie
perforce, or Albures, for these are good
plaies.—R. I love not these but games of
chiefest price, as the Reynado, the three,
ttco, and ace, still trumpe, and other the
like.—O. Now to take away all occasion
of strife, I will give a meane, and let it be
Primera.—M. You have saide very well,
for it is a meane betweene extremes.—L.
I take it that it is called Primera, because
it hath the first place at the play at cardes.
—R. Let us goe, what is the summe that
we play for ? — M. Two shillings stake, and
eight shillings rest.—L. Then shuffle the
cardes well.—O. I lift to see who shall
deale, it must be a coate card ; I would not
be a coat with never a blanke in my purse.
—R. I did lift an ace.— L. I a fower.—
M. I a sixe, whereby I am the eldest
band.—O. Let the cardes come to me,
for I deale them, one, two, three, fower,
one, two, three, fower.—M. Passe.—R.
Passe.—L. Passe.—O. I set so much.—
M. I will none.—R. He none.—L. I
must of force see it, deale the cardes.—
M. Give me fower cards, He see as much
as he sets.—R. See here my rest, let every
one be in.—M. 1 am come to passe againe.
—R. And I too.—L. 1 do the selfe same.
—O. I sit my rest.—M. He see it—R. I
also.—L. I cannot give it over.—M. I
245
it inuch in the same way, and calls it a well known game at cards.1
The author of the burlesque commentary on Berni's Capitolo del
Gioco delta Primiera, seems to have furnished Florio with his etyj
mology ; but the truth is, that it is so called from a situation in the
game. He who holds the prime (primero), that is, a sequence of the
best cards, and a good trump, is sure to be successful over his adver
sary, and hence the game has its denomination2.
It seems to be uncertain whether it is of Spanish or Italian ori
gin; Mr. Barrington and Mr. Bowie5 are of opinion that it is Spa
nish, but the poem of Berni affords proof that it was at least com
monly played in Italy at the commencement of the sixteenth century.
" To describe what Primero is, would be little less than useless,
(says the Italian writer above cited) for there can scarcely be any
one so ignorant as to be unacquainted with it.—The game (conti
nues he) is played differently in different places, but it would occu
py too much time to recount all its varieties. At Florence it is the
custom to leave out the sevens, eights, and nines, keeping and vyeing
only with the smaller cards; the Rest* is made at the second card,
was a small prime.—L. I am flush.—M.
I would you were not.—L. Is this good
neighbourhood ?—M. Charitie well placed,
doth first beginne with ones selfe.—O. I
made five and fiftie, with which I win his
prime.—L. I flush whereby I draw.—R. I
play no more at this play.—M. Neither I
at any other, for I must goe about a busi
ness that concerns me.— L. Pages take
every one two shillings apiece of the win
nings.— P. I pray God you may receive it
a hundred fold.—P. In heaven I pray
God you may finde it hanged on a hook."
* Primera, juego de naipes bien co-
nocido. Tomd el nombre de las quatro
cartas difterentes. Dixose assi por ser
primero que los puntos.—Cobarruvias.
1 lo per me credo che la denominatione
di questo nome sia dedutto dal valore et
dalla nobilita della cosa, ne per altra esser
chiamata primiera che per esser prima et
principessa, addir cosi, di tutti gli altri
giuochi. Capitolo del Gioco della Pri
mera, Sig. A ii. rev.
3 Archaeologia, Vol. vni. pp. 133 to
151.
4 To set up a rest, is a phrase which oc
curs in almost every poet in the times of
James and Charles. It is taken from
terms used at the game of Primero, and
perhaps at other games then played. See
also Supposes, by Gascoigne, A. 3. S. 2.
" This amorous cause that hangs in con
troversy between Domine Doctor and me,
may be compared to them that play at
Primero, of whom one peradventure shall
leese a great sum of money before he win
one stake ; and at last, half in anger, shall
set up his rest, win it, and after that an
other, and another; till at last he draw
246
and when the first player says Pass, every one is obliged to discard,
notwithstanding any one may have an ace or a six in hand. At Ve
nice, for example, the mode of playing may be different ; in Lom-
bardy, Naples, France, and Spain, so many countries, so many
customs. But of all the modes in the world, let them be what they
may, none can be superior to that of the court of Rome.— In this
glorious court then, among other laudable customs, Primero prin
cipally flourishes; it has there its liberty, its reputation, its deco
rum, its full numbers and figures, and all its parts : there the sevens,
eights, and nines, are not withdrawn; there it is allowed to discard,
but not to discard both cards, after Pass is once said ; nor can this
be done with the two cards of the Rest, as is usual in other places.
The most essential operation of this game may be called its two
principal heads, the flush and Primera, and a third, derived from
the first, which is called the Point; from these three are deduced all
the varieties which daily occur at Primero, as the greater and lesser
flush, the great and little Prime, and more or less points, whieh
diversity gives rise to numerous controversies, and a thousand dis
putable points.—Another not less excellent operation in this game
is, that four cards of one sort, as four court cards, four aces, &c.
conquer both the flush and Primera."1
the most part of the money to his heap :
the other by little and little, still dimi
nishing his rest till," &c.
In the prologue to Return from Per-
nauus,
" Gentlemen, you that can play at nod
dy, or rather play upon noddies, you can
set up a rest at primero, instead of a rest
laugh," &c.
" Resto, loqueel jugadortiene en la ta-
bla delante de si consignando que no lo
puede sacar della;—Jugar a resto abierto,
vale sin tassa." Cobarru vias.
1 II dichiarare che cOsa sia primiera,
non sendo cosi grosso huomo che non ne
sappia, sarebbe cosa piu tosto disutile che
altrimenti, e la intention nostra e di dir
solamente cose piacevoli e fruttuose. In
diversi luoghi diversamente e adoperato
questo giuoco, e lungo sarebbe volergli
tutti raccontare. A Firenze si costuma di
levare i sette delle carte e gli otto et i
nove, invitasi et tiensi sopra ogni piccolo
punto, fassi del resto alia seconda carta,
et quando si dice passo, bisogna per forza
scartarle tutte, si bene uno havesse un asso
o un sei in mano. Cosi a Venetia verbi
gratia, debbe esserc diverso il modo del
giocare, in Lombardia, Napoli, in Fran-
cia in Hispagna, tan ti paesi, tanti costumi.
Ma di tutti le usanze del mondo sia pur
qual si voglia, che nessuna e piu bella di
247
Duchat, in a note on that chapter of Rabelais ' in which the
games Gargantua played at are enumerated, has described the mode
of playing it, and a similar account may be gathered from the
Dictionary of the Spanish Academy. According to Duchat, there
are two kinds of Primero, the greater and the lesser ; the difference
between them is, that the former is played with the figured cards,
while at the latter the highest card is the seven, Avhich counts for
one and twenty. Each player has four cards, which are dealt one by
one ; the next card in value to the seven is the six, which counts for
eighteen ; then the five, which counts for fifteen. The ace is equi
valent to sixteen points, but the deuce the trey and thefour count
only for their respective numbers. To these cards may be added,
if the players chuse, the Quinola, for which the knave of hearts is
most commonly chosen, and of which he may make what card and
what colour he likes. After which each of the players shew their
four cards, and he whose cards are all of different sorts wins the
prime, if they are all of one colour he wins the flush.
This game, according to the Great Spanish Dictionary, is played
by dealing four cards to each player ; the value of the seven, six,
and ace, are stated to be the same as Duchat gives to thein ; but the
deuce is said to count for twelve, the trey for thirteen, the four for
quella della corte di Roma, la quale cosi
come in tutte le altre cose e giudiciosa et
accorta. In questa gloriose corte adunque,
fra l'altre laudevoli usanze fiorisce somma
mente quella della Primiera, qui ha ella
la liberta sua, la riputatione, il decoro, i
numeri, le figure, e le parte sue. Qui non
segli toglie ne sette, ne otto, ne nove, qui
si può scartare e non è scartare amendue le
carte, poi che è detto una volta passo.
Non si fa cosi alle due carte del resto,
come forse non meno malignamente che
leggiermente s'usa di fare altrove. Il
principal travaglio di questo gioco, si pos-
son chiamare i suoi principali capi, il flus
so, e la primiera, et un terzo derivato dal
primo che si chiamo il punto. Da questi
tre, derivano tutte l'altre diversità che
nella Primiera intervengono cotidiana-
mente, cioè, maggior flusso, et minor flus
so, maggior e minor primiera, più e men
punto, dalle quali diversità nascano infinite
controversie, et mille be' punti da dispu
tare. Un altro non men bello travaglio
di questi è che le quattro cose vinchino et
il flusso e la primiera, come dir quattro
figure quattro assi e simili.
Capitolo del Gioco della Primiera. Passim.
1 CEuvres de Rabelais avec les re-
marques de M. le Duchat, T. 1, p. 78,
4to. Amst. 1741.
248
fourteen, and thefive forfifteen, the figured cards are each equivalent
to ten. The best hand, and that which wins every thing, is the great
flush, that is four cards of high numbers and of one colour ; the
next is the punto, consisting of the Quinola, and seven, six, ace,
which count for fifty-five: then the primera, or prime, which is four
cards of different suits. Should two persons hold flushes, he who
counts the highest number, or the greater flush wins, and the
same regulation holds good in regard to the prime. But should
there be neitherflush nor prime, he wins who can count most points
in one suit."
Primero, Prime and Primavista * are one and the same game, al
though Mr. Bowie did not see the connection ; the popularity of this
game during the reign of Elizabeth is apparent from the frequent
mention of it, which occurs in the writers of that time. Shakspeare
speaks of Henry the Eighth playing at Primero with the Duke of
Suffolk ; and, it is probable, that he had some authority for the use
of the game in that reign. Cards, it is true, were played with in
the reign of Henry the Seventh, among whose private expences are
notices of money issued at three several times for his losses at cards ;
in the year 1502 we find James the Fourth of Scotland playing at
cards with his destined consort at Edinburgh. 1 The private ex
pences of the Princess Mary, daughter to Henry the Eighth, and
1 Diccionario de la Lengua Castcllana
para la Real Acadcmia in voce Pri-
MfERA.
""Primero 8t Prima-vista ab Ital.
Primera, Lususqu dam chartarum ab Ital.
Primiero, Primus; &. Prima vista, Pri
mus aspectus." Skinner Etymolog. Angl.
" Primero and Prima vista, two games
of cards. Primum et primum visum, that
is, first and first scene, because he that
can show such an order of cards wins the
game. Minthew's Guide into Tongues,
fol. 1617.
s " Card-playing," says fe'trutt, " ap
pears to have been a very fashionable
Court amusement in the reign of Henry
Vllth. In an account of money dis
bursed for the use of that monarch, in the
Remembrancer's Office, dated December
the 26th, in the ninth year of his reign,
an entry is made of one hundred shillings
paid at one time to him for the purpose of
playing at cards."—" Margaret (says the
same authority) previous to her marriage
understood the use of cards; she played
with her intended husband at llurbottle
Castle ; the celebration of the nuptials
took place in the year 1503, she being
249
afterwards Queen, also contain numerous items of money " for
the Playe at the Cardes;" it is not therefore certain, that Primero had
found its way to England previously to the marriage of Mary with
Philip of Spain; but there is no doubt that his coming to England
from the Court of his father, Charles Vth. where it must have been
then in high fashion, would cause it to be more generally known and
played. Shakspeare makes Falstaff say, " I never prospered since
I forswore myself at Primero:" and that it was the Court game,
there is sufficient evidence in a very curious picture exhibited some
time since at the Society of Antiquaries, and described by Mr.
Barrington in the Archaeologia.' This picture originally belonged to
the great and good Lord Falkland, from whom it descended to the
late Viscount of that title, who died some time since. According to
tradition in the family, it was painted by Zucchero, and represented
Lord Burleigh playing at cards with three other persons, who, from
their dress, appear to be of distinction, each of them having two
rings on the same fingers of both their hands. The cards are marked
as at present, and differ from those of more modern times only by
being narrower and longer ; eight of these lie on the table, with the
blank side uppermost, whilst four remain in each of their hands.
Other particulars deserving notice are, that one of the players ex
hibits his cards, which are the knave of hearts, with the ace, seven,
and six of clubs. There are also considerable heaps of gold and
silver on the table, so that these dignified personages seem to have
fourteen years of age." See also Additions
to Inland's Collectanea, Vol. III. p. 285.
Sports and Pastimes of the English Na
tion, p. 287-8, 2d edit. Lond. 1810.
4to.
Warton has cited a poem by Sir Wil
liam Forrest, describing the life of Catha
rine of Arragon, consort of Prince Arthur,
and afterwards Queen to Henry the
Eighth, his brother, in which he speaks of
the accomplishments of her younger years
thus :
With stole and needyl she was not to seke,
And other practiseings for ladyes meete
To pastyme at tables, ticktacke, or gleeke
Cardys, dyce, &c.
Hist, of Eng. Poetry, III. p. 312.
but as this is not cotemporary authority,
the mention of cards may be a licence of
the author; yet, as Catharine came from
Spain, it is not improbable she was well
versed in the game of Primero.
1 Vol. VIII. page 133.
2 K
250
played for what would not, at present, be called a chicken stake.
There seems to be little doubt that Primero was the game which the
painter meant to describe ; and that the person exhibiting his cards
to the spectators has won the flush ; for his three clubs are the best
cards for counting, and his knave of hearts may double the best of
these, whilst it also becomes a club, and thus wins by the number of
points, as well as by the four cards becoming a flush of clubs/' Mr.
Douce informs us, that on the table there was also lying the cover of
the pack, on which were two lions supporting a shield upon which was
what appeared to be a rose, and underneath, but indistinctly marked,
the name of the card-maker, Jehan Licl**rer. So that the cards
then in use were, most probably, obtained from France; the money
appeared to be coins of Edward Vlth. and Queen Elizabeth.
But there is evidence that cards were in use in England even in
the reign of Henry the Sixth; for in the Chester Plays or Myste
ries, a copy of which is preserved among the Harleian Manuscripts
in the British Museum, an old Ale-wife or Brewer is introduced in
a scene of Hell. She is consigned to the taunts and torments of
three Devils, one of whom thus addresses her :
Welcome deare darlinge to endless bale
Useinge cardes, dice, and cuppes smale,
With many false other, to sell thy ale,
Now thou shalt have a feaste.
The universality of card playing in the reign of Henry the
Seventh is evident, from a prohibitory statute being necessary to
prevent apprentices from using cards except in the Christmas holi
days, and then only in their masters' houses ; and the same statute
forbids any householder to permit card-playing in his house at other
times under the penalty of six shillings and eight pence for every
offence.1 This privilege of playing at cards at the festive holiday
season appears to have been made use of very generally; and Stowe,
describing the customs of the Londoners at this period, informs us
that " from All Hallows eve to the day following, Candlemas-day,
1 Statut. An. II. Hen. VII. cap. 2.
251
here was, among other sports, playing at cards for counters, nails,
and points, in every house, more for pastime than for gain."' Henry
the Eighth is said to have preferred the sports of the field to seden
tary amusements ; and Hall, who has minutely described his mode
of life and amusements, has not mentioned cards among them.
Sir William Forrest, who is already cited in a note above, wrote
at the close of this reign a poetical treatise, entitled " The Poesy of
Princylye Practice," 1 addressed to Prince Edward, afterwards Ed
ward the Sixth, in which, among the amusements proper for a
monarch, he says, after dinner it is proper to indulge in music, or
Att tables, chesse, or cardis, awhile himselfe repose.
But adds, that sitting pastimes are seldom found good, especially in
the day-time, and therefore advises the pursuit of those which afford
air and exercise. In another part of the-same poem he speaks in
strong terms against the practice of card-playing, as productive of
idleness, especially when it is practised by the labouring people in
places of common resort :
Att ale howse to sit, at mack or at mall,
Tables or dyce, or that cardis men call
Or at whatoother game oute of season dwe
Let them be punysched without all rescue.
The author of the old morality, entitled " Hycke Scorner," 3 pro
bably written before this poem of Forrest's, places card-players with
such company as evinces that he had no good opinion of their
morals :
Walkers by nyght, with gret murdrers
Overthwarte with gyle, and joly carders.
• Survey of London, fol. 1633. p. 79. Wynkyn de Worde, and is consequently
1 This manuscript is cited by Strutt in not later than the commencement of the
his Sports and Pastimes, as in the Royal sixteenth century ; it is reprinted in Haw-
Library, kins's Origin of the Drama, Vol. I.
3 The original edition was printed by
2 K 2
252
And in Barclay's translation of the Ship of Fooles, by Sebas
tian Brant, which was first printed by Pynson, in 1508, are the
following lines :
The damnable lust of cardes and of dice,
And other games prohibit by the lawe.
Frequent reference to cards is made in our old dramatic writers, and
the games principally mentioned are Primero, Mawe, Loadam,
Mount Sant, Macke, &c. but little trace of the manner in which
many of these popular games were played now remains ; what little
we have been enabled to glean respecting them is rather by tracing
them to their original foreign name, than from any assistance to be
derived from English authorities.
Primero appears to have been one of the earliest games at cards
played in England, and continued to be the most fashionable game
throughout the reigns of Henry the Eighth, Edward the Sixth, Mary,
Elizabeth, and James. In the Earl of Northumberland's letters
about the powder plot, we find that Jose. Percy was playing at
Primero on Sunday, when his uncle, the conspirator, called on him
at Essex House. In the Sydney papers there is an account of a
quarrel between Lord Southampton, the patron of Shakspeare, and
one Ambrose Willoughby, on account of the former persisting to
play at Primero with Sir Walter Raleigh and another, in the Pre
sence Chamber, after the Queen had retired to rest.'
Among the epigrams of the facetious Sir John Harington we
1 The quarrel of my Lord Southamp
ton to Ambrose Willoughby grew upon
this: That he, with Sir W alter Rawley
and Mr. Parker, being at Primero in the
Presence Chamber, the Queen was gone
to bed ; and he being there, as squire of
the body, desired him to give over. Soon
after he spoke to them againe, that if they
would not leave, he would call in the guard
to pull down the board, which Sir Walter
Rawley seeing, put up his money, and
went his wayes; but my Lord Southamp
ton took exceptions at him, and told hym,
he would remember it; and so finding
hym between the Teunis-Court wall and
garden, strooke him ; and Willoughby
pull'd of some of his lockes." This oc
curred at the commencement of the year
1598. See the Sydney Papers, Vol. II.
page 83.
253
have one which describes " the Story of Marcus' Life at Primero,"
in which are developed many of the terms of the game ; and it may
also serve to shew that it was the most prevalent of all games with
the higher classes ; among whom gaming seems then not to have
been less practised than at present.
Fond Marcus ever at Primero playes
Long winter nights, and as long summer dayes :
And I heard once, to idle talk attending,
The story of his times, and coines mis-spending.
As first, he thought himselfe half'e way to heaven,
If in his hand he had but got a seven,
His father's death set him so high on note,
All rests went up upon a seven, and coat.
But while he drawes for these gray coates and gownes,
The gamesters from his purse drew all his crownes.
And he ne're ceast to venter all in prime,
Till of his age, quite was consum'd the prime,
Then he more warily his rest regards,
And sets with certainties upon the cards,
On six and thirty, or on seven and nine,
If anj' set his rest, and faith, and mine :
But seld with this he either gaines or saves,
For either Faustus prime is with three knaves,
Or Marcus never can encounter right,
Yet drew two aces, and for further spight,
Had colour for it with a hopefull draught,
But not encountred it avail'd him naught.
Well, sith encountring, he so faire doth misse,
He sets not till he nine and forty is.
And thinking now his rest would sure be doubled,
He lost it by the hand, with which sore troubled,
He joynes now all his stock, unto his stake,
That of his fortune he full proofe may make.
At last both eldest hand and five and fifty,
He thinketh now or never (thrive unthrifty)
Now for the greatest rest he hath the push :
But Crassus stopt a club, and so was flush:
And thus what with the stop, and with the pack,
Poore Marcus, and his rest goes still to wrack.
Now must he seek new spoile to set his rest,
For here his seeds turn weeds, his rest unrest.
254.
His land, his plate he pawnes, he sels his leases,
To patch, to borrow, to shift he never ceases.
Till at the last two catch-poles him encounter.
And by arrest they beare him to the Counter.
Now Marcus may set up all rests securely:
For now he's sure to be encountred surely.
In an other epigram, published subsequently, Sir John Haring-
ton enumerates " the games that have been in request at court,"
which appear to have been Prime or Primero, Mawe, Loadam,
Noddy, Bankerout, and Lavolta, if this last be not rather an ex
pression used at play, than the name of a game.
I heard one make a pretty observation,
How games have in the court turn'd with the fashion.
The first game was the best, when free from crime,
The courtly gamesters all were in their prime :
The second game was Post, until with posting,
They paid so fast, 'twas time to leave their boasting.
Then thirdly follow'd heaving of the Maw,
A game without civility or law,
An odious play, and yet in Court oft seene,
A sawcy Knave, to trump both King and Queene.
Then follow'd Lodam,
Now Noddy follow'd next, as well it might,
Although it should have gone before of right.
At which I saw, I name not any body,
One never had the Knave, yet laid for Noddy.
The last game now in use is Bankerout,
Which will be plaid at still, I stand in doubt,
Until Lavolta turn the wheel of time,
And make it come about again to Prime.
From the following strange lines by Heywood, which he calls
an epigram, we gather, that the cards in use in his time were not of
the kind called Tarotte, for that they were tooted, or spotted but on
one side.
Were it as parellous to deale cardes at play,
As it is quarrellous to deale cardes this day,
255
One and forty men, among one and fiftie,
Would flee one and thirtie, to flie one unthriftie.
As yet cardes so dealt should have in revealing,
Fore deale of bookes in this harde time of dealing.
Cardes be tooted on but on tone side
Bookes on both sides : in all places porde and pride.
John Fox (says Mr. Gough) tells of a sermon of Bishop Lati
mer's, preached at St. Edward's church, Cambridge, the Sunday
before Christmas, 152|, " Concerning his playing at cards," in
which he dealt out an exposition of the precepts of Christianity.
" Now ye have heard what is meant by this first card, and how you
ought to play with it ; I purpose again to deal unto you another
card almost of the same sute, for they be of so nigh affinity that one
cannot be played, without the other," &c. It seems, says Fuller,
" he suited his sermon rather to the time than the text, which was
the Baptist's question to our Lord, Who art thou ? taking thereby
occasion to conform his discourse to the playing at cardes, making
the heart triumph. This blunt preaching was in those dark days ad
mirably effectual, which would be justly ridiculous in our age." I
remember, adds Fuller, in my days, a country minister preached at
St. Mary's from Rom. xii. 3. " As God has dealt to every man the
measure of faith." In a fond imitation of Latimer's sermon he pro
secuted the metaphor of dealing, that men should play above board,
i. e. avoid all dissembling, not pocket cards, but improve their gifts
and graces, follow suit, Sec. All which produced nothing but laugh
ter in the audience."'
Cards were very much used in the reign of James the first; and
it appears from a passage in the Gull's Hornbook, that the specta
tors at the playhouse amused themselves with them while waiting for
the commencement of the performance.
There are satyrical poems by Samuel Rowlands, published in
1611, under the titles of " The Knave of Clubs," " The Knave of
Hearts," and " The Knaves of Spades and Diamonds ;" and he has
humourously made the Knave of Hearts supplicate the card-makers
for a change offashion.
1 Archaiologia, VIII. p. 170*.
258
From the knee downward, legs are well amended
And we acknowledge that we are befriended. . ."
This tract has also a wood cut, exhibiting the Knaves of Spades
and Diamonds in their improved costume.
MAWE.
This game, which is one of those alluded to by Sir John Ha-
rington as succeeding Primero, is also mentioned in a very interest
ing and curious tract, written by Arthur Hall1 about the year 1580,
wherein it is described as " a playe at cardes grown out of the coun
try, from the meanest, into credit .at court with the greatest." Among
Mr. Malone's notices of Old Plays in his Historical Account of the
English Stage, one is called " the Suit of Mawe;" and in Bagford's
manuscript collections for a history of printing1 is a reference to a
printed book, called " The Groom Porter's Order for the game at
Mawe." In Dekker's " Villanies discovered " mention is made of " a
1 " A letter sent by F. A. touching the
proceedings in a private quarrell and un-
kindness, between Arthur Hall, and Mel-
chisedech Mallerie, Gentlemen, printed by
Bynneman." The author and the print
er were both prosecuted by the House of
Commons, part of it being deemed libel
lous, and as such it was condemned to
be burnt: but one copy is known to
have escaped this decree, from which it
has been recently reprinted in Mr. Trip-
hook's " Miscellanea Antiqua Anglicana,"
No. V. It exhibits in many parts a lively
picture of the swash-buckler manners of
the youth of fashion in the reign of Eliza
beth, and affords the first precedent of the
expulsion of a member from the House of
Commons.
The following is the passage above al
luded to.
" Master Richard Drake, a gentleman
well bearing himselfe alwayes, then at
tending upon my L. of Leicester, but now
the Queenes maiestyes Servante in ordi
nate, advised M. Hall as his friende, to
take heede to himselfe in playe, foras
much as he had some waies understoode
of indirect dealings touching the same :
and specially for the giving signs of hys
game at Mawe, a play at cardes grown
out of the country, from the meanest, into
credit at court with the greatest, Hall,
toke his friendship in good parte, as he
had good cause, &, craued withal to shewe
whom he mistrusted, who as one not mak
ing tales on his fingers ends named Mel-
chisidech Mallerie, as a man to be doubted
off. In troth, quoth Hall, yesternight he
trode on my foote, I being at Maw at
Mistresse Arundels ; the old &. honorable
ordinary table, as I may terrae it of Eng-
lad, but what he meant thereby I know
not, I thinke no euil." Page 5.
1 Preserved in the British Museum.
259
Set at Mawe," and the game is also mentioned in the old comedy
of " Gammer Gurton's Needle." In a satirical tract, apparently
translated from the German, entitled, the True History of Pope
Joan,' we have the following clue to trace from whence this game
was derived. Speaking of the Jesuits, the author says, " A certain
prince of ours did compare them unto a game at cardes, in which
the gamesters like loadam playe and bring them forth last that are
of most price, to beat downe the adverse party : or like the ace of
hearts at Mawe (the game is with us called Rumstich)." Now we find
that Rumstich, or Romstecq, is described in the Maison Académique
des Jeux as originally a Dutch or German game, and the method of
playing it is there fully described. It is played with a Piquet Pack
of thirty-six cards, and any number of persons from two to six may
form the party. When six play, a card is turned up all round, and
those who have the three highest cards are partners, and are opposed
to the three lowest : when four only play, it is two against two, as at
whist. It would be tedious here to enter into a description of the
method in which this game is played; but for the satisfaction of
those who are curious to know the form of our ancient popular
games, the passages of most importance from the French book are
copied beneath.* The Italians had a game which may possibly
1 Historia de Donne famose. The true à celuy qui sera au milieu de l'autre coté
History of Pope Joan. London, 1599- de la table & qui jouera contre luy.
4to. Sig. A 1 . rev. Celuy qui aura la plus haute carte choisira
* L'origine de ce jeu vient de la Hol- de faire, ou non. Cela estant résolu,
lande, &. c'est pour ce sujet qu'il est apellé celuy qui ne donne pas est celuy qui doit
Rome-stecq : Il se jouë a Rouen de la marquer le jeu.—Ordinairement a six per-
mesme manière qu'il se jouë en Hollande; sonnes, l'on marque 35: et a quatre ou a
mais a Paris il se jouë avec des règles très deux personnes l'ordinaire est a 21.—Ce-
rigoureuses, 8c avec beaucoup plus d'ob- luy qui fait, donnera cinq cartes à chacun
servations : Vous prendrez un jeu de à sa volonté, scavoir par une, par deux,
cartes ordinaires, &, osterez toutes les pe- trois, ou par cinq, il faut qu'il donne tou-
tites, réservant les 36 qui restent comme jours durant la partie da la même manière
au jeu de Piquet. L'on peut joiier de- qu'il a commencé, & ainsi chacun des au-
puis deux personnes jusques à six, à cinq très donnera à son rang. L'As vaut
cartes chacun Jouant à six personnes onze et emporte le Roy, &. ainsi le Roy
celui qui sera au milieu donnera à couper emporte les autres plus basses.— Virlicque
2l2
260
have answered to this, as there is some similarity in the name; it is
one of those enumerated in the Commentary on the Gioco di Primiera,
and is called Romfa.
LOAD AM.
This is another of the games mentioned by Harington, but of its
nature we have been able to find no trace, except in the passage
from the History of Pope Joan, above cited. We find it referred to
by various other writers of the same period.
NODDY
Is the next in order of those he mentions, and of this game we
have not any other account to give ; it may perhaps have borne some
relation to a childish pastime with cards played in more recent
times under the title of Beat the Knave out of doors, which is men
tioned together with Ruff and New Cut, by Thomas Heywood, in
his play of " A Woman killed with kindness."
est quatre cartes arrivées en une même
main de même façon comme qui diroit,
j'ay quatre As, ou 4 Roys, & ainsi du
reste. Triche, sont 3 cartes de même
sorte arrivées dans une même main comme
trois As, trois Roys ou autre cartes au des
sous. Double ningre, sont deux As,
deux Roys arrivez en une même main: ou
bien deux Dix ou deux Roys en la place
des As. Village, sont deux Dames 8c
deux Valets, de même valeur, ou deux
dix &. deux neufs a commencer depuis le
dame jusques à la plus basse suivante.—
Double Rome sont deux As ou deux Roys
arrivées dans un même main. Rome,
est deux Cartes semblables au dessous des
Roys arrivées dans une même main.
Qui a Virlicque à gagné la partie.
Triche vaut trois dans la main, quand tout
passe il vaut six. Double ningre vaut trois
dans la main, quand vous jouerez une des
quaties cartes qui le composent, il faut dire
en le jettant, piece de ningre, et en jouant une
autre, dire autre piece, car si vous effaciez
votre marque sans avoir dit piece, Sfe. vous
auriez perdu, et ainsi du Village, qui vaut
deux. Double Rome valent deux dans
la main de la même manière. Rome ne
vaut qu'un.- Le Stecque est un marque
pour celuy qui fait la dernière levée.
Gruger est quand on jette une Carte d'une
sorte de laquelle on nà pas, & que l'on
soit contraint de jetter quelques As ou
Roys, cela s'apelle gruger, d'autant que
celuy qui les gruge en efface autant qu'il
en aura marquez : L'As et les Roys valent
chacun un ainsi qu'il est dit cy-dessus.
Maison des Jeux Académiques, 1668.
Page 60.
" Le Romestecq qui est un jeu assez dif
ficile, tire l'étymologie de son nome de
Rome qui est une terme du jeu, et de Stecq
qui est une autre." Académie universelle des
Jeux. Amst. 1773. 12mo. Vol. 1. p. 335.
261
MACKE.
We are unable to afford any further information respecting this
game, than that there is a probability it is the same with the old
French Jeu de Macao. Bagford also refers to a printed order for
it; and there is a comedy mentioned in the list printed by Mr.
Malone, under the title of The Macke.
GLEEK
Is mentioned with Primero in Green's Tu quoque, where one of
the characters proposes to play at twelvepenny gleek, but the other
insists upon making it for a crown at least. This should appear to
be an early French game, for it is mentioned by Villon, who wrote
in 1461, and by another nearly cotemporary writer, Maitre Eloi
d'Amenrnal, in his Livre de la Deablerie
Duchat' says, that it is so named from the German Gluck, ha
zard, luck, chance. At Metz, where the patois contains many Ger
man words, they call it a glic or gleek, when at some games of
cards one of the players holds three or four figured cards of one
sort, as three or four Kings, Queens, or Knaves ; and it is evidently
so called, says he, as a species of good fortune or luck, for the gleek
counts several points. Cotton, who describes it at large in the
Complete Gamester,1 calls it " A noble and delighful game or recre
ation."
' Rabelais, C. 22. Liv. I. Amst. 1741.
4to.
* We have abridged the account of
Gleek from the Complete Gamester,
and here subjoin it.
" This game is played by three persons
only ; the deuces and treys are thrown out
of the pack ; in cutting for deal the lowest
deals. Each person has twelve cards, which
are distributed four at a time, the remain
ing eight cards are laid on the table for
the Stock; one of them is turned up for
trumps, and this belongs to the dealer if
it be the four, which is called Tiddy:
each of the players pays four counters to
the dealer. The Ace of trumps is called
Tib. The Knave, Tom. The former is
fifteen in hand, and eighteen in play, be
cause it wins a trick. The latter counts
for nine. The five is called Tomer. The
six, Tumbler, which reckon in hand for
their respective number of points, but if
turned up, for double. The King and the
Queen of trumps count for three each.—
262
There is an early Italian game mentioned in the Gioco della Pri-
mieru, which is named Cricca, and may have possibly furnished the
idea of the French and English games : it is at least quite as probable
that il did so, as the supposition of Duchat, that they were derived
from the German Gluck. This word Cricca is explained in the Vo
The eldest hand bid9 for the stock, in
hopes of bettering his game, though some
times it makes it worse for him : the low
est bidding is twelve counters, and so on;
if at sixteen they say take it, the bidder is
bound to his bargain, and takes in the
seven cards of the stock, discarding seven
instead ; he pays eight counters to each of
the players, but if an odd number is given
the eldest hand claims the largest half, or
else the odd one is given to the pool. A
Mournival is either all the Aces, Kings,
or Knaves. A Gleek is three of either of
them. A Mournival of Aces receives
eight counters; of Kings, six; of Queens,
four; of Knaves, two, from each of the
other players. A Gleek of Aces receives
four; of Kings, three; of Knaves, one,
from each If the buyer of the stock is
fortunate enough to have either Mourni
val, Gleek, or Tiddy, in his hand after
he has taken in, he deducts for them all,
and thus lie may sometimes gain more than
will pay his bidding. If Tib is turned
up it is fifteen for the dealer in reckoning
after pla>, but he must not make use of it
in play, as it is the trump card, and would
win a trick, which is three more. Next
you speak for the Ruff, and he that hath
most of a suit in his hand wins it, except
any one has four Aces, which wins it
against all competition of suits. If any
one have a Ruff and omit to shew it before
a card is played, he loses it, and any other
player shewing for a Ruff afterward shall
have it. The first or eldest hand says, I'll
vie the Ruff; the next says, I'll see it; the
third, I'll see il, and revie it : I'll see your
revie, says the first, because he has as
many in his hand as another. The middle
one probably then' says, I'll not meddle
with it, then they shew their cards, and
he that has most of a suit wins six count
ers, &c. according to the game agreed, of
him that holds out longest, and four of
the other; but if either of the players says
he has nothing to say to the Ruff, he pays
but one counter. If the eldest and second
hand pass the Ruff, the youngest has the
power to double it, and then it is played
for the next deal; and if any one forget to
call for this double Ruff, it is played for
in the next deal after. Buying, or bidding
for the Ruff, is when you are likely to go
in for Mournival, or Gleek, or increase of
trumps, so that if you have bad cards you
may save your buyings and your cards too;
whereas otherwise you would lose all.
If you call for either Mournival or Gleek,
and have laid them out in the stock, and
are taken in the fact, you forfeit double
what you received. Some out of policy
will vie when they have not above thirty
in their hand, and their antagonists forty
or fifty, but being afraid to see it, and this
stratagem sometimes thus succeeds, and
the bravado wins. Let this suffice for this
noble and delightful Game and Recrea
tion." Complete Gamester (by C. Cotton
Esqr.) Lond. 1 680. page 64 et seq.
We shall extract from this interesting
little book those games which it enume
rates, and which are now no longer in use,
and a description of an Ordinary prefixed
to it: they will find a place in the Appen
dix.
263
cabolario della Crusca' to have the same signification with Gleek in
English, and Glic in French ; that is, the holding three cards of one
sort, as three Knaves, three Kings, three Aces, &c. Berni, in his
rifaccimento of Boyardo's Orlando Inammorato, compares two of his
combatants to two players at this game, because they are fighting
with clubs.
Sembran Costor due giocator di Cricca
Ch' abbian il punto tutti due in bastoni.
This is sufficient to establish the antiquity of its use in Italy, to
which country it is more than probable many of the most popular
games of other nations might be traced, if we had any means of
comparing them ; but the accounts which have come down to us
furnish little more than the mere name.
POST AND PAIR.
This is no doubt what Sir John Harington means by Post.* In
the Complete Gamester, which is supposed to have been written by
Charles Cotton, the friend of Isaac Walton, a book which we have
had occasion frequently to quote, Post and Pair is said to be " a
game on the cards very much played in the West of England." The
description of the game will be found in the Appendix.
BANKROUT.
We have no other notice of this, unless it be the same with
Bank a fa let, described in the Complete Gamester, which is not
improbable. At this game the cards must be cut into as many par
cels as there are players, or more as may be agreed. Every one
stakes as much on his own card as he chooses, or if there are any
* Chicca, Nome che si usa nel giuoco 1 " Post," says Mr. Bowie, " is derived
di carte; e chiamiansi Cricca tre figure di from Apostar, which means, to place in
esse, come dir tre fante, tre donne, tre re, the hands of a third person a certain sum
tre assi, &c. che uomo habbia in mano.— of money, or an equivalent for the win-
E per una spezie di Giuoco di Carte, v. ner."
Berni OrL Inammorato, lib. 3. c. 6. st. 53.
264
supernumerary parcels, any one may stake on them. The dealer
pays to every player whose card is superior to his, and receives
from every one whose card is inferior. The best cards are the aces,
and of these diamonds is the highest; then hearts, clubs, and, lastly,
spades. The power of the other cards is the same as at Whist. We
are informed the modern name of this game is Blind Hazard, and
that it is still played.
ALL FOURS
Is described by Cotton " as a game very much played in Kent,"
and very well it may, continues he, " since from thence it drew its first
original ; and although the game may be looked on as trivial, yet
have I known Kentish gentlemen and others ofvery considerable note,
who have played great sums of money at it. This game, Cotton
conceives, " is called All Fours, from highest, lowest, jack, and
game, which is the set as some play it ; but you may play from
seven to fifteen, or more if you please, but commonly eleven "
OMBRE,
As its name plainly denotes, also owes its invention to the Spa
niards ; and it is said to partake of the gravity which has been con
sidered the peculiar character of the Spanish nation. It is called
El Hombre, or the man, and was so named, says Bullet, " on ac
count of the deep thought and reflection it requires, which render it
a game worthy the attention of man." But it may rather be con
ceived to have derived its name from one of the players who under
takes to play the game against the rest, and who is in consequence
called El Hombre. It appears to be merely an alteration or im
provement of the game of Primero, and it is to be presumed was
invented previous to the publication of the Dictionary of Cobar-
ruvias in 1611, although he makes no mention of it. It is desig
nated in the Maison des Jeux Academiques, in 1668, under the name
Of I'Homme, autrement dit la Beste ; in the " Complete Game
ster," it i& said, " there are several sorts of this game; but that
which is the chief is called Renegado, at which three only can
265
play, to whom are dealt nine cards apiece, so that by discarding the
eights, nines, and tens, there will remain thirteen cards in the stock."
In Seymour's Compleat Gamester, 1739, it is described as a game
much in fashion ; and there is a frontispiece to the book, in which a
party of rank are represented playing at it. Mr. Barrington 1 says,
that Ombre was probably introduced into this country by Catherine
of Portugal, the Queen of Charles the Second ; as Waller hath a
poem, " On a Card torn at Ombre by the Queen." It likewise
continued to be in vogue for some time in the last century, for
it is Belinda's game in the Rape of the Lock, where every incident
in the whole deal is so described, that when Ombre is forgotten
(and it is almost so already) it may be revived with posterity from
that most admirable poem. Many of our readers will recollect,
we doubt not, to have seen three-cornered tables among old furniture ;
these tables were made purposely for Ombre, and in the print which
we have mentioned above, the table is of that form. To play this
game well, attention and quietness are said to be absolutely neces
sary ; " for if a player be ever so expert, he will be apt to fall into
mistakes if he thinks of any thing else, or is disturbed by the con
versation of bye-standers. There are many ways of playing the
game ; it is sometimes played with force Spadille, or Espadille ForcS,
sometimes by two persons only, sometimes by three, which is the
most general way ; but it may be played by four or five persons."
The Spaniards, according to Bullet,1 occasionally called this game
Manilla, from the name of the second Matador,* the Matadores are
so called, because they are killing cards, or irresistible, the word in
Spanish signifying a slayer or killer ; the combatant in the bull-
feast who dispatches the animal is called a Matador.
The first Matador is the ace of spades, which is called Espadilla,*
a little or short sword is represented on this card in the Spanish
* Archaeologia, vol. viii. p. 152. barruvias.
1 Recherches sur les C. a j. p. 157. 4 Espadilla, es en los naipes el punto
i Matador, en el juego llaman triunfo que por otro noinbre Hainan la chifla.
matador, el que no tiene resistencia. Co- Idem.
2 M
266
pack, and the name designates the object; it is the diminutive of
Espada, a sword. The second Matador is called Manilla, or
Malilla ; ' and Bullet gives rather a forced and improbable ety
mology of the word : it is the seven in a red suit, and the deuce in
black, the seven being the lowest card in red. The third Matador,
the ace of clubs, is called Basto, and is the name of the object on
this card in the Spanish pack, which is a club-stick. The fourth
Matador is a red ace : when it is agreed to play in that colour, it is
called Punto,1 literally the point, or ace. Some of the other terms
at this game have been fancifully explained by Bullet.
QUADRILLE,
Which is only another species of Ombre, appears to have super
seded it, and to have been very popular in England, until Whist
began to be played upon scientific principles. Although this game
has a Spanish name, it is supposed to be an invention of the French
nation, and appears to have been a great favourite with the ladies,
as requiring much less attention than Ombre; there was also a
modification of it, which might be played by three persons ; but it
is generally considered far inferior to the game by four, and was
only played when a fourth player could not be had.
REVERSIS
Is a French game, which, Bullet imagines, was invented in the
Court of Francis the First, the gaiety of whose disposition attracted
around him all the beauty of his dominions. For variety sake,
the order and construction of this game M as entirely the reverse of
those already in use, and hence its name. Those who made the
most tricks won in other games ; but here, on the contrary, to make
' Malilla, a card picked out and agreed Taraults ou cartes, qui sert a tout ce qu'on
upon, to make of him any carde in the veut pour faire son jeu. Tesoro Espanola
packe, that he that hath him may make Fran, y Ital. Geneve, l66l, Ato.
himKing,Queen,Knave,Ace,nine,ten,&c. 1 Punto, a pricke, or point, or spot on
at two or three sorts or* games. Minsheu. the cardes ; also a game on the head at
Malilla, le neuf de deniers au jeu de cardes, as 31 or 35 at Primero. Florio.
267
none was an advantage. The highest cards were best in the usual
method of play, but in this the lowest had the preference. The
Knave was a better card than the King; and one of them, the
Knave of hearts, was called the Quinola,1 as at Primero. The
strange incongruity of this inverted order of things made the Spa
niards, when this game became known to them, give it the appro
priate denomination of La Gana pierde ; the winner loses.
BASSETT,
Which is said by Dr. Johnson to have been invented at Venice,
was certainly known in Italy as early as the end of the fifteenth
century; for we have seen that it is mentioned in a poem by Lorenzo
di Medici. It appears to have been a fashionable game in England
at the close of the seventeenth.
II Frusso, the flush, is one of the games enumerated in the Gioco
delta Primiera ; and is also included in Rabelais' Catalogue of the
games at which Gargantua played. Duchat says it was much in
fashion at the Court of Louis XII.
Gay ou J'S, also in the same list, was probably only a variety of
the same game in Normandy. Duchat says the game of Brelan
bears the denomination, because the players call out J'ai when they
have two cards of one sort.
CENT, or MOUNT SANT.
" In Spanish Cientos, or hundred, the point that wins the game.
Thus in an old play, entitled ' the Dumb Knight,' printed in 1608,
the queen says of this game, " the name is taken from hundreds
1 Francois I. attira les Dames a sa cour. faisoient monter un Ecuyer ou Valet qui
Les carosses n'etant pas encore inventes, se mettoient en selle ; elles s'asseyoient sur
les dames se servoit de chariots ou de la croupe avec la main droite. Cet Ecuyer
litiers pour les voyages considerables, de Dames s'appelloit alots Quinola. Ce
Elles montoient a cheval lorsqu'elles n'al- terme est forme du mot Celtique Cinnol,
loient pas loin, lorsqu'elles alloient a la prononcez Kinnol,) qui signifie soutenir,
cour. Pour prevenir les dangers que leur servir d'appui. Reckerckes sur les Cartes
peu d'experience pouvoit occasioner, elles a joiier, p. 145.
2 M 2
268
and afterwards to Philocles, " you are a double game, and I am no
less, there is an hundred, and all cards made but one Knave/' And
in Lingua, or the Conibat of the Tongue and Five Senses, 4 except it
be to play at Chests, Primero, Saunt, Maw, or the like.' As the game
was played by counting, it is probable that it did not materially
differ from Piquet. A Spanish poet, (Moreto) quoted by Pellicer,
in his notes on Don Quixote, mentions this game and Primero in
the following lines.
Y si a otro juego te metes,
A los Cientos te dan sietes,
Y a la Primera figuras.
As this game was of Spanish original, and has some appearance
of having resembled Piquet, which was not known in France until
the early part of the seventeenth century, may not the French have
adopted it with some alteration, merely changing its name ?
La Condemnata, or La Condemnade, is another of Gargantua's
games, which was played by three persons only ; the youngest hand
named a card, and the cards were turned up all round one at a time,
and he to whom this card fell won the stake. The game is mentioned,
together with Gleek, by Coquillart, a French poet, who flourished in
the early part of the sixteenth century, in his Droits nouveaux, thus :
Puis quant la Bourgeoisie est en galles
Une caterve, un Brigade
Vient joiier au son des cymballes
Au glic, ou a la condemnade.
Jean Marot also mentions it in his Voyage de Genes
C'est mal jou6 le jeu de condemnade
A qui Roi vient quant ung Vallet demande.
And Giovanni della Casa, the Archbishop of Benevento, in his
Capitolo delta Stizza,
269
Vuol che si dian le Carte presto presto
E invitavi alia bella condemnata
E gioco in su la fede, e toglie impresto.
Garzoni enumerates several p-ames at cards in his Piazza Uni-
versale di tutti le Professioni del Mondo; but as he only furnishes us
with their names, we have not deemed it necessary to adduce them
here.
TRUMP.
Trump—A game thus named in old plays, and which was pro
bably the Triunfo1 of the Italians and Spaniards, and the Triomphe1
of the French, is perhaps of equal antiquity in England with Pri-
mero : at the latter end of the sixteenth century it was very common
among the inferior classes of the people. In that amusing per
formance, " Gammer Gurton's Needle," first acted in 1561, Dame
Chat says to Diccon, * we be set at trump man hard by the fire,
thou shall set upon the King ;" and afterwards to her maid she says
Come hither Doll; Dol, sit down and play this game,
And as thou sawest me do, see thou do even the same ;
There are five trumps besides the queen, the hindmost thou shalt find her;
Take heed of Sim Glover's wife, she hath an eye behind her.
Trump is thought to have borne some resemblance to the mo
dern game of Whist, and it will be seen that it was considered the
same with Ruff, another name for Whist. The description in the
little French book of garnet we have so frequently quoted, confirms
the supposition ; the only points of dissimilarity are, that more or
Jess than four persons might play at Trump, that all the cards were
1 Triunfo, ay un juego de naypes que llaman triunfo.—Cobarruvias.
Triumfo, a game at cards so called.—Mtnsheu.
T^ronjio^' j a Same at carc'3 caNed Trump or Ruff.—Florio. Also a trump card.
1 Triomphe, the card game called Ruffe or Trump ; also the Ruffe or Trupm at it.
— Cotgravd
270
not dealt out; and that the dealer had the privilege of taking in
some from the stock, and discarding others in their stead The
French author says, that the game was in his time so commonly
played, and so well known, that to describe it was almost super
fluous.
WHIST.'
" RufF and Honours (alias Slam1), and Whist," says Cotton,
" are games so commonly known in England in all parts thereof,
that every child almost of eight .years old hath a competent know
ledge in that recreation : these games differ very little one from
the other." This is in the second edition of the Complete Gamester,
printed in 1680. We gather from Mr. Barrington, that the first
edition, which was printed in 1664, makes no mention of Whist;
but we are not therefore to conclud, that it was then unknown by
that name. Cotton makes a kind of apology for speaking of a
game so universally known, and he no doubt omitted it in his for
mer edition on that account. In another ' Complete Gamester,'
both for court and city,—written for the use of the young Princesses,
by Richard Seymour, Esq. the sixth edition of whicli was printed
for E. Curll, of infamous notoriety, in 1737- " Whist, vulgarly
called Whisk, is said to be a very ancient game among us; and the
foundation of all the English games upon the cards."
" It is mentioned in Farquhar's comedy of the Beaux Stratagem,
which was written at the very commencement of the eighteenth cen
tury. And we gather from Swift, that it was a favourite pastime with
clergymen, who played the game with Swabbers;3 these were certain
cards by which the holder was entitled to a part of the stake, in the
same manner that a claim is made for the Aces at Quadrille : they
• Whist, vulgarly called Whisk, says informed, now signifies one party winning
Seymour; but its original denomination is the game before the adverse party have
" Whist, or the silent game."—Complete gained a trick.
Gamester. 1739- p. 194. 3 " The Clergyman used to play at
1 The term Slamm, at Whist, we are Whisk and Swabbers."
271
were possibly so termed because the clearing the board of this extra
ordinary slake, might be compared by seamen to the swabbers (or
cleaners of the deck,) in which sense the term is still used."
Mr. Barrington learned from a gentleman much advanced in
years, in the year 1786, " that Whist was not played upon princi
ples until about fifty years before, Avhen it was much studied by a
set of gentlemen who frequented the Crown coffee house in Bedford
Row : of these, the first Lord Folkstone was one ; before that time
it had been chiefly confined to the servants' hall with All-fours and
Tut." The rules they laid down were, " To play from the strongest
suit. To study your partner's hand as much as your own.— Never
to force your partner unnecessarily, and to attend to the score."
For the satisfaction of the modern Whist player the instructions for
playing this game, given by Cotton in 1680, will find a place in
the Appendix ; it may be curious to contrast them with the scien
tific and elaborate treatise of Mr. lloyle. Seymour says, " it was
formerly usual to deal four cards together, but now the cards are
dealt round one at a time, as the securest and best way." '
' At the game of whist when one of the that Six luff will mean Six in hand, or
parties reckon six, or any other number, more than the adversary, when he has no-
and the other none, it is usual to say six thing upon his score. So again. Loaf in.
love. This was explained in the following Dutchf, whence we have our word Loof,
manner by a correspondent in the Gentle- and to loof is the weather gage, and in this
man's Magazine, for July, 1780. case Six loof will imply six upon the wea-
" Six Love, or Nine Love, is as much ther gage, or to advantage, as really it is,
as to say, Six to none, or Nine to none; when the antagonist is nothing."
there is, I apprehend, some difficulty in " The Queen of clubs," says a corres-
it, since our dictionaries and glossaries, pondent in the Gentleman's Magazine for
so far as I am acquainted with them, do 1791, p. 141, " is called in Northampton-
not attempt to illustrate it: thus, in the shire, Queen Bess, perhaps because that
English part of Boyer's French Diction- Queen, history says, was of a swarthy
ary, the phrase is put down and explained, complexion ; the four of spades, Ned
but we are not told how, or by what means, Stokes, but why, I know not; the nine of
Six love comes to signify Six to nothing. diamonds, the Curse of Scotland, because
" I conceive the expression may have every ninth monarch of that nation was a
come to us either from Scotland or Hoi- bad King to his subjects. I have been
land. Luff in old Scotch is the hand*; so told by old people, that this card was so
* Gloss, to Douglas's Virgil. f Scwel's Dutch Dictionary.
272
PIQUET.
To the invention of this game the French are supposed to have
an undeniable claim, but the period which gave it birth is very un
certain. It forms a prominent object in the Maison Academique des
Jeux, printed in 1668: at that time it was played with thirty-six
cards, the two, three, four, and five, of each suit being omitted;
at present the sixes are also left out, so that a Piquet pack now con
sists of thirty-two cards only. Those who know this game well,
agree that it is one of the most amusing and most complete games
played with cards. It is played by two persons ; twelve cards are
dealt to each, and eight remain in the stock ; the eldest hand may
take in five of these, discarding five others instead ; the youngest
hand can only take in three, and discards the same number in lieu
of those he has taken in. It is from this choice of cards Bullet
pretends the game has its name, " for Piquo in Celtic signifies to
choose, and the word still preserves the same meaning among the
people atBesancon ; choice grapes, or choice cherries are called pique
des Raisins, ou pique des Cerises." The word, continues Bullet, " is
still in use among the military : a Piquet is a certain number of men
chosen by companies to be ready to mount at the shortest notice."
The Pic and Repic he also resolves into Celtic words, signifying
doubled and redoubled, and this, he says, is precisely the meaning
of these terms in this game. The Point was formerly called Ronfle,
and this, he again pretends, is formed of two Celtic words ; but his
etymologies are so wild, so strained, and capricious, that they de
serve but little credit. The term Capot signifies frustrated, in his
favourite Celtic, and the analogy, he says, with what the term is
intended to express in this game is complete. Indeed the few
games he has mentioned at the end of his book, seem only intro-
called long before the Rebellion in 1745, this card, the night before the battle of
and therefore it could not arise from the Culloden, for General Campbell to give
circumstance of the Duke of Cumberland's no quarter."
sending orders accidentally written upon
273
duced to afford him an opportunity of displaying his ingenuity in
torturing some of the terms in them to Celtic origins. Piquet is
too well known to render any further description of it necessary in
this place ; and with this celebrated game we shall conclude our
catalogue.
Sir John Harington, in his " Apologie for Poetrie/" makes men
tion of a play in which the game at cards seems to have been alle
gorized. " Or to speake of a London Comedie, how much good
matter, yea and matter of state, is there in that Comedie, cal'd the
play of the cards? in which it is showed, how foure parasiticall
Knaues robbe the foure principall vocations of the realme, videlicet,
the vocation of Souldiers, Schollers, Marchants, and Husbandmen."
We have no means of ascertaining whether this may relate to the
play of the Macke, or the Mawe, above cited from Mr. Malone's
History of the Stage ; for neither of these performances have come
down to us, and were therefore probably never printed. It is evident
that the notion of the four suits being intended to represent the four
casts or orders of society, had obtained ground in England at this
early period.
From among the engravings of the old German masters we have
selected two which afford representations of persons playing at cards.
The first, which is prefixed as a frontispiece to this volume, is from
a very rare print by one of the earliest of that school, Israel Van
Meek, or Meckenen, for the writers on this subject are not agreed
in regard to his name, and are still less so in respect to the period at
which he flourished ; but it is universally admitted it was before the
year 1500. This print is one of a set by the same artist which re
present various scenes of familiar life, and is interesting not only as
affording a correct conception of a domestic party at this game,
but as a specimen of the infancy of the chalcographic art. Mr.
Swaine's excellent fac-simile, is so minutely and correctly executed,
as to be scarcely distinguishable from the original. It will be
1 Prefixed to his translation of Ariosto, first printed in 1591.
2 N
274
seen immediately from the costume of the persons represented, that
they are of no mean rank; the simplicity of manners, and modes of
living at thai period, are obvious from the detail in the print. The
ridiculous shoes with long pointed toes, which were denominated
poulains by the French, shew that the players are persons of fashion:
the cards are obviously furnished with the German suits.
The second is a portion of a large print by an anonymous en
graver, marked with the date 1500, and represents the then Duke
and Duchess of Bavaria, engaged at cards. It is remarkable that in
this instance the royal pair are represented to have kept a chalked
score ; the only card displayed presents us with the suit of hearts,
which is common to both the German and French cards. —The
whole print, of which this is only the centre portion, is called by
Bartsch, " le grand Bui," and is known to the English collector by
the name of " the Gala Day its dimensions are about twelve inches
by eight. Three courtiers, each with a lady on his arm, are prome
nading in the front, a fourth is seated by the side of his lady on the
right, and another is advancing to pay his respects to a lady seated
on the same side, but more in the back ground. The usher with his
rod is at the door, seemingly endeavouring to keep back the mob
gathered round it, some of whom are striving to force their way
in. There are four musicians in a kind of gallery on the right, and
two others in a gallery of a similar kind on the left. A page is
bringing in a vessel covered with a napkin, and a gentleman is ap
parently in waiting near to the Duke. These curious and valuable
prints demonstrate that cards were a common amusement with per
sons of distinction at the close of the fifteenth century; and as they
are probably the earliest engraved representations of the game, they
were considered appropriate embellishments for this work, particu
larly as they, at the same time, illustrate the history of the chalco-
graphic art.
One of the most skilful productions of engraving on wood
which the sixteenth century produced, is the series of cuts familiar
to every one under the title of " The Dance of Death/' The origi
Swum U U-QuMn. S5 CroUai S<^*
f
275
nal designs have been attributed to Holbein, and it has even been in
sisted that he made the drawings for the wood cuts ; but this appears
to be fully controverted by a passage in the preface to the first edi
tion of them printed at Lyons in 1538. They have been with more
probability given to an admirable artist by name Hans Lutzelburger.
We have only incidentally mentioned this little work, and shall not
enter further into the question ; but, as connected with our subject,
we have had one of the prints copied : the difficulty of rendering
with truth and spirit, an exact fac-simile of so minute and exquisite
a production, may justly make the artist who produced it proud of
his labour. His success warrants this tribute to his patient merit, and
we have much gratification in presenting our readers with this chef-
d'oeuvre of Mr. E. Byfield : it is at once a beautiful and appropriate
tail-piece to the work.
All attempts at allegorizing cards, or endeavours to make them
subservient to the purpose of inculcating morals or useful knowledge
of any kind, have been attended with but limited success: while the
evil sustained by their introduction, increasing the infatuation of
play, is immeasurable and unbounded. An elegant moralist has
been led to the following reflections, which the most inveterate card-
player must allow to be just.
2 n 2
276
" I must confess, I think it is below reasonable creatures to be
altogether conversant in such diversions as are merely innocent, and
have nothing else to recommend them, but that there is no hurt in
them. Whether any kind of gaming has even this much to say for
itself, I shall not determine ; but I think it very wonderful to see
persons of the best sense passing away a dozen hours together in
shuffling and dividing a pack of cards, with no other conversation
but what is made up of a few game phrases, and no other ideas but
those of black or red spots ranged together in different figures.
Would not a man laugh to hear one of this species complaining that
life is short?"'
The celebrated Mr. Locke is reported to have been once in com
pany with three distinguished noblemen, his contemporaries, the
lords Shaftesbury, Halifax, and Anglesea, who proposed cards, when
Mr Locke declined playing, saying, he would amuse himself by
looking on. During the time these noblemen were at play he was
observed to busy himself by writing in his table book. At the con
clusion of their play, Lord Anglesea's curiosity prompted him to ask
Locke what he had been writing. His answer was, " in order that
none of the advantages of your conversation might be lost, I have
taken notes of it." And producing his note book, it was found to be
the fact. The inanity of such a collection of disjointed jargon, it is
said, had the desired effect on the three noble philosophers : the re
proof was not lost upon them, and cards were never again attempted
to be substituted for rational conversation, at least in the presence of
Mr. Locke.
Yet cards are said to have been instrumental to the progress of
civilization in having tended to humanize man by bringing him
more into female society. Surely this is a satire upon the most
lovely part of creation ; and however necessary they may have
been formerly, the present improved state of the world, and the just
rank which women are now enabled, from superior education, to take
' Spectator, No. 93.
277
in society, renders cards no longer needful for this purpose. A
zealous Spaniard, early in the seventeenth century,* loudly exclaims
against the use of them : " to see cards in the hands of a woman,
says he, appears as unnatural as to see a soldier with a distaff." Yet
in a mixed and numerous party they may still be found to have
their uses. " Let not cards therefore be depreciated ; an happy
invention, which adapted equally to every capacity, removes the in
vidious distinctions of nature, bestows on fools the pre-eminence of
genius, or reduces wit and wisdom to the level of folly." 1
1 Entretinimientos y Juegos Honestos por el Padre Alonzo Remon Madrid 1623, 12°.
1 Henry's Hist, of Great Britain, Vol. XII. p. 385. 8vo.
i V
APPENDIX.
ADVERTISEMENT.
Some portion of the following Appendix consists of matter referred to in
the foregoing pages, and some part of it, of materials obtained too late to
be of use in the compilation. Of this latter kind are the extracts from the
Italian Poem on the game of Tarocco and the excerpta from Cardanus : we
regretted that we had been unable to give a description of the game of Trap-
pola, and these extracts furnish it.
It has been thought advisable to reprint the little Essay upon Cards by
the Abbe Rive entire, as it has become so extremely scarce, that an appli
cation to obtain it of the principal Booksellers in Paris and London has been
repeatedly made by a friend without success. The curious extracts from
Court de Gebelin's Dissertation are also given because his voluminous work
is but in few hands. The reader will be pleased to see the important paper
of Dr. fiuchan in this place, and we are happy to be instrumental in giving it
to the Public. The information afforded by the kindness of J. P. Cruden,
Esq. calls for our grateful thanks.
No apology is offered for printing the documents in this Appendix in their
respective original languages ; the substance of most of them is already to
be found in the book, and they are only here collected with a view to those
who may be desirous of comparison, or further investigation.
CONTENTS OF THE APPENDIX.
N° PAGE.
I. Eclaircissements Historiques et Critiques sur l'Invention des Cartes à jouer
par M. Abbé Rive. 281
II. Extrait de l'Origine de la Gravure par Jansen.—Notice d'un MS. du Roman
de Renart le Contrefait par M. Van Praet. 290
III. Sur Les Cartes à jouer et sur le jeu des Tarots par M. Court de Gebelin
tirée du Monde Primitif comparée a la Monde Moderne 291
V. Note on the Gypsies. 317
VI. Mote on the term Alea. 318
VII. Extracts from the Latin Dialogues of Ludovicus Vives. 320
VIII. Extract from Marineus Siculis. 324
IX. On Minchiate and Tarocco, from Baretti's Manners and Customs of Italy. 325
X. Extracts from the Latin Works of Cardanus, on Cards, 8tc. 327
XI. from the Complete Gamester, by C. Cotton, Esq. 332
XII. Sopra il Giuoco di Minchiate tratte dalle note soprall Malmantile Rac-
• quistato. 349
XIII. Extracts from Flavio Alberto Lollio's Invettiva contra il giuoco di Tarocco. 354
XIV. On the Origin of Cards and the Game of Whist, by Alex. P. Buchan, M. D.
with a Preliminary Letter to the Author. 357
XV. Communications by R. P. Cruden, Esq. respecting Japanese Cards, and the
English Statutes relating to Cards. 364
I
APPENDIX
N° I.
ECCLAIRCISSEMENTS HISTORIQUES ET CRITIQUES SUR
L'INVENTION DES CARTES A JOUER.
Par M. L'Jbbé RIFE.
On prétend communément que l'invention des cartes à jouer est due aux François, 8c
qu'elle est du règne de leur Roi Charles VI. Un des principaux auteurs de cette
opinion est le pere Menestrier, Jésuite. Elle est passée, de sa Bibliothèque curieuse Sç
instructive,* dans un Mémoire du pere Daniel, son confrere,1 daus l'Encyclopédie, 1
dans l'Art de vérifier les dates,* dans la Continuation de VHistoire de France de
l'Abbé Velly, par Villaret, 5 dans le Dictionnaire Historique des Mœurs, Usages Sç Cou
tumes des François, 6 dans l'Histoire de l'Inauguration des Souverains, 1 & dans la nou
velle édition qu'on a faite à Neuchatel de l'Art du Cartier publié par M. Duhamel du
Monceau,8 &c.
Elle a deux parties dont l'une & l'autre sont fausses. Bullet9 en a admis la pre
miere, en disant que les cartes à jouer ont été inventées en France. Il en a rejetté la
seconde, en reculant leur invention sous le règne de Charles V. Roi de France, & en la
datant d'environ l'an 1376, quatre ou cinq ans avant le règne de Charles VI. son suc-
* Menestrier, Bibliothèque curieuse & instruc
tive, tome 2, p. 174, in- 12.
2 Voyez ce Mémoire. Il a pour objet l'origine du
jeu de Piquet, trouvée dans l'Histoire de France
sous le règne de Charles VII. Il est du pere Daniel.
(Voyez, p. 68. des Recherches historiques sur tes
Cartes à jouer, par Bullet, Lyon, J. Deville, 1767,
t'n-8.) Il est inséré dans le Journal de Trévoux du
mois de Mai 1720, p. 934—968, & dans le tome 77
du Nouveau Choix de Pieces, par M. de la Place,
p. 7-
3 Encyclopédie, torn. 2, p. 711 ; col. 2. édit. de
Paris.
♦ Art de vérifier les dates, in-fol. p. 559, col. 1.
8 Histoire de France de l'Abbé Velly & de Vil-
Lire), in-4. tome 6, Saillant & Nyon, Paris, 1770,
p. 308.
6 Dictionnaire historique des Mœurs des Fran
çois, par la Chesnaye-es-Bois, tome 1, p. 374.
7 Histoire de l'Inauguration des Souverains, in-9.
Paris, Moutard, 1776, p- 338.
* Voyez rArt du Cartier par M. Duhamel du
Monceau, réimprimé à Neuchatel par les soins
de J. E. Bertrand, Professeur en Belles-Lettres à
Neuchatel, &c. tome 4, de la nouvelle édition des
Arts £9f M/tiers, 1771 — 1776, in 4. &c. note 3;
p. 619, § 6. C'est le nouvel éditeur qui est auteur
de cette note fautive.
» Bullet, ci-dessus, p. 41.
2 O
282
cesseur. 1 Jean Albert Fabricius,' Scliœpflin, 3 Fournier,4 de Vigny* 8c Saint-Foix,6
ont adopté son avis.
Meerman 7 a réfuté Bullet sur l'époque de cette invention. Il l'a remontée neuf
ans plus haut que lui, sous le même règne ; 8c il l'a fixée vers l'an 1367 : mais il ne
nous a pas appris en quelle paTtic du monde les cartes à jouer ont pris naissance.
La Marre8, 8c l'Abbé le Gendre9, les font venir de la Lydie. Leur opinion est si
dénuée de vraisemblance, qu'elle ne mérite pas d'être citée.
L'Abbé de Longuerue10 8c le Baron de Heineken " ont cru, l'un qu'elles ont été
inventées en Italie dans le quatorzième siècle, Se l'autre en Allemagne, sur la fin du trei
zième. Ils n'ont deviné, ni la nation, ni l'époque auxquelles il faut en rapporter l'in
vention.
Les cartes sont au moins de l'an 1330; 8c ce n'est, ni en France, ni en Italie, ni en
Allemagne, qu'elles paroissent pour la premiere fois. On les voit en Espagne vers
cette année, 8c bien long-temps avant qu'on en trouve la moindre trace dans aucune
autre nation.
Elles y ont été inventées par un nommé Nicolao Pépin." C'est ce que Bullet '*
n'a pas su. Le nom de Naipes, que les Espagnols leur ont donné, 14 a été formé des
lettres N. P. qui sont les initiales des deux noms de leur Inventeur 1J. On lit cette
étymologie dans le Dictionnaire de la langue Castillane, composé par l'Académie
Royale d'Espagne. ,6
Bullet a dérivé le mot Naipes, du mot Basque Napa, qui signifie plat, uni. Comme
il s'agit d'un fait dont les Savants du pays doivent être mieux instruits que lui, nous
préférons à son étymologie celle qui est dans ce Dictionnaire.
Les Italiens, en recevant des Espagnols les cartes à jouer, leur ont donné à-peu
près le même nom, 8c ils les ont appellees Naibi. La Chronique de Giovan Morclli»
* Bullet, p. 40.
* Voyez J. Alb. Fabricius, Bihliographia Anti-
quaria, in-4. Hamburgi, 1760, p. 984, cap. 22.
3 Schœpflm, Findiciœ Txjpographicce, in-4. p. 6,
note (n), Argentorati, 17()0.
* Fournier, Dissertation sur forigine & les pro
grès de l'Art de graver en bois, &c. Paris, J. Bar-
bou, 1 758, p. 25.
5 De Vigny. Voyez, sur les cartes, le Mémoire
sur l'Origine de l'Imprimerie, que cet auteur fit in-
lérer dans le Journal Economique, in-8- Paris, An
toine Boudet, en Mars de 1758, p. 1 17. Il étoit ar
chitecte, intendant des bâtiments de M^r. le Duc
d'Orléans, 8c membr. de la Société Royale de Lon
dres.
6 Saint-Foix, p. 330 du tome 3 de l'édition de ses
œuvres, in-8. Paris, veuve Duchesne, 1778.
7 Meerman, Origines Typographic^, in-4. Haga>
Comitum, 2 tomes, note (n), page 222 du premier
tome.
* La Marre, Traite" de la Police, in fol. 4 tomes,
p. 447 du tome 1, col. 1.
9 L'Abbé le Gendre, Mceurs des François, Paris,
Briasson, 1753, in-12. p. 215.
10 L'Abbé de Longuerue. Voyez le Longue-
ruatia, 1754, in-12. 2 tomes, Berlin, tome 1, p. 108-
11 Le Baron de Heineken, Conseiller Privé des
Finances de son Altesse Electorale de Saxe. Voyez
son Idée générale d'une Collection d'Estampes, in-8.
à Leipsic 8c Vienne, &c. p. 241, note (r).
11 Tome 4 du Diccionario de la Lengua Castel-
lana, (Sfc. En Madrid, anno 1734, en la Imprentade
la Real Academia Espanola : in-fol. p. 646, col. 1.
13 Bullet, ci dessus, note (e), p. 5.
,s, 15 Tome 4 du Diccion. de la Leng. Caslell.
©Y. ci de-sus, note 12.
17 Bullet, Mémoires sur la Langue Celtique, a
Besançon, 1760, in-fol. tome 3, p. Ifj2, col. I, &
Recherches sur les Caries àjouer, p. 134.
283
qui est de l'an 1393,' 8c que Bullet 1 n'a pas connue, nous les présente sous cette déno
mination.3 Les Editeurs du Dictionnaire de VAcadémie de la Crusca, ré imprimé en
en 17:53 à Florence, en 6 vol. in-fol.,* 8c l'Abbé Alberti 1 qui les a copiés, ont ignoré
la véritable signification du mot Naibi. Ce mot a été ensuite latinisé : les cartes sont
nommées Naibes dans une Vie Latine de Saint Bernardin de Sienne, qui mourut en
1444. Cette Vie a été écrite par un nommé Bemabeus, contemporain & compatriote
de ce Saint. Les Bollandistes l'ont insérée dans leur Collection hagiologique;* mais
1 Cette Chronique a été imprimée pour la pre
miere fois à Florence en 1728, in-4. nella Stampe-
ria di S. A. R. per Gio. Gaetano Tartini, e Santi
Franchi. On la trouve à la suite du livre suivant:
Jstoria Fiorentina di Ricordano Malespini.
1 Le plus ancien témoignage que Bullet a rap
porté sur ce nom, est celui de l'auteur de la Vie
Latine de S. Bernardin, qui est postérieure à l'an
1444, Voyez Recherches sur les Cartes à jouer, p.
135.
3 Non giuocare a zara, nè ad altro giuoco di dadi,
fa de' giuochi che usano i fanciulli; agli aliossi, alla
trottola, a' ferri, a' naibi, &c. p. 270 de l'édition
citée ci-dessus, note 1.
+ Naibi (disent ces éditeurs) sorla di giuoco fan-
ciullesco, 8c ils renvoient à la Chronique de Giovan
Morelli. Voyez le tome 3, in Fireme 1733, ap-
presso Domenico Maria Manni in-fol. p. 316", col. 2.
Il est vrai que cet auteur regarde les Naibes comme
un jeu d'enfants; mais cela n'empêche pas de croire
que ce jeu ne se jouit avec des cartes. Cela est si
vrai, que Luigi Pulci ne l'a pas entendu autrement
dans son Morgante Maggiore, liv. 7, stance 67,
Londra (Parigi) 170'8, appresso Marcello Prault, in-
12. tome 1, p. ÎOO :
Gridava il gîgantc :
Tu soi qui. Re de naibi. o di scacchi
Col niio battaglio convien cli'io t'ainmachi.
I« mot Naibi ne peut signifier dans ce passage
autre chose que les cartes. C'est ce que les mêmes
éditeurs qui I on cité, auroient dû observer. Ce qui
ne laisse aucun doute, c'est ce qu'on lit dans la Vie
de Saint Bernardin de Sienne, écrite par le nommé
Bernabeus, dont nous avons déjà parlé, Se insérée
dans le tome 5 du mois de Mai du Acta Sanctorum
des Bollandistes, p. 277*—287-*
L'auteur de cette Vie dit que ce Saint obtint, par
ses prédications, un si grand empire sur le cœur des
Siennois, qu'ils s'interdirent les jeux de naibes, de
dez, &c " Ludi vero taxilloruin non solum suo
" justu deleti futre, sed coram Gubernatore hujus
" Reipublicœ naibes, taxillos, tessetas & instrn-
" menta insuper lignea, super quœ avare irreligiosi
" ludi fiebant, combustos esse praecepit, p. 281,*
" col. 1."
Si les Naibes n'eussent été alors qu'un jeu d'en
fants, ce saint auroit-il déclamé contre elles & son
historien, qui étoit son contemporain & son com
patriote, auroit il observé que la République de
Sienne, ou ils avoient pris naissance l'un & l'autre,
avoit, d'après ses prédications, proscrit les Naibes, Se
fait brûler toutes celles qu'elle a\oit pu trouver dans
son territoire )
La Chronique de Giovan Morelli, loin de prouver
que les Naibes n'étoient pas les cartes àjouer, prouve
au contraire que lorsqu'elles passèrent d'Espagne en
Italie, vers les premiers temps de leur invention,
elles y furent décriées, & n'y servirent qu'à amuser les
enfants, à cause de leurs figures. Mais le temps,
qui ne cesse de miner sourdement les barrières que
les moeurs opposent à la licence, apprivoisa insensi
blement les Italiens, & leur inspira la passion des
cartes. Les jeux d'enfants ne s'abolissent guère j
il y a cependant près de deux siècles que celui des
Naibes n'est plus réputé jeu d'enfants en Italie, té
moin Bartholomeo Arnigio, qui, parlant en IC02
des jeux d'enfar.ts qui avoient cours alors dans sa
nation, ne nomme pas les Naibes. " I nostri fan-
" ciulli hoggi oltre que gli (sic) giuocano a capo a
" nascondere, alla mutola, a far sonagli, aile pal-
'* mate, a mosca cieca, a nascondi lepre, alla capra
" capriuola, a scarca barili, a ditto solto mano, a
" prima, & seconda, alla buca, al passer è nel pa-
*' uico, alla forbice, aile mulette, a cicirlanda, & a
" molle ahre speci dei giuochi, ne' quali la fanciul-
" lesca semplicità ne' teneri anni si trastulla, &c."
Voyez le Diète l'eglie di Dartulomeo Arnigio. Dt
g/i ammendali Coslumi delt humana vita, cSV. lu
Trcviso, appresso Vangcli.-ta Deuchino, 1002, in-4.
5 L'Abbé Alberti : Nuovo Ditionario Jtaliano-
Franccsc, &c. InMarsiglia, presso Giovanni Mossy,
1772, fit 4. p. 540, col. 2. Ce dictionnaire ltalien-
Fr»nçois est jusqu'à présent le meilleur de tous ceux
qui existent.
6 Les Bollandistes, ci dessus, note 4.
2 1 2
284
ils se sont trompés en croyant que le mot Naibes signifie un cornet à jouer aux dez.'
Les derniers éditeurs du Glossaire de la moyenne # basse Latinité, par Ducange, sont
tombés dans la même erreur. 2 Ils ont été les uns &. les autres relevés par Bullet. '
Si nous attribuons aux Espagnols l'invention des cartes à jouer, c'est à cause qu'ils
produisent la premiere piece qui en atteste l'existence. Elles sont prohibées par les
statuts d'un Ordre de Chevalerie qui fut établi en Espagne vers l'an 1332. 4 Cet Ordre,
dont il n'existe aujourd'hui plus de vestiges, avoit pour nom l'Ordre de la Bande. Al
phonse XI. Roi de Castille, fils du Roi Dom Ferdinand IV, & de la Reine Constance,
en fut l'Instituteur. s Garibay,6 Mariana,' Jean de Ferreras 8 &, Bonanni,9 ne nous en
ont pas conserve les Statuts. Dom Antoine de Guevare, evêque de Mondonedo,
prédicateur 8t chroniqueur de l'Empereur Charles V. en a publié une copie dans ses
Epitres. Elles sont divisées en cinq livres, & écrites en Espagnol. Nous en connois-
sons quelques livres traduits en Italien. 10 Ils l'ont tous été en François. " Les trois
1 Les mêmes, ci-dessus, note 4. p. 281. " Naibum
credo " hîc dici fritillum, seu alveolum aleatorium,"
p. 582,* col. 1, note (c).
Une preuve que le mot Naibes, dont cet histo
rien s'est servi, signifie les cartes àjouer, c'est qu'il
est sûr que S. Bernardin de Sienne a déclamé contre
elles : Ne omnino ludant ad Taxillos, ad Aléas, ad
Trinquetum neque ad Charlas. Voyez son sermon
42 sur la passion, dans les Recherches sur les cartes
àjouer, par Bullet, p. 18.
On ne lit pas le mot Charta dans l'énumération
des jeux que l'auteur de la Vie de Saint Bernardin
a faite ; mais on y lit celui de Naibes. C'est donc
par celui-ci qu'il a voulu signifier ce que S. Bernar
din a nommé cartes (charlas). Au reste, le passage
que Bullet attribue à S. Bernardin de Sienne, est
pris du Synode de Langres tenu en 1404. Voyez
Thiers, ci-dessous, note 76, p 254.
1 Gloss, de la Moyenne & Basse Latinité de Du
cange. Paris, Osmont 1733, torn 4, col. 1 135.
3 Bullet, ci-dessus, note (e), p. 135.
♦ Puisque les cartes sont mentionées dans les sta
tuts d'un Ordre qui a été fondé en 1332, elles doivent
avoir été inventées quelque temps auparavant. C'est
pour cela que nous en avons fixé l'invention vers
l'an 1330.
5 Les auteurs qui ont parlé de l'établissement de
l'Ordre de la Bande ne sont pas d'accord sur l'année
en laquelle il fut créé.
Antoine de Guevare & Honnoré de Sainte-Marie
(page 156 de ses Dissertations historiques 65" critiques
sur la Chevalerie, in-4), en ont daté la création de
l'an 1330.
Estevan de Garibay, Compendio Historial de las
Chronica! y Universal Historia de todos los Reynos
a"Espana, ©"c. en Anvers por Christophoro Plau-
tino 1571, in-fol. 4 tomes, p. 887, tome 2. Mariana
(de Rebus Hispan. lib. l6, Toleti, in-fot. 1505,
cap. 2, p. 747, & page 417 du tome 3 de la version
Françoise de son Histoire par le père Joseph-Nicolas
Charenton, Jésuite, in-4, Paris, le Mercier, Sec.
1725) ; & Ferreras [Histoire générale d'Espagne,
part 7, quatorzième siècle, & page 46 du tome 5 de
la version Françoise de d'Hermilly, in-4. Paris,
1751), ont dit qu'il fut établi en 1332.
Le pere Heliot (dans son Histoire des Ordres.
Monastiques, Religieux (9* Militaires, in-4. Paris»
J. B. Coignard, 17 19, tome 8, p. 291) a été flottant
entre ces deux dates. Il eu a adopté tantôt l'une, &
tantôt l'autre.
L'auteur de l'Histoire dfs Ordres Militaires,
imprimée en 4 vol. in-8. a Amsterdam, chez Pierre
Brunei, en 1721, a été dans la mime indécision, tome
2, p. 329.
La Roque a prétendu qu'l n'a été institué qu'en
1338. Il s'est trompé. Voyez p. 380 de son Traité
de la Noblesse in-4. Paris, Etienne Michatlet, 1678,
in-4.
Le lésuite Philippe Bonanni a tranché toute diffi
culté, en ne disant pas un mot sur l'année de son
établissement. Voyez Ordinum Equestrium {9* Mi-
litarium Catalogus in imaginibus expositus, fsfe.
Roma, editio terlia, 1724, typis Georgii Plachi,
in-4.) latine & italicè), num. 11.
* Garibay, ci dessus, note 5.
7 Mariana, ci-dessus, note 5.
* Jean de Ferreras, ci-dessus, note 5.
* Bonanni, ci-dessus, note 5.
,0, 11 Voyez Nicolas Antoine, dans son Biblio-
theca Hispana (nova). Roma? ex Offic. Nicolai An-
geli Tinassii. 1672. in-fol. tome 2, p. 99, col. 2, & p
100, col. 1.
285
premiers ont été imprimés en Espagnol en 1539 à Valladolid (Pintiœ) par Jean de
Villaquiran. Nicolas Antoine, qui a cité cette édition, 1 n'en a pas indiqué le format.
Elle est très rare : il n'y en a aucun exemplaire, ni dans la bibliothèque du Roi, ni dans
celle de M. le Duc de la Valliere, ni dans beaucoup d'autres auxquelles nous avons eu
recours. C'est ce qui nqus a empêchés de la consulter. Ces mêmes livres ont été
réimprimés in-8. en 1578 à Anvers, chez Pedro Bellero. Nicolas Antoine n'a pas connu
cette réimpression. Elle est infidelle & incorrecte : il n'y a pas, jusqu'à sa date, qui ne
soit estropiée ; elle porte d.m.lxxviii pour m.d.lxxviii. Le Roi en a un exemplaire
que M. l'Abbé Desaunais a eu la bonté de nous communiquer.
Nous ne faisons aucun fond sur cette édition; elle est tronquée à l'endroit où les
statuts de l'Ordre de la Bande interdisent les jeux de cartes.
Elle a été exécutée dans un siècle où la passion que les Espagnols ont toujours eue
pour les cartes, étoit devenue encore plus ardente,1 8c dans une ville qui étoit autrefois
de leur dépendance : c'est pour cela que celui qui en a eu la direction l'a mutilée. Les
raisons que nous venons d'alléguer ont eu peut-être un effet bien antérieur. La pre
miere édition qui a été imprimée environ trente-neuf ans auparavant, est peut-être égale
ment châtrée. Ce qui nous le fait soupçonner, c'est que nous n'avons vu aucune trace
des cartes à jouer dans la version Italienne que Dominique de Catzelu a donnée des
deux premiers Livres de ces Epitres. L'édition que nous en avons vérifiée est celle que
Gabriel Giolito de Ferrare a imprimée en 1558 à Venise, en 2 vol. in-8, & dont Nicolas
Antoine n'a pas eu connoissance. 3
1 Nicol. Ant. ci-dessus.
1 Les Espagnols ont tojours aimé passionement
les cartes. Leurs rois s'y sont pris au commence
ment avec beaucoup d'adresse pour les en éloigner.
Alphonse XI. Roi de Castile, en établissant son Or
dre de la Bande, fit jurer les Chevaliers qu'il rece-
voit, de ne pas y jouer. Il crut inspirer par-la de
l'éloignement pour les cartes aux Gentilshommes
qui désiraient d'être décorés de cet Ordre. Mais cette
adresse politique n'eut pas un succès assez efficace ;
la privation de cette faveur royale ne fut pas un frein
assez puissant : ses successeurs furent obligés de les
interdire par le glaive des loix. Jean I. roi de Cas-
tille, les défendit par son Edit de 1387. Voyez Mo
lina, de l.udo, dans Bullet, page 18.
Cette défense, loin d'étouffer en Espagne la pas
sion pour les cartes, la rendit plus ardente. Le Mi
nistère y fut forcé, dans le siècle suivant, de s'armer
de nouveaux foudres. Ferdinand V. dit le Catho
lique, qui monta sur le trône en 1474 (Voyez YArt
de véiijirr tes dates, p. 810, col. I, in jol.), y décerna
des peines encore plus fortes contre les joueurs de
cartes. Voyez Marineus Siculus, dans le Traité des
Jeux tsr* des Divertisements, par. J. B. Thiers, à
Paris, Antoine Desallier, 1686, p. 186 & 1S7.
Les habitudes invétérées jettent des racines trop
profondes pour pouvoir être extirpées. Un auteur
Flamand, appellé Pascasius Justus, qui florissoit
1540, & qui avoft voyagé en France, en Ita
lie & en Espagne, nous peint les Espagnols du
seizième siècle comme la nation la plus passion
née pour les jeux, et principalement pour les jeux
de cartes. Il raconte là-dessus un fait bien remar
quable : " J'ai traversé, dit il, plusieurs villages
" d'Espagne où je n'ai trouvé ni pain ni t in à ven-
" dre; mais je ne suis passé par aucun où je n'aie
" tromédes cartes. . . Hispani homines omnium quos
" novi & maiimi ludunt, & naturâ ait ludum max-
" imi sunt propensi . . ." Plus bas : " Jam diu
" longe lateque Hispanias lustranli mihi sarpi con-
" tigit, ut cùm multis locis nihil eorum quœ ad vic-
" turn faciunt, non panem, non vinum, invenire
" possem ; tamen nunquam Castellum aut vieum ul-
" turn adeb al>jectum W obscurum transire potui, in
" quo non cartulce vœnirent-" Page 40 & 41 du
Traité suivant . . . Pascasii Justi, de Alea, libri duo.
Amsterodami, apud Ludovic. Elzeviriuto, anno
1642. tn-18.
3 Nicolas Antoine, ci-dessus, p. 282, note 10. 11.
236
C'est à la version François du Seigneur de Guterry, docteur en médecine, que
nous nous en rapportons. La défense déjouer aux cartes y est exprimée ainsi : *
" Comandoit leur ordre que nul des chevaliers de la bande n'osast ioiier argent aux
" cartes ou dez."
Le Seigneur de Guterry ne cite aucune édition Espagnole dont il se soit servi ; il
assure qu'il a traduit sur le texte : c'est donc sur un manuscrit Espagnol qu'il doit avoir
fait sa Version. Elle a paru pour la premiere fois en 1558. 2 II y en avoit déjà au
moins quatre éditions en 1573. 3 Elles portent toutes la même défense. Elle devoit
donc être contenue dans le manuscrit d'après lequel le Seigneur de Guterry a traduit.
S'il l'avoit insérée de sa propre autorité dans sa version, n'auroit-on pas réclamé contre
sa fraude, &. l'auroit-on copiée dans toutes les éditions que nous en avons vues î A peine
la premiere sortit de la presse, qu'on se souleva en France contre elle : on s'y récria con
tre divers passages d'une lettre, qui blessoient la délicatesse de nos mœurs nationales.
On supprima cette lettre dans les éditions postérieures : 4 c'est ce qui en rendit la pre
miere extrêmement rare.
Le Seigneur de Guterry n'auroit donc pu faire cette insertion sans exciter les cris,
non-seulement des François, mais encore des Espagnols. Les uns & les autres l'au-
roient accusé de falsification : ceux-là, pareequ'il leur auroit ravi une invention dont
ils ont jusqu'à présent fait honneur au règne de leur Roi Charles VI. ceux-ci, parce-
qu'ils auroient cru être offensées en voyant que le Seigneur de Guterry produisoit contre
eux une piece fausse qui flétrissoit dans leur origine les cartes dont ils sont les inven
teurs, 8c pour lesquelles ils ont toujours eu une affection très marquée.
Mais supposons que les François & les Espagnols se fussent tus sur cette fraude,
1 Voyez la page 146 de la premiere edition de
cette version, sous ce titre : Epistres Dorées moralles
65" familières de Don Antoine de Guevare, eves-
que de Mondonedo, &c. A Lyon par Macé Bon
homme, 1558, in-4. Cette edition ne contient
que le premier livre de cette version. Elle est en
lettres rondes, & à longues lignes.
Voyez la page 183 de celle de Jehan Ruelle, in-8.
Paris, 1570, col. 1, la page 183 de celle d'Oli
vier de Harsy, in-8. Paris, 1573, col. 1, Sec. Cet
deux dernières editions sont aussi en lettres rondes ;
mais elles sont exécutées sur deux colonnes, & sous
ce titre : Les Epistres dorées, (Sf Discours salutaires
de Don Antoine de Guevare, fsfe. Elles sont divi
sées en trois livres. Les deux premiers sont tra
duits par le Seigneur de Guttcrry, & le troisième,
par Antoine du Pinet.
* Voyez la note précédente.
3 II y a eu, depuis l'an 1558 jusqu'en 1573, au
moins quatre editions de la version Françoise que
le Seigneur de Guterry a donnée des premiers livres
desEpitres familières de Don Antoine de Guevare,
à savoir les trois que nous avons indiquées dans la
note 1 , & une autre que Duverdier a citée. Elle a
été imprimée à Paris in-8. en 1563 par Galliot Du-
Pré. Voyez le second tom de la nouvelle edition de
sa Biblioth. 440.
Nous ne regardons pas comme une cinquième
edition de la version Françoise des trois premiers
livres de ces Epitres, celle qui a vu le jour à Paris
en 1573, in-8. sous le nom de Claude Gautier. Elle
est exactement la même que celle d'Olivier de Harsy.
Elle n'en diffère que par le changement du Fleuron
qui est sur son titre, & par les noms du Libraire
dont elle porte l'adresse. C'est ce que nous avons
vérifié.
Duverdier n'a connu que deux des éditions que
nous avons mentionnées, & Nicolas Antoine n'en a
indiqué aucune. Voyez Biblioth. Uispana nova,
tome 1, p. 100, col. 1.
♦ Cette Lettre est dans le premier livre de la
premiere edition; elle a pour titre : Lettre à Mosen
Rubin Gentilhomme de Valance la Grande, par la
quelle sont recités les ennuys que donnent les Dames
amoureuses à leurs amys. Voyez p. 162—l6i.
287
celui qui fit réimprimer le texte en 1578 à Anvers, se seroit-il contenté de supprimer
cette défense dans son édition, sans reprocher au Seigneur de Guterry de l'avoir gra
tuitement supposée? Nous avons déjà observé qu'il y avoit alors au moins quatre édi
tions de sa version, & qu'elles contiennent toutes la même défense.
Peut-on se persuader, d'après notre observation, que le nouvel éditeur du texte
n'eût pas taxé ces éditions d'infidélité, s'il eût osé le faire ? Il s'est tu ; parcequ'il a lui-
même, ou mutilé le texte, ou su qu'il faut attribuer cette mutilation à la mauvaise foi
de celui qui en a été le premier éditeur.
La Croix du Maine n'a pas fait mention du Seigneur de Guterry. La manière dont
Duverdier en a parlé dans sa Bibliothèque, dont la premiere édition est de 1585, prouve
que ce traducteur étoit alors encore vivant. 1 C'est pour cela que l'éditeur d'Anvers
a craint de se compromettre avec lui, en lui imputant une fausseté dont il savoit bien
qu'il n'étoit pas l'auteur. Il ne pouvoit prendre aucune tournure pour lui faire cette
imputation : il ne pouvoit pas l'accuser d'ignorer la langue Espagnole, &. d'avoir glissé
dans sa version le mot Cartes par défaut d'intelligence du texte; il ne devoit pas igno
rer que le Seigneur de Guterry étoit Navarrois, 8c qu'il avoit été élevé en Espagne dès
sa plus tendre enfance : 1 il ne pouvoit intenter une accusation contre lui que sur les
plus fortes preuves ; son silence manifeste l'impuissance où il a été d'en produire au
cune & rend indubitable la mutilation que nous l'accusons d'avoir faite.
Il est bien singulier que le pere Héliot, qui a tiré de la version Françoise du Seig
neur de Guterry3 l'extrait des statuts de l'Ordre de la Bande, qu'on lit dans son His
toire des Ordres Monastiques, Religieux Sf Militaires, en ait supprimé la défense de jouer
aux cartes.
Il y apparence que n'ayant écrit qu'après le pere Menestrierr il a trop déféré à son
autorité; & que s'il n'a pas fait mention de cette défense, c'est parcequ'il n'a pas osé
combattre l'opinion de ce Jésuite sur les inventeurs & l'époque de l'invention des cartes.
Comme l'auteur de YHistoire des Ordres Militaires qui a été imprimée à Amsterdam en
4 vol. tn-8. en 1721, a copié le pere Héliot, il a omis aussi la même défense, tome 2,
p. 331, art. 10.
Quoique j'aie l'honneur d'appartenir à la nation Françoise, la vérité, qui est ma su
prême règle, m'empêche de lui attribuer cette invention. L'homme de lettres doit,
dans tout ce qui n'intéresse point la société politique, dont il est membre, être un vrai
cosmopolite, & n'avoir que l'univers pour patrie. Les rivalités littéraires sont puériles;
elles ne doivent leur germe qu'à la médiocrité des talents, & à l'exiguité des connois-
sances.
• * Voyez la note précédente.
* Voyez l'cpitre dédicatoire qui est à la tête de
la premiere edition ; elle est adressée à Charles,
Cardinal de Lorraine. Elle est imprimée en Fran
çois & en Espagnol sur deux feuillets séparés. Elle
n'est pas dans les autres editions que nous avons rap
portées-
3 Ce qui prouve que le pere Ileliot ne s'est servi
que de la version Françoise du Seigneur de Guterry
c'est qu'en citants les Epitres d'Antoine de Guevare,
il les a appellées Epitres dorées, tome 8, p. 204.
Elles ne portent ce nom que sur le titre de cette
Version. Elles sont appellées Epislolas familiares
dans les éditions Espagnoles.
288
Pour rendre notre découverte plus sûre, prévenons deux objections que l'on pour-
roit nous faire.
1°. On peut emprunter de Bullet la preuve dont il s'est servi pour faire honneur de
l'invention des cartes aux François, & la tourner contre nous, de la façon suivante. Il
y a eu des fleurs de lys sur les figures des cartes de presque toutes les nations de l'Eu
rope. Ces fleurs sont le symbole de la France. Les cartes ont donc été inventées dans
ce Royaume. 1
Cette objection n'a rien d'embarrassant. A peine les cartes furent inventées en
Espagne, qu'elles y furent décriées, & que ceux qui aspiroient au nouvel Ordre de Che
valerie qu'Alphonse XI. y avoit créé, faisoient serment de ne pas y jouer.
De l'Espagne, elles passèrent, environ trente ans après, en France, où elles ne furent
pas mieux accueillies. Le Petit-Jehan de Saintré ne fut honoré des faveurs de Charles
V. que parcequ'il ne jouoit ni aux dez ni aux cartes. 1
Ce roi les proscrivit, ainsi que plusieurs autres jeux, par son edit de 1369. 3 On les
décria dans diverses provinces de la France. On y donna à quelques-unes de leurs
figures des noms faits pour inspirer de l'horreur. En Provence, on en appella les valets
Tuchim. Ce nom désignoit une race de voleurs qui, en 1S61, avoient causé dans ce
pays, & dans le comtat Venaissin, un ravage si horrible, que les Papes furent obligés de
faire prêcher une Croisade pour les exterminer. 4 Les cartes ne furent introduites dans
la Cour de France que sous le successeur de Charles V. On craignit même, en les y in
troduisant, de blesser la décence, & on imagina en conséquence un prétexte : ce fut
celui de calmer la mélancolie de Charles VI. dans les instants lucides où ce malheureux
roi entrevoyoit son état. ' On inventa, sous Charles VII.6 le jeu de Piquet. Ce jeu
fut cause que les cartes se répandirent, de la France, dans plusieurs autres parties de
l'Europe. Certaines figures en étoient ornées de fleurs de lys. Les autres nations qui
les reçurent de la France, n'en changèrent pas d'abord le costume. De-là vient qu'on
vit aussi le même symbole sur celles qu'elles firent peindre- Qu'on juge, par ce que
* Bullet, ci-dessus, page 41. lia tiré ce raison
nement de la page 175 du tome 2 de la Bibliothèque
Curieuse & instructive du pere Menestrier.
1 Chronique du Petit-Jehan de Saintré, chap.
13, p. 142, tome 1, tn-12, Paris, 1724, édition de
Gueullette, & dans Bullet, ci-dessus, p. 40 & 41.
3 Voyez cette Ordonnance dans Bullet, ci-dessus,
p. 13. Les cartes n'y sont pas nommées ; Meerman
a judicieusement observé qu'elles y sont comprises
dans ces mots, (Sf tous autres tels geux gui ne Ment
point. Voyez Meerman, ci-dessus, note 16.
4 Voyez VHistoire & Chronique de Piovence de
César de Nostradamus, à Lyon, chez Simon Rigaud,
1614, in-fol. p 411.
5 II y a un registre de la Chambre des Comptes
de Paris, dans lequel on lit qu'il fut payé à Jaque-
min Gringonneur, Peintre, la somme de 50 sols
parisis, pour trois jeux de cartes à or & à diverses
couleurs, de plusieurs devises, pour porter devers ledit
Seigneur (roy), pour son ébatement. Menestrier,
ci-dessus, p. 175, tome 2; Bullet, ci-dessus, p. 26;
Saint-Fox, p. 330, tome 3 de ses œuvres ; & le Ba
ron de Heincken, p. 237, ci-dessus, on rapporté ce
compte.
Le Baron de Heineken s'est trompé en disant qu'il
est de fig sols parisis. 11 n'est que de 56.
Saint-Foix a cru y lire que Jaqueinin Gringon
neur à inventé les cartes à jouer. Il y a vu ce qu'au
cun bon critique n'y verra. Ce compte porte sim
plement que Jacqucmin Gringonneur peignott de
ces sortes de cartes.
6 Voyez le Mémoire du pere Daniel sur le jeu de
Piquet, ci-dessus, note S; Se Bullet, ci-dessus,
p. 68.
289
nouî venons de dire, si ce symbole prouve que les cartes doivent leur origine à la
France.
Mais voici un raisonnement absolument péremptoire. Bullet a observé, dans une
autre dissertation,' qu'on trouve des fleurs de lys sur des monuments Romains du haut
8c du moyen âge, sur les sceptres 8c les couronnes de divers empereurs d'occident, de
divers rois de Castille, 8c de la Grande Bretagne, avant que les Normands en eussent
fait la conquête. Cela étant, pourquoi les Espagnols, en inventant les cartes, n'au-
roient ils pas pu en orner les figures de fleurs de lys ? Il est d'autant plus vraisemblable
qu'ils l'ont fait, que l'invention des cartes est postérieure, de peu de temps, à la mort de
leur Saint Roi Ferdinand, dont la couronne étoit tout fleurdelisée. 1
2°. On peut nous objecter, d'après Papillon, 5 que les cartes sont nées en France, 8c
qu'elles sont bien plus anciennes que nous ne l'avons dit. Cet auteur a cité une ordon
nance fait par S. Louis en 1254, 8c il a renvoyé au recueil de Blanchard.
Il est vrai que S. Louis fit, en Décembre de cette année,4 une ordonnance, par la
quelle il défendit déjouer 8c de donner à jouer aux dez, aux dames 8c aux échecs;
mais il n'y parla pas des cartes, parcequ'elles n'étoient pas encore inventées. La copie
que Blanchard a suivie étoit fautive. Celle qui est dans le premier tome de la nouvelle
édition des Ordonnances des Rois de France de la troisième Race, est bien plus exacte: s
les cartes n'y sont, ni nommées, ni désignées. Elles ne le sont pas non plus dans un
fragment de la même ordonnance, que le savant Thiers a rapporté dans son Traité
des Jeux. 6
' Bullet. Voyez sa Dissertation sur lesfleurs de
lys (p. 10, 1 1, 12, 13 & 14). Elle est insérée dans
le recueil qu'il a fait imprimer sous ce titre: Dis
sertation sur différents sujets de l"Histoire de France,
à Besançon, &c. 1759, in-8. Les citations n'en
sont aucunement exactes, sur-tout les deux de la
page 14, qui renvoient aux Bollandistes.
* Voyez ce que Bullet dit sur la couronne de Saint
Ferdinand, dans sa dissertation sur les fleurs de lis,
p. 14. 11 y renvoie au torn 5 du mois de Mai des
BollandisUs. Nous l'avons beaucoup feuilleté. Com
me Bullet n'en a pas indiqué la page, nous n'avons
pas pu y trouver ce qui concerne cette couronne.
Saint Ferdinand mourut le 30 Mai de l'an 1252.
Voyez Mariana, liv. 13, an 1260—1252, &p 51
du tome 3 de la version Françoise.
• Papillon, tome l de son Traité de la Gravure en
bois, p. 80.
♦ Tome 1 des Ordonnances des Rois de France de
la troisième Race, Paris, de l'imprim. Royale, in-
fol. 1723, p. 61—75.
1 Cette ordonnance est imprimée en Latin Se en
François dans l'édition qui est citée dans la note pré
cédente. L'article Latin en est le trente-cinquième,
Se le François le vingt.huitième. Voici l'un Si
l'autre :
Preterea prohibemus districti ut nullus homo lu-
dot adTaxillos, sive aleis aut scaccis ; tcholas aulem
deciorum prohibemus Î9" prohiberi volumus omnino,
& tenenter eas districtius puniantur. Fabrica etiam
deciorum prohibetur, p 74, col. 1.
Et avec ce nous deffendons étroitement que nul
nejoue aux dez, aux tables, ne aux échets, & si def
fendons escoles de dez, & voulons du-tout estre de-
véyés, & ceux qui les tendront soient très bien punis.
Et si soit la forge, ou l'euvre de dez deveyé par tout.
Rid. col. 2.
6 Voyez la page 184, ànTraiti des Jeux & desDi-
vertiiements qui peuvent être permis, ou qui doivent
{Ire défendus aux Chrétiens, selon les Règles de
l'Eglisse & le sentiment des Peres. Par M. Jean-
Baptiste Thiers, Docteur en Théologie, & Curé de
Chamrond. A Paris, chez Ant. Dezallier, 1Ô86,
in- 12.
Fin de l'Ouvrage de M. VAbbé Rive.
2 p
N II.
EXTRAIT DE L'ESSAI SUR L'ORIGINE DE LA GRAVURE PAR JANSEN. TOME I. P. 90.
PARIS 1808. 8VO.
Graces a M. Van Praet, conservateur des livres de la Bibliothèque Impériale a
Paris, si estimable par ses grandes connoissances littéraires et bibliographiques, et par son
extrême obligeance a les communiquer, nous pouvons du moins faire remonter l'usage
des cartes a jouer en France jusqu'en 1341. Voici ce qu'on trouve au folio 95 d'un
manuscrit de M. Lancelot, intitulé Renart le contrefait, qu'il a bien voulu nous in
diquer :
Si comme fols et folles sont
Qui pour gargner au bordel vont;
Jouent aux dez, aux Caries, aux tables
Qui à Dieu ne sont délectables. fol. 95.
Ce Roman de Renart le contrefait, qui est en vers, a été composée par un anonyme,
qui paroit être de Champagne. Il nous apprend', au folio 83, le temps ou il l'a écrit.
Celui qui ce Roman ecript
Et qui le fist sans faire faire,
Et sans prendre autre exemplaire,
Tant y pensa et jour et nuict
En l'an mil iij cent xxviij.
En analant y mist sa cure
Et continua l'escripturc
Plus de xxiij ans y mist au faire
Aincoit qui il le pense parfaire.
Bien poct vcoir la manière.
Ce Passage fixe l'entière confection de ce Roman en 1341 l'auteur y rapporte des faits
antérieurs à cette date; il parle de Philippe de Valois comme vivant encore.
N° III.
Extrait du Monde Primitif Analyse et comparé avec le Monde Moderne par
M. Court de Gebelin. dissertations Mêlée. Tome I. P. 363.
DU JEU DES TAROTS.
OU L'ON TRAITE DE SON ORIGINE, OU ON EXPLIQUE SES ALLEGORIES, ET OU L'ON
FAIT VOIR QU'IL EST LA SOURCE DE NOS CARTES MODERNES A JOUER, &C. &C.
1.
Surprise que causeroit la découverte d'un Livre Egyptien.
Si l'on entendoit annoncer qu'il existe encore de nos jours un ouvrage des anciens
Egyptiens, un de leurs livres échappé aux flammes qui dévorèrent leurs superbes biblio
thèques, & qui contient leur doctrine la plus pure sur des objets intéressans, chacun
seroit, sans doute, empressé de connoître un livre aussi précieux, aussi extraordinaire.
Si on ajoûtoit que ce livre est très-répandu dans une grande partie de l'Europe, que
depuis nombre de siècles il y est entre les mains de tout le monde, la surprise iroit
certainement en croissant: ne seroit-elle pas à son comble, si l'on assurait qu'on n'a
jamais soupçonné qu'il fût Egyptien, qu'on le possède comme ne le possédant point, que
personne n'a jamais cherché à en déchiffrer une feuille : que le fruit d'une sagesse
exquise est regardé comme un amas de figures extravagantes qui ne signifient rien par
elles-mêmes? Ne croiroit-on pas qu'on veut s'amuser, se jouer de la crédulité de ses
auditeurs ?
2.
Ce Livre Egyptien existe.
Le fait est cependant très-vrai : ce livre Egyptien, seul rest de leurs superbes bib
liothèques, existe de nos jours : il est même si commun, qu'aucun savant n'a daigné
s'en occuper ; personne avant nous n'ayant jamais soupçonné son illustre origine. Ce
livre est composé de LXXVII feuillets ou tableaux, même de LXXVIII, divisés en
V classes, qui offrent chacune des objets aussi variés qu'amusans 8c instructifs : ce livre
est en un mot le Jeu des Tarots, jeu inconnu, il est vrai, à Paris, mais três-coonu en
Italie, en Allemagne, même en Provence, & aussi bisarre parles figures qu'offre chacune
de ses cartes, que par leur multitude.
Quelqu'étendues que soient le contrées où il est en usage," on n'en étoit pas plus
292
avancé sur la valeur des figures bisarres qu'il paroît offrir: & telle est son antique
origine qu'elle se perdoit dans l'obscurité des tems, qu'on ne savoit ni où ni quand il
avoit été inventé, ni le motif qui y avoit rassemblé tant de figures extraordinaires, si peu
faites ce semble pour marcher de pair, telles qu'il n'offre dans tout son ensemble qu'une
énigme que personne n'avoit jamais cherché à résoudre.
Ceu jeu a même paru si peu digne d'attention, qu'il n'est jamais entré en ligne de
compte dans les vues de ceux de nos savans qui se sont occupés de l'origine des cartes :
ils n'ont jamais parlé que des cartes Françoises, ou en usage à Paris, dont l'origine est
peu ancienne ; & après en avoir prouvé l'invention moderne, ils ont cru avoir épuisé la
matière. C'est qu'en effet on confond sans cesse l'établissement d'une connoissance
quelconque dans un pays avec son invention primitive : c'est ce que nous avons déjà
fait voir à l'égard de la boussole: les Grecs & les Romains eux-mêmes n'ont que trop
confondu ces objets, ce qui nous a privé d'une multitude d'origines intéressantes.
Mais la forme, la disposition, l'arrangement de ce jeu &. les figures qu'il offre sont
si manifestement allégoriques, & ces allégories sont si conformes à la doctrine civile,
philosophique &. religieuse des anciens Egyptiens, qu'on ne peut s'empêcher de la re
connoitre pour l'ouvrage de ce peuple de sages : qu'eux seuls purent en être les inven
teurs, rivaux à cet égard des Indiens qui inventoient le jeu des Echecs.
DIVISION.
Nous ferons voir les allégories qu'offrent les diverses cartes de ce jeu,
Les formules numériques d'après lesquelles il a été composé.
Comment il s'est transmis jusques à nous.
Ses rapports avec un monument Chinois.
Comment en naquirent les cartes Espagnoles.
Et les rapports de ces dernières avec les cartes Françoises.
Cet Essai sera suivi d'une dissertation où l'on établit comment ce jeu étoit appliqué
à l'art de la divination : c'est l'ouvrage d'un officier général, gouverneur de province,
qui nous honore de sa bienveillance, 8c qui a retrouvé dans ce jeu avec une sagacité
très-ingénieuse les principes Egyptiens sur l'art de deviner par les cartes, principes qui
distinguèrent les premiers bandes des Egyptiens mal nommés Bohémiens qui se répan
dirent dans l'Europe, & dont il subsiste encore quelques vestiges dans nos jeux de cartes,
mais qui y prêtent infiniment moins par leur monotonie & par le petit nombre de leurs
figures.
Le jeu Egyptien, au contraire, étoit admirable pour cet effet, renfermant en quelque
façon l'Univers entier, & les états divers dont la vie de l'homme est susceptible. Tel
étoit ce peuple unique & profond, qu'il imprimoit au moindre de ses ouvrages le sceau
de l'immortalité, & que les autres semblent en quelque sorte se traîner à peine sur ses
traces.
1
1
-=ll IF
293
ARTICLE I.
Allegories qu'offrent les Cartes de Jeu des Tarots.
Si ce jeu qui a toujours été muet pour tous ceux qui le connoissent, s'est développé
à nos yeux, ce n'a point été l'effet de quelques profondes méditations, ni de l'envie de
débrouiller son cahos : nous n'y pensions pas l'instant avant. Invité il y a quelques
années à aller voir une dame de nos amies, Madame la C. de H. qui arrivoit d'Alle
magne ou de Suisse, nous la trovâmes occupée à jouer à ce jeu avec quelques autres
personnes. Nous jouons à un jeu que vous ne connoissez sûrement pas.—Cela se peut ;
quel est-il ?—Lejeu des Tarots—J'ai eu occasion de le voir étant fort jeune, mais je n'en
ai aucune idée—C'est une rapsodie des figures les plus bisarres, le plus extravagantes :
en voilà une, par exemple; on eut soin de choisir la plus chargée de figures, & n'ayans
aucun rapport à son nom, c'est le monde: j'y jette les yeux, & aussi-tôt j'en reconnoit
l'Allégorie: chacun de quitter son jeu & de venir voir cette carte marveilleuse où
j'appercevois ce qu'ils n'avoient jamais vû: chacun de m'en montrer une autre: et un
quart-d'heure le jeu fut parcouru, expliqué, déclaré Egyptien : & comme ce n'étoit
point le jeu de notre imagination, mais l'effet des rapports choisis & sensibles de ce jeu
avec tout ce qu'on connoit d'idées Egyptiennes, nous nous promîmes bien d'en faire part
quelque jour au public; persuadés qu'il auroit pour agréable une découverte & un
présent de cette nature, un livre Egyptien échappe à la barbarie, aux ravages du tems,
aux incendies accidentelles 8t aux volontaires, à l'ignorance plus désastreuse encore.
Effet nécessaire de la forme frivole & légère de ce livre, qui l'a mis à même de
triompher de tous les âges & et de passer jusques à nous avec une fidélité rare:
l'ignorance même dans laquelle on a été jusques ici de qu'il représentoit, a été un
heureux sauf-conduit, qui lui a laissé traverser tranquillement tous les siècles sans qu'on
ait pensé à le faire disparoître.
Il étoit tems de retrouver les allégories qu'il étoit destiné à conserver, & de faire
voir que chez le peuple le plus sage, tout jusqu'aux jeux, étoit fondé sur l'allégorie, 8c
que ces sages savoient changer en amusement les connoissances les plus utiles & n'en
faire qu'un jeu.
Nous l'avons dit, le jeu des Tarots est composé de LXXVII cartes, même d'une
LXXVIIIe, divisées en atous & en IV couleurs. Afin que nos lecteurs puissent nous
suivre, nous avons fait graver les atous ; &. l'as de chaque couleur, ce que nous appel
ions avec les Espagnols, spadille, baste, & ponte.
ATOUS.
Les Atous au nombre de XXII, représentent en général les chefs temporels &
spirituels de la société, les chefs physiques de l'agriculture, les vertus cardinales, le
mariage, la mort 8t la résurrection ou la création ; les divers jeux de la fortune, le sage
& le fou, le tems qui consume tout, &c. On comprend ainsi d'avance que toutes ces
294
Cartes sont autant de tableaux allégoriques relatifs à l'ensemble de la vie, & susceptibles
d'une infinité de combinaisons. Nous allons les examiner un à un, & tâcher de déchiff
rer l'allégorie ou l'énigme particulière que chacun d'eux renferme.
LE FOU.
On ne peut rnéconnoître le fou dans cette carte, à sa marotte, &. à son hoqueton
garni de coquillages & de sonnettes : il marche très-vîte comme un fou qu'il est,
portant derrière lui son petit paquet, & s'imaginant échapper par-là à un tigre qui lui
mord la croupe : quant au sac, il est l'emblème de ses fautes qu'il ne voudroit pas voir;
& ce tigre, celui de ses remords qui le suivent galopant, &, qui sautent en croupe
derrière lui.
Cette belle idée qu'Horace a si bien encadrée dans de l'or, n'étoit donc pas de lui,
elle n'avoit pas échappé aux Egyptiens : c'étoit une idée vulgaire, un lieu commun ;
mais prise dans la Nature toujours vraie, 8t présentée avec toutes les graces dont ille est
susceptible, cet agréable & sage poëte sembloit l'avoir tirée de son profond jugement.
Quant à cet Atous, nous l'appelions zero, quoiqu'on le place dans le jeu après le
XXI, parce qu'il ne compte point quand il est seul, & qu'il n'a de valeur que celle qu'il
donne aux autres, précisément comme notre zero : montrant ainsi que rien n'existe sans
sa folie.
N° I.—Le Joueur de Gobelets, ou Bateleur.
Nous commençons par le n° 1. pour suivre jusques au 21, parce que l'usage actuel
est de commencer par le moindre nombre pour s'élever de-là aux plus hauts : il paroît
cependant que les Egyptiens commençoient à compter par le plus haut pour descendre
de-là jusqu'au plus bas. C'est ainsi qu'ils solsifioient l'octave en descendant, & non en
montant comme nous. Dans la dissertation qui est à la suite de celle-ci, on suit l'usage
des Egyptiens, & on en tire le plus grand parti. On aura donc ici les deux manières :
la nôtre la plus commode quand on ne veut considérer ces cartes qu'en elles-mêmes : &
celle-là, utile pour en mieux concevoir l'ensemble & les rapports.
Le premier de tous les atous en remontant, ou le dernier en descendant, est un
Joueur de Gobelet; on le reconnoît à sa table couverte de dés, de gobelets, de
couteaux, de baies, &c. A son bâton de jacob ou verge des Mages, à la baie qu'il
tient entre deux doigts & qu'il va escamoter.
On l'appelle Bateleur dans la dénomination des cartiers : c'est le nom vulgaire
des personnes de cet état: est-il nécessaire de dire qu'il vient de baste, bâton f
A la tête de tous les états, il indique que la vie entière n'est qu'un songe, qu'un
escamotage: qu'elle est comme un jeu perpétuel du hasard ou du choc de mille circon
stances qui ne dépendirent jamais de nous, & sur lequel influe nécessairement pouf
beaucoup toute administration générale.
Mais entre le fou & le bateleur, l'homme n'est-il pas bien ?
I
295
N° II. III. IV. Y.—Chefs de la Société.
Les numéros II & III représentent deux femmes : les numéros IV & V, leurs maris:
ce sont les chefs temporels 8t spirituels de la société.
Roi êf Reine.
Le N° IV. represent le Roi, & le III. la Reine. Ils ont tous les deux pour attributs
l'aigle dans un ecusson, & le sceptre surmonté d'un globe thautifié ou couronné d'une
croix, appellée thau, le signe par excellence.
Le roi est vu de profil, la reine de face : ils sont tous les deux assis sur un trône.
La reine est en robe traînante, le dossier de son trône est élève: le roi est comme
dans une gondole ou chaise en coquille, les jambes croisées. Sa couronne est en demi-
cercle surmontée d'une perle à croix. Celle de la reine se termine en pointe. Le roi
porte un ordre de chevalerie.
Grand-Prêtre êf Grand-Prêtresse.
Le N° V. représente le chef des hiérophantes ou le Grand-Pretke : le N° II. la
Grande-Pretresse ou sa femme: on sait que chez les Egyptiens, les chefs du Sacer
doce étoient mariés. Si ces cartes étoient de l'invention des modernes, on n'y verrait
point de grande-prêtresse, bien moins encore sous le nom de Papesse, comme les
cartiers Allemands ont nommé celle-ci ridiculement.
La grande-prêtresse est assise dans un fauteuil : elle est en habit long avec une
espèce de voile derrière la tête qui vient croiser sur l'estomac : elle a une double
couronne avec deux cornes comme en avoit Isis : elle tient un livre ouvert sur ses
genoux ; deux écharpes garnies de croix se croisent sur sa poitrine & y forment un X.
Le grand-prêtre est en habit long avec un grande manteau qui tient à une agraffe :
il porte la triple thiare : d'une main, il s'appuie sur un sceptre à triple croix : & de
l'autre, il donne de deux doigts étendus la bénédiction à deux personnages qu'on voit à
ses genoux.
Les cartiers Italiens ou Allemands qui ont ramené ce jeu à leurs connoissances, ont
fait de ces deux personnages auxquels les anciens donnoient le nom de Pere & de
Mere, comme on dirait Abbs & Abbesse, mots Orientaux significans la même chose,
ils en ont fait, dis-je, un Pape & une Papesse.
Quant au sceptre à triple croix, c'est un monument absolument Egyptien : on le
voit sur la table d'Isis, sous la lettre TT; monument précieux que nous avons déjà fair
graver dans toute son étendue pour le donner quelque jour au public. Elle a rapport
au triple phallus qu'on promenoit dans la fameuse Fête des Pamylies où l'on se réjouis-
soit d'avoir retrové Osiris, & où il étoit le symbole de la régénération des plantes & de
la Nature entière.
N° VII.—Osiris Triomphant.
Osiris s'avance ensuite : il paraît sous la forme d'un roi triomphant, le sceptre en
main, la couronne sur la tête : il est dans son char de guerrier, tiré par deux chevaux
296
blancs. Personne n'ignore qu'Osiris étoit la grande divinité suprême invisible, mais
qui se manifeste dans ce chef-d'œuvre de la Nature. Il avoit été perdu pendant l'hyver:
il reparoit au printcms avec un nouvel éclat, ayant triomphé de tout ce qui lui fasoit la
guerre.
N° VI.—le Marriage.
Un jeune homme & une jeune femme se donent leur foi mutuelle : un prêtre les
bénit, l'amour les perce de ses traits. Les cartiers appellent ce tableaux, I'Amoureux.
Ils ont bien l'air d'avoir ajouté eux-mêmes cet amour avec son arc & ses flèches, pour
rendre ce tableau plus parlant à leurs yeux.
On voit dans les antiquités de Boissard,' un monument de la même nature, pour
peindre l'union conjugale; mais il n'est composé que de trois figures.
L'amant & l'amante qui se donnent leur foi : l'amour entre deux sert de témoin Se
de prêtre.
Ce tableau est intitulé Fidei Simulacrum, tableaux de la foi conjugale: les per
sonnages en sont désignés par ces beaux noms, Vérité, Honneur & Amour. Il est
inutile de dire que la vérité désigne ici la femme plutôt que l'homme, non-seulement
parce que ce mot est du genre féminin, mais parce que la Fidélité constante est plus
essentielle dans la femme. Ce monument précieux fut élevé par un nommé T. Fun-
danius Eromenus ôu l'amiable, à sa très-chere épouse Poppée Demetrie, & à leur fille
chérie Manilla Eromenis.
N° VIII. XI. XII. XIIII—Les quatre Vertus Cardinales.
Les figures sur les numéros que nous avons ici réunies, sont relatives aux quatre
vertus cardinales.
N° XI. Celle-ci représente la Force. C'est une femme qui s'est rendue maiiresse
d'un lion, & qui lui ouvre la gueule avec la même facilité qu'elle ouvriroit celle de son
petit épagneul ; elle a sur la tête un chapeaux de bergère.
N° XIIE La Temperance. C'est une femme aîlée qui fait passer de l'eau d'un vase
dans un autre, pour tempérer la liqueur qu'il renferme.
N° VIII. La Justice. C'est une reine, c'est Astree assise sur son trône, tenant
d'une main un poignard ; de l'autre, une balance.
N° XII. La Prudence est du nombre des quatre cardinales: les Égyptiens
purent-ils l'oublier dans cette peintre de la vie humaine i cependant, on ne la trouve
pas dans ce Jeu. On voit à sa place sous le N° XII. entre la force & la tempérance,
un homme pendu par les pieds : mais que fait-là ce pendu ? c'est l'ouvrage d'un mal
heureux Cartier présomptueux qui ne comprenant pas la beauté de l'allégorie ren
fermée sous ce tableau, a pris sur lui de le corriger, &, par-là même de le défigurer
entièrement.
« T. III. Pl. xxxvi.
297
La prudence ne pouvoit être représentée d'une manière sensible aux yeux que par
un homme debout, qui ayant un pied posé, avance l'autre, & le tient suspendu examinant
le lieu où il pourra le placer sûrement. Le titre de cette carte étoit donc l'homme au
pied suspendu, pede suspensu: le cartier ne sachant ce que cela vouloit dire, en a fait un
homme pendu par la pieds.
Puis on a demandé, pourquoi un pendu dans ce jeu ? & on n'a pas manqué de
dire, c'est la juste punition de l'inventeur du jeu, pour y avoir réprésenté ùn papesse.
Mais placé entre la force, la tempérance 8c la justice, qui ne voit que c'est la
prudence qu'on voulut & qu'on dut représenter primitivement?
N° VIII. ou IX.—Le Sage ou le Chercheur de la Vérité Sç du Juste.
Le N° IX. représent un philosophe vénérable en manteau long, un capuchon sur les
épaules: il marche courbé sur son bâton, & tenant une lanterne de la main gauche.
C'est le sage qui cherche la justice & la vertu.
On a donc imaginé d'après cette peinture Egyptienne, l'histoire de Diogène qui la
lanterne en main cherche un homme en plein midi. Les bons mots, sur-tout les
epigrammatiques, sont de tout siècle : & Diogène étoit homme à mettre ce tableau en
action.
Les cartiers ont fait de ce sage un hermite. C'est assez bien vu : les philosophes
vivent volontiers en retraite, ou ne sont guères propres à la frivolité du siècle. Hera-
clide passoit pour fou aux yeux de ses chers concitoyens : dans l'orient, d'ailleurs, se
livrer aux Sciences spéculatives ou s'Hermetiser, est presque une seule & même chose.
Les hermites Egyptiens n'eurent rien à reprocher à cet égard à ceux des Indes, &, aux
Talapoins de Siam : ils étoient ou sont tous autant deDruides.
N° XIX.-Le Soleil
Nous avons réuni sous cette planche tous les tableaux relatifs à la lumière : ainsi
après la lanterne sourde de l'hennite> nous allons passer en revue le soleil, la lune &
le brillant sirius ou la canicule étincelante, tous figurans dans ce jeu, avec divers
emblèmes.
Le Soleil est représenté ici comme le pere physique des humains & de la Nature
entière : il éclaire hommes en société, il préside à leurs villes : de ses rayons distillent
des larmes d'or 8t de perles : ainsi on désignoit les heureuses influences de cet astre.
Ce jeu des Tarots est ici parfaitement conforme à la doctrine des Egyptiens, comme
nous Talions voir plus en détail à l'article suivant.
N° XVIII.-ia Lune.
Ainsi la Lune qui marche à la suite du soleil est aussi accompagnée de larmes d'or
& de perles, pour marquer également qu'elle contribue pour sa part aux avantages de
la terre»
298
Pausanias nous apprend dans la description de la Phocide, que, selon les Egyp
tiens, c'étoient les Larmes d'Isis qui enfloient chaque année les eaux du Nil &.qui
rendoient ainsi fertiles les compagnes d'Egypte. Les relations de ce pays panent aussi
d'une goutte ou larme, qui tombe de la lune au moment où les eaux du Nil doivent
grossir.
Au bas de ce tableau, on voit une crevisse ou Cancer, soit pour marquer la marche
rétrograde de la lune, soit pour indiquer que c'est au moment où le soliel & la lune
sortent du signe de Cancer qu'arrive l'inondation causée par leurs larmes au lever de la
canicule qu'on voit dans le tableau suivant.
On pourroit même réunir les deux motifs : n'est-il pas très ordinaire de se déterminer
par une foule de conséquences qui forment une masse qu'on seroit souvent bien embar
rassé à démêler ?
Le milieu du tableau est occupé par deux tours, une à chaque extrémité pour
désigner les deux fameuses colonnes d'Hercule, en-deça&. au-delà desquelles ne passèrent
jamais ces deux grands luminaires.
Entre les deux colonnes sont deux chiens qui semblent aboyer contre la lune & la
garder: idées parfaitment Egyptiennes. Ce peuple unique pour les allégories, com-
paroit les tropiques à deux palais gardés chacun par un chien, qui, semblables à des
portiers fidèles, retenoient ces astres dans le milieux des cieux sans permettre qu'ils se
glissassent vers l'un ou l'autre pôle.
Ce ne sont point visions de commentateurs en us. Clement, lui-même Egyptien,
puisqu'il étoit d'Alexandrie, &. qui par conséquent devoit en savoir quelque chose, nous
assure dans ses Tapisseries 1 que Jes Egyptiens représentoient les tropiques sous la
figure de deux chiens, qui, semblables à des portiers ou à des gardiens fidèles, enipê-
choient le soleil 8c la lune de pénétrer plus loin, & d'aller jusqu'aux pôles.
N° XVII.—La Canicule.
Ici nous avons sous les yeux un tableau non moins allégorique, et absolument
Egyptien ; il est intitulé I'Etoile. On y voit, en effet, une étoile brillant, autour de
laquelle sont sept autres plus petites. Le bas du tableau est occupé par une femme
panchée sur un genou qui tient deux vases renversés dont coulent deux fleuves. A côté
de cette femme est un papillon sur une fleur.
C'est l'Egyptianisme tout pur.
Cette étoile, par excellence, est la Canicule ou Sirius : étoile qui si levé lorsque
le soleil sort du signe du Cancer, par lequel se termine le tableau précédent, & que
cette Etoile suit ici immédiatement.
Les sept étoiles qui l'environnent, & qui semblent lui faire leur cour, sont les
pianettes: elle est en quelque sorte leur reine, puisqu'elle fixe dans cet instant le com
mencement de l'année ; elles semblent venir recevoir ses ordres pour régler leurs coure
sur elle.
La Dame qui est au-dessous, & fort attentive dans ce moment à répandre l'eau de
' Ou Stromates, Lib. V-
299
ses vases, est la souveraine des cieux, ISIS, à la bienfaisance de laquelle ou attribuoit
les inondations du Nil, qui commencent au lever de la Canicule; ainsi ce lever étoit
l'annonce de l'inondation. C'est pour cette raison que la Canicule étoit consacrée â
Isis, qu'elle étoit son symbole par excellence.
Et comme l'année s'ouvroit également par le lever de cet astre, on l'appelloit Soth-is,
ouverture de l'année; & c'est sous ce nom qu'il étoit consacré à Isis.
Enfin, la fleur, et le papillon qu'elle supporte, étoient l'emblème de la régénéra
tion & de la résurrection : ils indiquoient en même tems qu'à la faveur des bienfaits
d'Isis, au lever de la Canicule, les Campagnes de l'Egypte, qui étoient absolument nues,
se couvriroient de nouvelles moissons.
N° XIII.— La Mort.
Le N° XIII. représent la mort: elle fauche les humains, les rois & les reines, les
grands & les petits ; rien ne résiste à sa faulx meurtrière.
Il n'est pas étonnant qu'elle soit placée sous ce numéro; les nombre treize fut tou
jours regardé comme malheureux. Il faut que très-anciennement il soit arrivé quelque
grand malheur dans un pareil jour, & que le souvenir en ait influé sur toutes les anciennes
nations. Seroit-ce par une suite de ce souvenir que les treize tribus des Hébreux n'ont
jamais été comptées que pour douze ?
Ajoutons qu'il n'est pas étonnant non plus que les Egyptiens ayent inséré la mort
dans un jeu qui ne devroit réveiller que des idées agréables : ce jeu étoit un jeu de
guerre, la mort devoit donc y entrer : c'est ainsi que le jeu des échecs finit par échec
mat, pour mieux dire par Sha mat, la mort du roi. D'ailleurs, nous avons eu occasion
de rapeller dans le calendrier, que dans les festins, ce peuple sage & réfléchi faisoit
paroître un squellette sous le nom de Maneros, sans doute afin d'engager les convives à
ne pas se tuer par gourmandise. Chacun a sa manière de voir, &, il ne faut jamais dis
puter des goûts.
N° XV.—Typhon.
Le N° XV. représente un célèbre personnage Egyptien, Typhon, frère d'Osiris &
d'Isis, le mauvais principe, le grand démon d'Enfer: il a des ailes de chauve-souris,
des pieds & des mains d'harpie ; à la tête de vilaines cornes de cerf : on l'a fait aussi
laid, aussi diable qu'on a pu. A ses pieds sont deux petits diablotins à longues oreilles,
à grande queue, les mains liées derrière le dos : ils sont eux-mêmes attachés par une
corde qui leur passe au cou, & qui est arrêtée au piédestal de Typhon : c'est qu'il ne
lâche pas ceux qui sont à lui ; il aime bien ceux qui sont siens.
N° XVI.—Maison Dieu, ou Château de Plutus.
Pour le coup, nous avons ici une leçon contre l'avarice. Ce tableau représente une
tour, qu'on appelle Maison-Dieu, c'est-à-dire, la maison par excellence; c'est une
300
tour remplie d'or ; c'est le château de Plutus : il tombe en ruines, &. ses adorateurs
tombent écrasés sous ses débris.
A cet ensemble, peut-on méconnoître l'histoire de ce prince Egyptien dont parle
Hérodote, qu'il appelle Rhampsinit, qui ayant fait construire une grande tour de
pierre pour renfermer ses trésors, & dont lui seul avoit la clef, s'appercevoit cependant
qu'ils diminuoient â vue d'œil, sans qu'on passât en aucune manière par la seule porte
qui existât à cet édifice. Pour découvrir des voleurs assi adroits, ce prince s'avisa de
tendre des pièges autour des vases qui contenoient se richesses. Les voleurs étoient les
deux fils de l'architecte dont s'étoit servi Rhampsinit : il avoit ménagé une pierre de
telle manière, qu'elle pouvoit s'ôter & se remettre à volonté sans qu'on s'en apperçût.
Il enseigna son secret à ses enfans qui s'en servirent merveilleusement comme on voit.
Us voloient le prince, & puis ils se jeltoient de la tour en bas: c'est ainsi qu'ils sont repré
sentés ici. C'est à la vérité le plus beau de l'histoire; on trouvera dans Hérodote le
reste de ce conte ingénieux : comment un des deux frères fut pris dans les filets :
comment il engagea son frère à lui couper la tête; comment leur mere voulut absolu
ment que celui-ci rapportât le corps de son frère : comment il alla avec des outres
chargés sur un âne pour enivrer les gardes du cadavre & du palais: comment, après
qu'ils eurent vuidè ses outres malgré ses larmes artificieuses, & qu'ils se furent endormis,
il leur coupa à tous la barbe du coté droit, & leur enleva le corps de son frère: comment
le roi fort 'tonné, engagea sa fille à se faire raconter par chacun de ses amans le plus
joli tour qu'ils eussent fait: comment ce jeune éveillé alla auprès de la belle, lui raconta
tout ce qu'il avoit fait: comment la belle ayant voulu l'arrêter, elle ne se trouva avoir
saisi qu'un bras postiche : comment, pour achever cette grande aventure, &. la mener à
une heureuse fin, ce roi promit cette même sienne fille au jeune homme ingénieux qui
l'avoit si bien joué, comme à la personne la plus digne d'elle; ce qui s'exécuta à la
grande satisfaction de tous.
Je ne sais si Hérodote prit ce conte pour une histoire réelle; mais un peuple capable
d'inventer de pareilles romances ou fables milésiennes, pouvoit fort bien inventer un
jeu quelconque.
Cet écrivain rapporte un autre fait qui prouve ce que nous avons dit dans l'histoire
du calendrier, (pie les statues des Géans qu'on promené dans diverses fêtes, désignèrent
presque toujours les saisons. Il dit que Rhampsinit le même prince dont nous venons
de parler, fit élever au nord et au midi du temple de Vulcain deux statues de vingt-
cinq coudées de haut, qu'on appelloit YEté et l'Hiver; on adoroit, ajoute-t-il, celle-là,
et on sacrifioit, au contraire, à celle-ci; c'est donc comme les sauvages qui reconnoissent
le bon principe et l'aiment, mais qui ne sacrifient qu'au mauvais.
N° X.— La Roue de Fortune.
Le numéro X. est la Roue de Fortune. Ici des personnages humains, sous la
forme de singes, de chiens, de lapins, Sec. s'élèvent tour-a-tour sur cette roue à laquelle
ils sont attachés : on diroit que c'est une satyre contre la fortune, & contre céux qu'elle
élevé rapidement 8c qu'elle laisse retomber avec la même rapidité.
301
1 N° XX.—Tableau mal nommé le Judgement Dernier.
Ce tableau représente un ange sonnant de la trompette : on voit aussitôt comme
sortir de terre un vieillard, une femme, un enfant nuds.
Les cartiers qui avoient perdu la valeur de ces tableaux, & plus encore leur
ensemble, ont vu ici le judgement dernier ; & pour le rendre plus sensible, ils y ont mis
comme des espèces de tombeaux. Otez ces tombeaux, ce tableau sert également à
désigner la Creation, arrivée dans le tems, au commencement du tems, qu'indique le
N° XXI.
N° XXI.— Le Tems, mal nommé le Monde.
Ce tableau, que les cartiers ont appelle le monde, parce qu'ils l'ont considéré
comme l'origine de tout, représente le Tems. On ne peut le méconnoître à son
ensemble.
Dans le centre est la déesse du tems, avec son voile qui voltige, & qui lui sert de
ceinture ou de Peplum, comme l'appelloient les anciens. Elle est dans l'attitude de
courir, comme le tems, et dans un cercle qui représente les revolutions du tems, ainsi
qui l'œuf d'où tout est sorti dans le temps.
Aux quatre coins du Tableau sont les emblèmes des quatre Saisons, qui forment les
révolutions de l'année, les mêmes qui composoiént les quatre têtes des Chérubins. Ces
emblèmes sont.
L'aigle, le lion, le bœuf, & le jeune-homme.
L'aigle représente le printems, où reparaissent les oiseaux.
Le lion, l'été ou les ardeurs du soleil.
Le bœuf, l'automne où on laboure et où on seme.
Le jeune-homme, l'hiver où l'on se réunit en société.
ARTICLE II.
Les Couleurs.
Outre les Atous, ce jeu est composé de quatre couleurs distinguées par leurs
emblèmes; on les appelle Epee, Coupe, Baton et Denier.
On peut voir les quatre couleurs dans la planche des cartes Italiens.
Chacune de ces couleurs est composée de quatorze cartes, c'est-à-dire de dix cartes
numérotées depuis I jusqu'à X, & de quatre cartes figurées, qu'on appelle le roi, la
reine, le chevalier ou cavalier, et son ecuyer on valet.
Ces quatre couleurs sont relatives aux quatre états entre lesquels étoient divisés les
Egyptiens.
L'epée désignoit le souverain et la noblesse toute militaire.
La coupe, le clergé ou la sacerdoce.
302
Le baton, ou massue d'hercule, l'agriculture.
Le denier, le commerce dont l'argent est le signe.
Ce Jeu fondé sur le nombre septénaire.
Ce jeu est absolument fondé sur le nombre sacré de sept. Chaque couleur est de
deux fois sept cartes. Les atous sont au nombre de trois fuis sept; le nombre des
cartes de soixante-dix-sept; le fou étant comme O. Or, personne n'ignore le rôie que
ce nombre jouoit chez les Egyptiens, et qu'il étoit devenu chez eux une formule à
laquelle ils ramenoient les elémens de toutes les sciences.
L'idée sinistre attaché dans ce jeu au nombre treize, ramené également fort bien à
la même origine.
Ce jeu ne peut donc avoir été inventé que par des Egyptiens, puisqu'il a pour base
le nombre sept; qu'il est relatif à la division des habitans de l'Egypte en quatre classes;
que la plupart de ses atous se rapportent absolument à l'Egypte, tels que les deux chefs
des Hiérophantes, homme et femme, Isis ou la Canicule, Typhon, Osiris, la maison
Dieu, le monde, les chiens qui désignent le tropique, &.c. et que ce jeu, entièrement
allégorique, ne put être l'ouvrage que des seuls Egyptiens.
Inventé par un homme de génie, avant ou après le jeu des Echecs, & réunissant
l'utilité au plaisir, il est parvenu jusqu'à nous à travers tous le siècles: il a survécu à la
ruine entière de l'Egypte & des connoissances qui la distinguoient ; & tandis qu'on
n'avoit nulle idée de la sagesse des leçons qu'il renfermoit, on ne lassoit pas de s'amuser
du jeu qu'elle avoit inventé.
Il est d'ailleurs aisé de tracer la route qu'il a tenue pour arriver dans nos contrées.
Dans les premiers siècles de l'église, les Egyptiens étoient très-rèpandus à Rome : il y
avoient porté leurs cérémonies &. le culte d'Isis; par conséquent le jeu dont il s'agit.
Ce jeu, intéressant par lui-même, fut borné à l'Italie jusqu'à ce que les liaisons des
Allemands avec les Italiens le firent connoître de cette seconde nation; & jusqu'à ce que
celles des comtes de Provence avec l'Italie, et sur-tout le séjour de la cour de Rome
à Avignon, la naturalisa en Provence & à Avignon.
S'il ne vint pas jusqu'à Paris, il faut l'attribuer à la bisarrerie de ses figures et au
volume de des cartes qui n'étoient point de nature à plaire à la vivacité des dames
Françaises. Aussi fut-on obligé, comme nous le verrons bientôt, de réduire excessive
ment ce jeu en leur faveur.
Cependent l'Egypte, elle-même ne jouit point du fruit de son invention : réduits à la
servitude la plus déplorable, à l'ignorance la plus profonde, privés de tous les arts, ses
habitans seroient hors d'état de fabriquer vue seule carte de se jeu.
Si nos cartes Françoises, infiniment moins compliquées, exigent le travail soutenu
d'une multitude de mains &. le concours de plusieurs arts, comment ce peuple infortuné
auroit-il pu conserver les siennes? Tels sont les maux qui fondent sur une nation
asservie, qu'elle perd jusques aux objets de ses amusemens : n'ayant pu conserver ses
advantages les plus précieux, de quel droit prétendrait-elle à ce qui n'en étoit qu'un
délassement agréable ?
303
Noms Orientaux conservés dans ce Jeu.
Ce jeu a conservé quelques noms qui le déclareraient également jeu oriental si on
ne'en avoit pas d'autres preuves.
Ces noms sont ceux de Taro, de Mat et de Pagad.
1. Tarots.
Le nom de ce jeu est pur Egyptien: il est composé du mot Tar, qui signifie voie,
chemin ; et du mot Ro, Ros, Rog, qui signifie roi, royal. C'est, mot-à-mot, le chemin
royal de la vie.
Il se rapporte en effet à la vie entière des citoyens, puisqu'il est formé des divers
Etats entre lesquels ils sont divisés, & que ce jeu les suit depuis leur naissance jusqu'-à
la mort, en leur montrant toutes les vertus & tous les guides physiques & moraux ils
doivent s'attacher, tels que le roi, la reine, les chefs de la religion, le soleil, la
lune, &c.
Il leur apprend un même tems par le joueur de gobelets et par la roue de fortune,
que rien n'est plus inconstant dans ce monde que les divers états de l'homme : que son
seul réfuge est dans la vertu, qui ne lui manque jamais au besoin.
2. Mat.
Le Mat, nom vulgaire du Fou, et qui subsiste en Italien, vient de l'oriental Mat,
assommé, meurtri, félé. Les foux ont toujours été représentés comme ayant le cerveau
fêlé.
3. Pagad.
Le joueur de gobelets est appelle Pagab dans le courant du jeu. Ce nom qui ne
ressemble à rien dans nos langues occidentales, est oriental pur & très-bien choisi :
Pag signifie en orient, chef, maître, seigneur: et Gad, la fortune. En effet, il est
représenté comme disposant du sort avec sa baguette de Jacob ou sa verge des mages.
304
Application de ce Jeu à la Divination.
Pour terminer ces recherches & ces développemens sur le jeu Egyptien, nous allons
mettre sous les yeux du public la dissertation que nous avons annoncée & où l'on
prouve comment les Egyptiens appliquoient ce jeu à l'art de deviner, & de quelle manière
ce même point de vue s'est transmis jusques dans nos cartes à jouer faites à l'imitation
de celles-là.
On y verra en particulier ce que nous avons déjà dit dans ce volume, que l'explica
tion des songes tenoit dans l'antiquité à la science hiéroglyphique & philosophique des
sages, ceux-ci ayant cherché à réduire en science le résultat de leurs combinaisons sur
les songes dont la divinité permettoit l'accomplissement; & que toute cette science
s'évanouit dans la suite des tems, & fut sagement défendue, parce qu'elle se réduisit â
de vaines & futiles observations, qui dans des siècles peu éclairés auroient pu être con
traires aux intérêts les plus essentiels des foibles 8t des superstitieux.
Cet observateur judicieux nous fournit de nouvelles preuves que les cartes Espag
noles sont une imitation de l'Egypte, puisqu'il nous apprend que ce n'est qu'avec un
jeu de piquet qu'on consulte les sorts, & que plusieurs noms de ces cartes sont absolu
ment relatifs à des idées Egyptiennes.
Le trois de denier est appellé le siegneur, ou Osiris.
Le trois de coupe, la souveraine, ou Isis.
lie deux de coupe, la Vache, ou Apis.
Le neuf de denier, Mercure.
L'as de bâton, le Serpent, symbole de l'agriculture chez les Egyptiens.
L'as de denier, le Borgne, ou Apollon.
Ce nom de Borgne, donné à Apollon ou au soleil comme n'ayant qu'un œil, est
une épithète prise dans la nature & qui nous fournira une preuve à ajouter à plusieurs
autres, que le fameux personnage de l'Edda qui a perdu un de ses yeux à une célèbre
fontaine allégorique, n'est autre que le soleil, le borgne ou l'œil unique par excel
lence.
Cette dissertation est d'ailleurs si remplie de choses, & si propre à donner de saines
idées sur la manière dont les sages d'Egypte consultoient le livre du destin, que nous
ne doutons pas qu'elle ne soit bien accueillie du public, privé d'ailleurs jusqu'à présent
de recherches pareilles, parce que jusques à présent personne n'avoit eu le courage de
s'occuper d'objets qui paroissoient perdus à jamais dans la profonde nuit des tems.
RECHERCHES
SUR LES TAROTS,
ET SUR LA DIVINATION PAR LES CARTES DES TAROTS ;
PAR M. LE C. DE M. * * *
I.
Livre de Thot.
Le désir d'apprendre se développe dans le cœur de l'homme à mesure que son esprit
acquiert de nouvelles connoissances : le besoin de les conserver, 8c l'envie de les trans
mettre, fit imaginer des caractères dont thot ou mercure fut regardé comme l'inven
teur. Ces caractères ne furent point, dans le principe, des signes de convention, qui
n'exprimassent, comme nos lettres actuelles, que le son des mots; ils étoient autant
d'images véritables avec lesquelles on formoit des tableaux, qui peignoient aux yeux
les choses dont ou vouloit parler.
Il est naturel que l'inventeur de ces images ait été le premier historien : en effet,
thot est considéré comme ayant peint les dieux, 1 c'est-àdire, les actes de la toute-
puissance, ou la création, à laquelle il joignit des préceptes de morale. Ce livre paroît
avoir été nommé A-ROSH ; d'A, doctrine, science ; & de ROSCH, 1 Mercure, qui,
joint à l'article T, signifie tableaux de la doctrine de Mercure; mais comme Rosh veut
aussi dire commencement, ce mot Ta-Rosh fut particulièrement consacré à sa cosmo
gonie de même que I'Ethoti a, Histoire du Tems, fut le titre de son astronomie; &
peut-être qu'ATHOTHEs, qu'on a pris pour un roi, fils de Thot, n'est que l'enfant de son
génie, & l'histoire des rois d'Egypte.
Cette antique cosmogonie, ce livre des Ta-Rosh, à quelques légères altérations près,
paroît être parvenu jusqu'à nous dans les cartes qui portent encore ce nom, 3 soit que
la cupidité les ait conservées pour filouter le désœuvrement, ou que la superstition ait
1 Les dieux, dans l'écriture & dans l'expression
hiéroglyphique, sont l'Eternel & les vertus, repré
sentés avec un corps.
1 Rosh est le nom Egyptien de Mercure & de sa
fête qui sé célébroit le premier jour de l'an.
3 Vingt-deux tableaux Torment un livre bien peu
volumineux ; mais si, comme il paroit vraisembla
ble, les premieres traditions ont été conservées dans
des poèmes, une simple image qui fixoit l'attention
du peuple, auquel on expliquent l'événement, suffi-
soit pour lui aider à les retenir, ainsi que les vers qui
les décrivoient.
2 R
306
préservé des injures du tems, des symboles mystérieux qui lui servoient, comme jadis
aux Mages, à tromper la crédulité.
Les Arabes communiquèrent ce livre ' ou jeu aux Espagnols, & les soldats de
Charlequint le portèrent en Allemagne. Il est composé de trois séries supérieures, repré
sentant les trois premiers siècles, d'Or, d'Argent 8c d'Airain : chaque série est formée
de sept cartes. 2
Mais comme l'écriture Egyptienne se lisoit de gauche à droite, la vingt-unième carte,
qui n'a été numérotée qu'avec des chiffres modernes, n'en est pas moins la premiere, 8fc
doit être lue de même pour l'intelligence de l'histoire; comme elle est la premiere au
jeu de Tarots, 8c dans l'espèce de divination qu'on opéroit avec ces images.
PREMIERE SERIE.
SIECLE D'OH.
La vingt-unième, ou premiere carte, représente I'Univees par la déesse Isis dans
un ovale, ou un œuf, avec les quatre saisons aux quatre coins, l'homme ou l'ange,
l'aigle, le bœuf 8c le lion.
Vingtième ; celle-ci est intitulée le jugement : en effet, un ange sonnant de la trom
pette, 8c des hommes sortant de la terre, ont dû induire un peintre, peu versé dans la
mythologie, à ne voir dans ce tableau que l'image de la résurrection ; mais les anciens
regardoient les hommes comme eufans de la terre'; 8c Thot voulut exprimer la crea
tion de I'homme par la peinture d'Osiris, ou le Dieu générateur, du porte-voix ou
verbe qui commande à la matière, 8c par des langues de feu qui 6'échappent de la
nuée, l'esprit4 de Dieu ranimant cette mémema tiere; enfin par des hommes sortant de
la terre pour adorer 8c admirer la toute-puissance: l'attitude de ces hommes n'annonce
point des coupables qui vont paroître devant leur juge.
Dix-neuvieme, la creation du soleil qui éclaire l'union de l'homme 8c de la
femme, exprimée par un homme 8c une femme qui se donnent la main : ce signe est
devenu depuis celui des Gémeaux, del'Androgyne : Duo in carne una.
Dix-hutieme, la creation de la lune 8c des animaux terrestres, exprimés par un
loup et un chien, pour signifier les animaux domestiques 8c sauvages : cet emblème est
d'autant mieux choisi, que le chien 8c le loup sont les seuls qui hurlent à l'aspect de cet
astre, comme regrettant la perte du jour. Ce caractère me feroit croite que ce tableau
auroit annoncé de trèsgrands malheurs à ceux qui venoient consulter les sorts, si l'on
n'y avoit peint la ligne du tropique, c'est-à-dire, du départ 8c du retour du soleil, qui
laissoit l'espérance consolante d'un beau jour 8c d'une meilleure fortune. Cependant
deux forteresses qui défendent un chemin tracé de sang, 8c un marais qui termine le
1 On nomme encore livret au Lansquenet, ou Cabaliste?, les Pythagoriciens, &c.
Lands-Knccht, la série de cartes qu'on donne aux 3 Les dents semées par Cadmus, &c.
pontes. ♦ Peint même dans nos historiens, sacrés.
* Trois fois 7, nombre mystique, fameux chez les
307
tableau, (présentent toujours des difficulté sans nombre à surmonter pour détruire un
présage aussi sinistre.
Dix-septieme, la creation des étoiles & des poissons, représentées par des étoiles
& le verseau.
Seizième, la maison de Dieu renversée, ou le Paradis terrestre dont l'homme &
la femme sont précipités par la queue d'une comète ou I'epee flamboyante, jointe à
la chute de la grêle.
Quinzième, la diable ou typhon, dernière carte de la premiere série, vient trou
bler l'innocence de l'homme & terminer l'âge d'or. Sa queue, ses cornes & ses longues
oreilles l'annoncent comme un être dégradé : son bras gauche levé, le coude plié for
mant une N, symbole des êtres produits, nous le fait counoitre comme ayant été créé ;
mais le flambeau de Prométhée qu'il tient de la main droit, paroît completter la lettre M,
qui exprime la génération : en effet, l'histoire de Typhon nous induit naturellement à
cette explication; car, en privant Osiris de sa virilité, il paroît que Typhon vouloit
empiéter sur les droits de la puissance productrice ; aussi fut-il le pere des maux qui se
répandirent sur la terre.
Les deux êtres enchaînés à ses pieds marquent la nature humaine dégradée & sou
mise, ainsi que la génération nouvelle & perverse, dont les ongles crochus expriment la
cruauté ; il ne leur manque que les ailes (le génie ou la nature angélique), pour être en
tout semblables au diable : un de ces êtres touche avec sa griffe la cuisse de Typhon;
emblème qui dans l'écriture mythologique fut toujours celui de la génération 1 char
nelle : il la touche avec sa griffe gauche pour en marquer l'illégitimité.
Typhon enfin est souvent pris pour l'hiver, & ce tableau terminant l'âge d'or, an
nonce l'intempérie des saisons, que l'homme chassé du Paradis va éprouver par la suite^
SECONDE SERIE.
SIECLE D'ARGENT.
Quatorzième, I'Ange de la Temperance vient instruire l'homme, pour lui faire
éviter la mort à laquelle il est nouvellement condamné : il est peint versant 1 de l'eau
dans du vin, pour lui montrer la nécessité d'affbiblir cette liqueur, ou de tempérer ses
affections.
Treizième ; ce nombre, toujours malheureux, est consacré à la Mort, qui est repré
sentée fauchant les têtes couronnées & les têtes vulgaires.
Douzième, les accidens qui attaquent la vie humaine, représentés par un homme
pendu par le pied ; ce qui veut aussi dire que, pour les éviter, il faut en ce monde mar
cher avec prudence : Suspenso pede.
Onzième, la Force vient au secours de la Prudence, 8t terrasse le lion, qui a tou
jours été le symbole de la terre inculte & sauvage.
* La naissance de Bacchus & de Minerve sont le * Peut-être son attitude a-t-elle trait à la culture
Tableau Mythologique des deux generations. de la vigne.
2 R 2
308
Dixième, la Roue de Fortune, au haut de laquelle est un singe couronné, nous
apprend qu'après la chute de l'homme, ce ne fut déjà plus la vertu qui donna les digni
tés : le lapin qui monte & l'homme qui est précipité, expriment les injustices de l'in
constante déesse : cette roue en même tems est l'emblème de la roue de Pythagore, de
de la façon de tirer les sorts par les nombres : cette divination est appellee arithmo-
mancie.
Neuvième, I'Hermite ou le Sage, la lanterne à la main, cherchant la justice sur
la terre.
Hutieme, la Justice.
TROISIEME SERIE.
SIECLE DE FEB.
Septième, le Chariot de Guerre dans lequel est un roi cuirassé, armé d'un jave
lot, exprime les dissensions, les meurtres, les combats du siècle d'airain, & annonce les
crimes du siècle de fer.
Sixième, I'IIomme peint Flottant entre le vice & la vertu, n'est plus conduit par
la raison : I'Amour ou le désir, 1 les yeux bandés, prêt à lâcher un trait, le fera pencher
à droite ou à gauche, suivant qu'il sera guidé par le hasard.
Cinquième, Jupiter ou l'Eternel monté sur son aigle, la foudre à la main, menace la
terre, &, va lui donner des rois dans sa colère.
Quatrième, le roi armé d'une massue1, dont l'ignorance a fait par la suite une
boule impériale : son casque est garni par-derriere de dents de scie, pour faire connoître
que rien ne pouvoit assouvir son insatiabilité.3
Troisième, la Reine, la massue à la main ; sa couronne a les mêmes ornemens que
le casque du roi.
Deuxième, I'Orgueil des puissans, représenté par les paons, sur lesquels Junon,
montrant le ciel de la main droite, & la terre de la gauche, annonce une religion terrestre
ou l'idolâtrie.
Premiere, le Bateleur tenant la verge des mages, fait des miracles & trompe la
crédulité des peuples.
Il est suivi d'une carte unique représentant la Folie qui porte son sac ou ses dé
fauts par derrière, tandis q'un tigre ou les remords, lui dévorant les jarrets, retarde sa
marche vers le crime.4
Ces vingt-deux premieres cartes sont non-seulement autant d'hiéroglyphes, qui
placés dans leur ordre naturel retracent l'histoire des premiers tems, mais elles sont en-
1 La concupiscence. ♦ Cette carte n'a point de rang: elle complettc
1 Osiris est souvent représenté un fouet à la main, l'alphabet sacré", & répond au tau qui veut dire com-
avec un globe & un T : tout cela réuni, peut avoir plénient, perfection : peut être a-t-on voulu repré-
produit dans la tête d'un earlier Allemand une boule senter dans son sens le plus naturel le résultat des
impériale. actions des hommes.
3 Ou sa vengeance, si c'est Osiris irrité.
309
core autant de lettres 5 qui différemment combinées, peuvent former autant de phrases ;
aussi leur nom (a-tout) n'est que la traduction littérale de leur emploi 8c propriété
générale.
IL
Ce Jeu appliqué à la Divination.
Lorsque les Egyptiens eurent oublié la premiere interprétation de ces tableaux, 8c
qu'ils s'en furent servis comme de simples lettres pour leur écriture sacrée, il étoit natu
rel qu'un peuple aussi superstitieux attachât une vertu occulte 2 à des caractères respec
tables par leur antiquité, 8c que le prêtres, qui seuls en avoient l'intelligence, n'employ-
oient que pour les choses religieuses.
On inventa même de nouveaux caractères, 8c nous voyons dans l'Ecriture-Sainte
que les mages ainsi que ceux qui étoient initiés dans leurs secrets, avoient une divina
tion par la coupe. 3
Qu'ils opéraient des merveilles avec leur Baton. 4
Qu'ils consultoient les Talismants s ou des pierres gravées.
Qu'ils devinoient les choses futures par des Epees,6 des Flèches, des Harches,
enfin par les armes en général. Ces quatre signes furent introduits parmi les tableaux
religieux aussi-tôt que l'établissement des rois eut amené la différence des états dans
la société.
L' Epee marqua la royauté 8c les puissans de la terre.
Les Prêtres fasoient usage de Canopes pour les sacrifices, 8i la coupe désigna le
sacerdoce.
La Monnoie, le commerce.
Le Baton, la houlette, l'aguillon représentèrent l'agriculture.
Ces quatre caractères déjà mystérieux, une fois réunis aux tableaux sacrés, durent
faire espérer les plus grandes lumières; 8c la combinaison fortuite qu'on obtenoit en
mêlant ces tableaux, formoit des phrases que les mages lisoient ou interprétoient comme
des arrêts du destin ; ce qui leur étoit d'autant plus facile qu'une construction due au
hasard devoit produire naturellement une obscurité consacrée au style des oracles.
Chaque état eut donc son symbole qui le caractérisa; 8c parmi les différens tableaux
qui portèrent cette image, il y en eut d'heureux 8c de malheureux, suivant que la posi
tion, le nombre des symboles 8c leurs omemens, les rendirent propres à annoncer le bon
heur ou l'infortune.
• L'alphabet Hébreu est composé de 22 lettres. 5 Le» Dieux de Laban & les Théraphim, l'Urim
..... , Loiij &le Thummim.
Aussi la science des nombres & la valeur des » _, , . . , ., , . , ,
t^xA. * ii jt.jt r . ^i/l . c ■ 0 lh faisoient plus: ils fixoient le sort des com-
lettres a-telle été fort célèbre autrefois. , . , . • . , ,
bats; & si le roi Joas avott frappe la terre sept fois,
La coupe de Joseph. au ,ieu de ^ a auroit détrouit la Sytie> u RoU>
4 La verge de Moyse and Mages de Pharaon. ///. jg.
310
HI.
Noms de diverses Cartes, conservés par les Espagnols.
Les noms de plusieurs de ces tableaux conservés par les Espagnols, nous en font
connoître la propriété. Ces noms sont au nombre de sept.
Le trois de denier, nombre mystérieux, appellé le Seigneur, le maître, consacré au
Dieu suprême, au Grand Iou.
Le trois de coupe, appelle la Dame, consacré à la reine des cieux.
Le Bobgne ou l'As de denier, Phœbea lampadis instar, consacré à Apollon.
La Vache ou les deux coupes, consacré à Apis ou Isis.
Le grand neuf, les neuf coupes ; consacré au Destin.
Le petit neuf de denier, consacré à Mercure.
Le Serpent ou l'As de bâton (Ophion) symbole fameux & sacré chez les
Egyptiens.
IV.
Attributs Mythologiques de plusieurs autres.
Plusieurs autres tableaux sont accompagnés d'attributs mythologiques qui paroissent
destinés à leur imprimer une vertu particulière & secrette.
Tels que les deux deniers entourés de la ceinture mystique d'Isis.
Le quatre de denier, consacré à bonne fortune, peinte au milieu du tableau, le pied
sur sa boule & le voile déployé.
La dame de bâton consacrée à Cérés ; Cette dame est couronnée d'épis, porte la
peau du lion, de même qu'Hercule le cultivateur par excellence.
La valet de coupe ayant le bonnet à la main, & portant respectueusement une coupe
mystérieuse, couverte d'un voile; il semble en allongeant le bras, éloigner de lui cette
coupe, pour nous apprendre qu'on ne doit approcher des choses sacrées qu'avec crainte,
&ne chercher à connoître celles qui sont cachées qu'avec discrétion.
L'As d'Epée consacré à Mars. L'Epée est ornée d'une couronne, d'une palme &
d'une branche d'olivier avec ses bayes, pour signifier la victoire & ses fruits : il ne pa
raît y avoir aucune carte heureuse dans cette couleur que celle-ci. Elle est unique,
parce qu'il n'y a qu'une façon de bien faire la guerre ; celle de vaincre pour avoir la
paix. Cette épée est soutenue par un bras gauche sortant d'un nuage.
La tableau du bâton du serpent, dont nous avons parlé plus haut, est orné de fleurs
&. de fruits de même que celui de l'Epée victorieuse ; ce bâton mystérieux est soutenu
par un bras droit sortant aussi d'une nuée, mais éclatante de rayons. Ces deux carac
tères semblent dire que l'agriculture & l'Epée sont les deux bras de l'empire & le soutien
de la société.
Les coupes en général annonçaient le bonheur, & les deniers la richesse.
311
Les bâtons destinés à l'agriculture en pronostiquoient les récoltes plus ou moins
abondantes, les choses qui dévoient arriver à la campagne ou qui la regardoient.
Ils paraissent mélangés de bien 8c de mal : les quatre figures ont le bâton verd,
semblable en cela au bâton fortuné, mais les autres cartes paraissent, par des ornemens
qui se compensent, indiquer l'indifférence: le deux seul, dont les bâtons sont couleur de
sang, semble consacré à la mauvaise fortune.
Toutes les epées ne présagent que des malheurs, sur-tout celles qui marquées d'un
nombre impair, portent encore une épée sanglante. Le seul signe de la victoire, l'épée
couronnée, est dans cette couleur le signe d'un heureux événement.
V.
Comparaison de ces Attributs avec les valeurs qu'on assigne aux Cartes
modernes pour la Divination.
Nos diseurs de bonne-fortune ne sachant pas lire les hiéroglyphes, en ont soustrait
tous les tableaux 8c changé jusqu'aux noms de coupe, de bâton, de denier 8c d'épée,
dont ils ne connoissoient ni l'étymologie, ni l'expression; ils ont substitué ceux de
cœur, de carreau, de trèfle & de pique.
Mais ils ont retenu certaines tournures 8c plusieurs expressions consacrées par
l'usage qui laissent entrevoir l'origine de leur divination. Selon eux,
Les cœurs, (les coupes), annoncent le bonheur.
Les trèfles, (les deniers), la fortune.
Les Piques, (les epées), le malheur.
Les carreaux ', (les bâtons), l'indifférence 8c la campagne.
Le neuf de pique est une carte funeste.-
Celui de cœur, la carte du soleil; il est aisé d'y reconnoitre le grand neuf, celui des
coupes : de même que le petit neuf de trèfle, qu'ils regardent aussi comme une carte
heureuse.
Les as annoncent des lettres, des nouvelles : en effet qui es plus à même d'apporter
des nouuelles que le Borgne, (le soleil) qui parcourt, voit & éclair tout l'univers?
L'as de pique 8c le huit de cœur présagent la victoire ; l'as couronné la pronostique
de même, 8c d'autant plus heureuse qu'il est accompagné des coupes ou des signes
fortunés.
Les cœurs 8c plus particulièrement le dix, dévoilent les événemens qui doivent arri
ver à la ville. La coupe, symbole du sacerdoce, semble destinée à exprimer Memphis
8c le séjour des pontifes.
L'as de cœur 8c la dame de carreau annoncent une tendresse heureuse 8c ridelle.
L'as de coupe exprime un bonheur unique, qu'on possède seul ; la dame de carreau in
dique une femme qui vit à la campagne, ou comme à la campagne : 8c dans quels lieux
peut-on espérer plus de vérité, d'innocence, qu'au village ?
■ 11 est à remarquer que dans l'écriture symbolique les Egyptiens traçaient des carteaux pour exprimer
la campagne.
312
Le nenf de trcfle & la dame de cœur, marquent la jalousie. Quoique le neuf de
denier soit une carte fortunée, cependant une grande passion, même heureuse, pour une
dame vivant dans le grand monde, ne laisse pas toujours son amant sans inquiétude,
Sec. &c. On trouverait encore une infinité de similitudes qu'il est inutile de chercher,
n'en voilà déjà que trop.
VI.
Manière dont on s'en servoit pour consulter les Sorts.
Supposons actuellement que deux hommes qui veulent consulter les sorts, ont, l'un
les vingt-deux lettres, l'autre les quatre couleurs, & qu'après avoir chacun mêlé les ca
ractères, &, s'être donné réciproquement à couper, ils commencement à compter en
semble jusqu'au nombre quatorze, tenant les tableaux & les carres à l'envers pour n'en
appercevoit que le dos ; alors s'il arrive une carte à son rang naturel, c'est-à-dire, qui
porte le numéro appelle, elle doit être mise à part avec le nombre de la lettre sortie en
même tems, qui sera placé au-dessus : celui qui tiendra les tableaux y remettra cette
même lettre, pour que le livre du destin soit toujours en son entier, 8c qu'il ne puisse y
avoir, dans aucun cas, des phrases incomplettes ; puis il remêlera & redonnera à couper.
Enfin on coulera trois t'ois les cartes à fond avec les mêmes attentions ; & lorsque cette
opération sera achevée, il ne s'agira plus que de lire les numéros qui expriment les let
tres sorties. Le bonheur ou le malheur que présage chacune d'elles, doit être combiné
avec celui qu'annonce la carte qui leur correspond, de même que leur puissance en plus
ou en moins est déterminée par le nombre de cette même carte, multiplié par celui qui
caractérise la lettre. Et voilà pourquoi la folie qui ne produit rien, est sans nunu'ro;
c'est, comme nous l'avons dit, le zéro de ce calcul.
VII.
C'était une grande portion de la Sagesse ancienne.
Mais si les sages de l'Egypte se servoient île tableau sacrés pour prédire l'avenir,
lors même qu'ils n'avoient aucun indication qui pût leur faire présumer les êvénemens
futurs, avec quelles espérances ne tlevoient-ils pas se flatter de les connoître lorsque
leurs recherches étoient précédées par des songes qui pouvoient aider à développer la
phrase produite par les tableaux des sorts !
Les prêtres chez cet ancien peuple formèrent de bonne-heure une société savante,
chargée de conserver & d'etendre les connoissânees humaines. Le sacerdoce avoit ses
chefs, 8t les noms de Jannes & Mambres, que Saint Pavl nous a conservés dans sa
seconde epître à Timothée, sont des titres qui caractérisent les fonctions augustes des
pontifes. Jannes 1 signifie VExplicateur, & Mambres le Permutateur, celui qui fait
des prodiges.
1 De même que Pharaon signifie le souverain sans être le nom particulier d'aucun prince qui ait
gouverné l'Egypte.
313
Le Jannès 8c le Mambrès, écrivoient leurs interprétations, leurs découvertes, leurs
miracles. La suite non interrompue de ces mémoires * formoit un corps de science Si
de doctrine, ou les prêtres puisoient leurs connoissances physiques & morales : ils obser-
voient, sous l'inspection de leurs chefs, le cours des astres, les inondations du nil phé
nomènes, Sic. Les rois les assembloient quelquefois pour s'aider de leurs conseils.
Nous voyons que du tems du patriarche Joseph ils furent appelles par Pharaon pour
interpréter un songe; 8c si Joseph seul eut la gloire d'en découvrir le sens, il n'en reste
pas moins prouvé qu'une des fonctions des mages étoit d'expliquer les songes.
Les Egyptiens1 n'avoient point encore donné dans les erreurs de l'idolâtrie ; mais
Dieu dans ces tems reculés manifestant souvent aux hommes sa volonté, si quelqu'un
avoit pû regarder comme téméraire de l'interroger sur ses décrets éternels, il auroit au
moins dû paroître pardonnable de chercher à les pénétrer, lorsque la Divinité sembloit,
non-seulement approuver, mais même provoquer, par des songes, cette curiosité : aussi
leur interprétation fut-elle un art sublime, une sciénce sacrée dont on faisoit une étude
particulière, réservée aux ministres des autels : & lorsque les officiers de Pharaon, pri
sonniers avec Joseph, s'affligeoient de n'avoir personne pour expliquer leurs songes, ce
n'est pas qu'ils n'eussent des compagnons de leur infortune ; mais c'est qu'enfermés
dans la prison du chef de la milice, il n'y avoit personne parmi les soldats qui pût faire
les cérémonies religieuses, qui eût les tableaux sacrés, bien loin d'en avoir l'intelligence.
La réponse même du patriarche paroit expliquer leur pensée : est-ce que l'interpréta
tion, leur dit-il, ne dépend pas du Seigneur ; racontez-moi ce que vous avez vu.
Mais pour revenir aux fonctions des prêtres, ils commençoient par écrire en lettres
vulgaires le songe dont il s'agissoit, comme dans toute divination où il y avoit une
demande positive dont il falloit chercher la réponse dans le livre des sorts, 8c après avoir
mêlé les lettres sacrées on en tiroit les tableaux, avec l'attention de les placer scrupu
leusement sous les mots dont on cherchoit l'explication ; 8c la phrase formée par ces
tableaux, étoit déchiffrée par le Jannès.
Supposons, par exemple, qu'un mage eût voulu interpréter le songe de Pharaon
dont nous parlions tout-à-Fheure, ainsi qu'ils avoient essayé d'imiter les miracles de
Moyse, 8c qu'il eût amené le bâton fortuné, symbole par excellence de l'agriculture,
suivi du cavalier 8c du roi;' qu'il sortît en même tems du livre du destin la carte du
soleil, la fortune 8c le fol, on aura le premier membre de la phrase qu'on cherche. S'il
sort ensuite le deux 8c le cinque de bâton dont le symbole est marqué de sang, 8c que
des tableaux sacrés on tire un Typhon 8c la mort, il auroit obtenu une espèce d'inter
prétation du songe du roi, qui pourrait été écrit ainsi en lettres ordinaires :
Sept vaches grasses 8c sept maigres qui les dévorent.
1 Le Pape Gelase I. mit en 4g\ quelques livre9 3 Le Valet vaut ... 1.
de Jannès & Mambrès au nombre des apocryphes. Le Cavalier 2.
1 Long tems encore après cette époque les mages La Dame 3.
reconnurent le doigt de Dieu dans les miracles de Le Roi 4.
Moyse.
2 s
314
Le
Cavalier.
2
La
Fortune.
Calcul naturel qui résulte de cet arrangement.
Le bâton vaut 1 .
Le roi 4.
Le cavalier 2.
Le soleil annonce le bonheur.
La Fortune 1 de même.
Le Fol ou zéro met le soleil aux centaines.
Total 7-
Le Signe d l'Agriculture donne sept.
On lira donc, sept annés d'une agriculture fortunée donneront une abondance cent
fois plus grande qu'on ne l'aura jamais éprouvée.
Le second membre de cette phrase, fermé par le deux &, le cinq de bâton, donne
aussi le nombre de sept qui, combiné avec le Typhon Se la mort, annonce sept années de
disette, la famine &. les maux qu'elle entraîne.
Cette explication paraîtra encore plus naturelle si l'on fait attention au sens & à la
valeur des lettres que les tableaux représentent.
Le soleil répondant au Gimel, veut dire, dans ce sens, rétribution,bonheur.
La fortune ou le Lamed signifie règle, loi, science.
Le fol n'exprime rien par-lui-même, il répond an Tau, c'est simplement un signe, une
marque.
Le Typhon ou le Zaïn annonce l'inconstance, l'erreur, la foi violée, le crime.
La mort ou le Thet indique l'action de balayer : en effet, la mort est une terrible
balayeuse.
Teleuté en Grec qui veut dire la fin, pourrait être, en ce sens, un dérivé de thet.
Il ne serait pas difficile de trouver dans les mœurs Egyptiennes l'origine de la plûspart
de nos superstitions : par exemple, il paraît que celle de faire tourner le tamis pour con-
noitre un voleur, doit sa naissance à la coutume que ce peuple avoit de marquer les
Précédée d'une carte heureuse
315
voleurs avec un fer chaud, d'un ilT, & d'un D Samech, 1 en mettant ces deux caractères,
l'un sur l'autre, pour en faire un chiffre, signum adherens, qui servît à annoncer
qu'on se méfiât de celui qui le portoit, on produit une figure qui ressemble assez à une
paire de ciseaux piqués dans un cercle, dans un crible, lequel doit se détacher lorsqu'on
prononcera le nom du voleur & le fera connoitre.
La divination par la Bible, l'évangile & nos livres canoniques, qu'on appelloit le sort
des saints, dont il est parlé dans la cent neuvième lettre de Saint Augustin 8c dans plu
sieurs conciles, entr'autres celui d'Orléans; les sorts de Saint-Martin de Tours qui
étoient si fameux, paraissent avoir été envisagés comme un contre- poison de la divina
tion Egyptienne par le livre du destin. Il en est de même des présages qu'on tiroit de
l'évangile, ad apperturam libri, lorsqu'après l'élection d'un evêque on vouloit connoître
quelle serait sa conduite dans l'episcopat.
Mais tel est le sort des choses humaines : d'une science aussi sublime, qui a occupé
les plus grands hommes, les plus savans philosophes, les saints les plus respectables, il
ne nous reste que l'usage des enfans de tirer à la belle lettre.
VIII.
Cartes auxquelles les diseurs de bonne-aventure attachent des pronostics.
On se sert d'un jeu de Piquet qu'on mêle, &. on fait couper par la personne
intéressée.
On tire une carte qu'on nomme As, la seconde sept, & ainsi en remontant jusqu'au
roi: un met à part toutes les cartes qui arrivent dans l'ordre du calcul qu'on vient
d'établir: c'est-à-dire que si en nommant as, sept, ou tel autre, il arrive un as, un sept,
ou celle qui a été nommée, c'est celle qu'il faut mettre à part. On recommence tou
jours jusqu'à ce qu'on ait épuisé le jeu ; & si sur la fin il ne reste pas assez de cartes
pour aller jusqu'au roi inclusivement, on reprend des cartes, sans les mêler ni couper,
pour achever le calcul jusqu'au roi.
Cette opération du jeu entier se fait trois fois de la même manière. Il faut avoir le
plus grand soin d'arranger les cartes qui sortent du jeu, dans l'ordre qu'elles arrivent, &
sur la même ligne, ce qui produit une phrase hiéroglyphique ; & voici le moyen de la lire.
Toutes les peintures représentent les personnages dont il peut être question : la pre
miere qui arrive est toujours celle dont il s'agit.
Les rois sont l'image des souveraine, des parens, des généraux, des magistrats, des
vieillards.
Les dames ont les mêmes caractères dans leur genre relativement aux circonstances,
soit dans l'ordre politique, grave ou joyeux : tantôt elles sont puissantes, adroites, intri
guantes, fidelles ou légères, passionnées ou indifférentes, quelquefois rivales, complai
santes, confidentes, perfides, &c. S'il arrive deux cartes du même genre, ce sont les
secondes qui jouent les seconds rôles.
1 Tau, signe. Samecfi, adheison.
2 S 2
Les valets sont des jeunes gens, des guerriers, des amoureux, des petits-maîtres, des
rivaux, 8tc.
Les sept & les huit sont des demoiselles de tous le» genres. Le neuf de cœur se
nomme, par excellence, la carte du soleil, parce qu'il annonce toujours des choses bril
lantes, agréables, des succès, sur-tout s'il est réuni avec le neuf de trèfle, qui est aussi
une carte de merveilleux augure. Le neufde carreau désigne le retard en bien ou en mal.
Le neuf de pique est la plus mauvaise carte : il ne présage que des ruines, des ma-
ladies, la mort.
Le dix de cœur désigne la ville; celui de carreau, la campagne; le dix de trèfle,
fortune, argent ; celui de pique, des peines & des chagrins.
Les as annoncent des lettres, des nouvelles.
Si les quatre dames arrivent ensemble, cela signifie babil, querelles.
Plusieurs valets ensemble annoncent rivalité, dispute & combats.
Les trèfles en général, sur-tout s'ils sortent ensemble, annoncent succès, avantage,
fortune, argent.
Les carreaux, la campagne, indifférence.
Les cœurs, contentement, bonheur.
Les piques, pénurie, soucis, chagrins, la mort.
Il faut avoir soin d'arranger les cartes dans le même ordre qu'elles sortent, & sur
la même ligne, pour ne pas déranger la phrase, &. la lire plus facilement.
Les événemens prédits, en bien ou en mal, peuvent être plus ou moins avantageux
ou malheureux, suivant que la carte principale qui les annonce est accompagnée : les
piques, par exemple, accompagnés de trèfles, surtout s'ils arrivent entre deux trèfles,
sont moins dangereux ; comme le trèfle entre deux piques ou accolé d'un pique, est
moins fortuné.
Quelquefois le commencement annonce des accidens funestes ; mais la fin des cartes
est favorable, s'il y a beaucoup de trèfles ; on les regarde comme amoindris, plus ou
moins, suivant la quantité : s'ils sont suivis du neuf, de l'as ou du dix, cela prouve
qu'on a couru de grands dangers, mais qu'ils sont passés, & que la fortune change de face.
LES AS.
1 de carreau, 8 de cœur, bonne Nouvelle.
1 de cœur, dame de pique, Visite de femme.
] de cœur, valet de cœur, Victoire.
1, 9 & valet de cœur, l'Amant heureux.
1, 10 & 8 de pique, Malheur. •
1 de pique, 8 de cœur, Victoire.
1 de trèfle, valet de pique, Amitié.
LES 7-
7 & 10 de cœur, Amitié de Demoiselle.
7 de cœur, dame de carreau, Amitié de femme.
7 de carreau, roi de cœur. Retard*
317
I.ES 9-
Trois neufs ou trois dix, Reussite.
I.ES 10.
10 de trefle, roi de pique, Present.
10 de trefle 8c valet de trefle, un Amoureux.
10 de pique, valet de careau, quelqu'un d'inquiet.
10 de cceur, roi de trefle, Aniiti6 sincere.
N° V.
GIPSIES.
Grellman has taken much pains to shew that Gipsies came originally from Hin-
dostan, that they were of the lowest and most degraded cast of Parias or Suders, and
that they migrated when Timur Beg conquered and ravaged India at the beginning of
the fifteenth century. The numbers of defenceless beings who were wantonly butchered
on this occasion, spread such an universal panic among this unarmed and oppressed
race, that they endeavoured to save themselves by flight. They naturally took the only
road left open to them at the mouth of the Indus, the whole of the north and east being
beset by their cruel enemy. The country of the Zinganen below Multan was their first
asylum; here they remained in safety until Timur returned from the Ganges, bringing
terror in his course, when these poor wretches again sought security by flight, in which
they were accompanied by numbers of the natives ; and hence it is supposed the name
by which they are known in the south of Europe : Zingari. They took, it is supposed,
their course through the deserts of Persia, Sigistan, Makran, and Kirman, along the
Persian gulph to the mouth of the Euphrates ; from thence by Bassora into the great
deserts of Arabia ; afterwards into Arabia Petraea, and so into Egypt by the Isthmus
of Suls. From Egypt they found their way to Europe by various roads. This account,
which is sufficiently probable, is very much strengthened by the collections of Mr.
Marsden* respecting the Gipsy language; he obtained as many words as he could
from the Gipsy tribes in England, and procured from Constantinople a collection of
words used by the Chingarees, comparing them with the words collected by Ludolf in
his History of Ethiopia, from the wandering tribes in Nubia. A great similarity was
found between this vocabulary, and the words used to signify the same objects in
the Hindostanee language. Pallas 1 had also observed, that the language of some In
dians who have resided in Astracan since the commencement of the 17th century resem-
1 ArchseoJogia, Vol. VIL p. 387- * Der Neuen Nordischen Bcylrage. Petersburg, 1783. 8ro. Vol. III.
318
bled that used by the Gipsies. Bemouille, 1 speaking of the Gipsies found in Bran
denburg}], remarks that their language has many words which seem to indicate a Jewish
or Hebrew origin. Rudiger 2 observes, that the original Gipsy language partakes of
a Sanscrit origin, and, in a subsequent part of his work, he has demonstrated its simi
larity to the Hindoostanee, and points out some striking resemblances in the customs
of the Hindoos and Gipsies.
N° VI.
ON THE TERM ALEA.
The ancients seem to have designated the games of chance played with dice and
tables under the term Alea. The more extensive and arbitrary application of it to
signify every species of gaming is of more modern times. Etymologists are divided
respecting the origin of this word. St. Isidore, in his Origines, lib. xvii. cap. 57. de
fines it thus : " Alea est ludus tabulec invent* a Gratis in otto Trojani belli a quodam
milite, nomine Alea, a quo et ars nomen accepit." Vossius does uot admit this etymon,
but says, that " as we do not find the assertion of St. Isidore supported by any evi
dence of the existence of a soldier with that name, it is more than probable the word
was derived from the Greek aAao-9», to waver, vacillate: nothing being more uncertain
than games of chance." Etymolog. Ling. Latinee voce Alea. Herodotus has given the
invention to Atys, the Lydian, whom, he asserts, contrived it to divert the people from
a sense of their sufferings during a period of famine. Athenaeus combats this assertion
and says, that the " games of dice and osselets were in use at the time Troy was be
sieged by the Greeks, an epoch long anterior to the reign of Atys." The authority of
Homer, and that of Sophocles, is also opposed to the account given by Herodotus.
" Hie Ludis," says the learned Hyde, " qui apud Ciceronem & alios Ale* nomen ha-
bet, is est qui solis Tesseris exercebatur; quo differt a Tabu/a in qua prater Tessera
etiam Calculi erant & AIveus duodecim utrinque scriptis notatus. Alea? autem in qua-
vis mensa aut humi, aut quovis loco complanato exercere potest &, solet;" and he pro
ceeds to notice the later application of the word to siguify games of chance. " Alea
aliquando latius sumitur pro quovis Ludo in qui sors et fortuna dominatur; qui nempe
apud a:quos Lusores (qui fraudes non adhibent) non quidem peritia aut arte, sed mero
casu hunc vel ilium eventum sortitur. Alias enim, si peritia; locus daretur, turn AU&
nomen non ita plane ei quadrare censeretur. Hinc Alea nomen competit etiam Ckartis
fclaTus Ludis quae a sorte & fortuna pendent, & quivis rei incerti et dubii eventus propter
'<XWc»wn of Voyages and Travels in German. Vol. VIII. p. 438.
i Nratttc* Zuwachs der Spruchkunde. Lcipsic, 1782. 8vo. pp. 37—84.
/
319
fortunse vicissitudinem quae Aleas comitari solet; ct Aleatn Subire, est periclitari res
nostras, casque fortuna; &. sorti commitere. Hue spectat Athenasi illud dvsftifdw xt'C»f,
jacta est alea. Et Luciani avipcliiofuy xtiCov."
The same latitude is used, says Hyde, id regard to the Arabic name of dice,
Kimdr.—De Ludis Orietita/ibus, Part II. p. 101. " The games of chance comprised
under the name of Alea," says M. Simon, " may be reduced to two principal kinds,
namely Osseiets called Tali, and dice known by the denomination of Tessera:. Me-
moires de CAcad. des Inscriptions. T. I. p. 152. Sipontinus, in his preface to Pliny's
Natural History, thus explains the term,- " Alea dicitur omnis ludus magna ex parte
in fortuna varietate consistens, sed -proprie de Tesseris dicitur."—Raderus, in his Com
mentary on Martial, lib. xiv. Epig. xii. extends the power of the term and says, " Alea
propria est hujus ludi, quamvis de omni generatim ludo Aleas dicatur, speciatim tamen
Tessera: convenit."
It should however appear that in many of the prohibitory decrees dice and tables
are the only significations which the term bears : thus the synod of Langres in 1404,
" Ne oinnino ludant ad Taxillos, ad Aleas, ad Trinquetum neque ad Chartas;" had it
then possessed the latitude which Raderus and one or two later writers have pretended,
there would have been no occasion for the express prohibition of cards and trictrac, as
they would have been included in the term Alea, we may therefore safely conclude,
that cards were not intended in the ordinances and prohibitory decrees by this word.
Among the miscellaneous works of Cardanus, is a treatise " de Ludo Aleas." Under this
general head he comprehends cards ; but one of the chapters is entitled " De diffe
rentia Ludi Chartarum a Ludo Alea," in which is the following passage : it may be
considered as deciding the question : " DifFerunt ludi Chartarum a ludis Alese, in
quibus industria locum habet, quod Alea de futuro judicium fert, et magis licet de
alieno successus, tamen etiam de proprio Chartarum autem ludi de prsesentibus, et
alienis solum judicium requirunt."—" Etenim in Alea nil habeo certum signum, sed
omnia plane in pura fortuna reposita sunt, si Alea eequalis sit." And in the 22d
chapter of the same treatise, " De divisione Ludorum Gemina."—"Ludorum alii con-
sistant in Alea, id est eventu rei aperte, alii in Chartis, id est eventu rei occulta}, &c."
N° VII.
LUDUS CHARTARUM SEU FOLIORUM DIALOGUS. EX JOAN. LUD. VIVIS LINGU*
LATINS EXERCITATIO. FARISIIS 1546. 18<>.
Val. Quam asperum tempus, quam rigens St saevum ccelum, quam obscoenum
solum. Ta. Quid nos monet hie cceli ac soli habitus? Val. Non egredi domo. Ta.
Quid verd domi agere? Val. Ad luculentum focum studere, meditari, cogitare de
rebus, qua? aliquid emolumenti adferant menti 8c probis moribus. Ca. Id quidem
agendum prajcipue, nec aliquid esse debet homini antiquius. Sed ubi ab intentione ilia
delassatus fuerit animus, quo divertes, hoc duntaxat tempore? Val. Aliis quidem alias
sunt animorum refectiones : ego ver6 lusu foliorum magnopere oblector ac recreor.
Ta. Et hsec temporis qualitas e6 invitat, ut abdamus nos in cubiculum bene clausum,
&. obseptum undique a vento 8c frigore, lucente camino, meusa posita cum chartis.
Val. Au, minime chartas. Ta. Lusorias dico. Val. Istud placet. Ta. Turn pe
cuniae promatur nonnihil, 8c calculi ad computandum. Va. Nihil opus erit calculis, si
minutuli adsint numi. Ta. Ego nullos habeo, praeterquam aureos et argenteos cras-
siores. Vald. Commuta aliquos ex argenteis minuta pecunia. heus puer, cape stuferos
hos simplos, duplos, sesquiduplos, triplos, 8c k numulario cura nobis numos minutos,
simplos, duplos, triplos, non majores. Ta. Quam nitidi sunt hi numi? Val. Nimirum
recentes adhuc, 8c asperi. Ta. Concedamus in forum aleatorium, ubi omnia invenies
parata. Castel. Non expedit, nam haberemus arbitros plurimos . quid refert ludas
illic, an via publica? Consultius fuerit, ut recipiamus nos in cubiculum tuum, & accer-
sainus ex sodalibus aliquot maxinie anitno refocillando idoneos. Ta. Tuum conclaue
est ad id commodius . nam in meo cubiculo subinde a pedissequis matris interpellare-
mur, aliquid semper quaeritantibus in arcis mundi muliebribus. Vald. In ccenatione
igitur. Ta. Esto ita, eamus. Puer siste hie nobis Franciscum Lupiauum 8c Rodericum
Manricum, et Zoilastrum. Val. Mane: minime vero Zoilastrum hominem iracundum, rix-
osum, clamosum, calumniatorem, 8c qui minimis de rebus excitat saepe atroces tragcedias.
Cast. Optime profectd mones. nam si adolescens talis recreationi se nostrae admisceret,
non esset id lutlere, sed serid rixari.accerse igitur pro illo Rimosulum. V.Nequehunc: nisi
velis, quscunque hie fuerimus nugati, ante solis occasum nota esse toti civitati. Cast.
Tarn bonus est praeco? Va. Etiam rerum, quas sciri nihil attinet: nam res bonas sacratius
rcticet, quam mysteria Eleusinia. Ta. Veniant ergo Lupianuset Manricus soli. Ca. Hi
sunt belli sodales. Ta. Etmonc illos, ut adferant secum numulos : quicquid est autem se-
veritatis 8c serii, domi coinmendent Philopono tetrico : veniant facetiis, lepore, gratiis co-
mitati. Lvp. Salvi sitis, sodales festivissimi. Val. Quidsibi vultcontractioisthaccfrontis?
321
exporrigite istos vulticulos. an non estis jussi, cogitationes omnes literatas apud Musea
deponere? Lvp. Cogitationes nostra; literariae sunt aded illiteratae, ut eas Musae quae
sunt in Museo, respuant. Ma. Salvete. Val. Salus est dubia, quando ad acies &
pugnas vocamini, & quidein quibus reges sint interfuturi. Ta. Este bono animo : cru-
mena: impetuntur, non jugula. Lv. Cruinena plerisque est pro jugulo, & pecunia pro
sanguine ac spiritu, velut istis Caribus: quorum vitas contemptus instrumenturn est
regibus ad exercendos suos furores. Man. Nolo ego esse actor in hac fabula, sed spec
tator. Ta. Qui sic? Man. Quia sum infortunatissimus, semper il ludo discedo victus
& 3poliatus. Ta. Scis quid dicunt proverbio aleatores ? ibi quaerendam esse togain»
ubi amiseris. Man. Verum, sed periculum est ne dum togam amissam quaero, perdam &.
tunicam & interulam. Ta. Accidit quidem hoc non rar& : sed qui non periclitatur, non
ditescit. Man. Ea est metallicidarum sententia. Ta. Im& ctiam Iani medii Antuer-
piensis. Val. Recte habet. non possumus nisi quatuor ludere, sumus quinque, sortiemur
quia erit aliorum spectator. Man. Ego ero sine sortitione. Val. Nihil tale, nulli
est facienda injuria, non cujusquam voluntas id decernet, sed sors: cui primus rex obti-
gerit, sedebit ociosus spectator : &, si quid incident controvcrsiae, judex. Lvp. Ecce
vobis fasciculos duos foliorum integros, alter est Hispaniensis, alter Gallicus. Val.
Hispaniensis hie non videtur justus. Lvp. Quid ita? Va. Quoniam desunt decades.
Lvp. Non solent 111i habere, ut Gallici. Chartac enim Hispanau, quemadmodum 8c Gal
licae, in quatuor sunt genera seu familias divisae. Hispanac habent aurcos numos, car-
chesia, baculos, enses : Gallicae corda, rhombulos, trifolia, vomerculos, seu palas, seu
spicula. est in quaquec familia rex, regina, eques, monas, dyas, trias, quaternio, pentas,
senio, heptas, ogdoas, enneas, Gallicae habent etiam decades: 8c Hispanis aurei, &
carchesia potiora sunt pauciora, contra, enses & baculi : Gallis autem plura sunt semper
meliora. Cas. Quo lusu ludemus ? Val. Triumpho Hispanico, & distributor retinebit
sibi indicem chartam, si sit monas, aut imago humana. Man. Sciamus jam, quis erit
ludo exclusus. T. Probe mones, cedo folia, hoc est tuum, hoc istius, hoc Lupiani, tu
es judex. Val. Malim te mihi judicem, quam collusorem. Lvp. Bona verba, cur
isthuc quaeso? Val. Quia es in ludendo admodam vafer, 8c cavillator: turn aiunt te
artem tenere componendi folia, ut tibi expediat. Lvp. Non habet fraudem mea lusio, sed
imperitia; tuae industria mea videtur impostura, quod fere ignaris contingit. Caeterum
qui tibi placet Castellus, qui simul ac lucratus est pauxillum pecuniae, deserit collusores ?
T. Eludere est hoc quidem potius quam ludere. Ve. Levius hoc malum nam si vin-
catur, affixus erit ludo, clavo plusquam trabali. Ta. Sed lusuri sumus bini, duo contra
duos, quomodo erimus comparati. Val. Ego ludi hujus insciens, adhaerebo tibi Castelle,
quern audio esse callentissimum. Ta. Adde etiam callidissimum. Ca. Non est hie
opus electionibus, sorti sunt committenda omnia: quibus obvenerunt plura puncta,
adversus eos pugnabunt, quibus pauciora. Val. Esto ita, assigna folia. Man. Ut
optaveram, ego & Castellus ab eadem stamus parte, contrarias tuentur partes Valdaura
& Tamayus. Va. Sedeamus, uti solemus, decussate : da mihi illam sellam reclina-
toriam, ut quictius perdam. Tam. Appone scabella, assideamus jam, sortire eujus sint
primae partes. Vald. Mea; sunt, distribue tu Castelle. Castel. Quomodo? a sini
2 T
322
stra in dextram, more Belgico ? an contra Hispano more, a dextra ad sinistram ? Val.
Hoc more, quoniam ludo Hispanorum utimur, 8c rejecistin' decades? Ca. Eliam. quot
folia dabo singulis? Va. Nouena. Sed quamam erit sponsio? M. Terni in singulas
manus denarii cum geminatione sponsionis. Cast. Sensim mi Manrice, nimium pro-
peras. non esset is lusus, sed furor, ubi tantum pecuniae veniret in periculum : quomodo
posses tu oblectari in anxietate ilia? ne tot numi tibi pereant, denarii singuli sufficient,
& auctus sponsionis erit dimidii, nempe assium quinque. Valdavra. Recte consulis, ita
nec nihil ludemus, quod est insipidum: nec quod doleat, quod est acerbura. Castellvs.
Habetis singuli novena folia? cordium est familia dominatrix, St haec regina est
mea. Val. Nescio quam felix est omen hoc, certe est verissimum dominari vulgd
corda fceminarum. Cast. Desine speculationes, responde ad hoc, augeo sponsionem.
Val. Ludum habeo dissipatum, & male cohajrentem: cedo tibi. Ta. Et ego item,
distribue tu Manrice. Vad. Quid agis? non vertis chartam indiccm? Man..VoIo
prias meas computare, ne plurcs aut pauciores acceperim. Val. Unam habes plus
justo. Man. Deponam. Val. Non est ea lex lusus, sed ut vicem tuam amittas distri-
buendi: & transeat at sequentem. cedo folia. Man. Non faciam, quandoquidem
nondum protuli indicem. Val. Imo facies per deum. Cast. Apage quid tibi venit
in mentem mi Valdaura? jusjurandum admisces rebus levissiinis, quod vix gravissimis
rebus adhiberi convenit? Man. Quid tu dicis judex ? Lvp. Profccto ignoro, quid sit
in eo facto statucndum. Man. Qualem judicem nobis piacfecimus sine judicio ? duccm
sine oculis? Val. Quid ergo fiet? Man. Quid tandem? nisi ut mittamus Lutetiam, qui
hac de re adferat nobis aliquod senatusconsultum. Cast. Misce omnia, et rursum im-
partire. Ta. O qualem ludum initio de manibus, non obveniet mihi hodie similis. Ca.
Misce probe istaec folia et prsebeto singulis attentius. Va. Rursum augeo sponsionem.
Ta. Num non prasdixi, non habiturum me hodie in manibus ludum illi parcm ? semper
sum infortunatissimus. cur ego ludum vel aspicio oculis ? Cas. Hoc vero non est ludcre,
sed se afflictare. hoc est refici, & recreari animum, ita concitari ? ludum oportet esse
ludum, non molestiam. Man. Sustine paulisper, ne abjicias folia, nam est panicum.
Va. Responde igitur, an rccipias? Man. Recipio, & rursum augeo. Val. Quid tu
speras, me ferocibus tuis verbis protelare? non concedo. Ma. Effare tandem semel, &
expedite, admittisne ? Val. Etiam & quidem libentissime : & animus instigat me tali
ludo majore pretio certare, sed istud inter amicos sufricit. Ta. Quid verd me non com-
putatis inter vivos? adeo nulla est mei mentio? Ca. Quid igitur tu ad haec, homo
foenee? Ta. Ego vero augeo mea ex parte depositum. Man. Quid tu dicis Castelle?
Cast. Nunc me consulis, posteaquam tua opera depositum crevit immensum: ego in-
crementum hoc non audcrem hoc meo ludo sustinere. Val. Responde affirmate.
Cast. Non habeo quod sic respondeam, sed valde ambigue & dubitanter, & cuncta-
bunde, & timide, Scdiffidenter. estne sic satis expresse dictum? Man. Deum immor-
talem quanta copia, non tam densa nupercadebat grando. Sed quaeso te, periclitemur
paulisper. Cast. Experiamur quando ita tibi placet, a me vero ne speraris magnam
opem. Man. Feres tamen quas poteris suppetias. Cast. Nihil necesse id habes ad-
monere. Man. Plane victi sumus. Ta. Vicimus denarios quatuor. misce. Valb.
323
Addo asses quinque. Cas. Nescio an cedam. nam scio me certe victum iri. Ta. Rur-
sum alteros quinque. Cast. Quid tu ad banc provocationem dicis? Man. Quid
dicam ? fugio. Cast. Tu perdidisti proximum ludum, sine me hunc arbitratu meo
perdere. Sentio me esse inferiorem. sed sustinendum est, quandiu aliquid videro supe-
resse virium. Val. Quid ergo dicis? recusas? Cast. Noo, im6 addico. Ta. Tu Val-
daura non nosti hunc Castellum r superiorem habet ludum tuo, sed ita solet calidos
provocatores illectare in suum rete. Vide ne quo progrcdiaris temere, ubi tenearis irre-
titus. Val. Divum fidem, quomodo potuisti divinare folium mihi postremum restare
hujus nationis? Cast. Novi omnia folia. Val. Non omnino est isthuc incredibile.
Ca. Ita plane novi a facie. Val. Forsitan etiam a tergo. Cast. Nimium suspicio-
sus es. Val. Tu me facis, eat hoc cum tua bona venia. Ta. Dispiciamus, num qua?
sint charta? aversse maculatse, unde possint noscitari. Val. Faciamus, quaeso vos,
ludendi finem : angit me hie ludus, tam infeliciter cedendo. Cast. Ubi voles, sed for-
tasse non in ludo est vitium, sed in tua imperitia, qui nescis ludum scienter ad victoriam
accommodare, sed jacis folia absque arte, ut sors tulerit, ratus, nihil interesse, quid prius,
quid posterius mittas, quid quo loco sis jacturus. Ta. Omnium rerum est satietas, etiam
voluptatum, & ego defessus sum jam sedendo, assurgamus aliquantisper. Lvp. Cape tes-
tudinem hanc, 8t aliquid nobis cantilla. Ta. Quid tandem? Lvp. De ludo quippiam.
Ta. Carmen Virgilii ? L. Istuc ipsum, aut si mavis Vivis nostri, quod ille nuper canebat
de ainbulans in pomoerio Brugensi. Va. Anserina voce? Lv. Cane tu olerina. Ta.
Deus meliora : nam olor non canit, nisi fato jam urgente.
Ludunt & pueri. ludunt invenesque senesque.
Ingenium, gravitas, cani, prudentia, ludus,
Denique mortalis, sola virtute remota,
Quid nisi nugntrix, & vana est fabula, vita?
Val. Possum vobis confirmare, esse carmen bene expressum, tanquam ex spongia
arida. Lv. Tanta cum difficultate componit carmen ? Val. Magna, sive qudd rard,
sive qu6d non libenter, sive quod ali6 fert eum ingenii pronitas.
N° VIII.
EXTRACT FROM MARINEUS SICULIS apud THIERS TRAITE DES JEUX ET DIVER-
TISSEMENS. PARIS 1686. 12°
La jurisprudence d'Espagne n'est pas différente de celle de France sur le sujet des
mêmes jeux. En voici une preuve incontestable. Lucius Marineus le Sicilien Histo
riographe d'Espagne", rapporte que Ferdinand Roi d'Espagne de Castille, 8c de Léon
& la Reine Isabelle sa femme défendirent particulièrement les jeux de cartes & de dez
qui causent tous les jours divers genres de maux. " Car ces jeux, dit cet Auteur, sont
" sembables aux femme débauchées, qui infatucnt de je ne sçai quels plaisirs, non seule-
" ment les gens du commun et les idiots, mais même les Gentils-hommes et les per-
" sonnes de la premiere qualité, les sçavans, les prêtres, les prélats. C'est ce qui
" obligea ces deux princes Catholiques de faire publier des edits contre tous ceux qui
" joueraient à ces jeux, 8c d'imposer de grandes peines aux contrevenans. Ce qu'ils
" ordonnèrent sans doute avec beaucoup de prudence & de sainteté, à cause des de-
" sordres effroiables que produit ordinairement le jeu. Car les joueurs après avoir mal-
" heureusement perdu leur argent & leur bien, sont réduits à la dernière misère, se
" désespèrent 8c se tuent cruellement eux-mêmes. Les uns se pendent , les autres se
" poignardent, les autres se précipitent du haut en bas des tours, les autres se jettent
" dans des puits; les uns feignent d'estre fous, les autres le deviennent en effet; plu-
" sieurs deviennent voleurs. Au premier petit larcin qu'ils commettent on les promène
" sur des asnes avec une mitre de papier en tête, on les dépouille, on les bat avec des
" nerfs de bœuf, & le cricur marche devant eux qui public leur crime. Au second larcin
" on les traite encore plus rudement, &. on leur coupe les oreilles. S'ils viennent à
" commettre un troisième larcin, on les pend. Et quand ils volent sur les grands che-
" mins & qu'ils dépouillent les voïageurs, ou qu'ils les tuent, on les attache à un poteau
" & on les fait passer par les armes. C'est ainsi qu'on traite les joueurs en Espagne. Il
" serait à souhaiter que la pluspart de ceux qui jouent aujourd'hui fissent reflexion là-
" dessus. Car peut estre s'abstiendraient ils du jeu; peut-estre comprendraient ils
" combien la vie des joueurs est miserable, pernicieuse, détestable & dangereuse, estant
" tourmentez comme ils sont des remords de leur conscience, 8c aïant sans cesse
" devant les yeux l'image épouventable de la mort.
1 L. 19. rebus Hispan.
N° IX.
EXTRACT FROM BARETTl's ACCOUNT OF THE MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OF ITALY,
VOL. II. CHAP. XXXIII. P. 217. LONDON 1768. 6°.
The man would certainly appear extraordinary, if not ridiculous, who should attempt
to appreciate the different degrees of mental power possessed hy the chief European
nations, when considered as bodies opposed to bodies, and endeavour to form his esti
mate, either by drawing inferences from those portious of wit that they must necessarily
employ when they play at their national games of cards, and from those resources of
genius that must have been possessed by those amongst their respective predecessors,
who first invented those games.
Forbearing therefore to enter into this subtle and odd disquisition, I will only ob
serve, that it is not without reason the English are proud of their whist, the French of
their piquet, and the Spaniards of their ombre1, which, as I take it, are the three best
games of cards amongst the several that these nations possess. To obtain a victory or to
hinder a defeat at any of these games, requires so much quickness and dexterity of
mind, that I do not wonder if even men of good parts are flattered when they are
praised for this accomplishment.
Which of these three games required the greater effort in the invention, or demands
most skill in the management, I will not take upon me to determine: but I think my
self well intitled to say, that three or four of our Italian games of cards are almost as
superior in both respects to whist, to piquet, and to ombre, as chess is superior to polish-
drafts. The games I mean, are those which we form out of those cards called Minchiate
and Tarrocco's : the first chiefly in vogue all over Tuscany and the Pope's dominions ;
the second in Piedmont and Lombardy. I crave the reader's indulgence for endea
vouring to give him some idea of both these games, just to make him sensible, that the
Italians, who have often appeared great in the arts considered by mankind as great, are
likewise great in those that mankind will regard as little.
Both the minchiate and the tarrocco's consist of five suits instead of four, as common
cards do. Four of those five suits answer exactly to the four of the common cards,
with only the addition of one card to the three that are figured in each suit; so that,
instead of king, queen, and knave, we have king, queen, horseman, and knave, both in
the minchiate and the tarrocco's. As to the fifth suit, it consists of forty-one cards in
the minchiate, and of twenty-two in the tarrocco's; and this fifth suit in both games is
called by a name that answers to trumps in English. Both games may be played by
only two, or only three people in several ways; but the most ingenious as well as the
most in use, are two or three games that are played by four people ; and more especially
1 It ought to be spelled hombre, which in Spanish signifies a man.
326
one against three, much after the ruling principle of ombre, and another played two
against two, not unlike whist.
By this account the reader will soon comprehend, that each of these games must
necessarily be much superior to whist and ombre, because of the greater number of
combinations produced either by the ninety-seven cards of the minchiate, or by the
seventy-eight of tarrocco ; which combinations cannot but give a larger scope to the
imagination of the player than the lesser number arising from the forty of ombre, or
the fifty- two of whist, and oblige him to exert his memory and judgment much more
than either at whist, ombre, or piquet.
I have heard strangers, unable to comprehend these our games, object both to the
tarrocco's and the minchiate, that they cannot be so diverting as the three mentioned,
because they produce so many combinations as must prove too fatiguing. But if this
argument carries conviction, we must of course conclude, that chess is less delightful
than loo, because it forces the mind to a greater recollection of its powers than loo.
•This reasoning is certainly just with regard to little and sluggish minds; but will not
hold with respect to those that are lively and comprehensive. However, those Ita
lians, whose minds are much too contracted and disproportioned to the tarrocco's and
the minchiate, or those who do not chuse to exert their talents too much, have still the
means of diverting themselves with several other games at cards that require no greater
compass of imagination, memory, and understanding, than whist, piquet, and ombre:
and other still, that are upon a pretty equal footing with humble loo itself.
Let me add an observation more upon this subject. Many strangers are surprised
that the Italians learn their games easily, and in a very little time play at them with as
much skill as the best players among themselves. Hence they infer very kindly, that
Italy abounds in gamblers more than their own respective countries. But is this infe
rence very logical? I apprehend they would say better, if they would be pleased to say,
that the Italians, accustomed to more complicated games, can easily descend to play
those, which, comparatively speaking, require less wit and less attention.
N. B. I have not wrote this short chapter for the perusal of those who make it a
point to contemn all frivolous amusements, and look upon themselves with great reve
rence because they always detested gaming. I intend it only for those connoisseurs in
ingenuity, who know that cards have not only the power of rescuing the ordinary part
of mankind from the torpid encroachments of dulness, but of affording also an effica
cious refreshment even to the thinker, after a long run of deep meditation.
V
N° X.
EXCERPTA EX CARDANI OPERA, TOM. I. PAG. 2/. LUGDUNI 1(563. FOLIO.
LIBER DE LUDO ALE^E.
Cap. I. De Ludorum Generibus.
Ludi constant, aut agilitate corporis, velut Pila, aut robore, ut Discus et Lucta aut
industria, ut Latrunculorum, aut fortuna, ut Aleae proprie, et talorum, aut utroque ut
Fritilli. Industria autem duplex, aut ludendi, aut certandi, velut in primaria, nam et
chartarum ludus noinen subit Aleae, quod antiquo tempore charts ignotae essent:
im6 el materia, qua conficiuntur. Indicio est, quod scriberent in Pergamenis coriis,
scilicet hasdorum, et Papyro yEgyptia, et Tabulis, et Cera et Philira. Dicitur autem
primaria, quod primum obtineat locum inter ludos Aleae, seu pulchritudine, seu quod
ex quatuor constet, quasi conjugationibus primis, et ad numerum elementorum ex
quibus componimur, non autem mundi. Continet autem varietatcs miras.
Cap. XVI. De Ludo Chartarum.
Si de omnibus discere voluero, infinitum erit, sunt autem duo genera, prima cum ac-
tione et sine actionc. Differt ab alea quod ilia aperta sit, Ludi Chartarum fiunt ex
insidiis, nam occulta? sunt. Primera est omnium nobilior. Constat ex quatuor chartis,
juxta diversitatem natura, chartae enim apud Gallos, Hispanos, Germanos atque Italos
sunt quatuor dirlerentiarum, et sunt tredecim, omnes igitur quinquaginta duae, sunt
autem ab uno ad decern, juxta numerorum seriem. Inde rex cum pedite, Galli regi-
nam, Itali oquitem habent. Igitur in primera eximuntur numeri octo, novem, decern,
Rex, Pedes, et Regina, vel Eques, decern valent singuli. A binario ad quinque adduntur
decern, ut valeant, duodecim, tredecim, quatuordecim, quindecim sex et septem tri-
plicantur, ut sex valeat decern octo, septem viginti unum, unum autem valet sexdecim.
Ita maxiraus numcrus constat ex septem, sex, et uno, et sunt 21. 18. 16. omnes 55 sed
si compleatur numerus omnium, addito quinario, omnes ejusdem generis chartae 70. nu
merum perficiunt.
Est autem duplex primera, quaa majore numero potior est, qui diversus est pro natura
modorum : et quae minore, et parum est in usu; quae in chartis diversorum generum»
minimum numerum habet 20. in primera 40. et in fluxu 42. modi autem iidem sunt, qui
in priorc, et eundem inter se ordinem servant.
Sunt igitur modi in utroque genere quinque ; numerus, primera, supremus, fluxus et
chorus. Numerus est, cum dua; aut ties chartae sunt ejusdem generis, et minimus est 20.
328
et fit ex duobus chartis minoribus, <iuas figuras vocant, quia depictam babent formam
humanam, (ut dictum est) regis, vcl reginae, seu equitis, et peditis, maximus est 54. con-
stant tribus chartis, septenario, senario, et quinario. Secundus est priinera, cum charte
omnes fuerint diversorum generum, et qualiscumque sit omuem numerum vincit. Mini
mus Humerus est (ut dixi) 40. maximus 81.
Hanc superat quantacumquc sit supremus id est 55. cum tres chartae ejusdem generis
fuerat septem, sex, et unus, qui implent 55. Quarto loco est fluxus, qui constat ex
quatuor chartis ejusdem generis, vincitque primeram supremumque numerum. Et mi
nimus numerus (ut dixi) est 42. Maximus autem 70. Quintus modus est ex genere
primerae, sed omnes ch irtas habet similes. Quatuor senarii aut septenarii, aut quatuor
reges. Neque enim tres reges. et una regina chorum faciunt, licet omnes denario nu-
mero aestimentur. Hie modus vincit omnes alios praccedentes. In eo autem, vincit
major numerus. Maximus numerus est 84. si sint figurae pares, ut quatuor reges, qua
tuor pedites, non reges vincunt, quia numero non sunt superiores, sed qui propior est
chartas exhibenti a latere dextro. Quod generale est in omnibus paribus numeris in
paribus modis. Chartae binae, et binae simul non singula cxhibentur. In diversus modis
non licet adhere summi pignoris, sed summus punctus pro primera haberi potest, ubi
alius primeram nominaverit. Chorus etiam pro primera semper, et pro fluxu celari
potest, ubi alius retexerit. Placet damnare malam consuetudinem : nam quidam cho
rum ostendunt, hide chartam abjiciunt certo loco, aliasque commutationes recipiunt,
volunt que manere cum choro, sed nimis contentiosa res est haec, et fraudi multis modis
locum praebet. Propterea qua fortuna venit, ea gaudendum est, nam si in commutatioue
chartarum favisse voluisset, non antea se exhibuisset in casum. Non enim admittendus
est hie usus.
Quia ergo tribus modis consuevit una charta cxpectari, vel in minori puncto, ut si
collusor habeat 45. tu vero 36. qualicuinque charta, ex duabas victor evadis. Vel si
collusor habeat 40. tu vero tres chartas diversi generis, primera solum vincere potes.
Vel si ille primeram habeat, vel supremum punctum, vel etiam majorem solum, sed ita
ut tu tribus chartis minus habeas, necesseque sit fluxum perficere, ut vincas. Solent
partem depositi auferre singuli, ut pote dimidium, vel prope reliquum sorti dimittitur,
ut sit victoris. Ea autem ratione in primo casu aufcrri debeut (nisi ex rejectis, cogni-
tum sit plures superesse, vel pauciores distribuendas, quam pro ratione generali ; nam
si superessent charts decern distribuendae, et in illis adhuc quinque, aut una tantum,
aliud esset dicendum) ex aiquali : in primera ex diniidio alter ex duplo: in fluxu ex
tertia parte, alter ex triplo. Dicaui autem quid fieri debeat, non quod fit, eum diversse
sint gentium consuetudines, tantum est ergo auferendum, ut ea conditione non inique
certetur. In primo igitur casu, tanto pra:stat haec aiqualitas, quanto jam biuas habenti
offertur; nam in reliquis, duse duo genera occupant : quatuor autem, sunt ita in haec,
quam ilia incidere possunt. At si subtilior sit aliqua ratio, earn nunc prasteronttcre
decet, cum in hujusmodi spectanda sit sola utilitas. In secundo autem casu, jam ma-
uent apud unum duo, apud alium unum e quatuor vicibus cum tribus succumbat, una
329
tantum vincat uno in circuitu omnia amittet in qua igitur est conditio. Moventur au.
tem hao ratione quod si duae chartae expectarentur, divitio conveniret aequalis : ergo ex
dimidio duorum, dimidium pignoris. Sed rationem sic inire oportet : si quatuor habeat
aures tres, amittet in uno circuiia, lucrabitur unum, igitur amittet dimidium ejus, qudd
habeat: oportet ergo depositi mediam ainittere, tantum ver6 lucrari collusorem: igitur
recipiet solum quartam partem illius medietatis, et collusor dodrantem. Quia praeter id
tres chartae deficiunt ex eo genere, in his, quae distribuuntur, detrahere oportet quintam
partem quae est duarum, quibus, qui tres habet, superat unum; nam una charta potior
est primera conditione teniae partis, jam dictae : Igitur accipiet solum duo, et socius
novem. Quare concludo, quod aequata lance, ut faveamus etiam his, qui fortuna ini-
quiore ludunt. In primera, qui illam expectat, accipiet duo, alter quinque. In fluxu
autem unum, alter quatuor, et hoc est proximus vera rationi. Cavendum tamen est, ut
non id ex arbitrio agatur, sed semper, aut nunquam ; aliter iniquissima conditione ludes
Ham chartam exterius poterit collusor agnoscere; itaque si tibi conveniat, aut illi non
paciscetur: At si tibi, non illi verd conveniat, nequaquam. At si modo conditionem
recipere oportet, fiat ante exactain chartam, quare inferius extrahendae sunt, non
autem supra.— Liber de Ludo Aleae. Cap. 16. pp. 267. 8.
Cap. XXII. De Divisione Ludorum Gemina.
Ludorum alii consistunt in alea, id est eventu rei aperte, alii in chartis, id est eventu
rei occultae. Utrumque genus dividitur, quoniam alii fortuna tantum constant, ut san-
cius in alea, et primaria, ac fluxus in chartis. Alii fortuna: artem ludendi adjungunt,
ut in alea fritilli ludi in chartis, taro ulcus, triumphus, et similis. Cum ergo nccesse sit
ludos constare fortuna tantum, vel fortuna et arte, et utrumque genus ex apertis, aut
occultis, manifestum est, quod ludorum, qui fortuna constant, et non rohore vel agili-
tate corporis quatuor sunt prima genera.
Cap. XXIII. De Ludis Chartarum, in quibus Industrie locus est.
Cum ergo in hujusmodi exerceamus industriam in re incognita, necesse est, ut me-
moria earum quas deposuimus, aut teximus, aut reliquimus, aliquid possit, in quibusdam
autem plurimum ut in Trapola, veneto ludo. Hoc eximuntur tria, quatuor, quinque, et
sex puncta. In quatuor generibus sunt sexdecim, reliquuntur triginta sex. Dantur
quinque post quatuor ; in duobus lusoribus sunt decern octo chartae totidem in cuinulo
reliquuntur; si primo placent retinet, et si secundo displicent, mutat, et novem primas
recipit superiores in cumulo ; si placent, et ipse suas retinet ; si non commutat cum se-
cundis cumulis; vides igitur quantum possit memoria, judicio, scientia cavendi dolos,
et securitate debita. Plures ergo dum satis bene memorantur, non satis vitant caute
dolos collusoris, aut non prudenter ludunt, aut timide nimis, vel quasi Iracunde. Prop-
terea cum in Sacchense oppidum, me contulissem hoc ludo onirum in modum delectahar;
ex quo omnis boni initium habui. Namque industria effeci, ut omnium chartarum,
quas deposuissem, memor semper essem. Ars vero in ludendo plurimum valet. Nain
2 u
330
que ultimam cbartain, qui obtinet, sex habet puncta si eadem binarius sit, valet 26. sex
quoniam in ultimo : Decern quia cum sit minima, nisi sit sola, non potest non vinci: in ul
timo ver6 duplicatur, ideo valet viginti, cui addito sex, valet vigniti sex ; si bis hoc contin-
gat, scilicet, ut penultima sit binarius, et ultima valent 52. scilicet singula: 26. sin autem
tres binarii valent 78. ter scilicet multiplicato 26. ut sint uli ima penultima, ante penultima
omnes binarii sunt, qui velint valere centum, et quatuor duplicate 52. sed uon est rec
tum, sic enim oporteret, et ultima valerent 26. penultima cum ultima 78. et ante-
penultima cum reliquiis duabus 234. quod nemo adinittit, istius modi tamen constant
consuetudine, aut pactis, quern admodum, et quod binarius, si sit prima ut etiam in re-
liquis, nec vincatur, quoniam eo genere cbartarum careat collusor decern valet, apud
aliquos tamen valet 12. Pedes valet puncta tria. Regina, velequus, quatuor, Rex quin-
que, punctum unum vocant lunetam aeque supremuin in suo genere, vicitque Regem, et
omnes alias chartas, valet sex, tres lunetae ante ludum valent 12. tres binarii 10. tres Reges,
aut Equi, vel Reginae, vel Pedites sex, nec oportet,nisi in lunetis dicere, quales sint; sed cum
binario omnes nomine figurarum appellantur. Oportet autem tres esse similes et unius
generis, ut tres binarii, vel tres Reges, nec est necesse, ut lunetas, vel figuras ab initio
ludi appellemus, sed solum, antequam ullam ex illis tribus dclegamus, aut ludamus, vel
ludendo, dum non collegerimus illarum ullam; si quis omnes chartas obtineat, cucum
vocant duplicaturque totus numerus. Hanc igitur Chartarum memoriam, cum ad verbi
unius scientiam traduxissem ex illo didici ctiam multas res, hoc modo unius verbi con-
tinere. Inde excolendo inventum totam unam lectionem, et qua: in ea continerentur.
Post etiam ilia inveniri et ex autoribus derivare. Unde modus ille ex temporanas pro-
fitendi. Sed revertor ad Chartarum lusum, nam hoc genus ludi est artiriciosissimum,
cum in certa re, et vi naturae consisteret, omisi exercitationem illius diviuationis multis
ex causis. Primum enim me statim contuli Patavium, inde in Saccense oppidum, atque
ita occasio sublata illius ludi ; nam ea sors non habet locum, ubi ludo industria com-
miscetur. Deinde qudd timerem, ne nimis fidendo me everteret. Prasterea diccbam
si ex demone est fallax, est et contra legem, si fortuita stultum est illi fidere. Abhorre-
bam etiam a ludi genere damnato legibus. PraUerea stultum existimavi, cum possem
locupletiore conditione, securiore scilicet, et ex naturali ratione pendente certare velle
tarn absurde inniti.
Cap. XXIV. De differentia Ludi Chartarum a, Ludo Alea.
Differunt ludi chartarum a ludis Alea?, in quibus industria locum habet, quod Alea
de futuro judicium fert, et magis licet de alieno successu, tamen etiam de proprio, Char
tarum autem ludi de pracsentibus, et alienis solum judicium requirunt. At de praesen-
tibus conjectari, prudentis est magis viri, ethumana sapientis; de futuris autem quam-
quam sit alia ratio conjectural, non quod futura sint, sed cui potius jure innitendum sit,
est tamen divini potius hominis, autinsani, nam melancolici divinare solent. Et enim in
Alea nil habes certum signum, sed omnia plants in pura fortuna reposita sunt, si alea
aequalis sit. Quicquid autem est in ea prsetcr levem conjecturam et rationes superius
V
331
dictas ad temeritatem referri debet. At in chartis, quas posuit vultus Chartarum a tergo
agnitio, milleque alias agnitiones naturales, et dignae, prudenti viro habentur. Unde inter
oinnes ludos subtilitate prsecedit, is, qui latrunculus fit. Sed fortunae arbitrio parum,
aut nihil subjacet, militate armorum, salubritate pilae : lepore : trapolae : pulchritudine
inventi, ct modorum primaria, pecuniarum magnitudine sanctius, concertatione assiduae,
quae parum fatigat fritillus, extractione temporis Tarocbi. Dignitate cricones, pruden-
tia et vitce humanac Imitatione Triumphi. Decet igitur sapientern chartis ludere, quam
alea et triumphis potius, quam aliis ludis, constat ergo, (sed in usu non est) qu&d me-
dius quidam est modus ludendi Chartis apertis, proximior ferme latrunculorum ludo.
Et finem habet cum nil amplius expectet; sed quilibet ludus sibi finem facit. Atque is,
est qui fit novem cum chartis, (nam hie est numerus satis Idoneus) ac mediocris inter
magnum, et parvum ad ludendum, detectis, inde certare, ut solent cum occultis. De-
miror autem cum hie sit ingeniosissimus, solum neglectum a tot gentibus esse.
Cap. XXV. De Ludis Chartarum.
Ludi igitur Chartarum, non in expectatione futurorum sunt nisi cum commutantur.
Suntque earum plura genera, sed numcrarc non licet : nam qu&d dixit Horatius de
Verbis, idem de ludis dieere convenit : satis erit eos distinguere generibus suis, ac spe-
ciebus turn simplicibus, turn compositis. Prima igitur genera sunt lusus arbitrio solius
fortunae, et cum industria. Fortuna: solius sunt primaria rluxus, qui fit cum tribus
Chartis: Gallicus est pulcherrimus, nam unum cum figura, vel cum binario crticit 21.
qui summas est punctus apud reliquas, plerasquae gentes. Sed apud Gallos, si adsit
aliud unum fiunt viginti unum cum dimidio. Sed tria puncta superant etiam fluxum et
est supremum, et pro fluxu, et puncto haberi potest. Viginti etiam cum uno puncto,
alia in cbarta efficit viginti cum dimidio, et ita habent viginti, viginti cum dimidio, vi
ginti unum, et viginti unum cum dimidio, et viginti duo, qui (ut dixi) superior est fiuxui.
Post estfluxada: silerium, id est, ego habeo, quadriginta, et triginta unum. Baseta
ludus desperatorum, Cricones, fortunas, et industria, Triumphi, Triumfeti, Sequentiae,
sequentinum Tarochi, centum, Trapoia, Romfa, Scaltara, turn alii mulli. Alia divisio
est pene differentias proprias, quoniam ludi quidam tetinent sestimationem chartarum,
[alii non retinent, sed mutant. Alii nuinero chartarum, alii aistimatioue,] alii conse-
quentibus, alii certa ratione loci, seu ordinis, aut proprietate conficiunt numerum, quo
Superiores, aut Inferiores evadunt.
2 c 2
N° XI.
EXTRACTS FROM " THE COMPLETE GAMESTER," (BY CHARLES COTTON, ESQ.)
LONDON 1680, 8°
Of Gaming in general, or an Ordinary described.
Gaming is an enchanting witchery, gotten betwixt idleness and avarice: an itching
disease, that makes some scratch the head, whilst others, as if they were bitten by a
tarantula, are laughing themselves to death : or lastly, it is a paralytical distemper,
which seizing the arm the man cannot choose but shake his elbow. It hath this ill
property above all other vices, that it renders a man incapable of prosecuting any serious
action, and makes him always unsatisfied with his own condition ; he is either lifted up
to the top of mad joy with success, or plunged to the bottom of despair by misfortune,
always in extremes, always in a storm ; this minute the gamester's countenance is so
serene and calm, that one would think nothing could disturb it, and the next minute so
stormy and tempestuous that it threatens destruction to itself and others; and as he is
transported witli joy when begins, so losing he is tost upon the billows of a high swell
ing passion, till he hath lost sight both of sense and reason.
I have seen some dogs bite the stones which boys have thrown at them, not regard
ing whence they were flung; so I have seen a losing gamester greedily gnawing the
innocent box, and sometimes tearing it to pieces as an accessary to his throwing out;
nor must the dice go unpunished for not running his chance, and therefore in rage are
thrown on the ground to be kicked to and fro by every body ; and at last looked upou
no other than the fit companions of every saucy skip-jack.
Then fresh dice are called for, as thinking they will prove more kind than the for
mer, or as if" they believed that some were good natured, others bad, and that every bale
produced a different disposition. If these run cross too, the box-keeper shall not go
without a horrid execration, if for nothing else but that he looked strictly to the cast, it
may be conceiving that his very eyes were capable of making them turn to his disad
vantage. This restless man (the miserable gamester) is the proper subject of every man's
pity. Restless I call him, because (such is the itch of play) either winning or losing he
can never rest satisfied; if he wins he thinks to win more, if he loses he hopes to recover:
to this man's condition the saying of Hannibal to Marcel/us may be fitly applied, that
nec bonam, nec malam fortunam ferrc potest, he could not be quiet either conqueror or
conquered. Thus have I heard of some who with five pounds have won four hundred
pounds in one night, and the next night have lost it to a sum not half so much ; others
333
who have lost their estates and won them again with addition, yet could not be quiet
till they lost them irrecoverably.
And therefore fitly was that question propounded, whether men in ships at sea were
to be accounted among the living or the dead, because there were but Jew inches betwixt
them and drowning. The same queere may be made of great gamesters, though their
estates be never so considerable, whether they are to be esteemed poor or rich, since
there are but a few casts at dice betwixt a rich man (in that circumstance) and a beggar.
Now since speculation will not be convincing, unless we shew somewhat of the
modern practice, we must therefore lay our scene at an ordinary, and proceed to action :
Where note, an ordinary is a handsome house, where every day, about the hour of
twelve, a good dinner is prepared by way of ordinary, composed of variety of dishes,
in season, well drest, with all other accommodations fit for that purpose, whereby many
gentlemen of great estates and good repute, make this place their resort, who after
dinner play awhile for recreation, both moderately and commonly, without deserving
reproof: but here is the mischief, the best wheat will have tares growing amongst it,
rooks and daws. will sometimes be in the company of pigeons; nor can real gentlemen
now adays so seclude themselves from the society of such as are pretendedly so, but
that they oftentimes mix company, being much of the same colour and feather, and by
the eye undistinguishable.
It is reported of the polypus (a fish), that it will conform itself to the colour of what
is nearest, for security and advantage : and so do these pretended gentlemen attire them
selves in what is both genteel and fashionable, that under that disguise they may with
more facility wriggle themselves into the society of such worthy persons, out of whom
they intend to squeeze some sums of monies by cards, dice, or otherways.
These rooks can do little harm in the clay time at an ordinary, being forced to play
upon the square, although now and then they make an advantage, when the box-keeper
goes with him, and then the knave and rascal will violate his trust for profit, and lend
him (when he sees good) a tickler shall do his business ; but if discovered, the box-
keeper ought to be soundly kicked for his pains : such practices, and sometimes the
box-keeper's connivances are so much used of late, that there is nothing near that fair
play in an ordinary as formerly.
The day being shut in, you may properly compare this place to those countries
which lay far in the north, where it is as clear at midnight as at noon-day: and though
it is a house of sin, yet you cannot call it a house of darkness, for the candles never go
out till morning, unless the sudden fury of a losing gamester make them extinct.
This is the time (when ravenous beasts usually seek their prey) wherein come shoals
of huffs, hectors, setters, gilts, pads, biters, divers, lifters, jilers, budgies, droppers, cross-
biters, &)C. and these may all pass under the general and common appellation of rooks.
And in this particular, an ordinary serves as a nursery for Tyburn ; for if any one will
put himself to the trouble of observation, he shall find, that there is seldom a year
S34
•wherein there are not some of this gang hanged as preciousjewels in the ear of Tyburn:
look hack and you will find a great many gone already, and God knows how many are
to follow.
These rooks are in continual motion, walking from one table to another, till they
can discover some inexperienced young gentleman, cashier or apprentice, that is come
to this school of virtue, being unskilled in the quibbles and devices there practised ; these
they call lambs or colls: then do the rooks (more properly called wolves) strive who shall
fasten on him first, following him close, and engaging him in some advantageous bets,
and at length worries him, that is, gets all his money, and then the rooks (rogues I
should have said) laugh and grin, saying the lamb is bitten.
Some of these rooks will be very importunate to borrow money of you without any
intention to pay you; or to go with you seven to twelve, half a crown or more, whereby
without a very great chance (ten to one or more) he is sure to win : if you are sensible
hereof, and refuse his proposition, they will take it so ill, that if you have not an espe
cial care they will pick your pocket, nim your gold or silver buttons off your cloak or
coat ; or it may be draw your silver-hilted sword out of your belt without discovery,
especially if you are eager upon your cast, which is done thus ; the silver buttons are
strung, or run upon cat's guts fastened at the upper and nether end ; now by ripping
both ends very ingeniously (as they call it 1 give it the gentle pull, and so rub off with
the buttons; and if your cloak be loose, it is ten to one they have it.
But that which will most provoke (in my opinion) any man's rage to a just satis
faction, is their throwing many times at a good sum with a dry jist (as they call it);
that is, if they nick you, it is theirs ; if they lose, they owe' you so much, with many
other quillets : some I have known so abominably impudent, that they would snatch
up the stakes, and thereupon instantly draw, saying, if you will have your money you
must fight for it; for he is a gentleman and will not want : however, if you will be pa
tient, he will pay you another time. If you are so tame to take this, go no more to the
ordinary ; for then the whole gang will be ever and anon watching an opportunity to
make a mouth of you in the like nature. If you nick them, it is odds if they wait not
your coming out at night and beat you : I could produce you an hundred examples in
this kind, but they will rarely adventure on the attempt, unless they are backed with
some bully-huffs, and bully-rooks, with others whose fortunes are as desperate as their
own. We need no other testimony to confirm the danger of associating with these
anthropo-phagi or man-eaters, than L/wco/n's-Inn-Fields, whilst Spee/ing's Ordinary was
kept in Bell-yard, and that you need not want a pair of witnesses for the proof thereof,
take in also Covent-Garden.
Neither is the house itself to be exempted ; every night almost some one or other,
who either heated with wine, or made choleric with the loss of his money, raises a quar
rel, swords are drawn, box and candlesticks thrown at one another's head, tables over
thrown, and all the house in such a garboyl, that it is the perfect type of hell. Happy
335
i* the man now that can make the frame of a table or chimney corner his sanctuary ;
and if any are so fortunate to get to the stair-head, they will rather hazard the breaking
of their own necks than have their souls pushed out of their bodies in the dark by they
know not whom.
I once observed one of the desperadoes of the town (being half drunk) to press a
gentleman very much (at play) to lend him a crown: the gentleman refused him several
times, yet still the borrower persisted, and holding his head somewhat too near the caster's
elbow, it chanced to hit his nose ; the other thinking it to be affront enough to be denied
the loan of money without this slight touch of the nose, drew, and stepping back (un
awares to the gentleman) made a full pass at him, intending to have run him through
the body; but his drunkenness misguided his hand so that he ran him only through the
arm. This put the house into so great a confusion and fright, that some fled, thinking
the gentleman slain. This wicked miscreant thought not this sufficient, but tripping
up his heels, pinned him, as he thought, to the floor ; and after this, takes the gentle
man's silver sword, leaving his in the wound, and with n grand-jury of dammees (which
may hereafter find him guilty at the Great Tribunal) bid all stand off if they loved their
lives, and so went clear off with sword and liberty ; but was notwithstanding (the gen
tleman recovering) compelled to make what satisfaction he was capable of making,
besides a long imprisonment, and was not long abroad before he was apprehended for
burglary, committed, condemned, and justly executed.
Fatebert tandem
Nec surdum, nec tiressam quenquam esse deorum.
But to proceed on as to play : late at night when the company grows thin, and your
eyes dim with watching, false dice are frequently put upon the ignorant, or they are
otherwise cheated by topping, slurring, stabbing, Sac. and if you be not careful and vigi
lant, the box-keeper shall score you up double or treble boxes, and though you have
lost your money, dun you as severely for it, as if it were the justest debt in the world.
The more subtle and gentler sort of rooks (as aforesaid) you shall not distinguish by
their outward demeanour from persons of condition ; these will sit by a whole evening,
and observe who wins : if the winner be bubleable, they will insinuate themselves into
his company by applauding his success, advising him to leave off whilst he is well ;
and lastly, by civilly inviting him to drink a glass of wine, where having welj wanned
themselves to make him more than half drunk, they wheedle him to play ; to w-bich if
he condescend, he shall quickly have no money left him in his pocket, unless percrWnce
a crown the rooking-winner lent him in courtesy to bear his charges homewards. \
This they do by false dice, as high-fullams 4, 5, 6. Low-fullams 1, 2, 3. By bristled-
dice, which are fitted for their purpose by sticking a hog's-bristle so in the corners,
or otherwise in the dice, that they shall run high or low as they please; this bristle must
be strong and short, by which means the bristle bending, it will not lie on that side, but
will be tript over; and this is the newest way of making a high or lowfullam: the old
336
ways are by drilling them and loading them with quicksilver ; but that cheat may be
easily discovered by their weight, or holding two corners between your forefinger and
thumb : if holding them so gently between your fingers they turn, you may then con
clude them false; or you may try their falsehood otherwise by breaking or splitting
them: others have made them by filing and rounding; but all these ways fall short of
the art of those who make them : some whereof are so admirably skilful in making a
bale of dice to run what you would have them, that your gamesters think they never
give enough for their purchase if they prove right. They are sold in many places
about the town ; price current (by the help of a friend) eight shillings, whereas an ordi
nary bale is sold for sixpence; for my part I shall tell you plainly, I would have those
bales of false dice to be sold at the price of the ears of such destructive knaves that
made them.
Another way the rook hath to cheat, is first by palming, that is, he puts one dye into
the box, and keeps the other in the hollow of his little finger, which noting what is up
permost when he takes him up, the same shall be when he throws the other dye, which
runs doubtfully any cast Observe this, that the bottom and top of all dice are seven,
so that if it be 4 above, it must be a 3 at bottom; so 5 and 2. 6 and 1. Secondly,
by topping, and that is when they take up both dice and seem to put them in the box,
and shaking the box, you would think them both there, by reason of the ratling occa
sioned with the screwing of the box, whereas one of them is at the top of the box be
tween his two forefingers, or secured by thrusting a forefinger into the box. Thirdly,
by slurring, that is, by taking up your dice as you will have them advantageously lie
in your hand, placing the one a-top the other, not caring if the uppermost run a mill
stone (as they use to say) if the undermost run without turning, and therefore a smooth
table is altogether requisite for this purpose : on a rugged rough board it is a hard mat
ter to be done, whereas on a smooth table (the best are rubbed over with bees-wax, to
fill up all chinks and crevices) it is usual for some to slur a dye two yards or more with
out turning. Fourthly, by knapping, that is, when you strike a dye dead that it shall
not stir: this is best done within the tables; where note there is no securing but of one
dye, although there are some who boast of securing both. I have seen some so dexte
rous at knapping, that they have done it through the handle of a quart pot, or over a
candle and candlestick: but that which I most admired, was throwing through the same
less than Ames ace with two dice upon a groat held in the left hand on the one side of
the handle a foot distance, and the dice thrown with the right hand on the other.
Lastly, by stabbing, that is, having a smooth box, and small in the bottom, yoU drop
in both your dice in such manner as you would have them sticking therein by reason of
its narrowness, the dice lying one upon another; so that turning up the box, the dice
never tumble; if a smooth box, if true, but little; by which means you have bottoms
according to the tops you put in ; for example, if you put in your dice so that two fives
or two fours lie a-top, you have in the bottom turned up two two's, or two treys; so
if six and an ace a-top, a six and an ace at bottom.
SS7
Now if the gentleman be past that class of ignoramuses, then they effect their pur
pose by cross-biting, or some other dexterity, of which they have all variety imaginable.
A friend of mine wondering at the many slights a noted gamester had to deceive, and
how neatly and undiscoverably he managed his tricks, wondering withal he could not
do the like himself, since he had the same theory of them all, and knew how they were
done : ' O young man,' replied the gamester, ' there is nothing to be attained without
pains ; wherefore had you been as laborious as myself in the practice hereof, and had
sweated at it as many cold winter mornings in your shirt as I have done in mine, un
doubtedly }'ou would have arrived at the same perfection.'
Here you must observe, that if these rooks think they have met with a sure bubble,
they will purposely lose some small sum at first, that they may engage him the more
freely to bleed (as they call it), which may be at the second, if not beware of the third
meeting, which under the notion of being very merry with wine and good cheer, they
will make him pay for the roast.
Consider the further inconveniencies of gaming as they are ranked under these
heads.
First, if the house find you free to the box and a constant caster, you shall be treated
with suppers at night, and a cawdle in the morning, and have the honour to be stiled a
lover of the house, whilst your money lasts, which certainly cannot be long ; for here
you shall be quickly destroyed under pretence of kindness, as men were by the lamia of
old ; which you may easily gather if from no other consideration than this ; that I have
seen three persons sit down at twelve penny in and in, and each draw forty shillings
apiece in less than three hours, the box hath had three pound, and all the three game
sters have been losers.
Secondly, consider how many persons have been ruined by play. I could nominate
a great many; some who have had great estates have lost them, others having good em
ployments have been forced to desert them and hide themselves from their creditors in
some foreign plantation by reason of those great debts they had contracted through
play.
Thirdly, this course of life shall make you liable to so many affronts and manifold
vexations, as in time may breed distraction. Thus a young fellow not many years since,
had by strange fortune run up a very small sum to a thousand pounds, and thereupon
put himself into a garb accordingly ; but not knowing when he was well, fell to play
again; fortune turned, he lost all, ran mad, and so died.
Fourthly, is it not extreme folly for a man that hath a competent estate, to play
whether he or another man shall enjoy it; and if his estate be small, then to hazard even
the loss of that, and reduce himself to absolute beggary? I think it madness in the
highest degree. Besides, it hath been generally observed that the loss of one hundred
pounds shall do you more prejudice in disquieting your mind, than the gain of two hun
dred pounds shall do you good, were you sure to keep it.
Lastly, consider not only your loss of time, which is invaluable, Nulla major estjac-
2 x
338
tura quam temporis amissio, but the damage also the very watching brings to your health,
and in particular to the eyes, confirmed by this distich :
Allia, Vina, Venus, Fumus, Faba, Lumen & Ignii,
Jsta nocent oculis, sed vigilare mugis.
ENGLISH HUFF, AND HONOITRS, AND WHIST.
Ruff and Honours (alias slainm) and Whist, are games so commonly known in Eng
land in all parts thereof, that every child almost of eight years old hath a competent
knowledge in that recreation, and therefore I am unwilling to speak any thing more of
them than this, that there may be a great deal of art used in dealing and playing at
these games, which differ very little one from the other.
In playing your cards you must have recourse altogether to your own judgment or
discretion, still making the best of a bad market ; and though you have but mean cards
in your own hand, yet you may play them so suitable to those in your partner's hand,
that he may either trump them, or play the best of that suit on the board.
You ought to have a special eye to what cards are played out, that you may know by
that means either what to play if you lead, or how to trump securely and advantage
ously. Reneging or renouncing, that is, not following suit, when you have it in your
hand, is very foul play, and he that doth it ought to forfeit one, or the game upon a
game, and he that loseth dealing loseth one, or a trick, as you make it.
At Ruff and Honours, by some called Slamm, you have in the pack all the deuces,
and the reason is, because four playing having dealt twelve apiece, there are four left
for the stock, the uppermost whereof is turned up, and that is trumps ; he that hath the
ace of that, ruffs ; that is, he takes in those four cards, and lays out four others in their
lieu: the four honours are the ace, king, queen, and knave; he that hath three honours
in his own hand, his partner not having the fourth sets up eight by cards, that is two
tricks ; if he hath all four, then sixteen, that is four tricks : it is all one if the two part
ners make them three or four between them, as if one had them. If the honours are
equally divided amongst the gamesters of each side, then they say honours are split. If
either side are at eight groats he hath the benefit of calling can-ye, if he hath two ho
nours in his hand, and if the other answers one, the game is up, which is nine in all, but
if he hath more than two he shews them, and then it is one and the same thing ; but if he
forgets to call after playing a trick, he loseth the advantage of can-ye for that deal.
All cards are of value as they are superior one to another, as a ten wins a nine if not
trumps; so a queen, a knave in like manner ; but the least trump will win the highest
card of any other suit ; where note the ace is the highest.
Whist is a game not much differing from this, only they put out the deuces and take
in no stock ; and is called whist from the silence that is to be observed in the play : they
deal as before, playing four, two of a side, (some play at two handed, or three handed
339
whist ; if three handed, always two strive to suppress and keep down the rising-man), I
say they deal to each twelve apiece, and the trump is the bottom card. The mariner of
crafty playing, the number of the game nine, honours and dignity of other cards are all
alike, and he that wins most tricks is most forward to win the set.
He that can by craft overlook his adversary's game hath a great advantage, for by
that means he may partly know what to play securely ; or if he can have some petty
glimpse of his partner's hand. There is a way by winking, or the fingers, to discover to
their partners what honours they have, as by the wink of one eye, or putting one finger
on the nose or table, it signifies one honour, shutting both the eyes, two ; plating three
fingers or four on the table, three or four honours. They have several ways of securing
an honour or more in the bottom when they deal, either to their partners or selves ; if to
their partner they place in the second lift next the top, 1, 2, 3, or four aces, or court
cards all of a suit, according as they could get them together in the former deal, and
place a card of the same suit in the bottom; when the cards are cut they must use their
hand so dexterously as not to put the top in the bottom, but nimbly place where it was
before.
If they would secure honours to themselves when dealing, they then place so many
as they can get upon their lap or other place undiscerned, and after the cards are cut,
then clap them very neatly under. But the cleanliest rooking way is by the breef,
that is, take a pack of cards and open them ; then take out all the honours, that
is, as aforesaid, the four aces, the four kings, &c. then take the rest and cut a little from
the edges of them all alike, by which means the honours will be broader than the rest,
so that when your adversary cuts to you, you are certain of an honour; when you cut to
your adversary cut at the ends, and then it is a chance if you cut him an honour, because
the cards at the ends are all of a length : thus you may make breefs endways as well as
sideways.
There are a sort of cunning fellows about this city, who before they go to play will
plant half a dozen of these packs (nay sometimes half a score) in the hands of a drawer,
who to avoid being suspected will call to their confederate drawer for a fresh pack of
cards, who brings them as from a shop new, and some of these packs shall be so finely
marked, whereby the gamester shall plainly and certainly know every card therein con
tained by the outside, although the best of other eyes shall not discern where any mark
was made at all; and this done with that variety that every card of every suit shall have
a different distinguishable mark.
Some have a way to slick with a slick-stone all the honours very smooth, by which
means he will be sure to cut his partner an honour, and so his partner to him again; and
that is done by laying a fore-finger on the top indifferent hard, and giving a slurring jerk
to the rest, which will slip off from the slicked card.
It is impossible to shew you all the cheats of this game, since your cunning game
ster is always studying new inventions to deceive the ignorant.
2x2
340
FRENCH SDFF.
At French Ruff you must lift for deal, most or least carries it according to the
agreement of the gamesters.
You may play either two, four, or six of a side, dealing to each five apiece, either
two first at a time, or three, according to pleasure, and he that deals turns up trump ;
the king is the highest card at trumps, and so it is highest in all other cards that are
not trumps, the queen is next, the knave next, and next to that the acc, and all other
cards follow in pre-eminency according to the number of the pips, but all small trumps
win the highest of any other suit.
Having turned up trumps, he that hath the ace must take the ace turned up, and all
other trumps which immediately follow that, if so agreed among the gamesters, laying
out so many cards as he took up in lieu thereof.
After this they play: to win two tricks signifies nothing, to win three or four wins
but one, but to win five is the winning of fire.
If you play at forsat (that is the rigour of the play) he that deals wrong loseth one
and his deal. You are bound to follow suit, and if you renounce or renege, you lose the
whole game, if you so make it; otherwise but one or two, according to agreement.
He that plays a card that is trumped by the follower, if the next player hath none
of the former suit he must trump it again, although he hath never a trump in his hand
that can win the former trump, and so it must pass to the last player.
All the players round are bound to win the highest trump played if they can. Here
note, that he who playeth before his turn loseth one, unless it be the last card of all.
FIVE CARDS.
Fife Cards is an Irish game, and is as much played in that kingdom, and that for
considerable sums of money, as All-fours is played in Kent, but there is little analogy
between them.
There are but two can play at it, and there are dealt five cards apiece. The least of
the black, and the most of the red wins. The ace of diamonds is the worst of the whole
pack, unless it prove to be trump.
The five fingers (alias five of trumps) is the best card in the pack, the ace of hearts
is next to that, and the next is the ace of trumps, then the knave, and the rest of the
cards arc best according to their value in pips, or as they are trumps.
Before you play ask whether he will five it ; if he speuks affirmatively turn up the
next card of the pack under that first turned up, and that must be trumps ; if not, play it
out: he that wins most cards wins five, but he that wins all, wins ten.
Observe, that the ace of hearts wins the ace of trumps, and the five fingers not only
wins the ace of trumps, but also all other cards whatever.
341
OF A GAME CALLED COSTLY COLOURS.
This game is to be played out only by two persons, of which the eldest is to play
first as in other games. You must deal off three -apiece, and turn up the next card fol
lowing ; then the eldest is to take his choice whether he will mogg (that is change a
card or no), and whosoever refuseth is to give the other one chalk or hole, of which ge
nerally threescore and one makes the game. Then must the eldest play, and the other
if he can must make it up fifteen, for which he shall set up as many holes or chalks as
there are cards upon the table; so likewise for five and twenty, and also as many cards
as are played to make up thirty, no more nor less ; so many chalks may be set up who
played last, to make up one and thirty, and if one and thirty be not made, then he that
played last and is nearest one and thirty without making out must set up one, which is
called setting up one for the latter.
This being done, the eldest must show how many chalks he hath in his hand to set
up, and after him the youngest, which they must reckon in this manner, taking notice
both of the colour and number of pips upon the card turned up as those in their hands
still, reckoning as many for all the fifteen and five and twenty as there go cards to make
the number; and if you have it by chance in your hand, and with the card turned up
one and thirty, then you must set up four for that: you must also set up if you have
them in your hands, or can make them so in the card turned up as followeth, two for a
pair, be they either coat-cards, or others; two for a knave, and if a knave of the same
colour and suit of the card turned up, then you must set up four; and so for a deuce
four, if it be of the same colour turned up : if you have three of a sort, either three
fours, five sixes, or coat-cards, you must set up nine, and this is called a pair-royal;
now if they are all cither hearts, diamonds, or the like, then you must set up six for
Costly Colours. If you have three of a colour, you can reckon but two for colours.
Whosoever dealt, if he turned up either deuce or knave, he must set up four for it ;
as for example, imagine you had dealt your adversary three cards, viz. the five of hearts,
four of hearts, and eight of hearts ; to yourself the deuce of hearts, seven of clubs, and
nine of hearts. Lastly, you turn up a card, which is the knave of hearts, for which you
must set up four ; then because he will not ask you to change one, he gives you one,
which you must set up, and then he plays ; suppose it be his five of hearts, you then
play your seven of clubs, which makes twelve ; then he plays his eight of hearts, which
makes twenty; then you play your nine of hearts, which makes twenty-nine, and
because he cannot come in with his five of hearts, you must play your deuce of
hearts, which makes you one and thirty. For your five you must set up five, then he
must set up what he hath in his hand, which you will find to be but six, for he hath
nothing in his hand but costly colours. Then must you set up your games, which first
are two, for your nine of clubs and nine of hearts, which make fifteen, then that fifteen
and the knave turned up makes five and twenty, for which set up three ; then for your
deuce of hearts, which is the right, set up four, and three for colours, because you have
342
three of a sort in your hand with that turned up ; now these with the five yon got in
playing for thirty-one makes you this deal, with the knave turned up, and the cards in
your hand, just twenty. Many other examples I might give you, but that it is
needless, since this one is sufficient to direct you in all others. And thus much for
costly colours.
BONE-ACE.
This game you may look on as trivial and very inconsiderable, and so it is by rea
son of the little variety therein contained; but because I have seen ladies and persons of
quality have played at it for their diversion, I will briefly describe it, and the rather be
cause it is a licking game for money.
There are seven or eight (or as many as the cards will permit) play at it at one time.
In the lifting for dealing the least deals, which is a great disadvantage ; for that makes
the dealer youngest hand.
The dealer deals out two to the first hand, and turns up the third, and so goes on to
the next, to the third, fourth, fifth, &c. He that hath the biggest card carries the bone,
that is one half of the stake, the other remaining for the game; now if there be three
kings, three queens, three tens, &c. turned up, the eldest hand wins it. Here note that
the ace of diamonds is Bone-Ace, and wins all other cards whatever: thus inuch for the
bone ; afterwards the nearest to one and thirty wins the game, and he that turns up or
draw's to one and thirty wins it immediately.
OF PUTT AND THE HIGH-GAME.
Putt is the ordinary rooking game of every place, and seems by the few cards that
are dealt to have no great difficulty in the play, but I am sure there is much craft and
cunning in it ; of which I shall show as much as I understand.
If you play at two-handed Putt (or if you please you may play at three hands) the
best putt-card deals. Having shuffled the cards, the adversary cuts them, then the
dealer deals one to his antagonist, and another to himself till they have three apiece:
five up or a putt is commonly the game. The eldest if he hath a good game, and thinks
it better than his adversary's, putts to him; if the other will not, or dare not see him,
he then wins one, but if he will see him they play it out, and he that wins two tricks,
or all three, wins the whole set; but if each win a trick, and the third tyed, neither
win, because it is trick and tye.
Sometimes they play without putting, and then the winner is he that wins most
tricks. Here note that in your playing keep up your cards very close ; for the least
discovery of any one of them is a great advantage to him that sees it.
This game consists very much in daring; for a right gamester will putt boldly upon
very bad cards sometimes, as upon a five, seven, and a nine ; the other thinking there are
good cards in his adversary's hand, having very indifferent ones in his own, dares uot
343
see him, and so by going to stock loseth one. Here note that he that once hath the
confidence to putt on bad cards cannot recall his putting, by which means he frequently
pays for his bravado.
The best putt-cards are first the trey, next the deuce, then the ace ; the rest follow
in pre-eminence thus : the king, the queen, the knave, the ten, and so onwards to the
four, which is the meanest card at putt.
Some of the cheats at putt are done after this manner :
First, for cutting to be sure of a good putt-card, they use the bent, the slick, and the
breef; the bent is a card bended in play which you cut, the slick is when beforehand
the gamester takes a pack of cards, and with a slick-stone smooths all the putt-cards,
that when he comes to cut to his adversary with his fore-finger above and his thumb about
the middle, he slides the rest of the cards off that which was slicked, which is done in
fallibly with much facility; but in this there is required neatness and dexterity for fear
of discovery, and then your confidence in this contrivance will be vain and of no
effect.
Lastly, the breef in cutting is very advantageous to him that cuts, and it is thus
done : the cheat provides beforehand a pack of cards, whereof some are broader than
others; under some of which he plants in play some good putt-cards, which, though
they shuffle never so much, they shall rarely separate them ; by which means he that
cuts (laying his fingers on the broad card) hath surely dealt him a putt-card.
In dealing these rooks have a trick they call the spurr, and that is, as good cards
come into their hand that they may know them again by the outside (and so discover
the strength or weakness of their adversary's game) I say somewhere on the outside
they give them a gentle touch with their nail.
Kow when they intend to bleed a coll to some purpose whom they have set before,
they always fix half a score packs of cards before (as I have related in whist) by slicking
them or spurring them, that is, giving them such marks that they shall certainly know
every card in the pack, and consequently every card that is in his adversary's hand, an
advantage that cannot well be greater.
But if they are not furnished with such cards, and cannot accomplish their ends by
the former indirect means without palpable discovery, then they have accomplices who
standing by the innocent coll look over his game, and discovers what it is to his adver
sary: and to strengthen their interest by cheating, they frequently carry about them
treys, deuces, aces, 8tc. in their pockets, which they use as need requires, or if not, they
will steal them out of the pack whilst they are playing, which is the securest way and
freest from discovery.
Lastly, they have one most egregious piece of roguery more, and that is playing the
high-game at putt ; and this is to be done but once at a set meeting ; and therefore on
this depends the absolute overthrow of the coll that plays, or the coll that is a stander-by.
. This high game at putt is thus performed : the rook whilst playing singles out the
deuces and treys for the last game, and placeth them thus in order, hiding them in
his lap or other covert, first a deuce, then a trey, next a deuce, then a trey, then a trey
344
and a trey; now stooping lotting fall a card or some other way, as he shall think fit, he
claps these cards faced at the bottom, having shuffled the cards before, and bids his ad
versary cut, which he nimbly and neatly with both his hands joins the divided cards,
and then the bottom faced cards are upwards, and then he deals ; and lest there should
be a discovery made of the facing, he palms them as much as he can, nimbly passing
the last card.
Now do the gamesters smile at the goodness of each other's game ; one shows his to
one, the other his to another, and cries Who would not putt at such cards? the other in
as brisk a tone, says, Come if you dare. What will you lay of the game, says the
rook ? What you dare, says the coll ; then pausing a while the rook seems to consult
with his friends, who cry, they know not what to think on it. Five pound, cries a rook
ing confederate on this gentleman's side ; the coll encouraged hereby, cries Ten
pound more: and thus the rook holds him in play till there be a good sum of money
on the board ; then answers the putt of the now ruined cully. They now play ; the
coll begins with a deuce, the rook wins that with a trey ; the rook then plays a deuce,
and the coll wins it with his trey; then he plays his deuce, which is won with a trey;
thus the rook wins the day. This game may be played otherways according to fancy:
let these and the former cheats be a sufficient warning.
WIT AND REASON, A GAME SO CALLED.
Wit and Reason is a game which seems very easy at first to the learner, but in his
practice and observation shall find it otherwise. It is a game something like one and
thirty, and is played after this manner.
Two playing together, the one hath all the red cards, and the other hath the black :
then they turned up cross or pile who shall lead ; for the leader hath a great advantage
over the other, as shall be demonstrated.
You are not to play a ten first ; for if you do you shall certainly lose ; for one and
thirty being the game, he that first comes to it wins; now should the leader play a ten
the follower will play another ten, that makes twenty; let the leader then play any thing
next, the follower will be sure to make it up one and thirty.
He that hath the lead if he play a nine may certainly w in the game, if he look about
him ; ever remembering to get first to twenty, without spending two of one sort, as two
deuces, two treys, two quarters, &c. otherwise you will lose: As for example, you play
a nine first, your adversary plays a deuce that makes eleven, you then play a nine again,
and that makes twenty; thus you have played out both your nines, wherefore your an
tagonist plays a deuce, now you can play no card but he wins ; for if you play an eight
(for you cannot come in with your ten) and you have never a nine, then he hath an ace
for one and thirty; so if you play a seven, which makes nine and twenty, he hath a
deuce remaining to make up one and thirty, and so you may observe in the rest of the
cards.
Take this for a general rule, that you have a very great advantage in fetching out
bv play any two of a number, as aforesaid; as two fives, two sixes, two sevens, &c.
345
wherefore you must not play rashly, but with due consideration arithmetically grounded
to make up a certain game of one and thirty. To conclude, he that hath the art of
playing well at one and thirty without cards, that is by naming such a number at first,
and prosecuting it by such addition of others, that your adversary cannot think of any
number but what shall be your game ; I say such a man is fittest to play at this game
called Wit and Reason.
A PASTIME CALLED THE ART OF MEMORY.
This Art of Memory is a sport at which men may play for money, but it is most
commonly the way to play the drunkard. It is best when many play at it ; for with
few it is no sport at all : for example, as many persons as do play, so many cards trebled
must be thrown down on the table with their faces upwards, which every one must take
notice of and endeavour to register them in his memory. Then the dealer must take
them all up, and shuffling them, after cutting, deals to every one three apiece.
The first it may be calls for a king, which must be laid on the table with his face
downwards by him that hath it in his hands ; the next it may be calls for a ten of the
spades, which must be laid down in like manner, and so it goes round ; now if any one
calls for what is already laid down, if they play for liquor, he must then drink a glass ;
if for money, he must then pay a farthing, halfpenny, or the like.
A GAME CALLED PLAIN-DEALING.
He that deals hath the advantage of this game; for if he turn up the ace of dia
monds he cannot lose : to his adversary he delivers out nine and but three to himself;
then are the cards played as at whist, the best of trumps or other cards wins, and but
one to be gotten at a deal. I cannot commend this pastime for its ingenuity, and there
fore only name it, because we treat of games in general.
A GAME CALLED QUEEN NAZAREEN.
There may as many play at it as the cards will allow of, five cards are dealt to every
player. The queen of diamonds is Queen Nazareen, and he that hath it demands three
apiece of every player. The knave of clubs is called knave knocher, and he that hath
it challengeth two apiece. If women play among men, it is customary for knave
knocher to kiss Queen Nazareen.
Lastly, he that lays down a king the last card that is played challengeth one, and
begins again ; and he that hath first played away his cards demands as many counters
as there are cards in the hands of the rest.
2 Y
346
LANTERLOO.
Lanterloo is a game may be played several ways, but I shall insist on none but two ;
the first way is thus.
Lift for dealing, and the best putt-card carries it ; as many may play as the cards
will permit, to whom must be dealt five apiece, and then turn up trump. Now if three,
four, five, or six play, they may lay out the threes, fours, fives, sixes, and sevens, to the
intent they may not be quickly looed ; but if they would have the loos, come fast about
then play with the whole pack.
Having dealt set up five scores or chalks; and then proceed forwards in your
game.
He that is eldest hand hath the privilege of passing by die benefit thereof, that is, he
hath the advantage of hearing what every one will say, and at last may play or not play
according as he finds his game good or bad. If the eldest saith he passeth, the rest
may chuse whether they will play or no.
You may play upon every card what you please, from a penny to a pound. Trumps
as at whist are the best cards, all others in like manner take their precedency from the
highest to the lowest.
You must not revoke, if you do you pay all on the table. If you play and are looed
(that is, win never a tri.:k) you must lay down to the stock so much for your five cards
as you played upon every one of them.
Every deal rub off a score, and for every trick you win set up a score by you till the
first scores are out, to remember you how many tricks you have won in the several deals
in the game.
All the chalks for the game being rubbed out, tell your owu scores, and for so many
scores or tricks which you have won, so much as they were valued at in the game so
much you must take from the stock ; thus must every one do according to the number of
tricks he hath won.
Here note, that he who hath five cards of a suit in his hand loos all the gamesters
then playing, be they never so many, and sweeps the board ; if there be two loos he that
is eldest hand hath the advantage.
As there is cheating (as they say) in all trades, so more particularly intolerable in
gaming ; as in this for example, if one of the gamesters have four of a suit and he want
a fifth, he may for that fifth make an exchange out of his own pocket if he be skilled in
the cleanly art of conveyance ; if that fail, some make use of a friend, who never fails to
do him that kind office and favour. There are other cheats to be performed, which I
shall omit, since it is not my business to teach you how to cheat, but so to play as not
to be cheated.
347
Latiterloo another way played.
Lipt for dealing as aforesaid, and the best putt-card deals five to every one apiece.
The dealer for his five cards must lay down so many sixpences, shillings, and so forth,
as they conclude upon and agree for every card, or so many counters being valued at
either sixpence or twelvepence, more or less. After this all must play ; if any be looed
he must lay down so much for his loo as his five cards amount to. If any next dealing
be looed he must lay down as much for his dealing, and as much more for his loo.
If after this the eldest hand pass, the rest may refuse to play, or play if they think
they can win a card.
Here note, if there be never a loo the money may be divided by the gamesters ac
cording to the number of their tricks ; if there be a loo the winners must take up the
money, and he that is looed must lay down as much money on the board as every one
had laid down before, be it never so great a sum, besides the like quantity for dealing,
if he that was looed dealt.
A GAME CALLED PENNEECH.
Having dealt seven cards apiece, turn up a card, and that is trumps. The ace and
coat-cards of trumps are thus reckoned ; the ace is five, the king four, the queen three,
and the knave two.
Having played, he that wins the first trick turns up another card, and that is trumps;
and so every trick produceth a fresh trump, till all the seven be played. Now if it so
happen, that what is turned up proves an ace or coat-card, that is a great advantage to
him who won the last trick ; for if it be an ace turned up then he reckons five, if a king
four, if a queen three, as aforesaid.
After all the seven cards be played, (which at first are dealt one by one) he that won
the last trick turns up a card, and if it prove ace, king, queen, or knave, he reckons for
it accordingly as aforesaid.
If the seven of diamonds be turned up, that is Penneech, and is reckoned fourteen
turned up, but it is but seven in hand, and not that neither unless diamonds be trumps ;
if it be trump it is the highest card and wins all others ; if it be not trump it wins all
diamonds.
Lastly, having played out all the fourteen cards betwixt you, count how many cards
you have more than your own seven at first dealt you, and for every card reckon one,
and so you must reckon on with the value of your coat-card trumps, with Penneech
turned up or in hand, till you come to sixty-one, which is the game.
Here note, if you have neither ace nor face, you may throw up your game and deal
again .
2 y 2
348
POST AND PAIR.
Post and Pair is a game on the cards very much played in the West of England, as
All-fours is played in Kent, and Fives in Ireland.
This play depends much upon daring; so that some may win very considerably,
who have the boldness to adventure much upon the vye, although their cards are very
indifferent.
You must first stake at post, then at pair; after this deal two cards apiece, then
stake at the seat, and then deal the third card about. The eldest hand may pass and
come in again, if any of the gamesters vye it ; if not, the dealer may plead it out, or
double it.
The ace of trumps, as at ruff and honours, is the best card of all, and so of the rest in
order. At post the best cards are one and twenty, viz. two tens and an ace, but a pair-
royal wins all, both post, pair, and seat. Here note, that he who hath the best pair or
the best post is the winner. A pair is a pair of any two, as two kings, two queens, &c.
A pair-royal is of three, as three kings, three queens, &c. The vye is what you please
to adventure upon the goodness of your own hand ; or if it be bad, and you imagine
your adversary's is so likewise, then bid him high courageously, by which means you
daunt your antagonist, and so bring him to submission. If all the gamesters keep in
till all have done, and by consent shew their cards, the best cards carry the game. Now
according to agreement those that keep in till last, may divide the stakes, or shew the
best card for it.
Observe, where the cards fall in several hands of the same sort, as a pair of pair-
royal, and so forth, the eldest hand carries it.
BANKAFALET, A GAME ON THE CARDS SO CALLED.
The cards must be cut into as many heaps as there arc players, or more if you
please, and every man lays as much money on his own card as he thinks fit, or on the
supernumerary heaps. So many as the dealer's card is inferior to, so many he pays; so
many as his card is superior to, so many he wins from.
The best card is the ace of diamonds, the next to that the ace of hearts, thirdly the
ace of clubs, and lastly the ace of spades, and so the rest of these suits in order, accord
ing to their degree. The cheat lies in securing an ace or any other good sure winning
card ; and if you mark the cards aforehand, so as to know them by the backside, you
know how to make your advantage.
349
BEAST.
It is called by the French, La Beste, and is played by them after this manner. The
best cards are king, queen, and so forwards. They make three heaps, the king, the play,
and the triolet.
To every one is dealt five cards, (there may play three, four, five, or more) as at
French Ruff, with the same rigour; before the cards are dealt, every one stakes to the
three heaps. He that wins most tricks takes up the heap that is called the play ; he
that hath the king takes up the heap so called ; and he that hath three of any sort, that
is, three fours, three fives, three sixes, and so forth takes up the triolet.
N° XII.
MINCHIATE.
From the Notes, by Minucci and Biscioni, to II Malmantile Racquistato, an
Heroi-comic Poem, by L. Lippi.
Minchiate è una giuoco assai noto, detto anche Tarocchi, Ganellini, o Germini, Ma
perche è poco usato fuori della nostra Toscana, o almeno diversamente da quel che
usiamo noi, per intelligenza delle presenti ottave stimo necessario sapersi, che il giuoco
delle minchiate si fa nella maniera che appresso. E composto questo giuoco di novanta
sette carte, delle quali 56 dicono Cartacce, e 40 si dicono Tarocchi, ed una che si dice
II Matto. Le Carte 56 son divise in quattro specie, che si dicono Semi, che in quat
tordici sono effigiaté Denari (che da Galeotto Marzo diconsi essere pani antichi contadi
neschi) in 14 Coppe, in 14 Spade, ed in 14 Bastoni, e ciascuna specie di questo semi
comincia da uno, che si dice Asso, fino a dieci, e nell' undecima è figurato un Fante,
nella 12 un Cavallo, nella 13 una Regina, e nella 14 un Re : e tutte questi carte di semi
fuorché i Re si dicono Cartacce. Le 40 si dicono Germini o Tarocchi : e questa voce Ta
rocchi vuole il M onosino, che venga dal Greco tricot colla qual voce, dice egli coli' Alciato,
Denotantur sodales illi, qui cibi causa ad lusum conveniunt. Ma quella voce non so, che sia;
so bene, che fraifoi e Ira^oi vuol dire Sodales : e da questa voce diminuita all' usanza La»
tina si può esser fatto Hetaroculi, cioè Compagnoni.—Germini forse da Gemini, segno
celeste, che fra' Tarocchi col numero è il maggiore. In queste carte di Tarocchi sono
effigiati diversi geioglifici e segni celeste : e ciascuna ha il suo numero da uno fino a
35. e 1' ultime cinque fino a 40. non hanno numero, ma si distingue dalla figura im
pressavi la loro maggioranza, che è in questo ordine Stella, Luna, Mondo, e Trombe, che
è la maggiore, e sarebbe il numero 40. L'allegoria è, che siccome le stelle son vinte
di luce dalla luna, e La Luna dal Sole, cosi il mondo è maggiore del Sole, e la Fama,
350
figurata colle Trombe, vale più che il Mondo ; talmente che anche quando l'uomo n'e
uscito, vive in esso per fama, quando ha fatte azioni gloriose. Il Petrarca similmente
ne' Trionfi fa come un giuoco ; perchè amor è superata dalla Castità, la Castità dalla
Morte, la Morte dalla Fama, e la Fama dalla Divinità, la quale eternamente regna.
Non è numerata nè anche la carta 41 . ma vi è impressa la figura d'un Matto: e questa
si confa con ogni carta, ma non muor mai, cioè non passa mai nel monte dell' avversario,
il quale riceve in cambio del ditto Matto un altra cartaccia da quello, che dette il
Matto : e se alla fine del giuocho quello che detto il Matto, non ha mai preso carte al
avversario, conviene che gli dia il Matto, non avendo altra carta da dare in sua vece: e
questo è il caso, nel quale si perde il Matto. Di tali Tarocchi altri si chiamano nobili,
perchè contano, cioè chi gli ha in mano vince quei punti, che esse vagliono : altri igno
bili, perchè non contano. Nobili sono 1. 2. 3. 4. e 5. che la carta dell' Uno contano 5.
e l'altre quattro contano tre per ciaschuna. Il numero 10. 13. 20. e 28. fino al 35 inclu
sive contano cinque per ciaschuna, e l'ultime cinque contano dieci per ciaschuna, e si
chiamano Arie. Il Matto conta cinque, ed ogni Re conta cinque, e sono ancor' essi fra le
carte nobil. Il numero 29 non conta, se non quando è in Verzicoli, che allora conta
cinque, ed una volta meno delle compagne respettivamente. Delle dette carte
nobili si formano le Verzicole che sono ordini e seguenze almeno di tre carte uguali,
come tre Re o quattro Re; o di tre carte andante come 1. 2. 3. 4. e 5. o com
poste come 1. 13 e 23. Uno, Matto e 40. che sono le Trombe, 10. 20. e 30.
ovvero 20. 30. e 40. E queste verzicole vanno mostrato prima che si cominci il
giuocho, e messe in tavola, il che si dice Accusare la Verzicola. Con tutte le verzicole si
confà il matto, e conta doppiamente o triplicamente, come fanno l'altre, che sono in ver
zicola, la quale esiste senza malto e non fa mai verzicola, se non nell' Uno, Matto, e Trombe.
Di queste carte di verzicola si conta il numero che vagliono, tre volte, quando però l'avver
sario non ve la guasti, ammazzandovene una carta o più, con carte superiore; che in questo
caso quelle, che restano, contano due volte, se però, non restano in seguenza di tre. Per
esempio : Io mostro a principia del giuoco 32. 33. 34. e 35. se mi muore il 33, o il 34. che
rompono la seguenza di tre, la verzicola è guasta: e quelle, che vi restano contano sola
mente due volte per una ; ma se mi muore il 32 o il 35. vi resta la seguenza di tre, e per
conseguenza è verzicola, e contano il lor valore tre volte per ciascheduna. // Matto,
come s'è detto non fa seguenza, ma conta sempre il suo valore due volte o tre, secondo-
chè conta la verzicola, o guasta o salvata. E quando s'ha più d'una verzicola, con tutte
va il Matto, ma una sol volta conta tre, ed il resto conta due. E questo s'intende "delle
verzicole accusate e mostrate, primachè si comince il giuoco ; perchè quelle fatte colle
carte ammazzate agli avversari, come sarebbe, se avendo io il 32 ed il 33. amazzassi
all'avversario il 31, o il 34. ho fatta la verzicola, e questa conta due volte. Quando è
ammazzata alcuna delle carte nobili, ciascuno avversario segna a colui, a cui è stata
morta, tanti segni o punti, quanti ne valeva quella tal carta ; eccetto però di quelle,
che sono state mostrate in verzicola, delle quali, sendo ammazzate, non si segna cosa
alcuna, se non da quello, che per privilegio non giuoca; perche tali segni vengono dagli
avversar) guadagnati nello scemamento del valore di essa verzicola, che dovria contar
351
tre volte, e morendo conta due : ed il 29. morendo la verzicola dove esso entrava, conta
«olo cinque. L'altre carte poi: le quali si dicono carte ignobili e cartacce, non contano
{sebbene amazzano talvolte le nobili, che contano, come i tarocchi dal numero 6. in su
ammazano tutt' i piccini cioè 1' 1. 2. 3. 4. e 5. dal 11. in su ammazano il 10. dal 14. insù
ammazono il 13. e dal 21. in su ammazano il 20. ed ogni tarocco ammaza i Rè) ma ser
vano per rigirare il giuoco. Questo giuoco appresso di noi non usa, se non in quattro
persone al più ed allora si danno 21. carta per ciascuno : e quando si giuoca in due o in :
tre se ne danno 25. E giuocandosi in quattro persone, il primo, che seguita dopo quello,
che ha mescolate le carte in sulla mano dritta (che si dice aver la mano) ha la facultà di
non giuocare, e paga segni trenta a quello, che nel giuoco piglia l'ultima carta : e questo,
che piglia l'ultima carta (che si dice far V ultima) guadagna a ciascuno di quelli, che
hanno giuocato, dieci segni. Colui, che non giuoca, guadagna ancor' egli de' morti cioè
segna ancor lui il valore della carta a colui, al quale é ammazzata detta carta. Se questo
primo giuoca, il secondo ha la facultà di non giuocare, pagando 40. segni : se il secondo
giuoca, il terzo ha detta facilità, pagando 50. segni: se il terzo giuoca, passa la facultà,
nel quarto che paga 60. segni, come sopra. Ma se il guioco è solamente in tre persone :
non ci è questa facultà, di non giuocare. Mescolate che sono le carte, quello de'
giuocatori, che è a mano sinistra di quello, che ha mescolato, n' alza una parte: e
se v'è nel fondo di quella parte del mazzo, che gli resta in mano, una delle carte
nobili, o un tarocco dal 21. al 27- inclusive, la piglia, e seguita a pigliarle fino a che
non vi trova una carta ignobile. Quello, che ha mescolate le carte, dopo averne
date a ciascuno, ed a se stesso dieci la prima girata, e undici la seconda, e scoperta a
tutti l'ultima carta, la scuopre anche a se medesimo, e poi guarda quella, che segue : e
la piglia, se sarà carta nobile o tarocco dal 21. al 27. e seguita a pigliarne come
sopra : e questo si dice rubare. E queste carte, che si rubano e si scuoprono, sendo
nobili, guadagnano a colui, a chi si scoprono o che le ruba, tanti segni, quanti ne vag-
liono : e coloro, che le rubano, è necessario, che scartino ; cioè si levino di mano altrettante
carte a loro elezione, quante ne hanno rubate, per ridurre le lor carte al numero adeguato
a quello de' compagni ; e chi non scarta, o per altro accidente di carte mal contate,
si trova da ultimo con più carte, o con meno degli avversar), per pena del suo errore non
conta i punti, che vagliono le sue carte, ma se ne va a monte. Colui, che dà le carte,
se ne dà più o meno del numero stabilito, paga 20. punti a ciascuno degli avversarj: e
chi se ne trova in mano più, e' deve scartare quelle, che ha di più ; ma non può far va
canza, cioè gli deve rimanere di quel seme, che egli scarta: se ne ha meno, la deve
cavar dal monte a sua elezione, ma senza vederla per di dentro, cioè chieder la quinta o
la sesta, ec. di quelle, che sono nel monte : e quello, che mescolò le carte (che si dicefar
le carte) fattele alzare, gli dà quella, che ha chiesto. Cominciasi il giuoco dal mostrar
le verzicole, che uno ha in mano poi il primo dopo quello, che ha mescolate le carte in
sulla mano destra, mette in tavola una carta (il che si dice Dare) quegli altri, che se
guono devon dare del medesimo seme, se ne hanno : e non ne avendo, devono dar ta
rocco : e questo si dice non rispondere : e dando del medesimo seme, si dice rispondere.
Chi non risponde, ed ha in mano di quel seme, che è stato messo in tavola, paga un
352
sessanta punti a ciascuno, e rende quella carta nobile, che avesse ammazzato. Per
esempio : il primo dà il Re di danari, ed il secondo benché abbia denari in mano dà un
tarocco sopra il Re, e l'ammazza : scoperto di avere in mano denari, rende il Re a colui
di chi era, e paga agli avversar) sessanta punti per ciascuno, come s'è detto. Ogni ta
rocco piglia tutti i semi, e fra lor tarocchi il maggior numero piglia il minore, ed il
inatto non piglia mai, e non è preso, se non nel caso detto di sopra. Cosi si seguita,
dando le carte, ed il primo a dare è quello, che piglia le carie date : ed ognuno si studia
di pigliare al' avversario le carte, che contano : e quando s'è finito di dare tutte le
carte, che s'hanno in mano, ciascuno conta le carte, che ha prese : ed avendone di
più delle sue 21. segna a chi l'ha meno tanti punti, quante sono li carte, che ha di
più : dipoi conta i suoi onori, cioè il valore delle carte nobili e verzicole, che si
trova in esse sue carte, e segna all' avversario tanti punti, quanti co' suoi onori
conta più di esso : ed ogni sessanta punti si inette da banda un segno, il qual si
chiama un sessanta o un resto: e questi sessouti si valutano secondo il concordato. E tanto
mi pare, che basti per facilitare l'intelligenza delle presenti ottave, a chi non fosse pratico
del giuoco delle Mincitiate, che usiamo noi Toscani, che è assai differente da quello, che
colle medesime carte usano quelli della Liguria, che lo dicono Ganellini; perchè Min-
chiate in quei paesi é parola oscena. Da questa giuoco vengono molte maniere di dire :
come Essere il matto fra, tarocchi, Entrare in tutte le verzicole, Essere le Trombe, Car
tacce, Contare, Non contare, e simili. (Minucci.)
Colle carte delle Minchiate si fanno due altri giuochi diversi da quello, detto comu
nemente Alle Minchiate,. descritto quivi sopra dal Minucci ; ma però simili fra di loro:
e questi si chiamano A' sei tocchi, e Al palio. Si fa A' sei tocchi in due persone, ed anco
in tre e in quattro. Si mescolano le carte, ed alzate, se ne danno sette per uno, le quali
ciascheduno tiene scoperte avanti di sè sulla tavola. Di poi quello, che ha fatto le
carte, preso in mano il mazzo di quelle, che sono avanzate, ne trae una per volta dalla
medesima parte, donde ha tratto l'altre, che ha dato a' compagni : e scopertala, se
quella tal carta tocca, cioè è accanto, o di sopra o di sotto, a una di quelle, che sono sco
perte in tavola, chi ha questo tocco, la prende per se, e la serba, fintantoché non n' ha
acquistate sei : ed il primo, che arriva a questo numero, vince il giuoco. Per esempio :
Nelle mie sette carte scoperre v'è il 25. se esce fuori il 24. o il 26. io dico tocco, e prendo
quella carta. E se per avventura uno de 'compagni averà il 23. o il 27- allora il 24. o il
26. non si dà a nessuno, e si pone nel mezzo della tavole, per esservi due, che lo toccano.
Chi fa Pappoleggio, vince il giuoco di posta, ancorché non avesse acquistate alcuna
carta. Il Pappoleggio è, quando alcuno ha due carte tra le scoperte, che siano distanti
un punto l'una dall' altra, v. gr. il due e il quattro di danari: se esce fuori il tre, si fa
pappoleggio, e resta vinto il giuoco. E in questo modo si giuoca A' sei tocchi, come si
dice, alla piana, e senza pericolo di molta perdita. Ma volendosi fare giuoco più grosso,
s'usano alcuni patti o scommesse, che sono le seguenti : Primo tocco, Guasto, e Privi'
legio. Il Primo tocco è l'essere il primo ad acquistare una carta: il Guasto è, l'escir
fuori una carta, distante due punti da una delle scoperte ; v. gr. uno ha il 13. ed esce
fuora 1' 11. o il 1$. E Privilegio è la carta distante tre punti, che al 13. sarebbe il 10.
353
e il 16. Ed ogni volta, che si vince una di queste tre scommesse, si segna una partita. Si
scommette ancora al primo tocco in tavola (che è quando si tocca colla primo carta, che
esce fuori) ed allora si segnano due partite : e si scommette alle verzicole, che è, quando si
fa verzicola colle carte scoperte, e con quelle ancora, che s'acquistano. Inoltre si vince
il giuoco marcio a coloro, che sono la metà delle sei : e si segna loro la posta doppia.
Ora perchè questo giuoco (quando si fa specialmente con tutti questi pattiyrichiede molta
attenzione, potendo passare a monte o esser prese da altri molte carte, che si sarebbero
potute acquistare per sè; di qui è, che si può dubitare, essere da ciò derivato il detto,
usato dalnostro poeta nel C. 6. St. 44. per dimostrar due, che stiano attentissimi a tavola
a mangiare:
Sembrano a solo a sol due toccatori;
perciocché in verità certi tali non muovona mai il guardo di sul loro piatto, ed insieme
colla coda dell' occhio guardano, se venga altra vivanda, siccome i detti giuocatori a' sei
tocchi guardano con tutta attenzione le proprie carte, e danna nell' istesso tempo un
occhiata a quelle, che sono tratte del mazzo. E in ordine a questa denominazione si può
a dire, che come coloro, che giuocano alle minchiate ; si domandano Minchiatisti ; cosi
quelli, che giuocano a' sei tocchi, si dicano con voce equivoca Toccatori. Non riprovo
per altro la spiegazione del Minucci, fatta nella sua nota alla citata stanza 44. ma dico-
bensi che non dal ritrovarsi due toccatori all' osteria (che è cosa molto accidentale e da
non fare stato per un detto comune) ma dal loro ufizio proprio sia derivata l'origine.
Negli statuti della Mercanzia libr. 1. rubr. 13. si legge : Amministrino a/meno due di loro
insieme il loro offizio, e sefaranno alcun tocco, al quale non siano stati a/meno due di loro
presenti, e tanto propinqui Pun air altro, che abbino possuto sentire le parole Cuno dell'
altro, ec. e di sotto Faccino di loro tre coppie, ec. Per tanto dal l'andare cosi uniti ed
attenti per fare il loro ufizio, ne sarà nato il proverbo. In questa rubrica si dichiara,
come anco dalle addotte parole si vede, che i toccatori erano sei; ma ora sono ridotti a
due soli, per esservi poco bisogno del loro ministero. Ora passando a dire del giuoco
Al palio, questo si fa nella medesima maniera, che A' sei tocchi: solo è differente in
questo : Che si debbono acquistare dodici carte, ma si pigliano non solo quelle, che
toccano, ma tutte quelle, che sono più accoste, e che non siano distanti i medesimi punti
da quelle degli altri compagni. Quelle però, che toccano, contano, come se fossero due:
e l'altre, che non toccano contano per una. Il giuoco però si vince da colui, che prima
degli altri arriva a segnare dieci, ovvero dodici lupini, o dichiamo segni; che ciò sta nel
concordato. Chi è il primo ad acquistare dodici carte, segna un lupino : chi fa il tocco
in tavola, ne segna due : e ciò non seguendo, chi prima tocca, ne segna uno : chi «accusa
pappoleggio, ne segna uno ; e venendo fuori il detto pappoleggio, ne segna tre : avendo
nelle carte scoperte, o venendo con quelle, che s'acquistano una verzicola, ne segna uno:
ed essendo la verzicola d'arie, ne segna due. Si possono ancora in questa giuoco fare
scommesse di verzicole, tocchi e altro : conforme piò piace a' giuocatori. Bìscioni.
2 z
N° XIII.
TAROCCO.
Accident having at length thrown into my hands The Invective of Flavio Alberto
Lollio, referred to at page 26, which I had in vain looked for daring the progress of
the work, I shall here subjoin a few passages from it, tending to shew that the Tarocchi
were the same at the period when it was written which are still in use in Italy. It is
not the original edition said to have been printed by Giolito at Venice in 1550, which
is quoted from, but a reimpression in a small volume of Rime Piacevoli, of various
authors, printed at Ferrara in 1590. The poem, which is in versi sciolti, bears the
title of Invettiva contra il Gioco del Tarocco, di Flavio Alberto Lollio ; Ferrarese.
After a general invective against gaming, the poet says.
Io fui già di parer, che il più bel gioco
Che si possa giocare a Carte, fosse
Quel del Tarocco : onde ulhor per spasso,
Per ricrear li spiriti afflitti, e stanchi
Con lui mi trastullava : trapassando
Quelle hore che son men atte a i studi ;
Ricordandomi, che gli huomini illustri
De i lor gravi negoci : & Tacchettato
Gli alti pensieri, e le noiosi cure
Cosi si ricreava Palamede, &c.
He then proceeds to acknowledge his error, and to call Tarocco
Giuoco maligno, perfido, e bugiardo :
Giuoco, che mette i tuoi danari a squarzo :
Giuoco da impoverire Attalo, e Mida,
Perch' egli è cugin della Bassotta :
E dove l'huomo spera haver piacere
Lo fa star sempre in duol, sempre in timore
The game then begins, and as the description is not unpoetical, I shall transcribe it.
Ecco che s'incomincio à dar le Carte :
La prima man ti fà una bella vista
Tal, che tu tien l'invitto, & lo rifai
Quelle che vengon dietro, altra facenda
Mostrano haver : ne più de' casi tuoi
Tengon memoria alcuna : onde tu stai
Sospeso alquanto : & di vada : quell' altro
II qual par che il favor lor si prometta
Ingrosserà la posta : alhor trafitto
355
Da vergogna, dolor, d'invidia, e d'ire
Ten vai à monte, co'l viso abassato.
Non à si gran cordoglio un Capitano
Quando si crede la pugna vinta,
£ mentre ei grida vittoria, vittoria,
Da nuovo assalto sopragiunto vede
Andar la gente sua rotta, e dispersa
Quanto hà costui. Vengon dapoi quell' altre
Due man di carte, hor liete, hor triste : et quando
L'ultime aspetti che ti dian soccorso
Havendola invitata già dal resto,
Tu ti vedi arrivare (oh dolor grande)
Carte gaglioffe da farti morire,
Totalmente contrarie al tuo bisogno.
Onde di stizza avampi : e tutto pieno
Di mal talento, rimbrottando pigli
Lo avanzo de le carte che son venti.
Queste l'empion le mani, & buona pezza
Ti dan travaglio e briga, in rassettare
Dinar: Coppe: Basto», Spadb: bTrionti.
Però che ti conviene ad una, ad una
Metterle in ordinanza :
■ Quindi s'hai quattro,
O cinque carte di Ronfa, tu temi
Che non te muoia il Re, con le figure ;
Onde si strugge il cuor, spasma la mente,
Stando in bilancia fra speme, e timore.
Quello è lo iafinimento e'1 creppacuore
Che sei sforzato à tener per tuo specchio
Certe cartaccie che ti fan languire.
Rispondendo à ciascun giuoco per giuoco :
Et se per ignoranza, ò per errore
Dai una carta che non vada à verso,
Tu fenti andar le voci infino al cielo.
Ne ti pensar che quivi sian finite
Le pene tue : bisogna tener conto
D'ogni minima carta, che si giuochi.
Altramente ogni cosa va in mina.
Et s'egli avien talhor c'habbi un bel giuoco
T* andrà si mal giocato, che ne perdi
Una dozzina ò due : talhora tutti.
Quante volte non può coprire il Matto?
356
Dove lass'io quel numerar noioso
D'ogni Trionfo, eh' esca fuori f—
Che vuol dir altro il Bagatello, e'I Mallo
Se non eh' ei fusse un ciurmatore e un barro ?
Che significar' altro la Papessa
Il Carro, il Traditor, la Ruota, il Gobio :
La Fortezza, la Stella, il Sol, la Luna,
E la Morte, e fInferno : e tutto il resto
Di questa bizarria.
£ quel nome fantastico, e bizarro
Di Tarocco, senz' ethimologia.
In tanto io pregherò con caldo affetto,
Con sacrifici e voti i Dei del Cielo
Che facciami, che subito si estingua
Lo inchiostro, il giallo, il verde, il bianco, il rosso,
E altri tal color con che si fanno
Carte, ò Tarocchi, faccian che la Carta
Sen rada in fumo tutta : ne si trovi
Alcuno più che i lor degni ardisca
Tagliare in legno, onde le stampe fansi :
Talché quest' arte si dannosa e trista
Sparisca a un tratto del cuore alle genti :
Acciò che i nostri posteri di lei
Vestigio alcun non trovino, e per sempre
Resti del tutto la memoria spenta.
N° XIV.
LETTER FROM ALEX. P. BUCHAN, M.D. TO THE AUTHOR.
Sir,
I feel no difficulty in complying with your request to
be permitted to publish the hypothesis respecting the origin of playing cards, and
their analogy with some astronomical phenomena, which was read at one of the
meetings of the Antiquarian Society, in your very ingenious and elaborate work on
that subject, provided you consider the notion as having any claim to public atten
tion, and you will allow me to premise some explanatory observations.
In part of your intended publication, which I have seen, you are pleased to state that
I have employed my leisure in investigations of this kind. Permit me to assure you, Sir,
that the idea, if it have any real foundation, suggested itself to my mind in the most
fortuitous manner; and that I consider the whole merely as a conjecture, being per
fectly indifferent whether it be confirmed or confuted.
A pack of cards lying on the table before me, I happened, by mere accident, to
reckon the number of pips, pictured cards, &c. in a particular series, (you will readily
apprehend I am no player, otherwise I should have derived amusement of another kind
from the same materials,) and finding, to my surprise, that the sum of the addition
amounted to 365, the precise number of days in the solar year, 1 was naturally induced
to inquire whether some further analogy with the epochs of times and seasons, as indi
cated by the almanack, might not be detected.
Having committed the particulars, which a further prosecution of the subject sug
gested, to paper, I communicated them to my respected friend N. Carlisle, Esq. Secre
tary to the Antiquarian Society, accompanied with a request thathe would inquire of some
member of that learned body whether they had any claims to originality: as the analogy
appeared to me so strikingly obvious, 1 could not help thinking it must previously have
occurred to the mind of some other person. Whether my request was complied with
previously to the public reading of the paper, I know not; but the paper was read at
one of the meetings of the Society, after which a member, as I am informed, stated to
the secretary that the whole was a trick, 1 or attempt to impose upon the attention of
that learned body as something new, a story borrowed from an old jest-book.
1 Hoax, as I am informed, was the term used, respects either its precise meaning or its proper
which, though frequently heard in the common etymology. Having looked for it in vain in tiie
parlance of a certain class of people, is a word glossary of Captain Grose, as well as in the Dic-
which I confess myself totally ignorant of as it tionary of Dr. Johnson.
358
If 90 it be, T can with truth assert, that I was then, and am now, quite unaware of the
existence of any such book ; nor do I perceive any thing of the kind noticed in the course
ofyour elaborate researches. Since this matter was mentioned, I have, indeed, seen a penny
paper fluttering on the wall at Hyde-Park corner, containing a story of a serjeant, who,
being threatened with military punishment for playing cards on a Sunday, drew a pack
from his pocket, and by explaining to the court martial their relation to months, days,
weeks, &c. obtained an acquittal. Perhaps this story may be copied from the jest-
book in question, but I have not yet met with it. To my mind, however, this coin
cidence affords an additional proof of the probability of the conjecture, for, did not
some real analogy exist between the cards and the phenomena of astronomy, it could not
be rendered so easily obvious, whether considered seriously or in jest.
Taking into consideration the peculiarities of the soil, as well as of the climate ot
the country, I think it can excite no surprize that games of a sedentary nature should
originate in Egypt, nor that these amusements should be symbolical of some of the lead
ing truths of astronomy.
For nearly three months of the year, that country is inundated by the waters of
the Nile, a period during which all active occupation is necessarily suspended. The
inhabitants are confined to the more elevated spots on which cities and villages are
situated, and their occupations or amusements must therefore of course be confined
to those of a domestic nature.
To the early inhabitants of Egypt it must have been of infinite importance to ascer
tain the precise period of the commencement of this inundation, a species of knowledge
without which it was there wholly impracticable to carry on the requisite business of
agriculture. This important object was attained by sedulously studying the pheno
mena of the celestial bodies ; hence it is with considerable probability supposed, that
the science of astronomy had its origin in that country.
As some of the most interesting events, such as the commencement and decline of the
inundation, the time of harvest, &c. were observed to be connected with the rising and
setting of certain stars, it was natural for the uninformed to conclude, that these events
stood to each other in the relation of cause and effect; and of course the notion of this
celestial influence was extended to many of the more common occurrences of life. This
superstition was probably encouraged by the magi or priests, who were the depositaries of
all real knowledge, as a means of augmenting their influence or authority with the peo
ple at large ; for it was their policy to govern the multitude in great measure by means
of their superior knowledge of the real causes of natural phenomena, not by rending
the veil from the sacred face of science, and exposing her mysteries to the gaze of
the profane vulgar. *
1 Were the construction of the common alma- founded to be wholly confined to themselves, with
nack (a word not, in my humble opinion, derived what veneration would they be regarded ! How ig-
frorn the Saxon al-mon-aught, or knowledge of the norant are many of those who daily find their way
moons, but from [UD'^N al-menah, the numberer, across the trackless ocean, with a degree of precision
or regulator of times and seasons) restricted to any truly astonishing, of the principles and calculations
particular college or body of men, supposing a know- on which their faithful guide, the Nautical Alma-
ledge of the principles on which the calculations are nack, is founded.
359
In order to conceal this important branch of knowledge from the people, and con
fine it to the initiated alone, it became necessary to conceal it under various symbols
and enigmas, constituting the hieroglyphic writing, or language peculiar to the learned.
The sphynx for example, an emblem composed of the head of a human female
and the body of a lion, indicated to those who understood the proper meaning of the
symbol, that the inundation of the Nile continued during the two months which the
Sun was (at that period) in the signs of the ecliptic, named Leo and Virgo.
The sphynx* was also the hieroglyphic of abundance, or plenty ; for the plentiful-
ness of the ensuing harvest depended on the relative rising of the water while the sun
was passing through those signs.
It was also discovered that the period of the inundation was preceded by the heliacal
rising of a peculiarly bright star, and it was the business of certain of the priests to note
the first emergence of this star, and to warn the people to secure their safety by re
treating to the more elevated parts of the country, out of the reach of the rising
Waters.
The appearance of this star giving warning of the approach of danger, as a faithful
dog alarms his master by his barking, the Deity supposed to reside in it, obtained the
name of Anubis, or the Barker, was represented by a human figure with the head of
a dog, and it still retains the name of dog-star in regions where the appellation is des
titute of any appropriate meaning.
The chief deities of the Egyptians are known to have been,
Osiris, whose symbol was the Sun, considered as the general active male fecun
dating principle, and regulator of the solar year.
Isis, the representative of female nature, or the passive principle of reproduction,
mother and nurse of all things, whose emblem was the moon, whose varied phases re
gulated the Neo-mania, or monthly festivals, and whose symbols were diversified ac
cording to the seasons of the year.
In these personages I think we may still recognize what the Gypsies, in their peculiar
jargon, term the king and queen of Heaven.
Hokus, their supposed offspring, was generally represented as a child reclining on
the lap of Isis. Or, when of a more advanced age, as a youth supported by the lotus,
with his finger placed on his lip, implying that the sacred mysteries ought not to be di
vulged.
By this mysterious Teiad was indicated, in my opinion, that perpetual succession
of production, temporary existence, and dissolution, which pervades all living nature ;
—The means by which it has pleased the Almighty to maintain the animated creation
in perpetual youth, beauty, and perfection.
1 VDty sphang, to be abundant—to overflow-
inundation, &c. vide Parkhurst and Bates. I am
here taking it for granted, that the Hebrew, and the
ancient Egyptian or Coptic, were the same tongue.
That they were dialects nearly related 1 have no
doubt. But this opinion is supported by an autho
rity which do antiquary will, I think, call in ques
tion. " That it (the ancient Coptic) was founded
upon the Hebrew, the venerable parent of all lan
guages, I can have no doubt ; and its similarity both
to that tongue and to the Phoenician, I hold to be
capable of demonstration'"
Fide, an Essay on a Punic inscription, &c. by
the Right Honourable Sir William Drummokd-
360
To these Anubis,' whose residence was in the dog-star, the regulator of the inun
dations, was a species of inferior existence. The caduceus, by which he is distin
guished, was merely the rod, staff, or sceptre, by which every leader, or judge, Moses
for example, was designated. Probably from amp cadush, just, or separated to do jus
tice, a magistrate. The wings and serpents are symbols of spirit or motion, and of ani
mation. From these attributes his various offices, as conductor of souls, &c. may be
readily deduced.
These remarks are intended to shew you, Sir, that I am in the habit of considering
the symbols of remote antiquity, when properly understood, as veiling knowledge of a
curious and valuable kind ; and if we consider cards as originating in /Egypt, why may
they not also be symbolical of some useful branch of human knowledge ?
How far this simple and useful theology was perverted by Grecian ignorance and
vanity, this is not a proper opportunity to inquire. As one instance, it may just be ob
served, that they converted the iEgyptian Thaut, or Dog, the same as Anubis, who, as
presiding over the inundation, was supposed also to regulate commercial concerns, then
necessarily carried on by the medium of boats or ships, into the god Mercury (also a
Coptic word), the Deity of Merchants, and also of Thieves; for it seems to have been
an opinion held by men esteemed eminent for wisdom, both in ancient and modern
days, that there is an intimate connection between fraud and traffic. The Son of
Sirach says, " that as a nail sticketh fast between the joinings of the stones, so doth
sin between buying and selling ;" and trade is defined by Dr. Franklin to be " a system
of legalized cheating."
In the sheets of your work which you have permitted me to inspect, I observe that,
in divers places, cards are termed Naibi. Now in Hebrew, iqj, niba, signifies to prophesy
or foretel, and as the Egyptian magi conceived the destinies of men to be regulated by
the aspects of the planets, does not this term indicate some original connection between
cards and astronomy, or, at least, astrology? In the Maldivian Islands learned men are
denominated Naibae, and among the Turks a certain class of Priests are termed Naibs.
Excuse the desultoriness of these observations, which laborious occupation of a very
different nature prevents me at present from rendering more correct, and believe me
to be, Your obedient Servant,
Percy-street, Jan. 1816. ALEX. P. BUCHAN, M. D.
1 As in all languages the labial letters are inter- logical conjecture to derive the Latin Nebulo and
changeable, it appears no violent stretch of etymo- English Knave from Anubis.
A
CONJECTURE
CONCERNING THE
ORIGIN OF PLAYING CARDS AND THE GAME
OF WHIST.
BY ALEX. P. BUCHAN, M.D.
Considerable ingenuity has been bestowed in attempts to investigate the origin
of cards, and the invention of the various games played by their instrumentality.
With the exception of some personal contests of strength and dexterity, games ap
pear in general to be symbolical of the more important occupations, or emblematic of
the recondite knowledge of mankind; intended by their original devisers, like the apo
logues of antiquity, to imbue the mind with useful knowledge through the medium of
amusement. . ,
Chess, for example, is a precise image of the art of war, as formerly conducted in
the countries where that game originated, the practice of which could not fail to keep
in mind, during the intervals of peace, the general principles of that most serious and im
portant of human occupations.
Nor does it appear probable that a series of emblems displaying such a variety and
complexity of combination as we find contained in a pack of cards, should have been
the invention of any individual, independently of some prototype in nature or art.
The department of human knowledge of which cards seem to be symbolical, the sub
sequent observations are intended to develope.
The twelve pictured cards appear to be emblematic of the twelve signs of the zo
diac, termed by astronomers mansions of the sun, and of course equivalent to the
twelve months of the solar year.
Each of these signs is divided into three decans, or thirty degrees ; and in all nu
merical games at cards, each honour, or pictured card, is considered as equivalent in
value to ten ; and 30 x 12 = 360, the number of days of the ancient Egyptian year, and
is equal to the number of degrees into which the equator or great circle is still divided.
3 A
362
Cards are distinguished by two colours, red and black, answering to the great divi
sion of the year into two equal parts, from solstice to solstice and equinox to equinox.
The four suits 1 indicate the four seasons, which appear formerly to have been dis
tinguished by devices much more appropriate than those now in use. Spades repre
sented acorns which are mature in autumn ; and Hearts were cups, indicating, proba
bly, that wine was ready and fit to be drunk in the winter season.
The whole number of cards in a pack, fifty-two, is equal to the number of weeks
into which the year is divided ; and the number of cards in each suit, viz. thirteen, is
equivalent to the number of weeks contained in each quarter of the civil year. The
number of spots or pips upon one suit is 55
which multiplied by . . 4
give 220
Pips upon pictured cards 12
Honours taken at 10 each 120
Number of cards in each suit .. 13
Added together give . . 365
the precise number of days contained in the solar year.
The casual observation of the concurrence of the numbers of the leading distinc
tions of cards, when added together, with the exact number of days of the year, first
suggested the idea that some analogy might exist between cards and astronomy.
Cards are played and dealt circularly from left to right, according to the apparent
course of the sun, and when arranged into tricks they amount to thirteen, consisting of
four suits each; and if each card be considered as representing a week, then these tricks
may be considered as symbolical of the thirteen lunar months of which the year
consists.
Might not then a conjecture be indulged, that cards were originally devised for the
purpose of reminding those who understood the allusion of the real system of the uni
verse, with which the philosophers or priests of antient iEgypt were well acquainted,
although they carefully concealed such knowledge from the profane vulgar? In cards
appear to be symbolized the motion of the earth round the sun, the relation of the lunar
to the solar year, the precise number of weeks and days contained in the latter, also the
division of the year according to the signs, the northern and southern, or ascending and
descending signs, and into the four seasons.
Concerning the period when cards were invented little has been determined; they
seem to have made their appearance in different countries of Europe nearly about the
same period, viz; the fourteenth century.1 But games are known to be played by means
of similar emblems painted upon boards of wood in Arabia, Persia, and even in China. 3
1 Clubs were originally Trefoils, representing appearance of the Gipsies, who rapidly spread over
Spring. Diamonds were formerly Roses, typical of all Europe. Want of a present opportunity of re-
Summer, &c. Vide Archapologia, Vol. XV*. ference renders this fact doubtful.
* This period coincides, I believe, with the gene- 5 Vide Archaeologia, from Breitkopf.
rally received opinion respecting the time of the first
363
If cards were invented in Asia, they may, like many other inventions peculiar to that
part of the world, have been brought to Europe by the crusaders.
Should this conjecture be admitted to have any real foundation, it will reflect some
light upon the very general employment of cards for the purpose of divination or fortune-
telling, particularly by the Gipsies. Judicial astrology, or an opinion that the fates and
fortunes of the sons of men are influenced by the positions and aspects of the celestial
bodies, is one of the most ancient forms of superstition that have prevailed among man
kind. But why should cards in particular be employed as the instruments of discover
ing this mysterious influence, unless they were originally supposed to bear some rela
tion to astrology, a science which by the vulgar has always been confounded with
astronomy ?
The sound of the name of the most popular game of cards—Whist, or Whisk, is
very analogous to that of the Hebrew word DDtl' shipeth, which signifies to regulate,
distribute, determinate, direct, also to judge, whence the Carthaginian magistrates were
denominated Suffetes. 1 In Chaldaic BSil'D mishpith, signifies astrology, or the art of
divining from the stars.
Even in Backgammon may be perceived a still more remote analogy to similar prin
ciples. That game consists in distributing thirty pieces (equivalent to the number of
days in the month) in certain numbers upon twelve points, and their movements are di
rected by the chances of the spots inscribed upon a pair of cubes, the greatest possible
combination of which is limited to twelve.
To a pregnant imagination, the game of draughts might, perhaps, suggest the idea
of a democracy, or popular form of government, in which individuals, after atchieving
rank and power by their own energy and exertions, exercise their privileges according
to law ; while chess is emblematic of despotism, supported by an armed force, where
every thing is regulated by the will, and subservient to the power and preservation of a
shiek, or chief.
ALEX. P. BUCHAN, M.D.
Percy Street, Dec. 19, 1812.
' From this term Parkhurst derives shift, whence probably shuffle.
N° XV. .
COMMUNICATION BY R. P. CRUDEN, ESQ.
Mr. Cbuden directed his enquiries respecting cards to a Dutch gentleman who had
been many years resident in Japan, and has kindly favoured me with the answer he
received to his questions, the substance of which is as follows.
Sib, Dordt, August 15, 1815.
In answer to yours of the 26th of July, containing a request for informa
tion respecting playing cards in Japan, their use, &c. I have the honour to reply,
That the cards used by the Japanese arc manufactured in Japan; but I do not know
the number each pack contains, nor whether there is more than one kind. I do not
think they have any description of them, since gambling, and more particularly card-
playing, is prohibited, upon pain of very severe punishment.
The cards differ not in size, but in the marks on them, from the Chinese ; those
which I have seen are marked with numerical figures, pictures of images, and arms
coloured and ornamented with gold and silver: they have as well figured as numerical
names, and are somewhat larger than the fourth part of an English card, the same shape,
but a little thicker.
Two or more persons play at the game, each having six, eight, or more cards, and
the remainder are left on the table, four of which are turned up. In playing a card is
played the same as one of the four thus turned up, and these two arc taken and placed as
a trick before the person who played : another is then turned up from the pack in lieu of
the one taken up ; if this one should be of the same sort with the one last played it is
also added to that trick ; in playing the highest are played in preference to the lower
cards. Each player follows the example of the first in rotation until it comes to the
turn of the first to play again. The game thus proceeds until all the cards are played,
when the tricks of each player arc counted, it seems that the more cards of one sort any
one has the better. He that first counts 100 or more, as it has been settled, is the
winner ; but I declare I know not how this counting is regulated, having at my depar
ture from Japan left behind me all my papers, among which are my notes.
I have the honour to be, &c. &c.
R. P. Cruder, Esq. J. COCK BLOMHOFF.
365
I have been since honoured with the following communication from Mr. Crudch,
which I think too curious to be withheld from the public.
Dear Sir,
As a recent examination of the statutes in which cards are mentioned has
afforded me some grounds for limiting the period within which they were probably in
troduced into England, I have thought it may not be wholly uninteresting to you to
receive some account of the information they contain.
In 1 1 Henry IV. anno 1409, an act passed, directing the punishment which should
be inflicted upon persons offending against a statute of 12 Richard II. Cap. 6, anno
1388, forbidding certain games, viz. " coytes, dyces, gettre de pere, keyles, and aultres
tielx jeues importunes."
From this I infer that cards were not known in England at that period, or they
would have been named ; if coytes give an active diversion, dyces afford as sedentary
an amusement as cards do, and it is scarcely probable that dice would have been prohi
bited and cards allowed, by a statute not meant to regulate or obstruct active sports
exclusively.
If it is urged that the " aultres tielx jeues importunes," may include cards, I an
swer, that it is certainly as decent an et cetera, as need appear in a statute, but that it
was probably designed to prevent the games which are expressly named, from being
evasively played under another denomination.
The act of 10 Anne, Cap. 19, prohibiting the importation of cards, refers to the act
of 3 Edward IV, Cap. 4, anno 1463, where I believe cards are for the first time men
tioned, and the importation of them first forbidden.
Thus probably cards were first known in England between the years 1409 and 1463.
The statute prohibiting their importation in 1463, admits the presumption that they
were known in England some years previously, and bring the period within which they
probably may have been used in France very near to the rera of Charles VI.
Again our statutes solve a puzzle—in the 1 Henry IV. Cap. 7, anno 1399, are these
words: " Et qe null vadlet appelle yoman preigne ne use nulle liveree du roi ne de null
autre seignour sur peine demprisonement."
I should like extremely to know the result of an inquiry into the manner of making
playing cards in England immediately after the year 1463, when they were no longer to
be obtained from abroad. That they were used is not to be doubted. The act after
wards restraining the use of them did not pass till the 33 Henry VIII. Cap. 8,
anno 1541.
In such an inquiry it should not be overlooked that in the act of 1 Richard III.
Cap. 9, anno 1483, containing restraints upon aliens, it is provided that it shall not pre
vent any allurninor, reader, or printer of books, from dwelling within the realm for the
exercise of their occupations.
It is a curious fact that a tax was first levied upon cards anno 1631, in the reign
of Charles I. ; it was one of the impositions complained of as arbitrary and illegal
366
being levied without consent of parliament, and which complaints terminated in the
sacrifice of the monarch and his minister (Strafford).
There are three packs of Florentine cards for playing at Minchiate and Tarocco,
mentioned in the inventory of curiosities at Strawberry Hill. See Edit, of 1774, p. 108,
and Edit, of 1784, p. 76.
I am, dear Sir,
Yours, 8ic.
ROBERT P. CRUDEN.
Gravesend, Dec. 5, 1815.
INDEX.
A.
Alcoran, games of chance forbid by the, g.
Alea supposed by some writers to signify cards, 1 2.
.... on the term. Appendix, 318.
All-fours, game so called, 264. Described by Cot
ton, 264. Still in vogue, 264.
Amman, (Jost) his book ofTrades, 176. Specimens
ofa pack of cards engraved by, 181.
Antony of Worms. Wood cut representing two
Lanzen Knecht at cards, 235.
Arabians, chess introduced by the, 7.
chess called by the " Ssed renge" or hun
dred cares, 7.
Aretin (J. C. von) account ofa metrical exhortation
to excite the states of Christendom against the
Turks printed in 1454, 158.
Aretino (Pietro) Le Carte Parlanti, Dialogue con
cerning cards, 200.
Art, Memorandi, 131, 13g.
Art, Chalcographic, invention of, 93, 94.
Art of printing with metal stamps practised by the
Etruscans and Romans, 88.
Monks, 92.
Ashmole's history of the order of the Garter, quota
tion from, 4.
Atkyns on the origin of printing, 120.
B.
Bankrout, game so called, 263. Described in the
Complete Gamester, 263. Modern name Blind
Hazard, 264.
Barritigton's (Daines) observations respecting cards,
220.
Bassetl, game so called, 267. Known in Italy at
the end of the loth century, 267. Mentioned by
Lorenzo di Medici, 26.
Bavaria, Duke of, at Cards. Copied from an ex
tremely rare print by an anonymousengraver dated
1500. Called by Bartsch, Le Grand Bal, 274.
Becker's Gravures en bois, cited 102.
Bergamo, Supplementutn Chronicarum 1483, cited
163.
Berni. Capitolodell Gioco dclla Primicra, printed in
1526, 87.
Bernardin of Siena preaches against the use of cards
in 1423, 86.
Bernard St., sermons of, printed at Zwoll, 138.
Bertin, Memoires sur la Chine, 14. asserts the cus
tom ofmaking cards to be derived from the Egyp
tians or Gipsies, 14.
Bertoldo con Bertoldino, cited 29.
Betinelli, Giuoco delle Carte, 26.
Biblia pauperum, 128, 136.
Block printing in use in Japan in 154g on the first
arrival of the Missionaries, 75.
Book of Trades. Published at Franckfort in 1564,
177.
Bosio, attributes the invention of printing to Guten-
burg, 163
Brettkopf, his enquiry into the origin ofcards, cited
41.
Brianville, Heraldic Cards, published at Lyons in
1660.
Bridget St., ancient cut of, described by Mr. Ottley,
93.
Buchan, (Dr. A. P.) on the origin of cards and the
game of Whist, 357.
Bullet, Recherches sur les Cartes a jouer, 30, 38,
51.
supposes the Spaniards derived their cards
from France, 35.
asserts cards were invented by the French,
80.
Bul\fon, (Ant. of Lyons) cards published by, 218.
Burleigh (Lord Treasurer) represented playing at
cards in a picture by Zucchero, 24g.
C.
Cambalu, process of making money in the city of,
described by Marco Polo, 85.
Cards, proof adduced by Temanza of their being
manufactured at Venice previous to 1441. 84.
St. Bernardin of Sienna preaches against the
use of, in 1423. 85.
INDEX.
Cards, mentioned by St. Anlouine, Beroaldo, Pulci,
and Platina, 25.
mentioned by Lorenzo di Medici in the
Catiti Carnascialeschi, 2(i.
b(i sous p.iid for three packs of cards for the
amusement of Charles Cth, of France 30.
Names on the court cards of the French suits
32.
exported by the Germans into Italy and
Sicily, 41.
called by the Germans litirfe, 41.
made of paper by the Chinese and Hindoos,
104. And abo of Ivory, 105. l.'iOO gold crowns
paid for a pack by the Duke of Milan, 105.
in the collection of Count Giacomo Durazzo
described by Lanzi, 1 05.
account of an early pack of German, by Mr.
Gough, 172.
pack of, described by Bartsch, 45.
in the possession of Mr. Douce, 45, 205.
...... prohibitory statute respecting them in the
reign of Henry VII, 250.
with printed or dotted backs called Tarots,
243.
Bullet supposes the Spaniards derived them
from France, 35.
with Italian suits fabricated by the Germans,
in the 15th century, 209.
published by Bulifon at Lyons, 218. by Fres-
chet at Venice, 218.
original cover of an old pack of Spanish
cards, 23 1 .
a patent obtained for making in the reign of
Elizabeth, 223.
extract from bishop Latimer's sermon, 255.
Rowland's satirical poems on, 255.
Comedie on, cited by Sir John Harington,
i'73.
Fac Simile of a modern German card, 215.
price of cards, mentioned by Ascham in his
Toxophilus, 1545. 225.
importation of foreign cards monopolized by
government in the reign of Elizabeth, 22i). The
Spanish government still continue the practice,
229. Great quantities exported from England,
229.
description ofthe earliest pack ofcards known
to exist, 172-176.
engraved by Jost Amnion described, 18 1—1Q8.
appeared in Provence about 1361, 3.
mentioned in the Chronicle of Jean de
Saintre, 3.
said to be introduced into Germany in 1300,
2. Decree of St. Louis relating to, 2.«
known in France in 1341. p. 3.
Cards, in common use among the Italians at the
end of the 13th century, 4.
the invention given to Spain by the Abbe'
Rive, 5.
, . called by the Italians Naibi, a.
by the Spaniards Naipes, 5. originated from
the Arabians, 7.
earliest mention of, among the Spaniards,
adduced by the Abbe' Rive from Gutery's trans
lation of Guevara's Epistles, 6.
prohibited by John I.kingofCastile in 1387,6-
the origin of, ascribed by Salvini to the
Moors, 8.
seen among theGreeksat Cairo by Niebuhr, 0.
and Dice invented by the Lydians, 10. •
mentioned by St. Cyprian, II.
the term Alea supposed to signify, 12.
the custom of making, asserted by Bertin to
be derived from the Egyptians, 14.
specimens of a pack of cards in the possession
nf Mr. Douce, 16.
in use in England previous to 1464, p. 19.
practice of playing very common in the reign
of Henry VII. 19.
mentioned in the compiaynt of Sir David
Lindsay, lt>.
said by Builet to be derived from the French,
20.
probably known in England at the ratter end
of the 13th century, 20.
the earliest written mention of them among
the Italians in a MS. entitled Tratlato del Go-
verno delta Famiglia written about 1299. p. 21.
Illustration of the suits of, 51.
court, formerly called coat-cards, 55.
pack of, termed by our old writers " Paire
of Cards," 56.
table of the names by which cards and their
suits are known in some of the European lan
guages, 56.
resemblance between the European and
Chinese cards, 57.
specimens of Chinese, 5g.
used by conjurors aad fortune tellers, 64.
Miniature representing a group playing at
cards discovered in the Roman du Roy Meliadus,
M.S. of the 14th Century, 67
probably an extension of the game of Chen,
233.
Card-makers, called in Suabia and Franconia Kar-
lenmahler, 41.
or Briefmahlers, Brietkopf's account
of the process used by, 179.
Kartenmachers mentioned in the town
books of Augsburgh in 1418, 107.
im>Ex.
Card-makers company, first incorporated 1629,
226. Petition against the importation of Foreign
cards in 1 684. 227. Establish an office for seal
ing the packs, 227. Extracts from the Gazettes
relating to, 226-7.
Catholicon, of Johannes Balbi de Janua cited, 155.
Caxton in the Fasciculus Temporum, mentions that
printing was first found at Mogunce in Almayne,
162.
Cervantes ridicules enquiries respecting cards, 39.
Charles Vlth, 56 sous paid for three packs of cards
for his amusement, 30.
Chess, introduced by the Arabians, 7.
called by the Arabs Ssed renge, or Hundred
cares, 7.
obtained by the Persians from India, 9.
mentioned in the old romances of the Round
Table, 9.
comparison between Chess and earlycards, 15.
account of the Indian game of, by Mr.
Christie, 16.
the playing at, mentioned by Chaucer, 19.
the Persian game, what it consists of, 46.
Chessmen, term borrowed from the Eastern word
Pherz, 48.
Chester Mysteries. Cards mentioned in, 250.
Chinese and Hindoos made their cards of paper,
104.
wood block, impression from an original
one, 81.
Christie's Inquiry into the antient Greek game, 12.
Account of the Indian game of Chess, 16.
Claudiani de Kaptu Proserpina;, fac simile of, 138.
Cleland's Institution of a young nobleman, extract
from, 240.
Cologne Chronicle, extract concerning printing from
the, 164.
Comedie called the Play of the Cards, mentioned by
Sir John Harington in his Apologie for Poetry,
273.
Comestoris, Historiae Scholastica super Novum Tes-
tamentum, the first book printed in Holland with
a date, 136, 7, 8.
Comeille, (T.) Triomphes des Dames, 31.
Coster, the claims of Harlem and Coster, considered,
145.
his discoveryof printing related byJunius, 1 10.
Laurels for Laurence Coster, published by
Scriverius in 1628, 1 16.
books printed by the son-in-law of, 123.
Cricca, an Italian game, probably Gleek, 262.
Cruden (Mr.) Account of the Japanese cards and
English statutes relative to cards, 364.
Cunios, account of the labours of the two, 95 ; their
history, 97.
D.
Dance of Death. Copy of a print from the, 275 .
Daniel's Dissertation on the Game of Piquet, 33.
Darcy, (Ed.) obtains a patent for making cards in
the reign of Elizabeth, 823.
Decker's Gull's Horn-book cited, 255.
Dice, inveighed against by G. de Machau, in his
poem " Confort d'Amy," 30.
Donatuses, or briefgrammars, among the first books
attempted to be executed with moveable types,
109.
Doni, dialogue concerning printing in his work
II Mondi, 1 19.
Douce, Mr. description of cards in his possession, 16,
45. 205.
Draughts similar to Chess, 1 1 ; called by the Ro
mans I ndus Latrunculorum, 11.
Duchat, in a Note on the games played by Gar-
gantua, describes primero, 247-
E.
Egyptians, the custom of making Cards asserted by
Bertin to be derived from them, 14.
England, Cards probably known in, at the latter
end of the 13th century, 20.
Engraving on wood practised by the Chinese many
centuries before it was known in Europe, 58.
Eusehius Historia Ecclesiastica 1474, 137, Ifll.
, Chronicle of, described by Mr.Dibdin, l6l.
F.
Fanti, (Sigismondo) Triompho di Fortuna, 66.
Ferdinand Vth of Spain promulgates severe laws
against Card-players, 38.
Finiguerra, the proof of a Par engraved by him,
established by Zani and Mr. Ottley, 94.
, the honour of the invention of the Chal-
cographic art due to, 204.
Fischer publishes an account of curious typographi
cal fragments he had discovered, 157.
Flush, game of, mentioned by Lorenzo di Medici, 26.
Formula Noviciorum, the first book printed at Har
lem with a date, 140.
Forrest, Sir William, Poesy of Princylye Practice,
cited, 251.
France, Cards known in, about 1341, 3; names of
French cards, 32.
Frcschet, Cards published by, at Venice, 218.
Fulgosius, in his Dictorum et Factorum Memora
bilia, calls Gutenberg the inventor of printing, 163.
Fust, said by Junius to have taken Coster's types,
113; enters into partnership with Gutenburg, 155;
the partnership dissolved, 156.
G.
Games of Cards. All Fours, 264, see All Fours.
Bankrout, 263, see Bankrout.
3 B
370 INDEX.
Garnet of Cards. Bassett, 267, see Bassett.
Brelan, 267, mentioned byDuchat.
Cent, or Mount Sant, 267, see
Mount Sant.
La Condemnata, 268, mentioned
byRabelais.Coquillart, and Jean
Marot, 268.
II Frusso, 267, mentioned by Ra
belais.
Gay ou J'e", 267, mentioned by
Rabelais.
Gleek, 261, see Gleek.
Jeu de la Guerre, a French game
of chance of the 17th century,
233.
Lansquenet, 234, see Lansquenet.
Loadam, 206, sec Loadam.
Macke, 261, see Macke.
Mawe, 268, seeMawe.
Minchiate, 240; described in the
Archa:ologia, Vol. 15, p. 240;
and in the notes to the Poem of
1! Malmantile Racquistato—
Appendix.
Noddy, 206, see Noddy.
Ombre, 266, see Ombre.
Ombre, Quadrilleand Lansquenet,
probably military games, 233.
Piquet, 2~2, see Piquet.
Post and Pair, 263, see Post and
Pair.
Primero, 240, see Primer.}
Quadrille, 260, see Quadrille.
Reversis, 266, see Reversis
Tarocco, 236 ; how played, 237, 8.
Court de Gebelin's description
of the game, 238, 9, 201. Mo
dern Hindoo Cards similar, 240.
Trappola, 236, see Trappola.
Trump, 269, see Trump.
Whist, 270, see Whist.
The first unknown, 233.
Games of chance forbid by the Alcoran, 9.
Gaming,.edict concerning, in the army of Rich. 1. 18.
Garzeni. Piazza Universale de tutte c professioni del
Mondo, 22, 29 ; enumerates several games at
Cards, 269.
Gcbelin (Court de) Le Monde Pritnitif, 13.
On playing cards, 2gi.
German Cards. Fac simile of the modern, 215.
Germany, Cards said to be introduced into, in 1300,
2. Cards exported by the Germans into Italy and
Sicily, 41 ; called by the Germans Briefe, 4 1 .
Gleek, Game so called, 261 ; mentioned in Green's
Tu quoque, 26l ; an early French game, 261 ; de
scribed in Cotton's Complete Gamester, 1681, p.
261.
Gough, (Mr.) Ancient Cards in his Collection ; his
Dissertation on them, 172.
Observations on an ancient cover of foreign
Cards, 222.
Account of an early pack of German Cards,
172.
Gringonneur, (Jaquemin) 56 sous paid for three
packs of Cards for the use of Charles Vlth to
him, 30.
Guhitz, figured Cards recently engraved by, in Ger
many, 214.
Guicciardini's account of the invention of Printing,
114.
cites Polydore Vergil, 115.
'.. accused of unjustly attributing the in
ventions to the Flemings, 116.
Guichet, publishes the Art of Logick in the form of
a game at Cards, 218.
Gulden Spiel. Augsburgh, 1472. Cards mentioned
in, 2.
Guttnburg, John, sketch of his life, 160
considered from the evidence adduced,
to be the inventor of Printing, 17 1.
Gypsies. Note on them, 317.
H.
Harlem (the City of) and Coster, their claims to the
invention of printing considered, 145.
Uaringlon (Sir John) epigrams by, 253. Games
used in his time, 253.
Henry VI. Cards used in England in his reign, 250
VII., cards very common in the reign of, 19.
Money lost by him at cards, 248.
Statutes prohibiting cards except in
the Christmas holidays, 250.
VIII. playing at primero with the Duke of
Suffolk, mentioned by Shakspeare, 248.
Heywood (Thomas) epigram by, 254.
Hieronymi liber de viris illustribus, printed with
sculpto fusile types, 135.
Historia Alexandria magni de praliis cited, 123, 135.
ex cantico canticorum, 128, 136.
Horarium, fragment of the, discovered at Harlem,
124.
Hycke Scorner, printed by W.de Worde, cited, 251.
Hyde de ludis orienlalibus, 10. Had intended a his
tory of cards, 10.
I.
Ink, early Italian prints executed with pale, 204.
.... custom of sealing and stamping with coloured
ink, of high antiquity, 10. Still practised in the
East, 10.
INDEX. 371
Italians. Cards in common use among them at the
end of the 13th century, 4.
called their cards Naibi, 5.
The earliest mention of cards among
them in the Tr.ntato del Governo della Famiglia,
written about 1299, 21.
J.
Jansen. Essai sur l'Histoire de la Grarure, Paris,
1808, 4, 290.
Jean de Saintre, cards mentioned in the Chronicle
of, 3.
Jeu de la Guerre. Game so called, 233.
John I. of Castile, prohibited cards in 1387, 6.
Junius's account of Coster's discovery of printing,
110.
supported by the testimony of
Volckard Coornhert, 1 14. Strongly contested by
Naude1, 120. Believed by Scaliger and others, 120.
Justinian's institutes 1468, noticed, Kit).
K.
Ketelar and de Lcempt, the first printers in Hol
land, 135.
books printed by, 137-
L.
Landsknecht, or Lansquenet, the oldest German
game at cards, 43, 234. Known in France in
1392, 44. Of military origin, 234. Described
by Bullet, 234.
Latimer (Bishop). Extract from a sermon preached
1527, 255.
Lignamine (Philip de) Notices concerning Guten-
burg, in the Chronicle printed by him in 1474,
160.
Lindsay (Sir David) cards mentioned in the "Com-
playnt of, 19.
Livre du Roy Modus. A moralised book on sports,
printed in I486, noticed, 219.
Loadarn, game so called, mentioned in Harington's
Epigrams, 260. Quoted in a passage from the
History of Pope Joane, London, 1599, and in
other writers of that period, 260.
Lockr (John) anecdote of, 276.
Lolli, invettiva contra 11 gluoco della tarocco, 26.
Louis (St.) decree of, relating to cards, 2.
Lydians, cards asserted to be their invention, 1 0.
M.
Macke, game so called, 261. Probably the same
with the Jeu de Macao, 261. Comedy called
The Macke, 261.
Matadores, at Ombre, why so called, 265.
Marcolini, le Sorti di, account of a book so called, 64.
Marets (Des) games composed by, 217.
Mawe. Mentioned in a tract by Arthur Hall, 258.
and in other works of the time of Elizabeth,
258—9. Called rumstich, or romstecq, a Dutch
or German game, 259. Fully described in the
Maison Academique des Jeux, 259. The Italian
game of romfa similar, 260.
Meek, or Meckenen (Israel van). Copy of a very
rare print engraved by him, representing persons
at cards, Frontispiece.
Meliadus, le Roman du Roy, MS., 67.
Menestricr, bibliotheque curieuse cited, 2.
Mentz, book printed at in 1442, 1 13.
evidence in favour of the discovery of print
ing at, 149, 160.
Meerman. His opinion of the origin of printing, 121.
Minchiate, game so called, 29. How played, 241.
and Appendix, 349. described in the Archaeologia,
Vol. XV. 2.
Monte Sancto di Dio, early engravings in it, 203.
Morelli, Chronica di, 23.
Mount Sant or Cent, game so called, 267. Quoted
in the Dumb Knight, printed in 1608, and in
Lingua, a comedy, £68. Of Spanish origin, and
resembles piquet, 268. Whether the French did
not adopt it, only changing the name, 268.
Munster, Cosmology, 15.
Murner, teaches logic and the institutes of Jus
tinian with cards, 211. Described by Menestrier,
216.
N.
Naibi, name given to cards by the Italians, 5.
Naipes, name given to cards by the Spaniards, 5.
originated from the Arabic, 7-
Names given to particular cards explained, 271.
Nicluhr, discovers cards amongst the Greeks at
Cairo, 9. Saw the Mahometans at Bombay play
at cards, 9.
Noddy, game so called, 260. Mentioned by Hey-
wood in his comedy of A Woman killed with
Kindness, 260.
Nostradamus, Histoire et Chronique de Provence,
Lyons, 1614, p. 3.
O.
Ombre, game so called, 264. OfSpanish origin, 264.
Played by the Moors, 9. Called El Hombre,
264. Described in Seymour's Complete Game
ster, 265. Probably brought into England by
Catherine of Portugal, 265. Sometimes called
Manilla, 265. Matadores, 266.
and Quadrille, the two principal games of the
Spaniards, 36.
3 b2
372 INDEX.
Otlley (W. Young) his enquiry into the origin of
engraving on copper and wood, 138. His
examination of the Speculum Humana? Salva
tionis, 129.
P.
Painting by Zucchero, representing Lord Burleigh
playing with three other persons at cards, 249-
Papet-making, first introduced into England in the
reign of Henry VII., 20.
Paper, the Chinese and Hindoos made their cards
of, 104.
Papillaris account of the two Cunios, 95.
Persians obtained chess from India, 9. What the
Persian game of chess consists of, 46.
Piquet, a French game, 272. Invention of it un
certain, but supposed in the reign of Charles VII.
31. Daniel's Dissertation on the Game of, 33.
How played about 1668, 272. Terms used and
derivations of the words by Bullet, 272.
Post and Pair, game so called, 263. Mentioned
in Cotton's Complete Gamester, 1680, 263.
Described in the Appendix, 2fi3.
Prague, (Paul of), extract from a MS. by, dated
1459, 159.
Primero, game so called, 244. Dialogue from
Minshew's Spanish Dialogues concerning it, 244.
Burlesque Commentary on Berni's Capitolo dell'
Gioco della Primicra quoted, 245. Origin, whe
ther Spanish or Italian, uncertain, 245. Mode of
playing, 145,6. Primero, prime, and primavisla,
the same game, 248. Popular in the reign of
Elizabeth, 248. Mentioned by Shakspeare, 249.
One of the earliest games played in England, 252.
Epigram on Primero, by Sir John Harington, 253.
Primiera. Berni's Capitolo del Gioco della Primiera,
printed in 1526, p. 27.
Prints, for an intended edition of the Spe;ulum
Humana? Salvationis described, 141.
Printing, Junius's account of Coster's Discovery of,
at Haarlem, 1 10.
supported by the tes
timony of Volckard Coornhert, 1 14.
mentioned by Guicciardini in his account
of Haarlem, 114.
general view of the origin of printing,
73—830.
Seiz's account of, published at Harlem,
121.
Provence, cards appeared in, about 1361, 3.
Q.
Quatuor Reges, a game mentioned in the Wardrobe
Rolls of Edward I. 18.
Quadrille, game so called, 866 ; a species of ombre.
266; (apposed an invention of the French, 266;
popular in England until superseded byWhist, 26C.
Quarrel respecting primero mentioned in the Sydney
Papers, 852.
R.
Rabelais. Chapter on games played by Gargantua,
noticed, 247.
Ramusiu, his enquiry relative to priming, 87-
Recordes Grounde of Artes, 224. Wood cut fron
tispiece to it, 225.
Reversis, game so called, 266. Invented in the
reign of Francis I. 366. Name, how derived,
266. Spanish denomination of it, 267.
Rive (Abbe) gives the invention ofcards to Spain, 5.
his Dissertation on the invention of
playing Cards, 281.
Rilhmomachia, or, Philosopher's Game, 225.
Romfa, an Italian game, similar to Mawe, 260.
Ron/a, the invention of the game of, attributed to
King Ferdinand, and others, 28.
Rowland's, (Samuel), Satirical Poems on Cards, pub
lished in l6l 1, 255.
Rudimentum Novicioruin cited, 144.
Rumstich, or Romstecq, the Dutch or German name
for the game of Mawe, 259.
s.
SalelHco calls Gutenberg the inventor of printing,
163.
Salvini, ascribes ihe invention of cards to the
Moors, 6.
Semedo. Note respecting cards in his Account of
China, 5Q. "
Schoen, (Martin), early cardsengraved by him, 205.
described, 206, 7-
Scriuerius. Laurels for Laurence Coster, published
by him, in 1628, p. 1 16.
Spain, the invention of cards given to, by the Abbs'
Rive, 6.
Spaniards, term their cards Naipes, 5.
earliest mention of cards among them ad
duced by the Abbe' Rive, from Gutery's transla
tion of Guevara's Epistles, 6.
Speculum Humana: Salvationis, 128, 9- Speci
men of its type, 134. Edition printed by Gun-
ther Zainer, 141. Examined by Mr. Ottley, 129.
StampilUt, metal stamps used by the Romans, 9Q ;
described, and impressions from, 90.
Swabbers, at the game of whist, why so called,
270.
T.
Tabellas Lusorias, supposed to signify cards, 12.
Tarocchi (Giuoco di) description of a series of 50
prints, so called, 301.
INDEX. 373
Tarocchi mentioned by Bern!, 28.
Tarocco, game of represented in a fresco picture,
painted by Niccolo del Abbate, at Bologna.
an invective against the game of, by Lollio.
(Appendix, 354).
said to be invented during the dissensions
ofthe Guelphs and Ghibbelines, 29.
of Eastern origin, but claimed by the Ita
lians, 236. Description of the cards used in the
game, 236, 7 ; said to be preferred by the Swiss
and Germans to other games, 237. Played in
Italy early in the sixteenth century, 240 ; and in
England in James Ist's reign. Modern Hindoo
cards appear of the Tarocco kind, 240.
Tarots, cards, why so called, 244.
Temanza, notice respecting Card-makers in his Let-
tere Pittoriche, 23.
Trappola, the most ancient European game at cards,
236. The first game known to the Italians, 22.
The suits it consists of, 22. Game of: represented
in an illumination of a MS. book of offices, 26.
Cards in the possession ofMr. Douce, 198.
Trionfo, a game described by Vives, 37.
Trilhemius Annates Monasterii Hirsaugensis 1490,
168.
Chronicon de Origine Regum & Gestis
Francorum, Colophon of, 168.
Trump, game so called, 269; probably the Triunfo
of the Italians and Spaniards, and theTriompheof
the French, 269. Of equal antiquity in England
with Primero, 269. Mentioned in Gammer Gur-
ton's Needle, 156 1, p. 269. Some resemblance to
whist, 269. Described in the Maison des Jeux,
269.
Tumllers,groupof, FacSimileofan Hindoo card, 40.
Typographic art, dissertation on the origin of, 73.—
171.
asserted by Mendoza to be ob
tained from China by the Germans, 76.
V.
Van Praet, Notice of a MS. of the Roman de Re-
nart le Contrefait, 290.
Venice, cards manufactured at, previous to 144 1 , p. 24.
Vives. Extracts from his Latin Dialogues relating
to cards, 320.
Von Hupsch, (Baron), account of Wood Cuts sup
posed to be engraved in 1420, 101.
Von Stetten, (Paul), account of a copy of theBiblia
Pauperum, 101.
W.
Warner's Albion's England, 103.
Whist, game so called, 270; differs but little from
ruff and honours, 270. The first edition of Cot
ton's Complete Gamester, printed in 1664, makes
no mention of it, 270. In Seymour's Complete
Gamester, Whist is said to be the foundation ofall
English games, 270. Swabbers, why so called,
270; first studied about 1730, 271; rules then
laid down, 271. 1'he instructions for playing the
game given in Cotton's Complete Gamester, 1680.
("Appendix 332). Contrast with the modern game,
271. Explanation of the term six love or nine
love used at whist, 271. Conjecture on theorigin
of Whist by Dr. Buchan, 363.
Wolfius Monumenta Typographica, 1 16.
Wood Cuts. Method used by the early engravers on
wood for taking impressions of their works, 83.
X.
Xylographic and Typographic Art, the origin of, 73.
Art exercised by the Chinese fifty
years before the Christian aera, 77. The earliest
specimen discovered with a date, 1423, 101.
printing, Chinese process of, 78.
German process of, 84.
its rise in China accounted
for, 80.
flourished at an early period
in Suabia, 108.
z.
Zani, Origine e progressi dell Incisione in Rame,
Note from, 53.
Zucchero, picture by him, p. 849-
DIRECTIONS FOR PLACING THE PLATES.
Fac-similes of a complete pack of early German Cards, engraved on
^ Wood, in possession of Mr. Triphook, from the cabinet of the late
R. Gough, Esq. to face page 172.
Plate 1. Fac-simile of an Ancient Print engraved by Israel Van Mecken at the latter
part of the fifteenth century, representing a Lady and Gentleman playing
at Cards. The original is in the collection of F. Douce, Esq.
Opposite the Title.
2. Oriental Cards. The originals are painted on Ivory, from the same collec
tion, to face page 16.
3. Fac-similes of circular engraved Cards of the fifteenth century, attributed
to Martin Schoen. From the same collection. to face page 45.
4. -
5.
6.
7.
8.
9-
10.
11. -
12. Early Italian Trappola Cards. to face page 199-
IS. ") Fac-simile of two ancient prints by an Italian artist of the fifteenth cen-
14. / tury, (attributed to Finiguerra, and supposed to be Tarocchi Cards.)
to face page 202.
15. Old English Cards, probably of the reign of James the I. These cards
were not obtained until the Work was printed off, and are therefore not
mentioned in the text. to face page 223.
16. Fac-simile of a portion of a rare print of the year 1500, by an anonymous
engraver, representing the Duke and Duchess of Bavaria playing at Cards.
to face page 274.
f Tarocco Cards alluded to in the Text and described by Court de Gebelin in
C his paper printed in the Appendix. to face page 284.
18
19
ERRATA.
P. 94. Note. The monastery of Soubiaco has been here inadvertently placed at Rome.
The reader will please to substitute the Sortensian or Eusebian Monastery.
P. 117, 1. 5. for possessed read professed.
P. 204, in note, 3d line, for im altro Guioco, read un altro Giuoco.
P. 269, note 1 . for Trupm read Trump.
T.Beniley and Son,
Bolt Court, Fleet Street, London.
