{"name":"New And Complete Illustration Of Celestial Science Of Astrology","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1817__sibly___new_and_complete_illustration_of_celestial_science_of_astrology.pdf","mytitle":"New And Complete Illustration Of Celestial Science Of Astrology","mylang":"de"}
o
L
ORIGINAL DEDICATION. *^,
To the Ancient and Honourable Fraternity of Free
and Ac.cEPTED MASONS.
Gentlemen and Brethren,
^T^HE Antiquity of your excellent Fraternity, the uni-
versality of its plan, and the moral rectitude and
purity of its design, claim a decided pre-eminence over
every other Bond of Society into which mankind have
ever formed themselves for the mutual welfare and hap-
piness of each other. The nobleness of soul which first
prompted to its institution, and the benevolence of heart
which has ever since prevailed throughout all its members,
will remain a subject of lasting admiration !
To you, therefore, as the promoters of liberal senti-
ment, and the guardians of every useful science, I com-
mit this venerable pile of ancient Astrology ; a fabric ob-
viously constructed by the Great Architect of the World,
primeval with the Ordination of Nature, and inseparable
from one of the grand subjects of your official contem-
plation.
This science, by being little known, and less under-
stood, may meet with censure and disapprobation from
that description of learned, as well as of illiterate, men^
whose rule of faith uniformly keeps pace with their own
arbitrary conceptions. But the dispassionate part of
mankind, with every good Mason, will candidly weigh
the evidence " by the balance of the Sanctuary," and
reserve their sentence till after a fair and impartial trial.
2 Sheltered
-"}
DEDICATION.
Sheltered, therefore, under the wing of your fraternal
regard, and patronized by every sober admirer of the
secret works of Nature, I shall attempt to lay the Foun-
dation-stone of an illustrious Building, sacred to Urania,
upon which some more able and ingenious Workman,
sanctioned by your patronage and protection, may here-
after raise the edifice to out-top the skies, and, like Ja-
cob's ladder, pierce the starry regions, leading the intel-
lectual faculties of the soul to tli,^ most sublime contem-
plations of God and Nature.
I have the honour to profess myself, with unequivocal
attachment and esteem,
Gentlemen,
Your Accepted Brother,
And faithful Servant,
E. SIBLY.
Portsmouth CommoiV,
Ib the Year of Masonry 5784.
TO THE YOUNG STUDENT IN ASTROLOGY.
My Friend,
"lT7"HOEVER thou art, thatfhalt withfo much eafe receive the benefit
of my laborious ftudies, and dofl intend to proceed in acquiring this
heavenly knowledge of the Stars, wherein the great and admirable works-
of the invifible and all-glorious God are fo manifeftly apparent;—in the
firft place confider and adore thy omnipotent CREATOR, and be thank-
ful unto him for thy exiflence. Be humble, and let no natural know-
ledge, how profound and tranfcendent foever it be, elate thy mind,, or
withdraw thee from thy duty to that divine Providence, by whofe all-
feeing order and appointment all things heavenly and earthly have
their conflant and never-ceafing motion ; but the more thy knowledge
is enlarged by this comprehenfive fcience, the more do thou magnify
the power and wifdom of the Almighty God, and ftrive to preferve thy-
felf in his favour ; having in conftant remembrance, that the more holy
thou art, and the nearer thou approacheft to God in thy religious duties,
the purer judgment (halt thou always give. Beware of pride and felf-
conceit, yet never forget thy dignity. Refledl often on the primeval
ftate of thy creation, that thou waft formed in the perfed image of God,
and that no irrational creature durft offend Man, the Microcofnty but.
did faithfully ferve and obey him, fo long as he was mafter of his reafon
and pafTions, or until he fufFered his own Free- Will to be governed by
the unreafonable part. But, alas ! when the firft fatherof us all gave up
the reins to his difobedient afFedions, and deferted his reafon and his
God, then every creature and beaft of the field became rebellious and
difobedient to his command. Stand faft then, O Man ! to thy integrity,.
and thy religion ! Confider thy own noblenefs, and that all created
things, both prefent and to come, were for thy fake created ; nay, for
thy fake even God became man. Thou art that creature, who, being
converfant with Chrift, liveft and converfeft above the heavens. How
many privileges and advantages hath God beftowed on thee ! Thou,
rangeft above the heavens by contemplation, and conceiveft the motion
and magnitude of the Stars ; thou talkefl with angels; yea, with God
himfelf ; thou haft all creatures within thy dominion, and keepeft the
Devils in fubjc£lion. Thy capacity for acquiring knowledge is unlir-
No. I. a, mitedi
ADDRESS.
mited by thy Maker ; and the blefTednefs of an enlightened mind will
bring thee the confolations of joy and happinefs.—Do not then, for
fhame, deface thy nature, nor nna^e thyfelf unworthy of thefe ccleftial
gifts ; do not deprive thyfelf of the power and glory God hath alotted
thee, for the poflcffion of a few imperfeft, vain, and illufory, pleafurcs.
When thou haft perfeded the contemplation of thy God, and con-
fidered the extent of thofe faculties with which thou art endued, thou
wilt be fit to receive the following; inftru6tion, and to know in thv
pra6tice how to condu61 thyfelf. —As thou wilt daily converfe with the
heavens, fo inftruft and form thy mind according to the image of
divinity. Learn all the ornaments of virtue, and be lufiiciently inftruded
therein. Be humane, courteous, familiar to all, and eafy of accefs.
Affii£t not the unfortunate with the terrors of a fevere fate ; in fuch
cafes inform them of their hard fortune with fympathetic concern;
direft them to call upon God to divert the judgments impending over
them ; to fummon up all their fortitude, and to endeavour to remove
the threatened evil by a manly exercife of that free-will with which the
all-merciful God hath endowed them. Be modeft in converfation, and
aflbciate with the fober and learned. Covet not riches, but give freely to
the poor, both money and advice. Let no worldly confideration pro-
cure an erroneous judgment from thee, or fuch as may diihonour this
facred fcience. Love all thy fellow-creatures, and cherifti thofe honeft
men who cordially embrace this Art. Be fparing in delivering judgment
concerning thy king and country, or of the death of thy prince ; for I
know experimentally, that Reges fubjacent legibus Jiellarum. Rejoice
in the number of thy friends ; and avoid litigious fuits and controverfies.
In thy ftudy, be totus in illis, that thou mayeft be fingulus in arte. Be
not extravagant in the dcfire of learning every Icience ; be not aliquid
tantum in omnibui. Be faithful and complacent ; betray no one's
fecrets, I charge thee; never divulge the truft either friend or enemy
hath committed to thy faith. Inftruft all men to live well, and be a
good example thyfelf. Avoid the fafhion of the times, its luxuries,
and lafcivioufnefs ; but love thy country, and be its friend. Be not
difmayed, though evil fpoken of; for, confcientia prcejiat millt tefiibus.
THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE to the NEW EDITION of 1794.
Tj^LATTERED as I have been by an uncommon demand for the for-
mer editions of this work, and honoured by letters of unbounded
approbation and applaufe from fome of the higheft and mofl venerable
characters in the Britifti Dominions, I could no longer forego their im-
portunities to bring forward the prelent new edition, which will be
found confiderably improved, and fome of the predi61ions foretold in
it upwards of feven years ago, particularly concerning France, now
adually fulfilled, and others fulfilling every day. See p. 1050, & feq.
When this publication was firfi announced, many indeed were fur-
prifed at the {Irangenefs of the do6lrine ; but none ventured to oppofe
the reafon and caufes on which it depends. Some igenious perfons,
who then doubted the poflibility of fuch a fcience, having tried its rules
for fpeculating into futurity, and finding them correfpond with truth,
are now become its warmefl advocates. And I have no difficulty in
declaring, that all who contemplate this fludy with candid and unbiafTed
minds, will foon be convinced of the high and important advantages to
be derived from it, both in temporal and eternal affairs.
Many, who had been in the habit of regarding Elementary Philofophy
as a fable or a farce, have, in very recent letters, exprefTed no fmall de-
gree of pleafure to find, that the principles of this fcience, which were
formerly held in fuch high veneration by the learned, are once more re-
vived and explained, and fitted to reafon under fuch examples as the
fenfes cannot eafily miflake. Indeed it is moft certain that they won-
derfully agree with the very nature of things, and correfpond with their
accidental efFedts ; and, fince their caufes and efFe<5ls flow by influx from
the celeftial bodies, and thus influence the ambient, the fcience claims
pre-eminence over its twin-fifler AJlronomy, which every one admires
and approves. Yet x\flronomy, divefled of this fpcculation, and regard-
ed only as the explication of celeftial phenomena, is like a cabinet with-
out a jewel ; but, when united to elementary philofophy, it is replete
with ufeful inftrudion, and conduces to the falutary purpofe of making
mankind wifer, happier, and better.
7 The
PREFACE.
The track of Nature is a ftraight and obvious road : and yet her foot-
fleps are often (o fecretly conduced, that great perfpicuity is requifite
to purfue her with efFe^. The mind of man is unqueftionably too
much clouded wholly to comprehend the immenfe fabric of an all-wife
and infinite Archite6t ; and he might as well attempt to empty with a
cup the immenfe waters of the deep, which are only as a fingle drop
compared with the Omnipotence of the Creator, as to attempt to meafure,
by the utmofl ftretch of human capacity, the boundlefs extent of the
furrounding heavens. Yet in things which more immediately concern
ourfelves, and our future fate and fortune, tAe permanency of empires^
and the profperity and happinefs of mankind, as the fame refult from the
natural confequences of good and evil, regulated by our choice of either
;
fo far we are qualified with ability to forefee, by contemplating the in-
flux or influences by which they are governed. Thus, from the writ-
ings of the moft eminent men in philofophy and the mathematics, im-
proved by my own laborious application and experience, I have at
length afcertained thofe powers and properties in the celeftial regions,
from whence thefe influences are conduced, and which open a door
for the difcovery of fecrets in futurity replete with wonder, deduced
from the firft and efficient properties, pafTions, motions, fympathies,
and adive qualities, of all things ; which, if reafon and truth had not
repeatedly confirmed, to the full conviflion of my fenfes, I fhould have
condemned and rejedled long ago—for reafon and truth have uniformly
guided the innumerable experiments of my laboratory, and fhall ever
influence the pen which communicates them to the world.
No. I, l/pper Tilchjield-Jlreet,
CcrvendiJJi-fquare.
AN
ILLUSTRATIO N
Of the CELESTIAL SCIENCE of
ASTROLOGY
PART THE FIRST.
SENSIBLE as I am of the rooted prejudices of the times againll the
venerable fcience of Aftrology, and fenfible alfo of the reproach and
obloquy that will be levelled againft me by men of obflinate and dog-
matical principles; 1 (hall neverthclefs venture,upoii the bafis of Truth
and Experience, to make this feeble effort towards reftoring a com-
petent knowledge of that comprehenfive fcience, which in all ages of the
world was deenrsed the chief ornament of fociety, and the diftinguifhed
excellence of enlis^htened minds. How much, therefore, is it to be la-
mented that the cultivation of it is become obfolete and unfafliionable :
and that, owing to the violent difturbances at the clofe of the feventeenth
century—to the want of recent information on the fubjeft, and to the
too-refined notions of modern philolophers, its congenial rays iiave
been fo long withheld from fhedding their divine light upon thefe
kingdoms
!
That an Aftrology in the heavens does really exift, and was ordained
of God from the beginning of the world, for the immediate information
and direftion of his creatures here below, is obvioully and niconteftibly
proved from various parts of thofe lacred Books which contain the uner-
ring word of God, and the perfedt rule of faith for every good and I'ober
Chriftian.—To revive the gloomy days of luperflition, or to impole upon
the untaught multitude precepts of ignorance, is no part of the Author's
defign. — His aim is, to remove the mote from the eyes of prejudiced
men; and by juft reafoning and fair argument, founded on the principles
of religion and morality, to (how them that God is a God of order, and
created nothing in vaui ;
—that he framed the world by number, weight,
and meafure, and fixed the whole fyftem of heavenly and earthly things
upon {o perfiid and immutable a plan, that the whole doth work harmo-
No. I. B nioufly
,^ AN ILLUSTRATION
nlouflv and fvmpathetically together, fo as to anfwer all the various pur-
pofes for which they were fiift ordained ; —that fuperiors do uniformly rule
inferiors; and that celeftial bodies I'enfibly aft upon and influence all
earthly fubftances, whether animal, vegetable, or mineral ; not by chance
or accident, but by a regular inherent cauie, implanted in them from the
beo^Lnning by the omnipotence of God.
It is a maxim with perfons of a contumacious turn of mind, to confider
every thing as impoflible that does not immediately fall within the com-
pafs of their own ideas ; forgetting that the operations of Nature arc
as unfearchable as they are curious, and that the ways of God furpafi all
human comprehenlion ! —and fo warped are they from every fentiment
of liberality, that thofe who dlfcover a willingnefs to receive inflrudion,
or who differ from them in opinion, are doomed to ridicule and Icorn.
But, to fhow how reprehenfible fuch condu6t is, we need only refle6l on
the unbelieving St. Thomas, and the pointed exclamation of our Saviour
upon that occafion. Men of this untoward difpoiition will take up my ,
book from the impulfe of curiofity, till, recolle61:ing themfelves, they
will tofs it with contempt into fome obfcure corner, and upbraid its
author perhaps in terms not the moft liberal or pleafing. And yet I am
bold to (iiy, that even fiich perfons, invulnerable as they may be to the
force of rcafon, might foon be convinced of the purity and excellence
of this Science, would they but for a time diveft themfelves of prejudice,
and impartially weigh the evidence brought in its fupport.—Nay, I have
reafon to believe, that, how much foever they appear externally to con-
demn Aftrology, they iieverthelefs feel in their own mind, and vainly
attempt to ftifle, an internal conviction of its abfolute exiftence. Would
they but wifely cultivate this internal evidence, and put on the folid rea-
foning of difpaffionate men, the order of nature would then unfold it-
felf to their view, and the {lupendous works of Creation captivate their
fenfes ; till, emulous of attaining the mofl: exalted knowledge, they
would feek the vaft: extent of fpace, and find the whole canopy of hea-
ven expanded for their contemplation. And thus, familiarized in the
wonderful properties of heavenly and earthly things, they would no
longer confider Aftrology as the parent of wicked compaft and infatua-
tion, or the child of impofture ; but would be fenfible it contains the bal-
famic nutriment of Truth and VVifdom.
Thofe who deny the influence of Aftrology, have furely never con-
templated the myfleries of their own exigence, nor the common occur-
rences that are infeparable from it, many of which are inexplicable
when abftraftedly confidered, and only ceafe to ftrike us with wonder
2 becaufe
OF ASTROLOGY. i^
becaufe they are obvious and familiar to our fenfes. If we recoUecl:
that the moll: trivial incident in nature cannot come to pafs without a
caufe ; and that thefe caufes are inceflantly giving birth to a new fate,
which at one time brings us comfort and at another overwhelms us
with misfortunes ; that to-day gives us the full enjoyment of our
wifhes, and to-morrow confounds every imagination of our hearts ; it
is ftrange we (hould deny that fuch caules exift, when every hour's expe-
perience confirms the faft, by the good or ill fuccefs that conftantly at-
tends all human purfuits. To illufhrate this obfervation more fully,
let us attentively confider the ll:upendous frame or model of Nature, as
laid down in the holy Scriptures, and endeavour to deduce therefrom
the fubordinate dependence of one part upon another, from the interior
heavens to the minuted iubftance upon earth. Hence we may poflibly
difcover the origin of thele caufes, and prove that Aftrology does not
exift in imagination only.
The fubflance of this great and glorious frame, v/hich the Almighty
created, we call the world ; and the world confifts of the heaven and the
earth. Gen. i. i. The model of it is, as the prophet Ezekiel defcribes
it, in the form of a wheel ; with many wheels within the fame, involved
one within another. Eze^. i. 15, 16. And thus we find it by mathe-
matical demonflration ; for the earth is a wheel or globe of fca and land
circumfcribed by the atmofphere, as within a great wheel, which is
globous too ; and furrounded by the heavens, as by many wheels in-
volved one within another, encircling the fun, moon, and ftars, and all
the hoft of them. The power which firfl aftuated and put thefe wheels
in perpetual motion, was the fame which called them into exiftence ;
the executioners of,whofe will are reprefented by the prophet under
the fimilitude of Jour living creatures, immeafurably endued with wif-
dom, courage, agility, and ftrength. And hence were life, and fpirit,
and power, and virtue, communicated to the heavens, and from the
heavens to the earth, and from the earth to man and beaft, and to every
plant and herb, and earthly fubftance. Hence alfo are derived the mag-
netic powers, and other wonderful properties of nature ; as, the virtues
of fympathy and antipathy, the invifible effeds of attradlion and repul-
fion, and all the various influences of the ftars and planets.
The proper agents of this noble ftrudure are angels and men ; the
one compofed of a pure ethereal fpirit, and incorruptible; the other, in
his primary flate lefs pure, but incorruptible alfo until his fall, which
brought upon himfelf and offspring mortality and death. The angels
are either good or bad, and ultimately know their reward or doom
;
but
,6 AN ILLUSTRATION
but the works of fallen man are yet upon the anvil, and time with us is
ftill croing on. But man is now endued, as in his primary ftate, with the
ao-ency of z. free-'will, and hath good and evil, for a teftof his obedience,
continually let before him, with freedom to choofe either. And thus,
unconftrained either by the immediate hand of God, or by the opera-
tion of the planets as fecond caules, iome embrace life, and others feek
condemnation ; and hence follow virtue and vice, prosperity and adver-
fity, ficknefs and health, life and death, and all the viciflitudes of for-
tune. And, though the rife and fall of empires proceed from the vir-
tues and vices of thofe men who govern and inhabit them ; and thefe
virtues and vices proceed from the free-will or agency of thofe men ;
and though the incidents good and bad of one man's life are innumcra-
ble, and the men who are the fubjefts of thole incidents in one lingle
age are innumerable alio ; and though the ages of men, fince the crea-
tion of the world, are innumerable too ;
—yet have all thefe multiplied
incidents, whether trivial or important, come to pafs by a regvilar courfe
or concatenation of caules, originally implanted in the wheels or frame
of nature. And with fuch minute perfedion was this flupendous frame
confl;ru6ted, that neither the fall of man, nor the tremendous fhock which
agitated the world upon that affliding occafion ; not all the wickednefs
of mankind in after-ages, nor the del'olations which have rent the earth
in confequence thereof; have yet impaired the wheels of this aftonilhing
machine, or for a moment impeded its conftant and unceafing motion.
And luch was the amazing forefight and providence of God, that per-
ceiving, at one view, all the events of futurity, the turnings and wind-
ings of every man's will, and the total lum and uplhot of all virtue and
vice, he at once contrived the fates of profperity and adverfity, of re-
wards and punilhments, fo to come up, as precifely to anfwer the vir-
tues and prayers of the righteous, and the vices and profanenefs of the
wicked, in all ages of the world, at their fit and appointed leafons.
Now all mankind have each of them, more or lefs, a certain fliareof
wifdom, power, or wealth, wherewith they occupy in this life, and carry
forward ail their undertakings. Thus we fee fome men, by means of
riches, courage, or contrivance, grow mighty, and purpofe as if nothing
could impede the full accomplilhment of their defigns ; and yet we find
there are two things which confound the wifefV, and greateft, and proudeft,
of them all, in the very fummit of their glory ; —thefe are. Time and
Chance—two mighty lords upon earth, which bring to pafs many ftrange
and marvellous events. Time is that motion of fpace which proceeded
out of eternity when the world began, and holdeth on unto eternity which
is to fucceed at the world's end. Out of this one long time are engen-
dered
OF ASTROLOGY. 17
dered infinite fpaces of time, of a great variety of forts ; and thefe are
either general or fpecial, and each of them either fortunate or unfortu-
nate. There is a time for every purpofe under heaven ; a time of plea-
fure, and another time of pain and grief ; a time to rife, and a time to fall
;
a time to be born, and a time to die * There is a certain lucky time in
man's life, wherein if he go out to battle, though with but few men, yet
he carrieth the vidory ; and there is another time wherein, though he go
out with ever fo complete an army, yet fhall he gain nothing but dif-
grace.-|- So alfo there is a time when overtures of marriage fhall be
fuccefsful, but a man's defires anfwer not ; and again there is a time
when the defires of marriage (hall ftrongly urge, and all overtures prove
inefFedual ; but there is a time alfo when defires and overtures fhall
exa6tly correfpond, and fuit together. In like manner there is a time
when profperity and riches fhall offer ttiemfelves and be attained, whe-
ther a man fleep or wake ; and by and by, though he purfue them with
wings, yet fo unlucky a time occurs, that all his endeavours become
fruitlefs. Some men come into the world in a lucky hour, {o that, let
them be wife or foolifh, they fhall be buoyed up on the wings of fate
in all matters of wealth or honour, and fucceed in all that they take to ;
while wifcr and better men, fmitten with an unlucky time of birth,
fhall be as undefervedly difparaged, and all their undertakings fhall
prove unfuccefsful and unhappy. Some fhall be lucky in the van of
their enterprifes, and as unfortunate in the rear, and others again con-
trariwife. And thus time feems to mock and fport with the men of
this life, and to advance and counteraft, all their Ikill and contrivances,
even to a degree infinitely beyond whatever we could reafonably con-
ceive or expeft. And yet time of itfelf is but a dead thing and a mere in-
flrument ; but the wheels of the heavens, turning upon it, imprint rid-
dles in its face, and carve and cut out the various fhapes of profperity
and adverfity upon the minutefl portion thereof. And wonderful it is to
obferve, that a child, the moment it draws breath, becomes time-fmitten
by the face of heaven, and receives an imprefTion from the flars therein,
which, taking rife from the afcendant, fun, moon, and other principal
fignificators, operate as the imprefTors fland, and point out, as with the
finger of God, the caufes whence the fate and fortune of the new-boru
infant proceed ; and, whether it comes before or at its full time, or in
what part of the world foevcr it is born, it matters not; for, as the na-
ture of the fignificators are that afcend upon the horizon at the birth,
fuch fhall certainly be the fortune of the native.j This is a truth that
See Eccl. iii. i. 2, &c. f Chap. ix. 1 1.
X This aOonifhing property of nature will be illuftrated more at lar^e, in its proper place, and
the reader enabled, by plain and obvious rules, to make the experiment upon himfdf, upon his own
'
family, or upon any other fubjeft he may think proper. The event of his own obfcrvanon will
confirm the fad, and afford him an inexhauftible fund of moral and religious contemplation 1
No. I. C ^V.Il
,8 AN ILLUSTRATION
will bear the moft minute inquiry, and will be found the ordination of
an all-wife and indulgent Providence, for the fpeculation and iniprove-
ment of his creature man. And thefe fignificators reprefent, as it were,
a ferics of curious knots, which untie by courfe ; and, as every knot un-
ties, different times feem to fly out, and perform their errands ; and of
thefe, fometimes we may obferve two, or three, or more, lucky knots
opening together, and at other times as many that are inaufpicious.
Yet all limes are beautiful in their feafons, if men could hit them ; but,
through the malignity of fin, and an intemperate purfuit of worldly
pleafures, we often lofe the favourable time afforded us, of embracing
the moft fubftantial happinefs.
The (econd great lord over human inventions, is Chance. And thefe
chances proceed from a great variety of rare and fecret operations of
heaven, which throw in the way of men thofe ftrange and fortuitous
turns of fortune, that lurpafs all human forefight or conception. And
yet there is really no fuch thing as chance in nature ; but all thofe
curious hits, that ftrike in between the caufe and its efFed, we call
chances, as beft fuiting human ideas, becaufe of the undefcribable pro-
perties of them. For, in fhuffling a pack of cards, or in cafting the dice,
it feems to us a mere chance what caft fhould happen uppermoft, or
what card will go to the bottom of the pack ; and yet it is evident, by
experience, that there is a certain courfe in nature, which prefides over
all thefe adventures, fo that a man fhall either win or lofe in a metho-
dical courfe. It alfo happens in the time of battle, and in every purfuit
after wealth and honour, that chances fall in upon us, and turn the fcale
by a fecret kind of fate, beyond all that could reafonably have been ex-
pcfted; and thus heaven breathes into all human aftions an infinity of
thefe chances, that overturn the wifdom, and power, and all the great-
nefs, of man. Thefe chances are uniformly managed by a certain kind
of luck, either good or bad, which drives the nail ; and this by fome
heavenly influence, that infufes a fecret virtue or poifon into our a6lions,
as courage into their hearts on one fide, or difmay on the other; and
flcill into fome men's heads to purfue the right courfe to be rich, or folly
into others, whereby they run headlong to mifery and want ; or eife
fortunateth or infortunateth by miftake of words, fignals, or ads, that
turn to the beft or worft advantage, by ftrange hits or mifcarriages ; and
thus It happens that a flight miftake in battle begets an utter rout, after
a victory made almoft complete, by the mere utterance of a wrong word, ,
or fteenng an improper courfe. But, which way foever it happens, the
whole matter is wrought by a good or ill luck, and the hand of God is
at the bottom of it ; not by any new-contrived a6t, but by the fame
regular courle of nature ordained from the beginning of the world.
7 Thus
OF ASTROLOGY. 19
Thus both Time and Chance are the fervants of Nature, under whofe
commands they fway the world, and worldly men ; but by her laws are
both of them difpofed. Time meafures out the extent of men's lives,
and fets bounds how long they may live by ftrength of Nature, and
how much of that time Ihall be extenuated by means of fin ; and it alio
carves out limits to the particular fates of all mankind ; and Chance
a61s in obfervance of thoie limits, and brings about the good and bad
fuccefs of every fate. And thus, by the fervice of Time and Chance,
Nature performs all her great and iecret operations, whether upon col-
lective bodies, or places, or perfons. It may be. thought ftrange that
Nature Ihould bring forth men and women at a great diftance of years,
hours, and places, all deftined to die at one time, and by the fame man-
ner of death, either by war, plague, peftilence, or fhipwreck ; and that
time and chance (hould pick them up, and draw them together, from a
variety of different purluits, to partake at lafl: in one and the fame de-
fl:ru6live fate. Yet this is no more ftrange than true ; for thefe things
frequently happen, and that by the imperceptible influences of thofe
heavenly afpe6ls and ftars, which in their courfes fought againji Sifera.^
And by the fame rule, as many men, women, and children,' are, on the
other hand, gathered together by a fimilar force and virtue, to enjoy
great and good fortune.
Some perhaps will contend, that thefe operations of nature are incom-
patible with the free agency of man's will. But, if what has already
been premifed be attentively confidered, this fuppofition will imme-
diately vanifh ; for God, who ordained the courfe of nature, certainly
forefaw the minutefl: turn of every man's will, and eventually contrived
his fate to correfpond therewith, fo as to admit its free and uncontroled
choice. And whoever denies this antecedent principle, or prefcience of
God in the conftrudlion of the world, denies one of his moft eflential
attributes. The will of man, without doubt, in a variety of inftances,
makes great ftruggles and wrefilings with the ftarry influences, both in
good and in evil purfuits, and often prevails over them exceedingly; for,
though a perfon be born under Ibch benevolent or malignant afpeds,
as Ihall point out his natural temper and difpolition, and indicate the
diftinguifhing marks of his life ; yet does it depend entirely upon the
free uncontroled will of that man, whether all thofe circumftances, fo
pointed out in his nativity, (hall come to pafs, or not ; becaufe the free
will in every man, when fortified by habits of virtue and wifdom, often
enable him to over-rule thofe evil afpeds, fo as to avoid the commif-
fion of any criminal offence, and to guard him againft the misfortunes or
* Judg. V. 2Q.
lofles
20 AN ILLUSTRATION
lofles impending over iiim ; w hile men of a profligate and carelefs
habit hot only lofe the advantages of a promifing nativity, but, if
born under malevolent afpedts, are often reduced to the lafl: ftage of
diilrefs, and perifh under the very fame flrokes of nature, which wifer
and better men, born in the fame inaufpicious moments, have endured
with much eafe. And thus far fapiens dominabitur ajlries, " the wife
man," above the fool, " may rule his ftars." But we muft not forget,
that under thefe operations of fate, there are many influences fo power-
ful, that no wifdom of man can oppofe. Such are the fatal wounds of
death when nature's glafs is run out, and fuch the violent blows of
excruciating pain and ficknefs, and the high tides of profperity and
adverfity ; in ail which cafes, we find by experience, nfira regunt
homines, " the ftars rule and overpower men." Yet, neverthelefs, fuch
is the infinite prefcience and providence of God, that, forefeeing the
defires and deferts of all wife and holy men in their different ages and
times, he alfo laid their fates fuiting to their adions. He Torefaw
Jofeph's prayers and tears in his captivity, and accordingly provided
hs advance in nature to correfpond therewith.* He forefaw Hannah's
failing, and carneft prayer ; and ordained her opening womb to bud
forth in courfe of nature exaftly anfwering thereto.-j- So that the
wifdom and will of man has its full free work, without reftraint or
control ; and grace and virtue a6l by their own principles, as they
are led by the Holy Ghoft ; and yet nature, as it was contrived from
all eternity, adts freely too. This is the do(5lrine we are taught by the
word of God, which is confirmed by the evidence of our own reafon
and experience.
Now the fcience which we call Aftrology, is nothing more than the
ftudy or inveftigation of this frame or model of nature, with all its admi-
rable produftions and effe6ls ; whereby we acquire a knowledge of the fe-
cret virtues of the heavens, and the (hining luminaries therein contained.
It is a fcience which all may attain to, by common diligence and applica-
tion ; and, the more we delight in it, the more readily do we forefee the
motions of future events, and the curiofities of chance and natural acci-
dents, and the courfes of luck by which both are governed, and the order
of fate, unto which all of them are fubfervient; together with all the
moft curious ads of attrading and expelling, allurmg and threatening,
encouraging and diftieartening, and all fuch-like operations of nature,
moft fecretly and imperceptibly performed, beyond the reach of ima-
gination. And, as by a (kill in this ftudy we attain to fee and experience
things that are paft, fo by the fame ikill we attain to a knowledge of
things which are to come; and, by knowing the time of our birth, are
• See Gciu xxxvii. and xli. 40. Pfal. cv. 18, 19, 20. t Sam. i. 10, 11, &c.
enabled
OF ASTROLOGY. 21
enabled to read in the heavens the ftory of our whole lives, our bleffings
and crofTes, honour and diihonour, profperity and adverfity, ficknefs and
health, and all the years of our life, and time of our death, even as though
ue had feen them tranfafted and come to pafs in their feveral times and
feafons. For God hath affuredly given this knowledge unto the wife
man, to know the time and the judgment, and the number of our days, that
ive may be certijied hotv long we have to live * with comfort and content
;
that we may be timely prepared for all flates of profperity and adverfity,
for a long and happy life, or a calamitous and fpeedy death ; and that
we may fupport ourfelves with fortitude and refignation, in proportion
to our foreknowledge of tbefe events. And no man fo fit to foreknow
thefe, as he who is able to fay, Major furn quhm cui pojjit fortuna nocere.
But many men will not believe, that by natural means all or any of
this foreknowledge can be fairly and lawfully obtained, or that the in-
fluences attributed to the heavenly bodies have any foundation in truth.
It is therefore necefTary, before I enter upon the praiflical part of the
fcience, to bring fuch evidence in fupport of what has been already ad-
vanced, as will be found incontrovertible and decifive ; and for this pur-
pofe I mufl: refer to the teftimony of thofe facred writings which con-
tain the revelation of God ; and in which the do(fl:rine of this fcience is
fo demonftrably proved, that it will be difficult to believe the one with-
out admitting the other. Let us confider the account given by Mofes,
of the creation of the heavenly bodies. God faid, " Let there be lights
in the firmament of heaven to divide the day from the night ; the
greater light to rule the day, and the lefler light to rule the night ; and
let them be for ftgns and for feafons, and for days and years^ ] Thefe
then were the purpofes for which they were ordained, and irrevocably
fixed by their great Creator:—Firft for lights ; for, had they not a place
in the firmament, or were we deprived of their illuminating rays, we
(hould be inftantly overwhelmed with impenetrable darknefs. Secondly,
they are to divide the day from the night; airl this they never ceafe to
do; for when the fun, the greater light, is funk five degrees below our
horizon, we call it night ; for then the moon and ftars appear, and fhed
their lejfer light, and darknefs in fome degree is fpread around, and every
thing declares it to be the ftate of night ; but, when the fun, that glorious
fountain of life, light, and motion, begins to touch the eaftern verge of
the horizon, darknefs is difpelled, light begins again to dawn, and the
ftars which beautifully befpangle our hemifphere are foon obfcured by
the full blaze of day. But, as days and nights ari unequal, and never
continue at one flay, thefe celeftial luminaries diftinguifh their refpedive
• See Eccl. i. 5. Pfal. xxxix. 4, j. f Gen. i. 14, 15.
No, 2. D reigns.
•« AN ILLUSTRATION
reig:ns. '
Thirdly, they are ior figns—not to brutes, for they have not the
faculty of underrtatiding them ; nor to angels, for they coutitiually be-
hold the face of God, and obey his will in the government of the heavenly
bodies, at his pleafure. Therefore, when God faith, Let them bcforftgns^
he mufl: fpeak in reference to man, whom he formed a rational creature,
capable of diftinguifhing one fign from another, and of improving by
them. Nor are we to look upon them as mere figns, like beacons upon
a hill, or as only fetling bounds to days, months, and years ; but
we are to confider them as Jigns and tokern of thole hidden events of
futurity, which it concerns every wife and good man to know ; and which
he may always forefee, by a virtuous and iober ftudy of theie intelligent
Jigns, placed by God for that purpofe in the firmament of heaven. And
that this was the intent of them, is clearly demonftrated by the words of
our Saviour, when he foretold the deflru6iion of Jerufalem, and the final
confummation of all things. His apoftles afked him, What fhall the
Jign oi thele things be ? He replies, earthquakes, famines, and pefli-
lences ; fearful y7§-///j in the heavens, &n(\ Jigns in the Jiin, in the moon, and
in the flars.^ Such alfo was the ftgn by which the Eaflern fages difco-
vered the birth of our Saviour, and the place of his nativity: and nu-
merous other inftances may be adduced, both from facred and profane
hiftory, in fupport of this doftrine. The fourth ule of thefe celeftial lumi-
naries, is forjeajons. This is alfo obvious; for we find that heat and cold,
drought and moifturc, are all guided and governed by the heavenly bo-
dies ; and that not only fpring and autumn, and fummer and winter,
bear teflimony of it; but we have it confirmed by the evidence of our
own conftitution and feeling; for, when the weather is heavy and low-
ering, we find ourfelves dull and languid; when bright and radiant, we
are cheerful and merry; and, when unfeltled and unfeafonable, we feel
it by indifpofition and melancholy ; and this is all brought about by the
operation of thefe luminaries upon the feafons of the year, in the due
courfe of nature. The next ufe allotted them is, fifthly for (lays, and
fixtlily (ov years ; and that thefe are meafured out, and governed by them,
is every way apparent: by the fun's circuit, and the moon's energy.
—
The fun, like a flrong man, rejoices to run his race ; he rifes out of the
chambers of the eaft, and with golden rays difpels the morning cloud?,
and exales the pearly dew ; cheering and refrefhing all nature with
his prefence. Hence it is evident that thefe luminaries were not only
placed in the heavens to give light upon the earth, to govern the feafons,
and to fet bounds to time ; but alfo to communicate ftgns and tokens
to mankind, of things' to come. We fliall now confider how far it is
fcnptural, and confonant to reafon, to allow them thofe influences,
attributed to them by Aftrology,
* Luke xxi. 6, 7, 1 1, 25, &c.
That
OF ASTROLOGY. 23
That the fun, moon, and all the planets, have a diredl and obvious in-
jluence upon earthly fubftances, no man of common obfervation will pre-
tend to deny. The fun is the fountain of heat, and that heat is the
nurfe of life ; and the moon is the fountain of moifture, which tempers
the violent heat of the fun, and modifies all his operations. But the fun
and moon, and all the planets, have each of them a particular fpecific
property, according to their own innate quality, and according to the
nature of that fign, or band of ftars, under which they happen to be pofi-
ted. This is a fa6l eftabliflied by repeated obfervation and experience.
For, when the fun enters the equinoftial fign Aries, the fpring begins to
(how herfelf, and all vegetative nature, by the moon's humidity, and the
fun's temperate heat, feems to revive and flourifli, and, as it were, to rife
from the dead, whither the cold blafts of the hyemnal air had before con-
figned it. So, when his radiant beams enter the fign Taurus, they ftir
up the benign influences of the Pleiades and Hyades ; Hoedi being then
to the north, and Orion to the fouth, and Arciurus finking below the
horizon ; and their cold and tempeftuous effe61s begin to ceafe, as they
are fucceeded by thefe benevolent conftellations, which produce warm
fouthern winds, and gentle fliowers, replenifliing the earth, and caufing
vegetation. Again, when the fun rifes with the dog-ftar, we find an
influence which caufes vehemency of heat, contagion, and infirmity.
Medicaments adminiftered under this conftellation prove hard and ob-
noxious ; and we find dogs at this time are apt to run mad : the fea is
troubled without any apparent caufe, and all nature feems more or lefs
oppreffed by it ; and yet thefe efFefts are never found to be equally violent
in any two fummers, which clearly proves an influence in the ftars, as well as
in the fun. And again, though the fun keeps the fame conftanl and invari-
able courfe through the twelve figns of the zodiac, for an infinity of annual
revolutions, yet we never find the feafons and weather exadly correfpond,
which they doubtlefs would do, were it not that cold and heat, and wind
and rain, are governed by the configuration the fun has with the planets
and fixed flars ; and this alfo evidently proves the force of their influence.
It is likewife manifeft, that, whenever the planet Saturn is pafTing out of
one fign into another, the weather is more or lefs turbulent and unfettjed.
But it is not the weather only, nor the inanimate part of the creation
alone, that is afFedled by the influences of the fun, moon, and planets ;
for we find they operate upon the human fpecies, and upon all animate
nature, in every part of the world. The fun and the quality of the
heavens about the torrid zone, naturally occafion thofe men who are born
and live under it to be quite black, with fhort crifped hair, of a mean
ftature, and hot conftitution, imbibing a fierce and favage fpirit ; and
this
34 AN ILLUSTRATION
this by rcafoii of the fun's continual ftay and power in that fiery region.
It is obfervable, that the inhabitants of the Ibulh are of a better and
quicker wit, and much more ingenious and tractable ; and this is ac-
counted for by their vertical point being fituated nearer the zodiac, in
which the planets move. So likewife the inhabitants of the north are of
a ftrong body, but of rude manners and condition, becaufe their vertical
point is placed at a great diftance from the fun's courfe; and therefore
they abound with cold and moifture, and are of phlegmatic conftitution,
of a fair complexion, tall, courageous, and ingenious. Europe, being
fituated in the north-weft part of the earth, is under Mars in Aries; and,
by reafon of this planet ruling in that triplicity, its inhabitants are natu-
rally of a noble and magnanimous fpirit, given to martial exploits, and
feats of war ; of a generous mind, and courteous manners. And thus the
fun, modified by the different figns and conftellations through which he
pafles, regulates the climates, and fheds his influence upon all mankind,
leaving behind him evident marks of his government and fway. Some,
indeed, have attempted to account for the fwarthy and black complexion
of the favage race, by a variety of other plaufible conjedtures : but none
are to be relied on that do not attribute its caufe to the intenfe heat and
power of the fun in thole climates ; than which nothing can be more
confonant to reafon, fince we find, even in this country, that if we re-
main long together in the fun, in the heat of fummer, our complexions
change, and we become in a degree tanned and fwarthy.
Confpicuous as are the influences of the fun, thofe of the moon are no
lefs fo. This is evinced by a confideration of that wonderful and never-
ceafing operation of the moon upon the ocean, fo as to occafion that per-
petual flux and reflux of the fea, which we call tides. Here we fee the
waters of the vaft ocean, forgetful, as it were, of their natural refl, move
and roll in tides obfequioiis to the ftrong attradive power of the moon,
and with an increafe or diminution of force, in proportion as fhe appears
in flrength or want of afpeft. This is an influence fo univerfally ad-
mitted, and fo peculiar to that luminary, that it eftabliflies at once the
do61rine we contend for. But there are numerous other inftances of the
effefts of the moon, no lefs common than extraordinary, and perfedlly
well known. Thofe unhappy perfons who labour under a deprivation of
fenfe, are called lunatics, from luna, the moon, becaufe they have their fits
more violent and terrible, in proportion as the moon increafes in light and
motion ; and in all chronic and acute difeafes, her power and influence are
vifibly and forcibly felt. Indeed, every fubjeft of the creation is more or
lefs afFedled by the moon's energy ; the eyes of cats arc obferved to fwell
or fall at the full and change of the moon ; and even the (hell-fifh at the
bottom
OF ASTROLOGY. 25
bottom of the ocean are known to feel the weight of her influence.
Thofe who fleep in the fields, or in any place expoied to the open air, by
moon-light, find their heads opprefled with water, and their,fenfes inert
and heavy ; and butcher's meat hung up, and expofed to the moon-light,
will foon putrefy. The gardener alfo brings us abundant teflimonies of
the influence of the moon upon the vegetable world. If peafe are fown
in the increafe of the moon, they never ceafe blooming ; and, if fruits and
herbs are fet in the wane, experience fhows they are neither fo rich in
flavour, nor fo ftrong and healthy, as when planted during her increafe;
fo vines, becaufe they (hoiild not fpread too fail, are ufually pruned in
the wane. It is alfo remarkable that a pomegranate will live only as
many years as the moon was days old when it was planted ; and, in plant-
ing fhrubs, or the like, if they are intended to (hoot up ftraight and tall,
and to take little root, they are fet when the moon is in an airy fign and
increafing in light : but contrariwife when they are to take deep root, and
to flrike downwards. And thus we may obferve flowers that are under
the moon's influence only open their bloflbms in the night; whilft thofe
which are peculiarly under the government of the fun open every morn-
ing when he begins to rife, and clofe in the evening when he finks below
the horizon. Thefe efFefls and influences of the moon are fo common,
and fo generally known, that it were almoft needlefs to repeat them here,
but for the purpofe of drawing this conclufion, that, as one planet has a
known and forcible aftion upon fublunary things, it is natural to believe
that all the others are endued iu fome degree with a fimilar force and
virtue. Indeed, moft phyficians know that the planet Saturn rules all
climadlerical years, as the Sun doth critical days, and the Moon the crifis
of all acute difeafes ; and that every feverith year Saturn comes to the
f<]uare or opposition of his place in the radix of every man's nativity; and
that, after the revolution of the Sun, he becomes the chief ruler of critical
days, and is often obferved, by his configurations with the Moon, to fet afide
the fatal criGs of thofe defperate diforders, over which the patient was not
expedled to live. From thefe phyfical reafons, we may fafely conclude that
Saturn is by nature cold and melancholy, as the Sun is hot and cheerful ; and,
being thus oppofite to the Sun in quality and effefl, fo is he in relation to
the figns and manfions of the heavens where he bears rule, and therefore
inclines always to cold, as the Sun does to heat. Hence it follows, that
when the Sun is in Aquaries, which is the proper fign of Saturn, and op-
posite to his own fign Leo, the weather inclines more to cold than to heat
;
and, at every conjundion, fquare, or oppofition, of Saturn with the two
great luminaries, we always find the weather cold, moift, and lowering,
even in the midfl: of the fummer, unlefs the rays of Jupiter or Mars inter,
pofe, in which cafe thefe efFeds are fomewhat lefs vifible. Thus, we
No. 2. E may
26 AN ILLUSTRATION
may prefume to affirm, that the influences of the fun, moon, and planets,
are eftablifhed beyond contradidtion.
But, befides thefe figniorities of the fun, moon, and planets, the fixed
fiars have alfo their principalilies in the heavens. The Lord, who gave
the fun for a light by day, gave the ordinances of the moon and fan afo
for a light by night ; and to thefe ftars hath he committed a certain rule,
ordinance, or dominion, over the day and night,* and that promifcuoufly.
Now the ftars have no vifible operation upon us, befides that little light
thev adminifler to our eves in a dark and clear nie;ht ; and that is fo
\eiy (mail, that all the ftars in heaven, without the lun and moon, are
not to be compared, in this refped, with the fmalleft wax-light ; and
this little light too is only to be had when the nights are ferene and un-
clouded. Can it then be fuppofed that God made thefe glorious bodies,
many of which are bigger than the whole earth, and move in their orbs
as fo many other worlds in the heavens, merely for a twinkle in the night,
and that only when the weather permits? Lo ! every little daify that
grows upon tlie cold ground has a iecret and infenfible virtue wrapt in its
leaves and flowers ; and have thefe celeflial bodies no influences but what
we now and then catch with our eyes, as they occafionally fparkle their
dim glances upon us? Yes, they have each of them a fecret power and
virtue, wherewith they act upon all earthly things, as well by day as by
night, and in cloudy as well as in clear weather. But, as their operations
are not performed by fenfible and palpable means, it follows that they have
a fecret and hidden way of rule, whereby the influences are imperceptibly
infuled into every concern of this life. And, as have the ftars, fo alfo
have the fun and moon, a fecret and imperceptible aftion, peculiar tp
themfelves ; for it is not the mere heat that gives life, nor the mere moift-
ure that fuflains it ; for, if that were the cafe, then might man make living
creatures artificially. It is true that heat may hatch the eggs, but all the in-
genuity of man cannot make an egg that can be hatched ; for there is a fecret
operation of the fun and moon, independent of heat and moifture, necelTary
to the produftion of life, both in vegetative and fenfitive animals. And in
thele fecret and infenhble operations, befides the //^/// that they give, con-
fifls that rule which the fun, moon, and ftars, were ordained to exercife over
all the fons of day and night ; and herein are written all thole ordinance '
of the moon and ftars, which are to be a law unto mankind, and to the
whole body of nature, fo long as the world endures, f Thus the ftars
have their natural influences, afligned to them in the frame of nature
from the beginning of the world ; and thefe influences are diffufed upon
all earthly things, as far as day and night extend their limits... And this God
• See J.remiah xxxi. 35. and Gen. i. 18. f Jeremiah xxxi. 3;, 36.
himfelf
OF ASTROLOGY. ay
himfelf confirms, when he fays to Job, «* Canft thou bind the fweet
influences of Pleiades^ or loofe the bands of Orion ? Canft thou bring
forth Mazzaroth inhisfeafon; or canft lho\i guide hv&.'dXMS with his fons?"*
Whence it is evident that the ftars called the Pleiades have their ordinances,
that is, t\\e.\T fweet influences, which no power of man is able to reftrain.
And the ftars of the Orion have their ordinances, and binding faculty, by
fhowers in fumnner, and froft in winter, bringing fuch an hard and tough
coat of armour upon the ground, as all the contrivances of man are not
able to prevent. Thus Mazzaroth, and Ardurns with his fons, -f
have
alfo their ordinances, and the whole hoft of heaven have their courfe ; by
which the purpofes of God, and all the events of this life, are uniformly
brought to pais.
To this purpofe it is faid, by Deborah the prophetefs, That the flars of
heaven, in their courfes, fought againft Sifera; % not by fword or fpear, nor
by thunder and lightning; but by thofe fatal and malevolent influences,
wherewith Silera and his hoft were marked from their cradle, and drawn
together by the operation of lime and chance, to partake in one common
deftrudion in the fame day. And to this effe6l the Almighty difcourfes
with Job, concerning the treafures of the fnow and hail, which he has hid
againfi the time of trouble, and the day of war and battle.^ Now what can
we luppofe the meaning of this hiding to be, but the order of thofe me-
teors, lo curioufly lodged within the arras of the ftars, and withheld by
their influences, that they may fall, by due courfe of nature, at fuch exadl
periods, as to effed the punifliment of the wicked, and of God's declared
enemies, fuch as was Sifera, at the precife time when their abominations
call forth the judgments of an injured and incenfed Deity? And after the
fame manner the light and heat, the wind and rain, the thunder and
lightning, the froft and dew, are all of them fo admirably contrived in
the pofition of the heavens, that they come to pafs in their due and ap-
pointed feafons, and make the grafs to grozv even in the wildernefs, where
no man dwells. \\
Now it muft be obvious to the meaneft underftanding,
that, if thefe things were regulated by a virtue immediately ifluing frona
the bofom of the Deity, then would the light and heat, the wind and
rain, and all the reft of them, fall only where men and beafts dwell, who
jnay fee and enjoy the blefllngs of them, and adore and glorify Him who
fends them ; but, fince they fall equally where neither man nor living
creature is to be found, it follows, that they fall by virtue of ineansy and
that in a continued courfe, wherever thofe means lead them, making the
v>t
* Jobxxxviii. 31, 32, 33. f See Argol. Aftr. ante Ephem. lib. ii. cap. 8. Stellae tempeftuofc
funt Orion, Arifturus, &c. pluriofe Pleiades. J Judges v. 20. § Job xxxviii. *i, 23, 24, 25, &c.
K Job xxxviii. 26, 27. ^- ;
-
earth
i9 AN ILLUSTRATION
earth fertile and productive where eaters are not to be found as well as
where they are.
Thus far both Scripture and Reafon unite, in confirming our belief of
the Oarry influence ; but, there are fo many other proofs of it, in the or-
dinary produdions of nature, that it would be highly unpardonable were
I to pafs them over in filence. The loadflone, affords us one very ftriking
example, by its attradtive and repulfive faculty, and by the magnetic vir-
tue it has a power of communicating to other diftinft bodies. Thus we
lee a needle, only touched with a loadftone, and placed in the compafs,
will conftaiitly point towards the north pole, and, though it be ever fo
far diftant, or though rocks and mountains, or even the earth's body, in-
tervene, yet it retains this dire<51ive property in fo extraordinary a degree,
that it will continue precifely in the fame diredlion, unlefs violence be
ufed to prevent it; and, even after it has been removed by force, it will
of itfelf return to its former fituation, without the leaft fenfible difference.
The properties of the loadfione in many other refpecfts are fo very inex-
plicable, that the experiments of our mofl: celebrated modern mathema-
ticians have not been able to afford us a fatisfadory definition of them.
Ibis however is certain, that it could not pofhbly imbibe thefe miracu-
lous properties without the aid of fome celeftial matter, which is com-
municated to it by the influence of the pole-ftar, or fome other of the
heavenly bodies within the polar circles, from whence it is manifefl: the
loadftone receives thefe fecret and admirable qualities. Another aflo-
nifliing effedl of this influence may be obferved in the natural produdion
of life and motion ; how it flarts up and grows, and continues in the
lap of heat and raoiffure, proportionably conjoined, and perfe6l in all its
parts, beyond the utmoft of our comprehenfion whence it comes, or
which way it is maintained, unlefs by the operation of this fecret and
invisible influence. And if this be denied, I would wifh to aflc, Whence
the rofe, furrounded by ill-fcented weeds and thirties, derives its fragrant
fmell? or how the plantane, by the path-way fide, acquires its admirable
virtue of healing fores? or which way the lily, ftanding up to its middle
ai mud and mire, receives its coat of many colours, fo beautifully wrought,
as many times wc fee it is? or bow a grain of wheat, thrown into the
cold earth, putreifies and dies,* and then ftarts up into new life, and mul-
tiples Mito an car of thirty or forty grains for one ? Or tell mc how the
matter ju an egg, by the lilting of the hen, is ia a few weeks animated,
and converted nito a chicken, that will eat, and walk, and chirp, the mo-
ment It emerges from the fliell? or by what means the feed in the womb.
Without any art, or fkill, or knowledge, of the mother, coagulates, and
* St. John xxl'. 24.
turns
OF ASTROLOGY. 29
turns into flefli and blood, receives life, and is Co admirably formed into
a perfed child, that learns to fpeak and to eat ? You will fay, perhaps,
That this is the immediate workmanfhip and efFeft of God. But this
we already know ; the only queftion is, how he does it ; whether by
means, or without ? If without means, then every child that is born, and
every feed that grows out of the ground, mufl: of neceflity come to pafs
by a new creation ; for to bring things into exiftence without means, is
the fame as to produce them without matter ; which yet requires no more
but for the Almighty to fay, Let there be men, or, I^et there be leaves
and flowers; and, as the Word fays, they come to pafs. But we are
certain there never was more than one creation, which was at the begin-
ning of the world, and ever fince that time all things have come to pafs
by a regular courfe of nature ; and hence it follows that there muft be a
natural and efficient means for the produftion of all things. And, if fo,
then muft thefe things come to pafs by an earthly means alone, or elfe by
the aid and afliftance of fome celeftial influence. But by an earthly means
alone, it is evident, they cannot come to pafs; for we know experimen-
tally, that neither fire, earth, air, nor water, can of themfelves infufe
into the rofe its grateful and fragrant fmell ; it muft therefore proceed
from the agency of fome fpiritual or material fubftance, far fuperior
in efficacy and virtue to any earthly element. If it proceeds from a fpi-
ritual fubftance, it is effefted either by the angels, or by the foul of the
world. But by the angels we know it cannot be ; for they have their pe-
culiar offices allotted them in another way ; and, though they are fubje6ts
of the world, yet are they no part of the great frame of nature, from
whence all things in their order are formed. And, if it be efFe6led by the
foul of the world, then certainly mufl: there be fuch a foul fomevvhere ex-
ifliing, which at prefent is a matter in difpute among the learned; and
this foul mufl: have a fpecial feat in the world worthy of itfelf, from whence
it may inform and a6tuate every minute particle of the creation. If this
be admitted, then it undoubtedly dwells among the celeflial matter, and
from thence fupplies the earth, through the medium of the heavenly bo-
dies, with all that power and virtue, which brings to pafs that variety of
fhape, colour, fmell, life, and increafe, which we daily fee come to pafs.
But if this hypothefis be denied, and it is infifted that the earth is fupplied
with all her fecret virtues by fome fupernatural material fubftance ; then
name any one thing befides the heavenly matter, and the flars o^ hea-
ven, that can be fuppofed to form that fubftance, and the argument
ceafes ; for either way it proves an influence and an ajlrology in the hea-
vens, beyond contradiflion ; and there will remain only one queftion to
be decided, which is. Whether the celeftial influences create the fucceffiou
of earthly things by an immediate power from God, or whether there exifts
No. 2. F a ge-
30 AN ILLUSTRATION
a c^eueral foul in the world, through the means of which they come to
pafs in a due order and courfe of nature? Utrum horum mavis accipe : I
contend for no more. " In the beginning God created the heaven and
the earth ; and the earth was without form, and void, and darknefs was
upon the face of the deep, and the fpirit of God moved upon the face of
the waters."* Here, when there was nothing but earth and water, and
darknefs overfpread all, the ^/nV o/'Go^ maintained that chaotic mafs,
and managed the earth by the water, and the water and darknefs by
himfelf. But now both the earth and water are under the face of heaven,
and the light is upon this heaven, and the fpirit of God moveth upon the
face of the heavens in that light; and, as he adluates the earth and the
waters by the heavens, fo doth he adluate the heavens by hwifef. And
agreeably to this idea fpeaks the prophet Hofea, when he fays, God will
hear the heavens, and they Jliall hear the earth ; and the earth the corn and
wine and oil, and they Je%reel ; -j- wherein he (hows us, that, as man lives
by corn and wine, fo they by the earth, and the earth by the heavens; and,
if fo, then by the heavens it is that the earth receives all its efficiency and
virtue, whereby it brings forth fmell, colour, tafte, and life. Mofes
alfo tells us, that God Jliall open his good treafure the heavens, to give rain
unto the land, and to blefs all the works of our hands i^ whence it is evi-
dent that there lodges in the celeftial influences a faculty of fortunating
civil affairs, as well as of managing natural things ; and that the root of
all earthly bleflings is from heaven. Mofes fays again, that iho. fun, moon^
and flars, God hath dijiributed unto all nations under heaven : and the
Pfalmifl:, fpeaking of the fun and heavenly bodies, fays, they declare the
glory of God, and jlievj forth his handy-work ; day and night do continually
tell of them, and their voice is heard in all languages, and their words are
gone into the ends of the world. \\
By which we learn, that the heavens,
and all the flars therein, are full of fuch virtues as the whole world hath
need of; and that thefe virtues God hath lodged in the heavens, to be
dealt out for the comfort and happinefs of his creatures upon earth. His
fpirtt (faith Job) hath garnijlied the heavens ; and by the fpirit of his mouth
was the whole anny of heaven made. \
The notion, or idea, that there is one general foul adluating the whole
world, as there is one foul informing every man's body, was not only the
opinion of the Platonifls and ancient philofophers, but alfo of many
learned men in later ages: and I muft confefs, it appears very reafonable
to believe, that the world has fuch a foul. For, were there not one and
the fame general living virtue, comprehending the whole fyitem of nature,
* Gen. i. I, 2. + Hofea ii. 2 1, 2Z, § Deut. xxviii. 12. |1 Deut. iv. 19. Pfal. xix. i, 2, 3, 4.
X Job xxvi. 13.
from
OF ASTROLOGY. 31
from the exteilor circumference of the heavens to the inmoft centre <>{ the
earth, how couJd the l\mpathies and antipathies of nature pcffibly work
fuch comphances and differences as we know they do, at the amazing
diftances we fee them, and without any vifible or imaginable contadl
;
unlefs fome faculty exifts in the world, that is capable of fuflaining this
invifible correlpondency between one creature and another? Where life
*s, thefe things are eafily effeded ; as the child in the womb is nounlhed
by the food the mother eats ; but in the inanimate part of the creation,
•we are at a lofs which way to account for it. Now, admitting that there
really is fuch an univerfal foul exifling, yet is it queftionable whether
this foul be mUl/edfual, or xncrely vegetive. That there is an intelle£iual
power informing the whole world, as the foul does the body, is not to be
doubted; for otherwife the whole frame of nature would be inert and
motionlefs; but then, if ve admit the foul of the world to carry this
intelleQ in its own brain, it will follow, that this foul is a God ; for an
intelle61ual being, filling heaven and earth with its prefence, is an attri-
bute of God.* Hence I conclude there is an univerfal foul in the
world, but that it is only vegetive, and not intelleBual ; ?^^^ that in this
foul dwells the fpirit of Alni%bty God, who filleth the heavens and the
earth with his prefence, and from hence garnifheth the heavens, and
caufeth the precious influences of the fun, moon, and flars, to be diflri-
buted into all parts of the world. -j- And thus God rules immediately in
the heavens, but rules the world mediately by the heavens. It is true,
indeed, that God is equally well able to govern and maintain the world
without means, as he was at firfl to conflitute and create the frame of na-
ture ; but fuch is His divine will and pleafure, that he has thought fit to
bring all things to pafs by virtue of means, as ordained from the begin-
ning of the world. It is a common and true maxim, that God and nature
have made nothing in vain ; and yet it is as true, that grafs and herbs
grow where no creatures live to eat them, § Now, were the world go-
verned by God's immediate prefence only, then would the produdtion of
this grafs and herb be a work in vain ; becaufe God's word brings forth
all things at pleafure ; and, having a power of increafing or diminifhing
its operation in a moment, would certainly not have brought forth this
fertility in an uninhabited and defolate country. But nature, running
her courle by a conftant and unchangeable decree, has no power to ceafe
her work without a miracle ; and therefore, though the grafs may grow
in vain, yet nature's operations are not in vain, fince by one and the fame
caufe it produces vegetation in all parts of the world.
* See Jer. xxiii. 43, 24, 25. f See ASs xvii. a8 ; Job xxvi. 13 ; and Deut. iv. 10.
§ See Job xxxviii. 26.
Knozvn
32 AN ILLUSTRATION
Known unto God are all his works, from the beginning of the world;* and
therefore it will be derogatory to the attributes of the Deity, not to be-
lieve that the minutefl: events of this world were forefeen and provided
for in the mofl: perfeft frame or model of nature, which, as we have al-
ready feeti, may be compared to the conftrudtion of a watch, confiftingof
many fmall wheels, regulated by one mafter-wheel, or firft mover, which
being wound up at the creation, with the line of time, of a feemingly
infinite length, has ever fince been winding off", unto the prefent hour ;
and yet is there ftill more line upon the wheel; but how much remains,
is only in the breaft of the Almighty. And, when this line (hall be en-
tirely wound off, then will the frame of Nature find its period,f and all
fubordinate wheels will ceafe their motion. But, until that time, there
is allotted in this frame of Nature, unto every one that comes into the
world, a certain order or courfe of life, by which he runs through fick-
nefs and health, honour and difhonour, and all the occurrences of life,
from his cradle to the grave. For man is, as it were, a little world within
himfelf; and, though he ftand but as one wheel in the frame of the great
world, yet within this one there feem many thoufands of wheels, efpe-
cially in enterprifing people, which appear tu move one within another
almoft ad infinitum, till the thread turned on the outer wheel break,, or
elfe be wound off, and there they make a flop, and die. All thefe things
God, who made man at the firft, perfedtly knows, and foreknew from
the beginning of the world ; and, by this order of man's life, he perfeftly
knows all the paflages of our lives, and even the mofl fecret thoughts of
our hearts, both fleeping and waking;:}: and how one thought drives off
and brings on another, and continues fo doing till the Jail: moment of our
life, when our breath fails. Now every man being, as it were, a wheel
of the great world, it will follow that all men move in a certain frame or
wheel above themfelves, by virtue of which the mafter-wheel of every
man's life is put in motion ; and this wheel is fubordinate unto others,
and thefe alfo unto the mafter-wheel of the whole world, which is the
high and mighty wheel of heaven, wherein the fun, moon, and ftars, arc
let, to carry on the great works of nature, unto the end of time. And
hence comes the original of every man's nativity, and of all natural qua-
lities, paffions, and incidents of our lives, except the motions of our free-
will and reafon, which may be allured and inclined by the works of na-
ture, but cannot be forced by them. Now above and beyond this great
wheel of nature, there is yet another wheel, within which the heavens
themfelves are turned ;§ and herein is that great and hidden line of time,
whereby the whole world, with all its dependencies, is made to hold on
and continue its motion, unto the final end of all things; and this ftu-
• Adls XV. 1 8. f Peter iii.
% John ii. *+, 2;. § 2 Cor. xii. 2, 3, 4.
pendous
V OF ASTROLOGY. ^3
pendous wheel is God htmfelf, who draws out the line of time, ^u6 Jilting
upon the circles of the earthy he Jlretcheth out the heavens as a curtain, and
beholdeth all the inhabitants of the world as graf
shoppers under his feet ;
*
and hence he difcerns, as it were, with one view, all the world naked
befqjce him, both paflr, prefent, and to come.
''rom what has been advanced, it appears obvious that every occurrence
of our lives, and all the various produdions of nature, however ftrange
or incomprehenfible they may appear, are brought to pafs by regular
and eftablirtied means, decreed by the wifdom of God at the begin-
ning of the world ; and confequently, whatever happens by a contrary
efte61", mufl: of neceffity be produced by the immediate hand of God, and
conftitutes a miracle. Such was the cafe when the Almighty made the
fun and moon fland ftill ; and when, at the prayer of Ifaiah, he reverfed
the fun's courfe, and made it retrograde. Such alfo were the works of our
Saviour, when he raifed the dead, and gave fight to men born blind. And
fuch was the work of God, when the fea made a lane for men to pafs
through on dry ground, and when the fire had no power to burn nor to
fcorch thofe who walked in the midftof it.
-f-
Thefe miracles, it is true,
bad no immediate dependance upon the works of nature ; and yet, as
God from the beginning favv the neceffity of them, and the occafion upon
which they would be required, it is reafonable to fuppofe he fet down in
his eternal mir.d the contrivance of thefe miracles, and fo ordained them
to keep pace v,'ith the works of nature, and to come to pafs at their ap-
pointed feafons, without diflurbing or deranging that univerfal frame of
the world, out of which all natural things proceed, and from whence all
the hofl: of heaven derive their faculty of influencing earthly fubftances.
And that the heavenly bodies poflefs thefe influences, in an infinitely
powerful degree, I believe will not be denied, fince both fcripture and
reafon, as we have now feen, fubftantially prove them. The ancient
philofophers were unanimous in fubfcribing to this opinion, even with-
out the teftimony of the facred writings ; and many very learned authoi's,
in later ages, have fupported the fame dotftrine. ^ Milton gives us a very
ftriking proof of his belief of the ftarry influence, in the following paf-
fage of his Paradife Loft :
To the blank moon
Her office they prefcrib'd ; to th'other five,.
Their planetary motions and afpeds.
In Textile, fquare, and trine, and oppofite,
Oi noxious efficacy,, auA when to join
In A nod unbenign; and taught the Jix'd
* Ifaiah xl. 22, 23, &c. f See Jofii. x. 12, 13. 2 Kings xx. 11. John ix. 6, 7. and xi. 44.
Exod- xvi. 21, 22. Dan. iii. 27. &c. &c. X Preltoii's lliuftrations of Mafonry, 12th edit. p. 135.
No. 2. G Their
|4 AN ILLUSTRATION
Their influence malignant when to fhow'r;
Which of them, riHng with the fun, or falling,
Should prove tempeftuousy Sec. Paradife Loft, x. 656.
The ingenious Mr. Fergufon alfo proves, in a variety of inftances, an
efficiency and influence in the fun and moon, though he denies that any
fuch faculty exifts in the fixed ftars. And yet he has fhown, by very fatit-
faiStory obfervations, that " the fixed ftars are fo many glorious funs, with
fvflems and worlds furrounding them fimilar to our own ; and that
" the Almighty would not have placed them at fuch diftances from each
other, unlefs proper obje61s were near enough to be benefited by their
influences." Hence it follows, from his own hypothefis, that the fixed
ftars do each of them pofTefs a natural influence, homogeneal to the fun
and moon.* But to whatdifl:ance the fixed ftars, or any of the heavenly
bodies, are capable of extending thefe influences, is beyond the power of
the moft enlightened mind to determine ; lince the celeftial matter flows
through a boundlefs and unlimited fpace, and operates upon every lub-
ftance that falls within the line of its dire6tion.
And now, having made it apparent, by an union of concurrent tefti-
monies, that the fun, moon, and ftars, have their refpedive influences, and
that an Aftrology in the heavens does by confequence exift, it will be pro-
per to confider how far the ftudy of this ncble fcience is compatible with
our moral and religious obligations, and what degree of it is attainable by
the human underftanding.
That the ftudy and pradice of Aftrology is a moral purfuit becoming
fobcr and religious men, may be collefled from the cuftoms of the an-
cients in all enlightened countries; as well as from the beft and wifeft of
God's chofen people. And that our all-wife and beneficent Creator
originally implanted in the frame of nature a means whereby mankind
may attain to the knowledge of fuch future contingencies as concern their
welfare and bappineis, is in no refpeft to be doubted, fince we obferve
in the brute creation, that even the moft inconfiderable creatures upon
the earth are more or lefs endowed with a gift of foreknowledge. Thus
the induftrious bee, and laborious ant,-}- lay up a ftore in fummer, to
fupply the neceflary wants of an inclement winter, which they foreknoiv
is
• See Fergufon's Aftronomy, nth edit. Seft. 4, ;, 8, 9, 14, ly, &c.
t Of all the race of reptiles, the ant, the fpider, and the bee, appear to be endowed with the
greateft (hare of fagacity. The wildom of the ants is conrpicuous in forming ihemfeives into a
kind of republic, and therein obferving, as it were, their own peculiar laws and policies. But the
Cunning of the fpider feems to exceed that of moft other infe<£ls; its various artifices to enfnare its
prey are no lefs remarkable than its contrivances of a cell or retreat behind its web, where it feafts
upon its game in fafety, and conceals the fragments of thofe carcafes it has devoured, without expof-
ing
OF ASTROLOGY. 35
IS yet to come. The badger, the hedge- hog, and the mole, alfo provide
themfelves a magazine of plants and herbs, which they foreknow will
enable them to lie concealed in their holes, during the hard frofls of
winter, contented with their prifon, which affords them fafety. Their
holes are alfo conftru61ed with amazing art, and have generally two
apertures, that, in cafe one is befet by an enemy, they may efcape by the
other. The doublings of the hare, and the tricks of the fox, to efcape
the hounds, are alfo aftonifhing indications of forefight and fagacity.
The feathered lace are likewife endowed with a fimilar faculty, and often
foretel an approaching l1:orm a confiderable time before it appears, by re-
tiring in flocks to their holes and hiding-places for flielter and protedion.
The birds of paflage feem to inherit this gift in a moft remarkable de-
gree ; for they affemble together in prodigious flocks, at an appointed
hour, and take their leave of lis before the approach of winter, which
they forefee will deftroy the flies and other infe6ls upon which their own
life depends, as they feed upon nothing elfe. And it is no lefs extraor-
dinary than true, that thefe birds return as early as the fun brings forth
this clafs of infeds into new life ; and they have alfo the fagacity to find out
and repoffefs their former nefts and habitations.* The fame provident
forecaji, for felf-prefervation and fafety, is even extended to the innume-
rable mhabirants of the immenfe ocean, where we fee the fiflies, preflTed
by unceaGfig hunger, indilcriminately prey upon one another, the large
upon the fmall, even of its own fpecies ; whence the fmaller fifh, in re-
gular gradations, when in danger of being devoured, fly for an alylum
to the fhallow waters where they know their enemy cannot or dares not
purfue them. And this purfuit of one fpecies of fifli after another, is by
no means confined to a fingle region ; for we find fhoals of them purfu-
ing one another, from the vicinity of the pole even down to the equator;
and thus the cod, from the banks of Newfoundland, purfues the whiting,
which flies before it, even to the fouthern fhores of Spain, It is aftonifh-
ing alfo that herrings, which appear to generate towards the north of Scot-
land, regularly make their way, once a-year, to the Britilh Channel.
Their voyage is conducted with the utmoft regularity; and the time of
their departure is fixed from the month of June to AugufI:. They always
affemble together before they fet out, and no flragglers are ever found
ing to public view "the lead remains of its barbarity, which might diftinguifh its place of abode, or
create tlie leaft jealoufy in any infefts, that their enemy was near. Into what hiftory can we look, to
find people who are governed by laws equal to what we obferve in the republic of bees I What expe-
rience can we defire beyond that we obferve in the cunning Ipider, to teach us to guard againft the
artifices of thofe who lay fnares to catch the thoughtlefs and un weary ? Or what can exceed the inde-
fatigable ant in teaching us letTons of frugality and induflry ? Well might the wife man fay to the
flothful and ignorant, Go, thou Jluggard, to the ant; conftder her ways, and be wife. Prov. v. 6.
* This has been difcovered by tying certain marks to th^ir legs, or by cutting off a claw, &c.
before they emigrate. In the cnfuing fpring, if you preferve their nefts, you will find the fame birds
v.i!l inhabit thtm, or, if you deftroy them, they will rebuild in the fame place, or near it.
from
36 AN ILLUSTRATION
from the general body.* It is impoflible to aflign any caiife for this
emigration, but it doubtlefsly proceeds from the fame inftindlive im-
puHe with which all orders of animate nature are more or lefs endued.
Seeing then that the Supreme Being, in his paternal regard for the mi-
nutefi: parts of his works, has endued the loweft clafs of animals with a
gift of fore-knowledge in what immediately concerns their fafcty and
welfare; would it not be derogatory to the equal providence of God to
Ibppofe be had not ordained, in an infinitely luperior degree, a means of
communicating foreknowledge to man, whom he has gracioufly formed
in his own exprefs image and likenefs, and appointed lord over his vaft
creation?—A creature whom he hath endowed with a rational foul, ca-
pable of paying him adoration and worfhip ; and with an nnderflanding
qualified to decipher the golden charadfers he hath placed in the firma-
ment of heaven, ior Jigus of thofe hidden events of futurity which are
yet to come ? If we give the Scriptures an attentive perulal, we fhall
find a variety of pafTagcs to confirm this opinion, both in the Old and New
Teflament. And we mav siather additional evidence, that the Almighty
intended we fhould fludy rulurity, from the communications given to
Adam in Paradife bv the angel Gabriel ; as well as from the commiffion
Michael the archangel received from God, to fhow him in a vifion the
principal events of futmity, from his fall, to the birth, refurredlion, and
afcfnfion, of Chrifl.-f- And 1 think I am warranted to fay, from the
authority of our Saviour's own words, that there appears only one event
concerning the human race, which the Deity ever propofed to withhold
from their knowledge ; and that is, the time of the lall and terrible dav
of judgment. But even of this awful and fecret event, we are promifed
feme previous intimations, by figns in the fun, moon, and ftars ',\
which are the common fignificators of all inferior tranlatfions of futurity,
tor this reafon we are told to %valch, for no man knoweih the hour ivhen
thefe things JJiall come. Therefore, thole who fludy the fidereal fcience, by
their watchtulnefs of the heavenly bodies, and their capability of di (co-
vering fi;ch ilgns in the fun, moon, and ftars, whenever the tremendous
fiat fhall be palTcd, will be the firft to know that the vifitation of God is
at hand ; uhilft thofe who condemn both the fcience and its pofTcfTors,
unprepaic-d by any previous intimation, and folded in the arms of
uicautious repofe, will find the fatal hour approach like a thief in the
• See Brooks's Nat. Hift id edit, izmo vol. i. p. 15. Introd. vol. ii. p. 168. vol. iii. p. 2, 4.
vol. VI. p. 9, 20. For more modern opinio.-is upon the furj d, fee my Nat. Hift. vol. xi. p. 65, &c.
t tee Mi'ton's. Paradife Left, Books v. vi. vii. viii. xi. and xii. Ad;m, for this purpofe, is faid
to be taken up :o ihi top of a high hill hy Micha-1, v.ho addrcfT.s him in thefe lines :
Adam, afcend
Tnis hili; Itt Eve (for 1 have drench'd her eyc^)
Here fleep below, while thou inforefight wak'ft;
As once thou flepi'ft, whilft fhe to life was form*''.
X Matth. xx'v. 29, 36. Msrk xiii. 24, 25, 32. Luke xxi. 25.
night ^
\
OF ASTROLOGY. 37
night ; when petrified and motionlefs, in bitter anguifh and defpair, they
will too late repent their negligence and incredulity. I would recom-
mend a ferious and attentive, perufal of thefe fcriptures to every perlbn
who has doubts concerning the dodrine of Aftrology. It is here pointed
out, to the underflanding of the moft unlettered part of mankind, that
the great and terrible day of the Lord, the day of judgment, will mold
afluredly come. Our Saviour's difciples enquire of him, When this day
fhall be? He replies, " Of that day and hour knoweth no man, no not
the angels which are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father only:.
Watch, therefore, for in an hour when ye think not fliall thefe things
come ; for as, in the days that were before the flood, they were eating and
drinking, marrying aod giving in marriage, until the day that Noah en-
tered the ark ; and they knew not, until the flood came and took them
away ; fo alfo fhall the coming of the Son of man be. Then fliall he
fend forth his angels, and fhall gather together his ele6l from the four
winds, from the uttermoil: part of the earth to the uttermoft part of
heaven ; then fhall two be in a field, the one (hall be taken, and the
other left. Therefore be ye ready, left coming he find you fleepiiig ;
and what I fay to you, I fay unto all, watch." Mark xiii. 4, 32-37. Now
it is clear from the above, that figns of great and direful events are difco-
verable not only by the celeftial bodies, but alfo by fearful fights in the
heavens; by tremendous earthquakes; by total eclipfes of the two great
luminaries, which deprive them for a time of the power of giving light
;
and by other extraordinary phenomena, which fhould always be attended
to with reverence and awe. Thefe figns our Saviour informed his difciples
fhould precede the deftru6i:ion of Jerufalem ; and aftrologers, and other
hiftorians, have borne record of the exacSl completion of this prophecy ;
and it muft be felf-evident to every thinking mind, that the laft day will
come to pafs exactly in the way our Saviour has defcribed it.
Now if we confider Aftrology, what it truly is, a legal and virtuous
ftudy, we may eafily believe the accounts tranfmitted to us by Jofephus
and other hiftorians, concerning its antiquity and divine original. We
have already feen that Adam, previous to his expulfion from Paradife, was
inftruded in a foreknowledge of futurity, by the exprefs command of
God, as a means of enlarging his mind, and alleviating his diftrefs upon
being turned adrift into the wide world. Jofephus, an hiftorian of cha-
rai5ter and eminence, who quotes the moft ancient authors of refpeftability
for what he afferts, confirms the fame things; and further informs us, that
Adam, before his death, inftru6i:ed his fon Seth in this fcience, who after-
wards engraved the rudiments of it upon permanent pillars of ftone, which
endured through many generations, and were not entirely effaced till Ibme
time after the deluge. We have it from the fame authority, that the
art was taught by Euos and Noah, who preferved it to the days of Abra-
No, 2. H ham ;
38 AN ILLUSTRATION
ham -, and he increafed the knowledge of it by divine aids, teaching it to
the Chaldeans and Egyptians. Jofeph is alfo laid to have patronized and
taught it in Egypt ; and is fuppofed by Origen, Diodorus Siculus, and other
ancient hiftorian?, to have been the author of an aftrological work, called.
The Aphorifms of Hermes the Egyptian.* Mofes afterwards taught and
profefled it, independently of the gift of prophecy, which always came by
divine infpiration, and confequently was only exercifed upon certain ex-
traordinary occafions. From Mofes, we are told, the Prophets and Seers had
it ; and that it was afterwards particularly taught among the tribe of Ifla-
char, who are on that account lliled in the facred writings. Men who had
underjianding in the /imes,-\' and were expert at refolving all queftions con-
cerning futurity; and, as this tribe were neither priells nor levites, nor
endued with the fpirit of prophecy, it follows that their under//and/ng in the
times^ and their ability in foretelling future events, arofe entirely from an
acquired knowledge of the figns atid influences of the heavenly bodies. For
the fame reafon the Perfian aftrologers were called Mages, or wife men,
who were (killed in the times ; and the Chaldeans termed their young ftu-
dents in a ft ro logy, Menjkilled in isoifdom and cumiing fcience, to learn the
learning of the Chaldeans.\ And after the Chaldean method of ftudying the
fcience of Aflrologv, Daniel, and Shadrach, and Mefech, and Abednego,
were inftrudted by their tutor Melzar, and became ten times more learned in
all matters of zvifdom and underjianding than all the afirologers in the realm;
in confideration of which they were clefted members of the public fchools
at Babylon,§ which were founded for the ftudy of this art ; and Daniel
was made, by the king's decree, mafter over the Chaldean aftrologers. jj
•
III the days of Samuel, it appears to have been a common cuflom to go
to the Seers, or men of undcrftanding in llie times, not only to be inform-
ed concerning future contingencies, but alfo to enquire after lofl: goods.
To this effe6f we find Saul and his fervant diicourfino;, when thev were
fent out to find the flray affes of Kifh, Saul's faiher; and, not being able
to find them, the fervant propoles to go and enquire of the Seer, which way
the affes were gone, and where they may be found. Saul agrees to this,
but alks. What have we to give him ? ive have no bread left, nor have ive any
fufjicicnt prefent. The fervant replies, I have a fourth part of a Jliekel of
filver, I zviII give him that. Saul anfwers. Well faid, let us go.^ This
paflage enables us to diftinguifh between the gift of prophecy, for the
purpofes of cftablifhing God's true religion, and the art of anfwering
horary queftions, and predicting future events. The one was evidently
efi-c6fed by fupernatural means, and promulgated to the people without
• Oiig. toni. in Gen, Diod. Sic. lib. i. cap. 2. f i Chron. xii. 32. i Efth. i. 13. Dan. i. 4.
§ In fume of thcfL- fchools it is faid that Abram was taui;ht ; and that Belus, the father of Nimrod,
afterwards built the f^hool-houfe where Daniel was inibudted in this fcience. See Jjf. Ant. lib. i.
cap. 8. and Diod. Sic. lib. i. cap. S.
II
Dan i.
4, 5, II, 17, 18, 19, 20. ii. 48. v. 11. ^ i Sam. ix. 6-i-..
expenfe;
OF ASTROLOGY. 39
expenfe; whilft the other, by being calculated for the benefit of refpec-
tive individuals, was always accompanied with money or prefents. In
the fame way we find David, when in Keilah, where he heard that Saul
was coming 'to befiege him, was defnous of knowings the truth, whether
Saul was coming or not ; and, if he was, Whethtr the men of Keilah would
be true to him, or would betray him. And being informed they would
betray him into the hands of the enemy, who were feeking his life, he
fled into the wildernefs of Ziph, and efcaped the danger that was im-
pending over him. (i Sam. xxiii. 10-14.) And in the New Teflament
alfo, we have frequent confirmations of the meteorological part of this
fcience from our Saviour's own words, in his converfation with the Pha-
rifees, who were all verfed in Aftrology. He addrefTes them to this effed :
" When it is evening, ye fay, it will be fair weather, for the fky is red ;
and
in the morning, it will be foul weather, for the Iky is red and lowering.
And, when a cloud arifeth out of the weft, flraightway ye fay, A fhower
Cometh; and it is fo. And when ye fee the fouth-wind blow, ye fay.
There will be heat ; and fo it comes to pafs. Ye hypocrites, ye can difcern
the face of the Iky, but the fignsof the times ye cannot difcern." (Matth.
xvi. 2, 3. Luke xii. 54-56.) And now, if we impartially contemplate
the origin and antiquity of this fcience, and recoiled that the bed: and
wifefl men in every age of the world were profefTors of it, we muft admit
its praflice to be highly confiftent with all our moral and religious duties..
That the human underftanding is alfo capable of attaining to a very
high degree of knowledge in the hidden works of futurity, and in the
fecret operations of nature, is iikewife to be proved, beyond the power
of contradidion. Indeed, the pafTages already quoted from the holy
fcriptures, are a fufficient confirmation of it to every difpaffionate reader ;
but as there are fome very extraordinary inftances of this predidive
faculty, recorded by different hiflorians, I will juft mention a few of
them, by way of corroborating .the evidence already brought in its fup-
port. The Emperor Domitian required the profeflbr Largius Proculus
to calculate his nativity, from the luppofed time of his birth, which was
done, and delivered into the emperor's own hands. Afclatarius, a mofl
famous aftrologer of thofe times, procuring a copy of this nativity, rec-
tified it, and foretold the hour and manner of the emperor's death ; which
when Domitian heard, he commanded Afclatarius to be brought before
him, when he affirmed his predictions would prove true. Domitian afked
him if he could foretel the manner of his own death ? Afclatarius re-
plied. That he knew he fhould be torn in pieces by dogs ; but, to con-
fute the aflrologer, the emperor ordered him to be burnt alive. The
poor fellow was accordingly led for execution ; the body was bound and
laid upon the pile, and the fire kindled ; but at that inflant there arofe a
dreadful ftorm of wind and rain, which drove the fpedators away, and
extin-
40 AN ILLUSTRATION
extino-uifhed the fire ; and Alclatarius was afterwards torn in pieces by
dof^s, as he had foretold. When Latinus informed the ennperor of this
event, he was greatly mortified, and very melancholy ; and, on the day his
aflaflination had been predi6led, he feigned himfelf indifpofed, and locked
himfelf up in his chamber. Stephanus, the captain of his guard, went
to his door, pretending he had received fome important difpatches, which
he wanted to deliver to him ; but, Domitian declinii)g to admit him till
a certain hour was pad, Stephanus perfuaded him it was then much later
than the time fpecified. The emperor, in confequence, concluding the
danger to have pafTed by with the hour, or looking upon the predidion
as a mere fable, and feeing no confpiracy or danger about him, apened
the door, upon which Stephanus ftept up to him with a drawn dagger, and
ftabbuJ him to the heart, in the very hour that had been predicted by the
aftrologer, on the i8th day of September, the month he had ordered to
be called Germanicus.*- The fame writers add, that Apollonius Tya-
neus was at that inftant of time at Ephefus, (landing in the prefence of
the magiftrates, and in a kind of ecftacy cried out, O Stephanus, llrike the
tyrant ; and, after a paufe, added. It is well, *hou haft killed him. This
art of redlifying nativities was a difcovery which brought the fcience to
very ligh perfedlion, and has enabled if profeflbrs to be aftonifliingly
exa6t in predidions of confequence. Thus Lucius Tarutius Firmianus,
by the ads of Romulus's life, and the time of his death, found that he
was born in the firft year of the fecond Olympiad, the twenty-third day
of the month, about fun-rifing. And hence he difcovered that the build-
ing of Rome was begun when the Moon was in Libra, the Sun with
Mercury, and Venus in Taurus, Jupiter in Pifces, and Saturn with Mars
in Scorpio. -f-
The Archbilhop of Pifa confulted feveral different profefTors
of aflrology concerning his detliny, and they all calculated his nativity at
different times, and without any communication with one another; but
they all foretold he would be hanged. It feemed highly incredible at the
time, becaufe he was in fo much honour and power ; but the event juftified
the predidions ; for, in the fedition of Pope Sixtus IV. in the fudden
rage and uproar of the people, he was feized and hanged.^ Petrus Le-
ontius, a celebrated phyfician and aftrologer of Spoletanum, caft his own
nativity, and foretold that his death would be occafioned by water; and
many years afterwards he was found drowned in a pond, into which he
had fallen the preceding night, by miftaking his way.§ Jofephus tells us
he cafl: the nativities of Vefpafian and his fon Titus, and preciided that
they would both be emperors; and fo it turned out.|| R. Cervinus
* Vid. Sueton. in Domitian. f Vid. Peucer de Divinat. Seifb. Aftrolog- J Vid. Anna).
Florentin. § Jovius, Elog. 35
If
See many other curious particu'ars of this kind in Jofephus. As, that of Tiberiu= appointing
his fuccefibr upon augury; Antiq. xviii. 8. The whole ftory of Aj;rippa, ibid. 7,8. c-tpeci:illy
P 47.')> 5''''i of ^^^ f"''o tranflation. For the death of Antigonus foretold by Judas, !ee Ant'q. xiii.
19. and Wars, i. 3.
calculated
OF ASTROLOGY. 41
calculated the nativity of his fon Marcellus, and foretold that he fliould
come to great preferment and dignity in the church ; and, his mother
afterwards entreating him to marry one Caflandra Benna, he very refo-
lutely declined it, faying, he would not with the bands of matrimony bind
himfelf from that better fortune which the ftars had promifed him if he
continued to live fingle and unmarried. And he was afterwards really
made pope,* Picus Mirandula was a fevere writer againft Aftrology, in-
ibmuch that he was termed Flagellum Aflrologorum, the Scourge of Aftro-
logers ; and, to (lop the malignity of his pen, Lucius Bellantius, and two
other aftiologers of eminence, procured the time of his birth, and calcu-
lated his nativity, which they afterwards fent him, and with this predic-
tion inclofed, " That he would die in the thirty-third year of his age."
This exafperated him fo much, that he began to write a new tract, with
inconceivable alperity, againft the poor afirologcrs, attempting to prove
their calculations a mere bubble, and themfelves a fet of impoftors. But,
when the fatal appointed hour arrived, he Taw the folly of his own con-
ceits -, recanted his opinion, and fealed b) his death a ftanding memorial
of the inerrability and truth of this fcience.-j- Many other extraordinary,
circumftances of the kind might be related from different authors, were,
it not already fufficiently obvious that the intelledual faculties of man,
when cultivated by ftudy, and improved by obfervation and experience, are
capable of obtaining a very extenlive degree of knowledge and fkill in this
art. We will therefore difmifs this argument, and endeavour to explain
what the fubjedls are that the fcience of Aftrology naturally comprehends.
. Aftrology is compounded of aain;, /?flr, and xoyo,-, difcowfe ; and literally
implies. The doBrine of the flars ; teaching how to judge of their effects
and fecret influences, and to foretell future events by the order of their
different alpe6rs, qualities, and pofitions; and alfo how to dilcover their
energy and force upon earthly ibbftances, in the wonderful and abflrufc
operations of nature. It comprehends the moft excellent part of that
noble fcience called Phvllology, or Natural Philofophy, which is the doc-
trine of natural bodies in the conftruclion of the works of nature. The
body naturally mav be conceived either generally, as one perfed and entire
body; or fpecially, as it may be divided into two, or fubd:vided into
many thouiand component parts. This grand and perfedl body of nature
is called the Wot Id, or the whole world, which is generally confidered
• Vid. THuan- lib. 15. It is remarkable that this pre<]i£l'on was printed at Venice, and pub'lfiied
Sv Curtius Tr janus in a book of Njtivi;ie- v.ritten by Gauricu?, ujjivards of three viars b-*!ore
M^rcelius C-rvin^js was proclai.-ntd 0ope- See a very remarkable ftury in Rcques's Continuation
of Saurin's Drfltrrtotio.'is, torn. vl. p. 25^ 8 k'c-. edit. ..'•***^^
t Yaiab, (cirig of Afric?., having be^n informed by one (killed in aftrologv, that a pmicD'a.- day-
would be fatal to him, pitflfed it in prayer.' In the evening, happy that he had efcaped thT ^i-f.ger,
he ordered a magiiiiicent feaft, and died as he fat down to table.
No. 3. I as
4t AN ILLUSTRATION
as makiiTT hut one entire body; but this general body admits of many
fpecial divilions and fuhdivifions ; and is firft divided into two branches,
making one body natural called Celeftial, and another called Terrtftrial
;
and hence arife two diftind Sciences, the one termed Uranology, and the
other Geology.
Geology (from y«, the earth") is a icience treating of the natural body
called the earth, and fpeaks either generally of the whole earth, or fpe-
cially of the parts, or fome particular part, thereof; and is either Ipecu-
lativc or pra(flical. Speculative Geology confifts in the fimple invelliga-
tioii cf the earth, either in whole or in part, and of the principles and
affei^lions thereof; and to this purpofe it treats either of the common be-
ing of any earthly thing, merely as it is a being abftra6i from all mat-
ter, whether intelligible or fenfible ; and as it operates thus, it is termed
Metaphvlical or Preternatural Philofophy. But, if it difcourles of a
movable being in matter, and that as it is perfe<5}ly material, it is then
called Natural Philofophy. Or, if it fpeaks of things converfant in mat-
ter intelligible, but not lenfible, as they are the ablhads of matter, it is
named Mathematical or Abilra6l Philofophy. Of this fort of fcience the
fubjeft is Quantity, and is either continued, or difcrete. If of continued
quantity, it is called Geometry, or its fubordinate, Perfpedive ; but, if
the quantity be difcrete, it is then termed Arithmetic, or its fubordinate,
Mufic. Natural Philofophy, properly fo called, treats of terreftrial bo-
dies, either fimple or mixed. The fimple bodies confifl: of the four ele-
ments, called Fire, Air, Earth, and Water, which occupy all places,
from the utmoft and inferior bodies of the heavenly matter unto the iti-
moft centre of the earth, fo that vacuum no where exifts under the cope
of heaven. The mixed bodies are compounded of thefe four elements,
and are divided into animate and inanimate bodies. And all animate
bodies are endued either with a vegetative, fenfitive, or rational, faculty.
Now, while we 0:u6y the doctrine of this earthly body natural, the fciences
of Geography, Hiftory, and Chronology, naturally flow from it: the firft
of which delcribes the fituation and boundaries of the different parts of
the earth ; the fecond relates the hiftory of whatever has been feen or
tranfafted upon it ; and the third computes and adjufts all the different
a;ras and portions of time, from the creation of the world to the prefent
hour. And fubordinate to thefc are Topography, or a defcription of
particular places, and Chronologies of certain diftinft periods of time.
Pradical Geology is that part of Natural Philofophy which confifts in
Speculation for the profit and advantage of mankind; and leaves a track
or fruit of its operation remaining, when the act itfelf is paft and gone.
Ami this is a fort of ftudy clalTed under the denomination of Art, rather
than of Science. The fubjed of it muft be either Man himfelf, or fome
fubordinate
OF ASTROLOGY. 43
fubordinate fubftance. If Man be the fubjeft of inveftigatioii, then the
objecSt will be to teach him precepts of morality ; and this we cal!
Ethical Philofophy ; or elle to inftru6t him in the Art of Reafoiiiiig, cal-
led i^ogical Philofophy ; or in the art of Speaking, which we term Gram-
matical or Rhetorical Philofophy. But, if the fpeculation be upcn any
fubordinate fubftance, then the earth itfelf, or the productions of it, be-
come the fubjed of inveftigation. If it be the earth, then the bufinefs
we contemplate is to improve and cultivate the foil, for the increafe of
ufeful vegetation, which is called Agriculture ; but, if it be the produ6iions.
of the earth, then the Oudy mufl: be fo to prepare and manufa<5ture them,
as to render them the cflcntials of Health, Wealth, Food, or Clothing ;
or whatever elfe is conducive to the com.forts or neceffities of mankind.
And thefe are I'everally diftinguifhed by as many fignificant terms as there
are occupations or employments, by the invention and ufe of which all
thefe things are produced.
Uranology is a fcience which treats of the natural body of heaven,
after the fame manner as Geology defcribes that of the earth; and fpeaks
either generally, of the whole heaven; or fpecially, of ibme particular
or diftin6f part of it. And, as Uranology is a part of Phyfiology, fo has
it the fame principles, whether internal, as matter and form ; or exter-
nal, as the caufes efficient and final ; and thefe are principles of their
own nature, as chance and fortune are principles by accident. It hath
alfo afFe<5tions internal, as motion and refl-, and fmity and infinity ; and
the fame external, as time and place. Uranology is alfo either fpecula-
live or practical. Speculative Uranology confif^s in the fimple knowledge
of the heavens, either in whole or in part, and of their various principles
and affedions ; and to this purpofe it fpeaks of thefe things either ma-
thematically or naturally. Mathematically it treats of Aftronomy or
Uranometry, which is a fcience that points out the magnitude, meafure,
and motion, of the heavens, and of the flars therein ; and naturally, it
defines the qualities, motions, afpeds, and operations, of the heavenly
bodies, and all the apparent and infenfible influences. Pradical Ura-
nology is that fublime art, which, being once perfe<5tly known and
rightly underflood, enables a man, by his fkill in the affc6fions of the
heavens and heavenly bodies, to unbolbm the lemotefl tranfa6lions of
futurity, and to trace the myfterious and mofl obfcure operations of na-
ture to their fource; whence he defines the Innate principles and vir-'
tues of all animal, vegetable, and mineral, fubflances, and points out
their rcfpeclive ufes, for the lafl:ing profit and advantage of mankind.
Having thus fhown what the word Aftrology imports, and arranged its
component parts by the rules of fcience, it will be feen that its collateral
branches are fo extennve and multitudinous, that moil men of any
learninjf
44 AN ILLUSTRATION
learning or ingenuity at all are fome way or other converfant in Aflro-
logy, without appearing to know it. But the perverfenefs of human
nature is in this inftance moft ftrikingly vifiblc, fince it leads man-
kind to a choice of" inferior fpeculations, whilft they utterly ncglc6l
an inveftigation of thofe curious, indilcernable, inienfible, and impal-
pable, tracks of nature, vvliich open to a field of unbounded informa-
tion, calculated to reform the mind, and enlarge the underftanding ; and
to extirpate the feeds of athcifm, by leading to the moft fublime and
heavenly contemplations of a Suprenie Being. The common objedions
againft engaging in this elevated ftudy are equally abiurd and ridiculous ;
but they proceed only from thofe men who wilfully negled, or obfti-
nately perfift in a difbelief of, nature's fecret and imperceptible works;
and yet her operations arc lo manifeft, and fo often confirmed by fatal
experience, that it is aftonjfhing mankind are not more frequently awak-
ened hv them. Thus we fee a man inftantaneoufly taken off by a vio-
lent and feverifh diftemj^er, and yet no one can noflibly conceive how
or from what caufe it proceeds ; nor can the moft able phyfician, by any
depth of medical Ikill, point out its genuine caufe, lb as to ftiow that
another man under the i'ame fymptoms ftiall be feized with juft luch an-
other diforder. But look into the fick man's nativity by the rules of
Aftrology, and there you will moft apparently fee the root and caufe
of his afHidion : and hence we demonftrably prove, that it was not fo
much the efte6t of catching cold, or of any accident, which brought
on the malady, but the evil influence of fome malignant afpeiSl:, that
unperceived and unfufpedled gave the fatal blow, while a cold, or fome
trifling accident, was but the mere inftrument ; for another man ftiall
have a worfe cold, and fcarcely find himfelf the leaft feverilli, or expofed
to danger.
Thus we find Aftrology comprehends every operation that proceeds out
of the mafter-wheel or frame of nature, and furniflies us with a know-
ledge of the occult virtues of all earthly fubftances, and of the nature and
end of every particle of God's creation; and, to minds that can relifh
enjoyments fuperior to thofe of fenfe, nothing can furnifti more noble
and exalted pleafures than a contemplation and ftudy of thefe immenfe
works; while nothing furely can give greater proofs of an abjed and
contraded mind, than to be daily conver(ant with, and yet ftupidly in-
lenlible of, the amazing miracles of nature. The fun, moon, and ftars,
were not made by a wife and beneficent Creator, that the wonders of
them fliould open themfelves to eyes that fee not, or difplay their itj-
fluences unregarded to the incurious inhabitants of the earth. It was in-
deed principally for the pleafure of him by whom all things exift, that
they are Mid were created ; who rcjoketh in his works—in furveying .that
ftru6lure which Omnipotence alone could raife ; but they are likewife de-
figned
OF ASTROLOGY. 45
figned to communicate wifdom and happinefs, and intelle6tual and mo-
ral improvement, to mankind. And to him who is not barely fatisfied
with an external admiration of things, they will fuggeft fuch reflexions
as will make him both wifer and better ; for, at the fame time that they
feaft his imagination, they will enlarge his underftanding and meliorate
his heart.
Whatever part of the works of Nature we caft our eyes upon, we (hall
find imprinted therein ample lefTons of inftrudlion and improvement.
Would we contemplate this inexpreffible greatnefs and majefty of God,
let us look up and furvey the heavens, which are fpread over us like a
curtain : they declare the glory of God, and jlionjo forth his handy work.
They vifibly (how it forth to the rude and illiterate; but the mind which
is fraught with this comprehenfive ftudy may for ever expand itfelf in the
immenfity of the profpeft. Even the irrational and inanimate part of the
creation are held forth by the wifdom of God, to dire6l the beings of rea-
fon in the way that they (hould go ; and our Saviour in his parables
defcends to the lifelefs emblems of feed fown, of the fig-tree, and of a
(ingle grain of muftard-feed, to enlighten the underftanding of mankind.
Is it not then the duty of every rational creature to improve by this di-
vine example, and, by a ftudy of that excellent part of Aftrology called
Natural Philofophy, to increafe our imperfedl knowledge in the fubjetls
of creation ? Such knowledge as this lies open even to the way-faring
man ; it grows in every field, and meets us in all our paths ; and, as it is
moft important to be well underftood by the reader, before any material
progrefs can be made in the aftrology of the heavens, I (hall conclude
thefe obfervations with a (hort introdudtion to the ftudy of nature.
No. %. K A SUM-
46 AN ILLUSTRATION
A SUMMARY VIEW of the WORKS of CREATION, in the
CONSTRUCTION of NATURE.
"VFATURE is that which God has ordained emprels over all the works
-'-
of his creation, and over every part of the celeftial and terreftrial
world. This World comprehends both the heaven and the earth, and is
compounded of three leparate and difl:in6l parts, which are alio called
worlds ; namely, an Elementary World, which is the loweft in dignity ;
a Celeftial World, which is next above the elementary; and an Ethereal
World, which is the highefl of all ; and thefe three fmaller worlds make
the one entire great World, or Univerfe. In the order of Nature, the
all-wife and fupreme Being has ordained that every inferior fliould be
governed by its fuperior; and by this eternal decree the intelleftual world
aftuates and governs the celeftial, which confifts of the fun, moon, and
ftars, and all the hoft of heaven ; and the celeftial world a(5tuates and go-
verns the elementary world, and all elementary bodies, whether animal,
mineral, or vegetable.
The Elementary World is compofed of the four elements, fire,
air, earth, and water, of which all things peculiar to the elementary
world are generated ; but thefe elements, in the ftate we commonly find
them, are not pure, but intermixed with each other ; and they often change
one into the other by nature, as fire turns into fmoke, and fmoke into air,
and air into water, &c. Each of thefe elements has likewife two fpecific
qualities, viz. fire is hot and dry, water is cold and moift, air is hot and
moift, and the earth is cold and dry ; fo that fire is inimical to water, and
air to the earth. Thefe elements alfo poflefs three efTential properties
inherent in themfelves, viz. Air has motion, thinnefs, and darknefs ; fire
has motion, brightnefs, and thinnefs ; water has motion, darknefs, and
thicknefs ; and earth hath darknefs, thicknefs, and quietnefs : fo that
fire is twice more thin than air, thrice more movable, and four times
more bright; air is twice more bright, three times more thin, and four
times more movable, than water ; water is twice more bright, thrice
more thin, and four times more movable, than earth : as therefore fire is
to air, fo is air to water, and water to earth ; and, vice verfa^ as earth is
to water, fo is water to air, and air to fire. Three of thefe elements
have motion, and are adlive ; but the earth is fixed and paffive, and only
I'upplies matter for the other elements to a6l upon ; for, as nothing can be
produced unlefs matter be fubminiftered, fo of neceflity one element
muft fubminifter that matter for the operation of the others. And no
influence could be difpenfed by the heavens, unlefs there were elementary
bodies
OF ASTROLQGY. 47
bodies to receive their influence ; therefore every adive principle mufl of
neceflity be in motion, and every pafiivc principle muft be at reft. And
accordingly, as the a6live elements find the earth that they adl upon to
be pure or impure, fo will the work be that is produced. The earth can
brins: forth nothingr of itfelf, but is the womb or matrix into which the
other elements diftil or projeft their feminal virtues ; and, in proportion
as it is impregnated by their force and energy, it brings forth, according
to the due courfe of nature. The earth alfo receives the celeftial rays and
influences of all the heavenly bodies, as ordained by God to be the ob-
je6l, fubjeft, and receptacle, of them ; whereby it not only brings forth
what is intended to be produced, but alfo multiplies what it receives, and
feparates the good from the bad, and the pure from the impure. It like-
wife contains the feed or feminal virtues of all elementary bodies; and
hath a triplicity in Itfelf, viz. mineral, animal, and vegetive. It is the
common fountain or mother from whence all things fpring, whofe fruit-
fulnefs is produced by the three-fold operation of fire, air, and water.
And, as thefe elementary bodies podefs moft extraordinary qualities, it
will be proper to confider each of them dlftindly, and to explain their
feveral properties more at large.
Fire, the firft acSlive element, is an elaftic body, compofed of infinitely
fmall particles, fcarcely, if at all, adhering to each other ; and a body
in motion. It is in efFe6t the univerfal inftrument of all the motion and
aflion in the univerfe ; without fire, all bodies would become immove-
able, as in a fevere winter we adlually fee our fluids become folid for want
of it. Without fire a man would harden into a ftatue, and the very air
would cohere into a firm and rigid mafs. Fire then is the fole caufe of all
mutation or change ; for all mutation is by motion, and all motion by
fire. Upon the abfence of only a certain degree of fire, all oils, fats,
waters, wines, ales, fpirits of wine, vegetables, and animals, become
hard, rigid, and inert; and the lefs the degree of fire, the fooner \i this
induration made. Hence, if there were the greateft degree of cold, and
all fire were abfolutely taken away, all nature would grow into one con-
crete body, folid as gold, and hard as diamond ; but upon the re-appli-
cation of fire it would recover its former mobility. So that upon this one
element of fire depends all fluidity of humours and juices; alfo all vege-
tation, putrefaflion, fermentation, animal heat, and a thoufand other
things. Fire is in itfelf but one, though it centres in divers places. It
centres in the heavens, and is boundlels, where it guards and preferves
nature, and enlivens all the creation, giving life, light, and motion, to
all creatures, and ftirs them up to fecundity and fruitfulnefs. It centres
alfo in the earth, where it generates metals, minerals, and ftones ; and,
by joining itfelf with the beams of the celeftial fun and moon, pro-
duces
48 AN ILLUSTRATION
duces vegetation upon the furface of the earth. It occafions that heat
we fometimes obferve in Iprings and fountains ; and imparts a principle
of its own to whatever it produces ; lb that whatfoever retains life
retains it by virtue of its own inciofed heat; and, whenever this is ex-
hauftcd or extinguilhed, it perifhes and dies. And, as water purgeth,
cieanfeth, and diflolveth, all things that are not fixed, fo fire purgeth and
perfedeth all things that are fixed; and, as water conjoins all things that
are diffolved, fo fire feparates all things that are conjoined ; it caules all
feeds to grow and ripen ; and, when they are ripe, it expels them by the
fperm into divers places of the earth ; and, as the fituation and tempera-
ture of thele places are, whether hot or cold, moid or dry, pure or im-
pure, fo will the dlverfity of things be both in the bowels and upon the
Turface of the earth. But, amongil all the wonderful properties of fire,
there are none more extraordinary than this ; that, though it is the prin-
cipal caufe of almofl: all the lenfible effedls that continually fall under our
obfervation, yet it Is In itfelf of fb infinitely a fubtle nature, that it baf-
fles or defeats our moft fugacious enquiries, nor ever comes within the
cognizance of our fenfes.
Fire may be divided into three kinds or fpecies, viz. celeftial, fubter-
raneous, and culinary. Celeftlal fire is that which is peculiar to the ce-
leftial regions, where it exifts in the greatefl: purity and perfection, un-
mixed with fmoke, or any of that grofs, feculent, or terreftrial, matter,
found in culinary and fubterranean fire ; but, allowing for this difference,
the efFe(5fs of the celeftlal fire appear to be the fame as thofe of the culi-
nary. Subterraneous fire is that which manifefts itfelf in fiery eruptions
of the earth, volcanoes, or burning mountains, and is always found in the
more central parts of the earth, and often in mines and coal-pits. Culinary
fire is that which we employ in all chemical operations, and in the common
occafions of life. Toalcertain the force and power of fire, the learned Boer-
haave made innumerable curious experiments, which enabled him to divide
it Into fix degrees. 1 he firft degree is that by which nature performs the
office of vegetation in plants, and by which chemlftry imitates and does
the like. This commences from the loweft degree of cold, which in
Fahrenheit's thermometer is denoted by one, and ends at eighty degrees
;
fiiice in this whole interval vegetables of one kind or other give indication
of life and growth ; fo that, if all plants be examined by the degrees of
heat contained within thefe limits, we (hall find all of them come to ma-
turity in one or other of thefe intermediate degrees. This heat is fuited
to extrad the native fpirits of odoriferous vegetables with oils, as that of
rofes, jeflamlne, and the like. Thus the fragrant fcent of rofes may be
communicated to oil, by putting the inodorous and infipid oil of olives in
a tall clean chemical glafs, and digefting it in a heat of fifty-fix degrees
with
OF ASTROLOGY. 49
with the rnofl fragrant rofes, gathered jufi: as they are opening in a morn-
ing ; the application of a fimilar degree of heat would alfo impregnate
alcohol with the purefl: fpirit of fafFron. The fecond degree of fire may
be accounted that of the human body in a healthj flate. This degree is
always greater than that of the ambient air, and may be fuppofed to com-
mence at the 40th degree of the thermometer, and end about the 94rh.
Within this compafs animals may live and fubfift ; that is, if their juices
be of anv degree of heat within thefe bounds. The eg-gs of infeds lubfift
unhurt during hard winters, and hatch in the fuccecding fpring. FiOies,
both of the fea and of rivers, live in water which is only thirty-four de-
grees warm; and fiflies that have lungs, (i.e. the cetaceous fifhes,) and
all refpiring animals in a ftate of health, communicate to their humours
a warmth of ninety-two degrees; and therefore the utmoft limits of this
degree are fixed at thirty-three and ninety-four. Within the compafs of
this heat are included the vital adlions of animals, the fermentation of ve-
getables, and the putrefa6i:ion both of vegetables and animals ; and like-
wife the generation, breeding, hatching, birth, and nutrition, of animals.
This degree is alfo employed by chemifts to prepare elixirs, volatile alka-
line falts, and tinctures. The third degree of fire is that which extends
from ninety-four degrees of the thermometer to 212 ; at which lad, water
ufually boils. This degree is required in the diftillation of fimple and com-
pound waters, the eflential oils of vegetables ; and will coagulate or con-
folidate the ferum, blood, and other animal juices, and confequently deftroy
life. The fourth degree of heat may be reckoned from the degree 212 to
600 ; within which limits all oils, faline lixivia, mercury, and oil of vitriol,
are diflilled ; lead and tin will alfo melt and mix together. The oils, lalts,
and faponaceous juices, of animals and vegetables, are rendered volatile
and acrid, and become more or lefs alkalefcent ; their folid parts are cal-
cined, and lofe their diflinguifhing qualities and proper virtues ; and with
this degree of fire follil fulphur and lal ammoniac are fublimed. The fifth
degree is that wherein the other metals melt, and which commences from
fix hundred degrees of the thermometer, and ends where iron is held in a
ftate of fufion. In this degree moft bodies are deflroyed ; but glafs, gold,
filver, copper, and iron, remain long unchanged ; all other fixed bodies
grow red hot in this degree, and all the unvitrifiable flones are calcined.
The fixth and higheft degree of fire hitherto known, is that of the burn-
ing lens, or fpeculum, by M. Villette, Tfchirnhauf'en, BufFon, and others.
The focus of thefe lenfes will even volatilize what is called the metalline
or mercurial part of gold, and vitrify the more terreftrial. The utmofl
degree of fire is the vitrification of fixed bodies, which the ancient magi,
or the aftrologers of the eafl, difbovered ; and they predi6led the final end
of the world by fire, and its mutation into tranfparent glafs.*
* See Prieftley's Exp. and Obf. vol. i. p- 282, &c. Franklin's Letters and Papers on Philofo-
phical Subjects, p. 412, &c. Encyciopsedia Londinenfis vol. iii. p. $34. vol. iv. i8i>i90, 386-
394. vol. ix. p. 277-283.
No. 3. L Air
50 AN ILLUSTRATION
Air is the next ad^ive element that engages our attention ; and it is di-
vided into proper or elementary, and common or heterogeneous. Elementary
air, properly lo called, is a fubtile, homogeneous, elaftic, matter ; the bafis
or fundamental ingredient of common air, and that which gives it the
denomination. It likcwil'e enters into the compofition of moft or perhaps
all bodies, and exifts in them under a Iblid form, deprived of its elafticity
and moft of its diftinguiOiing properties, and lerving as the cement and
univerfal bond of nature ; but capable, by certain procefles, of being dif-
engaged from them, recovering its elafticity, and relembling the air of
our atmofphere. The peculiar nature of this aerial matter we know but
little of; what authors have advanced concerning it being chiefly con-
jedural. We have no way of altogether feparating it from the other
matters with which, in its pureft ftate, it is more or lefs combined; and
confeqiiently no way of afceriaining, with fatisfadory evidence, its pe-
culiar properties, abftraftedly from thole of other bodies. Philofophers,
both ancient and modern, maintain, with great plaufibility, that it is the
fame with the pure ether, or that fine, fluid, a6live, matter, diffufed
through the whole expaiife of the celeftial legions, and of the interior
heavens ; and it is fuppofed to be a hody fui generis, ingenerable, incor-
ruptible, immutable, prelent in all places and m all bodies.
Common or heterogeneous air, is a coalition of corpufcles of various
kinds, which together conftitute one common mafs, wherein we live and
move, and which we are continually receiving and expelling by refpiration.
The whole aftemblage of this makes what we call the atmofphere ; and,
where this air or atmofphere ends, there the pure ether is illppofed to
commence, which is diftiiiguifhed from air, by its not making any fen-
(ible refraftion of the rays of light, as air does. This common air, fays
the ingenious Mr. Boyle, is the moft heterogeneous body in the univerfe
;
and Boerhaave fliows it to be an univerfal chaos, or colluvies of all kinds
of created bodies. Belldes the matter of light or fire, which continually
flows into it from the heavenly bodies, and probably the magnetic effluvia
of the earth, whatever fire can volatilize is found in the air. Hence the
whole foflil kingdom muft be found in it ; for all of that tribe, as falts,
fulphurs, ftones, and metals, are convertible into fume, and thus capable
of being rendered part of the air. Gold itfelf, the moft fixed of all na-
tural bodies, is found to adhere clofe to the fulphur in mines ; and thus
to be raifed along with it. Sulphurs alfo make a confiderable ingredient
of the air, on account of the many volcanoes, grottoes, caverns, and other
fpiracles, chiefly aflbrding that mineral, difperfed through the globe. All
parts of the animal kingdom muft alfo be in the air ; for, befide the co-
pious effluvia continually emitted from their bodies, by the vital heat, in
the ordinary procefs of perfpiration, by means of which an animal in the
courfe of its duration impregnates the air with many times the quantity
of
OF ASTROLOGY. 5^
of its own bodv ; we find that any animal when dead, being expofed to
the air, is in a 'certain time wholly incorporated with it * As to vege-
tables, 'none of that clafs can be wanting in the contribution of their ef-
fluvia'to the common air, fince we know that all vegetables, by putrefac-
tion, become volatile. The afTociations, feparations, attritions, diflblutions,
and 'other operations of one fort of matter upon another, may likewife be
confidered as fources of numerous other neutral or anonymous bodies, un-
known to the mbft inquifitive naturalift. Thus air is one of the moft con-
This faa is proved in a very ftriking manner, by a,i extraordinary effed produced by thofe
dead bodies, after they became filled with air, which were unfortunately drowned ,« the Royal
George at Spithead, on the 29th of Auguft, .782. Th^s (h,p was hee'ed on her fide ^r the pur-
p^fe of fome repair, when the water rufh d into her lower port-holes, and funk her almoft m-
ftantaneoufly. She went down in fourteer, fathom water, and fell upon her fide, as was ev.-
dent from her top-mafts, which remained above the water in an inclined direction. A conlider-
able time after this fatal accident, (he luddeniy righted, and her marts became nearly perpen-
dicular. No one could account for this extraordinary tranfaa.on, which was efFefled without
any apparent caufe ; and it remained for fomc time a circumrtance equally afton-fhing and inexpli-
cable. At length fome very able anonymous writer publifhed the following ingenious and correct
'"""I'ilemufter-roll of this unfortunate (hip, it appears that 495 fouls perifhed between her
« decks- and, as the bodies had no way to efcape, they of courle remained in that iuuation.
•'Now all bodies in a (late of putrefadion ferment, and this fermentation generates large quan-
" ties of air; fo that a putrefying carcafe, inflated oy the generation of air, expands itfclf to a fize
« far exceeding its original bulk, and becomes lighter than water in a very high degree; and
" will confequently be prefTed upwards towards the furface, with a power equal to the weight
" of a quantity of water adequate in bulk to the inflated carcafe ;
and would rife immediately
« to the furface in a perpendicular line, if not obft.uiled in its pafTage. Now it is obvious
« that the 49; carcafes, which lay between the decks until fermentation and putrefadlion com-
« menced, would rife as foon as the generated air rendered them Ipecifically lighter than
" fea-water: and, as fermentation increafed their bulk, they would, by their expanf.on remove
" a quantity of Water from between the decks, on the loWefl liJe ot the (hip (to which by their
« gravity they would naturally incline when their breath firft left them), equal to ttieir increafeJ
» bulk ; and, being then adted upon by the upper prefTure of the water, would exert againft the
« under part of the decks, immediately over them, a power likewife equal to fuch weight of water
«'
as equals their increafed bulk. The heavieft fide of the (hip being thus firfl lightened by the
« difpiacing fo large a quantity of water, and exchanging it for air; and then aded upon by the pref-
" fure of the water upwards againft the under fide of the inflated carcafes, lifting hard againft the
« decks on or beneath the centre of the (hip ; and tarther by the prefTure of the water upwards againft
« the under fide of the hulls, mafts, &c. together with the counterpoife of a large weight of wa er
" between decks on the higheft fide ; would caufe her to be nearly in equilibrio; and confequently,
" the firft ftrong tide (as was the cafe) would fwing her on her keel, and right her.
" To (how that 495 bloated carcafes might have power fufficient to produce fo ftrange a pheno-
« menon, let us fuppole each carcafe at that time equal to a twenty-gallon cafk ;
and it could be no
" lefs, fo?, when in a ftate of putrefadion, not only the abdomen and thorax, but even the fmal left
«'
veffbl in the human frame, becomes inflated by the vapour generated in fermentation ;
fo tha the
" limbs (well to the extremities, and become buoyant, which makes the eftimate of twenty gallons
" per carcafe lels perhaps than the truth. , , ,
• j u > .u
per p H^
^^^^ ^^^ ^^^^^^ ^^ ^^^^^^^^ fuppofed to have remained between the
20 " decks being multiplied by 20, the number of gallons increafed
« in each carcafe, which divided by 252, the number of gallons
252)9900(39 '«
contained in a ton liquid meafure, quotes 39 tons 72 galloiis,
9828 " which multiplied by 3, to anfwer the treble power, niake
" near 1 18 tons; a difference of weight between the two hdes
• • 72 « fully fufficient, with the afTiftance of a Ipring-tide, to lift
" the (hip to a balance, which the tide, though ever (o ftrong,
39 72 « could not have effedted without it."
3
fiderable
117 216
cc
52 AN ILLUSTRATION
fiderable and univerfal agents in all nature, being concerned in the pre-
fervation of life and the produ£tion of moft of the phenomena relating to
this world. Its properties and efFeds, including a great part of the re-
fearches and difcoveries of the modern philofophers, have in a confiderable
degree l)een reduced to precife laws and demonflrations ; in which form
they make a very extenfjve and important branch of the mixed mathe-
matics, called Pneumatics ; for a more perfed knowledge of which, I
beg leave to recommend the curious reader to Dr. Prieflley's invaluable
Experiments and Obfervations on ditferent kinds of Air. But 1 fliall juft
obferve further, that to the prefTure of air we are to attribute the cohe-
rence of the parts of bodies. Breathing too, on which depends animal
life, is owing to the prefTure and ipring of the air; and to the fame
caufe may be attributed the produ6lion of fire and flame, as appears from
the fudden extinftion of fire when deprived of air. It is likewife necef-
fary for the exifttnce and propagation of founds, for the germination and
growth of plants, for conveynig all the variety of fmells, and for re-
ceiving and tranfmitting the rays and influences of the celeftial world to
the terreflrial. Air a&.s upon all bodies by its common properties of
weight and clafticity, aiid by the peculiar virtues of the ingredients where-
of it is compofed. Thefe properties of weight and elafticity in the aii',
when engendered in large quantities in the bowels of the earth, and
heated by the fubterranean fire, occafion earthquakes, and other vehe-
ment commotions of nature. And by fome experiments of M. de la
Hire it is found, that a certain quantity of condenfed air, if heated to a
degree equal to that of boiling water, would produce an explofion fuffi-
cient to tear afunder the folid globe. By means of a corroding acid, air
diflblves iron and copper, unlefs well defended by oil ; even gold in the
chemift's laboratory, when the air is impregnated with the effluvia of aqua
regia, contrads a ruft like other bodies. It fixes volatile bodies, and vo-
latilizes thofe which are fixed. From the different effluvise difFufed
through the air, proceed a variety of efFe(Ms. Near mines of coppei it
will difcolour filver and brafs ; and in London, where the air abounds
with acid and corrofive particles, metalline utenfils rufl much fooner than
ill the country. Stones alfo undergo the changes incident to metals.
Thus Purbeck ilone, of which SalifLury cathedral is built, is obferved
to become gradually fofter, and to moulder away in the air ; and Mr.
Boyle gives the fame account of Blackington ftone. It is very difficult
to obtain oil of iulphur in a clear dry air, as its parts are then more ready
to evaporate; but in a moift cloudy air it may be obtained in abundance.
All lalts melt mofl readily in cloudy weather; and feparations proceed
befl in the fame flate of the air. If pure wine be carried into a place where
the air is full of the fumes of wine then fermenting, it will begin to fer-
ment afrefh. The wholelbmenefs or unwholefomenefs of air is certainly
owing
OF ASTROLOGY. 53
owing to the different effluvia with which it abounds. The heft air is to
be found in open champaign countries, where the foil is dry, and Ipon-
taneoufly produces wild thyme, wild marjoram, and the like fweet-fcented
plants. The morning air is more refrefliing than that of the evening;
and air agitated with breezes than that which is ferene and ftill. As good
air contributes greatly to health, Co that which is bad or infedtious is no
lefs prejudicial to it, as is evident in contagious difeafes, plagues, mur-
rains, and other mortalities, which are fpread by an infected air. But
this infeded air may be corredled, and the body preferved from its fatal
efFe<5ts, by the effluvia of aromatic and ftrong-fcented herbs and flowers.
From obfervations on bleeding in rheumatifms, and after taking cold, it
is evident the air can enter with all its qualities, and vitiate the whole
texture of the blood, and other juices. From palfies, vertigoes, and other
nervous afFeftions, caufed by damps, mines. Sec. it is evident that air
thus qualified, can relax and obflru(9: the whole nervous fyflem. And
from the colics, fluxes, coughs, and confumptions, produced by damp,
moift, and nitrous air, it is evident it can corrupt and fpoil the noble or-
gans of the whole human ftrudture. Thus air is an inftrument which
nature is univerfally applying in all her works, confequently a knowledge
of its properties feems highly neceflary, not only to the chemifl: and phy-
(ician, but to the philofopher and divine §
Water, the third a6live element, is the menfl:ruum of the world, and
is of two kinds : Firft, Pure Water, which is a limpid colourlefs liquor,
without fmell or tafte, (imple and volatile, and is peculiar to the celef-
tial regions. Secondly, Grofs Water, which is a pellucid fluid, con-
vertible into ice by cold, naturally pervading the ftrata of the earth, and
flowing on the furface, and, with the body of the earth, conftitutes the
terraqueous globe. The figure of the component parts of water appears
to be fmooth and fpherical, like thofe of quickfilver; whence it becomes
extremely moveable and penetrating. Thus it readily enters the pores of
wood, leather, flcins, cords, and mufical firings, and is capable of moving
and agitating particles of matter, lefs a6tive than itfelf ; and fo proves
the more immediate phyfical agent of fermentation, putrefa6tion, Ib-
lution, and the like ; and thus it alfo conveys earthy and faline matter
through filtres of paper, ftone, &c. and even raifes fome proportion of
them in diflillations. Its particles appear to be extremely minute, and
fo have a large fhare of furface. Hence water is admirably fitted for a
i For more on this important fubje£l, fee Hales's Veget. Stat. ch. vi. Sir Ifaac Newton's
Optics, Qu. ^i. p. 371, 37Z. Buffon's Hift. Nat. Supp. vol, i. M. de la Hire, Mem. de I'Acad,
An. 1703. Phil. Tranf. vd. Ivi. p. ij2, &c. Bacon, Nov. Organ, lib. ii. app. 13. Lavoifier's
Phyfical and Chemical Effays, vol.i. Black's Efl". and Obf. Phyf. and Liter, vol. ii, Ency. Lend,
vol. i. p. 140 & feq. vol, ii. p. 473 & feq. and vol. iv. p. 154, ig6.
No. 3.. M folvent,
54 AN ILLUSTRATION
Iblvent, or for readily entering the pores of falts, and coming into full
contaft with all their particles; and thus it will pafs where air cannot,
on account of its moifture or lubricating power, whereby it faftens to
mucilaginous matters, and will therefore loak through the clofe pores of
a bladder. It penetrates the atmolphere very copioufly, by means of the
continual diftillations of the ocean and rivers, railed up by the heat of
the central fun, and draws along with it a warm unftuous vapour, which
caules a natural generation of whatever the earth, as a matrix, is im-
pregnated with. Water always contains an earthy lubftance, and is found
in tlie hardell: bodies, and in the driefl: air. It is the proper menf^ruum
of lalts, and, by the readinefs with which it imbibes the different kinds
of air, is eafily rendered, by a lately-dilcovered chemical procefs, to
poflcfs the fame qualities and virtues as the mod: efteemed mineral wa-
ters hitherto dilcovered. Water is alfo of infinite uie in all the works
both of nature and art, as without it there could be no generation, nutri-
tion, or accretion, performed in any of the animal, vegetable, mine-
ral, marine, or atmofpherical, regions. The blood could not flow in the
veins, the lap in the vefTels of vegetables, nor the particles of mine-
rals concrete and grow together, without water. It is this that makes
the largefl: part of our blood, our drink, and other aliments. I'here
could be no corruption, fermentation, or diflolution, carried on without
it ; no brewing, no diftilling, no wines, no vinegar,, no fpirits, made
without it. We alfo meet with water under an infinite variety of forms,
and in an infinite variety of bodies ; as that of air, vapour, clouds, fnow,
hail, ice, fap, wines, blood, flefh, bone, horn, ftone, and other bodies,
through all which it feems to pafs unchanged, as an agent or inftrument
that fufFers no alteration by re-a6tion, but remains capable of refuming
the form of water again upon any occafion. In its own common ftate,
water appears to be a combination of all the elements together ; as con-
taining a quantity of fire, which keeps it fluid ; a quantity of air, and a
quantity of earth ; whence it is not at all furprifing, that water alone, as
it appears to the fenfes, fhould fuflSce for vegetation in fome cafes where
little earth is wanted, or for fupporting animal and mineral life where
no great degree of nutriment is required ; and hence it proves a glue or
cement to iome bodies, and a folvent to others ; thus it confolidates brick,
plafter of Paris, flone, bone, and the like ; but difTolves falts and fubtile
earth approaching to falts, and becomes the inftrumental caufe of their
adion. Water alio conveys nourifhment, or a more fixed and folid mat-
tei', to the parts of vegetables, where having depofited it, the finer fluid
perfpires into the atmofphere, which gives us the phyfical caufe of the
dampnels and unwholefomenefs of woody countries, as they remarkably
find in America. For all large vegetables a6l after the manner of forc-
ing-pumps, continually drawing in large quantities of water at their roots,
and
1
OF ASTROLOGY. 55
and difchargiiig it at their leaves; which intimates a method of coUedting
water in drv countries, and likewife of making; fait water frefli. It is
alfo obfervable, that water m paffing through plants, after having depo-
fited its more terreftrial part, does not always go off pure, but impreg-
nated with the finer effluvia, or more fubtile particles, of the vegetables;
thus making an atmofphere around every plant according to its nature,
odoriferous or otherwise ; which fupplies us with a rule for procuring the
odoriferous waters of vegetables by diftillation. But the particles, not
•fine enough to go off thus along with the water, are left behind upon the
furface of the leaves and flowers of plants, being now thickened or
ftrained from their moifter parts, and remaining in the form of honey,
manna, gums, or balfams, according to the nature of the vegetable. And
hence we deduce the phyfical caufe why plants prove more odoriferous
and fweet when the air is both warm and moift, as is the cafe immedi-
ately after a fummer fhower. Water is likewife of the utmoft ufe in
divers of the mechanical arts and occafions of life, as in the motion of
mills, engines, fountains, and all other machines which aft by the laws of
Hydroftatics.-j-
The fourth element, which is paflive and fixed, is Earth, and confifts
of a fimple, dry, and cold, fubftance ; and is an ingredient in the compo-
fition of all natural bodies. It rnuft be obferved, that pure native earth
is a very different matter from the earth whereon we tread ; and this pure
earth is fuppofed to be the bafis or fubftratum of all bodies, and that
wherein the other principles refide. It is all that is folid in an animal or
vegetable body, all the real vafcular parts, the reft being juices. This
earth may be found in and feparated from all animal and vegetable fub-
ftances, and is the fame in all, and is the bafis of all. It remains after
the feparation of the other principles by chemiftry, from all animal and
vegetable fubftances, and neither coheres together, nor fuffers any change
in the fire. The aflayers acknowledge no difference between the earth
of animals and vegetables, but make their tefts for the niceft ufes equally
of both. If water be poured upon this earth, it acquires fome degree of
tenacity, fb as to become capable of being formed into veffels; but, if
oil be added, it coheres into a much ftronger and more compadl mafs
;
hence it appears that oil and earth are the principles which give confift-
ence and tenacity to plants. This oil, as well as this earth, feems the
fame in all, and poffefles nothing of the poifonous or medicinal virtues of
the plant or whatever it is extracted from ; they being all feparable by
deco6iion, diftillation, and other precedes of that kind ; and never remain
+ For the further properties and eftefts of Water, fee Defag. Exp. Phil. vol. ii. Cotes's Hyd.
and Pneum. Lectures. Phil. Tranf. No. 203, 220, 3J7. Fergufon's Le<Etures, 410. p. 68, &c. En-
cyclopaedia Londinenfis, vol. iv. p. 155-257, 205-210, 348, 349, &c.
either
56 AN ILLUSTRATION
either in the earth or in this conne^ling oil. Long drying will divert
plants of all their virtues ; fo that nothing but thefe principles ftiail re-
main in them ; and thefe, giving folidity and figure, preferve the plant iu
its former appearance ; but, thefe only remaining, it poflefTes none of its
virtues. This pure earth may be procured by drawing off the fpirit, ful-
phur, phlegm, and falts, of wine; and what remains will be a taftelefs,
fcentlefs, dufty, matter, not capable of being raifed by diftillation or dil-
iblved by folution, but will preferve the fame ftate and form even in the
fire ; and this is called pure earth, or caput mortuum. It may alfo be ob-
tained pure and unmixed from the common clafs of vegetables and other
bodies, by letting the remaining mals, after diftillation, be thoroughly cal-
cined, then boiled in feveral waters to get out all its fait, and after this
dried in a clear fire, or in the fun ; and this dried mafs will be pure earth.
|
Thus, from the different qualities and operations of the four elements upon
one another, we may obferve, that the fire preferves the earth from be-
ing overwhelmed or dertroyed by water; the air preferves the fire, that
it be not extinguirtied ; and the water preferves the earth, that it be not
burnt: but, if either of thefe adlive elements were to become predomi-
nant in any great degree, the world would be deftroyed ; as was the cafe
at the time of the deluge, by the predominancy of water.
Of thefe four elements the whole terreflrial world is compofed, with
all its produ61ions and appendages; and over thefe Man hath the domi-
nion, as God's vicegerent upon earth, being compounded of the moft
perfect and noble part of earthly matter, and formed after God's own
image and likenefs. Hence man is called the Microcofm, from fti>tp®.,
iittk, and «rr7fx®., world; literally fignifying, " the little world," which is
applied to Man, by way of eminence, as being an epitome of all that is
excellent and wonderful in Nature. If we attentively confider the ftruc-
ture and faculties of man, we Ihall clearU perceive that his exiftence upon
earth, in a charaifler fubordinate to that of angels, is only intended by the
Deity for a ftate of probation; and, as this corporeal life (hall terminate,
either in afts of piety, or profanenefs, fo fliall follow the retributions of an
impartial and juft Judge, in a future flate of everlafling duration. Man
is compofed of three diftinft effences. Spirit, Soul, and Body ; as St. Paul
evinces when he fays. Let your fpirits, fouls, and bodies, be kept blamelefs
at the coming of the Lord Jefus Chrift. And thefe three effences are com-
pounded of the three diftin6f worlds ; the Soul of Man is formed of the
ethereal world ; the Spirit, of the celeftial world ; and the Body, of the
elementary world. Hence are deducible the influences of the fun, moon,
X For more on this fubjed, fee Boerhaave's Chemift. part ii. p. 21. Shaw's Le£lures, p. 151.
Phil. Tranf. No. 3. Hill's H.ft. of F.ffiis. Da Cofta's Foffils, p. 1 19, &c. And my Syftem of
Natural Hiftory, vol. xiv. p. 31a & fcq. publifhed by Wi.kes in Ave-tnaria-lane.
''•-••'
and
OF ASTROLOGy. 57
and ftars, upon man's body, becaufe he hath a microcofniical fun, moon,
and ftars, within himfelf, that bear a fympathy with the celeftial bodies,
and in the centre of which (hines the divine Spirit. For the letifual ce-
leftial part of man is that whereby we move, fee, feel, tafte, and fmell,
and have a commerce with all material objeds ; and through thefe the
influences of the divine nature are conveyed to the more refined and fen-
fible organs. This celeftial fpirit actuates and influences the elementary
eflence, and ftirs it up to the propagation of its like, and to every other
purpofe for which nature defigned it. And this fpirit is even difcoverable
in herbs and flowers, which open when the fun rifes, and dole when he
(ets ; which motion is produced by the fpirit being fenfible of the approach
and denarture of the fun's influence. Next to thefe, in man, ftiines that
pure ethereal angelic part, called the rational foul ; w hich is a divine
light or ftream flowing immediately from the Great Creator, uniting
man with God, and railing him above all other parts of animated na-
ture. This foul, when once it enters the body, runs jjarallel with
eternity ; and joins in with the celeftial Spirit, through the fphere of the
planets ; and is conduded by divine genii to an hypoftatical union with
the elementary body; fo that there exift two adive principles in the body
of man, to one paflive ; and, as the fuperior rulers in the celeftial world
are fituated at the time of man's nativity, fo will his conftitution and dif-
pofition be framed. And here we derive the caufe of all thole aftonifhing
variations of temper, difpofition, and conftitution, which are not only pe-
culiar to different fubjedls, but even to one and the fame perfon ; for every
one will bear a tcftimony of this fail, that we find ouil'elves fometimes
cheerful, and at other times melancholy ; to-da_v in perfefl health, and
to-morrow in pain and anguifti ; this hour compofed, affable, and com-
placent, and the next auftere, petulant, and peremptory : and thefe con-
trarieties are evidently produced by the continual refiftance and oppofition
of the four elements in man's bod\, which alternately dilpofe him to the
various affedions difcoverable in human nature. T he caufe of this is
deduced from the natural enmity of the elementary matter, viz. heat and
cold, drynefs and moifture ; each of which occafionally predominates in
man's body, according to the motion and influence of thofe heavenly bo-
dies that rule, govern, and modify, the operation of the four elements, in
and upon every terreftrial fubftance. Thus it is evident, that the under-
ftanding and intelledual faculties of man are formed of the ethereal world;
and the grois and corruptible part, the flefh and blood, confifts of the
the fenfitive powers of life and a6fion are derived from the celeftial world;
elementary world ; which are all fubordinate the one to the other.
Under this idea of the workmanftiip and conftruclion of man. Job ex-
claimed, that he was fearfully and ivonJerfully made; in poffefliii^
the three-fold elfences of fpirit, foul, and body,
o No. 3. N Sceptical
58 AN ILLUSTRATION
Sceptical and atheiftical writers, indeed, have attempted to overturn this
fyftcm of nature in the conOru6^ion of man, by denying the immortality
of the foul, and a future diflribution of rewards and puniflimcnts ; con-
tending that the foul is an indivifible part of the body, and has its diflb-
lutioii in the common courfe of mortality. But thefe tenets are fo ex-
tremely abfurd, fo vague, and fo deftitute of evidence, that the rational
mind is at a lofs to conceive how fuch an inconfiftent dodlrine could have
ever been broached ; for, the fame philofophical reafoning that enables us
to define the nature and exiftence of the body will likewife prove the
nature and exigence of the foul. It is only from the primary or eflential
qualities of body, its extenfion and folidity, that we form any idea of
it ; and why may we not form the complex idea of a foul or fpirit, from
the operations of thinking, underftanding, willing, and the like, which
are experiitients in ourfelves? This idea of an immaterial fubftance is as
clear as that we have of a material one; for, though the notion of imma-
terial fubftances may be attended with difficulties, we have no more
reafon to deny or doubt of its truth, than we have to deny or doubt
of the exigence of the body. That the foul is an immaterial fubflance,
appears from hence—that the primary operations of willing and think-
ing are not only unconnefted with the known properties of body, but
feem plainly inconfiftent with fome of its most eflential qualities. For
the mind not only difcovers no relation between thinking and the mo-
tion and arrangement of parts, but it likewife perceives, that confciouf-
nefs, a fimple ad, can never proceed from a compounded fubftance capa-
ble of bei'.;g divided into many parts. To illuftrate this, let us only
fuppofe a (vftem of matter endowed with thought; then, either all the
parts of which this fyftem confifts muft think, which would make it not
one, but a multitude of diftinft confcious beings; or its power of think-
ing muft arife from the conne6tion of the parts one with another, their
motion and difpofition, which, all taken together, contribute to the pro-
duclion of thought. But it is evident, that the motion of parts, and the
manner of combining them, can produce nothing but an artful ftru6lure,
and various modes of motion. Hence all machines, however artfully
their parts are put together, and htiwever complicated their ftru6ture,
though we conceive innumerable different motions, varioufly combined,
and running one into another with an endlefs variety, yet never produce
any thing but figure and motion. If a clock or watch tells the hour
and minute of the d::y, it is only by the motion of the difFerent hands,
pointing fucceftively at the different figures marked upon the hour-plate
for that purpofe. We never imagine this to be the effeft of thought or
intelligence, nor cunceive it poftible, by any refinement of ftru£lure, fo
to improve the compofition, as that it ftiall become capable of know-
ledge and confcioufnels ; and the reafon is plainly this, that thought
being
OF ASTROLOGY. 59
being fomething altogether different from motion and figure, without the
ieaft conne(5tion between them, it can never be iuppoled to refult from
them. This then bein? evident, that intelligence cannot ariie from an
union or combination of unintelligent parts ; if we fuppofe it to belong
to any fyftem of matter, we muft: neceflTarily attribute it to all the parts
of which that fyftem is compofed ; whereby, inftead of one, we fhall,
as was before obferved, have a multitude of diftinft confcious beings.
And becaufe matter, how far foever we purlue the minutcnefs of its parts,
is ftill capable of repeated divillons, even to infinity, it is plain that this
abfurdity will follow us through all the fuppofitions that make thought
inherent in a material fubftance. Wherefore, as confcioufnefs is incom-
patible with the cohefion of folid feparable parts, we are necelTarily led
to place it in fome other fubftance of diftincl nature and properties
—
and this fubftance we call /^/V//, which is altogether diftind from ^o^,
nay, and commonly placed in oppofition to it ; for which reafon, the beings
of this clafs are called immaterial ; a word that implies nothing of their
true nature, but merely denotes its contrariety to that of matter, or mate-
terial fubftance.
As to the immortality of the human foul, the arguments to prove it
may be reduced to the following heads ; Firft, The nature of the foul
itfelf, its defires, fenfe of moral good and evil, and gradual increafe of
knowledge and perfection ; and lecondly. The moral attributes of God,
Under the former of thefe confiderations, it is apparent that the foul,
being an immaterial intelligent fubftance, as has been already proved,
does not dej>end upon the body for its exiftence; and therefore may, and
abfolutely mud, exift after the body, unlefs annihilated by the fame
power which gave it a being at firft, which is not to be fuppofed, i]l^ct
there are no initances of annihilation in nature. This argument, elpeci-
ally if the infinite capacity of the foul, its flrong defire after immortality,
its rational activity and advancement towards perfection, be likevvile con-
fidered, will appear perfe<5ily conclufive to men of a philoiophical turn;
becaufe Nature, or rather the God of Nature, does nothing in vain. But
arguments drawn from the moral attributes of the Deity are not only
better adapted to convince men unacquainted with abftra<ft reafoning,
but equally certain and conclufive with the former; for, as the juftice of
God can never iufFer the wicked to efcape unpuniflied, nor the good t<
remain always unrewarded ; therefore arguments drawn from the manifeft
and continual profperity of the wicked, and the frequent misfortunes
and unhappinefs of good and virtuous men, in this life, mull: convince
every thinking perfon, that there is a future flate wherein all will be fet
right, and God's attributes of wifdom, goodnefs, and juflice, fully vin-
dicated. Had the religious and confcientious part of mankind no hopes
of a future flale, they would be of all men the moft miferable ; but, as
this
6o AN ILLUSTRATION
this is abfolutely inconfiftent with the moral charader of the Deity, the
certainty of fuch a ftate is clear to a demonftration.
Thus far we have coufidered the elementary world, which is the loweft
in dignity, and man, the chief fubjedt thereof. The Celestial World,
which is next in eminence, is conftituted of a body natural, mofl; fimple,
fpherical, clear, fluid, and moving conftantly in a circle, and this by virtue
of an innate power always within itfelf ; comprehending and containing
the fun, moon, planets, and ftars, fixed in difiindt orbs by the great Ar-
chiteft of Nature, and bearing (ympathy with all terreftrial iubftances, as
beins: formed out of the fame chaotic mafs at the beginning of the world.
This celeHial heaven is what Mofes calls t/ie firmament^ which was
the work of the fecond day's creation, and literally fignifics an expanfc
or extenjion ; a term well adapted by the prophet to the impreHloti
which the heavens make on our fenfes ; whence, in other parts of the
Scriptures, the heaven is compared to a curtain, or a tent ibctchcd out to
dwell in. Through the medium of this celeftial world, and the heavenly
bodies therein contained, the Supreme Being rules, governs, and actuates,
the elementary world ; and this is apparent, becaufe that thing which we
term obedience is onlv to be found in elementarv bodies. And, (ince mo-
tion is the caufe of all mutation and change, and as all motion originates
with the heavenly bodies, by the revolutions of which even time itfelf
is meafured out and divided, fo we find the celeftial influences produce
all the variations of heat and cold, drynefs and moifture, generation and
corruption, increafe and decreaie, life and death, and all the vicifTitudes
of nature, without ever varying themfelves, or being fubjetl to the leaft
change or alteration ; whilft the elementary bodies are perpetually chang-
ing, and never continue in one ftay. Hence it is apparent that the ceiel-
tial bodies are adtive, and the elementary paffive; To that the celeftial bo-
dies give the form and ftamp to all the produiflions of nature, and the ele-
mentary bodies ibbmuufter matter to receive this form. And, as the por-
tions and atfeflions of the heavenly afpedts are when this form or ftamp
is given, and as the quality of the elementary matter (hall be when (ub-
miniftered, fo will the nature and quality of the fubje<5f be that receives this
celeftial form or ftanip. And, were it not for this a<^tive and paffive prin-
ciple, then would all elementary things be alike, without a poflibility of
exiftuig. It is therefore a perfeft knowledge of this mediate or celef-
tial world, its various afi^e(51ions and difpofitions, the nature, tendency,
and effect, of the luminaries, their motions, al'pedls, and pofitlons, which
enable us to judge of future contingencies, and to difcover xhz fecret and
abftrufe operations of nature. But to attain this knowledge in any com-
petent degree, we muft trace thefe heavenly intelligencers throughout the
whole celeftial regions, and acquaint ourfelves vvjth their general and
cflential
OF ASTROLOGY. (Ji
eflcntial qualities. I (hall for this purpofe, after treating of the ethereal
world, make this fpeculation a leading clue to the art of calculating
nativities.
The Ethereal World, which is the fuperior and the higheft in dig-
nity, is that which the iiifpired writers, and the ancient philofopherg,
called the Empyrean Heaven ; and is conceived to be the abode of God,
and blefTed fpirits, of angels, and the fouls of the righteous departed ;
wherein the Deity is plealed to afford a nearer and more immediate view
of himfelf, a more fenfibie manifeftation of his glory, and a more ade-
quate perception of his attributes, than in the other parts of the univerfe,
where l;e is likewife prefent. But the mofl: exalted conceptions we can
poffibly form of this blifsful abode are extremely inadequate and imper-
fe£i; nor is it in the power of the moft: enlarged underftanding to frame
fuitable ideas of the Godhead, or of the angelic hoft that perpetually fur-
round his throne. As much, however, as the human comprehenfion is
able to contain, the Almighty has been gracioufly pleafed to reveal to us
in the Scriptures, by the inipired writers, particularly Ifaiah, Ezekiel, and
St. John the Divine, who have given us very magnificent defcriptions of
the heavenly manfions, their ftru6lure, apparatus, and angelic attendance.
From this divine Revelation, the Hebrew writers, and other learned men,
have defcribed the Harmony of the Univerfe, and the neceflary fubordi-.
nation and dependence of one thing upon another, from the interior hea-
ven to the remoieft corner of the earth. We {hall therefore prefume tQ
follow thefe authors in fpeaking of God and his angels; and whoever fuf-
ficiently contemplates the fubje6t will be fecure againft the impious doc-
trines of atheifts, of free-thinkers, of immoral and irreligious men.
God is an immaterial, intelligent, and free, Being; of perfect goodnefs,
wifdom, and power; who made the univerfe, and continues to fupport it,
as well as to govern and dire6t it by his providence. By his imma-
teriality, intelligence, and freedom, God is diftinguiflied from fate, na-
ture, defliny, necefljty, chance, and from all other imaginary beings.
In fcriptuie, God is defined by, " I am that I am ;" " Alpha and Omega ;'^
^' the Beginning and End of all things.'' Among philofophers, he is de-
fined a Being of infinite perfection; or in whom there is no defedl of any
thing which we conceive might raife, improve, or exalt, his nature.
Among men, he is chiefly confidered as the Firfi: Caufe, the Firft Being,
who has exifted from the beginning, has created the world, or who fub-
fifts neceffarily, or of himfelf; and this knowledge of God, his nature,
attributes, word, and works, with the relations between him and his
creatures, make the extenfive fubje6t of Theology, the fift^r-fcience of
Aftrology.
No. 4. O Sir
62 AN ILLUSTRATION
Sir Ifaac Newton confiders and defines God, not as is ufually done,
fionn his perfedlions, his nature, exiftence, or the like; but from his
dominion, his ablolute power. The word God, according to him, is
a relative term: it is true it denotes a Being eternal, infinite, and
abfolutely perfisd ; but a Being, however eternal, infinite, and abfolutely
perfcdt, without dominion, would not be God. The fame author ob-
ferves, that the word God frequently fignifies Lord ; but every lord is
not God ; it is the dominion of a fpiritual being, or lord, that constitutes
God ; true dominion, true God ; fupreme, the fupreme ; feigned, the
falfe god. From fuch true dominion it follows, that the true God is
living, intelligent, and poiverful; and, from his other perfections, that
he is fupreme, or fupremely perfe6l ; he is eternal, and infinite', omni-
potent, and omnifcient; that is, he endures from eternity to eternity, and
is prefent from infinity to infinity. He governs all things that exift, and
knows all things that are to be known ; he is not eternity, nor infinity,
but eternal and infinite; he is not duration or fpace, but he en-
dures, and is prefent ; he endures always, and is prefent every-where ;
and by exifting always, and every-where, he conftitutes the very thing,
duration and fpace, eternity and infinity. He is omniprefent, not only
virtually, but alfo fubftantially ; for power without fubftance cannot fub-
fift. All things are contained and move in him, but without any mutual
paffion ; he fuffers nothing from the motions of bodies ; nor do they un-
dergo any refinance from his omniprefence. It is confefTed that God ex-
ifts neceflarily; and by the fame neceffity he exifts always, and every-
where. Heiice, alfo, he muft be perfedlly fimilar ; all eye, all ear, all
brain, all arm, all the power of perceiving, underftanding, and adiing;
but after a manner not at all corporeal, after a manner not like that of
men, after a manner wholly to us unknown. He is deftitute of all body,
and all bodily fliape ; and therefore cannot be feen, heard, or touched ; nor
ought to be worlhipped under the reprefentation of any thing corporeal.
We have ideas of the attributes of God, but do not know the fubftance
even of any thing; we fee only the figures and colours of bodies, hear,
only founds, touch only the outward furfaces, fmell only odours, and taflc
taftes ; but do not, cannot, by any fenfe, or any reflex a6t, know their
inward fubftances; and much lefs can we have any notion of the fub-
ftance of God. We know him by his properties and attributes; by the
moft wife and excellent ftrufture of things, and by final caufes ; but wc
adore and worfhip him only on account of his dominion; for God, fet-
ting afide dominion, providence, and final caufes, is nothing elfe but fate
and nature. See Newton's Philof. Nat. Princip. Math, in calce.
That admirable metaphyfician and divine, Dr. Clarke, has demonftrated
the being of a God, with that clearnefs and force of reafoning for which
he
OF ASTROLOGY. 63
he is fo eminently diftinguiflied, by a feries of propofitions, mutually con-
neded and dependent, and forming a complete and unanfwerable argu-
ment in proof of the attributes of the Deity. Something, he fays, has
exirted from all eternity; for, fince fomething now is, fomething always
was : otherwife the things that now are muft have been produced out ot
nothing, abfolutely and without caufe, which is a plain contradiftion in
terms. There muft have exifted from all eternity fome one unchange-
able and independent Being; or elfe, there has been an infinite fucceffion
of changeable and dependent beings, produced one from another in an
endlefs progreffion, without any original caufe at all. For otherwife this
feries of beings can have no caufe of its exiftence, becaufe it includes all
things that are or ever were in the univerfe; nor is any one being in this
infinite fucceffion felf-exiftent or neceffary, and therefore it can have no
reafon of its exiftence within itfelf ; and it was equally poffible, that from
eternity there ftiould never have exifted any thing at all, as that a fuccel-
fion of fuch beings (hould have exifted from eternity. Confequently their
exiftence is determined by nothing; neither by any neceffity m their own
nature, becaufe none of them are felf-exiftent ; nor by any other being,
becaufe no other is fuppofed to exift.—The unchangeable and independent
Being, which has exifted from eternity, without any external caufe of its
exiftence, muft be felf-exiftent ; it muft exift by an abfolute neceflity ori-
ginally in the nature of the thing itfelf, and antecedent in the natural or-
der of our ideas to our fuppofition of its being. For whatever exifts,
muft either come into being without a caufe; or it muft have been pro-
duced by fome external caufe ; or it muft be felf-exiftent : but the two
former fuppofitions are contrary to the two firft propofitions. From this
laft propofition it follows, that the only true idea of a felf-exiftent or ne-.
ceflarily-exifting being, is the idea of a being, the fuppofition of whofe
non-exiftence is an exprefs contradidion ; and this idea is that of a moft
fimple being, abfolutely eternal and infinite, original and independent. It
follows alfo, that nothing is fo certain as the exiftence of a fupreme inde-
pendent caufe; and likewile, that the material world cannot poffibly be
the firft and original being, uncreated, independent, and of itfelf eternal ;
becauie it does not exift by an abfolute neceffity in its own nature, fo as
that it muft be an exprefs contradiftion to fuppofe it not to exift. With
refpeft both to its form and matter, the material world may be conceived
not to be, or to be in any refpedf different from what is, without a con-
tradidion. The fubftance or eflence of the felf-exiftent Being is abfo-
lutely incomprehenfible by us ; neverthelefs, many of the eftential attri-
butes of his nature are ftridtly demonftrable, as well as his exiftence.—
The felf-exiftent Being, having no caufe of its exiftence but the abfolute
neceffity of its own nature, muft of neceffity have exifted from everlafting,
without beginning; and muft of neceffity exift to everlafting, without
end .---The felf-rexiftent Being muft of neceffity be infinite and omnipre-
fent.
64 AN ILLUSTRATION
fcnt. Such a being muft be evcry-where, as well as always unalterably
the fame. It follows from hence, tbat the felf-exiftent Being muft be a
moft fimplc, unchangeable, incorruptible, being, without parts, figure,
motion, divifibility, and other properties of matter, which are utterly in^
confiftent with complete infinity. The felf-exiftent Being muft of necef-
fity be but one ; becaufe in abfolute neceftity there can be no difference
or diverfitv of exiftence; and, therefore, it is abfolutely impoftible, that
there ftiould be two independent felf-exiftent principles, fuch as God and
matter.—The felf-exiftent and original Caufe of all things muft be an in-
telligent being. This propofition cannot be demonftrated ftriftly and
propeT\y d priori ; but, a pojleriori, the world affords undeniable arguments
to prove that all things are the effett of an intelligent and knowing
caufe. The caufe muft be always more excellent than the effedl ; and,
therefore, from the various kinds of powers and degrees of excellence and
perfection, which vifible obje6ts pofTefs; from the intelligence of created
beings, which is a real diftin6l quality or perfeftion, and not a mere efFe6l
or compofition of unintelligent figure a«d motion ; from the variety, or-
der, beauty, wonderful contrivance, and fitnefs of all things to their pro-
per and refpe6tive ends; and from the origin of motion; the felf-exiftent
creatine: Bein<; is demonftrated to be intelligreiit. The felf-exiftent and
original Caufe of all things is not a necejlary agent, but a Being endued
v.ith liberty and choice. Liberty is a neceiTary confequent of intelli-
sence; without liberty, no being can be faid to be an agent, or caufe of
any thing ; fince to a6f neceffarily, is really aiid properly not to aft at all,
but to be a6led upon. Befides, if the fupreme Caufe be not endued with
liberty, it will follow, that nothing which is not, could poftibly have
been ; that nothing which is, could poflibly not have been ; and that no
mode or circumftance of the exiftence of any thing could poftibly have
been in any refpeft otberwife than what it now adtually is. Farther, if
there be any final caufe in the univerfe, the Supreme Caufe is a free agent;
and, on the contrary fuppofition, it is impoftible that any effe61 fhould be
finite; and in every effeft, there muft have been a progreflion of caufes in
infinitum, without any original caufe at all.—The felf-exiftent Being, the
Supreme Caufe of all things, muft of neceftity have infinite power; fince
all things were made by him, and are entirely dependent upon him; and
all the powers of all things are derived from him, and perfeftly fubjecl to
him ; nothing can refift the execution of his will.—The Supreme Caufe
and Author of all things muft of neceflity be infinitely wife. This fol-
lows from the propofitions already eftablilhed ; and the proof i pofieriori,
of the infinite wifdom of God, from the confideration of the exquifire
perfeftion and confummate excellency of his Works, is no lefs ftrong and
undeniable.—The fupreme Caufe and Author of all things muft of neeef-
fity be a being of infinite goodnefs, juftice, and truth, and all other moral
peffeftions; fuch as become the Supreme Governor and Judge of the
World.
OF ASTROLOGY. 65
world. The will of a Being infinitely knowing and wife, independent
and all-powerful, can never be influenced by any wrong afFe<5lion, and can
never be mifled or oppofed from without; and, therefore, he mufl: do al-
ways what we know fitteft to be done; that is, he mufl; adt alwavs ac-
cording to the flrideft rules of infinite goodnefs, juftice, and truth, and all
other moral perfeflions; and, more particularly, being infinitely and ne-
ceflarily happy and all-fufficient, he mufl be unalterably difpofed to do
and to communicate good or happinefs. See Clarke's Demonftration of
the BeinsT and Attributes of God.
To this more abftrufe argument, a priori, for the exiflence of God, we
may add another, more generally obvious, and carrying irrefiflible con-
vidion, which is deduced from the frame of the world, and from the
traces of evident contrivance and fitnefs of things for one another, that
occur through all the parts of it. Thefe conlpire to prove, that the ma-
terial world, which in its nature is originated and dependent, could not
have been the efFed of chance or neceffity, but of intelligence and defign.
The beautiful, harmonious, and beneficial, arrangement of the various bo-
dies that compofe the material fyftcm; their mutual dependence and fub-
ferviency ; the regularity of their motions, and the aptitude of thefe mo-
tions for producing the moft beneficial efFefts, and many other pheno-
mena refulting from their relation, magnitude, fituation, and ufe, afford
unqueflionable evidences of the creating power and wife difpofal of an
intelligent and almighty agent. The power oi gravity, by which the ce-
leflial bodies perfevere in their revolutions, deferves our particular confi-
deration. This power penetrates to the centres of the ilin and planets,
without any diminution of its virtue, and is extended to immenfe diflan-
ces, regularly decreafing, and producing the mofl: fenfible and impor-
tant effects. Its action is proportional to the quantity of folid matter in
bodies, and not to their furfaces, as is ufual in mechanical caufes; and,
therefore, feems to furpafs mere mechanifm. But however various the
phenomena that depend on this power, and may be explained by it, no
mechanical principles can account for its effefts; much lefs could it have
produced, at the beginning, the regular fituation of the orbs, and the pre-
fent difpofition of things. Gravity could not have determined the planets
to m.ove from wefl to eaft, in orbits nearly circular, almofl: in the fame
plane; nor could this power have projecied the comets, with all the va-
riety of their diredions. If we fuppofe the matter of the fyflem to be
accum.ulated in the centre by its gravity, no mechanical principles, with
the affiftance of this power, could feparate the huge and unwieldy mafs
into fuch parts as the fun and planets ; and, after carrying them to their
different diftances, projeft them in their feveral diredions, preferving flill
the equality of a6tion and re-a6iion, or the fl:ate of the centre of gravity of
No. 4,
'
P the
66 aN lLLt;stllATlON
the fyftem. Such an exquifite ftrufture of things eould only arife from
the cohtrivatjce arid poAverful influeotes bf an inteHigent, free, and nniofl:
potetit, agent. The fame powers, therefore, which at prefeiit govern the
material world, and condud its various motions, are very different from
thofe which werfe riecefiary to have produced it from nothing, or toi have
difpofed it in thb admirable form in which it now proceeds.
But we fhould exceed the limits of our plan, if^ confining our obferva-
tion to the earth, our own habitation, we were to enumerate only the
principal traces of defign and wifdom, as well as goodnefs, which are dif-
cernible in its figure and conftituent parts, in its diurnal and annual mo-
tion, in the polition of its axis with regard to its bfbit, in the benefit
which it derives from the lisht and heat of the fun, and the alternate vicil-
fitudes of the feafons ; in the atmofphere which furrounds it, and in the
different fpecies and varieties of vegetables and animals with which it is
replenifhed. No one can furvey the vegetable produdlions of the earth,
fo various, beautiful, and lifeful, nor the various griadations of animal
life, in fuch a variety of fpecies, all preferved diftinft, and propagated
by a fettled law, each fitted to its own element, provided with proper
food, and with inftindls and organs fuited to its rank and fifuation, aild
efpecially with the powers of fenfation and felf-motioii, and all more im-
mediately or remotely fubfervient to the government and ufe of man,
without admiring the (kill and defign of the original former. But thel'e
are more fignally manifefted in the ftrudure of the human frame, and in
the noble powers and capacities of the human mind; more efpecially in
the moral principles and faculties, which are a diftinguifhing part of our
conftitution, and lead to the perception and acknowledgment of the ex-
ifleiice and government of God. In thofe inftances that have now been
recited, and a variety of fimilar inftances fuggefted by them, or naturally
occurring to the notice of the curious and reflefting mind, contrivance is
manifeff, and immediately, without any tiice or fubtle reafoning, fug-
gefts a contriver. It ftrikes us like a fenfation ; and artful reafonings
againft it may puzzle us, without ftiaking our belief. No perfon, for ex-
ample, that knows the principles of optics, and the ftruclure of the eye,
can believe that it was formed without flcill i'n that fcience ; br that the
ear was formed without the knowledge of founds ; or that the male and
female, created and preferved in due proportion, were not formed for each
other, and for coiitinumg the fpecies. All our accouAts of nature are full
of inftances of this kind. The admirable and beautiful ftrudure of
things for final caufes, exalt our idea of the Contriver ; and the unity of
defign Ihows him to be one. The great motions in the lyftem, performed
with the feme facility as the leaft, fuggeft his almighty power, which
gaVe motidh to the earth and the celeftial bodies, with equal eafe as to
the minuteft particles ; the fubtilty of the motions and adions in the
internal
OF ASTROLOGY. 6;
internal parts of bodies, fhows that his influeiKe penetrates the inmoft
recedes of things, and that he is equally adive and prefent every- where.
The (implicity of the laws that prevail in the world, the excellent difpo-
fition of things, in order to obtain the beft ends, and the beauty which
adorns the works of nature, far fupcrior to any thing in art, fuggeft his
confummate wifdom. The ufefulnefs of the whole Icheme, fo well con-
trived for the intelligent beings who enjoy it, with the internal difpofition
and moral flrudure of thofe beings, (hows his unbounded goodnefs.
Thefe are arguments which are fufficiently open to the views and capa-
cities of the unlearned, while at the fame time they acquire new flrength
and luftre from the difcoveries of the learned. The Deity's atting and in-
terpofing in the univerfe, fhow that he governs it, as well as that he formed
it; and the depth of his counfels, even in conducing the material uni-
verfe, of which a great part furpaffes our knowledge, tends to preferve an
inward veneration and awe of this great Being, and difpofes us to receive
what may be otherwife revealed to us concerning him. His edence, as
well as that of all other fubftances, is beyond the reach of all our difco-
veries ; but his attributes clearly appear in his admirable works. We know
that the higheft conceptions we are able to form of them, are tlill be-
neath his real perfedions; but his dominion over us, and our duty towards
him, are abundantly manifeft. See Maclaurin's Account of Sir Ifaac
Newton's Phil. Difc. b, iv, chap. 9. Baxter in his Matho; Derham, Ray,
Nieuwentyt, De la Pluche in his Nature Difplayed, &c.
Another fubftantial argument to prove the exiftence of God, as the
creator and governor of the univerfe, may be deduced from the univerfal
confent of mankind, and the uniform tradition of this belief through
every nation and every age; it is impoffible to conceive that a falhacy, fo
perpetual and univerfal, Ihould be impofed on the united realon of man-
kind. No credible and (atisfadory account can be given of this univerfal
consent, without afcribing it to the original conftitution of the human
mind, in confequence of which it cannot fail to difcern the exift ence of a
Deity, and to the undeniable traces of his being which his works afford.
Fear, ftate-policy, and the prejudices of education, to which the concur-
rence of mankind in this principle has been fometimes refolved, are founded
on this miiverfal priticiple, fuppofe its being and influence, and are actuated
by its It is much more reafonable to imagine, that the belief of a God
was antecedent to their operation, than that it fhould have been produced
by them ; and that it was diftated by reafoii and confclence, independent
Of xht paffion and policy of Tneu. The uniform and univerfal tradition
of this belief, and of the creation of the world by the divine power, af-
fords concurring evidence both of the principle aud of the fad. The
exigence of God is alfo farther evinced by thofe arguments which have
been ufually alleged to prove that the world had a beginning,, and therefore
that
68 AN ILLUSTRATION
that it mufl have been created by the energy of divine power. In proof
of this, the hiftory of Mofes, confidcred merely as the mofl: ancient hifto-
rian, deferves pa/ticuiar regard. His teftimony is confirmed by the molt
ancient writers among the heathens, both poets and hiftorians. It may
be alfo fairly alleged, that we have no hiftory or tradition more ancient
than that which agrees with the received opinion of the world's begin-
nincT, and of the manner in which it was produced ; and that the moft
ancient hiftories were written long after that time. And this confidera-
tion is urged by Lucretius, the famous Epicurean, as a ftrong prefump-
tion that the world had a beginning:
Si nulla fuit genitalis origo
Terrarum & coeli, femperque aeterna fueie
;
Cur fupra bcllum Thebanum, &: funera Trojae,
Non alias alii quoque res cecinere poetas ?
Befides, the origin and progrefs of learning and the moft ufeful arts con-
firm the notion of the world's beginning, and of the common zera of its
creation ; to which alfo may be added, that the world itfelf, being ma-
terial and corruptible, muft have had a beginning; and many phenomena
occur to the obfervation of the aftronomer and mathematician, which
furnifh a flrong prefumption, that it could have had no long duration,
and that it now gradually tends to diflblution. From thefe confidera-
tions we may infer the abfolute being and providence of God ; and thefe
alfo demonftrate the exiftence of his angels and miniftering fpirits, who
are the meflfengers of his will, and the proper inhabitants of the ethereal
world, and confequently the next fubjedls of our enquiry.
x'\n Anael is a fpiritual intelligent fubftance, and the firft in rank, and
dignity of^all created beings; though the word angel, ayyix®-, is not pro-
perly a denomination of nature, but of office; denoting a mejfenger, or
executioner of the will of fome fuperior power or authority. In this fenfe
they are frequently mentioned in Scripture, as miniftering fpirits fent by
the Almighty to declare his will, and to corredl, teach, reprove, and com-
fort. God alio promulgated the law to Mofes, and appeared to the old
patriarchs, by the mediation of angels, who reprefented him, and fpoke
in his name. The exiflence of angels is admitted in all religions ; the
Greeks and Latins acknowledged them under the names cf getill and
demo7iu and in the Alcoran we find frequent mention of them; the
profeflbrs of the Mahometan religion aflign them various orders and
degrees, as well as different employments, both in heaven and on earth.
The Sadducees alfo admit their exiftence ; witnefs Abufaid, the author cf
an Arabic verfion of the Pentateuch ; and Aaron, a Caraite Jew, in his
comment on the Pentateuch; both in manufcript, and in the late King
of France's library. The heathen philofophers and poets were alfo agreed
as to the exiftence of intelligent beings, fuperior to man ; as is fhown by
St.
OF ASTROLOGY. 69
St. Cyprian, in his Treatife on the Vanity of Idols, fronn the teftimonies
of Plato, Socrates, and Trifmegiftus. Authors are not fo unanimous
about their nature, as of their exiftence : Clemens Alexandrinus believed
they had bodies, which was alfo the opinion of Origen, Cgefarius, Ter-
tullian, and feveral others; but Athanafius, St. Bafil, St. Gregory Nicene,
St. Cyril, and St. Chryfoftom, hold them to be mere fpirits. Authors
are alfo divided as to the time of the creation of angels ; fome will have
it to have been before the creation of our world, or even from eternity ;
while others maintain that they were created at the fame time with our
world. The mofi; probable conjecture is, that they were created at dif-
ferent periods, whenever it pleated the Almighty to call them into exig-
ence But, though we cannot fo clearly demonfliate the precife nature
and duration of angels, we may neverthelefs conclude, that, though thev
are of an order highly fuperior to that of men, yet are they not complete
and perfedt; for, had they been created thus originally, they could not
have fallen, as Lucifer did, nor have finned, which the fcriptyres inform
us fome of them did, by rebelling againft the Almighty, and contending
with him for fupreme authority. For this reafon, as they are themfelves
imperfe6t beings, they can in no refpedl be confidered proper objeds
of human adoration, which we are bound to pay alone to that One Su-
preme, who is omnipotent, immortal, infinite, the fource and centre
of every thing that is great, and good, and perfed.
Theologifts have divided angels into different ranks or fubordinations,
which they term Hierarchies, from «f©-. holy, and apx", rule ; fignifying
holy . command, or to rule in holy things. St. Dionyfius, and other ancient
writers, have eftablifhed nine choirs or orders of thefe celeftial fpirits,
namely, cherubim, feraphim, thrones, dominions, principalities, powers,
virtues, angels, and archangels ; and thefe they form into three hierar-
chies, appointing them their refpeftive offices in the performance of ado-
ration and praife, and in executing the word and will of God. The rab-
bins and Jewifh writers, who had obvioufly a more immediate knowledge
of the angelic hoft, by the infpiration of their prophets and the revelation
of God's true religion, have defined one rank of angels, or intelligent
beings, fuperior to all the foregoing, which anfwer to, or are contained
in, the ten diftinguifhing names of God, and are the pure efTences of his
Spirit, or ftream through which his will and pleafure are communicated
to the angels and bleffed fpirits, and through which his providence ex-
tends to the care and prote6lion of all his works. The firfl: of thefe divine
eflcnces is denominated nin-, Jehovah, and is peculiarly attributed to God
the Father, being the pure and fimple eflence of the Divinity, flowing
through Hajoth Hakados, to the angel Metratton, and to the miniftering
fpirit Refchith Hagalalim, who guides the primum mobile, and beftows
the gift of being upon all things. To this fpirit is allotted the office of
No. 4. Q bringing
70 AN ILLUSTRATION
bringing the fouls of the faithful departed into heaven ;' and by him God
ipake to Mofes. The fecond is n- Jah^ and is attributed to the Perfon
of the Mefliah, or Aefof, whofe power and influence defcend through the
angel Mafleh into the fphere of the Zodiac. This is the fpirit, or Word,
which aduated the chaos, and divided the unwrought matter into three
portions: of the firft, or moft eflential part, was the fpiritual world com-
pofed ; of the fecond, was made the vifible heavens and the luminous
bodies ; and of the third, or inferior part, was formed the terreflrial
world, out of which was drawn the elemental quintelTence, or firfl: matter
of all things, which produced the four elements, and all creatures that
inhabit them, by the agency of a particular fpirit called Raziel, who was
the ruler of Adam. The third is ^^^l«, Ehjek, and is attributed to the
Holy Spirit, whofe divine light is received by the angel Sabbathi, and
communicated from him through the fphere of Saturn. This is the/)r/Vi-
tipium generaliofiis, the begitniiiig of the ways of God, or the manifefta-
tion of the Father and the Son's light in the fupernatural generation.
And from hence flow down all living louls, entering the inanimate body,
and giving form to unfettled matter. The fourth is "jk, £/, through the
light of whom flows grace, goodnefs, mercy, piety, and munificence,
to the angel Zadkiel, and, thence paffing through the fphere of Jupiter,
fafhioneth the images of all bodies, bertovving clemency, benevolence,
and jufi-icc, on all. The fifth is nbH, Elohi, the upholder of the fword,
and left hand of God, whofe influence penetrates the angel Geburah, and
thence defcends through the fphere of Mars, giving fortitude in war and
afilidfion. The fixth is niNav, Tfebaoth, who beftoweth his mighty
power through the angel Raphael into the fphere of the fun, giving mo-
tion, heat, and brightnefs, to it, and thence producing metals. The fe-
venth is iv'jv, Elion, who rules the angel Michael, and defcends through
the fphere of Mercury, giving benignity, motion, and intelligence, with
elegance and confonance of fpeech. The eighth is otn, Adonai, whofe
influence is received by the angel Haniel, and communicated through the
fphere of Venus, giving zeal, fervency, and righteoufnefs of heart, and
producing vegetables. The ninth is -to, ShadJai, whofe influence is con-
veyed by cherubim to the angel Gabriel, and falls into the fphere of the
nQoon, caufing increafe and decreafe of all things, governing the genii and
protedors of men. The tenth is D'n>:N, Elohivi, who extends his bene-
ficence to the angel Jefodoth, into the fphere of the earth, and difpenfeth
knowledge, underftanding, and wifdom. The three firft of thefe ten
names, viz. Jehovah, Jah, and Ehjeh, exprefs the eflence of God,
and are proper names ; but the other {even are only expreflive of his
attributes. The principal and only true name of the Godhead, accord-
ing both to the Hebrews and Greeks, is nvmNv^Nw, T.Tf«yfa;uft<.To», the name
offour letters, with which the Godhead, in moft languages, is ob-
fcrved to be expreffed ; thus in Hebrew the Supreme Being is called rmrr,
Jehovah
;
OF ASTROLOGY. 71
Jehovah; in the Greek, ©tot; in Latin, Deus ; in Spanifh, Dtos ; in Italian,
Idia; in French, Dieu; in the ancient Gaulifli, Diex ; in ancient Ger-
man, Diet; in the Sclavonic, Buck; in Arabic, j^lla; in the Polifh,
Bung; in the Pannonian, I/iu; in the Egyptian, Tenu ; in the Perfiau,
Sire ; and in the language of the ancient Magi, Orji. Thus God is con-
ceived to work by the ideas of his own mind ; and thefe ideas difpenfe
their feals, and communicate them to whatever is formed, or created.
In the exterior circle of the celeftial heaven, in which are placed the
fixed ftars, the Anima Mundi hath her particular forms, or feminal con-
ceptions, anfwering to the ideas of the Divine Mind ; and this fituation
approaching neareft to the empyrean heaven, the feat of God, receives
the fpiritual powers and influences which immediately proceed from
him. Hence they are diffufed through the fpheres of the planets and
heavenly bodies, and communicated to the inmoft centre of the earth, by
means of the terreftrial elements. Thus have the wife aiid learned men
among the Jews deduced the conftru6lion and harmony of the world, and
fhown that God performs all his fecret and ftupendous works by the me-
dium of the celeftial bodies. He a£ts and governs immediately by himfelf,
but mediately by the heavenly bodies, which are the inftruments of his Pro-
vidence, and the fecondary caufes, by which the earth, and all fimilar fyl-
tems, are regulated; and thefe, perhaps, regulate one another by a reci-
procal influence and fympathy communicated to them in the ordination of
nature. And hence comes the original or ground-work of all men's na-
tivities, and all manner of natural queftions and things, and the hiflory
of all that may happen or proceed out of natural caufes, to the full end
of time. To demonftrate this more fatisfadorily, we (hall now define
the natural properties of the celeflial world, with its particular divifions,
quantity, motion, and raeafure, as laid down by the rules of Aftronomy ;
and this will lead us to the Doftrine of Nativities.
Au
72 AN ILLUSTRATION
An ASTRONOMICAL SURVEY of the CELESTIAL WORLD,
with the Places, Order, and Motions, of the Heavenly Bodies.
IT was formerly a fubjed of difpute among Philofoohers, whether the
Earth or the Sun was the centre of the celeflial fyftem; but the latter
opinion has been generally received (Ince the time of Copernicus, who
about the year 1543 publifhed his fix books De Orbium Coeleftium Revo-
lutionibus', wherein he proves the Sun to be very near the centre of gra-
vity of the whole fyftem, and in the common focus of every one of the
planetary orbits ; thus reftoring the old fyftem of Pythagoras, which had
been let afide from the time of Ptolemy. (Ency. Lond. vol. ii. p. 425;,
424.) Next the Sun, Mercury performs his revolution around him; next
to Mercury is the orbit of Venus; and next to Venus, our Earth, with its
attendant or fecondary the Moon, perform a joint courfe, and by their re-
volution meafure out the annual period. Next to the Earth is Mars, the
firft of the fuperior planets; next to him are four newly-difcovered planets,
Ceres, Pallas, Juno, and Vefla ; then comes Jupiter, and lafl: of all Sa-
turn and Herfchel. Thefe and the comets are the conftituent parts of the
Copernican or folar fyftem, which is now received and approved as the
only true one, becaufe moft agreeable to the tenor of nature in all her ac-
tions; for by the two motions of the Earth, all the phenomena of the
heavens are refolved, which by other hypothefes are inexplicable without
a great number of other motions contrary to philofophical reafoning. It
is alfo more rational to fuppofe that the Earth moves round the Sun, than
that the huge bodies of the planets, the ftupendous body of the Sun, and
the immenfe firmament of flars, fhould all move round the Earth e\try
twenty-four hours. The harmony which runs through the folar fyflem,
wonderfully confirms this hypothefis, viz. that the motions of all the pla-
nets, both primary and fecondary, are governed and regulated by one and
the fame law ; which is, that the fquares of the periodical times of
the primary planets, are to each other as the cubes of their diftances from
the Sun; and likewife the fquares of the periodical times of the fecondary
of any primary are to each other, as the cubes of their diftances from that
primary. Now the Moon, which in the Copernican fyflem is a fecondary
of the Earth, in the other hypothefis is confidered as a primary one; and
fo the rule cannot take place, becaufe the periodical time ftated as
that of a primary one does not agree therewith. But this fingle conCde-
ration is fufEcient to eftablifh the motion of the Earth for ever; viz. if
the Earth does not move round the Sun, the Sun muft move, with the
Moon, round the Earth. Now the diftance of the Sun to that of the
Moon being as 10,000 to 46, and the Moon's period being lefs than twen-
ty-eight days, the Sun's pe'-iod would be found no lefs than two hundred
and forty- two years; whereas, in fad, it is but one year. The Sun alfo
being the fountain of light and heat, which it irradiates through all the
lyftem,
OF ASTROLOGY. t.73
fyftem, it muft of courfe be placed in the centre, in order that the planets
may at all times have it in an uniform and equable manner. For, if the
Earth be fuppoled in the centre, and the Sun and planets revolve abont it,
the planets would then, like the comets, be fcorched with heat when
nearefi: the Sun, and frozen with cold in their aphelia, or greateft diftance,
which is not to be imagined. But, if the Sun be fuppofed in the centre
of the lyftem, we then have the rational hypothefis of the planets being
all moved round the Sun, by the univerfal law or power of gravity arifuig
from his vaft body, and every thing will anfwer to the laws of circular
motion and central forces; but otherwife we are wholly in the dark, and
know not how to define thefe operations of nature. Fortunately, how-
ever, we are able to give not only reafons, but demonftrable proofs, that
the Sun does poffefs the centre of the fyftem, and that the planets move
about him in the order above-mentioned. The firfl: is, that Mercury and
Venus are ever obferved to have two conjundions with the Sun, but no
oppofition, which could not happen unlefs the orbits of thefe planets lay
within the orbit of the Earth. The fecond is, that Mars, Jupiter, and
Saturn, have each their conjundions and oppofitions to the Sun alternately
and fucceffively, which could not be, unleis their orbits were exterior to
that of the Earth. In the third place, the greateft elongation or diftance
of Mercury from the Sun is about twenty degrees, and that of Vetius
forty-feven degrees ; which anfwers exadlly to their diftance in this fyf-
tem, but in the other they would be feen one hundred and eighty degrees
from the Sun in oppofition to him. Fourthly, in this difpofition of
the planets they will all of them be fometimes much nearer to the Earth
than at others; the confequence of which is, that their brightnefs and
fplendour, and alfo their apparent diameters, will be proportionally greater
at one time than another; and this we obferve to be true every day.
Thus the apparent diameter of Venus, when greateft, is near fixty-fix
feconds, but, when leaft, not more than nine and a half; of Mars, when
greateft, it is twenty-one feconds, but, when leaft, no more than two fe-
conds and a half; whereas, by the other hypothefis, they ought always
to be equal. The fifth is, that, when the planets are viewed with a good
lelefcope, they" appear with different phafes, or with different parts of
their bodies enlightened. Thus Venus is fometimes new, then horned,
and afterwards dichotomized, then gibbous, afterwards full, and fo in-
creafes and decreafes her light in the fame manner as the Moon, and as
this lyftem requires. The fixth proof is, that the planets, all of them,
do fometimes appear dired in motion, fometimes retrograde, and at other
times ftationary. Thus Venus, as ftie pafles from her greateft elongation
weftward to her greateft elongation eaihvard, will appear dire<Sl in mo-
tion, but retrograde as (he pafles from the latter to the former ; and,
when (he is in thofe points of greateft diftance from the Sun, ftie feems
^No. 4. R for
-^^ AN ILLUSTRATION
for Ibme time ftationary ; all which is iiecefTary upon the Copernican hy-
pothefis, but cannot happen in any other. The I'eventh is, that the bo-
dies of Mercury and Venus, in their lower conjunftions with the Sun,
are hid behind the Sun's body, and ni the upper conjundions are (een to
pafs over the Sun's body, or di(k, in form of a black round fpot, which
is necefiary in the Copernican fyftem, but impoflible in any other. The
eit^hth is, that the times in which thefe conjundions, oppofitions, ftations,
and retroi;radations, of the planets, happen, are not fuch as they would
be if the Earth were at reft in its orbit, but precifely fuch as would hap-
pen were the Earth to move round the Sun, and all the other planets in
the periods afligned them ; and therefore this, and no other, can be the
true fvftem of the world.
But the better to determine the places of the celeftial bodies, and to
underftand the conftitution of the heavens more clearly, aftronomers have
conceived or defcribed feveral circles, called the circles of the fphere, by
which the celeftial world is divided and meafured out. Some of thefe
are called great circles, as the equinodial, ecliptic, meridian, &c. and
others fmall circles, as the tropics, parallels, &c. The equinodtial line
is a circle which we imagine to inveft the whole world, and is fo called,
becaufe whenever the Sun, in his progrefs through the ecliptic, comes to
this circle, it makes equal days and nights all round the globe, as he
then rifes due eaft, and fets due weft, which he never does at any other
time of the year. This equinoftial line is conceived to be three hundred
and fixty degrees in its whole circumference ; and each of thefe degrees
is divided into fixty minutes, or fixty equal parts of a degree, and thefe
again into as manv feconds. The meridian is another great circle, con-
fifting alfo of three hundred and fixty degrees, extending from one polar
point to the other, and twice cutting the equinoftial line, compaffing the
whole world from north to fouth, as the equino6lial does from eaft to
weft, and terminates at the fame point where it began. The equinoftial
line is fixed and immutable, and is of neceflity always conceived to be in
one and the fame place; but the meridian is mutable, and may circle the
world in any or in all degrees of the equator, as we may have occafion to
conceive or imagine; it muft, however, uniformly divide the fphere into
two equal parts, which are called hemifpheres. The polar points are
thofe two points in the immenfe ball of the world, which are equi-
diftant from the equinodial line, the one in the utmoft northern, and the
other in the utmoft fouthern, point. The three hundred and fixty degrees
of the cquinodtial line are called the longitude of the world, becaufe they
are in order as the fun and ftars move in their circuits through the fpa-
cious heavens in their refpedive orbs. But the three hundred and fixty.
degrees, of the meridian are called the latitude of the world, becaufe they:
mete
OF ASTROLOGY. -j^
mete out that diftance wherein the fun and all the ftars, in a certain
breadth one from another, move in their circuits from eaft to weft.
Now the fun, in his annual progrefs from weft to eaft, does not keep
the equinodial line, but declines from it at one part of the year to the
north, and at another part of the year to the fouih ; and the planets alfo
obferve the fame order in their progrefs, except that the fun always keeps
the fame conftant track, whereas the planets often vary in their declina-
tions from the equinodial line. Hence another great circle is conceived
in the heavens, called the Zodiac, which is likewife divided, as all the
great circles are, into three hundred and fixty degrees ; but this circle,^
being as it were the high road of the planets, and comprehending fo much
of the heavens as the fun and planets fwerve in their declinations, is con-
ceived to be twenty degrees broad ; and it is confined to this Ipace, becaufe
none of the planets ever reach beyond ten degrees north, or ten degrees
fouth, from the equinodial line ; and the fun's path or track in the zodiac
is called the ecliptic line, becaufe the eclipfes only happen when the moon
is alfo in this line.
- The zodiac is alfo divided into twelve equal parts, called, the twelve
fjgns, or houfes of heaven ; and, thefe beginning where the Sun enters the
equinodial to the northward, the firft fign is named Aries, and the reft
in order are called Taurus, Gemini,. Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio,
Sagittarius, Capricornus, Aquaries, and Pifces. Thefe fjgns confift of
thirty degrees each ; and, being all of them divided into four equal
parts, determine the four feafons of the year. Now, when the Sun en-
ters into the fign called Cancer, he is in his greateft north declination,,
and at that time is diftant from the equinodial line twenty-three degrees
and a half to the north; which occafions another circle to be defcribed,
called the tropic of Cancer,, the centre of which being the north pole, it
comprehends as much of the extremity of the round world as falls under
twenty-three degrees and a half from the equator to the northward. And,
when the Sun enters the fign Capricornus, he is in his utmoft fouth de-
clination, and> occafions another circle to be defcribed, called the tropic of
Capricorn, as many degrees from the equator to the fouth as the other
tropic is to the north. At the dillance of forty-five degrees from each of
thefe tropics, two other circles are imagined, called the arctic and an-
tardic circles, which, being but little more than twenty degrees difjant
from each pole,, do likewife encircle fome fmall portion of the extremities
of the world. The inferior circles, called parallels, run from eaft to weft,,
and ferve to divide the heavens into feveral fpaqes between the greater
circlesi..
Ancient:
76 AN ILLUSTRATION
Ancient tradition has handed down to us the origin of that important
circle called the Zodiac, with the reafon why it is lb named, and the in-
genious method which the fiift men made ul'e of to know exaflly the
line which the fun defcribes under the heavens in the perpetual changings
of its place, and to divide the year into equal portions. This tradition is
found in two ancient authors, the one Roman, the other Greek. The
firfi: attributes it to the Egyptians; the other, to the firft inhabitants of
Chaldea. They every day law the fun and the whole heavens turning
and paffing from eafl; to weft. In the mean time they obferved that the
fun, by a motion peculiar to it, from day to day receded from fome cer-
tain ftars, and took its place under others, always advancing towards the
eaft. Whilft the moon was making twelve times that revolution, the fun
made it only once; but fhe began the thirteenth day again before the fun
had as yet completed its own. The habit of dividing the year into pretty
near twelve lunations, made them wifti that they had twelve divifions of
a year perfeflly equal, or twelve months, which might be exadly equi-
valent to the year itfelf, and which might, as it were, be pointed at with
one's finger in the heavens, by Ihowing fome certain ftars under
which the fun paftes during every one of thefe months. Here is then the
method by which they divided the courfe of the fun in twelve equal por-
tions or colle6tions of ftars, which are called afterifms, or conftellations:
Our aftronomers took a couple of brafs open veflels, the one pierced at
the bottom, and the other without any orifice below. Having ftopped the
hole of the firft, they filled it with water, and placed it fo as that the wa-
ter might run out into the other veflel the moment the cock fhould be
opened. This done, they obferved, in that part of the heaven where the
fun has its annual courfe, the rifing of a ftar, remarkable either for its
magnitude or brightnefs ; and, at the critical inftant it appeared on the ho-
rizon, they began to let the water flow out of the upper veflel into the
other during the reft of the night, and the whole following day, to the
very moment when the fame ftar, being come to the eaft again, began to
appear anew on the horizon. The inftant it was again feen, they took
away the under veflel, and threw the water that remained in the other
on the g'round. The obfervers were thus fure of having one revolution
of the whole heaven between the firft rifing of the ftar and its return.
The water, which had flowed during that time, might then afford them
a means of meafuring the duration of one whole revolution of the heaven,
and of dividing that duration into feveral equal portions; fince, by divid-
ing that water itfelf into twelve equal parts, they were fure of having the
revolution of a twelfth part of heaven during the efflux of a twelfth
part of the water. They then divided the water of the under veflel into
twelve parts perfedlly equal, and prepared two other fmall veflels capable
of containing exadly one of thefe portions, and no more. They again
poured
OF ASTROLOGY. -j-j
poured into the great upper vefTel the twelve parts of water all at once,
keeping the veffels (hut. Then they placed under the cock, ftill fliut,
one of the two fmall veffels, and another near it to fucceed the firfl: as
foon as it (hould be full.
All thefe preparations being ready, they, the next night, obferved that
part of the heaven towards which they had for a long while remarked that
the Sun, the Moon, and the planets, took their courfes ; and ftaid for the
rifing of the conftellation which is fince called Aries. The Greeks, per-
haps, gave that name to fome ftars different from thofe which went by it
before the flood; but this enquiry is not neceffary at prefent. The in-
ftant Aries appeared, and they faw the firfl ftar of it afcending, they let
the water run into the little meafure. As foon as it was full, they re-
moved it, and threw the water out. In the mean time they put the other
empty meafure under the fall. They obferved exadlly, and fo as to re-
member very well, all the flars that rofe during all the periods which the
meafure took in filling; and that part of the heaven was terminated in
their obfervations by the ftar which appeared the laft on the horizon the
moment the meafure was juft full: fo that, by giving the two little vef-
fels the time neceffary to be alternately filled to the brim three times each
during the night, they had, by that means, one half of the courfe of the
fun in the heaven, that is, one half of the heaven itfelf ; and that half
again was divided into fix equal portions, of which they might (how and
diftinguifh the beginning, the middle, and the end, by ffars, which, from
their fize, number, or order, were rendered diftinguifhable. As to the
other half of the heaven, and the fix other conftellations which the fun
runs over therein, they were forced to defer the obfervation of them to
another feafon. They waited till the fun, being placed in the middle of
the now known and obferved conftellations, fhould leave them at liberty
to fee the others during the night.
Doubtlefs, fome precautions were neceffary, not to miftake as to the
fall of the water, which muft flow more flowly in proportion as its mals
is lefs high. Hov/ever, after having, by this or fome fuch means, made
themfelves fure of the great annual courfe which the fun faithfully fol-
lows in the heavens, and of the equality of the fpaces filled by the twelve
colledlions of ftars that limit that courfe, the observers thought of giving
them names. They in general called them the ftations or the houfes of
the fun, and afilgned three of them to each feafon. They then gave
each conftellation a peculiar name, whofe propery did not only confift in
making it known again to all nations, but in declaring, at the fame time,
the circumftance of the year (which was of concern to mankind) when the
fun (hould arrive at that conftellation.
No. 4. S By
78 AN ILLUSTRATION
By a particular care of Providence, the dams of the flock commonly
happen to be pregnant about the end of autumn; they bring forth during
the winter and in the beginning of the fpring; whence it happens that the
young ones are kept warm under the mother during the cold, and after-
wards eafily thrive and grow a6live at the return of the heat. The lambs
come the firft, the calves follow them, and the kids fall the laft. By this
means the lambs, grown vigorous and flrong, may follow the ram to the
fields, as the fine days come on. Soon after the calves, and at laft:
the kids, venture abroad, and, by increafing the flock, begin to augment
the revenues of their mafler.
Our ancient obfervers, feeing that there were during the fpring no pro-
ductions more ufeful than lambs, calves, and kids, gave the conftella-
tions, under which the fun pafles during that feafon, the names of the
three animals which enrich mankind moft. The firft was named Aries,
the fecond Taurus, the third the two kids, Gemini, the better to charac-
terize the fecundity of goats, which more commonly bring forth two
young ones than one, and have an abundance of milk more than fufl^-
cient to nourifli them.
The bulk of mankind had already very often remarked, that there was
a point to which the fun raifed itfelf in its coming towards them, but
which it never exceeded ; and that it afterwards funk daily, in receding
from them, for fix months together, till it arrived at another point a great
way under the firft, but below which it never defcended. This retreat
of the fun, made very flowly, and always backward, gave the obfervers
the occafion of diftinguifliing the ftars which follow the two kids, or
Gemini, by the name of the animal that walks backward, viz. Cancer,
the crab. When the fun paffes under the next conftellation, it makes our
climate feel fultry heats, but chiefly the climates where men were at that
time all gathered together. When poets attribute to that conftellation
the fiercenefs and raging of the Lion, of which it bears the name, it is
very eafy to guefs at what might determine that choice from the begin-
ning. Soon after, the houfing of the hay and the corn is entirely over
throughout the eaft; there remain on the ground only a few ears fcattered
here and there, which they caufed to be gleaned by the leaft neceflfary
hands ; this work is left to the youngeft girls. How then could they re-
prefent the conftellation, under which the fun fees no longer any crops on the
ground, better than by the name and figure of a young maid gleaning ? The
wings you fee her have in the fpheres are ornaments added of later date,
after the introduftion of fables. The Virgin, which follows the Lion, is
certainly no other than a gleaning girl, or, if you will, a reaper; and, left
we (hould miftake her funftions, flie has befides in her hand a clufter of
ears ; a very natural proof of the origin here attributed to her.
The,
OF ASTROLOGY. 79
The perfedl equality of days and nights, which happens when the Sun
quits the fign Virgo, caufed aftronomers to give the next fign the name
of Libra, that is, of a balance. The frequent difeafes which the Sun leaves
behind him, or caufes by his retiring, procured the next fign the name of
Scorpio; becaufe it is mifchievous, and drags after it a fting and venom.
Towards the end of autumn, the fall of the leaf expofcs wild beafts, leav-
ing them lefs covering: vintage and harveft are over ; the fields are free;
and it is of ill confequence to fufFer the propagation of beafts at the ap-
proach of winter. Every thing then invites us to hunt ; and the fign, in
which the Sun is at that time, has from thence obtained the name of
Sagittarius; that is, the archer, or huntfman. What is the proper and
diftindive charader of the wild goat, or Capricorn, of which the firft
fign of winter has the name? it is to look for its food, getting from the
foot of the mountains to the higheft fummit, and always climbing from
rock to rock : the name of Capricorn was then fit to inform men of the
time when the Sun, having reached the loweft verge of its courfe,
was ready to begin to afcend again towards the higheft, and to continue
to do fo for fix months together. This is quite the reverfe of the crab
(Cancer) ; and the happy concurrence of the oppofite charaders of thele
two animals is a proof of what direded the firft obfervers in the impofi-
tion of all thcfe names. Aquaries and Pifces, without any difficulty,
mark out the rainy feafon, and the time of the year when fifties, fatter and
nicer than at any other time, bring on again the profit and pleafure of fifliing.
It may be remarked, that, of the twelve conftellations, there are ten, the
names of which are borrowed from feveral animals; which caufed aftro-
nomers to give the annual circle, which they compofe, the name of Zodiac.
It is as much as if you would fay, the circle of animals.
By this very plain induftry, men acquired a new method of meafuring
time, and of regulating all their works. They already knew, without
any trouble or care, how to regulate the order of their feafts and common,
bufinefs, by infpe6tion only of the phafes of the moon. From the know-
ledge of the zodiac, they obtained an exa6l knowledge of the year ; the
conftellations became to them fo many very fignificant figns, which, both
by their names and refpedtive fituations, informed them of the order of
their harvefts, and of the cautions they were to take in order to bring
them about, openly and daily ftiowing them how long they were to ftay
for them ; the people were neither obliged to caft up the days, nor mark
out the order of times, to regulate themfelves. Twelve words, applied
to twelve different parts of the heaven, which every night revolved
before their eyes, were to them a part of knowledge no lefs convenient
and advantageous than eafy to be acquired. When men, after the fetting
of the Sun, faw the ftars of the fign Aries afcend the oppofite horizon,
and diftant from the Sun by one half of the heaven, they then knew that
the
8o AN ILLUSTRATION
the Sun was under the fign Libra, which, being the feventh of the celef-
tial figns, was diftant from the firft by one whole half of the zodiac.
—
When at the approach of day they faw in the middle of the heaven, and
at an equal diliance from eaft to weft, the fineft ftar of the llgn Leo,
they eafily underftood that the Sun, then ready to rife, was at the di{^
tance of three figns from Leo, and removed towards the eaft one quarter
part of its circle. Thus, without feeing the ftars which the Sun drown-
ed by his brightnefs as he came under them, they faid, with a perfedl af-
furance, that the Sun is now in Scorpio ; two months hence we fhall have
the fiiorteft day. They could, on fight of a flngle conftellation, placed
in the eaftern, or middle, or weftern, part of the heaven, immediately fay
where the fun was, how far the year was advanced, and what kind of
work it was fit they fhould bufy themfelves about. After this manner fhep-
herds and farmers ftill regulate their work ; and, if we at prefent are ig-
norant of the ftars, if we are not able to determine the diftance between
one conftellation fhown us and the a6lual place of the fun, it is becaufe
we can read and write. The firft men perufed the heavens for want of
writing; and it is on account of the conveniency of writing that the gene-
rality of men now difpenfe with looking among the ftars for the know-
ledge of the operations and order of the year. But writing itfelf, that fo
ufeful invention, is one of the produ6ls of aftronomy; and it may be eafily
fhown alfo, that the names given the twelve celeftial figns gave birth to
the invention both of painting and writing. The hiftory of the heavens
ftill promifes further novelty, and it will continue to inform us of the
helps for which we are indebted to the ftudy of nature.
Now, merely to know and to underftand thofe divifions of the heavens
is nothing more than fpeculative aftrology, commonly called Aftronomy
;
but, to attain to the knowledge of Aftroloo-y in 2;eneral, we muft be con-
verlant in the affecliom and qualities of the heavenly matter, and of the
planets and fixed ftars. It is generally imagined that the fixed jiars are
faftened in the eighth orb of the celeftial heaven, and only move as that
orb doth, and uniformly together, about one minute's fpace in a whole
year ;
but reafon has not abfolutely determined this point, fo as to leave
it quite fatisfa6tory, or incontrovertible. The fixed ftars are obferved to
differ from the planets by their twinkling or fparkling ; whence philofo-
phers have conceived them to fliine with their own innate light, the fame
as the fun does. The number of ftars difcoverable at once by the eye is
not above a thoufand. This at firft may appear incredible, becaufe they
feem to be without number; but the deception arifes from our looking
confufedly upon them, without reducing them into any order.* If we
but look ftedfaftly upon a pretty large portion of the fky, and count the
* Encyclopaedia Londinenfis, article Aftronomy, vol ii. p. 408.
ftars
OF ASTROLOGY. Bi
ftars in it, we fhall be furprifed to find them fo few ; and, if we confi-
der how feldom the moon meets with any ftars in her way, although
there are as many about her path as in any other parts of the heavens, we
may foon be convinced that the ftars are much thinner fown than people
are aware of. The Britifh Catalogue, which befides the liars vifible to th-e
naked eye, includes a great number which cannot be feen without the
affiftance of a telefcope, contains no more than three thoufand in both
hcmifpheres. From what we know of the immenfe diftances of the fixed
ftars, the neareft may be computed at 32,000,000,000,000 of miles from
the earth, which is farther than a cannon-ball would fly in i'even million
of years! Thefe ftars, on account of their apparently various magnitude?,
are diftributed into feveral claffes or orders : thofe which appear
largeft are called flan of the Jirfl magnitude; the next to them, in fize
and luftre, y^arj of the fecond magnitude; and fo on to the fxth, which
confill of the fmalleft that can be feen by the naked eye. This diftribu-
tion having been made long before the invention of telefcopes, the ftars
which cannot be feen without the help of theie inftruments are difiiii-
guifhed by the nume oi tclefcoplc ftars.
For the fame reafoii tliat the ftars within the belt or circle of the zodiac
were divided into conflellations, fo have been thofe on either fide of ir
;
viz. to diftinguifh them from one another, fo that any particular ftar
may be readily found in the heavens, by the help of a celelfial globe, upon
which tlie conftellations are fo delineated as to put the moft remarkable
flars into fuch parts of the figures which reprefent them as are molt
eafily diftinguiflied ; and thofe ftars which could not be brought into
any part of thefe figures are called unformed [lars. The number of
the ancjent coiiflellations is forty-eight : viz. upon the zodiac twelve;
upon all that region of the heavens oti the north fide of the zodiac,
twenty-one; and upon the fouth fide fifteen more; making in the whole
forty-eight confteliatioiis. But, tlie more modern philofophers and aftro-
logians having added a number of others, I fhall let the whole down in
their proper ordei'.
TABLE of the ANCIENT CONSTELLATIONS.
AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 83
The NEW SOUTHERN CONSTELLATIONS.
Columba Naochi
84 AN ILLUSTRATION
Antares in Sagittal), both ftars of the nature of Mars, provoking to
courage and magnanimity, but inclining to violence and cruelty. Of
the I'econd magnitude are the South Balance, and the Head of Pollux,
both ftars of a furious and violent nature. Of the third magnitude,
the Head oj Medufa, or Algol, is famous for its mifchievous inclinations ;
and lo are the tivo AJfes, flars of the fourth magnitude. Of the fifth
ma-ynitude are the Pleiades^ ftars of remarkable influence, and celebrated
for their fweet and benevolent nature. Stars of the fixth magnitude
are very (mall ;
yet, notwithftanding this, they are not without their
operations upon earthly things; as in the breaft of the Crab, called
Prctjebe, are feveral little flars which appear only like a white cloud,
and yet the force of this conftellation has been often felt in the affairs of
mankind. Thefe fixed flars alio often prove their force in the change of
weather, as they happen to rife, culminate, or fet, with the fun, moon,
and planets.
But the conftellations which form the twelve figns of the zodiac have
obvioully the mofl powerful and moft imrryediate operation upon man ;
and the reafon is, becaufe they form the pathway of the fun, moon, and
planets, in all their peregrinations, and thereby receive from them -a more
forcible power and energy. And, as thefe figns form a confiderable
part of the Science of Aftrology, we fhall confider them under all their
various qualities and afFeflions, but with refped to their operations upon
man's body and upon the four feafons of the year. Thefe figns are
known or difUnsfuifhed bv the following characters:
T Aries
y Taurus
n Gemini
25 Cancer
SI Leo
IJ)^ Virgo
:!cr/:
^ Libra
n\ Scorpio
I Sa'2;"ittarius
Vf Capricornus
xxr Aquaries
^ Pifccs
They are placed in this order, and divided into four equal parts, an-
fwering to'the four quarters of the year, becaufe the equator cuts and
divides the circle of the zodiac at the point beginning uith Aries, and
at the oppofite point of Libra, dividing the \\ hole into two equal parts,
confifting of fix northern and fix fouthern figns. But the reafon why the
Sun's courfe begins and is r-jckoned from Aries, is, as tradition informs
us, becaufe the Sun, when firfl brought into exigence, was placed in
this fign. And this is not an unreafonable conje61ure, fiiice the fprinc;
quarter begins when the Sun enters Aries, and brings with it increase and
length of days, and all nature begins to multiply and flourifn, and as it
were to rife into new life. The fixth northern figns terminate with
Virgo, and the fix fouthern commence with Libra; but the nort'nerntigu's
have always been confidered of a more efficacious and noble nature than
the fouthern.
Pliilofophers
OF ASTROLOGY. 85
Philofophers have alfo afligned another reafon for this order and divi-
fion of the twelve figns of the zodiac, namely. That nature works by
oppofition and contrariety, and thus brings about the four ftates of all
elementary bodies, viz. generation, confervation, corruption, and annihila-
tion. As therefore gxneratmi is the firft ftate, and is produced and
nouriihed by heat, they begin with the fiery fign Aries. The next qua-
lity being confervation, or durability, they fignify the fame by placino- an
earthy fign next in order, fince earth gives permanency and fixation to
corruptible bodies. The third quality being corruption, it is reprefented by
an airy fign, becaufe air is known to be the fource of putrefadion.
The laft ftate of an elementary body is its final end or dijfolution', and,
as water diflblves all corruptible bodies, fo have they defcribed it by
placing a watery fign the laft of all. In this arrangement of the figns
of the zodiac we may further obferve, that two pafifive principles are
placed between two active ones ; and, as our all-wile Creator hath fo
confl:ru6ted nature, that the oppofition of one thing fhould occafion the
exiftence or duration of another, fo we may obferve it in the divifions
of the zodiac ; for inftance, Aries, a fiery fign, is placed oppofite to Libra,
which is an airy fign ; and in all refpedls refembles a man fitting over a
fire with a pair of bellows in his hands, blowing to keep it burning : for,
without air, fire is foon extinguifhed. In the fame manner it is with the
water and the earth ; but, to make thefe obfervations more apparent, we
will arrange the figns of the zodiac under all their diiFerent qualities and
forms.
The DIVISIONS of the TWELVE SIGNS of the ZODIAC.
-the (ran
ift fix j
:^ n; I
T-u 1- J 1 ir J- r Fiery T SI -T Hot and dry.
They are divided alio according ^ f,
'
^"^ * ^ ,, , /"
^ \u (T -r } . a) Earthy y rp^ VJ Cold and dry
to their four 1 riphcities and< .. Vr tt 1 •
XT .
'^
^ Airy n =0: — Hot and moi
Signs oppofite are the ( T b R ^ 9, 1^ Northern and commanding,
firflfixto thelaft fix ) :^ ^ S VS -^ ¥: Southern and obeying.
Nature.
ry U zOz :x Hot and moift.
1^ Watery 55 tti K Cold and moift.
Some^are mafculine, as T n SI — | c^r Fiery and airy, mafculine.
Some are feminine, as b ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ Earthy and watery, feminine.
Equino61ial T —
Tropical 25 vy
Fixed ti 9. H ^
Common n 11^ 7 K '
Moveable T S ii vy
No. c. U Thefe
g5 AN ILLUSTRATION
Thcfe fio-ns are termed fixed, common, and moveable, becaufe, whenever
the Sun is in any one of them, it anfwers to the fealbu of the year ; the
weather being then either moveable, or fixed ; or between both.
r^, ir J- -J J r Spring quarter T b n
They are alfo divided
J gummer quarter ^ 9. W.
into the four quar- < ^^^^^^ ^rter ^^ ni |
ters of the year, as
|^ winter quarter VS
- ¥:
Aries begins the fpring quarter, for which reafon all the revolutional
fitrures, either for the world or for particular ftates, are fet from the Sun
enlerino- the firft point of the equinoftial fign Aries.
Bicorporal or double C
OF ASTROLOGY. 87
he will then be meek, womanilh, and effeminate ; all which afFedions pro-
ceed from phlegm.
There are figns called quadrupedian, or four-footed, as T y ^ J^ VJ,
becaufe thofe creatures from whence they are named have four feet ; and
in a nativity, where either of them afcend, they import that the conftitu-
tion of the native partakes much of the nature of that creature they
reprefent ; for inftance, if Aries afcends, then he will be hot and dry, and
partake of the qualities of the ram ; if Taurus be lord of the afcendant,
he will be furious, as the bull; if Leo afcend, he will be in nature bold
and magnanimous; if Sagittarius, he will be perfevering and intrepid ; if
Capricorn, he will be luftful and libidinous, like the goat. So there are
figns of humanity, as n n)i ^ z^-, and the firfl part of % ; and in nativities
where any of thefe figns afcend, or in which the lord of the afcendant
is placed, it fignifies that the native is of a friendly difpofition, humane,
affable, and courteous ; of an excellent carriage, and engaging behaviour.
Again, feme figns are called fruitful, as 25 Tr[ ^ ; and, if the afcendant,
or his lord, or the moon, be placed in any one of thefe, or if the cufp of the
fifth houfe has one of thefe upon it, or if his lord be pofited in one of
them, the native will have many children, or will be of a prolific con-
ftitution ; but, if barren figns pofTefs the aforefaid places, then, according
to the plain courfe of nature, fierility and barrennefs will follow. There
are alfo fome figns termed mute, as 25 ni ^ . If any of thefe
afcend in a nativity, and Mercury, who is the general fignificator of
fpeech, be afflicted by the planets Saturn and the Dragon's Tail in an
evil houfe of heaven, and the afcendant alfo vitiated, the native will be
born dumb; if Mercury be free, and the afcendant only affli6ted, or if the
afcendant be ^xto, and Mercury afflidled, the native will be generally
filent, or flow of fpeech. But if figns of voice afcend in a nativity,
as n ni^ 25 J' isr, the native will pofTefs a volubility of fpeech, and be
a good orator. Again, fome figns are feral, i. e. brutifh, or favage; fuch
are Leo and the lafl part of Sagittarius ; and, whenever Leo or the lafl
part of Sagittarius afcend in a nativity, the native will be brutifhly inclined,
and pofTefs an unfeeling and cruel difpofition, Thofe perfons, in whofe
nativity T y ^ YJ' are horofcopical, have a conflant hoarfenefs or
whiftling in their delivery and fpeech, though otherwife quick and
voluble enough ; and thofe perfons are generally crooked, deformed, or
imperfedlly born, who have y afcending, and Caput Algol pofited in the
afcendant. But a confideration of the planets pofited in thofe figns mufl
not be negledted.
'D'
There are alfo degrees which are termed mafculine, feminine, light,
dark, fmoky, pitted, azimene or deficient, and increafing fortune; thefe
are all exhibited at one view in the following Table.
A TABLE
88 AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE exhibiting the Affections and Significations of the
Degrees in each Sign of the Zodiac.
•Signs
OF ASTROLOGY. 89
in a nativity, the native will be of a fairer and clearer complexion than
ordinary. The fifth column (hows that there are degrees termed dark or
obfcure ; and, whenever thefe happen to be horolbopical in a nativity, they
declare the native to be of a dark or fallow complexion, and, if he {hould
be born deformed, his deformity will be confiderably greater. The fixth
column {hows which degrees of the zodiac are termed y/wo/fy; and, if any
of them arife on the eaftern fineter at the time of birth, they declare the
native of a mixed complexion, neither fair nor fwarthy, but partaking of
both; and fimilar to his complexion will be his underftanding. The
feventh column fhows which of the degrees of the zodiac are called void
;
and, if the afcendant in the jadix of any nativity be pofited in them, it
declares an imbecility in the judgment and underftanding of the native ;
and, the farther he enters into converfation or bufinefs, the more obvious
will this defe£l appear. The eighth column points out what degrees in
each of the twelve figns are called deep and pitted; and thefe, in a nativity,
fignify, that if the afcendant, his lord, or the moon, be fituated in any of
them, the native will be of hafty and imperfeft fpeech, incapable of ex-
preffing his defires, or of declaring his fentiments ; and will always be in-
volved in vexatious litigations and difputes ; and, like a man in a pit or
fnare, will want the affiflance of another to help him out. The ninth
column diftinguifhes the azimene, lame or deficient, degrees ; and, if in a
nativity any one of thefe afcend, or the lord of the afcendant, or the moon,
be in any of them, the native will be crooked, lame, or deformed, or in
fome manner vitiated in the member or part of the body that the fign
governs in which fuch azimene degrees fhall happen to be. This rule
is fo unexceptionable and invariable, that it ought to be well confidered
in the judgment of every nativity. The tenth column points out all the
degrees in the twelve figns that are augmenters or increafers of fortune
;
and the knowledge to be derived from them is, that if, in a nativity, the
cufp of the fecond houfe, or the lord of the fecond, Jupiter, or Part of For-
tune, be in degrees augmenting, they then become arguments of much
wealth ; and prefage that the native fhall, according to his capacity or
fituation in life, attain to ftill greater honour, riches, and preferment.
But, befides thefe general properties, each of the figns pofTefTes a par-
ticular efficacy and virtue peculiar to itfelf, or to that part of the
heavens wherein it bears rule. For, as upon earth all ground will not
bring forth the fame fruit, fo in the heavens all places or parts thereof
will not produce the fame efFe6ts. Upon the earth, a man in his journey
rides over ten miles, more or lefs, upon the fands ; at another time, he
traces over as many miles more upon the clay ; and, after that, he pro-
ceeds on another ten miles upon the marl and gravel. Similar to this,
by the mofl corre£t obfervation, appear to be the alternate variations of
No. 5. X the
90 AN ILLUSTRATION
the heavenlj matter. This we fhall render apparent, by examining the
different and diftind qualities of every fjgn throughout all the degrees of
the zodiac. And firfl
Of ARIES, r.
This fign, obfervation and experience both inform us, is hot and
dry, like a high gravelly or Tandy ground ; and, when this fign afcends
at a birth, or if the fun or moon be pofited in it, it ufually contributes
unto the native a dry body, lean ar.d fpare, flirong and large bones and
limbs, piercing eyes, a fwarthy or lallow complexion, and fandy-co-
loured or red hair, and inclines him to be choleric, brutal, violent, and
intemperate; that is, this fign naturally produces thefe effefts. But, if
the planets Jupiter or Venus be in the afcendant, or in this fign, it very
materially alters both the conftitution and complexion of the native for
the better,; but, if Saturn or Mars be pofited there, then it is altered
confiderably for the worfe.* For, as fome land will bear wheat, and
other land only rye, and yet, by adding com poll to it, or by ordering it
accordingly, the nature of the mould may oftentimes be changed, and
made to bring forth fruit contrary to its own nature ;
—jufl the fame it is
when the planets, or their afpedls, fall flrongly into a fign ; they quite
change its nature and efFeft ; but, if none of thefe happen, then the fign
Aries, and the reft, unalterably purfue their own nature.
Aries is an equinoftial, cardinal, diurnal, moveable, fiery, choleric, hot
and dry, luxurious, violent, fign ; eaftern, and of the fiery triplicity. It
is the day-houfe of Mars, and confifts of twelve flars. The difeafes
produced by this fign are the fmall-pox and falling ficknefs, apoplexies,
head-ach, megrims, baldnefs, and all diforders of the head and face ;
hare-lips, ring-worms, meafles, fevers, convulfions, and the dead palfy.
The regions over which Aries prefidcs, are England, France, Baflernea,
Syria, Paleftine, the Upper Burgundy, Germany, SwifiTerland, the Upper
Silefia, the Lefler Poland, Denmark, and Judea ; the cities of Naples,
Capua, Ancona, Imolia, Ferrara, Florence, Verona, Lindavia, Brunfwick,
Cracovia, Marfeilles, Saiagoffa, Barganum, Csfarea, Padua, Augufta, and
Utrecht. In man it governs the head and face ; and the colour it rules
is white mixed with red.
TAURUS, b.
Taurus differs greatly from the preceding fign, being in nature cold
and dry, as if out of a hot and fandy foil a man were on a fudden to
enter into a cold deep clay-country. If this fign afcends at a birth, or is
* See Doft. of Nat. lib. i. cap. lo. fed. i.
pofited
OF ASTROLOGY. 91
pofited in the fun or moon's place, it ufually renders a perfon with a
broad brow, thick lips, dark curling hair, of qualities fomewhat brutal
and unfeeling ; melancholy and flow to anger ; but, when once enraged,
violent and furious, and difficult to be appeafed. Hence it follows that
this is an earthly, cold, dry, melancholy, feminine, fixed, no6lurna],
fign ; fouthern, and of the earthy triplicity ; the night-houfe of Venus
;
and contains twenty-three ftars. The difeafes incident to this fign are,
cold and dry melancholic habits, fluxes of rheum, wens in the neck, fore
throats, king's evil, quinfeys, and confumptions. The regions over
which it prefides are, Perfia, Media, Parthia, Cyprus, the Iflands of the
Archipelago, Ada the Lefs, White Ruffia, the Greater Poland, Ireland,
Lorraine, Helvetia, Rhetia, Franconia, and Swifferland ; with the cities
of Mantua, Borronia, Parma, Sens, Terentia, Bithynia, Panorum, He-
liopolis, Leipfic, and Nantz. In man, it governs the neck and throat
;
and the colour it rules is red mixed with citron.
GEMINI, n.
Gemini is in nature hot and moift, like a fat and rich foil ; and pro-
duces a native fair and tall, of ftraight body and fanguine complexion
rather dark than clear ; the arms long, but oftentimes the hands and feet
fliort and flefhy ; the hair and eyes generally a dark hazel, of perfe6l
fight, and lively wanton look ; the underflanding found, and judicious
in worldly affairs. Gemini is defined an airy, hot, moifl:, fanguine,
double-bodied, mafculine, diurnal, weftern, fign, of the airy triplicity.
It is the day-houfe of Mercury ; and confifts of eighteen fixed ftars.
The difeafes produced by this fign are, all the infirmities of the arms,
fhoulders, and hands, phrenzy-fevers, corrupt blood, fraftures, and dif-
orders in the brain. The regions over which it prefides are, the wefl
and fouth-wefl of England, Brabant, Flanders, America, Lombardv,
Sardinia, and Wittembergia ; the cities of London, Mentz, Corduba,
Bruges, Hasford, Norringberg, Louvaine, Mogontia, and Verfailles.
In man, he governs the hands, arms, and fhoulders ; and rules all mixed
red and white colours.
CANCER, 55.
This fign, like a watery moorifli land, is by nature cold and moift ;
and, when it afcends at the time of birth, it yields a native fair and
pale, of a fhort and fmall feature, the upper part of the body generally large,
with a round face, brown hair, and grey eyes ; of qualities phlegmatic
and heavy, effeminate conflitution, and fmall voice : if a woman, inclined
to have many children. Cancer is the only houfe of the Moon, and
is
^2 AN ILLUSTRATION
*s the firft fio-n of the watery or northern triplicity ; it is a watery, cold,
moift, phleo-matic, feminine, nofturnal, moveable, fruitful, folfticial
fitrn, and comprehends nine fixed flars. Peculiar to this fign are all dil-
orders of the breafl and flomach, pleurifies, indigeftion, fliortnefs of
breath, want of appetite, cancers, coughs, phthifics, dropfies, furfeits,
impofthumes, afthmas, and confumptions. The regions which are more
immediately under the dominion of this fign, are Scotland, Holland,
Zealand, Grenada, Burgundy, Numidia, Africa, Bithynia, Phrygia,
Cholcis, and Carthage ; together with the cities of Coiiflantinople,
Tunis, York, St. Andrew's, Venice, Algiers, Genoa, Amfl^erdam, Mag-
deburo", Cadiz, St. Lucia, and New-York. In man, it governs the
breaft-, ribs, lungs, liver, pleura, and ventricle of the flomach ; and the
colour it rules is green and rufTet.
LEO, SI.
Leo is the only houfe of the Sun, by nature fiery, hot, dry, mafculine,
choleric, barren, and commanding; eaftern, and of the fiery triplicity;
and claims twenty-feven of the fixed ftars. When this fign afcends in
a nativity, it denotes that the native will be of a large mafculine body,
broad fhoulders, and auftere countenance ; dark or yellowifli hair, large
commanding eye, fprightly look, and ftrong voice ; the vifage oval, and
ruddy, or fanguine ; a refolute and courageous fpirit, afpiring mind, free
and ffenerous heart, with an open, bold, and courteous, difpofition. It
mufl however be remarked, that the beginning and middle of this fign
produce all the above faculties in the greateft degree of ftrcngth ; and
that, in the latter part of the fign, the native will be rather Ipare and
thin, with light flaxen hair, and of a weaker conftitution and tempera-
ture. The difeafes produced urkler Leo, are all the paffions and affec-
tions of the heart, as convulfions, fwoonings, trembling, qualms, violent
fever, plagues, peftilences, fmall-pox, raeafles, yellow jaundice, pleurifies,
fore eyes, and all difeafes arifing from choler, and all pains in the back,
ribs, and bowels. The provinces under the rule of Leo are, Italy, the
Alps, Cilicia, Bohemia, Phoenicia, Chaldea, part of Turkey, and Apulia;
alfo the cities of Rome, Damafcus, Cremona, Prague, Linzinus,
Philadelphia, Syracufe, Briflol, Crotona, and Ravenna. In man, it
governs the heart and back, the vertebra of the neck, and pericranium.
It rules the colours red and green.
D"
VIRGO, vji.
Virgo is an earthy, cold, dry, barren, feminine, fouthern, nocturnal,
melancholy, fign, of the earthy triplicity, and the houfe and exaltation of
Mercury, confifting of twenty-four fixed fiiars. When this fign afcends,
it
OF ASTROLOGY. 93
It perfonates a decent and well-compofed body, flender, and above the
middle flature, of a ruddy browti complexion, black or dark-brown lank
hair, the vifage fomewhat round, the voice fmall and flirill, a witty and
ingenious mind, ftudious, but rather unftable; and, if the afcendant be
free from the malevolent afpedls of Saturn, and this fign afcends with
Mercury therein, the perfon who hath them fo fituated at his birth will
be an excellent orator. The particular difeafes of this fign, are thofe
produced by worms, wind, and obftrudions ; hardnefs of the Ipleen, mo-
ther, hypochondriac melancholy, cholic, and iliac paflion. The regions
under the government of Virgo, are Babylon, Mefopotamia, AlTyria,
Achaia, Greece, Croatia, Corinthia, Crete, the territory of Athens, part
of Gallia Comata, part of Rhenus and the Lower Silefia ; with the cities
of Jerufalem, Corinth, Navarre, Arethium, Brundufium, Padua, Tou-
loufe, Paris, Bafil, Cratiflavia, Heidelburg, Sigina, Erphordia, and Lyons.
In man it governs the belly, bowels, fpleen, omentum, navel, and dia-
phragm; and it rules the colour black fpeckled with blue.
LIBRA, :0:.
Libra is a fign aerial, fanguine, hot and moift, equinodial, cardinal,
moveable, mafculine, weftern, diurnal, and humane; the day-houfe of
Venus, of the airy triplicity, and confifts of eight ftars. At a birth it
produces one of a tall, ftraight, and well-made, body ; of a round, lovely,
and beautiful, vifage ; a fine fanguine complexion in youth, but in old age
commonly brings pimples or a very deep red colour in the face ; the hair
yellow, or fomewhat tending to flaxen, long and lank ; grey eyes ; of a
courteous friendly difpofition, with a mind juft and upright in all its pur-
fuits. The difeafes common to this fign are, the ftone, gravel, heat,
wind-cholic, and difeafes in the loins ; impofthumes or ulcers in the reins,
bladder, or kidneys ; corruption in the blood, weaknefs in the back, and
gonorrhceas. The regions under its particular fway, are Badlriana, Caf-
pia, Ceres, Oafis, .Ethiopia, Sabandia, Alfatia, Sundgavia, Livonia, Auftria,
Pannonia, Portugal, and the country of Savoy. Alfo the cities of Lifbon,
Spria, Piacentia, Lauday, Friefburgh, Heilborn, Antwerp, Frankfort,
Vienna, Olyfiponis, Arafatum, Cajeta, Charles-Town, SuefTa, Argentum,
Velkkirchium, and Halafrifinga. In man it governs the reins, kidneys,
and bladder ; and the colours under its rule are black, dark, crimfon, or
tawny.
SCORPIO, tr{>.
Scorpio is a moift, cold, phlegmatic, feminine, no<flurnal, fixed,
northern, fign; the night-houfe and joy of Mars, and is of the watery
No. 5. Y trigon;
94 AN ILLUSTRATION
trigon ; and includes twelve ftars. It gives a ftrong, robuft, corpulent,
body, of middle ftature, broad vifage, brown complexion, and brown
curlinty hair; a hairy body, fhort neck, and fhort thick legs; quick in
bodily°motion, but referved and thoughtful in converfation. The dif-
cafes incident to Scorpio, are the ftone and gravel in the bladder, ftran-
<rury, and other imperfedions in the urinary pafTage ; ruptures, fiflulas,
hemorrhoids, venereal dileafe, running of the reins, priapifms, fcurvy,
and piles. It bears rule over the regions of Matragonitida, Commagena,
Cappadocia, Judea, Idumea, Mauritania, Getulia, Catalonia, Norwegia,
the Weft Silefia, and the Upper Bavaria, the kingdom of Fez, and Bar-
bary ; together with the cities of Algiers, Valentia, Trapezuntia, Aquila,
Poftoria, Camerinum, Petavium, Meffina, Vienna of the AUobroges,
Gedandum, Crema, Ariminum, and Frankfort upon Oder. In man it
CToverns the privities, feminal velTels, groin, bladder, and fundament ; and
prefers a brown colour.
SAGITTARIUS, J.
Sagittarius is a fiery, hot, dry, mafculine, diurnal, eaftern, common, bi-
corporal, fign, of the fiery trigon ; the houfe and joy of Jupiter ; contain-
ing thirtv-one ftars. At a birth in endows the native with a well-formed
body, rather above the middle ftature ; with a handlome comely counte-
nance, a vifage fomewhat long, ruddy complexion, chefnut-coloured
hair, but fubje6t to baldnefs ; the body ftrong and adlive, and generally
a good horfeman ; ftout-hearted, intrepid, and carelefs of danger. The
difeafes proper to this fign are the fciatica, windy gout, running fores,
heat of the blood, peftilential fevers, and diforders produced by intem-
perance, and by falls from horfes. The regions under its government are
thofe of Arabia Felix, Tyrrhenia, Celtica, Hifpaniola, Dalmatia, Scla-
vonia, Hungaria, Moravia, Mifnia, Provincia, Liguria, and Spain ; the
cities of Toledo, Mutina, Narbonne, Avignon, Cologne, Agrippina,
Stutgardia, Rottemburgus, Cullen, Tuberinum, Indemburgus, and Buda.
In man it governs the thighs, hips, and os facrum ; and rules the yellow
green colour, tending to red.
CAPRICORN, yy.
Capricorn is an earthy, cold, dry, melancholy, feminine, nodurnal,
moveable, cardinal, folfticial, domeftic, fouthern, quadrupedian, fign,
of the earthy triplicity, the houfe of Saturn, and exaltation of Mars ; and
contains twenty-eight ftars. When this fign governs a nativity, it pro-
duces a (lender ftature, of a dry conftitution, long thin vifage, finaW
beard, dark hair, long neck, and narrow chin and breaft ; with a dif-
pofition colleded, witty, and fubtle. The difeafes peculiar to Capri-
corn,
OF ASTROLOGY. 95
corn, are the gout, fprains, fraftures, diflocations, leprofy, itch, fcabs,
and all difeafes of melancholy, and hyfterics. The regions over which it
bears fway, are thofe of India, Ariana, Macedonia, Illyria, Thracia, Bof-
nia, Mexico, Bulgaria, Greece, Mufcovy, Lithuania, Saxony, Morea, the
Orcades, Stiria, Romandiola, Marchia, Heffia, Thuringia, and Albany.
Likewife the cities of Juliacum, Chevonia, Berga, Mechlenberg, Gau-
danum, Vilna, Oxford, Brandenburgh, Augufta, Conftantia, Derrhona,
Feventra, Fortona, and Pratum. In man it governs the knees and hams ;
and rules the black or dark-brown colour.
ACTUARIES, :xz.
Aquaries is an airy, hot, moift, rational, fixed, humane, diurnal, fan-
guine, mafculine, wcflern, fign, of the airy triplicity ; the day-houfe of
Saturn, and comprehends, in its degrees of the zodiac, twenty-four ftars.
In a nativity, it dei>otes a perfon of weli-fet, thick, robuft, ilrong body,
long vifage, and pale delicate countenance ; clear fanguine complexion,
with bright-fandy or dark-flaxen hair. The difeafes common to this fign
are lamenefs and bruifes in the ancles, fra61ures and diflocations, cor-
ruption and putrefadlion of the blood, gouts, cramps, and rheumatifms.
The regions under its government are, Oxiana, Sogdiana, the Deferts
of Arabia Petrea, Azania, Sarmatia, Great Tartary, Wallachia, Red
Ruffia, Dania, the fouth part of Sweden, Wefl:phalia, MofTelani, Pede-
montum, part of Bavaria, Croatia, Germany, and Mufcovy ; with the
cities of Hamburgh, Breva, Montferrat, Trent, Pifaurum in Italy, Sa-
liflaurgus, Ingolftadius, Forum, Sempronium, and Bremen. In man it
governs the legs and ancles: and rules the fky-colour, or blue.
PISCES, K,
Pifces is a watery, cold, moifl:, feminine, phlegmatic, no61urnal, com-
on, bicorporal, northern, idle, effeminate, fickly, fruitful, fign, of the
atery triplicity, the houfe of Jupiter, and the exaltation of Venus ; and
^jnfifl:s of twenty-four ftars. It produces a native of a fliort ftature, pale
complexion, thick flioulders, brown hair, of a fleftiy body, not very up-
right ; round-fliouldered, witlj an incurvating of the head. The difeafes
produced by this fign, are gouts, lamenefs, and pains incident to the feet
;
fait phlegm, biles, pimples, and ulcers proceeding from putrefied blood ;
alfo all cold and moifl: difeafes. The regions it governs are Phazonia,
Nazomontidis, Carmatia, Lydia, Pamphilia, Silefia, Calabria, Portugal,
Normandy, Galicia, Lufitania, Egypt, Garomentus ; and the cities of
Alexandria, Sibilia or Hyfpalis, Compoflella, Parantium, Rhotomagum,
Normantia, Ratiftjon, and Rheims. In man it governs the feet and toes,
and prefides over the pure white colour.
It
mon
w
con
96 AN ILLUSTRATION
It may perhaps be thought by fome of my readers, that the foregoing
influences, attributed to the twelve figns of the zodiac, are merely con-
jedural and imaginary. But the artift, whoever he be, that has the good
fenfe to determine for himfclf, by the ftandard of experience and obfer-
vation only, will carefully attend to all that has been ftated, as the par-
ticular efFe6t and virtue of each refpedive fign. For, without an intimate
acquaintance with them, no correft judgment can be formed upon any
nativity ; but, on the contrary, if the foregoing are ftridly attended to,
no one' who tries them will ever find an error in his calculations.
NATURAL
OF ASTROLOGY. .
97
NATURAL PROPERTIES, INFLUENCES, and EFFECTS, of the
SUN, MOON, and PLANETS.
THE importance of thefe celeftial luminaries in the fcale of nature,
and the force of their operations upon the animal and vegetable
fyftems, require that they fhould be thoroughly inveftigated, and their
properties well underftood, before any advances are made in calculating
nativities, or refolving horary queftions. We fhall begin with Saturn,
the mofl: remote of the fuperior planets, and confider them individually
in the following order:
Saturn
98 AN ILLUSTRATION
ftationary five days before and fivcdays after his retrogradation. He is at-
tended by feven latellities.
Saturn is in nature cold and dry, occafioned by his being fo far re-
moved from the heat of the Sun ; abounds in moift vapours, and is a me-
lancholy, earthy, mafculine, folitary, diurnal, malevolent, planet ; and
the crieater infortune. His efFeds, when lord of the afcendant, or prin-
cipal ruler of a nativity, with all his qualities, are as follow : he produces
a middle ftature, with a dark, fwarthy, or pale, complexion, fmall leer-
in"- black eyes, broad forehead, lean face, lowering brow, thick nofe
and lips, large ears, black or brown hair, broad ftioulders, thin beard,
with fmall lean thighs and legs. If this planet is well dignified at the
time of birth, the native will be of an acute and penetrating imagination ;
in his conduft, aufi:ere ; in words, referved ; in fpeaking and giving, very
ipare ; in labour, patient ; in arguing or difputing, grave ; in obtaining
the croods of this life, fludious and folicitous; in his attachments, either
to wife or friend, conflant and unequivocal; in prejudice or refentment,
rio-id and inexorable. But, if this planet be ill dignified at the time of
birth, the native will be naturally fordid, envious, covetous, miftruftful,
cowardly, fluggifh, outwardly difTembling, falfe, ftubborn, malicious,
and perpetually diftatisfied with himfelf, and with all about him. When
Saturn is oriental, the human flature will be fhorter than ufual ; and,
when occidental, thin, lean, and lefsairy. If his latitude be north, the native
will be hairy and corpulent; if without any latitude, he will be of
large bones and mufcles ; and, if meridional, fat, fmooth, and fle(hy ; in
his firft ftation, ftrong, and well-favoured ; and, in his fecond flation,
weak and ill-favoured. Thefe remarks likewife hold good with refpedi
to all the other planets. It is alfo to be remarked, that, when Saturn is
fignificator of travelling, he betokens long and laborious journeys, peril-
ous adventures, and dangerous imprifonment. Saturn governs the fpleen,
right ear, bones, teeth, joints, and retentive faculty, in man ; and rules
every thing bitter, fharp, or acrid. His government and effeds in all
other refpedls are as follow.
Difeafes under Saturn. —All melancholy and nervous affedions, quartan
agues, falling ficknefs, black jaundice, tooth-ache, leprofy, defluxions,
tillulas, pains in the limbs and joints, gout, rheumatifm, hemorrhoids,
deafncls, infanity, pally, confumption, dropfy, chin-cough, fradures,
apoplexies, and all phlegmatic humours ; aod, in conceptions, he rules the
firll and the eighth months.
Herbs and Plants under Saturn.—Barley, fumitory, beech-tree, bifoil,
birdsfoot, bifiort, buckftiorn plantane, vervane, fpinach, bearsfoot, wolf-
bane.
OF ASTROLOGY. 99
bane, feni, fage, box, poppy, angelica, tamarind, capers, rue, willow,
yew-tree, cyprus-tree, hemp, pine-tree', wild campions, pile-wort, cleavers,
clown's woundwort, comfrey, cudweed, crofTwort, darnel, dodder,
epithymum, elm-tree, ofmond royal, flea-wort, flix-wced, gout-wort,
ftinking gladden, winter-green, hound's tongue, hawk-weed, hemlock,
henbane, horfetail, knap-weed, knot-grafs, medlar, mofs, mullen, night-
fhade, polypody, quince, rupture-wort, ruflies, Solomon's feal, yarrow,
cetrach, Saracen's confound, lervice-tree, tamarifk, black-thorn, melan-
choly thiftle, thorowax, tutfan, aconite, afphodil, agnus caftus, ftarwort,
orach, fhepherd's purfe, black hellebore, mandrake, opium. In gather-
ing his herbs, the ancients turned their faces towards the eaft in his
planetary hour, when in an angle and elTentially fortified, with the Moon
applying to him by fextile or trine.
Stones, Metals, and Minerals.—The fapphire, and lapis lazuli, or that
ftone of which azurq is made; likewife all unpolifhed black and blue
flones ; the loadftone, tin and lead, and the drofs of all metals.
Animals under Saturn.—The afs, the cat, the hare, moufe, dog, wolf,
bear, elephant, bafilifk, crocodile, fcorpion, adder, ferpent, toad, hog,
and all creeping things produced by putrefadlion. Alfo the tortoife, the
eel, and all kinds of (hell-fifh. Among birds, the crow, lapwing, owl,
bat, cratie, peacock, thru(h, blackbird, oftrich, and cuckow.
Weather and Winds.—He brings cloudy, dark, oblcure, weather, with
cold biting winds, and thick, heavy, condenfed, air. Thefe are his
general effefts ; but the more particular and immediate alterations of
weather produced by this planet are only to be known by his feveral
pofitions and afpedls with other planets, fortitudes, and debilities, of
which I fhall treat at large in my third book. Saturn delights in the
eaftern quarter of the heavens, and caufeth the eaftern winds. He is
friendly to Jupiter, Sol, and Mercury; but at enmity with Mars, Venus,
and the Moon.
Triplicity, and Signs.—He governs the flgn Capricorn by night, and
Aquaries by day, and the airy triplicity by day. Of the weekly days he
rules Saturday, the firfl: hour from fun-rifing, and the eighth hour of the
fame day, and the firft hour of Tuefday night.
Regions under Saturn.—Bavaria, Saxony, Stiria, Romandiola, Ravenna,
Conftantia, and Ingoldftadt.
Years.— Saturn's greateft year is four hundred and fixty-five ; his great
is fifty-feven ; his mean, forty-three and a half; and his leaft, thirty.
The
AN ILLUSTRATION
lOO
The fignification of which, in aftrology, is, that if a kingdom, city,
town, principality, or family, take its rife when Saturn is eflentially
and occidentally ftrong, and well fortified, it is probable the fame will
continue in honour and profperity, without any material alteration, for
the fpace of four hundred and fixty-five years. Again, if in a nativity
Saturn is well dignified, is lord of the geniture, and not afflided by any
crofs-afpeds, then the native, according to the common courfe of na-
ture, may live fifty-feven years; if the planet be but meanly dignified,
then the native will not live more than forty-three years ; and if he be
weakly dic^nified, he will not live more than thirty years ; for the na-
ture of Saturn at beft is cold and dry, which are qualities deftrudive to
health and long life in man.
Qrb.—Saturn's orb is nine degrees before and after any afpe6l ; that is,
his influence begins to operate, when either he applies, or any planet ap-
plies to him, within nine degrees of his perfedl afpedl ; and his influence
continues in force until he is feparated nine degrees from the afpe6t partial.
JUPITER, H..
Jupiter is the next planet below Saturn, and called \\\q greater fortune.
He appears to our fight the largeft of any ftar in magnitude except
Venus; and is of a bright refplendent clear afped. Modern aftronomers
have proved him to be four hundred and twenty-fix millions of miles from
the Sun, and above a thoufand times bigger than out Earth ; he goes in
his orbit at the aftonifliing rate of near twenty-fix thoufand miles an hour,
and his diameter is computed at eighteen thoufand Englifh miles, which
is more than ten times the diameter of the Earth. He completes his annual
courfe round the Sun in eleven years, three hundred and fourteen days,
twelve hours, twenty-minutes, and nine feconds. He is confiderably
fwifter i» motion than Saturn ; but to us his mean motion is four minutes
fifty-nine feconds ; his fwifter motion fourteen minutes. He has exaltation
in fifteen degrees of Cancer ; fufl^ers detriment in Gemini and Virgo,
and receives his fall in fifteen degrees of Capricorn. His greateft lati-
tude north is one degree thirty-eight minutes, and his greateft latitode
fouth one degree forty minutes. He is retrograde one hundred and twenty
days ; and ftationary five days before and four days after his retro-
gradaiion. His orb, or radiation, is nine degrees before and after any of
his afpecls. His day is nearly ten hours long. He is attended by fqur
fatellites.
Jupiter is a diurnal mafculine planet, temperately hot and moift,
airy and fanguine ; author of temperance, modefty, fobriety, and juf-
tice. He rules the lungs, liver, reins, blood, digeflive virtue, and natu-
ral
OF ASTROLOGY. loi
ral faculties of man. When he prefides over a nativity, he gives an ereCl
and tall ftature, a handfome rofy complexion, an oval vifage, high fore-
head, large grey eyes, foft thick brown hair, a well-fet comely body, {hort
neck, large wide chefl: ; robuft, flrong, and well-proportioned, thighs and
legs, with long feet; his fpeech fober and manly, and his converfation
grave and commanding. If well dignified at the birth, this planet be-
tokens moft admirable manners and difpofition to the native : he will
he in general magnanimous, faithful, and prudent, honourably afpiring
after high deferts and noble adions, a lover of fair dealing, defirous of
ferving all men, juft, honeft, and religious ; of eafy accefs, aiid of affiible
manners and converfation ; kind and afFeftionate to his family and friends;
charitable and liberal to the utmoft extent of his abilities ; wife, prudent
and virtuous, hating all mean and fordid a61ion3. But, if Jupiter be ill-
dignified, and afflifled with evil afpeds at the time of birth, he then be-
tokens a profligate and carelefs diipofition, of mean abilities, and fhallow
underftanding ; a bigot in religion, and obftinate in maintaining errone-
ous do61rines ; abandoned to evil company ; eafily feduced to folly and
extravagance ; a fycophant to every one above him, and a tyrant in his
own family. If the planet be oriental at the birth, the native will be
more fanguine and ruddy, with larger eyes, and more corpulent body ;
and generally with a mole or mark upon the right foot. Jf occidental,
then it beftows a moft fair and lovely complexion, particularly to a fe-
male ; the ftature fomewhat (horter, the hair light brown, or approach-
ing to flaxen, but thin round the temples and forehead.
Difeafes under Jupiter.—All infirmities of the liver, obftrucfiions, pleu-
rifles, apoplexies, inflammation of the lungs, infirmities in the left ear,
palpitations of the heart, cramps, pains in the back, diforders in the
reins, proceeding from corruption of blood ; quinfies, windinefs, fevei-s,
proceeding from a fuperabundance of blood ; all griefs in the head, pulfe,
feed, arteries, convulfions, pricking and ftiooting in the body, and pu-
trefadion of the humours. In generation, he governs the lecond and
ninth months.
Herbs and Plants.—Agrimony, Alexander, afparagus, avens, bay-tree,
elecampane, beets, betony, borrage, bilberries, buglofs, chervil, colts-
foot, fweet cicely, cinquefoil, alecoft, dandelion, docks, bloodwort,
quickgrafs, endive, hart's tongue, hyflop, liverwort, lungwort, fvveet-
maudlin, oak-tree, red-rofes, fage, fauce-alone, fcurvy-grafs, fuccory,
cherries, lady's-thiflle, barberries, ftrawberries, liquorice, apples, mul-
berries, myrobolans, olives, peaches, pear-tree, felf-heal, wheat, madder,
maftic, fugar, honey, rhubarb, violets, pomegranates, mint, fafFron, dahy,
feverfew, nutmegs, gillyflowers, mace, cloves, flax, balm, fumitory, wild
No. 6. A a and
102 AN ILLUSTRATION
and fweet marjoram, St. John's wort, almond-tree, hazel, fig-tree, goofe-
berry-tree, pine-tree, coral-tree, ivy, and the vine.—Rule for gathering,
the fame as under Saturn.
Stones, Metals, and Minerals.—The topaz, amethyft, marble, emerald,
cryflal, fapphire, hyacinth, bezoar, and freeflone. Tin, lead, and
pewter.
Animals.—The unicorn, doe, hart, (lag, ox, elephant, horfe, Iheep, and
all domeftic animals that do not fly the dominion of man. Alfo the
whale, dolphin, fea-ferpent, and fheth-fifh. Among birds, the eagle, ftork,
peacock, pheafant, partridge, ftock-dove, fnipe, lark, &:c.
Weather and Winds.—Jupiter produces pleafant, healthful, and ferene,
weather; and governs the north and north-eafl: winds. He is friendly
with Saturn, Sol, Venus, Mercury, and Luna, but at enmity with Mars.
We call Thurfday his day ; and he rules on Sunday night. His influ-
ence commences an hour after fun-rife, and he governs the firfl: hour and
the eighth.
o
Signs and Triplicity.—He rules the celeftial fign Saglttary by day, and
Pifces- by night. The effed of which is, that if Jupiter be fignificator
in the revolution of any year, by day, and in Sagittary, he is fo much the
more fortified ; and if in Pifces, in a nod^urnal revolution, the effect is
the fame. This obfervation extends to all the other planets. He pre-
lldes over the fiery triplicity by night; fo that, if Jupiter be in twenty
degrees of Aries, or the tenth degree of Leo, in any a'/ar^a/ revolution, he
(hall be accounted peregrine, as not having any dignity therein, being
neither in his houfe, exaltation, term, triplicity, or face; but in di noc-
turnal revolution he would not be accounted peregrine, for then he would
have triplicity in both thefe figns.
Journeys.—When he is fignificator, he denotes pleafant travelling, good
fuccefs, fafety, health, and mirth.
Countries under Jupiter.—Spain, Hungary, Babylon, Perfia, &c.
Colours under Jupiter.—Sea-green, blue, purple, afli-colour, a mixed
yellow and green.
Years.—Jupiter's greatefl year is four hundred and twenty-eight ; the
longefl year he gives is feventy-nine ; his mean year is forty-five ; and
his leafl year is twelve.
Of
OF ASTROLOGY. 103
Of mars, <S-
Mars is next located to Jupiter, and is the firft planet above the Earth
and Moon's orbit. His diftance from the Sun is computed at one hundred
and twenty-five millions of miles ; and, by travelling at the rate of forty-
feven thoufand miles every hour, he goes round the Sun in fix hundred
and eighty-fix of our days, and four hours; which is the exact length of
his year, and contains fix hundred and fixty-feven days and three quar-
ters ; but every day and night together is forty minutes longer than with
us. His diameter is four thoufand four hundred and forty-four miles,
which is but a fifth part fo large as the Earth. He is of a deep fiery red
colour; and, by his appulfes to fome of the fixed flars, feems to be en-
compafTed by a very grofs atmofphere. His mean motion is thirty-one
degrees twenty-feven minutes ; and his fwift motion from thirty-two ta
forty-four minutes. His exaltation is in twenty-eight degrees of Capri-
corn ; his fall in twenty-eight degrees of Cancer, and his detriment in
Libra and Taurus. His greateft north latitude is four degrees thirty-one
minutes, and his greatefl: fouth latitude fix degrees forty-feven minutes.
He is retrograde eighty days, and flationary two or three days before re-
trogradation, and two days before diredlion. His orb or radiation is feven
degrees before and after any of his afpedts.
Mars is a mafculine nofturnal planet, in nature hot and dry, choleric
and fiery, the fmaller infortune, author of quarrels, diffenfions, ftrife, war,
and battle; and rules the gall, left ear, head, face, fmell, imagination,
and attradlive faculty of man. This planet, prefiding at a birth, renders
up a ftrong well-fet body, of fhort feature, but large bones, rather lean
than fat ; a brown ruddy complexion, red, fandy, flaxen, or light-brown,
hair, round face, fharp hazle eyes, confident bold countenance, adive and
fearlefs. If well dignified, the native will inherit a courageous and in-
vincible difpofition ; unfufceptible of fear or danger ; hazarding his life
on all occafions, and in all perils; fubjeft to no reafon in war or conten-
tion ; unwilling to obey or fubmit to any fuperior ; regardlefs of all things
in comparlfbn of triumphing over his enemy or antagonift ; and yet pru-
dent in the management and diredtion of his private concerns. If the
planet be ill dignified, and afflided with crofs-afpeds, the party will then
grow up a trumpeter of his own fame and confequence, without decency
or honefty ; a lover of malicious quarrels and affrays ; prone to wicked-
nefs and {laughter, and in danger of committing murder, of robbing on
the highway, of becoming a thief, traitor, or incendiary; of a turbulent
fpirit, obfcene, rafh, inhuman, and treacherous, fearing neither God nor
man, given up to every fpecies of fraud, violence, cruelty, and oppreffion.
If the planet be oriental at the nativity, the native will be above the middle
ftature, very hairy, and of a clear complexion. If occidental, the native
will
104 AN ILLUSTRATION
will be fliort, of a more ruddy complexion, a fmall head, with yellow
hair, and a dry conftitution.
Difeafes under Mars.—Peftilential fevers, plagues, murrains, tertian
at^ues, megrims, carbuncles, yellow jaundice, burnings and fcaldings,
riiio-worms, blifters, phrenzy-fevers, all hot and feveri(h complaints in
the head, bloodv flux, fiftulas, difeafes of the genitals, wounds of every
defcription, ftone in the reins and bladder, the difuria, ifcuria, diabetes,
{Irangury, fmall-pox, fhingles, St. Anthony's fire, choler, and all cho-
leric difeafes, wounds or bruifes by iron or fire, overflowing of the gall,
and all effedls proceeding from intemperate anger and paffion.
Herhs and Plants.—Arfe-fmart, aflarum, barberry-bufli, broom, fweet
bafil, broom-rape, butchers-broom, bramble, brooklime, betony, crow-
foot, madder, wake-robin, cranes-bill, cotton-thiflle, toad-flax, garlic,
hurt-bufh, hawthorn, hops, mafterwort, rocket, muftard, hedge-muftard,
onions, dittany, carduus benediflus, radifh, horfe-radifli, rhubarb, rha-
phontic, monks-rhubarb, thiftle, woolly-thiftle, flar-thiftle, treacle-
muflard, dyer's weed, wormwood, birthwort, camelion-thiflle, danewort,
ellue, cornel-tree, euphorbium, fpear-wort, white hellebore, fponge, lau-
rel-fl:eel, monks-hood, leeks, fcammony, coloquintida, elaterium, devil's
milk, nettles, ginger, pepper, red fanders, briers, cammock, horehound,
and all trees that are prickly and thorny.—Rule for gathering, the fame
as before.
Stones, Metals, and Minerals.—The bloodflone, loadftone, jafper, touch-
ftone, adamant, amethyft of divers colours ; antimony, flone-fulphur,
white arfenic, &:c.
Anmals.—The maftiff, wolf, tiger, cockatrice, panther, and all fuch
beafls as are ravenous and wild. Alfo the (hark, pike, barbel, fork-fifh,
all flinging water-ferpents and voracious fifh. Of birds, the hawk, kite,
raven, vulture, owl, cormorant, crow, magpie, and all birds of prey.
Weather and Winds.—Of Mars proceed thunder and lightning, fiery
meteors, peflilential air, and all flrange phenomena in tlie heavens. He
rules the weftern winds; and is friendly with all the planets except the
Aloon. Tuefday is his day; he rules the firfl and eighth hours, and
Friday nights.
Signs and Triplicity.—Aries is his day-houfe, and Scorpio his night.
He bears rule over the watery trigon, viz. Cancer, Scorpio, and Pifces.
Regions
OF ASTROLOGY. 105
Regions under Mars.—Jerufalem, the Roman Empire, Eveiito, Sarma-
tia, Lombardy, Batavia, Ferrara, Gothland, and the third climate.
Journeys.—In journeys, he portends danger of robbery, lofs of life, and
all the other perils attendant upon the traveller.
Years.—His greateft revolution-year is two hundred and fourteen ; his
great year isfixty-fix; his mean year is forty ; his leaft year is fifteen.
Of the MOON, ]).
The Moon is next below Mars, being a fatellite or attendant on the
Earth, and goes round it from change to change in twenty-nine days twelve
liours and forty-four minutes; and round the Sun with it every year. The
Moon's diameter is two thoufand one hundred and eighty miles; and her
diftance from the Earth's centre is two hundred and forty thoufand miles.
She goes round her orbit in twenty-feven days feven hours and forty-three
minutes, moving about two thoufand two hundred and ninety miles every
hour; and turns round her axis exactly in the time that fhe goes round
the Earth, \vhich is the reafon of her always keeping the fame fide towards
us, and that her day and night taken together is as long as our lunar
month. She is an opaque globe, like the Earth, and fliines only by re-
flecting the li2.ht of the Sun ; therefore, whilft that half of her which is
towards the Sun is enlightened, the other part muft be dark and invifible.
Hence fhe difappears when iTie comes between us and the Sun ; becaufe
her dark fide is then towards us. When fhe is gone a little way forward,
we fee a little of her enlightened fide ; which flill increafesto our view as
fhe advances forward, until (he comes to be oppofite the Sun, and then her
whole enlightened fide is towards the Earth, and fhe appears with a round
illumined orb, which we call the Full Moon, her dark fide being then
turned away from the Earth. From the full flie leems to decreafe gra-
dually as fhe goes through the other half of her courfe, fhowing us lefs
and lefs of her enlightened fide every day, till her next change, or ccn-
junftion with the Sun, and then fhe difappears as before. Her mean mo-
tion is thirteen decrees ten minutes and thirtv-fix feconds ; her fwift
or diurnal motion often varies, but never exceeds fifteen degrees two mi-
nutes in twenty-four hours. Her greateft north latitude is five degrees
and feventeen minutes ; and her gieateft fouth latitude is five degrees and
twelve minutes, or thereabouts. She is never ftationary nor retrograde,
but always direcl: ; though when flie is flow in motion, and 2;oes lefs than
thirteen degrees in twenty-four hours, fhe is confidered equivalent to a
retrograde planet. Her exaltation is in the third degree of Taurus; her
detriment in Capricorn, and her fall in three degrees of Scorpio. Her
No. 6. B b orb
m
,o6 AN ILLUSTRATION
orb, or radiation, is twelve degrees before and after any of her afpe<5ts ;
and flie rules over all infants until the feventh year of their age.
The Moon is feminine, no6lurnal, cold, moifl-, and phlegmatic. Her
influence, in itfelf, is neither fortunate nor unfortunate, but as fhe hap-
pens to fall in with the configurations of the other planets, and is then
either malevolent or otherwise as thofe afpedis happen to be. And un-
der thefe circumftances flie beconnes the moft powerful of all the hea-
venly bodies in her operations, by reafon of her proximity to the Earth,
and the fwiftnefs of her motion, by which (he receives and tranfmits to
us the light and influence of all the fuperiors by her configurations with
them. When fhe has rule in a nativity, (he produces a full (Mature, with
fair and pale complexion, round face, grey eyes, lowering brow, very
hairy, (hort arms, thick hands and feet, Tmooth body, inclined to be fat,
corpulent, and phlegmatic. If (he be impedited of the Sun at the time
of birth, (he leaves a blemifh on or near the eye; if fhe be impedited in
fuccedent houfes, the blemifh will be near the eye ; but, if with fixed
ftars, and in unfortunate angles, the blemifli will fall in the eye, and
will afFed the fight. If (he be well dignified at the nativity, the native
will be of foft engaging manners and difpofition, a lover of the polite
arts, and of an Ingenious imagination, fond of novelties, and given to
travelling, or rambling about the country; unflable, and providing only
for the prefent time, carelefs of futurity ; timorous, prodigal, and eafily
affrighted ; but loving peace, and defiring to live free from the cares and
anxieties of the world. If the native be brought up to a mechanical
employment, he will be frequently tampering with a variety of different
trades, but purfuing none of them long together. If the Moon be ill-
dignified at the birth, the native will then be flothful, indolent, and of no
forecafl; given up to a drunken, diforderly, beggarly, life, hating labour,
or any kind of bufinefs or employment. When oriental, (he inclineth
more to corpulence ; but, when occidental, rather lean, aukward, and
ill-formed.
Dtfeafes under the Moon.—The palfy, cholic, complaints of the bowels,
the done and gravel, overflowings or obffrudlons of the terms, dropfy,
fluxes and dyfentery, all cold and rheumatic complaints, worms in the
belly, difbrders of the eyes, furfeits, coughs, convulfions, falling fick-
nefs, king's evil, impofthumes, fmall-pox, lethargy, meafles, phrenzies,
apoplexies, vertigo, lunacy, and all crude humours in any part of the
body. In conception (he rules the feventh month ; and governs the
brain, the ftomach, bowels, bladder, the left eye in man, and the right
eye in woman, and the whole expulfive faculty.
Herbs
OF ASTROLOGY. 107
Herbs and Plants.—Adder's tongue, cabbages, colewort, ducks-meat,
water-flag, lily, water-lily, flower de luce, lettuce, fluellin, moonvvort,
loofe-ftrife, moufe-ear, orpine, poppies, purflane, privet, rattlegrafs,
turnips, white rofes, white and burnt faxifrage, wall-flowers, willow-tree,
toadftool, water-plantane, water-agrimony, water-betony, houfeleek,
moon-herb, hyffop, cucumber, endive, mushrooms, poppies, linfeed,
rapefeed, and all fuch herbs as turn towards the moon, and increafe and
decreafe as fhe doth ; the palm-tree, which fends forth a twig every time
the moon rifes, and all fuch trees and plants as participate or fympathizc
with her, and are juicy and full of fap. In gathering her herbs, the fame
rule is to be obferved as with the other planets.
Stones and Metals.—All ftones that are white and green, the marcafite,
the cryftal, the felenite, and all foft ftones. Silver, and all hard white
metals. And the colours white, pale green, and pale yellow.
Animals under the Moon.—All amphibious animals, or fuch as delight
in water, and all that fympathize with the iMoon, as the camelion, dog,
hog, frog, hind, goat, baboon, panther, cat, the civet-cat, mice, rats,
&c. Among fiflies, the felurus, (from «r£Xw, the moon,) whofe eyes in-
creafe and decreafe according to the courfe of the moon, and all other
fifhes of the like nature ; the tortoife, the echeneis, the eel, crab, oyflcr,
lobfler, cockle, mufcle, and all kinds of fhell-fifli. Among birds, the
goofe, fwan, duck, dive-dapper, moor-hen, the night-owl, night-raven,
bat, and all forts of water-fowl.
W^eather and Winds.—She produces weather according to her configu-
rations with other planets, viz. with Saturn, cold, moift, and cloudy, wea-
ther ; with Jupiter, warm and temperate air; with Mars, winds, clouded
iky, and fudden ftorms ; with the Sun, (he varies the weather according
to the time of the year ; with Venus, warm and gentle fliowers ; with
Mercury, ftormy winds and rain. But in the third part of this work we
fhall treat of this fubjeft more particularly. The Moon always occaflons
thofe winds fignified by the planet to which flie applies in her configu-
ration.
Signs and Triplicity. —Of the celeftial figns, fhe has only Cancer allotted
to her for her houfe. She rules the earthy triplicity by night, viz. Tau-
rus, Virgo, and Capricorn, She is in friendfhip with Jupiter, Sol, Ve-
nus, and Mercury ; but at enmity with Saturn and Mars. Of the weekly
days, fhe rules Monday and Thurfday nights.
Regions.—She has dominion over Denmark, Holland, Zealand, Flan-
ders, Nuremberg, and North America.
Years.
io8 AN ILLUSTRATION
Years.—Her greateft year is three hundred and twenty ; her great is
one hundred and eight ; her mean year is fixty-fix; and her leaft year is
twenty-five.
VENUS, 9-
Venus is the next planet below the Earth and Moon, having her orhit
within that of the Earth. She is computed to be fifty-nine millions of
miles from the Sun ; and, by moving at the rate of fixty-nine thoufand
miles every hour, fhe pafiTes through the twelve figns of the zodiac in two
hundred and twenty- four days feventeen hours of our time nearly. Her
diameter is (even thoufand nine hundred and fix miles; and by her diur-
nal motion fhe is carried about her equator forty-three miles every hour,
befides the fixty-nine thoufand above mentioned. When (he appears weft
of the Sun, fhe rifes before him in the morning, and is called the morning-
flar ; but, when flic appears eafi: of the Sun, fhe fhines in the evening after
he fets, and is then called the evening-flar ; and continues alternately for
the fpace of two hundred and ninety days in each of thefe fituations. It
may perhaps be thought furprifing at firfl, that Venus fhould continue
longer on the eaft or wefl: fide of the Sun than the whole time of her
j)eriod round him ; but the difficulty vanifhes when we confider that the
Earth is all the while going round the Sun the fame way, though not fo
quick as Venus ; and therefore her relative motion to the Earth muft in
every period be as much flower than her ablblute motion in her orbit, as
the Earth during that time advances forward in the ecliptic, which is two
hundred and twenty degrees. To us Ihe appears through the telefcope
in all the various fhapes of the Moon. Her mean-motion is fifty-nine mi-
nutes eight feconds ; and her daily or fwift motion is from fixty-tvvo mi-
nutes to one degree twenty-two minutes, but never greater. Her utmoft
latitude, either north or fouth, never exceeds nine degrees two minutes.
Her exaltation is in twenty-feven degrees of Pifces ; her detriment in
Aries and Scorpio ; and her fall in tweiity-leven degrees of Virgo. She
continues retrograde forty-two days, and is ffationary two days before and
two days after her ftate of retrogradation. Her orb, or radiation, is ieven
degrees before and after any of her afpeffs. In the human ffrudure fhe
governs the reins, back-boue, Iced, and fcminal vefTels ; alfo the neck,
throat, brcafls, and expulfive faculty ; and rules the light blue and white
colours.
Venus is a feminine planet, temperately cold and moift, no6>urnal, the
fmaller fortune, author of mirth and conviviality, alluring to procreation
and to the propagation of the fpecies. When fhe afcends at a nativity,
fhe gives a handfome, well-formed, but not tall, ffature; complexion fair
and lovely, bright fpaikling eyes of a dark hazle or black, the face round,
regular, fmooth, and engaging; the hair light brown, hazle, or chefnut,
(hilling,
OF ASTROLOGY. 109
fhining, and plentiful; the body regular and well-proportioned; and of a
neat, fmart, and airy, difpofition ;
generally with dimples in the cheeks or
chin, and often in both ; the eye wandering, and naturally amorous ; in
motion light and nimble ; in voice, foft, eafy, fweet, and agreeable, in-
clined to amorous converfation, and early engagements in love. If well-
dignified at the time of birth, the native will be of a quiet, even, and
friendly, difpofition, naturally inclined to neatnefs, loving mirth and cheer-
fulnefs, and delighting in mufic ; amorous, and prone to venery ; though
truly virtuous, if a woman ; yet fhe will be given to jealoufy, even with-
out caufe. If the planet be ill-dignified, then will the native be riotous,
profligate, abandoned to evil company and lewd women, regardlefs of
reputation or chara(5^er; a frequenter of taverns, night-houfes, and all
places of ill-fame ; delighting in all the incitements to inceftuous and
adulterous pradices ; in pruiciple a mere atheift, wholly given up to the
brutal paffions of unbridled and uncultivated nature. If Venus be ori-
ental at the time, the ftature will be tall, upright, and ftraight ; but, if
occidental, fhortand {looping, though comely and well-favoured. If (he
be fignificator in a journey, and well dignified, flie portends much mirth,
pleafure, and fuccels, and promifes fafety and good fortune by the way.
Difeafes under Venus. —All diforders of the belly and womb, fufFoca-
tion, palpitation, heart-burn, diflocation, priapifm, impotency, hernias,
diabetes, all ftages of the venereal complaint, and all diforders of the ge-
nitals, kidneys, reins, navel, back, and loins.
Herbs and Plants.—Ale-hoof, alder-tree, apple-tree, {linking arach,
alkakengi, archangel, beans, burdock, bugle, ladies' bed-flraw, bifhop's
weed, blights, chickweed, chich-peafe, clary, cock's head, cowflips, daifies,
devil's bit, elder, eringo, featherfew, figwort, filapendula, fox-gloves,
gromwell, grcundfel, kidneywort, lady's mantle, mallows, herb Mercury,
mint, motherwort, mugwort, parfnip, penny- royal, periwinkle, primrofe,
ragwort, rofes, fow-thiflles, fpinach, tanfey, teafels, violets, vervain,
maiden-hair, coriander, melilot, daffodil, flone-parfley, fanders, fatyrion,
wild thyme, mulk, the fig-tree, pomegranate, the Cyprus, fweet-apple
tree, peach, myrtle, walnut-tree, almond-tree, apricots, the turpentine-
tree, ambergreafe, gum-labdanum, frankincenfe, and all fweet odori-
ferous plants, as the lily, rofe, &c. In gathering, the fame rule is to be
obferved as with the other planets.
Animals under Venus.—All fuch as are of a hot and amorous nature, as
the dog, coney, bull, (heep, goat, calf, panther, and hart. Among rifhes,
the pilchard, gikhead, whiting, crab, dolphin, and tithymallus. And,
among birds, the fvvan, water-wagtail, fwallow, pelican, nightingale.
No. 6. C c pigeon,
1,0 AN ILLUSTRATION
pigeon, fparrow, turtle-dove, flock-dove, crow, eagle, partridge, thrufh,
blackbird, pye, wren, &c.
Stones and Metals.—The beryl, chyfolite, emerald, fapphire, cornelian,
marble, green jafper, astires, lazuli, coral, and alabafler ; alfo copper,
brafs, and filver. She governs the light-blue and white colours.
M'eather and Winds.—She denotes gentle fhowers in winter, and tem-
perate heat in Ibmmer ; and fhe rules the fouth wind.
Signs and Trlplicity. —Of the celeftial figns, fhe hath for her houfes
Taurus and Libra. She rules over the earthy triplicity by day, viz.
Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn, She is friendly with Jupiter, Mars,
Mercury, and the Sun aad Moon ; but is at enmity with Saturn. She
prefides over Friday, aud Monday night.
Years.—Her greateft year is one hundred and fifty-one ; her great year
]S eighty-two ; her mean year is forty-five ; and her leafl year is fifteen.
MERCURY, 5 .
Next to Venus, and within the orbits of all the other planets, is Mer-
cury, and of courfe the nearefl of them all to the central Sun. He com-
pletes his revolution, or traverfes through the twelve figns of the zodiac,
in eighty-feven days and twenty-three hours of our time nearly ; which
is the length of bis year. But being feldom feen, on account of his proxi-
mity to the Sun, and having no Ipots vifible on his furface or difk, the •
time of his rotatioji upon his own axis, and the length of his days and
jiights, are as yet unknown to us. His diftance from the Sun is com-
puted to be thirty-two millions of miles, and his diameter two thoufand
llx hundred. He moves round tdie Sun at the rate of ninety-five thoufand
miles every hour; and receives from that luminary a proportion of light
and heat almoft leven times as great as that of the Earth. At the times
he becomes vifible, he appears of a bright filver-colour, though generally
faint and dufkifli to the naked eye. His mean motion is fifty-nine
minutes and eight feconds, and fometimes fixty minutes; and his diurnal
motion is raoft times one hundred minutes a-day. His greatefi: latitude,
both north and fouth, is three degrees thirty-three minutes. His exalta-
tion is in fifteen degrees of Virgo; his detriment in Sagittarius and Pifces,
and his fall in fifteen degrees of Pifces. He is retrograde twenty-four
days; and is flatiouarj one day before and one day after retrogradation.
His orb or radiation is feven degrees before and after any afpeft. He
prefides over Wedncfday and Saturday niglit ; and governs the brain,
tojigue, hand?, feet, and intelledlual faculty of man.
Mercury
OF ASTROLOGY. iii
Mercury is the leaft of all the planets, in nature cold, dry, and melan-
choly; but author of the moft pointed wit, ingenuity, and invention. He
is occafionally both mafculine and feminine; and lucky or unlucky, as
his pofition in the heavens may happen to be. When he is in conjunc-
tion with a mafculine planet, he is mafculine ; when with a feminipe pla-
net, feminine; good and fortunate when joined with the fortunes, but
evil and mifchievous when in conjunction with malevolent afpe6ls. When
he governs a nativity, he renders up a tall, ftraight, thin, fpare, body,
narrow face, and deep forehead ; long ftraight nofe, eyes neither black,
nor grey ; thin lips and chin, with but little beard ; brown complexion,
and hazle or chefnut-coloured hair; the arms, hands, and fingers, long
and flender ; and thighs, legs, and feet, the fame. If orientally pofited,
the ftature will be fhorter, with faudy hair, and fauguine complexion,
fomewhat fun-burnt ; the limbs and joints large and well fet, with fmall
grey eyes. But, if occidental, the complexion will be quite fallow, lank
body, fmall flender limbs, hollow eyes of a red caft, and of a dry conftitu-
tion. If Mercury be well dignified at the nativity, the perfon will inherit
a fl;rong fubtil imagination, and retentive memory ; likely to become an
excellent orator and logician, arguing with much eloquence of fpeech,
and with ftrong powers of perfuafion. Is generally given to the attain-
ment of all kinds of learning ; an encourager of the liberal arts ; of a
fharp, witty, and pleafant, converfation ; of an unwearied fancy, and cu-
rious in the fearch of all natural and occult knowledge ; with an inclina-
tion to travel or trade into foreign countries. If brought u'p in the mer-
cantile line, will be ambitious of excelling in his merchandife, and will
moft times prove fuccefsful in obtaining wealth. But, be the planet ill-
dignified, then the native will betray a difpofition to flander, and abufe
the character of every one without diftinftion ; he will be a boafler, a
flatterer, a fycophant, a bufy-body, a tale-bearer, given to propagate idle
tales and falfe ftories ; pretending to all kinds of knowledge, though a
mere ideot in his intelle<5lual faculty, and incapable of acquiring any
folid or fubilantial learning; apt to boafl of great honefty, yet very much
addi6ted to mean and petty thievery.
Difeafes under Mercury.—All diforders of the brain, vertigoes, madnefs,
defedts of the memory, convulfions, aflhmas, imperfeclions of the tongue,
hoarfenefs, coughs, fnuffling in the nofe, fl:opj:>ages in the head, dumbnefs,
and whatever impairs the intelledlual faculty ; alfo gout in the hands and
feet. la conceptions he governs the fixth month.
Herbs and Plants.—Calamint, carrots, carraways, champignon, dill,
fern, fennel, hogs-fennel, germander, horehound, hazel-nut, liquorice,
fweet marjoram, mulberry-tree, oats, parfley, pellitory oi the wall,
famphire
•uHj AN ILLUSTRATION
famphire, favory, fmallage, fouthernwood, trefoil, valerian, honey-fuckle,
ananas, columbine, juniper-tree, piony, the herb mercury, dragon-wort,
cubebs, vervain, hiera, treacle, and diombra wallnuts. In gathering,
the fame rules are to be obferved as with the other planets.
Stones and Metals.—The emerald, agate, red marble, topaz, mill-ftone,
marcafite, and fuch as are of divers colours. Alfo, quickfilver, block-
tin, and filver marcafite.
Animals.—The dog, and all fagacious animals, and fuch as do not fly
the dominion of man ; the ape, fox, weazle, hart, hyena, mule, hare,
civet-cat, fquirrel, fpider, pifmire, ferpent, adder, &c. Among fiHies,
the trochius, the fox-fifh, the mullet, the pourcontrel, and the fork-fiili.
And among birds, the linnet, parrot, popinjay, fwallovv, martin, pie, and
bullfinch.
Weather and Winds.—He ufually caufes rain, hail-ftones, thunder,
lightning, &c. according to the nature of the planet he happens to be in
configuration with. He delights in the northern quarter of the heavens,
and produces fuch winds as are fignified by the planet to which he applies
in afpeft.
Signs and Triplicity.—He hath for his houfes the celeftial figns Gemini
and Virgo; and he rules the airy triplicity by night, namely, Gemini,
Libra, and Aquarius.
Regions,—Flanders, Greece, Egypt, and the Eaft and Weft Indies.
Years.—His greateft year is four hundred and fifty ; his great isfeven-
ty-fix ; his mean year is forty-eight ; and his lead year is twenty.
SOL,©.
Sol, or the Sun, is an immenfe globe or body of fire, placed in the
common centre, or rather in the lower focus, of the orbits of all the
planets and comets ; and turns round his axis in twenty-five days and (ix
hours, as is evident by the motion of the fpots vifible on his furface. His
diameter is computed to be feven hundred and fixty-three thoufand miles;
and, by the various attradtions of the circumvolving planets, he is agi-
tated by a fmall motion round the centre of gravity of the fyftem. He
pafTes through the twelve figns of the zodiac in three hundred and fixty-
five days, five hours, forty-eight minutes, and fifty-feven feconds, which
forms the tropical or folar year, by which ftandard all our periods of time
are meaflired. His mean motion is fifty-nine minutes and eight feconds,
but
OF ASTROLOGY. 113
but his fwift or diurnal motion is fixty minutes, and fometimes fixty-one
minutes Hx feconds. He conftantly moves in the ecliptic, and is there-
fore void of latitude ; and, for the fame reafon, is never ftationary or
retrograde. His exaltation is in nineteen degrees of Aries ; his detriment
in Aquarius ; and his fall in nineteen degrees of Libra. His orb or radia-
tion is fifteen degrees before and after all his afpefls. In man, he governs
the heart, back, arteries, the right eye of the male, and left of the female ;
and the retentive faculty. He prefides over Sunday, and Wednefday
night. He is friendly with Jupiter, Mars, Venus, Mercury, and the
Moon ; but is conflantly at variance with Saturn.
The Sun is in nature mafculine, diurnal, hot, and dry, but more tem-
perate than Mars; and, if well-dignified, is always found equivalent to
one of the fortunes. When he prelides at a birth, the native is gene-
rally of a large, bony, ftrong, body, of a fallow fun-burnt complexion,
large high forehead, with light or fandy curling air, but inclined to be
ibon bald; a fine, full, piercing, hazel eye; and all the limbs flraight
and well proportioned. If he is well dignified, the native will be of a
noble, magnanimous, and generous, difpofition ; high-minded, but very
humane ; of a large and benevolent heart, affable, and courteous ; in
friendfhip, faithful and fincere ; in promifes, flow, but pun6tual. The
folar man is not of many words ; but, when he fpeaks, it is with confi-
dence, and to the purpofe ; he is ufually thoughtful, fecret, and referved ;
his deportment is (lately and majeftic ; a lover of fumptuoufnefs and
magnificence ; and pofTelTes a mind far fuperior to any fordid, bafe, or
difhonourable, pradlices. Such was the firfl Lord Chatham. If the Sun
be ill dignified, then will the native be born of a mean and loquacious
difpofition ;
proud and arrogant ; difdaining all his inferiors, and a fyco-
phant to his Superiors ; of fhallow underftanding, and imperfed judgment
;
reftlefs, troublefome, and domineering; of no gravity in words, or fober-
uefs in actions ; prone to mifchievoufnefs, aufterity, uncharitablenefs,
cruelty, and ill-nature.
Difeafes of the Sun.—All palpitations and trembling of the heart, faint-
ing and fwooning, weaknefs of fight, violent fevers, choler, diforders of
the brain, tympanies, cramps, foul breath, all diforders of the mouth and
throat, catarrhs, defluxions, and king's evil. In conception, he prefides
over the fourth month.
Herbs and Plants.—Angelica, avens, afh-tree, balm, one-blade, lo-
vage, burnet, butter-'bur, camomile, celandine, centaury, eyebright,
fig-tree, St. John's wort, marigolds, mifletoe, piony, Peter's wort, pim-
pernel, raifins, rofa folis, rofemary, rue, faffron, tormentil, turnfole.
No. 6. D d vipers-
114 AN ILLUSTRATION
vipeis-buglofs, walnut-tree, cloves, mace, nutmegs, fcabious, forrel,
wood-forrel, borage, gentian, ivy, lavender, bay- tree, myrtle, olive-tree,
mints, date-tree, oranges, citrons, thyme, vine, zedoary, myrrh, frankin-
cenfe, aloes, lapis calaminaris, lemon-tree, mulk, fweet marjoram,
ginger, vervain, cinquefoil, barley, and pepper-honey. In gathering
fhefe herbs, the cuftom has been to do it in the Sun's proper hour, which
may be found by the Table calculated for that purpofe, in this work,
when he is in an angle, well fortified efTentially, and no way impeded ;
and let the Moon apply to him by trine or Textile.
Stones and Metals.—iEtites, the ftone called the eye of the fun, becaufe
it is like the apple of the eye in form, the carbuncle, chryfolite, the ftone
called Iris, the heliotropium, hyacinth, topaz, pyrophyllus, pantaurus,
pantherus or pantochras, the ruby, and the diamond. Alfo pure gold,
and all yellow metals.
Animals.—The Sun rules all {lately, bold, ftrong, furious, and invin-
cible, animals; as the lion, tiger, leopard, hyena, crocodile, wolf, ram,
boar, bull, horfe, and baboon. Among fifhes, he rules the fea-calf,
whole nature is to refifl: lightning; all fhell-fifh, the ftar-fiOi for its re-
markable hear, and the fifties called ftrombi. Among birds, the eagle,
phoenix, fwan, cock, hawk, buzzard, lark, and nightingale.
Weather and Winds.—He produces weather according to the proper
feafon of the year ; in the fpring, warm and gentle ftiowers ; in fummer,
if in afpeft with Mars, extremity of heat; in autumn, fogs and mifts;
and, in winter, fmall drizzling rain. He delights in the eaftern part of
the heavens, and brings eaflern winds.
Signs and Triplicity. —Of the celeftial figns, he has only Leo for his
houfe. He rules the fiery triplicity by day, viz. Aries, Leo, and Sagit-
tarius.
Regions.—He rules the fourth climate, Italy, Bohemia, Sicilia,Chaldea,
the Roman Empire, and North and South America.
Years.—His greateft year is one thoufand fix hundred and forty ; but
others fay, only four hundred and fixty-one ; his great year is one hun-
dred and twenty ; his mean year is fixty-nine ; and his leafl: is nineteen.
The DRAGON'S HEAD 9>, and DRAGON's TAIL 'Q.
The Head of the Dragon is mafculine, partaking of the nature both
of Jupiter and Venus ; but the Dragon's Tail is feminine, and of a di-
rea
OF ASTROLOGY. 115
reft oppofite quality to the head. Thefe are neither figns nor conftella-
tioiis, but are only the nodes or points wherein the ecliptic is interfered
by the orbits of the planets, and particularly by that of the Moon ; nnaking
with it angles of five degrees and eighteen minutes. One of thefe points
looks northward, the Moon beginning then to have northern latitude ;
and the other points fouthward, where (he commences her latitude fouth.
But it muft be obferved, that thefe points do not always abide in one place,
but have a motion of their own in the zodiac, and retrograde-wife, three
minutes and eleven feconds per day ; completing their circle in eighteen
years and two hundred and twenty-five days ; fo that the Moon can be but
twice in the ecliptic during her monthly period ; but at all other times fhe
will have a latitude or declination from the ecliptic. The Head of the
Dragon is confidered of a benevolent nature, and almoft equivalent to one
of the Fortunes; and, when in afped with evil planets, is found to lefTen
their malevolent effeds in a very great degree. But the Dragon's Tail I
have always found of an evil and unhappy tendency, not only adding to
the malevolence of unfortunate afpeds, when joined with them; but
lefTening confiderably the beneficial influence of the Fortunes, and other
good afpe<Sls, whenever found in conjundlion with them.
Should the reader be defirous of more particular information on the
planetary fyftem, I beg leave to recommend to his attentive perufal the
aftronomical works of the ingenious Mr. Fergufon. And, in order to
bring all the foregoing particulars, concerning the periods, diftanccs,
bulks, &c. of the planets, into one point of view, I fubjoin his following
comprehenfive Table.
A TABLE
ti5 AN ILLUSTRATION
H
H
IS
V
Q
o
z
o
^
H
&
o
>
Pi
CO
Q
O
en
U
Ph
u
J2
<
c
5
r-
(-
c
lU
4-1
«J
-o
re
Z
&
CD
«J
en
re
p
Y
G
re
B
o
D
s
o
(J
£
u
CO
<:
re
3
C
u
>
o
re
h
re
>
>-
o
2.2 g
a c
DID
> n
D
O fd r* k4
«*- '- ^ =
O O J<
5"
£ =
00
M Jo -|« H-OO
|.ri C tr*
5 o g
2 o- "
.- c
— <
-= •-- C 'S
1- O '-' Q.
L o.t:
: -^
i"S6
c ^ " _y
:ij
ll >i (L) —
"' E t^
;
" 2 =
I ra c u
Qvii "
O '3 —JC* —fN -"*3^ "liS o^!^ "''^
O '"u to Tt"OD OO •» 00
O r^ C C N l^VO 1-^
t^ Ox a:
J^
O^
^
MO —
+31$:
O O r»
i^'JI*+
OP N o o
I
>o
) • O CN O O O •
Cm— C
Co c o O C
'
t—. L^ r^ N O C •—,
> t-J 1^ « _l—
'
O O O O o o c
O O O O o O o
q_ o_ o_ q, o o c
O wfC r^ cS ^^ lA
N •-; (\ — t--) u-> T*-»
r^ •+ t<^ Tj- r^ t^
VO « J- o" N
o o o o p O o
O O O O O O o
o^ O o q. q_ q o
o d 6 d o 6 6
o o o o o o n
0^0,00 q_ o_ q
N On M N l^VO O
fn ltnOO 00 N n 00
O O -VD
OOvoOOrf-OO
000 r^o5 .* o o
\o 00 NO
M o
VO Soo o:5 S^ S
N O VO
"O -^ -O -D . . .
-^
« L3 •>» On + Ov!~)
4; -a
a- c
3
c c
C/3
-1= -c .n ^T _c jc _jc
f^ t\ £ VO t^ ^J r-
-t:j -^ -c ":^ -T7 -o -T5
r\ -^ Lr. t^VO N On
00 N \0 VO CC ^'^ i^
=: JT
1. r- 1_
n a 2
-^s>tS2§.A-:^
OF ASTROLOGY. 117
Befides the foregoing natural influences of the planets, which they
produce on the human frame, as often as they bear abfolute rule at a
birth ; it muft alfo be remembered, that they differ in their effe6ls, ac-
cording as they are pofited or impeded by other afpeds at the time ; and
thefe variations muft be attentively perufed and digefted, before any cor-
red judgment can be formed on the circumftances of a nativity. 1 (hall
therefore arrange them under diftin6l heads, and fhow, in the firft place,
how their natural qualities are changed by their different afpcdts and
pofitions in the heavens.
The O in T» b > and n, is fanguine, and produces heat and moifture ;
as in fpring.
The O in 25, SI, and Hi, is choleric, and caufes heat and drynefs ; as
in fummer.
The O in ^, n^, and X , is melancholy, and brings cold and drynefs ;
as in autumn.
The O in yj", ;:sr, and X, is phlegmatic, and caufes cold and moift-
ure ; as in winter.
The ]) , from the new to the firft quarter, occafions heat and moifture.
The }) , from the firft quarter to the full, caufes heat and drynefs.
The 3), from the full to the laft quarter, produces cold and drynefs.
The ]) , from the laft quarter to the new, brings cold and moifture.
The planet Saturn, oriental, caufes cold and moifture.
The planet Saturn, occidental, brings drynefs.
The planet Jupiter, oriental, produces heat and moifture.
The planet Jupiter, occidental, occafions moifture.
The planet Mars, oriental, caufes heat and drynefs.
The planet Mars, occidental, gives drynefs only.
The planet Venus, oriental, produces heat and moifture,
The planet Venus, occidental, caufes moifture.
The planet Mercury, oriental, caufes heat.
The planet Mercury, occidental, brings drynefs.
The Moon, of her own nature, is cold and moift, and always inter-
mixes her influences with every planet that joins in afpe6t with her, or
from which her afpeft is feparated. Her effefts alfo increafe or decreafe
as follows : Increafing with (J , ftie caufes heat and drynefs ; but, de-
creafing with b » ftie produces cold and moifture.
No. 6. E e ESSENTIAL
1
1
8 AN ILLUSTRATION
ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES of the PLANETS.
A Planet is eflentially ftrong, or operates with the greatefh force and
energy, when pofited in its own houfe, exaltation, triplicity, term, or
phafis, according to the following Table.
c
bo
In
r
OF ASTROLOGY. 119
twelve figns being divided into four triplicities, the fourth column fhows
which of the planets, both night and day, governs each triplicity. For
inftance, oppofite to Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius, are the Sun and Jupiter ;
which imports, that the Sun governs by day, and Jupiter by night, in
that triplicity. Oppofite Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn, are Venus and
the Moon ; which Ihows that Venus has dominion by day, and the Moon
by night, in that triplicity. Oppofite Gemini, Libra, and Aquarius,
are Saturn and Mercury; by which it appears that Saturn rules by day,
and Mercury by night, in that triplicity. Oppofite Cancer, Scorpio, and
Pifces, flands the planet Mars, who rules in that triplicity both night
and day. In the fifth, fixth, feventh, and eighth, columns, oppofite
Aries, {lands % 6. 9 14. &c. which imports that the firft ^ix degrees of
Aries are the terms of Jupiter ; from fix degrees to fourteen, are the terms
of Venus, and fo on. In the tenth, eleventh, and twelfth, columns, op-
pofite Aries, we find <5' 10. 20. $ 30. which (hows that the firll: ten
degrees of Aries are the phafes of Mars ; from ten to twenty degrees are
the phales of the Sun ; and from twenty to thirty the phafes of Venus.
In the thirteenth column, in a line with Aries, flands Venus in
detriment ; which fhows that Venus, being iti Aries, is in a fign diredly
oppofite to one of her own houfes, and is therefore faid to be in detriment.
In the fourteenth column, in the fame line with Aries, ftands Saturn in
fall ; which fhows that Saturn, when he is in Aries, is oppofite to Libra,
his houfe of exaltation, and fo becomes unfortunate, and is hence faid to
have his fall in that fi^n.
O'
The efi"e6ls produced by the planets under thefe fituations, are as fol-
low : If the planet, which is principal fignificator, be pofited in his own
houfe, in any fcheme or calculation whatever, it indicates profperity
and fuccefs to the perfon fignified, to the bufinefs in hand, or to what-
ever elfe may be the fubjeft of enquiry. If a planet be in his exaltation,
it denotes a perfon of majeflic carriage and lofty difpofition, high-
minded, auflere, and proud. If a planet be in his triplicity, the perfon
will be profperous and fortunate in acquiring the goods of this life ; no
matter whether well or illdefcended, or born rich or poor, his condition
and circumftances will notwithftanding be promifing and good. If a
planet be in his terms, it betokens a perfon to participate rather in the
nature and quality of the planet, than in the wealth, power, and dignity,
indicated thereby. If a planet be in his phafes, and no otherwife for-
tified, though fignificator, it declares the perfon or thing fignified to be
in great diftrefs, danger, or anxiety. And thus, in all cafes, judgment
is to be given good or bad, according to the flrength, ability, or imper-
fedion, of the fignificator.
TABLE
120 AN ILLUSTRATION
TABLE (howing the FORTITUDES and DEBILITIES of the
PLANETS.
Essential Dignities.
A Planet in his own houfe, or
mutual reception by houfe,
(hall have dignities
In exaltation, or reception by
exaltation . _ -
In triplicity _ - -
In terms - - - -
In decant or phafis
4
3
2
I
Debilities.
In detriment
In fall
Peregrine -
S
4
5
Accidental Fortitudes.
In medium coeli or afcendant -
5
In the 7th, 4th, or nth, houfe 4
In the 2d or 5th houfe - - 3
In the 9th houfe - - - 2
In the 3d houfe - - - i
Direa - ... 4
In hayze ^ - - - - i
Swift in motion - - - 2
b, "3/, or <5 , oriental - - 2
9 , 5 , or the }) , occidental - 2
Free from combuftion - -
5
In cazimi, or in the heart of
the O - - - - 5
Befieged by If. and 9 - - 5
Partial conjunflion of the Si -
4
In partial conjunftion with If.
or (5 - - - - 5
In partial trine of 7/f or 9 - 4
In partial fextile of "^ or 9 -
3
In conjundlion with Cor Leo-
nis, in 25 degrees of ^ - 6
In conjundtion with Spica Vir-
ginis, in 18 degrees of :C^ - 5
In the terms of "^ or 9 - i
Accidental Debilities,
In the 1 2th houfe - -
5
In the 8th or 6th houfe - 4
Retrograde - - - 5
Slow in motion - - - 2
lp,'V,or (J, occidental - a
9 or 5 oriental- - - 3
}) decreafing in light - - 2
Combuftion of the O - - 5
Under the Sun's beams - - 4
Befieged by h and d - -6
Partial conjun6tion of ^ - 4
Partial conjundion with b oi" c? 5
Partial oppofition of b or <? -
4
Partial quartile of l^j or (J - 3
In conjundlion with Caput Al-
gol, in 21 degrees of y > or
within 5 degrees - - 5
In the term of b or c? - i
TABLE
OF ASTROLOGY. 121
TABLE of the FORTITUDES and DEBILITIES of the PART of
FORTUNE;
Dignities.
The Part of Fortune in b or ^
In £= I 9,05 _ - - - -
Inn---- --
111 niJ
In the afcendant or medium coeli 5
In the 7th, 4th, or nth, houfe 4
In the 2d and 5th houfe - -
In the 9th houfe - - - -
In the 3d houfe - - - -
In conjunction of 7^ or 9
In trine of ^ or ? - - -
In fextile of 7/t or 9 - - -
In conjun<51ion of the SI - -
In conjundion of Regulus in 25
degrees of Leo _ - - -
In conjunClion of Spica Virginis
in 1 9 degrees of :^ - - -
Not combuft - - - - -
Debilities.
ntityy^ -_,__,
n the 1 2th houfe - - - -
n the 6th houfe - _ -
n the 8th houfe - - "*
n conjun61ion of Tp or cJ - -
n conjunction of <q _ _ _
n oppofition of ip or <J - -
n quartile of fp or <5 - - -
n terms of 1p or (J - -
n conjunction of Caput Algol
in 2 1 degrees of y - - -
Combuft -------
5
5
4
4
5
3
4
3
2
4
S
The }) in conjunction or oppofition of the Q ^ S ot the is impe*
ded two days, viz. one day before, and one day after.
The J in quartile of theO b or (5 is impeded twelve hours before and
after.
To arrive at a proper degree of correCtnefs In our refearches into futu-
rity, we muft be well verfed in the true nature and flrength of the pla-
net's fortitudes and debilities, fo as to give them their due weight in the
fcale of nature, according to the experienced rules of this fcience, and
no farther. For, the more a man endeavours to ftrain a judgment be-
yond the natural tendency of the planets, and the more he fwerves from
truth in putting down their ftren?;th or debility, the more he augments
his error, and betrays his inexperience. To avoid this, let the ftudent
acquaint himfelf perfeClly with thefe Tables ; and in praCtice, whenever he
hae occafion to colleCt the fortitudes and debilities either of the planets or
part of fortune, let him fubtraCt the lefs number from the greater, and the
remainder will be the planet's excefs of fuperiority or debility; accord-
ing to which will be its operation upon the fubjeCt of his invcftigation.
No. 7. F f Of
122 AN ILLUSTRATION
Of the PLANETARY HOUSES, and their EFFECTS.
To give a more fubftantial idea of the nature and arrangement of the
twelve houfes of the planets, we fhall confider them according to the fol-
lowing daigram
:
•^ 7^
In this fcheme Cancer and Leo have afligned unto them the two
trreat luminaries, Sol and Luna ; becaufe they are agreeable to each other
in nature ; for the Sun, being naturally hot and dry, fiiows his efFe61s more
forcibly when pofited in Leo than he doth in either Aries or Sagittarius.
And the Moon, for the fame reafon, hath Cancer allotted to her govern-
ment, becaufe fhe is cold and moill:, and oi the nature of this fign ; and
being the firft of the watery triplicity, and next to the Sun's houfe, fhe
receives her light from him ; and all things are generated by their joint
influence.
Saturn is naturally cold, and therefore an enemy to heat ; and, being
the higheft and moft remote from the luminaries of all the other planets,
has for his manfion the figns Capricorn and Aquarics ; which are the op-
pofite figns to Leo and Cancer, and are confequently cold and moift, Sa-
turn is accounted the moft obnoxious and moft malevolent of all the pla-
nets, becaufe he oppofes the two great luminaries, which are the fountains
of life, light, and nutrition.
Jupiter
OF ASTROLOGY. 123
Jupiter is placed under Saturn, and has the two figns that go before
and after Capricorn and Aquaries allotted for his houfes^ namely, Sagit-
tary and Pifces, w hich are in trine to the houles of the two luminaries
;
Pifces, his night-houfe, is in trine to Cancer, the houfe of the nodlurnal
luminary; and Sagittary, his day-houfe, in trine to Leo, the houfe of the
diurnal luminary. Jupiter, being naturally temperate, and having thefe
amicable afpefts, is deemed the moft benevolent of all the planets to man-
kind, and \}i\t greaterfortune, *-
Mars next in order follows Jupiter, being placed under him ; and
therefore thofe figns that go before and after the houfes of Jupiter are al-
lotted to Mars, viz. Scorpio and Aries, which are in quariile to the houfes
of the Sun and Moon, as Aries his day-houfe is to Cancer, and Scorpio
his night-houfe is to Leo. And, fmce a quartile is found to be an afpe6t
of enmity, he is accounted malignant and unfortunate in an inferior de-
gree to Saturn, who beholds the luminaries with an oppofition, therefore
he is called the /ejer infortune.
Venus, a more temperate planet, hath appointed under her thofe houfes
that go before the houles of Mars, viz. Libra and Taurus, which are in
a lextile to the houfes of the two luminaries, and form an afpe6t of love
and amity ; but, becaufe a lextile is not fo iVo'^g ^^^ perfe6l an afpeft as
a trine, ihe is accounted the Icjfer fortune.
Mercury, being fituated within the orbits of all the other planets, has
the figns allotted him which precede the two houfes of the great lumina-
ries, namely, Gemini and Virgo; and, becaufe Mercury is never diftant
from the Sun above one fign, he naturally inclines neither to good nor evil,
but participates cither in the good or evil influences of whatever planet he
is joined with in alped:.
The EXALTATIONS and FALLS of the PLANETS.
The Sun, which is the fountain of life, takes his exaltation in nine-
teen degrees of Aries, becaufe he is then in the highefl northern point
of the ecliptic, making all things to fpring and flourifh, and producing
fine warm weather, and length of days. . And he is faid to have his fall
in Libra, becaufe it is the oppofite Hgn in the heavens to Aries, in which
the Sun declines to the utmofl: fouthern point, and occafions fhortnefs
of days, and cold winterly blafts, deftrudive to the fruits of the earth.
Now the Moon, being co-partner and co-temporary with the Sun, and
receivin? all her light from him, this enables her to be vifible to us fiifl
in Taurus -. and, becaule it is the firfl fign wherein (he has a triplicity, her
exaltation takes place in Taurus, wherein ihe increafes in light and mo-
tion.
,2^ AN ILLUSTRATION
tion. But, Scorpio being the fign oppofite to Taurus, in which (he dc-
creafes in hght, it is hence allotted for her fall, being the fign immedi-
ately after Libra, and oppofite to Aries, the houfe of the Sun's exaltation.
Saturn, the mofl: remote planet, is the author of cold, as the Sun is of
heat, and is therefore exalted in that fign wherein heat is diminiflied and
cold increafed, viz. Libra ; and his fall takes place in that fign where cold
is diminiftied and heat increafed, viz. Aries ; which are quite contrary in
nature to the Sun,
Jupiter is exalted in Cancer, and has his fall in Capricorn ; for Jupiter
delights in the northern part of the heavens, where he fiirs up northern
winds, which increafe fertility and vegetation ; and, his greatefi: declina-
tion northwards being in Cancer, he is therein exalted. For the contrary
reafon he has his fall in Capricorn.
Mars is naturally hot and dry ; and, becaufe his influence and effe61s
are moft powerful in Capricorn, a fouthern fign, where the Sun is gene-
rally hotteft about noon, he is for this realon exalted therein: and he
takes his fall in Cancer, quite contrary to the nature of Jupiter ; for Mars
is hot and violent, and Jupiter cold and temperate.
Venus is naturally molfi:, efpecially in Pifc€s, in which fign the fpring
is moifiened and forwarded in the increafe and ftrength of nature ; and
therefore flie has the fign Pifces for her exaltation ; and, as Venus is the
mother of generation and procreation, fhe has her fall in Virgo, in the
autumn, when all things wither and fade.
Mercury, becaufe he is dry, and contrary in nature to Venus, is exalt-
ed in Virgo, and has his fall appointed him in Pifces, Virgo is both his
houfe and joy.
The TRIPLICITIES of the PLANETS.
A Triplicity means three figns of the zodiac, of one and the fame
nature, making a perfed triangle; and of thefe triplicities among the
figns there are four, anfwering to the four elements : viz. the fiery tri-
plicity which confifts of Aries, Leo, and Sagittary ; the airy triplicity,
confifling of Gemini, Libra, and Aquaries; the watery triplicity, con-
taining Cancer, Scorpio, and Pifces ; and the earthy triplicity, which
includes Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn. Thefe figns apply to each other
in a trine, in the fame manner as a planet in a fiery fign applies to another
planet in a fiery fign (if in the fame number of degrees) in a trine ; and
thus
OF ASTROLOGY. "125
thus a planet In an airy fign beholds another planet in an airy fign with a
trine ; and fo the watery and earthy figns apply in the fame manner ; and
each of thefe trine afpe6ts conlifts of one hundred and twenty degrees.
The Sun and Jupiter have dominion over the fiery triplicity ; the Sun
by day, and Jupiter by night. The Sun by day, becaufe he is hot and
fiery, and of the nature of thefe figns; and Jupiter by night, becaufe he
is temperate, and moderates the- extremity of heat. This is called the
caftern triplicity.
'
o
o
Saturn and Mercury have dominion over the airy triplicity, which Is
weftern ; Mercury by night, and Saturn by day. But, as Libra Is the
exaltation of Saturn, and Aquaries the houfe and fign wherein he has
mofl joy ; and as Gemini is only the houfe of Mercury ; it follows that
Saturn has the principal government in this triplicity.
Mars both night and day governs the watery triplicity, which Is nor-
thern ; and it feems that Mars was appointed to this triplicity to temper
and abate his violent heat ; for we find he is more powerful in his malig-
nant effedts in the fign Leo than he Is in Cancer ; therefore he has his
fall appointed him in Cancer, though he is peregrine in Leo.
Venus and the Moon bear rule over the earthy triplicity, which is
feminine and fouthern, cold and moift, producing fouth-caft winds, and
cold moift air; hence this triplicity is affigned to the care of feminine
planets.
The TERMS of the PLANETS.
A Term is a certain number of degrees, in each houfe or fign of the
zodiac, wherein the planets Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Venus, and Mercury,
have a certam priority ; but the Sun and Moon have no terms. Thefe
degrees are called terms, ends, or bounds ; for the planets have each their
proportions fo allotted therein, that at the end of a certain number of
degrees, the terms of one planet ceafe, and thofe of another begin.
For Inftance, from the firft degree of Aries to the fixth, are the terms
of Jupiter ; from the fixth to the fourteenth, are the terms of Venus
;
and fo of all the reft. Ptolemy, Albumazer, and Bonatus, have all
fliown, that the greater years of the planets are difcovered by their feve-
ral terms or bounds through the zodiac ; which is done by finding what
number of degrees each of the planets have allotted them in each fign ;
and then, by adding them together, the fum will be the number of each of
their great years, as will appear more obvioufly by the following example:
No. 7. Gg TERMS.
iz6 AN ILLUSTRATION
TERMS.
In the Sign T
OF ASTxROLOGY. r27
Saturn in the firft term of Aquaries claims fix. But, becaufe Venus has
eight degrees in Taurus, Saturn has only tsvo, being very weak in Tau-
rus ; and again, in Sagittary, Jupiter is increafed one degree, becaufe he
is flrong, and Mercury is diminifhed one degree, becaufe he is weak ; fo
that Jupiter takes eight degrees, and leaves Mercury but five.
It is alfo neceffary to obferve, that a planet in his own term is ftrong ;
and that the more dignities he gains therein, the ftronger will his influ-
ence be ; for example, Jupiter in the firfl; term of Sagittary is ftronger
and more powerful than in the firil: term of Aries, though they are
both equally his terms ; and the reafon of this is, becaufe the fign Sa-
gittary is both his houfe and triplicity, and Aries is his triplicity only ;
wherefore he has the firft eight degrees of Sagittary for his term, and
only fix in Aries. Hence it becomes apparent, that, the nearer a planet
is in nature to the place of his term, the ftronger will his influence be
therein. Jupiter, being hot and moifb, has but five degrees for his term
in Virgo, which is a cold and dry fign ; but in Gemini, which is hot and
inoiil, he has fix degrees, becaufe it agrees with his nature ; and yet in
Cancer, which is cold and moifl:, he poflefles feven degrees, although it
does not agree with his nature ; and the reafon is, Cancer is the houfe
of Jupiter's exaltation, and therefore the greater term is allotted him.
—
In like manner, if a planet that is cold and dry be pofited in a term of
the fame temperature,, his coldnefs and drynefs will be greatly increafed
thereby, and he will operate the more powerfully in his influences. The
fame/ule holds good in refpe6t to all the other qualities of the planets ;
and it mufi: be remembered, that a planet is always increafed in ftrength
by being fituated in houfes or places of his own temperature and quality.
Thus a planet that is hot and dry lofes much of his natural vigour in a
term that is cold and moift ; and a planet that is cold and moifl: lofes con-
fiderably of its nature in a term that is hot and dry. And in like manner,
if a planet that is a fortune be pofited in a fortunate term, his beneficent
effects are the more increafed, and he is fortified with great power and
flrength to operate upon whatever fiibjedl: he is the fignificator of. And on
the contrary, if ati evil and malevolent planet be in an evil fign and term,
its effeds will be thereby rendered flill more mifchievous. And the lord
of a term when pofited in that term, be the fign what it may, has more
power therein than the lord of the fign, or than the planet that has tlie
fign for its exaltation. Again, if the lord of any term be pofited in his
term,, and the lord of the fign be fituated in another fign in afped with
him, the lord of the term will have more power in the fign where he is
than the lord of the fign, and fhall be the principal fignificator; but, if
the lord of the term be pofited in his own term and fign alfo, then his
flrength and energy will be flill more confiderablc. It may alio be ob-
ferved,
128 AN ILLUSTRATION
ferved, that, when a planet is weak in a fign, his debility would be yery
much lefTened fhould he chance to be fituated in that part of the fign
wherein he has terms. Whenever a planet is polited in a term and fign
both of his own nature, it is a very flrong and fortunate afpcd.
The PHASES of the PLANETS.
The Planets' Phafes confift of the twelve figns of the zodiac, divided
each into three equal parts ; fo that one phafis contains ten degrees, and
every iign three phafes. They arc called //w/w, becaufe they iignify or
reprefent the forms, natures, and inclinations, of the feveral planets ap-
propriated to them. A planet's term divides a phalis; a phafis divides a
fign ; a fign divides a triplicity ; and a triplicity divides the whole zodiac.
To afcertain the proper phafes of each planet, we begin with Mars
in the equino6lial fign Aries, becaufe it. is the houfe of this planet
;
wherefore the firft ten degrees conftitute the phafis of Mars ; the fecond
ten degrees are the phafis of the Sun ; and the third, which make up the
whole thirty degrees of Aries, confliitute the phafis of Venus. The
firft ten degrees of Taurus make the phafis of Mercury ; the fecond ten
degrees are the phafis of the Moon ; and the third ten conftitute the phafis
of Saturn. The firft ten degrees of Gemini make the phafis of Jupiter
;
the fecond ten, the phafis of Mars ; and fo on in the following order,
throughout the twelve figns of the zodiac.
Mars hath the firft phafis in Aries, which is the phafis of ftrength,
magnanimity, and couiage ; of refolution, confidence, and intrepidity.
The Sun hath the fecond phafis in Aries, and this is the phafis of renown,
majeftyyand might ; of candour, generofity, and noblenefs of foul ; and
herein the Sun has his exaltation. Venus hath the third phafis in Aries,
which is the phafis of effeminacy, and wanton merriment ; of joy, fport,
and play.
In Taurus, the firft phafis is attributed to Mercury, and it is the phafis
of mechanical arts, agriculture, and learning; of refined wit, logic, and
oratory. 1 he Moon has the fecond phafis in Taurus, and it is the phafis
of power, ambition, and authority; of violence, force, compulfion, and
arbitrary fway. Saturn has the third phafis in Taurus, which is the phafis
of cruelty, oppreffion, and bondage; of poverty, fervitude, and menial
occupations.
Jupiter hath the firft phafis in Gemini; and this is the phafis of nume-
ration, algebra, and all figures ; of deciphering hieroglyphic charaders,
writings.
OF ASTROLOGY. 129
writino'S, and fculptures. Mars has the fecond phafls in Gemini: which
is the phafjs of ftudy, perfeverance, and labour ; of trouble, grief, and
painful anxiety. The Sun has the third phafis in Gemini : and it is the
phafis of boldnefs, contempt, and difdain ; of indolence, forgetfuhiefs, and
ill manners.
The firft phafis in Cancer belongs to Venus ; it is the phafis of a good
underflanding, mirth, and wit ; of cheerfulnefs, complacency, and love.
The fecond phafis in Cancer belongs to Mercury: it is the phafis of
wealth, honour, and preferment ; of fruitfulaefs, fertility, and fuccefs in
bufinefs. The third phafis in Cancer belongs to the Moon ; and it is the
phafis of fuccefs inarms, law, and oppofition ; of travelling, perfeverance,
and ftrength.
Saturn has the firft phafis in Leo ; it is the phafis of violence, rage,
and tyranny ; of luft, cruelty, and mifchievoufnefs. Jupiter has tlie fe-
cond phafis in Leo ; it is the phafis of difputation, contention, and ftrife :
of hoftility, violence, and battle. Mars hath the third phafis in Leo ;
which is a phafis of efteem and friendfliip, of union in the public caufe,
and of fuccefs in arms.
The Sun has the firft phafis in Virgo: it is the phafis of riches, pro-
perty, and wealth ; of induftry, improvement, and cultivation. Venus
hath the fecond phafis in Virgo : it is the phafis of avarice, covetoufnefs,
and fordid gain ; of meannefs, penurioufnefs, and parfimony. Mercury
has the third phafis in Virgo : and it is the phafis of advanced age, infir-
mity, and weaknefs ; of gradual decline, diflblution, and decay.
The Moon has the firft phafis in Libra : it is the phafis of juftice, mercy,
and truth ; of humanity, liberality, and benevolence. Saturn has the
fecond phafis in Libra : it is the phafis of advantage, emolument, and
gain ; of watchfulnefs, labour, and fubtilty. Jupiter has the third phafis
in Libra : which is the phafis of lafcivioufnefs, luxury, and licentioufnefs ;
of diflipation, drunkennefs, and depravity.
Mars has the firft phafis in Scorpio: it is the phafis of violent ftrife, con-
tention, andflaughter; of thieving, murdering, and robbing. The Sun
has the fecond phafis in Scorpio : it is the phafis of injuftice, deceitfiilnefs,
and envy ; of difcord, malice, and detradion. Venus hath the third
phafis in Scorpio : and it is a phafis of lewdnefs, fornication, and adultery ;
of flattery, feduflion, and deceit.
Mercury poflefifes the firft phafis in Sagittary: it is a phafis of ftrength,
valour, and intrepidity; of jollity, opennefs, and feftivity. The Moon
No. 7. H h has
I30 AN ILLUSTRATION
has the fecond phafis in Sagittary ; and it is the phafis of affliftion, forrow,
and perturbation of mind ; of internal woe, fufpicion, and miftruft. Sa-
turn has the third phafis in Sagittary : and it is the phafis of obftinacy,.
obduratenefs, and tyranny; of wilfuhiefs, mifchievoufnefs, and cruelty.
Jupiter has the firft phafis in Capricorn : it is the phafis of hofpitality,
benevolence, and honefty ; of conviviality, merriment, and fport. Mars
hath the fecond phafis in Capricorn: it is the phafis of inordinate defires,
of unbridled paffions, and intemperate lufts ; of difcontentednefs, peevifh-
neis, and difappointment. The Sun has the third phafis in Capricorn :
and it is a phafis of exalted underftanding, manlinefs, and wifdom ; of
fobriety, integrity, and honour.
Venus hath the firft phafis in Aquaries ; it is a phafis of continual
anxiety for gain, of laborious toil, and unwearied application ; of difap-
pointment, misfortune, and lofs. Mercury has the fecond phafis in Aqua-
ries : it is the phafis of modefty, clemency, and good nature ; of gentle-
nefs, mildnefs, and complacency. The Moon hath the third phafis in
Aquaries : and it is the phafis of diflatisfadlion, repining, and difcontenc
;
of jealouly, ingratitude, and envy.
Saturn hath the firft phafis in Pifces : it is a phafis of thoughtfulnefs,
fedatenefs, and temperance; of fobriety, reputation, and fuccefs in bufi-
nefs. Jupiter hath the fecond phafis in Pifces; it is the phafis of aufte-
rity, haughtinefs, and ambition ; of pride, vain-glory, and felf-conceit.
Mars hath the third and lafi: phafis in Pifces : and it is the phafis of con-
cupifcence and luft ; of debauchery, lewdnefs, and profligacy.
The advantage to be derived by a perfeft knowledge of the planets'
phafes will hereafter appear in the judgment of a nativity ; for, if the
afcendant on the cufp of any perfon's nativity be found in theie phafes,
then will the native's natural difpofitioii, manner, occupation, and general
purfuits, be regulated by them, according to the flrength or debility of the
other afpefts ; for, if the lord of the afcendant, or the Moon, or planet ap-
plying to the afcendant in afpe£l, or beholding the lord of the afcendant, or
Moon, are both pofited in phafes of the lame nature, then will their eifeds
\ipon the native be moft powerful and efficacious.
The JOYS of the PLANETS.
The planets are faid to be in their joys, when they are pofited in thofc
houfes wherein they are moft ftrong and powerful ; as,
The
OF ASTROLOGY. »3»
The planet b
©
9
> joyeth in <
I
Til
SI
a
It may, perhaps, be enquired, why Saturn joyeth not m Capricorn, as
well as in Aquaries, fince both thele figns are his houfes ? The reafon
is, that in Aquaries he has both houfe and triplicity, and is therefore bet-
ter dignified, and more potent, in Aquaries than in Capricorn. So like-
wife Jupiter joyeth in Sagittary, and not in Pifces, becaufe in the former
fign be has both houfe and triplicity, but in the latter he has houfe
only. The fame obfervation extends to the other planets. The Moon,
indeed, has no triplicity ; but Ihe joyeth in Cancer, becaufe it is a lign
of her own quality and nature. Hence it appears that Saturn, though
ftrong and well dignified in Capricorn, is much flronger, and has more
dignities, in Aquaries j Jupiter alfo has ftrong influences when pofited in
Pifces, but much ftronger in Sagittary ; Mars is potent in Aries, but
infinitely more fo in Scorpio ; Venus has great operation in Libra, but
in Taurus her effects are more powerful; and Mercury, for the fame
caufe, operates much more forcibly in Virgo than he does in the fign
Gemini. The efficacy of thefe rules havhig been proved by repeated
experience, it is neceffary for every ftudent to confider thein with at-
tention, «
The ANTISCIONS of the PLANETS.
A planet's Antifcion is a certain virtue or influence it acquires by being
pofited in conjuudion with any ftar or planet, in degrees equally diilant
from the two tropical figns. Cancer and Capricorn, in which degrees
the Sun, when it arrives, occafions equal day and night all over the world.
For example, when the Sun is in the tenth degree of Taurus, he is as far
diftant from the firft degree of Cancer as when in the twelfth degree of
Leo ; therefore, wlien the Sun or any planet is pofited in the tenth degree
of Taurus, it fends its antifcion to the twentieth degree of Leo; that is, it
gives additional force and virtue to any planet at that time in the fame
degree by conjundion, or that call:etb any alpe6k to it. The planets'
anlifcions may, at ail times, be fomid by the following Table.
A TABLE
132 AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE of the ANTISCIONS of the PLANETS.*
T into xrn
b
n
9.
55
"I
^
Deg.
I
2
3
4
5
6
into deg.
29
28
27
26
25
24
Min.
I
2 -
3
4
5
into mm.
59
58
57
56
55
54
The foregoing Table fhows, that a planet, fituated in one degree onc
minute of Aries fends his antifcion into twenty-nine degrees fifty-nine
minutes of Virgo ; a planet in two degrees two minutes of Taurus, into
twenty-eight degrees fifty-eight minutes of Leo, and lb on through the
table. Thefe antilcions are confidered, in the rules of aftrology, equi-
valent to a lextile or a trine, particularly if the planets arc of the
benevolent or fortunate kind. Thefe planets have alio their contra-anti-
fcions, which are of the nature of a quartile or oppofition. To know
where thele fall, it only requires to find the antifcion, and in the oppo-
fite fign to that will be the contra-antifcion. For inftance, fuppofe Ju-
piter in one degree of Aries ; his antifcion will then fall in twenty-nine
degrees of Virgo, and his contra-antilcion in twenty-nine degrees of
Pilces, becaufe Pifces is the fign immediately oppofite to Virgo, where the
antifcion falls.
The ASPECTS of the PLANETS.
The flrongeft or rnoft forcible rays, afpe(51s, or configurations, pecu-
liar to the planets, are the following : A conjun6tion denoted by this
charafter, c5 ; a trine, ^ ; a quartile, ; a Textile, :^< ; and an op-
pofition, g .
A conjunction, (5 , is not properly an afped, though frequently fo call-
ed ; for, when two planets are both in the fame degree and minute of a
fign, they are faid to be in conjundion, confequently cannot at that time
be in afped to each other. The effedls of conjundions are either good
or bad according to the nature and quality of the planets that compofe
them, or as the planets in conjundion are friends or enemies to one
another, or to the fubjed then under confideration.
A fextile afped, :^, implies two of the heavenly bodies pofited at the
diflance of fixty degrees in longitude, or one fixth part of the zodiac,
* The Antifcions, according to the fyftem of Argol and Morinus, are followed here, though
difcontinued by lome modern profeffors. The Placidean methodj however, will be given in
the courfe of the work. See p. 6zg.
from
\
OF ASTROLOGY. "
133
from each other; for which reafon it is fometimes called a fexarvgular af^
pe6t, or a hexagon. The Textile is termed an afpedl of :..' perfect love,
amity, or friendlhip ; becaufe when two planets, or lignificators, are in
Textile to each other, they import that any matter in difpute, treaty of
marriage, or other fubje6l of enquiry, may be happily terminated, or
brought about, by the intervention of friends ; or that, for want thereof,
the contrary may happen. And, though the Textile afpe6l is fometimes
over-ruled by the more powerful influences of malignant ones, yet it is
generally confidered an omen of a favourable kind.
By a quartile afpe6l, , two planets are undcrftood to be polited at
ninety degrees, or one-fourth part of the circle of the zodiac, from each
other ; it is confidered an afpe6t of imperfect hatred, and atls vice verfa
with the Textile, inclining rather to malignancy, contention, and misfor-
tune, as the other does to friendfhip, harmony, and good fortune.
A trine aTpe61-, ^, imports the planets to be fituated at the diftance of
one hundred and twenty degrees, or one-third part of the circle of the zo-
diac, from each other ; and is fometimes called a trigonal afpecl:, or a tri-
gonocrater, implying rule of dominion in a certain trigon or triplicity.
This is an afpe6l of the moft perfe6l unanimity, friendfhip, and peace;
and it is fo confidered, becaule, when the planets are in a A afped, they
are pofited in figns precifely in the fame triplicity and nature ; that is to
fay, they are both in an earthy, airy, fiery, or watery, (ign ; and confe-
quently both contribute the fame influences unimpeded. But in a >]<:,
which is an afpe6l of imperfe6l amity, the planets are pofited in iigns ot
only a partial nature, viz. fiery with an airy, or an earthy with a watery,
fign ; and as the fiery fign is hot and diy, and the airy hot and moiji^ the
earthy cold and dry, and the watery cold and moiji, io the planets thus po-
lited, agreeing only in one point out of two, give but an imperfedt influ-
ence. Thus the diflinftions bptween a s|c and a A afped, and between a
and 8 , are founded in reafon and experience.
The oppofition § of two planets, fignifies their being pofited at one
hundred and eighty degrees, or jufl half the diftance of the zodiac, apart,
which places them in a diametiical radiation. This is confidered an alpeft
of perfed hatred, or of inveterate malice and enmity, as malignant in its
effects as the trine is benevolent ; and oi double the dedruttive tenden-
cy of the alpe61:. To inftance this, let us fuppofe two kingdoms,
ftates, focieties, or private gentlemen, at variance, and it is enquired whe-
ther the caufe of difpute may be amicably adjufted ? If a figure be erecled
No. 7,
"
I i
'
" for
,2^ AN ILLUSTRATION
for the pofitiotis of the heavenly bodies, and the two fignificators, repre-
fenting the two adverfaries, be in a quartile afpe6l, I Ihould infer, that
notvvithltandino- the then fubfifting enmity of the parties, with all the
threatened mifchiefs attending it, harmony may be reilored, if proper
means were ufed for that purpofe. But if the lignificators are found in
a(5iual oppofition, the dilpute in queftion would moft probably occafion
hoftilitv, war, litigation, or duel, or be attended with Ibme alarming
conlequences, before the matter would fubfide. Wherefore an <? is juft-
ly termed an afped of perfed enmity.
Thefe afpe6ts are all divided, for the fake of perfpiculty, into partik
and platlc afpedls. A partile afpeft confiders two planets exaflly lb many
decrees from each other as make a perfcft afped : that is, if Venus be in
nine decrees of Aries, and Jupiter in nine degrees of I^eo, they are in
partile trine afpeft. Again, if the Sun be in one degree of Taurus, and
the Moon in one degree of Cancer, they are in a partile fextile afped ; fo
that all perfeft afpefts arc partile, and imply the matter or thing threat-
ened, whether good or evil, to be near at hand.
By a platic afpeft we are to underftand two planets fo pofited as to ad-
mit half the degrees of each of their own rays or orbs; for inftance, if
Saturn be pofited in fixteen degrees of Aries, and Jupiter in twenty-four
decrrees of Gemini, then Saturn would be in a platic fextile afped to Ju-
piter, becaufe Saturn would be pofited within the moiety of both their
orbs, which are nine degrees each. The fame circumftance applies to the
afpedls of all the planets; for, if their diftance from each other brings
them within one half of each of their orbs or radiations, when added to-
gether, they will then form a platic afped. It muft alfo be carefully ob-
ierved in the platic aipeds, whether the co-operation of the two planets
is going off or coming on. In the above example, the effeiSl of Saturn's
platic lextile a(ped with Jupiter was going off; but if we reverfe their
fituations, and place Saturn in twenty-four degrees of Gennni, and Ju-
piter in fixteen degrees of Aries, then the afpedt would be coming on with
all its force and influence, and would proportionably affe6l the fubjc6l,
whatever it be, under confideration.
To enable the reader to find the platic afpefls more readily, I fubjoin
the following Table of the Planets' Orbs, Mean Motion, and Latitude.
TABLE
OF ASTROLOGY. ^35
TABLE of the ORBS and MEAN MOTION of the PLANETS.
Orbs
Saturn
Jupiter
Mars
Moon
Venus
Mercury
Sun
lo degrees
12 degrees
7 degrees
12 dei^rees 50 min.
8 degrees
7 degrees 30 min.
17 degrees
Mean Motion,
2 minutes i fecond
4 minutes 59 feconds
31 minutes 27 feconds
13 deg. ID min. 36 fee.
59 minutes 8 feconds
59 minutes 8 feconds
59 minutes 8 feconds
TABLE of the PLANETS' LATITUDE.
North Latitude. South Latitude.
J 36 AN ILLUSTRATION
In the foregoing Table, at the top of the third column note tlie cha-
radcrs of the afpeds, fextile ^, quartile Q, trine A» and oppofition <?
,
as placed over the fgns of the zodiac. In the firll column obferve the
words Uexter and Sinifler, and in the fecond column the fign Aries f
.
Thefe are intended to fhow, that a planet pofited in T would fend his
fextile a(pe6t, dexter to Aquaries and linifter to Gemini ; his quartile,
dexter to Capricorn and (Inifter to Cancer ; his trine, dexter to Sagittary
and finifter to Leo ; and would be in oppofition to a planet pofited in
equal degrees of Libra, The fame rules apply throughout the Table : but
it mull: not be forgotten, that finifter afpefts go in the fame order with the
fio-ns of the zodiac, and dexter contrariwife ; and that the dexter afpefts
are more ftrong and powerful than the finifter. And thus, according to
the operations of the planets and ftars, are the natures of all men, as the
planets have predominancy in them ; and fuch are the natures of all man-
ner of herbs and plants that grow in the field. Some are influenced by
Saturn, and thence are cold and dry : others by Jupiter, and thence are
hot and moift ; one, by an order of Mars, draws nothing but poifon to its
roots ; and another, by the fweet influence of Venus, lucks nothing but
the fvveet lap of the earth into all its fibres. If Saturn or Mars rife with
a birth, it is ten to one but the child dies that year, unlefs Jupiter or
Venus interpofe, by throwing their friendly influences ftrongly into the
fign. And in theie refpe«5ts we have as inconteftible proofs of the truth
of what we advance, as the phyfician has of the nature of herbs when
he taftes them ; he, from the demonftration, declares them to be hot or
cold, and good either to cure or kill ; but we can afcertain this without
tafting them,becaufe we know the fource from whence they derive thefe
oppofite qualities.
It were needlefs for me to dwell longer upon an explanation of the
different virtues and efFefts of the planets and figns. Sufficient has now
been faid to point out their operations and natural influences to the
underftanding of the moft limited capacity. It therefore only remains
for my readers, or luch of tiiem as intend to make any progrefs in the
ftudy, to familiarize themfelves with the fubjedl:, by a frequent perufal
of it ; and particlarly to acquire a corredl knowledge of all the charac-
ters by which the figns, planets, and afpeifls, are generally diftinguifhed.
It will then be proper to underftand the following terms peculiar to this
Art.
EXPLANA-
OF ASTROLOGY. 137
EXPLANATION of the TECHNICAL WORDS and TERMS of
ART ufed in ASTROLOGY.
DIRECTION fignifies a planet moving on its natural courfc, from
weft to eaft, according to the fucceffion ofthe figtis in the zodiac ;
thus, a planet is diretSl, when it moves in confcquentia, from Aries to
Taurus, from Taurus to Gemini, &c. Dire6lion is alfo a calculus^
whereby to find the time of any accident or remarkable event that will
happen to the perfon who propounds a queftion, or has his nativity caft.
For inftance, a perfon enquires how many years he may live, by the
courfe of the planets at the time of birth ? Having cftablifned the Sun,
Moon, or Afcendant, as fignificators of life, and Mars or Saturn as pro-
mittors or portentors of death, the diredion is a calculation of the length
of time which the fignincator will be in meeting the promittor ; and this
refolves the queftion. In thefe calculations the fignificator is fometimes
termed apheta, or giver of life, and the promittor anareta, or giver of
death. The diredtions of all the principal points of the heavens, planets,
and fixed ftars, as the Afcendant, Mid-heaven, Sun, Moon, and Part of
Fortune, arc worked by the fame rule.
Stationary is underftood of a planet, when, to the eye or fenfes of
a beholder here on earth, it appears to ftand ftill, without any progreflivc
motion in its orbit. Not that a planet ever is or can be naturally in this
ftate, but is only rendered fo in appearance, by the inequalities which
arife from the pofitions and motions of the earth ; for, were the planets
to be viewed from the Sun, or centre of the lyftem, they would always
appear uniform and regular.
Retrogr ad ation implies an apparent motion inthe planets, whereby
they feem to go backwards in the ecliptic, and to move in anteceJentia, or
towards the antecedent figns, viz. from eaft to weft, contrary to the order
ofdiredion and to the fucceftion ofthe figns of the zodiac. This alfo is
an appearance produced by an oppofite motion of the earth to that of the
other planets.
Application fignifies the approach of two planets together, eithar
by conjundion or alpe6l, and is of three kinds : the firft is, when a pla-
net, fwift in motion, applies to one of flower progrefs ; for example, fup-
pofe Mercury pofited in fixteen degrees of Gemini, and Mars in twenty-
one degrees of the fame fign, both being direft in motion ; Mercury, by
liaving the greater apparent projedile force, would overtake and form a
No. 7. K k conjun^oa
13S AN ILLUSTRATION
con)un6llon with Mars, which is termed a direfl application. The fc-
coiid kind is formed by two retrograde planets ; as fuppofing Mercury
in fixteen decrrees of Gemini, and Saturn in fifteen degrees of the fame
fio-ii, both retrograde; Mercnry, being the lighter planet, applies to the
body of Saturn, a more ponderous planet, by retrogradation ; and this is
termed a retrograde application. The third kind is occafioned b}'^ one
planet going dire6l in motion, and meeting another planet that is retro-
grade ; for inftance, fuppofe Mercury retrograde in fixteeu degrees of
Gemini, and Saturn dired in twelve degrees of the fame fign ; here
Mercury, being the lighter planet, applies to a conjunftion of Saturn by
a retrograde motion ; and thefe two laft are deemed evil applications. It
muft alio be obferved, that the fuperior planets never apply to the inferior
but by a retrograde motion ; whereas the inferior planets apply both ways.
r
Separation is imderftood of two planets that have been either in
partile conjundion, or afpeft, and are juft departed or feparated from
it. Thus, if we fuppole Saturn in twelve degrees of Sagittary, and Ju-
piter in thirteen degrees of the fame fign, Jupiter will be then feparated
one degree from a perfeft or partile conjundion with Saturn ; but they
would ftill be in a platic conjunftion, becaule they are within the moiety
of each other's radiations, which is four degrees and a half each ; confe-
quently thefe planets would continue in piatic conjundion until they
were feparated nine degrees, and then the afped would entirely ceafe.
The exad knowledge of every degree of the feparations of thefe afpeds '
is of the utmoft confequence in giving judgment upon various impor-
tant occafions. For inftance, fuppofe it were demanded whether a cer-
tain treaty of marriage would take place or not ? When all the afpdds
are collcded upon the horofcope, and the two planets that are fignifica-
tors of the parties are found applying to each other in a coiijunflion,
and in common or fixed figns, the marriage may pi-obably take place in
fome length of time. If the fignificators are pofited in moveable fignS>
angular, and approaching fwift in motion to a conjundion, it may then
be confummated in a very (hort time ; but, if the fignificators are fepara-
ted from a conjunftion only a few minutes of a degree, one may fafely
conclude that there has been great probability, only a few days before,
that the wedding would have taken place ; but by this afpeft the parties
appear to be hanging in fpipenfe, and fome diflike or change of fenti-
ment feems to have taken place ; and, as the fignificators gradually iepa-
rate from the partile and piatic conjundions, in the fame gradation will
the treaty and afFeftions of the parties alienate and wear away ; and, by
the comparative time that the afped will occupy before it entirely ceafes,
fo will the time be io many weeks, months, or years, before the parties
ihali wholly relinquish the connection.
PROHIBITIOW
OF ASTROLOGY. 139
Prohibition Indicates the ftate of two planets that are fignificators
of fome event, or the bringing of fome bufinefs to an iflue or conclufion,
and are appl^'ing to each other bj conjundion; but before fuch conjunc-
tion can be formed, a third planet, by means of a fvvifter motion, inter-
pofes his body, and deftroys the expe6ted conjundion, by forming an
afped himfelf ; and this indicates that the matter under contemplation
will be greatly retarded, or utterly prevented. For example, fuppofe
Mars was pofited in feven degrees of Aries, Saturn in twelve deo-rees,
and the Sun in fix degrees, of the fame fign ; Mars is the fignificator of
the bulinels in hand, and promifes the iffue or completion of it fo foon
as he comes to a conjun6liou with Saturn ; but the Sun, being fwifter in
motion than Mars, paffes him, and prevents their conjunftion, by formino-
the afpe6t himfelf. This indicates, that whatever was expedled from the
approaching conjunftion of Mars and Saturn is now prohibited by the
Sun's iir ft impediting Mars and then Saturn; and this is termed a con-
jun£iional or bodily prohibition. There is alfo a prohibition by afped^,
either Textile, quartile, triiie, or oppofition ; and this happens when two
planets are going into conjun6tion. Suppofe Mars to be in feven degrees
of Aries, Saturn in thirteen degrees of the fame fign, and the Sun in five
degrees of Gemini ; the Sun, being fwifter than Mars in his diurnal mo-
tion, will quickly overtake him, and pafs by the fextile dexter of Mars,
and form a fextile dexter with Satnrn, before Mars can reach him ; by
this means their conjunftion is prohibited.
Frustration imports a fwift or light planet approaching to an
afpeft with one more flow and ponderous ; but, before they can approach
near enough to form that afpe(51, the weighty planet is joined to fome
other, by which the firfl: afpeft is fruft rated. To inftance this, fuppofe
Saturn pofited in fixteen degrees of Gemini, Jupiter in fifteen degrees of
Leo, and Mars in eleven degrees of the fame fign ; here Mars applies to
a conjun6lion with Jupiter, but, before he can reach it, Jupiter meets a
fextile afpecl from Saturn, which fruftrates the conjundion of Mars, and,
iu praftice, utterly deftroys whatever was promifed by it.
Refranation is the ftate of a planet in dire6l motion, applying to
an afpeft or conjunftion with another planet, but before they can meet
becomes retrograde, and thus refrains to foim the afpecl expe61ed. Sup-
pofe Jupiter in the twelfth degree of Gemini and Mars in the eighth ;
here Mars, the fwifter planet, promifes very foon to overtake Jupiter,
and form a conjun6tion with him ; but juft at the inftant falls retro-
grade, and refrains from the conjundlion, by taking an oppofite courfe
from Jupiter.
Translation
,4o AN ILLUSTRATION
Translation of Light and Nature. This happens when a light
planet fcparates from a heavy one, and joins with another more ponderous
:
and is efteCled in this manner: Let Saturn be placed in twenty degrees of
Aries, Jupiter in thirteen degrees, and Mars in fourteen degrees, of
the fame fign; here Mars I'eparates from a conjundlion with Jupiter, and
tranflates the light and nature of that planet to Saturn, to whom he next
apphcs. The eS'cti of this in practice will be, that, if a matter or thing be
promifed by Saturn, then whoever was reprclented by Mars fliall pro-
cure all the afliltance that the benevolent planet Jupiter could beftow,
and tranflate it to Saturn, whereby the bufinefs in hand would be the bet-
ter etf'edled and more happily concluded ; and this, being a very fortu-
nate pofition of the planets, is very proper to be known, lince it promifes
much in law-fuits, marriages, and all other queftions of the kind.
Reception is when two planets, that are fignificators in any queftioH
or nativity, are pofited in each other's dignity, as the Sun in Aries, and
Mars in Leo, which is a reception by houfes, and is deemed the moft
powerful and efficacious of all receptions. But reception may be by ex-
change of triplicily, term, or phafe, or by any efTential dignity; as Venus
in Aries, and the Sun in Taurus, is a reception by triplicity, if the quef-
tion or nativity happen by day. Or if Venus be in the twenty-fourth
degree of Aries, and Mars in the fixteenth degree of Gemini, it is a re-
ception of terms. The ufc of thefe pofitions in pra6tice is confiderable
;
for, fuppofe the event of any queftion required be denied by the afpefts ;
or the fignificators are in no afpeiSt with each other ; or it is doubtful
what may happen from a quartile or oppofition of the fignificators ; yet,
if the principal fignificators are found in mutual reception, the thing
defired will Ihortly come to pafs, and probably to the fatisfacfion and con-
tent of all the parties concerned.
Peregrination defcribes a planet to be fituated in a fign, or in
fuch certain degrees of a fign, where it has no efTential dignity, either
by houfe, exaltation, triplicity, term, or phafe : as Saturn in the tenth
degree of Aries, is peregrine ; and the Sun in any part of Cancer, is pe-
regrine, having no dignity whatever in that iign. In all queflions of
theft, it is very material to know the peregrine planet ; for it has been uni-
formly found, by aJmofl every regular profefTor of this art, that the thief
may be almofl conflantly difcovered by the peregrine planet pofited in an
angle, or in the fecond houfe.
Combustion is the flate of a planet, when fituated within eight de-
grees thirty minutes of the body of the Sun, either before or after him.
Suppofe Mercury in the twenty-firfl degree, the Sun ia the twenty-fifth
degree
OF ASTROLOGY. 141
degree, and Venus in the twenty-feventh degree of Aquaries ; here
Mercury and Venus would be both combuft ; but Venus would be more
affefted by it than Mercury, becaufe the Sun applies to, or moves to-
wards, Venus, and recedes frono Mercury, whereby his rays affli(5l her
more forcibly on his nearer approach, and become weaker upon Mercury
by his recefs from him.
Cazimi reprefents a planet in the heart of the Sun ; that is, if a planet
be only feventeen minutes before or after the Sun; as, if the Sun were in
fifteen degrees thirty minutes of Taurus, and Mercury in fifteen degrees
twenty minutes of the fame fign. Mercury would dien be in cazimi, or
in the heart of the Sun. All authors agree that a planet in cazimi is
fortified thereby, and is of greater efficacy ; whereas a planet in combuf-
tion is of a malignant nature. If the fignificator o- a querent, or perfon
propounding a queftion, be combuft, it fhows him or her to be under
fearful apprehenfions, and threatened to be over-powered, or greatly in-
jured, by fome fuperior perfon. It Ihould be carefully obferved, that all
planets may be in combuftion with the Sun, but the Sun cannot be in
combuftion with any planet ; and that combuflion can only be by perfonal
conjunftion in one fign, and not by any afpe6t, either fextile, quartile,
trine, or oppofition; the Sun's quartile or oppofite afpe6ts are afflifting,
but they do not combure, or render the planet combuft. A planet is al-
ways confidered under the fua-beams, until he is elongated fev.enteen de-
grees before or after his body.
Void of Course, is when a planet is feparated from another planet,
and does not, during its continuance in that fign, form an afpeft with any
other. This moft ufually happens with the Moon ; and in practice, it is
obferved that, if the fignificator of the thing propounded be void of
courfe, the bufinefs under contemplation will not fucceed, nor be attended
with any fatisfadtory or pleafing confequences.
Besieging, fignifies a planet fituated betwixt the two malevolent pla-
nets Saturn and Mars; for inftance, if Saturn were placed in the twelfth
degree of Aries, Mars in the fixteenth, and Jupiter in the fourteenth de-
.gree, Jupiter would then be befieged by Saturn and Mars.
Increasing in Light, is when a planet isfeparating from the Sun,
or the Sun from a planet ; thus the Moon, at her greateft diftance from
the Sun, appears with the greateft degree of light, having her whole orb
illumined.
No. 8. L
1
Oriental
14.2
'
AN ILLUSTRATION
Oriental and Occidental. A planet, when oriental, rifes before
the Sun ; and, when occidental, fets after him, and is leen above the
horizon after the Sun is down ; confequently, when a planet is oriental
it is pofited in the eaft, and when occidental in the weft.
Supj;riors and Inferiors. Herfchel, Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars,
are diftinguiftied by the name of the fuperior, ponderous, and more-
weighty, planets; and Venus, Mercury, and the Moon, are called the in-
ferior planets. A fuperior always governs or over-rules an inferior; this
is an obfervation that holds good throughout the whole fyftem of nature.
Swift of course, is when a planet moves farther than his mean
motion in twenty-four hours; and he is jloiv of courfe, when he moves
lefs than his mean motion in the fame portion of time.
Almution, (Ignifies a planet that bears principal rule in a fign or
figure; which planet muft confequently have the moft elTential dignities.
Hayz, implies a mafculine diurnal planet to be (Ituated above the
horizon in the day-time, or a feminine no6turnal planet pofited below the
horizon in the night-time; which is an accidental fortitude the planets
delight in, and give favourable omens in all figures wherever they are
found.
Longitude and Latitude. The longitude of any ftar or planet,
is the degree of the ecliptic or zodiac in which they are found, numbered
from the firft point of the fign Aries.—The latitude of a ftar, or a planet,
is its diftance north or fouth from the fun's path, or ecliptic line, num-
bered by the degrees of the meridian.
Declination, is the diftance a planet fwerves either north or fouth,
from the equator or equinoflial line, in his circuit through the twelve
figns of the zodiac.
KiGHT Ascension, is the number of degrees and minutes of the
equinodtial line, reckoned from the beginning of Aries; that comes to
the meridian with the fun, moon, ftar, or planet, or any portion of the
ecliptic.
^
Oblique Ascension, is the degree and minute of the equinoftial
line, that comes to, or rifes with, the degree of longitude of any ftar or
planet in the horizon ; or it is the degree of the equinodial line that
comes to the horizon with any ftar or planet in an oblique fphere.
Oblique
OF ASTROLOGY. 143
Oblique Descension, is the degree of the equinodial line that fets
in the horizon, with the degree of longitude of any ftar or planet in an
oblique fphere ; nnakingan oblique angle with the horizon.
AsCENTioNAL DIFFERENCE, is the diftinftion between the right and
oblique afcenfion of any planet or ftar, reckoned in the equator.
Pole of Position, fignifies the elevation of the poles of the world
above the circle of pofitiou of any flar or planet.
Circles of Position, are circles paffing through the common inter-
fe6lions of the horizon and meridian, and through any degree of the
ecliptic, or the centre of any ftar, or other point in the heavens ; and are
ufed for finding the fituation or pofition of any flar or planet.
Horoscope, is a figure or fcheme of the twelve houfes of heaven,
wherein the planets and pofitions of the heavens are coUefted for any
given time, either for the purpofe of calculating nativities, or anfwering
horary queftions. It alfo fignifies the degree or point of the heavens ris-
ing above the eaftern point of the horizon, at any given time when a pre-
diftion is to be made of any future event; but this is now mofb commonly
diflinguiflied by the name of the afcendant.
Colours. The colours given by, or peculiar to, each of the planets
and figns, are of great importance in the determination of all queftions
where the complexion of a perfon, or the colour of a thing, is neceffary
to be known. The reader mufl therefore be careful to remember, that, of
the planets, Saturn gives a black colour ; Jupiter, red mixed with green ;
Mars, a red fiery colour ; the Moon, all white-fpottcd or light-mixed
colours ; Venus, white and purple colours ; Mercury, light blue or
azure colour; the Sun, all yellow colours, or inclined to purple. Of the
twelve figm, Aries gives a white mixed with red ; Cancer, green
or rulTet ; Leo, red or green; Virgo, black fpeckled with blue; Libra,
black or dark crimfon, or fwarthy colour ; Scorpio, dark brown ; Sa-
gittary, yellow, or a green fanguine colour; Capricorn, black or ruf-
fet ; Aquaries, light-blue or iky-colour; Pifces, a glirtening light co-
lour. Thus, by knowing the colour or complexion attributed to each
of the planets and figns, it is eafy to determine the complexion of the na-
tive, or of any perfon or thing enquired after; for, as the complexion
or colour of the lord of the afcendant, or fign, or the fignificators, are,
that reprefent the party, fuch will be their colour and complexion. So if
it be alked concerning two cocks juft going to pit, which fhall be the
winner?
,44 AN ILLUSTRATION
winner ? Ered the figure, and the two planets reprefeiiting the diftin-
guiftiino- colours of the two cocks (hall be their fignificators ; and that
planet which is the fuperior, or that has moft elTential dignities, and is
moft ftrono-Iy fortified, fhall by his colour point out the cock that (hall
win bis battle. So of any other queftion determinable by colours.
And fince this art cannot be underftood, nor the work read with any
pleafure or improven:ient, without a perfe6t and familiar knowledge of all
the Charaders peculiar to the Signs, Planets, Sec. I (hall infert them
in this place together, that they may be at any time referred to with eale,
recommendino- at the fame time to all my readers, not to proceed any far-
ther, till they have learned them by heart.
CHARACTERS of the TWELVE SIGNS of the ZODIAC,
Dragon's Head, DRAGCi.' s Tail, and Part of Fortune.
Aries - -
Taurus - -
Gemini - -
Cancer
Leo -
Virgo
Libra
T
a
n
SI
Scorpio -
Sagittary
Capricorn -
Aquaries
Pifces - -r
Dragon's Head
Dragon's Tail
SI
IS
The Part of Fortune, ©.
CHARACTERS of the PLANETS.
Herfchel
Saturn
Jupiter
Mars
b
6
Moon
Venus -
Mercury
The Sun
9
CHARACTERS
Scxtile
Quartile
diftingui(hing the feveral
the PLANETS.
ASPECTS of
- - >|c I Trine - - - A
- -
D I
Oppofition - - g
And the Conjundtion, (5.
EXPLANATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 145
EXPLANATION of the TWELVE HOUSES of HEAVEN, with
DIRECTIONS for ereding the HOROSCOPE.
TITAVING fliown what the eflential qualities are, which the planets
---- and heavenly matter derive from an inherent principle of nature;
it follows that I fhould explain the accidental qualities they receive by
their different pofitions in the twelve houfes of heaven : for as the hea-
vens are perpetually in motion, either afcending or defcending; and fince
it is beyond the reach of human penetration to define what ftar or planet
fhall afcend at the nativity of children yet unborn ; fo, in reference to hu-
man ideas, it is purely accidental what dignities the planets (hall acquire,
or what houfes they fhall be pofited in, at the time of birth.
That the reader may form a competent idea of what is meant by the
Twelve Houfes of Heaven, let us fuppofe the whole celeftial globe, or
fphere of heaven, divided into four equal parts, by the horizon and me-
ridional line, and each of thefe into four quadrants, and each quadrant
into three equal parts, by lines drawn from points of fedion in different
parts of the horizon and meridian, equi-diftant from each other. By this
operation, the whole globe or fphere will be apportioned into twelve equal
parts, which conftitute what we call, the twelve houfes of heaven. And
thefe houfes, as cbfervation and experience abundantly fhow, make up
the great wheel of nature, whereon depends the various fortunes contin-
gent to all fublunary matters and things.
In this divifion of the heavens, the firft quadrant is defcribed by a pa-
rallel line drawn from the point of the eafl angle to the fouth, or mid-
heaven; and contains the twelfth, eleventh, and tenth, houfes, called the
oriental, vernal, mafculine, fanguine, infant, quarter. The fecond qua-
drant if defcribed by a fimilar line running from the exterior point of the
mid-heaven to the point of the weflern angle ; and contains the ninth,
eighth, and feventh, houfes, called the meridian, eftival, feminine,
youthful, choleric, quarter. The third quadrant is formed by a parallel
line running from the extreme point of the eighth houfe to the north
angle ; and contains the lixth, fifth, and fourth, houfes, called the occi-
dental, autumnal, mafculine, melancholic, manly, cold and dry, quar-
ter. •
The fourth quadrant is defcribed by a line drawn from the extreme
point of the north angle to the extremity of the line which defcribes
the firft quadrant, both meeting in the eafh angle of the heavens ; and con-
tains the third, fecond, and firfl, houfes, called the northern, winterly,
feminine, phlegmatic, quarter, the feat of old age, decrepidnefs, and
decay. The lines thus drawn defcribe the following figure, or horo-
fcope, into which the figns and planets are feverally introduced, and re-
No. 8. Mm' prefented
l^J AN ILLUSTRATION
prefented as in their true places in the heavens, before any queftion can be
folved or nativity calculated. The fpace in the centre, were the figure
drawn circular, might reprefent the vacuum in which the earth moves ;
but it is generally ufed to write down the day, year, and hour of the day,
when the figure was ere6led, with the purpofe of it, whether for a nati-
vity, or queflion refolved.
FIGURE of the HOROSCOPE, or Twelve Houses of Heaven.
Thefe twelve houfes are each diftinguiflied by their rcfpedive figures;
and are either angular, fuccedent, or cadent. The angular houfes arc
four, called the afcendant, mid-heaven, or medium cceli, the feveuth
houfe, and the bottom of the heaven ; thefe are deemed the mod power-
ful and moft fortunate houfes. The fucceeding houfes are the eleventh,
fecond, eighth, and fifth ; and are ranked next in force and virtue to
the angles. The third clafs, or cadent houfes, are the third, twelfth,
ninth, and fixth ; and are confidered of the leaft efficacy of them all. But
notwithftanding they are divided into only three claffes, or orders,
whereby their force and efficacy are eftimated, yet is there a regular gra-
dation
OF ASTROLOGY. 147
dation in this refpe6l running through the whole, whereby one houfe is
fubordinate to the other, from the firft to laft. Confidered in this order,
they {land thus ;
I 10 7 4 II 5 9 3 2 8 6 12
According to this rule, if we find two planets equally ftrong, and
of the fame dignities, one pofited in the firft houfe, and the other in the
tenth, we judge the planet, in the firft houfe, or afcendant, to have fupe-
riority over the planet in the tenth houfe ; and in pra6lice we infer from
fuch a pofition, that the perfon whofe fignificator was in the firft houfe
would get the better of his opponent whofe fignificator was in the tenth
houfe ; but, both being fo nearly equal in point of dignity, great ftrug-
gles and difficulties would intervene, as the nature of the cafe in point
may happen to be. This rule holds good from the tenth houfe to the
feventh; the feventh to the fourth, and fo on through the whole; but it
{hould always be remembered, that planets in angles, that is, thofe
which are feated in the angular houfes, are the moft forcible and potent
in their operation.
The firft houfe, which is denoted by the figure i, is called the afcen-
dant, becaufe, the point of its angle being level with the horizon, what-
ever planet afcends from under the earth, muft afcend upon this line, and
become vifible firft in this houfe. The line upon which the planets
afcend, or move, is called the cufp of the houfes; and that of the afcen-
dant is generally reckoned to extend about five degrees above the earth,
and twenty-five degrees beneath, ready to afcend. But, if figns of long
afcenfions afcend, then half five degrees above the earth, and thirteen be-
low, are its utmoft limits. If figns of fliort afcenfions afcend, then five
degrees above the horizon, and fifty degrees below, are ufually allowed.
Now the quality of whatfoever part of the heavens occupies or fills up the de-
grees of this houfe, carries along with it the health, life, and nature, ofevery
infant or thing that is conceived or brought forth within its jurifdi6lion.
And hence hath this point of the heavens a faculty of attrading or receiv-
ing the virtues of theceleftial matter that is accidentally afcending in that
part of heaven at the birth ; and alfo of the planets and fixed ftars in their
tranfits: and all the rays of the planets, in their afpeds and conjundions,
are attrafted into this part of heaven, in order to the formation of the
fhape, ftature, temperature of the body, quality of the mind, and all ac-
cidents and contingencies which (hall befall the native's body, or health,
or life, unto his dying day; fuch a fympathy is there between this part
of the heavenly frame and of every a6t and thing that is produced, or
that receives life, under it. For, as the feed in the ground, after it has
taken root, buds forth, and appears above ground, fo the heavenly in-
telligencers,.
r48 AN ILLUSTRATION
tellio-encers, after they have framed the embryo, and the temperament
thereof, under the earth, give it life and being of its own, putting forth
level with them juft as they afcend. We do not however fuppofe, that
the temnerature and qualities of the native were wholly framed at theexa6l
time of birth, although the fituation of the heavens at that time never
fails exadllv to defcribe them. We have every reafon to believe, that the
temperature and qualities of the body, and the difpofition of the mind,
are formed in regular gradations from the conception to the time of birth;
but that the birth defcribes them, is indifputably clear, becaufe it cannot
happen at any moment of time, in any part of the world, but it muft fall
even with that part of the heavenly matter afcending from the lower unlo
the upper horizon, which is interefted in, and therefore points out, ihofe
temperatures and qualities. For any man to be fatisfied in this point, let
him but note what the nature of this afcending point of heaven is, with
all the ftars and planets pofited therein, or having afpefl with them from
other houfes, giving each of them their due weight and influence, accor-
din^T to their nature and dignity, neither ftrained one way nor the other;
and, juil: as thefe are found at the time of birth, juft fo fhall be found the
qualities and endowments of that native, with the principal adlions and
events of his life, which this point afcending takes the charge of. And
in this trial will the reader find more fubftantial proofs of the truth and ex-
iftence of Aftrology, than the moft acute arguments can inftil into his mind.
Now, fince the firft houfe, or afcendant, gives birth and life to the na-
tive, it follov/s that thole houfes, which are the attendants on, and uphold-
ers of, life, fhould be joined with it; and, as children, or the native's ofF-
fpring, are the upholders of life in this world, and religion and learning
the grand means of upholding it unto eternity in the other world, fo the
houfes which contribute theie bleffings to the life already given are joined
in an harmonious trine with the firft houfe, making up that three-fold
cord, which, as Solomon faith, can never he broken. The one is a fucce-
dent houfe, called the fifth houfe, and the other a cadent houfe, called the
ninth houfe; and, to be convinced of the effedts of this fifth houfe, note
the heavenly matter, planets, ftars, and afpeds, therein pofited at the time
of birth, according to the rules here laid down, and they fhall truly repre-
fent the number and flate of the native's offspring, and all other particu-
lars relative to children, and to breedine or barren women. So alfoexa-
mine the ftate of the eleventh houfe; and, as that reprefents, fo (hall the
native be in refpeft of religion and fcience ; for the heavenly matter, pla-
nets, ftars, and afpefts, therein, (hall (how what and how the man (hall
prove, whether wife or foolifh, devout or fcliifmatical, and what ftudy or
occupation he fhall be inclined to follow. Thefe furni(h matter for grace
to work upon; but, as for grace itfelf, nature can have no power over it;
grace may rule nature, but nature cannot fway grace. The
OF ASTROLOGY. 149
The fecond angular point of the houfes of heaven, is called the mid-
heaven, which is that point which culminates, being the very top or
higheft point of the heavenly frame. And whatever part of the heavens
happens to be culminating in this point at the birth of any perfon or
thing, that takes charge of, and carries along with it ever after, the pre-
ferment, honour, profeflion, fituation, and authority, of the native; and
as the nature of the planets, ftars, afpe€ts, and heavenly matter, happens
to be, that are fituated in this point, or in the degrees pertainino- to it,
fo fhall the native prove in his life-time, in point of dignity, advancement
and reputation, in this world, whether high or low, fortunate or unfortu-
nate, favoured or difgraced. The attendants upon, and upholders of,
man's honour and dignity, as the Scriptures and every day's experience
perpetually (how us, are wealth and fervants. The firft of thefe is at-
tached to the mid-heaven in a fuccedcnt houfe, called the fecond houfe of
heaven; and the other in a cadent houfe, called the lixth houfe of heaven;
and thefe two are fituated in an harmonious trine with the angular point of
the mid-heaven. And now well obferve what the planets, ftars, afpecls,
and heavenly matter, are in either of thefe houfes at the time of birth;
and fuch (hall the native's fortune prove in point of riches and fubordi-
nate dependants; in the firft of thefe houfes for wealth, and in the other
for fervants or dependants.
The third angle of the figure of heaven is the feventh houfe, or point
of the heavens and degrees contingent, which are always defcending, or
fetling out of our horizon, and finking under the earth; and this point
is diredly oppofjte to the eaflern angle, or afcendant. Now, as the rifing
heaven or afcendant is the beginning and conduit of life, fo this fet-
ting heaven, level with the afcendant, is the bringing all mundane
affairs level with life, fuch as our entrance into the flate of marriao-e
;
our contrads and enterprifes in bufinefs, war, and travel; and our con-
nexions and fuccefs therein, whether with friends, Grangers, or enemies;
and thefe whether honefl men, parafites, or thieves. And the heavenly
matter, planets, flars, and afpeds, fituated in this angle at a nativity, appa-
rently fhow how a man fhall fare in refpeft to wives, more or lefs, any or
none, good or bad ; and in matters of bufinefs or adventure, how fortu-
nate or unfortunate he may be likely to prove; and with enemies or
thieves, how far he is likely to be injured by them. NecefTary upholders
of marriage, fupporters in trade and travel, and defenders againft thieves,
plunderers, and enemies, are friends, relations, and neighbours. And
thefe, in a trine to the feventh houfe, are brought forth, the firft out of
the eleventh houfe of heaven, a fuccedent houfe, and the other out of the
third houfe of heaven, a cadent houfe. This eleventh houfe, by the pla-
No. 8. N n nets.
nets, ftais, afpefls, and heavenly matter, therein, point out the ftate of a
man's friends and hopes in this life ; and the third houfe defcribes, by the
fame means, how happy or unhappy a man (hall prove in his relations,
connexions, and neighbours.
The lafl: angle of heaven is the fourth houfe, called the bottom oj
heavertf and reprefents that point which in our conception feems to hang
at the very bottom of the round ball of the celeftial world, being diame-
trically oppofite to the exterior, or mid-heaven. And, as that fhows what
a man in the courfe of nature fhall rife to in the world; this, on the con-
trary, declares what and when fhall be his fall, decay, and death. This
houfe has therefore fignification of the end of every worldly concern,
and, amongft other ends, of the grave, which is the end of all men liv-
ino-, however dignified or great. And the planets, liars, and afpefts, po-
fited in this houfe at the time of birth, never fail to (how what kind of
end the native is likely to find ; for, as the twelve figns have each their par-
ticular and vifible efi^efts upon and over every part of man's body, and as
the planets and their afpeds fhow in what fign the native fhall be impe-
dited, that is, in what part of the body the root of his natural infirmity
fhall be placed ; and what accidents fhall befal him during his life; fo is
it an eafy procefs to point out the manner of his death, and whether na-
tural, honourable, or ignominious. The upholders of this angle arc the
houfes of tribulation and death; the one a fuccedent houfe, called the
eio-hth houfe, or houfe of death ; and the other a cadent houfe, called the
twelfth houfe. And now let it be carefully obferved what planets, {tars,
alpe6ts, and heavenly matter, occupy thefe houfes at the time of nativity;
and they fhall point out, in the twelfth houfe, all the principal misfor-
tunes, affliftions, and tribulations, of the native's life, and in the eighth
houfe the time and manner of his death.
Independent of the faculties hitherto fpecified, each of thefe houfes of
heaven has other fignifications and effects, which they demonflrate in
various other ways. For inftance, the afcendant reprefents the native
coming into the world, and the fourth houfe at the fame time repre-
fents the parents of the native going out ; for one generation pajfeth away,
and another generation coxneth, according to the courfe of nature. (See
Ecclef. i. 4.) Of thefe parents, the father is more efpecially fignified by
the fourth houfe; and then, fecondarily, but not fo forcibly, the mother
of the native is fignified by the tenth houfe, and the grandfather by the
feventh ; and uncles, aunts, and relations, on the father's fide, by the
fixth; and uncles, aunts, and relations, on the mother's fide, by the
twelfth. Hence alfo it comes to p.afs, that by the fourth houfe are figni-
fied
OF ASTROLOGY. 151
fied houfes and lands, and all degrees of patrimony left by the father;
and by the eighth houfe are (hown all goods and legacies left by will of
the deceafed. The fecond and (ixth houfes in half-trine to the houfe of
the grave, and in oppolition to the eighth and twelfth, have a fecondary
fignification of ficknefs and death.
Such are the qualities and operations of the twelve houfes of heaven,
in the common courfe of nature ; but thefe qualities are fometimes ma-
terially altered, and changed for the better or worfe, by means either of
the moon, or fome other of the celeftial motions or affecflions. It is cer-
tain that the Moon circleth the Earth once in every twenty-eight days; but
in this perambulation (he neither keeps the Sun's pathway in the ecliptic,
nor continues her courfe conflantly on the fame fide of it; but once in
every fourteen days (he erodes the ecliptic, alternately to her north and
fouth declination; and it is found by long and corredt obfervation, that
the point in the heavens where (he crofTes this line is very ftrongly af-
fedied by her motion. The Moon is the great body of life and growth
;
and, when (he pa(res the ecliptic to the north, which brings her nearer
into this northern world, (he then gives an extraordinary degree of fruit-
fulnefs, which wonderfully (Irengthens with its influence whatfoever
happens within the line of its jurifdidtion. And this point, wherever it
falls, is called the Moon's north node, but is difl:ingui(hed in aftrological
works by the name of the Dragon's Head, as already explained in page
115. If this point happens to afcend in a nativity, it (Irengthens life with
a robuft and lively confiitution. If it falls in the mid-heaven, it promifes
great honour and preferment; if in the eleventh houfe, profperity and
riches. If Jupiter or Venus happen to be in thefe degrees, it makes them
much (Wronger and more eiHcacious in their benevolent operations; but, if
Saturn or Mars be pofited there, it gives them, on the contrary, a (Ironger
inclination to prove mifchievous and unfortunate. When the Moon in-
terfe6ls the ecliptic line to her fouthern declination, (he leaves that point
of the heavens where (he croiTes it, which is termed the Dragon's Tail,
as barren to all intents and purpofes as the other was fruitful. Hence
this point, afcending at a nativity, blcmifhes life, and leaves a (lain upon
it; impairs honour and advancement in the mid-heaven, and waftes riches
and brings adver(ity in the eleventh houfe ; and it weakens as well the
benevolent aufpices of Jupiter and Venus as the evil inclinations of Sa-
turn and Mars. How thefe circumftances operate beyond the equinoc-
tial, experience is yet filent; but it feems reafonable to fuppofe that the
Dragon's Tail is there the fruitful point, and the Head the barren point,
fince, when the Moon is going off from us, her influences muft be coming
pn with them.
Next
,^a AN ILLUSTRATION
Next to the nodes, the Part of Fortune has its operations upon thefe
twelve celeftial houfes. The point which we term the Part of Fortune,
is the diftance of the Moon's place from the Sun's, added to the degrees
of the afcendant; and the nature of it is, as conftant obfervation afcer-
tains, that, if this point falls among fortunate ftars, or in a fortunate part
of the heavens, then it promifes great fuccefs in health or wealth, honour
or offspring, or any other Ipecies of profperity, according as it is feated
either in the firft, eleventh, or fifth, houfes, or in any others. The reafon
of this appears to be, that the Sun, Moon, and Afcendant, being the prime
conduits through which the ftream of life flows, this feat of the Part of
Fortune is the harmony of all three concentering and uniting in the fame
ads of benevolence.
Now befides thefe, there are yet other qualities accidentally afFeded,
which concern either particular perfons or times. Thus the places of
Saturn or Mars, or the Tail of the Dragon, in the vernal figure, are un-
fortunate in the higheft degree, for the whole of that year; or, if they
happen in any of the quarter-figures, they portend afflidion and misfor-
tune for that quarter. But the places of Jupiter and Venus in a vernal
figure are as fortunate as the others are unfortunate for the fame time.
The places of an eclipfe of the Sun or Moon, and of the comets, are alfo
fortunate oi unfortunate, as their fituation may be, or as perfons, coun-
tries, or ftates, may be concerned in them. The place of Saturn or Mars
in a man's nativity, proves unfortunate to him all the days of his life ; and
the place of either of them in a revolutional figure is equally bad for that
year. But the place of Jupiter or Venus in a nativity, or in a revolutional
figure, is always fortunate, either for a man's life-time, or for the year,
as the other is unfortunate. Alfo the places of the twelfth houfe, or eighth,
or fixth, as they were in the native's fcheme, have always bad fignifications
unto a man, whenfoever they come up upon any of his concerns. And
the places of the tenth houfe, of the eleventh, of the afcendant, and of
the fecond houfe, generally promife as much good as the other houfes do
evil upon all the common occafions of life.
Thus far we have feen the operations of the twelve houfes of heaven,
as they appertain to the time and circumflances of a Nativity. We fhall
now explain their properties in that fyftem of nature, upon which the
do£lrine of Horary Queftions is grounded. And fuch has been the induf-
try and indefatigable labour of our forefathers, in bringing this fcience to
maturity, and in dilcovering and diftingui(hing the particular fignifications
and efFefls of all pofitions of the planets in thefe twelve houfes of heaven,
that whoever takes the pains to inform himfelf fufficiently of them, will
not
OF ASTROLOGY. 1^3
not be in want of competent grounds, whereon to judge, or give rational
anfwers to every interrogation or queftion on the common occurrences of
life, or any contingent accidents or undertakings, with the confequences
and fuccefs of them.
The firft houfe bears fignification of the life of man, and of the Ma-
ture, colour, complexion, form, and fhape, of him who propounds aquef-
tion; and, as all the viciflitudes of nature depend upon the periods of
man's life, fo all queftions are refolved by this houfe that relate to fick-
nefs, health, or long life ; and alfo all accidents by which life may be en-
dangered or impaired ; what part of one's days will be the moil- happy
and profperous; whether any abfent friend or relation be living or dead ;
or whether any journey, voyage, or ftiipat fea, will be attended with fuc-
cefs and fafety, or whether meet with any accident fatal to life, or de-
ftruftive to the fhlp. In fhort, all queftions, relating to circumftances
that affedt life, are to be anfwered from the firft houfe. In ftate-aftrolocpy,
and in eclipfes, great conjundions, appearances of comets, and other lu-
minous and extraordinary phenomena in the heavens, and upon the Sun's
annual ingrefs into the equinodlial fign Aries; the firfl: houfe bears fio-ni-
fication of the community at large, or of that ftate, empire, or kingdom
where the figure is erected. Of colours, the firft houfe gives a white;
from which it is to be underflood, that, if a planet be pofited in this houfe,
which governs a light colour, and a queftion be propounded from any party
relative to a perfon, matter, or thing, where colours are concerned, and
this planet be the fignificator thereof, then the perfon's complexion and
drefs, or, if cattle, then their colour, fhall be of a white, pale, or lio-htifh,
kind; and, though this may appear ridiculous and infignificant to the un-
derftanding of lome readers, yet the faft ftands unfhaken in praftice.
Now, as every one of the twelve houfes of heaven have their fio-nifi-
cators, fo have they alfo their conjignificators, which have frequent
operation, and therefore ought to be confidered. A confignificator is a
planet either fallen into conjundtion, or joined in afpedf, with the princi-
pal fignificator; in which cafes, the planet either aflifls or oppofes in the
matter under confideration. If it be joined with a benevolent planet, it
imports good ; but, if it happens to the contrary, it either denotes deftruc-
tion to the fubje6t of enquiry, or great difturbance in the effefling of it.
The confignificators of the firft houfe are Saturn and Aries; and, if Sa-
turn is moderately well dignified in this houfe, and in any benevolent
afpeft with Jupiter, Venus, or the Sun or Moon, it promifes a good
fober conflitution of body, and generally gives long life. \i Mercury is
lord of this houfe, and well dignified, the perfon Ihall be a powerful and
good fpeaker.
No. 8. O o From
1^4 AN ILLUSTRATION
From the fecond houfe we form a judgment upon all queftions relating
to wealth or poverty, profperity or adverfity, and lofs or gain in any un-
dertaking that may be propounded by the querent; and alfo concerning
moveable goods, and money lent or employed in fpeculation. In fuits of
law or equity, it fhows a man's friends or affiftants; in private duels, it
defcribes the querent's fecond ; in eclipfes, it fhows the growing profpe-
rity or adverfity of a ftate or people; and, at the Sun's entrance into Aries,
it exprefles the ftrength of the empire where the figure is ere6led, in its
internal refources, in its allies, and in all other requifites of war, or ielf-
defence. It gives a green colour, of which a fimilar ufe is to be made
as is defcribed in the firft houfe; and the fame obfervation will hold
good in all other houfes, in any queftion that relates to colours. The
confignificators to the fecond houfe are Jupiter and Taurus; for, if Jupiter
be placed in this houfe, or is lord thereof in full dignity, it implies the
acquifition of an eftate or fortune; but the Sun and Mars never promife
good in this 'houfe ; either of them indicate difperfion of fubftance, ac-
cording to the capacity and quality of him who propofes the queflion.
The third houfe having fignification of brethren, fifters, kindred, and
neighbours; and of all inland journeys, and of removing one's manu-
fafture or bufinefs from one place to another; fo all queftions that arc
founded upon any fubjefl: relative thereto are anfwered from the pla-
nets fituated in this houfe. Its confignificators are Mars and Gemini,
which is one reafon why Mars, unlefs joined with Saturn, is not found
jTo generally unbenevolent in this houle as in the others. If the Moon
be pofited here, it is always an argument to the querift of much refl-
lefTnefs, travelling, and change of fituation. This is a fuccedent houfe;
and gives a yellow, red, or forrel, colour.
From the fourth houfe, we refolve all quefliions in any way relating to
or concerning the father of the querift. Alfo all enquiries relating to
lands, houfes, or eftates; or to towns, cities, caftle?, or entrenchments,
befieged ; of treafures hidden in the ground, and all other queftions re-
lating to the earth; are anfwered out of this houfe, which is called the
mum cceli, bottom of heaven, or dark angle of the earth. Its configni-
ficators are the Sun and Cancer ; and therefore, if the Sun be pofited in
this houfe, it denotes the father of the querift to be of a generous and
noble difpofition. It governs the red colour.
By the fifth houfe wc form all our predidions relative to children, and
to women in the ftate of pregnancy; alfo all queftions concerning the
prefent health of abfent fons or daughters, or the future health of thole
at home. Enquiries relating to the real and perfonal efFedfs of one's fa-
ther,
OF ASTROLOGY. 155
ther, or concerning the fuccefs of meflengers, ambafTadors, or 'plenipo-
tentiaries; or refpeding the ammunition or internal ftrength of a place
befieged ; are all anfwered from this houfe. Its confignificators are Ve-
nus and Leo ; and therefore unfortunate when occupied either by Saturn
or Mars, both of Avhich indicate bafe and untoward children to the en-
quirer. It indicates a mixed black and white, or fanguine, colour.
The fixth houfe refolves all queftions that in any refpefl appertain to
fervants or cattle. Alfo enquiries concerning the ftate of a fick per-
fon, whether curable or not; the nature of the difeafe, and whether of
Ihort or long duration; particulars relating to uncles and aunts, and all
kindred on the father's fide ; alfo concerning one's tenants, ftewards, or
the like; are refolved by the difpofition of the ftars and planets fltuated
in this houfe. Its confignificators are Mercury and Virgo; and, when
Mars and Jupiter are found in conjunftion here, it is a ftronger argument
of a good phyfician, whenever it comes up upon a queftion propounded
in behalf of a patient who is vifited by a gentleman of the faculty.
This houfe, having no afpedl with the afcendant, is always deemed un-
fortunate. It gives a black or dark colour.
o
By the feventh houfe, we are enabled to refolve all queflions on love-
afFairs and marriage, and to defcribe the perfon of either the man or the
woman that the querifl: will be joined with in marriage. It likewife
anfwers all enquiries of the defendant in law-fuits and litigations ; or
concerning our public enemies in time of war. In thefts, it enables us to
defcribe the perfon of the robber, by his fhape, flature, complexion,
and condition of life. In an annual ingrefs, it ufually indicates whether
peace or war may be expelled ; and, prior to an engagement, betokens
which fide fhall prove vidorious ; it difcovers fugitives, out-lawed men,
and offenders efcaped from juftice. The confignificators to this houfe
are the Moon and Libra; and, when Saturn or Mars is found herein, it
is deemed an unfavourable omen, produ6tive of great forrow and wretch-
ednefs to the querift in any matrimonial engagement. It gives a dark
blue, black, or brown, colour.
From the eighth houfe we folve all queflions concerning death, its
time, quality, and nature ; with all matters relating to legacies, wills, and
lafl: teftaments ; or who fhall inherit the fortune and eftates of the de-
ceafed. Enquiries on the dowry or portion of maids or widows; in du-
els, concerning the adverfary's fecond ; in law-fuits, relative to the de-
fendant's fuccefs and friends ; and queftions on public or private enemies,
or concerning the fubflance and fecurity of thofe we conned! ourfelves
with in bufinefs; are all anfwered by the fituation of the planets in this
houfe,.
,^6 AN ILLUSTRATION
houfe. Its confignificators are Saturn and Scorpio'; and its colours arc
green and black.
o
By the ninth houfe we are enabled to anfwer all queftions on the fafe-
ty and fuccefs of voyages and travels into foreign countries; alfo enqui-
ries of the clergy concerning church-preferments, benefices, advowfons,
and the like, and all queftions relative to kindred and relations on the
wife's fide ; and the fame on the hulband's fide, if the wife be the querift;
and all matters relating to the arts and fclences are likewife refolved
from this houfe. Jupiter and Sagittarius are its confignificators; for, if
Jupiter be pofited herein, it naturally indicates a man of religious and
exemplary manners, and of modeft carriage and behaviour ; but, if Sa-
turn, Mars, or the Dragon's Tail, are found herein, it indicates a perfon
of atheiflical and irreligious principles; inflances of which, from the na-
tivities of many unhappy men of this caft, are almofl innumerable. The
colours betokened by this houfe are green and white.
The tenth houfe, being the medium cceli, or moft elevated part of the
whole heavens, refolves all queflions concerning kings, princes, dukes,
earls, marquifles, and all noblemen, judges, principal officers of flate,
commanders in chief, all orders of magiftrates, and other perfons in
power and authority. Enquiries after preferment, honours, dignity, of-
fices, places, penfions, or fmecures ; or concerning the flate of king-
doms, empires, provinces, commonwealths, countries, cities, or focie-
ties of men; are all refolved from the mid-heaven. The confignificators
of this houfe are Capricorn and Mars ; and, whenever Jupiter or the
Sun be pofited herein, it gives the flrongeft prefumptions of fuccefs in
whatever purfuit the querift may be engaged in ; but, if Saturn or the
Dra2;on's Tail afflidt the fignificators in this houfe, it denies honour,
fuccefs, or preferment, to perfons of quality or eminence; and to com-
mon people it denotes vexation and difappointment in the common
fundions of their occupation or employment. Its colours are the red
and white.
By the eleventh houfe we anfwer all enquiries concerning friends and
friendlhip, hope, truft, expedauce, or deiire ; alfo whatever relates to
the fidelity or perfidioulncfs of friends; or to the counfellors, advifers,
alfociates, favourites, flatterers, or fervants, of kings, princes, or men in
power. The confignificators of this house are the Sun and Aquaries ;
and its colour is either fafFron or deep yellow.
The twelfth houfe, being the houfe of tribulation, refolves all queftions
of forrow, afflidion, anxiety ^of mind, trouble, diftrefs, imprilonment,
perfecution,
OF ASTROLOGY. 1^7
perfecutlon, malice, fecret enemies, fuicide, treafon, confpiracy, afTat-
filiation, and eveiy thing appertaining to the misfortunes and afflidions
of mankind. Its confignificators are Venus and Pilces; and Saturn greatly
joyeth in this houfe, being the parent of malevolence and malignity.
The colour it gives is green.
From the foregoing circumftantial lurvey of the twelve houfes of hea-
ven, I truft the reader will be enabled to form fuch an idea of the nature
of predifting by the horofcope, as will enable him not only to proceed to
place the ftars and planets therein with correftnefs and precifion, but alfo
to form an accurate and diftinft judgment of their power and influence,
under whatever aipeds or pofitions he may occafionally find them : for,
until he can accomplifh this, it will be in vain for him to attempt any
examples in the doctrine of horary queflions or nativities, which will be
the next objedl of our plan, after explaining the tables for finding the
places of the planets every hour and minute of the day, and diredling the
reader how to place them in the horofcope. But I cannot difmifs this
fubjecft, without giving my readers the definition of the twelve houfes of
heaven from the works of that learned and much-efteemed phllofopher
and aftrologian, Morinus ; and in doing this, I fliall adhere as much to
the fpirit and letter of the author as the nature of a tranflation will admit,
" It is a fa6t," fays this excellent author, " which preponderates in the
balance of reafon, and highly claims our fober confideration, that the life
of man is refolvable into four difl:in6l: periods or ages; namely, infancy,
youth, maturity, and old age ; though it may be laid with flrid truth,
that fcarcely half the human race attain to the conclufion of only their third
period. In the conftrudion of man, therefore, we dilcover four affeftions,
into which all other things appear to be reducible, as it were, to their firft
beginning; namely, life, aftion, marriage, and pallion. Thefe agree
with the rife, perfed^ion, declination, and termination, of all things; and
compnfe the whole efFedts and operations of nature. For man is truly
faid to rife into the world, the moment he receives refpiration and life; to
be in perfection, when he attains to manhood and maturity, and to the
propagation of his fpecies ; to decline, when he begins to lofe the innate
radical principle of heat and moifture ; and to fuftain the lafl paflion of
life, when he ceafes to breathe, and filently finks' into the grave. The
life, adlion, marriage, and paffions, of men, are therefore governed by
the fame celefliial principle which regulates the birth, perfection, decli-
nation, and dilTolution, of all other things. Wherefore life, in the (yC-
tem of nature, is regulated by the eaft angle of the heavens, called the
afcendant; adiion, by the fouth angle, or mid-heaven; marriage, by the
wefl angle; and paflion, by the north angle of the heavenly frame. And
No, 8. P p hence
158 AN ILLUSTRATION
hence arife four triplicities of the fame genus or generical nature, and
twelve houfes, as heretofore defcribed.
«'
The firft triplicity is of the eaftern angle, or afcendant, attributed to
infancy, and called the triplicity of life; and includes the firft, ninth,
and fifth, houfes, which behold each other in a partile trine in the
equator, where this rational divifion of the twelve houfes is ntiade. Man
either does or ought to live in a three-fold refpedt ; in himfelf, in God,
and in his pofterity ; for the great ends for which he was created, are
to worfhip and glorify his Maker, and to propagate his fpecies. The life
of man in himlelf, is therefore the firfl: and prime object in the order of
nature; for without this all other parts of the creation would be vain,
bein<y made Jor man's ufe and benefit. For this caufe, the life of man ap-
pertains to the firft and principal houfe in the divifion of the heavens:
But man's life in God, confifting in his image of the Divinity, in the ra-
tionality of his foul, and in the purity of his morals, claims, for this
reafon, the ninth houfe, according to the motion of the equator, which
is the houfe of piety and religion. And as man's life is continued in his
pofterity, according to one and the fame unchangeable law prefiding over
all nature, fo the houfe of infancy and children, which is the fifth houfe,
is appropriated for this purpofe. And, thefe three concerns being confef-
fedly the grand obje6l of man's life, the three houfes of heaven, under
which they are relpedively nourilhed and foftered, form a trine with
each other, in a chain of mutual harmony and concord.
*' The fecond triplicity confifts of the angle of the mid-heavei> with
the fixth and fecond houfes. This triplicity wholly appertains to the
fecond ftage of man's life, namely, that of vigour and aclion ; and there-
fore comprehends all worldly attainments, with the advantages flowing
from them ; for every thing that worketh phyfically worketh for fome
phyfical good ; and, as the motion of the equator is from the eaft angle to
the mid-heaven, fo is the progrefs made in all our earthly acquifitions.
The higheft degree of man's elevation in this world, is to that of majefty,
power, honour, dignity, preferment, or magiOracy, or to any of thofb
fituations by which he acquires fuperiority and affluence. Thefe, confid-
ing of immaterial matter, and forming the firit order of earthly dignity,
claim the angular h'oufe of this triplicity, or the mid-heaven. The
fecond degree of worldly honour, is conceived to arife from fubjefts,
fervants, tenants, vaflals, and domeftics ; and thefe, being formed of
matter material and animated, are placed under the fixth houfe. The
third advancement to earthly grandeur, is by matter material and inani-
mate, fuch as gold, jewels, and other valuable effects, accumulated by
induftry and fweat of the broiv; which being under the fecond houfe,
thefe
OF ASTROLOGY. 159
thefe three houfes are alfo joined by fympathy in a partile trine, applying
to each other in concord and unanimity.
»
" The third triplicity comprehends worldly connetlinns, whether by
marriage, confanguinity, or friendfhip; and thefe, holding on in the or-
der of nature, even as the progrefs is made from the mid-heaven to the
weftern angle, apply to the progreflive tendency of youth to manhood
and maturity. In this ftage of life man is joined in a three-fold tie or
obligation ; in body, in blood, and in friendfliip. Firft, he is joined
in body, by the moil: facred of all earthly ties, matrimony; fan6tioned
under the feal of God's primary command, " Increafe and multiply.'''
Secondly, he is joined in confanguinity, not only by the propagation of
his like, but by all orders of his kindred in blood. Thirdly, he is joined
in friendfhip under that facred bond of benevolence and love, which
the Almighty commands every man to exercife towards his neighbour.
This is the very cement of fociety, and medicine of life, performing thofe
good offices in civil life, which the tree of life promifed in our more per-
fedl ftate; and thefe are the fentiments of friendfhip, which alone can
give a true relifh to every enjoyment of this world. The moft important
of thefe obligations, being marriage, is for that reafon placed under the
fanftion of the angular or fuperior houfe ; the fecond tie, being that of
blood, claims the government of the third houfe ; and the eleventh houfe,
which perfects this triplicity, is facred to friendfliip. Thefe three houfes,
from an union of nature, behold each other in a partile trine, according
to the motion of the equator.
" The fourth and lafl: triplicity is that of paffion, which comprehends
the three clafles of human affli6tion. The firft or angular houfe of this
triplicity, in allufion to its pofition in the lower horizon, is termed the
dark angle, the depth of night, and bottom of heaven; the den and cave
of the ftars and planets. To this houfe is committed the firft order of our
woes, agreeable to the courfe of nature. Thefe are, infupportable mif-
fortunes, and vifible decline of life ; the firft confequences of original
fin, by which man is devoted to corruption and decay, and to all the in-
firmities of nature. The fecond order of human affli6fions, is tribulation,
Ibrrow, and difeafe ; arifing either from the treachery and perfecution of
enemies, from the chains of fervitude and bondage, or from poverty and
want. Thefe, with a long train of confequent miferies, are appropriated
to the twelfth houfe. The laft ftiock that can be fuftained by human
nature, is death, the final end of all men. This is under government of
the eighth houfe, termed on this account the houfe of death. And
thefe houfes likewife, from the conformity of their nature and qualities,
conftitute a partile trine in the equator.
" Thus
,6o AN ILLUSTRATION
'*
Thus the termination of this temporal life is the beginning of
life eternal. For nature knows no annihilation. All the works of Om-
nipotence are refolvable or changeable from one Hate to another; but God,
having created nothing in vain, fuffers nothing to be annulled. Where-
fore, accordint^ to the lecond motion of the planets, which is from welt
to eafl, an entrance is made out of the eighth into the ninth houfe,
which is the houfe of life in God, wherein man is taught, by the reve-
lation of the SUPREME WILL, that he (hall pafs, by the fecond mo-
tion of the foul, which is attributed to the mind or reafon, as the firft
or wrapt foul or fenfitive appetite is to the body, from this life of
anxiety and peril, to an eternal life of peace and reft. And therefore,
whatever is firfl: in dignity in the order of nature, poflefles the firft and
more noble houfes in thefe triplicities, in regular fubordination, accord-
ing to the motion of the ecliptic and planets.
" And now, What man is he, who confiding in the ftrength of his
own wifdom, will dare to meafure the works of his CREATOR by the
ftandard of his own comprehenfion ; or will venture to affirm, that thefe
operations and divifions of the twelve celeftial houfes-, conjoined with
fuch wonderful harmony, contrivance, and concord, are the etFe(5ls of
chance or accident? or that will fay, fuch admirable confents, fo excel-
lently formed, and mutually dependant on each other, are cafually found
in things fo complicated and abftrufe? If he obftinately perfifts that
thefe are altogether fiditious, let him point out the thing wanting to conv-
plete the evidence in fupport of the natural foundation and excellency of
them. But he can do neither; and therefore, as this divifion of the
heavens is founded in reafon, and obvioufly contrived by fupernatural
wifdom and prefcience, it comprehends genethliacally all things that in
the courfe of nature can poflibly be enquired of or concerning the works
of man. Forafmuch as the knowledge of contrarieties is univerfally
the fame, fo an affirmative, or a negative, may be fought out, and found
to be comprifed in the twelve houfes of the zodiac, anfwering to thefe
divifions,"
DIRECTIONS
OF ASTROLOGY. i6i
DIRECTIONS for erefllng the FIGURE of HEAVEN, and placing
the PLANETS in the HOROSCOPE.
"^M^ITHOUT being expert at finding the true places of the planets
' ^ and flars, at any hour or minute required, either by day or night,
and without knowing how to difpofe them in the horofcope, fo as to
reprefent their exact fituations in the heavens, nothing can poflibly be
known or predicted by Aftrology. This acqulfition, therefore, is the
next ilep to be attained ; and, though it may at firft appear a tafk of fome
difficulty and labour, yet, by the help of a common Ephemeris, which
is publifhed annually, and the following Tables, which are calculated and
fubjoined for this purpofe, the reader may in a few hours become perfeft
mailer of this very elTential part of the fcience.
The Ephemeris, of which Mr. White's is the beft, is calculated to
fhow the exa6l places of the Sun, Moon, and planets, every day at twelve
o'clock; confeqiiently, by referring to it, a figure may be accurately fet
to that exa6l time. But it may leldom or never happen, that a figure
is wanted precifely at that hour, and therefore it is neceflary the young
praftitioner fhould know how to redtify the daily motions of the planets,
by the number of degrees they move every twenty-four hours, lb as to
eredl the figure, and introduce the true places of the figns and planets,
whenever required. This, by referring to the Ephemeris for the flations
of the planets at noon, may be done very eafily, by the common procels
of figures ; but, that every reader may be enabled to do it without
trouble, I have fubjoined an eafy Table, whereby the planetary motions
are reduced to hours and minutes, and may be found for either day or
night.
o
It is likewile of importance to know the planetary hours, that is, the
hour in which every planet has its particular influence ; for hereby we are
enabled to determine various points, and to draw many ufeful conclu-
fions, in our judgment, either on nativities or horary queftions. In
gathering herbs for medicinal purpofes, the planetary hour is certainly
of confequence, however modern refinement might have exploded
tlie idea. In nature, the moft fimple remedies are frequently found to
produce the moll: falutary effedls ; and in earlier times, when the art of
phyfic was lefs obfcured, and pradifed more from motives of benevo-
lence, the world was lefs afflided with difeafe, and the period of human
life lefs contraded. The Supreme Being, in his abundant mercies to
mankind, has furniftied ample remedies in the laboratory of nature, were
Nature but adhered to, for the removal of every curable diforder incident
No. 9. Q q to
i6i AN ILLUSTRATION
to the human frame ; for, notwithftanding all the parade of compound
medicines, the art of phyfic does not confifl fo much in preparing the
remedy as in knowing how to apply it. Hence it happens, that old
women, without education or experience, by the help of a fimple herb,
gathered in the planetary hour, in which hour it imbibes its greateft de-
gree of flrength and fpecific virtue, will fometimes perform very extra-
ordinary cures, in cafes where gentlemen of the faculty are abfolutely at
a lofs how to treat them.* The planetary hours begin at fun-rifing ;
and each planet governs in rotation, according to the following Table:
A TABLE of PLANETARY HOURS for every Day in the Week,
OF ASTROLOGY. 163
To underftand the preceding Table, the reader muft recolle6l that we
have already afligned to each planet his refpeflive rule over every day in
the week ; for inftance, the Sun governs Sunday, the Moon Monday,
Mars Tuefday, Mercury Wednefday, Jupiter Thurfday, Venus Friday,
and Saturn Saturday. Each planet begins his rule the moment the Sun
appears above the horizon, and continues for one planetary hour ; at the
expiration of which, the next planet in order commences his rule, and
continues the fame portion of time ; and then the third planet in order
governs; and fo on through the whole week. So that, if I want to know
what planet rules in any particular hour of the day or night, I take the
planet which begins rule that day, and reckon in order till I find it.
For example, on Sunday the Sun rules the firft hour, Venus the fecond,
Mercury the third, the Moon the fourth, Saturn the fifth, Jupiter the
fixth, Mars the feventh, the Sun the eighth, Venus the ninth, and fo on
through the whole day and fucceeding night, till the Sun rifes again ; by
which mode of reckoning it will be uniformly found, that each planet
will begin its government at fun-rifing, according to the order above
defcribed, to the end of the world. This alfo evidently appears by the
Table ; for if we begin with the firft column, and reckon down the
whole twenty-four hours, we find the Moon begins her government at
the top of the fecond column on Monday morning, when the Sun
rifes. If we reckon down the fecond column in the fame order, we find
Mars begins his rule at the top of the third column, on Tuefday
morning. So the planets will be found to obferve the fame regular order
throughout all the other columns, which take in the hours of every
day and ni^ht throug-hout the week; and for the enfuing: week the Table.
begins again in the fame order, and will fo continue, without alteration
or error, to the end of time. By referring to the figures which
reprefent the refpe6tive hour of every day and night throughout the
of compaffion, adminifter balm to the bleeding wounds of their affli£ied brethren. The many
invaluable difcoveries lately added to the Pharmacopoeia, both from the vegetable and mineral
worlds, are ftrong arguments of the necefEty of regular praflice, and of profeffional education, in
forming the phyfician. But, were the bulkof thcfe gentlemen to confult a little more the planetary
influences, both on vegetable and mineral fubftances, and apportion them in their preicriptions
according to the nature and conftitution of the patient, uniformly confulting the effects of Saturn
and the Moon in each crifis and critical day, 1 am peifuaded that more immediate relief, in moft
cafes where nature is not too far exhaufted, might be afforded to the fick and languifhing patient.
Surgery too, which, like a guardian angel, fteps forward to alleviate the perilous accidents of the
unfortunate, would gain much improvement by the like confiderations. It is not, therefore, the re-
gular-bred pradlitioners of either phyfic or furgery that the author means to arraign, but that baneful
defcription of empirics and quacks, who now pervade the kingdom, and, like a fwarm of locufts
from the Eaft, prey upon the vitals of mankind. Thefe monfters in the fbape of men, with hearts
callous to every fentiment of compaffion, have only fees in view. Governed by this fordid principle,
they fport with life, unmoved amidft the bitter anguifh and piercing groans of the defponding
patient, till, too far gone for human aid to reftore, they abandon him to defpairand death. For the
fake of humanity, and the honour of a Chriftian country, let the legiflative power check this grow-
ing enormity ! [This has been done in fome degree by the Apothecaries' Bill, juft parted, and
which begins to operate this day, Auguft i, 1815. Editor.]
week,
1
64 AN ILLUSTRATION
week, the reader may always fee what planet governs in that hour, as its
chara6ter is placed in the fame line with the figure. For example, fup-
pofe I want to know what planet rules the fifth hour on Sunday morning
I look down the firft column of the Tahle, over which is placed
Sunday Planetary Hour, and at the fifth hour I find Saturn governs,
Ao-ain, fuppofe it be required to know what planet governs the ninth
hour on Friday afternoon—look down the column over which Friday
Pla. H. is printed, and in the ninth hour it will be feen that Mercury
o-overns. Or if it be aflced, what planet rules the nineteenth hour on
Wednefday night ? Look down the column over which Wednefday Pla.
H. is prefixed ; and at 19, which fignifies the nineteenth hour, or the
feventh hour after the Sun is fet, it will be found that Mars governs ;
and fo for any other time required.
But a planetary hour not agreeing with the common divifion of time»
and being peculiar to aftronomy and aftrology only, we fhall explain it
more fully. The planetary hours are reckoned from the time of the
Sun's rifino- to its fettin^^, which fpace of time is divided into twelve
equal parts, and thefe arelermed the twelve planetary hours of that day.
Then the time from the Sun's fetting to its rifing the next morning is
in thefame manner divided into twelve equal parts, and thefe conftitute
the twelve planetary hours for that night. Hence it is obvious, that
when the days are fhort, a planetary hour does not confift of above forty
minutes, more or lefs, according to the twelfth part of the whole time
from the Sun's rifing to its fetting ; and, the nights being then long, a
planetary hour by night may confill of an hour and ten or twenty minutes,
or more; and fo vice verfa when the days are long, and the nights fhort
;
fo that the duration of planetary hours, both by day and night, is con-
tinually varying, and never agrees with the common meafure of time,
except on thofe two days in every year when the Sun enters Aries and
Libra, and then equal night and day is difpenfed to all parts of the world.
Therefore, to enable the reader to find the length of the planetary hours
without the trouble of calculating, I fubjoin the following Table, by
which they may be found, both night and day for ever.
TABLE
OF ASTROLOGY. 165
TABLE of the PLANETARY HOURS for every Day and Night
in the Week.
Length
t66 AN ILLUSTRATION
thirteen hours and thirty minutes; ajid in the faoie line in the fecond
column ftand one hour feven minutes and thirty feconds, which is the
exaft leno^th of each planetary hour that day ; and in the fame line in
the third column Aand fifty-two minutes thirty feconds, which is the
leno-th of the planetary hours that night. By the fame rule the length
of the planetary hours may be eafily foand, in this Table, every day and
nioht thjpugh the year. The len„gth of time between the rifing and
lettino- of the Sun may always be found in the Ephemeris. This Table
is calculated within thirty minutes of the Sun's real time every day,
which is fufficiently near for all the purpofes required.
TABLE to reduce the Motion of the Planets to any Hour of the
Day or Night.
£ .2 One Hour's
OF ASTROLOGY. 167
To find the true place of each planet, at any hour when we have occa-
fion to ere6l a figure, it only requires to turn to the Ephemeris for the
planets' places at noon ; thoie being found, note how many degrees or
minutes they move in the zodiac by twelve o'clock the next day, or from
noon the preceding day ; and then, by the help of the foregoing Table, it
will be feen how many degrees, minutes, or feconds, they move in an
hour. For example, fuppoie a planet moves one degree in twenty-four
hours, how far does it move in one hour ? At the top of the firft column
is the figure i, and in the fame line of the fecond column is 2 minutes
and 30 feconds; which fliows, that, if a planet be twenty-four hours in
moving one degree, it then moves at the rate of two minutes and thirty
feconds in an hour. Or, fuppofe a planet only moves two minutes in
twenty-four hours ; look into the firft column of the table for the figure 2,
oppofite, in the fecond column, fland 5 feconds, which fhows, that, if a
planet moves two minutes in twenty-four hours, it then moves only five
feconds in an hour. Again, if a planet's diurnal motion be thirteen
minutes, what is its hourly motion? Look into the firft column for 13,
and oppofite is 32, 30; which indicates, that, if a planet moves thirteen
minutes in twenty-four hours, it moves thirty-two feconds and thirty
thirds in an hour. The fame rules hold good for the motions of all the
planets ; it muft, however, be carefully obferved, that, if the diurnal
motion of any planet be in degrees, then you muft enter the firft column
of the Table under the denomination of decrees, and the fecond column
with minutes and feconds; but, if the diurnal motion of the planet be
only in minutes, then you muft begin to reckon in the firft column only
with minutes, and in the fecond column with fecoiids and thirds. This
is indicated by the initial letters placed over each column, which fignify
degree or minutes in the firft column, and, in the fecond, degrees and
minutes, minutes and feconds, feconds and thirds. Then, fuppofe a
planet moves one degree and thirteen minutes in twenty-four hours, how
far does it move in an hour? Refer to the Table, and fay,
One degree in 24 hours is 2 min. 30 fee. o thirds per hour,
Thirteen min. in 24 hours is o min. 32 fee. 30 thirds.
Anfwer 3 2 30
I
And thus any quantity of a planet's diurnal motion may be reduced to
time in the fame manner.
But, as no figure can be eredled without the help of an Ephemeris, and
Tables to fhow the Sun's place in each of the twelve figns, unlefs by
entering into long and tedious calculations, I (hall therefore infert in
this place the two pages of White's Ephemeris for June 1784, and the
Tables above-mentioned, with an explanation of the whole.
(COPY.)
1 68 AN ILLUSTRATION
(COPY.)
WHITE'S EPHEMERIS for June 1784.
June hath XXX Days.
TheL
OF ASTROLOGY. J69
No. 9.
170 AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 171
A TABLE
Of Houfes, calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
by double Horary Times.
Sol in Taurus.
A.
D.
R.
M.
27 54
28 51
29 49
30 46
31 45
32 42
33 40
34 39
35 37
36 36
37 35
38 34
39 33
40 32
41 31
43 31
43 31
44 31
45 31
46 32
47 33
48 33
49 34
50 35
51 36
52 38
53 40
54 42
55 44
56 46
57 47
Time
from Noon.
H. M.
I
I
I
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
2
a
2
2
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
52
55
59
7
1
1
15
19
23
26
30
34
38
42
46
50
54
58
2
6
10
14
18
22
26
31
35
39
43
47
51
10
Houfe.
1
1
Houfe.
DnM
X2
Houfe
DgsM
o
I
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
I r
12
13
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
9
10
1
1
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
'9
20
21
22
23
24
24
25
26
47
45
4;
4'
38
35
32
29
25
21
17
13
10
7
4
o
56
52
48
45
42
29 39
02535
17
18
!8
19
20
21
22
22
23
24
25
25
26
27
28
28
29
OS133
16
3
51
39
26
13
o
47
34
21
7
53
39
26
12
59
46
Afcendaut
SI
D. M
27
28
I
2
3
4
5
6
/
7
30
26
21
17
12
8
3
58
I
2
2
3
4
5
6
6
7
8
9
10
10
20
7
54
41
29
17
6
55
44
33
21
9
58
16
17
17
18
'9
19
20
21
21
22
23
23
24
25
26
26
27
28
28
29
0^13
o 55
I
2
3
3
4
5
5
6
7
31
II
55
31
12
52
32
13
54
35
16
57
38
19
o
42
24
6
47
30
37
20
2
46
29
12
55
39
22
2
Houfe.
Dtri^M
4
5
5
6
7
8
9
9
10
II
12
12
13
15
16
16
17
18
'9
20
20
21
22
I23
24
24
25
26
3
Houfe.
Dn^M
2828
13
59
44
29
o
47
34
21
8
55
42
30
^ 4
28 57
29 50
0=^431
I
2
3
4
5
6
7
7
8
4
52
40
28
16
9
10
1
1
12
13
14
15
416
5217
18
27
28
40
28
17
6
55
45
34
24
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
1425
37
31
25
'9
13
7
I
55
49
43
37
32
27
22
'7
13
9
6
2
57
52
48,
44
40|
36
32
29
172 AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE
Of Houfes, calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
by double Horary Times.
57
58
59
60
62
63
6+
6s
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
7'8
79
So
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
90
Sol in Gemini.
A. R.
D. M.
48
51
54
57
o
3
6
9
1^3
17
21
25
29
33
38
43
47
52
57
2
7
12
n
22
27
33
38
43
48
54
o
1 ime
from Noon
H. M.
3
3
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
5
5
5
5
5
5
^
5
5
5
5
5
5
6
51
55
o
4
8
12
16
21
25
29
33
33
42
46
51
55
59
3
8
12
16
21
25
29
34
38
43
47
51
56
o
10
Houfe.
n
o
I
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
1
1
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
1
1
Houfe.
DgsM
12
Houfe.
7
8
9
ro
I f
12
13
H
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
I
2
3
4
5
6
5810
54 1
1
4912
45^3
41
38
34
30
26
22
18
H
10
/
3
c
56
52
47
43
39
35
31
27
23
»9
15
12
9
6
•4
15
15
16
17
18
19
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
25
26
27
28
29
om
o
,1
2
3
4
5
6
58
46
35
23
12
I
5>
40
3D
19
9
^8
48
38
28
19
9
o
51
42
33
24
14
5
56
48
40
32
23
14
4
Afcendant
D. M.
2
Houfe.
Dn^M
7
8
8
9
[O
I
I
2
3
A
4
5
6
7
7
8
9
20
20
21
22
23
23
24
25
26
26
27
28
29
30
22
6
50
34
18
3
47
31
16
I
46
31
16
I
46
32
n
4
49
5
20
6
51
37
33
9
15
41
27
13
o
28
29
29
O:
I
2
3
4
5
5
6
7
8
9
o
o
I
2
4
5
6
6
7
8
9
20
21
22
23
23
3
Houfe.
D=-M
M
4'
5527
25
26
=46
36
27
18
9
o
51.
42
33
24
15
6
57
49
41
28
29
:\
29
25
21
18
15
2
32
24
15
7
58
50
42
33
25
17
9
I
2
3
4
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
1
1
12
13
-14
15
16
n
18
19
20
21
22
22
53123
9
6
3
o
57
54
51
48
45
42
39
36
33
30
27
23
20
^7
-f4
1
1
8
5
2
59
56
OF ASTROLOGY. »73
A TABLE
Of Houfes, calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
by double Horary Times.
»74 AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 1/5
ii
176 AN ILLUSTRATION
A T A B L E
Of Hoiifes, calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
by double Horary Times.
Sol in Libra.
A.
D.
R.
M.
Time 10 ..[ 1 1 I 12
from Noon. Houfe. Houfe. Houfe.
H. M. I
^ P:^MT)n|M
Afee n dan 1 1 2
I Houfe.
D. M. byjM
3
Ho ufe
D^M.
-r8o
rSo
rSi
182
183
184
185
r86
187
188
189
'
190
191
191
192
193
194
195
196
797
198
199-
•200
201
202
203
204
205
206
206
207
o
55
50
45
40
35
30
25
20
^5
n
6
I
57
52
48
43
39
35
31
27
23
19
15
12
9
6
3
o
51
54
12
12
I2
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
I2
la
12
12
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
13
o
4
7
.11
15
i8
22
26
29
,53
-37
40
44
,48
55
59
3
6
10
•T4
.18
21
25
29
33
36
40
44
^8
52
.-o
C2
^3
4
.6
c8
9
lo
1
1
12
13
14
15
i6
J7
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
,26
27
.28
29
30
?7
28
29
29
o
I
J2
o3
:4
^^4
5
6
7
8
8
9
,10
.1
1
12
13
13
^H
^5
1,6
n
17
18
19
.20
22
28>7
,1818
818
5619
"1 45 20
,3420
;242I
I3R2
2U3
5223
41 24
3025
^9i?5
826
57|27
4628
3s\^S
24
.13
2
29
o;
I
51
41
301 3
19 .4
9
58,1
48
37
26
4
5
6
7
7
16 8
6'
9
V
,4
46
?9
li
54
37
2.0
47
31
15
59
42
26
10
53
31
20
,.4
^8
32
16
I
46
31
16
I
46
32
i8l
3
OF ASTROLOGY. 177
A T A B L E
Of Houfes, calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
by double Horary Times,
Sol in Scorpio.
A.
D.
R.
M.
207
208
ao9
210
211
212
213
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234 42
235 44
236 46
237 48
No. 9.
54
51
49
46
44
42
40
39
37
36
35
34
33
32
3r
31
31
31
31
32
33
33
34
35
36
38
40
Time
from Noon.
H. M.
3
3
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
5
5
5
5
52
55
59
3
7
II
15
^9
22
26
30
34
38
42
46
50
54
58
2
6
10
14
18
22
26
31
35
39
43
47
51
10
Houfe,
o
I
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
1
1
12
13
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
1
1
Houfe.
VI Din. M
22
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
28
29
I
2
3
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
9
10
1
1
Il2
13
14
15
16
17
18
6
56
46
37
28
'9
10
o
50
40
X3'
22
13
4
55
47
38
29
21
13
6
58
51
45
40
12
Houfe.
D XM
9
10
10
1
1
12
13
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
25
6
18
5
52
39
25
12
59
47
36
26
17
8
o
51
42
34
25
Alceiidant
D. M.
15
5
56
47
39
29 30
oV)'24
I 1
1
25
26
26
27
28
27
28
28
22
17
12
8
Uu
17
9
2
55
49
44
39|
29 35
0X5-32
1 29
2 26
3 24
4 23
5 23
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
1
1
12
13
14
15
16
17
19
20
21
23
24
25
27
13
10
6
3
I
o
o
2
6
9
14
21
29
37
48
58
1
1
27
43
3
24
47
10
Houfe.
D;x^M
9
10
12
^3
15
16
^7
18
20
21
23
24
26
27
29
3
Houfe.
Dx M
2527
4228
o
20
41
4
18
53
19
47
16
46
17
49
20
13
30
29 46
IT 2
2 18
3
o><56
2 13
4
6
7
8
10
1
1
12
14
15
I
4
5
7
8
[10
13
14
15
17
19
20
22
^4
26
6
42
19
57
37
18
42 z8
6
17
19
20
21
23
24
25
27
24
8
54
31
18
5
35
52
10
28
47
5
24
42
o
18
35
53
1
1
29
6
24j
42
o
17
35
29
o«52
2 9
3 26
4 43
5 o
178 AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 1/9
A TABLE
Of Houfes, calculated for the Latitude of 51 Degrees 32 Minutes,
by double Horary Times.
i8o AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. i8i
l82 AN ILLUSTRATION
It is no uncommon thing with many readers, and particularly thofe
not very converfant with figures, to pafs over all Tables as intricate, or
difficult to underfland. But, fince no information can be obtained in the
pra61ical part of this fcience without them, it is proper to caution all my
readers againft this much-miflaken notion ; for every perfon who can make
ufeof a Ready Reckoner or Trader's Sure Guide, may with equal eafe uii-
dcrftand all the Tables calculated for this work.
The ufe of the Ephemeris, in fetting a figure, is to point out the j)laces
of the planets at noon, whenever required. For this purpofe, we refer
to the given day of the month, in the firft column of the right-hand page ;
and oppofite to it, in the fecond column, is the Sun's place, or longitude,
that day at noon. So alfo, in the fame line of the fucceeding columns
through the whole Table, are the places of the Moon, Saturn, Jupiter,
jNIars, Venus, and Mercury, as fpecified at the top of each difl:in6l co-
lumn ; and thefe are the true places of the Sun, Moon, and planets,
every day throughout the year, precifely at twelve o'clock at noon.
Therefore, if the figure be erefted before that time, the diurnal motion
of the planets muft be deduced in hours and minutes, in proportion to
the rate they move at per hour ; but, if it be eredled after noon, then fo
many hours or minutes muft be added as will bring them to the precife
time of ere(5ling the fisfure.
The twelve Tallies of Houfes are next to be referred to ; and thefe are
calculated to fhow what degrees of each fign poffefs the cufps of the
twelve houfes of heaven when the figure is ere6led. They begin with
the Sun's entrance into the fign Aries, and fhow his progrefs through
each degree of the twelve figns of the zodiac.
Now let it be required, by way of example, to ere£l a figure for Fri-
day, the nth day of June, 1784, at 1 1 h. 24 min. A.M. that is, at
twenty-four minutes paft eleven o'clock in the morning. To do this, I
refer to the firft column of the right-hand page of the Ephemeris for
June, and oppofite the nth day of the month, in the fecond column,
which has ©'s longitude printed at the top, I find 21. 3. 27. with the
fign n prefixed at the fide of the firft range of figures. This indicates,
that the Sun, at twelve o'clock that day, is in twenty-one degrees three
minutes and twenty-feven feconds of Gemini; but the minutes and
feconds, when lefs than thirty, are rejeded without fenfible error, and,
when more than thirty, have as many added as will make then up even
degrees. I therefore turn to the Table of Houfes, and in page 172, enti-
tled Sol in Gemini, I look for the column that has the fign n at the
top, which is the third ; I feek for 21 degrees ; and, in the column on
the
OF ASTROLOGY. 183
the left fide of it, entitled Time from Noon, I find, even with 21 degrees,
5 h. 21 min. The hours and minutes thus found are uniformly to he
added to the time or hour of the day when the figure is ereded, unlefs it
be precifely at noon, in which cafe, as we have before obferved, the places
of the Sun, planets, and figns, are to be fet down exadly as they are found
in the Ephemeris, and Tables of Houfes. But, the prefent figure being
eretled jufl. thirty-fix minutes before twelve o'clock, I am to add this time,
reckoning from noon the preceding day, to the above 5 h. 21 min. and
from thefe two funis added together I fubtraft twenty-four hours, and the
remainder will give the degrees of each of the twelve figns, as then pofi-
ted upon the cufps of the horofcope ; thus :
h. min.
Time anfwering to 21 degrees of H 5 21
Time from noon the preceding day 23 24
Added together, make 28 45
Subtraft - - 24 o
Remainder 4 45
I feek this remainder in the Table of Houfes entitled Sol in Gemini,
in the column of Time from Noon ; but, not finding 4. 45. I take the
neareft number to it, which is 4. 46. and oppofite this number, in the
next column on the right, I find 13 degrees of Gemini in the tenth houfe,
which is denoted by loth Houfe 11, at the top of the column; and there-
fore I place thirteen degrees of Gemini in the line or cufp of the tenth
houfe of the figure. This done, I refer to the next column in rotation
to the right hand, and in the fame line with the twenty-one degrees of
Gemini I find 20. 7. and, looking to the top of the column, find it to
be twenty degrees and feven minutes of the fign 25, with 1 1 Houfe over;
and therefore I place twenty degrees feven minutes of Cancer upon the
cufp of the eleventh houfe. I follow the fame rule with the next co-
lumn, where I find 21. 48. and looking to the top find the fign SI 12
Houfe, and accordingly place twenty-one degrees thirty-eight minutes
of Leo upon the cufp of the twelfth houfe in the figure. Then I refer
to the next column, where I find ly, i. and at the top the word Afcen-
dant with the fign Ti)j prefixed, which fignifies that feventeen degrees one
minute of Virgo occupy the firfh houfe, or Afcendant, which I place ac-
cordingly. I then refer to the next column, and even with the preced-
ing figures ftand 9. 15. when, looking up the column, I obferve the
fign iCi: below ri^, and 2 Houfe at the top, which fhows that nine degrees
fifteen minutes of Libra are to be placed on the cufp of the fecond houfe.
This done, I refer to the lafl: column, and even with the former numbers
I find
184 AN ILLUSTRATION
1 find 7. 48. and, looking up the column as before, I obferve the figti
Tr[ below :C^, and 3 Houfe over, which indicates that ievcn degrees forty-
ei^ht minutes of Scorpio are to be placed on the cufp of the third houfe.
Thus the fix oriental houfcs, namely, the tenth, eleventh, twelfth, firfV,
lecond, and third, are furnifned with the degrees of each fign then riling
upon them; and the fix occidental houfes, being oppolite to the former,
are always turnifhed with the fame degrees and minutes of the oppofite
figns ; thus
:
Houfes oppofite.
4 10
5 ^i
6 12
1 7
2 8
3 9
Signs oppofite.
T ^
« ni
n t
SI ^
So that the tenth houfe is oppofite to the fourth, and the fourth to the
tenth ; the eleventh to the fifth, and the fifth to the eleventh ; and fo
through the whole ; the ufe of which is, that, if on the cufp of the
tenth houfe you find the fign Aries, then on the cufp of the fourth houfe
you mufl place the fign Libra, and, whatever degree and minute of Aries
poiTefifes the cufp of the tenth houfe, the fame degree and minute of Li-
bra muft be placed on the cufp of the fourth houfe ; and the fame rule
muft be obferved with all the other houfes and figns, which is univerfal,
and ever holds true. For example, in the prefent figure, we have placed
13 degrees of n on the cufp of the tenth houfe ; now, I being oppofite
to n , and the fourth houfe to the tenth, I therefore place 13 degrees of
J on the cufp of the fourth houfe. Upon the cufp of the eleventh
houfe, 20 degrees 7 minutes of Cancer being already placed, and the
fifth houfe being oppofite to the eleventh, and VJ oppofite 25, I there-
fore put 20 degrees 7 minutes of VJ upon the cui'p of the fifth houi'e.
The cufp of the twelfth houfe being alfo occupied with 21 degrees 38
minutes of $^, I place 21 degrees 38 minutes of the oppofite fign ;sr
upon the cufp of the fix^h houfe, vi'hich is oppofite the twelfth. Upon
the cufp of the firfi: houfe, or afcendant, there is 17 degrees i minute of
HR ; and, the feventh houfe being oppofite to the firlt, and the fign ^ to
15^, 1 accordingly place 17 degrees i minute of ^ upon the cufp, or line,
of the feventh houfe. Having alfo placed 9 degrees 15 minutes of =:b
upon the cufp of the fecond houfe, I place 9 degrees 15 minutes of the
oppofite fign T upon the cufp of the eighth houfe, which is oppofite to
the fecond. I then refer to the third houfe, upon the cufp of which are
placed 7 degrees 48 minutes of ^, ; and, the oppofite houfe to this being
the
OF ASTROLOGY. 185
the ninth, and y the oppofite fign, I place 7 degrees 48 minutes of Tau-
rus upon the cufp of the ninth houfe. And thus the twelve houfes are
completely occupied with the twelve figns of the zodiac, and with the de-
grees afcending at the precife time of erecting the figure.
Having fo far fucceeded, the next thing is to place the Sun, Moon, and
planets, in the figure, agreeable to their pofition at that, time in the hea-
vens ; and this is alfo to be done by the help of the right-hand page of the
Ephemeris. For inftance, I again refer to the iith of June, and oppo-
fite to it, in the column of the 0^s longitude, I find him in 21 degrees
3 minutes and 27 feconds of Gemini that day at noon. But, as the figure
is ereded thirty-fix minutes before noon, I note how far the Sun has
moved from noon the preceding day, and find he has gone at the rate of
fifty-feven minutes, which gives a difference of one minute and twenty-
feven feconds for the time before noon, as follows
:
h. min. fi-c.
Sun's place at noon, June nth 21 3 27
Deduct for 36 min. before noon o i 27
Remains 21 2 O
Thus I find the Sun's place at twenty-four minutes after eleven o'clock
in 21 degrees 2 minutes of Gemini ; which fign being then upon the cufp
of the tenth houfe, I therefore place the Sun in that houfe, clofe to the
fign, with thefe degrees and minutes. I then refer to the Ephemeris for
the Moon's place,- and in the column of her longitude, oppofite the nth
day of the month, I find her in 5 degrees 46 minutes of Tj at noon ; but,
to know her place thirty-fix minutes before, I note how much fhe goes in
an hour, and find her motion to be 35 minutes ; then I dedu6t 21 minutes
for the time before noon, and find her true place to be in 5 hours 25 mi-
nutes of Aries, which I accordingly enter before the cufp of the eighth
houfe, clofe to that fign. I then refer to the Ephemeris for the planet
Tp, and on the nth of June I find him retrograde in 22 degrees 53 mi-
nutes of the fign VJ, wherefore I place him under Capricorn, in the fifth
houfe, with an R prefixed, to denote that he is retrograde. I refer to the
Ephemeris in like manner for the planets Jupiter, Mars, Venus, and
Mercury, which I alfo enter in their proper places in the figure, viz. Ju-
piter in 7 degrees 36 minutes of )(,Mars in 27 degrees 1 minute of 05,
Venus in 5 degrees 5 minutes of H, and Mercury retrograde in 24 de-
grees 2 minutes of the fame fign.
The planets being thus entered, I next refer to the top of the fecond
page of the Ephemeris, for the column of the Moon's node, which we
term the Dragon's Head; and I find on the 7th day of the month ix is
No. 10. Yy in
1 86 AN ILLUSTRATION
in four decrees of Pifces ; but, as it moves backward about three minutes
per day, I dedu6l eleven minutes to bring it to the nth of June, and its
place will then be in 4 degrees 8 minutes of Pifces; 1 therefore enter
it in the fixth houfe, under the fign K ; and, as the place of the Dragon's
Tail is always oppofite to the Dragon's Head, I place it in the fame de-
o-rees of the'oppofite fign, which in this figure falls in the twelfth houfe,
which is oppofite to the fixth.
The figure is now entirely completed, except putting in the Part of
Fortune, which is the diftance of the Moon's place from the Sun's added
to the afcendant. The mode of determining this has commonly been by
firfl findino^ the true place of the Moon, then the true place of the Sun ;
then fubtrafting the Sun's place from the Moon's, and adding to the re-
mainder the degrees of the afcendant ; and this, if taken in the fpbere of
the Moon, gives the place of the Part of Fortune. But, a much more
correft method having been adopted by the learned Placidus, we recom-
mend it in preference to any other ; it is as follows : Firft note the fign and
decree on the afcendant, and enter with the fame fign and degree in the
Table of Oblique Afcenfions calculated for this work, in the latitude
wherein you ere6t your figure; and in the common angle of meeting you
will find the number required. Then enter the fame Table with the de-
gree of the Sun, and fubtrad the oblique afcenfion of the one from the
other, and the remainder will be the Sun's diftance from the afcendant. *
Then take the right afcenfion of the Moon, and enter the Table of the
Moon's Ri^ht Afcenfion, under the degrees of north or fouth latitude, as
(he then happens to be ; and, when the Moon's right afcenfion is found,
fubtrafl it from the Sun's diflance from the afcendant, and the remainder
will be the right afcenfion of the Part of Fortune. For example, in the
figure before us
:
deg. min.
The fign xiji has 17 deg. 1 min. upon the afcen-
dant, the oblique afcenfion of which is 161 ^3
The oblique afcenfion of the © (both being in
northern figns, nothing is added) is
47 43
Which being fubtra6fed from the others, remains 113 50
Then fubtraft the right afcenfion of the Moon, 2 50
Remains iii 58
Which is the ria:ht afcenfion of the Part of Fortune. I refer for this
fum to the fiift column of the preceding Tables of Houfes, under A. R.
* In this operation always obferve, ihat, if the fign afcending be fouthern, and the fign in which
the Sun be pofited be northern, then add the whole circle of ihe zodiac, or three hundred and fixty
degrees of the northern fign ; and vice verfay if a northern fign afcend, and the Sun be placed in a
fouthern.
which
OF ASTROLOGY. 187
which fignifies Right Afcenfion ; and in the Table at p. 173, or Sol in
Cancer, I find iii deg. 39 min. which is only nineteen minutes lefs ;
and oppofite to this fum, in the third column of the Table, ftands 30, with
the lign 55 at the top, and this denotes the Part of Fortune to be in 20 •
degrees of Cancer; but, as nineteen minutes were wantino- to make up
the number, 1 allow one minute more, becaufe fifteen minutes on the
equator is equal to i minute of time ; and hence the true place of the Part
of Fortune falls in 20 degrees 1 minute of Cancer ; and I accordingly enter
it below that fign in the fcheme, which is now completed, and fliands thus :
/\
^. ^""-^
''^^
Scheme or Figure
of the
HEAVENS,
On Friday, nth of June, lihi
24 min. A. M. or forenoon.
17S4.
S hor. Sub. lat. 51° 32'.
\
v:
This figure includes all that is required for the purpofe of judo-i„cr
horary queftions, and the like ; but, in nativities, and in the more imme-
diate concerns of Hfe and death, regard muft be had to the fixed flars,
according to their magnitude, influence, and pofitions near the alcendant
or Its lord, near the Moon, or the other fignificators. And, becaufe it is
of importance to know their natures, qualities, and fignificators, I fhall
lubjoin a Table of the moft confiderable fixed ftars in the northern he-
milphere, and then (how how to colleft fuch of them into the horofcope
as may relate to the fubjed at any time under inveftigation.
A TABLE
i88 AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE of the principal Fixed Stars near
their true Longitude, Latitude, Magnitude
the EcUptic, fhowing
, and Nature.
Names of the Fixed Stars.
South End ot ihe Fail of the Whale
The Star in the Wing of Pegafus
The Head of Andromeda
Whale's Belly
The Girdle of Andromeda
Bright Star in the Head of the Ram .....
The Left Foot of Andromeda ,
The Blight Star in the Jaw of the Whale .
The Head of Algol Medafa
The Pleiades
The middle Star of the Seven
Otulus Taurus
Aldebaran
Rigel
The former Shoulder of Ori)n
She-Goat
The former Star ill Orion's Belt
The middle Star in Orion's Belt
The higheft Star in the Head of Orion
The Star in the Horn of the Bull
The following Shoulder of Orion
Propus
The right Shoulder of Auriga
The bright Foot of G^min
Caftor Apollo
Pollux Hercules
The Imaller Dog Star
Prtefepe
North Affellus
South Affellus
Cor Leoni'; Rcgulus
Longitude.
D. M.
r
r
r
V
8
»
a
a
n
n
a
n
n
n
n
u
II
II
II
2S
25
Heart of Hydra |Sl
Vmdemiatrix
The Back of the Lion
The Tail of the Lion
Crater, or the Bottom of the Pitcher
ArtSurus
l^he Virgin's Spike, Arifta
The South Balance ,
The North Balance
The Left Hand of Ophiucus
Higher Star in the Forehead of the Scorpion
The Lift Knee of Ophiucus
Cor Scorpio
The Scorpion's Heart, Antares
The Right Knee of Ophiucus
The bright Star of the Vulture ,
The Mouth of Pegafus ,
The Tail of the Goat ,
Marchab ,
Fomahaut ,
Scheat Pegafi
Vf
o
6
II
•4
27
4
1
1
II
23
26
26
5
6
13
17
18
19
20
20
21
2?
27
28
6
'7
20
22
4
4
?
26
6
8
18
20
•9
20
iz
16
29
o
6
5
6
'4
28
8
20
20
o
^5
D.
Latitude.
M. Mag Nature.
1
1
20
58
22
59
II
29
9
o
56
25
56
53
55
19
23
40
4'
41
5'
21
o
10
12
47
"5
20
37
27
12
5^
lO
S2
27
7
45
6
"7
'5
5
9
57i
4^
55
58
3«
20
12
^S
25
25
9
27
12
22
4
4
c
5
',6
22
23
24
13
2
16
O
2l
6
lO
6
15
I
8
25
4<»
42
o
o
22
16
14
12
3
I
I
o
8
17
I
II
4
4
7
29
22
2
19
21
3'
47
35
42
I
59
57
46
37
22
30
o
36
3'
II
S3
5«
38
33
26
'4
6
'3
27
48
2
38
57
«4
8
4
26
24
'5
20
18
o
30
59
25
35
'9
5
30
o
27
18
21
7
29
26
o
7
S
N
N
s
N
N
N
S
N
N
N
S
s
s
s
N
s
s
s
s
s
s
N
s
N
N
S
2
2
2
4
2
3
2
2
3
5
3
3
I
I
2
I
z
2
4
3
2
4
2
2
2
2
a
N Neh
N
S
N
N
s
N
N
s
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
S
S
N
N
N
s
N
S
N
h
h
9
h 6
9
h
h %
c? J)
9
6
9
h
h
h
6
c?
S ?
9 9
(? 9 b
$
9 c?
c? D
^ O
c?
c?
J? 9
b9 9
b 9
b 9 9
9 9
14
9
$
b
(?
(?
9
h
h
9
(?
(?
9
s
h
9
y
a
9
9
9
h
(? 9
9 9
The
OF ASTROLOGY. '
189
The filft column contains the names of the fliars ; the fecond fhows
their longitude, or in what degree and minute of the twelve figns they
are fituated ; the third fhows the degree and minute of their latitude,
either north or fouth, which is denoted by the letters N. S. The fourth
column denotes their magnitude; and the fifth fhows their natural
quality. For example : The flar in the wing of Pegafus is in fix degrees
eleven minutes of Aries ; has twelve degrees thirty-five minutes north
latitude, is of the fecond magnitude, and participates of the nature and
quality of Mars and Mercury. The fixed fiars may be found and diftin-
guifhed in the heavens by their conjundlions with the Moon, or by ob-
ferving their order from,^any given point in the heavens ; thus, begin
with the Pleiades, vulgarly called the Seven Stars, and next to them in
order, but fomewhat lower, is a large red ftar called Aldebaran, or the
South Eye of the Bull ; next follows Orion's Belt or Girdle, which are
three ftars in a rank thus, ***, and are vulgarly called the Yard or Ell.
Next follows a flar called the Great Dog, which is a large bright flar,
fomewhat lower than the girdle of Orion. The next is called the Head
of Gemini, and is about the height of the Seven Stars; there are two
together, appearing thus, ^* ; the largeft of the two is the flar here no-
minated. The next, which follows in order, is called South Aflellus, no
great ftar, but of a red colour ; there are two of them, near together and
alike, and fland or appear thus, *^ ; the lowefl of the two is the flar
here meant. Next in order follows a flar called the Head of Hydra,
lower than AfTellus, and of a bright white colour. Then follows a flar
in the flank of the Lion, very bright, and about the height of the Seven
Stars. Next to that the Virgin's Girdle, a bright flar, and lower than
the flank of the Lion. And next follows a curious flar called the Vir-
gin's Spike, very large and bright ; it is a flar of the firfl magnitude, and
appears a little lower, or more foutherly, than the Virgin's Girdle.
Next in order follows the flar called Ardlurus, a very remarkable bright
red-coloured flar, about the latitude of the Pleiades. Then follows
the flar of the Crown, large and bright, and higher than ArcSturus.
Then the right Shoulder of Hercules, of a pale white colour, near the
altitude of the Seven Stars. Then follows the Head of Ophiucus, of a
pale white colour, and fomewhat fouthward of Hercules. Then appears
a flar under the armpit of Sagittary, a bright flar, but very low. Next,
the bright flar of the Vulture, large, and lower than the Seven Stars.
The next flar is called the Left Shoulder of the Water-bearer ; about
the altitude of Orion's Girdle, of a pale white colour. The next in order
is the flar called Marchab, being a flar of a bright colour, a little lower
than the Seven Stars, but much bissrer. Then follows the Southern Star
of the Whale's Tail ; this flar is of a pale colour, and about the height
of the Sun on the fhortefl day. Then follows a flar called the Girdle of
No. 10.
'
Z z Andromeda,
,90 AN ILLUSTRATION
Andromeda, a bright glittering ftar, and much higher than the Pleiades.
Laftly, there is the bright ftar of the Ram, of a red colour, and lower
than the Seven Stars. Thofe that would be curious in thefe fpcculations
fhould ftody the celeftial globe, and learn to be very expert in the ufe of
it, which is eafdy attained, and alfo very entertaining.
Now, to know whether any of the fixed ftars fall into the figure eretl-
ed, I note the fign and degree upon the cufps of the houfes, and then
examine the Tecond column of the foregoing Table of Fixed Stars, and,
if 1 find either of them afcending or delcending within five degrees of the
fiorns upon the cufps of the feveral houies, they are then to be entered in
the fame manner as the planets, and their qualities and influences are to
be duly weighed, according to the nature of whatever planet they corref-
poiid with, which is (hown in the lafl column of the Table. In the fore-
going figure of the heavens, I obferve ly degrees i minute of Vlji upon the
afcendant ; then, looking down the twelve figns in order in the fecond
column of fixed ffars, I find vcji 18. 32. and even with it, in the firft co-
lumn, the Tail of the Lion, which fhows that this flar is alfo afcending
within five degrees of the cufp of the firft houfe, or afcendant ; and there-
fore I place it in the firfl houfe of the figure, under the figntr)^. I then
examine the other cufps according to their rotation ; and, on the cufp of
the fourth houfe, I find J 13. o. and, in the Table of Fixed Stars, I find
l 14. ^^. and even with it the Right Knee of Ophiucus, which fhows
that this ftar is within two degrees of the cufp of the fourth houfe, in
which I accordingly place it. On the cufp of the fixth houfe I fee
jx: 21. 38. and in the Table of Fixed Stars I find Marchab Pegafi in
^ 20. 25. I therefore place it under the fign ^ in the fixth houfe of the
figure. Upon the cufp of the eighth houfe in the figure is T 9- 15- and
in the Table of Fixed Stars I find the Head of Andromeda in T 11. 20.
I therefore place it jufl within the cufp of the eighth houfe. Upon the
medium coeli, I find n 13. o. and in the Table I find the eminent fixed
flar Rigel, of the firfl magnitude, in II 13. 56. I therefore place him in
the mid-heaven. Upon the cufp of the eleventh ftands 25 20. 7. and in
the Table I find the flar Pollux in gs 20. 12. which I enter within the
cufp of the eleventh houfe. Upon the cufp of the twelfth is SI 21. 38.
and in the Table I find the flar Hydra in Q_ 24. I2. and therefore 1 en-
ter him in twenty-four degrees of Leo in the twelfth houfe. And thus I
have collecffed the pofitions of all the planets and eminent fixed flars, as
they flood in the heavens at twenty-four minutes paft eleven o'clock, on
Friday the nth of June, 1784. As the fixed ffars move on their lon-
gitude at the rate of fifty feconds per year, and of courfe vary in their
pofition, I have for this reafon calculated a Table, by which their fitua-
tion mav be known at any given time, paft or to come.
TABLE,
OF ASTROLOGY. 191
TABLE, (howing the PLACES of the FIXED STARS, at any Time,
paft or to come.
Years.
192 AN ILLUSTRATION
note, >|i D 9 • Then I obferve Jupiter in {^even degrees thirty-fix minutes
of Pilces, and Venus in five degrees five minutes of Gemini ; and, their
diftance from each other being reckoned as before, they are found to be
near eighty-eight degrees apart ; and, as ninety degrees make a quartile,
they are now within each other's orbs, and are confequently in a platic
applying to a partile afpedi, becaufe Venus is a fwifter planet than Jupiter;
wherefore I note down this afpe6l 9 %• Then I find Mars in twenty-
leven degrees one minute of Cancer, and Saturn retrograde in twenty-two
degrees fifty-three minutes of Capricorn ; which, being oppollte figns, and
the planet's degrees within each other's orbs, conftitute a platic oppcfition,
which 1 note thus, § b 6 • Thefe being all the afpe6ts, I range them to-
gether under the title of the figure thus, c50$>l=})9n$7/<? b 6 •
This figure is erecffed in the hour of Alars, as may be feen by referring to
the Table of Planetary Hours; I therefore fignify it thus ,5 hor. and, the
latitude under which the figure is ere6fed being that of London, I enter
51*^ 32, that is, fifty-one degrees thirty-two minutes north latitude. But,
as no figure can be ereded by the foregoing Tables of Houfes for any
other latitude than that of London, without being re6tified by the pofi-
tions of the poles, I here fubjoin a Table of the Poles' Pofitions for the
eleventh, third, twelfth, and fecond, houfes, whereby a figure may be
erefled for any latitude from thirty to fixty degrees.
TABLE of the Circles of Pofitions of the eleventh, third, twelfth, and
fecond, Houfes, from thirty-one to fixty degrees of Latitude.
Afcen-
OF ASTROLOGY. 193
Suppofe It were required to find the pole's elevation of the eleventh
third, twelfth, and fecoiid, houfes, for the latitude of fifty-three degrees
I enter the Table at No. 53, under the title Afcendant, and right againfi
it I find, under the eleventh and third houfes, twenty-four degrees forty
minutes, which is the pole's elevation ; and under the twelfth and fecond
houfes 1 find forty-two degrees twenty-fix minutes, which is the pole's
elevation for the twelfth and fecond houfes ; and in this manner they may
be found for any other latitude.
Now, by knowing the pole's elevation for thefe houfes, a figure of the
heavens may be erefted for the nativity of any perfon born within thirty-
one to fixty degrees of latitude. For example, Suppofe a perfon born in
fifty-three degrees of latitude, on the fir (l of June, 1784, at thirty-fix
minutes pafl five o'clock in the afternoon; what would be the degrees
of each fign upon the cufps of the twelve houfes? To know this, turn
to the Ephemeris for the Sun's place on the firft of June, and it will be
found in eleven degrees thirty minutes of Gemini ; then refer to the
Table of Houfes for the Sun in Gemini, and in the column under loth
Houle I look down for 11. 30. but, finding no minutes, I look into the
column upon the left hand under Time from Noon, where I find 4 h.
38 min. the next arch of time being 4 h. 42 minutes, I divide the differ-
ence for the thirty minutes, ^vhich makes the true time 4h. 40 min. To
this I add 5 h. 26 rnin. the time after noon, which added together make
10 h. 16 min. which I feek in the column of time from noon; and in
the next column on the right hand 1 find the figure 2, with 10 Houfe rrij
at the top, which denotes that two degrees of Virgo are at that time upon
the cufp of the tenth houfe.—Then, in order to know what figns poflefs
the other houfes, I look into the firfl column of the Table, with A. R.
at the top, which fignifies the right afcenfion of time, and even with the
above number I find 154.O. which declares that to be the right afcenfion
of the mid-heaven. To thefe 154 degrees I add 30, which make together
184 ; then I refer to the above Table for pole's pofition in fifty-three de-
grees, and even therewith flands 24. 40. which is the pole of the eleventh
houfe. I then refer to the Table of ObHque Afcenfions, for twenty- five
degrees of latitude, and feek the number 184, which I find in the column
under Libra, and 12 min. over; then I look into the firfl column of de-
grees in this Table, and even to 184 flands 4; but, thefe 12 minutes be-
ing too much, I equate for them by the Sexagenary Tables, by which I
find that three degrees forty-three minutes of Libra are to be placed on
the cufp of the eleventh houfe.—Then I add thirty degrees to the above
184, for the twelfth houfe, which make 214. I refer to the above Table
of Poles Pofition in the latitude of fifty-three degrees for the pole of the
twelfth houfe, which I find to be 42. 26 ; 1 rejedt the 26, and in the
No. 10. q A ' Table
G
194 AN ILLUSTRATION
Table of Oblique Afcenfions for lat. 43 I feek 214, which I find under
the column of Libra ; and, looking into the fn{\. column of degrees, I find
27 ; but, equating by the Sexagenary Table for the odd minutes, it gives
twenty-fix degrees thirty-one minutes of Libra for the cufp of the twelfth
houfe.—Then, for the firft houfc, or afcendant, I add to the above 214
thirty degrees more, which make 244, and this fum I feek in the above
Table under the pole or latitude of birth, which is fifty-three degrees ; I
turn to the Table of Oblique Afcenfions for fifty-three degrees, which I
find in the column under Scorpio, and even with it in the firfl: column of
deforces I find 14, which (hows that fourteen degrees of Scorpio are on
the cufp of the afcendant.—I then bring down the above 244, adding
thirty degrees more for the fecond houfe, and thefe make 2745 I then
refer' to the above Table of Poles Pofition for lat. 53. and even with it.
in the column under Second Houfe I find 43. 26. I reject the 26 as be-
fore, and refer to -tjae Tables of Oblique Afcenfions for foity-two degrees
of latitude, where 1 feek No. 274, and find it in the column under Sagit-
tarius ; and even with it in the firfi column of degrees I find 14, which
direds 14 degrees of Sagittarius to be placed on the cufp of the fecond
houfe.—Then, for the third houfe, I add thirty degrees more to the above
274,* which makes together 304; I then refer for the pole's pofition of
the third houfe in the above Table, and find even with lat ^^^ ^^e num-
ber 24. 40 ; but, as thefe minutes exceed thirty, I refer to the Table of
Oblique Afcenfions for twenty-five degrees, where I feek 304, which I
find in the column under Capricorn, and even with it, in the firft column
of degrees, I find 21 ; but, by equating as before for the odd minutes in
the Sexagenary Tables, I find that twenty-one degrees twenty-nine mi-
nutes of Capricorn are upon the cufp of the third houfe. Thus the fix
oriental houfes are furnlflied with the proper degrees of each fign rifing
upon them at the time required, and ftand thus :
On the cufp of the loth houfe
nth houfe
1 2th houfe
Afcendant, or ift houfe
id houfe
3d houfe
And by thefe, the fix occidental houfes are to be furniflied in the fame
manner, as before diredted, with the oppofite figns; but, for the fake of
plainnefs, I will again ftate them.
* Note, that as often as thefe additions of 30 for each progrefSve fign exceed 360, which is the
whole number of degrees in the circle of the zodiac, then the circle of 360 muft be fubtradled, and
the remainder will be the number required of the Tables of Oblique Afcenfions.
Oppofite
OF ASTROLOGY. ^95
r,^-^
Oppofite-^
> IS
<
r^
196 AN ILLUSTRATION
TABLES for converting mean Solar Tinfie into Degrees and Parts of the
terreftrial Equator ; and alfo for converting Degrees and Parts of the
Equator into Solar Time.
! 1. For converting
OF ASTROLOGY. 197
If th'- eader in Table I. reckons the columns marked with afteriflcs
to be I .s of time, the other columns give the equatorial parts or
motion m degrees and minutes ; if he reckons the afterifle columns to be
feconds, the others give the motion in minutes and feconds of the equa-
tor ; if thirds, in feconds and thirds. And if in Table II. he reckons
the afterilk columns to be degrees of motion, the others give the time
anfwering thereto in hours and minutes ; if minutes of motion, the time
is minutes and feconds ; if feconds of motion, the correfponding time is
given in feconds and thirds. An example in each cafe will make the
whole very plain.
EXAMPLE I.
In 10 hours 15 minutes 24 feconds 20 thirds, how much of the Equator
revolves through the Meridian ?
Deg. M. s.
150 o o
3 45 o
- - 060
- - o o j;
Anfwer 153 51 5
Hours
198 AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE of the LATITUDE and LONGITUDE of the principal
Cities and Towns in England and Wales.
Lon
zz 30
« 55
22 57
23 3*
*3 40
20 zi
18 41
20 36I
ZI 54
19 38
21 9
20 47
2Z
24 25
21 7
Lat. 1
51 Z3I
52 8
England.
Reading, Berkftiire
Bedford, Bedfordfhire
Buckingham, Buckinghamfhire
Cambridge, Cambridgclhire
Ely, Carabridgefhire
Chefter, Chefhire
Launrefton, Cornwall
Carlifle, Cumberland
Derby, Derbyfhire
Exeter, Devonfhire
Crookherne, Somerfetlbire
Dorchefter,Dorfetfhire
Durham, Durham
Colchefter, Eflex
Gloucelter, Ciloucerterfhire
Winchefter, Hampfliire
Hertford, Hcrtfordfliire
Hereford, Herefordfhire
Huntingdon, Huntmgdonfh re ...
Canterbury, Kent ,
Rochefter, Kent
Lancaftcr, Lancafhire
Leicefter, Leicefterftiire
Lincoln, Lincolnfhire
London
Monmouth, Monmouthftiire ....
Portfmouth, Hampfliire
Norwich, Norfolk
Peterborough, Northamptonfhire
5'
5*
59
13
22
23
zo 38
z; 12
43
7
H
H
20 33
22 14
22 54
23 z6
20 30
22 26;
H 45
13 7^
jz Z5
53 14
SO 43
54 57
S* 57
50 42
SO 45
50 40
54 46
5' 59
5'
5'
5'
52
5^1
z
5°;
5
52 ZI
SI 18
5« H
54 «>
5* 39
53 "4
5'
5'
32
51
50 50
52 44
S2 34I
Newcaftle, Northumberland ...
Nottingham, Nottinghamfliire ...
Oxford, Oxfordfliire
Oakham, Rutlandfliire
Shrewfbury, Shropfliire
Briftol, Somerfetftiire ,
Bath, Somerfetfliire ,
Wells, Somerfetfliire ,
Litchfield, StafFordfliire
Ipfwich, Suffolk c
Guildford, Surrey ,
Chichefter, SufTex
Coventry, Warwickfhire ,
Kendal, Weftmoreland
Salifbury, Wiltfllire
Worcefier, Worcefterfliire
York, Yorkfhire
Wales.
Beaumaris, Anglcfea
Brecknock, Brecknockfhire
Carmarthen, Carmarthenfliire ..
Bang )r, Carnarvonfliire
"Cardigan, Cardiganfhire
Denbigh, Deiibighfhire
St. Afaph, Flintfliire
LlandafF, Glamorganfliire ..
Montgomery, Montgomeryfliire
St. David's, Pembrokefliire
Radnor, Radnorfhire
Thus, by proper attention to the rules and diredtions preceding, may
any perfon, though of fmall abilities, ere6l the horofcope, and introduce
the figns, planets, and ftars, therein, at any given time required. This
is indifputably a confiderable advancement in the pra6licai part of the
Science of Aftrology ; though it muft be owned, that the mere knowledge
of thus defcribing and arranging the planets in the horofcope, unlefs we
add to it the ability of defining, from certain and pradical rules, the
meaning, efFe6ls, and influences, of them, under whatever afpeds or fitu-
ations they may be found, can be of but little or no advantage. To make
this apparent, let me but a(k the reader to turn to the foregoing figure of
the heavens, ere6led for the nth of June, 1784, and defcribe the natural
meaning and indications of the figns and planets we have taught him to
place therein ? A compliance with this he finds impoffible, not having
either by theory or pradice attained to them. As a key to this important
acquifition, I fhall now lay down fome experienced rules and aphorifms,
which fhould be attentively confidered, and thoroughly underflood, before
any further advances are made in the ftudy. I (hall therefore begin with
the following General Axioms.
I. That
OF ASTROLOGY. 199
I. That every fign, planet, and fixed ftar, hath a fpeclfic and particu-
lar efFe6t in one houfe, or part of the heavens, different from what it has
in another. ;'/;ofT> .rn-
II. That the Sun by himfelf in any houfe of a figure hath one efFeft,
the Moon another, Saturn another, Jupiter another, and fo on through
the whole. And that this holds good alfo in refpeft to the figns and fixed
ftars.
III. That, as a planet hath one eff"e61: in himfelf, fo hath he another
when joined in conjunftion with another planet ; and by a fextile, quar-
tile, trine, and oppofition.
IV. That the quartile and oppofition of Saturn and Mars have one ef-
fe€t ; and the quartile and oppofition of Jupiter and Venus another.
V. That a planet hath one fpecial or fpecific efFe<5t when lord of the
firft: houfe or afcendant ; another when lord of the fecond houfe 5 another
when lord of the third houfe; and, when lord of the fourth, ftill another;
and fo on through all the twelve houfes of heaven.
o
VI. That whatever point of the heavens retains the Sun as fignificator
in any nativity, retains a folar force and influence in refpedl to that na-
tive as long as he lives. The lame rule extends to the Moon, and to Sa--
turn, Jupiter, Mars, Venus, &c. Wherefore the horofcope or afcendant
in every geniture hath and doth contain a radical influence over the na-
tive's life ; the mid-heaven over his aflions and occupation ; and each of
the other houfes over thofe particular ey^nts and viciffitudes to which it
~
refpedively appertains. .', -•
'
VII. That the fame point in the heavens, which in one nativity is the
place of Sun, may in another nativity be the place of Saturn, Jupiter,
Mars, Venus, Mercury, or the Moon,
VIII. That every agent, afling by itfelf, a£ls only according to its own
peculiar form and virtue.
IX. That every patient fuffers according to its own proper nature ; and
that whatever is received is received only in proportion to the capacity of
the receiver.
'
X. That the fame, always exifting, muft always work the lame efl^e<5l
.in or upon the fame fubjed. Thefe being premifed, we fliall confider
The
200 AN ILLUSTRATION
The EFFECTS of each PLANET in each of the TWELVE HOUSES.
Saturn in the firft houfe, or afcendant, fhows melancholy, with many
forrows ; if near the afcendant, (hort life ; if at a diftance, innumerable
troubles; in the fecond, deftroys the fubftance ; in the third, hatred be-
tween brethren, and danger and lofs in journeying ; in the fourth, death
of father and mother before the native, lofs of inheritance and friends
;
in the fifth, barrennefs, death of children, or difobedient ones if living;
in the fixth, much ficknefs, crofles by fervants, and lofles by cattle ; in
the feventh, an ungovernable w'\(e, {hort and wretched life, with many
public enemies ; in the eighth, a violent death and lofs of legacies ; in
the ninth, many lofTes by fea ; in the tenth, difhonour, imprifonmcnt,
(hort life to the parents, death by fentence of a judge ; in the eleventh,
defpair, falfe friends, death of children; in the twelfth, forrow, trou-
ble, imprifonment, and perfecution by private enemies. Thefe are the
common efFeds of Saturn, when fignificator, and weak or meanly dig-
nified.
Jupiter in the firft gives a good, happy, and long, life, juft and
honeft; in the fecond, profufion of riches; in the third, friendfliip of
brethren, and fortunate journeys ; in the fourth, lands and inheritances,
with an honourable life and end ; in the fifth, many children, obedient
and virtuous ; in the fixth, health and faithful fervants, profit by deal-
ing in cattle ; in the feventh an honourable marriage, a good wife, an
honefi, wife, difcreet, virtuous, woman ; in the eighth, a natural death,
long life, legacies ; in the ninth, a true Chrifiian, ecclefiaftical prefer-
ment, profitable fea-voyages; in the tenth, preferment, great and dura-
ble honours, and riches by trading ; in the eleventh, increafe of riches,
faithful and great friends, the fulfilling of all his defires ; in the twelfth,
profit by cattle, vi6lory over private enemies: this if he be ftrong ; if
weak, the good will be much abated.
Mars in the firfl: houfe denotes fhortnefs of life, quarrelfomenefs, fears
in the head or face ; in the fecond, poverty, want, and many troubles
;
in the third, evil brethren, danger in travelling, an atheift, or ungodly
perfon ; in the fourth, fhort life to the father, ftrife between him and
the native, deftrudion to his inheritance ; in the fifth, wicked children,
and of fhort life, or fickly ; in the fixth, fevers, bad fervants, lofs of
cattle ; in the feventh, quarrels, law-fuits, public enemies, an evil wife,
ficknefs, a follower of lewd women ; in the eighth, a violent death,
lofs of fubftance, poverty ; in the ninth, changing of religion, lofs at
fea by robbers, an aiheifl ; in the tenth, unfortunate honour, troubles
from magiflrates, ficknefs to the mother, martial preferment; in the
eleventh.
OF ASTROLOGY. aoi
eleventh, falfe friends, lofs of fubftance. In the twelfth, imprifonment,
lofs by fervants and cattle, many private enemies : this if Mars be weak
and afflided ; if flrong, thefe evils abate, and fometimes the contrary
good takes place,
Sol in the firft gives honour, glory, and long life. In the fecond, a
flow of riches continually, but a confumption of it. In the third, o-ood
brethren and journeys, a ftickler for his religion. In the fourth, honour
in age, a great and noble inheritance. In the fifth, few children, yet fuch
as will be good and virtuous. In the fixth, difeafes of the mind. In the
feventh, a good wife, honourable adverfaries, andficknefs. In the eighth,
a good portion with a wife, danger of a violent death. In the ninth,
truly religious, ecclefiaftical preferment, gain by the fea. la the tenth,
greatnefs, honour, glory, and power, from kings, princes, and noble wo-
men, much exceeding the quality of the native's birth ; the friendfliip of
perfons of high degree. In the eleventh, great and noble friends, and
very faithful; the fulfilling of one's hopes. In the twelfth, powerful ad-
verfaries : this if ftrong ; if weak, in many things the contrary.
Venus in the firft gives health, but inclines to the pleafure of women.
In the fecond, riches in abundance by women's means. In the third, re-
ligious loving brethren, good journeys. In the fourth, an inheritance,
honourable old age. In the fifth, many children, comely, obedient, and
virtuous. In the fixth, ficknefs from womankind, faithful pleafing fer-
vants, profit in fmall cattle. In the feventh, an incomparably good and
virtuous wife, a happy marriage, and but few enemies. In the eighth, a
good dowry with a wife, a natural death. In the ninth, ecclefiaftical
preferment, a really religious man, profit by fea. In the tenth, honour
and preferment by women's means, the favour of great women. In the
eleventh, honourable and faithful female friends. In the twelfth, profit
by great cattle, free from the power of private enemies : this if ftrong
;
if weak the contrary.
Mercury in the firft gives noble thoughts, good invention, graceful
elocution, a lever of arts and fciences. In the lecond, profit by arts and
fciences, books, writings, and the like. In the third, a mathematician,
fwift and profperous journeys, a fcholar, one of an excellent invention,
crafty brethren, a moral perfon. In the fourth, the getting of an inhe-
ritance by cunning or deceit. In the fifth, ingenious children. In the
fixth, thievifti fervants, difeafes of the breath and brain. In the feventh,
a fomenter of quarrels, vexatious law-fuits ; a difcreet wife. In the
eighth, an augmentation of eftate by wills and legacies, death by a con-
fumption. In the ninth, an incomparable artift, and one that under-
No. II. 3 C ftands
202 AN ILLUSTRATION
ftands all fciences, even the moil; obfcure and occult things, a finder-out
of many new and excellent inventions. In the tenth, liberal preferment,
or a fecretary to fome great perfon. In the eleventh, inconftant friends.
In the twelfth, his private enemies will be of little efFeft. This if Mer-
cury be ftrong and not afflicted ; if weak, the good will much abate.
Luna in the firft fhows the native will travel ; will gain fuperiority
and rule over others ; the favour of princes and noble women, and great
advantages thereby. In the fecond, fdmetimes riches, fometimes po-
verty, an unftable fortune. In the third, many journeys. In the fourth,
gain by travelling. In the fifth, many children. In the fixth, difeafes
of the brain, good fervants, and gain by fmall cattle. In the feventh,
an honourable marriage. In the eighth, danger of drowning, but other-
wife a long and healthful life. In the ninth, travels beyond fea, incon-
ftancy in religion, acquaintance with arts and fciences. In the tenth,
great honour unto the native, profit by fea-voyages ; the favour of fome
noble women. In the eleventh, the friendship of great ladies, and noble
friends. In the twelfth, the common people will be his private enemies.
This if Luna be flrong and free from affliction ; if weak and afflidted, the
contrary.
The Dragon's Head in the firft (hows honefty. In the fecond, a
good eftate. In the third, fortunate journeys and honeft: kindred. In
the fourth, gain by land and travels. In the fifth, long life ; happy and
virtuous children. In the fixth, health, good fervants, and profit in cat-
tle. In the feventh, an honeft and virtuous wife. In the eighth, many
legacies, and a natural death. In the ninth, fincere piety, profperity at
fea. In the tenth, durability of honour. In the eleventh, faithful
friends. In the twelfth, open enemies ; but the pofition of the Dragon's
Tail in the fame places fignifies the contrary. The pofition of the Part
of Fortune gives fubftance from all thofe things fignified by that houfe
in which it is pofited, unlefs afflidted by the prefence or beams of a male-
volent planet.
GENERAL EFFECTS of the PLANETS in each of the
TWELVE SIGNS of the ZODIAC.
Saturn, in his own houfe, fignifies wifdom, prudence, and ftability
of fortune. In the houfes of Jupiter, a juft man, and one that will be
rich, and acquire honour. In the houfes of Mars, a ftrong body and
furious. In the houfes of Sol, greatnefs and honour. In the houfes of
Venus, a fecret lover of women. In the houfes of Mercury, one that is
ftudious of arts and fciences. In the houfe of Luna, infirmities of the
breaft and lun^s.
Jupiter,
o
OF ASTROLOGY. 203
Jupiter, in the houfes of Saturn, fignifies avarice and covetoufncfs
living always in fear of poverty. In his own houfes, infinite riches, ho-
nours, and dignities, and that among great perfons and clergymen. In
the houfes of Mars, the native may rife to honour by war. In the houfes
of Sol, honour, glory, and trcafure, from kings and great perfons. In
the houfes of Venus, riches by women, or an honourable wife. In the
houfes of Mercury, a good rhetorician. In the houfe of Luna, increafe
of fubftance beyond expeftation, with honour and renown ; for Cancer
is not only the exaltation of Jupiter, but alfo a cardinal fign, and the
northern tropic.
Mars, in the houfes of Saturn, fliows a lofty and magnanimous
fpirit, and wife. In the houfes of Jupiter, it fhows the acquaintance
of kings, princes, and noblemen. In his own houfes, a great and inge-
nious wit, a mathematician. In the houfes of Sol, forenefs of the eyes,
and danger of a violent death. In the houfes of Venus, luxurioufnefs,
a boafter, given to fallehood, and a deluder of women. In the houfes
of Mercur;,, one ingenious in arts and fciences, but covetous, knavifh,
and deceitful. In the houfe of Luna, a wavering, furious, rafh, man
;
one that may arrive to honour, but will precipitate himfelf therefrom
afterwards..
Sol, in the houfes of Saturn, fhows a dejeded forlorn man. In the
houfes of Jupiter, one that fhall attain honour and glory in the world,
and be a companion of princes. In the houfes of Mars, a great and emi-
nent man; a commander, captain, or general of an army; a fubtle, crafty,
politic, ftatefman. In his own houfe, one that may attain the height of
honour, glory, and renown, quod capax, according to the quality of his
birth. In the houfes of Venus, one that will rife or fall by means of wo-
men. In the houfes of Mercury, a good engineer, a foldier, and mathe-
matician. In the houfe of Luna, honour by different women, but fuch
as he afterwards (hall receive prejudice from.
Venus, in the houfes of Saturn, fignifies hopes of honour and friends,
many children,, and old age. In the houfes of Jupiter, fhort journeys,
ficknefs, imprifonment, or death. In the houfes of Mars, private and
public enemies, and many journeys ; as alfo a lover of different women.
In the houfes of Sol, a fincere lover of his friends, and a lover of his
children. In her own houfes, a healthful long-lived perfon, jufl and
religious. In the houfes of Mercury, one covetous, but fickly ; religious,
yet an enemy to himfelf. In the houfe of Luna, a traveller, and one
that will arrive to great honour and preferment.
Mercury,
,04 AN ILLUSTRATION
Mercury, in the houfes of Saturn, (hows honour and travelling by
fea, with much pleafure, but fickncfs withal. In the houfes of Jupiter,
lands, inheritances, an honourable wife, and good friends. In the houfes
of Mars, private enemies ; ficknefs, many journeys, and a fhort life. In
the houfes of Sol, lands and inheritances, yet fubjedt to imprifonment,
and private enemies. In the houfes of Venus, much wealth and riches,
travelling by fea, one religious, with fome ficknefs. In his own houfes,
wit and ingenuity, knowledge of arts and fciences, honour and renown,
and a lover of children. In the houfe of Luna, many good friends, and
many journeys by land.
">
Luna, in the houfes of Saturn, fignifies one religious, and having many
adverfaries ; as alfo fore eyes. In the houfes of Jupiter, a fickly body,
but one that fhall attain honour, glory, renown, and the favours of great
men. In the houfes of Mars, a lover of friends and children. In the
houfe of Sol, one that (hall be very rich through his own induftry. In
the houfes of Venus, a great lover of children, and one that (hall have
many friends. In the houfes of Mercury, inheritances, lands, and pri-
vate enemies. In her own houfe, happinefs and long life.
GENERAL EFFECTS from the POSITION of the LORDS
OF the houses.
The Lord of the Afcendant, in the afcendant, (hows a fortunate and
happy life, and one that (hall overcome all his enemies. In the fecond,
riches and wealth by his own induftry. In the third, many journeys. In
the fourth, lands and inheritance. In the fifth, children, and one given
to pleafure. In the (ixth, ficknefs. In the feventh, public adverfaries,
and the man will be an enemy to himfelf. In the eighth, legacies. In
the ninth, one religious, learned, and a traveller into foreign countries.
In the tenth, honour, preferment, and favour of princes. In the eleventh,
friends. In the twelfth, danger of imprifonment.
The Lord of the Second, in the fecond, imports great wealth; in the
third, wealth by brethren and travelling ; in the fourth, by the father ;
in the fifth, by gaming ; in the fixth, wealth by dealing in cattle ; in
the feventh, by marriage, and womankind; in the eighth, by legacies;
in the ninth, by the church, arts and fciences, religion, and the fea ; in
the tenth, by honour, preferment, trade, merchandife ; in the eleventh,
by friends ; in the twelfth, by great cattle ; in the afcendant, by birth,
or good fortune.
o
The Lord of the Third, in the third, (hows affedlionate brethren,
good journeys; in the fourth, gain by travelling ; in the fifth, plea-
' fure
OF ASTROLOGY. S05
i'ure in travelling. In the fixth, ficknefs in travelling. In the feventh,
thieves and robbers; and fometimes the native meets with a wife. In
the eighth, death in travelling. In the ninth, religious journeys. In
the tenth, journeys for preferment, trade, and the like. In the eleventh,
for iludy and improvement. In the twelfth, imprifonment in travelling.
In the afcendant, journeys for pleafure, and in purfuit of ufeful difcove-
ries. In the fecond, for profit, wealth, and riches.
The Lord of the Fourth in the fourth, fore(hows a good eftate or inhe-
ritance, a father of long life. In the fifth, that the eftate fliall go to the
native's children. In the fixth, that an eftate may be acquired by phy-
fic. In the feventh, that he may have an eftate with a wife ; in the
eighth, by fome gift, legacy, or wife's portion ; in the ninth, by mer-
chandife, by arts and fciences, or by the church ; in the tenth, by fome
office, dignity, or preferment ; in the eleventh, by means of a friend ;
in the twelfth, by dealing in great cattle ; in the afcendant, by inheri-
tance ; in the fecond, by purchafe ; in the third, by travelling, or by
the death of brethren.
The Lord of the Fifth in the fifth, indicates ftrong, lively, and virtuous,
children. In the fixth, that his children fhall be induftrious to gain
wealth, and it may be by his fervants. In the feventh, that his children
will travel, and that the native and they will difagree ; In the eighth,
that they ftiall polTefs the mother's dowry; in the ninth, that they fhall
be given to pleafure, and go to fea for the father ; in the tenth, that they
(hall be fickly, and follow the father's trade ; in the eleventh, that they
fhall have many public adverfaries, and prove enemies to themfelves ;
in the twelfth, that they (hall have many legacies, yet prove enemies to
their parents ; in the afcendant, that they will prove religious, and
learned, and love their parents ; in the fecond, that they will prove
honourable, and pofTefs the native's fubftance ; in the third, that they
fhall have many friends, and fuch as will be of their own kindred. In
the fourth, that they will have many private enemies.
The Lord of the Sixth in the fixth, forefhows ficknefs, yet juft: fer-
vants. In the feventh, ficknefs by women, and quarelling. In the
eighth, danger of a violent death, and dangerous ficknefs. In the ninth,
ficknefs at fea. In the tenth, ficknefs from hard labour and employment
in fome trade ; in the eleventh, by lofs of fome friend, or fruftration of
his expe6lations ; in the twelfth, by vexation of private enemies ; in the
afcendant, by irregularity of life ; in the fecond, by lofs of fome eftate ;
in the third, by reafon of fome journey ; in the fourth, by lofs of iahe-
No. XI. 3D ritance
2o6 AN ILLUSTRATION
ritance or diikppointmcnt in trade. In the fifth, from vexatious children
and loofencfs of life.
The Lord of the Seventh in the fevetith, (hows ficknefs or death to the
native; yet a good wife. In the eighth, danger of lofmg the wife's for-
tune In the ninth, fhe will be a flranger to him, and a traveller ; in
the tenth, (he will be honourable, and poflefs a good inheritance; in the
eleventh, (he will be an entire lover of him and of his children ; in the
twelfth, (he will be his private enemy ; in the afcendant, (he will be
a very great lover of her hufband ; in the fecond, (he will be the aug-
mentation of his eftate ; in the third, (he will be a lover of her hu(band's
kindred, and defire to go beyond lea ; in the fourth, (he will be very
honourable, and the native (hall have land by her ; in the fifth, a lover of
the native's children ; iu the fixih, (he will be a great affliftion to the na-
tive and herfelf.
The Lord of the Eighth in the eighth, (hows the native (hall die a na-
tural death, and that he (hall have a rich wife. In the ninth, he will be
in danger of drowning. In the tenth, his death may be by fentence of
the judge ; in the eleventh, by the conlpiracy of fome pretended friend ;
in the twelfth, by conf[)iracy of a private enemy ; in the afcendant, by
the native's own irregularity ; in the fecond, by means of moneys or
goods; in the third, by the confpiracy of fome brother, kinfman, neigh-
bour, or thief; in the fourth, by the lofs of an eftate, or fome grief; in
the fifth, by drunkennefs and debauchery ; in the fixth, by ficknefs ; in
the feventh, by a public adverfary, or eminent grief.
The Lord of the Ninth in the ninth, (hows good fea-voyages, know-
ledge of arts and fciences, a religious perfon. In the tenth, that religion
will be profitable and honourable, and the native (hall be famous for his
learning. In the eleventh, church-dignity, and merchandife, by means
of a friend. In the twelfth, church-lands, and that the native will have
clergymen for his enemies. In the albendant, makes the native truly re-
ligious and learned ; and a merchant. In the lecond, riches by fea, arts,
fciences, and the church. In the third, a fe6larian. In the fourth, gain
by the church. In the fifth, one of a loofe religion. In the fixth, ho-
nourable church-preferment ; and yet that the native may be a flave in
his religion. In the feventh, an enemy to the church. In the eighth,
death or perlecution for his religion.
The Lord of the Tenth in the tenth, great honour, glory, and renown.
In the eleventh, by means of a friend; in the twelfth, through an
enemy;
OF ASTROLOGY. 207
enemy ; in the afcendant, by the native's own induftry ; in the fecond by
means of his money ; in the third, by a brother, kinfmau, or neighbour,
or by travel ; in the fourth, by his father ; in the fifth, by a wife ; in the
eighth, by a wife's fortune ; it may alfo fignify a violent death ; in the
ninth, by religion, arts, fciences, and navigation.
The Lord of the Eleventh in the eleventh, denotes great friends. In
the twelfth, private friends. In the afcendant, friends indeed to the na-
tive. In the fecond, fuch as fliall augment the native's fortune ; in the
third, fuch as are of his kindred or neighbours, or as he fliall find in tra-
velling; in the fourth, his father; in the fifth, fome friends of his wife;
in the fixth, his fervants ; in the feventh, his wife ; in the eighth, fome
brother's fervant ; in the ninth, a clergyman, merchant, or lover of arts ;
in the tenth, kings, princes, nobles, or great perfons.
The Lord of the Twelfth in the twelfth, denotes flrong and powerful
private enemies ; in the afcendant, fuch as are among his own family or
houfehold ; in the fecond, fome perfon envying his fituation or eftate.
In the third, kindred and neighbours; in the fourth, his father; in the
fifth, his children; in the fixth, his fervant; in the feventh, his wife
;
in the eighth, fome diftant relation ; in the ninth, fome merchant, foreio-n
dealer, or dignitary in the church ; in the tenth, kings, princes, or men
in power ; in the twelfth, fome particular reputed friend.
GENERAL EFFECTS PRODUCED BY THE ASPECTS.
Of the conjunction.
The Conjun6lion of Saturn and Jupiter (hows inheritances of houfes
and lands, poffeflions, and many worldly profits arifing from cultivatino-
the earth, and tillage, if Mars affli6l not, nor the evil beams of Sol. If
Jupiter is fignificator, the native is miflruflful.
The Conjundion of Saturn and Mars (hows much evil ; the native will
be afflided and vexed, (hall undergo many troubles, and go throuo-h
great difficulties. If you would know the caufe of the good or evil, you
mufl confider the houle in which the configuration happens, and what
houfe the configurated planets are lords of, and accordingly you may
nearly fpeak to the particular matter or accident, be it good or evil; for
things are much varied according to the diverfity of pofition and do-
mination of the planets, by which you mufl necelTarily vary thofe jud^--
ments.
The
to8 AN ILLUSTRATION
The Conjunftion of Saturn and the Sun fhows the lofs of inheritance,
danger of houfes being burnt, the native likely to be cheated, to receive
much detriment, and, it may be, lofe all and become poor ; except a for-
tunate planet be pofited in the fecond houfe.
The Conjundlion of Saturn and Venus fhows one libidinous, and that
he fhall marry a woman wholly of an oppofite temper and difpofition to
himfelf ; get difhonour among women-kind, be unhappy in marriage, and
lead, by reafon of his wife, a very difconfolate life. If Venus be fignifi-
catrix, (he is much afflifted ; but, if Saturn, then the conjundion is be-
neficial ; and this is to be obferved in fimilar cafes.
The Conjundion of Saturn and Mercury fhows craft, fubtilty, and po-
licy ; that the native will dive into many fecret, deep, and occult, things ;
find out myfteries ; be covetous and proud, mixed with a certain kind of
gravity. If Saturn be fignificator, the native has a good elocution; but,
if Mercury, he has a great impediment in his fpeech.
The Conjun61ion of Saturn and Luna (hows one poor and obfcure ; if
Saturn be fignificator, the man is changeable, feldom an hour in one
mind, often doing things, and then repenting of them again ; but, if Luna
be fignificatrix, he is grave, cautious, malapert, over-wife and conceited,
and for the mod part wilful in all things.
The conjun61ion of Jupiter and Mars, if Jupiter be fignificator, makes
the native choleric, hafty, angry, bold, proud, prefumptuous, and daring
;
gives him fome martial command, and glory and renown in warlike
undertakings; but, if Mars be fignificator, it makes him milder, reli-
gious, good, juft, gives him preferment in the law, or he becomes a pried,
deacon, bi(hop, or other dignitary in the church.
TheConjundion of Jupiter and Sol. If Jupiter be fignificator, he af-
fll6ts the native feverely, cafts him into a deep melancholy or defpair,
feizes him with a fever or frenzy, brings the body to a confumption, and
afflids the eflate with confiderable lofs, even to his utter ruiti and de-
ilruftion ; yet, when by direftion Jupiter frees himfelf from Sol's beams,
thefe evils will ceafe ; but, if Sol be fignificator, he fo debilitates Jupiter,
that the configuration can promife nothing, but it makes the native
religious.
The Conjunflion of Jupiter and Venus. If Jupiter be fignificator, the
native is fuperlatively happy (more efpecially if the configurations happen
in Pifces, the houfe of Jupiter, and exaltation of Venus) ; he increafes in
wealth
OF ASTROLOGY. 209
wealth and fubftance, in honour and glory, in health of body, and tran-
quillitv of mind, having in general the love of woman-kind ; but, if
Venus be fignificatrix, the native has beauty, health, and riches, attains
to great honour and renown, is truly virtuous, pious, and religious, and
has generally ecclefiaftical or jurifprudential preferment. This is one of
the moO: happy configurations that can be.
The Conjunflion of Jupiter and Mercury, if Jupiter be fignificator,
makes the native virtuous, religious, wife, of great knowledge, and of
good elocution, makes a general fcholar, and gives him the knowledge
of moft arts and fciences ; he may prove to be the ambafTador of a prince,
or fuch-like ; but, if Mercury be fignificator, the native is folid, lerious,
and grave, pious and religious, and probably may acquire a good eftate
by merchandife or fome ecclefiaftical promotion.
The Conjunftion of Jupiter and Luna. If Jupiter be fignificator, the
native proves a traveller, it may be beyond lea ; he is generally of a
changeable and mutable mind, and, although naturally of a very good
humour and condition, yet fometimes pettifh, froward, and peevilh. If
Luna be fisfiiificatrix, it siives great riches and treafures, according to the
native's capacity or birth; makes him prudent, wife, religious, and ho-
nourable ; gives him the acquaintance of great and worthy men clergy-
men, and fuch-like, and probably church-preferment. .. .
The conjunftion.of Mars and Sol fhows a hot and dry conflitution,
danger of fhort life, and death by hciStic fevers, marafmus, or by fire or
lig-htnino;. If Mars be figrnificator, the native has the favour of king;s and
princes, and it may be their frowns too, to his utter undoing ; he may
rife haftily, but perhaps to a precipice. If Sol be fignificator, the native
proves valiant and warlike, attains fome martial command or preferment
;
but, if he goes into war, he is killed in battle, or at beft comes off
wounded, or with the lofs of a limb.
The Conjundion of Mars and Venus. If Mars be fignificator, the na-
tive is given up to women, and retains the acquaintance of fuch as have
an infamous life and converfation ; he is kind, gentle, and courteous,
and, though fometimes hafty, yet of a good humour and difpofition, in-
fomuch that his kindnefs is oftentimes his undoing ; but, if Venus be
fignificatrix, the native is luflful, lafcivious, a fornicator, adulterer;
given over to wicked and lewd courfes, hafty, rafh, proud, inconfiderate,
quarrelfome, and running himfelf into many hazards, dangers, troubles,
and lofles.
No. II. 3 E The
iio AN ILLUSTRATION
The Conjundion of Mars and Mercury. If Mars be fignificator, he
rrtakes the native pragmatical, talkative, a fmatterer in learning, a bab-
bler and deceiver, yet induftrious for the promotion of his own ends
and defigns; it gives no great preferment ; he may be a knavifli appara-
tor, cheating petty-fogger, or pedantic pedagogue : but, if Mercury be
fignificator, the native proves one of harfh manners and converfation, of
an ill life, a thief, highwayman, felon, murderer, traitor, ice.
The Conjundion of Mars and Luna. If Mars be fignificator, the na-
tive is of evil manners and infamous converfation ; rifes to no great pre-
ferment; but, if it fhould fo chance that the fcale fhould turn, his rife
may be by means of fome great lady; but, if Luna be fignificatrix, the
native is bold, ra(h, adventurous, quarrelfome, furious, given to cruelty
and bafe atSlions, may prove a thief, murderer, or traitor ; feldom lives
long, for this pofition fignifies a fhort life, and that the native may die a
violent death, by the means of fire, iron, a fall, blow, wound, or by the
hand of the executioner.
The Conjunftion of Sol and Venus. If Sol be fignificator, it makes
the manners of the native foft and effeminate ; yet he is born to glory,
and to do and perform great adions ; he obtains the love of women, but
affociates himfelf with fuch as are bafe, obfcure, libidinous, infamous, and
much below his rank and quality. If Venus be fignificatrix, it fhows a
fhort life, one aiming at glory, but not attaining it ; the native is he6tic
or confumptive, melancholy, meets with many croffes, loffes, and vexa-
tions ; and lives not out half his days.
The Conjun61ion of Sol and Mercury. If Sol be fignificator, the na-
tive is adorned with wit, ingenuity, learning, arts, fciences, policy, under-
ftands languages, and the power of words ; and, becaufe Mercury delights
to be under the Sun-beams, not being thereby hurt, as are the other pla-
nets, the native has excellent elocution, and proves a good rhetorician
and logician. If Mercury be fignificator, he bends all his wit, craft, and
policy, for the accomplifhment of high matters, and the attaining of great
things ; he becomes the favourite of a king, prince, or great man.
The Conjun6lion of Sol and Luna. If Sol be fignificator, though he
generally gives a great and high fpirit, and aiming at magnificent things,
yet this configuration gives only mean and low acquaintance, and the fo-
ciety of the common people ; makes the native mutable and changeable,
and his fortune unflable. If Luna be fignificatrix, the native fhall aim at
noble and gallant things, but not attain them ; many crofles (hall befal
him, and his life ihall be fhort.
The
OF ASTROLOGY. 211
The Conjunftion of Venus and Mercury. If Venus be fignincatrix, it
gives a delicate beautiful body, adorned with wit, ingenuity, and elo-
quence ; niakes the native courteous and complaifant, furnifhes him with
variety of arts and learning, and is a configuration of very good import.
If Venus be lady of the fecond, it gives a good augmentation of fortune
through merchandife, or the ftudy of arts and fciences. If Mercury be
fignificator, it makes the native an orator, furnifhes him with courtfliip,
foft and effeminate words, makes him pleafant in all company, gives him
the fociety and love of women, and, if Venus be ftrong, of great ladies
;
in a word, it makes him exceedingly happy.
The Conjundion of Venus and Luna. If Venus be (ignificatrix, it
makes the native mutable and changeable, a mere Proteus, yet with a deal
of pleafantnefs and fatisfaftion to others ; it makes him of many words, a
great promlfer, but no performer; proud, lofty, conceited, and gives
him profit by the Tea, and all lunar and moift commodities. If Luna be
{ignificatrix, the native is very effeminate and courtly, having a voluble
tongue, free language, and excellent difcourfe, inclined to the love of wo-
men, which, if Venus be ftrong, is only to fuch as are virtuous ; delights
in mufic, dancing, and merry company, never thinking of forrow, or lay-
ing any thing to heart.
The Conjundlion of Mercury and Luna. If Mercury be fignificator, it
makes the native travel into foreign countries, defirous to fee new things,
fafhions, and places ; gives him favour and efteem among the ladies, and
to be in great eflimation among the popularity, by means of whom he rifes
to a good fortune, and to great profperity in the world. If Luna be fig-
nificatrix, it makes the native ingenious, and a lover of learning, feeking
after the knowledge of moil arts and fciences, chiefly the mathematics,
geography, cofmography, and navigation, by which he attains credit and
reputation ; he delights in journeys and embaffies, being of a mutable
and inconflant humour and difpofition.
Of the SEXTILE and TRINE.
The Sextile and Trine of Saturn and Jupiter, if Saturn be fignificator,
makes the native grave, fober, wife, religious, pious, and endows him with
riches and treafures of this life, gives him the favour and acquaintance of
the rich and great, or the native becomes a merchant, and gains confide-
rablyby it. If Jupiter be fignificator, the native is more propenfe to me-
lancholy, is inclinable to dig and delight in the earth and follow huf-
bandry ; fome eflate, inheritance, or houfes, may fall to him ; and he
may be promoted to fome ecclefiaftical dignity for his worth, learning,
and virtue ; however, Saturn (hows cowardice.
The
212 AN ILLUSTRATION
The Sextile or Trine of Saturn and Mars. If Saturn be lignificator,
his natural flownefs and warinefs turns into rafhnei's and boldnefs, (yet
with a kind of temerity ;) he runs into precipitate adions, and ftrangc ad-
ventures ; it commonly gives martial preferment. If ATars be fignifica-
tor, the raftinefs and daringncf's of difpofition are much abated, and the
native is guided by very confiderate and deliberate counfels ; if he proves
religious, (as luch feldom do,) he is an abfolute fetlarian, following perti-
nacioufly the fentiments of his own mind ; it fhows an ertate in land or
legacies.
The Sextile or Trine of Saturn and the Sun. If Saturn be fignificator,
the native has an auftere countenance, lightifh brown hair, large bones,
not very flefhy, (looping a little in his going ; he has a (how of generofitv
and noblenefs in his a6tions, but pafiionate and feeking revenge, vet
without any great courage or valour if put to the trial ; he probably mav
attain preferment at court. If Sol be fignificator, the man is more cor-
pulent, yet with a very decent body and a full round face ; given to
boafling and oftentation, wilful and conceited, yet without any kind of
malice, Icarcely injuring any but himlelf, by his extravagant expenle and
prodigality.
The Sextile or Trine of Jupiter and Venus. If Saturn be fignificator,
the native is comely, having brown hair, a delighter in women's company,
wafting his patrimony upon the female Tex, Icarcely leaving any eflate
behind for his fuccelTors, given over to pleafure and voluptuoufnefs. If
Venus be fignificator, the native is modeft, fhame-taced, yet loving his
belly well, very affable and courteous, and inclinable to few vicious ac-
tions ;
gains by the dead, from ancient people, and from the fruits and
profits of the earth ; he has a good repute and converfation, and fcarcely
marries till after thirty years of age.
The Sextile or Trine of Saturn and Mercury. If Saturn be fignificator,
the native is conceited, full of chimeras and whims, of plots and contri-
vances, yet not often with effect, though carried on with a great deal of
ingenuity; he loves curiofities, and is ftudious, fubtil, and referved. If
Mercury be fignificator, the native is peevifh, difcontented and deje<5led in
his own mind, has ftrange fancies, and is very wilful, even Ibmetimes to
his own ruin ; yet given to the fludy of arts and fciences, and finding
out many curious inventions.
The Sextile or Trine of Saturn and Luna. If Saturn be fignificator, the
native is wilful, though very changeable of difpofition, fijbjedf to jcaloufy
and miflrufl. If Saturn be well fortified, the native becomes popular
and
OF ASTROLOGY. 213
and gains much wealth and eftimation by the common people ; he alfo
attains the favour of fome eminent lady, and becomes famous in his ge-
neration. If Luna be fignificatrix, the native is cold by nature, and of an
ill complexion, inclinable to fordid and mean adions ; yet he is deliberate,
and, if he does ill, he does it with pre-con(ideration ; he is apt for inven-
tion, but very wilful in all things, conceited of himfelf, fo that he thinks
nothing well done but what he does himfelf.
The Sextile or Trine of Jupiter and Mars. If Jupiter be fignificator,
it fliows one of a free and noble difpofuion, bold, valiant, and honourable,
attempting and attaining brave and honourable exploits, generous to his
friends, obliging to his enemies, yet defiring and endeavouring to rule:
he i& alfo refolute and fubtle. If Mars be fignificator, the native is a man
of a large foul, cheerful and merry, of a jovial difpofition, a6live, cou-
rageous, pious, and a very juft man ; ennobled with valour, viftory, and
virtue ; one of good fame, and obtaining the favour and good-will of
great and worthy perfons.
The Sextile or Trine of Jupiter and Sol. If Jupiter be fignificator, it
fhows a flrong, tall, well-proportioned, body, of a frefh ruddy com-
plexion ; a noble, generous, courageous, foul, and of a magnanimous
mind ; one attempting and achieving great and honourable things ; or
becomes the favourite of fome king, prince, or great perfon, and rifes to
the top of preferment. If Sol be fignificator, the native is born to honour
and glory, and, quod capax, arrives to the highefl of all worldly felicities j
he is a man of great fpirit, performs beneficent and honourable adlions;
as Jupiter endows him with a fund of treal'ure, fo the liberal Ipirit of Sol
makes him wafle it in his too great generofity.
The Sextile or Trine of Jupiter and Venxisf. If Jupiter be (ignificatof,-
it gives a tall and complete perfon, of a pleafant, loving, courteous, difpo-
fition ; kind to the female fex, of an exceeding good nature, and the pa-
tron of hofpitality; it is the af'peft of love, concord, agreement, good-
fortune, and riches; the native is preferred, and rifes to honour. If Ve-
nus be fignificatrix, the perfon is comely and lovely, one generoufly dif-
pofed, aiming only at things brave, honourable, virtuous, and good :
it is the afpedl of virtue and piety, of honour, preferment, and vafl for-
tune, in the world ; the native has the acquaintance of perfons of the
higheft ecclefiaftical order, and, it may be, attains the like preferment
himfelf.
The Sextile or Trine of Jupiter and Mercury. If Jupiter be fignifi-
cator, it fhows a jufl, virtuous, good, man ; ingenious, and of a very fiibtle
No, II. 3 F wit J
214 AN ILLUSTRATION
wit; it is the afpe£l of ingenuity, eloquence, and learning; the native is
affable, courteous, mild, and a general lover of learning ; one who by his
worth and virtue may be the fecretary or ambaflador to fome king or
prince. If Mercury be fignificator, it (hows one very ingenious, and whofe
wit is mixed with virtue and honefty ; of a deep underllanding, profound
wifdom, found judgment, and fuccefsful in any enterprife ; a perfoii fit
to be the counfellor of a king, or manager of the affairs of a kingdom or
commonwealth ;
generous, free-fpirited, and perfeftly trufty.
The Sextile or Trine of Jupiter and Luna. If Jupiter be fignificator,
the native is generally good, juft, and virtuous, but of a very mutable
mind, changing his opinion with the leafl perfuafion ; it is the afpe6t of
popularity and general applaufe, and he becomes famous in his generation,
and draws after him the love of the common people ; he is loquacious,
highly conceited of himfelf, fortunate by water and women. If Luna be
fignificatrix, it fhows one of a generous, noble, juft, mind, aiming at high
and honourable things ; he gains by the church and churchmen, and is
an exaft obferver of juftice and truth, and a perfon who by his good
nature would oblige the whole world.
The Sextile or Trine of Mars and Sol. If Mars be fignificator, the
native has a rifing fortune, proves great, famous, and eminent, in the
world ; meets with preferment at court, or has the efpeciai favour of fome
king or prince : it is the afped of aftion and honour ; he is witty, inge-
nious, and trufty ; faithful even to his advcrfaries ; of a nimble wit, quick
fancy, courteous, and friendly; he may prove a general or commander
of an army. If Sol be fignificatrix, it is the afpeit of valour and vidory ;
the native is of a high fpirit and courageous, attains military honour and
preferment, loves warlike exercifes, appears a terror to his adverfaries,
and fifes far fuperior to his birth.
The Sextile or Trine of Mars and Venus. If Mars be fignificator, it is
the afpeft of liberty and love; if Mars be out of his dignities, the native
is vicious above meafure, loves gaming, wantonnefs, women, and all
manner of lewdnefs and debauchery ; he is ill-natured, unlefs among
his own party, and vvaftes and fpends his fortune upon women ; but, if
Mars is in his dignities, it fliows one witty, ingenious, a fearcher-out of
myfteries, and one who ftiall gain a confiderable fortune in the world.
If Venus be fignificatrix, it is the afped of pride, vanity, and vain-glory :
the native is comely, but bold, rafti, and adventurous, fearing nothing,
aiming at great things, and promifing himfelf mountains, but perfefting
little; and, if Venus be weak, the perfon is debauched, and guilty of
many lewd adtions.
The
OF ASTROLOGY. 215
The Sextile or Trine of Mars and Mercury. If Mars be fignificator, it
is the afped of confidence and craft ; the native has a pregnant fancy,
capable of any thing ; prudent, fubtle, bold, very ingenious, eloquent,
and ftudious in moft arts and fciences, yet fomething hafty, and fubjeft
to pafiion, which being over, the man is good-humoured again. If Mer-
cury be lignificator, the native is valiant, courageous, ingenious, a lover
of military exercifes, phyfic, furgery, and chemiftry ; and may probably
get a fortune by the fire, or dealing in martial commodities ; the native
has generally a good opinion of himfelf.
The Sextile or Trine of Mars and Luna. If Mars be fignificator, it is
the afpeft of loquacity and mutability ^ the native gets by the common
people, or by travel, often changing his ftation or place of dwelling; he
is turbulent, furious, and rafh, but is eafily perfuadcd again to a compla-..
cent humour. If Luna be fignificatrix, the native is paffionate, ambi-
tious of honour, afpiring to great things, and purfijing them even to a
precipice; and, when attained, they feldom continue with him; and the
reafon is, becaufe of the mutability and changeablenefs of his own nature,
mind, and difpofition, which beget a change of his fortunes.
The Sextile or Trine of Sol and Venus. If Sol be fignificator, it is the
afpeft of candour and generofity ; the native is exceedingly good-
natured, of an heroic difpofition, having nothing but gallantry in all his
aftions ; he gets by women, and has the favour of fome rich lady, by
whom he meets either with a good fortune or promotion ; he is witty,
ingenious, and of an adtive fancy. If Venus be fignificatrix, it is the
afpe6l of grandeur and magnificence ; the native meets with court pre-
ferment, or has the favour of fome prince ; rifes to high honour and
glory in the world ; of a good difpofition, yet a little paffionate, foon
angry, and as quickly appeafed again ; of a free liberal difpofition, lofty,
and a little given to pride and vain-glory ; but in general a fociable,
merry, good-humoured, perfon.
The Sextile or Trine of Sol and Mercury. If Sol be fignificator, the
native is proud, ambitious, conceited, yet very courteous, and without
any feeming refentment ;
pafTes over fmall afFrt)nts, left the taking notice
of them Ihould be any prejudice to his grandeur ; he is nimble-witted,
loquacious, and very good at invention. If Mercury be fignificator, the
native feems to rife in the world wholly by his own wit and ingenuity,
and without doubt will attain to a degree of honour above that of his
birth and anceftors' quality.
The
ai6 AN ILLUSTRATION
The Sextile or Trine of Sol and Luna. If Sol be fignificator, it is the
afpe£l of credit and fame, makes the native eminent in the world, born to
great a6lions, and to perform extraordinary undertakings amongfl: the
common people ; he is cried up for a god among the multitude ; if he be
a priefl or a phyfician, he has a vaft number of followers ; he is plealant,
cheerful, and good-natured. If Luna be fignificatrix, the native is proud,
ambitious, coveting after honour and glory, and generally born to enjoy
a great meafure thereof, but very mutable in his reiolves ; and, if Luna
be weak, he falls into diOionour again.
The Sextile of Venus and Mercury. If Venus be fignificatrix, the na-
tive is very comely, witty, ingenious, fubtle, and of a good nature, feldorft
guilty of any difhonourable a6lion, a good orator, and of an alpiring
fancy, yet feldom bringing things to perfection. If Mercury be fignifi-
cator, the native is of an exceedingly courteous nature; amorous, one de-
lighting in women's company, by whom he meets either with fortune or
preferment ; he is wife, prudent, juft, virtuous, a lover of learning, and
embelliflied with many excellent parts, both natural and acquired ; but,
if Mercury is weak and out of his dignities, the native proves vicious in-
flead of virtuous.
The Sextile or Trine of Venus and Luna. If Venus be fignificatrix,
the native will certainly arrive to honour, and be made great or rich, by
means of fome eminent lady ; he alfo has the eflimation of the common
people, and becomes very popular ; but is one of an inconftaiit unrtable
mind, by reafon of which he performs no great things; he is a comely
engaging perfon, neat and genteel, and very apt to be taken with court-
Ihip. li Luna be fignificatrix, the native is very effeminate and amorous,
of a gentle obliging difpofition and temper; fober, jufl^, and having
the love of moft women that he converfes with; but, if Luna be weaffc
and otherwile unfortunate, the native inclines to vice.
The Sextile or Trine of Mercury and Luna. If Mercury be fignificator,
the native is witty and ingenious, a lover of novelties and all manner of
new inventions and fancies, and mutable and changeable in bis mind,
refolution, and in all undertakings ; a man purely given to the art of dit-
fimulation, though a pleafant companion. If Luna be fignificatrix, the
native dives into arts and Iciences, is fubtle, crafty, covetous, a lover of
bimfelf, referved, and a little melancholy ; if Luna be ftrong, he makes
an excellent orator, a good advocate, and may be fecretary to lome prince
or nobleman; if Luna be weak, the native is a complete mafler of the
art of decciviuGc.
Of
OF A3TR0L0GV. aiy
Of the QUARTILE and OPPOSITION.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Saturn and Jupiter. If Saturn be fig-
nificator, it fhows trouble and vexation ; if the man be a fe6larian, he is
perfecuted by the clergy, tormented, and molefted ; if the conjun61ion
falls in the afcendant, twelfth, eleventh, tenth, or ninth, houfes, the
mifchief falls in the fore part, of life, and the native, through his own
folly, lofes a great part of his fortune or eftate. If Jupiter be fignihca-
tor, it is the afpeft of unceadng troubles and miferies : the native is a
continual lofer, has great crofTes, meets with difgrace and contempt,
and, were he born to a prince's eftate, would be in danger of becoming
a beggar ; the native is of a poor low fpirit, crofs, peevifh, ina6tive, dull,
miferable, and unfortunate in the world.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Saturn and Mars. If Saturn be fignifi-
cator, it is the afpe6l of cruelty and murder : the native is bafe, trea-
cherous, perfidious, envious, quarrelfome, choleric, proud, fcornful,
unfociable, rafh, ungrateful, and a very ill-natured perfon ; he has good
fbore of wit, but it is only to do mifchief with ; it is the afpefl of treafon
and rebellion ; the native is wilful, melancholy, fubjedl to many linger-
ing and continuing difeafes, and will be in danger of an untimely death
by falls, blows, treachery, or poifon ; the native has an unhappy father,
from whom he in part derives his turbulent fpirit, which extremely hurts
both himfelf and others.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Saturn and the Sun, This, if Saturn be
fignificator, is an afpe61: of contempt and infamy ; it fhows danger of a
violent death, and it may be by the hand of juftice ; the native aims at
high and great things, but always milTes his expe6lations, for his very at-
tempts only are his ruin, both of goods and eftate, and may fometimes
cofl: his life ; the native has a fhow of boldnefs, courage, and revenge, but
his valour is only a vapours If the Sun be fignificator, it is the afpe6l of
treafon and cowardice ; the native is inwardly very fpiteful and mali-
cious, falfe even to his deareft friend, ftudying revenge only by ways oc-
cult and cowardly ; he is wilful, fearful, and timorous, yet impudently
boafting of great things, far above his fphere, capacity, underftanding.
or undertaking:.
o"
The Quartile or Oppofition of Saturn and Venus; If Saturn be figni-
ficator, it is the afpeft of infamy and vice ; the native loves women,
and defires unlawful things ; his carriage is rude ; his condition bafe
No. u
,
3 G given,
ai8 AN ILLUSTRATION
CTiveii over to lufts and pleafures of the flefh, inclinable to nothing but
vicious and fordid actions, prodigal in his expences, wafleful to the con-
fumption of his fortunes. If Venus be fignificatrix, it is the afpedt of de-
formity and bafenefs : the native is of a poor, low, bafe, timorous, fpirit,
afflldted with the greateft of all misfortunes and cataftrophes; lofes by the
fruits and products of the earth, and is indeed a gainer by nothing. It is
the deftrudion of the fignificatrix.
The Quartlle or Oppofition of Saturn and Mercury. Jf Saturn be fig-
nificator, it brings many evils from mercurial men and things, and from
profecutions and lawfuits; gives the native an impediment in his Ipeech,
and makes him ftutter, or ftammer; dulls the fancy, fpoils the ingenuity,
and makes the native wholly intent upon mifchief, wickedncfs, deceit,
cheating, and thieving. If Mercury be fignificator, the native will be
unfortunate in all his actions, perpetually poor, of a perverfe, felf-willed,
evil, malicious, envious, treacherous, difpofition, and it may be a mur-
derer, for Saturn ftirs up mercurial men to all manner of wickednefs ; he
will be deceitful above meafure, of a dejeded mind, revengeful, and
bring nothing to perfeftion.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Saturn and Luna. If Saturn be fignifi-
cator, it is the afpeft of travel and difcontent ; the native is of an in-
different ftature, dark or black hair, a difproportioned body, fometimes
crooked, a traveller, wanderer, or vagabond ; one having the ill-will and
reproach of all people, and not undefervedly ; a mere deceiver, and fub-
je(5l to great and manifold misfortunes from the vulgar. If Luna be fig-
nificatrix, it is the afpedt of jealoufy, fufpicion, and mift'uft ; the native
is crooked both in perfon and mind, malicious, deceitful, ftrongly vicious,
fcandalous, and debauched ; he is afflided all the days of his life with
innumerable troubles, croffes from adverfaries, want of health, wafting
of his eftate, poverty, death of his mother, a fliort life, and danger of a
violent death.
The Quartlle or Oppofition of Jupiter and Mars. If Jupiter be the
fignificator, it is the afpedt of fury and Ingratitude ; the native is rafh, fu-
rious, adventurefome, quarrelfome, choleric, and fometimes is vexed with
malignant fevers, is in danger of a violent death by a wound or blow ; a
wafter and deftroyer of himfelf, running headlong unto precipices, defi-
rous of rule, refolute, ill-natured, fubtle, and perpetually ungrateful to
all his friends, forgetting all their kindneffes. If Mars be fignl'icator,
it is the afpedl of atheifm and infidelity ; the native waftes and dcftroys
his fortune and fubftance ; he is bold, audacious, impudent, and incorri-
gible ; of a proud, fcornful, fcoffing, haughty, infolent, humour ; a defpifer
of
OF ASTROLOGY. 219
of religion, virtue, piety, and moral honefty ; and is the abomination of
all CTOod men.
o
The Quartile or Oppofition of Jupiter and the Sun. If Jupiter be fig-
nificator, it is .the afpe6t of arrogance and vain-glory ; the native is profufe
and riotous, given to all forts of excefs and prodigality, and lofes his ex-
peftation ; this configuration deprives him of all manner of honour and
preferment ; he is noble, lofty, and brave, but only in outward appear-
ance, and does nothing but to be feen of men. If the Sun is {ignificator,
the native waftes his patrimony; is proud, lofty, and pragmatical ; a de-
fpifer of the church and religion, and a great lover of pleafure and diffi-
pation, to his own infamy and ruin.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Jupiter and Venus. If Jupiter be ilg-
nificator, it is the afpeft of fornication and lufl. ; the native is given over
to debauchery, more efpecially if Venus difpofes of Jupiter. If Venus
be lady of the fecond, the native waftes his fortune and eftate, and will
become indigent and poor; he follows bafe and lewd women, and gets
an infamous name in the world. If Venus be fignificatrix, the native is
proud, pragmatical, conceited, given over to carnal pleafures, a defpifcr
of piety, virtue, honefty, and religion ; one having a mere outfide, a flat-
terer, deceiver, a wafter of his own fortune and patrimony ; he will have
many enemies created by his own evil ways, chiefly among thofe of the
church, and people of an honeft converfation.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Jupiter and Mercury. If Jupiter be
fignificator, it is the ai; e6l of ftrife and contention ; the native will be in-
volved in many troubles, controverfies, and perplexities, have many law-
fuits and incumbrances, to his very great prejudice, and to the injury of
his health as well as of his eftate ; be will be rafh, humourfome, and very
unflable in all his ways, being generally deceived in all his expe6latiohs ;
for Mercury, thus afflicted, reprefents things wrong to the imagination.
If Mercury be fignificator, it is the afpe6t of folly and imprudence; the
native is overfeen in all he undertakes, makes filly refolves, and as fool-
ishly repents of them to his prejudice; a repining fimple creature, given
over to fimplicity and abfurdity, to his own utter undoing.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Jupiter and the Moon. If Jupiter be
fignificator, it fhows a wafting and lofs of fubftanceby many ordinary peo-
ple; makes the native mutable, foolifh, without refolution, and one full
of words without any depth of reafon in them ; it fhows alfo lofs of
credit and eftimation, and brings many popular evils on him. If th«
Mooa
aco AN ILLUSTRATION
Moon be figtiificatrix, the native is perplexed with unequal fortunes in
the world; many crofTes and afflidions befal him ; falfe friends and de-
ceitful confederates enfnare him ; his fubftance is made a prey to merci-
4efs enemies, and himfelf the objeft of their cruelty.
The Quartilc or Oppofition of Mars and the Sun. If Mars be fignifi-
cator, it is the alpeft of confufion and ruin, the native aims at great and
high things, but falls at laft into an abyfs of troulde and milery ; he
mifcarries in all his undertakings, heaps upon himfelf torrents of forrow ;
and may exped a violent death ; which, if the Sun be lord of the fixth,
feventh, or eighth, houfes, will be by means of a fall, or of a wound
with a weapon ; but, if lord of the tenth, by fentence of a judge. If the
Sun be fignificator, it is the afpe6l of vanity, fury, and madnefs ; it fliows
-danger of the lofs of an eye, violent death, or death of a malignant fe-
ver; the native is rafh in all his adions, fquanders away his fubftance,
and makes his life and fortunes miferable and defperate.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Mars and Venus. If Mars be fignifica-
tor, the native is given to vanity, wickednefs, luftful pleafures, and all
manner of abominations of the flefh, gluttony, gaming, and drinking;
he is treacherous, ill-natured, and very unfortunate ; when he marries,
he commonly marries a woman of ill-fame ; he is much given to boaft-
ing and oftentation. If Venus be fignificatrix, the native is infinitely
wicked, a thief, felon, highwayman, or murderer; takes to all manner
of vice and mifchicf ; unfortunate both to himfelf and others ; given to
ftrife, contention, and every kind of debauchery and wickednefs.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Mars and Mercury. If Mars be fignifi-
tator, the native is bold, impudent, bafe, treacherous, deceitful above
meafure, even to his moft endeared friends; an atheift, a dcfpifer of God
and all goodnefs, a fuperficial, inconftant, unfettled, wretched, crea-
ture; a Ihifter up and down, a thief, and one that lives by dangerous
courfes ; one ill brooking, and long retaining, the fenfe of an injury ;
humourfome, conceited, difficult to be pleafed, and unfortunate in all
things, if Mercury be fignificator, the native is guilty of many crimes,
is of a very wicked and evil nature, likely to be guilty of murder or rob-
bery; a breeder of contention and mifchief, and a follower of almoft
6very diflionourable pradtice.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Mars and the Moon. If Mars be figni-
ficator, the native is ill-tongued, a perfect fcold, gives railing and bafe
language in almoft all difcourfe, is ungrateful, and a forgetter of kind-
nelTes,
OF ASTROLOGY. 221
nefles, a wanderer, a vagabond, a detra6l:or from other men's worth, one
ftupid and of a fervile life, unfortunate in all his undertakings. If the
Moon is fignificatrix, the native will be in danger of lofing one of
his eyes, die a violent death, or be fubjed to many crofTes, troubles,
and affliftions of fortune and juftice ; he is fubjeft to hurts, wounds, and
other mifchiefs, and is mutable, rafli, paffionate, ambitious, prodigal,
malicious, treacherous, and fubjefl to innumerable miferies.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Sol and Venus. If Sol is fignificator,
the native lives in a difhonourable repute, receives many great troubles
and misfortunes by means of women ; he is bold, confident, proud, one
delighting in flrife, contention, and oppofition, unfortunate in moft of
his adions, and coming off in mofl: of his undertakings with difhonour.
If Venus be fignificatrix, the native deludes himfelf with vanities, and
expe6lations of things which will never be ; he is angry, paffionate,
and given up to pride, boafting, and vain glory ; receives much hurt by
great men, and fometimes may be in danger of his life by fentence of the
judge.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Sol and Mercury. If Sol is fignificator,
the native is fubjeft to many loffes and vexations by the law ; or receives
hurt by mercurial men and things ; is unfortunate, and has an impedi-
ment in his fpeech ; one that is deceitful, falfe, and not to be trufted. If
Mercury be fignificator, the native is of a middle ftature, dull fwarthy
complexion, tanned or fun-burnt, with light-brown hair, full face and
eye, high nofe, haft:y, choleric, proud, angry, and infolent ; a boafter,
ambitious, highly conceited of himfelf, and fubjedl to the frowns of
princes and great men.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Sol and Luna. If Sol is fignificator, the
native's fortune is mutable and unftable, he falls into contempt and re-
proach among the common people, and merits the hatred or difpleafure
of fome great lady or perfon ; he is a cheat, deceiver, or impoftor. If
Luna be fignificatrix, the native is full-faced, of a clear vifage, and light-
coloured hair, very ambitious of honour, which flies from him like a
fhadow purfued ; one aiming at and attempting many great things with-
out fuccefs, but meets with many croffes, lofifes, troubles, forrows, and
obftrutStions, in his way to preferment.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Venus and Mercury. If Venus is figni-
ficatrix, the native is crafty, fubtle, deceitful, and given to thievery; he
has an impediment in his fpeech, is of dull underftanding, froward, felf-
No, 12. 3 H willed.
223 AN ILLUSTRATION
willed, crols, and indeed a perfect knave, one whole ill condition and
ba-Te mind always keep him poor. If Mercury be fignihcator, the na-
tive is deceitful, diflioneft, flothfiil, given to indolence ami cafe, and
delights in the company of lewd \\ omen ; a mere cliffembler, and one
that waftcs and fpends his fortune in debauchery.
The Quartile or Oppoiition of V^enus and Luna. If Venus be lignin-
catrix, it fhows mutability, ftrife, contention, quarrelling, debate, one of
an ill tongue, and a worfe life, unfortunate in marriaL,e and children ;
idle, indolent, and lazy, fubjedl to poverty and beggary. If Luna be lig-
nificatrix, the perfon is of a bold, impudent, audacious, difpofition, given
up to lull and levvdnels ; a mere vulgar fordid creature ; a wanderer,
fugitive, and vagabond ; deceitful, and fubjeft to a multitude of misfor-
tunes, elpecially from and among women.
The Quartile or Oppofition of Mercury and Luna. If Mercury be
fjgnificator, the native is mutable, unftable in all his ways, foolilh, arro-
gant, void of reafon and good manners, loquacious, and very much con-
ceited of himfelf ; he fhall meet with many troubles and oppofitions,
and that from the common people ; lofe the favour of iome noble wo-
man, and be reduced to an abjeft flate of poverty: the frowns of a
prince are not fo formidable as the hatred of the common people, for
that fo precipitates a man, that it prevents him forever from rifing again
without Iome extraordinary aid. If Luna be fignificatrix, let the native
take what care and pains he will, he Ihall never do any thing commend-
able : it fignifies a defe6l in the tongue, and makes the native in every
undertaking very unfortunate, and for the mofl: part expofed to con-
tempt and infamy.
On the EFFECTS of the HOUSES.
Firft Houfe.—If one or both of the infortunes vitiate the degrees af-
cending, or the light of time be eclipfed or afflifted, or the lord of the
afcendant combufl, or retrograde and peregrine, or the birth was exa6tly
upon a new or full Moon ; or Luna be in conjundtion, quartile, or oppo-
fition, of Saturn or Mars, or both, in the fourth, fixth, eighth, or twelfth,
houfe, or befieged of the infortunes ; the native will be of fliort life ; but
contrariwife, if there be fignifications of long life ; that is, if the afcen-
dant, planet therein, or its lord, or all of then), be in a good houfe of
heaven, eflentially ftrong, and free from affliction, increafmg in number,
light, and motion ; the native will then have a long and happy life ; other-
wife unhappy. Now the affli6ting planet, by confidering what houfe he
is loid of, and pofited in, will (how the caule.
Second
M,
OF ASTROLOGY. 223
Second Houfe. —The cufp of the fecond houfe, free from atflidion, or
afTifted with the prelence or beams of fortunate planets, or Fart of For-
tune, or lord of the fecond ; or the lord of the fecond fl:rong, free from
afflicftion, and in a good houfe, or in a conjundion, fextile, or trine, of
fortunate planets, or in conjuntHon of benevolent fixed flars of the firfl
or fecond magnitude, are all evident tellimonies of much wealth and
great riches ; but, if the cufp of the fecond houfe, the planet therein,
or the lord thereof, be combufi", weak, afflifted by conjunflion, quar-
tile, oi- oppofition, of the infortunes, decreafnig in number, light, and
motion, or in an evil houfe, they are evident teflimonies of poverty and
extreme want.
Third Houfe. —The cufp of the third, free from affli£lion, fortified
with the dragon's head, or good planets, or their afpedls, or the prefence
of its lord, or the lord thereof ftrong and free from afflidtion and in a
good houfe, in fextile or trine with good planets, or the Moon, (hows
good, pleafant, and fafe, journeys; but, if the cufp thereof, or its lord, be
afRifled with the conjunftion, quartile, or oppofition, of the infortunes,
or the lord thereof be weak, peregrine, and in the feventh or eighth
houfe, it indicates misfortunes, and loffes by robbery or otherwife.
Fourth Houfe. —The lord of the fourth, in the fourth, (and generally
any planets there,) fhow an inheritance in land, if they are fortunes, and
flrongly dignified ; or if the cufp of the fourth, or its lord, be in fextile or
trine with Saturn or Jupiter, it denotes the fame : but, if infortunes, or
affliiled by the quartile or oppofition of any planet, chieflv Saturn or Mars,
or the lord of the fourth be weak and retrograde ; there is either no inhe-
ritance, or elfe it is much incumbered, and in danger of being loft.
Fifth Houfe.—The angles and cufp of the fifth, and fign in which the
lord of the eighth is, being in fruitful figns, many planets in the fifth,
efpecially Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, and Luna ; or they cafting their
trines to the fifth, or its lord ; or if there be any tranflation, or reception,
or mutual pofition, between them and the lord of the fifth ; or the lord of
the fifth, and the lord of the ascendant, or the planet in the afcendant, or
dragon's head, be there, thefe are fignificators of a plentiful ifliie : but
Saturn, Mars, Sol, or dragon's tail, there, efpecially in barren figns, and
Luna, and the lord of the afcendant, in barren figns alio, and the lord of
the afcendant, or fifth, in quartile or oppofition of one another, or with
Saturn or Mars, are evident teftimonies of barrennefs.
Sixth Houfe.—If the lord of the fixth, or planet in the fixth, afflict
not the afcendant or the lord thereof, or the lord of the afcendant be not
in the fixth, or in its lord's dignities, or in quartile or oppofition of Sa-
turn
224 AN ILLUSTRATION
turn or Mars ; or combufl: of Sol in the fixth, feventh, or twelfth, houfes ;
or the lord of the fixth, or any planet of his nature, be not in the afcen-
dant; then will the native be healthful, and of a rtrong body, and very
free from difeafes ; and fo contrariwile. If the lord of the fixth or pla-
jiet therein be in quartile or oppohtion of the lord of the afcendant or
fccond, or planets therein, or exalted therein, or the lord of the fecond
be in the fixth, in quartile or oppofition of the lord of the afcendant, or
fixth, the native's fervants will prove treacherous and thievifh to him;
and fo on the contrary.
Seventh Houfe.—If the Moon, or any light planet, traiiflate the light of
the lord of the afcendant, or planet therein, to the lord of the feventh
or planet therein, or there be any mutual reception between the figni-
ficators, either by houfe or pofition, or tliey apply one to another by
conjundlion, fextile, or trine, but efpecially with reception ; or the Moon
apply to the conjundion, fextile, or trine, of the lord of the afcendant,
or planet therein, and the fignificators be in fruitful figns, the native
will marry ; fo alfo, if flie tranflates the light of Mars to Venus ; and
fo contrariwife. The lord of the afcendant near a partile afpe£t of many
planets ; or the lord of the feventh and planets therein applying jointly to
the lord of the feventh, many planets in the feventh, and they in good
afpeft with Luna or Venus, or lord of the feventh, are arguments of
marrying more than once ; and fo contrariwife. The agreement between
both is difcerned from the quality of the application, reception, tranfla-
tion, pofition, and dignities, of the fignificators ; and in thefe words the
whole bufinefs of public adverfaries is comprehended; fave that fignifi-
cator which is flrongeft, freefl: from afflidtion, moft aflifted, and bell po-
fited, fhall overcome, and that perfon fliall live longefl:.
Eighth Houfe.—The lord of the afcendant ftrong, or in a good houfe,
and in good afpe<5l with the lord of the eighth, or planets in the eighth ;
or if Jupiter or Venus be lords of the eighth, or pofited in the cufp
thereof; or Luna tranflates the light of the lord of the eighth, or planet
in the eighth, to the lord of the afcendant, or planets therein by good
afpedl ; or when the lord of the afcendanj, the luminaries,' lord of the
eighth, or cufp of the eighth, be in violent figns, the native will die a
natural death : but, if the fignificators of death be eflentially fortified, and
rH the eighth, or in quartile or oppofition of the lord of the afcendant, Sol
and Luna, or planets in the afcendant, and in violent figns, or in oppo-
fition to the afcendant, the native will be in danger of dying a violent
death. The cufp of the eighth adorned with fixed ftars of the firfl: and
fecond magnitude, or with the prefence of Jupiter, Venus, Sol, Luna,
dragon's head, or part of fortune, or with the good afpeft of the faid pla-
nets ; or the lord thereof ftrong, free from affli6lion, and fortified with
the
OF ASTROLOGY, 225
the conjun61:ion, fextlle, or trine, of benevolents, are figns of a good
dowry; and fo contrariwife.
Ninth Houfe. If the lord of the ninth, or planets in the ninth, be in
mutual reception with the lord of the afcendant, or planets in the afcen-
dant, or the Moon or any light planet makes any tranflation, or there be
any pofition or any application between the principal fignificators bv
good afpedl, the native will travel, prove a merchant, a fcholar, or a cler-
gyman ; and, if Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, Luna, the Part of Fortune, or
Dragon's Head, be there ; or the lord of the ninth, or planets therein,
be in good afpecr with any benevolent, the native will be truly religi-
ous, and gain much by any thing he undertakes. The lord of the ninth
or the afcendant, in trine to a planet in the ninth, the fame ; but if Saturn,
Mars, or the lord of an evil houfe, or Dragon's Tail, be pofited there ; or
the lord thereof be weak, combuft, affli6ted, or retrograde ; it forebodes
much evil.
Tenth Houfe.—The only figns of honour are the ftrength of the lords of
the afcendant, medium coeli, and their difpofition either by good applica-
tion, pofition, reception, or tranllation ; or the prefence or good afpetl of
Jupiter, Sol, Venus, Mercury, or Luna ; or the pofition of the Dragon's
Head or Part of Fortune in the tenth or eleventh houfes ; the contrary
afpedfs (how diflionour, difgrace, fliame, contempt, and at length en-
danger a violent death.
Eleventh Houfe.—The lord of the eleventh, or any other planet there,
fhows friends ; fo alfo if they be in mutual reception, or pofition, or
if there be any tranflation or application between them and the lord of
the afcendant, or planets therein ; or if Jupiter, Venus, Sol, Luna, or
Dragon's Tail, be there, they are arguments of great, noble, generous,
and faithful, friends : but, if the fignificators have malignant afpeds, and
there be no tranflation, reception, nor pofition, or if Saturn and Mars
or the lord of the twelfth be pofited there, they fliow either few or no
friends, or elfe very bad and falfe ones.
Twelfth Houfe.—No planet in the twelfth, nor the lord thereof, in
any afpeft with the lord of the afcendant, or planets in the afcendant, or
afcendant itfelf, or the lord of the afcendant not pofited in the twelfth,
or in afpeft with the lord of the twelfth, are arguments of few private
enemies : but, if the afcendant, its lord, or planets therein, be in conjunc-
tion or evil afpe6l with the lord of the twelfth, or Saturn and Mars, and
they lords of evil houfes ; or if they be pofited in the afcendant, feventh, or
twelfth, houfes, or in combufl:ion ; the native will have many and great
enemies, and be fubje61: to imprifonment, and many other troubles; but
No 12. 3 I if.
aa6 AN ILLUSTRATION
if, inftead of evil, the afpeds be good, with the {Ignificators in bad
houfes, the native will be deluded and drawn into troubi. s 'Ifi-U'^h fair
pretences; and his private enemies will always be luch as outv\urdly ex-
prels a kindnefs for hinn.
GENERAL JUDGMENTS to be inferred from DIRECTIONS.
The Lorri of the Ajcendant to PromiJJers.—To the afcendant, it figni-
fies mucn ha;jpinefs ; to the fecund houie or its lord, it has fignification of
fubftance ; to the third or its lord, of journeys; to the fourth or its
lord, of inheritances ; to the fifth or its lord, of children ; to the fixth
or its lord, of ficknefs and fervants; to the feventh or its lord, wives,
public enemies, and law-fuits ; to the eighth or its lord, death and le-
gacies ; to the ninth or its lord, learning, ecclefiaftical preferment, mer-
chandife, going to fea ; to the tenth or its lord, honour, preferment,
office, dignities, trading ; to the eleventh or its lord, friends, hopes, and
expe6fancies ; to the twelfth or its lord, imprifonment, and private
enemies.
The Lord of the Second to Promijfors.—To the fecond, a great increafe
of wealth and riches; to the third or its lord, gain or lofs by kindr-d,
neighbours, or travelling; to the fourth or its lord, gain or lofs by houfes,
lands, or parents ; to the fifth or its lord, by children, or by gaming ; to
the fixth or its lord, by fervants or cattle; to the feventh or its lord,
by marriage, women, public enemies, law-fuits; to the eighth or it*
lord, by death, or legacies ; to the ninth or its lord, by learning, arts,
fciences, the fea, religion ; to the tenth or its lord, by trade, honour,
preferment, or dignity ; to the eleventh or its lord, by friends; to the
twelfth or its lord, by great cattle, private enemies, imprifonment ; to the
afcendant or its lord, by the native's own iiiduftry.
The Lord of the Third to Promijfors.—To the third, many pleafant jour
neys ; to the fourth houfe or its lord, gain by travelling, or to fee his father,
or fome eftate ; to the fifth or its lord, travelling for pleafure, or on ac-
count of children ; to the (ixth houle or its lord, journeys about fmall
cattle ; to the feventh or its lord, journeying on lome law-fuit, public
adverfary, or woman ; to the eighth houfe or its lord, concerning fome
legacy, or wife's portion ; to the ninth or its lord, for the fake of re-
ligion, merchandife, learning, or to fee foreign countries; to the tenth
or its lord, for honour, preferment, trade, or to fee his mother ; to the
eleventh or its lord, to fee a friend, or in hopes of advantage ; to the
twelfth or its lord, becaufe of private enemies, or fear of imprifonment;
to
OF ASTROLOGY. ti-j
to the afcendant or its lord, for health or pleafure ; to the fecoiid or its
lord, for lubftance or wealth.
The Lord of the Fourth to Promijfors.—To the fourth houfe, inheri-
tancea ; to the fifth or its lord, an eftate to fome of the native's childien
;
to the fixth or its lord, an ellate to fall to the native from fome relations,
or uncles and aunts by the father's fide ; to the feventh or its lord, by
marriage, or the law ; to the eighth or its lord, by fome legacy or portion
by a wife; to the ninth or its lord, by learning, trading to fea, the
church, or wife's kindred : to the tenth or its lord, by th; wife's father,
or the king, or fome noble or great man ; to the eleventh or its lord, by
means of a friend ; to the twelfth or its lord, by dealing in cattle ; to the
alcendant or its lord, by his own induflry ; to the fecond or its lord, by
purchafe ; to the third or its lord, by death of kindred.
The Lord of the Ffth to PromiJJors. —To the fifth houfe, it gives to the
native a child ; to the fixth or its lord, that his children may become
fervants to him ; to the feventh or its lord, that they may travel, or that
his wife may have another child ; to the eighth or its lord, danger of
death through fome excefs of pleafure ; to the ninth or its lord, that
the native will chiefly delight in religion, arts, fciences, or the fea ; to
the tenth or its lord, ficknefs to the native's children ; to the eleventh or
its lord, the love of a fpecial friend, or the marriage of one of his chil-
dren ; to the twelfth or its lord, the death of a child, or danger thereof,
or a legacy left to it ; to the afcendant or its lord, the love or hate of the
native's children to him, or their travelling beyond fea ; to the fecond or
its lord, that thev (hall have honour and renown in the world, and have
fome gifts from their father ; to the third or its lord, that the native
(hall take recreation in the country, and among his kindred ; to the
fourth or its lord, that the native's children may deal in great cattle, and
have many private enemies.
The Lord of the Sixth to Promiffors.—To the fixth houfe, thriving by
trade and hulbandry ; to the leventh or its lord, danger of ficknefs
through fome women, or by quarrelling ; to the eighth or its lord, dan-
ger of mortal ficknefs ; to the ninth or its lord, ficknefs at fea, or from
too much ftudy ; to the tenth or its lord, grief for fome difhonour, or
not attaining the honour defired ; to the eleventh or its lord, infedlion
among cattle, or grief of the native for fome fpecial friend's fake ; to the
twelfth or its lord, lofs of cattle by thieves, ficknefs, or infedion ; to
the afcendant or its lord, ficknefs through the native's own folly ; to the
fecond or its lord, for want of money, or lofs of an eftate ; to the third
or its lord, by reafon of fome journey, or unkindnefs of kindred ; to the
fourth or its lord, by reafon of his father, or grief for lofs of inheri-
tance ;,
1«8 AN ILLUSTRATION
tance; to the fifth or its lord, from fome unlawful pleafure, dlfobedi-
ence, or death of a child.
The Lord of the Seventh to Promijfors.—To the feventh houfe, fick-
nefs or illnefs to the native; to the eighth or its lord, the wife's por-
tion ; to the ninth or its lord, fhe goes into the country, or is concerned
with her kindred; to the tenth or its lord, takes polTeffion of an inheri-
tance ; to the eleventh or its loid, (he has a cliild, or comes more into the
hufband's favour ; to the twelfth or its lord, (he is fickly, or fome way
concerned with her hulband's private enemies ; to the afcendant or its
lord, ftie and her hufband become greater friends or enemies than formerly;
then alfo law-fuits either begin or end ; to the fecond or its lord, a wife
politic enemy, or a law-fuit proves good or bad to the native's fubftance
;
to the third or its lord, fhe either goes beyond fea, or takes fome long
journey ; to the fourth or its lord, fhe brings him lands : to the fifth or
Its lord, children and friends ; to the fixth or its lord, (he meets with
private enemies.
77/1? Lord of the Eighth to Promijfors.—To the eighth houfe, legacies;
to the ninth or its lord, legacies by fome of the wife's brethren, or by a
clergyman ; to the tenth or its lord, by his wife's father or his own mo-
ther ; to the eleventh or its lord, by fome friend ; to the twelfth or its
lord, by fome of his wife's uncles or aunts by the father's fide, or fome of
his own by the mother's lide ; to the afcendant or its lord, danger of
death ; to the fecond or its lord, receiving of the wife's portion ; to the
third or its lord, a legacy by a brother or kinfman ; to the fourth or its
lord, by a father ; to the fifth or its lord, danger of death to a child, or
the falling of an inheritance to it; to the fixth or its lord, a dangerous
licknefs to the native ; to the feventh or its lord, the wife's dowry, or
legacies by means of a wife.
The Lord of the Ninth to Promiffors. —To the ninth houfe, good fuc-
cefs at fea, church-preferment ; to the tenth or its lord, preferment and
honour by means of learning, the fea, or the church ; to the eleventh
or its lord, that the native gets many friends by his learning and fanftity
;
to the twelfth or its lord, many private enemies; to the afcendant or its
lord, that the native fhall attain to learning, arts, fciences, or ecclefiaf-
tical preferment, through his own induftry ; to the fecond or its lord, by
means of his wealth, and that he may get or lofe fubfliance thereby ; to
the third or its lord, that he may attain thofe things by means of a bro-
ther, kinfman, or neighbour, or may travel for improvement; to the
fourth or its lord, by means of a father or of an inheritance, or he may
get an eftate thereby ; to the fifth or its lord, that he fhall be induftri-
OF ASTROLOGY. 229
ous, and delight in the education of his children ; to the fixth or its lord,
ficknefs through too much ftudy, or care for bufinefs ; to the feventh
or its lord, church-preferment by means of a wife or woman ; to the
eighth or its lord, by means of her fortune ; or danger of death for fome
mifdemeanor.
The Lord of the Tenth to Promijfors. —To the tenth houfe, great and
eminent honour and preferment ; to the eleventh houfe or its lord, pre-
ferment through friends, and that he fhall attain honourable friends by
his preferment ; if he be a tradefman, he will gain much thereby, through
his friends and acquaintance, and fo on, conjideratis conjiderand'ts ; to the
twelfth or its lord, diflionour and lofs, or danger of imprifonment by
means of a private enemy ; to the afcendant or its lord, honour, glory, or
dignity, by his own induftry ; to the fecond or its lord, by means of
money ; to the third or its lord, by travel, kindred, neighbours, or the
like ; to the fourth or its lord, by means of a father, or an inheritance;
to the fifth or its lord, by means of children, or pleafant companions ; to
the fixth oi- its lord, by means of a fervant ; to the feventh or its lord,
by a wife, or fome woman ; to the eighth or its lord, by a legacy, or
wife's portion ; to the ninth or its lord, by the fea, merchandife, the
church, arts, fciences, &c.
The Lord of the Eleventh to Promijfors. —To the eleventh houfe, furc
friends ; to the twelfth or its lord, friendfhip from enemies ; to the
afcendant or its lord, endeared friends for the native's own fake ; to the
fecond or its lord, profitable friends ; to the third or its lord, friendfhip
of kindred, brethren, or neighbours ; to the fourth or its lord, friends
by means of an eflate ; to the fifth or its lord, by means of jovial compa-
nions, or children ; to the fixth or its lord, by means of a fervant ; to
the feventh or its lord, by a wife, or the reconciliation of an enemy; to
the eighth or its lord, legacies by means of a friend, alfo honourable
friends ; to the ninth or its lord, friendHiip by reafon of the church, fea,
arts, fciences, merchandife, &c. religious friends ; to the tenth or its lord,
the friendfhip of the king, queen, or fome nobleman ; honourable friends,
and fuch as are friends to him, by reafon of his profeffion, dignity, or
sreatnefs.
o
77/1? Lord of the Twelfth to Promijfors. —To the twelfth houfe, pri-
vate enemies ; to the afcendant or its lord, danger of imprifonment;
to the fecond or its lord, lofs or gain of fubftance by private enemies or
by cattle ; to the third or its lord, enemies amongfl; kindred or relations;
to the fourth or its lord, prejudice to iiiheritances ; to the fifth houfe
No. 12. 3 K or
230 AN ILLUSTRATION
or its lord, ficknefs, fallity of children ; to the fixth houle or its lord,
lofs of cattle by robbery or the like ; to the feventh or its lord, death
of private enemies ; to the eighth or its lord, gifts or legacies ; to the
ninth or its lord, enemies among churchmen, merchants, and learned
men; to the tenth or its lord, the notice of great and noble men, or
lofs of credit : to the eleventh or its lord, lofs of friends, or that friends
may become enemies.
Thefe directions may either fignify good or evil to thofe things which
we have fpecified them to fignify, according to the nature and quality of
the promifTor ; for, if the dire6tion was to the fextile or trine of the pro-
miflbr, without doubt the things promifed by that diredion may be
eminently good ; if to the quartile or oppofition, very bad ; and, if to
the conjunction, then according to the nature and quality of the planet,
and the houfes he is lord of, be he good or evil.
As the afcendant fignifies the body, mind, and life ; the fecond, ef-
tate and fubftance ; and the tenth, preferment, credit, trade, and favour of
threat men ; fo alfo, Sol, Luna, and the Part of Fortune, befides what they
import by being pofited in, or lords of, any particular houfe, fignify the
body, mind, fubftance, life, health, dignity, offices, alTedions, eftate,
fortune, and friendfhip of great perfons. Thefe things being under-
ftood, he that would truly judge of the effedts of diredions, ought
to confider the true meaning of the fignificator, of the promiflbr, and
of the houfe : firft, what they fignify eflentially, and what accidentally ;
fecondly, what by domination, and what by pofition ; for thofe things
fianified by the fignificator, (hall either be augmented or diminifhed,
preferved or deftroyed, ftrengthened or weakened, attained or loft, ac-
cordincT, firft, as the houfe or point where the direction falls is fortified
or vitiated by the prefence or beams of good or evil ft:ars ; fecondly,
according to the eminency of the fignificator ; and laftly, as the pro-
miffor is good or bad, ftrong or weak.—Therefore the fignificator fignifies
the thing promifed ; the houfe in which the directions falls, its relation
or quality ; and the promijfor the means of the accompliftiment ; wherein
muft be confidered the radical fortitudes of both, for accordingly the
efteCts of the direCtion will operate, and be durable, whether good or
evil, till this or fome other fignificator meets with another promiflbr,
& e contrar'io; wherein note, that, if the fignificator be ftrong, the thing
promifed will be very good and great ; and, if the promiflor aniwers
in ftrength, the direCtion will glorioufly appear ;
but, if the promilTor be
weak or mean, the native may attain the thing fignified, but not without
o-ieat delay, labour, care, and toil. But coutrariwife, if the fignificator be
weak
;
OF ASTROLOGY. aji
weak ; for then the matter will not be great nor eminent, let the promif-
for be what it will.
If the fignificator difpofes of the place of the diredlion, though aa
evil one, the promiflbr will not do fo much hurt as it otherwife would ;
but, if the promiffor he difpofer of the place of an evil direftion, it will
then operate with double force, according to the greatnefs of its malig-
nity. But, if another planet difpoles of the place of the diredlion, then,
according as that planet fympathizes with the fignificator, either by na-
ture, body, or beams, fo the good or evil fignified by the dire£lion (hall
be increafed or diminifhed.
If Saturn, Jupiter, or Mars, be fignificators, they will not be fo much
impedited by evil promiflbrs as the other planets are ; but, whenever they
are promiflbrs, and afflidled by malefic afpefts, they efFe6l what they
portend with violence.
If two diredlions, the one good, the other evil, fhall operate at one and
the fame time ; unlefs they are diametrically oppofite one to another,
the efFeds of both will appear, but that moft apparently which coheres
with the revolution of the year.
The fignificator and promiflbr fliall fympathize together; and if the
good diredlion fliall fall in Textile to the radical place of the fignificator,
or near the body of an eminent fixed flar, cohering in nature, that di-
redion will famoufly manifefl: its influence ; for directions to the bodies
or fixed flars of the firfl;, fecond, or third, magnitude, according as they
in nature agree or difagree with the fignificator, fo they will fuddenly and
unexpedledly either help or impede him, and chiefly in and by thofc
things fignified by the houfe in which the diredlion falls.
JUDGMENTS to be inferred from TRANSITS.
Tranfits of good planets by good places or promiflbrs fignify good, but
by evil places, evil ; and fo contrariwife. And whatfoever we have be-
fore faid of diredions, the fame things, in an inferior degree, are to be
underflood of tranfits ; with this difference, that, whereas diredions fig-
nify the good or evil to be eminent, tranfits fignify much fmaller mat-
ters of the fame kind ; and, whereas the force or efFe61 of a diredion
lafts long, the eflTeft of a tranfit is generally over as foon as the tranfic
;
the one oftentimes lafting years, the other but days or weeks at mofl:.
But
232 AN ILLUSTRATION
But the tranfits of the fuperiors, as Saturn and Jupiter, are very emi-
nently to be confidered, for they never pafs without obvious effects, which
often laft a whole year, be they good or evil ; for, if they be lords of ill
houfes, or radically in an ill houfe, if they tranfit the afcendant, the
quartile, or oppofition, or place of its lord, they threaten life ; if the
fecond or its lord, the fubftance ; if the third or its lord, journeys; if
the fourth or its lord, danger to the father, or lofs of inheritance ; if the
fifth or its lord, lofs by gaming, and death of children ; if the fixth or its
lord, death of cattle ; if the feventh or its lord, ficknefs of the wife;
if the eighth or its lord, lofs of fubftance, becaufe they caft: their op-
pofition unto the fecond ; if the ninth or its lord, lofs at fea, robbing by
land, envy of churchmen; if the tenth or its lord, the king's difpleafure
if a courtier ; but lofs of trade, if a tradefman ; if the eleventh or its lord,
evil friends, or their affliftlon, the lofs of hopes ; if the twelfth or its
lord, death, and lofs by cattle.
Obferve on what day the moon or other planets caft their trine or
Textile to the cufp of the fecond, or tranfit the trine or fextile of its lord,
or planet near its cufp, or caft their trine or fextile to the part of fortune,
for thofe days will be good to the native, and very profitable; and, if
he mind his bufinefs, he may then have aftoniftiing fuccefs ; but thofe
days in which the faid planets tranfit the quartile or oppofition, will be as
bad, wherein, if he lofes not money, he is fure to get none ; and this I
have found more than a thoufand times true; the fame if an evil planet
tranfits the conjun6tion of the lord of the fecond or part of fortune ; but
the tranfits of a good planet to their conjun61ion is advantageous.
Saturn and Jupiter, if they be lords of good houfes, and tranfit the
good afpeft or conjunftion of any fignificator, with whom they agree in
nature, or were radically in good afpeft with, they fignify much good.
If good planets or the lord of the afcendant tranfit the medium coeli,
or place of its lord, or its fextile or trine, the native gets honour or
trade; and, if he be in purfuit of any preferment, he attains it.
The lord of the afcendant, tranfiting the afcendant or his radical place,
fliows health to the native ; the fecond, or the conjunftion, fextile, or
trine, of its lord, gain ; the third, or conjundion, fextile, or trine, of its
lord, good journeys, and the friendfhip of kindred and neighbours, &c.
The lord of the fecond tranfiting the cufp thereof, or his radical place,
denotes gain; the third houfe, or the conjunction, fextile, or trine, of its
lard, or planet therein, (hows gain by travelling, neighbours, kindred, &c.
The
I
OF ASTROLOGY. 233
The traiifits of the Moon difcover all things, whether good or evil,
which happen to a man daily through the whole courfe of his life ; her
application to, or tranfits of, fextiles and trines, (how good ; of quartiles
and oppofitions, evil, concerning all thofe things fignified by that houfe
in which the tranfit is made ; where if fhe be fignificatrix, the good or
evil will alfo fall in part upon the things fignified by her, according to
the houfe fhe was lady of, or pofited in the radix; but, if not, the good
or evil will fall upon thofe things fignified by the fignificator which is
tranfited.
JUDGMENTS to be inferred from REVOLUTIONS.
The judgments of a revolution are ealy to be determined, by confider-
inz in what houfe and fign in the revolution the radical fignificators are
pofited ; for according to thofe revolutional pofitions and configurations
we are to judge. So that, if the lord of the lecond houfe be in the third,
it fhovvsgain to come either by travel, or by kindred, or neighbours ; and,
if he be alfb in fextile or trine with the lord of the third in the radix,
the fame ; if with the lord of the fourth, by a father; if in the medium
coeli, or in conjundion, fextile, or trine, with his radical lord, gain by
trade, office, preferment, or noblemen. Hence it appears, that the figni-
ficator of fubfiance in a revolution, is not the lord of the fecond in the
revolution, but the lord of the fecond in the radix ; the fignificator of
lands is not the lord of the fourth in the revolution, but the lord of the
fourth in the radix ; the fame is to be understood of the refl ; but, if the
fame hgn which afcended radically afcends in the revolution, its efFedls
will be the more firm, becaufe the fignificators are the fame ; the like, if
the fame planets which were lords of the feveral houfes in the radix be
lords of the fame'in the revolution, though they pofTefs not the fame fign.
Whatfoever good or evil is prefaged unto the native, either by direc-
tion, tranfit, or revolution, we are to meafure the greatnefs thereof ac-
cording to the radical flrength or fortitudes of the fignificators, compared
with their ftrength or fortitudes at the time of dire6tion ; where, if they
are radically ftrong, the good or evil will be great and permanent, the
which is confirmed if they be flrong alfo at the time of direction or
tranfit; if radically weak, the good or evil will but meanly manifefl it-
felf ; and fcarcely at all, if weak at the time of direftion or tranfit ; but,
if radically weak, and flrong at the time of the dire6tioa or tranfit, the
efFeCfs thereof may appear much beyond the expedation of the native,
but will 'lot be very durable.
No. 1 2. 3 L The
43 AN ILLUSTRATION
The SIGNIFICATION of feveral FIXED STARS in
NATIVITIES.
The fignlficator of life or manners, joined to Caput Algol, makes the
native furly and choleric, and fhows danger of ludden death. To the
Pleiades, it (hows wantonnefs, ambition, and fcorn. To Aldebaran,
courage in war, and a martial inclination ; the lord of the afccndant and
the Moon or Saturn in conjundtion with this ftar, fliows a murderer, or
one that bears a very wicked mind. To Hircus, fliows curiofity, one de-
firing novelties ; yet a careful and fteady perfon. To Cingula Orionis, a
(harp memory and underftanding, one induftrious. To Syrius, an angry,
proud, fancy, giddy, imprudent, perfon. To Hercules, fubtilty, craft,
boldnefs, and cruelty. To Regulus, greatnefs of Ipirit, a generous and
magnanimous mind, one ambitious of rule and dominion. To Antares,
au unruly rafh perfon, and one likely to ruin himfelf by his obftinacy.
To Arifta, a fweet, noble, generous, foul, a lover of arts and fciences
;
and, if Mercury be with it, a curious inventor of rare things ; but, if Saturn,
a violent rigid fellow, and fometimes a fool. To Aquila, boldnefs, con-
(idence, valour, but a wicked perfon. To Cauda Delphini, one delight-
ing in fports, games, (hooting, hunting, and the like. The fignifica-
tor of fubftance, or cufp of the fecond, part of fortune, or its difpofitor,
in conjun6tiou with Regulus, or with Ariila, (hows much riches.
The fignificators of fubftance, part of fortune, or its lord, in conjunc-
tiou with Aldebaran or Caput Algol, (how lofs of eftate, and poverty.
The Sun or Moon with the Pleiades or Praefepe, Antares or Deneb, the
native will fuffcr fome hurt or defe6l in his eyes ; and it is incurable if
that light be angular. The Moon in conjunflion with Cingula Orionis,
and combuft, (hows blindnefs of one eye at leaft. The fignificators of ho-
nour in conjundlion, or within five degrees of conjundion forward or back-
ward, with Aldebaran, or with Hercules, Regulus, Arifta, Lanx Bore-
alis, or Antares, (how great honour and preferment. The Sun or Moon
in conjun6tion with the Pleiades or the Hyades, (hows military prefer-
ment ; the fame if thofe ftars culminate. Caput Algol, culminating, gives
the native authority over others ; fo alio Aldebaran, or Antares, in con-
jundtion of Sol or Luna in the alcendant, or medium coeli, give the native
honour, but with many difficulties and cafualties. Arifta afcending or
culminating, gives the native religious preferment. Fomahaut and Rigel
in the afcendant, or medium cceli, give an immortal name. Regulus,
Ardurus, or Humerus Orionis, in conjundion of Sol, Luna, or Jupiter,
in the tenth, give ample fortunes, and very great preferment. Syrius, or
Procyon, in conjundion with Sol in the afcendant or tenth, gives royal
preferment and favour.
The
OF ASTROI>OGY. 235
The luminaries, one or both, in conjonclion with Caput Algol, or
with Aldebaran, Hercules, Humerus Orionis, or Antares, prefage a vio-
lent death. Sol in conjundion with Caput Algol, in the eighth, and
his difpofitor in quartile or oppofition to Mars, the native will be in dan-
ger of lofing his head ; if the light culminates, he may die by fome wound.
Luna \'. ith Hercules, or Ardurus in the afcendant, I'eventh, or tenth, in
conjunflion with Mars, the native will be in danger of being fuffocated.
Luna with Antares, and Mars in the fourth, feventh, eleventh, or
twelfth, houfes, with Aldebaran, the native will die by the fword, or by
a blow, or a fudden fall, Luna with Antares in oppofition of Saturn
with Aldebaran, fhows, that if the native be not hanged, he will at leaft
die a violent death. Saturn or Mars with Caput Algol, and Luna with
Deneb ; he dies by the fentence of the judge. The Moon with Cor Hy-
dra, affli6ted by Saturn or Mars, he will be in danger of poifon, or of drown-
ing ; and, if the infortune be angular, it is fo much the more certain.
The Moon with Procyon, and Sol or Mars with Lucida Vulturis, or Fo-
mahaut, or Ultima in Dorfo Capricorni, fhows danger of being bit by a
venomous beafl. The Moon with Syrius and Saturn, or Mars with Ulti-
ma in Ala Pegafi, a violent death by the fury of violent beads, or martial
men. The Moon with Cingula Orionis and Saturn, or with Caput Her-
cules, or Antares, fhows the native will be in danger of perifhlng by water,
or by wicked perfons. The Moon with the Pleiades, and Saturn or MarS
with Regulus, fhows the lofs of one or both the eyes ; and this judgment
is confirmed, if Luna at the fame time be combufl.
The Pleiades in conjun6lion with Mars, and Regulus with Sdturn, are
eminent fignifications of a violent and untimely death. Fixed Stars of the
firfl magnitude near the cufp of the feventh, fhow a good and rich wife;
but her conditions will much fympathife with the nature of the flars.
Significators joined with fixed flars of the firfl or fecond magnitude, near
the ecliptic, fhow great preferment, and eminent honours. Fixed flars
of the nature of Saturn in conjun6tion with Sol, involve the native in
many miferies. Fixed flars of the nature of Mars and Sol, or Mercury
and Luna, give glory and renown ; of the nature of Jupiter and Venus or
Mercury and Venus, honour and wealth. Fixed fi:ars in angles, give
admirable preferment, and many great gifts; and elevate from poverty
to an extreme heicht of fortune.
o
SIGNIFICATION of FIXED STARS in DIRECTIONS.
The afcendant, a planet therein, or its lord, direded to Ultima in Ala
Pegafi, Oculus Tauri Borealis, Lucida Pedis Gemini in Femore Leonis,
fhows unto the native good fortune, worldly happinefs, with the love of
women.
236 AN ILLUSTRATION
women. To the Pleiades, Hyades, Caftor, Pollux, or Przefepe, wounds
or hurts in the face, arms, or eyes; impriionment, captivity, banifhnient,
or other obfcurity ; the native has often fore eyes upon thefe direftions ;
falls into many troubles through luft; engages in quarrels, meets with
lofs of reputation, and fometimes death itfelf. To the Afclli, a burn-
ing fever, lofs of eye-fight, efpecially the left eye, or lorcnels of the eyes
through diftillations of fhaip rheum ; hurts by fierce and violent hearts or
quarrels, malicious flanders, and other inconveniences. Jo Cingula Orio-
nis, Lanx Borealis, Axilla Sagittaiii, Cornu Capricorni Auftralis, Tibia
dextra Aquarii, denote legacies by inheritance, gain by jovial men and
things, occafions inordinate love, and gives a kind of gravity. To Alde-
baran, Regulus, Frons Scorpio, Antares, Humerus prascedens Orionis,
Humerus lequens Orionis, honour and wealth in a large meafure, eftima-
tion among perfons noble and great ; yet thefe directions (how fome dan-
ger to the native's health, and may give him an acute fever, or other vio-
lent difeafe. To Arifta, honour and renown in the church, eccletlaftical
preferment, applaufe and eftimation among all men ; it makes the native
ingenious, induftrious, honourable, and beloved. To Cauda Ixonis, much
worldly happinefs, but accompanied with melancholy, troubles, and cViC-
content. To Lucida Maxilla Ceti, Genu Caftoris, Genu Poilucis, Ventre
Gemini, or Cynofura, fhows danger of life, honour, or eftate, b\ evil men,
thieves, and the like ; yet thefe dire6tions often give the native poflefiions,
inheritances, and legacies. To Lucida Colli Leonis, Ala Leonis, Dorfo
Leonis, Lanx Auflralis, Genu & Tibia dextra Ophiuci, Dencb, Ultima in
Dorfo Capricorni, Sihifter Humerus & Cubitus dexter Aquarii, makes the
native folicitous al^out houfes, poffefiions, buildings, mines, or the like ;
gives him much labour, care, hazard, difturbance, and vexation, and a
melancholy difpofition ; with difgrace, flander, and fcandal, through wo-
men. To Hircus, it makes the native eminent in martial affairs, and
ftirs him up to valour, making him fubtle, witty, and difcreet, but a mere
diflembler ; fpending and wafting himfelf upon lufts and wantonn>;fs,
which ruins his credit and eftimation, reduces his trade if he has any,
and at lalt brings him to thieving, fwindling, robbing, and the like de(-
perate purfuits.
The medium coeli, planet therein, or its lord, directed to Ultima in Ala
Pegafi, Zona Andromeda, Pes Andromedas; Oculus Tauri Borealis, Lu-
cida Pedis Gemini in Femore Leonis, or Lucida Coronae, gives the native
honour, glory, and renown, and makes his fortune generally rife by means
of women. To the Pleiades, Hyades, Humerus Orionis fequens & pre-
Cedens, Caftor, Pollux, Procyon, or Priefepe, brings the native's honour into
queftion, wounds his reputation, involves him in many troubles and contro-
verfies; portends danger of a ftab, of imprifonment, or of fome tragical end
of
OF ASTROLOGY. 237
of his life. To the Afelli, Caput Herculis, Marchab, Dexter Humerus
Auriga?, forefliow a lafting wound in the native's honour, and more efpe-
cially if the Dragon's Tail be near them ; he then runs himfelf into every
fpecies of fin and wickednefs. To Cingula Orionis, Lanx Borealis,
Axilla Sagittarii, Cornu Capricorni auftraiis, Tibia dextra Aquarii, Caput
Andromeda, Collo Serpentarii, fhows honour, glory, renown, the favour of
great men, clergymen, ecclefiaftical preferment; and, if a tradefman or
merchant, a good trade, and happy returns from fea, with great profit. To
Aldebaran, Frons Scorpii, Antares, Hircus, Sirius ; thefe are profperous
direftions, and exalt the native infinitely, both in wealth and honour ; he
proves of an ingenious, magnanimous, and noble, mind ; gains favour from
princes and noblemen, and authority over others ; becomes governor ovej
an army, town, fort, or caftle ; and performs great aftions with honour
and applaufe. To Rigel, Arifla, Regulus, Arcturus, Fomahaut ; thefe
are the bell: directions that can ever happen to any native ; for they not
only raife him to honour, glory, renown, and wealth, to the enjoyment
of pleafure and riches, and to the favour of kings, princes, prelates, and
eminent ladies ; to power, authority, and dominion, with a healthful
conflitution of body ; but alfo crown him with an immortal name. To
Cauda Leonis, Caput Algol, Cor Hydra, extreme danger by reafon of
murder, robbery, or fome fudden death from the hands of others ; or the
native ading the fame upon others ; thefe are very evil direftions. To
Lucida Maxilla Ceti, Genu Caftoris, Genu PoUucis, Ventre Gemini,
Cynofura, Sinifter Humerus & dextra Cubitus Aquarii, Lucida Vulturis,
Scheat Pegafi, Cauda Ceti auftralis, {how unto the native many troubles,
flrife, contention, much difhonour, the lofs of the favour of fome great
or noble man, or eminent friend ; gives the native many enemies, and
much difcontent. To Lucida Colli Leonis, Ala Leonis, Lanx Auftralis,
Genu et Tibia dextra Ophiuci, Deneb, Ultima in Dorfo Capricorni, fore-
(how ftrife and contention with ancient men, lofs of eftate or good name ;
the falfity of eminent and ancient friends, with many other troubles, if
not imprifonment. To the fecond ftar in Ala finiftra Leonis, Lucida
Perfei, Dorfo Leonis, Vindemiatrix, honour and preferment among
fcholars, learned men, and governors of towns or cities ; it may be the
native may become mafter of a fchool in the country, or fellow of a col^
lege in the univcrfity, or a magifbrate in a city or town corporate.
The fecond houfe, its lord, or planets therein, to Ultima in Ala Pegafi,
Oculus Tauri Borealis, Lucida Pedis Gemini in Femore Leonis, fhow an
increafe of the native's fubftance. To the Pleiades, Hyades, Caflor, Pol-
lux, Prffifepe, lofs of fubftance and eftate by quarrelling, contention, en-
vious neighbours, kindred, or relations, tedious and vexatious law-fuits, and
whoredom. To the Afelli : thefe are the worfl: of all directions, for they
No. I a. 3 M fignif/
138 AN ILLUSTRATION
fignify the confumption of an eftate, though it confifted of mountains of
gold. To Cingula Orionis, Lanx Borealis, Axilla Sagittarii, Cornu Ca-
pricoi ni auflralis, Tibia dextra Aquarii, an incieafe of fubilance, great
gains, gifts, legacies, and augmentation of wealth by the means of great
ladies and honourable women. To Aldebaran, Regulus, Frons Scorpii,
Antares, Humerus pr^ecedens Orionis, Humerus fequens Orionis, an aug- jM
mentation of fubftance by honours, preferments, or fome office or dig- m
nity, by the means of great and noble perfons; by military perlbns, &c. •
To Arifta, an increafe of fubftance by means of the church or ecclefiaf-
tical perfons, or to ecclefiaftical preferment by ingenuity, induftry, and
honourable women. To Cauda Leonis, an increafe of wealth, but with
much care, labour, and forrow ; if the diredion happen near the Dragon's
Tail, or the quartile or oppofition of Saturn or Mars, proves almofl; fatal
to the native's eftate. To Lucida Maxilla Ceti, Genu Caftoris, Genu
PoUucis, Ventre Gemini, Cynofura, an evil and hurtful time, a time of
Jofs, of cares, of forrows, troubles, and vexations, the native's eftate
waftes he knows not how. To Lucida Colli Leonis, Ala Leonis, Dorfo
Leonis, Lanx Auftralis, Genu & Tibia dextra Ophiuci, Deneb, Ultimo
in Dorfo Capricorni, Sinifter Humerus & Cubitus dexter Aquarii, gain
by houfes, lands, inheritances, by buying and felling of them, &c. yet
with care, pains, induftry, and much labour. To Hircus : this ftiows
gain by martial men and things, arts, fciences, and the like; if the di-
rection falls in the third, by kindred, neighbours, friends, travels, reli-
gious affairs, &c.
The Sun to the laft ftar in Ala Pegafi, Oculus Tauri Borealis, Lucida
Pedis Gemini in Femore Leonis, fliows the beginning of good fortune,
martial command, and warlike honour ; but in the end the native lofes all
again, honour, eftate, and liberty. To the Pleiades, Hyades, Caftor,
Pollux, Praefcpe, dangerous and violent difeafes, contentions, quarrellings ;
he commits murders, rapes, or other infolencies ; he will be in danger of
death by the (hot of a gun, the caft of a ftone, or a ftab ; or may be be-
headed, or banifhed, or wrecked ; I have known thefe direftions to caufe
|
violent fevers ; and Sol to the Pleiades, a peftilential difeafe of which the I
native afterwards died ; but to Praefepe, danger of being murdered. To i
the Afelli, ficknefs, and ftiarp burning fevers ; in danger of fire, lofs of
honour and fortune ; mifchiefs from martial men ; the native may be in
danger of hanging, beheading, or imprifonment. To Cingula Orionis,
Lanx Borealis, Axilla Sagittarii, Cornu Capricorni auftralis. Tibia dex-
tra Aquarii, thefe fignify a noble, healthful, pleafant, and profit-
able, time, and all things go according to the native's defire.—To Al-
debaran, Regulus, Frons Scorpio, Antares, Humerus prascedens Sc
fequens Orionis : thefe diredions prefage ficknefs to the native, it
may
OF ASTROLOGY. 239
may be iome violent or putrid fever ; they often exalt him to the top of
honour and preferment, but make him faitious and proud, and thereby
endanger the iofs of all his happinefs. To Arifta : this certainly gives
the native eminent honours, with a great augmentation of his fortune
and eftate ; if Arifta culminates, and the Sun comes lo it by dirediion,
it (hows ecclefiaftical preferment, or fome eminent place under govern-
ment. To Cauda Leonis, though no very good dire£iion, yet it aug-
ments the native's eftate, and raifes him to fome honour, but withal de-
ftroys it again, caufing much melancholy, and difeaies from thence. To
Lucida Maxilla Ceti, Genu Caftoris, Genu Pollucis, Ventre Gemini,
Cvnofura: thefe dire6tions forefliovv much evil to the native's bodv,
elliate, honour, and liberty; and betoken, if not the deftruftion, yet the
injury of them all, as llcknels, Iofs of money, fcandal, and danger of im-
prifonment. To Lucida Colli Leonis, Ala Leonis, Dorfo Leonis, Lanx
auflralis, Genu and Tibia dextra Ophiuci, Deneb, Ultima in Dorfo Capri-
corni, Sinifter Humerus & Cubitus dexter Aquarii ; thefe dire6tions
precipitate the native's honour and credit, and make him go under
many evil reports, to his great prejudice. To Hircus, it (hows martial
preferment, honour in war, exalts the native both in wealth and dignity,
makes him ingenious, and apt to find out many rare inventions.
The Moon to the lafi: ftar in Ala Pegafi, Oculus Tauri Borealis, Lucida
Pedis Gemini in Femore Leonis, forefhows a healthful time, with an aug-
mentation of wealth and honour. To the Pleiades, Hyades, Cartor, Pol-
lux, or Pr^efepe, makes the native fuffer the fcandal of evil tongues,
vexes and afflids him with crofs neighbours, law-fuits, and other trou-
bles. To the Afelli ; this diredtion afflids the body with many evils ;
and if it falls near the oppofition of Saturn and Mars, or the Sun, it is
much if the native be not blind; or have fome continual diftemper in
the eyes, or pains in the head. To Cingula Orionis, Lanx Borealis, Ax-
illa Sagittarii, Cornu Capricorni auftralis. Tibia dextra Aquarii, new
friends, the acquaintance of ladies aiid noble women, and gifts by their
means. To Aldebaran, Regulus, Frons Scorpii, Antares, Humerus pre-
cedens & fequens Orionis; thefe direftions forefhow honour, glory,
renown, and wealth from the king and other noble perfons, gives the na-
tive a command over others, and makes him famous in his generation.
To Arifta, honour, glory, and preferment both in church and ftate, the
overcoming of an adverlary ; dominion over the common people, and
gain by them. To Cauda Leonis, gives honour, and a good cflima-
tion among the vulgar; but withal threatens fcandal, Iofs, and con-
tempt. To Lucida Maxilla Ceti, Genu Caftoris, Genu Pollucis, Ventre
Gemini, Cynolura ; fcandal, odium, and fcorn even of the common fort;
the ill will of fome eminent lady or woman ; danger of thieves, and
fuch-
240 AN ILLUSTRATION
fuch-like perfons. To Lucida Colli Leoiiis, Ala Leonis, Doilb Leoiils,
Lanx aufiralis, Genu & Tibia dextra Ophiuci, Deneb, Ultima in Dorlb
Capricorni, Sitiifter Humerus & Cubitus dexter Aquarii ; thefe are evil
dirc(flions, giving the native melancholy difeaies, efpecially in thofe parts
fisruified bv the iign in which the liar is ; he 2:oes alio under fcandal and
reproach. To Hircus, is a very ncble direction, and may fignify the
advancement of the native in all things, chiefly in military affairs ;
yet
involves him in feveral vices and troubles with women ; and bids him
beware of fome fevere wound by a fall, blow, or flab. The fignificators
of the part of fortune, being dire6ted in like manner, are altogether the
fame with what we hinted in the dire<51ions of the fecond houle.
In all thefe diredlions we mufl have great regard both to the fign and
the houfe. In diredions which concern the body, we have refpeft to
the fign, becaufe that moft commonly indicates the part affli6ted ; fo alfo
does the houfe ; for, if the direftion falls in the afcendant, the afflidlion
falls in the head, as on the eyes, nofe, cars, or brain ; if in the fecond, in
the throat, &c. In directions which concern the eflate, honour, or for-
tune, we chiefly take notice of the houfe, for that indicates the means by
which the thing fhall be attained ; the nature of the fliar, the quality of
the perfon ; if in the third, by a kinfman, or by travel ; if in the feventh,
by a wife, or woman.
In dircdling any planet to thefe fixed flars, confider whether the flar
fympathizes with the fignificator in nature and quality, or not. If it does,
the direction may be good, although it be to an evil flar ; for fweet to fvveet,
is fweet; like to like breeds no dilcord ; an union and agreement of natures
takes away the evil efFe£ts ; for, if the lord of the afcendant were Saturn,
and he fhould be directed to Cauda Leonis, a flar of his own nature, this
could be no evil direftion, nor any-way afflift the native either in body
or eflate ; but would have famous and glorious efFeds, both for health and
wealth, according to the place it falls in. In thefe directions we are
principally to regard the magnitude of the ftar ; for flars only of the firfl
magnitude prefage things eminently glorious, or dangeroufly deftruClive ;
and thofe which are of the fecond, come very near them. Then the place
of the direction is to be noted; for, if it fall in an angle, the direction
will not only be famous and eminent, but alfo manifeft itfelf with a great
deal of life and vigour ; and that on a fudden ; in a fuccedent houfe, the
cfFeCls will be more languid ; in a cadent, not only weak and flow, but it
may be a queflion whether they will ever operate at all. Regard muft
alfo be had to the latitude ; for ftars, having fouth latitude, operate not
fo much upon our northern hemifphere as thofe which have north
;
thofe which have no latitude, fhow their efFeCt, be they good or evil,
with
OF ASTROLOGY; 241
with ftri6l equality ; and thofe which have north latitude noanifeft their
force with great vigour.
The fign alfo in which the ftar is pofited is much to be confidered ; for
fixed ftars in cardinal figns exceed the others in power by fo much as
their place is more excellent and remarkable. And, if a direflion to any
eminent fixed ftar falls in Textile or trine to the places of any of the for-
tunes or of the luminaries, or coheres with any other eminent direfiion
at or near the fame time to the body or afpecSl of any planet of the na-
ture of the fame ftar, the effeds will not only be indubitably evident,
but alfo very ftriking and wonderful.
The durability of their efFedl remains only to be confidered ; wherein
muft be noticed, whether there be a continued feries of diredions attend-
ing of the fame purport and efFeft ; for, if there be, and nothing contra-
dids their influence, the efforts of them will, we may fafely conclude, be
durable and lafting.
APHORISMS for guiding the JUDGMENT upon NATIVITIES and
HORARY QUESTIONS.
Confider the degrees afcending, Sol and Luna ; and fee whether they are
affli6ted, or not ; if they are extremely afflidled, or either of them, it is an
argument of fliort life, and therefore it will be in vain to form long di-
redions for fuch a nativity. Thefe points are faid to be afflided or un-
fortunate, when either the conjundion, quartile, or oppofition, of the
infortunes, vitiate their places, or when many violent fixed ftars of the
nature of the lord of the eighth afcend with the degree afcending or with
the luminaries.
Confider the lord of the afcendant alfo ; for, if he be effentially ftrong,
free from the afflidion of the infortunes, not combuft nor retrograde, nor
impeded by the lord of the fourth, fixth, eighth, or twelfth, houfes, but
increafing in number, light, and motion, it (hows long life. H the Sun
in a birth by day, or the Moon in a birth by night, be ftrong, free from
afflidion, and aflifted by the fortunes, it fliows long life ; but thofe who
are borne exa6tly upon the very change or full of the Moon feldom live
long ; the Moon befieged between Saturn and Mars argues fiiort life.
That planet, which has moft dignities, efifential and accidental, in a
figure, is the lord of the geniture, more efpecially if he be lord of the
alcendant alfo.
No. 13. 3 N The
442 AN ILLUSTRATION
The planet or planets in the afcendant are the chief fignificators of
manners ; but, if no planet be in the afcendant, then the planets from
which the Moon feparates, or to which fhe applies, fhall be fignificators.
The fignificator of manners in Aries, fhows one witty ; in Taurus,
one laborious; in Gemini, a lover of learning ; in Cancer, inconftancy
;
in Leo, fobriety and difcretion ; in Virgo, covetoufnefs ; in Libra, in-
conftancy and conceitednefs ; in Scorpio, wifdom, fubtilty, and boldnefs;
in Sagittarius, valour ; in Capricorn, lafcivioufnefs ; in Aquaries, com-
placency and kindnefs ; in Pifces, a mere hypocrite.
Mercury and Luna in coniun6lion, Textile, or trine, in any fign, fhows
ingenious perfons ; the quartile (hows wit, but more turbulent ; the op-
pofition fhows one leditious, ftubborn, imprudent, and dcftrudive. Mer-
cury in Taurus or Capricorn, in a cadent houfe, and retrograde or com-
bufl:, or affli61ed by Saturn or Mars, fhows the native to be fimple, and
of rude underflanding. Mercury in his own houfes, or in Aries or Aqua-
ries, in reception with Mars or Saturn, fhows a fliarp wit, and one of an
admirable invention. Mercury received of the Moon, either by houfe or
exaltation, gives a fertile genius. Mercury in conjunction, fextile, or
trine, of Saturn, fhows a wary conflant wit ; of Jupiter, an honefl: up-
right mind ; of Mars, a confident opinion ; of Sol, a proud heart ; of
Venus, a pleafant wit ; and of Luna, a ready and piercing wit.
If many planets be ftrong and eflentially fortified, efpecially Saturn,
Jupiter, and Mars, or Sol, the native will enjoy a manifefb and ample
fortune, live nobly, and in great efteem, above the ordinary quality of his
birth, managing the a£lions of his whole life with glory and fuccefs ; and
this judgment will be more confirmed, if moft or all the planets be efTen-
lially fortified at the fame time. But, contrariwife, when moft of the
planets are in their detriment or fall, peregrine, cadent, retrograde, afflidted,
or combuft; the native is then continually involved in a thoufand mif-
fortunes, one upon the heels of another, and his whole life is nothing
but a vale of mifery. But a mediocrity of teftimonies fhows a various
fortune, fometimes miferable, fometimes extremely happy, according to
the times of evil or good diredions.
Saturn fignificator of fubflance, fhows riches by building, hufbandry,
gardening; Jupiter, by the church, religion, government, trufl, clothing;
Mars, by war, inftruments of war, law, furgery, or phyfic ; Sol, by honour,
command, office, digiiity, or preferment ; Venus, by friends, gifts, or
women ; Mercury, by arts, fciences, learning, oratory, merchandife ; Luna,
by navigation, bv the common people, or women.
The
OF ASTROLOGY. 243
The Moon fortunate in the afcendant gives wealth and eftimation all
the life long. The Sun and Luna in trine, and he in his exaltation, free
from the affli6lion of Saturn or Mars, are ample teftimonies of a large
fortune ; the fame if Jupiter or Venus be in the fecond. The difpofitor
of the Part of Fortune in the eighth, or the lord of the eighth eflentially
fortified in a good houfe, promifes the native an eftate by the death of
friends. The Moon combufl;, or in conjun6iion, quartile, or oppofition,
of Saturn, deflroys an eftate though never fo large, and reduces the native
to poverty; the fame happens if the lord of the lecond be i'o.
If the fignificator of fubflance be efientially fortified, well pofited, free
from afRidion, or in a fixed lign, the native's fubftance will be firm and
durable all his life. An infortune in the fecond, ftrong, fhows that the
eftate may continue, but with great difficulty ; but, if weak, that it will
come to nothing; if a fortune be there, the native's eil:ate will be firm.
If no planet be in the fecond, confider the lord of the fecond, and the dif-
pofitor of the Part of Fortune, and judge by them, and by their diredions
to good or evil promilTors. The fignificators of fubftance oriental, and
fwift in motion, fhow the native will be rich quickly ; but occidental,
flow in motion, or both, or retrograde, not till old age.
The lord of the afcendant, and third houfe, in good afpe6t or mutual
reception, (hows concord among brethren, kindred, and neighbours; but,
if in evil afpecft, the contrary. If Saturn or Mars be peregrine in riie
third, or the Dragon's Tail be there, the native and his kindred will be at
perpetual variance, and by them he will receive many crolTes and lofles.
If Saturn or Mars, or the Dragon's Tail, be in the third houfe, or in con-
jun6tion, quartile, or oppofition, of the lord of the third, the native lofes
by travel, and will always be in danger of thieves or robbers upon the
highway, and will have many evil neighbours.
The Sun or Moon in Via La6tea, affli6led with the conjun6tion, quar-
tile, or oppofition, of Saturn and Mars, or with nebulous flars, portends
blindnefs, if both luminaries are afflided ; if the Sun only be afflided, it
is the right eye ; if the Moon, the left. The fame if the Moon be in con-
junction, quartile, or oppofition, with Sol or Saturn, with nebulous flats,
or if Sol be in conjunction with Mars in the eighth.
The Sun in good afpe6t with Saturn or Jupiter in a diurnal geniture,
or the Moon fo conjoined in a nodurnal, efpccially in the fecond or fourth,
or if they have dominion in the fourth, fignify a good patrimony to de-
fcend to the native, and an augmentation of his paternal inheritance. But
the Sun afflided by Mars by day, or by Saturn by night, and not affifled
by the fortunes of Luna by night, decreafing and affliCied by Saturn or
Mars,
i44 AN ILLUSTRATION
Mars, or both ; or if the lord of the fecond, or the fourth houfe or its
lord, be afflicted in like manner; it (hows the native will wafte his fa-
ther's eftate, and bring it to nothing. The fame if Saturn be in conjunc-
tion with the lord of the fourth in the twelfth ; or the infortunes in the
fourth in conjunftion with the lord of the fifth ; fo it is alfo if Mars be
in conjunction with Sol, and peregrine, affliding the fecond.
In a diurnal genefis, Sol and the lord of the fourth fignify the father,
and the Moon the mother ; but, in a nocturnal, Saturn, with the lord
of the fourth, the father ; and the Moon the mother. Now, if thefe
behold the afcendant or its lord by Textile or trine, there will be concord
and love between the native and his parents ; but, if by quartile or oppo-
Ction, much ftrife, difcord, and contention. The fignificators which caft
the beft or greateft afpe6t to the afcendant or its lord (how that the per-
fon fionified by them will love the native beft.
Saturn in the fourth, in his houfe or exaltation, dire(5l, fwift in mo-
tion, and in fextile or trine with Jupiter, Venus, or the lord of the fe-
cond ; the lord of the fourth in reception with either luminaries, and they
in good afpeft to the fourth or planets therein ; (how an ample fortune
by managing quarries, mines of metal, coal, (tones, minerals, &c.
The lord of the afcendant in the fixth or twelfth, and he or the afcen-
dant affli6led by malefic planets, (hows a fickly perfon. If the fign af-
cending and all the planets be in figns of one triplicity, the native will
always be afflidled with difeafes of the nature and quality of that trigon ;
if the fiery, with fevers and inflammations ; if the airy, fuperfluities and
difeafes of the blood ; if the watery, dropfy, and other vyatery difeafes ;
if the earthy, confumptions, melancholy, and the like.
The Sun in the fixth, feventh, eighth, or twelfth, houfes, and afflided
or affliding the lord of the afcendant, gives few years, with much fick-
nel's and many afflictions. The Moon applying to the conjunction of Sol
(hows lean and infirm people, affliCted with fuch difeafes as the phyfician
can neither cure nor difcover. The Moon affliCted by the conjunction,
quartile, or oppofition, of Saturn and Mars, in conjunction with the Dra-
gon's Tail in the afcendant or fecond, (hows the falling ficknefs, or the
native's whole life to be fickly ; and fixed (tars of the nature of Saturn
being joined with the luminaries do the fame, making the perfon alfo lean
and pale. Mars in the afcendant (hows difeafes in the head, and fears
and wounds in the face ; Saturn in the medium coeli, fudden hurts by
falls, bruifes, and the like, as alfo lofs of honour ; but, in the afcendant,
pains of the teeth. The Moon, afflicted by the oppofition of Saturn,
Mars, or Mercury, (hows madnefs or folly ; the fame if Saturn and
Mars be in partile oppofition, or applying to it from angles.
If
OF ASTROLOGY. 245
If Mercury be lord of the fixth, or the planets in the fixth be ftrong,
eflentially fortified, and in good afped with the afcendant, or fecond, or
their lords, it fhows that the native's fervants will be honeft, juft, and
profitable to him ; the fame if the fignificators be angular; and fo con-
trariwife. A fortunate planet in the fixth or twelfth (hows good fervants,
and profitable; but the Dragon's Tail, Saturn, or Mars, in the fixth,
and peregrine, denotes bafe, fordid, and thievifti, fervants.
Planets in the fifth, and the Moon and Venus, or their difpofitors, free
from affliflion ; figns upon the afcendant and fifth, and figns in which
their lords are, being fruitful, fhow many children ; the fame if Venus
or the Moon be in the afcendant, or Jupiter in the feventh. Jupiter or
Venus, or the lord of the fifth, in trine to Luna, in human or fruitful
figns ; all or moft of the planets in fruitful figns, and in good afpedt to
the lord of the fifth, or planets therein ; Ihow a plentiful ififue. Saturn in
the fifth declares ftubborn and undutiful children ;
Mars, fuch as will be
bold and daring; but Sol in conjun6tion, quartile, or oppofition, of Saturn
in the fifth or eleventh, fhows barrennefs; the fame if the lord of the fifth
be retrograde, or combuft, or in conjundion, quartile, or oppofition, of
Saturn or Mars, and they peregrine. Saturn or Mars, or both, peregrine
in the fifth or eleventh ; Sol in the fifth joined to an iufortune ; Sol, Sa-
turn, Mars, or Mercury, in quartile or oppofition of Luna in the medium
coeli; Jupiter in oppofition of Saturn or Mars or both; the lord of the
fifth in the eighth or twelfth ; or in conjunftion, quartile, or oppofition,
of Saturn or Mars; are all certain arguments that the children will die.
In marriages, obferve the motion of the fignificators ; for, if they are
dired and fwift, the native marries early; but, if retrograde and flow,
or ftationary, they prolong the time very much. The particular time of
marriage is difcerned by direft and converfe diredlions of the afcendant,
or medium coeli, or their lords; or the Sun or Moon to the conjundion,
Textile, quartile, or trine, of the lord of the feventh, or planets in the fe-
venth, or by dire6tions of the afcendant or medium coeli or their lords
to the conjun6tion, fextile, quartile, or trine, of Jupiter, Sol, Venus, or
Luna; and if any of them are in the feventh houfe, or afcendant, con-
joined to many planets, they fliow many wives ; and fo alfo does the lord
of the afcendant in configuration with many. The Moon configured to
one planet only, (hows but one wife ; and, if the Moon be ftrongeft:, the
man outlives his wife ; but, if the planet with whom the Moon is con-
joined be ftrongeft, he dies firft.
The Moon applying to Saturn, well-affe6led, fliows a ferious, induf-
trious, fober, laborious, woman ; but, being ill-aiFe6"ted, a fufpicious.
No. 13. . 3 O crofs,
246 AN ILLUSTRATION
crofs, envious, froward, woman, indolent and carelefs ; applying to Ju-
piter well-affe(51ed, a fober, honeft, godly, religious, chafte, and virtuous,
woman, and a good houfewife ; but, being ill-afFeded, the woman may
have virtues, but they arc generally clouded ; applying to Mars well-
affe61ed, it fhows one of a lofty, honourable, open, and generous, mind;
a true friend, yet fcorning to receive any affront or injury, and one that
will defire to be mafter ; but, being ill-affcfted, an evil, quarrelfome,
proud, petulant, woman ; applying to the Sun, being well-affefled, fhows
an honourable and truly-noble creature, full of generofity and humanity,
afFedting high and great things ; but, if ill-affe61ed, (he will be idle,
vain, foolifh, proud, infulting, and domineering ; to Venus well-affeded,
a beautiful, fair, pleafant, civil, courteous, loving, good-conditioned, and
virtuous, woman ; but, if ill-affedled, fhe is an impudent, bold, arrogant,
prodigal, talkative, luflful, bafe, woman, Laftly, the Moon applying to
Mercury well-affe£led, fhows a loving, neat, ingenious, pleafant, well-
fpoken, careful, woman ; but, if ill-affe£led, an intruding, prattling, in-
conftant, diffembling, turbulent, creature.
The lords of the tenth and feventh, or fecond and feventh, in each other's
houfes of the figure, or in mutual reception, (how a good wife ; but the
lords of the fixth or twelfth in mutual reception, or pofition with the lord
of the feventh, (how a very mean, obfcure, ill-bred, woman. Saturn or
Mars in the feventh, very (Irong, (hows a good and rich wife, yet her
fubftance not attainable without trouble ; if peregrine there, it (hows one
of low birth, poor, and ill-conditioned ; if Jupiter, Sol, or Venus, be
there, the contrary. If the fignificators of man and wife be in quartile
or oppofition of one another, or in quartile or oppofition to the Moon,
there may be many quarrels, and that upon very flight occafions; the
contrary if they be in conju6tion, fextile, or trine, or in mutual reception
or pofition ; or if the Moon makes any tranflation between them by good
afpe6l. The lord of the feventh in quartile or oppofition to Saturn or
Mars, (hows an evil woman, immodeft and fliamelefs; and, if the lord
of the feventh be in the twelfth, although in trine with Venus, the wo-
man will prove inconftant to her hufband.
If Mercury and Luna be in conjunction or reception, or the lord of the
ninth be in the afcendant, or the lord of the afcendant be in the ninth, or
Mercury or Luna be in the afcendant, third, or ninth, or in mutual re-
ception of their lords;, or in conjun6tion with them, the native will travel
beyond fea, or take many long journeys. The caufe of the journey
appears from the nature of the fignificator, and the houfe in which he is
pofited ; if Saturn be fignificator, the caufe is from fome inheritance, le-
gacy, or things and commodities faturnine ; if Jupiter, the caufe is frcyn
religion,
OF ASTROLOGY. 247
religion, ecclefiaftical preferment, honour, or law ; the like of the other
planets. If the fignificator be in the afcendant, the native is pofTefled
with a natural defire of feeing ftrange countries ; in the fecond, he travels
with a defign of enriching himlelf ; and fo of the other houfes.
If the lord of the ninth be in the afcendant, the native will travel much
;
if in the fecond houfe, he will gain confiderably by his travels; if in the
third, he will cohabit with ftrange women, and often fhift his refidence ;
if in the fourth, his parents will have fome occult infirmities, and he will
die on his travels; if in the fifth, he will have children in another
country ; if in the fixth, he will gain by his flaves or fervants, and his cat-
tle will fall fick on his travels ; if in the feventh, he will obtain a good
and obedient wife. - When the fignificators of journeys are eflentially
ftrong, well pofited, and free from afflidlion, and in Textile or trine of a
good planet, they denote honour, profperity, and fecurity, in travels, quod
capax, according to the quality of the perfon ; and contrariwife, if Sa-
turn or Mars afflid the fignificators, it fhows, in the twelfth houfe, dan-
ger of imprifonment ; in the fecond or third, treachery by kindred or
neighbours, or danger by common thieves ; but, in this judgment Saturn
fhows rather poverty and want of money ; Mars, bodily wounds. The
countries into which the native had beft travel, are chiefly thofe fubjeft to
the figns of the afcendant, fecond, ninth, tenth, and eleventh ; or thofe
figns in which Jupiter, Venus, Part of Fortune, or Dragon's Head, are
pofited ; but thofe fubjed to the figns in which the infortunes or Dra-
gon's Tail are pofited, will prove unfavourable to the traveller; and fo
alfo will thofe that are fubjed to the figns of the fourth, fixth, feventh,
eighth, or twelfth, houfes.
Saturn, Mars, or the Dragon's Head, in the ninth, or Saturn or Mars
in the third, oppofite to the ninth, Jupiter being peregrine, cadent, and
affli6led, fhows either pernicious feftaries, of no religion, or atheifls. But
Jupiter, Venus, or the Dragon's Head, in the ninth, fhows a truly reli-
gious perfon ; the fame if Sol, Mercury, Luna, or the Part of FortunCj
be there in fextile or trine with Jupiter or Venus. If no planets are in
the ninth, confider its lord and Jupiter; if they, or either of them, be
effentially fortified and ftrong, or angular, or in reception of Sol or Luna,
or with the lord of the afcendant or planets therein, or pofited in the af-
cendant, the native will be truly pious, honefl, and religious ; and fo
contrariwife. Saturn in the ninth, effentially flrong, fhows flrong zeal,
chaflity, and faith ; Sol there, fhows piety, and makes an excellent
preacher. If Sol or Jupiter hath dominion in the ninth houfe, or in the
afcendant, and hath dignities in the places of Mercury or Luna, the
words of the native will be like oracles.
The
248 AN ILLUSTRATION ^
The fignificators of honour in their houfes, exaltations, or in mutual
reception or pofition with the lord of the afcendant, or angular, being
alfo free from affli6tion, beftow on the native honour, glory, trufl, and
command. Jupiter, Sol, Venus, or Luna, in the medium cceli, the
fame ; more efpecially if they are effentially fortified. The Sun and
Moon in the degree of their exaltations, not affli£led, fhow, quod capax,
the greateft preferment. The light of time culminating, and in Textile
or trine with Jupiter and Venus, or with the other light, fhows great
honour. But thofe who have neither of the luminaries angular, or in a
mafculine fign, or in Textile or trine of Jupiter or Venus, will all their days
be abjeft and poor, and of the vulgar fort.
If the planet or planets which have dignities in the places of Sol, Luna,
or the fign afcending, (hall be ftrong and effentially fortified, and if it be
Saturn, Jupiter, or Mars, oriental, or if it be Venus or Mercury oc-
cidental ; the native (hall raife himfelf, though low, to a very high
condition. So alfo Sol culminating in Aries, Leo, or Sacjittarius ; or
Sol and Luna in reception, or in fextile or trine ; or if the Sun or light
of time be in conjundlion with Aldebaran, Regulus, Arifla, Pleiades,
Antares, Rigel, Hircus, Cor Hydra, Ardturus, Fomahaut, or Marchab,
and more efpecially if thofe ftars culminate alfo ; the Sun, Moon, and
Jupiter, in trine with each other ; the Sun and Mars in mutual reception,
or in trine from fiery figns ; Jupiter, Venus, and Luna, in conjundion or
partile trine, efpecially in angles ; Jupiter and Venus in conjunftion or
any angle, but chiefly in the tenth, with the Dragon's Head there ;—are
all teflimonies of eminent honour.
The Sun in Cancer, the Moon in Scorpio in conjunflion with Jupiter,
or in trine with him from Pifces, are arguments of great preferment.
The Moon in the afcendant, near the full, in conjundion, fextile, or
trine, with Jupiter, Sol, or Venus, or fixed flars of their nature, and
of the firft magnitude, fhows great increafe of honour and preferment.
Sol or Luna in conjundlion with Regulus or Arifta ; or in conjun6lion
with the Dragon's Head and Jupiter in the tenth, in trine to them, or to
Mars or Venus, will raife the native from obfcurity to fit with princes.
Whatfoever preferment is fignificd, if Saturn or Mars cafl their quartile
or oppofition to the tenth houfe, its lord, the Sun, or Jupiter, it will be
lofl again. If the lord of the tenth and afcendant apply one to another,
and are both oriental, and in their effential fortitudes, the native will be
great, and be beloved.
o
Saturn in the tenth never lets the native enjoy his honour and prefer-
ment long ; but cafts him down headlong, when leaft expeded ; from
which
OF ASTROLOGY. 249
which dejeftion he never rifes. The lord of the afcendant in Textile or
trine with the Sun, and oriental, or in trine or Textile with the lord of
the medium coeli, the native will attain to honour and dignity, and be
beloved of kings, princes, and noblemen. The lord of the afcendant in the
fign afcending, or in his own dignities, he will rife to honour and efteem
by his own induftry ; more efpecially if he applies to a planet angular and
in his own exaltation. The quality of the preferment is difcerned from
the planet or planets which apply to the luminaries, or to which the lu-
minaries apply; if Saturn be that planet, preferment comes by means of
an eftate, inheritance, pofTeffions, or favour of auceftors ; if Jupiter, by
means of virtue, honour, or learning, or honefty, gravity, juftice, reli-
gion, or wealth. If Mars, by valour, or by merit as captain or general
in the army, or by being a phyfician, furgeon, chemift, &c. If Venus,
by courtfliip, pleafantnefs, or through the means of women. If Mercury,
by wit, judgment, oratory, or learning; by the law, merchandife. Sec.
wherein alfo confider the houfe in which this planet is. If no planet
beliold the luminaries, or is beheld by them, then conCder the planet in
the tenth, and the ftrongefl. planet there, if there be many; if no planet
in the tenth, confider the lord of the tenth, and difpofer of the light of
time, or that luminary which is either above the earth or ftrongeft, and
judge ut fupra; for, if the planet (howing the preferment be eflentially
ftrong, free from afflidion, and affifted by other planets in quartile or
trine, the native's honour will be permanent, otherwife not.
Mars in his detriment, and in oppofition to the afcendant, fhows an un-
fortunate and infamous man. Mercury in quartile or oppofition to Sa-
turn, caufes an impediment in the tongue or fpeech ; in conjun6lion,
Textile, or trine, to Jupiter, makes excellent orators, of great realbn, un-
derftanding, and juftice, and gives him great friends among churchmen
and lawyers ; in afpe61: with Mars, he inclines to phyfic, furgery, chemif-
try ; in quartile or oppofition of Sol, to coining money ; in Textile or trine,
with Luna, gives him a good underftanding, and inclines him to the
knowledge of things to come, to arts and Tciences, as philoTophy, philo-
logy, mathematics, medicine, &c. if her application be in Virgo or
Scorpio, the native proves a lover of the mathematics. Mars in aTpe<5t
with Sol, gives the native power, authority, and magiftracy, making him
famous. Jupiter, Sol, Venus, or Luna, in the eleventh, eflentially forti-
fied, and in conjunftion. Textile, or trine, with the lord of the aTcendant,
fhow great and good friends ; but contrarivvife if Saturn and Mars be there
and weak. The Dragon's Tail in the eleventh, always (hows falfity
in friends, which is found never to fail ; in the third, the Tame. Fortunes
in the firft, fifth, Teventh, ninth, and eleventh, houTes, many friends ; in-
fortunes in the twelfth, or in angles, many enemies.
No. 13. 3 P ThoTe
2^0 AN ILLUSTRATION
Thofe planets which are in oppofition to the luminaries, lord of the af-
cendant, or are pofited^in the twelfth houfe, fignify the native's enemies
;
no planets in the twelfth or feventh, or in oppofition of the luminaries,
few or no enemies. The lord of the afcendant in the feventh or twelfth
or the lord of th* feventh or twelfth in the afcendant, argue many enemies.
Thofe planets in feptima, or in oppofition of the luminaries, will difcover
their malice openly; thofe in the twelfth or cadent, will a6t their malice
clofely and cunningly. The lord of the afcendant either difpofing of the
fignificator of enemies, or much ftrongerin elTential dignities, and angular,
the native overcomes all his enemies, and contrariwife. Significators of
enemies cadent, peregrine, retrograde, or combufl, argue mean perfons.
Either of the luminaries afflicted by conjundlion, quartile, or oppofition, of
Saturn or Mars in angles, and difpofed of alfo by the faid infortunes, ar-
gues imprifonment ; lb if Sol or Luna be in the twelfth in conjunction
with Saturn. Saturn and Mars in conjunftion, out of their own digni-
ties, or dignities of the luminaries, the fame ; the lame if Sol and Luna be
in conjundlion in the eighth, in any fign except Taurus, Cancer, or Leo.
The lord of the afcendant combuft in the twelfth, imprifonment, and
many forrows ; in the tenth, death by fentence of a judge ; in the eighth,
forrows, and an infamous end. The lor«^of the afcendant in quartile or
oppofition of the lord of the eightl^pr any planet therein, or in conjunction
with evil fixed ftars of the nat^Jre of the lord of the eighth, or in the
fourth, fixth, eighth, or twelfth, in conjunftion, quartile, or oppolition^
of Saturn or Mars, or combuft, and out of all his effential dignities, are all
demonftrations of a violent death. If thefe configurations happen in
fiery figns, it may be by beheading ; in airy figns, hanging ; in earthy figns,
by falls, blows, or the like ; in watery figns, by water or drowning ; in
angles, the death will be more honourable; fuccedent, by accidents; in
cadent, very (hameful. If the fignificators of manners be with Caput
Medufae, the native will be of a violent nature, even to murder or be
murdered; if with Aldebaran, he will be fierce, and given to warlike
aftions ; if with the Pleiades, he will be ambitious, turbulent, and libidi-
nous ; if with Cingula Orionis, he will be witty, of great underftanding,
and have a vaft memory ; if with Regulus, he will be magnanimous, no-
ble, generous, and aiming at rule and dominion ; if with Antares, he
will be rafh, headftrong, without rule or government, obftinate even to
his own deftru61ion ; if with Hercules, he will be rafh, bold, impudent,
cruel, fubtle, crafty, with a (how of valour and honour; if with Arifta,
he is noble, generous, and brave, of a gentle, affable, and courteous, dif-
pofition, juft, honeft, faithful, true-hearted, ftudious, and ingenious ; if
with Lyra, wanton and luxurious, but pretending to gravity and honefty ;
if with Aquila, bold, confident, and valiant.
Saturn
OF ASTROLOGY. 251
Saturn oriental, or in the afcendant, gives a ftature fomewhat above the
middle fize ; occidental, a mean ftature inclining lo brevity. Jupiter ori-
ental, gives a tall, large, and comely, perfon ; occidental, middle fized, but
large boned and well fet. Mars oriental gives an itiditterent large cor-
porature and flrong body ; occidental, one of a middle fj^e, but full body.
Sol gives a large and comely corporature ; Venus oriental gives a tall,
ftraight, and flender, perfon ; occidental, one (hort and well fet; Mercury
oriental gives a complete, tall, upright, and flender, body ; occidental, one
low and fmall. The Moon increafmg gives a full, fat, plump, perfon,
inclining to tallnefs ; decreafing, a fhort, low, fquat, body. Planets hav-
ing north latitude fhow large and grofs bodies, but of a more dull and
fluggifh nature; planets having fouth latitude fhow lefs proportion, and
fuch as are nimble and aflive. Saturn fhows a long vifage, fwarthy, black,
or tawny, and lowering ; Jupiter a fair, full, comely, vifage; Mars a full
fun-burnt or ruddy vifage ; Sol a full round face, high bold forehead,
and tawny complexion ; Venus a fair beautiful vifage ; Mercury accord-
ing as he is conjoined ; of himfelf he gives a long Iwarthy complexion ;
Luna full-faced if increafing; pale, wan, and long-vifaged, if near her
change. If Saturn is lord of the geniture, or in the afcendant, the na-
tive is melancholy, envious, fearful even of his own fliadow ; if Luna
is in'quartile or oppofition to him, he proves ambitious, and fills his ful-
len fancy with glorious conceits ; but, if Mars, it is much if he proves not
mad ; if Mercury, an enthufiaft or diviner. If Saturn be in the medium
ccEli, it deftroys the native's honour and fame, though ever fo great, and
he ever fo deferving ; fo much the more if he be in quartile or oppofition
to Sol or Jupiter ; but, if Jupiter or Venus be there under fortunate di-
redions, he may with much labour preferve it ;
yet at lafl it will be de-
ftroyed. Saturn in conjundion with Luna, in an angle, though the native
were ever fo rich, yet fhall he be reduced to poverty ; fo the Dragon's Tail
in the fecond deftroys the native's eflate and fortune, be it never fo great,
and he will be driven to many exigencies and wants ; and Saturn or Mars
retrograde, peregrine, and cadent, being in quartile or oppofition to the
fecond houfe or its lord, makes the native perpetually poor. Saturn or the
lord of the afcendant in one man's nativity, being upon the cufp of the
fevcnth in another's, forefliows perfedt hatred, and the latter will be the
injured perfon. Saturn in the afcendant, in Gemini, Virgo, Libra, Ca-
pricorn, or Aquaries, in good afpeft with Mercury, makes fcholars and
learned men ; with Jupiter, divines and lawyers ; if he be in the eighth,
in a nodlurnal geniture, he forefliows a violent death. Saturn lord of the
feventh, makes the native long before he marries ; fcarcely before thirty,
unlefs Jupiter, Venus, Mercury, or Luna, be in the afcendant ; or feme
of the other three, and the lord of the afcendant be in good afpefl of
Ivuna. Saturn in quartile or oppofition with Sol or Luna from angles,
portends
252 AN ILLUSTRATION
portends blindnefs; the fame if the luminaries be in quartile or oppofition
of Mars. Saturn in the imum coeli, although in a fortunate genefis, fore-
(hows an evil end to the native, though he be a prince.
Jupiter lord of the getiiture, or in the afcendant, makes the native of a
noble and brave fpirit, aiming at good and honeft things, without the
fenfe or leaft imagination of evil. But if either of the luminaries, or
Saturn or Mars, be in quartile or oppofition to him, he proves proud,
treacherous, and a perfecSi villain, who under the notion of fandity may
Hiroud a thoufand enormities. Jupiter or Venus pofited in the afcendant
or medium coeli, free from afHiftion, makes the native beloved of all forts
of perfons, though his birth be ever fo mean ; and gives him a jufl:, up-
right, and honeft, foul. Jupiter, Venus, or the Dragon's Head, in the
fifth, in a fruitful fign, (hows many children; and, if Luna be in any
good afpeft with them alfo, fhe (hows ftill the greater number.
Saturn or Mars in the ninth, and the Dragon's Tail in the afcendant,
generally makes the native an atheift in judgment, though a prieft by pro-
feflion. Saturn upon the cufp of the fecond, makes the native always poor,
let him have what a(fi{l:ance foever ; unlefs he be effentially fortified there,
and in good afpe6t of the fortunes, Saturn and Mars in oppofition to
equinodial figns, makes (if a king) a great tyrant ; and, if they be in
quartile with Jupiter, he may be an obferver of law and religion, but it
will be for his own ends. Saturn in oppofition to Luna, or Mars in oppo-
fition to the afcendant, makes an abfolute knave and a traitor.
Mars lord of the geniture in the afcendant effentially fortified, makes
a courageous perfon, a good foldier, furgeon, or phyfician, and one honour-
able in his profeffion. Mars ftrong in a nativity, and lord of the feventh,
in nogoodafpeft to the luminaries or afcendant, the native will be unfor-
tunate in war, controverfies, and law-fuits ; for the feventh houfe fignifies
his enemies, and in this refpe6t they will be too powerful for him. Mars
in the medium coeli brings fcandal and di(honour to the native in many
things, whether he deferves them or not. Mars in Aries, Scorpio, or
Capricorn, in the afcendant of a nativity, makes the native invincible
;
and this more efpecially if he be in good afpe6l of the luminaries, or pla-
nets ellentially fortified. Mars in conjun6lion, quartile, or oppofition, to
Luna and Saturn, in the fame afpedl of Sol from angles, (hows a violent
death. If fo pofited in violent figns, though out of angles, the fame.
Mars and Sol in the fecond houfe, effentially fortified, the native may
have a good eftate, but will have ways enough to fpend it ; but, if
they be weak, peregrine, or afflided, the native will be driven to want.
Mars
OF ASTROLOGY. 253
Mars and Sol in the afcendant, in aereal or fiery figns, make proud, fcorn-
ful, prodigal, perfoas, conceited of themlelves. Mars in oppofition to
Jupiter or Venus deflroys the iflTue of the native, though ever fo great and
numerous.
Sol lord of the geniture, or flrong in the afcendant, makes the native
aim at fovereignty, rule, and dominion; u'ho, quod capax, will be very
famous; the fame if Aries, Leo, or Sagittarius, afcend, and the Sun be
fl:rong and in trine with Jupiter. Sol in the afcendant makes a great
boafler and very proud perfon ; Mars there, denotes a notorious liar, ro-
mancer, and inventor of fables, and a contriver of mifchief, given over
to perjury, violence, and cruelty. Sol or Luna in quartile or oppofition
to Saturn or Mars from angles, chiefly in the medium cceli, fhows a violent
death ; if to Mars only, and in human figns, the native will be flain by
the hands of his enemies ; if to Saturn, he will either have a great fall,
be imprifoned, or flarved to death in a prifon. Sol and Luna affli6l:ed in
watery or airy figns affliff the native greatly with the gout. Sol and Luna
in conjunftion of Venus in Cancer or Capricorn give the native a great
fancy and a large underflanding. If Sol, Luna, or the medium coeli, be
direded to the conjundion, Textile, or trine, of Jupiter or Venus, the
native, if in years, generally marries. Sol, Luna, or the afcendant, being
Hyleg, dire61ed to the conjun6lion, quartile, or oppofition, of Saturn, and
the direftion being in Aries, Cancer, or Leo, the native rarely efcapes
death when thefe diredions come up, becaufe thofe figns reprefent the
moll: vital parts in man's body, and Saturn in the oppolite figns has mofl
power to do mifchief. Sol and Mercury in ponjundion in the third or
fourth makes the perfon fkilful in occult arts and fciences. Sol, Luna,
or the afcendant, in a geniture of fhort life dire6ted to the Dragon's Tail,
generally proves mortal.
Venus, lady of the geniture, or flrong in the afcendant, makes the na-
tive a great lover of pleafure, of an upright, julT:, honeft, heart; but, if
fhe be weak, and afflided by Saturn or Mars, the native is libidinous,
lenfually and beaflly inclined, and will be afflided with venereal difeafes.i
Venus and Mercury in conjundlion in Gemini, Libra, or Aquaries, in the
afcendant, in trine with Jupiter in the ninth, make great fcholars and
learned men. Venus and Mercury pofited in the medium coeli, either in
Aries, Gemini, Virgo, or Scorpio, make the native very eminent in
arts and fciences. Venus in the afcendant, and Mercury lord thereof, in
reception with her, denotes a good underftanding, and a worthy honefl
man. Venus pofited in the medium coeli makes the native, whether man
or woman, marry very advantageoufly.
No. 13. 3 Q Mercury
254 AN ILLUSTRATION
Mercury lord of the geniture, or flrong in the afcendant, gives the na-
tive an admirable fancy and great elocution ; if he be in good afpedl with
Luna or Venus, or in reception with either of them, he proves a famous
orator ; if in good afpe6l or reception with Saturn or Jupiter, he makes
an excellent philofopher or divine ; if with Mars, a good phyfician, fur-
geon, or mathematician. Mercury in cafimi, and in his own dignities,
makes the native a great orator, or fubtile counfellor, in the eftimation of
all men. Mercury in quartile or oppofition of Mars gives a Iharp, hue
a turbulent and troublel'ome, wit and underftanding ; one never content,
but always feeking out new things and ftrange inventions. Mercury in
an angle in Pifces, afflidl'ed of Mars or Sol, and the Moon in an angle,
afflided of Saturn, makes a fool or a madman ; for thefe configurations
opprefs the brain, and reprefent a thoufand fancies. Mercury in Cancer,
retrograde, in quartile to Mars and Jupiter, and they in oppofition to each
other in the nativity of a divine, make a great enthufiaft. If Mercury be
afflided by Saturn, in thofe genitures where Cancer, Scorpio, or Pifces,
afcend, the native is either dumb or has a very great impediment in
his fpeech ; the fame if Mercury be with the Dragon's Tail ; if affli6ted
by Mars in fuch a genefis, the native flammers very much. Mercury free
from afflidtion in genitures where Gemini, Virgo, Libra, Sagittarius,
or Aquaries, afcend, gives the native a graceful fpeech and an excellent
elocution. Mercury and the Dragon's Tail in the afcendant in Libra, and
the Moon in Aries in the feventh, make the native a promoter of fcandal
and falfehood. Mercury in either of the houfes of Saturn gives a found
underftanding; and, if he be in fextile, trine, or reception, of Saturn, the
native comes into great repute by his ingenuity. Mercury in the houfes
of Mars, in good afpe<El of Luna and the lord of the afcendant, gives ;an
excellent underftanding.
Luna being lady of the geniture or ftrong in the afcendant, the native
Joves novelties, is fubje6t to mutation, and defirous of travelling to fee dif-
tant countries ; of a gentle nature and difpofition, and timorous ; if fhe be
in afpedt with Mercury, the native will be mafter of many languages. Lu-
na in conjundlion with the Pleiades, and in quartile of Mars from an angle,
(hows great defeds in the eyes, if not total blindnefs. Luna in con-
junftion or oppofition of Sol in any genefis, (hows that the native will
live but a fhort time, unlefs the Moon has great latitude ; for that fame-
times may make the conjundion or oppofition eight or nine degrees
diftant. Luna in conjundlion of Saturn in an earthy fign, and an earthy
fign afcending, makes the native very melancholy and low-fpirited. Luna
in reception and trine of Mercury gives a good underftanding, and makes
the native able to overturn the arguments of moft men. Luna in the
twelfth, in quartile to Caput Algol in the medium coeli, fhows lofs of
honour,
OF ASTROLOGY. 255
honour, if not captivity, or death in prifon. Luna in Via Combufta, and
Sol in Via La6tea, denote great danger to the eyes ; if the infortunes be in
the afcendant, or in oppofition thereto, it prefages blindnefs. Luna, Sol,
or the afcendant, direded to the conjun6tion of Mars, ihows the fmall-
pox or meafles in children ; in men it denotes malignant fevers ; and, in
elderly people, death. Luna in good afpedt of the almuten of the medium
coeli, and in the fame with the lord of the afcendant, gives to the native
eminent honour. Luna or Sol, or both, in the afcendant, afflided by
the body or partile afpe6l of the infortunes, denotes that they will be of
a very fhort and fickly life.
Fixed flats of the firfl or fecond magnitude in the afcendant, or medium
ccjeli, give the native extraordinary fame and honour, make him eminent
and profperous, and one whom the world will admire. Fixed ftars of a
violent nature, upon the cufp of the medium coeli, and its lord pofited
with fuch, fhow deftrudion to the native's honour and fame. Fixed ftars
are to be confidered, in general pofitions or diredlions, in refpeft of their
afpeds, as well as the planets.
The medium coeli affli6ted by the Dragon's Tail, and both the lumina-
ries afflidled by Mars, in a violent fign in the fourth, fhow a wretched
end, both to the honour and life of the native. The medium coeli well
fortified gives the native not only great honour, but fuch as fhall be fixed
and durable ; though fometimes upon bad diredions it may be fubjecl to
interruptions. The medium coeli directed to promittors never kills unlefs
in the genefis there be flgns of a violent death.
All the planets, or mofl of them, above the earth, make the native,
of whatfoever capacity, eminent and famous beyond it ; and, if they fhall
be fo pofited in their dignities, he (hall, like a comet, out-fhine all others
in the place where he lives. All the planets in a nativity retrograde, and
under the earth, though the native be of great and noble birth, fhow him
not of a rifing, but of a falling, fame and fortune. The lord of the af-
cendant ftronger than the lord of the feventh fhows the native always
overcomes his adverfaries, and fo contrariwife. Aries, Leo, or Sagitta-
rius, afcending, and the lord of the afcendant in medium coeli, fhows the
native will always be aiming at things beyond the capacity of his birth or
prefent fortune.
The inferior planets many times fhow great honour to the fame of a
native, but will not be of long continuance. The fortunes in the ninth
make famous churchmen, lawyers, and rich merchants; the fame, if the
bcnevolents trine the ninth or lord thereof. Many planets in the ninth,
in
256 AN ILLUSTRATION
ill the nativities of any clafs of perfons, gives them the higheft honour and
dignity in their profeffion. If Virgo afcend, the native is generally very
ingenious, unlefs Mercury be in Sagittarius or Pifces ; and then the native
is generally confident and conceited of his own abilities, though a mere
fool. The lord of the medium coeli in the twelfth, and the lord of the
twelfth in the afcendant, denote captivity or imprifonment ; the like if
the Moon or lord of the afcendant be pofited in the twelfth. The greater
the planets' dignities are, the more fplendid and glorious are the native's
honour and fortune ; the greater their debilities, the more obfcure will
be his. If the medium coeli be directed to the body of Saturn, he being
pofited in the tenth or eleventh houfe, the native will lofe all his honour
and offices, and will fcarcely ever rife again to preferment ; and, if in fuch
genefis there be fignificatiozis of a violent death, the aforefaid dire6iion
puts an inglorious period to the native's life.
A continued feries of o-ood direftions makes a bad nativity fometimes
very good ; but thai good lafis not long. Two, three, or more, planets
in the eighth, upon good diredions unto them, increafe greatly the na-
tive's fubftance by wills and legacies of the dead. The eleventh houfe,
fortified by the prefence of good planets, fhows many great and powerful
friends ; but, by the prefence of evil planets, and they ill-affeded, it
fhows few and faithlefs friends. The lord of the eleventh ftronger than
the lord of the feventh declares the native's friends to be more powerful
than his enemies.
All the planets under the earth, when they promife honour, dignity,
and fortune, which is chiefly when they are effentially fortified in noc-
turnal genitures, generally perform it in the latter part of the native's life.
All the planets in a nativity out of their eflential dignities, (how obfcure
perfons; who, if they ever attain any honour, glory, or renown, in the
world, never long enjoy it. A fortunate planet in the eighth houfe always
denotes a natural death ; the lord of the eig-hth in the medium coeli fhows
the native will die by the fentence of a judge. Such as have a fatellium,
or crowd of planets in angles, have at fome time or other of their lives
prodigious fuccefs or detriment, according to the occurring diredions.
Many planets in reception, or in good afpedt of each other, give the native
many and good friends. Planets fquaring or oppofing each other from
angles and cardinal figns denote great misfortunes to the native, and that
at lall: he fhall die a violent death. Cardinal figns polTeffing the angles of
a nativity make the native, if of any capacity, moft eminent and famous in
his generation, and to do fuch ads as that after-ages fhall admire him. Di-
redions to the bodies or afpe6ts of planets in thedefcending part of heaven,
although they denote the greatell happinefs, yet it proves not very durable.
In
OF ASTROLOGY. 257
In a feminine genefis, the lord of the feventh being pofited in the
afcendant, makes her govern her hufband ; and if the lord of the af-
cendant be a fuperior planet, and the fign thereof commanding, fhe will
be a great virago, and hedlor over him. Allowance is many times to be
given in the meafure of time in directions, when tranfits of weighty pla-
nets, contrary to the nature of the dire6lions, (hall near that time occur;
for good and evil diredlioris may be either anticipated or continued by the
force of the tranfits. Some perfons, although they have bad genitures,
rife wonderfully, becaufe their genitures fympathize with the nativities
of thofe by whom they are raifed. The greateft fympathy that can be in
any two nativities, is by having the fortunes in one upon the places of
the luminaries in the other ; and the luminaries in the latter upon the
places of the fortunes in the former. The greateft antipathy is, where
the infortunes in the one pofTefs the places of the luminaries in the other ;
and the luminaries in the latter pofTefs the places of the infortunes in the
former; the fame happens if the lord of the afcendant in the one he in
oppofition to the lord of the afcendant in the other, and fo contrariwife.
The lord of the afcendant in the radix in conjunflion with the lord of the
eighth, in the revolution, an-d in the eighth houfc, will be very dangerous
to the life of the native.
Mercury peregrine, atid in detriment or fall, retrograde or combuft,
in quartile or oppofition of Luna from angles, flow in motion, cadent, or
in via combufla, or affli6ted by Saturn or Mars, fhows the native not to
be wife, but rather ftupid, and dull of underftanding, impertinent, trou-
blefome, a diffembler, and very fjjly creature ; but the quartile or oppofition
of Mars and Mercury caufes a turbulent and unquiet wit, and makes the
native the author of many inventions.
RUDIMENTS of the DOCTRINE of HORARY QUESTIONS.
Let the radix be drawn into a fpeculum, and, being fully and com-
pletely directed with obfervations of all the current tranfits, draw forth
the revolution alfo of the year. Then, confider the matter about which
the queftion is propofed, whether it be tranfient or durable. Confider
alfo to what houfe the thing belongs, what planet is the fignificator
thereof, the afcendant and its lord, and the planets which may confirm,
impede, or deftroy, the bufinefs. What planets are hurtful to the fignifi-
cator of the thing, and confequently to the querent, which are fuch as
the lords of the feventh or twelfth houfe, or fuch as are in quartile or
oppofition to them in the radix. Then if the lord of the afcendant come
by diredlion or tranfit to the body or good afpedl of the lord of the houfe
fignifying the thing, or planet pofited therein ; or they contrariwife to
No. 13. 3 R the
258 AN ILLUSTRATION
the good afpeft of the lord of the afcendant ; the matter (hall come to
pafs, or take effe£l. So if a planet by direction or tranfit bath lately
feparated from the fignificators of the thing, and immediately applies
to the conjunftion, Textile, or trine, of the lord of the afcendant or pla-
net therein, it fhows the fame. If the fignificators of the thing, or lord of
the fourth from the houfe fignifying the fame, (hall tranfit the afcendant,
or come by dire£lion thereto, it (hows good. If the radical and revolu-
tional fignificators apply by good afpe6t in the Ephemeris, or are in
reception, or another planet makes a tranflation or coUeftion of their
light, it (hows the perfedlion of the matter. If the aforefaid tranfits or
dire6tions happen to be in mutual reception to the lords of their radical
places, it (hows Co much the more eminent good. And, whether the fig-
nificators be ftrong or weak at the time of the diieftion or tranfit, if
ihev were ftrong in the radix, their fignifications will be the more firm.
If any planet colleifls the light of both fignificators, and at that time tran-
fits the afcendant or houfe fignifying the thing, it perfects the matter.
The fame if by direftion or tranfit they come to one another's places in
the radix, or to any eminent fixed ftar upon the cufp of the eleventh
houfe or medium coeli. Confider what houfe the planet which tranf-
lates or colle6ls the light of the fignificators is lord of and pofited in ;
for according to the nature of the things fignified by thofe houfes (hall
the matter terminate. If the Sun, Moon, or Part of Fortune, tranfit the
medium coeli, or houfe fignifying the thing, or come thereto by direc-
tion, it fignifies good : but if there be neither direction nor tranfit, nor
fignificators of good or evil, it is requifite to fufpend judgment to a future
day.
If it be a weighty and durable thing which is defired, it will fcarcely
be performed without a good direftion or tranfit ; yet you may judge
thereof, according to the next that comes, as it is either good or evil.
But, if the oppofite evil to what we have ftated (hould happen, then judge
of it by the contrary rule ; but, if both good and evil happen, judge ac-
cording to the more weighty and greater number of teftimonies. And
whatever we have faid of the radix, if the fame configurations happen in
the revolution, they import the fame, but not with fuch powerful efFedl.
Laftly confider to what points in the revolution the radical fignificators
approach by tranfit or direction ; or contrariwife, to what points in the
radix the revolutional fignificators apply ; and accordingly, as it is either
good or evil, join all with the other configurations aforefaid, and accord-
ingly judge.
RUDIMENTS
OF ASTROLOGY. 259
•RUDliMENTS of the DOCTRINE of RADICAL ELECTIONS.
If any thing be really intended to be obtained, the time of the be-
ginning and undertaking thereof ought to be elefted from the radix
of life, and nothing elfe. For at that time, once for all, the great God
deputed every fignificator to a certain purpofe or fignification, and firmly
eftablifhed the fame for ever unalterable by the power of nature. There-
fore, in making an ele^ion, firfl correftly learn what planet is the true
and real fignificator of the thing defired, for without the true knowledge
thereof all is in vain; fecondly, confider the nature and quality of the
thing, whether it be proportional to the capacity of him who defires it, or
impoffible.
Confider alfo to what houfe of heaven the fame doth appertain, and
what eminent fixed ftars were upon or near the cufp thereof, and what
planets in the radix beheld it by friendly afpeft. Note likewife the re-
volution, what fign is upon the cufp of the fame houfe, what planet is
lord thereof, or beholds it by good afpe6l. Confider the promifTor, or
planet, or houfe fignifying that or them by or from whom the thing
hoped for is to be obtained or performed. Then confider, in every elec-
tion, the fourth houfe from the houfe fignifying the thing, its lord, and
planet pofited (if any be) therein ; for that hath fignification of the end
of the matter.
Let the radix be direded with a fpeculum completely fitted, thereby
readily to obferve, with a glance of the eye, all the tranfits of every fig-
nificator, whether good or evil. This done, obferve at what time the
fignificators come by diredlion or tranfit to the body or good afpedt of the
promiffor in the radix, or to the lord of the fourth, or planet pofited
therein, or eminent fixed flar of the nature of the promiffor, or at what
time there is any tranflation made by the promiffor, Sun, or Moon, by
good afpe6l, to the cufp of the afcendant, lord thereof, or planet pofited
therein ; as alfo at what time in the Ephemeris they come to any good
afpedl ; and make your eledion for the fame accordingly.
Obferve when thofe radical fignificators come by diredion or tranfit
to the body or good afpedt of the aforefaid revolutional promiffors,
—
Obferve alfo when the cufp of the fourth from the houfe fignifying the
thing, or its lord, by diredion or tranfit comes to the body or good
afpedl: of the afcendant or its lord, or tranflates the light of the figni-
ficator or promiffor thereto; or comes to the houfes or lord thereof figni-
fying the thing. Note alfo, when the revolutional fignificators come
by tranfit to the body or good afpedl of the aforefaid promiffors, whether
radical
45o AN ILLUSTRATION
radical or revolutional, and whether there be any evil diredllon or tranfit
at the fame time, either radical or revolutional, accompanying the afore-
faid configurations.
Let the fignificators, but efpecially the promiflors, be effentially forti-
fied, or in conjundtion, fextile, or trine, with their places in the radix, if
poffible. Let the medium coeli in the radix, as alfo the Sun and Moon
and lord of the eleventh, be free from all afflidlion, and haftening by di-
re6lion or tranfit to fome good configuration. And let the fame fign and
degree, if poffible, afcend at the undertaking which did in the radix, for
then the fignificators are the fame ; if that cannot be, let thofe upon the
cufp of the houfe fignifying the thing afcend ; or let the Sun or iMoon
be pofited in the houfe fignifying the thing, taking heed that the radical
infortunes may be cadent if pofllble, and not angular. Obferve if there
be any reception between the radical fignificators and promifiTors ; the
fame obferve in the revolution ; or whether the radical and revolutional
fignificators are in reception one with another at the time of the direftions
or tranfits, for that is very promifing ; and thofe afpe6ls only are propi-
tious to make eledions in.
Laftly, if the radical fignificators be weak or unfortunate, there can
be no ftrong or firm eledion made for the native ; for what good can be
cxpcded to proceed from weak, afflided, impotent, and unfortunate,
promifiTors or helps ? It is true there may be an accidental good, but that
never can overcome the power of an eflential or radical evil ; yet, if an
eledion be made for fuch a one, let the fignificators be efifentially flrong at
the time of the eledion, and if poffible in trine to their radical places.
Now, if the exa6l time be required in which any thing fignified fliould
come to pafs, that muft be found by the diredion of each fignificator to
their refpedive promifTors, both by progreffive and converfe operation ; or
by drawing a fpeculum for the mundane afpefis, which will at firft fight
point out the year, month, and day, in which all the material accidents of
human life fhall appear, and be made manifeft. If you would know how
many children the native (hall have, you mufl: have confideration to the
fifth, feventh, ninth, eleventh, firfl, and third, houfes, for thefe fignify
the native's children ; and, as the fifth from the afcendant fignifies children,
ib it fignifies the firfl and feventh child ; the feventh fignifies the fecond
child, for it is the houfe of brethren from the fifth ; the ninth fignifies
the third child, becaufe it is the third from the feventh ; and fo in like
manner the eleventh fignifies the fourth child; the firft, the fifth child;
the third, the fixth child ; the fifth, the feventh child as aforefaid ; the
feventh, the eighth child ; and fo on. The fex of the infant is difcovered
by the nature of the fignificators.
In
OF ASTROLOGY. 261
la regulating and afcertaining thefe judgments, the difcreet Aftrolo-
gian muft likewife underftand, that all fiery figns incline men to be cho-
leric, hafty, furious, quarrelfome, revengeful, proud, ambitious, impe-
rious, importunate, and fool-hardy ; involving themfelves in many trou-
bles and misfortunes ; yet they are moflly ingenious, but often changing
their opinions and purfuits.
Airy figns fhow men cheerful, affable, courteous, liberal, free-hearted,
faithful, good-natured, and loving mirth, fuch as finging, dancing, mufic,
and all civil recreations ; of modeft deportment and manners, and of
found reafon and underflanding.
Earthy figns denote perfons of referved thought, flow in fpeech, and
deliberate in all their undertakings, keeping clofe their counfels and
intentions. They alfo frequently prove to be very fraudulent, covetous,
and fufplcious, feldom forgetting or forgiving injuries ; often forrowful
and low-fpirited ; loving no man's efleem but their own ; for the mofl
part prudent and careful, but auflere and furly in their manners and
deportment.
Watery figns make them cowardly, luxurious, wanton, mutable, dull,
and fluggifh ; with low, effeminate, whining, voices ; very timorous and
fearful, having much deceit in them. They are ufually pretty much
given to the fchools and nurferies of Venus, which often prove a great
injury to them, and fometimes their total ruin.
It mufl alfo be remembered, that Saturn is extremely cold and dry.
Jupiter is remifsly hot and moifl, Mars extremely hot and dry, the Sun is
meanly hot and dry, Venus is hot and moifl. Mercury is remifsly cold
and dry, the Moon is meanly cold and moifl. If Saturn be in Aries, his
drynefs is increafed and his coldnefs abated, or he is intenfely dry or re-.
mifsly cold : in Taurus he a6ls with a double force, viz. he is intenfely.
cold and dry ; in Gemini'he is remifsly cold and dry ; in Cancer he is in-
tenfely cold ; fo that, if Saturn afped the afcendant from any of thefe
fiwns, he varies his influence according to the fign he is in. A planet in
his houfe, as the Sun in Leo, retains his own nature, and is well affeded
in his influence ; but if in his detriment, as in Aquaries, he is then ill
affefted or deprived. If he be only peregrine, he is meanly affe<5fed as
to good or evil, viz. neither effentially flrong nor weak ; if in his fall, he
flags in his motion, and is a man indifpofed and uneafy. Therefore a
planet in its fall or detriment efFc61s no good to the native ;. if any, it is
depraved, and confequently dangerous or pernicious.
No. 14. 38 A pla-
262 AN ILLUSTRATION
A planet dire£t and fwift iii motion, or on the contrary, as thofe very
terms import ; therefore their celerity, orientality, and pofition, if fupe-
r'lors, yuf>ra terram^ makes them more manifeft and powerful. Aries af-
cending gives a martial wit and inclination ; but, if the Sun be in partile,
trine, or fextiJe, to it, or its lord, or in conjundion of Jupiter, who may
be in platic Textile or trine to either of them, then it is made folar and
jovial, but chiefly folar. Underfland the like in other figns afcending,
according to their refpeflive nature, and the nature alfo of thofe planets
that behold them.
The nature and flate of every planet mufl: be attended to ; for a planet
may be confidered in relation to the portents or fignification of any fign or
manfion of heaven ; thus, Firfl, as to pofition ; fecond, dominion ; third,
exaltation ; fourth, afped ; fifth, oppofition thereunto ; as for example,
Saturn in Aries mud be confidered as martialized and folalized, becaufe,
Aries is the houfe of Mars, and the exaltation and triplicity of the Sun,
and fo in others. The afcendant in any nativity is to be obferved, alfo
the lord of the afcendant and his pdfition, or a planet pofited therein ;
all which are to be confidered by the reader or ftudent as to the portents
or fignification of the afcendant. The fixth houfe fignifies difeafes ; but
yet the twelfth fhall be a configurator in all corporal affliftions, as being
in oppofition thereto.
From the lord of the afcendant, or in any other houfe, proceeds the
chief virtue or moft powerful parts as to the fignification of that houfe.
If Saturn and the Sun be in conjundlion in Leo in the tenth houfe, the
latter being neareft to the cufp thereof, then the native arrives to fome
degree of dignity or honour from the analogy, pofition, dominion, or
• fortitude, of the Sun, as alfo his propinquity to the cufp. But Saturn
being of a contrary nature, and adverfe to what the Sun portends, alfo
hating the place of his refidence, and partly affli6ting the Sun, will there-
fore caufe fome unhappy misfortune to arife, and cloud the glory pro-
mifed by the Sun in the end. Saturn in conjun6lion with Jupiter in
Virgo is mofi: powerful, and overcomes in his effects ; but, if they are
conjoined in Aries, then Jupiter is ftrongefl', and becomes vidor. This
reciprocally by each being in his fall.
The luminaries are to be confidered as more, powerful and fignificant
than the reft of the planets; and therefore any of the fuperiors in con-
junclion with the Sun in Leo influences much power and honour to the
native by virtue of the Sun, &c. Se if Saturn be in conjun61ion with Ju-
piter in Sagittarius, the houfe of Jupiter, then Saturn atls in dependance
to his difpofitor. Any planet ftrong in a good houfe is of good fignifi- j
cation,
OF ASTROLOGY. 263
catibn, bot much better if the planet be a fortunate one by nature. A
malefic planet, \reak in the tenth houfe, denies honour, if they behold
either the cufp or the lord thereof by any malevolent afpeft; then many
impediments or obftru6lions prejudice or hinder the native's advancement.
Mars in the mid-heaven, ftrong, ufually portends military preferment,
dignity^ or profeffion.
Saturn or Mars, flrong in a good ho\ife of a figure, are as difcords in
mufic, connefted to efFedl; a concord or harmony in founds; for, being
well affefted, they caufe a perfed good, though it be attended with dif-
ficult means or methods to accompany it. In flne» their good is always
tempered with fomething of evil, becaufe they are naturally more pro-
penfe to cffeOi evil than good ; as for example, Saturn in the fecond houfe,
or lord thereof, and ftrong, gives riches by rapine and covetoufnefs ; in
the feventh he denotes the death of the wife. A malefic planet meanly
affeded in a good houfe oftentimes obftruds or prevents what is naturally
fignlfied thereby, or at beft but meanly efFeds a good. As for example,
Saturn meanly afFeded, viz. peregrine in the fecond houfe, gives not
riches, yet retains them when gathered by being fparing and penurious.
Mars fo pofited and ill-affeded, diffipates or deftroys an eftate by prodi-
gality, and fuch other imprudent expenfes. Saturn, debilitated in the
eleventh houfe of a nativity, produces trouble with or by the means of
friends unrelated ;, and the analogy is according to the debility of the
planets, and how they are beheld, and mitigated by fextiles and trines, or
contrarily inflamed by quartiles or oppofitions.
An infortune in conjunction with a fortunate planet, is either impeded
or deprived of the good fignified ; for, though the fortunate planet be in
his own houfe, yet he partakes fomething of the nature or analogy of
the malefic with whom he is conjoined. Three planets or more in
conjundlion, aft jointly and feverally according to their refpeftive natures,
and to their heavenly ftates, but principally according to the nature and
ftate of the moft ftrong and ruling planet. If an infortune, efpecially
Saturn, be placed between two planets which are in conjundion, he pre-
vents or retards the good promifed by the other two planets ; the nature
or kind thereof is difcovered by the houfe of heaven wherein fuch a con-
grefs is made.
The lord of the afcendant applying to the conjundion of the Sun in
any nativity, ftiows the native apt, or delights, to converfe with honour-
able perfons, grandees, and fuch-like ; as alfo that he will be ambitious of
fame, honour, and dignity, &c. If he apply to Saturn, the native affeds
to converfe or aflbciate himfelf with perfons of an inferior rank, viz. rul-
tics.
264 AN ILLUSTRATION
tics, plebeians, &c. He is fubjeft to envy, fear, penfivenefs, and co-
vetoufnefs. Two planets in reception a6t or difperle their influence in
an amicable method, and, if benevolent by nature, their virtues are the
more powerful. Many planets and cardinal figns in any geniture, always
effed fome great things ; if in one houfe, the native receives or fuffcrs
an excefs of good or evil, according to the nature of that houfe. The
benevolent planets Jupiter, Venus, and Mercury alfo, retrograde in any
nativity, is of eminent import, adding to the felicity of a native ; and this
is the more powerful if they are applying to the conjunftion of the Earth
;
but the retrogradation of Saturn or Mars in angles is ever attended with
difficulties and unhappinefTes, from which pofitions I (hall always pray.
Libera nos, Domine.
END of the FIRST PART.
AN-
ILLUSTRATION
OF THE
CELESTIAL SCIENCE
OF
ASTROLOGY.
PART THE SECOND:
CONTAINING THE
DOCTRINE OF NATIVITIES,
AND THE
ART OF RESOLVING HORARY QUESTIONS;
TOGETHER WITH
A Collection of Nativities of the moft eminent and remarkable
Persons; Twins, Dwarfs, Giants, &c.
By the late E. SIBLY, M.D. F. R. H. S.
LONDON : printed IN THE YEAR M.DCec.XXIV,
i
1
AN
ILLUSTRATION
Of the CELESTIAL SCIENCE of
ASTROLOGY.
PART THE SECOND.
The ART of RESOLVING HORARY QUESTIONS.
TT is an obfervation moft true, that all people endued with reafon are
-*- folicitous to know their future eftate and condition ; but, as feme
perfons find it impoffible to procure the exa6l time of their birth, Aftro-
Jogy fupplies that defeft by the dodrine of Horary Queftions ; fo that,
from a queftion ferioufly propounded, almoft as much fatisfaftion may be
given the querent, upon many fubjeds of inquiry, as if his nativity were
a6lually known. For, as the nativity is the time of the birth of the body,
the horary queflion is the time of the birth of the mind ; and there are
few perfons living but are in fome way or other fubjedl to horary doubts,
which, being ferioufly propounded in the fhape of a queftion, may be fatis-
faflorily refolved. This dodrine feems to be founded upon that miracu-
lous fympathy in nature, which is admirably manifefted between the
Moon and the Sea ; by which that amazing body of water is conftantly
drawn after her, though no man fees, or can conceive, how. In thefe
fympathies there can be no doubt but the vegetive foul of the world invi-
fibly carries and unites a fpecific virtue from the heavens between one
thing and another, every-where working thofe fecret efFefts which no
mortal can fail to admire. And in the prefent cafe, who is to determine
Vi'hat this foul cannot effedt between the heavenly bodies and the animal
fpirit of man, working fuch fympathies, as that a queflion of impor-
tance to our welfare cannot ftart from the mind but in a point of time
when the planets and figns governing the perfon's birth, and acting upon
the very fubjed that engages his thoughts and attention. And hence the
birth of the queftion, like the nativity of a child, carries the ftory of
the whole matter in hand upon its forehead. And hence alfo follows
that
268 AN ILLUSTRATION
that (kill in natural predi6tioiis by which the artift is enabled to demoii-
(Irate the particulars of the event required : and this as well by the ftars
of heaven as Abiathar the pricft was of old enabled to do by the fl-ars of
the eplio(l.
But, however, the predi6tions that are made from the queftionary way
are by no means fo perfe6l and corred as thofe deduced from Nativities;
andtherefore I recommend all judgments of futurity to be made from
nativities, when they can be procured, rather than from horary queftions.
But at the fame time I am very confident that the omnifcient Creator is
not at all wanting for any pofTihle care in his contrivance of the works of
nature, for the fupply of all our moderate wants and enquiries. And, if
it be cflential to man's welfare to be forewarned of the time and the judg-
ment, as Solomon declares it i?, and that the wife man Jliall know it,
(Ecclef. V. 6. viii. 12.) then it is plain that God has afforded means to
obtain this knowledge without a miracle; and this means may furely be
l)y the ftars of heaven, refponding our horary queftions ; and experience
continually affirms, day by day, that it is lo. Not that I believe the
trivial concerns and accidents of mankind, as fome writers have pretended,
may be thus deduced, as if a glove, loft or hidden in fport and wanton-
ncls, fhould be fo watched and attended by the heavenly intelligencers,
that they mull needs point out where this piece of leather were to be
found; or that queftions propounded out of mere curiofity or diverfion
are to be relolved by them. No; God's works are ferious, and not to be
made the fport and ridicule of the gay and inconfiderate. For, although
the heavenly contrivance may aptly refpond our ferious and important con-
cerns, as when David anxioufly defired to know whether hefliould go up into
any ofthe cities of Judah, and which of them f yet that they fhould as aptly
fatisfy oiir intemperate dellres, and be fubfervient to our frolics, is too
ridiculous to imagine. There is no doubt but the heavens are able to
(how us more learning than we mortals, in this ftate of frailty and cor-
ruption, can evei' attain to underftand ; and it is a great bounty of God
that we know fo much as we do ; therefore it highly becomes every wife
and good man to glorify the Maker of all things for the little knowledge
he can and doth attain, and to be careful how he fports even with the
leaft amoiis: his !'racinus works.
»
All enquiries that are ferious, and tliat come under the denomination
of an horary q;;tf!:i')n, muft neceflariiy relate either to things /»a/?, ^rif/^w/,
or to come; or to concerns that once were, now are, or may be hereafter
;
;i;nl the anlwci to fuch queftions muft be either effential or accidental.
'1 fic cftl-ntial a-Mwer is always one of the three things following, to wit,
that
OF ASTROLOGY. 269
that the matter concerning which the enquiry is made, is firft, to be, or
not to be; fecond, either good or bad; and third, either true or faIf
e.
Therefore, if the queftion be real, and the matter rightly ftated, the true
anfwer, which is always (hort, will be eafily difcovered by the following,
rules. The accidental anfwer is that which appertains to the accidents
of the bufinefs in hand; and is always defined by %vhere, when, how., or
why. And whoever attempts to extend his judgment beyond thefe limits,
ftrains art beyond its bounds, and forces it to fpeak that which it is totally
incapable of; and by this means many pretenders to Afl:rology fail
egregioufly in their undertakings. To avoid this, let the following que-
ries be attended to.
QUERY I. h the Subjed of Enquiry to be or not to be f
Here the firft thing to be attended to is the perfeftion or deflruflion
of the matter under confideration. The perfe6t:ion or completion of the
fubjedl of enquiry may be efFefled four feveral ways; viz. by the appli-
cation, traiiflation, reception, and pofition, of the planets; and thefe are
determined and defined by the proper and refpe6tive fignificators of the
fubje6is of enquiry, which are, firft, the lords of thofe houfes which relate
to the matter in hand ; fecondly, planets near the cufps of thofe houfes ;
thirdly, planets exalted or dignified therein ; and fourthly, the config-
nificators of thofe houfes. The lords of the houfes are thofe planets
which are lords of the figns that happen to fall upon the cufps of the
houfes. The confignificators of each houfe are as follow : of the firft
houfe or afcendant, Saturn and iVIars ; of the fecond, Jupiter and Venus;
of the third, Mars and Mercury ; of the fourth, Sol and Luna; of the
fifth, Venus and Sol ; of the fixth, Mercury alone ; of the feventh, Luna
and Venus; of the eighth, Saturn and Mars; of the ninth, Jupiter
alone; of the tenth, Mars and Saturn; of the eleventh, Sol and Saturn ;
and of the twelfth, Venus and Jupiter. From hence it appears, that
each houfe hath a primary and fecondary confignificator ; the firft where-
of arifes from the order of the planets, the other from the order of the
figns.
The confideration of the matter propofed is taken from that houfe
which hath relation to, and fignification of, the fame; and this fignifi-
cation of the houfes is either (imple or compound. The fimple figni-
fication of the houfes is that which hath relation fingly to the perfon of
the querent ; compound fignification is that which hath relation to the
matter, or quefited. The querent is he or fhe that alks the queftion ;
the matter, or quefited, is that about which the queftion is propofed.
The fimple fignifications of the houfes are as follow : The firft houfe
fignifies the querent's life and perfon ; the fecond, his fubftance ; the
No. 14. 3 U third.
^70 AN ILLUSTRATION
third, his kindred, neighbours, and fhort journeys ; the fourth, his grave,
father, and lands; the fifth, his pleafures and offspring ; the fixth, his
ficknefs, fervants, and fmall cattle ; the feventh, his wife, public ene-
mies, and law-1'uits ; the eighth, his death and legacies; the ninth, his
religion, long voyages, and learning ; the tenth, his mother, trade, and
honour; the eleventh, his fiiends and hopes; the twelfth, his private
enemies, great cattle, imprifonments, and crofTes. The compound sig-
nification is derived from the fimple, by confidering what houfe that is
which fjgnifies the matter or quefited ; and accounting that, be it what-
foever houfe it may, for its afcendant or firft houfe ; and fo afcribing the
fignification of the firft houfe of the figure to it ; doing in like manner
to all the other houfes in order. So that, if a queftion relates to a brother
or relation, the third houfe is then his afcendant or firft houfe, and fignifies
his life and perfon ; the fourth houfe (which is in this cafe his fecond)
his fubftance or eftate ; the fifth houfe (his third) his relations and fhort
journeys; the fixth (his fourth) his father; the feventh his children;
the eighth his ficknefs ; the ninth his wife, &c. and the fame of all
others. Thefe things being laid as a foundation, we now come to fhow
the perfedlion of the matter by the different affe(5lions of the afpe<Ss.
Application is when two planets hallen to conjundfion or afpe<5lof one
another. The light planets only apply to the more weighty. So Saturn
'applies to none; Jupiter only to Saturn; Mars to Saturn and Jupiter;
Sol to Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars; Venus to Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, and
Sol ; Mercury to Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sol, and Venus ; and Luna to
them all. But, if any of the higher planets be retrograde, they may then
apply to a lighter by retrogradation. Thus Saturn may apply to Jupiter,
Mars, Sol, Venus, Mercury, or Luna ; Jupiter to Mars, Sol, Venus,
Mercury, or Luna ; Mars to Sol, Venus, Mercury, or Luna ; Venus
to Mercury or Luna ; and Mercury to Luna, when retrograde. In this
application the lords of each houfe are not only to be confidered, but alfo
the confignificators of the fame ; for, if they alfo apply together by good
afpedt, we may give the more probable judgment. Thele applications
may be always difcerned by the Ephemeris ; wherein may not only be
feen when the Moon applies to any afpedl, but alfo when any of the other
planets apply to one another.
Tranflation is when a planet feparates from the body or afpe6l of one
planet, and immediately applies to the conjun6tion or afpedt of another.
And the planet tranflating is always lighter, except in retrogradation,
than the planets from or to whom the tranflation is made. So Luna may
tranflate the light of the other planets from one to another; Mercury
may tranflate the light of Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Sol, and Venus, from
one
OF ASTROLOGY. ayi
one to another; Venus the light of Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, and Sol, fronn
one to another; Sol the light of Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars, from one to
another ; Mars the light of Saturn and Jupiter, from one to another ; but
Jupiter and Saturn, without retrogradation, can make no tranflation. This
tranflation is to be confidered between the lords of the houfes signifying
the matter, the planets near the cufps, and the confignificators of the
fame. So, if the queflion belong to the feventh houfe, and Sagittarius be
on the afcendant, then Jupiter is lord of the afcendant, and Mercury of
the feventh ; Saturn is the firfl: confignificator of the afcendant, and Mars
the fecond ; Luna is the firft confignificator of the feventh, and Venus
is the fecond. And, if the tranflation be between Jupiter and Mercury,
OF Saturn and Luna, or Mars and Venus, it may pofTibly perform the
matter ; but, if there be a tranflation between them all, as alfo between
planets pofited near the cufps of the houfes, the thing will undoubtedly
be brought to pafs, the fame as by application. A more weighty planet
may alfo make a tranflation by feparating in retrogradation from a
weightier than himfelf, and applying to a lighter than himfelf. So Ju-
piter, being retrograde, may feparate from Saturn or his afpefl, and tranf-
late his light and virtue to Mars, Sol, Venus, Mercury, or Luna.
Reception is either fmgle or mutual. A fingle reception is when but
one of the fignificators receives the other into his dignities ; vFz. his houfe,
exaltation, or triplicity ; this is but of fmall force, and is called difpofi-
tion. Mutual reception is when two planets are in each other's dignities ;
as Mars in Gemini, and Mercury in Aries. This reception is threefold,
either by houfe, exaltation, or triplicity. By houfe, when Saturn is in
the houfes of Jupiter, and Jupiter in the houfes of Saturn. By exaltation,
as when Saturn is in Aries, the exaltation of Mars; and Mars in Libra,
the exaltation of Saturn. By triplicity, as when Saturn is in Leo, the
triplicity of Mars, and Mars in Taurus, the triplicity of Saturn. There
is alfo another reception of dignities ; and that is when one planet is in
another planet's houfe, and that planet in the other's exaltation or tripli-
city. As Saturn in Taurus,' thehoufe of Venus, and Venus in Libra, the
exaltation of Saturn, or in Virgo his triplicity. Thefe receptions are re-
markably ftrong and forcing, if they fall either in the antifcions of each
other, or in or near each other's fextile or trine.
Pofition ift when either the lords of the two houfes concerned, or the
confignificators of the fame, or both, are pofited in each other's houfes
;
or the lord of the afcendant, or its confignificator, or both, are pofited in
the houfe fignifying the thing ; or, laftly, when the lord or configni-
ficators of the houfe fignifying the thing are pofited in the afcendant.
Sq>
272 AN ILLUSTRATION
So, if the queftion belongs to the medium coeli, if the lord of the afcen-
dant be found in the medium coeli, or lord of the medium coeli in the af-
cendant, or in mutual pofition, it perfeds the thing defired. This pofi-
tion is eminent ; and, if the faid fignificators be pofited in the antifcions
or other dignities of each other, or of the planets fignifying the thing, it
abfolutely denotes the full completion of it ; more elpecially if the iaid
fignificators by pofition are in fextile or trine to each other ; or to Jupi-
ter, Sol, or Venus, or to lords of good houfes. The power of antifcions
is equal to a fextile or trine, chiefly if they fall near thofe points, or in
the dignities of their proper planet, or both. Thefe antifcions are to be
confidered in all the ways aforefaid ; to wit, 'in application, tranf-
lation, reception, and pofition, in which they effeft much more than
otherwife could be imagined. If there be application of one or both fig-
nificators, though to no afpec), but to the antifcion of the other fignifi-
cators ; or reception by antifcion with good afpeft, or real pofition in
antifcion of the one, with good tranflation to the other fignificator, it
perfefts things beyond expeflation. And thus, by any or all of the fore-
going circumflances, may the fubjedl of enquiry be brought to pals, and
completed.
The matter is deftroyed by prohibition, which is when the fignifica-
tors are applying to an afpeft, and before they can come to that afpeft,
the lighter or applying planet comes to the conjunftion or afpedt of ano-
ther; which planet deftroys what is defired. Or by fruftration, which is
when fignificators are coming to an afped, and the more weighty planet,
before they can make that afped, meets with the conjundion or afped
of another planet, and thereby fruftrates the former afped. Or by re-
franation, which is when two fignificators are coming to an afpedt, and,
before they can make that afpe6t, the applying planet falls retrograde,
if dired; or, if retrograde, he becomes direft before he can make the faid
afpedl.
Things are alfo deftroyed by afpe6t, which is when the fignificators
apply to the quartile or oppofition of one another, without reception ;
or by the conjunftion of the Sun, which is called combuflion, and is the
greateft affliftion of all. Alfo by feparation, which is, when the fignifi-
cators of the querent, and thing propofed, have lately been in afpe6l, and
are newly feparated, though never fo little ; and this denotes the full and
abfolute deft:ru61ion of the matter, which we feldom or ever find to fail.
The quality of the afpefl likewife fhows the condition of the thing or
matter lately pafled, if it was good, good ; if evil, evil ; and it is either
totally deftroyed, or at leaft brought to pafs with much difficulty, if the
tranflation be made by quartile or oppofition. But more efpecially if
another
OF ASTROLOGY. 273
another planet at the fame time fhall tranflate the virtue or light or both
fignificators to Saturn or Mars, or to the lords of evil houfes.
If there be a tranflation between the fignificators by quartile or oppofi-
tion, or by Textile or trine, and, before the tranflation can be made, one
or both of the fignificators fhall go into another fign, the matter will
come to nothing. If there be prohibition, fruftration, refranation, evil
afpedl, feparation, or evil tranflation, by quartile or oppofition, without
mutual reception, it is enough to defl:roy the matter, but more efpccially
if fome or all of them happen to be in fixed figns, and in a fuccedent or
cadent houfe of the figure, or from the houfe fignlfying the thing. Move-
able figns are Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn ; fixed figns are Tau-
rus, Leo, Scorpio, and Aquaries ; common figns are Gemini, Virgo, Sa-
gittary, and Pifces ; angles are the firfl:, fourth, feventh, and tenth ; fuc-
cedents are the fecond, fifth, eighth, and eleventh, houfes ; cadents are
the third, fixth, ninth, and twelfth, houfes.
QUERY II. Is the Matter good or evil?
Confider the houfe to which the thing belongs, its lord, and planets
therein ; and the houfe fignifying the matter of the end, its lord, and
planets therein; and, if the houfe fignifying the thing be fortified by the
prefence or beams of good planets, or eminent fixed ftars of the firft or
fecond magnitude, or if the Dragon's Head be there, it fliows good, but
the contrary, evil. The fame more particularly, if the lord of the houfe
fignifying the thing be angular, ftrong, and eflentially fortified ; or in
good afpe6l to the cufp of that houfe fignifying the matter of the end, its
lord, or planets pofited therein ; but the contrary, evil.
Likewife mutual pofition or reception, and the fignificators in good
afpe6l with the fuperior planets, or planets more weighty than themfelves,
are all teftimonies of good. But the fignificator of the thing peregrine,
flow in motion, retrograde, or feparated from the lord or planet in the
houfe fignifying the matter of the end, are all fignificators of evil. The
houfe fignifying the matter of the end is always that which relates to the
thing or things expefted from the queflion propofed ; for example, if the
queftion was, Is it good to remain ? here the end of the query is to be
underfl:ood, whether it be for health, wealth, preferment, or the like : if
for health, the afcendant fignifies the matter of the end ; if wealth, the
fecond houfe ; if preferment, the tenth, and fo on.
QUERY III. L the Report true or falfe ?
Thefe judgments are drawn from that houfe, its lord, and planet
therein pofited, fignifying the matter or thing concerning which the re-
No. 14. 3 X ?^^^
-274 AN ILLUSTRATION
port is. So, if it be a brother or other relation, judgment is drawn from
the third ; if of a father, from the fourth ; if of a child, from the fifth; if of
a fervant, from the fixth ; if of a wife, enemies, or war, from the feventh ;
if of a king or prince, from the tenth ; if of a lawyer or clergyman, from
the ninth, and fo on. If any planet whaifoever be in the hoiife fignifying
the thing concerning which the report is, or the Dragon's Head be there,
or the lord of the fame houfe be angular or in conjunftion or afpefl of
any planet, the matter or report is true. But, if the report was good,
aiid the faid fignificator or planet pofited in the faid houfe be retrograde
or flow in motion, or combufl, or peregrine, or in evil afpeft of a more
weighty planet, or cadent, or in conjundion with the Dragon's Tail, or
the Dragon's Tail pofited in the laid houfe, it certainly figuifies the
report is premature ; and fo contrariwife.
The Moon angular 'generally fignifies the report to be true ; more ef-
pecially if the report be evil, and fhe be in evil afpedl with malign pla-
nets ; or if good, and fhe be in good afpedl of the benign. The Moon
in a fixed fign, and in conjun«51ion of the Dragon's Head, fhows truth
;
but moveable, void of couif'e, and in conjun6tion of the Dragon's Tail,
falfehood. Laftly, if it be concerning the furrender of a city, or conqueft
either by fea or land ; confider the afcendant of the given place, and upon
what cufp it is pofited in the figure, and accordingly judge in all refpe6ls
as if that houfe was the real and eflential fignificator of the thing con-
cerning which the report was made. Hitherto of the eflential anfwer of
a queflion ; we now come to the accidental.
QUERY IV. Where, or which JVay ?
Wherevei- the fignificator is, there is the thing; the houfe where the
fignificator is pofited fliows the quarter of heaven, or point of the com-
pafs, which way the thing may be. If the houfe and fign cohere, this
judgment is fo much the more firm ; if they difagree, confider the pofi-
tion of the Moon, and with what fhe agrees moft, and give judgment
from her. If the Moon agrees neither with the fign nor houfe in which
the fignificator is pofited, then confider the Part of Fortune in the fame
manner as before you confider the Moon, and accordingly judge. And,
if this anfwers not, confider laftly the difpofitor and the Part of Fortune,
and determine by that.
The diftance is difcovered from the proximity or diftance of the fignifi-
cators to body or afpe£l, confidered as they may happen to be either an-
gular, fuccedent, or cadent, refpe6l being had to their latitude, whether
little or great, north or fouth. Great latitude fliows obfcurity, and great
diflicultj
OF ASTROLOGY. 275
difficulty in finding what is fought for : if the latitude be north, it fhows
difficulty only, not impoffibility ; but if fouth, then all the labour of
feeking will be in vain, unlefs the fignificators be angular and near in af-
pe6l. Angles fignify nearnefs ; fuccedents farther off; and cadents be-
yond thought or imagination.
The fignificator angular and without latitude {hows fome paces ; if it
hath north latitude, fome furlongs diftant ; if fouth, fome miles. The
fignificator fuccedent and without latitude fhows fome furlongs ; if it
hath north latitude, fome miles ; if fouth, fome leagues. The fignifi-
cator cadent and without latitude fhows fome miles; if it hath north lati-
tude, fome leagues; if fouth, fome degrees. But thefe rules are chiefly
to be confidered in things having life ; the former give the knowledge of
the way and diflance in general, and the latter meafure it out diftindly
by numbers. If it be required to know the true number of paces,
furlongs, miles, leagues, or degrees, of diftance, confider the number of
degrees and minutes between the body or afpe6l of the fignificators, and
according to the number of degrees which are between the conjunction,
fextile, quartile, trine, or oppofition, fo many paces, furlongs, miles,
leaguesj-or degrees, is the thing fought after diftant from the place from
whence it was loft, or from the perfbn making enquiry. And, fo manv
minutes as adhere to the degrees, fo many fixtieth parts of the fame de-
nomination of the meafure which one degree fignifies are to be accounted
and added to the former number.
QUERY V. fF/ien, or in what Time f
The limitation of time is taken, firflly, by houfe and fign ; fecondly, by
afpefl; thirdly, by tranfit ; or, fourthly, by diredtion. The firft three are
ufed in horary queftions, or eleftions ; the two laft only in nativities
and annual revolutions. If the fignificator hath latitude, the meafure of
time hath its limitation from houfe and fign. Whether things are to
be brought to pafs or deftroyed, the time, if it be fignified by the houfe
and fign, muft be confidered as the fignificator is angular, fuccedent, or
cadent, having moveable, fixed, or common, figns. Angles fignify the
fudden performance of the matter ; fuccedents, long time, and with much
difficulty; cadents, fcarcely at all, or at leaft when all hopes are paft, and
with care and vexation. Angles fignify, if they have moveable (ygns,
fome days ; if common figns, fome weeks ; and, if fixed figns, fome
months. Succedents fignify, if they have moveable figns, fome months
;
if common figns, fome years ; and, if fixed figns, when all hopes are pafl,
if at all. If it be required to know the certain number of days, weeks,
months, or years, confidcr the number of degrees or minutes between
the
276 AN ILLUSTRATION
the body or afpefl of the fignificators, and according to the number of de-
grees which are between their conjun6tion, Textile, quartile, trine, or op-
pofition, fo many days, weeks, months, or years, (hall it be before the
matter enquired after fhall be fully accomplished or quite dcftroyed.
Great fouth latitude often prolongs the time beyond the former limita-
tion ; north latitude often cuts it fhorter ; but, if the fignificators have no
latitude, the limitation of time is made fimply by the afpeft.
The time fignificators meet by afpedl is found out in the Ephemeris
;
to wit, the month and day thereof in which the fignificators meet.
Tranfits (how the progrefs of the matter, whether the fignificators have
latitude or not, and point out the moft probable times in which the matter
may be forwarded or impeded.
In obfervations of tranfits, the figure mufi: be drawn into a fpeculum.
Find what configurations, viz. what conjun61ion or afpe6t, it is by which
the matter may be brought to pafs, or deftroyed ; and, laftly, obferve in
the Ephemeris when the chief fignificators come in the fame fign, degree,
and minute ; for that is the time in which the matter will be completed.
And by the tranfits in the fpeculum may conftantly be found the good and
evil days that affe6t the matter, until it is either perfeded or become
fruftrate.
QUERY VI. How or -why ?
The planets which make the prohibition or fruflration, whether by-
good or evil afpeft, are the hurting, deflroying, or impediting, planets; to
wit, the planets that fignify he, fhe, or that thing, which fhall hinder or
deftroy the bufinefs. The man, woman, or thing, is difcovered from
the impediting planet, by confidering what houfes he is lord of, and what
he is pofited in. The houfe he is lord of denotes the quality or relation
of the man, woman, or thing ; the houfe is pofited in, the matter
;
and the houfe in which the prohibition or fruftration happens, the caufe
or reafon.
If the impediting planet is lord of the fecond houfe, it is a matter of
eftate ; if of the third houfe, kindred, neighbours, &c. if of the fourth
houfe, inheritances or fatliers ; if of the fifth houfe, gaming, pleafures,
children ; if of the fixth houfe, ficknefs, fervants, fmall cattle ; if of the
feventh houfe, enemies, law-fuits, wives; if of the eighth houfe, lega-
cies, wives' portions, death ; if of the ninth houfe, religion, churchmen,
voyages at fea, arts, fciences ; if of the tenth houfe, mothers, great men,
trjide, honour, offices, employments; if of the eleventh houfe, hopes,
,,, .^
friends,
OF* ASTROLOGY. 27;
frfends, acquaintance ; if of the twelfth houfe, great cattle, difeafes,
private enemies, imprifonmenr, &c. Then confider whether the pla-
net is good or evil, mafculine or feminine, or whether in a mafculine or
feminine lign and houfc, and accordingly judge of the efFeds more
remifs or exa6J, as they may be brought to pafs either by man, woman,
or thing ; judging always in this cafe by the fuperior teftimonies. And
obferve, laftly, that, whatfoever has been faid of the impediting or hin-
dering planer, the fame is to be underftood of the planet adjuvant, or
helping.
The next thing to be confidered, is the propriety of the queflion pro-
pofed, and the fincerity of the querent ; for it fometimes happens that
queftions are improperly and incorredtly ftated ; and at others, that they
are put through knavery and impertinence, with a view to injure and
difgrace the artifl-. In thefe cafes, the queftion not being radical, no
anfwer can be obtained ; and therefore he who attempts to refolve them
will bring fhame "upon himlelf, and difgrace upon the fcience. Every
queftion, to be radical, mud be (incere and natural ; and, unlefs they are
K), they cannot be refolved. Therefore, to afcertaiii their fmcerity on
the one hand, and their fitnefs or unfitnefs on the other, the following
rules muft be obferved.
Ere6l the figure as before dire(5ted ; and, if the fi^n afcendios; and the
planet in the afcendant defcribe exactly the perfon of the querent, the
queftion is radical, and fit to be judged. But, if either the very begin-
ning or extreme end only of the fign afcends, it will not be proper to
give judgment ; for it denotes the querent to be a knave, and the queftion
a forgery, propofed merely out of ridicule and intemperate mirth. This
rule 1 have often verified in praftice, by diredly charging the querent with
fuch defign ; and the efFedl this unexpefted difcovery had upon them has,
ufually produced an acknowledgment of it. The fame thing is indicated
by the quartile or oppofition of the Moon with the lord of the feventh
houfe ; or by the Moon being void of courfe, or combuft ; which pofitions
likewife denote the queftion to be improperly and incorredtly ftated. Sa-
turn in the afcendant, impedited and affli61ed, fhows the queftion propofed
to be either falfe or without ground, or the fubjedt of it paft hope ; and
whenever the lord of the afcendant is found combuft or retrograde, it in-
dicates the fame thing, and fliows the queftion is propofed to anfwer fome
abfurd or knavifti purpofe, and therefore not to be meddled with.
Any queftion may be deemed radical, when the lord of the afcendant
and the lord of the hour are of the fame nature and triplicity. Thus,
fuppofe Leo afcends upon the horofcope at the tin^e the qucilioo is pro-
No. 14. 3 Y pofed„
,
pb'fed, knd Mars happens to be' lord of flie hour, the queftion will be
radical, becaufe the Sun, which is lord of the horofcope, and Mars, arc
of one nature, viz. hot and dry. So, it Jupiter be lord of the hour,
the queftion will be radical, becaufe the Sun and Jupiter are of the fame
"triplicity ; and this obfervation extends to all the other planets, and uni-
formly fhows the queftion proper to be judged. But, whenever the
teftimonies or fignificators in the figure are found equally ftrong for and
againft the matter propounded, it ought not to be adjudged ; for the artift
knows not uhich way the balance may yield, and therefore judgment
(hould be deferred to a future time.
There is one ruk by which the radicalnefs of a queftion may be afcer-
tatned with great certainty, or at leaft with lefs probability of mif-
take than by any other ; and this is by the moles with which everv
perfbii is more or lefs marked. It is really an aftonifhing fa6l, and
no 'lefs extraordinary than true, that thefe moles or marks are all uni-
formly diftinguifhed by the figns and planets which prevail at the time of
birth, if not abfolutely produced by them. It was the truth and univer-
fality of this obfervation which firft led to the dilcovery of that affection
and government which the celeftial figns have upon the different members
of man's body; a fa£l fo obvious, that noiwithftandiiig all endeavours to
refute the idea of j)lanetary influence, yet this fad is annually recorded
"it! every almanac, and finds a place in almoft every other aftronomical
.miblication.
..A-'.i.-'.i.' i t J . . ,1
/V,.,.--!, )i i
According to this rule, whenever a perfon comes to propound a quef-
tipi), let a figure of the twelve houfes be erected for the querent; then
iip,t"e what fign is upon the cufp of the afcendaut, and iti the part of the
.
q'qerent's body which that fign governs, if the queftion be radical, the
Querent will have a mole. For inftance, if Aries be the fi^n afcendins
at the time, the mole will be on the head or face ; if Taurus, on the neck
^of-,fhroat ; if Gemini, on the arms or (houlders ; if Cancer, on the breaft ;
and fo upon any other part of the body which the fign afcending (hall
govern. Oblerve next, in which of the twelve houfes the lord of the
aiccndant is pofited, and in that part of the body the fign governs which
happens to fall upon the cufp of that houfe will the querent have another
mole. Next obferve the fign defcending on the cufp of the fixth houfe,
and in whatever part of the body that fign governs the querent will find
another mole; and upon that member alfo which is fignirted by the fign
wherein the lord of the fixth houfe is pofited will be found another.
Oblerve alfo, what fign the Moon is pofited in, and in that part of the
body which is governed by it (hall the native or querent find another
riiole. \i the planet Saturn „be the fignificator, the mole is either black
or
V?^OF ASTROLOGY^, S79
%V of a dark colour ; if Mars be ilgnificator, and iii a fiery fign, it then
'refemblcs a fear, cut, or dent in the flefli ; but in any other (ign it is a red
• inole. If Jupiter be the fignificator, the mole is of a purple or bluifl^ caft ;
if the Sun, it is of an olive or chefnut colour; if Venus, it is yellow; if
Mercury, of a pale lead colour; if the Moon, it is whitifli, or participates
'of the colour of that planet with which (he happens to be in afped ,; and,
'
If the planet which gives the mole be much impedited or afflifted, the
-'mark or mole will be large, and more vifible.
If the fign and planet which gives the mark or mole be mafculine,
it is then fituated on the right fide of the body ; but, if feminine, on the
left fide. If the fignificator or planet which gives the. mole be found
"-iabbve the horizon, that is, from the cufp of the afcendant to the cufp of
*Vhe feventh, either in the twelfth, eleventh, tenth, ninth, eighth, or fe-
venth, houfe, the mark or mole will be on the fore part of the body ;
but if the fignificator be under the earth, that is, in either the fir ft, fc-
cond, third, fourth, fifth, or fixth, houfe, it will be fituated on the back
or hinder part of the body. If only a few degrees of the fign afcend upon
the horofcope, or defcetid on the fixth; or if lord of the afcendant, lord
&f the fixth, or the Moon, be pofited in the beginning of aoy^^ii ;,,the
;ttiole or mark will be found upon the upper part of the niembcr thofe figns
'
|t>vern. If half the degrees of a fign afcend, or the fignificators be pofited
in the middle of any fign, the mark or mole will be in the middle of the
member; but, if the laft degrees of the fign afcend, or the fignificators
are in the latter degrees of a fign, the mark or mole will then be fituated
ott the lower part of the member fuch fign governs.
•
if the queftion be radical, the time rightly taken, and the queretit fifl-
ccre, and of fufficient age, this rule will feldom or ever be found to fail.
In afcertaining the exa6l time of any perfon's nativity, I have found it of
excellent ufe; never having been once deceived by it in the fmallcft de-
gree. In company I have frequently tried the experiment upon a ftran-
ger, and ever found it correl'pond, to the aftonifhment of all perfons
prefent ; and it is an experiment which any reader may eufily ir.ake upon
himlelf or friends. But in the months of Novembt^r and December,
when figns of fhort afcenfions are upon the afcendant, great care, rnuft be
taken to be exa(5t in point of time; for in thofe months the Sun is fre-
quently not vifible, and clocks are not always to be depended upon ;
therefore, without proper care, the right afcendant may eafily be mifTcjd,
for Pi fees and Aries both afcend in the fpace of fifty minutes, and Aqua-
ries and Taurus in little more than an hour; but, if the time he taken
cxa6t, no one need ever miflruft the certainty of thefe rules, and the exadi
conformity of the marks or moles to the figns and planets which jef re-
'*•
~'
'
fent
48d AN ILLUSTRATION
fent them. Thus, by looking at a perfon's nativity, and attending to thcfe
rules, tlie reader may cxadlly point out and defcribe the mole in any part
of the native's body, though it be a peribn he never law or converfcd
with ; and, if he is corre6l to time, he may fafely venture his life upon
the matter. And by the fame kind of funple, ealy, and certain, rules,
are all predittions in aftrology managed ; fo that, inftead of calling in the
aid of any fupernatural or infernal compa6l, it only requires to be correft
to time and calculation, and to know the true nature and influence of the
planets, and by thefe alone are the events and contingencies of futurity
demonftrated and foretold.
As thefe rules hold good upon the body of every querent, fo will they,
fttutatis mutandis, upon the body of the quefited ; for example, Suppofe
a perfon enquires concerning a wife or fweetheart, then the leventh houfc
will be her firfl; or afcendant, and the twelfth her lixth ; and in thofe parts
of her body which the figns upon the cufps of thofe houfes govern (hall
fh-e have moles; and ib by the Moon and other fignificators. It is alfo
found by conOant obfervation, that an infortune pohted in the afcendant
always marks the face with a mole or fear ; for the afcendant or firft houfe
always reprefents the face, let what figns foever afcend ; the fecond re-
prefents the neck, the third the arms and flioulders, the fourth the breaft,
and fo on, every houfe and lign in order, according to its fucceffion. It
is alfo obfervable, that, if the Moon be in conjun6tion or oppofition of
the Sun, in an evil afpeft to Mars, and in angular houfes, the querent has
a natural infirmity or blemifh in or near one of his eyes. Thus having
ftiown how to difcover whether quellions are proper and radical, or not;
we (hall now dired how to give judgment upon them.
QUESTIONS proper to the FIRST HOUSE.
The firft houfe has fignification of the life of every perfon, and eXpfefles
the ftature and temperature of the body ; and in Horary Queftions thef«
following are proper unto it:
1
.
Of the Length of the Querent*s Life,
2. Of the Good or Evil attending Life.
3. When or in what TimeJJiall the Native undergo ii Change f
4. What Part of the Querent*s Life is likely to be moft profperous}
5. Towards what Part of the World may he dire£l his Affairs to profptr
in them f
6. APerfon having aDefre tofheak with anothertjliall hefind him at home .'
7. Ofan abfent Party, if dead or alive.
8. Of a Ship at Sea, her Safety or Dejlru^ion.
Thcfc
OF ASTROLOGY. 281
Thefe particulars being explained, will give light fufficient to the aftro-
logian, whereby he may judge of any other queftion proper to this houfe.
1. Of the Length of the Querent's Lfe.
To refolve this queftion, obferve the (ign afcending, the lord thereof, and
the Moon; and, if they are found free from the malignant beams of the
infortunes, or of the lords of the fourth, fixth, eighth, and twelfth, houfes,
and not combuft, the querent's life will not be (hort ; and, if the fiornifi-
catorsare not affli6ted by the prefence of violent fixed ftars, it may be ftill
more prolonged; but if the lord of the afcendant be combuft and retro-
grade, and in an evil houfe of heaven, the querent is not likely to live
long. When the fignificators are unfortunately afpeded from good places
of the figure, or the benevolent planets interpofe their rays, the malevo-
lence threatened will be fomewhat abated ; but, if it be from evil houfes
in the fcheme, and the benevolent planets afford no help, dano-er of a
fhort life is then alfo to be feared.
2. Of the Good or Evil attending Life.
The good and evil that attends each perfon, is diftinguifhed by the
fortunate and unfortunate radiations in the figure. When benevolent pla-
nets poffefs the afcendant, or the principal places of the figurej they in-
dicate much good to the querent through the whole courle of his life^
And if the lord of the afcendant and the Moon be friendly by the beams
of the fortunes, although from malignant places of the fcheme, yet it
prefages good to the native, inafmuch as an accidental evil cannot re-
bate or withftand an eflential good. But, when the infortunes poflefs
thefe places, or by evil afpe6l afflidt the fignificators, the querent will be
fubje6t to a troublefome life. If Saturn pofTefs the afcendant, the querent
will be melancholy and penfive, and fubje6l to perplexities from aged
men. If Mars, he will be choleric, and liable to oppreflion by knaves
and fwindlers, and fometimes by the treachery of kindred ; if the Dra-
gon's Tail be in the afcendant, he will never be free from fcandal and dif-
grace. When the afflitling planets are lords of unpropitious houfes, the
evil will be the longer durable; but-, when the afTifting planets are lords of
good houfes, the good will be more permanent. Note alfo the houfes
thofe planets govern; for from thence is difcovered by what means the
querent fhall be fortunate or unhappy. And, as the malignant beams of
the evil planets prevent or eclipfe the good that is fignified ; fo the bene-
volent rays of the fortunate ftars reverberate much of the mifchief por-
tended : by duly confidering which, according to the ftrength of the pla-
nets afTifting or affliding, the extent of the good or evil that attends each
querent's life may be eafily afcertained,
"
No. 15. 3 Z . ,
3. In
282 AN ILLUSTRATION
3. //; ivhat Time may the Nathe expedl a Change?
Whenever this queftion is ferioufly propounded, and the nativity of
the proponent not attainable, (Tor, if the nativity can be had, horary
queftion are ufelels;) erefl the figure, and draw it into a fpeculum, and
dire6t the I'everal fignificators to their promittors, as in a nativity. Find
the true diftance of each fignificator from his promittor, and turn it into
time, as in a nativity, and according to the efFediis of the direftions judge
of it. But this method is only to be taken when queftions of weighty
concern are propounded; upon any trivial or ordinary bufinefs it is wholly
unneceffary. In matters of little importance, it is fufficient to ob-
ferve the degrees of diftance between the fignificators, either of their
bodies or alpedls, which will point out the time corredly enough. When
fixed flars of a violent nature occupy the principal parts of the figure,
the afcendant, mid-heaven, and place of Luna, they prefage fudden and
unexpe6ted mifchief ; but when fixed flars of a noble and generous nature
pofTeis thefe places, they demonflrate fudden and permanent good to the
querent.
4. IVhat Part of the Qucrent'i^ Life is likely to be mo/l profpcrous?
To refolve this queftion, it only requires to obferve in what part of the
figure the fortunate ftars are, and according to their pofition judge of it.
If the propitious planets are in the afcendant, the twelfth or eleventh
houfes, the native will prol'per moft in his younger days ; if in the tenth,
ninth, or eighth, in the middle part of his age; if in the feventh, fixth,
or fifth, after his middle age; if in the fourth, third, or fecond, his lat-
ter days will be the moft comfortable and happy. The time is afcertained
by reckoning for every houfe fituated between the fortunate planets
and the afcendant five years, if the fignificators of life be weak; if
moderately dignified, fix ; but, if the fignificators of life are remarkably
iljong and well dignified, then feven years may be reckoned for every
houfe.
5. Towards vuhat Part of the World may the Querent direct his Courfe to
pro[per?
It is a misfortune not very uncommon for perfons to undertake long
journeys and voyages, much to their prejudice and difadvantage ; for,
although all places are alike to him that made the earth, yet they are not
fo to men that pofTefs it ; therefore it WAX be requifite for thofe who judge
queftions of this kind to obferve the following rules, or at leaf} as many
of them as may be necelfary. The whole heaven is divided into four
quartersT;
OF ASTROLOGY. 283
quarters ; eaft, weft, north, and fouth ; and thefe four quarter'? are again
I'ubdivided, viz. the firft houle is full eaft; and the twelfth houft% be-
ing in afcenfion next unto it, is eaft by fouth ; the eleventh, next unto
that, fouth by eaft; and the mid-heaven fouth, &c. Now according to
thefe quarters of heaven, thus divided and fubdivided, look for the bene-
voknt planets Jupiter, Venus, Luna, and the Part of Fortune, or the
moft of them, and diredt the querent in his affairs thither. For exam-
ple, fuppofe thefe planets (hall be in the mid-heaven, that being fouth,
direft the querent fouthwards ; if they be in the ninth, it is beft to go
fouth-weft ; if in the weft, it is his intereft to go full weft ; and lo of the
reft. Confider alfo the nature of the querent's defire, whether it be for
health, riches, honour, friends, &c. that he engages in his undertaking;
for, by rightly underftanding the queftion, the querent's defire ftiall be
the more readily anfwered. If it be for health he would remove his ha-
bitation, oblerve where, or in what quarter, the lord of the afcendant and
the Moon are pofited, and dire6l him that way; if for riches, take notice
of the lord of the fecond and the part of fortune; if for honour, confider
the Sun and the lord of the tenth; if for friends, the lord of the eleventh;
and fo of the other fignificators. ,
6. APer/on having a dejire to f
peak with another,JJiall he fnd him at home?
The truth I have always found in the anfwers to this queftion, princi-
pally induced me to give it a place here ; for I have often tried the ex-
periment both for myfelf and others, and have never known it to fail.
The rules are thefe ; If you would fpeak with a perfon that you have fa-
miliar and conftant dealings with, but are no way related to, take the f»-
venth houfe and his lord to ilgnify him, that is, the feventh from the al-
cendant ; for the afcendant always fignifies the querent. If the lord of the
feventh be in any of the four angles, viz. in the firft, fourth, feventh, or
tenth, houfes, the perfon you would fpeak with is certainly at home. If
the lord of the feventh be in any of the fuccedent houfes, viz. in the fe-
cond, fifth, eighth, or eleventh, he is not then at home, but is near it,
and may, with a little diligence, be found; but, if the lord of the feventh
be in any one of the cadent houfes, viz. the third, fixth, ninth, or
twelfth, the party is far from home, and confequently cannot be fpoken
with if fought for. If the lord of the afcendant apply to the lord of the
feventh by a friendly afpedl at the time of enquiry, the querent may
perhaps meet the quefited, or accidentally hear of him by the way; or, if
the Moon or any other planet transfer the light of the lord of the feventh
to the lord of the afcendant, it denotes the fame thing. The nature and
fex of the planet transferring the light denotes what manner of perfon
fhall give notice to the querent of the perfon he enquires after, accord-
ing
a84 AN ILLUSTRATION
iiig to the fign and quarter he is pofited in. But, if the perfon enquired
after be a relation, then the lord of the feventh is not to be taken, but
the lord of that houfe which fignifies fuch relation ; as, if it be a bro-
ther, then the lord of the third mufl: be referred to; if a father, regard
muft be had to the lord of the fourth; if a Ton or daughter, obferve the
lord of the fifth, and (6 on; and according to their pofitions judge as
above fpecified,
7. If an ahfent Party be dead or alive.
Herein alfo muft be confidered what relationfhip the querent hath to
the party quefited, and take the fignificator accordingly. But, if there be
no relationfhip between them, then take the afcendant, his lord, and the
Moon, to fignify the party that is abfent; and judge thus : If the lord of
the afcendant, or the Moon, be in conjundion with the lord of the eighth,
or a planet in the eighth, and no benevolent teftimonies concur, the
abfent party is certainly dead. Or, when the Moon and the lord of the
afcendant (hall be in oppofition to the lord of the eighth, from the fe-
cond and eighth, or from the fixth and twelfth houfes, the abfent party
is likewife dead. If the lord of the afcendant be in the fourth, and the-
Moon in the feventh, in quartile to him, it fhows great danger to the
quefited, if not abfolute death. When an evil planet fhall tranflate the
light of the lord of the eighth unto the lord of the afcendant, or of the
lord of the afcendant to the lord of the eighth, it is mofh probable the
abfent party is dead. If the lord of the afcendant and the Moon be in
the fourth houfe from the afcendant, or in the houfe of death, and either
combuft or in their fall, or joined with the lord of the eighth, the party
quefited is undoubtedly deceafed ; but, if none of thefe pofitions happen,,
and on the contrary you find the Moon, and the afcendant, and his lord,
flrong and well fortified, the abfent party is alive and well. If the lord
of the afcendant, or the Moon, feparate from the lord of the fixth, the
abfent party hath been lately fick ; if from the lord of the eighth, he has
been in danger of death ; if from the lord of the twelfth, he has been in
prifon, and fuffered much anxiety of mind. And, by thus varying the
rule, his condition, according to the application and feparation of the
fignificators, will be corredly found.
8 .
Of a Ship at Sea, her Safety or DeJiruSlion.
This queftion, although referred by the ancient Arabian and Latin
aflrologers to the ninth houfe, becaufe it relates to voyages, yet the
judgments hereof being fuch as properly relate to the firfl houfe or afcen-
dant.
OF ASTROLOGY. 285
dant, I have for that reafon referred it thereto. The parts of the fhip are
thus divided according to the figns of the zodiac :*
T The breaft of the (Kip £= That part above the bread in
b Under the breaft toward the the water.
water ttj. Where the mariners abide
n The rudder or ftern | The mariners
25 The bottom or floor VJ The ends of the fhip
fL The top above the water ::: The captain or mafter
m The belly of the fhip H The oars,
The afcendant and the Moon are generally fignificators of the fhip, and
the burthen fhe bears ; but the lord of the afcendant is fignificator of the
perfons that fail in her. And, if in a queftion all thefe appear fortunate,
they denote profperity to the fhip ; but, if on the contrary they are found
impedited and afflided, the veffel and all in her are in imminent danger, if
not abfolutely loft. When a malevolent planet, having dignities in the
eighth houfe, fhall be found in the afcendant, or the lord of the afcend-
ant in the eighth, in evil afped: with the lord of the eighth, twelfth, fixth,
or fourth, houfe, or if the Moon be combufl under the earth, all thefe are
indications of danger, and preflige the fhip either to be lofl, or in a very
defperate condition. But when all the fignificators are free, and no way
impedited, it denotes the fliip to be in a very good and profperous con-
dition, and all the perfons and things on-board her. If the afcendant and
the Moon be unfortunate, and the lord of the afcendant flrong, and in a
good houfe, it indicates the fhip to be in an ill condition; but the men,
&c. that are on-board her, will do well, and come home in fafety. But
if the afcendant and the Moon fhall be fortunate, and the lord of the af-
cendant unfortunate, it fliows that the veffel will do well, or that it is in
fafety ; but that her crew are in great danger of being deflroyed by fome
putrid difeafe, or of being taken by an enemy.
If any perfon enquires the fuccefs a fhip fhall have in her voyage
upon her fetting fail, you mufl then note the angles of the figure; and,
if the fortunate planets and the Moon (for flie is lady of the feas) are
found therein, and the unfortunate planets cadent, or in an abje6t con-
dition, it forefhows the fhip and her lading will go very fafely unto the
intended haven ; but if the infortunes be in angles, or in fuccedent
houfes, fhe will meet with fome accident in her voyage; and the mis-
fortune will fall upon that part of the fliip, perfon, or thing, in the fame,
* Da fiiiium "y", pefioribus navis ; y , ei quod eft fub pedoribiis modicum verfiis aquam ;
n, gubernaciilo navis; ^B, fundo navis ; ^, fummitati navjs quae flat fupcr aquam ;
Tip,
ventri navis; -i^, ci qiiod lublevatiir et cleprimit de pedoribus navis in aqua; tT]^, loco iibi
mcrant naiitas ; J^
, ipfi nauta- ; VJ", fuiibiis exiftcntibus in nave; ^, magiftro navis; ^,
rtmi?. Haly dc Judic. Aftrol. pars tertia, cap. 14. fol. 1]5.
No. 15. 4 A fignified
286 AN ILLUSTRATION
fignificd by the fign where the infortune is po(ite>l ; and, if the infor-
tune threatening this danger fliall be Saturn, the veffel will either be
I'pht or llink, and moft of the crew either drowned, or fubjcit to many
hardlhips ; but if the infortune be Mars, and he in any of his el-
fential dignities, or alpedling a place where he hath ftrength, or po(it-
ed in an earthy fign, he portends the lanie mifchief, with tlie additiop.al
misfortune of the crew being either taken by an enemy, imprifoned, or
carried into flavery. But if the fortunes caft their friendly beams unto
cither of the aforefaid places, and the lords of the angles, particularly of
the afcendant, and the difpofitor of the Moon, be free, it denotes that
although the fliip fliall undergo much damage, or be loft, yet the major
part of the men and goods Ihall be laved. But if Mars afflid: the lords of
the angles, and the difpofitor of the Moon, the men and the fl\ip will
be in danger of pirates, or of a public enemy. And, it any other evil af-
fetlions appear in the figns, there will be quarrelling and contention,
or fome dangerous mutiny, in the Ihip ; and this will chiefiy happen when
the infortunes are located in thole figns which difpofe of the parts in the
upper divifion of the (hip. But, if Saturn afllidt in the fame manner as
above recited of Mars, there will be many difturbances in the fliip, but
no bloodlhed, And, if the infortunate figns fignify the bottom or lower
parts of the ihip, it prelages drowning by means of Ibme dangerous leak.
If fiery figns be in the mid-heaven, near violent fixed ftars, and Mars
prove the afflidling planet, the Ihip will be burnt, either by fome acci-
dent within her, or by lightning, or by the falling of fome inflammable
meteor. But, if Mars be in an human fign, the burning of the fliip will
be occafioned by fome engagement with an enemy ; and the danger
will begin in that part of the fliip fignified by the fign wherein the
infortune was placed in the figure. If Saturn be the threatening planet in-
llead of Mars, and pofited in the mid-heaven, the veffel will be caft away,
or damaged by the motion of violent ftorms and winds, or by reafon of
leaks, or bad fails; and the danger will be either greater or lefs, in pro-
portion to the dignity or power of the infortune, and his diftance from the
beams of the benevolent planets.
If the lord of the afcendant in the figure be fortunate, the (hip fliall
return with fifety and good fuccefs ; but, if he be unfortunate, fhe fiiall
fuffer much lofs and damage. If the lord of the eighth houfe fliall af-
fiicl the lord of the afcendant, or if the lord of the afcendant be in
the eighth, it denotes the death of the captain or mafter of the fliip, or fome
of the principal ofticers belonging to her. And if the part of fortune
and part of fubftance, and their lords, fliall be afflided, it denotes lofs
in the fale of the goods that are in the fliip. But, if inftead of this af-
flidlion they fh all be in fortunate pofitions, it denotes much gain, and a
profitable
OF ASTROLOGY. 287
profitable voyage. When the lord of the afcendant, and the difpofitor
of the Moon, Ihall be flow in coiirfe, the fliip in all likelihood will make
a long and tedious voyage ; more particularly if the lords of thole places
be flow aifo ; but, if the iignificators be quick in motion, the fliip will
make a (liorter or quicker voyage than may be expected. If in the figure
there be enmity in the pofitions between the lord of the afcendant and
the difpofitor of the Moon, and no reception between them, nor any aid
from benevolent planets ; the feamen will contend one with another, or
there will be dilcord between the captain, or mail:er, and the crew ; and
he whofe fignificator is ftrongefl, Ihall overcome, that is, if the lord of
the afcendant be mofl powerful, the feamen will prevail; but, if the
difpofitor of the Moon be beft fortified, the mafter or captain will over-
come. If the lord of the fecond (hall be remote from his own houfe,
and the fecond houfe from the Moon, and the lord of the part of for-
tune from the part of fortune, in cadent houfes, or in quartile or oppo-
fition, it prefages want of necefl'ary provifions ; and, if they be found in
aquatical fi.gns, it Ihows want of frefh water, and great danger of death
by hunger and thirll.
QUESTIONS proper to the SECOND HOUSE.
The fecond houfe being the houfe of fubfiance, the queftions proper to
it are as follow :
1
.
Shall the ^luerent be rich or poor P
2 . Hy iSL'hat vieansJl:>ciU he attain riches f
3 . The time 'when P
4. Shall he obtain the goods or money lent ?
5. Shall be obtain the wages orJlipend due to him 9
Shall the §luerent be rich or poor P
In refolving this queflion, obferve the fign of the fecond houfe and its
lord, the planet or planets located therein, and cafting their rays to the
cufp, or the lord thereof; the part of fortune alfo, and its difpofitor; and
if all thefe fignificators are free, and afiilied by the bodies or afpedts of
the benevolent planets, the querent will attain a very confiderable for-
tune ; and fhall efcape poverty. But when the fignificators are afflided,
and the fortunate ftars afford them no affiftance, it denotes the perfon in-
terrogating will be poor all his life-time. If the lord of the afcendant,
or the Mocn, be joined to the lord of the houfe of fubftance ; or the lord
of the feventh houfe to the lord of the afcendant ; or if the lord of the
houfe of fubfi:ance be pofited in the afcendant ; or if the lord of the af-
cendant, and the Moon, be in the houfe of fubftance; or if the Moon,
or
288 AN ILLUSTRATION
or any other planet, transfer the light of the lord of the fecond houfe to
the lord or the afcendant, or of the lord of the afcendant to the lord of
the fecond houfe ; the querent will attain riches, and live in good efteem,
according to his fituation or birth. But, if none of thefe pofitions hap-
pen, then note Jupiter, the natural fignificator of fubftance ; or Venus,
who ahb is a fortune; or the Dragon's Head, which always portends
good ; and if they be free from the ill beams of the infortunes, or happen
to be pofited in the houfe of fubftance,' the querent will moft certainly be
rich, and will bear great fway in the place where he liv^s. When Saturn,
Mars, or the Dragon's Tail, are pofited in the fecond houfe, or afl1i(5l the
lord of the fecond, Jupiter, \ enus, or Part of Fortune, it is an argument
that the querent will not attain riches ; or, if he were in a good capacity,
he will be reduced to a very mean fituation. The fignificators of fub-
ftance fwift in motion, and in good parts of the figure, and free from af-
fiidlion, fhow the querent will be rich of a fudden ; but if they are flow
in motion, though not afflicted, the querent will attain riches but flowly ;
particularly if the planets fignifying riches are ponderous, and in fixed
ft .is.
By what MeansJloall the ^erent attain Riches ?
The fignificators of fubftance, their feveral locations, and the houfes
they govern, are in this queftion to be particularly attended to; for
from thence is known by what means riches come. If the lord of the
fecond houfe, or the other fignificators of fubftance, be fortunately placed
in (he afcendant, the querent will attain great riches without much la-
bour, in a manner unexpectedly ; but, if the lord of the fecond be in the
fecond, it ftiews the querent v/ill obtain an eftate by his own induftry.
The adjuvant planets fitiiated in the afcendant, or the lord thereof, denote
the querent will advance himlblf by his own iiiduftry. If the lord of the
fecond be in the fecond, he acquires wealth by merchandife, and by pro-
perly managing his bufinefs ; if in the third, or lord of the third, he gains
by brethren kindred, or neighbours. The moft aft'ured teltimonies upon
queftions upon this nature, are thefe : If the lord of the firft and fecond,
and Jupiter, be in conjundtion either in the fecond, firft, tenth, fourth,
feventh, or eleventh, houfes; or if they apply by fextile or trine to each
other with mutual reception; but, if thev apply by quartile or oppofitioa
with reception, the party will then alfo thrive, and have an eftate, thougli
with much labour and difficulty.
The Time ivhen a Man may attain Riches P
Confider ferioufly the application of the Moon, or lord of tlie afcend-
dant, unto the planet or planets fignifying the fubftance of the querent
;
2 lor
OF ASTROLOGY. 289
for they denote, the time when the querent may acquire riches. Then
find the degrees of diftance between the fignificators, and turn them
into time, which will fhow the true diftance of time in which riches, or
the goods of fortune, are attainable by the querent. Fixed fio-ns prolong
the bufinefs ; but corporal fhew an inditferency, or that the time will
neither be long nor Ihort. Moveable or cardinal figns haflen the matter.
In all queftions that relate to time, the fureft way is, to take the right or
oblique afcenlions of the fignificators, and dired: them to their feveral
promittors, as in a nativity ; and thus the time of a man's obtaining
riches may be exactly known ; but if the queftion be of fmall confequence,
obferve the degrees of diftance, and according to the figns they are in
meafure out the time in years, months, weeks, or days, as before di-
red:ed.
Shall the ^erent obtain the Goods or Money lent f
In this queftion the lord of the afcendant and the Moon are fignifi-
cators of the querent ; and the lord of the fecond denotes his fubftance.
But the feventh houfe and his lord reprefent the perfon of whom you
enquire ; and the eighth houfe, and the lord thereof, his fubftance. Ob-
ferve whether the lord of the afcendant or the Moon be joined to the
lord of the eighth, who is fignificator of the fubftance of the party en-
quired after ; for, if either of them be joined to or in good afpe6t with a
planet in the eighth houfe, and the planet therein happen to be a fortune,
the querent fhall then obtain the goods or money enquired after. And
if it fhall fo happen, that an infortune be either in the eighth houfe, or
lord of the eighth, and he receive either the lord of the afcendant or the
Moon, the perfon enquiring fhall obtain what he expedts. But not
without reception. When the lord of the eighth is pofited in the firft or
fecond houfe, and the lord of the fecond ftiall receive him, it denotes the
perfection of the bufinefs enquired after. But, if the lord of the feventh
or eighth fliall be pofited in the firft or fecond, and not be received by ei-
ther the lord of the afcendant, the Moon, or lord of the fecond, it fnows
the querent will not only go without his defirc, but, if he purfue the bu-
finefs, he will fuftain much lofs and detriment. If the lord of the afcen-
dant or the Moon be joined to one of the fortunes, which have dignity
in the fign afcending, it denotes the difpatch of the bufinefs enquired
after; or if either of them be joined to an infortune, having dignities in
the afcendant, and receive the lord of the afcendant, or the Moon, it de-.
notes the accomplifhment of the matter or bufinefs enquired after. And,
if the fortunes be in powerful places of the figure, and joined to the lord
of the afcendant or the Moon, the matter or bufinefs will be accompliihed,
although there be no reception.
No. 15. ,
4B If
ago AN ILLUSTRATION
If the ^evint Jhall obtain bis Wages^ Salary ^ or Penjion, due either from
Governrnent or from an Individual.
Behold the afcendant, the lord of the fame, and the Moon, for they
have fignilication of the querent ; and the fccond from the afcendant,
which is the querent's houie of fubrt:ance, and his lord. And note the
tenth houfe anJ his lord, which are the fignificators of the quefited. And
the eleventh houfe, and his lord, fignify the fubftance of him or them.
If in the figure the lord of the afcendant or the Moon is joined to the
lord of the eleventh, or to a fortunate planet in the eleventh houfe, with-
out let or impediment ; the querent will certainly obtain the wages or
falary. And if it Ihall happen that the Moon or lord of the afcendant
be joined to an unfortunate planet, and the unfortunate planet receives
them, the querent will then obtain his defire, although it will be after
long waiting, and with many folicitations. But if there be no reception
between the lord of the afcendant, the Moon, and the infortune, not-
withftanding any oppofition between them, yet the querent will rarely
obtain his money or falary enquired after. If the fignificators are in
friendly afpedt from good houles of heaven, and this without impediment
or hindrance, the querent will be fuccefsful ; but, if infortunes impede
the fignificator of the querent's good, conlidcr what houfe he is lord of,
and that will point out the perlbn or thing that obflruds it.
JUDGMENTS proper to the THIRD HOUSE.
This houfe appertains to brethren, fifters, kindred, and neighbours ;
to inland journey.*;, and rumours; and therefore thefe queftions are par-
ticularly moft proper to it
:
1. Shall the ^erent^ and his Brethren\.^c. or Neighbours, accord f
'
2 . Of the Condition and EJiate of an abfent Brother ^
3. Shall the ^erent'^s inland Journeys be prof
perous .?
4. Reports and Rumours, whether true orfalfe ?
5. Of the Advice of a Frkady (^c. if good, or bad?
Many other queftions may be propounded, that properly pertain to this
houfe ; but whoever underftands the manner of judging thefe, may with
cafe anfwer any other that may be propofed.
Shall the ^erent and his Brethren^ &c. or Neighbours, accord f
The Moon, the afcendant, and its lord, are the fignificators o'i the
querent J and the third houfe, and its lord, of the quefited. Ihe queflion
is refolved thus : I'i the lord of the third heufe be a benevolent planet,
and
OF ASTROLOGY, 291
and in the afcendant, or the Moon be in good afpe6t with a fortunate
planet in the third, the querent and his brethren and neighbours will
agree well. When the lord of the afcendant and lord of the third are in
fextile or trine to each other, and in mutual reception ; or the lord of the
third cafts a fextile or trine to the cufp of the afcendant ; and the lord of
the afcendant or the Moon cafts the fame to the cufp of the third houfe,
it is an argument of great unity, love, and concord, between them. When
a fortunate planet is in the afcendant, and the lord of the afcendant be-
holds the cufp of the third, or applies friendly to the lord of the third, it
is an argument of good difpofition in the querent, and fpeaks him willing
to accord with his brethren, kindred, and neighbours. And if a fortune
be in the third, and the lord of the third apply in harmony to the lord of
the afcendant, the brethren, kindred, or neighbours, are moft indulging.
Thofe perfons whofc fignificators do not apply, are moft imperious, and
apt to difigree ; and thofe whofe fignificators make application, are flexi-
ble, willing, and yielding, and de/irous of agreement and concord. When
Saturn, Mars, or the Dragon's Tail, in fuch a queftion, fliall be in the
afcendant, it denotes the peribn enquiring to be obftinate, and averfe to
a friendly agreement ; but if they, or either of them, are podted in the
third, the brethren, neighbours, and kindred, are of a malicious difpo-
fition ; and if it happen that Saturn or Mars ftiall be peregrine, retro-
grade, or combuft, the malice arid mifchief they threaten will be the more
michievous. W^hen Saturn or the Dragon's Head are in the third, the
neighbours are obftinate, and the kindred covetous and fparing ; if Mars,
the kindred are treacherous, and the neighbours dilhoneft. And this is
certain, when they are out of their effential dignities.
Ofthe CondiIion and Eftate of an abjent Brother 9
To refolve this queftion, confider the lord of the third houfe, for that
hath fignification of brethren ; and the houfe where he is pofited, becaufe
that fhows the ftate and condition of the quefited. For it the lord of the
third be in conjundlion, quartile, or oppofition, of the infortunes, or in
evil afpecft of the lords of the obfcure houfes, the condition of the bro-
ther is forrowful ; but if, on the contrary, he be in good afpcd: with the
fortunes, and in propitious places of the figure, his condition is good and
profperous. If the lord of the third be pofited in the fourth, in no evil
afped: of the malevolents, the brother which is abfent hath an intention
to enrich himfelf in the place where he is; for the fouith houfe is the.
fecond from the third. If the lord of the third be pofited in the fifth,
in conjunction with the lord of the fifth, with or w iihout the reception
of the fortunes, it fliows the abfent brother to be in health nd very hap-
pily fituated. But if the lord of the third be in the fifth, void ot courfe,
1 or
393 AN ILLUSTRATION
or in corporal conjun(flion or malicious afpcdl of the infortunes, and
this without reception, and the unfortunate planets themfelvcs impedited,
it declares the abfent brother in a bad condition, indifpofed in health,
and not contented in the place where he is ; or, if he fliall be found
in any of the obfcure parts of the figure, which arc naturally evil, as tivc
fixth, eighth, or twelfth, houfcs, the abfent brother is not well, nor in
a profperous fituation. When the lord of the third is found in the eighth,
either in conjundion, fextile, or trine, of one of the fortunes, the abfent
brother is not well j or if the lord of the third be joined to evil planets
in the llxth houfe, or in conjundlion with the lord of the fixth, he is
then in an infirm and fickly condition ; and, if the lord of the fixth be in
the third, except the lord of the third be well difpofed, it denotes the
fame. Then note whetiier the lord of the third be in conjun(5tion with
the lord of the eighth, or in combufiion ; for fuch a configuration de-
clares he wmU die of the infirmity. But, if the lord of the third be in the
feventh, the brother is in the fame country he went into at firft, and con-
tinues there ; and his condition is neither well nor ill. If the fignificator
be in the eighth, the abfent brother is in danger of death, particularly
if he be combuft;, or in conjundlion with the lord of the eighth, in con-
junction or afpedl of the infortunes j for thefe are ftrong arguments of
death. When the lord of the third is in the ninth, it denotes that the
abfent brother is removed from the place he firfl: went to, and is gone
into a more remote country. And if he be in the tenth, in conjunilion
or good afped: of the fortunate planets, and with reception, it denotes
him to have acquired fome honour, office, or preferment, in the place
where he lives. But if he fhall be in conjundlion, quartile, or oppofi-
tion, of the infortunes, combufl, or any other way infortunated, it is to
be feared the abfent brother is dead. If the lord of the third be in the
eleventh houfe, in conjundlion, fextile, or trine, of the fortunes, or in
conjundlion with the lord of the eleventh, it denotes the abfent brother
to be at the houfe or place of fome friend, where he is happy and well
;
but if he be malicioufly beheld of the unfortunate planets, he is not
pleafed with the fituation he is in, but is grieved and perplexed. The
fignificator of the abfent party, in the twelfth houfe, in conjundtion or
good afpedl of the fortunes with reception, and the fortunes themfelve.s
no way impedited, fliews he will deal in merchandize, and gain riches.
But, if he be infortunated in the twelfth houfe, either by the bad afpedts
of the malevolents, or lord of the eighth, or in combuftion, it fhows
ihe abfent brother to be difcontented, troubled, and perplexed, and not
likely to lee the land of his nativity again.
Shall
OF ASTROLOGY. 293
Shall the Cerent's inland yourneys be profperons ?
Perfons who travel much in the country where they live, and have not
their nativities to diredt them, may have occafion to enquire the event of
fome intended journey ; for we know thofe tliat travel much do not al-
ways travel fafe ; but fometimes are in danger either of thieves, ficknefs,
or accidents, upon their journeys, that may occafion them to repent the un-
dertaking of them. Now, for ti^e prevention of fuch accidents, and to en-
able the reader to refolve queftions of this nature, let the following rules
be obferved. Give the afcendant and his lord, and the Moon, to the que-
rent ; the third houfe and lord thereof to fignify the journey ; and if the
fignificators be fwift in motion, or in the effential dignities of each other,
or in conjuniS'ion, fextile, or trine, to each other, in good places of the
figure; the journey will be good and profperous. Or if the Moon be
in the third, in textile to the afcendant, or the lord of the third cad a
Textile or trine to the afcendant, or be in the lame ; and the lord of the
afcendant well dignified in the third, they alfo denote a I'afe and plea-
fant journey. If the lord of the afcendant or Moon apply to any planet
in the third houfe, or the lord of the third to a planet in the al'cen-
danr, it likewife denotes the journey enquired after to be plealant. Or,
if Jupiter or Venus be in the third houfe, it (liows a profitable and de-
lightful journey ;
particularly if they caft a fextile to the afcendant. The
Dragon's Tail in the third houfe, flio.ws the fame. When Saturn, Mars,
or the Dragon's Head, are pofited in the third houfe, or afflid: the lord
thereof, or the Moon, it portends an unlucky journey to the querent, and
'very ill fuccel's therein. Saturn Ihovvs the querent to be melancholy and
penfive in his journey j Mars and the Dragon's Head fliovv him to be in
danger of thieves and robbers ; and, if they are in human figns, or fiery,
it denotes him to be lamed or wounded in his journey. \Vhen the lord
of the alcendant is retrograde, the querent will return again before he
hath gone to the place he intended j and, if the fignificators be flow, he
makes but little hafte or fpeed in his journey. If the lord of the fixth
afflid: the fignificators, the querent will fall fick by the way ; if the lord
of the twelfth, he will be impeded by malicious people; and, if the lord
of the eighth be the affliding planet, it flaows danger of death ; particu-
larly if the fignificators are near violent fixed fiars.
Reports and Rumours, rrhether true or falfe ?
This queftion may be anfwered thus : Obferve the lord of the afcen-
dant and the Moon, and the difpofitor ot the Moon, and fee if cither of
them be in an angle or fuccedent houfe in a fixed fign, or in good afped:
v»-ith Jupiter, the Sun, or Verais; for ufually, upon fuch configurations.
No. 15. 4 C
"
the
294 AN ILLUSTRATION
the reports and rumours are true. But if the lord of the afcendaiu or
the Moon be afflided of Saturn or Mars, or cadent froiri an angle, al-
though they be ftrong in the fign where they are, yet the rumour is falfe.
Rumours are alfo true and good when the angles of the figure are in fixed
figns, and the Moon and Mercury in fixed figns, feparating from the in-
fortunes, and applying to a fortune pofited in any of the angles of the
figure. So alfo when the angles of the tenth and fourth houfes are fixed,
and the Moon (liall be received in either of them, although the rumours
and reports be of an evil nature, yet they will hold true. If the fortu-
nate planets Jupiter and Venus fhnll be in the alcendant, and the Moon
at the fame time unfortunate, let the rumours or reports be ever fo mif-
chievous and iinlucky, they will be fure to prove falle, and come to no-
thing. Mercury being retrograde or othervvife afflided, declares ill ru-
mours to be falfe ; the like doth the afiiiftion of that planet to whom
"Mercury or the Moon applies. If the lord of the afcendant or the Moon
fh.ill be under the Sun-beams, the truth of the rumour is kept fecret by
men in power, and few fhall know the truth thereof. If the Moon be
void of courfe, or in quartile or oppofit.on of Mercury, and neither of
them call: their fextile or trine afpeds to the afcendant, the news or rumour
is vain and falfe, and may be lately contradicted.
The Ad-vice of a Friend, 'wheiher good or had?
It fometimes happens that neighbours or friei.ds in fundry difKcult or
embarraffed circumffances, will advife and perfuade a perfbn what he had
bell to do in fuch a cafe ; and if it be required to know whether they in-
tend faithfully, or perfidioufly, by luch advice, eredl your figure to the mo-
ment of time they firft drop their counfel, and judge as follows: Behold
the mid-heaven, that being the houfe fignifying advice, and fee '\i there
be any fortunate ft.ir or planet p fired therein ; tor then the counfel or ad-
vice is ferious and good, and will be proper to follow. But if an infor-
tune be found in the tenth houfe, the friends that pretend counfel adl deceit-
fully, and intend knavifhly.
JUDGMENTS proper to the FOURTH HOUSE.
The fourth houfe gives judgment on poflefTion, inheritances, lands, or
houfes, and of things loft and miflaid j of the father, 5cc. and hath thefe
quef\ions proper to it, viz.
1. Shall the Querent purcha/e the Uouje or Land deJiredP
2. Of the ^ality thereof and Jhall the ^erent do li-ell to take it P
3. If it be bcjl for one to remove, or abide ivhere he isf
A. Of hidden Treafure, f attainable P
5. Ts
OF ASTROLOGY. ^^^
5. Is there Treafure hidden in the place fuppofedP
6. Shall the ^erent enjoy the Eftate.
of his jatherf
Thefe queltions being once refolved, will lead the artift to the under-
flanding ot at^y thing of the hke nature.
Shall the ^ercnl purchaje the lloufe or Land deftred?
To refolve this queftion, give the afcendant and his lord, and the Moon,
to iignity him that enquires; the fign of the fourth houfe and lord thereof
to fignify the thing quclited. If the lord of the afcendant or the Moon
be in the fourth houfe, or the lord of the fourth in the firll, or if either
of them are in conjunction with the lord of the fourth, or in fextile or
trine to him with reception, it declares the accomplifhment of the thing
without impediment or hindrance. But if they are joined without recep-
tion, or in quartile or oppofition with perfect reception, the querent may
poflibly obtain his defire. Or if the fignificators be not joined together
either by body or afpedl, yet if fhere be a tranflation of light between
them. Cither by the Moon or another planet, it fhows a poflibility of the
purchafe, though with much difficulty and trouble.
The following is alfo a good method to judge of this quedion. Give
the fign afcending, and the lord thereof, and the planet from whom the
Moon is feparated, to the querent or purchafer ; the feventh houfe and
his lord, the planet or planets pofited therein, and the Moon, to fignify
the thing to be bought or purchafed ; and the mid-heaven to fignify the
price thereof. And if in your figure the lord of the afcendant behold the
lord ot the feventh, and the lord of the feventh apply to the lord of the
afcendant, the fel.er hath a greater defire to deal with the buyer; and if
they chance to be in each other's dignities, or any good tranflation of light
happen between them, or if they apply to corporal conjund.ion, the que-
rent will agree with th: feller without much difficulty or trouble. But,
if the application or tranllation of light be by quartile or oppofition,
the buyer and feller will at Ian agree; but it will be with much labour
and lofs of time, and atter many probabilities of breaking off. If the
lord of the afcendant or the Moon apply to the lord of the fourth; or if
lord of the f urth or the Mo' 11 apply to the lord of the afcendant;
or if the lord of the fourth alone fhall apply to the lord of the aicen-
dant, and there be a reception between them ; or if the lord of the afcen-
dant, or the Moon, be in the fourth, or lorJ of the fourth in the afcen-
dant ; they dcnoie the party enquiring ihall buy or purchafe the land or
inheritance enquired after. But it neither of thefe happen, yet if the
Moon Ihall transfer the light of one figuiiicator to the other, it denotes
that
296 A N I L L U S '1'
RATION
that the thing will be perfcded by the mediatiot\ of friends, or by mellcn-
gers. But if there be no application, reception, or tranllation of light,
between them, then it is improbable that any thing fliall be concluded be-
tween them.
Ofthe ^dlity of the Purchafe, and whether the ^erent does 'welf to take It f
Take the fourth houfe to rcfolve this interrogatory; and if the two
unfortunate planets are pofited therein, either potent or peregrine, the
thing enquired after will be walled by the buyer ; and the prefcnt is in no
very good condition. If the lord of the fourth be infortunalcd, either by
retrogradation, detriment, Adl, or peregrination, it denotes the houfe or
land to be bad, or lb encumbered that it will never continue long with the
purchafer. But if the fortunate planets, or the Dragon's Tail, be in the
fourth houfe, it Ihows the bufinefs enquired after to be good ; and that
the buyer, or purchafer, fhall be a gainer thereby. When the fortunate
planets call: their benevolent rays unto the fourth houfe, and the lord of
the fourth fliall be pofited in a good houfe, in fextile or trine to the fecond
houfe or his lord, it is an argument that the bargain is good, and that the
purchafer Ihall be a gainer thereby. If Aries, Leo, or Saggittarius, be
upon the cufp of the fourth houfe, it denotes an cftate to be hilly, hard,
and dry ; if Taurus, Virgo, or Capricorn, the land is level and very good ;
if Gemini, Libra, or Aquaries, the ground is fome part high, and fome
low, and is in quality neither very good nor very bad; if Cancer, Scor-
pio, or Pifces, it abounds with much water. An unfortunate planet in
the fourth, retrograde, fliows the land or houfe will turn out very un-
lucky, and not be worth the taking, and will be accompanied with many
infelicities; but, if a fortunate planet be pofited there ftrong, the land is
good, and may well invite the querent to go on, for he will have a good
bargain.
Jf be(I for a Verfon to remove, or abide inhere he is f
In this queftion give the afcendant and the lord thereof, to fignify
the querent; the feventh houfe and lord thereof, to lignify the place
to which he would go; the fourth houic and his lord, the fubflance of
the querent; and the tenth houfe and his lord, the profit of removal.
The lord of the afcendant or fourth in the feventh, and the lord the
afcendant and feventh, fortunate planets, fwift in motion, flrong and po-
tent where they are, the querent then will do well to remain where lie is,
and not remove. But if the lord of the feventh be with a good planet,
and the lords of the afcendant or fourth with an evil one, the querent had
better remove, for he will get little by continuing where he is. Fortu-
4 nate
As *-
OF ASTROLOGY.
"
297
nate planets in the afcendant or fourth may invite the querent to renaain
where he is. If the lords of thofe houfes are in conjunftion, or in good
afpedt with fortunate ftars, it denotes the fame. Unfortunate planets
in the afcendant or fourth, fliow the querent it is good to remove; and,
if the lords of the afcendant and fourth be afflicted by the malefics, either*
by body or afped, it denotes the fame, Obferve the afflicting planet or
planets, and the houfe or houfes they govern ; for from thence the occa-
flon of the mifchief that the querent fuftains is known ; the like obferve
of the affifting or friendly planets, whence a rational anfwer to the quef-
tion propofed will be eafily obtained.
4. Of Treafures hid, xvheiher attainable or not.
It is not uncommon for penurious perfons to hide treafure in their
life-time, and to go out of the world without informing their heirs or
executors where to find it. Whenever this is fufpefted to be the cafe,
and a queftion is grounded upon it, eredl your figure, and confider what
application, reception, tranflation, &c. there may be between the lord
of the afcendant and fourth houfe. If there be a friendly application
and reception, the perfon enquiring fhall obtain the treafure he enquires
after ; but, if there be a quartile or oppofition between the (ignificators,
without the reception, the treafure will rarely be found. When the
fignificators apply to each other corporally in a fixed fign, there are
great hopes of finding and obtaining the fame fpeedily; particularly if
the application be in a good houfe. Both or either of the luminaries in
the afcendant no way unfortunate, or friendly beholding the fame, argues
a fpeedy recovery of the treafure hid ; but, if they fhould happen to be
cadent, or in quartile or oppofition thereto, it gives but fmall hopes.
If the part of fortune be in the afcendant, beheld by fortunate planets,
or by the luminaries, the querent will have a fair profpeft of acquiring
his wifhes ; but, if the part of fortune and the luminaries be cadent, par-
ticularly the Moon ; and neither of the lights cafl a friendly afpeft to the
part of fortune or to the afcendant ; nor the lord of the afcendant be-
holding the afcendant ; it is an argument that the querent will not obtain
the treafure hid. I always find, in queflions of this nature, that, if
fortunate planets are in the fourth, or govern the fourth, there is trea-
fure ; and, if the lord of the afcendant or the Moon be in good afpedi
with thofe planets, the querent generally attains it by diligent fearch.
But, on the contrary, if infortunes be in the fourth houfe, or the lumi-
naries weak therein, it is an argument of irrecovery ; or fhows that it has
been taken away before.
No. 15. 4 D 5. /j
298 AN ILLUSTRATION
5 . Is the Treafure hidden in the Place fuppofed f
A queftion being thus in a general way propounded, give the lord of
the alcendant and the Moon to the querent for his fignificators ; and the
fourth houfe, and the planet or planets pofited therein, will (ignify the
treafure enquired after. When Jupiter, Venus, or the Dragon's Head,
are in the fourth houfe, they declare the treafure to be in the place fup-
pofed ; and, if they be in their eflential dignities, it is very certain that
there is great value there. Or if any of the other planets are pofited in
their own houfes, or in the fourth houfe without impediment, it fhows
that there is treafure in the place fuppofed. But if the fourth houfe be
infortunated with the Dragon's Tail, or Saturn or Mars be there, and no
way efTentially dignified ; or if Saturn or Mars caft a quartile or oppofi-
tion thereunto; there is no treafure at all. The lord of the fourth or the
Moon feparating from good planets, fhow that there has been treafure
hid in the place fuppofed, but that it is gone.
6. Shall the Querent enjoy the E/laie ofhis Father f
This queftion is oftentimes of great importance to the proponent, and
therefore ought to be contemplated with more than ufual acutencfs. If
in the figure, judicioufly erected, and corredt to time, the lord of the
fecond and lord of the fifth are found in the mutual dignities of each
other, or the lord of the fecond in the fifth, or the lord of the fifth in
the fecond, the querent will enjoy the eftate of his father. But, if the
lord of the fifth houfe be retrograde, or afflicled by fome malevolent pla-
net, it prefages that much of the eftate which the querent's father in-
tended for him will be wafted or otherwife difpofed of. When the lord
of the fifth difpofes of the part of fortune in the afcendant, or fecond
houfe of the figure, there is no fear but the querent will enjoy what he
expedls from his father. The lord of the alcendant, or fecond houfe,
difpofing of the lord of the fifth, (hows the thing enquired after to be fo
fecured to the querent, that he cannot be deprived of it. The Moon
transferring the light of the lord of the fifth, by fextile or trine, to the lord
of the fecond, or lord of the afcendant, declares the queftion enquired after
fhall come to good; or, if Jupiter or Venus in the fifth fhall friendly
behold the lord of the fecond, or a planet in the fecond, it fignifies the
fame. If the lord of the fecond and fifth apply to a good afpedl, or a cor-
poral conjunction by retrogradation, the querent will receive fome of his
father's eftate very (hortly, and in his father's life-time; but, if the lord
of the fourth be in afpeft with an infortune, or an infortune in the fourth,
it denotes the father will not part with any thing till his death.
JUDG-
OF ASTROLOGY. 299
JUDGMEMTS proper to the FIFTH HOUSE.
This houfe appertains to the birth of children, embaffies, meflengers,
&c. and hath thefe queftions proper to it.
1
.
Whether a Woman Jliall ever have Children ?
2. In what TimeJhallJIie conceive f
3. Whether a Woman enquiring he with Child?
4. Whether JJie be pregnant with a Boy or a Girl?
5. ShallJlie have Twins ?
6. When will the Birth happen ?
"J. Of a Mejfenger fent on an Embajfy ?
And by knowing how to refolve thefe queO'ions, the reader will be able
to anfwer any others belonging to this houfe.
I. Whether a WomanJliall ever have Children ?
To anfwer this queftion, carefully obferve the afcendant, its lord, and
the Moon; and, if either of them be joined to the lord of the fifth, the
querent fhall have children. But, if neither of thefe happen, note
whether any other planets transfer the light of the lord of the afcendant
to the lord of the fifth ; for that is an argument that the querent may
have children. Confideralfo whether the fign upon the fifth be fruitful,
and whether the lord of the fifth, the Moon, the afcendant, and its lord,
are in prolific figns ; for, if fo, it is an aflured argument that the querent
will have iffue. If the lord of the afcendant, or the Moon, be pofited in
the fifth houfe, the querent will have children ; or, if the lord of
the fifth houfe be in the afcendant, it declares the fame. If neither
the lord of the afcendant nor the Moon apply to the lord of the fifth,
yet, if there be a tranflation of light and virtue between them, the que-
rent need not doubt of having children. But, if all the fignificators be
in fterile figns, and in defedive degrees of thofe figns, the querent will
rarely have iffue. So alfo, if Venus, the general fignificator of children
or iffue, be afHidled, either by the prefence of Saturn, Mars, or the
Dragon's Tail, or combuft of the Sun, the querent will not have cbil-
dren. Saturn or the Dragon's Tail in the fifth, or affliflin? the lord of
the fifth, generally denies iffue ; and, if Saturn or Mars be in quartile or
oppofition to the fifth houfe, or its lord, it portends the fame. Lafily,
confider the planets Jupiter and Venus ; and, if you find either of them,
in the fifth, third, firfl, ninth, or eleventh, houfes, free from all impedi-
ment, the querent will certainly have children.
2. In
300 AN ILLUSTRATION
2. In what Time (liall the Woman conceive ?
Having before found a pofTibility of ifliie, it may be alked when the
time fhaJl be ? to anfwer which, obferve in what fign the lord of the
fifth houfe is pofited, and what planet or planets are in configuration
with him; for, if he be in the afcendant, fifth or eleventh houfes, in
fruitful figns, and with fruitful planets, the querent may fpeedily con-
ceive. If the lord of the fifth be in the firft houfe, the querent may con-
ceive in the firfl year; if in the fecond, the fecond year; if in the tenth,
the third year; if in the feventh, the fourth year; if in the fourth houfe,
the fifth year ; and fo on. Or, having noted the capacity and condition
of the querent for conception, obferve the diflance between the friendly
afpefls of the Moon, or lord of the afcendant, with the lord of the fifth,
and Jupiter or Venus, and judge of the time thus: If riiey are in move-
able figns, their degrees of diltance fhow weeks or days ; in common
figns, months or weeks ; in fixed figns, years or months, &c. as before
dire6led in queftions that relate time.
3. If a Woman enquiring be with Child?
It fometimes happens that a woman has reafon to believe (he is with
child, and yet, owing to fome internal complaint, may be in doubt
about it, and by that means be led to afk the queftion, whether fhe be
or not ? The queflion is anfwered by thefe rules : If the lord of the af-
cendant, or the Moon, behold the lord of the fifth with any good afpecfl
or tranflation; or they, or either of them, happen to be pofited in the
fifth houfe; the woman enquiring is with child. And, when the figni-,
ficators apply friendly, or are pofited in fruitful figns, and in fruitful hou-
fes alfo, as the fifth, eleventh, and feventh, the party enquiring is with
child. The lord of the afcendant, or lord of the fifth, afpedfing a planet
with reception in an angle, and the Moon in reception with a planet
efTentially fortified in an angle, alfo fhows the querent to be pregnant.
Jupiter, the natural fignificator of children, in the afcendant, fifth, fe-
venth, or eleventh, houfes, no way affli6led of the infortunes, denotes the
querent to be with child. But if Jupiter be afflided, or cadent, the wo-
man enquiring is not with child. If the lord of the tenth, and the Sun,
be in good places of the figure, and in friendly configuration with the
benefics, the woman enquiring is with child. Likewife, if the Moon,
and the lord of the triplicity (he is in, be well located in figns of many
children, as Cancer, Scorpio, or Pifces, the woman has conceived.
So alfo, if Jupiter and Venus be pofited in angles free from the mali-
cious beams of the infortunes, the woman is certainly with child. But,
if the fignificators are afRided of Saturn, Mars, or the Dragon's Tail,
tile
OF ASTROLOGY. 301
the woman is not with child, but is troubled with fome complaint
which fhe hath miftaken for conception. The pofitions of Saturn,
Mars, or the Dragon's Tail, in the fifth, likewife fhow non-conception ;
but, if it happens that the teftimonies for her being with child are the
greater in number, they then threaten abortion ; and the lame when they
afflid either Venus, the Moon, or the Lord of the fifth houfe, or the
afcendant.
4. Whether the Woman is pregnant with a Boy or Girl?
To anfwer this queftion, obferve the afcendant and its lord, the fifth
houfe and the lord thereof, together with the Moon, and planet to which
fhe applies ; for, if they, or moft of them, be in mafculine figns, the
querent is with child of a boy ; but, if in feminine figns, it is a girl.
The faid fignificators, though in feminine figns, yet if they are in afpe6l
with mafculine planets, and in houfes mafculine, and with ftars of a
mafculine nature and difpofition, the woman will have a male child.
Mafculine planets are Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, and the Suu; the feminine
are Venus and the Moon ; Mercury is in its nature convertible, and is
either mafculine or feminine according to the planet or planets he is in
afpe6l with. Signs of a mafculine difpofition, or nature, are Aries, Ge-
mini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, and Aquarius. And feminine figns are
Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn, and Pifces; which being
well obferved, the fex is eafily difcovered.
5 . Shall jlie have Twins or more than one f
Confider the fign upon the afcendant, and where the lord thereof is
pofited, and what fign is upon the cu{p of the fifth houfe ; for, if the
fignificators are in bicorporal or double-bodied figns, the querent will
very probably have two children. If Jupiter, Venus, or the Dragon's
Head, be in a fruitful fign, either in the fifth or afcendant, it is pollible
for the querent to have three children; particularly if the Moon lends
her afliftance. But, if thefe planets are not pofited in the afcendant, or
fifth houfe; yet, if they caft their friendly rays to either of them, it is
an argument that the querent will have twins. But, if fixed figns, or
moveable, poflefs the cufps of the afcendant or fifth houfe, and the Sun
or Moon be pofited therein, it is a certain argument that the woman is
breeding with but one child.
6. When or in what Time will the Birth happen f
To refolve this queftion, regard muft be had to the fignificators as well
of the child as of the perfon enquiring; and to the part of children alfo,
No. 16. 4 E ,
(as
302 AN ILLUSTRATION
(as will be explained hereafter,) which mufl: be direded by the oblique af-
cenfions, &c. to the degree of the fifth houfe or its lord, or to Jupiter, or
to his good afpeds; and, by allowing a day to each degree of diftance, the
time of birth will be nearly found. This is difcovcred by confideriiig
what direction or tranfit there may be either to the fifth houfe, oi- to Ju-
piter, Venus, or the Moon, for at that time the woman may be delivered;
particularly if the true tranfit or direftion falls in the fifth, eleventh, or
afcendant.
7. Of a Mejfenger fent on an Embajfy, or on any important Bujinefs ?
When this queftion is propofed, give the afcendant and its lord to
him that fent the meffenger; the feventh houfe and its lord to fignify
him to whom the meffenger is fent; and let the Moon fignify the meffage
itfelf ; and the lord of the fifth the meffenger, and his management or
ordering of the bufinefs. When the lord of the fifth houfe fhall feparate
from the lord of the feventh, and apply to the lord of the afcendant,
then judge the meffenger hath effe6led his bufinefs, and is returning again.
And, if he feparates from the lord of the fecond, he then brings money
with him, let the fignificator of that houfe be either a fortune or infor-
tuiie. If the fignificator of the meffenger feparates from fortunate planets,
it is an argument he has been honefi, and will bring good tidings of the
bufineis; but, if he feparates from the malevolents, it (hows the mef-
fenger has done his bufinefs lamely, or has been hindered in the per-
formance of it. If the fignificator of the meffenger applies to an infor-
tune by quartile or oppofition, and this before he can feparate from the
lord of the feventh, it fignifies that the meffTenger has met with fome
impediment in the bufinefs he went about from the party to whom he
was fent. But, if the fignificator of the meffTenger fhall go to the quar-
tile or oppofition of either of the infortunes, after he is feparated from
the lord of the feventh; the meffenger will receive fome prejudice or
impediment in his way home. If there be found an infortune in the
ninth, the meffenger will not travel fafe, but will be in danger of high-
way robbery, and bodily hurt; but if, on the contrary, a benefic be in
the ninth, he will travel fafe. If the lord of the afcendant and lord of
the fifth are in reception, or in good afpeft from good places of the figure,
the meffenger is faithful, juft, and honeft; particularly if he be either a
fortune, or in good afpe6t with a fortune. But, if there be no reception
or afpeff, and the configuration be with or in the dignities of an infortune,
the contrary may be expe6ted. If there happens a reception between
the lord of the feventh and the lord of the fifth, the meffenger will be
received ; and, if at the fame time the lord of the fifth or Mercury
tranflates the virtue of the lord of the feventh to the lord of the afcend-
dant.
OF ASTROLOGY. 303
dant, the querent obtains whatfoever he hoped for by the meflage ; which
I have found true in a variety of inftances.
JUDGMENTS proper to the SIXTH HOUSE.
The fixth houfc gives judgment on ficknefs, fervants, and Imall cattle,
&c. and the following queftions are conomonly attributed to it
:
1. What Part of the Body is affliaed?
2. Is the Difeafe in the Body or Mind, or both f
3. Shall the Di/iemper be chronic or acute ?
4. What is the caufc of the Di/iemper?
5. Shall theftck Party recover, or die of the 'Difeafe f
6. Of Servants, Jhall they provejuji or diJJione/i ?
7. Offmall cattle^ jliall the Querent thrive by them or not ?
In the former part of this work, I have Ihown what difeafes are attri-
buted to each planet, houfe, and fign ; which, in refolving the fir/l of
thefe five queftions, ftiall be particularly noticed.
1. What Part of the Body is affliaed?
Having ereded the figure, obferve the afcendant, the fixth houfe, and
place of the Moon, for they are natural fignihcators of the difeafe; and
then judge as follows : The horofcope afflided by the prefence of an evil
planet, or by the pofjtion of the Dragon's Tail, indicates that the diftem-
per lies chiefly in the head, and in that member or part of the body re-
prefented by the fign afcending. If the Moon be afflided by the infor-
tunes, the lick party is indifpofed in that part of the body the affliding
planet governs from his own houfe. If the afcendant be Scorpio, and
Mars and Venus be in the afcendant or fixth houfe, the difeafe lies in the
head, bowels, and fecrets, becaufe Mars governs thofe members in either
place ; which rule holds good with all the other figns and planets.
2. Is the Difeafe in the Body or Mind, or in both?
The afcendant and the dilpofitors of the Sun and the Moon bear figni-
fication of the mind, and the lord of the afcendant and the Moon of the
body. Now, if the afcendant or its lord, the Sun or the Moon, be af-
flided, it (hows the diftemper hath feized the whole body and mind alfo
of the fick party. If the afcendant and the dilpofitors of the Sun and
the Moon be afflided, the difeafe impairs the mind ; but, if the lord of
the afcendant and the Moon be afflided, the difeafe afFeds only the body^
and the mind is free. If Saturn afflid the afcendant, and the difpofitor
or
304 AN ILLUSTRATION
of the lumitiaries, and the Moon be at the fame time in quartile or oppo-
fition of him, or in quartile or oppofition of the lord of the afcendant,
the fick party is afflided in mind, concerning the things of this world,
and about lolfes in his bufinefs or eftate. If Jupiter, by being lord of
evil houl'es, afRidt the aforefaid fignificators, the querent is troubled in
mind about religious tenets. If Venus, by difappointments in love; if
Mars, or Mercury, by a too intenic exercife of the mind, by ftudy, or by
application to fcience or philofophy.
3, Shall the Difeafe be chronic or acute ?
To know this, confider the complexion of the perfon, his age, and the
time of the year ; for the knowledge of thefe conduces much to the dil-
covery of the certainty of the matter propounded. Difeafes in autumn
and winter are ufually reputed chronical or long; but longer in winter
than in autumn. In fpring and fummer acute or fhort; but more acute
in fpring than in lummer. So infirmities affliding young perfons, or
thofe in the firfl half of their age, are fhorter and lefs dangerous than
thofe in elderly perfons, or thofe that are in the lafl part of their age.
Likewife, melancholy and phlegmatic perfons are fubjedl to chronical dif-
eafes ; but fanguine and choleric perfons to acute. Saturnine difeafes,
which are cold and dry, are ufually long and tedious ; the Moon and
Venus are protraders of the infirmity; Jupiter, Mars, the Sun, and
Mercury, fignify difeafes of no long continuance, but fuch as may re-
turn fpeedily ; but, by being lords of evil places, or otherwife affli6led,
they may have fignification of chronic difeafes. The figns poffefling the
afcendant, fixth houfe, or place of the Moon, being fixed, declare a
chronic difeafe; common figns fhow difeafes neither very long nor very
(hort; moveable figns denote the difeafe to terminate quickly, either
one way or the other. An infortune being lord of the fixth, and in the
fixth, prefages a lafling ficknefs; but, if a benefic be lord of the fixth,
and in the fixth, the difeafe will admit of an immediate cure. The lord
of the afcendant, the Moon, or lord of the fixth, in conjundion, fextile, or
trine, of the lord of the tenth, denotes the difeafe to be of no long con-
tinuance; and, if they be in conjuii6tion, fextile, or trine, of the fortunes,
the fame. But, if the faid fignificators, or any of them, be in conjunc-
tion, quartile, or oppofition, of the infortunes, the difeafe will be both
long and tedious; and, if this fhall happen in fixed figns, it argues the
duration or continuance to be ftill the longer.
o
4. IVhat is the caufe of the Di/iempei' ?
The caufe of the diflemper is known from the pofitions of the fignifi-
cators of ficknefs, before delcribed, in either of the four trigons or triplici-
ties; for therein they fhow the humour that is predominant. If thefe
fignifi-
OF ASTROLOGY. 305
fignificators, or moft of them, are pofited in fiery figns, they declare the
diftemper to have its origin from choler, whence fevers and all fuch-like
difeafes proceed. But, if the fignificators be in airy figns, blood is then
predominant in the body, and the difeafe is thence caufed ; as gouts, le-
profies, &c. When the fignificators of ficknefs are in earthy figns,
they declare the caufe of the difeafe to have its origin from melancholy,
and thofe difeafes are ufually long and tedious, as confumptions, agues,
&c. And the fignificators of difeafes in watery figns denote the infir-
mity to proceed from cold and moifi: caules, as phlegm; and thefe difeafes
principally are coughs, phthyfic, and all difeales of the ftomach. When
the pofitions of the fignificators do not thoroughly point out the na-
ture of the diftemper, note the fixed ftars in the figure, and they will
aflift in the difcovery of the caufe of the difeafe.
5. Shall theJick Party recover^ or die of the Ififirmitij afii£ling ?
If the Moon defiux from the infortunes, and apply to the benevolents
without frufiration, prohibition, or refranation, there is great hopes the
infirm party will recover; fb the fignificators of ficknels, no way af-
flifted, but free from the ill beams of the malevolents, declare great
hopes of the recovery of the fick. If they are in fextile or trine of the
luminaries, or in any friendly reception with them, or either of them,
the fame. The Moon increaiing in light and motion, and being pofited
in good houfes of heaven in fextile or trine of the lord of the afcendant,
denotes great hopes of life; if the lord of the afcendant be an infortune
in this judgment, it will no way affed the fick party. When the Moon
fhall either be found in the afcendant or in any of her dignities, or fhall
caft a fextile or trine thereunto, it is a great argument the (Jck will not
die of the difeafe affli61ing. The lord of the afcendant and the Moon
combuft of the Sun denote death, unlefs there be fome reception between
the Sun and them; and, if they (hall be in conjunftion with the lord of
the eighth, except Jupiter or Venus interpofe their friendly beams, it
(hows the fame. The lord of the eighth in an angle, and the Moon and
lord of the alcendant cadent, or affli6ted of the infortunes, prefage mor-
tality; the application of the lord of the afcendant or the Moon unto
the lord of the eighth by evil afpedt, (hows the fame ; and, if he be an
infortune, it puts the matter pafl all doubt. The lord of the afcendant
in the eighth, or lord of the eighth in the afcendant, declares the irre-
covery of the fick. \i the lord of the eighth be in the tenth, and the
lord of the afcendant in the fourth, fixth, or feventh, houfes, any way
affli6ted, it portends death to the fick party. The lord of the afcendant
and Moon with violent fixed ftars, according to their latitude, generally
denote death unto the fick.
No. 16. 4F 6. cy
3o6 AN ILLUSTRATION
6. OfServants ; Jhnll they prove juji or dijhone/i ?
When this queftion is put by the mafter, give the lord of the afcendant
and the aicendant itfelf to fignify the querent ; the fixth houfe and its
lord to fignify the fervant. And, if the lord of the fixth commit his
difpofition by any friendly ray to the lord of the afcendant, the fervant
will prove juft and honeft. If the Moon transfer the light of the lord of
the fixth to the lord of the afcendant, by a good afped, it fpeaks the ho-
nefty of the fervant. The lord of the fixth in the dignities of the for-
tunes in fextile or trine to the afcendant, pleads for the honefty of the
fervant. If he be near fixed ftars of a benevolent nature, the fame. But,
if the lord of the fixth fhall be in conjun6lioii of the infortunes, and in
quartile or oppofition to the afcendant or lord thereof, the fervant will
not prove honefi:. The Moon in the fixth, in quartile to the lord of the
fixth in the lecond, (hows the fervant to be a pilferer, and fuch a one as
the querent will never grow rich by. If the principal fignificators are
void of all reception, and there be neither good application nor tranflation
of light to be found among them, the fervant is not to be trufted. When
Mercury, the natural fignificator of fervants, fhall be in the dignities of
Saturn or Mars, and in quartile or oppofition to the afcendant or fecond
houfe, or either of their lords, it gives great caufe to fufpe6t the fervant.
If the Dragon's Tail be in the fixth, or doth afflid the lord of the fixth,
it denotes the fame.
7. Offmall Cattle ; jliall the Querent thrive by them or not ?
By fmall cattle are meant hogs, (heep, and the like. —If the lord of
the fixth and the lord of the fecond are in conjundion, in a good houie
of heaven, the querent may thrive by them; or, if they be in fextile or
trine, the fame. The lord of the fixth carting a friendly afpe£t to the
Part of Fortune, or being in good configuration with the diipofitor there-
of, denotes much good to the querent by dealing in fmall cattle. The
lord of the fixth in the fecond, in the dignities of Jupiter or Venus,
and Jupiter or Venus cafling a fextile or trine to the fecond, or to the fe-
cond in conjuncflion with him, argues great gain to the querent by deal-
ing in fmall cattle. But if, on the contrary, the lord of the fixth be un-
fortunate, and in evil afpeft with the lord of the afcendant or fecond, or
caft malignant rays to either of their cufps, the querent will lole by deal-
ing in fmall cattle. If the lord of the fixth be in quartile or oppofi-
tion to the difpofitor of the Part of Fortune, or the Moon, the querent
catvnot thrive by dealing in fmall cattle; the fame if the lord of the fixth
be afflifted either by Saturn, Mars, or the Dragon's Tail ; or be found either
retrograde, combufl, cadent, or peregrine. The Dragon's Tail and Mars
fl\ow
OF ASTROLOGY. 307
fhow much lofs therein by knaves and thieves, and ill bargains, &c. and
Saturn denotes much damage by the rot or murrain.
INTERROGATORIES proper to the SEVENTH HOUSE.
This houfe refolves queftions concerning marriage, partnerfhip, Jaw-
fuits, public enemies, war, &c. thefts, fugitives, and ftrays; which, be-
caufe they are of feveral diftind natures, are treated of under three dif-
ferent heads ; and, iirft, of marriage.
I . Shall the Querent marry ?
a. J^t what Time fhall the Querent marry ?
3. Shall the Querent marry more than once ?
4. What manner of Perjon Jhall the Querent marry?
5. Shall they accord after Marriage f
6. Shall the Marriage be confummated or broken of?
I . Shall the Querent marry ?
To know this, confider the pofition of the lord of the afcendant, the
Moon, and Venus, and the part of marriage, and their pofitions; for they
all have fignification of the party enquiring in this cafe. If all or the
greater part of them be in prolific or fruitful ligns, it is a great argument
that the party enquiring will marry. If the Moon or the lord of the aC-
cendaat be in good afpe6t with the Sun, or either of the fortunes, or near
fixed ftars of their nature, the party enquiring may marry. When the
lord of the afcendant, the Moon, or Venus, are in the feventh houie, or
in the dignities of the lord of the feventh, and the lord of the feventh
either in the afcendant or in fextile or trine to the faid fignificators, the
querent will certainly marry. If none of thefe arguments appear, but
on the contrary all the fignificators of marriage are in flerile figns, and
in quartile or oppofition to the lord of the feventh or feventh houfe, the
party enquiring is averfe to marriage.
2. At what Time JItall the Querent marry ?
The fignificators of marriage applying to each other by a friendly afpedl,.
or by conjunction in the oriental or meridional parts of heaven, denote
the querent will be married fuddenly; but, if in the occidental part of
heaven, or feptentrional, it will be much prolonged, and a great while
before accompliflied. All the fignificators above the earth, and fwift in
motion, accelerate or haften the matter, particularly if in moveable figns j
but, if they are under the earth, and flow in motion, the marriage will
be retarded. The degrees of diftance, either in body or afpe6t, between the
lord
3o8 AN ILLUSTRATION
lord of the afcendant and the lord of the feventh, the Sun, or Venus,
Ihow the time of marriage, if there happen a good tranfit to bring on
the bufinefs. In this judgment, moveable figns give weeks or days; bi-
corporal give months or weeks; and fixed figns years or months: and,
if the fignificators are How in motion, and in fixed figns, the degrees of
diftance will be fo many years; if fwift in motion, then fo many months;
ftc de cateris.
3. Shall the Querent marry more than once?
The fignificators of marriage in bi-corporal or double-bodied figns de-
clare the querent, be it either man or woman, to marry more than once.
The fignificators of marriage in conjunftion, Textile, or trine, with many
planets, portend marriage to the querent more than once; particularly
from the fifth, feventh, or eleventh, houfes. Many planets in the feventh
houfe, in Textile or trine to the luminaries or lord of the afcendant, de-
note the querent will be married more than once. But, if the fignifica-
tors of marriage are in fixed figns, and in afpedt with not above one planet,
it prefages that the querent will marry only once.
4. JVhat kindofPerfon fliall the Querent marry, and how qualified
f
Obferve what planet the lord of the afcendant, or Moon, is nearefl: in
afpedt with, and the fign he is in, and defcribe the perfon, either man
or woman, accordingly; for fuch a one the querent will marry. If the
lord of the afcendant or Moon be in conjunction or afpeft with Venus,
the perfon is pleafant and affable ; if with the Sun, he is noble, of a
great fpirit, and imperious; if with Mars, the perfon is many times rafti
and furious, and fubjedt to choler and pafiion; if with Saturn, he is in-
clinable to melancholy, but prudent and grave; if with Jupiter, the
perfon is juft, honefi:, and religious; if with Venus, fubtil, cunning,
&c. Note the fixed flars that are near the fignificators, for they often
alter the quality of the planets. By thus confidering the dignities and
debilities of the planet or planets aforefaid, the fhape, qualification, and
temperature, of the perfon whom the querent fhall marry, may be known
and difcovered.
5 . Shall they accord and be happy after Marriage ?
The lord of the afcendant, or Moon, in conjunftion, Textile, or trine,
of the lord of the feventh or Venus, argues much pleafure and delight
after marriage, and (hows the parties fhall agree well, and not quarrel
;
but, if they are in quartile or oppofition unto each other, it fhows much
quarrelling
OF ASTROLOGY. 309
quarrelling and contention after marriage ; and, if they be in quartile,
conjundion, or oppoiition, of the infortunes, in any places of the figure,
it (hows the fame. Saturn, Mars, or the Dragon's Tail, in the afcen-
dant, (hows the querent to be imperious after marriage, and by his or
her obftinacy will occafion much difcontent and trouble; but, if they
are po(ited in the feventh houfe, the perfon whom the querent marries-
will be the occafion of the trouble and difcontent. Benevolent planets
polTeffing the feventh houfe, and a friendly reception between the lord of
the feventh and lord of the a(cendant, denote good agreement after mar-
riage. If there happens to be a reception, though they are in quartile,
it implies the Came.
6. Shall the Marriage be effe£led or broken off ?
The perfon, who enquires concerning the concluding or breakincf-off
an intended marriage, mufl: have the lord of the afcendant and Moon for
fignificators ; and the perfon quelited muft have the lord of the (eventh
and the planet from which the Moon is feparated. If the lord of the al-
cendant or Moon be joined to the lord of the feventh, or in Textile or
trine to him in any of his eiTential dignities, the marriage intended will
be brought to perfedtion, particularly if it be from good houfes of the
figure. If a quartile or oppofition happens between the fignificators,
and no reception, the intended marriage will be broken off, and come to
nothing. When there is no afpecl between the fignificators, yet, if there
be any good tranflation of light between them, and this by a benevolent
planet, the marriage maybe efFefted by a perfon reprefented by the houfe
that planet is lord or governor of. So alfb, if the fignificator of both
parties apply to a friendly afpe<ft, and, before the afpe6l be made, an in-
fortune interpofes his malicious rays, the marriage will be obftru6ted by
a peribn fignihed by the houfe the interpofing planet is lord of. If the
interpohng planet be lord of the third, a kinfman of the querent's, or a
neighbour or brother, (hall break off the bufinefs; if he be lord of the
tenth or fourth houfes, the father or mother of the querent will obftruft
the marriaore intended : and fo of the other houfes.
o
Of Partnership, Law-Suits, War, &c.
The extent of this part will be better underftood by being digefted
into the following particulars:
1
.
Shall two Partners agree, and be fuccefsfttl in their Parinerjlilp ?
2. Shall the Querent or his Adverfary, overcome in a Law-Suit ?
3. Shall a Perfon return fafefrom War ?
4. Shall the City, Cafile, or ftrang Hold, bejieged, be taken f
No. 16. 4G \. Shall
.Vo AN ILLUSTRATION
I . Shall two Partners agree, and be fuccefsful in their Partnerjliipf
The lord of the afcendant and feventh, being friends according to na-
ture, and in reception or good afpecl with each other, declare the part-
ners fliall agree in their partnerfliip, and gain confiderably by their un-
dertaking, if they are enemies by nature, and void of good rays towards
one another, and in no reception, it is an argument that they will never
agree, but will be perpetually jangling, and injuring each other. If the
lord of the alcendant be a more weighty planet than the lord of the
leventh, and better dignified, it ftiows the querent will thrive befl: in the
partnerfhip; but, if the lord of the feventh be moll ponderous, the
quefited gains moft. Mars or Mercury lord of the fecond, afflidling the
lord of the eighth, (hows the querent will cheat his partner; but, if
either of them be lord of the eighth, and afflift the lord of the fecond,
the partner will cheat the querent, He, whofe fignificators are ftrongeft
and in good places of the heavens, will thrive befl: in the partnerfhip; but
he whole fignificators are weak and in evil places of the figure, will be
injured by the partnerfhip.
2. Shall the Querent, or his Adverjary, overcome in a Law-Suit ?
K \'. vfi;:!;rji:
If the lord of the afcendant be more potent than the lord of the fe-
venth, or the afcendant better fortified than the leventh houfe, either by
the good afpefts or the prelence of the fortunate planets, there is great
probability the querent will be fuccefsful in the fuit at law, and overcome
his adverfary. But, if the lord of the feventh be more powerful in dig-
nities than the lord of the afcendant, and the leventh houfe better guarded
by the prefence or rays of the fortunate flars than the afcendant, the ad-
verfary will overcome. If the lords of the afcendant and feventh he af-
flidled by the infortunes, neither party will fucceed, but both will be
injured, if they go on with the fuit. If they fhould both be adifted by
the fortunate planets, poffibly fome friend will make up the breach be-
tween them. Both fignificators in their effential dignities, and in angles,
fliow both perfons to be too high to hearken to a reconciliation. If they
apply friendly to each other, the matter will be taken up among them-
felves ; and he, whofe fignificator doth apply, will be the firft to make
overtures of friendlhip and peace.
3. Shall a Perfon return fafefrom a Cruize or Campaign?
The lord of the afcendant ftrong and potent, free from the evil beams
of the infortunes, is an argument of great fecurity to the querent, and
that he fhall return fafe from a cruize or campaign. If he be pofited with
a good planet, in, a propitious houfe, it (hows the fame. If the lord of
, i . the
OF ASTROLOGY. Jif
the afcendant be combuft or cadent, or in his peregrination, or if Mars
be weak in the figure of the queftion, the querent will gain no honour
or reputation in the war. If the lord of the afcendant be in afpe6l with
a good planet, and at the fame time the lord of the feventh be with an
evil one, he may return home again; but he will fufFer great prejudice
before his return. Saturn being in the firft, or with the lord of the firft,
piefages much lofs and damage to the querent by war. If Mars fhall be
with the lord of the firft, either by conjunftion, quartile, or oppofition,
and weak, and Saturn locally in the afcendant, the querent will be wound-,
ed. But, if Mars or the Dragon's Tail fhould ill-dignify the afcendant,'
the querent will be mortally wounded ; and, if the lord of the afcendant
and the Moon fufFer afflidion at the fame time, he will be killed on
the (pot.
4. Shall the City, Town, Caflle, orJlrong Hold, bcfteged, be taken f
The afcendant and lord thereof reprefent the beflegers, and the fourth
houfe the befieged; the lord of the fourth, the governor; the fifth aiid
its lord, the ammunition, fbldiery, and the afTiitance they either have
or may expect. If the lord of the afcendant be flrong and fortunate,'
and joined to the lord of the fourth in the afcendant, or with the Moon
or lord of the tenth houfe, in reception; it is an argument that the
befiegers fhall prove vi6torious. Or, if the lord of the fourth be in
houfes not beholding the fourth, or impeded of the infortunes, it is
an argument that the garrifon will be taken, and the governor thereof
fiabje(S to danger. If the unfortunate planets, or the Dragon's Tail,
happen to be in the fourth houfe, and the fortunate planets, interpofe
'
not their benevolent rays, it will be taken by treachery and bafenefs in a
fhort time. If the lord of the fourth commit his difpofition and virtue
to the lord of the afcendant, it fhows the governor has been tampered
with, and for a confideration will furrender the garrifon. But, if none
of thefe afpe6fs happen, and on the contrary the fourth houfe and its lord
fhall be fortunate, and free from all impediments, and the lord of the
fourth be in no reception with the lord of the firfl, the garrifon, &C.
'
then befieged, fliall be taken by the army that invefls it.
Of Thefts, Fugitives, Strays, &c.
1
.
Of Fugitives or Strays, jJiall they be found or not f
2 . Which Way are they gone, and to what Difiance ?
3. Things lo/l, if recoverable or not .^
4. IFho is the Thief? The Age and Sex of the Thief?
5. Are there more than one concerned?
6. Are they Strangers or Familiars ?
"
-
7. In IVhat TimeJhall the Thing flolen be recovered?.
We
311 AN ILLUSTRATION
We (hall now coufider thefe in their order, and To conclude the judg-
ments belonging to the feventh houfe.
1
.
Of Fugitives or Strays, JJiall they be found or not ?
The Moon and Mercury are naturally fignificators of fugitives and
ftrays: but the feventh and its lord are particularly fignificators thereof,
unlefs the thing ftrayed be a horfe, &c. If the lord of the feventh be
retrograde, the perfon abfconded (hall return again of his own accord,
before he goes far from the querent's houfe. The lord of the afcendant
or Moon in good afped with the lord of the feventh, and the lord of the
feventh in application, declares him to be returning home again. If the
feventh do not apply, the querent may find him by enquiry. But if the
fignificators behold each other by quartile or oppofition, or from no af-
pedl at all, it denotes the perfon will not return again. If the lord of the
feventh be in the third or ninth, it denotes the fame. If a horfe, ox, or
cow, be ftrayed, obferve the lord of the twelfth, and, if he be found re-
trograde, the flray will return of his own accord ; and obferve the fame
rules as above, only changing the lord of the houfe. If the Moon tranf-
fers the light of the lord of the fugitive or ftray to the lord of the afcen-
dant, it argues hopes of recovering them again. If fhe transfers Mer-
cury's light or virtue, it fignifies the fame. The Moon in good con-
figuration with Jupiter or Venus, or either of them cafting a good afpe<fl:
to the afcendant, or its lord, from good houfes of the figure, fhow hopes
of recovery. The lord of the feventh, either in the twelfth houfe of the
figure or combuft, denotes the perfon to be under bonds of reflraint,
perhaps in prifon; Mercury fo pofited argues the fame. When the pla-
net feparatcs from the houfe of the Moon, it fhows the fVray is taken into
cuftody, and driven away and Ibid ; and, if any planet be found to
feparate from the lord of the fecond, it (hows the fame. If the Moon,
or fignificator of the ftray, &c. apply to the lord of the eighth from his
afcendant, or be pofited in the eighth, it is dead. If the difpofitor of
the Moon, or fignificator of the beafi:, be pofited in the eighth houfe, ap-
plying to the quartile or oppofition of an infortune in the fourth, the
fame. The lord of the fixth or twelfth, pofited in the fixth or twelfth,
or in the ninth or tenth, argues the beaft ftrayed to be either in the pound
or in the cuftody of fome perfon. The lord of the feventh, or fixth,
fortunated by the good beams of Jupiter or Venus, in the fecond, fifth,
or eleventh, houfe, or the Sun cafting a trine unto them, denotes they
are likely to be found again.
2. Which Way are they gone ? and to what Difiance ?
The Moon, or fignificator of the fugitive or fl:ray, in the tenth houfe,
(hows they are goue foutb; in the feventh, weft; in the fourth, north;
in
OF ASTROLOGY. 313
in the afcendant, eaft. If the fignificator of the ftray be in watery figns,
they are northward, and in fome moift moorifh place. If in airy figns,
they are weftward, and in mountainous and high places. If in earthy
figns, they are fouthward, and in copfes or woods. If in fiery figns, they
are eaftward, and in the open fields. The Moon in the fame quarter with
the lord of the afcendant, and not more than one fign diftance between
them, fhows they are near the place from whence they went ; but, if they
are diflant above ninety degrees, then they are gone far from the querent.
If the Moon be diftant from the fignificator of the fugitive or ftrav, either
by body or afpe6t, only one degree in a moveable fign, they are diftant
above feventeen furlongs from the owner; if in common or fixed figns,
ftill lefs ; fo that the diftance is to be apportioned according to the number
of desrrees the Moon and fifirnificator are from each other.
O O
3. Of Things lojiy ifrecoverable or notf
Fortunate planets in fexile or trine to the lords of the afeendant or
fecond houfe, and the difpofitor of the Part of Fortune pofited in the afcen-
dant or fecond houfe, declare a recovery of the goods loft. Either of the
fortunes in the afcendant, having dignities in the fecond houfe, or the
Moon in the feventh, in Textile or trine to the lord of the afcendant, are
very certain arguments of recovering the thing or things loft. The Moon
in the tenth, in trine to a planet in the fecond ; or in the fecond, in trine
to the lord of the fecond ; the difpofitor of the Part of Fortune or the lord
of the afcendant in the fecond ; the luminaries in trine to each other, or
in trine to the cufp of the fecond houfe ; or the lord of the fecond in the
eleventh or fourth houfes ; are all arguments of recovery. The lord of
the eighth in the afcendant, or with the lord of the afcendant, denotes a
recovery of the goods loft ; atid Jupiter, Venus, or the Dragon's Head,
in the eleventh houfe, give great hopes of the fame. The Moon, the
Part of Fortune, or its difpofitor, or the lord of the fecond, in the eighth
houfe are great arguments that the goods loft cannot be recovered.
When both luminaries are under the earth, the thing loft is hard to be
recovered ; and, if the fecond houfe or its lord be any way afflicted, it
denotes the fame. But the greateft arguments of irrecovery are the pofi-
tions of Saturn, Mars, or the Dragon's Tail, out of their eflential digni-
ties, in the fecond houfe ; or the lord of the fecond in combuftion, or
in the eighth houfe; or the lord of the fecond in quartile or oppofition
with the lord of the eighth. If the lord of the feventh be in coiijun6lion
with the lord of the eighth ; or if the lord of the fecond behold not the
firft houfe, or lord thereof; or the Sun and Moon not afpeding each
other, nor the Part of Fortune ; or if they are both under the earth ; there
can be no reftitution of the goods loft.
No. z6. 4H "+. Pf^ha
314 AN ILLUSTRATION
4. Who is the Thief?—the Age and Sex of the Thief?
A peregrine planet in an angle is to be taken for the fignihcator of
the thief; particularly if the peregrine planet hath dignities in the fe-
venth houfe, or is lord thereof; or afHi6ts the houfc of fubftance, or its
lord; or the Part of P'ortune, or its lord. But, if no planet malicioufly
afpcds the aforelaid fjgnificators, then admit the lord of the feventh to fig-
nify the thief, becaule he hath natural fignification of thieves. Or, if the
planet affli61ing the lubflance, or Part of Fortune, or their lords, be
peregrine, or elTentially dignified, he will fjgnify the thief. —If the planet
afflifting the lubftance, &:c. be malculine, and in a mafculine (ign and
quarter, it denotes the thief to be a man; if the planet be feminine,
and in feminine parts of the figure, it denotes the thief is feminine, or a
woman. Saturn fignihcator of the thief fhows him to be old, except in
the beginning of figns ; the Sun, Mars, and Jupiter, about thirty or fome-
what more ; Venus and Mercury youthful ; the Moon according to her
age : in the firfl: quarter fhe fignifies young ; in her fecond, between
twenty and thirty ; in her third, between thirty and forty-five ; in her
fourth, between forty-five and fixty.
5. Are there more concerned in the Theft than one ?
Many planets affli6ling the fignificators of fubftance, whether pere-
grine or not, (how many thieves, or more thieves than one. If the
fignificator of the thief be in Textile or trine with other planets, and in
double-bodied figns, there are more thieves than one, although but one
be found to afflift the fignificators of fubftance. The angles of the figure
fixed, and the fignificator of the thief fixed, in no afpeft with any planet,
except the lord of the fubftance, or the difpofer of the Part of Fortune
whom he afflidts, denote that only one perfon is concerned in the theft or
robbery.
6. Is the Theft committed by Strangers or Familiars?
The luminaries beholding the afcendant, or its lord, or the lord of the
firft in the firft, in conjundion with the lord of the feventh, denote the
thief to be a familiar, or one well known to the lofer. When the lumi-
naries are in their proper houfes, or in the houfes of the lord of the afcen-
dant, or in the triplicity of the lord of the afcendant, they denote the
thief well known to the querent or lofer. The fignificator of the thief
ftrong in the afcendant, denotes a brother or kinfman, particularly if he
chance to be lord of the third ; if the lord of the feventh be in the fe-
venth, he is one of the family. The lord of the afcendant in the third
or
OF ASTROLOGY. 3r5
or fourth houfe, denotes the thief to be a fervant in the family. The
fisfnificator of the thief in the third or ninth from his own houfe, fhows
the thief to be a flranger; and, if the lord of the afcendant and the fe-
venth, or fignificator of the thief, be not of one triplicity, it denotes the
fame. Mars or Mercury, fignificator of the thief, prefage him to be a
common pilferer, unlefs they govern a houfe of relation ; which if they
do, they then point out who it is. If the thief be a domeftic, he is known
thus : The Sun fignifies a father or mafter ; the Moon, a mother or mif-
trefs: Venus, a wife or a woman ; Saturn, a fervant, or a ftranger com-
ing there by chance; Mars a fon, brother, or kinfman ; Mercury, a youth
familiar, or friend.
7. In what Timefliall the Thing flolen be recovered?
If teftimonies of recovery appear in the figure, the time may be known
thus: Obferve the application of the two planets fignifying recovery,
and confider the degrees of diftance between their body and afpe6t, and
turn the diftance into time. If they happen to be in moveable figns,
then allow as many weeks or days as there are degrees of diftance for the
fpace of time in which it may be recovered ; if in common figns, allow
months or weeks; if in fixed figns, years or months. When the Sun'
and Moon together behold the afcendant, the thing loft will fpeedily be
recovered; for they fufFer nothing to lie long hid or obfcured; and, if at
the fame time the lord of the fecond be in the afcendant, it will be had
again very fpeedily. The fignificators increafing in light and motion,
and pofited in fortunate places of the figure, prefage a fudden recovery
of the goods loft or miffinsr.
JUDGMENTS proper to the EIGHTH HOUSE.
This is called the Houfe of Death, becaufe we enquire from it con-
cerning Death, and of the manner of it. It has alfo fignification of the
dowry of a wife, being the fecond houfe from the eighth. The queftions
proper to it are thefe :
1
.
Of the Time of the Death of the Querent ?
2. What manner of Death jjiall he die f
3. Shall the Querent obtain the Wife's Portion f
4. Shall the Querent or his Wife die firfi f
And each of thefe {hall be treated of particularly in a feparatc and dif-
tin6t fe6lion.
I. Of
3i6 AN ILLUSTRATION
I . Of the Time of the Death of the Querent f
To aDhver this queftion, let the lord of the afcendant, the afcendant
itCelf, and the Moon, fignify the querent ; the eighth houle, lord there-
of, and the part of death, together with the planet or planets in the
eighth, fignify the death of the querent. If the lord of the afcendant
and the Moon be free from the beams of the infortunes ; or if no infor-
tune, nor the Dragon's Tail, be pollted in the afcendant ; they argue no
danger to the querent, but (how him to be of a long life. If the faid
fignificators, or either of them, be in conjun6tion or good afpeff of the
fortunes, or the fortunes pofited in the afcendant, and the part of life
free ; they pre(age the querent, according to nature, may live to a con-
fiderable age. Thus, finding all the fignificators free, the querent will
live as many years as there are degrees between the conjunftion, quartile,
oroppofition, of the lord of the eighth houfe and the lord of the afcendant.
Or, if, before the lord of the afcendant receives his affliftion from the
lord of the eighth, he happens to be combull: of the Sun in the fourth,
eighth, twelfth, or fixth, houfes, the degrees of diftance between the Sun
and the fignificator will (how the years the querent may live, before he
jfhall conclude this life. But, if the fignificators be afflifted, either by the
infortunes, or by the lords of the fourth, fixth, eighth, or twelfth, houfes,
the querent's life will be of no very long continuance. In the meafure of
time, allow for degrees of diftance, &c. in moveable figns, weeks; iti
common figns, months ; and in fixed figus, years ; which will fliow the
length, according to natural caufes, of the querent's life. When queftions
of this nature are propounded, draw the figure into a fpeculum, and direct
the fignificators as in a nativity, and when the afcendant or Hyleg fhall
come to any malicious dire£lion, according to the folar meafure of time,
adjudge the perfon enquiring may be cut off from the land of the living.
But this is only to be done when the nativity of a perfon is not be had;
for no abfolute confidence can be placed in predi6tions that relate to death,
but fuch as are grounded upon the genethliacal figure of birth, for reafons
that will hereafter be given.
2. What Manner of Death JJiall the Querent die?
Either the lord of the eighth or planets pofited in the eighth (how the
kind of death the querent fhall be fubjeft to, reference being had to the
planets beholding him or them. If the fignificator be Jupiter or Venus,
in their elTential dignities, they portend a gentle death to the querent,
except violent fixed (lars be near them. If Saturn be fignificator, he de-
notes death by fome fevere ague, dropfy, or confumption; Mars, by fe-
vers or wounds ; the Sun, by pleurifies, or by fome obflrudion of the
vitals
;
OF ASTROLOGY. 317
vitals; Mercury, by the phthylic, frenzy, madnefs, lethargy, &c. and the
Moon by drowning, or by difeafes proceeding from cold and moifture.
3. Shall the Querent obtain his IVifs's Portion ?
Every querent is fignified by the alcendant, and the fecond houfe fig-r
nifies his fubftance ; the quefited is fignified by the feventh houfe, and
the eighth houfe hath fignification of his fubflance in this queftion.
—
The lord of the eighth in the eighth, no way impeded or afflided by the
unfortunate planets, declares the querent will have a good eftate with
his wife, and take pofTelTion of it without trouble. Jupiter, or Venus,
or the Dragon's Head, pofited in the eighth houfe, or on the cufp of the
eighth, in the terms of the fortunes, the lord of the eighth being no wav
impeded, argues the querent fhall have his wife's portion without ariv
manner of trouble. The Part of Fortune in the eighth houfe, in the
dignities of Jupiter or Venus, and they caOing their fextilc or trine af-
ped^s thither, argues not only that the querent fhall have the dowry of
his wifej^but alfo (hows it to be confiderable. If there happens a friendly
afpe61 between the lord of the fecond and eighth, with reception ; or if
the lord of the eighth be in the fecond, or the lord of the fecond in the
eighth ; they denote the querent will obtain his wife's dowry without
ditficulty. But, if there be a quartile or oppofition between the fignifi-
cators, and no reception or tranflation of light ; or if the lord of the eighth
be combuft or retrograde ; the querent will not obtain the portion of his
wife without great trouble and difficulty. If Saturn or Mars be in the
eighth, and peregrine, very little of the wife's portion will be obtained ;
and, if any, there v/ill be great and violent contention about it : the Dra-
gon's Tail in the eighth portends the fame. If a woman enquires concern-
ing the eftate of a man (he experts to marry, thefe rules will ferve fuffici-
ently ; for the afcendant reprefents the woman, if a woman enquires ; and
the feventh houfe mufb then be for the man, and the eighth for his eftate.
*4. Shall the Man or his JViJe die firft
f
In this queftion particularly note the lord of the afceedant, and the
lord of the feventh ; and obferve which of them goes to conjundlion, quar-
tile, or oppofition, of the lord of the eighth houfe, or to combuftion of
tjie Sun, or to afpefts of the unfortunate planets, and thence judge. If
it be the lord of the afcendant that firll: fufFers that afflidlion, the man,
if a man be querent, (hall die £r(l ; if the lord of the feventh o-oes firft
tothofe afflictions, the woman will die firft. But it is always to be ob-
ferved, that the (Ignificator which is ftrongeft and mod: powerful in the
figure, denotes the party reprefented by him fhall live the longeft. This
queftion, however, fhould never be decided but by ini'pedion of the na-
tivity of each of the parties, properly redified and duly confidered.
No. i6. 4 I JUDG-
3i8
*
AN ILLUSTRATION
JUDGMENTS proper to the NINTH HOUSE.
We judge of voyages at fea, their profperity or infelicity, of fciencc,
Sec. and of perfons and things religious, by the ninth houfe ; and thefe
queftions are the rnofl: common unto it ;
1. S/ia// the Voyage be prof
perous or not ?
2. fVi// it be long or JJiort ?
3. May the Querent profit by the Science intended?
4. Shall a Clergyman obtain the Benefice he enquires after ?
Thefe queftions properly explained and refolved will give fufficient
light to enable the reader to refolve any others of the like nature and
import proper to this houfe.
I . Shall the Voyage be profperous or not ?
When the ninth houfe or its lord fhall be unfortunately afpeded, it
denotes many hazards and dangers to attend the voyage. If Saturn be
the affliding planet, the perfon enquiring will be fubje6t to ficknefs
and lofs of goods ; but, if Mars or the Dragon's Tail atfli6t either the
ninth houfe or its lord, they declare danger by enemies or pirates. If
the ninth houfe or its lord be fortunate and flronp-, much good and
great fuccefs are promifed to the querent in the voyage, and that he ftiall
make a happy and fafe return. The lord of the afcendant and lord of
the ninth in conjundion, fextile, or trine, with each other, particularly
if there be any reception between them, or pofition in each other's
houfes, argues an admirable voyage, and a propitious and fafe return ;
but, if they be in quartile or oppofition, void of all reception, or if
there happen no good tranflation between them, the querent will have
an inauipicious voyage, and, before he returns home again, will have
reafon to wifh he had let it alone. If the lord of the afcendant or the
Moon be in conjunftion with a fortunate planet in the tenth houfe,
that being the fecond from the ninth, the querent (hall gain great flore
of wealth by the voyage he undertakes, and enjoy remarkable health of
body. But if the lord of the afcendant or the Moon be in abjed
places of the figure, or with the lords of abjedl houfes, or in quartile or
oppofition to them, either peregrine or combufl of the Sun, the perfon
will fall fjck in the journey, and the voyage will be unfortunate to him ;
and, if they be with violent fixed flars of the firft magnitude, it will be
worfe.
%. Will
OF ASTROLOGY. 319
2. TVill the Foyage he long or Jhort ?
The figiiificators of the perfon enquiring, and of the voyage, fvvift in
motion, oriental, and in moveable figns, denote the voyage to be fhort
and quick ; but, if occidental, they fhovv fome obftrudions. When
the lord of the afcendant applies to the lord of the ninth, or the lord of
the ninth to the lord of the afcendant ; or if a fortunate planet transfers
the light of the one to that of the other ; they are good arguments of a
fafe return, and a (hort and fpeedy voyage. The lord of the ninth in
fixed figns, and the lord of the afcendant and Moon in fixed figns, denote
a very long voyage to the querent ; if in common figns, the voyage will
be indifferently good ; if in moveable figns, he returns fpeedily. If the
lord of the afcendant be 'retrograde, or if either he or the Moon apply to
a planet that is retrograde, it fignifies the perfon that goes the voyage
will return home in a fhort time, or perhaps before he goes to the place
intended.
3. May the Querent projit by the Science intended?
Give the afcendant, its lord, and the Moon, to fignify the querent;
the ninth houfe, the lord thereof, and the planet pofited therein, to fig-
nify the fcience enquired after ; and, according to their pofitions and
configurations, judge of the queftion. The lord of the afcendant and
lord of the ninth in conjundion, or in Textile or trine unto each other
either in or from angles or fuccedent houfes, give great hopes to the
querent that he fhall gain or profit by the art or fcience he intends to
follow. If fortunate planets pofTefs the afcendant or ninth houfe, and
thence fliall friendly behold either the cufps of each houfe or the lord of
them, it is an argument that the querent will profit by the art or fcience
intended. If the Moon be pofited in the ninth, in fextile to the lord
of the afcendant or ninth houfe in the eleventh, particularly if a recep-
tion happen, there is no doubt but the querent will gain by the fcience
intended, and prove a good artifl: therein ; but if none of thefe things
appear in the figure, but on the contrary there happens a quartile or oppo-
fition between the fignificators, the party enquiring will not profit by the
art or fcience intended. When the unfortunate planets or Dragon's Tail
are pofited in the afcendant or ninth houfe, or afili6t their lords, or the
Moon; or if an unfortunate planet happens to be lord of the ninth, and
pofited in an evil place of the figure ; the perfon enquiring will not gain
much by the fcience..
4. Shall
320 AN ILLUSTRATION
4. Shall a Clergyman obtain the Benefice he enquires after ?
Give the afcendant and its lord, and the Moon, to fignify the clergy-
man ; and let the ninth l^oufe fignify the living, or other ecclefiaflical
preferment fought after. The lord of the afcendant or Moon, joined to
the lord of the ninth by body or good alpeft, gives great hopes that the
minifler or querent may obtain the benefice defired. If the Moon or
lord of the afcendant be in the ninth, or lord of the ninth in the afcendant,
or in reception with each other, they are very good arguments that the
querent or minifter, fhall obtain the parfonage or church-preferment de-
fired.* When the lord of the afcendant, or Moon, is joined to the Sun
or Jupiter; or in fextile or trine of either of them, in the afcendant or
ninth houfe ; it denotes that the querent will obtain the benefice enquired
after. If the principal fignificators be in fextile or trine with reception,
the preferment or benefice comes with little trouble ; if they be in quartile
and at the fame time in reception, the benefice may be obtained, but it
will be with great trouble and delay. The bufinefs may alfo be brought
to pafs by tranflation of light ; for, if a planet feparatcs immediately from
the good afpe6t of the lord of the ninth, and applies to the lord of the af-
cendant; or if he fepartites from the lord of the afcendant, and apphes to
the lord of the ninth ; the benefice or preferment will be obtained, and by
the means of a perfon fignified by the planet that thus transfers the light
of the fignificators to each other.—But, if none of thefe teffimonies hap-
pen, it will be a very difficult matter to obtain the benefice defired. The
lord of the afcendant retrograde, combuff, or cadent, and he or the Moon in
quartile or oppofition of the iiifortunes, or of the lord of the ninth houfe,
without reception, declares the deftruffion of the matter enquired after,
and fhows that it fliall come to nothing. Infortunes in the ninth or in
the afcendant, or affliding the lord of the afcendant, or ninth houfe, or
the Moon, (how much trouble and vexation to the perfon enquiring after
the benefice, and an impoflibility of obtaining the bufinefs af laft. Ob-
f^rye that planet which cafls a quartile or oppofition either to the lord of
the afcendant or Moon, and take notice of the houfe he is lord of; for by
that means may be difcovered what or who will be the occafion of pre-
venting the bufinefs from taking place. The affliding planet, being lord
of the third, denotes a neighbour to be the impeditor of the thing ; if of
the eleventh, fome pretended friend; if of the tenth, the patron hath no
good opinion of him ; if of the feventh, or fifth, he is confidered a conten-
tious and improper perfon. Fortunate planets in fortunate places of the
figure, befriending the fignificators, give hopes of the bufinefs enquired
after; but, if malefic planets, in unfortunate places of the figure, affli6l
the fignificators of the bufinefs, it will never come to any thing.
JUDG-
OF ASTROLOGY. 321
JUDGMENTS proper to the TENTH HOUSE.
The honour, office, dignity, and profeffion, of each querent, are known
from the tenth houfe ; and thefe interrogations are common to it
:
1. Shall the Querent obtain the Office or Dignity dejired?
2. Shall he remain in the Emplomnent he pojfejfes. f
3. IVhat ProfeJJion will be the beji for any one to follow ?
Thefe queft ons properly anfwered will inftrudl the ingenious reader
how to judge of any other of the like nature.
I . Shall the Querent obtain the Office or Dignity defred?
Still remember to give the afcendant, its lord, and the Moon, to fignify
the querent, let him be a perfon either of high or low condition ; and the
tenth houfe and the lord thereof, and the Sun, becaufe he is the natural
fignificator of honour and dignity, to reprefent the office, honour, or
dignity, enquired after. If the lord of the afcendant or Moon be joined
to the Sun, or to the lord of the tenth, or if they behold the tenth by a
Textile or trine, the querent fhall obtain the dignity fought after, by his
induftry, and by the means he intends to ufe. If the lord of the afcen-
dant or the Moon be in the tenth, or the lord of the tenth or the Sun be
pofited in the afcendant, and neither of them impeded, the querent ftiall
obtain t*he honour or office he feeks after. The fignificators in fextile
or trine to each other, or a fortunate planet tranflating the friendly beams
of one to the other, give afTured hopes of fuccefs to the querent. For-
tunate planets in the tenth, or in conjundlion, fextile, or trine, of the
lord of the tenth, having dignities in the afcendant, declare the querent
will obtain the office or dignity defired. If Saturn or Mars be ftrong in
the afcendant, and joined to the lord of the tenth, either by body or good
afped, it prefages hopes of the preferment fought after, and that it
will be gained, although with much trouble. A fortunate planet tranf-
ferring the light of the lord of the tenth to the lord of the afcendant,
denotes the querent will obtain the dignity or honour fought after, by
the means of the perfon reprefented by that planet who thus transfers the
light of the lord of the tenth. If the Sun's light be fo transferred, it
portends the fame. But, if none of the aforefaid configurations, re-
ceptions, or tranflations, happen among the fignificators, the honour and
preferment fought after by the querent will not be obtained ; although
he may have the greateli promifes, and the mofl: probable hopes that
can poflibly be conceived.
No. 17. 4 K 2. Shall
312 AN ILLUSTRATION
2. Shall a Per/on remain in the Employment lie pojfejfes ?
When a perfon is in an employment, truft, or office, and is jealous of
being turned out of the fame, obferve whether the lord of the afcendant
or Moon, and the lord of the tenth, are going to conjundiion, or to any
friendly afped;, as a Textile or trine ; or if there be any reception between
the two chief fignificators : for, if fo, the querent (hall hold and keep the
employment he pofTefTes. If the lord of the afcendant be in Textile or
trine to either of the two fortunes in the tenth houfe, and no affii6lion
happen from the infortunes, the querent will long enjoy the place he
pofTefles. The lord of the afcendant in the tenth, or lord of the tenth
in the afcendant, denotes the fame. But, if the lord of the afcendant or
the Moon be in quartile or oppofition with any planets, and the fame
planets in conjundion, fextile, or trine, with the lord of the tenth, or the
Sun, the querent will lofe the employment he poflefTes ; and fuch per-
fons as are fignified by the planets in conjun6iion, fextile, or trine, with
the lord of the tenth, or the Sun, are endeavouring to prejudice him in
the bufinefs. The lord of the afcendant retrograde, and combuft of the
Sun, (hows the querent to have incurred the difpleafure of thofe that
have power over him, and that they will therefore take away the office
or employment he holds. If the Moon or lord of the afcendant be in
quartile or oppofition with the lord of the tenth or the Sun without re-
ception, it portends the querent to be in danger of lofing the office or
employment he holds or pofTefTes. The lord of the afcendant or the
Moon Teparating from the lord of the tenth or the Sun, declares the
querent in danger of lofing the office or employment he holds ; particu-
larly if from their feparation they apply to the malicious afpeds of the
infortunes.
3. What Profejffion •will be heft for the Querent to follow.
This queflion is only fit to be propounded by mechanics, and not by
thofe who live and move in a higher fphere ; and, when a proper perfon
propounds the queflion, he may be anfwered according to the following
rules. Confider the lord of the afcendant, and the Moon, for the perfon
enquiring ; and the lord of the tenth houfe, and the planets Mars and
Venus, for the trade and profeflion of the querent ; and obferve the afpedls
between the fignificators according to the figns they are pofited in, and fo
judge of the profeiTion of the querent. If the fignificators, or the greater
part of them, happen to be in fiery figns, the querent will do well in any
profeflion that relates thereunto, according to his capacity of birth ; as
a phyfician, chemifl, furgeon, goldfmith, filverfmith, jeweller, or apo-
thecary ; or, if of a meaner condition, he may make a good cutler, fmith,
baker, glafs-maker, or the like. The fignificators in aereal figns, ac-
cording
k
OF ASTROLOGY. 323
cording to the birth of the querent, denote he will make a good lawyer,
arithmetician, accomptant, furveyor, fcrivener, clerk, aftronomer, &c.
otherwife a good haberdafher, milliner, painter, draper, or one that
may deal in retail commodities. But, if the fignihcators be in earthy
figns, the querent may make a good farmer or hufbandman, gardener,
grazier, coach-maker, joiner, carpenter, &c. The fignificators of trade
or profeffion, in watery figns, denote the querent to do well in
brewing, malting, or in felling wines and fpiriluous liquors. When
the lord of the afcendant is in Textile or trine to either of the fignificators
of trade, and they are polited m angles or other good houfes of the figure,
the querent may do very well in the trade or profefTion he follows. Jf
the Moon be in the like good configurations with any of them, it portends
the fame. But, if the fignificators of trade be affliitqd in cadent places
ef the figure, and the lord of the afcendant or the Moon in quartile or
oppofition to them, thfi.quereiit.wili^not.tiirive ,by. the. trade pr.prefdJion
he is about to follow. ii/idii si f^voi.; iliw jn-^irifp sdi^o gh'-'?ii> o.nJ .co^
Ql noi)
JUDGMENTS proper to the ELEVENTH 'HOUSE.
This houfe gives judgment relative'--to the fri^/jds" of each querent,
their bafenefs or fidelity^ and of his. hopes, &c. The queftions that are
moft cotiimon1toitar&the(e: - .- c.qo.. (....a ,
li Shcfll the Friends of the Querent proi^efaithful to him?
%. Shall 'the Querent obtain what he anxioufly defres ?
AlVbthie'r tnings''DarticuiarJy''yeIiVirig^i:b!^^^^'i^^ are comprehended
under thefe two.
lU
(ii
I , Shall the Friends of the Querent provefaithful to him ?
The afcendant and its lord reprefent the querent, and the eleventh
houfe and its lord the friends of ttie querent. Now, if any benevolent
afpefl: is found between the lords of the afcendant and the eleventh houfe,
or any friendly reception or tranl]ation of light between them, the friend
of the querent is not to be fufpe<51ed, but he will prove faithful. If
the Moon be ii} friendly afped to the lord of the eleventh, or there
happens any good tranfiation of light or reception between them in
good places of the figure, the friend proves juft and faithful. The dif-
pofitor of the part of friends, in conjundion, fextile, or trine, or in good
reception with the lord of the afcendant in good houfes, and configurated
with f^ars of a benevolent nature, argues the querent's friends to be juft
and faithful to him. The lord of the afcendant or the Moon in the
eleventh houfe, and the lord of the eleventh in the afcendant, fliow a
reciprocal
324 AN ILLUSTRATION
reciprocal afFe6lion between the querent and his friends. If either of the
fortunes caft their friendly beams to them both at the fame time, it ar-
gues the fame. On the contrary, if the lord of the afcendant or the Moon
be in quartile or oppofition of the infortunes in the eleventh, or of the
lord of the eleventh, the friends of the querent are not faithful to him. If
there be no reception between them, this judgment is the more certain.
The Dragon's Tail affli6ling the eleventh houfe, or the lord thereof, fhows
the friends of the querent to be very deceitful, let them pretend ever fo
fair. The fame if the lord of the eleventh be near violent fixed ftars,
as Caput Algol, Oculus Taurus, Serpentarius, the Chzele, &c. If the
iignificators of the querent and his friends be in quartile or oppofition
from fixed figns, and in angles, it declares the friends, or at leaft fuch as
pretend to be fo, faithlefs ; and that perpetually. If the natural fignifi-
cators of friendship, which are Jupiter and Venus, be pofited in the af-
cendant, or cafl: a friendly afped thereto, or to the lord thereof, or the
Moon, the friends of the querent will piove faithful. But, if they caft a
quartile or oppofition to the Moon, or lord of the afcendant, or to the af-
cendant itfelf, it admoiiifhes the querent to beware of pretended friends.
2. Shall the Querent obtain what he hopes for or dejires ?
When a perfon hath hoj?es of a thing, and is unwilling to declare what
it is, yet would wifh to be refolved what the efFedl may be, and accord-
ingly propounds the above queflion, the afcendant and its lord are to fig-
nify him, and the eleventh houfe and its lord, with the fortunate planets
therein, are to fignify the matter or thing defired. If the fignificators
are in reception, or in good afpe,£l with each other, the bufinefs or matter
hoped for is poflible to be obtained ; or, if there be any good tranflation
of light or reception in houfes, it argues the fame thing. If the lord of
the afcendant and lord of the eleventh receive each other in angles, or
(hall be received of the fortunate planet in angles or in fuccedcnt houfes,
the thing that the querent hopes for fhall be accompliflied. Either the
lord of the afcendant or the Aloon received in fixed figns, (how the que-
rent fliall obtain the bufinefs that he hopes for, and that completely; if
in moveable figns, he will obtain very little or nothing of what he hopes
for ; and, if in bicorporal figns, he will have only a part of what he de-
fires to obtain. But if, on the contrary, the fignificators are in quartile
or oppofition, and void of all manner of reception, having no good
tranflation of light ; or if they be combuft, cadent, peregrine, or retro-
grade, or with fixed ftars of an evil influence ; the matter defired will not
be brought to perfeftion. But, if the querent in propounding the quef-
tion tells the particular thing he hopes to attain, then the fignificators
thereof muft be taken from their proper place, and the rules varied as
the fubje6l may require^
JUDG-
OF ASTROLOGY. 325
JUDGMENTS proper to the TWELFTH HOUSE.
By this houfe we judge of private enemies, captivity, and imprifon-
ment ; and the queftions belonging to it are,
1
.
Hath the Querent private Enemies ?
2
.
JVho are they, or how may he knoiv them ^
3. Of a Prif
oner or Captive, ijojien may he befreed?
Thefe queftions being refolved, will enable the reader to anfwer any
others of a fiaiilar fhape and tendency.
I . Hath the Quere?it private Enemies ?
If this queftion is indifferently propofed, obferve what aipeft there
is between the lord of the afcendant and twelfth houfe, and from what
houfe of heaven it happens ; and ^o judge of the querent's private enemies.
If the afped be by quartile or oppofition, and out of malignant houles of
the figure, the querent hath private enemies; and if the lord of the twelfth
be a fuperior planet, as Saturn, Jupiter, or Mars, and any way dignified,
the enemies are the more to be feared; but, if they are inferiors, they are
not fo dangerous; the more powerful the fignificators of the enemies are,
the more injury will the querent fuftain by them; the lefs powerful, the
lefs evil and mifchief will thev be able to do him. If the lord of anv other
houfe befides the twelfth be in quartile or oppofition to the lord of the
afcendant or the Moon, or to the afcendant itlelf, from obfcure places of
the figure, the querent hath private enemies. But if the afcet;dant, and
the lord thereof, and the Moon, be void of the evil afpeds of any planet
or planets, and are befriended by the good rays of the fortunes, and the
lord of the afcendant and the Moon in fortunate places of the figure, they
denote the querent hath no private enemies.
2. M'^ho are his private Enemies, and how may he know them f
To refolve this queftion truly, obferve the pofitions of the lords of the
afcendant and twelfth houfe; for if the lord of the twelfth affiidl the
lord of the afcendant, or the afcendant from the third houfe, the lord of
the third affixing, the querent's greateft private enemies are thofe that live
near him, or are nearly related to him; that is to fay, either a brother,
kinfman, or neighbour. The perfon is to be defcribed by the planet af-
flicting, and the fign in which he is pofited. U the lord of the twelfth
afflift the afcendant or his lord from the fourth houfe, the father of the
querent is his enemy; if in the fifth, his children, or fome occafional
No. 17. 4 L vifitor
326 AN ILLUSTRATION
vifitor will prove his private enemy; if in the fixth houfe, his fervants,
or an uncle ; if in the ferenth houfe, his wife or partner (hall prove fe-
cretly mifchievous to him. The perfon or perfons fignified by that houfe
where the Dragon's Tail is pofited, will be malicious and prejudicial to
the querent; particularly if the lord thereof affli6t the lord of the afcen-
dant, the afcendant itfelf, or the Moon, at the fame time.
3. Of a Prifoner or Captive, when Jliall he befet at Liberty ?
The lord of the afcendant or Moon, fwift in motion, denotes freedom
from imprifonment in a fhort time; if either of them commit their vir-
tues or difpofitions to any planet or planets in the third or ninth houfe, or
to the lords of them, not being pofited in angles, it argues a releafe from
imprifonment in a fhort time. If the lord of the afcendant or the Moon
be more potent in the figure.than the lord of the twelfth, or be feparating
from the ill afpedts of the lord of the twelfth, or the difpofitor of the part
of imprilonment, particularly in moveable figns, and thence immediately
applying to the friendly beams of the fortunate planets Jupiter or Venus;
the prifoner or captive cannot remain long in the pril'on where he is, but
will be relealed. The lord of the afcendant or the Moon in the fourth,
fixth, eighth, or twelfth, houfes, or under the Sun-beams, or retrograde,
or unhappily afflifted of Saturn or Mars, Ihows the perfon under re-
ftraint will not be releafed from confinement for a long time; and, if
the infortune happens to be lord of the eighth, he will die in prifon. If
the lord of the afcendant or the Moon Teparate from the lord of the
fourth, and immediately apply to Jupiter or Venus; or if the lord of the
fourth feparate from the lord of the afcendant; they argue good hopes
that the captive or prilbner (hall not continue long in prifon. A fixed
fign afcending at the time of the queftion, and the lord thereof a ponder-
ous planet, and in an angle, portends a tedious time of imprifonment.
If common (igns, the afflidion will not be fo long; if moveable, it
will be verv fhort; if the lord of the afcendant be cadent from his
houfe of exaltation, and the Moon happen to be in Scorpio or Aqua-
rius, it prelages long imprifonment. If the lord of the hour in which
the prifoner was taken, be an unfortunate planet, and unfortunately
placed in the heavens, it declares a tedious imprifonment, and very
long captivity; but, if he be a fortune, the imprifonment cannot be
long. The only way to difcover the length of time in which a prifoner
or captive (hall be releafed, is, by obferving the degrees of diftance
between the fignificators and the fortunate planets, or the Sun ; and ac-
cording to the figns they (hall be found in, whether fixed, common, or
moveable, meafure the days, weeks, months, or years, of the prifoner's
captivity, as heretofore direded.
Having
OF ASTROLOGY. 327
Having thus given rules and diredions how to folve any kind of quef-
tion proper to each of the twelve houfes, I fliall next proceed to illuf-
trate thele rules further, by giving examples of a variety of true and re-
cent queflions which I have refolved for different perfons, moft of whom
are now living, and ready to confirm any fa6f that may be difputed by
the incredulous reader. I fhall begin with fuch as properly belong to the
firft houfe, and fo pafs on regularly to the others, and give an example or
two from each of them.
QUESTION I. On the LENGTH of LIFE.
A gentleman of eminence and fortune in his majefty's navy, having an
inclination to lay out a fum of money on life-annuities, applied to me
with a very prefling folicitation to inform him whether his life would be
long or fhort, that he might thereby determine whether fuch a purchafe
would be to his advantage. Not being able to procure his nativity, I
took down the time of the day when the queftion was propofed, and,
having redified it by a correft regulator, 1 immediately projected the
following fcheme.
M^
328 AN ILLUSTRATION
My firfl: bufinefs was to examine the figure, to find whether it were
radical, and fit to be adjudged ; which 1 found to be the cale, becaule
the lord of the afcendant and the lord of the hour are of one nature and
triplicit) ; and the lignificator of the querent exadtly delcribed his perlbn,
which is of a middle ftature, fanguine complexion, and of an acute un-
derftanding, denoted by Mercury's pofition in the fign Aries, the houfe
of Mars, The Moon being in oppofition to the Sun, fhows him to have
a mark or fear near the left eye ; which was alfo true. And therefore, as
I found all circumflances to concur in proving the queftion to be well
and fcrioDlly grounded, and free from all impofition, I gave him my
judgment upon the figure as follows.
The princely fign Leo, the querent's fignificator, occupies the afcen-
dant; and the Sun, the lord thereof, and giver of life, is pofited near
his meridian altitude in the medium coeli, and in the fign Aries, his
houfe of exaltation, flrong, powerful, and in full dignity, free from the
evil rays of the lord of the fixth, eighth, fourth, or fecond, houfes,
which neither impedite the Sun nor the alcendant with any evil afpecfl.
But the Moon, lady of the twelfth, is in oppofition to the Sun, making
at the fame time a quartile mundane afpedl: with the afcendant, and a lex-
tile alpect with Saturn in the zodiac; from which pofitions I inferred the
following particulars.
The affli6fion of the lord of the afcendant, by oppofition of the
Moon in Libra, the houfe of Venus, and Venus difpofitor of the Moon
in her own houfe, and in the feminine fign Taurus, going to a femifex-
tile with the Sun, denotes that he will receive fome confiderable injury
from a female connexion, now exifling under the fpecious pretence of
friendfhip and fond attachment; and this is declared by the Moon being
lady of the twelfth, the houfe of private enemies, which difpofes of the
part of fortune, and thereby indicates that he will lofe fome part of his
fortune by her means.
The Moon's mundane quartile afpedl to the afcendant, in an airy fign,
declares that he will be attacked with a fevere fit of the wind-cholic, or
fome dangerous complaint in the bowels and reins; but it will not prove
fatal to him, becaufe the Sun, the lord of his afcendant, is more flrong
and powerful, and in greater dignities, than the afflicting planets ; and
therefore, according to natural efficient caules, they will prevail over all
fubordinate effects.
'rom
OF ASTROLOGY. 3?9
From a co.nfideration of thofe parts of the figure which relate to the
circumftaiices of his pafl life, 1 infon-ned him he had improved his for-
tune, and been I'uccefsful in Tome important vo\age, becaufe the Dr,*-
gon's Head is fituated in his ninth houfe ; but that he had lately iufFe.r^
oreatly by a violent hurricane, that threatened deftrudion or {hipwreck ;
which is denoted by the oppofition of Saturn to the Part of Fortune, and
the Moon having lately feparated fi9tn an oppofition with Mercury, lord
of the third houfe, where the Dragon"'s Tail is pofited. This circum-
ftance I had the pleafure of hearing him acknowledge to be true; and
that the florm arole only eight days before the fhip came into port.
He requeued rae to afcertain the time when the above illnefs would
happen. I accordingly took the number of degrees between the Sun and
Moon, by fubtradting the lels fum from the greater ; and found the
diflance to be eleven degrees fifty-nine minutes. I tjsien fought the
Moon's latitude, and found it one degree thirty-three .minutes fouth ;
which, added to the above, make thirteen degrees thirty-two minutes;
and, as the fignificators are in moveable figns, I computed the time by
weeks and days, and predicted this illnels would befall him about the
2oth of July following ; and that, after he (hould be reftored to health
again, he would go on, without luftaining any other ferious indifpofition,
until the fixty-ninlh year of his age; about which time I conceive the
funciions of life will be naturally exiinguifhed by a complicatiQu of in-
firmities.
I have lately had the pleafure of converfing with the gentleman on the
fubjedt of this queftion. He informed me, that towards the middle of
July, 1783, he was atladked by a kind of bilious comj)laint in his
ftomach, which brought on violent fits of the cholic. That, towards
the latter end of the lame month, he found an obflrudion in his bowels,
and his phyfician declared it next to a (miracle that his life was laved.
He now appears to be in perfetTt health, and has funk a confiderable fum
of money on life-annuities,' which he declares was done in conlequ<;iiQe
of the verity he found in thele predi<5tions.
QUESTION II. On the FATE of a SHIP at SEA.
In the year 1 781, a gentleman called upon me who had a confiderablc
ihare in a privateer, which had been completely fitted out and lent to
fea a long time before, and the proprietors could not obtain the leaft
information of her. He therefore requefted me, if in my power, to give
him fome probable account of what had befallen her. After convincing
myfclf the queftion was radical, and no trick or impoiltion intended,
No. 17. 4 M which
330 AN ILLUSTRATION
which is always neceflary to be carefully enquired into by the rules
already laid down for that purpole, 1 proceeded to give my judgment
on the following figure, reditied to the precile time the quelHon was pro-
pounded.
Here the afcendant and the Moon are fignificators of the (hip ; and
Venus, becaufe the fign Taurus, the houfe of Venu<;, is on the afcendant,.
is fignificatrix of the crew ; and Mercury, with the Part of Fortune, de-
note her ftores and all the other materials on-board her. The (hip itfelf
appears well found and fubftantial, but not a fwift failer, as is demon-
ftrated by an earthy (ign poflefling the cufp of the afcendant, and the fitu-
ation of the Dragon's Head in five degrees of the fame fign. The pla-
net Mars is fignificator of the enemy.
Now the Moon, which reprefents the fhip, being fituated in the eighth
houfe, the houfe of death and difappointment, and at the fame time be-
iieged by the two malefic planets Saturn and Mars, denotes her to be
overpowered by the enemy. Mars, lord of the feventh,. the houfe of
open
OF ASTROLOGY. 331
open enemies, being pofited with all his dignities therein ; and in recep-
tion of Jupiter, lord of the enemy's houfc of lubftance ; and being alfo
difpofitor of the Moon, Mercury, and Venus, which reprefent the fhip
and crew, obvioufly declares them to be in the hands of the enemy. The
fignificators being pofited in fiery figns, indicates an engagtrment to have
taken j)Iace ; but the fuperior ftrength of the malefic /ays of the infor-
tunes declares it to have been of (hort duration, and of very unequal force.
The crew being reprefented by Venus, who is difpofed of by Mars in the
twelfth houfe, the houfe of imprifonment and affli6lion, plainly fhows
them to be imprifoned in the enemy's country. And as Mercury is re-
trograde, and fituated alfo in the twelfth houfe, with the Moon's fortu-
nate node, it is apparent that the fhip and ftores will never be reftored to
the owners, but will be appropriated to the u(e of the captors, or difpoled
of for their advantage. The Moon's pofition in the eighth houfe declares
the fhip to have been taken at a confiderable diftancc from home; and
Sagittarius poflefling the cuip of the eighth, which is a fouth-weft fign,
and fituated in the louth-wert part of the heavens, denotes the capture to
have been made in a fouth-weft part of the world.
The querent left me with ftrong hopes of finding this judgment erro-
neous ; and appeared fo extremely avei lb to believe there could be any
truth in it, (becaufe perhaps it operated fo much againft: his own intereft,)
that I would not fufFer him to leave the room until he had promifed
upon his honour to let me know the refult. Accordingly, in about fix
months afterwards, I received a (hort note from him, informing me that
the owners had received advice from the captain of the privateer, that he
had fallen in with a French frigate of twenty-four guns, which being
vaflly fuperior to him, he was obliged, after a fhort refiftance, to flrike
his colours, and was carried prifoner, with the reft of the crew, into
France.
Q.UEST10N III. Of an ABSENT SON, whether DEAD or ALIVE.
A poor woman applied to me in the greateft diftrefs of mind, on ac-
count of her fon, who had turned out wild, and gone to fea without the
confent of his friends. He had been abfent a confiderable time, without
ever once fo far refleding on the difconfolate fituation of his parent, as
to be induced to addrefs a line to her, to remove her anxiety, or to ftate
his own profpeds and purfuits. It was the woman's conftant pradlice to
make inquiry after him among the fea-faring people, till at length (he
heard an imperfed ftory of fome engagement abroad, in which lier fon
was reported to be killed. Upon this unpleafant news flie requeftcd mc
to
33Z AN ILLUSTRATION
to inform her, by the rules of Aftrology, whether her fon was dead or
alive; or whether the account (he had heard was true or falle. Her un-
cafinefs of mind was too apparent for ine to doubt her lincerity, or to (up-
pofe the quelliou not fit to be adjudged ; and therefore 1 creded thib
figure, and gave my opinion thereon as follows :
miJi^^j^m^msEss^sss^messri^sr^
S^'m:i3^:^i.ii'^iii^ii&^::£^.f::^tl\uM-^£sii:-isr^
In this figure Virgo rifes upon the afcendant, and Mercury, lord there-
of, and fignificator of the querent, is pofited in the twelfth houfe, the
houfe of affli6tion and forrow. The fifth houfe of the figure is here con-
iidered as her fon's firfl: or afcendant; and Saturn, lord thereof, is his
fjgnificator, and is pofited in the fourth angle, or imum coeli, which rc-
prefcnts the grave and termination of all things. Saturn is alfo in con-
jundion with the Part of Fortune in the fourth, both of which are dif-
pofed of by Jupiter, and Jupiter by Mars; which malefic planet pofleffes
the fon's firft houfe or afcendant in his exaltation, and in oppofition to
the Sun and Venus in the feventh, which is the houfe of open enemies
and war.
From
OF ASTROLOGY. 333
From thefe configurations I drew the inferences following : That Mer-
cury, the querent's fignificator, by being pofited in the twelfth houfe,
plainly fhowed her fears were too well grounded. That Saturn, figni-
ficator of the quefited, and the Part of Fortune, being both difpofed of
by Jupiter, and this planet difpofed of by Mars, indicates all their bene-
volent effedls to be delT:royed by the malignant influence of this infortune.
Mars being in the Son's afcendanf, in his exaltation, and in oppofition
to Sol, is a ftrong argument of a violent death ; the "kind and manner
of which are thus defcribed. Saturn, his fignificator, is pofited in the
fiery fign Sagittarius ; and Leo, which occupies the cufp of his eighth,
and Aries the cufp of his fourth, are alfo of the fiery triplicity ; the Sun,
the giver of life, and light of time, is pofited in the watery fign Cancer,
difpofed of bv the Moon in the watery fign Pifces, and the Moon by
Jupiter in the Nvatery fign Scorpio; and the whole of their influences are
transferred to the fiery planet Mars, in his afcendant. From thefe cir-
cumftances it became obvious to me that the youth was no longer in ex-
igence; and that his death happened upon the water, by means of fome
fatal warlike inftrument, and in fome defperate engagement with an
open enemy.
The querent then afked me if I could give her any fatisfa6lory account
how long ago this happened. I took down the degrees and minutes of
the two principal fignificators, viz. the Sun and Mars, and fubtra6led the
one from the other, which gave four desrrees five minutes for the remain-
der ; and this being converted into time by the rules before laid down for
moveable figns, in which the above fignificators were pofited, I informed
her the accident had befallen her fon fomewhat more than a month before
(he heard the news of it. Some time afterwards a fhip arrived with an
account of the engagement, which happened on the coafl of France, and
confirmed the whole of this judgment.
QUESTION IV. On the PROSPECT of RICHES.
A gentleman called upon me to enquire, whether any remarkale
change of circumftances would ever happen to him in refped of riches,
and the time when. Conceiving his defire toarife from a flrong impulfe
of the mind, I took the exa6l time of the day, and eredled the following
figure to refolve this queflion.
No. 17. 4N • The
334 AN ILLUSTRATION
•#
Shall the
•
I
'
,b'
S*^
QUERENT I
^>.
^ I RICH? AND WHEN?
March 5, lOh. SOm. A. M. 1781.
Tj hor.
lOD gilliO
The lord of the afcendant, and lord of the hour, being of due nature
and triplicity, (hows the figure to be radical. And, as Gemini occupies
the cufp of the afcendant, Mercury is its lord, and the querent's fignifi-
cator ; and being pofited in the eleventh houfe, in a watery fign, and in
trine to Jupiter, lord of the feventh, who is here pofited in the fixth, is
a ftrong argument of riches by means of fervants, or of perfons in a fub-
ordinate capacity. The Moon, who is lady of the fecond, being in her
exaltation, in trine afpecl to the Sun, and applying to a trine with Jupi-
ter, and a dexter trine afped with Mercury, declares a great and ludden
flow of riches to the querent, and that unexpededly.
Being much prefTed to fpeak to the particular point of time when this
good fortune Ibould come up, I confidered what might be the gentle-
man's occupation ; and obferving Mercury to be his fignificator, and po-
fited in a watery fign, I told him that I judged he belonged to the fea,
• and had fome employment on ftiip-board, in a capacity where writing or
accounts were principally concerned. This he acknowledged, by faying
he
OF ASTROLOGY. 3^^
he was captain's fecretary. I then obferved that his principal fignifica-
tors of wealth and riches were alfo pofited in watery figns, as the Moon
in Cancer in the fecond houfe, and Jupiter in Scorpio in the fixth, and
the Sun and Mercury in Pifces in the eighth, all in trine afpeds of each
other, which plainly indicated thefe riches were to come by the fea ; and,
as they were to be iiidden, and as it were inftantaneus, I concluded they
would arife by the capture of fome rich prize, in a fouth-eaft direction
from London, which is denoted by the Part of Fortune being in the twelfth
houfe, and Venus, its difpofitor, in Aquarius, a Ibuthern fign, in quar-
tile afpedt of the Part of Fortune ; and the Part of Fortune being oppo-
fite to Jupiter, lord of the feventh, the houfe of public enemies, alfo de-
clares the querent's Fortune fhould come that way; which is rendered
ftill more apparent, by the Part of Fortune being in Textile to the Moon
and Mercury, When I had mentioned thefe particulars, he frankly told
me his fhip was under failing orders, and he expeded to be called on-
board every hour.
To afcertain the time when thefe riches fhould be acquired, I parti-
cularly noticed the application of the Moon to the lord of the afcendant,
and found them nineteen degrees dlftant from a partile trine afpedl:. But
the Moon, being fwift in motion, with three degrees north latitude, and
Mercury having no latitude, I dedu6ted three degrees from the Moon's
place, which 1 let down at twelve degrees ; and then, by fubtratling twelve
degrees from twenty-eight degrees three minutes, which is Mercury's place,
there remains fixteen degrees three minutes ; which, as the Moon is in a
moveable fign, and Mercury in a common fign, is equal to fixteen weeks,
or thereabout ; and therefore I concluded this good fortune would hap-
pen to him in nearly that diflance of time. And I have fincc had the
fatisfadion of hearing, from the gentleman's own mouth, that this pre-
diftion was literally verified by the capture of a rich prize within the time
fpecified.
QUESTION V. On the Succefs of a JOURNEY. .
Being applied to by a tradelman, who was going a journey on fome
particular bufinefs, to inform him whether it would be profperous and
fuccefsful ; I took the time of the day, and projeded the following
fcheme to correfpond with it.
Here
23^ AN ILLUSTRATION
Here I find four degrees fourteen minutes of Gemini upon the cufp of
the horofcope, and confequently Mercury is the querent's fignificator,
which being pofited in the twelfth houfe, the houfe of anxiety and dif-
appointment, combuft of the Sun, and difpofed of by Mars, the impli-
cator of private enemies, in the querent's houfe of fubftance ; thefe po-
fitions plainly (howed the objeiSl of the journey to be concerning the ad-
juftment of fome accounts, or other money-matters. The Moon, lady
of the third, {ignifies the journey ; and the feventh houfe and its lord,
i. e. Jupiter, reprefents the place and perfon the querent is going to.
Nqw the Moon having lately feparated from a partile conjun61ion of
her fortunate node and Jupiter, and applying to a quartile of Mars, and
then to a conjunftion of Venus, tends to prove that his journey fhould
be fafe and unimpeded ; but at the fame time denotes that the objed of it
fhould not be accomplifhed, which is further confirmed by the pofition
of Mars in the fecond houfe. I informed him that he would moft pro-
bably meet with unpleafant treatment from fome lady, refpecting money-
concerns, and that they fhould part in anger, which would terminate to
his
OF ASTROLOGY. 337
his prejudice ; and this I conceired from the application of the Moon to
a quartile afpeft with Mars, followed by a conjunction with Venus. It
further appeared to me that his journey would be far from pleafant or
agreeable ; but that, on the contrary, he would meet with great vexation,
trouble, and difappointment. This is indicated by the Moon's unfortu-
nate node, or Dragon's Tail, being pofited in the fifth, or houfe of plea-
fure and delight, at the fame time that the querent's fignihcator occupies
the houfe of difappointment and trouble. Hence I perfuaded him to
poftpoiie his journey to a future day ; becaufe, if he did go, 1 was per-
fedlv fatisfied he would lofe more than he would gain, exclufive of be-
ing difappointed in the principal obje6l of it. He then left me, and went
home with an undetermined mind ; but has fince told me that his necef-
fity got the better of his reafon, and therefore he went the journey con-
trary to my advice, and found the event, with all its contingencies, ex-
a(5lly as I had predided.
Some months after, he came to me again, faying he wifhed to take
another journey on the fame bufinefs ; but, as my former prediftion had
fo exactly correfponded with the event, he was now determined to adt
implicitly by my advice, and therefore requefted mc to ereft a figure to
know whether there were better hopes of fuccefs in his prefent under-
taking than in the former. To oblige him I drew out the figure to the
exaft time of propofing the queftion, and, finding the benevolent afpedls
all in the querent's favour, I told him he had no time to lofe ; for that, if
he haftened away, fuccefs would crown his labours. He went, met the
parties at home, fettled his accounts, and returned with his pockets full
of money, and his heart full of content ; and a few days afterwards he
thanked me for my fervices.
QUESTION VI. On PATERNAL INHERITANCE.
A young gentleman in the navy, who had been rather wild, and was
in confequence under the difpleafure of his parents, having been threat-
ened to be difinherited, came the inftant he received this unfavourable
news, and enquired of me whether he fliould, or fhould not, enjoy his
father's eftate. To refolve his doubts, I proje<5i:ed the figure following.
No. (7. 4. O The
538 AN ILLUSTRATION
/'V
rf> '#
Shall the
QUERENT
EWJOV Bit
FATHER'S ESTATE ?
Oct, 20, 2h. 40m. A. M. 1780.
9 dia.
Lat. 51' 32'.
^^
.A£.
The afcendant and its lord reprefent the querent ; and, as Aquarius oc-
cupies the <;ufp thereof, Saturn is bis fignificator. The father is repre-
fented by the fourth houfe, and Mercury, the lord thereof, is his fignifica-
tor. The fecond houfe and its lord fignifies the querent's fubftance ; and
the fifth houfe and its lord the fubftance of his father. Here we find
Mercury in conjun6tion with Jupiter in the eighth houfe, which is the fa-
ther's fourth, and implies a fubftantial fortune, particularly as the Sun is
pofited in the fame houfe, with mutual reception between the two figni-
ficators of fubftance ; whereby it is evident that the fon will inherit the
father's eftate and fortune.
The conjun6lion of Jupiter with Mercury, the father's fignificator, is
alfo a ftrong argument of paternal regard on the fide of the father ; and
therefore 1 informed him that there appeared to me no doubt but he
would fucceed to the eftate of his anceftors, provided he afted at all con-
fiftently with the duty and obedience of a fon, and would ufe proper en-
deavours to regain his father's good-will and forgivenefs, and aim to be
more prudent and careful in fpending his income ; for the pofition of
Jupiter
OF ASTROLOGY. 339
Jupiter declares him to be regardlefs of money among his companions
and acquaintance, and extravagantly generous and good-natured. The
conjunftion of Mars with Venus likewife (hows his defire after women,
and denotes that they will be a continual fource of misfortune and ex-
pence to him, and will help ofF pretty faft with his money ; but the po-
litioo of the fortunate node of the Moon in his fecond houfe fufficiently
indicates that he will have a competent provifion during life.
QUESTION Vll. On a CHANGE of SITUATION.
A perfon had fome time been fettled in bufmefs, without meeting with
fo much encouragement as he expeded ; and, an opportunity offering of
fettling in the fame line of bufinefs in another place, he came and re-
quefted my advice upon the matter, whether it would be moft to his ad-
vantage to embrace the prefent offer, or to continue in his former iitua-
tion. To fatisfy him in this particular, I ereded the following figure.
\ 7 >^ /
<. «? fi & 'V^
''- •'-
V''- y^ \ •'/•« <^
yf
.^^
{
^ ^
Will the
QUERENT
GAIN ovi LOSE
By a Change of Situation ?
May 20, 10b. 83m. A. M. 1748.
% dia.
N
'^^
Leo
340 AN ILLUSTRATION
Leo being upon the cufp of the afcendant, gives the Sun for the que-
rent's fignificator ; the fourth houfe and its lord reprefent his prefent
fituation ; and the feventh houfe and its lord the place to which he has
thoughts of removing. Now the Sun, the querent's fignificator, being
on the point of leaving a fixed fign, and entering upon a common fign,
clearly implies a ftrong inclination in the querent to travel, or to remove
from one place to another ; or rather, that he had almoft determined in
his own mind to change his prefent abode for the one under contempla-
tion ; and, on putting the queftion to him, he frankly confelTed it.
The feventh houfe having no benevolent afpef^, and Saturn, its lord,
being pofited in the fixth, indicates afflittion and prejudice by open
enemies, if he removed to the place intended ; and that he would fuffer
great lofs and injury thereby, if he removed. But finding Mars, lord
of the fourth, in trine afpe6l to the fourth, which reprefents his prefent
place of abode ; and Venus, lady of the tenth, the houfe of trade and
profeffion, flrongly dignified therein, and applying to a fextile afpe6t of
Mars, denotes an increafing and profperous trade to the querent, provided
he remained in his prefent fituation ; which for thefe reafons I greatly
preffed him to do. He took my advice, and has lately thanked me for
it, having already found an increafe of bufinefs. I told him he need not
doubt of ftill greater fuccefs ; for, when the efFefts of the fextile afpe6l
of Venus and Mars fhall begin to operate, which will be about the end
of 06lober, as is demonftrated by the degrees between thefe two figni-
ficators, at which time they will alfo be in a mutual reception, his in-
creafe of trade will become more vifible ; particularly as Venus, the prin-
cipal fignificatrix of bufinefs, will then have feparated from a conjunc-
tion with Mercury, and will apply to a conjunction of the Sun, the lord
of the afcendant, and the fignificator of the querent.
J
QUESTION VIII. On CHILD-BEARING.
A lady having been fome time married, without having any reafon to
fuppofe herfelf pregnant, and being very defirous of children, came to
enquire whether fhe fhould ever breed. Having every reafon to believe
the queftion fincere and radical, I took down the precife time of the day,
and ereded this figure to correfpond with it.
s
No
OF ASTROLOGY. 341
/
SHALL THE
QUERENT
HAVE
CHILDREN?
March 3, lolu P.M. 1783.
D dia.
Lat. 5» 32'. S
'^
No pofition of the planets, perhaps, could be more favourable to the
defines of the querent, than thofe in the above fcheme. As Libra rifes
upon the afcendant, Venus is lady thereof, and flgnificatrix of the que-
rent; and, being pofited in the fifth houfe, in her exaltation, having the
fruitful fign Pilces upon the cufp thereof, is one infallible proof that the
querent will have children. The Moon, which is the author of all radical
moifture, is feparating from the conjun6lion of the Sun, the author of all
vital fpirit, and applies to a Textile afpeft of Jupiter, a benevolent and pro-
lific planet, and thence forms a conjundion with Venus, the querent's
fignificator; and then applies to her fortunate node. From thefe con-
fiderations I hefitated not a moment to inform the querent that (he would
be the mother of a large aud numerous offspring. This is declared by the
pofition of Venus in the fifth houfe, which gives three children ; and,
being lady of the afcendant, in conjun6^ion with the Dragon's Head, or
fortunate node of the Moon, gives three more. The Moon, being like-
wife in conjundtion with them, adds three more, and makes the number
nine. And, as thefe configurations are all pofited in the double-bodied
No. 18. 4P fruitful
3+2 AN ILLUSTRATION
fuitful fisn Pifces, it doubles the number, and declares there fliall be ei^h-
teen children. This judgment is ftrengthened by Jupiter's Textile afpeft
with the above fignificators, and thereby adds two more to the number ;
which induced me to inform the lady that (he would in all probability be
the mother of twenty children.
This is an extraordinary inftance of the pofition of the heavens to give
fruitfulnefs and fecundity, and what I have rarely found either in geni-
turcs or horary figures ; and therefore I would wifli the reader to note, in
order to enable him to judge of other queflions of the like nature, that, if
the lord of the afcendant be in the feventh houfe, or the lord of the fifth
in the firfV, or the lord of the firll: in the fifth ; or, if the lord of the fifth
be in the feventh, or the lord of the feventh in the fifth ; or the Moon po-
fited with them, or good planets in the afcendant, or with the lord of the
fifth, or fituated in any of the angles : there is in none of thefe inftances
any fort of doubt but that the lady will conceive. But, when none of
thefe teftimonies concur, and barren figns or evil planets occupy the
above-mentioned places of the figure, (he never has nor ever will conceive.
When good and evil planets are promifcuoufly joined together, (he may
perhaps conceive, and have children, but they will not live, nor fcarcely
ever come to maturity.—But to return : the lady then prefled me to in-
form her how long I thought it might be before (he (hould conceive with
her firft child. To fatisfy her on this head, I referred to the figure, and
obferved the Moon within fix degrees fifty-one minutes of a partile con-
jun6tion with Venus, the querent's fignificatrix ; and, the Moon being in
a common fign, I computed the time to be at fix weeks and two days, and,
defiring her to take notice of the time, had no doubt (he would foon after"
have reafon to believe herfelf pregnant.
It is not lefs remarkable than true, that exa6lly as I had predided the
event turned out : for the lady, fome months after, very politely called to
thank me for the information I had given her, and declared her concep-
tion to have taken place as near as poffible from the time I had mentioned.
During this converfation, (he defired me to inform her whether (he was
breeding with a boy or a girl; and, finding her fericus in the demand, I
folved it by the following figure.
OF ASTROLOGY. 343
g5SSS5!E^BS5g^^.^agaiftatSiW8Ba^^
Here the firft thing to be confidered is the lord of the afcendant,
which fignifies the mother ; and the lord of the fifth, which reprefents
the child ; together with the afpeds of the planets to the above fic^nifi-
cators, and the angles of the figure, and whether mafculine or femi-
nine ; and fo judge by the greater teftimonies. In the above ficrure the
angles are feminine; and the Moon, which is a feminine planet, is
pofited in a feminine fign, feparating from a fextile afped with the Sua
in a fign of the fame nature, and applying to an oppofition with Mars,
lord of the afcendant and fifth, in a feminine fign alfo, at the fame time
that (he is forming a platic trine with Jupiter, who is alfo pofited in a
feminine fign ; fothat we have five teftimonies that the lady was pregnant
with a girl. And therefore, as there are but three teftimonies in favour of
a boy, viz. the fextile of Jupiter to Mars, which is mafculine, the fio-n
upon the cufp of the fifth houfe, which is alfo mafculine, and the lo'rd
of the fifth houfe, which is the fame, I informed the lady flie mi«^ht reft
perfedly affured of having a girl ; and fo the event proved ; for indeed
thefe
344 AN ILLUSTRATION
thefe rules have never been known to fail in determining queftions of
this nature.
But, for a more general mode of afcertaining whether a lady be preg-
nant with a boy or girl, take particular notice of the afcendant and its
lord, and of the fifth houfe and its lord; and note whether the figns
upon their cufps be either Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, or
Aquarius, for thefe figns always import a male ; but, the other fix give
a female. If the lord of the afcendant be in a mafculine fign, and the
lord of the fifth in a feminine, then have recourfe to the Moon ; and, if
ihe applies to a planet in a mafculine fign, fhe gives a boy ; but, if a fe-
minine, a girl. Always remember that the mafculine planets are Saturn,
Jupiter, Mars, and the Sun; and the feminine, Venus and the Moon.
Mercury, as he happens to be pofited either with a mafculine or feminine
planet, inclines accordingly ; but, when he is oriental of the Sun, he is
reputed mafculine ; and, when occidental, feminine.
The querent will fometimes aflc how long fhe hath conceived. To
refolve this, have regard to the Moon, the lord of the fifth, and the lord
of the hour ; and note which is nearefl from the feparation of any planet,
and from what afpe6l: this feparation was : if from a trine afpeft, fhe is
in the third or fifth month of her conception ; if from a fextile, fhe is
either two or fix months gone ; if the feparation was from a quartile,
fhe is in her fourth month ; if from an oppofition, fhe hath conceived
feven months ; but, if from a conjunction, her conception has been only
one month.
QUESTION IX. On taking SERVANTS.
A merchant of my acquaintance, having lately occafion' for an up-
per clerk, to fuperintend a bufinefs of confiderable truft and importance,
and being recommended to a perfon for this undertaking of whofe
ability and indufliry he was fomewhat in doubt, called to afk my advice
and opinion on the matter, whether he was likely to anfwer his purpofe
or not.
OF ASTROLOGY. 345
The iirft houfe reprefents the querent, and the fixth the quefited.
Venus, who is the querent's fignificarcr, is fituated in her own terms ;
and Mars, who is fignificator of the fervant, is fituated in her own term of
Jupiter, accompanied with the Part of Fortune, in the eleventh houfe,
which is the houfe of confidence and truft, and of friends and friendship ;
and is an irrefragable argument of mutual concord and good faith. Mars
is alfo lord of the querent's fecond, as well as of the fervant's fixth, and
denotes that great advantages fhall accrue to the mafter by the fervant's
means ; Saturn, in the third houfe, is in partile afpe£t to Mars, and denotes
that the dealings which may be conduced by the fervant fliall be very
beneficial, though attended with great labour and difficulty, as is evi-
dently demonftrated by Saturn's pofition in the fign of Capricorn. The
oppofition of the Sun and Jupiter in a watery fign indicates that fome
little inconveniences may arife by the fervant's drinking rather too freely ;
but, as the Dragon's Head, or fortunate node of the Moon, is pofited
in the fourth houfe, which fignifies the end or termination of the bufi-
nefs, it is felf-evident that all matters entrufted to the care and manage-
No. 1 8. 4 Q ment
346 AN ILLUSTRATION
meiitof this fervant will terminate to the mafter's fatisfaftion and advan-
tage. I therefore adyifed him by no means to hefitate in taking him into
his fervice.
QUESTION X. On COURTSHIP and MARRIAGE.
A young lady having for fome time received the addrefles of a gentle-
man of fortune, during which a variety of circumflances had occurred to
put off" the much-wi(hed-for day of confummating their nuptials; and
being alfo in doubt whether her lover had not fome attachment to another
lady, who fhared in his affeftions, and fought for his company ; (he was
induced to come to me for my advice and opinion, whether the above
gentleman was really fmcere in his profeffions to her, and whether their
marriage Ihould ever be confummated, and when? Finding her perfedly
fincere and earneft in her wiflies, and the queftion truly radical, I gave
her my judgment as follows :
.n HA J..IIJ ;(i
III
OF ASTROLOGY. 347
In this figure the Sun is fignificator of thelady ; and Saturn, lord of the
feventh houfe, is fignificator of the gentleman. It mufl alio be obferved,
that in this, and in all queflions relative to raatrinaony. Mars and the Sun
are the natural fignificators of a woman's marriage; and Venus and the
Moon are thofe of a man's. Now Saturn, the gentleman's fignificator, is
remarkably well pofited in the fifth houfe, and has Venus wit. in his orb,
applying to him by conjun6fion ; which is a very powerful indication
that his afFediions are fincere and honourable, and that his mind is fully
bent to the marriage-flate. The Sun likewife, being in a fextile afpedt
with Mars, the lady's fignificator of marriage, plainly fhows her incli-
nation to matrimony to be flrongly fixed, and her afFc6lions perfe6fly
lincere.
The next thing to be confidered, is, whether there be any fruftration
or impediting afpeft between thefe fignificators ; and, I find the Moon
and Venus, the gentleman's fignificators of marriage, are applying to a
quartile afpeif with each other. This is an evident proof that the mar-
riage is prolonged by the interference of fome other woman of this gen-
tlemari's intimate acquaintance, becaufe the afpedl: is made in a feminine
fign; but as the Moon, in feparating from Venus, applies to a perfect trine
with Mars, the querent's principal (ignificator of marriage, and alfo to a
Textile of the Sun, her natural fignificator in the figure, it totally removes
the evil efFeds of the malefic afpeft, and leaves the path free and unob-
flruded to the gates of Hymen. This opinion is greatly flrengtheiied
by confidering the mode in which their fignificators are feverally difpofed,
Saturn difpofes of the Sun, who is pofited in the terms of Venus ; and
Venus, Saturn, and the Moon, are all difpofed of by the benevolent pla-
net Jupiter, who is himfelf difpofed of by Mars, the principal fignificator
of this lady's marriage, and who thus triumphs over every obftacle to
the celebration of their nuptials. I therefore could not hefitate in declar-
ing to the lady, in the fuUefl and moff fatisfadfory terms, that the gentle-
man who courted her had a fincere and tender regard for her; and that,
hough fome circumftances might have happened rather unfavourable to
ner wifhes, yet fhe might reft perfedfly afTured that he was the man allotted
to be her hufband.
Apparently well fatisfied with thefe declarations, fhe proceeded to in-
quire in what length of time this defirable circumffance might come to
pafs. To gratify her wiflies in this particular, I referred ao-ain to the
figure, where the Moon, the gentleman's principal fignificator of mar-
riage, wants upwards of eleven degrees of forming a perfed fextile afpeft
with
348 AN ILLUSTRATION
with the Sun, the lord of the afcendant, and the fame to Mars, her (ignl-
ficator of marriage ; and therefore, by converting the degrees into time
by the rule heretofore given, I fixed her marriage at about the end of
three months, affuring her it would not exceed that time. The event
has fully proved the truth of the predidion ; the lady and gentleman have
both done me the honour of a call fuice the celebration of their nuptials,
and I found they were married precifely at the time I had predided ; I
have likewife the additional pleafure to find, that my aflurances to the
lady were produ6tive of frefh efteem and clofer attachment to the man of
her heart, and that they now live a pattern of conjugal felicity.
QUESTION XI. On WAR and BATTLE.
During the trial of a certain noble Commander in Chief, at the Go-
vernor's houfe at Portfmouth, a company of gentlemen one day called
upon me, and requefted I would take down the pofition of the planets
at the time that much-talked-of aftion commenced, and give them my
judgment upon it, according to the rules of planetary influence. Wil-
ling to oblige them in a matter which I conceived could be of no pre-
judice to any party, fince no advantage could be taken from it ; and alfo
deeming it a fit fubjeft whereby to manifeft the fublimity and excellence
of this art ; I hefitated not to promife them every information in my
power. For this purpofe I ere6led my figure, not to the time this
queftion was propounded, for it related to an event that had long been
pafied by, and not to any matter that was hereafter expefted to happen ;
and therefore I projeded the fcheme to correfpond with the exad time
when this extraordinary aftion commenced, and at which moment the
heavenly bodies were under the remarkable configurations delineated in
the following fcheme :
OF ASTROLOGY. 349
The afcendant, the Moan, an:l Vcnvi^ repr-feiit the Britlfli fleet ;
Mars and Aries denote tiiat of the eiieniv. The fi.ft thiii;^ lo l;e co i-
fidered is the afpeft theic two lignihcators hear to one r.notlier, which is
a partile Textile, a well-known indicafion of -iinperfeil love; and, ;-3 it
Ihows that Mars and Venir, i-avc n )t in themfelves aii inveterate hatred,
fo it imports that the two commanders in chief did not hclK)Id aich other
in an afpett of perfecl and direful malignancy and wrath. Venus, lativ
of the afccndant, is pofitcd witii Juiiiter in his fall, a ht^ncvolent planer,
and a lover of peace; and, as ht; is in this figure lord of the thirt.l h.oulc,
and within fiftv degrees of the alccndanr, jt indicates tiiat both com-
rnandcrs have :v defire to promote peace,, bv a(5iing principally upon the
defenfive, and by guarding and protedllng th;;ir reipedive coafls, without
a. defire of anv clol'e or decifive aclion, or of venturiui' to anv "reat dii-
tance from home.
The cool, cautious, deliberate, planet Saturn, is iTtuated in the firft
lioufe, and indicates not fo much a defirc for hot, and precipitate adiou
No. 1 8. 4R as
35<> AN ILLUSTRATION
as for felf-prefervation, or the prote6lion of national wealth ; and this is
plainly exemplified in the Britifli admiral's watchfulnefs and care in
covering and prote6ting the homeward-bound India-fleet, as well as in
the French admiral's retiring after he found his views upon that rich and
unguarded flota were completely fruftrated. The pofition of Mercury
being combufl: of the Sun, and difpofer of the Moon, Venus, and Jupi-
ter, and lord alfo of the twelfth houfe, the houfe of private enmity and
malice, indicates private rancour and enmity in a fubordinate com-
mander; and, as Mercury is pofited between the two fignificators, Venus
and Mars, evilly dignified, and combufl:, lo he denotes the perfon repre-
sented by him will infallibly be governed by malevolent principles, and
ufe his influence to retard the obje6l of the bufinefs in hand. The truth
of this indication has, I think, been too well eftabliflied to need any fur-
ther illuflration from me.
The enemy, as I have before obferved, is reprefented by Mars, who is
pofited in the tenth houfe, the houfe of honour, and in the fign of his
triplicity, but in the dignities of Jupiter; and this fhows that the enemy
would as much as poflible avoid clofe adion, but would take the advan-
tage to fhift from fighting ; and Mars, being in his fall, deprives the
enemy of their honour, and clearly proves, that, if a clofe and well-con-
neded adion had been kept up, and continued without ceafing, a decifive
vidory would have followed on the. part of the Englifli, becaufe Jupiter
is in conjundion with Venus and the Moon, which difpofes of Mars ; but,
as Mars has the watery triplicity afligned him, he (hows the enemy fhould
take the advantage of that element to run away.
We find alio, in the above figure, a quartile afped of Saturn and Mer-
cury, a configuration which is alvvavs known to produce tempeftuous
weather and Ihong winds; and this we find was the cafe ofF U(hant at
the time of the above engagement. The pofition of Mercury in the firft,
where Saturn is fituated, plainly indicates thcfe winds to be highly con-
ducive to the fafety of the enemy, but of dangerous tendency to the Bri-
tifli fleet, in cafe of a purfuit.
After duly weighing the natural influences and efi^eds of the configu-
rations in this figure, which are the true and genuine flate of the heavens
at the time of the engagement, I hefitated not to declare, that both
commanders had a flronger inclination to preferve peace than to break
it, and that a clofe-conneded and decifive adion was not to happen,
owing to Saturn being in the afcendant on the fide of the Englifli, with
too much thought and deliberation ; and to Mars being in his fall in the
dignities
OF ASTROLOGY. 351
dignities of Jupiter, on the part of the French, which declares their watch-
fuhiefs to run away. This judgment is likewife further confirmed by the
two principal (ignificators not forming a warlike afpeft, but operating by
one rather inclined to tranquillity and peace.
Whoever contemplates the preceding figure, and defines its afpeQ by
the rules laid down in this or in any other treatife on Aftrology, will find
no point ftrained to afFedl the tendency of the foregoing judgment. The
meaning put upon them here is uniform and natural, and no more thaa
what they are and have been allowed to bear from the earlieft ages, and
fuch as every profefTor of the art mufl: allow to be confonant to the ftrifteft
rules of the Icience. If this be admitted, I think it muft flrike the fenfe
of every intelligent man, that this pofition of the planets, on the famous
27th of July, could not have been configurated to defcribe the particular
turns of that aftion by mere accident, nor without having fome influence
upon it. —A ftrong proof of planetary operation, as well as of the moral
certainty of prediding by their means.
QUESTION XII. On THEFT.
Being once on a journey through the Weft of England, and particular
bufinefs detaining me in a fmall town where fome of my friends lived,
an atrocious robbery and burglary was, during that time, committed in
the neighbourhood, in the houfe of a poor old blind decrepid man, who,
by hard labour and rigid economy in his younger days, had faved up three
hundred pounds to divide among his children at his death. This money
was kept in a ftrong cheft by the bedfide where the poor old man lay ;
when fome villains, watching an opportunity in the abfence of his family,
made their way into his apartment, broke open the cheft, and carried off
all the money undifcovered. My friends hereupon made it known that I
had fome knowledge of the occult fciences, and, if applied to, might pof-
fibly give fome account how the money went; in confequence of which
I received a letter the next day from the poor man's eldeft fon, earneftly
entreating my affiftance in making a difcovery of the robbers, and to
endeavour to get reftored to his father fome part at leaft of the little all
he had been years labouring to fave up for his children. Moved
with compaflion at fo cruel a circumftance, I determined to do myutmoft
to ferve this diftrefted family, and for this purpofe projeded the following
figure.
352 AN ILLUSTRATION
The fign Taurus, occupying the afcendant, gives Venus for the que-
rent's fignificatrix; the Moon, lady of the fourth, reprefents tlie querenfs
father, and the feventh and tenth houfes are to denote the thieves ; aad,
the reafon I allot two houfes for them is, becaulc the leventh Iiouic of the
figure is the natural fignificator of lliieves to I'le querent, who was heir to
part of the money, and had been promifed it by his father, and coufc-
quently bore a fhare in the lofs ; and the tenth houle being the father's
leventh, reckoned from his firft, or fourth in the iigurc, nauirally denotes
thieves to him ; and therefore, as the Ion is querent, and the father Iiad
the principal fliarc in the lois, both thefe houics muft be well confid.gu'd,
before any account can be given of tlie thieves.
Here I find Jupiter, lord of tiie eiglith and twelfth houle, pofited in
the tenth, out of all his effcntial dignities, in his fall, and co-(igni^ica-
tor with Mars; wherefore, I declared two perlons to be concerned in the
robbery, and defcribcd them according to th.efe fignificators, viz. a m'id-
dle ftature, v/ith dark brown hair, pale complexion, of a lurly dil'po-
fiiion^
OF ASTROLOGY. 353
fition, one leg fomewhat Shorter than the other ; and appeared to be Cons
of a perfon who had worked with or for the querent's father.
My next bufinefs was to conllder what was done with the money ; and,
as there are two fignificators in refpeci of the queftion, namely, the feventh
houfes and their lords, fo there muft be two to reprefent the difpofal of
the money; and thefe are the fourth houfes and their lords. Accord-
ingly I find the Moon, who governs the querent's fourth houfe, pofited in
Scorpio, a watery llgn ; and, being alio underneath the fign, I declared
Tome part of the money was buried underneath a rock or ftone over
which the tide flowed, and near the habitation of the thieves, which I
judged was not far diftant from the lea-fide. Again, I find Mars iord of
the father's fourth, pofited in Capricorn, a bell:ial fign, in conjundliofi
with Jupiter, who governs corn, and with Saturn, who rules the fruits of
the earth ; and, as Mars is the lighter planet, and applies to Jupiter, and
as Jupiter is in the term of Saturn, I concluded that another part of the
money had been paid away to fome hufbandman or farmer, who refided
about the diftance of eight miles fouth from the place where the robbers
lived.
When thefe circumftances were all thrown together, and each duly
confidered, fufpicion fell upon two perfons, who were brothers, in every
refpedt anfvveiing to this delcription, and who, upon enquiry, they found
had paid one hundred pounds to a farmer, three days after the robbery
was committed, who lived in the fituation above defcribed, aiid who
had for Ibme time threatened the parties with an adion, on account
of their backwardnefs or inability to pay him. Upon this I was alked,.
if the parties were taken up, whether any of the money would be re-
covered ? To anfwer this, I referred asjain to the figure, and noted the
fituation of the two luminaries, both of which are affli6led. The light
of time is pofited in the twelfth houfe, in conjundtion with Venus,
lady of the afcendant, and fignificatrix of the querent, which affords one
ftrono; argument againft recovering the money. The Moon is alio greatlv
afflidTed in the fixth houle, and in no afpect either to the Sun or to the
afcendant, but on the contrary is applying to a trine of Mercury, lord
of the fixth, and this to a fextile of Saturn, lord of the father's fixth,
and alfo the fignificators of the two thieves ; all which pofitions give
the flrongeft proofs of an utter impolfibility of recovering any part of the
property, particularly as both the fignificators of the querent and his
father are greatly afflided by accidental pofitions, as well as by the
Part of Fortune being in conjundion with the Moon's unfortunate
No.. 18.. 4. S node.
3^4 AN ILLUSTRATION
node, or Dragoa's Tail; wherefore I judged the money loil beyond- re-
covery.
Many circumflances, however, afterwards concurring to confirm this
fufpicion of the two brothers above alluded to, they were in confequence
taken into cuflody, and examined before feveralof the county magillrates,
who found fufficient grounds to commit them for trial at the next affizes.
They were in confequence arraigned ; but, though fufpicion fell heavy
upon them, yet, as no pofitive evidence could be adduced to prove they
were caught in the fa6l, or to identify the money, they were both acquit-
ted, notwithflanditig the long train of well-conneded and concurring cir-
cumftanees, which came out upon the trial, left them guilty in the eyes of
all the court.
QUESTION XIII. On LEGACIES.
A perfon of a free and convivial humour called upon me to enqiui*c
concerning a legacy which his wife's mother had often promifed to leave
them at her death ; but, having had fome high words, in confequence of
his loofe way of living, fhe had lately refcinded her former promifes ; and,
as this lay upon his mind, and had vexed him for fome days part, he was
now defirous to know, by the celeftial intelligencers, whether his legacy
would be left him or not. Finding the man fincere in his wiflies, and
deeming the queftion perfedly radical, 1 proceeded to give my judgmeiif
upon the matter as follows.
OF ASTROLOGY. ^S5
Mercury is here lord of the afcetidant, and fignificator of the querent;
he is fituated in the feventh houfe, and difpofcs of Jupiter, the figuifi-
cator of his wife, who is pofited in the fourth, his own houfe, ftrong and
powerful, and in trine afpedl to tiie Sun. The Moon's fortutiate node
likewife falls in the wife's fecond houfe, in Textile afpeft to the Part of
Fortune in the querent's fecond ; all which are powerful teftimonies that
the querent's wife would not lole her inheritance. This opinion is alftJ
flrrengthened by the pofition of the benevolent planet J'upiter, who i<i
lord of Pifces, and the wife's fignificator, and lord alfo of the wife'rf
tenth, and lignificator of the mother, viz. the fourth houfe in' the figur^V
which evidently {hows a mutual love and attachment between the'mothel'
and daughter, that nothing but death can efface, andto which inheritiandd
will: follow.
The querent's fignificator being in his fall in' Pifces, a watery fi^tf}
and in conjunflion with Venus, Hiows him to be a man given up to
drinking and conviviality, and perhaps to other fpecies of intemperance.
as
356 AN ILLUSTRATION
as is denoted by the quartile of Jupiter and Mercury ; and further (hows
that it has in fome meafure been the means of alienating the wife's affec-
tions from him. And as Mercury is difpofed of by Jupiter, in a femi-
nine (is?n, and polited with a feminine planet, and being alfo controvert-
ible in his nature to the quality of any planet he is in configuration with,
it plainly manifefts the querent to be of an effeminate mind and fpirit,
content to give up all rule and government to his wife, fo he has but the
enjoyment of his friend and bottle.
The fituation of the Sun and the Dragon's Head in the wife's fecond,
or querent's eighth, denotes that he had heretofore received a legacy bj
the death of his wife's father ; which being mentioned, he readily con-
felTed that it was fo. This legacy he appears to have fquandered away,
as is manifefted by the Part of Fortune being in conjundion with the
Dragon's Tail in the fecond houfe. And now, taking all the foregoing
afpeds together, and noting that the Sun, the natural (Ignificator of
fathers, is pofited in his exaltation, with the Moon's fortunate node, and
free from all fruftration or afflidiion ; and notwithftanding the querent
had fquandercd away the firft legacy by the father, and had lately fallen
out with the mother, yet I hefitated not to declare, that, according to
the beft of my judgment, he would be certain of the legacy by the
mother alfo ; not out of any regard or love to him, but purely through
her affedion and anxioufnefs for the welfare and happinefs of her
daughter.
QUESTION XIV. On the SUCCESS of a FLEET.
At the time Admiral Rodney fet fail for the Wefl: Indies, with a grand
fquadron under his command, and a convoy of above three hundred fail
of merchant-fhips, exhibiting at once the pride, the glory, and the riches,
of this great commercial empire, I was applied to by fome naval gen-
tlemen, who particularly requeued me to give them my opinion on the
fuccefs of the admiral's expedition, and the fafety of his fleet. Many
opinions had for fome time been in circulation relative to this equip-
ment, and many of the firft-rate connoifleurs in politics had undertaken
to declare it too weak for the obje6t of its dcftination, and that it would
fall an eafy prey to the enemy ; I was therefore the more readily pre-
vailed upon to proje6t a figure for this queftion, upon which I delivered.
xay judgment as follows..
OF ASTROLOGY. 357
The watery figu Aquarius, falling upon the afcendant, gives Saturn for
the adoiiral's fignificator ; and, as Pifces alfo falls intercepted in the
firft houfe, Jupiter, lord thereof, muft have cofignification of all th.ofe
that accompanied him. The ninth honfe reprefents the voyage, the fiirt
houfe or a(cendant the port or ftation from whence they fet fail, the feventh
houfe the quarter to which they are deftined, and the lord thereof denotes.
the obftacles or enemies they fhall meet with ; the fourth houfe rcprefeiHl^i
the completion of the voyage, and the accomplifliment.and terminatioRj
of the obje(S, or bufinefs of the expedition ; the whole of which are to.is^j
feparated and.diftin(5lly contemplated.
.
'i
Saturn, the fignificator of the commander in chief, is pofited in the
medium coeli, the houfe of preferment and honour ; and,, being at the
fame time in Sagittarius, a fign of the fiery trigon, and contrary to his
own nature, defcrioes hinri to be a man of a free, gener(>u.s». and nobler}
Ipirit, ambitious of glory and applaufe ; and, having been lately in coiv-:
jun61ion with the iMoon's unfortunate node, and jiqm' ,Hi the very degree
of its exaltation, (hows him to have been under great anxiety and dil-
No. 1 8. 4 T trefs
358 AN ILLUSTRATION
trefs in regard to his private circumftances. But this afflidion appears
only as a dark cloud, which, when the ftorm is over, quickly gives way
to the all-cheering and enlivening beams of the refreshing Sun. And
this is evinced by the admiral's (ignificator having juft feparated from this
malignant configuration, and afterwards forming a propitious Textile afpedt
in the zodiac, and a mundane trine afped to the fecond houfe, the houfe
of profperity, fortune, and riches, aided by Mars, the lord thereof, who is
fituated in the firft houfe, and in his own triplicity.
In examining thefe fignificators, I find Saturn, who reprefents the admi-
ral, is difpofed of by Jupiter, lord of the tenth houfe, the houfe of princes,
which fhows his appointment came from the king himfelf. Venus, lady
of the enemy's houle of fubflance, as well as all the fignificators of the
enemy, and Part of Fortune alfo, are difpofed of by Saturn, lord of the
afcendant ; and Mars, the natural fignificator of war, and lord of the
Britifh admiral's houfe of fubftance and riches, is pofited in the afcend-
ant, in trine to Scorpio, his own fign, in the ninth, the houfe of fea-
voyages ; and, being alfo in his own triplicity, (hows that this voyage
fhall be profperous and important. This judgment is greatly flrength-
ened by the pofition of the propitious fixed ftar Fomahaut in the firft
houfe ; which, being of the nature of Venus and Mercury, and of the
firft magnitude, and joined with Mars in Pifces, declares great riches,
honour, and preferment, (hould be acquired by this voyage, and fuch as
Aould place the noble commander above the frowns and malice of both
his public and private enemies.
The fign in the feventh houfe, and the intercepted fign Virgo, (how the
dcftination of the fleet ; and the Sun and Mercury reprefent the enemies
they (hall meet with ; and, as the lord of the feventh is pofited in a fign
that has more planets within its degrees than one, fo it points out that
the admiral (hall be engaged with more fleets than one. Here is alfo a
moft remarkable reception between Venus and Mars in exaltation ; Mars
being pofited in the fign of the exaltation of Venus, and Venus in the
fign of the exaltation of Mars ; and, as Venus is lady of the enemy's
houfe of fubftance, this reception declares that the Briti(h fleet will cap-
ture many rich and noble prizes, and make great havock with the fub-
ftance or riches of the enemy. Mars being in fextile afpedl with the Part
of Fortune, and the Sun lord of the feventh, (hows thefe prizes (hall be
taken with much fighting. And that the vidtory (hall declare itfelf on the
fide of the Engli(h, is manifefted by Venus, fignificatrix of the enemy's
fubftance, being difpofed of by Saturn, the lord of the afcendant, and fig-
nificator of the Briti(h admiral.
After
OF ASTROLOGY. 359
After duly weighing the probable tendency of all thefe propitious
afpeds, and reflefting that the Moon, whofe influence is confiderable,
is pofited in the dignities of Saturn ; and that Jupiter and Saturn difpofe
of all the planets in the figure ; and likewife that Jupiter and Saturn
are the grand fignificators of the Britifh admiral and fleet ; I boldly af-
firmed this expedition would prove fortunate and fuccefsful, crowning
its commanders, and all under them, with honour, glory, and riches,
and adding immortal fame to the annals of the Britifli page. This is a
fadl that accordingly happened, and fuch as comes within the cognizance
of every individual.
QUESTION XV. On PLACES and PREFERMENTS.
A gentleman who had for fome time been foliciting for promotion in
the army, and had met with feveral unpleafant rebuffs, which made
him almoft defpair of fuccefs, came to a(k my opinion whether, if he
perfevered in his folicitations, he fhould eventually obtain the preferment
he fb much defired. I gave my judgment of this queftion from the
foUowinsr figure.
ATTAIN THE
Promotion defired ?
March 95, llh. 53m. A. M. 1782.
V hor.
i dia. Sub. lat. 50° 50'
Here
36o AN ILLUSTRATION
Here the celeftial Crab afcends upon the horoicope, and the Moon,
llgiiificatrix of the querent, is pofited in the (Ign Leo. The tenth houfe
bears fignificatiou of the querent's honour and promotion ; and the ele-
venth denotes his friends and patrons. The Moon, lady of the afcend-,
ant, being pofited in the fecpnd houfe, out of all her eflential dignities,
declares the querent to be in diftrefTed circumftances, and that his failure
hitherto has been greatly owing to the want of money. His patrons in
the prefent bufinefs are defcribed by Venus, who being pofited in the
fign Pifces, in every degree of her exaltation, (hows them to be of fuf-
ficient weight and intereft to accomplifli his defircs ; and as Venus is
alfo in a propitious Textile afpecl with Mars, and in trine to the afcend-
ant, it indicates that his petition (hall be attended to, and his wishes
gratified.
This judgment is abundantly confirmed by the following confidcra-
tions. The Sun is pofited in. the medium coeli, the houl'e of his ex-,
altation ; and the fortunate node of the Moon is conjoined with him
in the tenth alfo, which is an irrefragable argument of honour and pre-
ferment. It is alfo to be obferved, that the Sun is lord of the fecond
houfe, and difpofes of the Moon, the querent's fignificatrix ; and thus
(hows that his preferment (hould be in the military line. And as a
watery fign rifes upon his afcendant, and occupies the cufp of his ninth
houfe, and as Mercury, lord of his third houfe, is pofited in his ninth,
it declares he (haJl be fubjed to an employment upon water ; and, being
in Scorpio, a fixed fign, denotes the querent (hall be fubjeft to a long
continuance upon the water, and at a great diftance from home. Venus
being lilcewife in the fame fign, in the triplicity of Mars, and Mars in
the triplicity of Venus, and in fextile afped of each other, denotes he
(hall hereafter meet with a number of friends, and prove remarkably
fortunate in his pofl:. This port is reprefented by the fituation of the
Moon in Leo, and Mars in Taurus, and the Sun in Aries, to be a com-
mand on-board (hip, over foldiers or marines ; and this he acknowledged
was what. he had been Ibliciting for, and what I told him he would
certainly fucceed in.
He then requefted me to afcertain the length of time in which I fup-
pofed this command would be given him. I took notice of the degree
the Moon was in, and what applications (he had made. I obferved (lie
had lately been in trine afpe6i of the Sun, which ftrongly prompted the
querent to pu(h forward for promotion ; and her next application, being
tn a trine with her fortunate node, declares this promotion (hall be
very (hortly attained, though with difficulty, becaufe (lie is at the fame
time
OF ASTROLOGY. 361
time forming a quartile afpeft with Mars, which fiiows that fome perfoii
of confequence is endeavouring to exclude him, in order to make way for
another perfon, I further informed him, that the men under his com-
mand would prove faithful and obedient ; and that he himfelf would be
fortunate and fuccefsful in executing his commiflion, and gain confider-
able honour and applaufe. The truth of this prediction was very foon after
exemplified in the rapid progrefs the querent made in all the acquirements
of honour and profperity ; and I have frequently had the plealure of re-
ceiving his thanks for the information I gave him on the above occafion.
QUESTION XVI. On IMPRISONMENT.
A perfon of credit, during the late war, being taken up on fufpicion of
giving private information to the enemy, and of aiding and aflifting in fuch
a traiterous correfpondence, was committed for trial at the enfuing affifes ;
and his wife, under all the horrors of diftrefs and afflidion, came to in-
quire of me how the matter would terminate; whether her hufband would
fufFer death, or be acquitted of the crime laid to his charge.—The anxiety
of the poor woman was a fufficient proof of the fincerity of her defire ;
and therefore, having taken down the precife time of the day, I ere6led
the following fcheme to refolve the queftion
:
No. 19. 4U Sagittarius
362 AN ILLUSTRATION
Sagittarius being upon the cufp of the afcendant, Jupiter is lord there-
of, and the querent's fignificator. Gemini defcends on the cufp of the
feventh, and gives Mercury as fignificator of the hulband ; the twelfth
houfe fignifies the prifon and the prifoner's profecutors ; the tenth houfe
and its lord denote the judge ; and the fourth houfe declares the trial, or
termination of the matter.
Now Mercury, the lord of the feventh houfe, and fignificator of the
hufband, is pofited in the twelfth, the houfe of imprifonment, and is dif-
pofed of by Mars, the fignificator of private enemies, who is pofited in
the tenth houfe, or medium cceli, which here fignifies the houfe of juf-
tice and mercy. The afcendant denotes the prifoner's open enemies or
accufers ; and, as Jupiter is pofited therein, ftrong, and in conjundlion of
Saturn, lord of the fecond, it fhows his profecutors are perfons of rank
and power, who are pofTeffed of every ability to carry on the profecution
againft him. The Moon, lady of the houfe of death, being in the fourth,
in trine to the afcendant, (hows that the accufation or indiftment is of
fuch a nature as threatens the prifoner's life. But finding the Dragon's
Tail in the tenth, and the Part of Fortune in the fixth, difpofed of by
Venus, and at the fame time in oppofition to Mercury, the prifoner's fig-
nificator, I was clearly of opinion that the diflribution of money among
thofe who appeared to be his friends would greatly tend to fave his life
and facilitate his enlargement.
Finding the Moon, lady of the eighth houfe of the figure, pofited in
the fourth, and going to an oppofition of Mars and Venus, I hereby
imagined the prifoner would run a great hazard of his life in attempting
to efcape out of prifon, by being fired upon ; and this I found afterwards
happened, though no farther mifchief enfued. I next confidered the ap-
plication of the Moon, after her feparation from the above afpe£ts ; and
I found her going to a propitious trine-afpedl with Jupiter, the fignifica-
tor of his enemies, and thence applying to an oppofition of the Sun, and
to a fign of Saturn ; and as Saturn is lord of the eighth houfe, and the
Moon lady of his fecond, I judged that he would efcape the hand of juf-
tice by being admitted an evidence, which, in the courfe of a few months
afterwards really happened, to the prefervation of his own life, and the
deftrudlion of that of his accomplice.
Thus have I given fufficient examples of the verity and utility of
Aftrology in the queftionary way ; which though not of fo much import-
ance, nor always attended with fo much certainty, as the genethliacal,
yet is not to be wholly difregarded, fince in many cafes, as we have
abundantly
OF ASTROLOGY. 365
abundantly fhown, it may fafely be relied on. I (hall therefore difmifs
this part of the fcience, with once more obferving, that horary queftions
(hould never be made ufe of when the querent's nativity can be had ; as
fo much more certainty depends upon the one than upon the other, and
of courfe affords greater fatisfadion to every perfou who bends his mind
to the knowledge of futurity.
Before I enter upon the management of Nativities, it will not be im-
proper, in this place, to give the rules by which the reader may be enabled
to afcertain the kind of perfon each planet reprefents when fignificator, in
in all or any of the twelve figns of the zodiac. By the help of thefe, it
is eaiy to determine what kind of a perfon the new-born babe will be
when it arrives to the years of maturity ; and we can alfo, by the fame
means, as truly defcribe the ftature, complexion, make, and difpofition, of
a perfon we never faw, provided the true time of birth be previoufly
known. Thefe rules are, therefore, abfolutely necefTary to be well under-
ftood by every perfon who is defirous of calculating a nativity.
PERSONS defcribed by SATURN in the TWELVE SIGNS of the
ZODIAC.
Saturn in the fign Aries reprefents a perfon of a frefh ruddy com-
plexion, fpare and large-boned, full face, deep voice, dark hair, with lit-
tle beard ; addi6ted to felf-commendation and praife ; and given to boaft-
ing of valour and courageous undertakings, when there is but little caufe ;
being generally a contentious quarrelfome bravado, and confequently very
ill-natured.
Saturn in Taurus defcribes an uncomely perfon, of a heavy, lumpifli,
aukward, appearance, with dark hair, rough (kin, middling ftature, of a
rugged uneven difpofition, inclinable to vicious and fordid anions, unlefs
the fortunate ftars, by their propitious rays, modify and temper this other-
wife-baiieful influence.
Saturn in Gemini reprefents a perfon of a moderately-tall ftature, of a
dark fanguine complexion, oval vifage, and well-proportioned body ; the
hair either dark-brown or black. The native is generally very ingenious,
but unfortunate in moft of his undertakings ; his difpofition is naturally
perverfe, felfifti, and crafty, and therefore warily to be dealt with.
Saturn in Cancer denotes one of a weak and infirm conftitution of
body, of a thjn middling ftature, rather ill-proportioned, and fometimes
crooked ;;
364 AN ILLUSTRATION
crooked ; a pale meagre countenance, fad brown hair, and languid eyes
;
of a morofe and jealous difpofition, leaning to vicious inclinations, and
very deceitful in his dealings.
'Saturn in Leo gives a perfon of a moderate large ftature, broad round
flioulders, wide cheft, light brown hair, of a furly auftere afpeft, rather
lean, and hollow-eyed, large bones and mufcles, and bends or ftoops for-
ward in going. The qualities of the mind and difpofition are tolerably
good, and carry an appearance of noblenefs and generofity ; though fome-
what pafTionate, and eager of revenge, but neither courageous nor valiant
when put to the teft.
Saturn in Virgo reprefents a perfon of a tall fpare body, fwarthy com-
plexion, dark-brown or black hair, and much of it ; a long vifage, and
folid countenance; but generally an unfortunate perfon, much inclined to
melancholy, and retaining anger long; a projedlor of many curiofi ties to
little purpofe; ftudious, fubtle, and referved; and, unlefs fome other con-
figurations of the planets contradi6i, is too much addided to pilfering and
indireft dealing.
Saturn in Libra defcribes a perfon above the middle ftature, tolerably
handfome, brown hair, an oval face, a large nofe and forehead, a mode-
rately clear complexioii, yet not beautiful; not willing to entertain low
or mean thoughts of himfelf ; fomewhat prodigal in expences, and con-
fequently rarely leaving any confiderable eftate behind them for their chil-
dren to enjoy ; they are eafily moved to controverfy and debate, and ottea
come ofFvidors.
Saturn in Scorpio reprefents a perfon of a middling ftature, a fquare, thick,
well-fet, body, broad fhoulders, black or dark hair, and ufually fliort and
thick ; very quarrelfome and contentious, delights to create mifchief, and
to promote violent and dangerous actions, though to his detriment and in-
felicity.
Saturn in Sagittarius ufually gives a full ftature, brown hair, the
body very conformable and decent, the complexion not much amifs ; a
difpofition fufficiently obliging, not courteous, but moderately frugal,
rarely profufe, but fomewhat choleric, and by no means able to bear
an affront, yet willing to do good to all, and fometimes too apt to com-
ply, and rafhly make fuch promifes as cannot conveniently be performed
without prejudice ; a real lover of his friend, and merciful to an enemy.
Saturn
OF ASTROLOGY. 365
Saturn in Capricorn perfonates a lean raw-boned peifon, with dark-
brown or black hair, a rough (kin, a middle ftature, rather inclined to
brevity than tallnefs, an obfcure fallow complexion, little eyes, long
vifage, and an ill pofture in going. For the qualities of the mind, Saturn
fo pofited and fignificator, ufually gives a difcontented, melancholy,
peevifli, perfon, covetous of the goods of this life, not addi6Ved to ufe
many words, a lover of the earth, and all things of profit produced from
thence, fearful, fabje^l to retain anger, and rarely wants a reafonabie por-
tion of gravity.
Saturn in Aquarius reprefents a full ftature, a large head and face, the
body rather inclinable to corpulency than otherwife, dark-brown hair,
and a clear complexion, a fober graceful deportment, very affable and
courteous, of an excellent fearching fancy, and generally a very happy
proficient in what he labours after, whether in fciences or curious arts ;
apt to conceit and think well of his own powers and abilities, and there-
fore fubje£l to no ill-becoming pride, but naturally a perfon of a very
pregnant genius.
Saturn in Pifces reprefents a perfon of a middle ftaturc, pale 'com-
plex^n, with hair tending to blacknefs, a large head, and a full eye
;
fometimes the teeth diftorted ; not very comely, yet adive, and too much
inclined to diffimulation ; contentious, malicious, and prone to many ill
adions, which abate as the perfon grows in years ; not loquacious, but
very deliberate. In fine, it denotes an uncertain fickle perfon in moft
things, one that is able to prefent a good outfide, but will prove in the end
fraudulent and deceitful, and therefore warily to be confided in.
PERSONS reprefented by JUPITER in each of the TWELVE SIGNS.
Jupiter in Aries defcribes a middle-flatured perlbn, of a ruddy com-
plexion, with light-brown or flaxen hair, quick and piercing eyes, a high
nofe, and fometimes pimples in the face, an oval vifage, the body rather
lean than corpulent ; but generally a perfon of a noble and free difpofition,
One that loves a good outfide, and to demean himfelf with much generofity
amoiigft his friends and aflbciates, and confequently very obliging and
complacent.
Jupiter in Taurus gives a perfon of a middle ftature, well fet, afwarthy
complexion, brown ruggtd hair, fomewhat curling or frizzled, a vvell-
compaded body, but not decent; the difpofition reafonably good, the
No. 19. 4 X judgment
366 AN ILLUSTRATION
judo^ment found, and a perfon of iio contemptible deportment ; a lover of
the female fex, and generally good-natured, and free to fuch objeds as de-
ferve charity and compaffion.
Jupiter in Gemini reprefents a decent well-compofed body, with fan-
cruine complexion, not very clear ; a perfop above a middle ftature, rather
tall than otherwife, brown hair, full becoming eyes, a graceful deportment;
very affable and courteous ; a gentle, mild, obliging, perfon ; an admirer
of the female fex, efpecially thofe of the mofl refined wit and beauty ; a
o^eneral lover of learning ; but, if Jupiter be near violent fixed flars, it
renders the perfon rafh and unftable in his adtions, and confequently in-
imical to himfelf, and unacceptable to others.
Jupiter in Cancer gives a perfon of a middle feature, a pale unwhole-
fome fickly complexion, flefhy, or inclinable to corpulency ; dark-brown
hair and oval face, and the body moflly difproportioned ; a bufy
loquacious perfon, too apt to intermeddle with other men's affairs, con-
ceited and high, has no mean thoughts of his own abilities, a great lover
of women, fortunate by water, and dehghts to be thereon, and yet a per-
fon of very little courage or valour, unlefs his fignificator be well beheld
of Mars. •
^
Jupiter in Leo reprefents a Arong well-proportioned body, tall of flature,
light brown or yellowifh curling hair, ruddy complexion, full eye, and a
perfon fufficiently comely ; in difpoiition very noble-minded, courageous,
magnanimous, lofty ; delighting in valiant warlike adlions and achieve-
ments, he proves a terror to his enemies, and a perfon that fcorns to bend
to an adverfary, but will encounter with any danger or hazard for the fake
of honour.
Jupiter in Virgo gives a perfon of a reafonably full (lalure, brown hair
tending to blacknefs, ruddy complexion, but not fair or clear, a well-built
perfon, and one we term handfome, having a due proportion and confor-
mity in all the members; in difpofition fomewhat choleric, and ambitious
of honour, inclinable to boafling, fludious, yet covetous, and through rafh-
uefs fubjedt to lofTes in flate ; in fine, not eafily wrought upon by any
perfon.
Jupiter in Libra perfonates a complete body, an inviting countenance,
a mofl clear complexion, a full eye, an upright flature, rather tall than
otherwife, not grofs but flender, an oval face, light-brown hair, fome-
times
OF ASTROLOGY. ^^y
times flaxen, fubjedl to pimples in the face ; ot very mild difpofition and
winning behaviour, a great delighter in noble exercifes and recreations,
obliging to all perfons ; and confequently gains much honour and ef-
teem.
Jupiter in Scorpio reprefents a perfon of middle ftature, a well-com-
pacted body, brown hair, a full flefhy face, a dull complexion ; but, in
difpofition, a lofty, proud, ambitious, perfon ; one that defires and endea-
vours to bear rule over his equals, refolute and ill-natured, covetous,
and guilty of too much fubtlety in all his aftions ; and therefore ought
warily to be dealt with by thofe who (hall be concerned with fuch a
perfon.
Jupiter in Sagittarius gives an upright tall ftature of body, chefnut-
Goloured hair, oval face, ruddy complexion, much beard, a good eye,
a perfon every way decently compofed ; in difpofition very courteous
and affable, of a mofl noble graceful deportment and behaviour, jufl in
all his adions, and injurious to none, generally a great lover of horfes ;
and, in fine, a mofl accomplifhed perfon, deferving commendation and
more than ordinary refpeft from all perfons with whom he converfes
and alTociates.
Jupiter in Capricorn gives a mean ftature of body, a pale complexion,
thin face, little head, not much beard, a fmali weakly perfon generally,
yet ingenious ; brown hair, fometimes the beard lighter of colour than
the hair of the head ; in qualities and conditions not very commendable,
low-fpirited, peevifh, not very a6live, nor fortunate in the world, unlefs
fome other teftimonies aflifl ; in line, a very helplefs, indigent, harmlefs,
perfon.
Jupiter in Aquarius perfonates a middle ftature, brown hair, indif-
ferently well fet, a clear complexion, rather a corpulent body than other-
wife, and weli-compafted ; in difpofition cheerful and affable, hurtful
to none, but obliging to all, delights in decent and moderate recreation,
very juft and merciful, even to thofe that are enemies ; in fhort, a very
good-humoured, laborious, induftrious perfon, rarely guilty of an ex-
travagance, but generally of a very commendable difpofition and deport-
ment.
Jupiter in Pifces defcribes a perfon of a middling llature, of a dark
complexion, fie (hy body, and light-brown hair; a harmlefs creature, yet
ftudious
368 AN ILLUSTRATION
ftudious in profound matters, and endowed with very excellent natural
parts and acquirements, fortunate upon the water, and one that gains love
from thofe he hath converfation with ; fometimes proves a good friend,
and delights in good company, if the Moon dart her quartile or oppofite
afpe<5ls.
Jupiter ufijaily fignifies good teeth, as Saturn doth the contrary, and
fometimes produces fomc apparent mark in the fore-teeth; Jupiter, in an
airy fign, gives broad fore-teeth ; in a fi«ry fign, crooked, or diftorted ;
in an earthy fign, foul teeth ; but, in a watery fign, the teeth decay fud-
denly, and grow black or rotten ; and this the more certain if Jupiter be
in any bad afpeft of Saturn or Mars, or in conjundion with the Dragon's
Tail.
When Jupiter is fignificator, and pofited in a watery fign, the perfon
is fat and comely ; in an airy fign, more ftrong and corpulent, with a
decent comelinefs and proportion of body ; in an earthy fign, a well-com-
pofed body, not fat nor lean, but a mediocrity, provided he has not much
latitude, and in no afpe6t with other planets ; but if in a fiery fign, the
body is rather fquare than corpulent. If Jupiter be fignificator, and po-
fited in a watery fign, the perfon has fome impediment in his fpeech, or
fpeaks with great deliberation : this is the more certain, if in quartile or
oppofition to Mercury.
PERSONS defcribed by MARS in each of the TWELVE SIGNS.
Mars in Aries reprefents a perfon of a middle ftature, of a fwarthy
complexion, well fet, large bones, light hair, or fometimes red and curl-
ing, and an auftere countenance ; if Mars be occidental, the complexion
is more ruddy, and the body more fmooth ; if oriental, the perfon is taller
of ftatnre, and the complexion not fo fwarthy, and it renders the native
more comely and valiant ; in difpofition, Mars in Aries ever fhows a bold,
confident, undaunted, perfon, choleric, lofty, defirous to bear rule over
others, and fcorns to fubjeft himfelf to any perfon; a true lover of war,
and often gains preferment and great advantage thereby.
Mars in Taurus gives a middle-ftatured perfon, well fet, rather (hort
than tall, pretty corpulent, of no clear complexion, brown or black rug-
ged hair, a broad face, wide mouth, generally a well-fet body, fometimes
ruddy, and marked in the face ; it reprefents a profligate perfon, one that
gives himfelf much liberty in all manner of vicious adions, as gaming,
drinking.
OF ASTROLOGY. 369
drinking, wenching, &c. and, in fine, a very treacherous, debauched,
ill-natured, unfortunate, perfon, \inlels the fortunes interpctfe their
fiiendly rays. If Mars be near the Pleiades, this defcription is ag-
gravated.
Mars in Gemini perfonates a reafonably-tall ftature, black or brown
hair; the beginning of the fign gives it lighter; if it falls near Alde-
baran, the connplexion is tending to fanguine, the body well proportion-
ed, and the members conformable, but a very unfettled perfon in moft
of his aftions, yet ingenious in many things, though unfortunate in all;
and generally lives in fome mean condition, (hifting here and there, ex-
ercifing his wits for a livelihood.
o
Mars in Cancer gives a fhort perfon, of bad complexion, brown hair,
and much of it ; a difproportioned body, fometimes crooked, and the
condition of the mind for the moft part as crooked ; a dull fottifh perfon
of few or no commendable adions, unfortunate, always engaged in fome
fervile or mean employment, and is rarely capable of better.
Mars in Leo, gives a ftrong able-bodied perfon, of a fun-burnt com-
plexion, tall, with light flaxen hair, large limbs, and great eyes ; a hafty
choleric perfon, whofe paffion too often over-fways his reafon ; delights
in warlike exercifes, as ftiooting, riding, fighting, &c. but naturally a
noble, generous, free-fpirited, perfon, elpecially to fuch as obferve him,
and endeavour to oblige him.
Mars in Virgo gives a middle-ftatured well-proportioned body, black
or dark brown hair, the complexion fwarthy, and fometimes a fear or
blemifh in the face ; a hafty revengeful perfon, too fubjeft to paflion, and
apt to retain an injury a long time in his memory ; very humourfome,
and difficult to be pleafed ; conceited, but generally unfortunate in all or
moft of his a6lions.
Mars in Libra gives a well-proportioned body, fomewhat tall, light-
brown hair, oval face, and fanguine complexion ; a brifk cheerful afpe6^,
a lover of the female fex, conceited of his own abilities, inclinable to
boafting, delights in noble recreations, loves neatnefs in his apparel, and
is generally beloved of women, but often to his prejudice.
Mars in Scorpio gives a well-fet middle ftature, black curling hair,
broad face, corpulent body, and fwarthy complexion ; in difpofition a
No. 19, 4 Y very
370 AN ILLUSTRATION
very ill-humoured perfon, paflionate, quarrelfome, unfociable, rafti, re-
vengeful, and ungrateful; but notwithflanding his ill-nature, he has
fome good qualities intermixed with them; a perfon of quick and ready
apprehenfion, and becomes excellent in any thing his adiive fancy leads
him to the infpedion of.
Mars ia Sagittarius gives a tall perfon, with a well-proportioned body
neatly compared, fanguine complexion, brown hair, oval vifage, quick
eye ; a perfon of a large heart, and of a choleric hafty difpofition ; yet a
cheerful merry jovial companion, aflive, courageous, loquacious, delights
in neatnefs, and loves to hear himfelf applauded by others; and is, in fine,
of no contemptible humour or temper.
Mars in Capricorn gives a mean ftature, a lean body, an ill complexion,
and black lank hair ; a thin face, little head, but an ingenious perfon, and
of a refolute good difpofition, a penetrating fancy, and generally very for-
tunate, and happy in moft of his undertakings.
Mars in Aquarius defcribes one of a well-compofed body, reafonably
corpulent, reddifh or fandy-coloured hair, a moderately-clear complexion,
middle feature, but of a turbulent fpirit, too much addicted to contro-
verfy, many times to the detriment of body and eftate, if other teftimo-
nies do not occui
.
Mars in Pifces gives a raean-ftatured perfon, rather fhort and fleftiy
than otherwife, no handfome body nor good complexion, a light brown
or fair flaxen hair, a fottifti kind of debauched perfon, very dull and ftupid,
yet a lover of women ; a mere diflembler, an idle companion, not a
friend to himfelf or others.
If Mars be in conjunftion, quartile, or oppofition, of Saturn, or with
the Dragon's Tail, and they in angles, then the native is more fierce and
violent ; in fiery figns he is choleric and hafty, and many times hath a
falling-in of the cheeks ; in other figns the face is more full and flelhy ;
Mars in earthy figns renders the native of a fullen temper, not courteous
or affable ; in airy figns, more free and obliging ; in watery figns, fome-
What ftupid and fottifti, unlefs he be well beheld of Jupiter, Sol, or Luija ;
their friendly afpe6ts do fomething meliorate the aforcfaid fignifications,
which muft be warily confidered by the ingenious artifl: in his judgment ;
as alfo the nature of thofe fixed ftars that are joined to the particular
fignificator.
PERSONS
OF ASTROLOGY. 371
PERSONS defcribed by the MOON in each of the TWELVE SIGNS-
The Moon in Aries defcribes a perfon of an indifferent ftature of
body, a round face, light brown or flaxen hair, reafoiiably corpulent or
flefhy, and a nnoderately-good complexion ; in difpofition a mutable
perfon, rafh and pafTionate, ambitious of honour, and of an afpiring
fancy, but rarely fortunate, or at leaft continues but a fliort time in fuch
a condition.
The Moon in Taurus gives a vvell-compofed body, of a middle ftature,
rather inclinable to brevity, a corpulent flrong body, of no clear com-
plexion, brown or black hair ; a perfon of a gentle difpofition and oblio--
ing temper, of fober carriage and deportment, jufl in all his anions,
and confequently gains refpedt from all perfons he converfes with ; and
alfo eafily attains preferment in the world, fuitable to his decree and
quality of birth.
The Moon in Gemini perfonates a well-compofed body, and tal! ;
brown hair, good complexion, not fanguine or pale, but between both ;
the members well-proportioned, and the body very upright and comelv ;
the difpofition not commendable, but rather offenfive ; an inorenious fub-
tle perfon, remarkably crafty, yet generally unfortunate, unlefs other tef-
ti monies afTifl.
The Moon in Cancer reprefents a middle-flatured perfon, well-pro-
portioned and flefhy ; a round full face, brown hair, pale dufkilTi com-
plexion ; in difpofition flexible, jocular, and pleafant ; often addicted to
good fellowfhip, very harmlefs, and generally well beloved ; fortunate in
mofl affairs, yet mutable and uncertain in his refolves, but free from paf-
fion or rafh adions.
The Moon in Leo denotes a perfon fomevvhat above the middle flature,
a well-proportioned body, flrong and large boned, fanguine complexion,
light brown hair, full faced, large eyes; in difpofition a lofty, proud,
afpiring, perfon, very ambitions of honour, defirous to bear rule over
others, but abhors fervitude or fubjedion, and rarely proves a fortunate
perfon.
The Moon in Virgo fignifies a perfon fomething above the middle fla-
ture, brown or black hair, an oval face, fomewhat of a ruddy com-
plexion; in difpofition an ingenious perfon, melancholy, very referved,.
covetous, unfortunate, and rarely performs any commendable a(5]ion.
The
372 AN ILLUSTRATION
The Moon in Libra fignifies a well-compofed body, neatly compadled,
moderately tall of ftatu re, fnnooth light brown hair, and fanguine com-
plexion mixed with white ; the difpofition no iefs pleafant ; a very jocund
perfon, a lover of mirth and recreation, as alfo very well refpefled of the
female fex in general. If a woman, fhe will be admired, or at leaft
courted by many lovers ; yet fubje<Sl to misfortunes, unlefs Venus be well
placed, and in good afpeft to the Sun, Moon, or Jupiter.
The Moon in Scorpio reprefents an ill-fafhioned perfon, thick, and
ftiort, flefhy, and of a very obfcure complexion, brown or black hair, and,
in (hort, a very ill-difpofed perfon, and rarely qualified with any good
humours ; fottifh, malicious, and treacherous, unlefs alleviated with
good education, or the Moon be in fbme good afpe6t of the fortunes ; if
a female, fhe rarely lives free from fevere cenfure, and not without defert,
except the Moon be befriended by fome benevolent configuration of good
planets.
The Moon in Sagittarius gives a handfome well-proportioned body, an
oval face, bright brown hair, and fanguine complexion ; a generous free-
fpirited perfon, paflionate for a (hort time, ambitious, aiming at great
things, generally of an obliging temper, and confequently gains refpc(5t of
fuch perfons as he or (he aflbciates with.
The Moon in Capricorn fignifies a perfon of a low ftature, and of an
ill complexion, a fpare thin body and face, brown or black hair, fome-
times a defed or weaknefs in the knees, and at be(^ no ftrong-bodied per-
fon; one of fmall activity or ingenuity; inclinable notwithfl:anding
to debauchery and mean a6lions, which renders him a perfon but of
low efleem ; yet, if the Moon receives the friendly rays of Jupiter, the
Sun, or Venus, from good places of the figure, the difpofition is thereby
much corre6ted.
The Moon in Aquarius gives a perfon of a middle (Mature, not tall or
(hort, but between both; the body well-proportioned, but rather cor-
pulent ; brown hair, and clear fanguine complexion ; an ingenious per-
fon, of a very affable courteous difpofition, inoffenfive to all, loves
curious and moderate recreation, apt for invention, which confequently
/hows an aftive fancy, a pregnant brain, and one who is rarely guilty of
any unworthy adlion.
The
OF ASTROLOGY. 373
The Moon in Pifces delcribes a perfon of a mean or low ftature of body,
atvd the complexion rather pale than otherwife, the hair a bright brown,
the body plump or fat, a perfon not much delighting in aftion, unlefs
of the worfl: kind, and unfortunate in moft undertakings, neither good for
himfelf or others ; the difpofition may be fomewhat meliorated, provided
the Moon be pofited in a good place of the figure, and in afped with good
and adjuvant planets, which muft alfo be confidered of all the planets in
their particular Significations, efpecially of the difpofition and qualities of
the mind, throughout all the twelve figns.
PERSONS reprefented by VENUS in each of the TWELVE SIGNS.
Venxts in Aries gives a middle flature, rather flender than grofs bodied,
light hair, and ufually feme marks or fears in the face ; a good com-
plexion ; but generally a very unfortunate penfive perfon, neither lucky
to himfelf nor to any other he has concerns with ; the reafon is, becaufe
Venus receives her detriment in Aries.
Venus in Taurus gives a comely perfon, of mean ftature, a ruddy com-
plexion, but not clear, brown hair, and plump body, not grofs, but de-
cently compofed; a mild-tempered perfon, of a winning difpofition,
fortunate in moft of his adions; injurious to none, but rather obliging to
ail, thereby gaining a general refpcdl from moft perfons he converfes
wish.
Venus in Gemini ufually gives a perfon above a middle ftature, reafon-
ably tall, a flender well-compofed ftraight body, brown hair, and a mode-
i-ately cleair complexion ; in difpofition a good-humoured loving perfon,
very liberal to fuch as appear fit objects af charity, and is eafily wroug-ht
upon to do good, being a lover of all juft adions, and rarely guilty of any
t^ing which is diftronourable or unworthy.
VenUB i« 'Caryoer generally reprefents a ^ort ftature, round face, fttidy
paie complexion ; light-coloured hair, and a reafonably-corpuleut body;
m difpofitidnan idle flothful perfon, too much addi6tcd to good fellowfliip
and recreations of the meaner fort ; but puts the bcft fide outward, atid
feems to be in earneft when he is not ; in fine, it ftiows a very mutable
incon-ftant perfon in moft of his anions.
Vidfittft in Leo gives a reafonably^taH perfon, and the memtbers wisli
(idftYpa£ted; clear complexion, round face, full eye, ibmetimes freckles
No. 19. 4 Z in
374 AN ILLUSTRATION
in the face, light brown or flaxen hair, and many times of a fandy red ;
in difpofition not to be difliked, as being foon angry, and quickly appeafed;
of a generous free difpofition, a little addi61ed to pride, but not in the ex-
treme ; often indifpoled in body, but not much prejudiced thereby ; a fo-
ciable good-humoured perfon in general.
Venus in Virgo gives a tall well-proportioned body, an oval face, brown
or black hair, dark complexion, an ingenious perfon, and a good orator,
but fomewhat unfortunate in his affairs ; a fubtle adive perfon, of an
afpiring fancy, but rarely attains his defires.
Venus in Libra gives an upright tall perfon, a vvell-compofed body, with
a conformity in all the members ; fanguine complexion, brown hair, fome-
timcs freckles in the face, and dimples in the cheeks ; in difpofition, a per-
fon of an obliging deportment, and generally well-beloved of mofl: he has
any dealings or converfation with.
Venus in Scorpio reprefents a well-fet body, reafonably corpulent, a
broad face, dulkifti complexion, and fad-brown or black hair; but in dif-
pofition a very debauched perfon, too fubjeft to contention and envy ;
guilty of many vicious aftions, and this the rather if Venus happens to be
in any ill afpe6l with Saturn or Mars.
Venus in Sagittarius gives a perfon rather tall than otherwife, of a mo-
derately clear complexion, tending to fanguine, brown hair, oval vifage,
and a very proportionable body in general. In difpofition very generous,
one that aims at no mean or bafe things; a commendable deportment,
fomewhat proud, and a little paffionate ; yet in general of a good temper,
and no way to be dilliked, delighting in harmlefs recreations ; and, in fine,
a very obliging fortunate perfon.
Venus in Capricorn reprefents a mean ftature, rather inclining to bre-
vity than otherwife; of a pale fickly complexion, thin-faced, dark hair,
tending to black ; in difpofition none of the befl: ; a general lover of wo-
men ; or, if a woman, a delighter in the courtfhip and dalliance of men ;
one that loves pleafure ; not fortunate, but too fubjecSl: to change his
ftation, and fufFer fudden changes in his affairs.
Venus in Aquarius perfonates a handfome perfon, reafonably corpulent,
clear complexion, and brown hair generally, but fometimes of a flaxen
colour; in quality and difpofition exceedingly good and commendable; a
very
OF ASTROLOGY. 37^
very affable courteous perfon, inclinable to few or no vicious adions; one
that loves civil recreation, a peaceable quiet perfon, obliging to all, fortu-
nate in his affairs, and well refpeded by his friends and acquaintance in
general.
Venus in Pifces perfonates a middle-ftaturcd body, of a moderately o-ood
complexion, between pale and ruddy, a round face, brown hair, fome-
times flaxen, with a dimple in the chin, a flefliy plump perfon ; in difpo-
fition a good-humoured creature, juft: in his adions, very mild and peace-
able ; ingenious, but fomewhat mutable in his refolutions, and moderately
fortunate in the world.
PERSONS defcribed by MERCURY in each of the TWELVE SIGNS.
Mercury in Aries gives a body of a mean ftature, fpare and thin, an
oval face, light brown hair, fubjed to curling ; no clear complexion, a
very ill-difpofed mind, and much addided to theft, and fuch-like unwor-
thy adlions.
Mercury in Taurus gives a perfon neither tall nor very fhort of ftature,
but a well-fet corpulent body, of a fwarthy fun-burnt complexion, brown
hair, ffiort and thick ; in difpofition a very flothful idle perfon, one that
loves his eafe and his belly well, and takes pleafure amongft women to
his own detriment and misfortune.
Mercury in Gemini gives a reafonably-tall perfon, an upright ftraight
body, every way well-compofed, brown hair, and good complexion ; in-
difpofition very ingenious, a good orator, and fometimes becomes a very
cunning lawyer, or a perfon dealing in books, &c. In ftiort. Mercury
in Gemini gives a perfon that well underftands his own intereft, and
is rarely overcome by the moft fubtle politician, or deluded by the moft
crafty knave that he may have occafion to encounter with ; but generally
out-wits the moft cunning fophiftry, efpecially if Mercury be no way
affliaed.
Mercury in Cancer perfonates a low or ffiort ftature of body, of an ill
complexion, dark hair, thin face, ftiarp nofe, and little eyes ; and in dif-
pofition a mere diflembler, a fottifh kind of pot-companion, and light-
fingered ; alfo an ill-natured perfon, unlefs the Moon and Jupiter be in
good afpe6l with Mercury.
Mercury
^^ AN ILLtrSTRATION
Merctrry in Leo gives a pcrfon of a pretty large ftature of body, btit
tro clear complexaon, rather fwanhy or fun-burnt, light brown hair, round
fece, full eye, and a broad or high nofe ; in difpofition a hafty choleric
proud conceited perfon, ambitious of honour, a boafter, and too often fub-
jeft to contention.
Mercury in Virgo defcribes a tall, flender, well-proportioned, p«rfon,
daiik-brown or black hair, no clear complexion, a long vifagc, and
an auftere afpedl ; in difpofition and qualities of mind a mod ingenious
perfon, a profound wit and fearching fancy, capable of attaining divers
languages, befides other rare accomplilhments ; and this in a greater
degree, provided Mercury be free from afHiftion. But it muft be under-
ftood, that every perfon who has Mercury for his fignificator, and fo
pofited, mufl: not expe61 fuch qualifications ; for the capacity of birth,
parents, and education, muft: alfo be confidered, and guide every judicious
artifl: in his judgmeirt.
Mercury in Libra defcribes a decent-compofed body, rather tail than
otherwife, light-brown fmooth hair, ruddy or fanguine complexion,
the body realonably corpulent ; in difpofition a very juft: and virtuous
perfon, prudent, a lover and promoter of learning. In fhort, a perfon
moft happily qualified with both natural and acquired accomplidk-
ments.
Mercury in Scorpio gives a perfon of a mean ftature, well-fct, broad
fhoulders, fwarthy complexion, brown hair curling, with an ill-compofed
body ; fuch a perfon is very fubtle, a lover of the female fex, inolinafele
to company, and does many a6ls of good fellowfhip ; ingenious, and
ftudiotis for the promotion of his own intereft.
Mercury in Sagittarius perfonates a tall ftature, a well-fhaped body,
not corpulent, but rather large-boned and fpare, an oval face, brown
hair, ruddy complexion, and large nofe ; for qualities and conditions,
paftionate, but foon appeafed ; too rafh in his actions, which many times
occafion his own detriment, but good-conditioned in general, and delights
in noble things, yet rarely attains his ends.
Mercury in Capricorn fignifies a perfon of mean ftature, thin face,
brown hair, and duflcifh complexion ; fometimes bow-kggcd, or fome
defeat in thofe members. In dilpofition peevifli, difoontented, and un-
fortunate, unlefs other teftimonies concur ; in fine, an impotent deje6lcd.
peffon.
Mercury
OF ASTROLOGY. 377
Mercury in Aquarius denotes a perfon of an indifferent ftature of body,
reafonably corpulent and flefliy, a good clear complexion, brown hair, full
face ; in difpofition an ingenious obliging perfon, inclinable to the ftudy
of arts and fciences, of a pregnant wit, and apt to find out many curious
inventions.
Mercury in Pifces gives a perfon of a low flature, brown hair, thin
face, of a pale and (Ickly complexion, generally very hairy upon the body;
in difpofition a repining difconfolate perfon, yet a lover of women,
and addifted to drinking ; and confequently the greatelt enemy to
himfelf.
PERSONS defcribed by the SUN in each of the TWELVE SIGNS.
The Sun pofited in Aries, which is accounted his exaltation, defcribes
a perfon of a reafonable ftature of body, ftrong and well compofed, a
good complexion, though not very clear, light hair, flaxen or yellowifh;
a noble fpirit, very courageous and valiant; delights in all warlike adl^ions,
gains vi6lory and honour thereby; appears a terror to his enemjes, and
makes himfelf famous in his generation, fometimes even beyond his capa-
city of birth.
The Sun in Taurus reprefents a (hort well-fet perfon, with brown
hair, not very comely, a dark complexion, wide mouth, great nofe,
broad face, a good confident bold perfon, fufficiently ftrong, and not
a little proud; delighting much in oppofing others, and generally becomes
conqueror.
The Sun in Gemini reprefents a well-proportioned body, of fanguine
complexion, above the middle ftature, brown hair ; a perfon of a
good difpofition, affable and courteous to all, not very unfortunate in
any affairs, fubjeft to the checks and controlment of others, and patiently
pafles over flight abufes, which fliows him to be a very mild-tempered
perfon.
The Sun in Cancer perfonates or reprefents a mean ftature, of an ill
complexion, with fome deformity in the face, very unhealthy afped,
brown hair, and an ill-proportioned body ; but very harmlefs and inno-
cent, cheerful, and a lover of the females ; alfo an admirer of muCc,
dancing, and fuch kind of recreations ; but cares not to follow any labo-
rious employment.
No. 19. 5 A The
378 AN ILLUSTRATION
The Sun in Leo gives a ftrong well-proportioned perfon, of a very lan-
guine complexion, light brown or yellowifli hair, full face, and large eyes,
Ibmetimc; a mark or fear in the face; a very honeft perfon, faithful to
his friends, pundual in the performance of his promife, yet delights to
take his pleaiure, is ambitious of honour, whether in war or otherwife
;
and ulually promotes all things in order thereto.
The Sun in Virgo gives a perfon fomewhat above the middle feature,
a well-proportioned body, not corpulent, but rather {lender ; good com-
plexion ; the hair brown, and much of it ; in difpofition an ingenious cheer-
ful perfon, enjoying all decent recreations, particularly thofe which delight
the ear and the palate^
The Sun in Libra gives an upright flraight body, an oval face, and
ruddy cheerful complexion, light hair, full eyes, and fometimes pimples
in the face ; a very unfortunate perfon in all or moft of his adtions, efpe-
cially in warlike affairs; for therein he is fure to come off" with difhonour,
if he efcapes other dangers, unlefs his fignificator be befriended by fome
potent benign planet.
The Sun in Scorpio gives a (quare body, full face, cloudy complexion,
fun-burnt, brown hair, a very plump flefliy body in general; in difpofition
an ingenious perfon, but of a rugged nature; ambitious of honour; one
that would not willingly admit of an equal ; fortunate upon the feas, or
in the pradlice of phylic.
The Sun in Sagittarius gives a tall, well-proportioned, comely perfon,
with an oval vifage, fanguine complexion, and light-brown hair. For
qualities and difpofition, a very lofty proud-fpirited perfon ; aiming at
great things, and too fevere in the exercife of his power ; yet fome ho-
nourable exploits are performed by him, which add much to his commen-
dation, and render him confpicuous.
The Sun in Capricorn ufually reprefents a mean ftature, a fickly com-
plexion, brown hair, not curling, an oval face, a fpare thin body, not
decently compofed, but rather a difproportion in the members thereof;
ui difpoiition very juft in his adlions, thereby gaining love and friendship
;
lometimes paflionate, a favourer of the female fex, and, in general, a good-
humoured perfon to thofe he hath converfation with.
The Sun in Aquarius delccibes a perfon of a middle flature, a corpu*»
lent body, decently compofed, a round full face, light brown hair, and
generally
OF ASTROLOGY. 379
generally a clear complexion ; the difpofition moderately good, but fubjeft
to oftentation, and dcfirous to bear rule, but free from malicious adions
againft any one.
The Sun in Pifces gives a perfon rather fhort of ftature ; a round face,
and an indifferent good complexion; light brown hair, fometimes flaxen ;
a reafonably plump or corpulent body ; a general lover of the female fex,
and of all kinds of pleafure ; addifts himfelf to gaming and feafling, many
times to his own detriment; yet a perfon very harmlefs toothers, and who
injures none but himfelf, which he often does by too much extravagance
and prodigality.
Brief OBSERVATIONS in drawing a Defcription from the PLANET
that is LORD of the ASCENDANT.
I. If no planet be in afpeft with the lord of the afcendant, then judge
of the native by the lord of the afcendant wholly, without any regard to
the fign in which he is pofited.
II. If the lord of the afcendant be retrograde, or in his fall or detriment,
then defcribe the native with due reference to the nature of that fign in
which he is fo pofited.
III. If the lord of the afcendant behold the afcendant at the time of
birth, then judge of the native by the quality of the fign upon the cufp
of the afcendant.
IV. If two planets happen to be in afpeft with the afcendant, take your
judgment from him who is mofi: perfe6f in partile, and pofited in his own
houfe, rather than from him who is in his exaltation.—Thefe obfervaiions
are to be confidered as well in regard to the difpofition and qualities of the
mind as in the defcription and formation of the body.
The
38o AN ILLUSTRATION
The ART of CALCULATING NATIVITIES made plain and
EASY.
ANATIVITY, or Geniture, is the very moment of birth, or precife
time of the child's coming into the world, and in which he is made
a vifible member of the creation. In this moment it is that the ftars be-
gin to a6l and operate their influence upon the new-born infant, by the
power or intervention of thofe angels who rule and govern the conftella-
tions then level with the horizon, or that afcend upon the horofcope ; ac-
according to that obfervation of St. Jerome, in his comment upon the
eighteenth chapter of St. Matthew, where he fays, " Great is the dignity
of fouls, for every one at their firft coming into the world have an angel
appointed for their cuftody and fafety." And, as it is from thefe confi-
gurations that we are enabled to point out the incidents of the native's
future life, fo is it abfolutely neceflary that the very inftant of birth fhould
be well and minutely afcertained, in order to arrive at correftnefs and
certainty in thefe fpeculations. It mull: be obvious to every one, that
the celeftial bodies are in perpetual motion, and therefore every quar-
ter of an hour muft confiderably vary their pofition ; as do alfo dif-
ferent parallels from any one given point of the heavens ; and hence
it is that the latitude, as well as the true time of birth, becomes fo abfo-
lutely neceffary in calculating or bringing up the diredions of a na-
tivity.
By knowing the place of birth, the latitude is eafily afcertained ;
but to determine the precife time of a native's emerging from the womb
is a circumftance that has been always found difficult and precarious
;
not only on account of the inattention of nurfes and midwives to this
moft interefting event, but alfo by reafon of the" difference and uncer-
tainty of almoft all clocks, watches, and dials, in reference to the
Sun. Wherefore the ancient profeffors of this art, to remove the
errors in the common or eftimate time of birth, have contrived fe-
veral ways of re6lifying a nativity; and have given fuch rules for this
purpofe, that the true time of birth may be thereby corre£lly afcertained.
This rectification may be efFefted three different ways : Firft, by the
Trutitiam Hertnctis, or Trutine of Hermes ; fecondly, by the Animo-
der of Ptolomy ; and, thirdly, by the natural accidents of the native.
Thefe three methods I (hall explain fully, when 1 come to treat of the
re£liJications of nativities ; fuffice it here to fay, that the method moftly
in ufe, and which is found liable to the leaft error, particularly in the
geniturcs
OFASTROLOGY. 381
genitures of grown perfons, is that of leftifyjng by fuch accidents as
might have befallen them during their paft life.
As the dodrine of nativitie-s is the very efTence of Aftrology, and the
principal criterion by which mankind will judge of the utility and rea-
fonablenefs of the fcience, it will be requifite for me in this place to be as
plain and circumflantial as poflible. It cannot be unentertaining, nor
wholly ufelels even to a common reader, much lefs to thofe who mean to
fl"udy the art, to know the true grounds upon which this part of the
fcience is founded ; together with thofe afpedts or configurations at
birth, from which our predidions are framed ; and the time alfo when
their influence and effects will vifibly operate upon the body or affairs
of the native. In elucidating this fubjeft, I fhall be principally guid-
ed by the Quadripartite of the great Ptolomy ; the truth and excellency
of whofe dodrine, the experience of many ages, and the obfervations of
the moft intelligent profefTors of this art, have fully eftablifhed and con-
firmed.
It is manifeft to the moft fuperficial obferver, that a certain fecret
power is difflifed through all things that are near the earth, according
to the nature and properties of the firmament, and circum-ambient
air ; and to the power and influence of the luminaries, and other ce-
leftial bodies. The Sun, being the fuperior luminary, and the foun-
tain of life, governs all things that bear relation to the earth, not only
by varying the feafons, and bringing to perfedlion the feeds of animals,
and the fruitfulnefs of plants, the flowing of waters, and the mutation
of bodies ; but alfo the changes of the day, of heat and moifture, of
drynels and cold, as it hath refpe6l to the meridian, or mid-heaven.
—
The Moon alfo, being nearefl: to the earth, d:fl:ils down an amazing in-
fluence, by which things animate and inanimate are affefted and changed.
Rivers are augmented and diminished, according to her light ; the tides
vary as flie rifes and fets; plants and animals, in whole or in part, in-
creafe and decreafe with her. In the fame manner the ftars, fixed and
erratic, as they keep on their uniform courle, caufe many appearances
around us ; for they produce cold and heat, and wind and rain, by
which alfo things on earth arefuitably governed ; and their mutual con-
figurations, as their influences co-operate with, or oppofe, one aaother,-
produce variations accordingly. :j;ib it: lo
The power of the Sun is on all hands admitted to be mofl: prevalent,
as it is obvioufly moft umverfal. The other heavenly bodies, according
No. 20. 5 B to
38a A N I L L U S T R A IM O N
to the variety of their alpeds with the Sun, unite with, or refift, his tn-
fliience, agreeable to the nature and force of luch af'peits. This hap-
pens moft frequently, and mofi: forcibly, with the Moon, at all the
changes. But thefe afFe6lions in the flars operate more obfcurely, and
employ longer time, according to their declination, or as they appear or
difappear in our horizon. Hence then, by the rules of nature, and the
teftim.ony of our own reafon and experience, it muil: be admitted, that
of all the planets, the influence of the Sun is the moll powerful; and
that the influences of the other planets have moll energy when the
beams of the Sun co-cperate with them. The Moon likewifc, by rea-
fon of her iwiftne(s, and proximity to the earth, modifies and conveys
thefe influences to fublunary bodies, with a force (iiperior to all the
other {lars. And thefe influences are always mofI: powerful, and moft
vifible in their efFe61s, when this mediation of the Moon is exercifed in
conveying the influences of the flars to the Sun, or of the Sun to the
other flars, and thence to the earth. But in defining thefe varying pro-
perties and efFefts, particular regard mud be had to the latitude, decli-
nation, rifing, and fetting, of the flars, both fixed and erratic, efpecially
thofe which approach nearefl to the ecliptic.
Whoever contemplates thefe premifes, and attentively obferves the
afpedls, will find that not only conjoined bodies are fubjcft to the confi-
gurations of the flars, but alfo the buddings and perfeilion of feeds are
framed and formed according to the quality with which the heavenly
matter and circum-ambient air is endued. The obfervant hufbandman
and fhepherd pre-conje6lure the proper feafons for fowing, planting, and
for the procreation of animals, by confulting the flate of the winds, and
the face of the fky. The fkilful mariner likewife prepares againll: the
dangers of an approaching florm, by fimilar obfervations ; but they are
frequently deceived for want of better experience, and an adequate know-
ledge of the courfes and efFeds of the heavenly bodies, which, when ex-
a£Hy underftood, conduce to an almofl certain prefcience herein. For
it is found, that he who correftly knows the motions of the flars, and
their configurations with the Sun and Moon ; and is not ignorant of the
times, nor the place, nor the afpefts ; and is well fkilled in the fimple
ways of nature ; can admirably foretel, in any feafon, the proper flate
and temperature of the air ; as that it will be hotter and moifler, or cold-
er or drier, according to the nature and properties of the refpedlive rays
of the flars and Moon configurated with the Sun. And, as thefe fpecula-
tions are founded upon the moft fimple principles of nature, as that the
Sun is hot and dry, and the Moon is cold and moift, and the obferva-
tions
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 383
tions deduced herefrom are feldom known to vary ; fo, by fimilar qua-
lities and obfervations, and by rules equally well founded, we obtain a
legal and extenfive prefcience refpefting Man. For from the natural
ftate of the ambient and heavenly matter at the time of the conlb-udion
of the body it is eafy to know in general, the quality and temperature of
each perfon born ; that fuch (hall be the formation of his body, and fuch
the difpofition of his mind, and fuch the future events, advantageous
or difadvantageous, of his life, according to the flate of the heavens at
that particular time, whether qualified for the produ6tion of fuch a
temper, or whether inimical to it. Thus a prefage is not only poffible
by the laws of nature, but proper and necellary to the vvifdom and well-
being of fociefy.
The errors of thofe who do not underfland the fundamental princi-
ples of this learning, have doubtlefs afforded flrong and plaufible reafons
to the bulk of mankind, for difcarding it altogether, and for confiderino-
thofe events, which others have more fuccefsfully afcertained, to be the
efFe6ls of mere chance. But lurely a do6frine is not to be rejected, be-
caufe fbme of its followers are vicious or ignorant. In this I'peculation,
above all others, reafonable allowance fliould be made, as well for the
weaknefs of human comprehenfion, as for the great and undefinable ex-
tent of the contemplation. Much depends upon the ability of the phyfi-
cian, in modifying and proportioning his prefcription, not only to cor-
refpond with the ftate of the difeafe, but alfo with the temperature and
conftitution of the patient. In the fubjeft under confideration, a judg-
ment no lefs fagacious is abfolutely neceflary ; becaufe the quality of the
heavenly matter is often conjedfural, and the mixtures of difFt^rent af-
pe61:s and influences are fometimes fo complicated, that the brighteft un-
derflanding can fcarcely arrange them with precifion.
But the confideration of Nativities, in points which relate to the par-
ticular temper and difpofition of refpedive perfons, hath other caufes
in nature to apt to be forgotten, or perhaps lightly paffed over as cir-
cumftances of no moment. But it is undeniably true, and muft be ad-
mitted on all hands, that the place of birth, will often make confidera-
ble difference in thofe who arc born ; and, though the feed be the fame
from which they are procreated, and though tlie conflitution of the
heavens be the fame, yet the diverfities of countries wherein they are
born will naturally produce a difference in their bodies and minds. Be-
fides this, a different education and cuftom will form a different difpo-
fition and manner of life ; as do alfo the different fituations or clalfes
in
384 ANIL LUSTRATION
in which mankind are brought up, and to which they are accuftomed.
Therefore he who does not attentively confider each of thefe diftindions,
and unite them judicioufly with the caufes produced by the ambient and
heavenly matter, will meet with great uncertainty' in his conclufions.
For, although the power of heaven is confeffedly the grcateft, and with
this all the others are conceived as adjuvant caufes, yet they do not al-
ways afTume the circum-ambient matter as a concaufe ; conlequcntlv
thofe who attempt to predi6t from the motion of the heavenly bodies
alone, without due reference to thefe confiderations, will entail contempi
upon themfelves, and difgrace upon the fcience.
But that aftrological predictions are poflible, and to be defined with
great precifion, when properly managed, is an aflertion moft true,
and which I flatter myfelf I have already made manifeft. It remains,
therefore, that wc fpeak of the advantages of this benevolent difpenfa-
tion of Providence ; for, if a fore knowledge be advantageous or necefla-
ry to the fafety and future happinefs of the foul, what can be more fo in
refpeft of the body, fince it affords not only temporal delight, happinefs,
and pleafure, but enables us to underftand things both divine and hu-
man ? Whatever happens in the courfe of nature, either necelTarily or
accidentally, that materially affefts our profperity or adverfity, and either
prolongs life or deflroys it, if they happen fuddenly and unexpeditedly,
confound with fear, or tranfport with joy ; but, if they are foreknown,
they fortify the mind by fuch foreknowledge, and prepare it for fuftain-
ing the bed or worft occurrences with calmnefs and ferenity. In what
refpedl therefore is man fuperior to the irrational part of the creation, if he
cannot bear to know the hour of his dilTolution ? The terms of our ex-
iftence, as every day's experience repeatedly fliows, are, that we muft
fuffer death. Where then, to minds fraught with reafon and integrity,
can be the horror, the diftrefs, or calamity, of knowing the tinie when
that certain event fhall take place ? To men of a virtuous habit, luch
a knowledge muft; be invaluable; and to thofe of lefs fcrupulous prin-
ciples, it cannot be unwelcome, provided reafon or philofophy make
any part of tiieir conftitution. To men of the mofl exemplary conduct,
it affords fit opportunity of adjufting their temporal concerns, and re-
lieves them under the diftrefles and affliftions of this life, by afcertain-
ing the period of their fufferings, and by giving them hopes of retribu-
tion and reward in that which will fucceed. To the inconfiderate and
worldly-minded, it not only gives the fame advantages, but begets in
them a proper fenfe of the more important concerns of that endlels fl:atc
of exiftence, " from whence no traveller returns." For thefe grand
7 puipoles
OFASTROLOGY. 385
purpofes chief?}', the all-wife and benevolent hand of Providence feems
to have pointed out to mankind the Art of Prefcience and Predi6tion ;
not to fay any thing of the innumerable lefs-important concerns of hu-
man affairs, which may oftentimes afford lingular advantage and happi-
nefs to individuals, as well as to ftates and Societies, by being thus timelj
forewarned of what fhall hereafter come to pafs. And furely I need not
mention a ftronger inftance of the advantages of prefcience than what
will naturally arife from theobfervation of every man of experience, when
he looks back upon the occurrences of his pad life and recoUefts but
half the lofles and inconveniences he has fuffained, only for want of that
foreknowledge in worldly affairs which the art of predidlion fupplies.
We are not however to believe, that the accidents and events of life
fo befal men, as though a law were fet over them bv fome indilloluble
caufe from above, by which they are of neceffity brought to pafs, no
other caufe being able to oppofe or prevent them. It were unphilofo-
phical and abfurd thus to imagine ; for the motion of the heavenly bo-
dies is immutable by divine law, and the mutation of earthly things is
difpofed of and revealed by a natural generation and order, which the fu-
perior caufe follows by accident. It is alfo to be obferved, that many
things happen to man, not only by reafon of the natural and proper qua-
lity of the heavenly matter, but alfo by the operation of fome more.uni-
verfal caufes ; as by great mutations and mixtures of the elements, plagues
and peftilences, and floods and conflagrations, are produced, by which
multitudes are at once fwept away, and perifh under one common fata-
lity. Thus greater caufes always overcome the lefs, and the ftronger
the weaker ; and, whenever the ftronger power prevails in any great mu-
tation, the more general effe6Is we have been fpeaking of happen.
Other things likewiie happen to individuals, becaufe the natural property
6f each is overcome by the contrariety of the circumambient matter,
whether the antipathy thereof be fmall or fortuitous. Now this being
admitted, it becomes apparent, that thofe things which happen gene-
rally and particularly, be the accident whatever it may, whofe firfl
caufe is ftrong and irrefiftible, and no other caufe having power to with-
ftand it, come to pafs wholly by neceflity. But thofe accidents
which have a weaker caufe are overthrown, if any other caufe, able to
withftand it, is found ; and, if fuch a refifling caufe appears not, then
thofe accidents happen agreeably to the nature and impulfe of their firfl:
caufe ; and they are produced, not through the ftrength of the caufe, nor
by neceflity, but becaufe the antipathy by which it might have been
deflroyed is neither known nor to be defined. Thus it happens to
all things that have a natural caufe and beginning, as metals, flones,
No. 20. 5 C plants.
386 ANILLUSTRATION
plants, animals, wounds, flckncfs, affe61ions, &c. feme of which work
neceflarlly, and others not, except when fomething is found of fufficient
ftrength to oppofc their efficient power. Hence it is demonftrable,
that, though fimple caufes have natural properties peculiar to themfelves,
yet there are other caufes equally (imple, which operate in conta6l with
thofe of the former, and by which the bare fimple nature of each is
changed by mutation into a third quality, which differs in nature from
cither of the former ; according to which fuch fimple natural proper-
ties are either partly or wholly changed, or otherwife fruflrated or di-
verted. As for example, in the weather ; the Sun, in his own fimple
nature, is the fountain of light and heat ; but, being joined with Saturn,
never fails, if not prevented by fome other apparent cauie, both in win-
ter and fummer, to produce cold and cloudy weather. But, if Mars hap-
pens to be joined in configuration with them, the cafe is altered; and,
inftead of cold, the weather will not fail in fummer to be hot and ful-
try, though at the fame time cloudy, corrufcuous, and diforderly ; and
in winter remarkably clofe and warm, though lowering and turbulent
;
more efpecially if attended with a new or full moon. Thefc are fads
founded upon a rational hypothefis, and proved by long experience and
conflant obfervation.
Thefe preliminaries being laid down, and confidered as the ground-
work of Aflrology, it follows that thofe, who would wifh to be proficient
in it, fliould learn to predi61 futurities after a natural way, by fuch prefci-
ence as nature has pointed out, and not by an inconfiderate or vain opi-
nion that this fliall happen, becaufe it hath many great and efficient
caufes which it is impoffible to refift ; or that this fhall not happen,
becaufe it hath refifling afledions. Calculators of nativities, therefore,
when they fpeak of thofe things which may come to pafs, can do it in
no other way, conformably to truth and nature, but by the power and
efFc6fs of the circumambient matter or afpeds, which, being more or
lefs inclined to lucli a temperature, will produce fuch an accident, fla-
ture of body, or difpofition of mind. As when a phyfician afferts that
an ulcer will eat away or putrefy, or a naturalift that the loadflone will
attraft iron ; not becaufe it is neccffary that the ulcer fhould eat away
or putrefy, or the loadflone attradt ; but, if the contraries are not known,
nor their effects prevented, thefe circumftances will aifuredly happen,
according to the caufe and confequences of things, as they have been
i?om the beginning of the world. Thus it happens, and thus we ought
to judge, in the calculation of nativities ; for thofe events wliich per-
petually fall in upon all human affairs are produced according to the
iucceflion of natural order, either becaufe things that may oppofe and
7 prevent
!l
OFASTROLOGY. 387
prevent are not found, or becaufe they are not known. And again,
events known naturally, and according to order, and thofe things being
found which difagree and oppofe, the) are then either wholly prevented,
or elfe come to pafs with very fmall efFe6l, and are fcarcely vifible in
their operation.
Now, feeing there is both in generals and particulars fuch a confe-
quence, it is curious to remark, that, though many people believe in ge-
nerals, and allow it is poflible to prognofticate upon that fyftem, and al-
fo think it advantageous towards prelervation and health, yet in parti-
culars they will not allow the fame operations to have any force. For
many confefs they know the proper feafons, and the fignification of the
fixed ftars, and the afpeds of the Moon, and they obferve them for the
eftabliihment of their health, and to reduce their conftitutions to a good
and regular temperature, in fummcr by cooling medicaments, and ia
winter by heating. They alfo obferve the fignifications of the fixed
ftars for the purpofes of navigation ; and they plant, and fow, and for-
ward vegetation, by obferving the different afpects of the Moon ; and
no one fuppofes thefe general efFeds either impoffible or ufelefs. But
in particulars, as of cold or heat, which increale and decreafe in their
proper temper, and by the properties and mixtures of other matter, they
neither believe it pofiible to foretel, nor conceive that we may be pre-
ferved from, the confequences attending them. But the caufe of this
opinion, is the difficulty of knowing particulars, and the management
of them with precifion and truth ; and, becaufe men are feldom found of
fo penetrating a comprehenfion, that none of the contraries be hidden
from their view, hence the oppofing power or influence, for the moft
part, not being joined with a foreknowledge in the efFe61 produced by firfl
caufes without impediment, they judge of things fimply, as though
immutable and impoflible to be prevented. But, as in the art of predic-
tion its poffibility appears worthy of confideration, although it is not al-
together infallible, this prefervative part is certainly worthy of particu-
lar regard, fince it may brii^ig relief to many, though not a perfed cure
to all. For this reafon the Egyptians, finding the efficacy of this art,,
every-where joined phyfic to prognoflic afrronomy ; and hence it is ap-
parent, that, if they had thought futurities could not be removed or di-
verted, they would never have prefcribed certain remedies and preferva-
tives againft the effedl of the ambient, prefent or to come, whether in
general or particular cafes; they therefore fought out a method at once
advantageous and profitable, that, by aflrology, the quality of the fubja-
cent temperaments, and the accidents which come to pafs by the influ-
ence of the heavenly bodies, might be difcovered and known ; but by
the
388 ANILLUSTRATION
the medical art to diftinguifli the fympathies and antipathies of each,
and to underftand the natural cure of prefent dllcafe, and the true
mode of prefervation from future. For, without this ipecies of aftro-
nomical knowledge, the medical art is found in many cafes to fail;
though I am ready to allow that there are not remedies to be found for
all bodies and difeafes.
Thefe obfervations become clear and obvious, from a confideration
of the planets and their afpefts. The Sun is found by nature to caufe
heat and drynefs in a moderate degree. His power and influence are moft
vifible to our fenfes, by reafon of his magnitude, and the manifeft mu-
tation of the feafons ; for, by how much the nearer he approaches to
our vertical point, by fo much the more he ftirs up heat in us, and
fubjeds us to his nature. But the nature of the Moon is chiefly moift-
ening ; for, being nearer the earth, (he exhales the vapours of all moift
bodies, and thus evidently afFe6ls all moift things, and putrefies them ;
but, becaufe of her analogy with the Sun, fhe moderately participates of
heat. The planet Saturn cools and dries, becaufe he is far diftant from
the heat of the Sun and vapours of the earth ; but he cools moft abun-
dantly, and dries moft moderately. The other planets alio receive
virtue according to the configurations they make with the Sun and
Moon. Mars drleth much, and burns, becaufe of his hot and fiery na-
ture ; but the influence of Jupiter is temperate, becaufe he moves be-
tween the coldnefs of Saturn and the heat of Mars. Venus hath nearly
the fame temperature, but in a different meafure, becaufe of her vicinity
to the Sun ; ftie moiftens moft, as does the Moon, through the great-
nefs of their light, by which they aftume the moifture of the vapours of
the earth. Mercury fometimes dries, and fometimes moiftens; according
to his pofition and configuration with other ftars. Hence arife the four
principal humours, whence all bodies are engendered. Two of them
are generative and adtive, the hot and the moift ; for by thefe are
all things joined together, and increafed : and two are corruptive and
hurtful; the dry and the cold; for by thefe all things are diflblved
and deftroyed. Wherefore two of the planets, viz, Jupiter and Venus, are
defined to be benefics, becaufe of their benevolent temperature, and
becaufe heat and moifture equally abound in them ; and likewife the
Moon, for the fame reafons. But Saturn and Mars, being of an oppo-
fite nature, are defined to be of a malevolent and deftru6live influence, by
reafon of the extreme cold of the one and the violent heat of the other.
And the Sun and Mercury, being of a controvertible nature, are found to
produce both thefe influences, according to the nature, force, and qua-
lity, of the afpedts or configurations they make with other bodies.
As
OFASTROLOGY. .
389
As there are four diftind humours or qualities incident to the planets,
Co are there two primary fexes by which they are diftinguiftied, namely,
the mafculine and the feminine. The feminine planets partake princi-
pally of moifture ; therefore the Moon and Venus are term.ed feminine,
becaufe moifture chiefly abounds in them. But Saturn, Jupiter, Mars,
and the Sun, are mafculine, becaufe they heat and dry with the greater
energy. Mercury, in point of fex, is confidered indifferently, becaufe
he equally dries or moiftens as occafion may be. The ftars are like-
wife confidered, as to fex, according to their pofition with the Sun.
When they are oriental, and going before the Sun, they become mafcu-
line ; but, when they are occidental, and follow the Sun, they are fe-
minine. The two apparent diftin6tions of time, called day and night,
are alfo divided uito lexes. The day, becaufe of its heat and activity,
is termed mafculine ; and the night, becaufe of its moifture, and con-
veniency for reft, feminine ; therefore the Moon and Venus are noftur-
nal, and the Sun and Jupiter diurnal; but Mercury is in this refped
alfo indifferent, diurnal when in an oriental fituation, and no6i:urnaI
when occidental. But the two malevolent planets, Saturn and Mars, are
confidered diurnal and nodurnal, not according to their quality and
nature, as heat to heat, but contrary ; for a good temperament, taking
its like, maketh the good greater, and unlike, mixed with evil, deftroys
much of that evil ; therefore Saturn, as cold, is joined to the heat of
the day ; and Mars, as dry, to the moifture of the night. So each of
them, becoming moderate in their influences, will appear confonant to the
conditions which give the temperament. It is alfo to be remarked, that
a planet is diurnal, when in a diurnal nativity above the earth and in a
no6turnal nativity under the earth ; but no£1urnal, when in a nodurnal
nativity above the earth or in a diurnal nativity under the earth.
Now the influences and effeds of the planets have fmaller or greater
force, according to their afpeds and configuration with the Sun ; for
the Moon along her increafe, from her firft appearance to the firft
quarter, is moiftening ; from the firft quarter to her full, (he warms ;
from the full to the laft quarter, fhe dries ; and, from the laft quar-
ter till (he is hid, (he is cold. The planets matutine to the firft fta-
tion are more moift ; from the firft ifation till they rife at night,
they are more heating ; from their rifing at night to the fecond ftation,
they dry more ; and, from the fecond ftation, they cool more. The firft
ftation is when a planet begins to be retrograde ; and the fecond ftation,
when from retrogradation it becomes dire6l ; and they begin to rife at
night when in oppofition to the Sun.* Thus the power of thefe va-
rious
• The rifing and fetting of the ftars are threefold ; cofmical, achronical, and heliacal.—
Cofmical rifing is, when a ftar or planet afcends the horizon with the fame degree and mi-
No. 10. n D nute
39° AN ILLUSTRATION
rious afFetlions, being mixed among themfelves, produce many differ-
ences of quality in the circumambient matter which continually fur-
rounds us; the proper and diftindt power of which, alternately prevail-
ing, is changed more or lefs by the force of other configurations. To
thefe efFe61s, the operation of the fixed flars in general contributes not a
little. Thofe of the greatefl magnitude are the moft powerful and ef-
ficacious ; and thofe in or near the ecliptic have more energy than thofe
remote from it. The bright flars have more influence than the dull
and languid ; thofe of a red colour partake of the quality of Mars
;
thole of a lead colour operate with fimilar effe6f to Saturn ; and lb of
the others, according to their affinity with the planets, as hath been al-
ready explained. Stars which have northern latitude and declination afFe6t
us moff; and thofe with fouth latitude, the more Ibuthern climates. Thofe
fituated in the zenith influence more than tholb which are more re-
mote; and fuch as are in partile conjunftion or antifcion of any planet,
or which rife or fet, or culminate, with any planet, have a more than
ordinary power and influence : but of themfelves the fixed flars emit
no rays.
The four angles of the horofcope, or cardinal houfes of heaven, from
whence the general winds take their rife, mufl likewife be confidered.
The oriental angle is pofTefTed of great drynef^; for, when the Sun ar-
rives there, thofe things which were moiflened by the night begin to dry ;
and the winds which blow from thence, commonly called eaft-winds, are
very drying, and without moiflure. The angle of the fouth is moft hot,
becaufe the Sun, being there culminate, burns and heats with greater
energy, becaufe our mid-heaven declines to the fouth; wherefore the
winds proceeding from thence, commonly called fouth-winds, are hot
and filling. But the occidental angle is moiff, becaufe, when the Sun
arrives there, thofe things which were dried in the day begin to be
moiffened ; confequently the winds blowing from thence, commonly
called wefl-winds, are free from thicknefs or moiflure. The northern
angle, or point lying towards the Bears, is mofl cold, becaufe the culmi-
nating Sun, in refpeft to that part of the earth which we inhabit, declines
moflfromit; for which reafon, the winds blowing from that quarter
are generally cold and freezing. The perfeft knowledge of thefe things
is
nute of the ecliptic in which the fun is; and cofmical fetting is, when a ftar or planet fets
exaflly when the fun rifes. Achronical rifing is, when a ftar rifes above the horizon at fun-
fettine; and achronical fetting i";, when a Itar fets with the fun. Heliacal rifing is, when a
ftar, which before was hidden by the rays of the fun, begins to appear in \.\\c eaft ; and he-
liacal fetting is, when a ftar, which before was feen, is hidden under the fun-beams, and dif-
appears- 1
OFASTROLOGY. 391
IS very neceflary to enable us to diftinguifh the mixti^e of particulars ; for
it is apparent, that, according to the conflitution ol the ieafons, of ages,
and of the angles, the efficient power and influence of the (tars vary ;
and, when there is no contrary conflitution, the (tars have a flronger
influence, becaufe it is unnaixed ; for, in heating, they that are moff hot
are moil: powerful; and, in moifl conftitutionS: thofc are the mofl pow-
erful which are of a moiftening nature. But, when the conflitution is
contrary, they are weaker, by reafon of the temperament and mixture of
contrariety, afFefted by the heating flars in cold conftitutions, and by
the moifl in dry. In the fame manner each of the other conftitutions
have power, according to the proportions of tlieir mixtures. To thefe
we may join the mutual properties of the twelve figns of the zodiac;
for their general temperatures are agreeable to the feaions fubje61: to each
fign ; and they obtain fome other qualities arifuig from their analogy to
the Sun, Moon, and ftars ; and thefe confiderations of the agreement or
dil'agreement of the natures and mixtures of the various influences of the
flars, figns, and parts of heaven, are of no fmall conlequence in aflrolo-
gical contemplations.
Of the twelve figns, fome are termed tropics, fome equino6fial, fome
fixed, and others bicorporal. The tropics are two; the firft from the
fummer foiftice, the thirty degrees of Cancer ; and the other from the
winter folfliice, the thirty degrees of Capricorn. Thefe are called tro-
pics, becaufe, when the Sun is pofited in the beginning of thefe figns, he
turns back out of the courfe of latitude or declination, to the contraries,
making fummer by his entering into Cancer, and winter by his palTage
into Capricorn. There arc alfo two of the figns equinociial -, one from
the vernal equinox, which is Aries; the other from the autumnal equi-
nox, which is Libra. Thefe are fo termed, becaufe, whenever the Sun
enters the beginning of them, he makes the days and nights equal all the
world over.
Of the other eight figns, four are fixed and four bicorporal. TheJixecL
are thofe which follow the tropical and equinodial ; becaule, when the
Sun is pofited in any of thefe, the cold or heat, or drynefs or raoif-
ture, of the feaions, which began while the Sun was m the tropics or
equinocfials, more flrongly atfeds us, and the conftitution of the fea-
fon is more forcibly relt"- not becauie their condition is naturally fuch,
but becaufe we, being no longer under lucb a conllitution, become more
fenfible of its power. Th^^bicorporal follow the fixed ; and, becaufe
they are between the fixed and the tropics, they partake of the nature
of both conflitutions.
Again,
39^ OF ASTROLOGY.
Again, fix of the twelve figns are named mafculine and diurnal ; and
fix fenniiiiiie and nofturnal. And because the night is always next to
the day, and the feniinine is joined to the mafculine, they are placed
one after another by turns. The beginning is taken from Aries, be-
caufe the moifture of the fpring is the beginning of the feafons ; and
becaufe the mafculine virtue is predominant, and the a6tive power before
the paffive ; therefore the figns Aries and Libra are efteemed mafcu-
line and diurnal ; for thefe defcribe the equinoctial circle ; and the prime
mutation, and ftrongeft motion of all, is caufed by them. The other
figns are alternately placed one after another in their proper order; and,
from the form and quality of them, fomc are termed four-footed, others
terreftrial ; fome commanding, and others fruitful. And, to renew them
in the mind of the reader, it may not be improper to diftinguifh them
here.—Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius, and Aquaries, are
mafculine and commanding; Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, Scorpio, Capricorn,
and Pifces, are feminine and obeying. Aries, Taurus, Leo, Sagittarius,
and Capricorn, are four-footed. Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn, are
terreflial. Cancer, Scorpio, and Pifces, are fruitful. Again, Aries,
Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn, are termed moveable ; Taurus, Leo,
Scorpio, and Aquaries, fixed. Gemini, Virgo, Sagittarius, and Pifces,
common ; Aries, Taurus, and Gemini, vernal; Cancer, Leo, and
Virgo, eftival ; Libra, Scorpio, and Sagittarius, autumnal; Capricorn,
Aquaries, and Pifces, hyemnal. Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius, are hot,
dry, and fiery; Taurus, Virgo, and Capricorn, are cold, dry, and earthy;
Gemini, Libra, and Aquaries, are hot, moift, and airy ; Cancer, Scorpio,
Pifces, Gemini, and Leo, are moift and watery ; and Virgo is barren.
Now from this difpofition and temperature of the figns, are brought
about the great ends and purpofes of nature, by means of the afpeds and
pofitions of the planets configurated in them; and it is upon thefe
afpefts and configurations that the art of predifting is grounded and
the events of futurity fought out and known. Thefe afpefts are of two
forts, or claffes, viz. zodiacal and mundane. The principal zodiacal
afpedfs are the fextile, quartile, trine, and oppofition ; and, though the
conjundion cannot properly be termed an afpeft, yet it may come un-
der the more general name of a familiarity, common to all the afpedls.
The conjunftion is formed by two planets being bodily joined, or meet-
ing in the fame degree and minute of a fign. The fextile is formed by
two planets when they are two figns, or fixty degrees, afunder; the
quartile, when three figns, or ninety degrees, afunder ; the trine, when
four figns, or one hundred and twenty degrees, afunder ; and the oppo-
fition, when fix figns, or one hundred and eighty degrees, afunder ;
which
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 393
which, being juft one half of the great circle, places the planets exaflly
facino- one another. The fmaller or inferior zodiacal afpe6ls are the
femiquadrate of forty-five degrees ; the quintile, of feventy-two degrees ;
the fefquiquadrate, of one hundred and thirty-five degrees ; and the
biquintile, of one hundred and forty-four degrees. And thefe are either
partile or platic ; partile, when the conjunftion or afped is made in
the fame degree and minute, and platic when not configurated in the
fame degree and minute, but only within the orbs of the afpedling pla-
net. Moreover, thefe afpe6ts are either dexter or finifter ; dexter, when
contrary to the fucceflion of the figns, as a planet in Leo cafts a fextile
dexter to another planet in Taurus. Sinifter afpeds are according to
the fuccefTion of the figns ; agreeable to which, a planet in Aries cafts
his trine finifter to another in Leo ; or one in Leo cafts a trine finifter to
another in Sagittarius.
Mundane afpe£ls are thofe which are made in the meridional circle,
in reference to the earth, and confift of only the fextile, quartile, trine,
and oppofition ; though there are other familiarities which we call pa-
rellels, and thefe both mundane and zodiacal. Of thefe familiarities,
the conjundion is good with benevolent ftars ; but with malevolent, bad.
The quintile, biquintile, fextile, and trine, are alfo good and fortunate ;
but the femiquadrate, fefquiquadrate, quartile, and oppofition, are evil
and unfortunate. Thefe good and evil influences proceed more from the
nature and quality of the ftars than from the nature of the figns they
pofTefs ; for it is found that even good afpeds of malefic planets will pro-
duce mifchief, though not in fo great a degree as the evil configurations.
Zodiacal Parallels are what are commonly called Antifcians, and are
nothing more than parallels of declination, or two points in the hea-
vens at equal diftances from the beginning of any of the tropics, or
equinoftial points. For example ; one planet in ten degrees of Aries,
and another in twenty degrees of Pifces, are in zodiacal parallel to each
other ; or, in other words, one planet in twenty degrees of Pifces cafts
its antifcian, or one parallel, to ten degrees of Aries, and its contra-anti-
fcian, or another parallel, to ten degrees of Libra. But in taking thefe,
particular attention muft be had to each of the planets' latitude, for want
of which, great errors have been frequently made. For, fuppofe the
Moon to be pofited in twenty-two degrees of Taurus, with five degrees
of north latitude, her antifcian, or ^zodiacal parallel, taken in the com-
mon way, would fall in eight degrees of Leo, and her contra-antifcian
in eight degrees of Aquaries ; whereas the true antifcian falls in ten
degrees of Cancer, which is no lefs than twenty-eight degrees from that
No. 20. 5 E ,
obtained
394 AN ILLUSTRATION
obtained in the common way, for there is exadly that difference be-
tween the ecliptical longitude of twenty-two degrees of Taurus with-
out latitude, and twenty-two degrees of Taurus with five degrees of
north latitude.
A planet thus confidered, as having latitude, hath four zodiacal paral-
lels ; one at its body, one at its antifcional point, and the other two at
their oppofite points. And hence, according to the example above
ftated, the Moon's parallels at her body fall in twenty degrees of Ge-
mini, and at the antifcional point in ten degrees of Cancer ; and their
oppofite points or contra-antifcians, fall in twenty degrees of Sagitta-
rius, and in ten degrees of Capricorn. Thefe antifcians, and contra-
antifcians, are always of a benign and friendly nature, when formed by
the benefic planets ; but they are equally unbenign and unfortunate,
when made by violent and malevolent flars.
As zodiacal parallels are only equal diftances from the tropical and
equiiioflial circles, fo mundane parallels, by a parity of reafon, arc no-
thing more than a like equal diftance from the horizontal or meridional
points or circles. For example, a planet on the cufp of the twelfth
houfe is in parallel to the cufp of the fecond houfe, becaufe it is exaftly
at the fame diflance from the afcendant or horizon that the twelfth is ;
and iikewife in parallel to the eighth houfe, as being exaftly the fame
diflance from the tenth houfe or meridian that the twelfth is. And, as
the zodiacal parallels are meafured by the circle of the zodiac, fo the
mundane parallels are meafured by the diurnal or nodurnal arches ; for
juft fo long as the Sun or any other planet will be in proceeding from
the cufp of the twelfth houfe to the cufp of the tenth, juft fo long the
fame Sun or other planets will be in proceeding, on the fame day, from
the cufp of the tenth to the cufp of the eighth houfe; and juft fo many
hours and minutes of time as there are between the fun-rifing and noon,
juft fo many hours and minutes are there, the fame day, between noon and
fun-fetting ; hence the diftance between the Sun's rifing and fetting; is no-
thing but the diurnal arch, which the meridian, or Sun's place at noon,
cuts into two equal parts ; and the diftance between the Sun's fettingand
rifing conftitutes the nodlurnal arch. Thefe mundane parallels have a
twofold confideration in dire6tions : firft fimple, and according to natural
order; and fecondly, according to the rapt motmi of the earth, or primum
mobile; both of which muftbe attended to in the calculation of nativities.
Now there are figns difTociate and feparate ; and thefe are fuch as
have no familiarity by any of the ways beforementioned ; for they nei-
ther
OFASTROLOGY. 395
ther command nor obey, nor mutually behold each other, nor are of
equal power ; but they are configurated by one or five figns, and do not
at all paitake of the apfefts, either by oppofition, trine, quartile, or
Textile. Hence they are termed injmSl; for, being configurated by one
fign's diftance, they are as it were diftorted from each other ; and thofc
which behold by five figns, divide the whole circle of the zodiac into
unequal parts. The figns under this defcription, are Aries, Gernmi,
Libra, and Sagittarius, which have no familiarity or afpeds with Taurus
or Scorpio ; and the figns. Cancer, Virgo, Capricorn, and Pifces, have
no familiarity with Leo or Aquaries.
But the planets have familiarity with all parts of the zodiac by
Houfes, Trigoiis, Exaltations, and Terms. Cancer and Leo, approachino-
nearer to our vertical point than either of the others, and thereby pro-
ducing heat and warmth, are for that reafon defined to be the houfes of
the two great and primary luminaries : Leo is attributed to the Sun as
mafculine, and Cancer to the Moon as feminine. Hence the femi-
circle of the zodiac from Leo to Capricorn is termed folar, and from
Aquaries to Cancer lunar, in order that each perfon fhould poffefs one
fign for its houfe in each of its femicircles ; the one bearing configuration
to the Sun, and the other to the Moon, according to the motion of the
fphere of each, and to their natural qualities. Saturn, therefore, being
in nature cold, and inimical to heat, occupying the highefl orb, and
being at the greateft diftance from the luminaries, takes for his houfes
the figns which are oppofite to Cancer and Leo, namely, Aquaries and
Capricorn, becaufe thefe figns are by nature cold and winterly, and the
afpedis which are made by oppofition do not combine to any good or
benevolent purpofe. Jupiter, becaufe his orb is next below that of
Saturn, aflumes for his houfes the two next figns, Sagittarius and Pifces,
which are windy and fruitful, by reafon of their trigonal refpe61: to the
luminaries, which is a fituation proper for the produ6lion of good.
Mars, being next in order to Jupiter, and dry by nature, takes for his
houfes the two next figns, Aries :ind Scorpio, which are fimilar in their
effects to Mars, by having malefic and mifchievous radiations with the
luminaries. Venus, being temperate, has for her houfes the two next
figns, Taurus and Libra, which are of a fruitful and prolific nature,
and correfpond with the luminaries by a fextile ray ; and is never more
than two figns diftant from the Sun. Mercury, being circumfcribed by
the orbs of all the other planets, takes for his houfes Gemini and Virgo
;
and is never more than one fign diftant from the central Sun, being
the firft planet next him.
•
The
3^6 ANILLUSTRATION
The familiarities by triplicity are next to be confidered by calculators
of nativities ; for whereas a triplicity and a figure of equal fides obtain
an ao-reement, Co the circle of the zodiac is circumfcribed by three
circles, the equinodial and the two tropics, and is divided into four
equilateral triangles, which conftitute thefe triplicities. The firft is
formed by the three mafculine figns, Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius ; and
it has for its lords, the Sun, Jupiter, and Mars; but Mars, being of a
contrary nature to the folar influence, is excluded from bearing any
government in this triplicity, and therefore the Sun has the rule by
day, and Jupiter by night. Aries occupies the equinoftial circle, Leo
the eftival, and Sagittarius the winter. This trigon is principally
northern, by reafon of the dominion of Jupicer ; and it is windy and
fruitful. It is alfo north-weft, and receives a mixture of the north-
weft winds, becaufe it is the houfe of Mars, which planet ftirs up and
governs thofe winds.
The fecond triplicity, which confifts of Taurus, Virgo, and Capri-
corn, is under the government of the Moon and Venus. The Moon
governs by night, and Venus by day. 1 aurus is in the eftival circle,
Virgo in the equinoftial, and Capricorn in the winter. This triplicity,
becaufe of the dominion of Venus, is fouth ; for this ftar, being endued
with a warming and moiftening power, produces fouth winds ; and, be-
caufe Saturn has his houfe in Capricorn, in this triplicity, it likewife
partakes of a mixture of the eaft winds ; for Saturn, being familiar to the
oriental parts by reafon of the condition of the Sun, produces and go-
verns the eaft winds.
The third triplicity is formed of the figns Gemini, Libra, and Aqua-
ries, three mafculine figns, and is placed under the government of
Saturn and Mercury ; Saturn rules by day, and Mercury by night
;
Gemini is fituate in the fummer circle. Libra in the equinodtial, and
Aquaries in the winter. This triplicity is chiefly eaftern, on account of
the government of Saturn ; but it becomes partly north-eaft, by the
influence of Jupiter, on which account it aflumes a mixture of the north-
eaft winds.
The fourth triplicity, confifting of Cancer, Scorpio, and Pifces, is
chiefly under Mars, who derives an influence here, on account of
having his houfe in Scorpio ; but, becaufe the figns in this triplicity are
feminine, the Moon by night, and Venus by day, rule jointly with
Mars, and intermix their qualities and influence together. Cancer is
fjtuate in the eftival circle, Scorpio in the winter, and Pifces in the
^
equinotlial
;
OF ASTTROLOGY. 39:
cquiiioflial. This triplicity is weftern, becaufe of the dominion of Mars
and the Moon ; but, affuming a mixture by the rule of Venus, it becomes
in fome meafore fouth-weft.
The familiarities by exaltation are thus occafioned : The Sun, when
he enters Aries, makes his tranfit into the high and northern fcmicircle
;
but, when he enters Libra, he pafles into the low and fouthern femicir-
cle. For this reafon, the Sun has his exaltation in Aries, in which the
days begin to lengthen, and the heating nature of the Sun begins to in-
creafe ; and for the contrary reafon he receives his fall in Libra. Saturn,
being of an oppofite nature to the Sun, has his exaltation in Libra, and
his fall in Aries ; for, wherefoever heat is increafed, cold is diminifhed;
and, where there is an augmentation of cold, heat is leffened. So the
Moon, becaufe flie makes her conjun6lion with the Sun in Aries, and
makes the beginning of the increafe of her light in the firft fign of her
triplicity, which is Taurus, that is affigned for her exaltation. So Ju-
piter, the producer of northern and fruitful winds, when in Cancer, be-
comes more northerly, and acquires a greater increafe of power; he
therefore takes Cancer for his exaltation, and Capricorn for his fall. And
fince Mars is chiefly of a burning nature, and becomes moft heating in
Capricorn, becaufe he is then in his moft fouthern declination, he hath
his exaltation in Capricorn, oppofite to that of Jupiter, and his fall in
Cancer. Again, Venus is naturally moiftening, but mollly fo when in
Pifces ; for which reafon (he aflumes her exaltation in that fign, and
takes her fall in Virgo. But Mercury, being of an oppofite nature, and
moftly dry, takes the oppofite fign Virgo for his exaltation ; for then
autumn, the dricft part of the feafon, appears ; and he has his fall in the
fign Pifces,
Familiarities by terms have been already largely explained in the
former part of this work. But it is necefTary to remark, that the be-
ginning of the figns, and of the terms alfo, ought to be made from the
beginning of the equino6lial and tropical figns; and this is manifefl, be-
caufe we fee their natures, and powers, and familiarities, have not any
other caufe, but from the tropics and equinoxes ; for, if other begin-
nings are appointed, we Ihall either be necefi!itated to ufe the nature of
the figns no longer in the theory of judgments, or, if we do admit them,
we (hall commit error by corrupting the diftanccs, and dividing thofe
from which influences are afforded them.
Befides thefe familiarities of the ftars and figns, they alfo pofTefs what
are called their faces, thrones, and the like. Their proper face is when
No. 20. 5 F each
398 AN ILLUSTRATION
each ftar keeps the fame figure with the Sun and Moon which its houfc
bears to their houfes. This is done when Venus makes a fexangular
figure to the luminaries ; and to the Sun when fhe is occidental, and to
the Moon when oriental, according to the fucceflion of houfes. They
arc alio faid to be in their thrones, when they have a power in the place
they poffefs, according to the foregoing prerogatives, by two or more
teltimonies ; for then their energy and influences are increafed, becaufe
the familiarity of the ambient twelve figns co-operates therewith. They
are likewife faid to be in their joy, when, although they have no fami-
liarity v.'ith the ambient figns, yet are fo in refpeft to others of the fame
condition with them, and by which likenefs there is found a communi-
cation by lympathy. So again, when they are found of an unlike and
contrary condition, much of their power is diminilhed by a new and
mixed virtue arifing from the different temperature of the ambient figns.
Hence let it be underfkood, that, when Mercury is one fign diftant from
the Sun, he is in his face; Venus, when two figns diftant ; Jupiter,
when four figns diftant ; and Saturn, when five figns from the Sun.-
—
The fame obfervation holds good in refpe6l of the Moon, but then the
rule muft be made in figns antecedent to her ; as, if the Moon were in
Virgo, then Mercury would be fo dignified in Leo, Venus in Cancer,
Mars in Gemini, &c. The thrones of the planets are thefe ; Saturn's
throne is in Aquaries ; Jupiter's in Sagittarius ; Mars's in Scorpio ; the
Sun's in Leo ; Venus's in Taurus ; Mercury's in Virgo ; and the Moon's
in Cancer.
The famUiarities, by application and feparation, are likewife to be con-
fidered in the Do6lrine of Nativities. Thofe planets which precede
apply to thofe which follovv ; and they that foUqglpf feparate from thofe
which precede. Thefe applications and feparations are likewife to be
confidered with refpe6l to their latitude ; for, the fmaller the latitude of
planets in conjundiion is, the more powerful will be their influence ;
and, if two planets in conjunftion have confiderable latitude of different
denominations, their influence will be thereby much lefTened. This
obfervation likewife holds good in diredions ; .for, the nearer any pla-
net is to the ecliptic line, the greater will his influence be. Moreover,
their efFe61-s are either flrong or weak, in refpeft ot the horizon ; for,
when they are pofited in the mid-heaven, or pafs into the place fucce-
dent to the mid-heaven, they are very flrong and powerful ; the fame
alfo if they are in the horizon itfelf, or in any of the fuccedent houfes,
and more particularly when in oriental parts. But, when they are in the
imum coeli, or otherwife pofited under the earth, their influence is very
weak, and of but little efFeft.
From
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 399
From all the foregoing confiderations,-it is evident that the efficient
power of the ftars is deduced from their peculiar and natural afpecb,
or proportional diftances, confidered in refpeft of the Sun, the an^les^
and the quality of the ambient figns; and by the power and influence of
thele afpeds are all aftrological fpeculations governed. But how thefe
afpefts were firft difcovered, and their virtues and pioportions alcertained*
does no where appear ; though it might be no dhhcult talk to account
for both upon philofophical and mathematical principles, fmce nature
every where, as well in the motions and effeds of the heavenly bodies
as in all other arithmetical and geometrical refpefls, particularly cele-
brates thofe proportions above all others. Picus, fpeaking of the afpeds,
thinks njankuid were led to the knowledge of them by obfervino- the
different phafes of the Moon ; 'for, when fhe is new, horned, in her
quarters, gibbofity, or at full, her forms are ftill changed at thefe pro-
portioned diftances from the Sun ; belides which, it is to be obferved
that in her annual revolutions (he is conftantly found about the trine of
her own place in the beginning of the former year.
Other aftronomers, of eftablifhed reputation, have likewife obferved,
that nature particularly points to every configuration, while we confider
the motions of the other planets. Abohazer judicioufly affirms, that
the two inferior planets, in their ftations, defcribe the arch proper to a
quartile alpe6t ; and Pliny alfo recommends to our obfcrvation the trine
afpe6ts, conftantly formed by the ftations of three fuperior planets.
But, above all, it cannot be confidered without great admiration, how
wonderfully Nature hath nobilitated all the afpeds in the motions of
Saturn and Jupiter. For, as their conjundions are rare, and happen but
once in twenty years, fo hath Nature evermore difpofed thele conjunc-
tions in the moft remarkable parts of the zodiac, that is, in fuch herns
only as behold each other in an equilateral triangle infcribed. For, be-
tween any two great conjundions of Saturn and Jupiter, there are nine-
teen Egyptian years, three hundred and eighteen days, and thirteen
hours, in which fpace of time thole planets are moved from the place
of their former conjundions eight ligns and almoft three decrees ; which
excefs of three degrees is the caufe why, after ten conjundions, they pafs
from one triplicity to another, attd one triphcity continues one hundred
ninety-eight equal years, two hundred ;nd fixty-five days, (the intercalary
day of every fourth year omitted,) and ten hours. But the revolution of
all the triplicities is finiftied only once in feven hundred ninety-four
equal >ears, three hundred thirty-one days, and fixteen hours ; or other-
wile in leven hundred ninety- four Julian years, one hundred thirty-
three days, and fixteen hours ; which, being doubled, amounts to one
thoufand.
400 AN ILLUSTRATION
thouiand five hundred and eighty-eight, which number of years thofc
authors are thought to have relpe61ed who confidered the year 1588 from
the birth of Chrift would prove lb fatal.
From hence therefore, it is, and not without fufficient caufe, that
they are termed great conjun6lions, both happening rarely, and abiding
in one triplicity almoft two hundred years together, and not compleat-
ing all the triplicities of the zodiac in much lefs than eight hundred
years ; confequently they have not yet gone through all the triplicities
eight times Cnce the beginnins; of the world. Neither are the other
afpcdts formed by thefe planets to pafs unnoticed ; for whoever obferves
when Saturn and Jupiter behold each other by an oppofition or quartile
afpedt, they will evidently perceive that they ftill carry fuch a regard
to the figns or places of their preceding and next conjun6tions, as ever
more to irradiate the one and the other with an oppofition, Textile,
quartile, or trine afpc6t; which I think is a fufficient proof that nature
hath allured us to the confideration of the arcs formed by thefe afpedls
in the particular motion of each refpedive planet.
To confirm the virtues and efFedts of thefe afpe6ls, we need only con-
fider what phyficians are taught by experience, namely, that the crifis
of all acute difeafes has a palpable and extraordinary fympathy with
all thefe five configurations of the Moon, made to her place at the be-
ginning of the difeafe. Or, as a further proof, we need only refer to
what has already been faid relative to the tides, which conftantly
obferve the motions of the Moon, their fpring and highefl floods al-
ways concurring with their conjundtion and oppofition to the Sun, as
the neaps and loweft tides always do to her quarters. And it is
equally remarkable that the feas, in their daily ebbing and flowing upon
every coafi:, have refpedt only to fuch azimuthal circles, as are in a
quartile pofition when the Moon pafles by them. Again, the Sun moft
evidently manifefts great efFeds by the quartile afpedf, fince he modi-
fies and governs the viciffitudes of feafons, or four quarters of the
year, by his ingrefs into the four equinoftial and tropical points of the
zodiac.
The power of thefe afpedls is not injudicioufly flated by Julius
Firmicus, in the arithmetical obfervation which he makes of the num-
ber of figns agreeable to the afpe6ts, i, 2, 3, 4, 6, anfwering in pro-
grcffivc order to the conjundion, fextile, quartile, trine, and oppofi-
tion ; for thefe numbers only, and no others, will divide the zodiac
confifting of twelve figns ; for which reafon lie makes them the only
7 aliquot
OF ASTROLOGY. 401
aliquot parts of a circle. Ptolemy alfo added not a little to the dignity
of thefe irradiations, when he firft difcovered the geometrical propor-
tion which the fubtenfes of each of thefe arches bear in refpedl to the
diameter of a circle. Others again, with no lefs ino-enuity, have ob-
"ferved, that araongft all regular or ordinate figures that may be infcribed
in a circle, though the fame be infinite, there are none whofe fides and
angles 'carry away the prerogative at the circumference and centre, but
thofe whofe fides and angles are anfwerable to the fubtenfes and arches
of their afpe6fs. For, amongff all ordinate planes that may be infcribed
. there are no two whofe fides joined together have pre-eminence to oc-
cupy a femicircle, except the hexagon, quadrate, and equilateral triangle
anfwering to the fextile, quartile, and trine irradiated. The fubtenfe
therefore of a fextile afped confifls of two figns ; and, joined to the fub-
tenfe of a trine, compofed of four, being regular and equilateral, take
up fix figns, which is a complete femicircle. In like manner, the fides
of a quadrate infcribed, fubtending three figns, and twice reckoned, alfo
occupy the moiety of a circle. And what the foregoing figures are faid
to perform, either doubled or joined together, may alfo be found in
the afpeft of oppolition ; for the diametrical line which pafTes from the
place of conjundion to the oppofite point, divides a circle into two
equal parts, a circumftance which cannot be found in any other infcripts.
For example, the fide of a regular pentagon fubtends leventy-two de-
grees; of an odagon but forty-five; the remainders of which arches, viz.
one hundred and eight, and one hundred and thirty-five, degrees, are not
fubtended by the fides of any ordinate figure.
And thus, as the fubtenfes of thefe afpeds are the fame with the fides
of the foregoing infcripts, and only take up the circumference of a
circle ; fo it is evident, that the angles at which they concur, are the
fame wherewith the ordinate planes take up the whole fpace about the.
centre. For, if we confider the angle of a fextile afpe6l at the earth, it
is all the fame w^ith that of an equilateral triangle confifl:ino- of fixty
degrees, and contains two-thirds of a right angle. But fix times two-
thirds of a right angle make four right angles ; wherefore fix fextiles,
equal to fix equilateral triangles, fill the whole fpace about a point,
which is equal to four right angles. Secondly, every angle of a
quartile is a right angle, and the fame with the angle of a reflano-le
quadrilater figure, four of which fill a whole fpace. Thirdly, the ano-le
which two flars in a trine make, at the centre of the earth, is meafured
by an angle of one hundred and twenty degrees, which is equal to the
angle of a regular hexagon, confifling of a right angle and one-third ;
and, taken three times, makes four right angles ; wherefore three equila-
No. 21. 5 G teral
402 AN ILLUSTRATION
teral hexagons, or three trine aipedls, alio fill the whole fpace about the
centre. To thcfe \vc niay likewife add the alpedi of oppofition, which
confifts of two right angles, and therefore, being doubled, will perfornn
the like opcrxition with the reft; whilft any other figure of many angles,
however joined together, will either fall fhort of four .right angles, or
elfe exceed them. For inftance^ the angle of a pentagon contains a right
angle and one fifth over, wherefore three I'u'ch angles placed about a point
will fall fhort of four right angles by two-fifths of a right angle ; whilft,
on the other hand, four fuch angles will exceed four right angles by
four- fifths,
Thefe fpeculations therefore duly confidered, it were fenfelefs to ima-
gine that nature hath fo many ways diftinguifhed thefe remarkable irra-
diations of the ftars in vain, or admoniflied us to a particular regard of
them by fo many rare and fecret operations, as well in the motion of
the planets as in their efFe6ts and proportions, if they were not endued
with more force and virtue than any of the others. Hence it has given
fcope to the ingenuity and abilities of the learned to aftign a caufe, why
thefe few configurations, above all the others, fhould be endued with
fuch extraordinary efficacy. Nor has any reafon yet been given, with
more apparent probability, than that thefe proportions, whereof the
afpefts are found to confift, are precifely the fame with thofe which arc
found in harmonical concords; for which reafon it is fuppofed no lefs
probable, that the rays of the ftars in thefe proportioned diftances fhould
powerfully afFe6l the matter of all fublunary things, by the fame rule
that the like geometrical fymmetry in founds and voices fhould ftir up
the fenfe and paffions of the hearer. And it is an eftablifhed obfervation
throughout the produftions of nature, that where due proportion is
not wanting, there fhe never fails to endue all her eifefts with fuch an
height of perfeftion as cannot but ftrike the fenfe and underftanding of
every obferver. And thus it is even in artificial compofitions, and in
medicines ; for we know thofe only to be raoft kind and fovereign,
which obferve a competent fymmetry or temperature of the a6live and
paffive qualities. With great propriety, therefore, and with every ap-
pearance of truth, moft of the learned agree with Ptolemy, that the
caufe of this wonderful efficacy in the foregoing, afpefls proceeds in a
great meafure from harmonical proportion.
But, more clearly to demonftrate this flmilitude or affinity between
the proportions of the afpe6ls and the like diftances obferved in mufical
concords, we muft underftand that all harmony whatfoever originally
fprings from three fuch terms or numbers as refpedl each other in fuch a
manner,
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 403
manner, that their differences invariably retain the fame proportion as
is found between their extremes. For inflance, in thefe three numbers,
6, 4, 3, anfwering to the figns of the oppofition, trine, and quartile',
configurations, it is evident, if we compare the extremes with the mean,
that 2 will be the difference between 6 the fail, and 4 the fecond
num.ber ; and i is in like manner between 4 the middle or fecond,
and 3 the third, number; but, 2 being double in proportion to i, there-
fore 6, the firft number, refpeds 3, the third number, with the like
proportion. The analogy of which proportions, as before ftated, is
found to be the bafis of all mufic, ariling wholly from thefe three
fmiple concording diftances, which by muficians are termed diapente,
eonfifting of a fefquialter proportion, as 6 to 4 ; or, which is all the
fame, of three to two ; diatcjfaron, compounded of a fefquitertia, as 4
to 3 ; and diapafon, confiffing of a double proportion, as 6 to 3, or 2 to
I ; and is equal to the two firft diftances and proportions put too^ether.
For a fefquialter added to a fefquitertia, according to the rules of pro-
portion, will produce a diapafon, or double proportion, exaftly fuch as
is found between the former extremes compared together, viz. as 6 to
3. In like manner, by comparing, the diapafon with both thefe parts,
that is, with the fefquialter and fefquitertia, according to the cuftoipary
manner of fupputating proportions, we are brought to the two other
compounded or imperfect concords ; fo conflituting the five firO: and
natural diftances in harmonical founds, that, being diverfly and judici-
oufly varied between themfelves, produce an infinite variety of all kinds
of melody.
After the fame manner we find it with regard to the light and in-
fluence of the heavens. For, although there are other afpeds attributed
to the ftars, both zodiacal and mundane, yet thefe five were anciently, and
are even now, obferved as being moft apt to aftion, and moft powerful in
their effeds, namely, the conjunftion, oppofition, trine, quartile, and
fextile ; and there is nothing more certain, than that by the harmonical
mixture of thefe proportioned beams, the generation and corruption of
this mortal world is infinitely varied and governed. Wherefore, as the
force of all harmony, fo likewife the effeftual reafon of all adion, in the
influence of the ftars, is properly deduced from the aforefaid fymmetry
of thefe diftances. But, more fully to illuftrate that the angles of the
afpeds, compared between themfelves, concur with thefe harmonic pro-
portions in mufic, let it be remembered, that flars in aii oppofite or dia-
metrical afpe6l are disjoined by the fpace of two right angles, which
are meafured with the arch of fix figns, of one hundred and eighty de-
grees of circumference ; and that the trine, confifting of four figns, or
one
404 AN rLLUSTRATION
one hundred and twenty degrees, conftitutes one right angle and one
third of another; alfo, that the quartile afpeit takes up one entire right
ano-lc, and is fubtended with the arch of three figns, or ninety degrees
;
and Jikewife that a Textile is conflituted but of two figns, or fixty de-
crees, which is two thirds of a right angle. This being admitted, if
we now compare the two right angles of the oppofition, taken toge-
ther with the angles of the reft of the afpetts, and either the trine placed
between the oppofition and the quartile, or the quartile between the
oppofition and the Textile, we (hall find either way three numbers
which admit all the laws of harmonic proportion, as becomes evident
by the following figures, of which the firft proves the three concords to
have three perfed afpedts; and the fecond fhows the Textile to be an im-
perfeft al'pe6f, at^reeable to SaDente cum diapafon^ that is, a triple propor-
tion, as 60 is to 80.
8
OFASTROLOGY. 405
again, becaufe I may hereafter allude to it, when I tome to fpeak of the
new afpe6ts. What I have already faid will fuffice to fhow the philo.
fophical fpeculation of thofe who have afcribed the efficacy of the pla-
netary irradiations to the harmonical proportions which are found between
them. And, fince it is obvious that thefe afpeds do really bear the fame
mutual afpeft one towards another as all harmonical concoids are found
to retain among themfelves, what reafon can be afligned, why nature's
operations in the lights and influences of the heavenly bodies fhould not
be governed by this fymmetry of proportion, in the fame manner as we
find to be univerfally admitted in the fcience of mufic ?
But all this rather fer%-es to illuftrate a fimile, and to prove that nature
has indeed diftinguifhed thefe proportions with extraordinary virtues
above any other, than to fatisfy the mind ivhy, in the infinite variety of
founds and lights, thefe proportions only fhould correfpond fo fweetly
in mufic, and be mofl effedual in the operations of nature. Kepler,
with a fhow of plaufibility, has endeavoured to demonftrate, that God, in
the creation of the world, obferved the fame proportion in the mao-ni-
tude and diflance of the celeflial fpheres that is found in the regular
folids which in geometry have their origin from the ordinate planes;
and therefore concludes, that the motions of the heavenly bodies cor-
refpond moft fweetly, and co-operate moft powerfully together, when
the nature of fublunary things, endued, as he fuppofes, with a fenfitive
faculty, apprehends and receives the beams of the flars bv their con-
currence at the centre of the earth ; which anfwers to the ordinate
planes, from whence the regularity of thefe proportions is derived, as
the imprefTed charadl^crs of that admirable fymmetry which God is faid
to have obferved in the creation of the world. And hence he fuppofes
that, as often as any earthly fubflance meets with thefe proportions, it is
affected as it were by this idea, and exercifed in fuch a manner, that
what it but ordinarily performs at other times, it will now produce
with much more efFed. Not that thefe proportions work any thing of
themfelves; for in mufic, it is neither the founds nor the proportion
of the concords that work any thing of themfelves, or beget any de-
light in the hearer ; but the foul, approaching to the organs of fenfe,
there firfl entertains the founds inwardly, then regards their proportions,
and, finding the fame good and geometrical, laflly exhilarates itlelf, and
moves the body wherein it is as with an obje6l wherein it takes delio^ht.
Such alfo is the fympathy between the heavenly influences and all fublu-
nary matter, animate or inanimate.
No. 21. 5 H But,
406 AN ILLUSTRATION
But, be this conceit of Kepler's as it may, we are not without fuffi-
cieut geometrical demonftration, to fhow the reafon why thefe propor-
tions, or irradiations of the ftars, are more effedual than any others.
For, fince it is admitted that an union of beams afFords the greateft in-
fluence, fo it is allowed that the conjundion and oppofition are for this
reafon the moft potent and powerful configurations of all others, as is
fhown by the following figure, where we find the beams, as well incident
as refledted, to be united.
For, let A be fuppofed in conjundion with B, it is firft manifeft that
all the beams flowing from G and E, the points of touch in the circum-
ference of A, fhall unite themfelves with the beams that are lent from
B to C the eartli's centre. Secondly, we are alfo to obkrve, chat in
this cafe the beam AC, or B C, coming from the centre of r le ftars,
reflefts only into itfelf, as being perpendicular; whereas t lole .)eams
which are fent from the points E and G make an acute angle at C, and
refled the one into the other at equal angles ; as G C refleds n om C to
E, and EC from C to G. Laflly, the union that happens i . an op-
pofition is manifefl without any illuftration, where the beams fent from
the oppofite points make but one ftraight line, as G F, and E H, in the
foregoing figure.
In
OF ASTROLOGY. 407
In like manner, in my contemplation, the configurations of the Tex-
tile and trine have a concurrence of their beams at the earth, and a mutual
refle61ion of the one into the other, and fo an union by refledion, as in the
following figure is manifeft
For, admit ABC to be three ftars, A and B in a Textile configuration,
and A C in a trinej then, forfomuch as B F, the beam iacident of the
Textile, falls obliquely in refpect of A F, and makes an acute angle there-
with, it, is evident to any one who has the fmallefl under/landing in
optics, that B F fhall reflect to C, and fo be united to C F, the incident
of the ll:ar C, which is in a trine configuration with A. For the fame reafon
C F fhall refleft to the flar in B, and be alfo united with B F, the inci-
dent of the ffar at B. And hence arife the grounds of that familiarity ia
thefe arches of heaven, which Ptolomy has laid down as the mofl apt for
the aph ra of life, or the houfes of the figure.
But the quartile afpe£l, whofe beams only cut each other ad cmgulos
re&os, and {o refle6t into themfelves, derives its principal virtue from
the exa£l proportion of its angles in taking up the centre of the earth ;
and hence the rayflery of thefe configurations wholly confifls in this, that
thefe irradiations only, and thofe that are derived from them, are pro-
portionable unto all patible matter, and therefore moft efFedtual. For
that thefe irradiations only are every way proportionable, has been al-
ready abundantly proved, whether we refped their taking upthe circum-
ference, the power and proportion of their fubtenfes unto t he diameter,,
or, laflly and principally, their occupying of place at the cen tre of the
earth by their angles, whereby they raufl needs (hine upon all elementary
matter
4o8 AN ILLUSTRATION
matter with a due and even mixture of light and influence. And, fincc
no other arches, fubtenies, or angles, are found to enjoy thefe preroga-
tives, it is evident that thefe, above all others, have that fymmetry of
proportion which is neither defective, interrupted, nor redundant; but
fuch are the arches, fubtenfes, and angles, of thefe irradiations, that thefe,
and no other, are exa(511y proportionable. Now as that which is defe6iive,
and wants equality of proportion, leaves the a6lion fruftrate, and with-
out efFeft; fo that which on the other hand offends in excefs, muft needs
incur the contrary fault, and overcharge that which either nature or art
intended to perform ; whereby it will neceflarily follow, that, wherever
there is no defed nor excefs, but an equal and jufl: mixture of the in-
fluence of the f^ars in thefe irradiations, thefe only can be apt and pro-
per to produce perfedl and agreeable effeds in the formation and tempe-
rature of all fublunary things. For it happens in thefe effeds which are
produced by the mixture of light and heat, jufl the fame as in chemical
operations, where a defeft of heat produces nothing ; while, on the con-
trary, excefs will deflroy the whole, either by fublimation, vitrification,
eruption, or the like.
Having thus fatisfadtorily fhown how the points of the ordinate planes,
whereunto thefe configurations have been compared, often reiterated, do
take up place, I fhall now fet forth how the beams of any two flars in
any one of the former configurations fhall occupy more fpace than that
which is comprehended between their incidents or beams of true motion;
and how by their beams, either incident, refledfed, or oppofite, they
occupy and pofTefs the whole centre of the earth at one inflant with pro-
portionable angles. To demonflrate this, in refpeiSt to the conjunction
and oppofition whofe force rather depends upon union than proportion,
I need only refer the reader to a view of the lafi: diagram but one, where
he will find that the united beams of fuch flars as are in conjun6tion and
oppofition furround the centre, and all elementary matter whatfoever,
fubjeft to the a6fions of heaven. With regard to the quartile, whofe
beams incident and oppofite traverfe the centre of the earth at four right
angles, viz. at A F G, GFI, A F H, and HFI; and feeing four
points of a reCfangle-quadrilater figure have been already proved to occu-
py place; I likewife need no other proof in this configuration, than that the
reader will in the laft figure obferve how thefe four right angles, made
by one quartile afped, take up the centre of the earth. But concerning
the trine and lextile afpedls, we have yet more to confider ; for fuppole
two flars, A and B, in the lafl diagram, irradiate the earth with their
Textile beams ; although it be true, that, by protrading the oppofite
beam from B to F, the centre of the earth feems occupied with propor-
6 ttonai^lc
OFASTROLOGY. 409
tionable angles, B FA being fubtended by the arch of fixty degrees, which
is before declared to be the angle of an ordinate equilateral triano-le, and fo
leaves the outward angle B F I equal to the angle of an ordniate hex-
agon, fubtended here by the arch of one hundred and twenty dco-rees,
which is the arch of a trine ; and the like being alio found in the angles
made by the oppofite beams ad verticem ; yet, neverthelefs, we rnuft
here confider how the incident beam of B, viz. B F, reflefts into C
and fo takes up the whole femicircle A B C I with three Textiles viz!
AFB, BFC, and CFI. In like manner, if we fuppofe C to be in
a triangular configuration with A, it is evident that, as the oppofite beam
of H, viz. FI, makes a Textile with the incident beam of a flar at C, viz»
CF; fo CF, being the beam incident of the ftar at C, refleds alio to*
the point B, and fo makes the fame three Textile afpeds wherewith the
aforefaid whole femicircle is occupied, as above demonftratcd. Thefe
confiderations will undoubtedly fatisfy the reader how any two ftars, in
either of the afpefts above alluded to, proportiouably occupy the whole
centre of the earth in the fame moment of time, without reiteratino- the-
fame angle.
I have hitherto only fpoken of what are termed old configurations,,
which are indifputably the moft excellent ; but I fhall now mention
what are called the new ones, as introduced by the ingenious Kepler,
namely, the quintile, confifting of feventy-two degrees ; the biquintile,
of one hundred and forty-four degrees ; and the fefquiquadrate, of one
hundred and thirty-five degrees ; which afpefts being added to the for-
mer, make eight configurations, anfwering to the eight confonant ftops
in a monochord, Thefe new additions are by no means improperly
made, fince many eminent pradiitioners of this fcience have experienced
their utility in fpeculations on the weather and meteors, as well as in
bringing up the accidents of a nativity. Neither is there any want of
philofophical or mathematical demonflrations to fupport them ; for, as in
mufic there are but three perfedt concords, namely, the diapafon, diapente,,
and diateflaron; fo in aftrology there are but three perfeftafpefts aiifwer-
able to them, viz. the oppofition, the trine, and the quartile ; the fextile
having already been proved an imperfeft afpedl', anfwering exaftly to
Bflat, the firfl: among the imperfeft and compounded concords. Where-
fore, confidering that the firft three perfeft concords are found to have
their perfect afpefts anfwerable unto them, and that B flat, being an im-
perfefl: concord, is alfo found to agree exa6lly in proportion with the
lextile, being an imperfe6l afpe61, this undoubtedly gave Kepler fuffici-
ent reafon to conceive that the other harmonical proportions contained in
the fame monochord might alfo have their afpe»Sts, namely, the quin-
No 2L. 5 I tile,.
4TO AN ILLUSTRATION
tile, biquiutilc, and fcfquiquadrate, which are precifely found to cor-
rel'pond with them, and are in a fimilar degree effedual in their mode of
operation.
Thus having explained what the afpeds or configurations of the pla-
nets really are, and proved that their power and influences are grounded
upon philofophical and mathematical principles, I Ihall now proceed to
fhow their applications in the iiTues of human life, from conception to
the grave.
It is, 1 believe, univerfally admitted, that the beginning of human
generation takes place at the time of conception ; and therefore we ought
to be exact in afcertaining this time, and in coufidering the etFetlive
power of the configurations of the ftars, as they then happen to he
polited, and from thence contemplate the qualities of the mind and body.
For in the beginning, although the feed at once affumes a quality by the
communication of the circumambient matter, which at other times of
its formation and increafe becomes different; yet naturally, as it increafes,
it retains its own proper matter, and is rendered more like the peculiar
nature of the firft quality, with which it was imprefled at the time of
conception. But, if it be of Ibme importance to know the time of con-
ception, it is infinitely more fo to know the true time of birth ; for by
the firft, the accidents only before birth are known ; but by the fecond,
the incidents of our whole lives are to be difcovered. Wherefore one
may be called a beginning, and the other an after-beginning; the firft,
the generation of human feed ; the fecond, that of man. For in this
flate the infant affumes many things which it had not when in the womb,
and thofe peculiar to human nature alone, and the formation of the body.
And, although the properties of the celeftial and elementary matter
feem to confer nothing, at the time of birth, in refpe£l to the formation
of the child, yet it operates moft forcibly upon it in other refpeds ; for
nature, after perfeding the formation, difpofes the enfuing effeft ac-
cording to the ftate of the former at the beginning. Hence it is rea-
fonable, in thofe whofe time of conception is unknown, that the con-
figurations of the ftars formed at their birth fliould be {ignificative ; not
that it wholly contains an effedive power, but becaufe it neceffarily hath
a power by nature fimilar to the effedive. But it is always beft, if the
time of conception can be had, to compare it with the time of birth
;
^ for the time of conception (hows what (hall happen to the infant while
in the womb; as whether it (hall be ftrong or weak, firm or infirm, perfe6l
or imperfed, male or female, fingle or twins; or whether it fliall arrive to
the
OFASTROLOGY. 41
1
the full and perfe6l time of birth. But the occurrences of life after birth
are to be conlldered from the pofition of the heavens at the birth only.
Now, fince nothing can be predided in aftrology without this funda-
mental guide, namely, the radix, or true time of birth, various methods
have been invented in different ages, for the purpofe of afcertaining this
point with precifion, after the eftimate or fuppofed time is given. And
this is termed the re£lification of nativities, becaufe the times ufually
noted down by parents or midwives is feldom correal, either through
inattention, or from errors in clocks ; but by thefe rules the difference
between the eflimate or fuppofed time, and the real, is difcovered and
corrected. This reftification is done by various ways. Firftly, by the
Trutine of Hermes; fecondly, by the Animoder of Ptolomy; and thirdly,
by accidents of the native's life, which is alfo fivefold: firftly, according
to Argol ; fecondly, according to Kepler ; thirdly, according to Morinus
;
fourthly, by the luminaries ; and fifthly, by new and more corre6J:
methods.
Firftly, by the Trutine of Hermes, ere<5l the figure to the eftimate time
of birth, and reftify the Moon's place thereto; then take her diftance from
the afcendant, if (he be under the earth ; or from the feventh houfe, if
above the earth, by fubtrafting the angles from the Moon's place
;
adding thereto the three hundred and fixty degrees of the zodiac, if fub-
traftion cannot be made without ; then with the remainder enter the fol-
lowing Table under the column of the Moon's diftance; andpven with it,
in the fecond column if the birth was in February, in the third column
if January or December, in the fourth column if in April or September,
or in the fifth column if in March, May, June, July, Auguft, Oftober,
or November, will be found an equation of days to be added to, or
fubtradled from, the day of birth, according to the letters A or S, at the
top of each refpeftive column, whofe fum or difference gives the day of
the month, in the month of conception ; always obferving, that, if the
year of birth be a leap-year, one day more muft be added to every mouth
after February.
Thi
412 AN ILLUSTRATION
The table.
OF ASTROLOGY. 413
To redify, Secondly, by theAnimoder of Ptolomy, ere6l the figure as near
as poflible to the eftimate time of birth, and confider in what fign, and in
what degree of that fign, the New Moon happened that lafl: preceded the
birth; or, if a Full Moon more nearly preceded the time of birth than a
new, then note the degree of the fign wherein either of the luminaries
were pofited that were above the earth; but, if one of the luminaries be
exaftly rifing, and the other fetting, prefer that which is rifing. Then
obferve which of the planets hath moft dignities by triplicity, houfe, ex-
altation, term, or configuration, in the degree of fuch precedin<y New
Moon, or in the degree of the luminary above the earth, or that afcends,
at fuch preceding Full Moon ; and alfo what fign and degree then af-
cends upon the horizon, or that culminates or pofifefTes the cufp of the
tenth houfe; and, if the degree of the planet, dignified as above, be
fituated nearer the degree afcending than to the degree culminatino-,
place the fame degree in number of the fign afcending, upon the cufp of
the afcendant, that fuch ruling planet pofTefled of the fign he was in.
But, on the contrary, if the planet be nearer the degree on the cufp of
the tenth houfe or medium cceli than to the afcendant, then the deo-ree
culminating, or poffeffing the cufp of the mid-heaven, muft be made
the fame with the degree the faid planet was in ; and fo, accordino- to
the fign and degree thus afcertained, muft the other houfes of the fio-ure
be varied; and this will be the true time of the native's birth. But, if it
fhould happen that two planets have equal dignities in the degrees
aforefaid, prefer that which is pofited the ncareft to the afcendant.
Ptolomy further obferves, that fign the Moon is in at the time of birth
is the very fign which afcended at the conception; and again, whatever
fign the Moon is in at conception, that or the oppofite will be the fio-n
alcending at birth.
Thirdly, to redify by accidents, i . according to the method of Argol, fet
the fcheme exadtly to the eftimate time, and draw it into a fpeculum ; then
run down the columns in the fpeculum, belonging to the afcendant and
medium coeli, confidering what diredlions might moft probably fio-nify
the accidents given, obferving the afcendant for accidents befalling the
body ; the medium coeli for things relating to credit or reputation, as
trade, honour, diftionour, preferment, &c. and convert the time of the
accident into an arch of diredlion, by Naibod's meafure of time ; and
then finding the true, right, or oblique, afcenfion of the promiffor with
latitude, if he hath any, from which fubtradling the arch of diredion,
the remainder will be the right afcenfion of the medium cceli, or oblique
afcenfion of the afcendant. If it be the oblique afcenfion of the afcen-
dant, fubtradl ninety degrees from it, the remainder will be the right
No. 21. 5 K. afcenfion
414 AN ILLUSTRATION
afcenfion of the medium cceU correfled, between which, and the right
afcenfion of the medium cceli of the fuppofed time, take the difference ;
which add or fubtraft to or from the fuppofed time, according as the
right alcenfion of the medium coeli did Increafe or decreafe ; and the fum
or difference is the true time of birth required.
2. According to Kepler, gather a table of the Sun's place for eighty,
ninety, or one hundred, davs, more or lefs, immediately fucceeding
the day of birth ; then, having the time of the accident, number fo
many davs of the Sun's motion as there were years elapfed from the
birth, making allowance for the odd days ; and find the Sun's place at
that time, with tlie right afcenfion thereof, which fubtraft from the
oblique afcenfion of the promiffor denoting the accident, (added to two
hundred and feventy degrees ;) the remainder is the right afcenfion of time
correfled ; where note, that, having fet the figure to the eftimate time,
calculate the Sun's place thereto, and find the difference between that
and his place at noon the day of birth ; which if it exceeds his place of
birth, l"ubtra6t the aforefaid difference from his place at noon, agreeing
with that day fignifying the number of years in which the accident
happened ; but, if it be lefs, add ; fo fhall the difference or fum be the
Sun's diretlion for years complete ; then, for the odd days of the acci-
dent if any be, find the Sun's diurnal motion, in the faid table, againfl
the day fignifying the faid number of years, and fay. As three hundred
and fixty-five days fix hours is to the Sun's diurnal motion, fo arc
the faid odd days to the odd minutes, which are to be added to the Sun's
direftion aforefaid; which lum is the Sun's true place at the time of
birth. But, to redtify it by an accident compared with the medium
coeli, fubtradl the right afcenfion of the Sun, found by the former
rule, for the year and day of the accident, from the right afcenfion of
the promiffor, by adding three hundred and fixty degrees, if fubtradion
cannot be made without ; and the remainder is the right afcenfion of time
corrected.
3. According to Morinus, to re61ify the afcendant, or medium coeli,
by a diredion to the conjunftion or oppofition of the promiffor of any
accident, is exadly the fame with Argol ; but, if it be to the fextile,
quartile, or trine, of any fuch promiffor, firfl find their latitude, and
then in all refpeds follow the fame method as is above given in the
directions of Argol.
4. To reflify by the luminaries, proceed as follows: If no direiflioji
cf either angles will anfwer to the accident given, and it be eminent^
conCder
O F A S T R O L O G Y. ^r^
confider the pofition of the luminaries, and fee what diredion of either
of them might moft probably fignify the fame ; which done, find the
luminary's pole of pofition exadly for its place in the eflimate fio-ure,
under which pole dire6l the faid luminary to the faid probable promiflbr,
and find the difference between that and the time of the accident
converted into an arch of diredtion ; then make a fecond fuppofition
at the pole of pofition, working as before ; and, noting the difference be-
tween the arches of the two directions, fay, As the difference of thefe two
arches is to the difference in the poles of pofition, fo is the firfl aforefaid
difference to the difference between the firfl fuppofed pole of pofition
and the true pole of the luminary propofed ; but it is neceffary here,
that the eftimate time be given pretty exaft. Thus, having found the
true pole of pofition, it gives the true oblique afcenfion or defcenfion of
the luminaries, with its diftance from the meridian ; by which may be
found the medium coeli corred, and thereby the true time of birth.
5. Befides thefe, there are feveral new methods of redifyino- nativi-
ties by accidents. For inflance, fet the figure to the eftimate time, and
draw a fpeculum thereto ; in which, befides the afpeds of the planets,
infert alfo the afpe«5fs which the afcendant and medium coeli make with
every hgn ; this done, confider what promiffors occur to a conjundion,
fextile, quartile, trine, or oppofition, of the afcendant, or medium coeli;
and for every year account one day in the Ephemeris, to the year
current in which the accident happened ; find that promiffor's place
(in that day adhering to the year current) for the eflimate time of
birth ; faying. As twenty-four hours is to the planet's diurnal motion,
fo are the hours and minutes elapfed from noon to the minutes to be
added or fubtraffed to or from the planet's place at noon that day ; ac-
cording as the laid planet was either direct or retrograde; then laftly. As
three hundred and fixty-five days fix hours are to that promiffor's diurnal
motion, fo is the number of days elapfed from the birth (at the termination
of which the accident fell out) to the minutes to be again added or fub-
traded to or from the aforefaid place of the faid promifTor, as he was
diredl or retrograde ; to which very degree and minute the afcendant or
medium coeli mufl be brought. But, if there be no diredion of the
afcendant or medium coeli to fignify that accident, confider what other
fignificator, being dire6fed to any likely promiflor, might effed the fame ;
and in the Ephemeris, againfl that day fignifying the number of the
years current for the eflimate time of birth find the place of the faid
promifTor ; then fay. As three hundred and fixty-five days fix hours are
to twenty-four hours, fo are the days elapfed (in which the accident
happened from the birth-day) to their proportioned part. Secondly, As
tvveuty_
4i6 ANILLUSTRATION
twenty-four hours are to the fignificator's diurnal motion, fo is the afore-
laid proportional part to the minutes and feconds, which are to be fub-
dudled out of the place of the aforefaid promiflbr ; and the remainder is
the exadt place of the faid fignificator at the true time of birth. In this
cafe it will be neceflary to have the eftimate time very near ; and that
the Sun, Venus, Mercury, or the Moon, be fignificators ; and Saturn,
Jupiter, or Mars, or their afpeds, promiflbrs ; otherwife, if the more
weighty planets be fignificators, take the diurnal motion of the promiflbr,
and work as before, fubdufting thefe minutes and feconds from the
fignificator, and the remainder is the exad place of the promiflbr at the
true time of birth. If yet no direction appears which may fignify the
given accident, confider the Moon's direftions on the right-hand page
of the Ephemeris, againfl: the day (ignifying the year current in which
the accident happened; and, allowing two hours for a month, .fubtra6l the
days elapfed from the birth-day from the hours and minutes, adhering
to the lunar afpeft; and the remainder will be the hour and minute of
birth corredted. The fame obfervation likewife holds good with refpefl
to the mutual afpeds.
But the (horteflr, eafiefl:, and moft fimple, way of reflifying a nativity,
and which includes all the perfe6lions of the foregoing, provided the
eftimate time does not exceed two hours of the real, is as follows.
—
Having ere6ted the fisfure to the eftimate time, obferve whether either of
the luminaries be pofited in the centre of any one of the three prime
angles, namely, the afcendant, medium coeli, or feventh houfe, or near
them ; and, if fo, bring either of them to the cufp of the angle, and the
degree and minute they were in is the true time of birth. But, if
neither of thefe are found thus centrically polited, nor near the cufps of
either of thofe angles, then bring them to a right parallel from angles,
and that will be the true time. If their pofitions will not admit of
this, obferve the two benefic planets Jupiter and Venus, and note
whether either of them be fituated as above fpecified, namely, in the
centre of the angles, or in a right parallel with either of the luminaries,
that is to lay, with the Sun by day, or the Moon by night ; and either
of thefe brought to the cufps as before, will give the true time of
birth. So likewife either of the malefic planets Saturn and Mars, if
found pofited in the centre of the angles, or near their cufps, or in
parallel to either of the luminaries as above, will be the prorogator of
life, and likewife fhow the true time of birth; but thefe laft pofitions
are rarely if ever found in the fchemes of grown perfons' nativities,
becaufe their influences, if not correded by the rays of benevolent
7 flars.
OFASTROLOGY. 417
ftars, are of To deftruflivc a tendency, that they generally cut off life in
a fhort time, either in infancy, or at leaft in the firft ftage of life.
Now, having brought a Nativity from its eftimate or fuppofed time
to that of the real, we are next to conflder its proper and contingent
parts and fignifications, fo far as they relate to accidents before birth,
and to thofe after the fubjeft comes into the world ; as alfo to parents
brethren, and relations, of the native. The particular confiderations
before birth relate to fex, as whether the infant be male or female;
and likewife to number, as whether there be twins or not. The caufes
of deformity, of monfters, and of thofe which perifh in the womb for
want of nourifhment, are alfo included in this part of the doftrine of
nativities. But the particular fubje6ls of enquiry after birth, relate to
the length of life, and form of the body ; to bodily difeales, and
accidental hurts and blemiflies of the members ; to the faculties of the
mind, and mental affedlions. They likewife include the future fortune
of the native, as well in pofTeffions as in dignities ; and alfo in the
quality of his aftions. Then concerning marriage and procreation; the
harmony of friends, and animofity of enemies ; next of travelling
;
and laftly, of death. —But the confideration concerning death is naturally
joined to that which relates to the fpace of life, fince it Ihows the quality
and mode of its termination.
1 It may naturally be alked, how thefe events are feverally and relpec-
tively diftinguifhed ? To explain this, let it be always remembered, that
for any particular event, we are to refer to fuch peculiar place in the
zodiac as is proper to that fpecies of a<5tion in the geniture con-
cerning which we are about to enquire. And whatever ftar is found to
have dominion in fuch place, either by triplicity, houfe, exaltation,
term, or configuration, fuch ftar (hall have dominion of the event. But,
if two or more ftars (hall be found in thcfe feveral pofitions, then that
ftar which has familiarity by moft ways, namely, that has the majority
of dignities, fliall be taken as ruler of the event, and ftiall affume the
dominion accordingly. The quality of the event is always known from
the nature of thefe ruling ftars, added to that of the figns in which thofe
flars are pofited, and the familiarities they have with the other fignifi-
caut parts of the heavens. The extent and importance of the event is
known from the lordftiips and dominions of thefe ruling ftars, according
to their ftrength or wcaknefs in refpedl of their afpeds in the world and
the geniture. They are ftrong in refpe6l of the world, when they arc
in proper places, or oriental, or augmented ; and in refpeSt of the ge-
niture when they make their tranfits on the angles, or fuccedent houfes
;
No. 7,1. 5 L but
4t8 ANILLUSTRATION
but particularly when they occupy the cufps of the alcendant or mid-
heaven. And they are deemed weak, in re(pe6t of the world, when they
are in occidental places, and flow, retrograde, and diminifhing their
Courfes ; but weak in refpedl of the geniture, when they are in cadent
houles, or falling from the angles. The general time of the event is
known from thele ruling liars being orientally or occidentally polited in
refpe6t of the Sun and the horolbope, and from their beiJig in the angles
or luccedent houles ; for, when they are matutiiie or angular, they are
quick ; but, when occidental or velpcrtine, flow.
Thefe things being premifed, it follows that the firfl: confideration
upon the face of a geniture is that which relates to the parents of the na-
tive. The Sun, therefore, and Saturn, reprelent the perfon of the father ;
and the Moon and Venus that of the mother. And, as thefe are found
afflidled among themfelves, or otherwife, fo we underfl:and the accidents
appertaining to parents will be. The ftars that are configurated with
the luminaries fhow what relates to their fortunes and poffeflions ; for, if
they are furrounded by the benefics, and by fuch as are of the fame
nature, and in the fame figns, or the fucceeding, their fortunes will be
illuftrious and fplendid ;
particularly if the Sun be configurated with
oriental ftars, or the Moon by occidental. If Saturn and Venus be ori-
entally pofited, or angular, they forefliow happinefs according to the par-
ticular circumftances of each parent. If the luminaries are voidof courfe^
and in no good afpeft with the fortunate ftars, a low condition, or an
ignoble life, is prenoted. But, if the luminaries are varioufly configu-
rated with good and evil ftars, a mediocrity and inequality in the fortunes
of the parents is thereby demonftrated ; as when Mars afcends to the
Sun, or Saturn to the Moon, and the benefics in different conditions.
Again, if the Part of Fortune in the nativity is found in a good pofition,
with the ftars configurated with the Sun and Moon, the affairs of the
parents will be prolperous ; but if it be difcordant, and fituated in a bad
place of the figure, with malefic ftars, their concerns will turn out injurious
and unprofitable.
The length and fhortnefs of life muft be confidered from other confi-
gurations. If Jupiter or Venus are any way joined in afpeft with the Sun
or Saturn, or if Saturn hath an harmonizing configuration with the Suhj
that is, if they behold each other by a fextile or trine, and ftrongly dig-
nified in other refpeds, they promife long life to the father. But if
thefe pofitions are found weak, with Mars dignified above the Sun, and
Saturn in quartile or oppofition, the father will be taken off in the early
part of his life. The diftindtions which relate to the mother, are thefe.
4 If
OF ASTROLOGY. 419
If Jupiter IS configurated to the Moon or Venus, or Venus alone be-
holds the Moon by a lextile or trhie afpedt, the mother will enjoy health
and longevity. But, if Mars be pofited. in any of the angular or luc-
ceedent houfes, beholding tiie Moon or Venus with a quartile or oppo-
fition ; or if Saturn is thus configurated with the Moon, flow in motion,
and declining from angles ; they induce the direft contrary effedis, and
proclaim a difeafed and fhort life to the mother. Thus from the nativity
of a child may the principal concerns of the father and mother be fought
out, and afcertained ; and fuch is the fympathy exifting by this bond of
nature and confanguinity, that little difference will be found, if compared
with the proper nativity of each parent.
But, to give judgment in fuch cafes with corrednefs, feparate fchemes
muft be ere6led for the father and mother, by the following rule. —In
the figure eredled for the father, if the nativity be diurnal, note the
degree in which the Sun is pofited in the child's nativity, and make
that the degree afcending upon the horofcope for the father ; and, con-
formable to that, order the cufps of all the other houfes, by the i-ules
heretofore laid down. If the figure be erected for the mother, then
take the degree of Venus, inftead of the Sun, and proceed in all other
reipeils the fame. But, if the nativity be nofturnal, take the degree of
Saturn for the father, and that of the Moon for the mother. And in
all thefe cafes it mufl be obferved, that the nativity of the firft-born is
to be preferred, then tljgt of the fecond, and fo on ; and that whatever
is prenoted in. relatirn to the parents from thefe figures, is only fuch
as fhall happen to them after the birth of the child, and not to any
thing before. The time in which any or each of thefe events will hap-
pen is to be fought out by the arcs of dire6tion, or diftances, of that fl:ar
which hath the dominion, in refpe6i: of the Sun, and the angles of the
world ; and this 1 fhall make perfedlly eafy to the meancft underftanding,
when I come to treat of Dire6tions in general.
o
Now the next confideration in the native's geniture is the place of
brethren; and this is taken from the fign on the mid heaven, and the
maternal place, which is the pofition of Venus by day, and the Moon by
night. For, as this can only relate to children born of the fame mother,
this fign, and that which fucceeds it, being maternal, naturally confti-
tute the place of brethren. This place, therefore, when configurated by
benevolent ftars, denotes plenty of brethren, becaufe the increafe of bro-
thers and fiflers happens according to the multitude of flars, and from
their being fituated in double-bodied figns, or in thofe of one form
;
but, if the malefics have fuperiority in number or power, or are advcrfe
by
420 AN ILLUSTRATION
by oppofition, paucity of brethren will happen, particularly if unbr-
nign ftars circumfcribe the Sun, If the contrariety of afpe6ls be in
angular houfes, efpecially in the afcendant, Saturn will procure thofe
that are firft nouriflied, and firft-born ; and Mars will induce to few-
. nefs and death. Moreover, if the flars which give brethren are well
affeded according to mundane fituations, the general fortunes of the
brethren will be glorious and famous; but mean and obfcure if the con-
trary pofitions happen. If the malefics be fupcrior in number and ftrength
to the ftars which give brethren, their conftitutions will be puny, and
their lives (hoct.
And here alfo we may obferve, that, from the gcniture of one bro-
ther, the principal incidents of the life of another may be difcovered, by
conlVituting the place of the given planet as an hoiofcope; that is, the
planet which has piincipal rule in the houfe of brethren, whether by
day or night. The method is, to place this ruling planet, with the
fame degree he is found in, upon the afcendant, furnifhing the culps of
all the other houfes by this ftandard, as before ftated in the cafe of pa-
rents. It muft however always be remembered, that malculine fbars
produce males, and feminine females. Alfo, if the fl:ars which denote
brethren and that which has rule in the houfe of brethren agree by
any harmonious configuration, they will be affeded towards each other,
and live in friendfhip and concord ; but, if thefe ftars are found in
contrary pofitions, and in figns inconjundl, enmity and hate will mark
their condu6t towards each other.
The foregoing fpeculations are deduced from an invefligation of the
poCtion of the heavens at the time of birth; but, in order to know
whether the infant be male or female, during the ftate of pregnancy,
the time of conception only muft be confidered. For this purpofe, we
muft particularly obferve the pofition of both the luminaries in refpeft
to the horofcope, at the time of conception, together with the fitua-
tions of all the ftars which have a regard to them ; and whether the
ruling ftars are conftituted of a mafculine or feminine nature. For the
produftion of males and females is according to the diftindion of maf-
culine and feminine ftars, which I have already fhown proceeds from
the nature of the figns in which they are pofited, and from their mutual
and mundane afpe6ts ; for, being oriental, they are mafculine ; but,
occidental, feminine. The fame likewife in refpeft to the Sun ; for,
being oriental, they are referred to the male ; and, occidental, to the
female. Therefore thofe which have the greateft power in thefe refpe6h
at the time of conception will give fufficient grounds to conjecture at the
fex of the infant for months before it is boru.
So
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 441
So likewife the fame confiderations hold good, in fome refpefls, con-
cerning twins, or more ; for herein we are principally to regard the two
luminaries and the afcendant. For it happens through the mixtures
which are occafioned when they poflefs bicorporal figns, or when the
ruling planets are fituated in them, and many prolific ftars caft their rays
to the fame, that it will be a plural conception. The number then
generated is known from the ftar which induces the propriety of the
number; but the fex is determined by the ftars configurated with the
Sun, Moon, and horofcope. For we find from obfervation, that, when
both the luminaries are in the mid-heaven, twins are procreated ; when
Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars, have configuration with the affigned places in
bicorporal figns, three males are generated ; but three females, when
Venus, Luna, and Mercury, are configurated in the fame manner. Saturn,
Jupiter, and Venus, thus difpofed, produce two males and one female ;
but Venus, Luna, and Mars, two females and one male. Thefe configu-
rations but rarely happening at the time of conception, render it a kind
of phenomenon whenever they occur; and hence we generally find the
births that follow in confequence are ranked amongft the wonders of the
day in the public prints, though the caufe has a radical foundation in
nature. And hence too it is, that, as thefe configurations are more or
lefs imperfedtly made, fo will be the quality of the conception, either
bringing all into life uniform and perfetSl at the birth, or elfe bringing
one with good conformation, and another with puny, imperfect, or mon-
flrous, members.
There are alfo certain configurations of the ftars, which abfolutely pro-
duce moles or monfters in every conception that takes place under
them. Thus it happens when the luminaries decline from angles, and
fall cadent, without any kind of afpe<5l to the afcendant, and when the
cardinal houfes are occupied by the malefic planets. But to defcribe the
fpecies of unnatural birth, it is neceflary, in thefe configurations, to
obferve the place of the laft full moon preceding the time of conception,
together with the ruler thereof, and the lord of the luminaries ; for, if
the places of thefe fignificators have no familiarity with the place of the
faid preceding full moon, what is then generated will be of unnatural
conformation. If the luminaries are at the fame time pofited in four-
footed figns, and the two malefic planets in angular houfes, what is then
conceived will not be in human ftiape ; but if Jupiter or Venus interpofe
their benevolent rays, and give teftimony to the luminaries, then
what is conceived will be of human conformation, but of a fierce and
favage nature. If Mercury correfponds with the luminaries, the difpo-
fition will be agreeable to nature, but the form of the body will be
No. 2a. 5 M unnatural
;
422 ANILLUSTRATION
unnatural ; or if the luminaries be in human figns, and the ruling planet
difcordant, then the offspring will be of proper conformation, but mon-
ftrous in quality. If one of the malefic ftars give teftimony in any of
the foregoing pofitions, what is then generated will be irrational, or of
ungovernable qualities ; but, if Jupiter or Venus give teftimony, the
offspring will naturally pofTefs the mental accomplifhments, with an her-
maphroditical conformation. If Mercury alone give teftimony, to the
aforefaid pofitions of the luminaries, that which is procreated will be deaf,
and perhaps dumb, though intelleftually well qualified, and ingenious.
Thefe fpeculations are doubtlefs abftrufe, becaufe fuch configurations fel-
dom happen, and the refult of them is very little known ; but, to confirm
their efFe6l, I have only to recommend to thofe who have their doubts,
to be guided by obfervation, and to decide by the refult; for the more we
enquire into the pathlefs ways of nature, the more readily we deduce a
radical caufe for all her produdions.
But here I muft not omit to remark, that the time of conception, and
that only, is to be referred to for the conformation or accidents of the
child in the womb; and the time of birth for what fhall happen after-
wards; notwithftanding there is always fuch a concurring agreement be-
tween the conception and birth, that whatever is produced by the former
is in a great meafure to be difcovered from the latter, though not wholly
corre6l, or to be relied upon as infallible. Thofe therefore, who are
born in their natural fhape, and afterwards become crippled and lame,
even to a monftrofity, yet, fince not brought into the world with the na-
tive, they fall under the defcription of blemifhes, or bodily infirmities,
rather than the refult of monftrous and unnatural conformations.
Diftin61: from this fpecies of conception, is that which, though per-
fedly natural and well conformed, yet is void of ftamina, and hence
termed an embryo not nouriJ}ied. This kind of conception happens when
one of the luminaries, in an angular pofition, is joined with a malefic
ftar, and that luminary giver of life. So likewife if the parallel of longi-
tude between the malefic planet and the luminary be partile, or accord-
ing to a figure of equal fides, and none of the fortunes correfpond-
ing; and at the fame time the lord of the luminaries be pofited in a dis-
cordant place, what is then generated cannot be nouriflied, but decays in
the womb, or expires foon after the birth. Or if they are not equi-
laterally configurated, but the two malefic planets nearly irradiate the
places of the luminaries, afflwSling both, or only one of them, no matter
whether the malefics be fuccedent or oppofite, fo one or both of them be
in partile configuration with the luminaries; for whatever is born under
fuch:
OFASTROLOGY. 423
fuch influences will be of no duration, {jnce the greatnefs of the power of
the malefics will deftroy what fliould neceflarily conduce to the nourifti-
ment of life.
It is particularly to be obferved, that Mars afflidls the Sun by fuccef-
fions, and Saturn the Moon ; but by oppofitions the contrary happens
;
for in thefe the Sun is affli6ted by Saturn, and the Moon by Mars ; and
this afflidion is the more eminent when the malefic flars are fignifi-
cators, and by that means become fuperior both to the luminaries and
the horofcope. From thefe obfervations fubordinate efFedls have been
afcertained ; for, when there are two oppofitions of the malefic ftars, and
the luminaries fituated in angles, whatever follows that conception will
be fl:ill-<born. But if at this time the luminaries are feparating from the
benefic planets, or are in any other afpe6l with them, carting their beams
at that time in a converfe diredion, the foetus will obtain animation,
and be found alive and perfedl at the birth ; but will live only fo many
months, days, or hours, as there are degrees, minutes, or feconds, of the
folar motion, between the beams of the Apheta and the neareft malefic
planet. But, if the malefics cafl: their beams to the parts preceding
the luminaries, and the benefics to the degrees following, what is born
will fufFer great affli6tions, and flruggle much with infirmities, but fhall
recover and live.
And hence the confideration that naturally follows regards the dura-
tion or fpace of life, which, taking in the whole compafs of hUman pur-
fuits, and the duration and viciffitudes of them, certainly becomes the
moft interefting part of the doflrine of the ftars. The mode of afcer-
taining this important point, namely, the fpace of duration of the native's
life, is defined from a comparifon of the aphetic, hylegiacal, or prorogatory,
places, with tlie killing or anaretical places in the genethliacal figure at
the time of birth. The aphetic place is the fituation of the Apheta,
Hyleg, Prorogator, Significator or giver of life, for they have all the
fame meaning; and the anaretical place is the fituation of the
Anareta, or killing planet ; and whenever thefe fhall meet together, or
be conjoined in a bodily afpecl, the native will find a termination of life ;
confequently the length of time, in which the Apheta and Anareta, as
pofited in each refpedtive figure of a nativity, will be in forming a con-
junction, or coming together in the fame point of the heavens, is the
precife length of the native's life ; and this period is afcertained by what
we term arcs of dire6tion, equated by the folar motion, and reduced
to common time. The method of afcertaining thefe aphetical and
anaretical places, of finding the arcs of diredion, aad o£ reducing
them.
4»4 ANILLUSTRATION
them to the common meafure of time, fliall be copioufly explained after
we have taught the mode of afcertaining the particular occurrences
of the native's life, from the face of the horofcope, or genethliacal
figure.
Of the FORM and TEMPERATURE of the BODY.
If the fpace of life appears likely to exceed childhood, we are next to
confider and define the ihape and figure of the native's body, according
to the rules heretofore laid down. The parts of the body are formed
before the foul ; and, becaufe it is infinitely more grofs, hath a connate
and almojfl: apparent endowment of temper. But the foul, not being
communicated to the body till the entire conformation thereof be wholly
perfe6ted, manifefts by degrees an aptitude proceeding from the firft caufe,
but much later than thofe of the external accidents ; and therefore it re-
quires fome length of time before the nature and progrefs of this mental
aptitude can be known. As to the form and temperature of the body,
that is generally defcribed from the oriental horizon, and from fuch of
the planets as bear rule in it, or have the dominion thereof; together with
the particular and refpeftrve configurations with the Moon ; for according
to the quality of thefe two places, and the nature of the ruling fiars,
the formative virtue, and the temperament in each fpecies, with reference
to the declination of the afcending fixed ilars, is the particular for-
mation of bodies defined.
To what has been already faid, concerning the effefts of each planet
refpedively, in giving fhape to fuch infants over whofe nativities they
prefide, we muft likewife add the peculiar force and operative faculty of
the luminaries with which they may then happen to be configurated.
—
If the Sun co-operates, it contributes much towards the produdiion of a
more comely and majeftic perfonage, and of a mild and good habit; and
the Moon, when flie withholds her defluxion, caufes a more proportionate,
flender, and moift, temperament; but varioufly, according to the nature
and qualities of her feveral quarters. Again, if the luminaries corref^
pond with oriental rays, they add to comelinefs and ftature ; or, if
ftationary, they make the native ftrong and robuft. But, when they acci-
dentally concur, difproportionate formations and evil temperaments are
commonly the refult.
In this fpeculation, the different effeds of the four quadrants are like-
wife to be confidered; that from the vernal equinox to the fummer
tropic.
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 4^5
tropic gives the native an excellent complexion, comely, of a good
ftature, abounding with heat and moifture. But the quadrant from the
fummer tropic to the autumnal equinox gives but an indifferent com-
plexion, though the body is well proportioned, healthy, and vigorous,
abounding with heat and drynefs. That from the autumnal equuiox to
the winter tropic gives a fanguine complexion, with a flender, lean, and
fickly, habit, abounding with drynefs and cold. The quadrant from the
winter folftice to the ipring equinox gives a dark complexion, with a
moderate flature, fquare and llrong, abounding with cold and moif-
ture. This is to be underftood in reference to the figns afcending, and
in which the Moon and other fignificators refpedlively bear rule. But
it is more particularly to be obferved, that the figns which are of human
form, both in the zodiac and without it, make bodies of a moft excellent
fymmetry and proportion ; while thofe which are not of human form
a6l contrariwife, deranging the proper rules of proportion, and influ-
encing from the properties effential to an elegant fhape to that of difpro-
portion and deformity.
Of the RADICAL CAUSE of BLEMISHES and BODILY
DISEASES.
From a fimilar hypothefis to the above, we derive the obfervatioti of
external blemifhes and bodily difeafes, with all the common accidents of
the human frame, to which the native is expofed during the courfe of
his life. The moft approved mode of afcertaining and diftinguifhing
thefe is by regarding the eaftern and weftern angles of the horizon, but
particularly the weftern, and the part preceding, which is the fixth
houfe, for that is inconjun6l: with the oriental angle. Thefe angles
being properly taken, we fhould next obferve the malefic ftars, and how
they are configurated ; for, if both or either of them are pofited upon the
afcending parts of the faid angles, either bodily or by quartile or oppo-
fition, there will be external blemifhes, or bodily infirmities, infe-
parable from the perfon then born. Or, if both the luminaries, or only
one of them, be angular, as above defcribed, either in conjunftion or
oppofition, with a malefic flar afcending, they will produce fuch infirmi-
ties or blemiflies as the particular places of the horizon and figns then
afcending, and as the nature of the malefic and ill-afi^e£ted ftars, (hall ref-
pedively manifeft; for in this cafe, as in all fimilar ones, the degrees of
the figns which are upon the afflided part of the horizon will ftiow the
particular part of the body wherein the infirmity is, whether it be a
blemifti or difeafe, or both; and the nature of thole ftars will likewife
point out the caufe and quality of the fymptom.
No. 32. 5 N Blemishes
426 AN ILLUSTRATION
Blemifhes and bodily hurts for the mofl: part happen when the male-
fics are oriental ; but dif'eafes when occidental. And, as their caufe is
different, fo alfb is their effedt ; for hurt or blemifli fufFers pain only
once, and is not prolonged ; but a difeafe frequently comes by fits, or con-
tinually affedls the patient, inducing a long and lingering diflblu-
tion, or confumptive habit. Thefe are general confiderations ; but the
more particular do6trine of blemifhes and difeafes hath another fpecula-
tion of figures, by which, for the mofl: part, fimilar accidents follow.
For blindnefs of one eye is indicated, when the Moon is pofited in either
of the afore-mentioned angles by herfelf, or at the precife time of be-
coming new or full; or when fhe is configurated in a quartile afpedl, and
applies to any of the nebulous converfions in the zodiac. The fame mif-
fortune happens when Saturn and Mars, being oriental, afcend to the
Moon, pofited in an angle ; but, whenever they are thus configurated to
both the luminaries, either in the fame fign or in the oppofite, and orien-
tally pofited in refped of the Sun, but occidental in rcfpe6t of the
Moon, they caufe blindnefs in both the eyes. Mars ufually denotes
blindnefs by the effefts of a blow or thrufl", and by lightning, burnings,
&c. but, if configurated with Venus, it generally proceeds from an ac-
cident in play or exercife, or from the fudden attack of aflaffins or def-
peradoes.
Saturn produces blindnefs by catarafl^s and colds, or by pin and web,
and by fuch-like accidents; but, if Venus be pofited in any of the above-
mentioned angles, particularly in the weft, configurated or joined with
Saturn and Mars at the fame time elevated, or in oppofition, the males
then born will be incapable of propagating their fpecies, and the females
either wholly barren, or fubjedt to abortion, or to the bringing forth of
ftill-born children, or to fuch as adhere to the womb, and are obliged to
be feparated by manual operation, or brought away in pieces. This moft
commonly happens in the figns Cancer, Virgo, and Capricorn. But, if
the Moon be at the fame time in the afcendant, configurated with Mer-
cury or Saturn, and applying to Mars, what are then born will partici-
pate in the nature of both fexes, and perhaps be void of a natural paf-
fage. It is likewife found, that if the Sun be configurated with Mercury,
and both the luminaries difpofed after a mafculine manner, the Moon
decreafing, and the malefic fl:ars afcenduig in the following degrees,
the males will be deprived of the members proper for generation,
or be irreparably blemiflied or infufficient in them, particularly in the
figns Aries, Leo, Scorpio, Capricorn, and Aquaries; and the females will
be naturally barren all their lives.
Impediments
OF ASTROLOGY. 4^7
I
Impediments or blemiflies in the fpeech are found to arife from the
configurations of Saturn and Mercury with the Sun, in the aforefaid
angles; particularly when Mercury is pofited in the weft, and beholds the
Moon either by an oppofition or quartile arpe6l. And, if theie configu-
rations happen to be made in mute figns, as in Cancer,. Scorpio, or
Pifces, the impediment will prove confiderably greater. Again, if the
malefic ftars are pofited in angles, and the luminaries afcend to them
either by conjundion or oppohtion; or if the malefics alceiid to the lumi-
naries, and the Moon be in her node in hurtful figns, as Aries,
Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio, or Capricorn, the defeds of the body will be
by lamenefs, gibbofity, dirtortion, or luxation. If the malefic fl:ars are in
conjundion with the luminaries, thefe aftedions will take place from the
birth; but, if they are fituated in the mid-heaven, elevated above the
lumin'aiies, or in oppofition to them, they will arife from the concurrence
of various accidents, fuch as falls, blows, wounds, and the like, during
their progrefs through life.
Blemiflies happen for the mofl: part when the ^foon is in tropical or
equinoctial figns. In the vernal figns they are chiefly occafioned by
morphew; in the fummer, by tetters; in the autumn, by the fcurvy; and
ill the winter,, by biles and other morbid eruptions. But difeafes moftly
happen when the malefic flars are configurated in the aforefaid angles,
but coutrarily as to the luminaries, viz. occidental to the Sun, and
oriental to the Mooa. In thefe pofitions,. Saturn induces to unufual cold^
nefs in the belly and rejns, and fubjefts the native to phlegmatic humours,
bloody fluxes, jaundice, and the whole train of hyflerical affections. Mars
occafions melancholy, difeafes of tne lungs, fiflulas, hot ulcers, and putre-
fadlions. If Mercury co-operates with either of thefe ungracious planets,
it is for the increafe of evil, adding frefli violence to the diforder, and
perhaps fooner inducing a fatal termination.
But the properties of Ibme bodily difeales arife from the variety of
figns which poflTefs the foregoing configurations upon the two angles.
—
For inltance, Cancer, Capricorn, and Pifces, caule difeafes from putre-
fadlion, tetters, Icurvy, or king's evil ; but Sagittarius and Gemini by
falls, epilepfies, falling ficknefs, and the like. ~. l( the planets are in the
latter degrees of thefe figns, they produce bodily difeafes and blemifhes
in the extremities, by reafon of luxations or injuries, from whence arife
elephantiafis, gouts, cramps, and rheumatic complaints. And here it
mufl: be carefully noted, that, if none of the benevolent planets are con-
figurated with the malefic^ which polTcfs the caufe of thefe various difor-
dcrs,,
4*8 ANILLUSTRATION
ders, nor to either of the luminaries in angular pofitions, then thefe
bodily difeafes will be wholly incurable, and the blemifhes never to be
removed; but, if the benefics pofTeCs a confiderable (hare in the configu-
rations which induce the caufe, or overcome the malefic rays by an equal
or fuperior power, then the difeafes will be much more moderate, and
the blemifhes not fo obvious, if more than barely difcernable. It muft
here, as in all other cafes of the like kind, be obferved, that the ftronger
any ruling planet is, whether benefic or malefic, the more eminent and
powerful its efFe£ls will be ; and alfo that a planet is flronger when ori-
ental than when occidental ; wherefore a malefic planet orientally pofited
gives blemiflies ; but an occidental, difeafes. It is likewife to be re-
marked, that, if the pofition of the planet inducing the caufe be very
ftrong, the defeft will be from the birth; but, if weak, it will arife from
feme accident after birth.
Of the NATURAL BENT and QUALITY of the MIND.
Such is the do6lrine of bodily accidents, as deducible from the face of a
gcnethliacal figure ; but the qualities of the mind, as rational and
mental, are judged of from the conflitution of Mercury with regard to
different figns and planets. That which appertains to the fenfe alone,
or that renders it irrational, is confidered from the mere corporeal ftatc
of the luminaries ; that is, of the Moon and ftars configurated by repa-
ration or application. But, fince the animal inclination is various, this
fpeculation is contemplated from many divers obfervations, according to
the diverfity of figns which contain Mercury and the Moon, or the
ruling ftars which have dominion in them, and that confer their in-
fluences to the temper and quality of the mind; together with the confi-
gurations of thofe ftars which have refpe(5l to the Sun and the angles
confidered as to the proper and diflinft nature with which each of
them a61;s upon the mental motions of each individual. It is therefore
generally found that tropical figns render the native's mind highly inge-
nious, full of invention, eager in the purfuit of moral and political
knowledge, and of great fortune and perfeverance. Double-bodied
figns agitate the mind with a variety of whimfical and very ufelefs pur-
fuits, lead the tongue to loquacious habits, and induce to negligence and
folly. Fixed figns fortify the mind with prudence and virtue, and give
a bias to oeconomy, chaftity, and temperance. Again, oriental configu-
rations produce mental qualities of a ftrong and ingenious nature, free,
open, and undifTembling, quick of apprehenfion, conftant, judicious,
benevolent, and chafte ; but the occidental ones aft upon the mind
in
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 439
in a very oppo^te maaner, inclining the native to profligacy and intem-
perance, and impairing the iijtellefl by a naturally-vicious difpofition.
It is likewife a juft obfervation, that if the ftars which have dominion
are pofited in good places of the figure, and well configurated, they render
the mental endowments exquifitely perfedJ, and induce to a general crood
fortune. This is moft remarkably obvious in thofe genitures which
have Mercury well configurated, and joined with the feparation or appli-
cation of the Moon. But, if Mercury and the Moon are not thu^
difpofed, or are affli6ied by the evil rays of the malefics, they will eveo
then imprint the quality of their natures upon the foul, though not fo
ftrongly, but in a lefs obvious and more obfcure degree ; not tending i'o
much to good fortune and advancement in the common concerns of
life. Hence the property of the ruling planet, whether good or evil,
inftils its own nature into the animal fpirit, with a power and energy
equal to its predominancy in the heavens at the hour of birth ; and this
energy is either ftrengthened or diminished, according to the force and
adion of fubordinate configurations; for thofe who, by reafon of ftrono-
malefic rays, are prone to violence and injultice, have not their vicious
inclinations hindered, unlefs thefe evil rays are oppofed by fome contrary
eiFe(Sl ; but, if a contrary afpeft oppofes this familiarity of the malefics,
the evil inclination is then proportionably corredled, and the mind is
more eafily brought to a proper fenfe of its intemperate purfuits. By
the fame rule, thofe who are good and juft, becaufe born under a famili-t
arity of benefic ftars, willingly and cheerfully purfue a life of redi-
tude and virtue; and, being naturally fortunate, as well as prudent, their
undertakings generally prove advantageous and profitable; but, if a con-
trary afpe6t oppofes this happy familiarity of the benefics, either a lefs
exemplary condu6t, or a more unprofitable purfuit of worldly concerns,
is fure to mark the chara£ler of the native through all the different ftages
of his life.
Thus far we have confidered the influences of Mercury and the Moon
upon the mind of man, in a general way, unconnefted with the ope-
ration or effeSi of any particular planet, which may happen to afluoie the
dominion, and thereby imprint its own peculiar influences upon the
rnental faculties, in proportion to its fuperiority over the other planets.
Let us now turn our obfervation to that prodigious variety of affedlions
of the animal or intelledlual part of man, which each diftindl planet
is found to produce, when they alone govern the mind at the time
of birth.
No, 23. 5 O Saturn
430 AN ILLUSTRATION
Saturn having; alone the dominion of the mental faculties, and ruling
Mercury and the Moon, if he be eligibly fituated in relpe6t of the world
and the angles, will induce the native to an imperious and covetous dif-
pofition, remarkably fordid, felf-fufficient, and envious ; but, if he
be but indifferently pofited in refpe6f to the angles and the world, he dif-
pofes the mind to treacherous inclinations, fraught with fuperftltion,
cowardice, and meanneis. If he is found in a concordant familiarity
with Jupiter, and both in good politions of the figure, they qualify the
mind with better inclinations, and dilpofe it to a6ts of benevolence,
prudence, and magnanimity; but, if they are configurated in evil places
of the figure, they work a contrary efFe6t, difpofing the mind to turbu-
lence and cruelty, and to various a61s of hypocrily and fraud. If Saturn
be in good afpedt with Mars, and well pofited in the figure, he difpofes
the inclination to great and arduous undertakings, remarkable for intre-
pidity and courage in war, and for a watchful, laborious, inflexible, and
collected, mind, though much difpofed to afts of violence, tyranny,
and oppreflion ; but, if they are found in bad pofitions of the figure, they
produce a mind given up to every Ipecies of fraud and impofition, and
wholly abandoned to impiety and wickednefs. If united to Venus, in
elevated pofitions, he renders the mind libidinous and luftful, given to
difTipation and intemperance, but fubject to fufpicion and jealouly in re-
fpe6l of women ; but, if unhappily difpofed in the houfes of the figure,
he will induce the mind to the moft: filthy uncleannefs, and to other a&s
of the bafefl: and moft reproachful kind. If Saturn hath familiarity with
Mercury, in a good pofition, he addi6ts the mind to the fober ftudy of the
polite arts, or bends the inclination to the purfuit of fome particular im-
provement or new difcovery in the fciences ; and in general renders the
difpofition fedate, careful, and induflrious ; but, if they be configu-
rated with each other in evil places, they incline to treachery and
unfaithfulncfs, difpofe the mind to the recolledion of paft injury, and
urge to malice and premeditated revenge. This variety of mental affec-
tions chiefly proceeds from the influences of Saturn; but they are mode-
rated, and differently difpofed, according to the nature and force of thofc
rays, which, as we have feen, are refpedlively contributed by the prefence
of other planets.
Jupiter having alone the dominion of his mind, and being well pofited
in the figure, influences the animal foul to the moft noble and exalted
ideas of honour and redtilude, difpofing to magnanimity in the caufe of
morality and virtue, and leading the operative faculties to every praife-
worthy a<St of generofity and benevolence; but, if Jupiter is pofited in any
difcordant part of the figure, his influences have lefs effedt ; for, though
they
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 45^
they imprint the fame natural impulfe upon the mind, leading to all good
and moral puriuits, yet it is in a much more faint and obfcure manner,
being accompanied with a great degree of indolence and ina61ivity. If
Jupiter hath configuration with Mars in a good pofition, he produces a
fiery and impetuous difpofition, bold, daring, and courageous, and given
to the purfuit of great and arduous enterprifes ; but, if evilly dilpofed
with Mars in the figure, he induces to an unmerciful, feditious, and
unftable, mind, prone to turbulence and faftion, and given up to all the
irregularities of an evil and difiipated inclination. If Jupiter be in
familiarity with Venus, and well pofited, he difpofes the mind to lenti-
ments of liberality and juftice, gives ingenuity and perfeverance, and
ftrengthens the intelledt by a capacious memory; but, if placed in
difcordant parts of the figure, he dilpofes to the purfuit of fenlual and
lafcivious pleafures, and gives a turn for Uiofe and diforderly converfation.
If Jupiter hath configuration with Mercury, and in good places, he
difpofes the mind to the purfuit of learning and wifdom, and gives thofe
natural endowments of a refined intellect, which produce the moft
accompliflied politicians, orators, poets, painter?, or mathematicians;
and is indeed one of the moft happy configurations that attuate and
govern tfie mental faculties; but, if he hath an evil configuration with
Mercury, he induces the mind to vanity and enthufiafm, leads to felf-
conceitednefs and fuperftition, and gives levity, loquacioufnefs, and fu-
perficial ideas.
Mars having alone the dominion of the mind, and well pofited in the
figure, produces a bold, confident, and intrepid, fpirit ;
given to violence
and war, impatient, tyrannical, and arbitrary; intermixed with an ex-
ternal (how of rcditude and generofity ; but, if unhappily difpoied, he
influences the mind to barbarity and malevolence, to implacable hatred
and inhuman revenge, and difpofes the foul to the perpetration of
the moft dark and malicious afls of crueltv and fraud. Having fa-
miliarity with Venus, and happily fituated in the figure, he gives a mind
fraught with liberality and cheerfulnefs, difpoied to fincerity and
friendftiip, to circumfpedion and fobriety, and fond of mirth and plea-
fure; but, if in an evil pofition of the figure, he inclines to drunkennefs
and debauchery, and furnifties a mind given to treachery, deceit, and
cverv jpecies of immorality. If Mars hath familiarity with Mercury in
a profperous ftation, he gives a mind happily formed for conducing
military or naval affairs, furnifties the foul with a thirft for great a id
noble adlions, and fortifies it with temper, deliberation, coolnels, con-
fidence, and magnanimity; endowing the mind, at the lame time, with
th« fineft feelings of honour, generofity, humanity, and benevolence; but,
if
4|2 ANJLLUSTRATION
if evHly difpofed, he furniflies a carelefs and incoaftant mind, prone
to wicked and itiirchievous practices, and fond of difcord, ftrife, aod
iedition.
K
Venus alone having government of the intelledual faculties, and well
placed in the figure, endows the mind with complacency and foftnefs,
renders the fentiments delicate, modefl:, and well difpofed, and the man-
ners fvveet and engaging; but, contrarily lituated, fhe induces to wan-
tonnefs, Qoth, and effeminacy, fraught with cowardice and profligacy.
Having familiarity with Mercury, and in a prosperous pofition, (he leads
the mind to a relifti for philofophy and fcience, gives eloquence and in-
genuity, and forms an intelledt for divinity, law, or phyfic ; but, evilly
difpofed, (he gives a treacherous and unftable mind, bent on perverfenels
9iQd contention, and given to flander, hypocrify, and intemperance.
If Mercury alone hath the dominion and government of the mind, he
inclines it to the purfuit of prudence and wifdom, gives a turn for in-
genious fpeculations, and a tafte for poetry and fcience ; the retentive
faculty is generally flrong, and the wit lively and penetrating ; but, if
he be pofited in an unpropitious part of the figure, he difpofes the mind
to forgetfulnefs and indolence, and influences to the purfuit of mean and
crafty objects; rendering the native mutable and unflieady in mind and
judgment, and in moft cafes ra(h, inconfiderate, and fubjeft to error.
The luminaries likewife have their peculiar operations upon the mind
and mental faculties of the native ; for the Moon, being in her greateft
north and fouth latitude, renders the motions of the animal foul more
various, crafty, and mutable ; but, when fhe is in her nodes, (he make^
them more quick, adive, and fprightly. In oriental pofitions, and in-!-
ereafing in light and motion, fhe gives a more open, free, and ingenuous,
mind; but, if decreafing, (he renders the imagination dull, languid, and
heavy, and the temper changeable and uncertain. The Sun contributes
his effe6ts according to the familiarity or configuration he makes with the
planet which is ruler of the mental faculties. If the afpeft be good, and
iii a fortunate part of the figure, he conduces to form the mind more
honourable, ju(t, and perfed ; but in the contrary pofitions, he influences
tp a more abje6l, cruel, and unworthy, difpofition.
From the foregoing remarks, the ingenious ftudent will readily infer,
that the qualities and affedtions of the mind are confidered, firft, from
the places and pofitions of Mercury and the Moon ; fecondly, from the
loids of the different places of the figure ; thirdly, from the nature and
conflitution
I
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 433
conftitutloti of the planets with thofe places, or their refpecl to the Suti
with their lords; fourthly, from their oppofition in refpedl to the angles;
fifthly, from the nature and property of each ftar in conjundion with, or
beholding, thofe places; and fixthly, from the power or debility of every
iuch fignificator refpe6lively confidered. Nor ought the fixed ftars of
the firft and lecoud magnitude, in or near the ecliptic, or that are nearly
vertical to the place of birth, and in conjun6tion with the fignificators,
to be in any wife neglefted.
We may likewife add, that Mercury in conjundion with the Sun pro-
duces a mind fitly formed for the prudent and fuccefsful management of
any kind of bufinefs ; but, if they irradiate each other at a diftance of
twenty or twenty-four degrees, the mind will be altogether unfit for bu-
finefs, or any aftive line of life, but moftly difpofed to fludy, or to a
fedentary calling. In equino6fial or tropical figns, Mercury has the lame
incitement to aftivity and public bufinefs as when bodily configurated to
the Sun ; but in watery figns he afts contrarily, in other figns more
varioufly, but always beii where befi: dignified.
If Mercury be afflided with malevolent planets, the wit is always dull,
flow, and flupid ; if fwift in motion, he renders the mind quick but in-
conflant ; if retrograde, dubious and unfixed ; if under the Sun-beams,
the mind will lean to the purfuit of ufelefs and unprofitable fpeculations
;
if pofited in oriental houfes, the difpofition will be open and in-
genuous; but, if in occidental, it will be wily, fubtle, and diffembling.
Jf Mercury be better dignified and ftronger than the Moon, the realon-
able faculties will be ftronger than the ienfitive, particularly if Mercury
be in figns of long afcenfion, and the Moon in thofe of fhort afcenfion ;
but if Mercury be in commanding figns, and the Moon in obeying, the
native's intelledl will be naturally weak and impaired; and, if the Moon
chance to be at the fame time irradiated by the affliding rays of either of
the infortune?, the native will be irrational and a perfect ideot.
Of the NATURAL DISEASES incident to the MIND.
The affedions and properties of the mind are of a feparate and diftind
confideration from the difeafes of the mind, Iuch as madnefs, infanity, the
falling ficknefs, and the like; but are equally deducible from the
face of the native's geniture. For this purpofe we mufl: again refer to
the configurations of Mercury and the Moon, and obferve how they are
pofited in refped of each other, and in reference to the angular houles.
No. 22. 5 P and
434 AN ILLUSTRATION
and alfo to the malefics. For, if Mercury and the Moon are in an in-
conjunft pofition in refpeft of themfelves, or the oriental horizon, and
are irradiated by contrary and malefic configurations, whereby fuperiors
rule or oppofe, they thus conftitute various difeafes in the qualities of the
mind; the particular fpecies of which is known from the qualities of the
flars which poiTefs the places. Hence it is obvious that the more mode-
rate difeafes of the mind have their radical caufe from an excefs or defeft
of thofe operations which induce the mental qualities; for, the predomi-
nancy of fuch qualities naturally promotes an excefs of evil, and confti-
tutes a difeafe, in proportion as the ambient matter is unmixed, and
above or below a proper mediocrity; but the more obvious and fatal dif-
eafes of the mind arife from a difproportion or defe£l of matter infinitely
greater, and wholly befide nature.
Thofe who are born when Mercury and the Moon are inconjun<^,
either in refpe6t of themfelves or the oriental horizon, Saturn and Mars
being angular, and beholding the configuration, Mars by night, and
Saturn by day, will be naturally fubjeft to the falling ficknefs all their
lives; but, if Saturn happens to take this pofition by night, and Mars by
day, the native will be fubje6t to phrenfy and madnefs, more efpecially
if the afpe6l fall in Cancer, Virgo, or Pifces. Again, if the Moon, being
in her phaOs, is overcome by malefic rays, namely, by the concurrence
of Saturn when approaching to a new, or by Mars at her full, either in
the figns Sagittarius or Pifces, whoever- is born under fuch configurations
will be lubjeft to lunacy. Therefore the malefic ftars, overcoming or
predominating in any configuration, induce a variety of mental difeafes,
which are either remarkably violent, or obfcure and latent, according to
the nature and energy of each refpedtive ruling planet.
If the benevolent planets Jupiter and Venus have familiarity, in ori-
ental pofitions, and angular, with the malefics occidentally pofited, thefe
mental difeafes, though ftrong and violent, will be curable;. if Jupiter
prefides, they will be moved by medical help ; but, if Venus, by the
natural ftrength of the mental faculties. But, if thefe pofitions happen
to be reverfed, the malefic flars angular, and in oriental flations, and the
beiiefics letting, the difeafes will become more manifefl, and be wholly
incurable. Hence we derive the caufe of the ever-varying mutation of
the animal fpirits, which are always more or lefs afFeded in proportion
as Mercury and the Moon are agitated by the good or evil influences of
other concurring and adjuvant caufes.
Such
OFASTROLOGY. 435
Such are the morbid aftedions in the aftlve part of the rational foul,
produced by the planetary configurations ; but the great change which
arifes in the patient, that is, in the irrational part of the foul,* is induced
chiefly from excefs or defe6t, according to the particular conformation
of male or female, in which they either exceed, or are deficient,
in the parts proper to their fex. For it is found, that if the Sun be confi-
gurated with the Moon in the place of Mercury, and Mars and Venus
have familiarity with them, the luminaries being in mafculine figns, the
men will exceed in that which is natural, having thofe parts in excefs
that are proper to man ; and the women will have a conformation of parts
preternatural and mixed. But, if Mars and Venus fhould be one or both
conftituted with them after a mafculine manner, the men will be fubjedl
to mixtures of fex, and the women to violent lufl and intemperate
wantonnefs. If Venus alone be difpofed after a mafculine manner, this
fenfation will be lefs flrong, and the parties will conduft themfelves with
more decency and modefty ; but, if Mars and Venus both are fo confli-
tuted, they will be moved to carnal embraces by the moft violent and ir-
refiftible fenfations.
If the luminaries alone are configurated in feminine figns, the women
then born will be of immoderate conformation, and will have ftrong and
continual defires after men; but the men then born will be changed to
that conformation which is inferior to nature, and will inherit an effemi-
nate and tender conftitution of body and parts. And, if Venus be
difpofed with them in a feminine manner, the women will be more laf-
civious and prone to venery ; and, in whatever line of life they chance to
glide, this paffion will always be predominant, and moft probably fubjeft
them to difgrace and infamy. The men under this conflitution are ftill
more effeminate and impotent; but, if Mars be thus conftituted inftead
of Venus, they become robuft and vigorous, and luft after women.
The oriental or diurnal configurations of Mars and Venus contribute to
a more mafculine and robuft conformation, but the occidental and
vefpertine to their being more effeminate and debilitated. If Saturn hap-
pens to be configurated with them, he contributes to more luft and
wantonnefs, but in an unnatural way ; if Jupiter irradiates the afpe6f,
* To prevent the reader from being innocently led aftray, and the defigning critic from explain-
ing away the author's meaning, it is jult neceflary to remark, that what is faid here of the mind and
foul is not to be underftood of the Jupernatural fouly which never dieth^ but of the intellect-
ual rational part of the animal foul., which is formed, ruled, and wholly governed, by thofe
fupreme and fo!e fecond caufes, under God, the ftars, but principally by the is/loon and
M?rcury.
he
436 ANILLUSTRATION
he conduces to more modefty and decency; but Mercury influences to a
greater mobility of paflion, to a frequent change of objefts, and to a con-
tinual love of variety, whether the native be male or female.
Of WEALTH and RICHES.
We have hitherto confidered only fuch parts of the native's geniture
as relate to the accidents of his body and mind, and the general qualities
incident to them, as well before as after the birth. From thefe the Tpecula-
tions naturally follow which regard the contingences of them ; whereof
thofe appertaining to temporal pofTeffions leem peculiarly to agree
with what concerns the body, and thofe which relate to honour
and dignity feem more particularly to flow from the qualities of the
mind.
To afcertain, therefore, the kind and quality of worldly poflTeflions in
any rational degree, we are to confider the pofition of the Part of
Fortune, with the nature and ftrength of the planet which rules it, to-
gether with his configurations and pofitions in refpeft to other flars.
For whatever planet aflumes the lordfhip of the Part of Fortune, if flrong
and well dignified, he will afTuredly contribute wealth and riches, but
more abundant and lafting when the luminaries give teftimony to him
by irradiating the place of his pofition. It is to be obferved that Saturn
gives an increafe of wealth by the improvement and cultivation of lands,
or by buildings or navigation. Jupiter contributes riches by the confi-
dence and love of friends, which produce legacies and patrimony; alfo by
preferment in the church. Mars conduces to wealth by warfare, intre-
pidity, and good generalfhip. Venus, by friendfliip, gifts, and marriage.
Mercury by fcience, oratory, or perfeverance in bufinefs.
Saturn having familiarity with the Part of Fortune, and configurated
at the fame time with Jupiter, promifes lands and hereditaments ; par-
ticularly if pofited in a fuperior angle, and Jupiter occidental in a double-
bodied fign, or in application with the Moon; for then, being adopted,
the native will become the heir of others. And, if thofe fl:ars, which are
of the fame nature with the fignificator of the Part of Fortune, give tefti-
mony of dominion, the pofleffion will remain with the native ; but, if
thofe of a contrary quality are elevated above the lord which has dominion,
the pofTeflion will be of no duration, and future riches precarious. The
general time of thefe events is taken from the inclination of the ftars which
produce the caufe in refped to the angles and fuccedents. It may alfo
be
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 437
be further obferved, that if thefe lords of the Part of Fortune, commonly
called fignificators of riches, are in an angular pofition, the acquifition of
wealth will happen in youth ; and, if on the cufps of thole angular
pofitions, ftill earlier. If they are poCted in fuccedents, the riches
will prefent themfelves at a middle age; if in cadent houfes, either
late or in extreme old age. The fame circumftances are likewife pro-
duced by oriental and occidental pofitions, in refpeft of the Sun and
the World.
Of DIGNITIES and HONOURS.
Things which relate to honour and dignity are deduced from the dif-
pofition of the luminaries, and the familiarity of the ftars by which they
are furrounded. Wherefore, if both the luminaries at the time of birth
are found in mafculine figns, angular, and attended by the five planets,
the Sun by oriental ftars, and the Moon by occidental, thofe perfons
will afpire to extraordinary power and dignity, and exercife autho-
rity and dominion over others, from whence great tribute and ho-
nour will flow. And, if thefe furrounding planets are angular, or con-
figurated to a cardinal houfe above the earth, they will be great and pow-
erful in a fuperior degree; but ftill more fo, if the attending planets
make a dexter configuration to the angles above the earth, with the Sun
in a mafculine fign, and the Moon in a feminine; for then the native
will arrive to a power like that of princes, having abfolute dominion and
government, difpofing, in a comparative degree, of the iffues of life and
death.
But, if the luminaries happen to be thus pofited, and none of the fur-
rounding planets are in angular ftations, nor give teftimony to the angles,
the native will be great and honourable as a magiftrate or general, but
not as having dominion or princely dignity. So, if the furrounding planets
are fome or moft of them in angular flations, or configurated to the
angles, yet, if the luminaries are not in angular pofitions alfo, the native
will not arrive to fuch illuftrious preferment, and will but moderately
excel in dignity and honour. But, if neither of the attending planets is
configurated to the angles, the native will be obfcure, and pafs his whole
life without promotion or dignity ; but, if neither of the luminaries are at
the fame time found in a mafculine fign, nor angular, nor attended by
the benefic rays of good planets, the native's life will be abjedl and mife-
rable, and bis fortune hard.
No. 22. 5 Q Thus
438 ANILLUSTRATION
Thus the general confideratioii and mutability of dignity and honour
is fought out and determined. But many things between the two ex-
tremes of dignified ftation and abjedt fervility mufl: be taken into the
account, before any reafonable judgment can be formed from the native's
geniture; for we muft recolle(5t, that every perfon born under the fame
propitious configuration cannot alike arrive to the felf-fame height of
dignity and honour, becaufe the difference of birth and ftation will at
once deftroy the poffibility of it ; not to fay any thing of croft afpeds,
and other baneful familiarities, which may either cut the thread of life,
or tend to leflen the grateful influences of benefic configurations.
It therefore follows, that we are not only to judge of perfonal honour and
dignity, under certain reflri6lions, from the nature, quality, and place, of
birth, but likewife from a due confideration of all occurring and
fubordinate rays, which may in any (hape be liable to affe<Sl the fignifi-
cators of dignity. We muft not however forget, that, when thefe figni-
ficators are fo dignified in a nativity, that no evil rays, either mundane or
zodiacal, or any fubordinate parallels, confpire to afHi6l or diminish their
good influences, and the prorogator of life is flrong and durable, be the
quality of birth what it may, and the obfcurity of the parents ever fo re-
markable, yet the infant thus brought into the world fhall be exalted to
a degree of eminence and grandeur infinitely beyond whatever could
have been expefted. And it is juft the fame in refped of riches, plea-
fure, wedlock, children, friends, enemies, travelling, and all other events
common 'to human life; for, if the place of the nativity proper to
either of them be thus flrongly and happily configurated, the effects will
be produced in an eminent and glorious manner ; but, when there hap-
pen crofs and latent familiarities to oppofe and afflift the refpe^tive fig-
nificators, and particularly if there are teftimonies of fliort life, death will
of courfe enfue, and all inferior or dependent incidents naturally
ceafe, and are prevented.
Of NATURAL INCLINATIONS or PROFESSIONS.
Since the confequences of the fall produced that unalterable decree of
heaven, that man (liould eat bread by the fweat of his brow; and fince the
increafe of mankind upon the face of the earth rendered a variety of pro-
feflions neceflary; fo it is natural to believe, what obfervation has
long confirmed, that the bent of every man's mind is more or lefs dif-
pofed towards the purfuit of fome particular avocation, by which the calls
of nature may be fupplied, and the decrees of heaven fully accompliflied.
And hence it is that the ftars, as fecond caufes under God, derive the
power
OFASTROLOGY. 439
power of influencing mankind to a natural choice of thefe profeffions ;
our propenfities to which are fo deeply rooted, and fo ftrongly inaprinted
on the mental faculties, that no human bias is able to counteraft them,
nor the moft elevated ftation in life, not even that of majefty itfelf, fuf-
ficient to repel the inclination from an attachment to fome branch of me-
chanifm or fcience, by which an advantage might in fome meafure be
derived, either univerfally or individually.
To enter upon this fpeculation, we muilr confider the lord of the pro-
feffion, or planet that affumes the dominion,, which is taken two
ways, either from the Sun, or the fign upon the Mid-heaven ; wherefore
we ought to obferve the ftar that makes an oriental appearance next to
the Sun or mid-heaven, but more particularly when approached by
the application of the Moon; and, if one and the fame planet paffes both,
or makes the neareft approaches to the Sua or Mid-heaven, we take
that planet for lord of the profeflion. But, if one planet be pofited
before the Sun, and another in the Mid-heaven, having familiarity with
the Moon, both are to be confidered, and that only preferred, as fignifi-
cator, which is apparently the moft ftrong, and bed dignified. In cafes
where no planet is found approaching the Sun, nor pofited in the Mid-
heaven, then that fliall be taken which hath dominion, or is lord of the
Mid-heaven.
To endeavour to afcertain the very profeflion or mechanical trade each
native will follow, is an idle and abfurd attempt, and favours of folly and
fanaticifm. For, though it is poffible to defcribe the kind and quality of
the profeflion in refpedl to its general tendency and genus, yet it
is impoflible to afcertain particularly whether a man fliall be a common
carpenter, a wheelwright, or a cabinet-maker. What we are able to dif-
cover is made known by the properties of the three planets. Mars, Ve-
nus, and Mercury, confidered in refpeft of the figns in which they are
pofited. Mercury influences to the love of literature and the polite arts ;:
and, if he be lord of the profeflSon, will naturally incline the adivc
qualities of the mind to fuch purfuits as are conformable thereto, and.
which come under the various branches of the fciences and philofophy.
He therefore produces excellent orators, ftudents in law, phyfic, or di-
vinity ; eminent poets and hiftorians ; together with the whole train of
dependent and inferior avocations of this clafs, which are difcoverable
by the prefence or aflifling rays of the other planetary configurations; for,,
if Saturn gives teftimony to Mercury, the profeflion will be of an
inferior order ; but, if Jupiter, it will be more excellent and ho-
nourable.
440 AN ILLUSTRATION
If Venus afTumes the dominion of the profeflion, (he will difpofe the
native to the ftudy of flowers, and of botany in general, and confequently
to the knowledge and preparation of unguents, tinctures, elTences, fpices,
aromatic waters, wines, cordials, and other produdions of herbs and flow-
ers, fome or other of which the native will probably deal in. If
Saturn gives teflimony to her, fhe makes chemifts, apothecaries, dealers
in dyes and colours, or fuch as deal in wearing-apparel, or the materials
of which they are compofed. But, if Jupiter gives teftimony, the native
will afpire after fome eminent office, or place of trufl: under government;
or to fome poft of honour, or official department in the ftate; or will ob-
tain fome honourable profeflion in the navy or army by a perfeverance
in that line.
If Mars is ruler of the profeflion, and irradiated by the Sun, he leads
to all thofe branches of the mechanics which are wrought by the opera-
tion of fire; whence he produces all the artificers in brafs and iron, and
the workers and refiners of metals. But, being in conjun6tion with the
Sun, he influences to huflaandry, agriculture, and working in wood and
flone. If Saturn gives teftimony to him, he carries the inclination
towards a feafaring life, or to a love of gain by travelling, or by traffic
in foreign countries, or by dealing in cattle. If Jupiter gives teftimony,
the native's profeflion will be that of the army or navy, or fome place,
office, or employment, dependent thereon.
If Mercury and Venus are fo configurated in the geniture as to be-
come joint rulers of the profeflion, they will produce excellent muficians,
and good compilers of mufical pieces; alfo mufical-inftrument makers,
compofers of fongs and glees, and admirable fingers ; likewife comedians,
opera-dancers, tumblers, and the tribe of exhibitionifts. And, if
Saturn gives teftimony, he will make jewellers, toymen, and dealers
in ornaments and precious ftones. But, if Jupiter gives teftimony to
them, he will difpofe the mind to the ftudy of politics, or of national
and conftitutional law ; or he will make the profeflTion that of a teacher
or fchoolmafter, or the ruler and manager of fome public feminary of
learning.
If Mars and Mercury are joint lords of the profeflion, they lead the in-
clination to the choice of painting or drawing ; to ftatuary, fculpture,
carving, engraving, and fuch-like ingenious arts. But, becaufe the hap-
py configurations which confpire to the produftion of talents proper for
thefe purfuits are not often to be found in any geniture, without fome
malevolent
O F A S T R d L O G Y. 441
malevolent or afRifling rays, whereby the native's genius is impaired^ It
feldom happens that we find very high perfeftion, or fuper-extraordinary
merit, among the numerous profeflbrs and followers of the polite arts
;
whence comes the foundation of the common faying, fo ftriflly confor-
mable to truth and reafon, that painters, poets, and muficians, muft be
{o born ; that is, muft inherit from nature a ftrong bias for either ot
thefe profeflions, to make any extraordinary progrefs in them. And it
is remarkable, that, if Saturn gives teftimony to this joint rule of Mars
and Mercury, all the above ingenuity and tafte will be deftroyed, and
the native become wholly untra6lable and indolent, and given up to
theft, fwindling, (harping, and other fpecies of fraud and violence, for
the means of a fubfiftence.
If Mars and Venus jointly take dominion of the profeffion, they pro-
duce workers and dealers in various kinds of metals ; likewife hulband-
men, apothecaries, and phvficians, and all profeffions in the nature of
plants and herbs. If Saturn gives teftimony to them, they will make
ignorant pretenders to mufic and divinity ; and, in all other profeflions
under this configuration, the native will betray a want of ingenuity and
capacity. But, if Jupiter gives teftimony, the contrary efFefts will hap-
pen ; and, in whatever purfuit the native engages, proper to this mixture
of the ruling planets, he will have the fatisfa6lion of deriving both ho-
nour and profit from his labours.
It muft alfo be obferved, that the quality of the figns in which thefe
congrefTes are made, and wherein the lords of the profeffion are pofited,
confers to the variety and advantage of fuch profeffion. Thofe of human
fhape conduce amazingly to the perfedtion of all thofe fciences and avo-
cations which are for the improvement and information of the mind.
Four-footed figns contribute to the greater perfedion of metallic arts,
navigation, and architedure ; tropical and equinodial figns forward
the purfuits of hufbandry, agriculture, the mathematics, chemiftry,
and theology ; earthy and watery figns to the perfection of phyfic and
furgery, to thftj art of conftru6ting (hips, and to the profeffion of a
merchant.
Again, if the Moon pofTefles the place of the profeffion, having confi-
guration with Mercury, at her conjunction with the Sun, either in
Taurus, Capricorn, or Cancer, flie will conduce to greater fagacity and
penetration in whatever profeffion the native happens to follow. If this
configuration happens in Sagittarius or Pifces, it conduces to a melan-
choly and timid purfuit of bufinefs, and burthens the mind with enthu-
No. 23. 5 R fiaftic
^42 ANIL LUSTRATION
iiaftic and fuperftitious affefllons. If it happens in Virgo or Scorpio, ir.
contributes profound wifdom and knowledge to the profeffion of phy-
ficians, lawyers, or divines; and to the followers of Icience or philofo-
phy. If in Libra, Aries, or Leo, it makes entliufiaftic preachers, and
fills the mind with idle and immoderate ideas of gain by each relpedtive
bufinefs or avocation.
Thus the kinds and qualities of profeffions are to be fought out in a-
e-eneral way, and defcribed accordingly ; but the importance and extent
of them muft be confidered from the ftrength and dignity of the ruling
ftars. For, being oriental or angular, they make the profeffion eminent
and profitable ; but, if occidental, or declining from angles, it will be
unimportant, mean, and unprofitable. If the benefics are fuperior, the
profeffion will be eminent, honourable, and conducive to great riches;,
but, if the malefics are fuperior, it will be mean, inglorious, and wholly
unprofitable. Saturn is found to deftroy the benefits of an aftive pro-
feffion by tardinefs, indifference, and inactivity ; but Mars through
boldnefs, loftinefs, and prelumption : wherefore both a&. in oppofition
to the luccefs and advantage of the native's profeffion. But the general
caufes of the failure or profperity of bufinefs mufl be judged of from
the difpofition and quality of the flars which produce this effed ; and
this in reference to the oriental and occidental angles. The eaft angle
denotes the beginning of life ; the weft angle the end ; and the mid-
heaven the middle part, from about thirty to forty years : and, as the
fjfynificators are difpofed in the radical figure, fo will the efFeds thereof
be at the fet time of life conformable thereto.
It muft be ever remembered, that the doftrine of profeffions here laid
down, and the effefts arifing from them, relates only to fuch as are fol-
lowed in confequence of the natural impulfe of the mind ; in which cafes
alone we are to feek for adequate fuccels and perfection in the profecu-
tion of them. Among the obfervations we make of the common occur-
rences of life, we too often find youth configned to fuch employments,
by the will or caprice of their parents, as they are neither defigned for
by nature nor have the leaft inclination to follow. And hence it is
that fo many bunglers rife up in all trades and profeffions, who, finding
their bufineis a continual load of oppreffion and perplexity, either aban-
don it altoo-ether, or elfe become indolent, fottiih, and inaClive, to the
titter ruin of their families, and to the general annovance of the more
induftrious part of mankind. From this confidcration, parents and
guardians ffiould be careful to educate and bring up the rifing generation,
as far as prudence will admit, according to the natural bent and genius
of
OF ASTROLOGY. 443
of their own inclinations, which is the only direil road to excellence
and perfeftion. This I think is a faft that needs no further illuftration,
fince the obfervations of moft n:ien will furnifh them with inftances of
perfons being regularly bred to fome profeflions, which even at an ad-
vanced time of life they wholly abandon, in purluit of Ibme other callincy
more confonant to their nature and abilities, and in which they often
lucceed, to the aftonilhment of their competitors.
Of MARRIAGE,
To what has been fald follows the confideration of marriage, or the fit
conjufiflion and living together of man and woman, according to the
divine ordinance of the Supreme Being. And, as this law was evidently
eftablifhed from the beginning of things, as well for the propagation of
the fpecies as for the mutual comfort and happinefs of the fexes, it were
fenfelefs to fuppofe human nature void of the impulfe of reciprocal love ;
or that tbe in\oluntary adrions of the foul, by whi-:h it is moved towards
the objedl of its afFedions, have not a radical caufe in the order of nature.
If this be admitted, it cannot furely be deemed a fubjed of ridicule, to
believe that this, as well as the other important tranfadions of our lives,
may be fought out by a contemplation of the celeftial bodies.
To invefligate this point, therefore, in refpf-ft to men, let thfe pofi-
tions and conlbtutions of the Moon be particularly conlidered. For,
when fhe is found in the oriental quadrants at the time of birth, (he in-
fluences the native to ihe conlummation ot marriage at an early period
of his life ; but, if pufited in the occidental quadrants, he will probably
live fmgle till the approach of old age, and then marry a very youno-
"Woman. If the Moon be affli<5fed by the Sun-beams, and in configura-
tion with Saturn, i« either of thefe portions the native will never marry
at alL If fhe be found in a fign of one form, and making application ta
one planet only, the native will marry but once ; but, if pofited in a bi-
corporal or fign of many forms, and making application to feveral flars
in the fame lign, he will be feveral times married. And, if the flars
which receive the Moon's application, either by conjunifion, fextile, or
trine, are benefic, the wives will be good and virtuous; but, if the ap-
plication be made .to nvalefic planets, and by evil configurations, they
will be altogether of an oppofite defcription, Therefore, if Saturn re-
ceives the Moon's application, it indicates a laborious, but fullen, fro-
ward, and ungovernable, wife. If it be made to Jupiter, fhe will be free
open, and generous, truly virtuous, and a good houfewife. If to Mars,
fhe
444 AN ILLUSTRATION
{he will be bold, fVubboni, and refradory. If to Venus, cheerful, com>
placent, affable, and chafte. If to Mercury, wife, prudent, loving, and
Gonftant. But, if Mars irradiates the place, ihc will be furly, paflioa-
ate, talkative, and unfteady.
For t^e particulars of marriage in refped of women, we are to confider
the pofitions of the Sun inftead of the Moon ; for, if he be fituated in
the oriental houfes at the time of birth, the native will either marry very
young, or elfe at an advanced time of life to a young man ; but, if the
Sun be found in the occidental houfes, fhe will marry late, or to a man
far advanced in years. And alfo, if he be fituated in a fign of one form,
Ihe will marry but once ; but, if in a fign of many forms, or configurated
to many oriental ftars, fhe will have more hulbands than one, who will
partake of the fame nature and qualities as the fl:ars to which the confi-
gurations are made. Thus, Saturn, if configurated to the Sun, will
indicate fober, grave, and laborious, hufbands, but cold and phlegmatic.
Jupiter difpofes them to more opennefs of mind, and generofity. Mars
makes them violent, warm, unruly, pafilonate, and arbitrary. Venus
forefiiows them to be indulgent, fond, good-natured, and handfome.
Mercury difpofes them to be careful, prudent, induftrious, and faithful.
But, if Saturn be joined with Mercury, they will be churlifh and re-
ferved ; if with Venus, they will be dull, four, and inconftant: if with
Mars, quick, lively, luftful, and fond of variety. Thofe are here to be
confidered the oriental quarters in refpe<St of the Sun, which precede the
oriental and occidental fign of the zodiac ; and, in refpeft of the Moon,
thofe from her new and full to her other quarters; and the occidental
houfes are thofe which fall oppofite to the foregoing.
As to events that occur after marriage, that is a different fpeculation,
and requires great attention to the following particulars. Whenever the
geniture of both hufband and wife have the luminaries configurated in
mutual agreement, that is, in trine or Textile to each other, they will
live together in comfort and harmony, and for a long continuance of
time if the luminaries happen to be in mutual reception. And this du-
ration will ftill be more firm and lading, if the pofition of the huiband's
Moon agrees with that of the Sun in the wife's geniture. But, if the
pofitions of the luminaries are placed in figns inconjund, and configu-
rated by quartile or oppofition, they will either live together in difcord
and enmity, and be rent by violent jealoufies and contention, or clfe be
ftjlly and finally eflranged from each other.
Again,
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 445
A?aio, if the benefic ravs of the fortunate planets behold the coiifioru-
rations of the luminaries iti mutual reception, the marriage will be
durable, conftant, happy, and profitable ; but, if the malefic planets
irradiate thofe -places, the marriage will be unhappy, contentious, and
^miferable. If the luminaries are not configurated in mutual reception,
yet, if the benefics give teflimony to them, the marriage will be mode-
rately bappy and durable ; and, when flrife and difagreements happen,
the fame will wear off, and reconciliation will take place between them.;
but, if the malefic gives teflimony to the difcordant pofitions of the lu-
minaries, inconftancy and infidelity will enfue, and the marriage will
'be difTolved with fcandal and difgrace.. If Mercury be joined with the
malefics, the feparation will be for hatred and diflike, and by mutual
confent; but, if Venus gives teftimony to them, it will be a divorce, by
•due courfe of law, for infidelitv and adultery.
Marriages, in other refpefts, are confidered from the familiarities and
connexions of Venus, Mars, and Saturn. For, if thefe are all three
xronfigurated with the luminaries, the marriage will be good, domeflic,
and profitable, by rcafon of the affinity which the benefic planet Venus
hath with Mars and Saturn ; with Mars, becaufe of youth and florid coun-
teiiance, feeing they have exaltation in mutual trigonal figns, as Mars in
Capricorn the tripliclty of Venus, and Venus in Pifces the triplicity
of Mars; or Mars in Pifces the exaltation of Venus, and Venus in
Capricorn the exaltation of Mars. So likevvife Capricorn and Libra are
common to Saturn and Venus ; for Venus in Libra hath houfe, and Sa-
turn triplicity ; and in Capricorn, Saturn hath houfe, and Venus tripli-
city ; and hence fhe bears relation to Saturn by an older complexion,
feeing they have their houfes trigonal to each other. Wherefore Venus
with Mars conduces to make the inclinatioriS more fond and amorous
;
and Mercury giving teftimony to them, qualifies the paffions, and keeps
the fenfual appetite within rational bounds. If Venus be found in any
of the above familiar and prorr.ilcuous figns, fhe indicates marriages be-
tween kinfmen and relations ; or, if fhe be with the Moon in a mafcu-
line geniturc, it predids that two fifters, or near relations, will be mar-
ried to the farae man ; but, if fhe be thus configurated to Jupiter, or the
Sun, in a feminine geniture, it fhows the women will naarry two bro-
thers, or two men that are nearly related.
It is like wife obfervable, that, isi all cafes where Venus is thus con-
figurated to Saturn, iti the place of marriage, the connubial flate
will be blifsful and happy to the native ; and, if Mercury be joined
with them, he adds profpcrity ; but, if Mars be fubflituted in his place,
No. 23. 5 S the
446 AN I L L U S 1' R A T 1 O N
the marriage will be altogether wretched, contentious, and unhappy.
If Mars be configurated to Venus, Saturn, and Mercury, the native
marries with a perfon nearly of an equal age; but, if he be pofited in an
oriental or eaftcrly ftation, the native marries with a perfon much youn-
ger ; and, if an occidental or well;erly flation, with a perfon much older.
If Venus and Saturn be found in promiicuous figns, fuch as Capricorn
or Libra, the native will marry among his own kindred ; but, if this
configuration is made upon the cufps of the horofcope or mid-heaven,
irradiated by the Moon, and the geniture be mafculine, the native will
luft after his own fiflier, aunt, or mother-in-law ; or, if the geniture be
feminine, (he will have defire unto her own brother, uncle, or daughter's
hufoand. Should the Sun irradiate the place, inftead of the Moon, then.
the males will have defire toward their daughters, or fon's wife ; and the
females to their Tons, nephews, or fifter's hulband.
Obfervation likewife proves, that, if Venus and Saturn are configu-
rated neither in a mafculine nor feminine fign, but in thofe of an oppo-
fite quality, which are alike in fex, but contrary in nature ; or in thofe
that are ruled by places of a contrary nature, as Capricorn is ruled by
Saturn and Mars, and Pifces by Jupiter and Venus ; the native will be
prone to luft, of a loofe converfation, and immodeft carriage; more par-
ticularly if the configuration be made in the firft or latter degrees of
Aries, near the Hyades, in the latter degrees of Leo, or upon the face
of Capricorn. And, if thefe planets occupy the two principal angles,,
namely, the afcendant or mid-heaven, thefe libidinous affections will be
the more ftrong, open, and offenfive, making the party glory, as it were,
in lafcivioufnefs and debaucheries ; but it is a moft extraordinary cir-
cumftance, that the fame afpeds in the northern and wefte/n angles not
only conduce to an oppofitc difpofition, but render the native either bar-
ren, deficient, or of evil conformation, in refped to the parts neceflary tO'
generation.
The difpofition of men, as to modeft or vicious habits, very much de-
pends on the pofition and configurations of Mars; for, if he be feparat-
ing from Saturn and Venus, and applying to Jupiter, men born at that
time will be difcreet and modeft, decent in their iutercourfes with the
other fex, and difpofed only to the natural ufe. If Jupiter and Venus be
configurated to Saturn and Mars, the native will be eafily moved on, and
have a fecret defire to ads of venery ; but will have an external ftiow of
chaftity, and labour to avoid the ftiame. If Mars and Venus are alone
configurated together, or if Jupiter bears teftimony, the native will be
openly lafcivious, and indulge in the moft luxuriant enjoyments of the
oppofate
OF A S r R O L O G Y. 447
cppofite lex. It one of thefe planets be oriental, and the other occi-
dental, he will be difpofed towards men as well as women ; but, if both
are found configurated in the occidental quarters, the native's company
fhould be avoided, for he will burn with unnatural defires after men or
boys ; more particularly if the afpe6ts fall in mafculine llgns, in which
cafe the inclination is mod: aftonifhingly moved towards this infamous
and {hocking pradlice. It is likewifc to be remarked, that, if Venus be
alone in an occidental pofitron, the native will for the mofl part have
intercourfe with none but the meaneft and moft proftituted part of the
fex ; but, if Mars be alone in this pofition, he influences to greater deli-
cacy and faftidioufnefs, and marks the charaifter with a defire after married
women, or the more continent and raodell: among the fingle ones.
Such are the caufes which vary the fenfual appetites of men ; we w,li
now confider thofe peculiar to women.—If Venus be configurated to
Jupiter, and Mercury gives teftimony, the native will be fober, pure,
and moderate in her defires after men ; but, having familiarity with Mer-
cury alone, (he will privately give herfelf up to fenfual embraces, though
remarkably coy and referved in public. So likewife, if Venus be con-
figurated to Mars alone, the native will be wanton and lafcivious; and,
if Mercury has fanpiliarity with them. The will be wholly given up to
luftful pleafures and proftitution. If Jupiter concurs in this afpe<5l, and
Mars be combufi: of the Sun, the native will be mean and abjefl, fub-
mitting to the ufe of the moft vulgar and loweft clafs of mankind ; but,,
if Venus be combuft inftead of Mercury, (he will fubmit with more re-
ferve and caution, and moftly with decent and genteel perfons. If thefe
planets be configurated after a feminine manner, the fenfual appetite of
the native will, be only paffive ; but, if difpofed after a mafculine man-
ner, it will be a61ive alio. Saturn, having familiarity with thefe confi-
gurations, adds to the greater luft and licentioufnefs ; but Jupiter to a;
greater (hare of modedy, decency, and external decorum..
Of C H I L D R E N.
After the confideration of marriage follows that of children. This>
fpeculation is deduced from the ftars configurated in the mid-heaven, or
fuccedent, which is the eleventh houfe ; but, if none of the planets are
found in thefe places, then the oppofite ones are to be confidered. The
Moon, Jupiter and Venus, are the givers of children ; but the Sun,
Mars, and Saturn, occafion flerility, or paucity of children. Mercury,
as in all other cafes, contributes his influences according to the nature
and quality of that (lar or planet with which he is configurated ; adding
to the increafe of children when in the eaft, but to (lerility and barren-
nefs.
448 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
nefs when occidental, or in the weft. When therefore thefe (iars, which
are givers of children, are thus pofited, and by themfelves, they foVe-
(how only one child to the native; but, if they are fornned in double-bo-
died or feminine figns, they caufe the generating of twins : fo likewife, in
fruitful figns, as Pifces, Cancer, or Scorpio, they will produce two or
three children at a birth. If they are of a mafculine nature, by being
configurated to the Sun, and in mafculine figns, they caufe males; but,
if they arc difpofed after a feminine natuie, they give female?. If the)
are overcome by malefic planets, and pofited in barren places, or figns,
fuch as Leo or V^irgo, they will give children, but not of any ftability
or duration ; they will be naturally weak and puny, by being void of a
proper (hare of vital heat and nouri(hment. If the Sun and malefic ftars
jointly poflefs the mdheaven or eleventh houfe, in mafculine or fterile
figns, without either of the benefics concurring, they indicate pcrpetua'l
barrennefs to the native, and (how an utter want of children ? but, if
they be in feminine or fruitful figns, or aided by the benefics, they fore-
(how the produ6tion of children, but fuch as are either hurt or blemifhed
in their bodies, or of a (hort and unhealthy life.
In all thefe cafes it muft be remembered, that whenever the malefic
fl:ars have the dominion, and the benefics give teftimony, being configu-
rated in, or having refpc6t to, prolific figns, there will happen a rejc£tion
of children according to the cxcefs which the ftars giving teftimony have
in each condition, cither of all the children, or of a few, or moft, as they
are found more powerful, by being more oriental or angular, or more ele-
vated or Cuccedent. If therefore the lords of thofc fio^ns, boincr divers of
children, are orientally pofited, or in good places of the figure, the chil-
dren will be fortunate and afpiring, and will arrive at fingular fame and
honour : but, if the pofition be occidental, or in evil places of the figure,
the children will be altogether mean and obfcure. Moreover, if they
agree with the part of fortune and horofcope, they forefhow mutual love
and confidence, and a good underftanding always to exift between the
children and parents, and they will become the heirs and inheritors
of their fortunes ; but, if thefe be found unconjoined and difagreeing, the
children will be vicious and incorrigible, lofing the efteem, and wearing
out the patience, of their parents, and thereby,'perhaps miffing the inhe-
ritance of their fubftance. If the ftars which aflume the dominion of
children are agreeably configurated among themfelves, they forefhow love
and harmony among brothers and fifters, and that they will help and
affift one another during their lives. But, as to other particulars rela^
live to the fortunes and general purfuit of children, they are to be fought
out by placing the fign and degree inr which the fignificator of children
iS
O F A S T R O I. O G Y, 449
is found, upon the afcendant, and making the figns upon the cu{\-is of
all the other houfes agreeable thereto, in the fame manner as if it was tlie
proper nativity of each child; and then judge of the difpofition of the
figure, according to the rules heretofore laid down.
Of FRIENDS and ENEMIES.
The things vhich relate to friendfhip and enmity are confidered bv
obferving the principal places of the geniture wherein the fignificator?
thereof have familiarity or afpecff, together with the weaknefs or flieno-th
of them. The great and more durable familiarities or differences of thele
ftars are termed lympathies and enmities; and the fmall and temporarv
familiarities are called focieties and contentions. To difcover thefe, we
mufi: carefully obferve the places of the Sun and Moon, in refpeft to the
horofcope and part of fortune; for, if thefe happen in the fame figns, or
if they change places when rifing, and not more than feventeen degrees
diftant, they forefhow long and faithful friendfhip ; but, if they are in-
conjunft, or pofited in oppofjte figns, they produce great and implacable
enmity and hatred. If the luminaries are not found in any of thefe lltu-
ations, but are only configurated in figns, either by trine or Textile, they
fhow flight and precarious friendfhip ; but, if by quartile, finall and im-
potent enmity. Hence it happens that friendfhips ceafe, and appear as
it were at an utter end, while the malcfics tranfit the configuration; and
yet, when thefe are over, the friendship is again renewed, and mutual
civilities and good offices take place, as if no fuch circumftance had hap-
pened. So in like manner the malicious objeds of hatred and enmity
feem to ceafe and lie dormant, when the benefic flars are making their
ingrefs upon the configuration ; but are renewed with frefh rancour looa
after thefe ingrefles are at an end,
Friendfhip and enmity are therefore confidered under three kinds; for
men are obferved to be {o difpofed either by ele6tion, or for profit, or for
forrow or pleafure ; and, when either all or mofl of the forementioned
j)laces have familiarity with each other, friendfhip is conftltuted by thefe
three kinds; but, if thefe places are found unagreeing, then enmity ariles
in a fimilar manner. When the places of the luminaries alone have
familiarity, friendfhip will arife from eleftion, involuntary choice, or na-
tural regard, which is the moft firm and lafting; but, if the places of the
luminaries are contrarily difpofed, hatred is in the fame manner pro-
duced, and is the mofl inveterate and fatal. When the place or part of
fortune hath familiarity, or is otherwife found, then thele affections
No. 23. 5 T arife
450 AN ILLUSTRATION
arife from motives of felf-intereft or gain ; but, when they are from the
horofcope, they are produced by thofe anions of the mind which arife
from melancholy and choler, or from vivacity and good humour. But
in all thefe cafes wc muft particularly obferve the (tars elevated above or
configurated with each of thefe refpe6tive places ; for that place (hall give
a higher degree of friendship or enmity than any other, to which the
elevation or fucceflion of ftars is the neareft, whether in the fame fign
(;r the adjoining. But the place which pafTes the ftars in configuration,
if the flars are friendly, denotes advantage and interefl: to be the caufe of
friendship ; or, if difcordant ftars occur, enmity will arife from interefted
motives, which will expire with the caufe of it.
The foregoing obfervations are applicable to the mofl extravagant and
lifting inftauces of friendship and enmity ; but thofe which arife from
more temporary and trivial caufes have a different fpeculation. The
common occafions of friendship or animofity, which arile in the genera!
purfuit of bufinefs oi pleafure, or which arife from mixing with the
world, are only to be deduced from the motion of the ftais taken in both
genitures, in order to find when the fignificators in one nativity Shall
come to the fame point in the other nativity ; for at fuch periods there
will arife particular friendships or enmities, which will have duration no
longer than the refpeftive familiarity or connexion of thefe ftars exiSl.
Saturn and Jupiter, coming in this manner to each other's places, caufe
friendship by meeting in focieties or company; or by agreement in huf-
bandry and agriculture, or by the joint inheritance of fortunes. Saturn
and Mars produce ftrife and contention, and often foreSliow premeditated
fraud and villainy. Saturn and Venus denote love and friendship through
the interference of kindred ; but it hath no duration. Saturn and Mer-
cury produce friendship by converfation or connexion in bufinefs, fcience,
or confederacy. Jupiter and Mars produce enmity by politics, improper
preferment, or interefted meafures of government. Jupiter and Venus^
occafion friendship through the interference of women, ecclefiaftics, or
teachers; Jupiter and Mercury through mutual attachment to literature,
fcience, and philofophy ; Mars and Venus cauie friendship by a like
difpofitioa to laScivioufnefs, diilipation, and intemperance; Mars and
Mercurv produce enmity by fimilar interefts in bufinefs, or by the
fame parties following the fame avocation ; but Venus and Mercury
by means of jealouly, learning, correl'pondeuce by letter, or love of
women.
The increafe or decreafe of friendship and enmity is discerned from the
nature of the poSIeSTed places of each fignificator, compared with the
firSi
OF ASTROLOGY. 451
drd four principal places of the figure ; for, if they apply to the place of
the part of fortune, or to the luminaries angular, they render the friend-
fhip or enmity more confpicuous; but, feparated and disjoined, they
make them obfcure and fecret. To know whether thefe affe6)ioiis fhall
be more or lefs injurious or advantageous, we are to obfcrve the force
and power of the ftars which behold the above-mentioned places, and
judge according to their quality and difpofition either to good or evil.
But, if it relates to good or evil from fervants, the place of the ruling
difpofition in refpeft of them in the figure muft be taken from the fign
in the twelfth houfe, and from the ftars which behold the place in the
geniture itfelf, with the ingrefles or oppofition ; but more particularly
when the rulers of the figns have either familiarity with the principal
places of the geniture, or are contrarily and unhappily configurated; from
which judgment muft be made accordingly.
Of the NATURAL INCLINATION for TRAVELLING.
The circumftances which relate to travelling are confidered from the
pofition of the luminaries in refpedl to the angles, but chiefly from thoie
of the Moon ; for, if {he be found in the feventh houfe, and declining
from angles, fhe denotes a continual difpofition for travelling, and perpe-
tual change of place, to the native. Mars himfelf being occidental, or
declining from the midheaven, and having an oppofite or quartile pofi-
tion to the luminaries, will produce the fame inclination in a fomevvhat
lefs degree. But, if the part of fortune falls in the fame fign with the
fignificator of travelling, the principal part of the life and anions of the
native will be fpent in a foreign country*
Whenever the benevolent planets irradiate the above-mentioned places,
of the luminaries, or Mars, or the Part of Fortune, or fucceed to them,
the native's travelling will be glorious and profitable, and his return fafe
and without impediment ; but, if the malevolent ftars behold or fucceed^
the contrary effefls will be found to happen. In all thefe cales, how-
ever, the quality and temperament of the fmaller familiarities, as they
add to or take from the power and force of their configurations, muft
be invariably attended to. If the luminaries incline or fall to the ori-
ental quadrants, the travelling will be towards the eaftern or fou- hern-
parts of the globe, confidered in refpeft to the place of birth ; but, if
they are found in the occidental quadrants, the peregrination will be to-
wards the north or weft. If the figns in which the fignificators of tra-
velling are pofited be of one form, either in refpedt of themfelves, oir
of the ftars which have the lordftiip over them, the travelling will be
far»
452 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
far, but at intervals ; but, if the figns are double-bodied, or of two
forms, it will be perpetual, and of vail: extent. It muft, however, be
here obferved, that, though the cauies and fuccefs of travelling are in-
fluenced by Mars and the Part of Fortune, yet the quarter towards which
the peregrination fiiall be is only to be known from the pofition of the
luminaries.
If Jupiter and Venus are rubers both of the luminaries and places of
the fio-ure which induce travelling, the journeys will not only be com-
pleted without danger, but they will alio be pleafant, healthy, and agree-
able ; for, by the good government of the countries he vifits, and the
accidental meeting of friends, he will meet uith hpipitality and kind-
nefs ; the conftitution of the air, and the plenty of neceflary accommo-
dations, contributing at the fame time to his health and prefervation ;
and, if Mercury be joined to the aforefaid configuration, an additional
fhare of honour, profit, and information, will be derived from the journey;
but, if Satan and Mars poffefs or govern the places of the luminaries,
at a great diftance from each other, they will occafion great dangers and
a variety of ill fortune in the courfe of the journey. Being in moirt:
fio-ns, they denote misfortune by fhipwreck, or falling into defolate and
inaccefllble places ; in fixed figns, by precipices, or tempeftuous and con-
trary winds ; in tropical and equino61ial figns, by want of provifions, by
a fcorbutic or epidemic diforder, or by a fickly temperature of the air
;
in human figns, by the fudden attack of mountaineers and robbers, of
favages, or ambufcades ; in earthy figns, by the attack of wild and fe-
rocious animals, or by falling into pits or fubterraneous places ; but, if
Mercury give teftimony in any of the foregoing cafes, the danger may
arife from venomous creatures, or by poifon, or fome villainous ac-
cufation.
Thefe are the general confiderations ; but the more particular, fuch as
relate to the peculiar advantage or injury of each event, muft be deduced
from the nature and property of the principal places and fignificators of
profeflion and fubflance, of dignity and honour, or of bodily and mental
endowments, according to the rules already premifed. But the know-
ledge of the times when thefe various incidents are to happen is only to
be acquired from the refult of the diredions of each refpedlive fignifica-
tor, by the method which we Ihall prefently recommend.
Of
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 455
Of the APHETA, HYLEG, PROROGATOR, or SIGNIFICATOR
of LIFE, and the Places proper thereto.
The aphctic, hylegiacal, or prorogatory, places, are thofe particular
places of the figure, or of the heavens, from whence the apheta,- hyleg,
prorogator, or fignificator of life, is to be taken. Thefc appellations
have all the fame meaning, and fignify that planet or ftar which is lord of
life. The firft is derived from the Greek, the fecond from the Hebrew,
and the latter from the Latin.
The hylegiacal or prorogatory places are in number five, viz. the
afcendant, the feventh, ninth, tenth, and eleventh, houfes, and are ta-
ken from the five degrees next and immediately above the cufp of the
afcendant to the twenty-five degrees below the cufp of the lame, com-
puted by oblique afcenfion. In the fame manner the prorogatory places
are determined in the feventh, ninth, tenth, and eleventh, houfes; for
inftance, it is computed from the five decrees \\.\ the eighth houfe, to
the middle of the eleventh houfe, towards the twelfth ; which middle
is eafily found, by adding half the femidiurnal arch to the right afcenfion
of the medium coeli, and where that ends in the middle of the eleventh
houfe ; the part beyond which is not hylegiacal or prorogatory. Now
thefe only are the places in which the planet who afiTumes the power o§
hyleg or giver of life can be found ; for vvhatfoever is under the earth
is not fit for fuch dominion ; nor is any pofition above the earth, which
hath not configuration to the horofcope. The twelfth houfe, therefore,
which is called the evil angle, is not prorogatory, becaufe it not only de-
clines from the angle, but alfo makes the influence of the flars pofited
therein of an evil tendency, fince it difturbs, and as it were deflroys, the
thick vapour proceeding from the moifture of the earth, whereby they
become contrary to nature both in colour and magnitude.
If the native's birth be by day, the Sun fliall be taken for hyleg, pro-
rogator, or giver of life, if he be found in any of the foregoing hylegiacal
places; if he be not, then obferv^e whether the Moon be pofited in either
of them, and, if fo, then fhe fhall betaken for fignificator of life. But,
if neither of the luminaries be fo found, then any planet whatfoever, that
hath moft dignities in the place of the Sun at the preceding conjun6lion
with the Moon, and in the horofcope, (hall be preferred as fignificator of
life. It mufl however be remembered, that this planet mufl be dignified
three ways or more in one of the above-mentioned places, to be fo pre-
ferred ; buti if no planet fhould be found fo dignified, or, if dignified,
not in an aphetical place, then take the afcendant for giver of life.
"No: 23. 5U If
454 AN ILLUSTRATION
If the time of birth happens to be by night, the Moon fhall be pre-
ferred for giver of life, if (he be pofited in any of the aphetical places of
the figure. If (he be not, then the Sun fhall be preferred, if found in
any of thefe places ; but, if neither Sun nor Moon be fo fituated, then
any planet whatever, which was moft dignified in the place of the pre-
ceding Full Moon, and in the place of the Part of Fortune, fliall be
preferred. If none fuch are found in the geniture, the afcendant (hall be
taken for giver of life, if a conjunction preceded ; but, if it was a Full
Moon, then the Part of Fortune muft be preferred. If both the lumi-
naries, or feveral of the planets which afTume the power of fignificaLor
of life by the above-mentioned conditions, are found together in tlic
aphetical places, and (eem to contend for dominion of prorogation, then
that (liall be preferred which is found in the moft principal place of the
luminaries, whether it be the Sun, Moon, or any other planet whatever.
The principal places of the luminaries are thefe : firft, in the medium
cceli ; next, in the afcendant; then, in the eleventh houfe ; next to that,
the feventh ; and, laftly, the ninth houfe. According to this order,
therefore, by the genethliacal figure at the time of birth, (hall the (igni-
ficator of life be fought out and afcertained.
•o
Of the ANARETICAL or KILLING PLANET, and of the
QUALITY of DEATH.
The anaretic or killing places are the places of Saturn and Mars,
which kill according to the diredion of the hyleg to the fucceedingfigns,
when they meet either bodily, or caft their rays from any place of the
fio-ure, whether it be by quartile or oppofition ; and fometimes it hap-
pens by fextile, when they proceed from figns obedient or beholding,
becaufe' they have then the fame efficacy with the quartile or oppofition.
So likewife a quartile, configurated from the following or fucceeding
fio-ns to the aphetic place ; and alfo a fextile evilly affedled, when in
fi«ns of long afcenfion ; and even the trines, in (hort afcenfions ; have
fufficient force to kill, when unimpeded by benefic rays; as will alfo the
folar place, if the Moon be hyleg. But it muft be remembered that
thefe places are only anaretic when they are evilly afFefled ; for their
anaretic or killing power is impeded or deftroyed, whenever it falls in the
terms of a benefic ftar, or whenever the benefics caft a fextile, quartile,
trine, or oppofitional, ray to the very anaretical point, or to thofe points
which follow. Hence life is generally found to be preferved, when Ju-
piter is not above twelve degrees diftant from the anareta or killing
planet ; or when Venus is not more than eight. The zodiacal afpeds
of the anaretic or killing ftars will be likewife of little force, whenever
the latitude of the apheta, or giver of life, and that of the anareta, or
deftroyer of life, do not correfpond.
When
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 455
When the afiifting and anaretic rays are found two or more on each
fide, we muft obferve which of them exceed moft in number and power,
which is to be underftood when the benefics or anarctas are fome of
them in proper places of the figure, and others not ; particularly when
fome are oriental, and others occidental, either in refped of the Sun or
the figure itfelf ; for in general no planet under the beams of the Sun
hath power to kill or. fave, unlefs when the Moon is giver of life ; ia^
which cafe the place of the Sun, being afflided by fome malefic planet
joined to it, and receiving no help from benefic rays, will certainly pro-
duce death ; but, if any benevolent configuration irradiates the place, the
native's life will be preferved.
To define the caufe and quality of death, we muft confider whether it
is likely to happen by means of the beams of the malefic ftars being caft
orientally ; for the place of the malefic or anaretical planet, if joined by
body, or, if not, the place of the afpeft, ought carefully to be obferved,
in order to judge of the quality of death. If thefe deftrudive beams flow
occidentally, confider the occidental place of the ftar ; for, fuch as they
are which have dignities in the anaretic place, fuch will be the quality of
death ; or, if no planet hath dignities therein, then fuch as before others
are carried by their motions to thefe anaretic places are to be efteemed
the caufers of death, and our judgment (hould be regulated thereby ; the
configurations of the ftars made thereto being likewife confidered, toge-
ther with the nature of the figns, and the terms in which they fall.
Saturn, poflefllng the dominion of death, caufes death by chronic dif^
tempers, phthyfics, fluxes, agues, difeafes of the fplcen, dropfies, iliac and
hyfteric diftempers, and, in a word, by all diforders arifing from abun-
dance of cold. Jupiter produceth death by the quinfey, inflammation of
the lungs, apoplexy, cramps, and cardiac affe6lions, and by thofe diforders
which happen with vehement and ftinking breathing. Mars caufes
death by continual fevers, femi-tertians, fudden ftrokes and nephritic
afFedions, fpitting of blood and hemorrhage, by abortion and birth, and
St. Anthony's fire, and by all diforders which arife from abundance of
heat. Venus induceth death by afFedions of the ftomach and liver, ring-
worms, and bloody flux ; alfo by putrefaction and fiftulas, and giving of
poifon ; and, in a word, by all thofe complaints which proceed from
abundance of moifture, or through want or wafting thereof. Mercury
deftroys life by madnefs, extafy, and melancholy ; falling ficknefs, coughs,
and fpitting affedions ; and by thofe which happen limply through much
drynefs, or a want thereof. And thefe deaths happen naturally, when
the
4i6 AN ILLUSTRATION
the rulers of death are in their proper and natural quality, and none oi'
the malefics concur.
Violent and remarkable deaths happen when both the malefics are
lords of the anaretic places, or when both or one of the two are joined to,
or fquare, or oppofe, or evilly afFed, both of the luminaries, or the Sun
alone, or the Moon ; for then the milchievouiiiefs and violence of death ii
produced by the evil affcftions of the malefics. But the reniarkablenels
and extraordinary circumflances of the death proceed from the teftimony
of the lights ; and its quality is known from the reft of the afpediiig
ftars, and the figns containing the malefics. Safurn therefore in quartile
or oppofition to the Sun, orientally, and in fixed figns, caufeth death by
fufFocation, tumults of the people, or by hanging or ftrangUng ; In like
manner he doth the fame if he be occidental, and the Moon follow ; or,
if he be in beaft-like figns or places, he caufes to perifli by beafts ; and
Venus, being joined to them, caufes death by poifon, or by the treachery
of women. Jf he is in Virgo or Pifces, or in moift figns, configurated
to the Moon, he will caufe death by water, by being fuffbcated and
drowned ; if he be about Argo, by (hipwreck ; if he be in tropical or
equinodial figns, the Sun being with him, or oppofing, or if Mars be
there, he will caufe death by the efFeds of a fall ; if they are in the tenth
houfe, death will happen by precipitation from on high ; thus Saturn
caufes thefe efFe<5ts, being configurated to the lumiiiaries.
Mars in quartile or oppofition to the Sun, and the Sun or Moon ori-
ental, in figns of human form, will caufe death by flaughter, either
civil or hoftile, or by laying violent hands upon himfelf. If Venus give
teftimony, death will enfue by means of women. If Mercury be configu-
rated to them, death will enfue by robbers, and evil doers, and pirates.
If he be in mutilated or imperfedl figns, or with the Gorgon of
Perfeus, he will induce to death by beheading, or by the effedl of ampu-
tation. Being found in Scorpio or Taurus, he will caufe death by me-
dical cutting and burning, or by contraftions ; but, if he be found in the
midheaven, or oppofite to the midheaven, he will caufe death by hanging;
particularly if he be found about Cepheus and Andromeda. If he be found
in the weft, or oppofite to the horofcope, he will caufe death by fire ?
but, if he be found in fourfooted figns, he will caufe death by falling, or
by the breaking of limbs. If Jupiter gives teftimony to Mars, and he
evilly affeded, death will happen through the anger of princes, or by
condemnation. If the malefics efpecially agree together, and both of
them evilly affed any of the faid places, they make the cruelty of the
death the greater. The quality of death, and the ruling thereof, always
will
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 457
will be fliown by the ftar that is in the anaretic place ; but death will
happen in ftrange places when the ftars which poffefs the anaretic point
fall from angles ; and efpecially when the Moon is either found with, or
in quartilc or oppofition to, the faid places.
Thus the caufe and quality of death are to be fought out, and the ex-
tent of life known, by the refult of the dire6tions of each refpedive ficr-
nificator,. either direct, by which the anaretic point is carried to the
place of the giver of life ; or converfe, by the hyleg being carried to
tihe weft angle, which alone of all converfe diredions hath power to cut.
off life.
Of DIRECTION S.
A direftion, or an arch of diredion, is the pathway or track defcribed
in the heavens by any planet that is fignificator, or that alTjoies the do-
minion or government, of life, or any other incident or event peculiar
to the native, from the moment of birth to its meeting or formino' au
afped with the anaretas, or promittors, at which time the event, ba
it what it may, that is indicated thereby, comes to pafs.. For, as all the.
heavenly bodies conftantly move in circles, their progrefs, whether for a
long or (hort time,, will neceflarily form arches, the content ordeorees of
which, being accurately found, and meafured, or equated by the folar mo-
tion, will defcribe the length of time, whether it be years, months, or
days, which the fignificator will be in forming the. arch of diredlion
which produces the event. Now thefe diredions are known, by. the
following rules, and are of two diflinft clafTes :. the firft of which is zo-
diacal, or according to the circle of the zodiac ; and the lecond,, mun-
dane, or according to the^motion of the planets round the earth, or in re-
lation to their proportional diflance from the I'everal houfes of the ficruie..
ZODIACAL DIRECTIONS.
How to dire£l the SUN, being in or near the Midheaven^ namely, when he
is either on^ or not more than three degrees from, the Cufp of the Houfe,
FirfV, Take the right afcenfjon of the Sun, and then the place of the
afpe6t to which it is to be directed, vizw the right afcenfion of the afpetf,
whether it be a conjunction or oppofite ; the latitude m.this cafe is to
be negledled if he hath not greater latitude than his orb; if he hath,, it-
is not to be negle6ted ; this is the difference between the horizuntai (or,
mundane) and zodiacal afpe£ts, becaufe they are made from the greateili
No. 23. ^ X nearnels;.
4j8 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
nearnefs to the greateft diftance of the ftars amongft themfelves ; and
above the real path of them in the zodiac. The greateft nearnefs hap-
pens in the fame partjle longitude, although they are diftant and ditFer
according to latitude ; unlefs, as I have faid, the latitude, in either oppo-
fition or conjunftion, exceeds the greatnefs of their orb; if it be greater,
then is the conjundlion or oppofition in the zodiac of fmall force ; now
fubtra6l the riaht afcenfion of the Sun from the risfht afcenfion of the
planet's afpe6l, and the remainder is the arch of dire61ioi). As for ex-
ample, fuppofe the medium coeli, in eight degrees fifteen minutes of Scor-
pio, and the Sun in eight degrees twenty-one minutes of the fame fign,
to be direded to the conjun6tion of Venus in twenty-two degrees forty-
five minutes of Sagittary. The right afcenfion of the Sun is two hundred
and fifteen degrees fifty-eight minutes, the right alcenfion of Venus is
two hundred and fixty-two degrees eight minutes ; fubtra6t the right
afcenfion of the Sun from the right afcenfion of Venus, and there remains
forty-fix degrees ten minutes, which is the true arch of diredlion ; and
which, if equated, or turned into time, according to the folar motion,
by the rules hereafter laid down, will (how the time when this afpcB:
will be formed.
How to dire£l the SUN, being near the Horofcope or feventh Houfe.
Take the oblique afcenfion of the Sun, in the latitude of the place, if
it be in the afcendant, and near the cufp thereof; but, if near the cufp
of the feventh houfe, his oblique defcenfion or the oblique afcenfion of his
oppofite place ; then take the oblique afcenfion or oblique defcenfion of
the afpefts, under the fame pole, ftill negle<5ling their latitude if it be
not greater than their orb ; then fubtraft the oblique afcenfion of the Sun
from the oblique afcenfion of the afpe6t, and the remainder is the arch
of diredion required.
How to dlreB the SUN above the Earth, being far dijiant from any of the
cardinal Houfes. If the Sim be above the Earth, and above three De-
grees diJiant from the Cufp of the cardinal Houfes, do thus : —
Take the diftance of the Sun from the midheaven in right afcenfion, and
from that fubtrad the right afcenfion of the afpefls, which we call the
firft diftance ; then get the femidiurnal arch of the Sun, and alfo of the
afpe6ts; and by the rule of proportion fay. If the femidiurnal arch of the
Sun gives that right afcenfional diftance, what fhall the femidiurnal arch
of the afpeft or promittor give? The produ6l fhall be the fecondary
right
O F A S r R O L O G Y. +59
right afcenfion ; and, if both be made in the afcending part-of heaven,
fubtraft the fecondary afcenfion from the primary, and the remainder is
the arch of diredion.
Another Way.
Take the elevation of the pole of the Sun, and therein the oblique
afcenfion of the Sun, and likewife the oblique afcenfion of the afpedl ;
fubtraft one from the other, and the remainder is the arch of diredion.
For this reafon, I have fet the Table of the eleventh, third, twelfth, and
fecond, houfes, from thirty to fixty degrees of north or fouth latitude.
Hoxv to take the Pole of Pojition, commonly called tJie Circle of Poftion^ of
SUN or any other Significator.
Firft obferve vs^hether the fignificator be above or under the earth : if
above, get his femidiurnal arch; if under, his femino6lurnal ; which,
being obtained, mufl- be converted into degrees and minutes, whereof
one third part is the pole of one houfe ; then take the ftar's diftance from
the neareft houfe to which he is placed ; and by the rule of proportion
fay, If the third part of the femidiurnal or feminodturnal arch of the fig-
nificator gives the pole of the other houfe, what fhall his diflance give ?
which if it falls in the third, fourth, ninth, or tenth, houies, the remain-
der is the pole of pofition ; but, if it falls in the firfl, fecond, fifth,
lixth, feventh, eighth, or twelfth, houfes, add or fubtratl it to or from
the pole of the fucceeding or preceding houfe ; as for example : the
Moon's femidiurnal arch in eight hours fifteen minutes ; a third part is-
two hours forty-five minutes ; which, converted into degrees, gives forty-
one degrees fifteen minutes for the fpace of one houfe ; the Moon's dif-
tance from the tenth houfe in right afcenfion is thirty-three degrees fifiy
minutes, the pole of the eleventh houfe is twenty-three degrees ; then by
the rule of proportion fay. If forty-one degrees fifteen minutes, being the
fpace of one houfe, give twenty-three degrees, the pole of the eleventh
houfe, what fhall thirty-three degrees fifty minutes give? It gives eigh-
teen degrees fifty-two minutes for the Moon's true circle or pole of pofi-
tion. But, becaufe it is near nineteen degrees, I take nineteen degrees
for her pole ; and note, that, if odd minutes at any time exceed thirty,
accept of it as a whole degree ; but, if they be under thirty, then reje6t
them entirely.
How
46o AN ILLUSTRATION
How to dire^ the SUN to any Jifpe£i, being under the Earth, in the Space
of Twilight.
The Sun, being found in the fpace of twilight, ought to be ciirecSted
above parallel circles to the horizon, ynd not above horary circles, as
when the Sun is above the earth. If the Syn be found in the mornins:
twilight, firfl: dired the Sun to the degree of the aiped under the lati-
tude of the place, although the Sun is not there, and afterwards take
the diftance of the Sun from the horofcope, in oblique afcenfion, which
call the Sun's primary diflance ; and be careful that this diftance be not
greater than the parallel of twilight, which does not exceed eighteen de-
grees, for, if it be, the Sun is not in that parallel, and in this cafe you muft
work by the following rule ; but, if the Sun be in the parallel of twilight,,
then, with the diftance of the Sun from the horizon above taken, enter
the Table of Twilight under the latitude of the place, which is in the top
of the Table, and with the fign and degree in the head or foot of the Table:
and in the angle of meeting, or body of the Table, find the diftance of
the Sun from his rifing, and obferve the degree of the parallel of twi-
light, which the Sun poflefTes, in the firft column, taking the proper-
tional part of the Sun's place to degrees ; and under the fame parallel
look out the diftance of the direftiosi, that is to fay, what diftance the
Sun is from the horofcope in that parallel of twilight ; and this diftance
call the fecondary diftance ; then, if both the firft and fecond diftance are
equal, the true arcft of diredion is that which was firft: taken in the
horofcope ; but, if they are not equal, fubtradl the lefs from the greater,.,
and the remainder call the oriental diftance ; and, if the fecondary diftance
be greater than the primary, then fubtraft the oriental diftance from the
arch of dirediion, and the remainder is the true arch of diredion, which
is to be equated as before. In feeking the primary diftance of the Sun
from the horofcope, in the Tables of Twilight hereafter infcrted, it is
fufficient to take the proportional part of the degree only, rejedting the
minutes, which, when taken, note the degree of the depreftion or paral-
lel of twilight, and in the right line with parallel diftance find the
neareft proportional diftance, which when found by proportional parts,
the firft primary natural diftance of the Sun may be neglct^ed, for it is not
neceflary to take the degrees and minutes of the depreftion of twilight, but
only the greateft and the neareft degree of the Sun's longitude with the
proportional part ; as for example : the Sun directed to the quartile of
Mercury in no degree of Cancer, Mercury being in no degree of Aries at
birth ; at the fame time eleven degrees of Pifces afcend. In the latitude
forty-four degrees, the Sun being in Aries fifteen degrees forty-fix mi-
nutes,
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 461
uutes, tlie oblique afeenfion of the afcendant in that latitude is three
hundred forty-nine degrees forty-five minutes; the oblique afcenfion of
the Sun, with the circle, is three hundred and fixty-eight degrees twenty-
eight minutes ; the difference is eighteen degrees forty-three minutes.
Enter the Table of Twilight in the latitude of forty-four degrees, and
there look for this diftance, eighteen degrees forty-three minutes, and
alfo for f.xteen degrees of Aries, which cannot be found; but there is
ten degrees and twenty degrees, which is near enough ; now, under ten
degrees of Aries is eighteen degrees thirty-two minutes, and under twenty
degrees 1 find nineteen degrees one minute ; the difference is twenty-
nine minutes. Then I fay, if ten degrees give twenty- nine minutes, what
(hall fix degrees give ? Anfwer, feventeen minutes ; which, being added
to eighteen degrees thirty-two minutes, make eighteen degrees forty-nine
minutes ; and againft that, in the firft column, is the parallel of twilight,
thirteen degrees, required.
Now the Sun's primary diftance, viz. eighteen degrees forty-three mi-
nutes, being neglected, as aforefaid, I take eighteen degrees forty-nine
minutes ; then looking out the afpeff, which falls in no degrees of Can-
cer, under the latitude forty-four degrees, and thirteen degrees parallel
of twilight, I find twenty-four degrees forty-five minute?, which is the
fecondary diftance, and is greater than the primary by five degrees fifty-
fix muiutes ; the oblique afcenfion of the Sun is eight degrees twenty-
eight minutes, and both under the latitude of forty-four degrees. Now I
fubtraft the oblique afcenfion of the Sun from the oblique alcenfion of the
afpeQ, and the ditference is fifty-fix degrees forty-two minutes. And, be-
caufe the fecondary diftancc is greater than the primary, I fubtrafl five
degrees fifty-fix minutes from the aforefaid fifty-fix degrees forty-two
minutes, and there remain fifty degrees forty-fix minutes, the true arch
of direftion required, which is to be equated as before. If the Sun is to
be dire6ted at evening twilight, all things muft be noted as before, but
juft contrary in all the operations, or elfe taken in oblique afcenfion to all
the oppofite places.
To dire& the Sun, being found beyond the Parallel of Twilight, under the
Earth.
If the Sun be found under the Earth, whether oriental or occiden-
tal, out of the parallel of twilight: Firft, take his femmo61urnal arch,
and thence fubtrad his whvile arch of twilight, and keep the remainder,
which is the obfcure arch; afterwards take the feminocturnal arch of the
afped, whence fubtradt his whole arch of twilight, and the remainder is
No. Z4. -5 Y the
46i AN ILLUSTRATION
the obfcure arch of the afpe6l. Next take the diftance both of the Sun and
afpeft from the fourth houfe in right afcenfion ; then, by the rule of pro-
portion, fay, If the whole arch of obfcurity of the Sun gives his diftance
from the fourth houfe, what fhall the arch of obfcurity of the afpeft give?
which diftance being found, obferve the fame rules as in dire6tingthe Sun
above the Earth, and confider the arches of obfcurity the fame as the femi-
diurnal or feminodfurnal arches.
For 'Example ;
Let the Sun, in eleven degrees forty-five minutes of Aquaries, be di-
rected to an afped in twenty-two degrees thirty-five minutes of Pifces.
The feminodlurnal arch of the Sun is feven hours feven minutes ; the whole
arch of twilight being fubtratled, which is one hour forty-three minutes,
the remaining five hours twenty-four minutes is the arch of obfcurity.
The Sun's diftance from the fourth houfe, in right afcenfion, is forty degrees
eleven minutes. Now the femino6turnal arch of the afpe6t is fix hours ele-
ven minutes, andhis arch of twilight isone hour thirty-nine minutes, which,
being fubtrafted from the femino6turnal arch, leaves four hours thirty-two
minutes for the arch of obfcurity. The diftance of the afpe6t from the
fourth houfe in right afcenfion is feventy-nine degrees ten minutes ; then
by the rule of proportion fay. If five hours twenty-four minutes give forty
degrees eleven minutes, what fhall four hours thirty-two minutes give ?
thirty-three degrees forty-four minutes, the arch of diredion required.
To dire& the Sun to zodiacal Parallels, being found in any Part of the
Heavens.
Firft find the declination of the promittors, with latitude if they have
any, and fee what degree and minute of the ecliptic anfwers to that de-
clination, which is its parallel. If the Sun be near the cardinal houfes,
his direction is as aforefaid ; but, if farther diftant, then dire6t under his
proper pole of pofition, as above fpecified.
To dire& a Signifcator, having Latitude, or any Conjun&ion or AfpeB.
As the Sun keeps his true courfe in the ecliptic, fo the reft of the
planets which have latitude, when they come to be direCled to any af-
peft, they move in their own fpheres according to their fucceffion of la-
titude. We call \\. fuccejfion, becaufe it is not always the fame, but is
changed according to the greateft diftance or nearnefs that they are to
the nodes : therefore it follows, that a fignificator, having latitude, when
he is to be direded to any afpe6t, the latitude of the afpe6l is to be neg-
lected.
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 4^3
Icdted, and the latitude which the fisrnificator hath at that place where
I ' 1_
the afpedt falls is to be taken ; and the diredions are the lame as the
others; only neglefting the rule of the Sun's diredion under the Earth.
To diredl a S'tgnificaior, having 'Latitude, to Parallels.
Firft find the declination of the ftar, to whofc parallel you would di-
reft a fignificator with latitude ; which when found, enter the Tables of
Declination with the latitude the fignificator (hall have in that place until
you come to the degrees and minutes of the promittor's declination :
Asfor Example,
I would dire£l the Moon to the Parallel of Saturn.
Suppofe Saturn to be in thirteen degrees of Pifces, and his latitude one
degree fouth ; his declination will be found to be feven degrees thirty-
feven minutes, which in the ecliptic anfwers to about ten degrees of
Pifces ; the Moon is in twenty-four degrees of Leo. Now I enter the
Tables of Declination under Virgo, the oppofite part, in that place where
the Moon meets with this parallel. The Moon's north node is in nine-
teen degrees of Cancer, fo in that place flie will have three degrees fifty-
three minutes north latitude, with which I enter the Table of Declination ;
and againft ten degrees of Virgo, and four degrees north latitude, I find
eleven degrees thirty-three minutes, which is too much ; fo, under the
faid four degrees of latitude, I come to twenty-one degrees of Virgo, a-
gainfl which I find feven degrees fifteen minutes, and under five degrees
north latitude I find eight degrees ten minutes ; in which faid twenty-
one degrees of Virgo, I find what latitude the Moon will have ; and, by
her diftance from her node, I find (he hath four degrees twenty-three mi-
nutes north latitude. Now the difference between feven degrees fifteen
minutes and eight degrees ten minutes is fifty-five minutes ; therefore
I fay. If fixty minutes give fifty-five minutes, what will twenty-three
give ? Anfwer, twenty-one minutes ; which, added to feven degrees fifteen
minutes, will make feven degrees thirty-fix minutes ; which fhows, that
twenty-one degrees of Virgo is the true parallel of Saturn.
How to dlre£i a Signtficator to his own proper Afpe£is.
Firfl find his longitude, that is, the longitude of his afpe£l in the
ecliptic if it be the Sun, and according to her latitude if it be the
Moon ; always obferving the latitude that fhe hath at the place of her af-
peft, which is found by her diftance from her nodes as before taught
;
4 then
464 AN ILLUSTRATION
then take the right arcenfioti or oblique afcenllon of the afpeift, both in
latitude and longitude, and work according to the former rules ; but
note that neither the afcendant nor medium coell are to be directed to
any of the planet's afpefts in the zodiac, but to thole in the world only ;
nor to parallels in the zodiac, but to thofe in the horizon, or world ; and to
thefe always direft, and never converfe.
Of MUNDANE DIRECTIONS.
The afpedts in the world are proportional diftances by their motion
about the world ; for, a ftar that (hall be dilliant from the horizon a third
part of his diurnal arch will caft his Textile to the afcendant ; and, if he
be half his diurnal arch, he will cart a quartile to the afcendant ; and
two thirds of his arch is a trine, and his whole arch is an oppolltion ;
therefore the firft houfe is in Textile to the eleventh and third, and in
quartile to the tenth and fourth ;. in trine to the ninth and fifth, and in
op;jofition to the feventh ; and i'o of the reft. And, although the diurnal
and no6turnal arches differ among thcmieivcs, yet the houles have no dif-
tindion, property, nature, or force, of thcmfelves, but what they re-
ceive from the liars, ar.d in the divifion of the houfes by double horary
times, according to the method and rules of Ptolomy. The houfes have
no more relpe6t to the ecliptic than if there were no fuch thing; for they
have only rcfpedt to the femidiurnal and feminoclurnal arches of the
ftars ; and the afpefts they make in the world, to any houfe or from any
houfe, have no relpeft to the ecliptic, but according to their femidiur-
nal and femino6lurnal arches, or according to their motion about the
world; which, being rightly confidered, and well underftood, will render
the whole mundane art of directions very cafy.
To dire£l the Midheaven or the Afcendant to the Sextile, Quartile, or Trine,
of any Star.
If you would diredl the midheaven to a fextile of any ftar that is
placed either in the twelfth, afcendant, or fecond houfe, you have only
to do thus : Take the oblique afcenfion of the cufp of the twelfth houfe,
under its proper pole, and under the fame pole the oblique afcenfion of
the promittor ; fubtra£l: the one from the other, and you will have the
arch of diredion. For obferve, that, when the houfe is direded to the
body of any planet, at the fame time the midheaven comes to the fex-
tile ; when the afcendant comes to the body of any ftar, at the fame
time the midheaven is dire6ted to the quartile thereof ; and, when the
cufp of the fecond houfe is direded to the body of a ftar, then the mid-
heaven
OFASTROLOGY. 465
heaven comes to the trine; (o that, by always obferving this rule, it will
be impoflible to err; for thefe afpe6ls in the world are not made by their
diftance in figns, degrees, and minutes, but by their diftance according- to
the order or fucceffion of the houfes, which diftances are afcertained by the
femidiurnal or feminodlurnal arches.
The fame rule is alfo to be followed in direding the afceiidant, as was
obferved in the mid-heaven; for, if it be required to direct the a(cendant
to a fexlile, we have no more to do than to dired the cuifp of the eleventh
houfe if the promittor be above the earth, or the cufp of the third houfe
if he be under the earth, to his body ; in both of which cafes the
afcendant will be found to come to his fextile. If it be required to diredl
the afcendant to a quartile, obferve whether the promittor be above the
earth; and, if fo, direft the mid-heaven to his body; but, if under the
earth, dire6t the cufp of the fourth houfe to his body; either of which
operations will bring the afcendant to his quartile. But, if the afcend mt
is to be direfted to a trine, then, if the promittor be above the earth,
dire6l the cufp of the ninth houfe to his body; but, if under the earth,
the cufp of the fifth houfe, which will in the fame manner brino- the
afcendant to his trine. By an attention to thefc rules, the angular houfes
may at all times be direded with fingular eafe and exadnels; for, havino-
found the cufp of the houfe required, we are to dire6l under the pole of
that houfe, let the pofition of the ftar be where it will, which if rio-htly
done, the dire6tion will never fail of being true.
To dire^ the Afcendant or Medium-Coeli to the Conjun£lion or Oppofition
of any Star.
To direct the medium-coeli to a conjundlion or oppofition, take the
right afcenfion of the tenth houfe, from the right afcenllon of the ftar
with latitude; and after the fame manner the conjundion, with con-
trary latitude ; the remainder is the arch of direclon Ibught. But, in di-
reding the afcendant to the conjundion of a ftar, fubtra6l the oblique
afcenfion of the afcendant from the oblique afcenfion of the ftar, with
latitude, if any ; and in the fame manner for an oppofition, only with
contrary latitude ; and the remainders will be the arches of diredion re-
quired.
Another Way to dire£l the Afcendant.
Subtraft the femidiurnal arch of the ftar from his right afcenfion,
and from the remainder fubtrad the right afcenfion of the medium-
No. 34. 5Z cceli:
466 AN ILLUSTRATION
coeli; and there will remain the true arch of direftion of the afcendant,
as before. By the fame operation the afcendant may be dire6ted to any of
the fixed ftars.
Another Way to direSi the Medium-Cceli to a Sextile, QuartHe, or Trme.
Firft enter the Tables of Declination with the flar's place, and take its
declination according to its latitude, obferving to what degree of the
ecliptic that declination anfwers ; if it be above the greatefl obliquity,
work, by the Tables of Afcenfional Difference, and find its femidiurnal
arch. But, if the declination be within twenty-three degrees thirty mi-
nutes, enter the 'i'ables of Semidiurnal Arches, and look for the corre-
j(ponding degrees in the ecliptic; and againft it will be found the femi-
diurnal arch in hours and minutes, which mufl: be converted into degrees
and minutes of the equator, whereof two thirds make a textile, which
muft be added to the right afcenfion of the ftar, if it be pofited in the
occidental part of the heavens ; but, if it be in an oriental pofition, then
fubtrad the two thirds of the equator. For example : Suppofe the right
afcenfion of the medium-coeli to be two hundred and twenty degrees,
which anfwers to twelve degrees twenty-feven minutes of Scorpio, and a
planet were in twenty-eight degrees of Sagittarius, having eleven .nniutes
of north latitude ; his declination will be twenty-three degrees twenty
minutes, which anfwers to twenty-three degrees of Sagittarius. With this
I enter the Tables of Semidiurnal Arches, under the latitude of the place,
viz. fifty-two degrees, which I find to be three hours forty-fix minutes,
and, being converted into degrees and minutes of the equator, make fifty-
two degrees thirty minutes. Now two thirds thereof are thirty-leven
degrees forty minutes, which, being fubtradted from two hundred and
fixty-feven degrees forfy-nine minutes, the planet's right afcenfion, leaves
two hundred and thirty degrees niiie minutes for the right afcenfion of
the Textile of the planet, from whence the right afcenfion of the medium-
coeli being fubtraded, there will remain ten degrees nine muiutes, the
true arch of direction to the fextile. The directions to a quartile or trine
are performed in a fimilar manner.
Another Way to dire6l the Afcendant to a Sextile, Quartile^ or Trine, Afpe£l
oj any Planet,
If the afcendant is to be diretled to the afped of a planet above the
earth, divide the femidiurnal arch of the planet into three equal parts,
and add two of thoie parts to the oblique afcenfion of the planet, taken
under the pole of birth, and from that lubtradl the oblique afcenfion of
the afcendant, and the remainder is the arch ofdiredion to a fextile.
By
OFASTROLOGY. 467
By the fame operation the afcendant is direfted to the quartile and trine
afpedls; only obferving to take four of thole parts for a trine, and the
whole lemidiurnal arch for a quartile. It is proper juft to remark, that
the afcendant and mid-heaven are never to be directed to zodiacal afpeds,
but to thofe only in the world.
Another Way to dire5i the Afcendant.
Take one third part of the femidiurnal arch of the planet from its
right afcenfion, and from the remainder (ubtraft the right afcenfion of the
mid-heaven, and the refidue is the true arch of dire6tion to the fextile
afpeft, as before. If the third part of the femidiurnal arch of the planet
be added to its right afcenfion, and from that fum the ri^ht afcenfion of the
mid-heaven be dedudted, there will remain the true arch of dire61ion to a
trine.
But it muft be carefully remembered, that in all cafes where diredions
are to be brought to the afpeds of planets under the earth, we are to divide
the femiiiodurnal arch of the planet into three parts, and to work by the
right aicenfion of the fourth houfe, inflead of that of the mid-heaven; but
in all other refpe6is the operation is the fame.
Another Way to dired the Afcendant to a Quartile AfpeB.
Take the oblique alcenfion of the planet, under the pole of birth, with
latitude if any, and to that add its femidiurnal or feminodurnal arch,
according as the planet may be pofited, either above or under the arch ;
from this fum fubtradl the oblique afcenfion of the alcendant, and the re-
mainder is the arch of diredion to the quartile afpe6l. By a proper at-
tention to thefe firnple and eafy rules, the whole myflery and difficulty of
the art of direftions, which has fo long embarraffed modern aftrologers,
will be entirely removed.
How to direct the Afcendant or Medium-Cceli to a Semiquartile, Quinttie,
Sefquiquadrate, or Biquintile^ Afped.
The fame operation is to be followed in thefe diredions as are given
above for the fextiles, quartiles, and trines, with this difference only,
that a femiquartile being only half the quartile, and the qulntile only a
fifth part, are to be fubtraded in that proportion from the femidiurnal or
feminodurnal arches ; the fefquiquadrate is the femidiurnal or leminoc-
turnal arch, and half the fame added thereto; and the biquintile is a quintile
doubled, as appears fully and diftindly by the Tables of Afpeds, which
follow at the end of thefe Rules for Diredions.
The
468 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
|
The true Method of dire6ling a S'tgn'tficator to any Afpe6i or Promittor, either
Direfi or Converfe.
If the fignificator and promittor happen both to be pofited near the
cufps of houfes, what hath been obferved in the rules for direding the
afcendant and mid-heaven may ferve here ; for it only requires to bring
them both to the cufps of the houfes to which they are near, and it will
form the afpe6l that is between the houfes. But, in cafes where the fig-
nificator and promittor are differently pofited, the following rules mufl be
obferved.
Suppofe a fignificator to be pofited in the tenth houfe, and to be di- ^^
refted to the fextile of a promittor in the twelfth or eighth houfe. Firfl
take the diflance of the fignificator in right afcenfion from the tenth
houfe, which call the primary diftance ; then take the diflance of the
promittor from the twelfth houfe, which referve ; next take the femi-
diurnal arch of the fignificator, and alfo of the promittor ; add the two
arches together, and fay, by the rule of proportion. If the two arches give
the diflance of the promittor from the twelfth houfe, what fhall the
femidiurnal arch of the fignificator give? which, when found, add it to
the primary diftance of the fignificator, and the fum will be the arch
of dire6lion required. But it mufl here be obferved, that if the fignifi-
cator had been placed beyond the cufp of the tenth houfe, or in the ninth
houfe, then the primary diflance mufl: be fubtra£fed from the fecondary,
and the remainder will be the arch of direction. The fame rule is to be
followed for the quartile afpec^l, if the promittor be in the afcendant
;
but, if the promittor be pofited either in the fecond or fixth houfe, then the
fame rule mufl be followed for the trine, always remembering to take the
femino6furnal arch inflead of the femidiurnal, when the diredion is to or
from a planet under the earth.
Another Way.
If a fignificator be pofited within three degrees of the mid-heaven, take
his right afcenfion, and the right afcenfion alfo of the promittor's body or
oppofition, together with his latitude ; but, if the fignificator be within
three degrees of the afcendant, then take the oblique afcenfion both of the
fignificator and promittor, under the pole of the houfe, and fubtradl the
fignificator from the promittor, regarding his latitude if he hath any, and
the remainder is the arch of diredion required; which, if rightlypcrformed,
will never be found to err.
2 It
OFASTROLOGY. 4^9
It may here be remarked, that, if the fignificator and promlttor be
tipon or within three degrees of the cufp of any other houfe, the direc-
tion is the fame with the houfe, and may be direfted under the pole of
that houfe, or by right afcenfion if upon the mid-heaven as before ;
but, if they are in the defcending part, then ufe the oppofrte^ places. For
example: Suppofe ths Sun were to be direded to a fextile of Jupiter, the
Sun being on the cufp of the ninth houfe, in five degrees of Leo, and
Jupiter in eighteen degrees of Cancer, the pole of birth being forty-four
degrees. Now I take the oppofite fign and degree, becaufe the Sun and
Jupiter are both in the defcending part of the heavens ; the poles of the
ninth and third houfes are eighteen degrees, and the oblique alcenfion
of the Sun's oppofite place is three hundred and fourteen degrees nearly,
from whence I fubtradt fixty degrees, and the remainder, which is two
hundred and fifty-four degrees, is the oblique afcenfion of the alcendant.
Now the oblique afcenfion of Jupiter's oppofite place under the pole of
eighteen degrees, is two hundred ninety feven degrees, from whence I
fubtra61 the oblique afcenfion of the afcendant, viz. two hundred and
fifty-four degrees, and there remains the arch of dire6lion required,
which is forty-three degrees ; becaufe, by the motion of the primum
mobile, when the afcendant comes to the oppofite place of Jupiter, the
Sun at the fame time comes to his fextile.
To direSl a Signifcator^ being above three Degrees diflant from the Cufp
of any Houfe.
Find the femidiurnal arch of the planet if above the earth, or the
fcminoflurnal arch if below the earth, with his diftance from the pre-
ceding or fucceeding cufps of the houfes, either of which will anfwer
the purpofe ; then take the femidiurnal or feminodurnal arch of the pro-
mittor, as his pofition either above or below the earth (hall require ; for,
if the afped be above the earth, the femidiurnal arch muft invariably be
taken, but, if under the earth, the feminoflurnal ; and this may always
be readily known by the houfes themfelves, for the tenth houfe hath the
eighth aud twelfth houfes in fextile, the firft and feventh in quartile, and
the fixth and fecond in trine ; and fo of all the reft, which is abfolutely
neceflary to be thoroughly underftood, to render thefe mundane afpeds
familiar and intelligible ; and therefore I mention it again here. Having
afcertained the arches as above required, fay, by the rule of proportion,
If the femidiurnal or femino6lurnal arch of the fignificator gives his
diftance from the cufp of the houfe, what ftiall the femidiurnal or femi-
nodurnal arch of the promittor give ? which when found, call it the
fecondary diftance of the promittor from the cufp of the preceding or
No. 24. 6 A ftjc-
470 A N I L I. U S T R A T I O N
lucceeding houfe, according to which the fignificator and promittnr were
taken from. If they are botli taken from houfes which precede or follow,
then in either cafe fubtra6l the lefs from the greater, and the remainder is
the arch of diredioii fought : but, if the fignificator be taken from the
cufp of a preceding houfe, and the promittor from the cufp of a fucceed-
ing, or vice verfa, then add the two numbers together, and the fum will be
the direction required, as before.
To direct a S'tgnijicntor to his own Afpetis.
This is only applicable to the Sun and Moon, for no other fignifica-
tors can be direded this way ; but when either of thefe happen to be the
fignificator, and come to their own afpe6ls, they are produdive of very
remarkable events. The operation is quite eafy ; for to bring up the di-
re6tion of either the Sun or Moon to their proper fextile is no more than
finding the content of two third parts of their femidiurnal or feminoc-
turnal arches, according to their pofition either above or below the ho-
rizon, and that will be the true arch of dire6tioa to the fextile. For
the quartile, the content of the whole femidiurnal or feminodurnal arch
is to be taken ; and, if a fifth part of the whole femidiurnal or feminoc-
turnal arch be added to the fextile, it will be the diredi^ion to the quintile
afpe6t ; and thus, by taking fuch a proportion of thefe arches as corre-
fponds with each refpeftive afpedl, may the true arches of direction of all
of them be found.
To diredi a Slgnijicator to Parallels in the World.
Parallels in the world fignify nothing more than the pofition of two
planets, when equally diftant from any one of the four cardinal houfes
;
for example, fuppofc one planet to be upon the cufp of the eleventh
houfe, and another upon the cufp of the ninth houfe, they are then in
exad mundane parallel, as being both equally diftant from the mid-
heaven, or tenth houfe. So likewife a planet upon the cufp of the ele-
venth houfe is in parallel with a planet upon the cufp of the third houfe,
being both equally diftant from the afcendant. Again, a planet, when
placed on the cufp of the eleventh houfe, is in parallel to a planet upon
the cufp of the fifth houfe, becaufe they are both equally diflant from
the tenth and fourth houfes ; which rule will hold good with regard to
the other houfes. Now thefe laft mentioned are parallels by their po-
fition ; but, if one planet (hould be pofited upon the ninth houfe, and
another upon the twelfth, they are not in parallel till by the motion of
the
OF ASTROLOGY. 471
the primum mobile they are brought to that equal point of diftance
that one fiiali be iuH: fo far paft the mid-heaven as the other wants to it
;
and, when they are fo, they are in exa6t parallel. And further, if two
planets are placed either in the eleventh or twelfth houfe, they will, by
the motion of the primum mobile, be brought to fuch an equality of dif-
tance as to be in exaft parallel ; for, fuppofing them to be fituated one in
twelve degrees and another in fixteen degrees of the fame fign, when the
fourteenth degree comes to be upon the cufp of the mid-heaven, the
parallel is then made ; becaufe both planets are then juft two degrees
difiant from the mid-heaven. The fame rule is to be applied to all the
four angular houfes ; but, becaufe direflions to thefe parallels may be
fomewhat difficult to a learner, I (hall here give an example at large of
the eafiefl: and moft: corre6t method of taking them.
Find the declination of that planet which is neareft to the angle from
which it is taken, with latitude if he hath any ; then obferve what de-
gree of the ecliptic anfwers thereto, and take the femidiurnal or feminoc-
turnal arch, according as the planet is fituated either above or below the
horizon. Ufe the fame operation with the other planet, which is fartheft
from the angle ; and, having found the content of both their arches, add
them together ; then find the diftance from the angle, with this precau-
tion ; viz. if it be from the afcendant, take the diftance by oblique afcen-
fion ; if from the feventh houfe, by oblique defcenfion, or by the oblique
afcenfion of the oppofite point; but, if the diftance be from the mid-
heaven, or the fourth houfe, it muft be taken by right afcenfion ; and,
when found, call it the primary diftance. Then take the difference of the
right or oblique afcenfion of the two planets, and by the rule of propor-
tion fay. If the two arches give that difference of right or oblique afcen-
fion, what fhall the femidiurnal or feminodurnal arch of that planet
give which is neareft the angle? and the product fhall be the fecondary,
right, or oblique, afcenfion ; then, if the planets are fituated one before the
angle, and the other after it, fubtrad the primary diflance of that which is
nearefl the angle from the fecondary diflance, and the remainder is the
arch of diredion required ; but, if both planets fhould be pofited (hort
of the cufp of the houfe, then add the primary diflance to the fecondary,
and the fum will be the arch of diredion, as before.
It may not be improper in this place to remark, that, when a fignifi-
cator comes to the parallel of Jupiter or Venus, in good places of the
figure, thefe parallels produce very powerful effefts, and arc nearly of
equal force with their Textiles and trines ; fo that, if a fignificator, par-
ticularly the giver of life, comes to the parallel of the lord either of the
^ fourth
472 AN ILLUSTRATION
fourth or the eighth houfe, it moft certainly produces death, unlefs fomc
other direftion of an equally powerful but benefic nature falls in with it
at nearly the fame point of time, and impedes its malefic effect. By the
fame rule, if a fignificator comes to the parallel of the lord of any other
houfe, being evilly placed in the figure, it produces vexation and mif-
fortune, according to the nature of the houfes they govern ; and fo, on
the contrary, if the parallel be made in fortunate places of the figure, they
denote an increaie of profperity and happinels, according to the nature
of the houfe that the promittor is lord of. Thefe parallels are always
made by the motion of the primum mobile from eaft to weft.
Another Way of dire&ing to Parallels in the World.
If the fignificator and promittor are in parallel above the earth, take
their diftance from the right afcenfion of the medium coeli, which call
the primary diftance; then by the rule of proportion fay. If the femi-
diurnal arch of the fignificator gives his diftance from the medium coeli,
what fhall the femidiurnal arch of the promittor give? which having
found, work by the rule before laid down for dire61ing the Sun above the
earth in the zodiacal afpedts, and the refult will be the arch of dire6tion
required.
When the fignificator and promittor are both under the earth, their
diftance muft either be taken from the fourth houfe or from the horizon,
but the operation in all other refpe6ts is precifely the fame as the fore-
going ; but, if one planet be above the earth, and the other below, take
the diftance of the one from the mid-heaveji, and of the other from the
fourth houfe, and work as before ; or otherwife take the oppofite place
of the planet under the earth, in manner before fpecified. Great care
muft however always be taken in bringing up the direftions, not to mif^
take the femidiurnal for the feminodlurnal arch, but in all cafes to take
the femidiurnal arch if the planet be above the earth, and the feminoc-
turnal when the planet is under the earth ; for by thefe parallels in the
world, we conceive the fignificator to remain immoveable in the horary
circle of his pofition ; becaufe, in a nativity, the virtue of the fignificator,
as well as of the promittor, in the fame primum mobile, is imprinted ; and
thefe virtues are brought to by its motion from eaft to weft.
To dire£i the Sun being under the Earth, to any Afpe£i.
If the Sun be in the fpace of twilight, firft find the diredVion of the
Sun to the afpedt of the promittor, whether it be a fextile, quartile, or
trine.
'^ O I^ ASTROLOGY. 473
trine, in manner already taught, which arch call the feigned arch ; then
find what degree of the zodiac the Sun comes to at that time, by taking
his pole, and then add his oblique afcenfion; to this add the feigned arch
above mentioned, and the fum will be the oblique afcenfion of the degree
of the zodiac to which the Sun comes on both fides. Then with the
Sun's primary diftance from the horizon, find what parallel of twilight
he poflefles, and therein his fecondary diftance, to which the feigned di-
rection fhall come ; and by the rule of proportion fay. If the feminoftur-
nal arch of the Sun gives his fecondary diftance from the horofcope, what
ftiall the femidiurnal or femino6lurnal arch of the promittor give ? The
fourth number (hall be the fecondary diftance of the promittor from the
cardinal or any other houfe of the genethliacal figure, whence we are to
feek the proportional diftance, and thereby obtain the true arch of direftion
required.
To dire& the Sun^ out of the Space of Twilight.
Obtain the feigned place of the afpedl, as taught in the preceding rule,
and find what degree of the ecliptic the Sun comes to by this dire(5lion ;
then fay. If the arch of obfcurity of the Sun gives his primary diftance
from the fourth houfe, what ftiall the obfcure arch of the ecliptical de-
gree give, which the Sun comes to by this diredion ? the produd will
be the fecondary diftance from the fourth houfe. Now, if the Sun be
pofited in the third or fourth houfes, ufe this diftance; but, if he be in^
the fecond or fifth houfes, fubtraft from this diftance a third part of the
Sun's feminodurnal arch, and the remainder is the Sun's fecondary dif-
tance from the third or fifth houfes; then fay. If the feminodlurnal arch
of the Sun gives his fecondary diftance from the determinate houfe, what
diftance fhall the feminodlurnal arch of the promittor give from that
houfe alfo ? which when found, proceed as in the foregoing rules for
the arch of direction required.
Method of directing a Signifcator to all AfpeSJs Converfe, that are made in
the World.
Direftions are eafily brought up to afpefts which are made converfe,
by confidering the promittor as fignificator; for, if a fignificator be pofi-
ted in the eleventh houfe, and the promittor in the twelfth, the fextile
will fall in the tenth houfe; and to dire6l a fignificator from the ele-
venth houfe into the tenth, is contrary to the fucceflion of both houfes
and figns, wherefore the afpedl is called converfe. Now the beft way
No. 34. 6 B fo
474 ANILLUSTRATION
to manage thefe afpeds, is certainly to direft the promittoi* to the figni-
ficator in all cafes where the dirc6tions are converfe, which may be done
with the greateft exadiiefs by the preceding rules, only obferving to take
the femidiurnal and femino6turnal arches of the promittor firfl:, inftead
of thofe of the fignificator, and perform the operation throughout as if
the promittor were fignificator. But remember that neither the afcen-
dant, mid-heaven, nor any other of the houfes, are ever to be dire6ted
converfely ; for they have no motion whatever to any preceding planet
or alpe<5l.
How to equate the Arches of Dire£lion, whereby to a/certain the length of
Time in which the Events denoted by them will be in coming to pafs.
«
The art of bringing up the dire6tions of a nativity, from the difufe
which this fcience has for fome years paft fallen into, is a matter that has
puzzled moft. of its prefent followers ; and the method of equating thefe
direftions when found, by a meafure that (hall in all cafes correfpond to
truth and nature, has been the fubjefl of many controverfies and difputes
among modern authors ; arifing, I conceive, from their ignorance of the
plain and genuine fyftem handed to us by the immortal Ptolomy, and
from a want of refleding that the revolutions of all the heavenly bodies,
as well as the periods of all earthly events, are only reducible to one uni-
verfal ftandard meafure of time, namely, the Sun's geocentric motion in
the ecliptic. It is therefore furprifing that fb many inventions fhould
havearifen, and fo many errors in confequence adopted, in equating di-
re£tions, fince it mufl: be evident to the moft unlettered mind, and a fadt
beyond the reach of contradiction, that the fame rule which eftimates the
days, months, and years, of a man's life, from the moment of his birth,
likewife eftimates the progreflive motion, in days, months, and years, of
every luminary within our cognizance, in the vaft extent of fpace ! This
rule is nothing more than the Sun's apparent progre(s through every de-
gree and minute of the ecliptic, meafurcd by the degrees of the equator;
to which unerring ftandard, every matter that refers to any defcription or
portion of time muft be ultimately brought, or all our labour, and all
our accuracy, will prove abortive and premature.
According to the common adage, " When the difeafe is known, the cure
is half performed;" and fo we may fay from the meafures of direftions ; for,
when the ftandard is known, the procefs is eafily accomplilhed, as follows:
When the true arch of diredion is found by any of the foregoing rules,
and is to be equated, take the right afcenfion of the Sun's place at the time
of
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 475
of birth, and add the arch of dire<5llon to the Sun's right afcenfion ; with
this ium enter the tables of Right Afcenfton, and find what degree and
minute of the ecHptic anfwers thereto ; then take the Ephemeris for the
year of birth, and note how many days and hours the Sun will be, from
the time of birth, in coming to that degree and minute of the ecliptic
;
and for every perfedt day, which is twenty-four hours, account a year,
and for every two days over and above the even days, a month, and fo
in the fame proportion for minutes and feconds of time; and the arch of
diredion will be truly equated ; as will be fliown by repeated examples, in
equating the diredions of the following Nativities.
I flatter myfelf that the rules given in this fyftem of Dire6Hons, if care-
fully attended to, will be amply fufficient to familiarize atiy of my read-
ers in this important branch of the occult fciences ; without the aid of
which, little or nothing can be done in the Calculation of Nativities.
For though it be admitted, that a fludent may make great advances in the
knowledge of futurity, by acquiring an adequate comprehenfion of the na-
ture and efFefls of the various configurations and familiarities of the celef-
tial bodies, and of their particular influences, both benefic and malific, upon
the human race; and, though we may by this means attain to know that
fuch and fuch events will certainly come to pafs, yet even this acquifition
in the fcience muft be confidered incomplete, without the ability of point-
ing out, by fome fixed and certain rule, the prccifc time when thefe events
fliall happen. This is not to be attained by the methods ufed in the vul-
gar Aftrology, as already laid down in the former part of this work,
where the common Aftrology is treated of, but with great rifle and un-
certainty; and was therefore only introduced for the purpofe of anfwer-
ing horary queftions, where corredtnefs, in this particular, is little at-
tended to by any modern profellors.
This grand acquifition is therefore not to be obtained by any other
mode than that of bringing up the arch of dire6lion of each refpe6tive
fignificator in the native's figure of birth to the afpe6t which denotes
each refpe6tive event; and this arch of dire6lion, as I have before ob-
lerved, is nothing more than the track or circle in the heavens formed
by the fignificator in moving from that particular point in the heavens
where he is found at the birth, to the precife point where he forms the
afpedl with the promittor that indicates the event, which, upon his ar-
rival there, is to happen. It is confequently apparent, that if this track
or circle can be found, and its contents in degrees and minutes accurately
taken, and reduced into common time according to the motion of the
Sun, which regulates all our accounts of time, it will (how us at one
2 view,
47* AN ILLUSTRATION
view, the exaft tim6 when that event, according to the common courfe of
nature, (hall infallibly come to pafs.
In this procefs confifts the whole myftery of afcertaining the period of
man's life, which is thought fo wonderful a matter by fome, and confi-
dered altogether impoflible by others ; and yet it is no more than a fimple
operation of nature, deduced from an intimate knowledge of fecond
caufes. For this is a rule that will never be found to fail, if our arith-
metic be true; that at the very time the principal fignificator in a nativity,
that is, the giver of life, (hall arrive at the anaretical point of the afpeft
of the killing planet, the native (hall furely depart this life ; provided
no benefic rays at the fame time irradiate the place, or in any refpeft con-
cur to impede the killing force, which may always be known from the
diipofition of the benefic planets in the nativity. If this afiertion be
true, which has been proved by innumerable examples in all ages of the
world, and which I truft will be confirmed by the nativities following,
it is evident that we can, by the foregoing rules, bring up the dire6tions
with fufficient accuracy to afcertain the precife length of time, in years,
months, and days, which the fignificator of life will be in moving to
the anaretical or killing point ; and juft lo long will be the life of that
native. Where, then, is the myftery or impoflibility of afcertaining the
period of human life, and with extraordinary precision ? But this accu-
racy wholly depends upon the true time of birth being obtained ; for a
failure here in the radical point will deftroy the whole calculation, and
nothing predi<5led therefrom can poflTibly happen but by the efFe<Sl of
chance.
But it is here neceflary to remark, that, in fuch nativities as are vital,
and afford fufficient teftimonies of a ftrong and healthful conftitution,
one diredVion alone is feldom found to kill ; for in fuch nativities there
is required a train of malevolent direftions to concur to death ; and the
interpofition of one fingle direction of the benefics, even if it be a quar-
tile or oppofition, irradiating the very anaretical point, will moft-times
preferve life. But where feveral malevolent directions of the malefic
ftars concur together, without the aid or interference of the benevolent
planets, they never fail to deftroy life. And here it muft be obferved,
that in fuch trains of diredions we are to diftinguifti between the killing
planet, and that which is the caujer of the quality of death ; for one pla-i
net doth not (how both. The foremoft of the tiialefic train is the killing
place, and (hows the time of death ; but the following diretlions, though
benevolent, Ihow the quality of it. If this train falls all together, and
none follow, then oblerve tbofe which precede,' though at a diftance,
and
OFASTROLOGY. 477
and benefic, for the quality of death; for, though the benevolent ftars
contribute to the prefervation of life, yet they frequently fpecify the dii-
eafe which is the caufe of death, as we have already abundantly fhown.
And with thefe concur the configurating ftars, the quality of the ftars
and figns, and the terms in which the ruling planets happen to be pofited.
But in violent deaths the genethliacal pofifions of the luminaries are to
be obferved, and how the malefics affedl them, and are alfo connefted by
diredions in the quality of death.
Of SECONDARY DIRECTIONS.
All the diredions hitherto treated of are termed primary directions,
becaufe they are the firft and moft important of any thing of the kind
in the dodrine of nativities; and without the aid of thefe, all aftrologi-
cal calculations would be vain and delufive, as muft appear obvious from
what has been already premifed. But fecondary diredions are by no
means of fuch an extenfive confideration ; nor of any great utility in the
fcience, that I have as yet been able to difcover, particularly if great
accuracy be required. For, by the ufe of the primary direflions in
the calculation of nativities, we are not only enabled to judge of
the quality and influence of the afpeds, but can likewife trace them
to the precife time of their operation ; whez-eas the fecondary diredlions
at beft only afford the artift matter for fuperficial enquiry and
vague conjefture. I fhall neverthelefs explain the nature and ufe of
them in this place, fince it is the plan of this work to comprehend
every practice hitherto introduced into the fcience of aftrology, with a view-
to enable the reader to diftinguifli the ufeful and rational from the inutile
and redundant part of it.
By fecondary direftions, then, we are to underftand thofe configurations
and familiarities of the planets which arife daily from the time of birth, and
are applied to the prediction of events that are to come to pafs in the fame
fucceffion of years from the birth as correfpond with thofe days. For ex-
ample—All afpedis of the ftars, both to the luminaries and cardinal houfes,
that happen on the firft day after birth, are applied to the firft year; thofe
of the fecond day after birth to the fecond year ; thofe of the third dav
to the third year; thofe of the fourth day to the fourth year; and fo on,
in progreffive rotation, as far as this fpeculation can extend.
In the management of thefe dirc6lions, we are principally to obferve what
configurations the Moon has to the other planers ; for, if (he be joined
with benefic ftars, or irradiated by their good afpeds, or even by the
No. 24. 6 C good
478 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
good afpefls of the infortunes, it denotes a happy, healthful, and prof-
perous, year to the native, in nature and quality peculiar to the principal
fignificator iu each conhguration, and to the houic-, and figns in which they
fall in the radical figure. But, on the contrary, if the Moon be joined to
malevolent ftars, or irradiated by them, or in parallel declination of the
ii)fortunes, it forebodes, to thofe years pointed out by the days in which
thefe evil configurations happen, great affli6tions either in mind, body, or
eflate ; and, if a primary direction fliould corrcfpond with them of the
fame malignant nature, a complication of temporal misfortunes will moft:
probably enfue.
In the confideration of thefe dire6tions, we arc particularly to attend to
the critical days and climadferical years ; for at thofe times the good
or evil configurations of the planets are mofl: powerful in their opera-
tion. If upon either of thofe occafions the Moon be found in quartile or
oppofition to the place in which (he was pofited at the time of birth, and
an evil primary diredlion of the fignificator of life correfpond therewith,
death is then at the door, or at that time very much to be apprehended,
even in the ftrongeft conftitutions. And fo likewife, if the Sun or Moon
in thefecondarydireftions are afflided by the malignant rays of inaufpicious
configurations with an evil primary dire6fion, with v. hich both the re-
volution and tranfit agree, it is confidered an irrevocable indication of
death to the native.
Thefe fecondary dire6fions, I underftand, have always been in reputa-
tion among the Arabs and Egyptians, who, in common praftice, prefer
this method of prediding from the genethliacal figure to the more compli-
cated and laborious mode of calculation by the primary directions. The
former pradlicc has doubtlefs the advantage in point of expedition ; for by
the ufe of it in thofe countries, they will, upon the bare uilpe61ioii of a
nativity, give an account of the general and particular incidents during the
whole courfe of the native's life ; and yet, by repeated trials of it myfelf,
I have found it in many inftances erroneous, and therefore not to be adopted
in the ferious inveftigation of nativities, where accuracy and truth are to
be defired. It is a doffrine much on a level with that of horary queftions,
and may be nfed to give a general idea of the native's figure of birth, and
of his probable bent of fortune, where time or circumftances will not ad-
mit of particular calculations.
But, upon delivering judgment upon either fpecies of direftions, whe-
ther primary or fecondary, it is abiblutely neceflary to pay the greateft
attention to the nature and quality of the afpedts we dired to, as well
thofe
I
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 479
thofc in the world as thofe in the zodiac : for it often happens that a
zodiacal afpecl may import much good, when at the fame point of time
a malignant mundane configuration may come up, of lb flrong and pow-
erful a nature as to fruftrate all the beneficial effefts portended by the
former. The want of attending to, or knowing, this, has frequently
confounded our modern praditioners ; who, confiding in the benignant
tendency of fome extraordinary good afpe6ls in the zodiac, have promifed
an advance of fortune to the native, which has never come to pafs, becaufe
counter-afpecls in the world, which have the ftrongefl and nearcft rela-
tion to fublunary things, have confpired, at the fame inftant of time, to
fuperlede the beneficial efFefts of the zodiacal configurations ; and which
would perhaps have been felt in an extraordinary degree of malignity,
were it not that the above-mentioned falutary afpetls were oppoled to
them.
Hence it muft appear to every rational mind, that the ftri6teft caution
and the utmolt deliberation are neceffary, in forming our opinion upon the
dire61ions of a nativity ; for, if at laft we err in this, all our labour is loft,
and the unfortunate enquirer is deluded with vain expe6tations of a happy
run of great good fortune, or terrified with the approach of fome dread-
ful cataftrophe, neither of which, by the nature of the ftars, was ever
intended to nappen. That this want of judgment has of late years been
too commonly pra6tiled upon the public, cannot be denied, nor too fe-
verely reprobated. But ftill, let not the relentlefs unbeliever of Aftrology
raife his creft too his:h on this occafion ; nor infift, becaufe thefe errors have
been frequent, that the fcience of predidion has no exiftence in truth and
nature ; his unbelief m.ufi: clearly arifc from a want of inclination to con-
template the curious effects of fecond caufes.
Brute creatures may perhaps enjoy the faculty of beholding vifible
things with a more penetrating eye than ourfelves; but fpiritual obje6ls
are as far out of their reach as though they had no being. Neareft,
therefore, to the bioite creation, are thofe men, who fuffer themlelves to
be fo far governed by external objefts, as to believe nothing but what
they fee, and feel, and can accommodate to their own (hallow imagina-
tions. Let fuch men doubt whether they have a foul in their body, be-
caufe their eyes never faw it; or that there are ftars in the firmament at
noon-day, becaufe they appear not ; or that it is not air in which they
breathe, becaufe nothing appears to them but an infenfible vacuity?
Surely all that know they pofTefs a foul muft of neceflity believe the
rule and government of angels, which they fee not ; and, if from no
other grounds, they muft, 1 think, from that apparent analogy which
2 thev
48o AN ILLUSTRATION
they cannot but perceive between the greater and the lefs world ; for,
as the little world Man confifts of an outward vifible body, and an in-
ward fpiritual foul, which gives life and motion to the organical frame,
fo pofleffing all parts as to be wholly in all, and in each diftinft part
wholly ; fo muft it be alfo in the great univerfe, the fenlible and mate-
rial part whereof hath being and motion from thofe fpiritual powers
which dwell in, and wholly fill and aftuate, it: therefore the Aftrologiaii
regards nature with the eyes of St. Paul, 2 Cor. iv. i8. he looh not at
the things which are feeriy but at the things which are not feen; for the
things which are feen are temporal^ but the things which are not feen are
eternal.
Having now completely laid down the rudiments of the Science of
Aftrology, in as comprehenfive, plain, and intelligent, a manner as pof-
fible, I fhall immediately proceed to teach the application thereof in
calculating the followmg nativities. It is my wifh to perform this talk
in fuch a manner as to enable the moft fuperficial reader to accompany
me through every minute procefs in the bufinefs, and to follow me in
bringing up every dire6Vion to their proper afpe6ts, as they fhall refpec-
tively occur in the genethlical figures. If I can do this, I have no
doubt of loon convincing the moft obftinate unbeliever of the fcience,
that it has both utility and truth on its fide ; and that the beings of Rea-
fon, who bear the image of their beneficent Creator, are not wholly left
without the help or forefight and foreknowledge, in a very ample and
extraordinary degree, if they will but adopt the neceflary means of ac-
quiring it.
The nativities that follow fall immediately under my own obfervation
and knowledge, and I have chofen them in preference to any that have
been before publifhed, or to thofe of perfons not now living, becaufe I
would avoid putting it in the power of any perfon to fay, that our calc\i-
lations are at all founded upon enquiries into the people's ways of life,
of their good or ill fortune, or their ficknefs or health, or the particular
incidents of their life paft, or of the external caules of their death ; for,
if the rules that I have laid down will not enable us to accomplish all
this from the fituation of the planets in the figure of birth, our fcience
is indeed a mere delufion, and its followers nothing better than jugglers
and impoftors.
»
But to make this enquiry eafy to my readers, and to fave them as much
as poffible the trouble of long and tedious calculations, I fhall in this
place introduce a fet of Tables, which are fo contrived as to refolve every
queftion
O F A S T R O L O G r. 481
queftion that will arife in the management of nativities or horary quef-
tions ; as well in rei'peft to the places and politions of the planets and
their afpe6ls, as to the bringing up their proper direftions. I fliall
likewife add a fhort explanation of each diftindl fet of Tables, and
reduce them to practice, in calculating the following nativities, in fuch
a manner as to make their ufe eafy and familiar ; hoping by this means
to remove, if poffible, that fudden imprelhon of difficulty and embar-
ralTment, which is felt by moll readers on the firll view of mathematical
Tables. I am perfuaded no difficulty whatever will attend the acqui-
fition of a competent knowledge of thefe, if a proper attention be paid
to them ; without which, little progrefs can be expetled. The moll
accompliflied artill of us all could never yet bellow the gift of infpira-
tion ; and therefore, without fuitable endeavours, let none attempt the
intricate paths of fcience.
The Tables I fhall introduce in this place, are thofe for finding the
Semidiurnal and Semino6lurnal Arches; Tables of Twilight ; of Mun-
dane Afpefts ; of Right and Oblique Afcenfions ; of Declination, and
Afcenfional Differences ; with fome others, calculated to make the ufe
of the above more comprehenfive and univerfal.
Of the T A B L E S of S E M I D I U R N A L and SEMI-
NOCTURNAL ARCHES.
After what has been premifed in the foregoing Treatife on Diredions,
the neceffity of readily finding the femidiurnal and leminoAurnal arches
mull become obvious. I have therefore calculated a Table of them to
every degree of the ecliptic for the latitude of London, which, being
moll wanted, will of courfe fave the practitioner fome trouble. Under
the different latitudes in the other Tables, are fpecified the lemidiurnal
arches of all the northern figns, proper to thofe latitudes ; as Aries,
Taurus, and Gemini, at the top of the Table ; and Cancer, Leo, and
Virgo, at the bottom of the Table. But, to find the feminoclurnal
arches proper thereto, it only requires to fubtrad the femidiurnal arch
from twelve hours, and the remainder will be the lemino6lurnal arch
fought. So likewife the femino6lurnal arches for all the fouthern figns
are placed under the different latitudes in the Tables, having Libra,
Scorpio, and Sagittarius, at the top of the columns ; and Capricorn,
Aquaries, and Pifces, at the bottom ; and, to obtain the femidiurnal arches
correfponding with them, add the amount of the feminodlurnal arch to
twelve hours, and the fum will be the femidiurnal arch required ; many
examples of which will be Ihown hereafter.
No. 25. D But,
482 AN ILLUSTRATION.
But, fhould the femidiurnal or femino^turnal arches be required for any
latitude not fpecified in the Tables, they may be found thus : Firll, find
the declination of the planet under the pole of birth ; and, if the decli-
nation falls in any of the fix northern figns, add the diiFerence of
afcenflon to ninety degrees, and the fum will be the femidiurnal arch, in
degrees and minutes ; if the afcenfional dilference be fubtrafted from
ninety degrees, the remainder will be the femidiurnal arch. But, if the
declination lliould fall in either of the fix fouthern figns, then fubtra<fl
the difference of afcenfion from ninety degrees, for the femidiurnal arch ;
and add the afcenlional difference to ninety degrees, for the feminodlurnal
arch. If the arches thus found are divided by fix, they will give the
horary times, or true length of the planetary hours ; and, if divided by
three, they will give the true difiance of one houfe, by which method the
true divifion of all the houfes may be obtained, according to the rules of
Ptolemy ; two of which parts make a fextile, as appears more obvioufly
by the Table of Mundane Afpeds, wherein are fpecified all the afpeds
that are made in the world.
Of the TABLES of TWILIGHT.
The ufe of thefe Tables, in bringing up the arches of diredlions, hath
been already mentioned ; it will therefore be fufUcient in this place to
inform the reader how to make ufe of them. The firfl column on the
left hand contains the Parallels of Twilight ; and the body of the Tables
fhows the diflance the Sun mufl be from the eaftern or welfern angles, that
is, from the afcendant or feventh houfe, to be in thofe parallels ; therefore,
whenever thefe Tables are ufed for any calculations, the following me-
thod mull be adopted : Take the oblique afcenfion of the afcendant
under the pole of birth, from whence fubtrad the oblique afcenfion of
the Sun, and the remainder will be its primary diiiance, which is to be
fought in the Tables as near as poffible to that degree which the Sun is
in ; which being found, look in the column of Parallels of Twihght,
and fee what parallel correfponds with it, for under that parallel the arch
of twilight mull be taken; examples of which will hereafter be frequently
given.
Of the TABLE of MUNDANE ASPECTS.
The firll column of thefe Tables contains the femidiurnal and femi-
nodurnal arches, from three to nine hours, calculated to every fix mi-
nutes. In the next column, and oppolite to thele arches, in a diredt
line, is the fpace of the houfe that the femidiurnal or feminodurnal
arches
OFASTROLOGY. 483
arches refpe6lively give ; and in the fucceeding columns are arranged all
the mundane afpe6ls anfwering thereto, truly calculated to the very degree
and minute, which are fometimes twice as much as at others; and the
reafon is, becaufe the iemidiurnal and femino(5lurnal arches vary in their
content to full that amount.
Ofthe TABLES of RIGHT ASCENSIONS.
To find the right afcenfion of a ftar, the longitude mull be given,
with which enter the left-hand column of the Table ; and under the fign
and latitude at the top of the columns, in the angle of meeting, is the
right afcenfion required. For example: Suppofe a planet to be polited in
ten degrees of Aries, and to have two degrees north latitude; enter the
Tables of Right Afcenfion with ten degrees of Aries, in the left-hand co-
lumn; and in the angle of meeting, under two degrees of north latitude,
will be found the right afcenfion thereof, viz. eight degrees twenty-three
minutes.
Of the TABLES of DECLINATION.
To find the declination of a planet, the longitude muft be given, with
which enter the Table of Declination on the left-hand; and in the column
of longitude, againft the degree of longitude, is the declination fought. If
the ftar hath latitude, either north or fouth, enter the Tables under the
latitude, as the titles diredl, always remembering that, if the ftar be in
Cancer, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, or Sagittarius, the degrees of longi-
tude to the left hand, beginning at the top of the Tables, are to be taken;
but, if the liar be in Capricorn, Aquaries, Pifces, Aries, Taurus, or
Cancer, then the degrees of longitude to the right hand, beginning at the
foot of the Table, mull be reforted to. Example: Suppofe a liar in ten
degrees of Virgo, with one degree twenty-feven minutes north latitude;
I enter the Table of Declinations, finding Virgo in the head of the Table;
and againft ten degrees under one degree of latitude I find eight degrees
forty-feven minutes, and againfl: ten degrees under two degrees of latitude
I find nine degrees forty-two minutes ; the difference is fifty-five minutes.
Then, for the part proportional agreeing to the odd minutes of latitude, I
fay, If fixty give fifty-five, what fhall twenty-feven give ? It gives twen-
ty-five ; which, added to eight degrees forty-feven minutes, leaves the
declination of the point fought, nine degrees twelve minutes. But, if
the flar had been in twenty degrees of Aries, I mufl have entered at the
foot of the Table; and, having the fame latitude, the fame declination
would emerge.
1 Of
484 ANILLUSTRATION
Of the TABLES of the ASCENSION A L DIFFERENCES
of the PLANETS.
The afcenfional difference is a certain arch of diftance, between the right
and obUque afcenfions of any liar or planet, in any degree of the EcHptic;
and, to find it by the following Tables of Differences, obferve thefe rules.
Enter with the degrees of declination on the left-hand of the "^1
able; and
under the circle of pofition in the head, in the common angle of meeting,
with equation, will be found the afcenfional difference required. Example':
Suppofe a planet to have ten degrees of declination, and his circle of pofi-
tion be fifty-one degrees forty-two minutes; 1 enter with ten degrees on
the left hand under the circle of fifty-one degrees, and there I find twelve
degrees thirty-five minutes; but, having forty-two minutes more, 1 take
the part proportional between fifty-one degrees and fifty-two degrees, viz.
deg.
f 51
Declination ten degrees latitude. <
deg.
OF ASTROLOGT. 485
Of the TABLES of OBLIQUE ASCENSIONS for the
LATITUDE of LONDON.
Enter thefe Tables with the degrees of longitude in the left-hand co-
lumn; and in the common area, under the fign in the top of the column,
IS the true oblique afcenfion fought. For example, fuppofe the ftar to
be m ten degrees of Aries, and the latitude of birth fifty-one degrees
thirty-two minutes; look for ten degrees in the fide-column under Aries
m the head, and the oblique afcenfion will be four degrees ten minute of
the point fought.
To find the oblique defcenfions by thefe Tables, obferve the following
rule: lake the oppofite fign and degree; and, if it fall in any of the fix
northern figns,add one hundred and eighty degrees to the oblique afcenfion
found, and the fum will be the oblique defcenfion of the point fought •
but
in the fix fouthern figns fubtradion muft be made, and the oblique defcen-
fion remains. Example: in the latitude of fifty-one degrees thirty-two
minutes, I would know the oblique defcenfion of ten degrees of Libra
Now I take the oppofite point Aries, which is northern, and add theretJ
one hundred and eighty degrees as follows
:
Ublique afcenfion of ten degrees of Aries is 4 i o
Add ISO o
184 10
Thus the oblique defcenfion of ten degrees of Libra is one hundred and
eighty-four degrees ten minutes ; but, for the oblique defcenfion of ten
degrees of Aries, I take the oblique afcenfion of the oppofite point Libra
which is fouthern, and fubtrad one hundred and eighty degrees from it'
as rollow^s
:
o ./ o ,
^^x.^' r y r ,
^^g- ^in.
Oblique afcenfion of ten degrees of Libra is 194 12
Subtradl \ 80
14 12
Thus the oblique defcenfion of ten degrees of Aries is fourteen de-
^'no
^^^"^^^ mmutesi and the fame rule will hold good in all fimilar
^' ""** ^-^ operations
480 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N.
operations for the latitude of London. I fliall likewife give a praxis for
finding the obhque afcenlions and defcenlions of every other latitude, by
help of the afore-mentioned Tables of Afcenfional DitFerences.
It would be needlefs to enter into any farther explanation, or to adduce
other examples in this place, to fliow the nature and ufe of the following fct
of Tables, fmce we fliall hereafter have frequent occafion to refer to them
in calculating and bringing up the directions of the following Nativities,
which will at once prove the facility and corredlnefs with which any cal-
culations maybe found by them, and initiate the young pradlitioner into
a more intimate knowledge of them, without labour or embarraffment.
What I have already premifed on the fubjeft, has been merely to demon-
Itrate their general expediency, and to remove thofe fuggellions of diffi-
culty and difguft, which are too frequently felt by common readers upon
the firll fight of a collection of Tables, from an ill-founded apprehenfioa
that they ihall never be able to underhand them ; and which confequently
is apt to give a fatal blow to the further progrefs of the lludent. Now the
fame objections might be made, with equal propriety, to the ufe of the
Trader's Sure Guide, and the Ready Reckoner, fince both of them conlill
of nothing but Tables, calculated to fliow the value of any quantity of
goods at any given price, and are now univerfally made vife of by perlbns
wholly unacquainted with the theory of figures. If, therefore, thefe
books can be ufed with fo much advantage for the above-mentioned pur-
pofes, by perfons utterly incapable of performing the moll (imple rules in
addition or multiplication, why may not the following Tables be reforted
to with fimilar eafe, for folving any queftions upon the fubjeCl before us?
The anfwer is obvious j and the utility of the plan unexceptionable.
I
TABLE
OFASTROLOGY. 487
TA BL E of SEMIDIURNAL and SEMINOCTURNAL ARCHES.
Pole of
488 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N.
TABLE of SEMIDIURNAL and SEMINOCTURNAL ARCHES.
Pole of
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 489
TABLE of SEMIDIURNAL and SEMINOCTURNAL ARCHES.
Pole of
40O AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 401
TABLE.
Showing the Seminodurnal Arch to every degree of tlie Ecliptic.
Calculated for the Latitude of 51 degrees 32 minutes.
deg.
o
I
2
3
4
S
6
7
8
9
10
1
1
12
'3
H
ic
16
17
18
'9
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
V
h. m,
6
15
'5
5
S
5
S
5
S
5
5
5
5
5
15
I5
S
5
5
5
5
h.m, h. m,
a
h.m.h. m
584
564
544
524
504
48
46
44
424
404
59
57
55
S3
5i|4
494
47
45
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
5
38
35
34
324
304
284
264
244
22I4
2o'4
184
164
^ =2:
I
tri Vf X
h m. h.m.h. m. h.m. h.m. 'h.m
43
40
37
34
32
303
293
^13
3
3
3
3
12
JO
8
6
4j4
24
'4
'/
25
24
23
22
213
203
19
18
15
H
'3
II
10
03
593
5%
573
563
5%
553
54 3
543
sh
S3.3
5213
3
3
4
4
47
47
48
48
494
494
504
504
514
5M4
524
524
534
534
544
54]4
5514
564
5^4
JO5
125
^3\S
H5
^S.S
n\s
185
195
2o|5
215
225
h. m.
23
24
25
27
29
305
66
86
106
12 6
14
16
i8
20|
22
24
26
28
30 6 <
06
27
6|7
87
107
127
147
167
187
207
227
247
267
287
59i7
'7
3.7
P
y
107
127
148
158
178
198
508
528
53?
558
21
23
248
s6
57
588
598
08
18
28
38
137
137
137
12I7
506
49I6
12
12
1
1
II
10,
107
97
7
7
7
7
48
47
45
44
42
59
58
56
54
52
SO
48
406 46
396 44
376
6
52
51
51
50
504
494
494
484
484
47|4
4714
57
58
594
04
14
34
514
64
7;4
814
95
32
34
37
405
435
45 5
5
47
49
5'
S3
SS
57|S
59 5
326
34*5
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
fO
52
54
56
58
34
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
30(7
327
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
268
288
308
318
68
7
8
8
8 7
6
50
52
54
56
587
597
33
3S
31
39
40
42
44
45
47
48
49
5o'8
7
8
98
o|8
8
7
7
7
7
2
3|7
37
37
o
597
58
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
7
3i
33|6
3'|6
306
286
266
246
236
216
196
57
56
SS
S3
506
'I
J5
H
12
106
5^
35
16
59,^
42
40
38
36
34
32
30
28
25
24
22
20
18
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
o
492 AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 40^
404 AN ILLUSTRATION
s?
^
OF ASTROLOGT. 4Q5
400 AN ILLUSTRATION
Paral
.
OF ASTROLOGY. i07
&5
TABLE of TWILIGHT for the Latitude of <^ degrees.
No. 25.
408 AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGF. 490
'-0
TABLE ofTWILlGHT for the Latitude of << degrees.
7
8
9
lo
1
1
T2
15
16
18
4
6
8
10
12
''4
^5
^7
'9
21
23
24
14
49
44
30
16
4
50
14
26
5
6
8
10
12 14 12
13 5814
15
^7
19
21
22
57 24 „ ,
26 49 26 22
28 4428 II
5
7
9
10 S3
22I12 40
7 14 26
44 15 i'M II
2817 3617 56
15 19 22 19 41 20
021 621 2622
4622 5023 II
3424 3624 56
26 21 26 41
11 18 II 4812 2212 5513 16 13 25
12 5713 41 14 2014 55 15 iJi_^ 29
4 56I15
34|i6 14 16 5217 2C17 31
18 718 4919
20 0)20 4421
X 20
28 8
29 55
31 41
10
30 49
39 33
20
21 51
23 42
24 37I25 32
26 2427 21
28 1 1 29 9
29 57
31 44
3 3 28
10
30 57
32 44
34 30
38
430 44 30 59
yf2o
32 35
34 24
36_i3
10
32 51
34 40
36 30
500 AN I L L U S 'I' R A T I O N
?
t
OF ASTROLOGY. 501
TABLE of MUNDANE ASPECTS.
Semidi-
urnal 01
seminoc-
turnul
Arches.
h. m.
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
S
5
5
5
5
S
S
S
s
s
6
o
6
12
i8
24
30
36
42
48
54
o
6
12
18
24
30
36
42
48
54
o
6
12
18
I
24 I
30
36
42
48
54
o
Space
of one
Hou/e.
d. m.
15
15
16
16
17
17
18
18
19
19
I20
20
21
21
22
22
23
23
24
24
25
25
26
26
27
27
28
28
29
29
30
O
30
o
30
o
30
Semi-
quar-
tile.
Smq.
d. m.
22 30
23 15
24 o
24 45
25 30
26 15
27 o
3o!27 45
028 30
30I29 15
Scx-
tik.
d.m
30
31
32
33
34
ii
36
37
?8
Quin-
tile.
Q
d. m.
2,6 o
31 12
38 24
39 36
Quar-
tile.
d. m.
Trine. Se/qui-
qua-
drate.
Sfq.
40 48
42 o
43 12
o|44 24
°45 36
39 046 48
030 040 048 01
30 30 4541 049 1 2 61
o
30
o
30
o
30
31 3042
32 1543
33 044
33 4545
34 3046
3!i 15
o
30I36 45
036
30
o
30
o
30
o
30
o
30
30
15
o
37
38
39
39 45
40 30
41 i<
42 o
42 45
43 30
44 15
47
48
49
50 24I63
51 36
52 48
54 o
55 12
56 24
45 o
46 30
48 o
49 30
5^ o
52 30
54 o
55 30
57 o
30
o
30
o
64 30
66 o
67 30
69 o
70 30
d. m.
Biquin-
tile.
Bq.
m.
58
60
m.
Oppo-
Jition.
m.
57 3672 o
58 4873 30
50 0|6o o
51 op r 12
52 o
53 o
54 o
75
76 30
78
045
62 24
63 3679 30
64 4881 o
66 082 30
56 0167 1284 o.
57 068 2485 30
58 069 3687 o
59 070 4888 30
60 0172 0I90 o
60 o 67 30 72 o
62 o 69 45 74 24
64 o 72 o 76 48
66 o, 74 15 79 12
68 o' 76 30 81 36
70 o 78 45 84 o
72 o 81 o 86 24
74 o 83 15 88 48
76 o 85 30 91 12
78 o 87 45
80 o 90 o
82 o 92 15
84 o 94 30
86 o 96 45
88 o 99 o
90 oior 15
92 01 1
03 30
94 0105 45 1 12 48
96 0,108 o 1 15 12
98 ojiio 15 1
17 36
100 0,1 12 30 120 o
ro2 01 14 45M22 24 1 53 o
104 OJI17 o'i24 48[f56 o
106 Oil 19 15
90 o
93 o
96 o
99 o
102 o
'05 o
io8_ o
II I o
114 o
117 o
120 o
123 o
126 o
129 o
93 36
96 o
98 24
loo 48
103 12
'05 361132 O
108 0135 o
1 10 24 138 o
141 o
144 o
147 o
150 o
loS o
I 10 o
I 12 C
r 14 o
121 30
123 45
126 o
128 15
127 12 159 o
129 36 162 O
132 0165 O
134 24 168 o
136 4S 171 o
116 01 30 30 139 12 174 O
118 o|i32 45:141 36177 o
120 Oti35 o!i44 qi8o o
No. 26. 6 I
502 AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTRO LOOT. 503
504 AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. £05
5o6 AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 507
1 TABLE of RIGHT ASCENSIONS.—North Latitude.
zcs AN ILLUSTRATION
ta
OF ASTROLOGY. 509
510 AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 511
TABLE of RIGHT ASCENSIONS.—bouth Latitude.
512 AN ILLUSTRATION
1
tabll:
OF ASTROLOGY. 513
TABLE of RIGHT ASCENSIONS.—North Larif^iH;^
176 S3
177 48
n^ 43
180 33
181 28
182 23
No. a6.
5M AN ILLUSTRATION
I
OF ASTROLOGY. 515
516 AN ILLUSTRATION
TABLE of RIGHT ASCENSIONS.—South Latitude. i|
OF ASTROLOGY. \\7
TABLE of RIGHT ASCENSIONS. North Latitu
5
tie.
No. %6. 6N
518 AN ILLUSTRATION
t
OF ASTROLOGY. 519
53d AN ILLUSTRATION
TABLE of RIGHT ASCENSIONS.-
OF ASTROLOGY 521
1
522 AN I L L U S T R A T [ O N
/
OF ASTROLOGY.
AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 525
TABLE of RIGHT ASCENSIONS.—North Latitude. |
525 AN ILLUSTRATION OF ASTROLOGY.
TABLES
SHOWING THE
DECLINATIONS
OF THE
PLANETS.
T
OF ASTROLOGY. 529
530 AN ILLUSTRATION
TAiBLE of DECLINATIONS. South Latitude. ||
OF ASTROLOGY. >ii
.
532 AN ILLUSTRATION
TABLE of DECLINATIONS. South Latitude |
OF ASTROLOGY. 533
534 AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 555
TABLE of DECLINATlON^S. North Latitude. J
i36 AN ILF. USTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 53;
;38 AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 539
540 AN ILLUSTRATION
TABLES
SHOWING THE
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCES
F THE
PLANETS.
No. 28. 6T
O F ASTROLOGY. 543
A Table
Si^ AN ILLUSTRAliON
OF ASTROLOGY.
A Table of Ascensional Differences, &c.
545
,546 AN ILLUSTRATION
A Table of Ascensional Differences, &c.
11" 1
li 1 "3 1 14
OF ASTROLOGY. 547
548 AN ILLUSTRATION
A
OF A S T II O L O (5 Y.
Table of Asccnsional Differences, &c.
54-9
2
O
<
Z
-3
U
Q
O
31
d.
O
I
I
2
3
3
4
4
5
6
6
7
7
8
9
9
10
1
1
1
1
12
13
22' 1
4
2314
2415
25:16
26 17
I
2
3
4
5
6
7
B
9
10
II
12
13
H
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
27
28
29
17
18
19
3020
36
12
48
24
I
37
14
51
28
5
42
20
58
37
16
SS
35
16
56
38
20
3
47
31
16
2,
50
38
27
18
d. m
37
1 53
2 30
3 8
3 46
4 25
5 2
5 4
6 20
7 59
7 38
8 18
8 58
9 38
19
1 I
1 43
2 26
3 9
3 53
4 37
5 23
6 9
6 56
7 45
8 34
9 24
20 16
21 9
34
d. m
33
d. m.
39
1 18
1 57
2 36
3 15
3 55
4 34
5 H
5 54
6 35
7 15
7 56
8 37
9 19
o I
44
1 27
2 II
2 55
3 40
4 26
5 13
6 o'
6 48
7 38
8 28|
9 19.20
20 12,21
21 6ai 57
22 I 22 55
40
1 21
2 2
2 42
3 23
4 3
4 45
5 26
6 8
6 50
7 32
8 15
8 58
9 41
25
1 59
1
44
2 50
3 26
4 13
5 o
5 49
6 38
7 29
8 20
9 12
6
I
35
d. m.
o 42
I 24
3&
d. m.
37 I
3
d. m. d.
S
I
3';
Hi . d
.
40
o 44! o 45 o
I 27
2 6j 2 I I
2 48 2 55
3 31 3 39
4 13
4 56
5 39
6 22
7 9
7 49
8 34
9 18
o 3
49
1 35
2 22
3 57
4 23
5 7
5 52
6 37
I
3r
2 16
3 I
3 47
4 33
5 19
6 5
6 51
7 22 7 38
"
71 8 25
8
8 53
9 39
10 26
11 14
12 2
12 50
3 913 39
14 29
4 4615 20|
5 3616 12'
5 27
6 17
7 lol
8 3
9 58
20 54
21 51
22 50
23 51
17 5
17 58
18 52
10 1
10 50
11 39
12 29
13 19
14 10
•5 2
15 55
16 49
17 44
18 39
19 36
9 4820 34
20 45121 34
21 4422 35
22 4423 37
23 4524 41
24 48 25 47
I
2
3
3
4
5
5
7
7
8
9
o
I
2
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
o
I
2
3
4
4
5
6
7
8
9
9
47
34
21
8
55!
30,
18;
61
I
55
44
34
2410
i4|u
5112
57ii3
491'
4
42:15
3616
3^in
47118
2419
2220
21*21
2I;22
2423
28I24
33125
4026
4927
49
37
26
15
4
53
42
32
22
13
3
55,
46
^9,
32
26
20;
15;
6|
6
8
II
16
22
30
40
52
d.
O
I
2
3
4
5
5
6
5c
4
3'
2-
13
55
40
38'
30
23'
16
10'
I
4
o
55
52
491
48
47
47
9 49!
20 52;
21 56
7
8
9
[Q
I
-7
3
3
'4
5
;6
'7
8
23
24
25
26
27
28
I
10
19
301
43
59
No. 28. 6X
550 AN ILLUSTRATION
A Table cf Ascensional Differences, 6cc,
2
<
•^I 21
|34'23
35,24
37,26
3828
3929
40:30
rn
10
d.
3j I
31
d. IT! d.
22 322 582;
41
42
43
45
46, J
47,40
4841
^9,43
50.45
5' 47
5250
y
o
'53
54
55
56
57
59
60
53
55
59
62
67
74
90
31
32
34
35
36
8
3:22
5823
55J24
53,25 57
53,27
55,28
029
730
i73r
29'32
45] 34
535
28 37
56,38
29 Uo
742
5243
4445
43 4''>
5450
5315^
48|59
6,63
5968
42
4
o
74
90
59
56
56
5/
o
5
13
23
37
54
15
38
7
4C
^9
4
57
57
8
30
7
I
16
ic
53
12
o
23
24
25
27
28
29
30
31
33
34
35
37
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
53
56
59
63
67
74
90
56,24
5725
59-7
328
9129
i8|30
29|3i
44 33
1 1 34
2235
4737
1639
50,40
30,42
1 6 44
846
948
2050
SS
56
3S I
d. 111.1
24
25
5927
4
1
1
21
28
29
32131
4533
634
35
28
S3
23
59
37
39
40
53' 2 5
57|27
328
Il|29
23,30
35\3i
501 3 3
ioi34
53i36
59^37
3039
43
'9
13
53
56
31163
12J68
2|74
1990
o
3942
2544
1 8 46
2048
31I51
53|53
3056
2459
4263
3168
J174
2690
5
46
33
26
29
40
3
40
40
42
44
46
48
51
S3
56
5326
9!29
21,30
3513^
5233
i2|34
3^'3^
2;37
3339
1040
52,142
J*
d. in.
5528
5I29
i8|30
32! 3
1
50,33
1234
3236
4 37
3639
1 3 40
i'J
d . m. d . Ill
.
029
13,30
2931
48
10
33
34
3^13^
36
15
58
3459
5163
4o|68
i9|74
32190
o
39
3'-^
36
48
1
1
48
42
59
48
44
46
48
51
S3
56
60
63
68
55
44
39
42
54
n
SS
49
42
44
46
48
51
54
56
60
37
39
40
42
47 44
4246
49
51
25:74
37'90
o
664
4668
31174
4290
o
46
59
22)54
o'56
48)60
1 1,64
068
3674
4590
o
27
24
44
6
36
2
26
15
59
49
45
49
2
27
4
57
16
4
4'
49
c
30
31
33
17
37
I
34 28
35 59
37
39
S3
i'3
40 58
42 49
44 45
46 50
49
51
54
57
4
29
8
3
60 20
64 b|
68 441
74 52'
90 ol
OF A S T R O L O G V.
A Table of Ascension \l Differen:
5ii
:3. S<c.
r ' *
AN ILLUSTRATION
A Table of Ascensional Differences, &c.
—
TABLES
SHO^'-ING XHE
OBLIQUE ASCENSIOiV of the PLANETS^
Foi the LATITUDE of LONDON.
No. 28. 6Y
AN ILLUSTRATION OF ASTROLOGY. sss
1
A
556 AN IT. LUSTRATION
A TABLE of OBLI QJJ E ASCENSIONS,
For the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 Min.
—
Soui/j Latitude.
OF ASTROLOGY. 557
-
s^ AN ILLUSTRATION
A
OF ASTROLOGY. ^i9
A
560 AN ILLUSTRATION
—
OF ASTROLOGY, c6i
.__—
—
- „
A TABLE of OBLIQUE ASCENSIONS,
562 AN ILLUSTRATION
A TADLE of OBLI Q^U E ASCENSIONS,
OF ASTROLOGY. 563
A
564 AN ILLUSTRATION
A
OF ASTROLOGY. S6s
A TABLE of OBLIQUE ASCENSIONS,
566 AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE of B L I QJJ E ASCENSIONS,
OF ASTROLOGY. 567
A
S68 AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE of O B L I C^U
OF ASTROLOGY. 569
A TABLE of OBLI QJJ E ASCENSIONS,
s^o AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE of OB LI Q^U E ASCENSIONS,
« OF ASTROLOGY. 57^
f —
57^ AN ILLUSTRATION #
A TABLE of OBLI QJJ E ASCENSIONS,
OF ASTROLOGY. 573
A TABLE of OBLIQJJE ASCENSIONS,
574 AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE of OBLI Q^U E ASCENSIONS.
For the Latitude of 51 Deg. 32 Min.
—
South Latitude.
yf
OF ASTROLOGY. SI:
A TABLE
576 AN ILLUSTRATION
j
A TABLE
OF A S T R O F. O G Y. sn
A TABLE
578 AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE of OBLIQJJE ASCENSIONS,
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 579
PRAXIS,
Tor-finding the Oblique Afcenfions or Defcenfions of the "Planets, for any
Latitude, by the Help of At tifcial iiines and Tangents.
T7IRST, The planet's declination is to be fought.
Secondly, The height of the pole wherein the planet is pofited.
Thirdly, With this enter the Sines and Tangents, and gain the afcen-
fional difference.
Fourthly, The right afcenfion of the planet muft be found, either as
it is, or without latitude.
Fifthly, To this right afcenfion, a^d or fubtracft the afcenfional dif^
fercncc, acccording to the declination of the planet, whether it be north
or fouth, and the oblique afcenfion is found.
If the declination of a flar is north, fubtradl the afcenfional difference
from the right afcenfion, and the remainder will be its oblique afcenfion;
but, if added together, the fum will be the oblique defcenfion of the flar.
If the declination of a planet is fouth, add the afcenfional difference and
right afcenfien together, and the fum will be its oblique afcenfion ; but,
if you fubtradl, the remainder will be its-oblique defcenfion.
EXAMPLE.
Suppofe it be required to find the oblique afcenfion of
Mars, as in the figure page 18 7 of this work, under the
elevation of the pole of the eleventh houfe, which is
twenty-three degrees twenty-nine minutes; proceed thus:
Firrt find the declination of Mars, which is twenty-tvvo
degrees two minutes north ; with this look into a table
of artificial fines and tangents, and feek the tangent an-
fwerable to that degree and minute, which will be .
—
9.607136
Then feek the co-tangent anfwerablc to the elevation of
the pole (or latitude), viz, twenty-three degrees twenty-
nine minutes, and it will be — — — — 10.362044
Which co-tangent fubtradl from the tangent by adding
10.000000 to the tangent, otherwife fubtradion cannot
be made ; and there remains — — — — 9.245093
This
5?o A N I L L U S T R A T I N
This remaining number feck in the column of fines, and it will rm-
fwcr to ten degrees eight minutes, which is called the afcenfional dif-
ference.
Then feek the right afcenfionof Mars, in the foregoing
tables of right afcenfions, with one degree feventeen mi- d. m.
nutes north latitude, which will be — — — 119 2-i
The declination of Mars being north, fubtradl the af-
cenfional difference from the right afcenfion, and the af-
cenfional difference is — — — — — ro8
The remainder is the oblique afcenfion of Mars, re-
quired, viz. — — — — — — 109 rj
To find the oblique defcenfion of the planets, with latitude, work as
by the following example of the Moon in the aforefaid figure.
Firft, The Moon's declination is to be fought, which is four degrees
tv\enty-nine minutes north latitude.
Secondly, With this declination find the tangent anfwer-
able thereto, and it will be — — — — 8.894366
Thirdly, Find the Moon's pole, viz. forty-one degrees
thirty-fix minutes, with which feek the co-tangent an-
fvverable, and it will be — — — — 10.051664
Which co-tangent fubtradt from the tangent by adding
lo.ocoooo, which fubtradion cannot.otherwife be made ; •
there will remain — — — — — 8.842702
Which number feek for in the column of fines at the top, ar.d it will
be found anfwerable to three degrees fifty-nine minutes, which is called
the afcenfional difference.
The Moon's latitude being two degrees forty-two minutes north.
Seek the right afcenfion of the Moon with that latitude, d. m.
and it will be — — — — — — "^S S3
To this add the afcenfional difference, becaufe the de-
clination is north, — — — — —
r
3 59
And the oblique defcenfion required will be — 56 52
If
OFASTROLOGY. 581
If the declination of the Moon were fouth, the afcenfional difference
muft then have been fubtradted from the right afcenfion, and the remain-
der would have been the oblique defcenfion.—The fame rules will apply-
to the calculating or finding the oblique defcenfion of all the planets, in
every degree of latitude.
I fhall now fubjoin Tables of LogiHical Logarithms, for the purpofe
of finding the part proportional, either in time or motion, between any
two planets or fignificators j which will entirely complete this fet of
Aftrological Tables, and render them an eafy and familiar guide to every
fludent, in afcertaining the diredions of all the planets, whether mun-
dane or zodiacal, dired: or converfe, that can poffibly occur in the cal-
culation of nativities, or horary queftions.
To make the ufe of them more obvious to the underftanding of every
reader, I Ihall fubjoin a variety of examples, fhowing how to afcertain
the daily and hourly motion of any given planet; and alio to determine
the precife time when any two fignificators will meet in one and the fame
point of the heavens, or form any other afpecft upon the horofcope oj
geniture of any inquirer, in the courfe of pradlice.
The expedition with which Nativities may be calculated, or Aftro-
logical Queries anfwered, by the aid of this fet of Tables, not to mention
the expedition with which the governing configurations are found, will
amply reward the reader for any time or trouble beflowed in acquiring a
competent knowledge of them ; as will abundantly appear by the method
in vv-hich 1 fhall bring up the diredtions of the fubjoined nativity of my
learned friend Mr. Witchell, Mafler of the Portfmouth Royal Academy.
It may alfo be premifed, that the ftudent well informed in all the fore-
going rudiments of the fcience ; in the nature and tendency of the pla-
nets, and their various configurations; will, with pleafing aptitude, by
the ufe of thefe tables, find himfelf qualified for the calculation of his
own or any other nativity, precifely in the fame way as will be laid down
in the management of that above-mentioned, which will prove a compe-
tent example for all others.
Thefe Tables of Logiftical Logarithms are of a triple or three-fold ex-
tent : the firfl column appertains to motion ; the fecond to abfolute num-
bers, and the third to a correal meafure of time ; as fpccified at the top
of each table, refpedlively.
I have thought it moft confident to let the tables precede, and the
explanatory examples follow j for it is impolTible to imprefs the mind
No. 30. 7 F with
^82 AN ILLUSTRATION OF ASTROLOGY.
•with a proper idea of the procefs^ without often referring to thefe and the
other tables which compofe the fet, as will evidtixtly appear by what
occurs hereafter.
It is not abfolutcly neceflary that the reader flrould ftudy the art of
conilrudting logarithms to underfland the ufe of the following Tables,
which are here inferted for the mere purpofe of reference, agreeable to
the feveral Examples tliat follow ; it is fufficient for the reader to know,
that addition of logarithms is the fame thing as inuhiplication in common
arithmetic, and fubtraclion of logarithms the fame as divijton; therefore,
jn multiplication by logarithms, add the logarithms of tlie multiplicand
and multiplier together, and their fum. is the logarithm of the produd";
and in divifion, fubtrad: the logarithm of the divifor from the logarithm
.of the dividend, and the remainder is the logarithm of the quotient.
To extradl the roots of powers by logarithms, divide the logarithm of
the number by the index of the power, and the quotient is the logarithm
.of the root fought; to raife a number to any power, multiply the loga-
rithm of the number by the index of that power, and the produdt is the
logarithm of the power to which the number was required to bexaifed.
TABLES
TABLES
OF
LOGISTICAL LOGARITHMS.
rOR FINUI^'G THE
PART PROPORTIONAL
BOTH TO
TIME and MOTION.
586 AN ILLUSTRATI ON
\
OF ASTROLOGY. 587
1
;88 AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 589
f
S90 AN ILLUSTRATION
\]
OF ASTROLOGY. 591
r-
59^ AN ILLUSTRATION
I
OF ASTROLOGY. 593
!
LOGISTICAL LOGARITHMS. |
594 AN ILLUSTRATION
LOG 1 S
OF ASTROLOGY. 595
;96 AN ILLUSTRATION
I
OF ASTROLOGY. 597
LOGISTICAL LOGARITHMS.
i98 AN ILLUSTRATION
L G IS'
OF ASTROLOGY. 599
boo AN 1 L L U S 1' R A T I O N
1
-
A NEW AND COMPLETE
ILLUSTRATION
OF THE CELESTIAL SCIENCE OF
ASTROLOGY;
OR, THE
Art of foretelling future Events and Contingencies
BY THE
Aspects, Positions, and Influences, of the HEAVENLY BODIES.
FOUNDED OX
NATURAL PHILOSOPHY, SCRIPTURE, REASON, and the MATHEMATICS.
In which the abflriife Doarine of the STARS, of MAGIC, DIVINATION, EXORCISM, and Familiarity
with Spirits, vegetable, aftral, and infernal—the Calculation of Nativities—Horary Queftions—and the Aftro.
logical Prefcience of FUTURITY—are clearly demonflrated and proved ; and the Ability of doing it made
eafy to the nieanefl: Capacity ; and wherein all the intereding and important Matter, diffufedlhroughout the
fcarce and valuable Writings of above five hundred ancient Hiftorians and Philofophers, whofe Works are now
either wholly out of Print, or only to be found in the Britifh Mufeiini, or in fome few of the public Libraries
of Europe, are felected and combined.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
H iffxyiAir iifimis nvsijaf. Argol. Astr. Lib. ii. Cap. 8,
7"^e Sun, Moiin, and Slars, hath God difiributed iinlo all Nations under Heaven. They declare the Glury of God, and
Jliowjorth his Handy-wiirk: Day and Night do continunlly tell of them, and their roice is heard in all Languages,
and their ll^ords are gone into the Endi (f the Earth. Deut. iv. 19. Pfal. xix. i —4.
By E. S I B L Y, M. D.
OF THE KING'S COLLEGE IN ABERDEEN; AND FELLOW OF THE HARMONIC PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY IN PARIS.
VOLUME THE SECOND.
The ELEVENTH EDITION, corrcctoil. EniLeMi^hed with curious COPPER-PLATES, which exhibit Representations of
'
the Harmony anil Con-lructiHU of the World; the secret influences of the Heavenly Bodies communicating to HumanNalure;
and iheir Cijieration and Kficct upon Man, in four curious Prints. The appearance of Herbs and Flowers in full bloom,
produced bj a simple Spirit, exiracied from each Herb or Flower. Edward Keli.y in the Act of raising up the (ihost
of a decpascd Person in Walton Church-yard, in Lancashire. Plans and Prints of the exterior and interior M.igical
Circle-, Implements, and Characters, used in exorcising or calling up Spirits or Ghosts. Portraits encircled with the
Nativities of many extr.iordinary Personages; wilb a variety of other Plates equally interesting and v.aluable.
LONDON: PRINTED BY HAMBLIN AND SF.YFANG, 34. QUEEN-STRFF.T, CHEAPSIDE, FOR THE
PROPIUETUR; AND SOLD BY CHAMPANTE AND WHITROW, JEWRY-STREET, ALDGATE;
AND AT THE ENCYCLOP/EDIA-OFFICE, No. 17, AVE-MARIA LANE.
M.DCCCXUI.
Planets
L atitude
AN
ILLUSTRATION
Of the CELESTIAL SCIENCE of
ASTROLOGY,
CALCULATION of NATIVITIES.
HAVING, in the former volume, given at large the ludiments of
the Aftral Science, I Ihall now proceed to the real Calculation of
Nativities, according to the Placidian method as laid down and exempli-
fied in this work. I (hall begin with that of my learned and very inge-
nious friend, Mr. Witchell, Mafter of the Royal Academy at Portfmouth,
a crentleman well known in the literary world ; as well on account of hi&
valuable difcoveries in the longitude, as for his very ufeful mathematical
publications.
For the eafe and inftruftion of the reader, I fliall go through every cal-
culation of this nativity in the moft pradical and intelligent manner, in
order that it may afford every iieceffary example for directing fignificators
to promittors, in all cafes whatfoever, as well as to {how the probable
efFe6ls to be deduced therefrom in nativities in general.
The fcheme of Mr. Witchell's nativity, in the annexed plate, was
eredled by himfelf ; and, from his great veneration for the fcience, he
o-ave me leave to publiih it, and to make what obfervations I thought
neceffary in the calculation of it.
On examining the figure, I found it wanted redification ; and, there-
fore, according to the method pointed out in Vol. I. p. 416, I proceeded
to brino- the eftimated time to the true time of birth. It is here to be
obferved, that neither of the luminaries are in the centre of the angles,
nor fortunes in parallel of angles ; but, as a nodurnal nativity, the Moon's
fituation with Saturn prefented itfelf moll: eligibly for the purpofe of rec-
tification. My bufinefs therefore was to bring them in a right parallel
from the fourth houfe, which is done thus:
Vol. II. No. 31. /N Firfl
620 ANILLUSTRATION
Firft take the right afccnfion of Saturn (no latitude) 325 58
Then the right aicenfion of the Moon (no latitude) 288 23
•Subtra61:, ant! the difference is the diftance of Saturn) 37 35
from the Mooa i
• Then feek the feminofturnal arch of Saturn and the Moon, in the Table
<of the Scminodurnal Arches for the Latitude of London ; and, by enter-
ing the figa Capricorn on the top column with feventeen degrees, on
the left hand fide, in the common angle of meeting, it is declared that
the leminofturnal arch of the Moon is - - 8'' 5™
Which is tile fpace of three houfes ; but, as the Moon
is not elongated above one houfe, it is to be divided by
three; the third partis - - - - 2'' 41*" 40'
And is to be turned into degrees of the equator, by
the Table in page 196, and it gives _ - - 40° 25'
The fame procefs may be obferved with refped to
Saturn. The feminofturnal arch of Saturn is
Divided by three, the third part gives -
Turned into equinoftial degrees by the Table, gives
To this third part is to be added that of the Moon
And their arches make _ _ -
Then fay, by the rule of proportion, If feventy-fix degrees twenty mi-
nutes give thirty-feven degrees thirty-five minutes, being the diflance of
Saturn from the Moon, what will forty degrees twenty-five minutes, the
third part of the femino6lurnal arch of the Moon, give r
Anfvver, It gives - - - -
^9 53
To which add the Moon's place in the zodiac - 1656
And they make - - - - 36 49
Which, by allowing for Capricorn thirty degrees, makes the cufp of the
fourth to be fix degrees forty-nine minutes of Aquarius ; confequently
there will be fix degrees forty-nine minutes of Leo on the tenth houfe,
and twenty-feven degrees thirty-three minutes of Libra afcending. Thus
the figure is brought to a redified time, having the right afcenlion of tlie
mid-heaven one hundred and twenty nine degrees fourteen minutes, the
oblique afcenfion of the afcendant two hundred and nineteen degrees
foujteen minutes; and, by adding thirty to each houfe, the oblique af-
penfion and defcenfion of each of the houfes are obtained.
The
/
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 621
The next thing to be obferved in the copper-plate figure is the Pait
of Fortune; which mufl alio be reftified, for it is very incorreflly placed
by Mr. Witchell. Its true pofition, in this nativity, is of the greateft
confequence, both as to its pole and place; particularly as it is Hyleo-,
and direfted for the native's death ; and, as the Part of Fortune in thTs
figure depends wholly on the Moon for declination, right afcenfion, dif-
tances, &c. and hath its diurnal and nofturnal arches increafed or dimi-
nifhed as the Moon rifes or fets, it may be truly deemed a lunar horofcope
;
I fhall therefore give the following rules for its rcftitication, which
will hold good on every fimilar occafion. Firft, find the oblique afcen-
fion or defcenfion of the Sun, according to his pofition in the fio ure, under
his own pole; fubtraft the oblique delcenfion of the Sun fromthe oblique
afcenfion of the afcendant, and the remainder referve; then obtain the
pole of the Moon, and under the pole obtain her oblique afcenfion or
defcenfion, with latitude, as before obferved, by the Sun; and from
the oblique afcenfion of the Moon fubtrad the diftance of the Sun
from the afcendant, as above referved, and the remainder will be the
oblique afcenfion or delcenfion of the Part of Fortune; which may be
known by its being a greater or lefs number of degrees than the mid-
heaven ; for,^ by allowing thirty degrees for each houfe, it will declare
in what houfe the Part of Fortune falls; and to know what decree of the
zodiac is anfwerable thereto, only requires to find the pole o^ the Part
of Fortune; and,, by giving it the fame latitude and declination as the
Moon, it fhows its afcenfional difference, M-'hich mufl be added to or fub-
trafted from the aforefaid oblique afcenfion as it is found either \\\ a north-
ern or fouthern fign, and the right afcenfion is found ; which by look-
ing in the Table of Right Afcenfions, allowing its latitude, if any, the
degree and minute of the zodiac is pointed out for the place of the Part
of Fortune ; as exemplified in the followins fio"ure.
The pole of the Sun is to be obtained thus:—The Sun is in twelve
degrees feventeen mini^es of Aries, and his feminocT:urnal arch under the
latitude of birth - - - _
^ ^6
.
The third part of which is - - - \ Rz
Which, turned into degrees of the equator, is - 28 o
The pole of the feventh houfe is - '
5^ 31
The pole of the fixth, as may be found by the Table in
page 192 of this work, is - - - 40 48
Subtrafled, leaves the difference of the two poles - 10 43
Then
622 ANILLUSTRATION
Then take the diftance of the Sun from the feventh houfe,
thus: The oblique defcenfion of the feventh houfe is - 39 14
The oblique defcenfion of the Sun under the pole of the
feventh is - - - - - 1718
Subtracl, and the diftance of the Sun from the feventh is 2 1 56
Then, by the rule of proportion, If twenty-eight degrees, the Sun's
femino6lurnal arch, give ten degrees forty-three minutes, being the dif-
ference between the pole of the feventh and fjxth houfes, what will
twenty-one degrees fifty-fix minutes give, which is the diftance of the Sun
from the feventh houfe ?
The anfwer is pointed out by the Table of Logarithms, thus : Seek the
logarithm of the fecond and third number, and add them together ; then
fubtradl the logarithm of the firft number therefrom, and the remainder
is the logarithm of the fum required.
EXAMPLE FOR THE FOLLOWING FIGURE.
Seek the logarithm of the fecond number, which is 10" 43'. In the firft
column, at the head of the Table, (p. 588.) feek ten, and on the fide-
column, on the left-hand, enter with forty-three minutes, and in the
angle of meeting will be found the logarithm - - 7481
In the fame manner feek the third number, viz. twenty-one
degrees at the top, and fifty-fix minutes at the fide, and in
the angle of meeting is the logarithm required - - 437°
Add them together, and they make - - - 11851
Then by the fame rule feek the logarithm of the firft num-
ber, 28, which is - - - - 33^'^
And fubtrad it from the fiam of the other two - - 8541
Seek this remainder in the logarithms, and it will give very near eight
degrees twenty-three minutes ; this being the number fought for, it is to
be fubtraded from the pole of the feventh houfe, thus:
The pole of the feventh - - - 5^ 3^
The number required is - - - 8 23
Subtraded, leaves for the pole of the Sun - 43 8
And under this pole the oblique defcenfion is to be obtained, thus :
—
Give the afcenfional difference under the pole of forty-three degrees eight
minutes, and the afcenfional difference is - - 4-35
And, as the Sun is in a northern fign, the afcenfional
difference is to be added to the right afcenfion. The
right afcenfion is - - - - 1 1 1
8
And
OF ASTROLOGY. 623
And the oblique defcenfion is - - ^5 53
Now, as the afcendant is in a fouthern fign, in order to
make fubtra6lion, the circle muft be added - 360 o
And the fum is - - - -
375 53
From which fubtradl the oblique afcenfion of the al-
cendant - - - - - 21914
And the diftance of the Sun from the afcendant is obtained 156 39
Then obtain the oblique afcenfion of the Moon under her pole, by the
following method : Firft, find the femino6lurnal arch of the Moon under
the latitude of birth, which is - - - 8'' 5" o'
The Moon not being above the diftance of one houfe from
the fourth, this arch muft: be divided by three, - 2 41 40
And turned into equinoftial degrees, by the Table,
Then take the right afcenfion of the fourth houfe,
Subtraft, and the Moon's diftance from the fourth is
Then, by the rule of proportion, If forty degrees twenty-five minutes
give twenty-three degrees twenty-feven minutes, being the pole of the
third houfe, what will twenty degrees fifteen minutes, the diflance of the
Moon from the fourth houfe, give ? By the logiflical logarithms it gives
eleven degrees forty-five minutes for the pole of the Moon, Avhich is
correft.
624 AN ILLUSTRATION
degrees fix minutes for the pole of the Part of Fortune. Let it be ob-
ferved, that, if the afcenfional difference is obtained by the Moon's de-
cHnation under tlie above pole, which is three degrees thirty-five minutes,
add to it the oblique alcenfion of the Part of Fortune, thus 3 ^^
The oblique afcenfion of the Part of Fortune - 138 20
Makes 141 55
Which is the right afcenfion, with latitude, of the Part of Fortune; and,
by looking into the Table of Right AfcenlJons, it afcertains the zodiacal
degree of the place of the Part of Fortune, which is in twenty degrees
forty-three minutes of the fign Leo, in the tenth houfe.
Thus this nativity is re6lified, according to the following fcheme, and
the Part of Fortune fupputated in its horary circle, by the true do61rine
of Ptolemy; and, having equal degrees from the afceadant, conflitutes
what is cfteemed a lunar horofcope; in which the Part of Fortune is pro-
rogator, or giver of life.
Righl Afcenfion, 119 14
Esa
\ <5
A''
f^
«> of® '?
/
.•^
!>
<i
Mr. G. WITCHELL,
ASTRONOMER^
AT 1HE
ROYAL ACADEMY,
PORTSMOUTH.
Born the Tweiity-fiift of March,
7h. 52in. V. M. 17 28.
5 Nox. )
Latitude 510 31'
T\%
Right Afcenfion, 309 1+
^;r
^J"
o> :->•
<\ .^
Ptolemy
OF ASTROLOGY. 625
Ptolemy fays, in his Quadripartite, that the Sun, if he be in an aphetic
place, is to be preferred by day ; if he be not, the Moon fliall be pre-
ferred ; but, if (he be not in an aphetic place, that planet (hall be taken
that had three dignities in' the place of the Sun at the preceding con-
junction of the Sun and Moon. If no planet hath thofe titles of domi-
nion, the horofcope fhall be taken ; but, if it fhould be a Full Moon, and
no fuch planet in an aphetic place, then the Part of Fortune Ihall be
taken.
626 AN ILLUSTRATION
To GAIN THE POLE OF SATURN.
Saturn being in twenty-three degrees thirty-eight minutes of Aquarius,
enter with this degree and minute in the Tables of Seminofturnal Arches
for the latitude of birth, which is in London, and it gives feven hours
eleven minutes ; which being anfwerable to the fpace of three houfes, or
ninety degrees of the zodiac, I divide it by three, and one of thefe three
parts will be the diftance from the cufp of the fourth to the cufp of the
fifth houfe ; then by the rule of proportion find the diftance of Saturn
from the fourth houfe, as follows : The third part of ftven hours eleven
minutes is two hours twenty-three minutes and forty feconds, which
time convert into degrees by the Table for that purpofe, in page 196;
by which it is found to give thirty-five degrees fifty-five minutes for the
fpace of one houfe. The pole of the fifth, as may be found by the Tabic
in page 192, is twenty-three degrees twenty-feven minutes.
The right afcenfion of Saturn, with latitude, is - 326 21
The right afcenfion of the fourth is - -
309 14
Subtradl, and there remains - - - ^7 7
The diftance of Saturn from the fourth houfe. Then fay, by the rule
of proportion. If thirty-five degrees fifty-five minutes, the fpace of one
houfe, give, for the pole of the fifth, twenty-three degrees twenty-feven
minutes, what will feventeen degrees feven minutes, being the diftance
of Saturn from the fourth, give ?
To find this proportion, make ufe of the Logiftical Logarithms, as be-
fore, and feek the logarithm belonging to the two laft-mentioned num-
bers, which add together, and then find the logarithm of the firfl, and
fubtra6l it from them, and the remainder is the proportion required.
Thus, feek in the uppermoft column at the head of the logarithms for
twenty-three, and in the fide column for twenty-feven, and in the angle
of meeting is the logarithm _ _ _ 4080
In the fame manner feek feventeen on the top, and feven
on the fide, and in the angle is - - -
5447
Add them together, and they give - -
95^7
Then feek the logarithm of thirty-five degrees fifty-five
minutes by the fame rule, and it is - - 2229
Which is to be fubtraded from the above - - 7298
This
OF ASTROLOGY. 627
This remainder I feek among the logarithms, and find, by caftiug mj
eye on the head of the Table (p. 587) for degrees, and 'on the firft
column on the left hand, that it gives eleven degrees eleven minutes,
which is the part proportional, and confequently the true pole of Saturn.
To TAKE THE TRUE POLE OF JUPITER. .
Jupiter is in twenty-nine degrees fifty-five minutes of Taurus,
His femidiurnal arch under the latitude of birth is
Divided by three, and multiplied by two, gives
Turned into degrees of the equator by the table
The pole of the feventh - - _
The pole of the ninth - - _
Subtra6t one from the other, and the difference is
The oblique defcenfion of Jupiter with latitude
The oblique defcenfion of the feventh* houfe
Subtraft, and Jupiter's diflance from the feventh is
Then by the rule of proportion. If feventy-eight degrees twenty-five
minutes, being two parts of Jupiter's femidiurnal arch, give twenty-eight
degrees four minutes, being the difference of the pole of the feventh and
ninth houfes, what will forty-five degrees nineteen minutes, Jupiter's dif-
tance, give? Anfwer, Sixteen degrees thirty-fix minutes ;
Which I fubtra6l from the pole of the feventh, - 5 1 3
1
16 36
And the remainder is the pole of Jupiter - - 34 55
To FIND THE POLE OF MARS.
Mars is in forty-four minutes of Virgo. The femidiurnal arch
of Mars, under the latitude of the feventh, is - 6'' 58'" o'
- Being divided by three, gives for one houfe - 2 19 20
» The oblique defcenfion of the feventh houfe is gained thus: Take the right afcenfion of the mid-
heaven, and fubtraft ninety, being a quarter of the circle, and there reniains the oblique defcenfion
«f the feventh.
No. 31. 2 P Turned
h
7
5
34"
5-
636 AN ILLUSTRATION
The place of Saturn in the zodiac is twenty-three degrees thirty-eiglit
minutes of Aquarius, and his declination twenty degrees twenty-four mi-
nutes iouth ; now, as there is no table immediately for the declination of
Aquarius in this work, yet, as Leo is fituate oppofite Aquarius in the zo-
diac, it only requires to enter into the Table of Declinations under Leo,
(p- 53'0 ^^'i'^li contrary latitude, that is, north inftead of fouth, and it will
be found to anlvver exadlly the fame purpofe; for Saturn's declination.,
anlwerablc to one degree fix minutes north latitude, is twenty degrees
twenty-four minutes. To find the zodiacal parallel anfwerable to that
declination, I examine the firfl: column of declination in the Table, under
o latitude, and feek for twenty degrees twenty-four minutes; but, not
finding that declination in that column, I trace back into Cancer, p. 529.
where I find it anfweiable to twenty-nine degrees ten minutes of that
planet, which (hows that Saturn's parallel falls in twenty-nine degrees ten
minutes of Cancer and Capricorn, and fifty minutes of Sagittary and
Gemini ; and thefe points, being equi-diftant from the tropics, are called
the antilcions, in page 132.
In the fame-manner is found the antifcion or zodiacal parallel of Jupi-
ter, whofe place is twenty-nine degrees fifty-five minutes of Taurus, and
his declination nineteen degrees thirty-nine minutes, with thirty-five
minutes of fouth latitude. But, as there is no Table of Declination for
Taurus, that of Scorpio, being oppofite, mufl: be entered under north
latitude, which is equally the lame as having a Table of Declination for
Taurus, by obfeiving always to enter with contrary latitude; and feek ia
the firft column under o for nineteen degrees thirty-nine minutes, (p. 53"/.)
and it will give twenty-feven degrees twenty-fix minutes of Scorpio and
Taurus for Jupiter's zodiacal parallel, and alfo two degrees thirty-four
minutes of Leo and Aquarius, as may be found by the aforenamed Tabic
of Antifcions.
The pofition of Mars in the heavens is in forty-four minutes of Virgo,
and his declination fourteen degrees fifteen minutes, with three degrees
twelve minutes north latitude. I enter the Table of Declination in Virgo,
p. 533, under the column o; but find no fuch declination, therefore I
feek in the Table of Leo, p. 531, in the fame column under o at the top,
and find it points to twenty- two degrees two minutes of Leo and Aqua-
rius, and feven degrees fifty-eight minutes of Scorpio and Taurus; which
give the zodiacal parallel of Mars,
The mode of finding the Sun's antifcion, or zodiacal parallel, is exadly
the fame as given by Argol and Morinus; and the realon is, becaufe the
Sun never varies, but always moves in the fame line throughout all the
OFASTROLOGV. 631
"iigns of. the zodiac. The antifcions of the Sun, therefore, fall in
twelve degrees feventeen minutes of Aries and Libra, and feventeen de-
grees forty-three minutes of Virgo and Pifces.
The mode of afcertaining the antifcions or zodiacal parallels of Venus
differs from that of the Sun, becaufe Venus has latitude. The place of
Venus in the zodiac is five degrees twenty-one minutes, her decUnation
IS eight degrees forty-feven minutes, and her latitude fifty-two minutes
fouth ; and, as there is no table of declination for the fign Pifces, I take
the oppolite fign Virgo, as before, and feek for eight degrees forty-fevea
mjnutes m the column with o on the top, and it will be found anfwer-
able to feven degrees thirty minutes of Virgo and Pifces, and twenty-two
degrees thirty minutes of Libra and Aries ; thofe places being equi-diflant
from the two tropics.
The antifcion or zodiacal parallel of Mercury is gained in the fame
manner as the former ; his place being in twenty-6ve degrees fifteen mi-
nutes of Aries, his latitude three degrees feventeen minutes north, and
his declination twelve degrees fifty-two minutes in Aries ; but, as there
is no table for Aries, it is to be worked by the contrary fign Libra ; but,
not finding in the column of no latitude that degree"^ of declination^ I
enter the fign Scorpio, and find it anfwerable to three degrees fifty-five
minutes of that fign, and three degrees fifty-five minutes of Taurus, and
twenty-fix degrees five minutes of Leo and Aquarius.
The antifcion or parallel of the Moon cannot in any cafe be direded,
Ihe having twenty-fix degrees forty-two minutes of declination, and the
greatefl declination of the ecliptic is but twenty-three degrees thirtv-two
minutes, and therefore there can be no zodiacal parallel of the Moon for
diredion.
Of MUNDANE PARALLELS.
Let it be remembered, that the cuf|DS of the afcendant, feventh, mid-
heaven, and imum coeli, are angles in the world, and are defcribed by
the fpheres to cut the globe of this earth in four equal parts or quarters,
each quarter containing ninety degrees of the equator. A mundane pa-
rallel, therefore, is no other, than when two ftars or planets are equally
dif}ant from any of thefe foui^angles; or are brought into that fituatioii
by the motion of the primum mobile. And, as an exaft method of taking
them is abfolutely necelTary to be known, where any degree of accu-
No. 32. 7 Q racy
632 ANILLUSTRATION
racy is required ; and, as they conftitute the nioft confiderable diredions
in human life, 1 (hall give the following examples in this nativity, by way
of initiating the beginner in a corre6t mode of taking them.
The MUNDANE PARALLEL of MARS and VENUS.
Diftancc of Mars from the mid-heaven, - z^P 44''
Semidiurnal arch of Saturn - - 6*" 58°*
Seminofturnal arch of Mercury - 6 49
Diftance of Venus from the fourth houfe, by right
^.fcenfion, 28 39
Then, By the rule of proportion, If the femidiurnal arch of Mars, viz.
fix hours fifty-eight minutes, gives for his diflance twenty-four degrees
forty-four minutes, what will fix hours forty-nine minutes, the leminoc-
turnal arch of Venus, give ?
Anfwer, twenty-four degrees twelve minutes.
Which is to be fubtraded from the diflance of Venus from the fourth
houfe thus; the diftance of Mercury from the fourth 28 39
The proportional part - - - 24 12
Remain for the arch of dire6tion - - 4 27
To turn this arch of diredion into time, add the Sun's
right afcenfion - - - - 11 18
And it is augmented to - - 15 45
Which feek in the Tables of Right Afcenfions, in order to find what
degree and minute of the zodiac anfwers thereto, and on examination
it will be feventeen degrees five minutes-of Aries. This being found,
refer to the Ephemeris, and examine what length of time the Sun will
take in going from twelve degrees feventeen minutes of Aries, being his
point at birth, to feventeen degrees fi.ve minutes of the fame fign, and it
will be found he is four days and near twenty-one hours ; which be-
ing computed according to the dodlrine of Ptolemy, by allowing one day's
motion of the Sun for a year, and two hours motion for a month, declares
the native was four years, ten months, and fifteen days, old, when Mars
cantie to a parallel of Venus in Mundo.
The
OF ASTROLOGY. 633
The SUN to the Parallel of JUPITER in MUNDO.
The Sun being in the fixth houfe, and the parallel made from the
feventh, the Sun's diftance is to be taken from the feventh houfe by ob-
lique defcenfion, under the pole of the feventh, viz. fifty-one degrees
thirty-one minutes.
Diflance of the Sun from the feventh - - 21° 56'
Seminocturnal arch of the Sun - 5'' 35"
Semidiurnal arch of Jupiter - 650
Diftance of Jupiter from the feventh - -
45 19.
Then fay, by the rule of proportion, If five hours thirty-
five minutes, being the nofturnal arch of the Sun, give its
diftance, twenty-one degrees fifty-fix minutes, what will
feven hours fifty minutes give?
Anfwer _ _ _ - 31 43
Which is to be fubtraded from Jupiter's diftance, and the
remainder is the arch of diredtion - -
^3 3^
Which, by adding the right afcenfion of the Sun, and turning it into
time, as in the foregoing example, points out the native to be fifteen,
years, four months, and twenty-one days, old, when the Sun came to the
mundane parallel of Jupiter.
The MOON to the PARALLEL of VENUS in Mundo,.
Diftance of the Moon from the fourth houfe, by right
afcenfion, - - - - - 20 15
Seminodlurnal arch of the Moon - 8 5
Seminodurnal arch of Venus - 6 49
Diftance of Venus from the fourth - - 28 39
Then, by the rule of proportion. If eight hours five minutes give
twenty degrees fifteen minutes, being the diftance of the Moon from the
fourth houfe, what will fix hours forty-nine minutes, the feminotturnar
arch of Venus, give ?
Anfwer, feventeen degrees five minutes.
This
634 A N I L jL U S T R A T I O N
This proportional part is to be fubtraded from the diftaiice of Venus,
thus
:
Diftance of Venus from the fourth 28** 39™
Proportional part fubtraft -
17 5
And there remains for the arch of diredion 11 34
Which, by being turned into time by the foregoing rules, gives twelve
years, eio-ht months, and about {even days, of the native's life.
The SUN to the M U N D A N E P A R A L L E L of M A R S.*
Diftancc of Mars from the midheaven - 24° 44
Semidiurnal arch of Mars - - 658
Seminodurnal arch of the Sua -
5 25
Then by the rule of proportion, if fix hours fifty-eight minutes give
twenty-four degrees forty-four minutes, what will five hours thirty-five
minutes give?
Anfwer - - - - - 21 40
Which muft be fubtraded from the diftance of the Sun from the,
fourth houfe thus ; the difl-ance of the Sua from the fourth, by right afcen-
fion, is - - - - 62 4
The proportional part fubtraft - - - 2 1 40
And the remainder is the arch of diredtioa 40 24
Which, by adjufting according to the former examples, gives forty-
three years of the native's age.
MERCURY to the MUNDANE PARALLEL of JUPITER.
The diftance of Mercury from the feventh houfe, by oblique defcea-
fion, under the pole of the feventh, is - - 121
Semino61urnal arch of Mercury - 5 10
Semidiurnal arch of Jupiter -
7 5°
* There can be no Mundane Parallels to the Part of Fortune, becaufe the Part of Fortune emits
no raysi
The
OF ASTROLOGY. 63s
The diftance of Jupiter from the feveuth, by obhque
defcenfion, under the pole of the feventh, is - - 45° ly
Then, by the rule of proportion, If five hours ten mi-
nutes, o"ive one degree twenty-on- minutes, the diflance
of Mercury, what will leven hours fifty minutes, the femi-
iiodurnal arch of Jupiter, give ?
Anfwer.
Which, being fubtrafted fi'om Jupiter's diftance, leaves
for the arch of diredion - - -
43 16
Which, being turned into time by the foregoing rule, gives forty-five
years, ten months, and about twelve days, of the native's life, when
Mercury came to the parallel of Jupiter in mundo.
SATURN to the MUNDANE PARALLEL of VENUS.
The diftance of Venus from the fourth houfe is - 28 3,9
The feminodurnal arch of Venus - 6'' 49"'
The femino6lurnal arch of Saturn -
7 n
The diftance of Saturn from the fourth houfe - - 17 7
Then fay, by the rule of proportion If fix hours forty-nine minutes,,
the feminodurnal arch of Venus, give her diftance from the fourth houfe,
viz. twenty-eight degrees thirty-nine minutes, what will feven hours
eleven minutes give, being the feniino6lurnal arch of Saturn ?
Anfvver, ^ - - - - 30 12
To which is to be added the diftance of Saturn from the
fourth, becaufe that planet is not paft the cufp, -
17 7
And the arch of diredion will be - -
47 ^9
Which, being turned into time, declares the native to be forty-nine
years and near ten months old, when Saturn comes to the mundane paral-
lel of Venus. •
l!^o.S2; 7R The.
636 ANILLUSTRATION
The MOON to the PARALLEL of the SUN in Mundo.
The diftauce of the Moon from the fourth houfe is - 20^1 y
The feminociurnal arch of the Moon - S** 5™
The leminoclurnal archof the Sun -
5 35
The diftance of the Sun from the fourth houfe - 624
Then, by the rule of proportion, If eight hours five mi-
nutes o-ive twenty degrees fifteen minutes, what will five
hours thirty-five minutes, the ferainoaurnal arch of the
Sun, give?' Anfwer, - - - -
^3 59
Now, as the Moon is pafl the cufp of the fourth houfe,
the proportional part muft be fubtraded from the dii^ance
of the Sun from the fourth.
And there remains for the arch of direction - - 4^ 5
Which arch of diredlion, turned into time, declares, that, when the
Mundane Parallel of the Moon atid Sun came up, the native was fifty
years, eight months, and about fixteen days, old.
MARS to the P A R A L L E L of M E R C U R Y in Mundo.
The diflauce of Mars from the midheaven is -
24 44
The feminodurnal arch of Mars - 6 58
The feminodturnal arch of Mercury -' 5 10
The dillance of Mercury from the fourth houfe, -
73 ^
Then, by the rule of proportion. If fix hours fifty-eight
minutes give twenty-four degrees forty-four minutes,
what will five degrees ten minutes give? Anfwer, 18 22
The part proportional is to be fubtracied from the dif-
tance of Mercury from the fourth houfe.
And the remainder is the arch of diredion - «
54 46
Which arch of diredion, being turned into time, declares the native
fifty-feven years, five months, and twenty-fix days, old, when Mars came
in parallel with the planet Mercury,
Of
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 637
Of M U N D A N E ASPECTS.
IMundane Alpeds are formed by the pofition of the twelve houfes of
heaven, as they arc oppofcd to, or arpe(5l, each other. For inflance, the
cufp of the midheaveu beholds the cufp of the feventh houfe and the
cufp of the afcendant "with a mundane quartile ; and the cufp of the
fourth with an oppofition. The cufp of the ninth houfe beholds the
cufp of the eleventh with a fextile, and the cufp of the fifth with a trine
;
fo the cufp of the twelfth beholds the culp of the fecond with a fextile,
and the cufp of the fourth with a trine. Andth\i3 the Mundane Afpeds
go round the twelve houfes, and have a meafure peculiar to themfelves,
being dilVindt from the meafure ufed for bringing up zodiacal afpeds,
where fixty degrees make a fextile, and an hundred and twenty make a
trine ; but thefe are meafurcd by their dillances from a given angle, and
by the femidiurnal and feminodlurnal arches ; fo that, to proportionate
or limit a Mundane Afpedl, it only requires to bring the ftar or planet to
the cufp of any of the houfes, according to the afpedl it is to be diretfled
to ; which may be done, by looking into the Table of Mundane Afpedts,
in pa2;es 501 and 502 of this work, where, by entering with the femidiur-
nal or feminocTturnal arch of the (iar or planet, is Ihown the limited pro-
portion of their various afpetfts, as in the following examples.
The PART of FORTUNE to the MUNDANE QUARTITE of
MERCURY.
The diftance of Mercury from tlie feventh houfe, under the pole of the
feventh, is - - - -
S° 17'
The femino(5hirnal arch of Mercury - 5'' 10°^
The femidiurnal arch of the Part of Fortune 8 5
[The Part of Fortune hath its diurnal and feminotlurnal arches in-
creafed or diminillied in proportion to thofe of the Moon, being wholly
dependent on her for declination, latitude, &:c. fo that, iu this Nativity of
Mr. Witchell, it forms a Lunar Horofcope.]
Then lay, by the rule of proportion, If five iiours ten minute?, being
the feminodilurnal arch of Mercurv, gives his dlllance from die feventh,
viz. three degrees fcventeen minutes, what will eight hours five minutes,
die diurnal arch of the Part of Fortune, give r Anfwer, -58
Then take the diftancc of the Part pf Fortune from the midheaven,
thus
:
The
638 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
The rischt alcenfiou of the Part, of Fortune with the
Moon's latitude, is - - - 141° 4^
Thcright afcenfion of the midhcaven - - 129. 14
And the diftancc of the Part of Fortune from tlie m'idr
heaven - - - - i2 30
To which add the above proportional part - 58"
And the fum total is the arch of diredioii. -
17 38
Then, by adding the right afcenfion of the Sun, and turning the arch-
of dire6tion into time, as by the former examples, it will be evident that
the Quartile of the Part of Fortune and Mercury in Mundo came up
M'hen the native was nineteen years, two months, and. about twenty-three
days, old.
The dUARTILE of MARS and JUPITER in Mundo.
The diftance of Mars from the midh.eav.en, by right afcen-
fion, is - - -
24 44
The difl:ance of Jupiter, by oblique defcenfion under the
pole of the feventh, is - - -
45 39.
The femidiurnal arch of Mars - 6^ 58"'
The femidiurnal arch of Jupiter - 7 5°-
Then fay, by the rule of proportion, If (ix hours fifty-eight
minutes give the diftance of Mars from the midheaven, what
will feveu hours fifty minutes give ? Anfwer, -
27 52
Which muft be fubtraded from Jupiter's diftance from
the feventh houfe,
And the arch of direftion is - - - 1747
Which, turned into time, points out the native's age, when Mars came
to the Mundane Quartile of Jupiter, to be nineteen years, fix months,.,
and about five days.
The MUNDANE QUARTILE of the P A R T of F O R-
T U N E and JUPITER.
The diftance of the Part of Fortune from the midheaven 1 2 ^o
TUc
OF ASTROLOGY.
The diftance of Jupiter from the feventh
The femidiurnal arch of the Part of Fortune
The femidiurnal arch of Jupiter
Then fay, by the rule of proportion, If eight hours five
minutes give twelve degrees thirty minutes, what will
feven hours fifty minutes give ? Anfwer, - - 12
Which, is to be fubtradled from Jupiter's diflance.
r
•
640 AN ILLUSTRATION
The femidiurnal arch of Jupiter - 7'' 50"
The{'emino6lurnal arch of the Sun -
5 35
Add thefe arches together,* and they make 13 25
Then, by the rule of proportion, If thirteen hours twenty-five minutes
give the diftance of Jupiter, viz. fix degrees thirty-four minutes, what
will five hours thirty-five minutes, the arch of the Sun, give?
Anfwer, - # - - - - 3^0-
To which add the diftance of the Sun from the fixth, taken
under the pole of the fixth, - - - - 67
And the arch of diredion is - - "97
And being turned into time, by adding the right afcenfion of the Sun
to the arch of direction, gives nine years, ten months, and about twenty-
two days, when the Sun came to the Mundane Sextile of Jupiter.
The PART of FORTUNE to the SEXTILE of JUPI-
TER in MUNDO.
The diftance of Jupiter from the eighth is - - 6 34
The femidiurnal arch of Jupiter -
7 50
The femidiurnal arch of the Part of Fortune 8 5
Being added, make - -
^5 55
Then, by the rule of proportion, If fifteen hours fifty-five minutes give
fix degrees thirty-four minutes, what will eight hours five minutes give?
Anfwer, - - - -
3 20
To which add the diftance of the Part of Fortune from
the tenth houfe - - - - ' 2 30
And the arch of diredion is - - -
^5 5'^
Which, being turned into time, gives feventeen years, three months,
and about four days.
* A Sextile being lefs than a Quartile, and a Trine more, if muft always be remembered to add
the two diurnal or nodlurnai arches togetheri and thus let the complement of both be the firA num-
ber in all proportional demands.
The
OFASTROLOGY. 641
The SUN in TRINE of the PART of FORTUNE in Mundo.
The Sun's diftance from the fixth houfe is - 6=" 7'
The feminodlurnal arch of the Sun - 5'' 2 c"
The femidiurnal arch of the Part of Fortuue 8 5
Being added, make ^ -
13 40
Then by the rule of proportion, If thirteen hours forty minutes give fix-
degrees feven minutes, what will eight hours five minutes give?
Anfwer, -- -. _ . o^
To which add the diftance of the Part of Fortune from
the midheaven, - - _ , 12 3^
And the arch ofdiredion is - - . 167
Which, being turned into time, gives feventeen years, four months, and
about twenty-three days.
The MOON to the TRINE of MERCURY in Mundo.
The diftance of Mercury from the feventh is -
3 ^7
Seminofturnal arch of Mercury - -
5 lo
Seminodurnal arch of the Moon -
^37
Being added together, make 13 47
Then by the rule of proportion. If thirteen hours forty-feven minutes
give three degrees feventeen minutes, what will eight hours thirty-fevcn
minutes give ? Anfwer, - - - - 2 "
To ^yhich add the Moon's diftance from the third houfe,
which is obtained by the oblique afcenfion, under the pole
of the third houfe, - - _ _ 2221
And it makes the arch of direction - - 24 24
Which, turned into time, gives twenty-fix years, four months, and
near twenty-two days, from the native's birth, when the Moon came to a
Trine of Mercury.
The
642 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
The MOON to the MUNDANE SEXTILE of VENUS.
The diftance of Venus from the fifth - - 6° 12/
Seminofturnal arch of Venus - 6'*
49™
Semino6turnal arch of the Moon - -
^37
Added together, make - - - 1526
Then by the rule of proportion, If fifteen hours twenty-fix minutes
give fix degrees twelve minutes, being the diftance of Venus from the
fifth houfe, what will eight hours thirty-feven minutes, the feminofturnal
arch of the Moon, give ? Anfwer, - - -
3 21
Add the Moon's diflance from the third 2221
And the arch of diredion is - - -
25 42
And, turned into time, will point to twenty-feven years, nine months,
and about eight days, of the native's age, when the Moon camie to the
Sextile of Venus.
The PART of F O R T UN E in TR I N E of MER C U R Y
in MuNDO.
UdJVji wiiJ r^l' .. . /4jI/C iO 03U£l'iili Oil J
The diftance of Mercury from the fixth houfe, by oblique
defccnfion - - - - - 22 44
Semino6lurnal arch of Mercury -
5 10
Semidiurnal arch of the Part of Fortune ,
.i^' v; 33 b'^hbK
Added together, make - - - ^ 3 '
47
Then, by the rule of proportion. If thirteen hours ior^y-feven minutes
give twenty-two degrees forty-four minute's, whatvi'ill eight hours thirty-
Ibven minutes give ? AnAver, ^ _^^ -^r.;}, ,-^-,,1^ ^-^ i3„i^
To which add the dittatfe^^f'tWime ^mrtiif/e' fV^i^' ,
'
"^^''^
the midheaven, " - - - - - iz" 30
And the arch of dn-eftion fs found - - 26 23
Which, turned into time, gives twenty-eight years fix months, from the
time of birth, when the Part of Fortune came to the Trine of Mercury.
'
. The
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 643
The SUN in TRINE cf M A R S in Mundo.
The diftance of the Sun from the fixth is - - 6" 7'
Semino6lurnal arch of the Sun - 5*" 35™
Semidiurnal arch of Mars - - 6 58
Being added, make - - - ^^33
Then, by the rule of proportion, If twelve hours thirty-three minutes
give fix degrees feven minutes, what will fix hours fifty-eight minutes
give ? Anfvver, - - - - -
3 o
Add the diftance of Mars from the midheaven -
24 44
And the fum is the arch of direction - - ,
27 44
Which, being turned into time, by adding the right afcenfion of the
Sun to the arch of diredion, it will give, from the time of birth, twenty-
nine years, eleven months, and near feven days, when the Sun came to
the Trine of Mars. •
PART of FORTUNE in SEXTILE of MERCURY in Mundo.
Diftance of Mercury from the feventh - -
5^7
Semino6turnal arch of Mercury - 5 ^^
Semidiurnal arch of the Part of Fortune ' ^ 37
Added together, make - - -
13 47
Then, If thirteen hours forty-feven minutes give three degrees feven-
teen minutes, what will eight hours thirty-feven minutes give ?
Anfwer, - - - - - i 38
To which add the diftance of the Part of Fortune from
the ninth houfe, which is found by taking the oblique af-
cenfion under the pole of the ninth houfe, - - - 29 54
And the fum of the arch of dircdion is 31 32
Which, turned into time, gives thirty-three years, ten months, and
about fifteen days, of the native's life.
No. 32. 7 T ^ The
644 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
The PART of FORTUNE in TRINE of VENUS in Mundo,
Diftance of Venus from the fifth houfe, - - 6° la'
Seminotlurnal arch of Venus - 6'' 49""
Semidiurnal arch of the Part of Fortune 8 "^^
15 26
Then, Jf fifteen hours twenty-fix minutes give (xy. degrees twelve- mi-
nutes, what will eight hours thirty-feven minutes give ?
Anfwer, - - - - -
3 26
To which add the diftance of the Part of Fortune from
the ninth houfe, taken under the pole of the ninth, by ob-
lique afcenfion, as before - - - -
2954
And the fum total is the arch of direftion -
2)?)
-°
Which, beiug turned into time, declares the native was thirty-five years
and nine months old, when the Part of Fortune cametotheTrine of Venus.
The MOON to the S E X T I L E of S A T U R N in Mundo.
The diflance of Saturn from the fifth houfe, by oblique defcenfion,
tinder the pole of the fifth, is - - - 2227
Seminotturnal arch of the Moon - '^31
Semino6lurnal atch of Saturn - 711
15 48
Then fay, by the rule of proportion, If fifteen hours forty-eight mi-
nutes give twenty-two degrees tvventy-feven minutes, what will eight
hours thirty-feven minutes give ? Anlvver, - - 12 15
Add the Moon's diftance from the third houfe - 22 21
And the arch of direftion is - - -
34 36
Which, being turned into time, by adding the right afcenfion of the
Sun to the arch of direftion, it (hows that the native was thirty-fix years,
ten months, and twenty-two days, old, when the Moon came to the
Sextile of Saturn in Mundo.
The
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 645
The MOON to the Trine of the SUN in Mundo.
Diftance of the Sun from the feventh - - 21" 46'
Semino6iurnal arch of the Sun - 5^ 35""
SemJnodurnal arch of the Moon -
^37
Being added, make - - 14 12
Then fay, by the rule of proportion, If fourteen hours twelve minutes
give twenty-one degrees forty-fix minutes, what will eight hours thirty-
feven minutes give ? Anfwer, - - - 13 22
Add the Moon's diftance from the third houfe 22 21
And thearchof diredion is - -
35 43
Which, being turned into time, gives thirty-feven years and two
months of the native's life, when the Moon came to the Trine of the Sun
in Mundo.
The MOON to the OPPOSITION of JUPITER in Mundo.
The diftance of Jupiter from the ninth - - 32 19
Semidiurnal arch of Jupiter -
7 50
Seminodturnal arch of the Moon - 8 37
Added, make - - 16 27
Then, by the rule of proportion. If fifteen hours tvventy-feven minutes
give thirty-two degrees nineteen minutes, what will eight hours thirty-
leven minutes give ? Anfwer, - - - 16 56
Which mufi: be added to the diftance of the Moon from
the third houfe, viz. - - - 32 21
Being added to the Part Proportional, makes -
39 17
for the arch of diredion
Which, being turned into time, gives forty-one years and about ten
months of the native's age, when the Moon came to the Mundane Op-
pofition of Jupiter.
The
646 AN ILLUSTRATION
The PART of F O R T U N E in TRINE of S A T U R N
in MuNDO.
The diftance of Saturn from the fifth - - 22" 27'
Seminoftiirnal arch of Saturn - 7'^ ii*"
Semidiurnal arch of the Part of Fortune 8 57
/
Added together, make - -
15 48
Then, by the rule of proportion, If fifteen hours forty-eight minutes
give twenty-two degrees twenty-feven minutes, what will eight hours
thirty-feven minutes give ? Anfwer, - - 12 29
To which add the diftance of the Part of Fortune from the
ninth houfe, viz. - - - - 29 54
And the arch of direction is - - - 42 23
Which, being turned into time, gives forty-four years, eleven months,
and about fifteen days, when the Part of Fortune came to the Mundane
Trine of Saturn.
The MOON in TRINE of the PART of FORTUNE in Mundo.
The diftance of the Part of Fortune from the midheaven, by right af-
cenfion, is - - _ . . 12 30
Semidiurnal arch of the Part of Fortune 8 37
Seminofturnal arch of the Moon - 8 37
Added, make - - 17 14
Then, by the rule of proportion. If feventeen hours four-
teen minutes give fixty-five degrees thirty-one minutes,
being the dif>ance of the Moon from the fecond houfe, what
will eight hours thirty-feven minutes give? Anfwer, - 32 45
Which being added to the Part of Fortune, the arch of
dire<Stion is - - _
45 ^5
Which gives forty-fevcn years, ten months, and about eighteen days, of
the native's life.
The
OP ASTROLOGY. Ml
The MOON in TRINE of MARS In Mundo.
Diftance of the Moon from the fecond houfe - 65° 31'
Seminofturnal arch of the Moon - 8*" 37"*
Semidiurnal arch of Mars - -. 6 58
Added together make - -
^S oS
Then, by the rule of proportion, If fifteen hours thirty-five minutes
give fixty-five degrees thirty-one minutes, what will fix hours fifty-eight
minutes give? Anfwer, - _ ^ _ 29 26
Diflance of Mars from the midheaven - -
23 34
Add the diftance of Mars to the proportional part, and the
arch of direftion is found - - - 52 50
Which, turned into time, gives forty-five years and about five months
of the native's life, when this direction came up.
MARS to the TRINE of V E N U S in Mundo.
Diflance of Venus from the fifth houfe - 612
Semino6turnal arch of Venus - 6 49
Semidiurnal arch of Mars - - - 6 58
Added together - - 13 47
Then, by the rule of proportion. If thirteen hours forty-feven minutes
give fix degrees twelve minutes, what will fix hours fifty-eight minutes
give? Anfwer, -^ « - - -
3 S'J
The diftance of Mai-s from the ninth houfe, by oblique
afcenfion, under the pole of the ninth, is - • 48 24
Then add the proportional part to the diftance of Mars,
and the arch of direction is - - - 52 21
Which, being turned into time, gives fifty-four years, eleven months,
and about fourteen days, of the native's age, when Mars came to the
Trine of Venus in Mundo.
No. 32. 7 U The
64S A N I L L U S T R A T 1 O N
The MOON to the Q U I N T I L E of the S U N ia Mvndo-
The right alccnfion of the Sun, added to the whole circle
of the zodiac, is - - - - 371° iS»
From which fubtrad the quintile, - - y$
And the remainder is - - - 296 i8-
Seek for this fum in the Table of Right Afcenfions, and it
will point in the zodiac to twenty-four degrees twenty-three
minutes of Capricorn, the declination of which point is
twenty-one degrees twenty-nine minutes. Then find the
alcenfional difference under the pole of the Moon, which is 4 39-
Add it to the right afcenfion, above given,
And the oblique afcenfion of the quintile of the Sun will be 300 57
From which fubtrad the oblique afcenfion of the Moon
taken under her own pole,, - - - 292 14
And the remainder is -• , - - 8 43
Then find the feminodurnal arcK of the Moon, according to her lati-
tude, which is eight hours thirty -feven minutes.
[The method of taking the Moon's feminoflurnal'arch with latitude,,
is thus: Find her declination with latitude, and thereby obtain her af-
cenfional difference under the pole of the afcendant, which afcenfional
difference is either to be added to or fubtradled from ninety degrees, ac-
cording whether it be ano6turnal or diurnal arch, or a northern or fouthern
fign.]
The feminodarnal arch of the quintile of the Sun is 7'' 54'"
[ The lemino6lurnal or femidiurnal arch of an afpeft is thus found :
Find the decree the planet (which is the promittor) poIIefTes in the zodiac,,
and add or lubtra6l what degrees are neceiTary for the afped, and with,
that degree in the zodiac find the femidiurnal or leminodurnal arch under
the latitude of birth. For example : Suppofe the femino(5turnal.arch of
the quintile of the Sun be required as above; proceed thus : The place
of the Sun in the zodiac, which in this example is promittor, is twelve
degrees feventeen minutes of Aries, from which fubtraft the quintile,
viz. feventy-five degrees, and it points to twenty-feven degrees feventeen*
minutes of Capricorn ; find the declination without latitude, viz. twenty
degrees forty-feven minutes, and then gain its afcenfional difference,
wKich is twenty-eight degrees thirty-two minutes ; add it to ninety, be-
caufe the afped is in a fouthern fign, and nodurnal, and it makes
eighteen
OFASTROLOGY. 649
eighteen degrees thirty-two minutes; which, by the table for turning de-
grees and minutes into time, in page 196, gives leven hours fifty-four
minutes, which is the feminodurnal arch required. In the fame manner
the feminodurnal 01" diurnal arch may be obtained for any other afped.]
Then fay, by the rule of proportion, If eight hours thirty-fevea
minutes, being the femino£l:urnal arch of the Moon, give eio-ht deo-rees
three minutes, the diflance of the Sun's quintile from the Moon, what
will {e\en hours fifty-four minutes, the nocturnal arch of the quintile,
give ?—For the arch of dire6lion - - - 80
Which is to be turned into time,, by the foregoing rule, and it will
Ihow the native was eight years, nine months, and about eighteen days,
old, when the Moon came to the Quintile of the Sun.
The SUN to the SESQUIQUADRATE of MARS in Mundo.
Right afcenfion of Mars with latitude - i^qo rg'
Sefquiquadrate afpeft from Mar* - - r^j
Subtraft, and the right afcenfion of the afpe6l is - 18 58
And, being fought in the Tables of Right Afcenfions, points
to twenty degrees thirty-three minutes of Aries, the decli-
nation of which is eight degrees three minutes ; by this, gain
the afcenfional difference under the pole of the Sun, viz. 7 -^y
Add the difference to the right afcenfion above, and the
oblique defcenfion of the fefquiquadrate of Mars is - 26 qc
Subtrad the oblique defcenfion of the Sun — 15 P2
43
And there remains - - - - 10
Semino6turnal arch of the Sun - 5'' 25*"
Semino6lurnal arch of the fefquiquadrate of Mars,
according to the above rule - -
5 29
Then fay by the rule of proportion, If five hours thirty-five miniites
give ten degrees forty-three minutes, what will five hours twenty-nine
minutes give? i\nfwer, - - - - 10 32'
Add it to the right afcenfion of the Sun, to turn it into time, and it
will give eleven years, fix months, and abovit fifteen days, of the iiati-vie's
life, when the Sun came to the Sefquiquadrate of Mars,
The
650 ANILLUSTRATION
The PART of FORTUNE to the SESQUIQUA-
DRATE of ME RC UR Y in Mundo.
Right afccnfion of Mercury, with latitude, - .22° 22'
Selquiquadrate of Mercury's afpedl, - - 135
Being added, make the right afcenfion - - 157 22
Which, being fought in the Table of Right Afcenfions,
points to five degrees thirty-five minutes of Scorpio ; the
declination thereof is nine degrees thirty minutes, and the
afcenfional difference under the pole of the Part of Fortune is in
Which afcenfional difference fubtraft from the ri^htaf-
cenfion, it being in a northern fign, and the oblique afcen-
fion of the fefquiquadrate is - - - 156 II
From which fubtraft the oblique afcenfion of the Part of
Fortune - - - - - 138 8
Remains - - - - - 18 j
Semidiurnal arch of the Part of Fortune, be-
ing the fame arch as the Moon, - - ^ 37
Semidiurnal arch of the fefquiquadrate of
Mercury, - - - - 6 40
Then fay, by the rule of proportion. If eight hours thirty-feven mi-
nutes give eighteen degrees three minutes, what will fix hours forty
minutes give? Anfwei:, - - - ^3 5^
Which is the arch of direftion; and, being turned into time, will give
fifteen years, three months, and about ten days, of the native's life, when
;this direction begins to operate.
The SUN to the SEMIQUARTILE of VENUS in Mundo.
Right afcenfion of Venus with latitude is -
357 5^
To which add her femiquartile - -
44
Venus's firft ^iftance is _ - - 382
From which fubtiadl the circle - - 360
>:?
And the right afcenfion will be - - 22 ^^
Which
e
r
O F A S T R O L G Y. 651
Which points in the zodiac to tvventy-four degrees forty-five minutes
of Aries; the declination is nine degrees thirty-feven minutes, and thi
afcenfional difference, taken under the pole of theSun, is o" 8'
Which, being added to the above right afcenfion, makes the
oblique declcnfion of the femiquartile of Venus - '•j
From which fubtrad the oblique defcenfion of the Sun 15 52
And there remains - - . 16 o
Seminodlurnal arch of the Sun - ^'' 05™
Seminodturnal arch of the femiquartile of Venus 5 20
Then fay, by the rule of proportion, If five hours thirty-five minutes
give fixteen degrees nine minutes, what will five hours twenty minutes
give for the arch of dired:ion ? Anfvver _ _ i c 26
Which being turned into time, by adding the right afcenfion of the
Sun, in order to gain its true place in the zodiac, the diurnal motion of
the Sun will mealure fixteen years, eight months, and about twenty-four
days, of the native's life, before the femiquartile of Venus in mundo will
begin to operate.
The MOON to the QUINTILE of MERCURY in Mundo.
Right afcenfion of Mercury, with the circle - 382 23
From which fubtrad; the quintile - « 7c o
And the right afcenfion of the point is -
307 22
Which anfwers to five degrees of Aquaries, the declination
of which is nineteen degrees five minutes.
Afcenfional difference under the pole of the Moon
Which, being added to the above right afcenfion, makes the
oblique afcenfion of the quintile of Venus
From which fubtradl the oblique afcenfion of the Moon
And there remains - _
19 16
Seminodlurnal arch of the Moon _ - S*" 3-7™
'
Seminodlurnal arch of Mercury's quintile - -7
31
No. 33. 7 X Then
4
653 AN ILLUSTRATION
Then, by the rule of proportion, If eight hours thirty-feven minutes
give nineteen degrees fixteen minutes, what will feven hours thirty-one
minutes give for the arch of diredlion ? Anfvver 16° 49'
Which, turned into time, gives eighteen years and about four months,
when this diredion of the Moon in quintile of Mercury comes up.
The MOON to the SEMIQUARTILE of the SUN in Mundo.
Right afcenfion of the Sun, with the circle - 371 18
Semiquartile fubtrad: - - - 45 O
326 18
This right afcenfion anfwers to twenty-three degrees fifty-
eight minutes of Aquaries, the declination of which is
thirteen degrees thirty-three minutes.
And the afcenfional difference, taken under the pole of the
Moon, is - - - - - 2 52
Which fubtradt from the above right afcenfion, and the
oblique defcenfion is - - - -
323 26
From which fubtrad the oblique afcenfion of the Moon 292 14
And there remains - - 31 12
Seminodurnal arch of the Moon - S^ 37"^
Seminodlurnal arch of the femiquartile of the Sun 7 5
Then fay, by the rule of proportion. If eight hours thirty-feven mi-
nutes give thirty-one degrees twelve minutes, what will feven hours five
minutes give for the arch of diredlion? Anfwer - 25 39
Which, joined to the Sun's right afcenfion, meafures the time of the
coming up of this diredlion to be thirty-three years, two months, and
about eight days.
The MOON to the SEMIQUARTILE of MERCURY in Mundo.
Right afcenfion of Mercury, with the circle - 382 22
Semiquartile fubtrad - - - 45 O
And the right afcenfion remains - - .
337 22
This
2o
654 ANIL LUSTRATION
Then fay, by the rule of proportion, If eight hours thirty-feven mi-
nutes give fifty-five degrees twenty-five minutes, v\ hat will five hours
thirty n.inutcs give^ Anfwer - - 35° 30
Which is the arch of diredlion, to be turned into time, by adding it to
the right afcenfion of the Sun as before ; and the relult will give thirty-
eight years, one month, and about eight days, of the native's lite, when
the Part of Fortune came to the fefquiquadrate of Jupiter.
The MOON to the OyiNTILE of JUPITER in Mun do.
The right afcenfion of Jupiter, with the circle 417 51
The quintile is - - 75 o
Subtradt, and the right afcenfion of Jupiter's quintile is 342 5
1
Which gives eleven degrees twenty-one minutes of Pifces
in the zodiac. —The declination of the point is feven
degrees twenty minutes.
The afcenfional difference, under the Moon's pole, is i 32
Suit acT;, and the oblique defcenfion of Jupiter's quintile is 441 19
The oblique afcenfion of the Moon fubtradt - 292 14
And there reinains for the arch of difference -
49 5
Seminodlurnal arch of the Moon - 8'' 57™
Seminodturnal arch of Jupiter's quintile 6 30
Then, by the rule of proportion. If eight hours thirty-feven minutes
give forty-nine degrees five minutes, what will fix hours thirty minutes
give for the arch of diredlion ? Anfwer - -
37 2
Which arch of dire(flion, being turned into time, declares the native
was thirty-nine years, fix months, and about fixteen days, old, when the
Moon came to the quintile of Jupiter.
The MOON to the SEMIQUAR'l'ILE of JUPITER in Mundo.
The right afcenfion of Jupiter, with the circle, is - 41751
The femiquartile is - - 45 o
Subtradl the femiquartile, aid there remaiivs - 372 51
Which
[
656 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Seminodlurnal arch of the Sun - 5'' 35"^
Seminod:urnal arch of Jupiter's quintile 7 16
Then, by the rule of proportion, If five hours thirty-five minutes give
forty-one degrees tvv'o minutes, what will feven hours fixteen minutes
give ? Anfvver - -
S3 '^S
Which is tlie arch of diredion, and by the meafure of time gives fifty-
fix years and about three days, before the Sun comes to the quintile of
Saturn.
To DIRECT the ANGLES of the FIGURE.
llie angles of the horofcope arc diredled by the fame rules as all the
other directions in the world are, viz. by the aid of the femidiurnal and
feminod:urnal arches; and, according as the planets have greater or lefs
latitude, fo muft their pofitions be taken; for a fiar is faid to touch the
horizon, by direction, or by any other motion, when it begins to leave
the fubterranean hemifphere, and is emerging into our's. And, although
the meridian and horizon are only two imaginary circles, yet we are
fijre there are two fuch points, which is demonflrated every morning
when the Sun rifes, and equally fo when itfetsj and reafon dictates that
there muft be a half-way between, which we call the meridian. Now a
ftar comes fooner or later to thefe angles, in proportion as it has either
north or fouth latitude; and may either be direded by the globes, or by
the method following.
METHOD of directing the ASCENDANT to the various ASPECTS of
the PLANETS.
The ASCENDANT to the SEXTILE of the MOON.
Right afcenfion of the Moon without latitude
From which fubtraCt the fextile
And there remains - _ _
From which fubtraCl the oblique afcenfion of the afi:endant
.And the diftance of the fextile of the Moon from the af-
cendant will be - -
s
288
60
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 657
Then obtain the feminodurnal arch of the Moon thus ; firft find the
declination of the Moon with latitude, and under the pole of the afcen-
dantgain her afcenfional difference, and add to it - 00
Alcenfional difference - _ 70 16
1 29 1
6
This fum being turned into hours and minutes, by the Table in page
196 of this work, will give eight hours thirty-feven minutes.
The feminodlurnal arch of the afcendnnt is next to be taken ; and
by examining the Table of Seminodurnal Arches in page 491, it will be
found that twenty-feven degrees thirty-three minutes of Libra will give fix
hours fifty-five minutes.
I take thefe two feminodlurnal arches, and fay. If fix hours fifty-five
minutes (being the feminodturnal arch of the afcendant) give nine degrees
ten minutes, the diffance of the Moon's fextile, what will eight hours
thirty-feven minutes, the feminodlurnal arch of the Moon, give?
AnfM^er - - _ 1 1 25
Which is to be turned into time, by adding the right afcen-
fion of the Sun - - 1 1 iS
' The right afcenfion of Sol being added, makes 22 43
Which, being fought in the table of right afcenfions points to twenty-
four degrees thirty minutes of Aries; to which place the Sun carae in
. twelve days twelve hours ; and by allov/ing one day of the Sun's mo-
tion for a year of the native's life, as before, declares the native to be
twelve years and fix months old, when the afcendant came to the fextile of
the Moon.
The ASCENDANT to the QUARTILE of SATURN.
Firfl feek what latitude Saturn has at the quartile from his place, which is
in twenty-three degrees thirty-eight minutes of Virgo, and it will be found
he has for latitude two degrees eight minutes north.
Secondly, take Saturn's right afcenfion with that latitude 324 55
From which fubtradt the quartile - . 90
And there remains - « 234 ^^
Froni
658 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
From which lubrraA the oblique afcenfion of the afcendant 2Jg 14
And there remains for the arch of dircdion -
15 4^
And by adding the right afcenfion of the Sun, and turning it into
time as before, it will produce fevenrcen years one month and about feven
da}'S, when the afcendant came to the quaitile of Saturn.
The ASCENDANT to the OPPOSITION of JUPITER.
The right afcenfion of Jupiter without latitude
The declination of Jupiter, with latitude 19' 39'
The afcenfional difference, with latitude
Add the afcenfional difference and the oblique afcenfion of
the oppofition of Jupiter
From which fubtradl the oblique afcenfion of the afcendant
And the remainder is the arch of diredlion -
45 ^ i
Which turned into time, by adding the right afcenfion of the Sun, &c.
will produce forty-feven years and about ten months, when the afcendant
came to the oppoiition of Jupiter.
The ASCENDANT to the QUARTILE of MARS.
The quartile of Mars falls in forty-four minutes of Sagittarius ; the
latitude which Mars poffeffes at that point is fifty-four minutes fouth.
Right afcenfion of Mars with that latitude - 152 29
To which add the quartile - -
90
337
OF ASTROLOGY.
The right afcenfion of Venus with that latitude
From which fubtradl the quartile
And the remainder is - «
From which alfo fubtracfl the oblique afcenfion of the
afcendant - _ -
And the remainder is the arch of diredlion
Which turn into time, by adding the right afcenfion of the Sun, and
it will produce twenty-eight years and about feven months, when the
afcendant came to the quartile of Venus.
The ASCENDANT to the TRINE of the SUN.
Right afcenfion of the Sun with the circle - 371 18
From which fubtrad: the trine - 120
66o ANIL LUSTRATION
Obtain the feminofturnal arch of Saturn according to the latitude he
has at the Textile place, which is, - -
716
Seminocfturnal arch of the afcendant - ^55
Then, by the rule of proportion. If fix hours fifty-five minutes give
forty-fix degrees forty-four minutes, what will feven hours fixteen minutes
give ? Anfwer (for the arch of diredion) - - 49 6
Turn the arch of diredlion into time, by adding the right afcenfion of
the Sun, and it will produce fifty-one years, fix months, and feven days,
when the afcendant came to the fextile of Saturn.
The ASCENDANT to the TRINE of MARS.
Right afcenfion of Mars, without latitude - - '
152 49
And the trine - - 120
And it makes - - 272 49
From wliich fubtrad the oblique afcenfion of the afcendant 219 14
And there remains .
- -
53 35
The femidiurnal arch of Mars, according to the latitude he poffefles at
his trine place is - - ^53
The femino(i1:urnal arch of the afcendant 6 55
Then, by the rule of proportion. If fix hours fifty-five minutes give
fifty-three degrees thirty-five minutes, what will fix degrees fifty-three
minutes give ? Anfwer - - 53 20
Then, by turning this arch of diredion into time, it allows fifty-five
years eleven months, for the afcendant to come to the trine of Mars.
The MIDHEAVEN,. or MEDIUM CCELI, to the TRINE of the SUN,.
Right afcenfion of the Sun - - 11 18
Declination of the Sun is four degrees fifty-two minutes
north
Aicenfional difference under the pole of the fixth i 13
tS
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 66i
The Sun being in a northern fign. add the afcenfional dif-
ference to the right afcenfion, and the remainder will be the
oblique dcfcenfion _ _ 12 ?!
From which fubtradl the oblique defcenfion of the fixth 9 14
And the remainder is the arch of diredion -
3 jT"
Which, being turned into time, declares the native was three years,
feyen months, and twenty days, old, when the midheaven came to the
trine of the Sun.
The MIDHEAVEN to the CONJUNCTION of the PART of
FORTUNE.
Right afcenfion of the Part of Fortune - 141 44
Right afcen/ion of the Midheaven - - 129 14
Subtrad:, and the arch of diredion is 12
Which, being turned into time, gives thirteen years, four months, and
about leven days, when the midheaven came to the conjundion of the Part
of Fortune,
The MIDHEAVEN to the OPPOSITION of SATURN.
Right afcenfion of Saturn's oppofite point, with contraiy
^atitude . . . 146 21
Right afcenfion of the Midheaven - lao i^
Subtrad, and the remainder is the arch of diredlion 1
7 n
Which, being turned into time, produces nineteen years, eight months,
and about fixteen days, for the completion of thisafped.
The MIDHEAVEN to the CONJUNCTION of COR LEONIS.
The right afcenfion of Cor Leonis, with twenty-fix minutes north
latitude, is - _ . 148 9
The right afcenfion of the Midheaven - » 129 41
Subtrad, and the remainder is the arch of diredioa 1 8 55
Which,
662 ANILLUSTRATION
Which, being turned into time, gives twenty years and about fevcn months
for the coming up of this diredion.
The MIDHEAVEN to the TRINE of MERCURY
.
Right afcenfion of Mercury, with half-latitude - 22
Declination of Mercury, with latitude, is twelve degrees
fifty-two minutes.
Afcenfional difference under the pole of the fixth
And, being in a northern fign, add the afcenfional difference,
and the fame will be the oblique defcenfion of Mercury
From which fubtrad the oblique defcenfion of the fixth.
And there remains, for the arch of diredion - 25 O
Which turn into time, by the rules foregoing, and it will fliovv the
native to be twenty-feven years and about one month old when the midhea-
ven came to the trine of Mercury.
MIDHEAVEN to the QUARTILE of JUPITER.
Right afcenfion of Jupiter, with the latitude he pofTeffes
at his quartile, viz. fifty-one minutes north.
Add its quartile
And it makes - - -
Subtradl the right afcenfion of the Midheavcn
II
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 663
Which, turned into time, produces twenty-fix years, nine months, and
about three days, for the operation of this afpedt.
The MIDHEAVEN to the OPPOSITION of VENUS.
Right afcenfion of the oppofition of Venus, with contrary kti-
ide - - - -
157 29
Right afcenfion of the midheaven - - 129 14
Subtrad, and the remainder is the arch of diredioo aS 15
Which, turned into time, will produce thirty years and about fix
months of the native's life.
The MIDHEAVEN to the CONJUNCTION of the DRAGON^s TAIL.
Right afcenfion of the Dragon's Tail - 162 18
From which fubtraft the right afcenfion of the midheaven 129 14
Remains for the arch of dired:ion - "
33 4
Which, turned into time, according to the former examples, declares
the native was thirty-five years and fix months old when the midheaven
came to the conjuncStion of the Dragon's Tail.
The SUN direded to the QUARTILE of the MOON in fhe Zodiac
without Latitude.
The quartile of the Moon is fix degrees fifty-fix minutes of Aries.
The declination of that point without latitude is fix degrees fortr
minutes.
The pole of the Sun forty-three degrees eight minutes.
Right aifcenfion of the quartile of the Moon /*.
'i 36
Afcenlional difference under the pole of the Sun - 617
No. 33. 8 A Oblique
664 AN ILLUSTRATION
Oblique defcenfion of that point, by adding the afcenfional
difference to the right afcenfion - - 2i 5^
From which fubtrad: the obhque defcenfion of the Sun 15 59
And the remainder is the arch of diredlion -
5 54
Which, being turned into time, declares the native was fix years, fix
months, and about ten days, old, when the Sun came to the quartile of the
Moon without latitude.
The SUN diredled to the QUARTILE of the MOON in the Zodiac
with Latitude.
The quartile of the Moon falls in fixteen degrees fifty-fix minutes of
Aries.
Look into the Ephemeris, and find what latitude the Moon has at that
point:—and it has three degrees north latitude.
The declination of that point with latitude , is nine degrees twenty-feven
minutes.
•Right afcenfion of the quartile of the Moon with latitude 14 26
Pole of the Sun, is forty-three degrees eight minutes.
Afcenfional difference under that pole
Add the right afcenfion, and the oblique defcenfion of the
Moon's quartile, with latitude, is -
Subtract the oblique defcenfion of the Sun
And the remainder is the arch of diredion , » 4 43
Which, turned into time, gives five years and about two months^ when
the Sun came to the fquare of the Moon with latitude.
The SUN diredled to the SEXTILE of SATURN in the Zodiac.
Oblique defcenfion of the fextile of Saturn - 30 ^6
Oblique defcenfion of the Sun - f *5 59
L
Subtraa
6
OFASTROLOGY. td^
Subtrad the oblique defcenflon of the Sun from the oblique
defcenfion of the fextile of Saturn, and there remains for the
arch of direction - - 14 3-7
Which, being converted into time, declares the native was about fixteen
years old when the Sun came to the fextile of Saturn.
The SUN to the CONJUNCTION of MERCURY.
Oblique defcenfion of Mercury with latitude, taken under the pole of
the Sun - - - 34 44
Oblique defcenfion of the Sun -^
15 59
Subtract, and the arch of diredion is ' - 18 45
Which, turned into time, gives twenty years and about five months, wh«i
the Sun came to the conjunction of Mercury.
The SUN to the SEVENTH HOUSE, direct Direction.
Oblique defcenfion of the feventh houfe — 39 14
Oblique defcenfion of the Sun '
— 15 59
Subtrad, and the arch of diredion is • 23 15
Which, turned into time, produces twenty-five years, two months, and
twenty-five days, when the Sun came to the feventh houfe.
The SUN direded to the TRINE of MARS in the Zodiac.
Oblique defcenfion of the trine of Mars « 39 50
Oblique defcenfion of the Sun - - *5 59
Subtrad, and the remainder is the arch of diredion 23 51
Which, turned into time, declares the native was twenty-five years,
nine months, and fourteen days, old, when the Sun canxe to th« trine
of Mars.
The
664 ANILLUSTRATION
The SUN to the SEXTILE of VENUS in the Zodiac.
The obhque defceniion of the fextile of Venus - 45 53
The obUque defcenfion of the Sun - - ^5 59
The arch of diredlion - - 29 54
Which, turned into time, gives thirty-two years, four months, and
about twelve days, when the Sun came to the fextile of Venus.
The SUN to the QUINTILE of SATURN in the Zodiac.
The quintile falls in Taurus, eight degrees thirty-five minutes.
The oblique defcenfion of that point under the pole of the
Sun - - - 50 8
The oblique defcenfion of the Sim — "5 59
The arch of dired:ion - -^
34 9
Which, turned into time, produces thirty-fix years and about feven
months, when the Sun came to the quintile of Saturn.
The SUN to the CONJUNCTION of VENUS by converse Motion.
The oblique defcenfion of the Sun, with the circle ^j^ 3
The oblique defcenfion of Venus, under the pole of Venus 334 43
Subtra(fl, and the arch of diredion is - 38 20
Which, turned into time, produces forty-one years and about one
month, when the Sun came to the conjunction ot Venus, by converfe
motion.
The SUN diredled to the TRINE of LUNA in the Zodiac.
The oblique defcenfion of the trine of Luna -
The oblique defcenfion of the Sun *
The arch of diredlion »
61
OF ASTROLOGY. 667
Which, turned into time, produces forty-feven years and about eight
months, when the Sun came to the trine of the Moon in the zodiac.
The SUN direded to the OPPOvSITION of MARS in the Zodiac,
by converse Motion.
Oblique defcenfion of the Sun, with the circle, under the pole of
Mars - - - 372 46
Oblique defcenfion of Mars at the oppofitc point 329 36
Subtradl, and the remainder is the arch of dire(5tion 43 10
Which, turned into time, gives forty-five years and about nine months,
when Sol came to the oppofition of Mars by converfe motion.
The SUN diredled to the ZODIACAL PARALLEL of VENUS.
The parallel of Venus falls in twenty-two degrees thirty minutes
of Aries.
Pole of the Sun - -^
Declination of Venus
Afcenfional difference
Right afcenfion of the parallel of Venus
Add the afcenfional difference to the right afcenfion, and the
fum is the oblique defcenfion
Oblique defcenfion of the Sun
Subtra(fl the oblique defcenfion of the Sun, from the oblique
defcenfion o£ the parallel of Venus, and the arch of direction is 13 15
Which, turned into time, gives fourteen years and about fix months,
when the Sun came to the zodiacal parallel of Venus.
The SUN diredled to the ZODIACAL PARALLEL of MERCURY.
Th« parallel of Mercury falls in three degrees fifty-five minutes of
Taurus.
No. 33. 8 B Declination
43
12
37
670 AN ILLUSTRATION
Add tliC afcenfional difference to the Moon's right afcenfion,
and her obhquc afccnfion will be -
293 55
Then, to gain the arch of direiflion, fuhtrad: the oblique afccnfion of the
Moon from the oblique afccnfion of the quartile of Mercury, thus,
Oblique afcenfion of the quartile of Mercury - 300 31
Oblique afcenfion of the Moon - -
293 55
Subtract:, and the arch of diredion is - 6 36
Which, being added to the right afcenfion of the Sun, and turned into
time, gives feven. years and near four months, when the Moon came to the
quartile of Mercury, with latitude, in the zodiac.
The MOON dircded to the QUINTILE of the SUN.
The quintile of the Sun falls in twenty-feven degrees of Capricorn
.
Declination of that point without latitude (for the Sun never has
any) - - -
Pole of the Moon
Afcenfional difference of the quintile of the Sun under the
pole of the Moon
Right afcenfion of the quintile of the Sun
Add the right afcenfion to the afcenfional difference, and it
makes the oblique afcenfion
Declination of the Moon, with latitude
Afcenfional difference, under her own pole
Right afcenfion of the Moon, with latitude
Add the afcenfional difference and the right afcenfion together,
and the fum will be the oblique afcenfion - 294 59
Subtracft the oblique afcenfion of the Moon from the oblique afcenfion of
the quintile of i>ol, and the remainder will be the arch of diredion.
Oblique afcenfion of the quintile of the Sun - 303 ^6
Oblique afctnfion of the Moon - 294 49
20
1
1
OFASTROLOGY. 671
Which, turned into time, produces nine years, five months, and about
four days, when the Moon came to the quintile of the Sun.
The MOON to the TRINE of JUPITER in the ZODIAC, with
Latitude.
The trine of Jupiter falls in twenty- nine degrees fifty-five minutes of
Capricorn.
The latitude of the Moon has at that point is fouth
The declination of that point with that latitude is
The pole of the Moon - - _ _
The afcenfional difference of the above point
The right afcenfion of that point with latitude
Add the afcenfional difference to the right afcenfion, and
the fum will be the oblique afcenfion of the point - 308 7
Then take the oblique afcenfion of the Moon with latitude 294 59
3
672 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
The oblique aicei^fioti .... 306 29
The dechiiation of ilie Moon with latitude - 26 42
The afceiinoiial difference under her own pole - 60
The ricrht afcenfion of the Moon with latitude - 288 59
Add the afcenfional difference and the right afcenfioa
together, and the lum will be the oblique afcenfion 294 59.
Then fubtraft the oblique afcenfion of the Moon from the oblique
afcenfion of the trine of Jupiter, and the remainder will be the arch of
direction.
The oblique afcenfion of the trine of Jupiter - 3-06 29
The oblique afcenfion of the Moou - - 294 59
The arch of direftion - '
- - - ii 30
Which, turned into time, produces twelve years and about feveii
months, when the Moon came to the trine of Jupiter.
The MOON to the SEXTILE of the SUN in the ZODIAC.
The fextile of the Sua falls in twelve degrees feventeen minutes of
Aquaries.
The declination of that point, without latitude - 1 7 1
2
The afcenfional difference - - - - 3 42
The right afcenfion - - - - -314, 46
Add the afcenfional difference to the right afcenfion, and
the fum will be the oblique afcenfion of the point - 318 28
The oblique afcenfion of the Moon, Avith latitude - 294 59
Subtrad the oblique afcenfion of the Moon from the oblique
afcenfion of the textile of the Sun, and the remainder is the
arch of direftioii - - - - - -
23 29
Which, being turned into time, produces twenty-five years, five
months, and about four days, when the Moon came to the fextile of the
Sun in the zodiac.
The
O F A S T R O L O G Y. (^13
The MOON direaed to the CONJUNCTION of SATURN, with
Latitude.
The pole of the Moon - - - - 1 1 45
The decUnation of Saturn with latitude - - 14 43
The latitude of Saturn is fouth - - -16
The afcenfional difference of Saturn - - 3 ^
The right aiceufion of Saturn with latitude - 326 21
Add the afcenfional difference and right afcenfion together,
and the fu.n will be the oblique afcenfion, viz. -
329 29
The oblique afcenfion of the Moon with latitude is 294 59
Subtract, and the remainder is the arch of diredion 34 30
Which, turned into time, produces thirty-fix years, eleven months, and
about eighteen days, when the Moon came to the conjunction of Saturn,
by dire6t diredtion.
The MOON direded to the SEXTILE of MERCURY in the ZODIAC,
without Latitude.
The Textile of Mercury falls in twenty-five degrees fifteen minutes of
Aquaries.
The declination of which point is - -
The pole of the Moon _ . _
The afcenfional difference belouGfino; to the Sextile of Mer-
cury IS ----- .
The right afcenfion of the fame point
Add the afcenfional difference and right afcenfion together,
and the fum will be the oblique afcenfion, viz.
From which fubtraft the oblique afcenfion of the Moon,
with latitude - - _ > ,
And the remainder is the arch of diredtion
11
674 AN ILLUSTRATION
Which, turned into time, produces thirty-fevea years, nine months,
and about twenty days, when the Moon came to the Textile of Mer-
cury in the zodiac.
The MOON dire^ed to the SEXTILE of MERCURY in the
ZODIAC, with Latitude.
The pole of the Moon - - ^ - 1 1 45
The latitude the Moon has at the fextlle of Mercury is
one degree twenty-five minutes fouth.
The declination of the fextile of Mercmry with latitude 14 30
The ai'cenfional difference _ - - 3 6
The right afceiifion of the fextile of Mercury, with latitude 32S 3
Add the afcenfional difference to the right afcenfion, and
'the oblique afcenfion of Mercury's fextile place is obtained 331 g
From which fubtradl the oblique afcenfion of the Moon
with latitude - - _ _ . 294 59
The remainder is the arch of dire<?fion - - 36 10
Which, being turned into time, declares the native was thirty-eight
years and about eight months old when the Mooa came to the fextile
of Mercury with latitude.
The MOON direaed to the QUARTILE of JUPITER in the ZO-
DIAC, without Latitude.
The quartile of Jupiter falls in twenty-nine degrees fifty-five minutes
of Aquaries,
The pole of the Moon - - - - 1 1 45
The declination without latitude - - - ^ ' 33
The afcenfional difference - - - - 2 26
The right afcenfion of Jupiter's quartile, no latitude - 332 i
Add
334
22
OFASTROLOGY. 677
Subtra6l the oblique afcenfion of the Moon, from the oblique afcen-
fion of Mars, and the remainder is the arch of diredion 42 9
Which, turned into time, produces forty-four years, eight months,
and about ten days, when the Moon came to the oppofition of Mars,
with latitude.
The MOON direded to the OPPOSITION of MARS in the ZODIAC,
without Latitude.
The declination of Mars, without latitude, is - 11 15
The pole of the Moon - - - - 1 1 4
5
The afcenfional difference - - - 2 22
The right afcenfion of Mars's oppofite place, no latitude 332 49
Add the afcenfional difference to the right afcenfion, and
the fum will be the oblique afcenfion - - - 325 1
1
Then take the oblique afcenfion of the Moon thus :
The pole of the Moon is - -- . ir4c
The declination of the Moon, without latitude - 22 28
The afcenfional difference of the Moon - - 4 c6
The i-ight afcenfion of the Moon, no latitude - 288 22
The afcenfional difference, being added to the right afcenfion
of the Moon, gives the oblique afcenfion of the Moon 293 18
Subtra6l the oblique afcenfion of the Moon from the oblique
afcenfion of Mars's oppofite place, and the remainder 'is the
arch of direction - - - _ , '41
53
Which, being turned into time, produces forty-four years five months
and about twenty days, when the Moon came to the oppofition of Mars
in the zodiac, without latitude.
The MOON direded to the ZODIACAL PARALLEL of SATURN.
The zodiacal parallel of Saturn falls in twenty degrees thirty minutes
of Aquaries.
The
II
O F A S T R G L O G Y. 679
The MOON direaed to the CONJUNCTION of VENUS.
The dedination of Venus, with latitude - - 8 47
The pole of the Moon - - - - ^^57
The afcenfional difference under the pole of the Moon ' ^ 57
The right afcenfion of Venus, with latitude -»
^^-j 5^
Add the afcenfional difference to the right afcenfion, and
the fum will be the oblique afcenfion - -
^39 50
The oblique afcenfion of the Moon, with latitude -
294 59
Subtract the oblique afcenfion of the Moon from the
oblique afcenfion of Venus, and the remainder is the arch
of direction -- - - - -44 51
Which, turned into time, by the rules before given, produces forty-
feven years, five months, and about eight days, when the Moon came to
the conjundion of Venus.
The MOON direfted to the ZODIACAL PARALLEL of JUPITER.
The zodiacal parallel of Jupiter falls in two degrees thirtv-four mi-
nutes of Aquaries.
The pole of the Moon - - - .
The declination of Jupiter - - - ^
The afcenfional difference - - - _
The right afcenfion o; the parallel of Jupiter -
Add the afcenfional dittcrence to the right afcenfion, and
the fum Avill be the oblique afcenfion, viz.
From which fubtra6l the oblique afcenfion of the Moon
And the remainder is the arch of diredlion
No. j4. 8 E
1
1
68o AN ILLUSTRATION
Which, being turned into time, produces fifteen years, four months^
and about twenty-fix days, when the Moon came to the zodiacal paral-
lel ot Jupiter.
The MOON direded to the ZODIACAL PARALLEL of
MERCURY.
The zodiacal parallel of Mercury falls in twenty-fix degrees five mi-
nutes of Aquaries.
The pole of the Moon - - - - 1 1 45
The declination of Mercury - - - I2 52
The afcenfional difference _ _ »
The right afceafion of the parallel of Mercury
Add the afcenfional difference to the right afcenfion, and
the fum is the oblique afcenfion . _ -
The oblique afcenfion of the Moon _ - -
Subtract, and the arch of dire61ion is - -
Which, turned into time, gives thirty-eight years and about feveii
•months, when the Moon came to the zodiacal parallel of Mercury.
2
328
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 681
Then find the oblique afcenfion of the Part of Fortune, thus :
The pole of the Part of Fortune is - - -
The declination is the fame as the Moon's, viz.
The right afcenfion - - - - -
The afcenfional difference
Subtra(5t the afcenfional difference from the right afcenfion,
and the remainder is the oblique afcenfion - -
137 40
Subtraft the oblique afcenfion of the Part of Fortune from the oblique
afcenfion of the oppolition of Saturn, and the remainder is the arch of
direftion, thus
:
The oblique afcenfion of the oppofition of Saturn - 144 14
The oblique afcenfion of the Part of Fortune - - 137 40
8
682 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Subtrad tlie firiaDcr cblique afcenfion from the greater, and
the remainder is the arch of diredlioa - - - 8 23
#
Which being turned into time, produces nine years, two months,
and about eight days, when the Part of Fortune came to the coi)jun6i:ion
of Cor Leonis.
The PART of FORTUNE directed to the CONJUNCTION of
MARS.
The pole of the Part of Fortune - - - So
The dechnation of Mars, with latitude - - 14 15
The right afcenfion of Mars, with latitude - - ^53 5^
The afcenfion al difference - - - - 22
Subtrad the afcenfional difference from the right afcenfion,
and the remainder is the oblique afcenfion - - 151 56
The oblique afcenfion of the Part of Fortune -
137 40
Subtraft, and the arch of direftion is - - - 14 16
Which, being turned into time, produces fifteen years and about
{even months, when the Part of Fortune came to the conjundion
of Mars.
The PART of FORTUNE direded to the QUARTILE of JUPITER
in the Zodiac, viz. twenty-nine Degrees fifty- five Minutes of
the Sign LEO.
The pole of the Part of Fortune
The declination of the quartile of Jupiter
The right afcenfion of the quartile of Jupiter
The afcenfional difference
8
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 683
Subtradl the afcenfional difference from the right afcenfion,
and the remauider is the obhque afcenfion - 150 22
The obhque afcenfion of the part of fortune - 137 40
Subtra6l the obhque afcenfion of the part of fortune from the
obhque afcenfion of the quartile of Jupiter, arid the remainder
is the arch of diredlion - - 12 42
Which, turned into time, produces thirteen years, ten months, and
about twenty-eight days, when tHe part of fortune came to the quartile
of Jupiter.
The PART of FORTUNE direded to the OPPOSITION of
VENUS.
The pole of the part of fortuixe - -80
The declination of Venus, with latitude - -- 8 47
The right afcenfion of Venus's oppofite place, with latitude 157 53
The afcenfional difference - - - ^ ^5
Subtract the afcenfional difference from the right afcenfion,
and the remainder is the oblique afcenfion - - 156 38
The oblique afcenfion of the part of fortune - 1 3 7 40
Subtrad, and the arch of direction is - - 18 58
Which, turned into time, produces twenty years, feven months, and
about eight days, when the part of fortune came to the oppofition of
Venus.
No; 34. 8 F The
684 ANiLLUSTRATIOlSr
The PART of FORTUNE direaed to the CONJUNCTION of the
DRAGON'S TAIL, or MOON's SOUTH NODE.
The pole of the Part of Fortune - -80-
The declination of the Dragon's Tail - *:
7 3^
The right afcenfion of the Dragon's Tail • 162 19
The afcenfional difference - - - 15
Subtraft the afcenfional difference from the right afcenfion,.
and the refidue is the oblique afcenfion - » i6r 14
The oblique afcenfion of the Part of Fortune is- .
- 137 40-
Subtra£l the oblique afcenfion of the Part of Fortune from the
oblique afcenfion of the Dragon's Tail, and the remainder is'
the arch of diredion .... - a^ ^^
Which, turned into time, produces twenty-five years, fix months,,
and about eight days, when the Part of Fortune came to the conjunction
of the Dragon's Tail.
The PART of FORTUNE direded as HYLEG to th^ SUN, which;
in this-Nativity is Anareta, or the Direction of Death.
The pole of the Part of Fortune - •- - 80
The declination of the Sun . - - - 4 42
The right afcenfion of the Sun*s oppofite point - 191 i8
The afcenfional difference - - - o 41
Add
191
686 AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE of DIRECTIONS in the foregoing Nativity of Mr.
WITCHELL, with the leveral Arches thereof, the Meafurc of
Time agreeiag to each of them, and the Year and Month when they
began to take;eiFe<5I.
OF ASTROLOGY. 687
A TABLE of DIRPXTIONS in the foregoing Nativity of Mr.
WITCHELL, with the ieveral Arches thereof, the Meafure of
Time agreeing to each of them, and the Year and Month when they
began to take effe6l.
688 AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE of DIRECTIONS in the foregoing Nativity of Mr.
WITCHELL, with the feveral Arches thereof, the Meafure of
Time agreeing to each of them, and the Year and Month when
they began to take effett.
OF ASTROLOGY. 689
A TABLE of DIRECTIONS in the foregoing Nativity of Mr.
WITCHELL, with the feveral Arches thereof, the Meafure of
Time agreeing to each of theni, and the Year and Month when
they began to take effeft.
690 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
A TABLE of DIRECTIONS in the foregoing Nativity of Mr.
W'lTCHELIy, with the feveral Arches thereof, the Meafure of
Time agreeing to each of them, and the Year and Month when
they began to take efFe61.
1
OF ASTROLOGY. 691
The following are the essential and accidental DIGNITIES
and DEBILITIES of the Planets in this Nativity.
Dignities.
Satukn in hi=; own hou
'692 AN ILLUSTRATION
Dignities.
Venus in exaltation
in reception of Jupiter
free from combuflion
in the fourth houfe
diredt
fwift in motion
in term
Total number
Subtra6t debilities
4
5
5
4
4
2
2
26
2
Si.rplus of dignities in $ 24
Mercury in reception
occidental
free from combuftiou
Total number
5
z
5
12
Moon in triplicity
free from combuftion
in the third houfe
in the terms of Jupiter
Total number
Subtract debilities
Surplus of dignities
3
5
I
I
10
9
Debilities.
Venus oriental
Mercury retrograde
under the Sun beams
in the fixth houfe
Total number
Subtraft dignities
Surplus of debihties in 9
Moon flow in motion
oriental
in detriment
Total number
5
4
4
12
2
Z
5
The CLIMATERICAL YEARS of this NATIVITY.
The Clima6lerical Years, as we have before fhown, are nothing
more than the times or periods in which the JVIoon makes her quarters,
or re-occupies the place fl^c poffeflTed at the time of birth, meallired by
her own motion, and applied to the years of the native's life. To af-
certain the clima61erics of this nativity, note the exaft point the Moon
occupied at the time of birth, which is fixteen degrees fifty-fix minutes
of Capricorn. Refer to the Ephemeris calculated for the year in which
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 695
the native was born, and obferve what length of time fhe took in conaincr
to fix degrees fifty-fix minutes of Aries, which completed her firft
quarter. It will be found that Ihe was feven days eleven hours and
thirteen minutes in going that fpace ; and, if we allow for each day's
motion of the Moon one year, and for every two hours one month, jt
"will prove that the firft clima6lerical point or year occurred when the
native was feven years five months and near eleven days old.
To obtain the fecond period, proceed in the fame manner. Obferve
what time the Moon occupied in paffing from fixtcen degrees fifty-fix
minutes of Capricorn, her place at birth, to its oppofite point in the
zodiac; which will be found to be fourteen days eighteen hours and
forty-eight minutes ; fo that the native muft be fourteen years nine
months and twelve days old, when his fecond climafterical year arrived.
The third quarter of the Moon, which produced the third climafleric,
falls in fixteen degrees fifty-fix minutes of Libra ; to which point fhe
moved, from her place at birth, in twenty-one days two hours and thir-
teen minutes ; at which time the native was twenty-one years one month
and three days old. The fourth clima6terical period took place when
the Moon completed her revolution in the zodiac, and came to her ra-
dical place at the hour of birth, viz. in fixteen degrees fifty-fix minutes
of Capricorn ; which revolution being formed in twenty-feven davs
eight hours and twenty-three minutes, proves the native to have then
been twenty-feven years four months and five dajs old.
The enfuingclimafterics are found by adding the quarters progrefiivelv
to the firft revolution. For inftance, if we add the Moon's firlt quarter
to the fourth, it will produce thirty-four years nine months and twenty-
three days, when the fifth climafterical period came up. The fixth alfo,
by annexing the fucceeding quarter, will be found to take place when
the native was forty-two years three months and feventeen days old ;
the feventh, when he was forty-eight years five months and eight days
old ; and the eighth and laft climafteric of Mr. WitchcH's life, when the
Moon had mcalured two complete revolutions, and had returned a fecond
time to her radical place in the figure ; at which period he was fifty-four
years eight months and ten days old.
Thus the climafterical years are invariably to be found by the motion
of the Moon, which is the only true and rational method; and is fimilar
to that of critical days in difeafes ; only the time is in one cale meafured
by days, arkt in the other by years. Thefe clima(Slerical years are
eljpecially neceflfary to be known and confidercd, whenever the Hileg,
or
694 A N I L L U S T R A T I O. N
or giver of life, is clireijled to a malefic flar, which begins to operate in.
any fuch period ; for it will then have the fame effect on tlie life of the
native, as the Moon is obferved to produce upon the dillalc of a lick i>er-
lon, when ihc pades the ill radiations oF-SSturn, Mars, or the Sun, upon a-
crilif. or critical day ; for a climadcrical year, and a critical day, in decum- -
biturei, proceed from one and tiie iame caufe, and they have b )th a ppwer :
to deftroy life, when joined with malolic conhgurations, no matter . how ,
flroMg and healthv tlie native might externally appear to be, even at the
moment that they take etTc6f. But without the concurrence of. tiieie
baiieful afpeds, both critical days, and climactenc^l years, ar^e in thcm--
lelves perfedlly ianoccnt..
Thus far I have calculated and' brought up every muteiial confi^ura--
tion and direction of this nativity. My next bulinels. will be to conhJcr
each of them fcparatelv and dillim'-.tlv, according t(^ the rules heretotore
laid down ; and to Iro.v il"iat no occurrence of Mr. WitcMell's whole
life, either of ficknels or health, of prolperity or adverlity, of pleaiure or
pain, ever came to pais, but at the ex.pi,eij3 times. and leaions, and m the
exact cr.'er, in which thele radiations and directions feveraily came up,
and that they prccifely correfpond in nature and effeft vvitn tnc configu-
rating plau^ts that produced them.. And to which I.fhall add, that this
^ntlcman bas,publicly declared, fince his nativity has been calculated, that
there is not aa incident o{ his life that has eicapcd me, nor a fingle proof
wanting to eflablilii in his- mind the certainty of ailral influence over the
temperature and animal nature of man. Hence then we deduce, from a
fource which admits of nocontradidion, the natural caufe and produftion
of all thofc aftor.ifiiing viciffitudes and perils of human lire, which conti--
nually fall in between the actions and intentions ot mankind, and con-
found the wifert and bell-concerted Ichemes of earthly Ipeculation or fa-
gacity.
For the ptirpK)fe of rendering this fludy as eafy and intelligible as can be
defired, I fliall be particularly copious and minute in defcribing the quality
and efi-e6t of each refpeftive configuration and direction in this nativity ;.
for whoever fiiall attain to the ability of coippre!. ending and defining the
power of the ftars in one nativity, will be qualified to read and determine
the principal events in the geniture of any ottier perfon whatfoever, be the
events of his life, and the place of 'lis birch, ever fo extra 'rdinary or re-
mote—provided the figure be correc^ in p.iint of time, and properly redi-
fied. I have ahead v given the neceflarv rules for this, and for everv other
pperatiou in the buhnefs. I Ihall now (hovv the reader how to apply tiiem,
throughout the twelve horofcopical houles of the planetary lyftem.
CON-
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 695
,
CONSIDERATIONS refulting from the FIRST HOUSE.
What this houfe imports, we have fully explained in the former
part of this work; and according to the maxims there iaid down, we
(hall purfue the enquiry, occafionally adding or repeating fuch rules.
and aphorifms, as are indifpenfably neceffary to illuftrate the fuhjeQ.
I. Jnil the Native live to Years of Maturity P
To determine this, we muft confider what the configurations are
that early cut the thread of life, and deftroy the bloflbms of our infatit'
rtate. They are as follow, i. U the birth be precifely on a new ox
full Moon. 2, If the Moon be in conjundion of Saturn or Mars, in
the fixth, eighth, or twelfth, houfes of the figure. 3. If the Moon be
in quartile or opj^ofition of Saturn or Mars in the fourth houfe. 4. If
the Moon "be beheged by the Sun or Mars. 5. If an eclipfe impedite
the light of time in the hour of birth, 6, If all the planets be fub-
terranean, and neither the Sun, Moon, nor lord of the afcendant,
eflentially fortified. 7. If the two raalefics be conjoined in the Afcen-
dant. 8. If an infortune' in the afcendant vitiate the degrees theieof
by quartile or oppofition. 9. If the lord of the afcendant be combuft
of the Sun, and at the fame time cadent and retrograde. 10. If the
Dragon's head or tail be in conjunttion of Saturn or Mars in the fourth.
Thefe configurations, by long and invariable experience, are found to
deflroy life in infancy, e>:cept the benefic rays of Jupiter or Venus in-
terpofe, and, by joining in the afped:s, modify and remit their malio-nant
efFed.- But let it always be remembered, that Mars hath greater power
of deftroying life, when pofited in Aries and above the earth, in a
diurnal nativity; and Saturn when pofited in Capricorn and above the
earth, in a no6turnal nativity.
Thefe being the teftimonies of a fhort life, by comparing them with
the afpeds of any g. nethliacal figure, we may readily determine whe-
ther the child born under it will live to years of maturity. If vve exa-
mine this geniture by the foregoing rules, we fliall not find a finale tef-
timony of a (hort life; but, on the contrary, that the native fhould run
the common race of man—fhould be nourifhed up, under the influence
of more benevolent ftars, even untd the Apheta, or giver of life, rtiall
come by a regular and unoppofed diredion, to a natural union with its
Promittor, which cuts off life, and, by the effcds of a natural caufe,
fends us in quiet to the grave.—Let it therefore be remembered, as an
invariable maxim, that, whenever the Apheta is thus unobftrudted, the
native will furvive all the perils of its infant ftate.
No. 2S' 8 1. II. The
696 AN ILLUSTRAl'ION
II. The Tefnperaturc and Complexion of the Native.
Thefe are afcertained by mixing the influences of the feveral fignifi-
cators together, and by allotting to each its fpecific quality, in order
to determine which fhall predominate, and affe6l the conftitution of
the native, with the greateft force. For as there are four principal
elements whereof this univerfe is compounded, viz. fire, air, earth, and
water; {o are there four principal humours in the temperature of man,
which correfpond with them, viz. choler, blood, melancholy, and
phlegm; and according as thefe are equally mixed, or predominate
conflitutionally in the body, fo fhall the temperature and complexion
of the native be. To difcover how thefe qualities are difpenfed in the
prefent inftance, we muft confider and examine the configurations at
the time of conception, as well as at the birth. By the dire6tions
given with the Table, p. 412, we fhall find the conception of this na-
tivity took place on the i6th of June, 7h. 30m. P.M. 1727, at which
time the celeflial intelligencers were difpofed as follow:
«
>^
CONCEPTIONAL
FIGURE
Of Mr.G.W.
«>' .»?
~9(
O5 23
? 3+2
.^
.V k
o»
/ \y
j-
'a-
I'Ni
^
The embryo is reprefented by Jupiter and Mars, both of which are
pofited in the fifth, the houfe of generation, at a fit time for the con-
ception
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 697
ception of a male, as both planets are mafculine, and oriental of the
Sun, and neither of the luminaries afflicled of the infortunes; and
therefore the figure declares that the child fhould not fuffer any injury
in the womb, but fhould be born fafe at its full time. But the molt
eflfential ufe of a conceptional figure after the infant is born, is to com-
pare the temperature of the ligns and planets which govern the con-
ception, with the nature and quality of thofe that govern the birth, in
order to afcertain the predominant humour, and its offending quality,
which fhall ever after mark the temperature of the native. In the
prefent cafe we fhall decide our judgment of the temperature of the
embryo, by the following teflimonies which refult from the preceding
conceptional figure:
Taurus, which governs the fifth houfe - is - cold and dry
Venus, lady thereof, occidental of the Sun - - moiji
Jupiter in the fifth, oriental - - - hot and moiJi
Venus pofited in Leo - - - - hot and dry
Taurus pofTeffed of Jupiter - - - cold and dry
Mars in the fifth, oriental - -
"
- - hot and dry
Gemini, an airy fign, pofiTefTed of Mars - - hot and moiJl
The quarter of the year, viz. Summer - - hot and dry
The Moon, in her fecond quarter - - - hot and dry
And pofited in Libra, an airy fign - - - hot and tnoijl
Saturn, Almution of the figure . - - cold and moifi
And pofited in an airy fign _ - . - hot and moiji
Number of teftimonies for a hot temperature, are - 8
Teftimonies for the moiji - - - - - 6
Ditto for the dry _ _ . ^ _ - 6
Ditto for the cold -
3
So that the predominant humour ofFending before the birth, was the
choleric complexion ; and fuch a temperature muft naturally incline its
mother, during pregnancy, to be frequently afflifted with complaints
in the ftomach and bowels, fuch as the cholic, heart-burn, naufea, vo-
miting, &c. arifing from predominancy of heat; but, as the moifl
quality is fo nearly equal, it is apparent that thefe complaints would not
materially hurt either the child or its mother.
We are now to examine the temperature of the fignificators in the
radical figure of birth, in p. 624, which, being compared with and
added to the foregoing, will at once regulate and determine the objedls
of our prefent fpeculation. The teftimonies are to be collected in the
fame manner as above, viz.
The
698 AN ILLUSTRATION
The fign afcending being airy - - is - hot and inoijt
Venus, lady thereof, and oriental _ . - hot and motft
Pifces, a watery fign, poffefTed by Venus - - cold and moift
Mars, Co-fignificator, and occidental - - dry
And being pofited in an earthy figu - - - cold and dry
Scorpio aTcending - - ... cold and moift
The Moon in her laft quarter - - - cold and moift
And pofited in an earthy lign - - - cold and dry
The Moon beholding the Alcendant - - cold and moift
And in an earthy fign - . . _ - cold and dry
The Sun beholding the Moon in quartile - - hot and moiji
The Sun in a fiery fign - - - - hot and dry
The feafon of the year, viz. Spring - - hot and moiJi
Venus, A]n:iution of the figure ... hot and moift
In the fign Pifces - . _ . - cold and moift
Venus beholding the Alcendant ... hot and moift
And in a watery fign ----- cold and moift
Mars occidental, beholding the Afcendant - - dry
Mars pofited in an earthy fign - - - - cold and dry
Number of teftimonies for a ;«o^ temperature - 12
Teftimonies for the co/^ ----- 10
Ditto for the hot - ... 7
Ditto for the dry . > - - 7
Hence it is apparent that the predominant humour offending at birth
is phlecrm, engendered of the cold and moift afFedlions of the planets.
If we compare the teftimonies that compofe the temperature at the time
of conception, with the above, we fhall find that the humour which
was then weak, is now ftrong; and that the humour which was then
flrono- is now weak; fb that, if we confider that the formation of the
native begins with conception, and is completed at the birth, and that the
fiaperior temperatures then are the inferior now; and if we allot unto
each of the fignificators their fpecific qualities, aild mix them according
to the exadl proportions they give, we fhall nearly find a mediocrity of
humours in the temperature of this native-^ but, as the phlegmatic
afi"e6tion will be found to have the aicendency, the native will of courfe
mofl materially feel its action upon his conflitution, by becoming fub-
ieft to a depreffion or finking of the f'pirits, and other difagreeable
concomitants, which fhall be fully illuftrated when we come to fpeak
of the fignificators of ficknefs. But before we dil'mifs the prefent
fubje6t, it will be necefTary to premife, that, if cold and moiflure
prevail
OFASTROLOGY. 699
prevail in a geniture, the native will be phlegmatic ; if cold and drynefs
have the fupeiioiity, he will acquire a referved habit, and be opprefled
with melancholy ; if heat and moifture predominate, he will prove of a
fanguine temperature, and of an even courteous difpofitiori ; if heat and
drynefs, he will be choleric, and of a furly temper ; but, where the quali-
ties of the configurating ftars are nearl/ equal, the native will be ftrongly
affe£led by their temperatures refpeSively, wjhen under a diredtion of their
own nature and quality.
The temperature being determined, we may with great eafe afcertaiix
the complexion by the rules heretofore laid down. Libra and Scorpio,
being the figns afcending, give a fanguine complexion ; but, in this na-
tivity, not very fair nor clear," becaule oppofed by the oppofite effedt of
Mars, Venus, and the Moon ; and becaufe phlegm was the Superabundant
quality in the temperature at birth; the mixture of thefe feveral fio-nifi-
cators produce a fallow complexion, grey eyes, light fandy hair, with due
conformity in the other members; to which defcription this native
&ri€t\y correfponded in every particular.
The foregoing judgment will hold good in all cafes where fimilar
configurations are found. Let it be remembered, that only four dillindl
colours or complexions are produced, viz. black, white, red, and yellow ;
all others proceed from a mixture of thefe, and are afcertained by affio-n-
ing to each fignificator its own proper colour ; then colleft the whole into
one fum, and according to the quality, number, and force, of the feveral
teflimonies, judicioufly incoqjorated with each other, will the complexion
he accurately found. Kegard muft however be had in all cafes to the cli-
mate where the native is born ; becaufe in fuch parts of the earth where
the figns and fignificatars have from their aftronomical pofitions o-reater
force and energy, they will more vifibly afFe6>, and more fenfibly demon-
flrate their influence upon the perfons born under them. This, 1 believe,
has been fufficiently demonftrated in the introdu<5lory part of this
work.
J II. Form an(i Stature of the Body.
To judge of the form and ft-ature of the body, we muft note the fio-n
that occupies the afcendant, the lord thereof, and the planets pofited
therein, or in conjunftlon v/ith the lord of the afcendant. Thefe va-
rious fignificators are to be regarded in proportion to their dio-nities,
and as they are fituated with relped to north or fouth latitude ; or with
the luminaries ; nor are the fixed ftars to be negleded in this fpeculation.
No. SS- 8 K fo.
700 AN ILLUSTRATION
for ill many cafes they operate much, particularly thofe of the firlt mag-
nitude. This being premifed, and the rules heretofore laid down being
had in memory, we (hall demonfl-rate their certainty, by applying them
to our judgment in this figure.
Upon the afcendant we find the latter part of the degrees of Libra,
and about two thirds thereof occupied by Scorpio ; thefe figns give a
feature fomewhat above the middlins;. But we muft add to thele the
teuimony of the configurations ; that Venus is pofited in the watery
fign Pifces ; that Mars and the Moon are occidental of the Sun, each
beholding the afcendant ; and that the Moon participates with the na-
ture of Capricorn, her place in the figure. '
Thefe are arguments of a
mean ftature, and of a mediocrity in the component parts, uniform,
and duly proportioned. Libra and Scorpio declare an exatl: fymmetry
of features, oval face, and elegant countenance ; but Saturn, who pro-
duces the direct contrary efFetls, having his exaltation in Libra, and
beholding the afcendant with a ftrong afpeft, greatly mars the beauty
and comelinefs derived from thofe figns ; yet we are not to fuppofe that
the delicacy and fweetnels contribvited by the firft figniffcators, fhall be
converted mto a dark lowering vifage Saturnine; but that the quality of
Saturn, in proportion to his ftrength of afpedl, fhall be incorporated with
the oppofite qualities, leaving the impreflion firft given by Libra, but
abating its beauty and comelinefs, and making the face moderately fair,
and the features not altogether unpleafing. This exaftly defcribes the
perfon of the native ; of a middle ftature, oval lively features, the ftamp
of the figns ; dark eye-brows, the mark of Saturn; with a fprightlinefs,
refulting from Mercury conjoined with the other fignificators. We may
remark further, that in genitures where the Sun has no afpeft with the
afcendant, the native acquires the habit of bending forward in his gait
;
and, as he gradually advances in years, becomes round and ftooping
in the fhoulders. This has been remarkably verified in the prefent nati-
vity.
In drawing judgment from the foregoing premifes, let it be well
confidered, that, if two planets have equal dominion in the horofcope,
preference muft be given to him that beholds the afcendant moft par-
tially ; but, if their configurations with the afcendant fhould be equally
dignified, regard the planet that is lord of the houfe, ia preference to
that which has only his exaltation therein. Remember likewife, in
the further progrefs of this enquiry, that, when the planets are fituate
in airy or fiery figns, they give large full ftatures; but, when in earthy
or watery, they produce much fhorter and fmaller. When they have
CTreat
OF ASTROLOGY, 70
1
great north latitude, they denote large corpulent bodies ; but when
they have great fouth latitude, they induce a fpare, thin, and low ftature;
and, according to the innnaortal Ptolomy, thofe natives whofe fignificators
have fouth latitude, are more aftive and laborious ; whilft thole whofe
ruling planets have great north latitude, are ufually of a heavy, flothful,
fupine, inadlive, difpofition.
IV. Tetnper, Quality, and 7nental Endowmetits, of the Native.
This is one of the moft eflential fpeculations of the whole Science,
fince, in a general way, the fuccels of all our worldly purfuits, and ac-
quifitions, in a great meafure depends upon our mental endowments.
And here the reader would do well to refreih his memory with what
we have already preinifed on this fubje6l, in p. 428, &c. where it is
laid down, as an eftablifhed maxim, that our enquiry in this particular
is chiefly to be governed by the Moon and Mercury, and by the other
fignificators only as they fhall be configurated with thefe planets, or
with the Sun, or with the angles of the figure ; of which the afcendant,
or eaftern angle, hath the greateft power. Therefore, if feveral planets
are found in the afcendant, they will all a£t in a certain degree upon
the bent and motions of the mind, and will become fignificators in
proportion to their refpeftive politions and dignities. Their influence
upon the fenfitive faculties of the anuriaI (ovX, will be apportioned to their
ftrength of aipeft, and will operate by the fame rotation in which thofe
afpefts come up. The time when they fliall refpeflively begin to ope-
rate, together with their duration, is known only by dire6lion, as we
fhall prefently (how ; and their efl^eft will be found to vary, as the
irradiations are transferred from one planet to another. For inftance,
when the Moon is direfted to the terms or afpetl of the mofl; potent
planet in the afcendant, then the native almofl wholly j)articipates in
the temperature and quality of that planet, and, while it operates, will
vifibly manifeft them to the world in his aftions. And thus, when the
Moon varies her term or afped, and applies to thofe of another planet,
then will the native's inclination vary, and affume the qualities and con-
ditions of fuch other planet.
By the fame force of fympathy we find, that when the Moon comes
to the terms or afpe6t of Venus, the native is gay and cheerful ; when
to the terms or alpeft of Jupiter, fober, induftrious, and difcrect ; to
the terms or afpe6l of Saturn, grave, melancholy, and referved ; to the
radiations of the Sun, proud, and inclined to vanity and oftentation
;
to the terms or afpeft of Mercury, fludious, laborious, and inquifitive
;
or elfe participates in fuch other affe61ions°as may be produced by fomc
other
702 AN ILLUSTRATION
other planet joined in body or afpe6t with Mercury ; and when the Moon
comes to her own terms, or in afpeft with her radical place in the figure,
(provided it be in the afcendant) it will induce a wavering, unfettled,
and mutable, difpolition in the native.
When there are no planets to be found in the afceiidant, note what
configurations are made with the Moon and Mercury ; for whatever
planet is joined with them, will become fignificator, and will a6l upon
the mental endowments of the native. But if no planet be in the afcend-
ant, nor configurated as above, then the lord of the afcendant (hall be the
fignificator, provided his difpofitor beholds him in Ibme bodily afped ; if
not, we muft have recourfe to the planet that moft partially beholds the
Moon or Mercury ; but, if no fuch be found in the figure, then the planet
which hath the moft eflential dignities in the figns of Mercury or the"
Moon, fhall laftlv be taken as the fignificator from whence this judgment
fhall be drawn.
According to thefe rules I examine the preceding geniture. I find
there are no planets in the afcendant, nor in configuration with the
Moon and Mercury ; and therefore I take Venus as the fignificator of
the native's temper and mental difpofition, becaufe fhe is lady of the
afcendant, and is beheld by Jupiter her difpofitor. Mars alfo, being
conjoined with Venus in ruling the afcendant, and in afpeft with his
difpofitor, will in a fecondary degree affeft the native. The pofition
of Venus near the tail of the Swan, and thus configurated, influences
the native to a purfuit after knowledge ; and being in the fifth houfe,
the houfe of pleafure, declares that he will take much delight therein.
This fignificator being likewife near the Dragon's head, which partici-
pates of the nature of Jupiter, implies a mild, juft, and peaceable,
difpofition. Being pofited in the houfe of her exaltation, proves his
demeanour will gain him general efteem ; but being in a moveable fign,
fhows him changeable in the objed^ of his purfuits. On the other
hand. Mars will abate much of the mildnefs and evenuefs of his tem-
per indicated by Venus, particularly when under a direQion of Mars,
at which times he will be unufually peevifh, fretful, and paflicuate
—
a circumftance which this native confeiTes has been frequently verified,
when neither himfelf, nor any part of his family, could account for his
aufteiity and change of temper ; but whoever infpe6ls his geniture by
the rules of this fcience, will find it was occafioned by tb^ joppofition
of Mars with Venus. It is no lefs curious to remark, that, while that
malefic planet fours the temper, he ftrengthens and expands the defue
of knowledge, endows the native with an enterprifing Ipirit, ftirs hira.
up
O F A S T R O L O G Y. •
703
up to life and aftioii and induces an emulation for honour and promo-
tion. A ftrong iiiftance this, of the contrary eifedts of the afpecls;
for, while the firll imprefiion of an even and complacent difpofition is
deranged hv the force of a partile oppolltion, the other laudable qua-
lities are enlarged, by the congenial influence of a trine aiped: of the
fame planet witii its difpofitor, in the exaltation of Mercury ! l^hefe
teftimonies are much llrengthened by the lefquiquadrate afpe6i' of Mars
with the Moon, in the terms of Jupiter; and, as the Moon is pofited
in the dignities of Saturn, it fhows that the native u ill be attached to
the arts and IcienCes, and inherit a truly honeft diipofition.
Thus far we have confidered the conngurations which form the
temper, and give the firfl bias to the muid, in the earlicll ftate of in-
fancy: but what fhall be the relult, as they graduaiiy ripen into
maturity; to what fpeculations they will be directed, and to what
extent of perfe61ion the native may arrive in mental acquirements and
ability ; is determined by other conhderations. The intelle6iual fa-
culties, in ALL, s;enitures, are under the aftral influence of Mercury
and the Moon; Mercury governs the rational and animal fpirit in the
brain, but the vegetive ftrength of the brain is folely under the power
and dominion of the Moon; therefore, whenever we infpedl a nativity,
and find thefe fignificators well atFefted to each other in terms and
arpe<5t, we may fafely conclude that there is a proportionable harmony
and modulation in the rational intelle61, and in the other members
which contribute to a fertile genius, and to ftrong natural parts. But
when thefe fignificators are ill atFeiSled, and in quartile or oppofition to
each other, it is altogether as fure a prefage of a dull capacity, and a
narrow contra6led mind ; particularly if IMercury be combuft, flow in
motion, cadent, or peregrine, or affli6led of the infortunes, more
efpecially of Mars. And thus, the more Mercury is afflicted or im-
peded in his own proper nature, the more weak and fhallow we always
find the mental endowments of the native. In thofe genitures where
Mercury is occidental, and in no afpetl with the Moon, or with any
benefic planet, it produces a deep, cunning, artful, clofe, difTembling,
perfon, with a flrong (hare of penetration and fagacity, but with a mind
difpofed to exercife it only in mean and felfilh purfuits, without regard
to integrity or reputation. If this planet be found in the combuft way,
i. e. in that fpace of the heavens extending from leventeen degrees
of Libra to fevcnteen degrees of Scorpio, and at the fame time flow in
motion, it declares a trifling fuperficial character, perpetually engaged
in unworthy obje<5ls, ftunning us with impertinent remarks, with ufelefs
niceties, or with unapt difquifitions.
No. 35. 8 L Let
704 AN ILLUSTRATION
Let us apply this reafoning in our coiifiderations of the prefent ge-
iiiture; in which we find Mercury and the Moon, the grand patrons
of mental ability, are favourably fituated with refpefl to each other.
Here is a remarkable reception between Mercury and Mars, the joint
rulers of the alcending fign; Mercury pofTefTes the dignities of Mars,
and Mars the exaltation of Mercurv. Thus the fignificator of the tern-
per and falhion of the mind, and the patron of fenfe, are mutually
conjoined in the fame influence; and bcfpeak not only a difpofition to
fearch after literary acquirements, but prefage a fit capacity to receive,
and an underilanding capable of digefting, them. The Moon likewiie
fends her fefquiquadrate ray to Mars, from the dignities of Saturn, and
in the terms ot Jupiter, which declares the favourite purfuit of the
native fhall be after fcieutific knowledge ; and, as the pofition of Mars
is fo highly elevated, it is evident that his endeavours fliall not only
prove fuccefsful, but fhall be manifefted in an eminent degree. We
have alio a perfe6l Textile afpe(5f of Mercury and Saturn; which adds a
ftrong retentive memory to a folidity of mind, whereby the early pur-
fuits of the native are impelled forward, and ripened into maturity,
under the united fandlion of reputation and profit. Thus the fignifi-
cators of the temper, quality, and mental endowments, of this native,
when drawn into one focus, teftify, according to the approved rules of.
this Science, an acute penetrating wit, an enlarged underflanduig, a
retentive memory, and a ftrong predile6fion for tcientific know Sedge;
with a folidity of mind, and a confiftency of manners, well adapted to
give vigour and fuccefs to fuch purfuits. That thefe gifts were i'e~
verally and refpeflively verified in the perlbnal qualifications, purfuits,
and preferments, of the native, the united teftimony of all his friends
and relatives will not only prove, but the facts will hereafter be more
minutely eftabli/hed, when the refult of each afpe6i comes to be ex-
amined and explained, under the various directions by which thefe events
were refpedively brought to pafs.
Hence it will be feen, that Mercury, in this judgment, and in all
cafes where relation is had to the faculties of the animal foul, is to be
moft attentively confidered, and his influence and operation regarded,
in proportion as they are configurated or mixed with the rays of other
planets. The importance of this enquiry, in the inveftigation of every
geniture, induces me to repeat to the reader, the neceffity of bearing in
mind the obfervations I have written on this fubjed, from p. 428 to
436; to which it is now incumbent upon me to add the following
general remarks, i. That in all cafes where Mercury occupies an
angle of the figure, but particularly the afcendant, and at the fame
time
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 705
time is pofited in one of his own houfes, in any of the twelve figns
except Pifces and Scoi'pio, take for granted the native will inherit a
gs(pd underllanding, with a capacity adapted for almofi: any employment.
Buf if this happens in an airy iign, and the planet Ivvift in motion, it
denotes perpetual wavering, and great inftability of mind. 2. Mercury
in conjuntlion of the Moon, in any and in every lign, denotes inge-
nuity of mind. The fame efFc6l, though in a fmaller degree, is given
by the Textile or triangular rays; but, in this cafe, the fextile is
always to be preferred to the trine. 3. If there be found a conjundtion
of Mercury with Venus, or Jupiter, or the Dragon's bead, in Gemini,
Libra, Aquaries, or Virgo, it beftows an excellent genius, and a mind
qualified for invention and improvement. 4. If Mercury in Aries be in
reception with Mars, the native will be fubtle, deep, and fagacious.
5. The Moon in conjunction with the Dragon's head or tail, denotes
alert and aftive fpirits, with a promptitude for fcience; particularly
when increafing in light, and near the full. 6. Mercury in reception
of the Moon, and the planets in any figns, gives an afpiring genius,
and an adlive volatile difpofition. 7. When Mercury is below the
horizon, in fuitable figns, he inchnes the native to fcientific knowledge.
If in an airy fign well fortified, it gives freedom of fpeech, with ftrong
oratorical abilities. 8. If Mercury be in conjuncflion with Saturn,
and Saturn well dignified, the native acquires a grave and a lober habit,
accompanied with a profound judgment, and lolid underflanding. 9. If
in conjuniSlion with Jupiter, unaffli61ed by any malefic rav. Mercury
beftows an excellent capacity, fet off with an eafy elegant addrels, and
inclines the native to generofity and integrity. 10. Mercury and
Mars united by conjuniflion, in good places of the figure, free from,
affliiftion, and well fortified, gives a moll confident and undaunted Ipirit
in writing or fpeaking; furnifhes fterling wit, and beftows a prolific
invention, ri. With the Sun, Mercury gives the native an afpiring
mind; and, well dignified, promifes fuccefs in the moft ambitious pur-
fuits, though they are likely to be diflionoured by intemperate pride
and arrogance. 12. Mercury and Venus united, and ftrengthened by
concurrent teftimonies, beftow an admirable conception in literary pur-
iuits, with a mind formed for invention and ftudy. 13. Mercury in
any fituation of the figure, well fortified, and in good afped with the
refpeclive fignificators, forms a good and perfeft underftanding; but
the different gradations of fenfe, and of the reaioning faculty, are pro-
duced according to the dignity and quality of the fignificators with
which he may be configurated; always obferving, that in proportion to
the ftrength and energy of thofe feveral fignificators, and of their poli-
tions in refped to the angles of the figure, will the mental powers of
the native be formed.
Much
7o6 AN ILLUSTRATION
Much has been contended by the advocates for and again ft this fpe-
culation, on the Icore of education. For my own part, 1 cannot but
be furprifed, that any argument or controverfy fhould have been fo long
fupported, upon inferences fo palpable and obvious. Thofe who con-
tend, that education fets thefe aftral influences at defiance, and pro-
duces the wile man or the fool, in proportion to the extent of his aca-
demic acquirements and dilcipline, might as well attempt to perfuade
us, that the barren deferts of Arabia, by labour and cultivation, would
foon vie with the fertile banks of the Nile, and become a land
" flowing with milk and /loneyy Earthly fubilances, as well animate
as inanimate, receive the ftamp of their natural quality in the hour of
formation. This quality will remain as long as thele fubftances en-
dure, in every cafe, except where the laws of nature incline them to
mutation or change. All the inventions of man are far fhort of totally
removing thefe firft qualities ; and therefore all that can be fairly de-
duced from arguments in fupport of the efFeds of education, is briefly
this, that it adonifhingly enlarges a good natural underflanding, and
puts a fuperficial glofs over the deformities of a naturally bad one, but,
fo far from giving vigour to a weak mind, it too often leads to the op-
pofite extremes, for want of ability to digeft, and intelleft to comprehend,
the inftrudtion it receives.
Hence we frequently fee inventions of the moft ingenious and com-
plicated extent fpring from individuals who appear as ignorant as
they are untaught; yet, when we come to examine their internal endow-
ments, we exprefs our admiration that fo much ingenuity and flerling
fenfe fhould be concealed under the ruft of what is termed a flate of
nature. But let the reader regard with due attention the obfervations I
have laid down; let him, within the circle of his own acquaintance,
if he can obtain a fpeculum of their nativities, obferve the nature of thefe
configurations, and 1 will venture to affirm, at the hazard of my life, that
he will be able to trace the true quality and extent of each man's mental
capacity, from the caufes which give them being.
CONSIDERATIONS refuhing from the SECOND HOUSE.
The principal judgment drawn from this part of the genethliacal
figure, is that which regards worldly riches and preferment; or rather,
whether the native (hall be buoyed up upon the wings of profperity, or
plunged by adverfe flars, into the depths of adverfity. This fpecu-
lation has been juftly confidered one of the mofi: important of the fcience;
but oil all hands it muft be admitted the firft amongfl the enquiries of
thofe,
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 707
thofe, who wifh to know the outline of their future fate. For this
reafon, I fhall be as copious as pofiible in blending theoretical with
pra6lical examples in the elucidation of this enquiry, with the humble
hope of enabling every attentive reader to derive that information from
his own labours, which delicacy, or expence, might preclude him from
obtaining in the cuftomary way.
On examining this figure, I find. Mars and Jupiter are the prime
fignificators of wealth and profperity, becaufe they have dominion over
the fecond houfe; and the Moon, and the Part of Fortune, are co-fio-.
nificators of the native's fubftance. Finding there are no planets pofited
in the fecond houfe, I examine what configurations are formed with
the foregoing fignificators, and what afpefts irradiate the fecond houfe.
Mars hath dominion in the tenth, the houfe of honour and preferment,
and is in reception of Mercury, within the terms of that planet; an
argument that the native Ihall profper under fuch purfuits as are pe-
culiarly within the dominion of Mercury, viz. offices of public trufl:,
literature, or fcience. This dedu6lion is alfo corroborated, by the united
teftimony of the Part of Fortune in the tenth, with thofe royal fixed
flars Hydra and Cor Leonis; and Mercury's trine afpeft falling in
the fame degree, proves that an advantageous and reputable emolument
fhould flow through this channel. This judgment has been confirmed
in various inflances; but in none fo confpicuoufly as in his appoint-
ment to the mafterfhip of the Royal Academy in his Majefly's Dock-
yard at Portfmouth, which appointment refulted—not from the o-ood
offices of '''friends at court"—but folely from the progrefs and improve-
ments he had made in the mathematics.
Thefe propitious configurations are neverthelefs impeded by fomc
latent malefic rays which hang upon his horofcope. The Part of For-
tune, otherwife fo happily found, is afflifled by the moft baneful af-
pe6t of Saturn, namely, his oppofition ; at the fame time that he be-
holds the fecond houfe with a quartile ray. This in no fhape lefTcns
the mental faculties, nor impedes the fuccefs promifed under the bril-
liant endowments of Mercury; but it fhows, that, however fuccefsful
the native might be with refped to pecuniary advantages, yet that his
income fhould pafs from him in an improvident manner, and the pro-
du6tion of his labours never accumulate to an a:mount equal to his
merit. This is further illuftrated and confirmed by the oppofition of
Venus and Mars, the fignificators of his perfon and pofleffions. I alfo
find the Moon is near the quartile ray of the Sun, a bad afped, and
a frefh teftimony that the native will not accumulate or lay up much
No. 35. • 8 M of
7o8 ANILLUSTRATION
of the goods of fortune. This, however, is in fome meafure abated
by the intervention of the Sun, which behohls the fecond houfc with
a favourable trine; and the configuration of Mars with the Moon, is
a further declaration in his favour. Jupiter, we find, hath dignities
in the fecond houfe; but being in the eighth, in the face of Saturn, with
latitude in Gemini in his detriment, plainly indicates, that at certain
periods of his life, when under the influence of evil diredions, the native
fliould experience divers difficulties and embarrafTments in money-con-
cerns. IJut when we draw ii>to one view the number of planets that
dignify his birth, and are ellentially fortified; when we confider the ex-
cellent reception of Mercury and Mars; the Sun in exaltation, fend-
ing a trine to the fecond; the Part of Fortune in conjundion with emi-
nent fixed ilars, exalted in the midheaven; we (hall find them fo many
circumftances to prove, that, notvvithfi-anding the oppofition of malefic
rays, the native will be upheld through all the difficulties and viciffi-
tudes of money-matters, and eventually acquire a competent and liberal
income, fuch as ffiould afford all the real coriforts of human life, and,
with {lri6t oeconomy, provide a handfome patrimony for his defcendants.
^ut the aftral inclination of this native is not favourable to penurious
or mercenary pra61ices. The bent of his mind is influenced by too
much liberality and generofity of principle, either to witlihold his purle,
or withdraw the comforts of humanity, where friendship or charity
demanded them. Thofe who knew him, cannot but juftity the truth of
the obfervation; and he has time and often acknowledged to me, upon
my remaiks on his nativity, the ftraits he has experienced, by improvi-
dently parting with his money, and fupplying the emergencies of friends;
as is deducible from the face of his geniture, by contemplating the icxen
erratics, and their accidental pofitions.
For the further information of the reader, it will be proper to re-
mark, that in giving judgment upon this queftion, we are not confined
to the pofitlon of benehc liars; for it frequently happens that Saturn
and Mars give advantage and profperity to the native, when lords of the
fecond houfe, and well configurated with the luminaries, and the other
fio-nificators. So likewlfe eminent fixed lliars in good places of the figure,
well qualified, and conjoined with benefic rays, give increafe of pro-
fperity and riches. But if the two malefic planets, Saturn and Mars,
occupy angles in the figure, and the benefics are pofited in fuccedent
houfes, it fhows the native will experience adverfity in the early part of
his life, but profperity in the end. The Part of Fortune conjoined
with the Dragon's head, hath nearly the fame effect as with Jupiter,
and predicts an increafe of wealth. Satuun dignified in the eighth
houfe,
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 709
houfe, in a diurnal nativity, in afpeft with Jupiter or Venus, declares
jncreafe of fubflance by the death of relatives or friends. The fame
event will take place, in genitures where the lord of the eighth houfe,
in his effential dignities, is placed in the tenth; and again, where the
difpolitor of the tenth is well configurated with the lord of the afcen-
dant. When Jupiter or Venus are lo pofited at birth, as to behold the
cufp of the fecond houfe with a good afpe£f, it is a certain prefage of
durable lubftance; whereas the Sun, or Mars, pofited in the fecond
houfes and ill dignified, fcatter the native's wealth, induce to pro-
digality, and eventually make him poor. So the Moon in coiijundtion
.of Saturn, in bad places of the figure, and beheld by no benefic rav,
will reduce even the Son of a King to a Jiate of infolvency ! The lord of
the fecond houfe coinbuft, and the part of fortune in anaretic places,,
forefhows confifcation of property, bankruptcy, and ruin. When the
Part of Fortune is confederated with violent fixed ftars, in evil places
of the figure, it prefages lofs of fubftance, and great poverty. To de-
termine the mode by which thefe events fhall happen, or how fub-
ftance or prolperity will be acquired, we are to regard the nature and
quality of the houfes over which the fignificators have dominion. Thus,
if the lord of the eleventh houfe give virtue and influence to the fignifi-
cators of fubftance by propitious rays, we are to conclude, that the na-
tive will receive an increale of wealth through the medium of relations
or friends. But, if the lord of the feventh be thus irradiated, his fub-
ftance will be increafed by marriage, partnerfhip, or fome joint concern.
And thus judgment is drawn in all cafes from the nature of the houfes
which the feveral fignificators govern or irradiate.
To obtain a proper idea, not only which way riches and profperity
are likely to come, but to decide alio whether they (hall be obtained by
lawful or dillionourable means, we muftnote whether the benefic pla-
, nets are fignificators; and if they are not afflifted by the malignant rays
of Saturn or Mars, nor in conjunflion with any violent fixed ftar, it
fhows the native will acquire eminent profperity by fair and honourable
means. But if a malevolent ftar be fignificator, and the benefic planets
in no afped with him, and either retrograde or combuft, it induces the
oppofite efl:e61:. If a benefic planet be fignificator, and placed in the
dignities of either of the malefics, it ihows wealth will be obtained both
ways. To know whether riches, when obtained, will be durable or
not, we muft confider whether the fignificators are fo pofited. iu the
heavens, as to be unim.peded by the mtercourfe of the malehcs; for
then profperity fhall continue during life. But if the benefics are fig-
nificators, and Ctuated in bad places of the figure, and the infortunes
occupy
7IO AN ILLUSTRATION
occupy the good, fo as to obfcure or overcome the energy of the bene-
fic rays, it fhows a continual flux and reflux of wealth; i'o that what is
obtained under a good dire6lion (hall be lofl under a bad one. But the
time when thefe things fhall feverally come to pafs, can only be known
by equating the directions of each alpe6l, which is the only true and ra-
tional way of difcovering when they fliall begin to operate.
CONSIDERATIONS refulting from the THIRD HOUSE.
The third houfe difcovers by the afpefts with which it is configu-
rated, whether we fhall be advantaged or injured by the confanguinity
of brethren, or by injand journeys and fojournments; which we have
fully explained in p. 290, &c. The fignificators of brethren or fifters,
are taken from five degrees preceding the cufp of the third houfe, to
within five degrees of the cufp of the fourth houfe. And the lord of
the third houfe, or the planets accidently pofited therein, fhall be the
fignificators. We are then particularly to remark the pofition of Mars,
which is the general fignificator of brethren,—or the Moon, which re-
prefents fifters. If Mars or the Moon be found in fruitful figns, or
in good afpe6i: with the fruitful planets, which are Jupiter, Venus, or
the Dragon's head, it is an argument that the native fhall have brothers,
if the configurations are made with Mars ; or fifters, when made with
the Moon ; and the number fliall be according to the irradiations and
force of the afpeds. If a good and benevolent configurarion is formed
between the lord of the afcendant and the lord of the third houfe, it
implies mutual good offices, harmony, and concord, between brothers
and fifters; but, if bad afpedts are found, then vice verjh, malice, hatred,
envy, and ill-will, exift among them. When Jupiter, Venus, or the
Dragon's head, are pofited in the third houfe, the native will derive ad-
vantage from travel, or by change of habitation; and will be aided by
the good fellowfhip of his own family.
To determine thefe queftions in the prefent nativity, I obferve that
Capricorn has the principal rule in the third houfe; which being a fign
not very prolific, but rather inclined to barrennefs, 1 conclude there
are fmall expeftations of brethren. The Moon's pofition in the third
houfe declares there will be a fifter, or perhaps two; which is further
demonftrated by the Textile ray of Venus; but, being at the fame time
under the malignant influences of Mars, it fhows that what might be
produced by the fruitful influences fhall be cut off by premature death;
and indeed, the Moon being in an evil afpe(5t with the Sun, and ap-
proaching to a quartile with Mercury, is no argument of durable life to
fifters.
OV ASTUOLOGY. 711
fifters. As to brothers, we have not a fingle teftlmony to produce
them. Mars, the natural hgnificator of brethren, is pofited m a barren
fign and in no good afped with any planet, except in reception of Mer-
cury which operates not in favour of fruitfuhiefs, becaule he alfo is po-
fited 'in a barren fign. Thefe are arguments to prove the native wa^ the
only Ton, or at lealt the only one that Ihould corae to maturity, or engage
in the viciflitudes or concerns of this life.
With regard to the inland journeys of this native, his fojournments,
or chano-e Sf refidence, they are declared to produce an increafe ot pi^ofit
and lubflance. The Moon s pofition, unaffliaed, in the thud ;
and Ve-
nus in fextile, having her exaltation in the fifth ; denote many journeys
that ihould produce pleafure or profit, and fometimes both, m an eminent
degree ; as is further evinced by the planet Venus being in reception
of Jupiter, the fupreme lord of the fecond, the houie of profperity
and fubftance, as well as lord of the fifth, the houfe of pleaiure and de-
iioht. And as the third houfe is unafflided by any malefic ray, or by
the pofition of the infortunes, or any evil configuration therein, it re-
mains evident, beyond contradic^tion , that he Ihould receive no mjury
by means of brothers or fifters, nor any difadvantage from travel or change
of refidence.—This has alio been remarkably verified in the perfon ot
the native, who hath uniformly changed his fituation and refidence for
greater profit and preferment.
CONSIDERATIONS arifing from the FOURTH HOUSE.
From this houfe we obtain judgment of the native's hereditary ac-
quifitions; the fubftance he {half derive from his father ;
his houfes,
lands, hereditaments, 8cc. in which we are particularly to obfei-ve, i
.
the fituation of the lord of the fourth houfe ; 2. the polition ot the bun
in a diurnal, and of Saturn in anoaurnal, nativity; and, 3. whatplaliet
or planets arc configurated in this houfe. If the major part of thcie lig*
nificators are found ftrong and well dignified, under benefic influences,
it is an ar*Tument of much good from the fether ; but, if otherwife,
contrary efteds will be produced. So the lord of the afcendant, or the
Moon, in textile or trine with the Sun by day, or with Saturn by
ni»ht, forefliows unity and concord between the native and his tatlier
;
and if theafped be made with reception, it will continue unto death,
and lead to an inheritance of the father's fubftance. The lame effed is
produced by the lord of the afcendant and the lord of the fourth houle
in mutual reception; and again, if the lord of the afcendant be m good
Kg. 36, 8 N alpea
712 AN ILLUSTRATION
afpe6l vith tlie lord of the fourth ; or the IVIoon apply by benefic rayr
to the lord of the fourth ; thefe are ftronj^ arguments of concord be-
tween the native and his father, andof advantage by inheritance. But,
if contrary afpefts govern this houfe, the native and his fatiier will be-
at enmity with each other; and the more ierious and afflicting will tliis
enmitv be, and the moie injurious to the native's inheritance, in pro-
portion as the iignilicakors ihall be in adverle politious, ill conlignrated,
void of reception, or aftticted in the angles. This rule invariably holds^
good in all genitures.
On the cufp of the fourth houfe of this nativity we find almoft feven
degrees of the fign Aquarie%, and Saturn in dignities pofited therein, hi
Textile vith Mercury. Thefe are teitimonies of longevity in the fatlieri
as well as of ftrong mental endowments, and of refpectability among
mankind. We fmd Saturn difpofes of the Moon ; and Mars, who h
lord of the afcendant, calling a fefquiquadiate to the jMoon-, in reception
of Mercury, declares the native Ihould be regulated by a Itroug filial
affection for his father, and that ivi a moie eminent degieethan the fa-
ther f(jr the fon. This is confirmed by Saturn, iignificator of the father,
being the fuperior planet,^in a mafculine fign, and the lignificators of tha
native bemg inferior^ and in feminine ligns.
As to the father's riches, they muft be deduced from the afpects of
the benefics to the fourth houfe, and the polition of the part of fortune,
and the planets in the fifth, houfe, which is the father's houfe of fub-
ftance. Now Jupiter being in quartile of Satuin, and in no afped;
vith either of the luminaries, are arguments that the father fliould not
jncreafe his fubftance ; and, as the part of fortune is in oppohtion to
Saturn, it declares he Ihould meet with many loffes. And, although
Saturn is eligibly pofited in the fourth, and miglit thereby promile an
inheritance of landed property at the death of his father ; yet, as the part
of fortune is in oppolition with Saturn, in the terms of Jupiter, and
Jupiter configurated with violent fixed ftars, it is clearly demonllrated,
that, through the eafe and freedom of the fathei'.s difj)olition, accom-
panied with fome heavy loffes, he lliould at his death leave but a fmall
patrimony for the fon, when it fliould happen at a very advanced time
of life ; as is predicted by the pofition of Saturn in the father's afcendant,
which invariably gives old age, particularly M'hen pofited in his own
dignities. Thefe cii'cuniltances precifely happened both to the father
-and the fon
.
CON-
OF ASTROLOGY. 713
CONSIDERATIONS lefultingfiom the FIFTH HOUSE.
The fpeculations upon this houfe afford tlie moft fatisfac^ory Infoinia—
tion concerning the native's ifliie—Whether he ihall have children ; to-
gether with their conditions, quahties, and fex. Alfo whether the
native iliall derive any fuccefs from fpeculative rin< of property, fuch
as buying and felhng in the funds, adventuring in the lottery, or con-
figning goods to the uncertainties of an unknown foreign market.
—
Thcfe feveral enquiries are definable from tlie figure of every genituie,
and are fouglit out from the configurations in, or relating to, the fifth
houfe ; and, as they are not of the lealt importance among the various
occurrences incident to human life, I ihall lay down fome felect rules
for the more particular information of fuch of my readers as wifli to re-
duce the theory thereof into practice.
To know whether the native Ihall have iflue or not, particular regard
muft be had to the configurations in the firlt, fifth, and tenth, houles;
and alfo to the afpetts formed by the lords of thole houfes; as alfo the
eleventh houfe and its lord, becaule it is the fiftli from the Icventh.
If thefe fignificators are in fruitful figns, tiien it is certain the native
will have illue ; but, if they are in barren figns, the contrary effect will
be produced.
But, as it feldom happens that the planets are wholly pofited in thefe
oppollte extremes, I Ihall Itate tiie effect of thole configurations which
are cafually formed, and which lead to a full explanation of all the o-
thers. If the Sun, Saturn, or Marsi rule the afeendant, fifth, tenth,
or eleventh, houfes, without fome fruitful afpec'l of the benefics, they
deny children. So Saturn in the fi'fth^ or the Sun in quartile to Jupi-
ter, will be foimd to work the- lame barren effect. If the Sun be con-
figurated with Saturn and JMercury in the eleventh or fifth, in aipeS,
with the Moon, it fliows the native will fcarcely have children ; or, if
he fliould, they M'ill die fuddenly, in their infant Itate. The fame
planets conjoined in the midheaven, and in quartile or oppofition of
the Moon, produce the fame. Venus pofited in the firft or feventh
houfes, in conjunction or oppofition of Saturn, or in communicative-
dignities, i. e. he in her term, and ihe in his ; or if Saturn be in Taurus,
and Venus in Capricorn -, it argues barrennefs- in a male geniture, and
abortion in that of a female ; or that what is produced fliall die ere it
hath feen the light. In like manner Saturn, if pofited in the afcendant,
will produce bar/eiyiefe,- or deftroy the offspring. So ]Mars in oppo-
iition
7>4 AN ILLUSTRATION
fitioii of Jupiter or Venus deftroys the hope of ilTue in the naiive ; and
Jupiter in oppofition to Saturn deftroys whatever is produced under it,
inoie efpecially if Jupiter lia]ipens to be lord of the filth. But tiie mofi.
clecifive teftimony of barrcnncls, is when the lord of the fifth and the lord
of the afceudant are couibult and retrograde, unaided by benefic rays,
and the j\Ioon in detriment.
If, on the contrary, the Moon and Mercury are pofited in the fifth
lioult', and their difpofitors uuai^lirted, it is an argument that tlie na-
tive (hall have ilTue. So likewife if Mercury be occidental, and in good
afpeft to Jupiter or Venus, it produces children ; but if oriental, and
afllit'^ed by Saturn, it denotes barrenncis. Tiie JMoon configurated with
Venus or the Dragon's Head in the fifth hoiife, and a prolific iign on
the cuf'p thereof, is a certain proof of many children, and good. And
again, Jupiter in trine afpert of the Moon, in moilt ligns ; or the ]\Ioon
with Jupiter or Veims .in an angle, or in good afpect with the angles ;
declares the fame, and that they will be born to preferment. When
thefe fignificators fall wholly in mal'culine figns, the iilue Ihall be all
males; but, when they tiill wholly in feminine ligns, the oftVpring lliall
be all females. Again, if the major part of thel'e fignificators fall in niaf-
culine ligns, and thereliduein feminine, the native Ihall have moll boys;
but, ifthe majority be in feminine figns, and the reft in mafculine, then
will he have liioftly girls.
The number of children the native fliall have is determined by col-
lecting the number of teitimonies by which they are produced ; for the
more fruitful planets, that are found in the fifth or eleventh houfes, and
in fruitful fig-ns, give the more children ; whereas, the fewer the planet*
are that we find pofited in thofe houfes and figns, the fewer children will
be produced ; and this is a nevei-^-failing criterion whei'eby to judge. Let
it alfo be remembered, that fruitful planets in bicorporal iigns produce
double, and in fruitliil figns treble, the number.
The readieft and moft accftrate way of. determining the native's iftbe
is to colled all the teftimonies of fruitfulnels and fterility that appear
on the lace of the geniture into one table, as in the foregoing judg-
ment on the temperature and conftitution ; and, according to the majority
of fignificators, let the inquiry be decided. If the fignificators and figns
of fterility exceed in number and energy the fignificators of fecundity,
the native cannot have iftue. If thel'e teftimonies happen to be equal,
then regard muft be had to a good revolution and diret'tion meeting to-
gether; and, if ftich fliould occur, without any malefic influence, it may
fafely
1
OF ASTROLOGY. 715
fafely be pronounced that the native will have one child. If thefe rules
ere duly attended to, the reader will find no difficulty in obtaining fatif-
fadlory information upon this important enquiiy, in his own or in any
genethliacal figure that is laid before him.
According to the rules I have recommended, I iliall inveftigate the
mieition in this nativity, reducing the particular quality of each ligni-
^cator into a table, and deducing from thence the effedls they refpec-
tively give. Upon the afcendant there are two figns, both of which muft
be taken, as well as all the other afpecls.
Libra afcending, in itfelf ------is-- — indifferent.
Venus, lady ofthat fign, in Pifces - fruitful.
Scorpio afcending — ---- ------- —fruitfuL
Mars, lord of that fign, in Virgo - - barren.
Pifces on the cufp of the fifth ------ m.^M^ fruifful.
Jupiter, lord of that fign, in Taurus - - *-' -^ - - indifferent.
Jupiter, by fextile afpedt of the fifth ----- •^fruitful.
Leo, on the cufp of the tenth --------- barren.
The Sun, lord of that fign, in Aries ------ indifferent.
The Moon, in Capricorn — - — ---- --- indifferent^
The Moon, by dexter 5|c with ^, in the afcendant -/rw»jf/u/.
The Moon by finiller -^ with Pifces in the fifth - fruitfuL
Virgo on the cufp of the eleventh -----»-- barren.
TSfercury, lord of that fign, in ArieS - — - - - indifferev^i
The Dragon's Head in the fifth gives THREE
tefiimonies - fruitful
Number of teflimonies for fruitfulnefij - - - - 9
ISTumber of ditto for barrennefs -------3
Surplus in favour of fruitfulnefs - - 6
And therefore, as the indifferent figns operate neither way, I conclude'
from the above majority of fix fruitful figuificators, that the native ftiall
have fix children. The next thing is, to determine their fex, or how
many fliall be males or females. To do this, it only requires to
afcertain the quality of the figns and planets with which the Moon is
configurated, whetlier mafculine or feminine ; and from thence judg-
ment is drawn. For example. The Moon in this geniture is the firfl
planet, that colledls mafculine rays, and is therefore to be firft taken^
She is pofited in a feminine fign, and beholds the feminine fign Scorpio,
'\vhich are two arguments iu favour of a female child ; but, oppofed to
'^0. d6, a Q tfacTe^
77,6 AN I L.L. U S T II A T I- O N
thefe, wc find a nmcli more powerful influence in favour ol tlie inalcir^
line. The ]\Ioon in fefquiquadrate aCpet^t with iNTars, iji quarlile (xf
the Sun, and within orbs of a quirtile conti<iuiation M'ith IMercury.,
vho in this figure is conftituted aniaftuline planet, Viy })eiuii; in a mal^
ruhne fii^n, in fextile of Saturn, and in reception of JNfars, which are
'both mafcnline planets; and the Moon's uoath nodefaliing in the fifth
lioufe, and bcin<i difpofed of by Saturn; avefo many infallible tei'tiino-
iiies o<^"thc mafcnline conformation, that I pronounce the lirft iifue with
whiclr this native fliall be bleU'ed will be aihiu —^Aud fo it happened.
To demonftrate the fex of the fecond child, T re-confider the figure..
I find the' Moon is th€ princi{>al lignificotor of the iecond child uifo, be—
caufe llie fends a liniiter fext.ile- to^ti'ia fifth huufe, as well as a dexter fex--
tile to the firlt. Adoj)ting therefme the fame ivode as before, 1. deduce^
two arguments only in favour of a female; but in favour of a male I
again find a confiderable majority ; tlifi Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, nnd the
Moon's north node in the fifth, being air ilrong teltimonies that the
fecond child Hiallbe a- male.—And fo it proved..
We next confulttlie figure,, and fele<Si the prihcipal fignificator ofthe
third child. This L find, to be Jupiter, becaufe lie is not only lord of
the fifth houfe, but becaufe he likewife beholds. the fifth with a textile,
and the eleventh witli a trine, ai'pett. 1 aui therefore to conlider, as in.
the foregoing cafes-,, how this fignificator i.sconfi^gurated as^to niafculine
and feminine influences.. The fign upon the cufp of tlie fifth houfe is
feminine ; Jupiter lord of the fifth) in Taurus, is alfo feminine; Venus,
who is the difpofitor of. Jupiter,, is a feminine planet, and poiited like-
wife in a feminine fign ; the JNIoon. beholds the fifth hi ufi; with a fextile
afpe^t, and is a feminine planet in a feminine iign. Thefe are all ar-
guments in favour ofthe female conformation ; whiift we find only fwo-
in favour of the mafcnline, namely, Jupiter, a mafcnline planet, and the
Dragon's Head, or fortunate node of tlie Moon; ib that, tl>e majority of.
teftimonies being fo much in favour of a female child, I hefitated not to.
atlirm, that of fuchfex ihould be the next offspring; which was abfo-r
liitely the cafe.
'
The other three children are defined from the Moon's fortunate node,
or Dragon's Head, which, falling in a fruitful fign, invariably denotes
three children ; and,, as its configurations are made with malculine or
feminine planets, fo. fliall be their fex. In the prefent cafe the Dra--
gon's Head falls not only in a fruitful but in a feminine fign ; Jupiter,,
ks difpofitor, though a malculine planet, is in a feminine fign, and'
therefore
I; ' i.
O F A S T R O L O G Y. -
717
therefore impregnates that quality; the IMoon, a feminine planet, be-
holds the Dragon's Head from a feminine lign ; all which prove the fe-
minine nature ihall form the quality ; and hence it is certain that the
three lalt children of this native fliall be all girls. —And lb it really
proved.
This accoimt may appear miraculous to thofe unacquainted v.itli
planetary influence ; but their action is certain, and their energy invari- .
ably the fame. Thus the grand Projector of the univerfe continually -.
produces, by perpetual revolutions of. the celeftial bodies, the fame
caufes aud eifects, giving, life and motion to all animated nature, and
vegetative nouriihinent to the inanimate ; aud, as the inanimate are fome--
tinies found imperfeftly wrought, or mixed, or blended wilh their op-
pofite qualities, or of a- doubtful genus ; fo we find the animate arc fub-
ject totheiame mixtures and atfettions, according as the planets Ihall be
eonfigurated under which the}'^ aie formed. And hence we conftantly
tind, that, in the gen-eration of the human fpecies, if the mafculine influ-
ence hath greatly the majority, the perfons produced under it will be pro-
portionabl3Hirong,.mufcular,. raw-boned, and mafculine; but, when it
hath barely, the fnperiority of the female influence, the native is effemi-
nate, weak, llender, and diminutive. So likewife females, where tlie fe
—
male conformation hath greatly the afcendancy, are moll delicatel)' and-'
eharraingly formed, with all the grace and foftnefs of tlie fe-x, andwith-J
due fymmetry and proportion; but, where it hath but barely the pie--
dominancy. over the mafculine, it fails not to produce la^ge, - coarfe,
.
vaw-bonetl, mafculine, women. And, as we have before fullyexplained,-
if the mafculine and feminine qoniigurations are found equ^iflly Itronij at
the time of birth, if the adlion of the one ciuality lliaM in no wife ob-
taui predominancy over that of the other, but the degrees of power and
dignity Itand equally balanced, and neither the mafculine nor feminine-
influence preponderate, then fhall the «pf**if a<ppoJ'iT»i>^ or hermaphrodite, be
produced.
From the fifth houfe we are alfa enabled to form a tolerably correal
judgment,. whether the children born to the native fhall, in a general
way, be fortunate or unfortunate in their journey through life ; but, as
thefe children are all living, and grown up to'maturity, delicacy require*
that I fhould be filent on that head. I would at the fame time- recom-
mend to every perfon, before he decides pofitively upon the events pre-
ditS^ed by the fifth houfe, fb far as they. relate to the general charaders
and purfuits of children promifed to the native in any genethliacal figure,
to confult the radix of each child's birth, and compare it with thole of
the parents, by which means the artill can never err.
71^ A N I t L U S T R A T I O K
By the fifth Iioufe we are Ukewife enabled to judge of the probable
event of every i'pecies of adventure, whether by lottery, dealings in the
funds, purchale or I'ale of life-annuities, or of any tranfartion where a
certain or detinable rilk is to befuftained: for thefe fpeculations, how-
ever varied or multifarious, are governed by the fame motions of the
mind, and fpring from the fame eUte^t in our radical geniture. In the
prefent figure, we find the north or fortunate node of the ]\foon pofited
in the fifth houfe, which is a ftrong argument of fuccefs in fuch enter-
prifcs ; and this fuccefs is Itrengthened by the Moon's lextile afpe(!"b
ihereuith. But we dare not, in any caie, decide by one fpecies of evi-
dence, without confulting what may be offered on the contrary (ide.
We therefore find, that, oppoled to the foregoing propitious teitimonies,
there are feveral that produce a very oppolite effe<1. Jupiter, who i»
lord of the fifth, and iignificator of the native's adventures, being polited
ill the eighth houfe, deftroys much of the luck proiniled by the forego-
ing afpe<^l; and, as Mars is in direct oppofition to Venus, and the park
of fortune afflicted by Saturn ; at the fame time that the Moon's un-
fortunate node, or Dragon's Tail, falls in the eleventh, the houfe where
the final end of all things is determined ; we may fafely conclude, that,
though the native might occailonally derive advantage by fuch fpecular*
tions, yet he would eventually be injured by them.
CONSIDERATIONS refulting from the SIXTH HOUSE.
Prom the fixtii houfe we deduce thofe infirmities or conftitutional dif*
orders of the body, with which the native, from the particular quality
of the ruling planets at birth, fliall from time to time be afflicted, as
the feveral direc'^tions lliall happen to come up. This houfe likewile hat
relation to the good and evil occurrences that refult from our immediate
Servants or domeltics ; and likewife from our cattle.
But the mofl eiTential information the inquifitive reader can wifli to
acquire, is that which regards the health or iicknefs of the native, and
which, fmce the days of Adam, is the promifcuous lot of all God's
children. Infirmity both of body and mind was unqueffionably og-
caiiotied by the fall, v/hich hurled, as it were, the whole fyltem of na-
ture into oppofite extremes, and gave that jarring inequality to the ele-
ments which lays the foundation of every radical diforder. For,
as thefe elements are more or lefs predominant in conception, and as
they are diverfely changed and modified by the forms and properties
of the planetary influence at the time of birth, fo will the incidental
occurrences of health and ficknefs be, according to their fpecific quality
and tejuperature ; and this is definable from the terapeiument and com-
plexioA
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 719
plexioTj of the native; for, as his temperature is, fo fhall be his ficknels
or his healtli ; for licknefs is no other than an inequaUty of fome pre-
dominant Immoiir offending at the time of birth ; and, of whatever
element fuch predominant humour is compounded, of fuch natvu'e and
quaUty will be the difeafe. Hence then the propriety of every phyfi-
cian's confulting the radical caufe of difeafes from the genituie of the
patient, wherever it can be obtained ; for, by miiting uranical and phy-
lical precepts together, there cannot be a. doubt but life may oftentimes
be preferved, where it is fatally deftroyed through ignorance or miftake
in the radical caufe of the complaint. Indeed the eminent progrefs,
and unbounded fuccefs, of the learned and ingenious Dr. Salmon in
the fcience of phyfic, lie confeifes to have derived from aftrological
knowledge in decuinbitures, by which means he feldom or ever loft a
patient, but where nature was totally exhaufted, and the fprings of life
lairly Avorn out. A very proper example this for modern prac^titioners
to follow; iince not only fortune and fame, but the general good of
mankind, would flow from it.
In the hope that many of my readers will be defirous of acquiring,
the moft extenfive information in this part of the fcience, I fliall here
ftate the various contigurations froni whence the caufes of ficknefs and
health may be deduced ; as well thofe which were fele6ted by Dr. Sal-^
Kion in the courfe of his pra<!:lice, as thofe which I have a<^lded by mjf
own experience. The fubjedt is interefting, and deferves attention.
If, in the figure of birth, the lord of the fixth houfe be in good afpeffe
with the lord of the afcendant, it is a ftrong argument that the native-
will be healthy^. So when the Moon is well dignified, and in good
configuration with the lord of the lixth houfe, or beholds the cufp of
the iixth with a fextile or trine, it is another proof of the native's health.
When benefic ftais are in the lixth houfe, in good configuration with
the luminaries, or with the lord of the afcendant, it farther demonlhates
a healthy conftitution. If the lord of the iixth, the cufp of the fixth,
or the Moon, be unaftli6ted by bad afpefts of Saturn or Mars, or by fixed
Stars of their nature, or by the Dragon's Tail ; and neither the lord ^f
the fixth nor the Moon be combull or peregrine ; the native will moft
probably live m perfert health all bis days.
But, on the contrary, if moft or all the fignificatoi'S in a genefis be
found weak and unfortunate, or afflicted by the malignant planets iiv
body or afpe<5t ; or if moft of the lignificators poiited in the twelfth^
eighth, or lixth, houfes, or the infortunes in the leventh, are in no good
No. 36.. 8> P alped
7X0 AN ILLUSTRATION
afpecl; of Jupiter, Venus, or tlie Sun, or Moon ; the native's body will
be very infirni, and become a perfec^X repolituni of difeafes. And ac-
cording to tlie nature of the figns in which thofe planets are polited,
i. e. according to the tripUcity, l"o will the native be continually aftlicted
with liich intirniities as proceed from tlie predominant quality of that
trigon ; for, if the llgnificators be in watery iigns, he will be aftlicted
•with phlegm ; if in earthy, he will be opprelfed with melancholy ; if
in fiery, with cholic, heat, and feverilli affections i but, if in airy Iigns,
he will labour under moft or all of thofe complaints wliich ariie froui
too iireat an abundance of blood.
O'
WJieneverwe fmd in a nativity the lord of the afcendant applying to
the loid of the fixth, it declares the native will be inattentive to his
own health, and often fuffer thereby. The Sun in the lixth, feventh^
eighth, or twelfth, houfes, is an argument of Ihort life, of many and
bitter aflflittions, and of much ficknefs ;
particularl}'^ if in bad afpect
with tlie Moon ; but, if thefe luminaries be in conjunction of each other^
it prelages defeat of underllanding, and afflictions of the head and
brain, wJiicli the phylician can neither /lifcover nor cur-e. If the JVIoon
be affli(!:ted by tlie quartile or oppolition of Saturn, or tlie Dragon's Tail,
in the firilorfeconil houfes of the figure, it declares the whole life will
be infirm ; and, if fixed ftars of the quality of Saturn be joined witli
either of luminaries, the native will be always lean and puny, and the
food be takes will afford but little nourifliment ; lb likewiie he that hath
Mars elevated above Saturn in his birtli will be of a weak and fickly ha-
hit of body^
If Mars 1)6 in the fixth lioufe, It gives fudden cafual -difeafes, wiiich
return upon the Highteft occafion ; if in the twelfth, he afflitits the
body with extreme weaknefs, and forebodes cafual misfortunes. So, if
.an infortune be matutine.. it fliows fudden dilbales or falls ; ifvefper-
tinc, a fickly habit or durable complaints. But, iince bodily inlirmi-
ties cannot be deduci^d entirely from the bare polition of any one planet,
when others of an oppofite nature and quality are fofituatedas to coun-
terbalance its influence, fo tjie foregoing obfervations can only liold good
in fuch nativities where they iland implicitly as above delcril>ed, with-
out any other planet in configuration, and totally unimpeded by the in-
fluence of other iay« ; for, when thefe occur, the complaint arifes from
a cornpound caufe, and every Separate quality mull be confidered, and
.compared with the fundamental fignificators of the temperature and con-
Ititution of the native in his radical figure of birth ; which, being duly
afcertained, and proved by direction, will feldom fail to point out the
precife nature and tendency of the difeafe.
The
OFASTROLOGY. ^ix
The four triplicities, from whence the four complexions or tempe-
ratures arife, and the figns which compofe them, muft be fully con-
templated in this enquiry. If the native be found to exceed in his
temperature or complexion with the choleric humour, and Saturn
happens to be the afflitting planet, and pohted in Aries, being the houfe
of Mars, and the exaltation of the Sun, he then declares the native Ihall
at times be troubled with melancholy vapours, and impoithume<» in the
head, with colds, watchings, iloppage in the ftomach and bowels, diltilia-
tions of rheum, and pains in the arms and fliouJders. If Jupiter be the
afflicting planet in Aries, he denotes fome affliction in the head, or
quinley in the throat, or tumorous fwelling, with fainting or fwoon-
ing. If Mars in Aries be the afflicting fignificator, he gives extreme
pain in the head, ariling from a hot caufe ; or elfe want of fleep, or hot
rheums in the eyes, or gripings in the bowels. If the Sun be the afflict-
ing planet, and polited in Aries, he then gives the megrim, reltleiVnels,
fore eyes, with pain or fwellings in the thighs and hips. If Venus be the
afflicting planet, and in Aries, Ihe produces heavinels and dulnefsinthe
head, proceeding of cold; and difpofes to lethargy, and to complaints
of the kidneys and reins. If Mercury be the afflicting planet in Aries,
he caufes the vertigo, or lightnefs of the head, with alTthe various dil-
orders of the womb. If the Moon be the afflicting planet in Aries, Ihe
gives defluxions of rheum from the head, falling licknefs, convuHions,
dimnels of light by cold, ileepinefs, with pains or lamenefs in the knees.
Thefe feveral complaints are peculiar to the fituation of each of the
planets when in the fign Aries ; for, in each ditVerent iign they vary
their effec'l upon theconftitution, by participating in the nature and qua-
lity of each of the hgus refpedtively. It will therefore be necei^ary to
trace their influence through each of the four triplicities, before their ac-
tion can be precifely determined in every geniture.
Saturn in Leo, being the afflitling planet, gives violent affliction oi
the nerves, confumption, or waiting of the hver^ debility in the reins,
and weakneCs in the back. If Jupiter be the afflicting fignificator in
Leo, it difpoles to feverilli complaints, pleurify, jiains in the in-
tettines, gripings and wind-cholic, and the fciatica, or hip-gout.
When Mars is the affliding planet in Leo, choler abounds, with a vio-
lent fever, and pains of the itomach or kidneys. If the Sun be the afflict-
ing planet in Leo, it gives the putrid or fpotted fever, Itone and gravel,
fainting fits, excruciating pains in the head, almoll to madnefs. If
Venus afflict; the native in Leo, it induces the violent fever of love ;
gives obftruCtions at llomach, with pain or fwelling in the legs. If
Mercury afflid in Leo, he gives fadnefs of heart, ti-e"iublings, jxiins in
722 ANILLUSTRATION
the back, with lamenefs in the arms, and poins in the extremities-. If
the JMoon afflict the patient in Leo, fhe gives iicknels at Itamacb, in-
cieales the king'^s evil, and all dilbrdeis of the tlu'oat.
In Sagittarius, if Saturn be the afflicting planet, hepi-oduces weaknefs-
.
of the extremities, conlumption^,. pains in the legs and feet, ami the
gout. If Jupiter be the iignificator of afflic'tion in Sagittiuius, he pro-
duces putrefat'tion of blood, fevers proceeding fronx choler ; pains anck
Avellings in the knees, and tumours ii> the head and neck. If IVIars*
afliiA in Sagittarius, he giACS the fciatica, or pains in the hips or thighs,,
drincis of the mouth, with extreme heat and ibrenelij of the throat.
If Sol affli6t in Sagittarius, it caufes choleric hmnours in the thighs or
hips, the hitula, fainting fits, and Ikknefs at heart. If Venus be the
aftiit:ting planet in Sagittarius, flie produces the Iciatica, corruption of
blood, iurfeits, and iicknefs of Itomacli. If Mercury affli<!:t in Sagitta-
rius, we luffer jxiins in the back and reins, pains in the kidneys, coughs,,
and ftoppage of urine. If the ]Moon be the affli(!"ting planet in Sa-
gittarius, Ihe induces weaknels or lamenefs in the thigh.s, pains in tke-
bowels, and the wind-cholic. Theie are the various complaints whicb
the planets give ia the fiery triplicity, which is under the denomination)
of choler, and Ls comfK)fed of the three foregoing figns. I ihall now
Itate the affliotions which arile from the polition of the planets in the
the earthy triplicity, which conlifts of the tlxi-ee ligns Taurus, Virgo,
and Capricorn^
If Satm-n be the affi"icting planet in the fign Taurus, he gives the
king's evil, or malignant lore throat, quartan ague, obltru6tions of the
Itomach, the fcurvy, and melancholy affecitions. If Jupiter be the
afflicting planet in. Taurus, it produces the quinfey, or fwelling of the
throat,, rheumatic gout in the hands and arm.s, wind in the blood, ob-
itruCtions in the bowels, with pains and gripings. If Mars be the
afflicting ])lanet in Taurus, he occafioas tumoius of the neck and throat,
weakuels and pains in the back, the Hone in the reins, or a confump-
tion. If the Sun affliCt hi Taurus, it endangers the quinfey or fore
throat, and gives pain and fwelling in the knees. If Venus be the af-
fli<fting planet in Taurus., the produces a catarih, orfome malignant hu-
mour in the throat, pains, in the head, colds, and defect in the lecrets.
If Mercury afflict in Taurus, he caufes diftillations in the tinoat, and
wheefmgs in the Itomach, the Iciatica, or lamenefs and numbneis in the
feet. If the Moon be the afflicting planet in Taurus, ihe occallons
fwelUng and ibrenefs of the throat, canker ia the moutitj pains in the
legs, and gout in the feet. J ;;.
-
=" "^
If
OF ASTROLOGY. 7^^
If Saturn be the affliding planet in the fign Virgo, he oecafions vio-
lent obftrurtions in the bowels, which frequently end in mortificatioiv.
and terminate life : he likewife produces laliitude and wedknels in the
thighs, ftoppage of urine, and the ftone. If Jupiter be the atllicling
planet, and pofited in the fign Virgo, he occafions putrified and cor-
rupted blood, cold and dry liver, obftrudions of the lungs, conlump-
tion, weaknefs in the back, pain and feeblenels in the joints ; and, m
women, fits of the mother. If Mars be the afflicting planet in Virgo, he
often occafions the bloody flux, or a confirmed dyfentery ; alloobltruc-
tions in the circulation of the animal fluids, and diforders in the legs.
If the Sun be the affli6ting planet in Virgo, he gives the bloody flux,
or choleric obfi;ruaions in the fl;omach and throat, or fome fwelhng
tumours therein'. If Venus afflia in Virgo, the produces worms, wind-
cholic, flux, pains at the heart, or illnefs proceeding from cold taken ui
the feet. If Mercury afflid in Virgo, he gives the bilious cholic, Ihort-
iiefs of breath, obftrudions at the ftomach, pains in the head, and diC-
orders of the brain. If the Moon be the aflliding planet, and fituated
in Virgo, flie gives all kinds of obftrudions in the bowels, lownefs of
fpiritsrdeep melancholy, fudden tremors, faiuting-fits, and weaknefs in
tJie extremities.
If Saturn be the affliding planet in the fign Capricorn, he gives the
gout in the knees, legs, and feet : alfo pain in the head, and obftruttions m
the circulation. If Jupiter be the affliding planet m Capricorn, he
produces melancholy blood, and running pains, or lome obllrudion oe
ttoppage in the throat. If ISIars be the aflliding planet m Capricorn,
he gives violent pains in the knees, with lameneis, and alfo in the hands
and arms, with hot fwellings, and violent tumours. If the Sun be the
affliding planet in Capricorn, he gives fwellings in the knees, whitlows,
diftempers in the bowels, with fever and mortification. If Venus
afflid in Capricorn, flie produces fcrophula in the knees and thighs,
tumours or fwellings in th6 tefticles, debility in the reins, and coldnef*
at ftomach. If Mercury be the affliding planet in Capricorn, he gives
the «^out inthe feet and knees, occafions lloppage of urine, palpitation
of the heart, and violent heart-burn. If the Moon afflid in Capricorn,
flie gives the gout or white fwelling in the knees, pains in the back and
reins, ftone and gravel, weaknefs of the kidneys, and the whites in wo-
men. Thefe diieafesare all under the malefic configuration of the pla-
nets when in the earthy triplicity. I il»all next ftate thofe ufually pro-
duced in the airy, which triplicity is compofed of the three next Iigns
in order, viz. Gemini, Libra, and Aquaries.
No. 36. ^a 9 w
724 AN ILLUSTRATION
If Saturn be the afflidling planet, and pofited in the figu Gemini, lie
gives pains in the arms and Ihoulders, pleiuilies, obftructions in the
bowels, melancholy, and black jaundice. If Jupiter be tJie aliiiicting
planet in Gemini, then blood will abound, and occafiion pleunfies, and
diforders of tiie liver and reins. If Mars be the afflicting planet in
Gemini, he often oceadons breakings-out, biles and blotches, pains in
the arms, heat of blood, putrefaction, the llrangury, and other com-
])laints in the lecrets. If the Sun afflict in Gemini, the native will be
fubjec't to fcorbutic complaints, corruption of blood, and peftilential
fevers, with vveakneis or lamenefs in the legs. If Venus be the aiiHid-
ing planet in Gemini, flie corrupts the blood, and brings on a dropiy ;
Ihe alfo produces the king's evil, and fome diftillations of rheum from,
the head, affliding the extreme parts. If Mercury afflict in Gemini, it
produces windy blood, weakness in the arms, pains in the jiead, and the
rheumatic gout. If the JMoon afflitl in Gemini, the brings the gout
in the hands and elbows, alio in the legs and feet. Thefe complaints
are all peculiar to Gemini.
If Saturn be the afflicting planet in Libra, it argues a confumption of
the body, weaknefs in the back, iirangury, corruption of blood, the
iciatica, and gouty or rheumatic pains. If Jupiter be the afflic^ting
planet in Libra, it occafions the dropfy, tumours in the groin, the piles,
iiftula, inflammations in the legs, fevers, and lurfeits. If Mars be the
affliding planet in Libra, he gives the ftone and gravel, violent pains in
the kidneys and bladder, fevers, and pains in the feet. If the Sun be fhe
affliding planet in Libra, he produces choler, pains in the back, fliarp-
nefs of urine, univerfal corruption and inflammations of the blood, with
iaffitude in the arms, flioulders, and extremities. If Venus afflitt in
Libra, the gives a weaknefs in the reins, debility of the animal func-
tions, diabetes, pains in the bowels and head, with the bilious cholic.
If Mercury affli6l in Libra, he gives pain in the mufc\dar fyftem, oc-
cafions ftoppage of urine, faintings and palpitation of the heart, ob-
ftruc'lions in the throat, decay of the lungs, or phlegmatic fwellings in the
breaft. If the IMoon be the affli(5ting planet in Libra, ihe debilitates the
veins, gives pains in the back and bowels, produces a diabetes, or brings
on the whites in women. Thefe are the leveral complaints engendered
under Libra.
If Saturn be the affliding planet, and pofited in Aquaries, he gives
pains in the head from melancholy vapours, fwellings or gatherings in
the throat, pains and cramps in the lind)s and joints, pains ah tlie eais,
and deafncfs. If Jupiter'be the afflicting planet in Aquaries, he pro-
duces running pains all over the body, particularly in the hands, arms,
-
iegs,-
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 72^
Ttegs, and feet. If Mars be the affli(!^ing pknet in Aquarie.s, he begets
putrefadion and inflammation of the blood, fwelling in the legs, obflruc-
tions in the ftomach, pleurily, or intermittent fever. If tiie Sun be
the afflicting planet, and in Aquaries, it occasions lamenefs and foul
irruptions in the legs, difficulty in making water, and wafting of the
reins and kidneys. If Venus be tli€ afflitting planet in Aquaries, Ihe
eaufeth gouty or rheumatic humours in the knees and feet, and fome-
times inthe Itomach ; but, if the blood be in a putrified ftate, Ihe will
caufe the dropfy. If Mercury be the afflidting planet in Aquaries, he
gives fluxes, and wind in the bowels, running pains in the extremities,
and fwellings in the feet and legs. If the Moon be the atitlidling planet
in Aquaries, flie produces dropfy in the legs, fits of the mother, dia-
betes, wcaknefs intheltamina, univerfal la-llitude, runnings of the reins,
and impotency. Thefe are engendered of the planets when malevolently
configurated in the airy triplicity. We iliall next confider the watery,,
which is formed of Cancer, Scorpio, and Pifces.
If Saturn in Cancer be the affliding planet, it occafions obftrudions
of the ftomach, tertian agues, fcurvies, coughs and colds, phthifics
tfiid' ulcerations of tlie lungs, cdncers and ulcers in the breaft, pains
and weakneflt's in the back, afihmas, and confumptions. If Jupiter be
the afilliding planet in Cancer, he caufes furfeits,. dropfy, bad appetite,
obftruGtionsin the bladder, weaknefs, and debility in the ventricle. If
Mars l>e the afflidmg plaiiet in Cancer, he breeds a pleurify, or occa-
fions the gathering of lliarp acrid ^lumours in the ftomach, whence arife
the moft violent bilious complaints. Kthe Swnbe the afflicting planet in
Gancer, it produces hoarfenefs, and feveriili aftedions, inducing to the
fmalj-pox or meaftes. If Venus be the afflie'ting planet in Cancer, ihe
eaufeth bad digeftipn, lofs of appetite, furfeit, with vomiting, an tmiverfal
corruption of blood, and pains in the' back and bowels. If IMercury is
the affli(''ting planet, and -in Cancer, he declares a cold ftomach, grip-
ings of wind, diftillations of cold rheum, or fome cough, with lame-
nefs in the legs. If the Moon be the afflicting planet in Cancer, ftie
produces watery-complaints of the ftomach, fmail-pox, dropfy, tyinpa-
ntes, falling ficknefs, and convulfions. Thefe are the feveral afflictions
incident to this planets when' promittors Umder- Caiicep'
•
If Saturn be the plaivet afflicting in the fign Scorpio, he gives the
piles, fiftula, and tumours in the groin, gout in the legs and tect, ob*
ftru(^tion of the nerves, giddinefs, and pally. If Jupiter be the afflict-
ing pMnet' in vScorpio, he :gnves the' fcuryy or dropiy, indigeftion, 6b-
ftruftiorts in the bladder, firangury, weak-neft,' palpitation of the he^rt,
. -ji: .;.
.'
tlie
726 AN I L L U S T R A T ION
the fciatica, and piles. If Mars be the afflit.'l:ing planet in Scorpio, lie
gives violent fevers, fmall-pox, Icui-vy, tlropfy, fweliing in the privities,
violent pain in the head, rheum in the eyes, the megrim, and in a
woman a fuper-abundance of the menltrual flux. If the Sun be the
attliding planet in Scorpio, it occafions violent irruptions of putrid
inatter from different parts of the body in large boils or blotches ;
otherwife it brings on obftrudtions in the ftomach and bowels, lup-
prellion of urine, or the bilious cholic. If Venus be the afftic'-ting planet
in Scorpio, fhe produces the dropfy, fcurvy, king's evil, pains of the
kidneys, running of the reins, debility, and impotency. If JVIercury
be the afflicting planet in Scorpio, he produces quartan agues, proceed-
ing of heat and moilture ; pains in the bowels, Hux or dyfentery, with
pains in the arms and fhoulders. If the Moon be the affli6ling planet
in Scorpio, flie deflroys the generative faculty, vitiates and impoveriflies
the femen, and finally induces an unceafnig gleet; flie likewife brings?
on a dropfical or confumptive habit, which generally terminates in
death. Such are the difeafes engendered under Scorpio. We fliall laltly
confider thofe produced under Pifces.
If Saturn be the afflidling planet in the fign Pifces, he will occafion
the gout in the hands or feet, defluxions of vifcous humours, confump-
tions, or dropfy. If Jupiter be the afllicling planet in Pifces, he im-
poveriflieth the blood, brings on a dropfy, caufeth abundance of phlegm
in the itomach, produces fwellings in the face, and pains in the head.
If Mars be the affiliating planet in Pifces, he gives lamenefs in the
feet, flops the free circulation of the blood and juices, vitiates the
liver, which comes away with frequent fpitting and retelling, and
tiltimately brings on a fever. If the Sun be the affli6iing planet in
Pifces, he deftroys procreation, brings on all the diforders incident
to barrennels, with obftru(ilions in the ftomach and bowels, ftrangury,
and extreme pain in the back and reins. If Venus be the afflicting
planet in Pifces, flie produces a cold watery ftomach, Avhite fwellings
in the knees or legs, flux in the bowels, which terminates in a defentery.
If Mercury be the afflicting planet in Pifces, it occafions weaknefs and
lafntude in the bowels and reins, with running pains or fwellings in
the knees, legs, or feet. If the Moon be the afllidling planet in Pif-
ces, flie produces the dropfy, impofthumes of the head, watery fwellings
in the thighs and legs, univerfal laflitude, or a phlegmatic conftitution
of the wliole body.
Thus have we defined the fpecific difeafes produced under each of the
twelve figns, according to the nature of their triplicity, in which any or
either of the planets are the promittors or fignificators of the malady.
But,
'/[. C O F A'3 T Jl O L O G Y- ,217
But, as it does not alwa3's happen that the afcendant, or Part of Fortune^
is tlie giver of life, tind a iingle planet at the lame time pioniittor, ii]i
which cafes alone the foregoing rules can invariably be admitted, it
Avill be neceHary to demonftrate the other influences, with which tli^
regular enjoymerit of health is impeded by lltknefs and difeafe. It is
the more neceflary to be copious in this fpeculatioh, lince we cannot^
without a perfect knowledge of all the configurations that induce flck-
nefs, either afcertain the affiidions to which the native fliall be
liibje<!:t during his life, or difcover, with any degree of accuracy,or
Jatisfaclion, the temporary and curable diforders, from that laft an^l
final malady, which baffles the iyltem of phyCcal aid, and difunites the
immaterial foul from the corruptible body. In all dileafes, the Moon
is more particularly to be regarded, fmce her action upon the body is
moft fenlibly felt, and her contiguous polition brings her more fre-
quently intoeonta6t with malignant rays. I lliall therefore demonltrate
the various configurations, under which the tends to deftroy the native's
health or life, if afflidled by the malefic rays of Saturn or ]\Iars, in liLs-
iigure of birth.
If the Moon in Aries be afflicted by the conjunftion, quartile, or
oppofition, of Saturn, the native will be remarkably fubjecl; to coughs
and colds, impolthumes in the iiead, weaknefs in the eyes, dillillatioiis
of rheum in the breaft, fwellings in the throat, loathings in the lio-
mach, with irregular and profufe perfpiration. But, if the affliction be
by the conjundtion, quartile, or oppolition, of JNIars, it caufes diforders
of the brain, violent fevers, reitleirnefs, hfflammation of the liver, and
phrenz^^ If in Leo the ]\Ioon be afflicSted by the evil rays of Saturn,
it produces a violent fever, putrefacl-tion of the blood, heat and drynefs
in the ftomach, with laffitude and debility. But, if the difeafe comes
by the afflidion of Mars, ftagnation of the blood, lofs of appetite,
-phrenzy, the putrid or fpotted fever, will be the confequence. If
the Moon be thus configurated with Saturn in Sagittarius, it produces
a deflnxion of thin, lliarp, and fubtle, humours; gives pain in the limbs
•and joints, with heat and Iwelling in the extremities, reiulting frouv
the adverle etfects of heat and «old. But, if the afflicrtion comes by Mars,
it will produce violent licknefs at Itomach, intermittent fever, pains in
the reins and loins, inward and outward piles, and the fifiula. Thefe
difeafes are produced by the malefic afpet^ls of Saturn and ]Mars witb
the IMoon in the fiery triplicityr
(. jjfifo 01.^ ^l-.iT .^f'jv/.id arlj 'to !
If the Moon be afflidled in Taurus, by the. quartile, oppolition, of
eonjunc^tion, of Saturn, it indicates flow fevers, proceeding from burnt
No. 36. 8 R .choler -^
'jifi akillustration
tholer ; and obftru(5lions of the arteries, with inflammation of the whole
body, and exulceration of the lungs. But, if the diibrdcr proceeds from
the quartile, oppofition, or conjunction, of Mars, it will arifc from a
fuperabundance of foul blood, inducing various obilruclions of the body,
inflammations of the neck, and throat, pains in the head and limbs, with
watchfulnefs and convuliive fpafms. If in Virgo the ^£oon be thus
ftftiic'^ed of Saturn, it occafions crudities and indigeftions of the ftomach,
tough phlegm, obibut-tions of the bowels and inteitines, head-ach,
pleurify, and heat of urine. But, if the alflitlion be by Mars, it de-
notes an exulceration of the intellines, bloody flux, putrid fever,
loathing, retching, and violent ficknefs of the Itomach. If in Capri:-,
corn the Moon be affli(^ed by Saturn, it Ihows fubtle, cold, and thin,,
diftillations, pains and obftrufiions in the neck and breafl;, inflammar.
tions of the lungs, with difficulty of breathing. But, if the Moon ia
Capricorn be affli^led Tjy Mars, itprelages illnefsarirmg from bad digef-^,
tion, or from Ibme choleric or acrid humour in the Itomach. It may
likewife produce a fever of the nei-ves, ulcerations of the throat, and
fluxes of the Itomach and belly. Thefe are the afflic'-lions peculiar to the
JVIoon in the earthy triplicity, when impeded by the malefic rays of
Saturn and JSIars.
In the airy triplicity, if the Moon in Gemini beafflid;ed by the con*-
junction, quartile, or oppolition, of Saturn, it inclines the native to a
confumption, to diforders of the fpleen, wearineis, watchings, with
flow fevers, pains all over the body, particularly in the joints and ar.-
teries. But, if the affiidion be by the malefic configurations of Mars in
Gemini, jt produces violent fevers, dangerous obftrudlions of the blood
and juices, irregular pulfe, with licknefs and loathing. If in Libra the
Moon be afflicted by Saturn, it gives difealies of the breafl:and itomach,
pain in the head, want of appetite, loathing of food, nodurnal fevers,
hoarfenefs, coughs, and diftillations of foul humours. But, if the evil ir»
radiations are from ]\Iars in Libra, it occafions a fuperabundance of blood,
inclines to putrid fevers, breakings-out, or inflammations of the wholq
body. If the Moon in Aquaries be affli(*ted by Saturn, it occafion»
languor, depreffion of fpirits, nervous affections, watchfulneis, and an
univerfal relaxation of the nervous fyftem. If the affliction come by the
coil afpe(^ of Mars in Aquaries, it portends difeafes which arife from
hot and fliarp humours engendered in the fl:omach and bowels, and
eventually produces agues, intermittent fevers, ulceration of t-he
liver, and fometimes mortification of the bowels, Thefe are efpecially
under the airy triplicity.
In the watery tiiplicity, the Moon afflided in Cancer, by the quar-
tile, oppofition, or conjundion, of Saturn, indicates diforders refulting
fror^
Of a s t r o l o g y. ^.^
fi-om violent colds, to which the native uill be remarkably fubiea •
it
will hkewile occaiion diltiUation.s tVoni the brealt and lun^^s, moiit ca-
tarrhs, aithma, hoarfenels, and obftruaions of the bowels.^ But, if the
afflidions arife from the mahgnant configurations of Mars, it <nve.s lan-
gume complaints, hard tough phlegm in the Itomach, pains iii'thc liead
retchmg, ficknefs of the lloraach, and putrid fever. If the Moon iil
Scorpio be afflicted by Saturn, it foreOiovvs ulcerations in the le<'s and
tJnghs, fiflula, the piles in ano, with painful fuppreflion of urme bv
<loneor gravel. But, if the amidtion be of Mars in Scorpio, it (hows
violent pains m the head, with ulcerations or impolthumes ; as it likewifc
gives the hemorrhoids, mealies, final 1-pox, fpotted fever, thrulli, chick-
en-pox, boils, and all bodily irruptions. If the Moon in Pifc&s be af-
flicted by Saturn, it produces diltillations of cold rheum. How fevers
pains of the back and loins, mortification of the bowels, and fpeedvr
death. But, if the evil come by the afflidion of Mars in Pifces, it lliows
an abundance of grols humours, violent irruptions in different parts of
the body, fuddeu fevers, epilepfy, ftagnatiou of the blood, faintin<^ fits
ajid apoplexy. ° '
Thus I have flated, in as brief a manner as polTible, the various dif-
cafes produced by the IVfoon in each of the twelve figns, when impre<--
flated with the malefic afpeds of Saturn or Mars ; and here let it be
tjnderftood, that nearly the fame effec^b are produced by the quartile
oppofition, or conjunction, of :Mercury with the Moon, as by the fore^'
going configurations with Saturn ; and the fame bv tiie malefic irradia-
'tions of the Sun with the Moon as refult from the evil influences ot*
Mars. I fliall now point out the particular diforderj> occafioued by
4l)e coil afped of Saturn and Mars with tlie Sun.
If the Sun be affliaed by the quartile or oppofition of Saturn in fiery
figns, he produces the megrim, lalfitude of the body, quartan agues,
and confumptions. In earthy figns, cholics, cancerous tumours, rlieu^
matifm, and gout in all parts of the body. In airy figns, madnefs, phreu-
j^y-fevers, Ipienetic melancholy, and violent nervous Ipafms. In watery
iigns, agues of all forts, fcurvy, leprofy, king's evil, and gout.
If the Sun be afflided by the quartile or oppofition ofJupiter in fiery
figns, it produces fevers, pains in the t^reaft, and ulcers of the iiver
and lungs In earthy figns, the phthyfic, catarrhs, colds, coughs, hoarfe-
nefs, black jaundice, and inveterate cholic. In airy figns, corruption
of blood, inflammation of the lungs, fcurvy, and debility in the reins.
In watery figns, fmall-pox, meafles, fieknefs of the iloiuach, and inter-
jiiittent fevers,
If
730 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
If tlic Sim be aiTliftecl by the quartilc or oppofition of ]\fars in fiery
ligns, it denotes putridity of blood, violent fevers, fainting-fits, anil
e[)ileply. In earthy li<j;ns, the yellow jaundice, qninfeys and choleric
tumours in the throat, vigue and fever. In airy figns, furfeits, inflamnia-
ticms of tlie blood, ftone and gravel, weaknels of the back and reins^
debility, and impotency. In watery ligns, the droply, fcurvy, pleuriiy^
obftru(ilions of the lungs, diabetes, and ftone in the bladder.
TJie Sun, direc^ted to his own quartile in any nativity, gives faintingv
fits, tremors, and palpitation of the heart; whatlbever be his ligniiica-
tion in the radix, he will, phyfically conlidered, be the author of flow
fevers, and always incline the native to difeafe. But, if he be afflicted by
the quartile or oppofition of Venus in f.ery ligns, it will produce pains
in the back, bowels^ and reins, fluxes of the belly, tending to a con-
firmed dyfentery. If in earthy figns, phlegmatic tvmiours, and cold
^^efiuxions of the breaft and lungs. In airy (Igns, putiefac^ion of blood,,
running of the reins, pains in tlie fcrotum, and incurable frigidity. Irk
Avatery fiL-ns, obitructions of the itomachj fmall-pox, mealies^ droply,
rheumatiiin, and gout.
If the Sunbe aftli(fted by IVIercury in fiery ligns, he gives the phrenzy,
iliac palhon, and impofthumes in the head. In earthy ligns, melan-
choly, king's evil, fciatica, leprofy, and gout. In airy ligns, pains of the
head and Itomach, bilious cholic, Ibangury, and gravel in the reins.
In watery figns, quotidian and tertain argues, How fevers, defluxionsof
tiie brain, fainting fits, and droply. But, if the Smi be afflicted by the
conjunct; ion, quartile, or oppofition, of the Moon in fiery figns, itocca—
lions the falling licknefs, convuliions, vertigo, and vio'eiit head-ach*
If in earthy figns, the bloody finx, hemorrhoids, ftltula, and gravel in
the kidneys. If in watery figns, the droply, epilepfy, fits of the mo-
ther, oblirurtions in the bladder, debility in the reins, and crude femen.
If in airy figns, corruption of blood, violent clwlic, pains of the Itomach:
and bowels, fcurvy, leprofy, and tumours in the feet or legs.
Vifeafes produced by the Part of Fortune, xchen Hileg or Giver of Life, and
afflicted by the Anareia or Killing Planet.
If the Part of Fortune be in quartile or oppofition of Saturn, it
.brings fevers, afthmas, and confumptions. If in quartile or oppofition
of Jupiter, putrefa(5tion of blood, furfeits, fcurvy, and leprofy. If in quar-
tile or oppofition of JNIars, it gives violent fevers, ulcers, and fore legs.
If in quartile or oppofition of the Sun, dead pally, ftagnation of blood,
and epilepfy. If in quaitile or oppofition of Venus, obltruCtions of the
bowelsy
OF ASTROLOGY. 73.1
bowels, and wcaknefs of the reins. If in qii?rtile or oppofition of Mer-
cury, diforders of the brain, hcad-achs, and fpafms. If in quartile or
oppofition of the Moon, the native will be afflicfted with the fallinrr Hck-
reis, dropfy, or diabetes. And kere let ii be particularly remembered,
(hnt whatever part of the body the pp.rt of fortune governs, it wi^l luffer
more ftnfibly and acutely than any other part, in proportion to the na-
ture and quality of the direcffion under which it operates. If the direc-
tion falls in a fign of the fame nature with the promifer, the difeaie is
more remifs; but, if the contrary, the more extreme.
Dijeafes produced by the Jfcendant zvhtvi Hileg, or Giver of Life, and af~
filled by the Anareta, or dejiroying PJanet.
If the afcendant be affli(5led by the quartile or oppofition of Saturn, in
fiery figns, it occafions diftillations of melancholy humours ; bur, if in
earthy figns, confumptions, agues, obflrudlions of the terms, afthm.?,
and whooping cough. If in airy flgns, furfeits, ficknefs of ftomach, and
bilious cholic. If in watery figns, the fciirvy, gravel and (lone, leprofy,
and gout. If the afcendant be afflidcd by the quartile or oppofition of
Jupiter, in fiery figns, it brings putrid fevers, pleurifies, and inflammations
in thofe parts of the body reprefentcd by that fign in which the direc-
tion falls. If in earthy ligns, it produces melancholy, diforders of the
fpleen, and cholic. If in airy figns, univerfal corruption of the blood,
fmall pox, meafles, and fcurvy. If in watery figns, impollhumes of the
head, gout, and dropfy. If the afcendant be iiftlided by the quartile or
oppofition of Mars, in fiery figns, it corrupts the blood, induces vio-
lent phrenzy-fevers, and leads to madnefs. If in earthy figns, the cho-
lic, rheumatifm, and gout. Ai in^airy figns, inflammations of the blood,
Hone and gravel, and weaknefs in the reins. If in watery figns, the
Imall pox, meafles, and dropfy. If the afcendant be afflided by the quar-
tile or oppofition of the Sun, in fiery figns, it gives continual fevers,
violent head-achs, and weaknefs of fight. If in earthy figns, fchirrcus
tumours in the neck, obftrudions in the bowels, ending' in mortifica-
tion. If in airy figns, the thrufli, chicken-pox, ficw fevers, weaknefs
in the reins, and pains in the back. If in watery figns, the kino's evil,
leprofy, and fcurvy. If the afcendant be afflidcd by the quartile or
oppofition of Venus, in fiery figns, it gives affhmatic coughs, and hot
defluxions of rheum. If in earthy figns, obfirudions of the blood, and
hard painful fvvellings. If in airy figns, diforders of the womb, oleets,
and impotency. If in watery figns, the dropfy, diabetes, or dyfcntery.
If the afcendant be aftlided by the quartile or oppofition of Mercury, in
jiery figns, it produces catarrhs, confumptions, vertigos, and phrenzy.
Jf in earthy figns, melancholy, fevers in the licad, and quotidian argues
No. 37. 8S
^
If
73^ AN I L, L U S T R A T I O N
If in airy figns, the rheumatic gout, difeafcs of the back and reins, and
cbftriidliionb ot" the bowels. ]f in watery figns, iits of the mother, whoop-
ing cough, and flone in the bladder. If the afcendant be afflidled by the
quartile or oppofition of the Moon, in fiery figns, Hie brings the verti-
go, megrim, falling ficknels, and apoplexy. If in earthy ligns, catarrhs,
palfy, putrefied blood, and obftrudtions" of the terms. If in airy ligns,
furfeits, ficknefs of ftomach, fmall pox, and meafles. If in watery figns,
icurvy, dropfy, and difeafcs in the womb and bladder. And thus, when-
ever the afcendant is afflicted by the malefic rays of any promittor, the
offending humour will abound according to the nature of that fign or
triplicity wherein the afpe(5ls fall: if in fiery figns, cholerj in earthy,
melancholy J in airy, putrefadion of blood j in watery, corruption of
the whole ahimal juices.
Saturn in conjundion, quartile, or oppofition, of Jupiter, pofited-
with the lord of the afcendant, or in the fixth houfe, diforders the blood,
induces melancholy, and gives pains and cdldnefs in the extremities. In
conjundion, quartile, or oppofition with Mars, he gives the yellow
jaundice, quartan agues, the flone, gravel, gout, and rheumatifm. In
conjuncftion, quartile, or oppofition, of the Sun, he gives nervous affec-
tions, deep melancholy, confumptions, and fainting fits. In conjunc-
tion, quartile, or oppofition, of Venus, he gives jhe green ficknefs, fe-
vers, and quotidian agues. In conjundion, quartile, or oppofition, of
Mercury, he gives melancholy, madnefs, wafting of the brain, and con-
fumptions. In conjunction, quartile, or oppofition, of the Moon, he-
gives the epilcpfy, convulfions, and hyfteric fits.
If Jupiter be in conjunction, quartile, or oppofition, of Mars, he
brings putrid fevers, furteits, inflammation of the lungs, and putrefac-
tion of blood. If he be in conjundion or evil afped with the Sun, he
gives the pleurify, meafles, fmall pox, and malignant fevers. In con-
junction, quartile, or oppofition, of Venus, he gives putrid fevers, mor-
tification in the bowels, and univerfal corruption and flagnation of the
blood and juices. In conjundion^ quartile, or oppofition, of Mercury,
he gives defluxions of the breafl: and lungs, fluxes, and immoderate head-
achs. In conjundtion, quartile, or oppofition, of the Moon, he gives
the pleurify, bilious cholic, ficknefs of flomach, and fore throat. If
Mars be in conjundion, quartile, or oppofition, of the Sun, it gives a
violent burning fever, the tertian ague, carbuncles, and foul tumours.
If Mars be in conjundion, quartile, or oppofition, of Venus, it produces
king's evil, fcurvy, diforders of the back, reins, and womb. If in con-
jundion, quartile, or oppofition, of Mercury, it induces madnefs, phrenzy-
fevers,
O F . A S T R O L G Y. 733
fevers, and vvatchfulnefs. If in conjunftion, quartile, or oppofition, of
the Moon, it gives the dead pally, epilepfy, or convullion fits. If the
Sun be in conjun(;;l:ion or evil afpedt with Venus, it produces fevers,
meafles, fmall pox, and other cutaneous dilbrders. If the Sun be in
conjunction or evil alped: with Mercury, it brings melancholy, con-
fumptions, and weaknela ot the nervous iyftem. If in conjunction,
quartile, or oppofition, of the Moon, it gives rheums, defluxions of the
lungs, lameneis, agues, and putretacftion of blood, ^'enus in conjunc-
tion or evil afped: of ISIercury, when the}'' are fignificators of the difeafe,
gives lamenefs, fcurvy, or iliac paflion. In conjund,ion, quartile, or
oppofition, of the Moon, Ihe induces the palfy, numbnefs of the extre-
mities, cramps, and rheumatifm. Mercury in conjunction, quartile,
or oppofition, of the Moon, generally produces the falling ficknefs and
various diflempers of the brain.
To judge accurately of the natural force of a difeafe, great regard
muft be had to the iigns wherein the iignificators of the difeafe are
pofited, both as to their nature and quality; for eartliy figns denote
colder difeafes than airy, and fiery figns hotter and drier difcafes than
watery. And hence diforders might with eafe be fought out by duly
conlidering the nature of the figns, the dignity of the configurating
planets, and the quality of the houfes in which they are pofited. In this
Tpeculation it mufl be always remembered, that the houfes of heaven
which denote difeafes, are the fixth, twelfth, eighth, and feventh j and
particular regard muft be had to the lords of thofe houfes, as well as to
the planets pofited therein, in acute difeafes ; and to the Sun and lord
of the afcendant, in chronic. But the fixth houfe, and its lord, with
the plane^ts pofited therein, heft defcribe the difeafe, particularly when
they alflid; either of the luminaries or the lord of the afcendant. The
configurations of the Moon are in a particular manner to be noticed ;
for, in the conftitution of difeafes, flie tranHates the nature of one planet
to that of another, the which, if well examined, with the ftate and
quality of that planet whofe virtue flie tranflates, cannot fail to difcover
to us the true caufe of the ficknefs or difeafe with which the native is
afflicted. For according to the fign the Moon is in, to the nature of
that planet to which fhe applies, and to the lign that planet is in, fo the
difeafe fliall correfpond in nature and quality to that planet, whether it
be a fortune or an infortune, mafculine or feminine, nodturnal or diur-
nal, hot or cold, dry or moift; and the fame lliall be reprefented of the
temperature, part of the body, and difeafe, he induces; and whether he
be angular, fuecedent, or cadent ; whatever part of the body he governs
by-
73+- A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
by the houfe he is in, whether he be diredl or retrograde, fwift or flow,
oriental or occidental, combull: or free, precifely lb Ihall the flrciigth
and. duration of the malady be. And in this enquiry it will become us
to diningiiilh whether the afOidion be cflcntial or accidental. 'J1ic
parts of the bcdv cirentially afflidfcd, are governed by the lign upon
the afcendant, the cufp of the fixth houfe, and the Moon ; thofe acci-
dentally atllided, are governed by the lord of the afcendant, the lord of
the fixth, and the Moon ; and by the figns in which they are poiited,
both according to fimple and compound fignification. 'J he difference
between the efTential and accidental afflidion, is this : the one de-
monftrates where the root of tl-je difeafe lodges, and where the chief
aiid real afflidion is fcated ; whilfl the other Ihovvs the fympathctic
aiflidion of the component parts, which, though in fad really well,
yet fuf^'er an acute and fcnfible pain, by realbn of the extremity of the
diftemper which effentially or radically afflids fbme other part. For ex-
air.ple, when one burns his hand, that is the member or part eflcntially
vitiated; but, by rcafon of the extremity of the pain, the whole arm be-
comes inflamed. Thus the difeafe accidentally affeds the whole arm;
but it is efl!'cntially feated only in the burned hand. 'J'he fam.e reafoning
holds good in all cafes generally ; but particularly we fay, that Saturn
in the beginning of Cancer produces pain in the left fide, as though
pierced with an awl; in Leo he affdds the heart and back; in Virgo the
head and bowels ; in Scorpio, the hips and reins, and caufeth difiiculty
in m-^king water. So Mars, lord of the fixth, with Aries or Scorpio on
the afcendant, afflids the lead; though this polition frequently gives
pain in all parts of the human body, and produces an univerfal breaking-
out, in boils, blotches, ulcers, itch, fmall pox, meafles, or the like. But,
if Mars in this cafe be pofited in Leo, he produces pains in the back;
in Virgo, inflammations of the lungs ; in Libra, pains in the back and
reins; but, if he be lord of the fixth in bcorpio, he gives diforders of the
womb and bladder.
If the lord of the fixth houfe be afHided in a diurnal flgn, the difeafe
will appear in the fore part of the body, as in the face, breaff, or belly;
but, if he be afflided in a nodurnal fign, the feat of the difeafe will be
either in the back or internal parts of the body; and this will hold good,
whether the fignificator be above or under the earth. If the lord of the
iixth houfe be afilided above the earth, and in a diurnal fign, the fick-
nefs falls in the right fide; but if he be under the earth, and in a nodur-
rial fign, it falls in the left fide. Mafculinc planets alio attlid the right
fide of the body, and feminine the left ; according to the fpccific parts of
0,15 body which tliey refpedively govern; but always remember, that a
I malefic
OF ASTROLOGY. -jSi
malefic ftar in the afcendant, or in oppofition to it, in what fign foever
it be pofited, always afflidls the head. The fpecific humours and virttcs
inftilled refpedlively by the planets, abflraftedly confidered, muft like-
wife be regarded, in proportion to the ftrength of their rays, when fig-
nificators of difeafe. Thus Saturn of himfelf produces thick, grofs,
melancholy, and fuperfluous, phlegm; and rules the receptive virtue
which refts in the body and fplcen; and hath this natural energy doubly
augmented, when pofited in Taurus, Virgo, or Capricorn-. Jupiter's
natural influence is heat, blood, and wind; therefore his virtue is cref-
cent, growing, and quickening; and is feated in the liver. He governs
the digeftive faculty in man, and hath his power much augmented
when pofited in Gemini, Libra, or Aquaries. The humour produced
by Mars is hot, fliarp, and choleric; he therefore induces anger, and
governs the attradive quality in man, having his power much mcreafed
when in Aries, Leo, or Sagittarius. The Sun engenders yellow choler,
hot and dry; he governs the vital faculty, and is the beginning of life
and motion. His adlion is upon the heart; and with Mars he rules the
attradlive quality, having his power greatly augmented in Aries, Leo,
and Sagittarius. Venus produces thin phlegm, cold and moift, governs
and excites the libidinous appetite, and with Mars and the Sun pre-
fides over the attradive quality, having her greateft energy in Aries,
Leo, and Sagittarius. Mercury engenders thin melancholy, hot and
dry, hath the virtue imaginative and cogitative, and difpofes the animal
virtue refting in the brain. The Moon produces grofs, raw, crude,
phlegm, prefides over the natural virtue refting in the liver, and governs
the expulfive faculty, having her greateft power and influence in Cancer,
Scorpio, or Pifces.
From thefe obfervations we are led to deduce, that, when the planets
in their eflTential dignities are pofited at the fame time in any of the
above figns, the operation of the planet fo effentially dignified will (o
far exceed the influence of all the other ftars, as to render its tempera-
ment and quality too powerful in the conftitution of the native, and to
produce fuch diforders as are the natural confequence. For example,
if Jupiter be thus dignified in Gemini, the digeftive faculty will be
ftrong; or, if Saturn be in Cancer, the native will have the flux, and
therefore folid food and aftringent liquors would be naturally recom-
mended. The fame dodrine holds in every other complamt, which
muft be produced by the fuper-abundance of fome one of the lour qua-
lities; and, when the effential caufe of complaint is once found, a remedy-
may be eafily adminiftered. The following table conveys at one view,
according to the pofition of the affliding planet, what part of the body
is aggrieved.
No. 37. -ST ThP
736 AN ILLUSTRATION
OF ASTROLOGY. 737
ing pains in the joints, defedls in the ears, with trennors and palpitations of
the heart. The fignificators being wholly in the fiery, earthy, and airy,
triplicities, denote likewife that the native fliall be very fubjedt to fevers;
but, to difcover when thefe feveral maladies fliall befal him, we mufl: diredt
the feveral fignificators to their promittors, which we fliall prefently demon-
ftrate in the diredions, and thereby prove how exadly the feveral diforders
with which Mr. Witchell was, during life, afflicTied, correfponded with
the fignificators in his nativity.
The fixth houfe alfo bears relation to fervants, and points out how we
may be affedted by them. Their fignificators are the planets pofited in
the fixth, with the lord thereof, and the Moon. In this figure we find
the Sun anil Mercury are in the fixth houfe; and, as the Sun is lord of
the tenth, the houfe of honour and preferment, and in the fign of his
exaltation, it denotes that the native fhould have very profitable fervants
;
and, finding Mercury in reception of Mars, it indicates that thofe placed
in a fubordinate capacity under him fhould be diligent, adive, and vigilant
in his fervice. In fhort, I find no injury likely to arife to him by means
of domeflics, except it be from females, and that no way material, fince it
arifes only from the quartile of the Moon to the fixth houfe, in a
feminine fign. The circumflances of the native's life fully confirmed this
opinion.
CONSIDERATIONS arifing from the SEVENTH HOUSE.
From this houfe we derive aflral information concerning the native's in-
tercourfe with women : whether he fliall marry, or lead a life of celibacy
;
whether he fhall indulge in the delegable enjoyments of the fofter fex, or
whether the cold and frigid conformation of his nature fhall give him an
averfion to women.
To determine the marriages of men, we mufl confult their principal fig-
nificators, which are, Venus and the Moon, the feventh houfe, the lord
thereof, and the planets pofited therein. But, to determine the marriages of
women, we muft particularly regard the Sun and Mars, the feventh houfe,
and the planet or planets pofited therein. To afceitain whether the native
will marry or not, requires a minute infpedion of the nativity; for, if Saturn
be more elevated than Venus or the Moon, than Mars or the Sun, orftronger
in dignity than all of them, the native will have a natural averfion to a
married flate, particularly if no benefic planet colleds his rays, and
conduces thereby to a more communicative and adlive fpirit; for Sa-
turn, being the author of habitual folitarinefs, and, when to pofited,
^ the
738 AN ILLUSTRATION
the producer of cold, crude, and frigid, humours, takes away that in-
ftindive affedion of the mind, and that generous warmth of the
pafllons, which nature ordained to llir up and ftimulate the fenfitivc
faculty to the produdion of its like. When Saturn or Mars are found
in afpevSt with Venus or the Moon, and in no good configuration
either with the Sun, Jupiter, or Mercury, and are at the fame time
weak or peregrine, it argues that the native {hall lead a gay and. lafcivi-
ous life, indulging too freely in the ufe of women, before he will engage
in matrimony, if thefe fignificators are in barren iigris, or in cadent
houfes, and dignified in Leo or Taurus, or the Moon in Scorpio, in quartile
or oppolition of Saturn; or if the Moon be in conjundion of the Sun in
Capricorn, Aquaries, or Libra, and in oppofition to iiaturn ; the perfcn born
under fuch configurations will never many. And again, the oppofition
or quartile of Venus and Saturn with the Moon, in a barren fign, or
in a cadent houfe, argues much againft a married life. But where
we find the Moon and Venus in male nativities, or the Sun and Mars
in thofe of women, or pofited in fruitful figns, and the lord of the
feventh houfe fortunate, or a benevolent planet in that houfe, or the figni-
ficators of marriage fituated in good parts of the figure, or a reception
between the lord of the feventh and fir ft houfes, or a good afpeft between
any of the principal fignificators, we may then fafcly declare the native will
not only marry, but is well qualified to render that flate truly blifsful and
happy.
But to know whether matrimony will be contradled with eafe, /. e.
without much trouble, anxiety, or difappointment, obicrve whether
Saturn and Mars behold each other by an oppofition out of the firft or
feventh houfes, or whether Venus be pofited in Leo or Scorpio, in evil
afpedl with Mars, or whether Mars tranfits the cufp of the feventh houfe
in Capricorn, Virgo, or Taurus; for, in any of thcfe cafes, the native will
find great difficulty and embarraffment in purfuing the objedt of his affec-
tion, and, whenever matrimony takes place, it will be on a fudden. .If,
on the contrary, we find the fignificators of marriage well beheld by be-
nefic ftars, ftrong and in good afped to Saturn and Mars, and the lord
of the feventh applying to the lord of the afcendant, matrimony will be
obtained with eafe.^The number of wives or hufbands the native fhall
have, is declared by the application of the Moon in men's nativities,
and by the application of the Sun in thofe of women, either in body or
afped: ; for, if the Moon or Sun be joined with or apply to but one
planet, it denotes but one wife or hufband; except thofe fignificators
chance to be pofited in watery figns, and then the number is doubled.
Ptolomy iikewife faith, that, if the Moon be in a fign of one form, and
apply
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 739
apply to one planet, it declares one wife; but if in a bi-corporal fign,
applying to many planets, many wives. But, if none of thele configu-
rations are found, examine how many planets are diredt, and free fronn
combuftion, except fuch as are in the eflential dignities, are conflituted
between the midheaven and the planet Venus, if Venus be fituated
in the infant oriental quarter, and fo many wives or hufbands fliall
the native have. But, it in the figure of birth no fuch are found, then
obferve how many planets behold the lord of the feventh houfewith
partile afpedt, whether they be retrograde or combuft, and from thence
determine the number of wives. Thefe obfervations, according to the
long-eftablifhed evidence of caules and effeils, will in all cafes enable
us to determine this important incident of life, where no opponte tefti-
monies are found in the figure of birth to contradidl them. We fhall
now apply theie matrimonial rules to the elucidation of that fuoject ia
the prefent nativity. The Moon and Venus are Mr. Witchell's bgni-
ficators of marriage: the Moon is not in a barren fign, nor afflicted by
any malefic ftar, nor is flae polited in the lixth, ninth, twelfth, or
eighth, houfes of the figure; again, flie is not combufl of the Sun,
nor under any other evil influence. It therefore teftifies a natural in-
clination in the native of entering into a marriage ftate. 7 his judg-
ment is confiderably augmented by the lord of the feventh, viz. Mars,
being in an exad: fefquiquadrate of the Moon ; and Venus being at the
fame time in a fruitful lign in reception of Jupiter, produces a ftrong
teftimony of radical heat, or amorous defires, in the native, to flimulate
him to the contradl J but Venus being in oppofition of Mars, declares
he fliould fuffer great perplexity and difappointments in his matrimonial
engagement, before it fhould abiblutely take place.
The time when his marriage fliould be completed, is determined by
the motion of the fignificators ; and that motion, or fpecial time, is
afcertained, by diredting the Moon, or Venus, to a fextile, trine, or
conjunction, of the feventh or firfl houfes j or by dirediing the midhea-
ven to the conjundion, fextile, or trine, of Venus or the Moon; or
by direding the Sun to the fextile, quartile, or trine, of the Moon and
Venus ; or by direding the Moon to the fextile, quartile, trine, or op-
pofition, of the Sun or Mars : but in this cafe it mufl be particularly
obferved, that, if marriage is brought up by a quartile or oppofition of
the Sun or Mars, according to which the Moon fliall be direded, they
muft be in the terms either of Jupiter or Venus, or the diredion will
be of no force. Any of the ajjove afpeds thus direded, or the Sun,
Moon, midheaven, or lord of the alcendant, direded to the fextile
or trine of the lord of the feventh houfe, will bring up the time of
No. 37. 8 U mar-
740 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
marriao-e, as the cafe and configurations in the genethliacal figure fliafi
happen to be. The diredions that gave marriage to this native, were
the Moon to the Textile of the afcendant, and trine of the feventh houfe,
followed by Mars to the midheaven, the Sun to the feventh, and the
Moon to the fextile of the Sun, all which were reafonably fullicient
to ftir up the native's mind to the completion of the marriage contrad:,
and which accordingly took place, in that exact order and point of time
defcribed by the aforefaid diredions, as will be hereafter more fully
proved and explained.
As to the number of wives, if we examine the Moon by the rules
already given, we fliall find the native will have but one. The Moon,
in this nativity, applies but to one planet, while fhe is in the figu
Capricorn, and that planet is Mercury, who is in reception of Mars,
lord of the feventh houfe, and therefore mui\ have pre-eminence in the
defcription of the wife, who was a perfon of a talliih llature, fair com-
plexion, light brown hair, fliarp, witty, and ingenious, and of a fan-
guine choleric difpofition, precifely as the fignificators imply.
The reafon Jupiter is not admitted in teftimony of a fecond wife, is
becaufe, according to his latitude, he is out of Taurus, and is verging
into the fign Gemini j and therefore the Moon cannot be faid to apply
to him while (he is pofited in the fign Capricorn ; a diftindion that
every artift muft carefully make, or his labours will be often vain, and
his judgment foundetl in error. Modern praditioners have in general
paid little or no attention to the latitude of the ftars, a thing of the
utmoft importance, and hence, the fuppofed uncertainty and dilgrace
that has been brought upon this department of the fcience of Aflronomy.
As to the agreement of the native and his wife, I Ihall only take notice,
that Mars in oppofition of Venus muft create occafional animofity ; but
on what account, I fhall leave the attentive reader to difcover by the rules
and aphorifms I have already laid down for the illuftration of this
fubjed.
We will now examine, according to the pofition of thefe afpeds, whe-
ther the native or his wife fliall live the longefl. We find firil, that
the Moon is much better fortified than Mercury, the planet to which
Ihe applies ; and which is therefore the fignificator of the wife. Se-
condly, Venus is afflided by an oppofition of Mars. Thirdly, Saturn,
a malefic planet, is in the fourth houfe ; which threefold cord ties the
wife of the native down, according to natural caufes, to certain death,
before her hufband; and proves, by the never-ceafing laws of motion,
the
O F A S T R O L O G Y. ^^i
the certain and inevitable effed: of celeflial bodies over the tcrrefti.il ;
and that ail the operations of nature are regularly produced by caufcs
and efFefts.
Public enemies being alfo difcovered by the configurations in the
feventh houfe, i (hall proceed to denote them. Venus in this cafe is
to be confidered the principal fignificator, becaufe Hie claims almoin the
entire rule of the feventh and twelfth houfes ; and therefore declares
as (he falls in a feminine fign, and being herfclfa feminine planet, that
women in general (liall be the moll dangerous enemies of this native-
at leafl: fuch as Ihall eventually do him the greatefi: injury. To confirrn
this, it may be noted that Venus is well dignified in Pifccs, a watery
iign, which declares a female ihall be his avowed enemy; but Mars
being in reception of Mercury, and in afpea: with the Moon, denotes
that he will eventually get the better of this and every other oppolition
to his fuccefs and preferment through life, though he dues not appear
likely to be troubled with many powerful or dangerous opponents.
CONSIDERATIONS refulting from the EIGHTH HOUSE.
The eighth houfe has fignification of death and of preferments, and
advantages by death, as hath been fully explained in page 155. But let
it be remembered, that this houfe is not to be direvlted from death unlefs
it contains the anareta or killing flar, any more than the fixth or twelt'th
houfes; for death arifes from other caufes than merely the pofition or
tranfiting of the cufps of houfes, as we have abundantly Ihown in
P^^g^ 455- ^^^ fhis houfe, being under the dominion of 'the malefic
planets, participates moflly of the quality of death, and hath therefore
been affigned to this particular enquiry, which, indeed, is of the lall
importance.
The firfl thing taught in our fchools, and the primary fad: imprefTed
upon our minds the moment we attain the maturity of reafon, is the in-
evitable deitiny of our nature, that we mull: once die, a theme' that few
men love to hear, or to dwell upon, although it is the exprefs term of
their exiftence. Hov/ abfurd it is then, that we lliould incelTandy la-
bour to put off all thoughts of fuch an event, until the very moment it
approaches, and petrifies us with its haity fiimmons I How cowardly
how pufillanimous that heart, which dares not to meet a fentence with calm-
nefs and fortitude, which no power can remit, nor no entreaties pro-
long, even for a moment I It is, I think, much to be lamented, that
thofe pious perfons, who formed the liturgy vf every Chriftian perfua-
^
fion
742 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
fion into the morning and evening fervice, did not incorporate {o much
of that mofl admirable Epiftlc of Paul to the Corinthians, as relates to
death and immortality ; that kings might hear the true extent of their
dominion—that princes might know the termination of their Iplendor
—
that men in afBucnce might oftcner recoiled the level of the grave
—
tjiat their perfecuted and opprclTed fellow-mortals might be oftener con-
foled under the certain termination of their fuffenng—and of the joyful
hope of linking into that repofe from Whence they never (hall awake
but to a better world. Happy, indeed, arc thole, who can indulge
in fuch fervent hopes, antl whole heroic fouls can trace the dreary man-
fions of the dead with no other emotions than ihe grandeur of the fub-
je(5l and the folemnity of the event mull naturally furnilh to the mod
obdurate mind ! To fuch alone I dedicate my remarks upon thofe cer-
tain caufes of death, which, being ingrafted in our nature in the morrients
of formation, have a regular and progreflive motion in the fyftem of the
univerlc, not vague nor undefined, but hmitcd, certain, definable, and
inevitable, as all the other laws of nature are.
The fliortnefs or duration of life depends upon the dif^ance of the
hilcg, or giver of life, from the evil rays ot the anareta, or killing pla-
net, which is afcertained by diredt direction, or by the motion of the
primum mobi/c, whereby the hileg is carried to the culp of the feventh
houfe; and tlien, by adding or fubtradting the tefiimonies given by bcnefic
or malefic fl^ars with the complexion of the anareta, the length of tinie
will be obtained according to the faid motion, as we fli.ill more particu-
krly define in bringing up the directions.
The hileg, or giver of life, in this nativity, is the Part of Fortune;
and the anareta, or deftroying planet, is the Sun. Now, when the Part
of Fortune, by dire<5l diredion, comes to the oppofition of the Sun, the
native will be deprived of radical moiflurc, and mulT: expire ; becaufe
the Sun, by obtaining that pofition, overcomes the influence of,all the
other planets, and hath power to cut oft life. The quality of death is
firfl to be taken from the nature of the maleAolent planet; fecondly,
from the nature of the (Ign the planet is in ; thirdly, from the quality
of the houfe J and, fourthly, from the pofition of the two luminaries;
all of which I have heretofore copioufly explained.
The Sun, confidercd as the anareta or deflroying planet, not being
pofited in a violent fign, nor configurated M'ith a violent fixed fiar, nor
with the lord of the afcendant, in no afpect with the Moon, nor v.ith
-the lord of the eighth houfe, convitKes me he fhall not die a violent
death.
F A S T R O L O G Y. 74}
death. Befides, Jupiter, a bcnefic ftar, being fituatcJ in the eighth
hoiife, adts as a guard upon the native's Hfe, to preferve him from ac-
cidental and premature death. But, to determine by what kind of means
the native fluill be taken from this world, we muft firft confider the
pofition of Venus lady of the eighth, and Mercury lord alfo of the
Tame houfe j fecondly, the lord of the afcendant ; thirdly, the fituation
of the anareta or killing planet ; and fourthly, the planet polited in the
eighth houfe, together with their effential and accidental produdion of
difeafes, fmce we find no violent means Ihall attain the fuperior effedl in
this nativity. Venus and Mercury are co-fignifica'tors of the eighth
houfe, and the difeafe Venus in her nature gives, is thick, cold, tough,
phlegm, and watery, caufing indigeftion, with quotidian phlegmatic fe-
vers. The difeafes incident to the influence of Mercury in Aries, are
yellow choler, and fubtile melancholy, with depreifion of fpirits, per-
turbation of mind, and defedt or lofs of fpeech. Now as Mars is lord of
the afcendant, in oppofition to Venus, and in reception with Mercury,
it appears highly probable thefe difeafes will have much predominancy
in the native's death. But they will be in fome degree varied by other
rays. The Sun in Aries, will have a molt ftnfible efFedt; and the
Moon being afflidted by the Sun, under a powerful afped: with Mars,
lord of the afcendant, and at the fame time difpofed of by Saturn, lord
of the fourth, gives a certain prefage of convulfions, apoplexy, or dead
palfy. Jupiter being in the eighth houfe, and ruling the digeftive
faculty, gives difeafes of the blood, and will contribute not a little
to the fatal tendency of the aforefaid influences, which really brought
on, fome years after this nativity had been calculated, that fudden flroke
of the palfy which carried this worthy native to the manfions of reft
and peace.
CONSIDERAriONS refulting from the NINTH HOUSE.
From this houfe we gi\e judgment on the eftedls of journeys; of the in-
tegrity, njorality, or religious temper, of the native; and of the probabje
import of extraordinary and ominous dreams.
The fignificators of travelling, are to be taken, firfl, from the ninth
houfe and its lord; fecondly, from the planet or planets pofited in the
ninth houfe; and, thirdly, from the relative fituations of the Moon,
Mars, and Mercury. To determine, on the infpedion of a nativity,
whether the native will travel or not, obferve whether the Moon, Mars,
or Mercury, be in conjundion or reception with each' other, or in
conjunction or reception with the lord of the firft or ninth houfes; or
No. 37. H '^ pofited
/•^
44 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
pofited in the ninth, third, or firft, houfcs; or have effential dignities therein;
for in each o{ thefe cafes refpedtively, the native's mind will be too reliefs
and Linfcttlcd, to continue k-ng at a time in one place or fituation. So likc-
v.-ife the lord of the firft pofited in the ninth, or the lord of the ninth con-
figurated in the firft, prefage the fame.
When the Sun is poHted in the proper hcufe of the Moon, irradiated
hy Mercury or Mars, or in reception with e'ither of them by elTential
dignities ;. or if the Sun be conjoined by any afpedt to Mercury, Mars,
or the Moon, jt denotes a removal of tlie native from one fituation to
another, as the cafe may be. So likewife many planets in a moveable
fion; Mercury in the houfe of the Moon, or the Moon in the houfe
of Mercury, induce the fim.e confequences ; and planets accidentally
pofited, efpecially -the ^]oon, are obvious implicators of travelling.
But the quarter of the world to which the native fliall be impelitd, is
afcertaincd by comparing the latitude and longitude of thole parts of
the heavens where the fignificators of travellihg fall, with the latitude
or place of the native's birth; uniformly obferving this Handing maxim,
that if thcfe fignificators fall in the tenth, eleventh, twelfth, firft, fe-
cond, or third, houfcs, the native fliall travel toward the eaft ; but if
thev are fovuid in the fourth, fifth, fixth, feventh, eighth, or ninth,
houfes, then he ftiail travel weftward ; and that quarter oi the world
will, in a general way, prove moft conducive to the native's good for-
tune, where Jupiter, Venus, the Dragon's Head, or Fart of Fortune,
are pofited, provivled they are dignified in good houfes of the figure, and
not vitiated by malefic rays.
Thefe confidei^tions being annexed to thofe rules laid down in page
ATI, will enable us to draw all necefiiliry conclufions concerning the
material or effedive journeys of the native. In this nativity we find
Mercury a very principal fignificator of travelling, pofited in' Aries, and
in reception of Mars, in the tenth houfe. This declares the native
lliould be impelled weftward, ftrongly urged by fcientific acquirements,
which is the true and radical implication of this planet's nature and-
influence. And as Mercury is elevated in the fixth houfe, in conjunc-
tion of the Sun in his exaltation, it is an irrefiftible argument that the
native Ihould be raifed by the events of this journey to an advantageous
poft, under the aufpices of princely authority, as the exalted afpcd: of
the Sun clearly demonftrates. And again, Mercury being lord of the-
deventh houfe, and havii^ his exaltation in Virgo, declares that this
fournev lliall be taken through the medium of friends who were fcien-
tific men ; and as Venus is lady of the afcendant, fitiiated in the watery
fign
OF ASTROLOGY. 745
{jgn Pifces, and near the fortunate node of the Moon, it is thereby-
further declared, that this journey fliall be made in that angle which is
weft from London, the place of the native's birth; and that it (hall be
terminated by feme great body of water, in the vicinity of which the
native fliall find a durable relidence. This was, in every inftance, moft
remarkably verified in the native's appointment to a fcientific ofRce in
his Majefty's Dock Yard at Portfmouth, upon the recommendation of
fome of the Fellows of the Royal Society ; in confequence of which, this
important journey was taken, and all the fubordinate events were really-
brought to pafs.
We have next to confider the exemplary^ or religious bent of the native's
mind; which is ufually afcertained by the following configurations.
Jupiter, Venus, or the Dragon's Head, placed in the ninth or third
houfes, or configurated with Spica Virgo, are certain prefages of a moral
and religious perfon. The Moon, Mercury, and Part of Fortune, in
fimilar pofitions, denote the fame; but the Sun effentially dignified in the
ninth houfe, fliows a very ftrcng natural propenfity to moral and religious
prad;i::e3 ; and, if the native happens to be bred a clergyman, he becomes a
mod admirable preacher, and hath every profped; of eonfiderable preferment
in the church.
Whenever it happens that no planets are found in the ninth houfe of
the figure, we muft have particular regard to the aflral pofition of Ju-
piter ; for if he be in his own houfe, or in reception with Venus or
jNIercury-, or with the Sun or Moon, or in conjuncftion, fextile, or trine,
with Venus, in angular places, they dechjre the native to be in princi-
, pie a ftriclly moral and confcientious man, poffeffed of niore llerling;
integrity than thofe who make large profeliions. But Saturn,' Mars,
or the Dragon's Tail, pofited in the ninth' houfe, and in moveable figns,
with Jupiter peregrine, cadent, or in bad afpedt -^with Saturn or Mars,
prefage great mutability in religious perfuafion, which generally ter-
minates in atheifm. Saturn pofited in a common fign, ill dignified,
and retrograde, bcfpeaks an hypocrite; and Mars thus configurated,
forelhows a mind pliable to any perfuafion that will beft ferve the purpofcs
of avarice and ambition.
If we may prefutne to fpeak of the native's moral and religious cha--
racier, according to the true implication cf the fignificators in his ge-
nethliacal figure of birth, we cannot hcfitate to affirm, that the Moon-
being lady of the ninth houfe, and in her own dignitie?, declares the
native fhall be conflant to tliat futh in which he was brought up and'
c-:Iucated,.
746 ANILLUSTRATION
educated, though an admirer of every other perfuafion that pays a rigid
attention to (he principles and tenets hy which it is governed. And
there being a moft remarkable reception between Mercury and Jupiter
in their trTplicity, Mercury being in the triplicity of Jupiter, and Ju-
piter by his latitude in that of Mercury, will incline the native not only
to be a man of flrid: integrity and honour himfelf, but alfo to encourage
and reward it in others.
Let it not be fuppofed, from the foregoing obfervations, that I would
wifh to infer that the ftars have power to make a man a faint or a devil;
or in any fhape to govern or diredl his judgment or his will. 1 his is
not what I contend for ; but thus much I am free to affert, that they
clearly point out our natural inclinations, whether good or evil; and
it will generally be found that thofe inclinations carry fo ftrong a bias
over our reafon and moral intellect, that, in ninety-nine infliances out of a
hundred, the natural influence or inclination imprefled by each man's
lignificators will be found to prevail. And yet this is no defedt in our
moral perception^ for, each man having the ability to diflinguifli be-
tween right and wrong, if he chufes to do wrong, in oppofition to that
which he knows to be his duty, it is an open violation of his own fenfe
and reafon, and a willing facrifice of the duties of morality and religion.
Hence the excellence of that celebrated remark on ancient philofophers,
" that wife men rule their ftars, and none but wicked men or fools are
ruled by them."
The laft confideration of this houfe, is that which refpeds our
dreams. Of this I Ihall at prefent fay but little,, meaning, in its proper
place, to give fuch an explication of that aftonifhing motion of the foul,
as hath yet never made its appearance before an enlightened and impar-
tial public. And this, I Ihall alfo take upon me to prove, is another
meiuis by which the all-gracious Deity has mercifully condefcended to
afflrd his creature, under a variety of circumftances, certain tokens or
prefages of what is about to happen, either to himfelf, to his relations,
or friends. But as it will in many cafes be necefliiry to inform pcrfons
who have had fome ominous or extraordinary dream, the natural import
deducible from the fignificators of his nativity, as well as the period of
tin-ie when its ohjed: fliall be accomplifhed, I Ihall give the following
rules to efl^ect it. As foon as the perfon awakes, let him as near as polli-
ble note the hour of the day or night in which it happened. Then find
what planet ruled that hour, whether it be Jupiter, Mars, the Sun, or
any other; and when the Moon comes to a conjundiion, Textile, or trine,
of that planet, the dream, if it hath a good fignification, will be-
3 g'a
O F A S T R O L O G Y. .^^
gin tofhovvitseffeds, but, ifit hath an evil tendency, it will be^-n to
r.tion, of the lord of the hour. And here let it be remembered, thaf a
cream hath not alvvays the full completion on the firft configuration ot
cnrl^r ^r^
"^' ^^''^ -^^ '^'' ^^^"'^ ^^'^ oftentimes remains unfiniflJ
anTfigSficatrol'''''''
»" ^^"^''^'a with another aipecl of the fame nature
In this nativity the Moon and Venus are the principal %nificators of
dreams ;
the one being lady of the ninth houfe, and the other beholding
that houfe with a trine afped ; and they are ftrong arguments that the
native Ihould frequently have important communications through the
medium of dreams. °
CONSIDERATIONS refulting from the TENTH HOUSE.
The tenth houfe hath fignification of honour, preferment, trade, pro-
tellion or of any regular and accuftomed means by which men live, and
are relpeded. In treating of which, it will be neceffary to obferve the
lollowing rules, in addition to thofe laid down in page 438.
_
If the Sun or Moon, in the figure of birth, fhall happen to be pofited
in the very degree of the exaltation, and at the fame time free from
the evil alpeds of the infortunes, it is a powerful indication of the moft
ttattermg acquifitions to the native, in proportion to his capacity and
degree of birth. When the light of time tranfits the cufp of the mid-
iieaven, and is furrounded by benefic planets in the hour of birth, and
no malefic rays of the infortunes intervene, the native fhall arrive to
lorrie important pofl of power and authority under government; or to a
public employment of dignity and honour, under fome chartered body or
princely power, in proportion to the condition of his birth. If the Sun or
Moon are pofited in angles, though unaided hy other configurations, yet
the native fhall live in much refpedl and efleem' all his days. In thofe fi-
gures ot birth where neither of the luminaries are found pofited in angles,
nor in any of their effential dignities, nor in mafculine figns, nor configu-
rated with the propitious rays of Jupiter or Venus, be alTured the
condition of the native will be poor and abjedt all his days, no
matter what might be his hereditary profpeds at his hour of birth,
^ut It the planets that have dominion in the places of the Sun and
Moon, or in the degrees afcending, Hiall be orientally fixed, and well
dignified, the native fhall raife himfelf to a high condition, efpecially if,
by a concatenation of fortuitous events, thofe planets are afpeded by
either of the benefics.
r /
N°'37. 8Y Jupiter
748 ANILLUSTRATION
Jupiter pofited in the tenth houfe, in a diurnal nativity, gives a pretty
accurate teftimony, that the native fhall be employed in fome advantage-
ous public poft ; but, if either Saturn or Mars be in quartile or oppofi-
tion with that pofition of Jupiter, the native will certainly be driven
from his preferment, with lofs of reputation. But he who hath the
good fortune to be born juft at noon, when the Sun enters the meridian
at his place of birth, cfl'entially dignified, and oppoled by no vicious
ray, will, in fpitc of all the gloomy profpeds that may attend his inflmcy,
certainly arrive to great fortune and preferment, and increafe in honour
and reputation all his days. If the lord of the tenth, apply to the lord of
the afcendant in oriental ftations, and in their exaltation, fuch a native
fhall be profperous, and well beloved. And again, he that hath the
Moon pofited in Taurus, upon the cufp of the afcendant, the Sun being
at the fame time in Leo, will arrive to great honour, 'i he Moon in the
firft houfe, oppofed to the Sun in the feventh, and in quartile of Jupiter
in the fourth, gives wealth and authority, by the perquifites of magiftracy,
embalTies, &c. but if the Moon be in the afcendant, and the Sun in par-
tile conjundlion with Venus, wealth and honour will come by ecclefiafti-
cal preferments.
The fixed flars, likevvife, in this fpeculation, have, by accidental confi-
guration, a mod: important influence. If the Moon be with Cor-Leonis,
and Jupiter elevated in the tenth houfe, in trine of Mars, and in effential
dicrnity, the Sun being at the fame time in conjunction with the dragon's
head, will produce thofe rapid and unexpedled turns of good fortune
and preferment, that equally furprife the native, and aftonilh mankind.
To confirm the certainty of this obfervation, I could only with the gcni-
tures of Sir Roger Curtis, Sir Francis Sykes, Sir Thomas Rumbold, Mr.
Mackreth, and a hundred others in fimilar circumftances, to be infpeded,
and I will forfeit my head if the radical caufe is not found equally the
fame in them all.
According to this hypothefis, thofe perfons fliall likevvife prove for-
tunate and illuftrious, in whofe nativities the Moon is in good afpeA
with many planets, united with a princely flar; and he that hath in
other refpecfts but an unpromifing geniture as to riches and honour, yet
if he hath the Moon configurated with any eminent fixed ftar of the firft
magnitude, he fliall, at feme part or other of his life, be unexpededly
promoted to fome poft of authority and advantage, though he may per-
haps be diflionourably fuperfeded, and caft down to his former obfcurity.
Again, Caput Medufee in the midheaven, with the Sun, Jupiter, or the
Moon, gives power to the native over his enemies; and the Pleiades on
Hyades
O F A S T R O L O G Y; 749
Hyades in the fame pofition, or rifing upon the afcendant with the Sun
or Moon, fliows that the native, in any mihtary employment, according
to his poft and dignity, fhall prevail over his enemy. But, if Spica Virginis
is in the above configuration, it then more aptly applies to ecclefiallical
preferments.
Oculus Taurus and Cor Scorpio, with either the Sun or Moon in the
afcendant, or in the midheaven, fhous that the native, whofe geniture is
thus conftituted, will gain riches by means of violence. And if he hath
Sirius Procyon united with them, and configurated with the luminaries in
the afcendant or midheaven, the native fliall arife by fimilar means to kingly
authority and preferment. But the obftacles he will have to encounter, can
only be furmounted by an unfeeling fpirit of rapine and violence. Infpedt
the geniture of a late oriental governor !
Saturnine fixed ftars of the firft magnitude in conjundlion of the Sun
involve the native in a fucceffion of troubles, by repeated afflidlion •
but if the Sun be configurated with Fomahaut in forty minutes of Pifces
or with Eigal in thirteen degrees fifty-fix minutes of Gemini, the na-
tive will acquire an illuftrious charadler and fortune. Regulus, Ardturus
the right fhoulder of Orion, or the left of the Waggoner, conficrurated
with the Sun, Jupiter, or the Moon, in the tenth houfe of the figure
give alfo ample fortune, and reputation. Thus the fixed flars, vv'hen in
angles, contribute admirable efficacy to any geniture; but, if the benefic
planets do not at the fiime time contribute their influence jointly with
them, they are of but little import; and, if malefic planets are joined
with them, they then induce much mifchief ; for if the Hyades, Hercu-
les, Cor Scorpio, or Lynx Auftralis, are pofited in an angle, and confi-
gurated with Saturn or Mars, in a quartile or oppolite afpedt, thofe fixed
Aars, fo fituated, imprefs the native with fuch defires and endeavours in
the attainment of places and ports of honour or emolument, as, by the-
bad influence of the malefics, and in vexatious expences and difap-
pointments to the native, not only chagrin and torment his mind, but:
often prove his inevitable ruin.
When the Sun in Libra or Aquarius is configurated either with o-ood
or evil planets, and near fome eminent fixed flar, it will haopen, that
when the Sun comes to the ill direction of the malefic influence, and
meets with a bad revolution, at the fame time the native (hall be fud-
denly plunged into fome unexpedled and laftin,^ misfortune; but if the
direction only prove bad, and the revolution good, though he be caft
down during the continuance of the malefic direction, yet he fliall rife
agaixi
750 AN ILLUSTRATION
a""aia upon the going off of its effe6t, and be reinftated in his former occu-
pation or employment.
Upon enquiry, I found this native was mechanically brought un to
the profellion of a watchmaker and goldfmith; but, if we attentively
conlider the import of the proper lignificators of his preferment and
profellion, we Ihall find that nature had fitted him for a more refined
and elevated line of life. The cardinal and equino6tial fign Libra is
upon the cufp of his afcendantj the Sun pohted in the cardinal lign
Aries; the Moon in the tropical fign Capricorn; Mercury and Mars,
the two principal fignificators of his profeffion, in reception of each
other; Mars alio in the exaltation of Mercury, and pofited in the tenth
houfe, the houfc of honour and preferment; the part of fortune alfo in
the tenth, configurated with the two royal fixed ftars. Hydra and Cor
Leonis, are fo many unequivocal arguments, not only that the native
fliould abandon every handicraft employment, in purluit of the more
elevated and fublime fiudy of the liberal arts and fciences, but tiiat he
fliould eventually obtain honour, promotion, and emolument, by the
purfuit. Mars, befides being the principal fignificator of his profellion,
is alio lord of the alcendant, and therefore proves that the avocation of
the native fhould be fuch as he would make choice of himfelf, and that
it would be in the line of fcience, as is moft aptly declared by the pofi-
tion of Mars in the dignities of Mercury; whilft the Sun being in the
houle of his exaltation, and lord of the tenth, declares honour and pre-
ferment fliould refult from it, with durations of fuccefs ; and the more
fo, becaufe the Sun fends a trine afpedt to the tenth houfe, as well as
Mercury, which proves his profperity and advancement to arife from his
own intrinfic merit.
All this was in a mofl: remarkable manner verified by the wonderful
fucceffes and purfuits of the native, in oppolition to every obft^acle, diffi-
culty, and opprelfion, thrown in his way, by attempts to force upon him
an employment incompatible with his genius. His many curious and
valuable pieces, written at an early age, and publiflied among other
mathematical difquifitions ; his memorable improvements and difco-
veries in the longitude, for which his fovereign promoted him to the
honourable poft of Afrronomical Mafter of his Royal Academy in Portf-
mouth, which he filled with univerfal reputation; Ihow us, that in thefc
cafes the influences of the fi:ars are not to be refifted, nor the bright
rays of genius chained to arbitrary lim.its. In my opinion, thefe are
genitures that afford a brilliant fcope to aflrological enquiry •, becaufe
we are not only enabled to define this extraordinary impulfe of the
7 mind.
OF ASTROLOGY, 751
mind, which impelled this native forward in purfuit of fame; but we
are likewife enabled to trace this inftindlive faculty ftill failher than the
conftitution of his own fisiure of birth, and to difcover fomething of
it in tliat of his parents,, which I fliall here explain. The fourth houfe
reprefents the father; and Satuni being configurated in that houfe, in
eflential dignities, in an airy and fcientific lign, proves the fatlier to have
inherited a fcientific turn. But the tenth houfe bears fignification of the
native's mother, whofe fpirit of genei-ofity and elevation of foul are moft
remarkably exprelled by the two royal fixed ftars configuratt^d in her af-
cendant or conjundion with the part of fortune, the giver of life to the
native ; and we mr.y oljferve, that, as Mars is lord of the native's afcen-
dant, and falls in his mother's afcendant, he Ihould, according to natural
efficient caules, inherit the vital principles and difpofition of his mother.
Hence too we define the caufe why children fometimes more Ilrongly
relemble the father, and fometimes the mother; an effeA which folely
depends upon which of their lignificators is the ftrongeft and bell dig-
nified in the a6t of generation.
Upon the whole, we may remark, that few events can more illuftri-
ouily difp!ay the obvioufnefs of planetary information, or more vifibly de-
monftrate the goodnefs of God in mercifully affording his creatures this
aftonilhing mode of communication, than the foregoing radical proofs of
this native's natural forceof genius ; who, at twelve years of age, was of
fuflficient capacity to fend a moft elaborate piece for infertion in the Gen-
tleman's Diary; and at the early age of twenty-one, was admitted a
member of the mathematical fociety in London 1 A proof this, that al^
tral influence ihould be the firtt confideration to dire6l us in forming the
tender minds of youth to fuch purfuits and avocations a'% are beft calcu-
lated to place them in the high road to excellence and perfection. And
for which puipofe, I cannot recommend a more ftriking example than
what is afforded in this eil'ential part of the nativit)'^ of my good and
M^orthy friend Air. Witchell.
CONSIDERATIONS refulting from the ELEVENTH HOUSE.
The eleventh houfe is that part of the vifible heavens from which
we draw judgment concerning friends and friendlhip ; hope, confi-
dence, and truit; I ftiall therefore, in addition to what I have com-
municated in page 449, offer the following remarks. Wlien Jupiter
or Venus fliall be found in the eleventh, fifth, tenth, fev.^nth, firlt, or
ninth, houfes of the figure, it is a fure prefage of many friends ; but,
if Saturn or Alars are peregrine in angles, or pofited in the twelfth houfe»
it denotes many enemies. Whoever is born with Cancer afcending
No. 38. 8Z on
IP- AN ILLUSTRATION
on the eaftern fineter of the heavens, fuch native will enjoy a very fmall
fliare of fiiends ; and nearly the fame will be the lot of thofe in whofe
nativities the lord of the eleventh houfe and the lord oftheafcendant are
found feparating from a propitious configuration.
If it be in any cafe required to know whether mutual good offices of
friendfliip fliall long exift between- any two particular perfons, or be-
tween lovers or fweethearts before marriage, or between hulband and
wife after, the only certain mode of obtaining this information is by
comparing the two nativities of either of the two perfons together, and,
according to their import, judge. For, if the afcendant in the figures
of both parties have the fame fign afcending, or the fame planets in the
firft houfe, or beholding each other by the fame afpe^l, mutual friend-
fliip, love, and confidence, will long exift; for, as affinity of manners
and likenefs are the effence of affe6tion, fo affection, in this fpeculation,
muft be the author of agreement, of fmcerity, and of friendfliip. To de-
monftrate this, let us coniider the influence and condition of the loid of
the afcendant, under its four different configurations : viz. firft, when
in both nativities he is bona fide the fame planet; fecondly, when he is
received of the other nativity by houfe or exaltation; tliiixlly, when he
is in conjundion with the lord of the afcendant of t^^e other nativity ;
and, fourthly, when he is in Textile or trine of the lord of the other na-
tivity. For, in all cafes where there is not a concurrence of one or other
of thefe teftimonies. the friendfliip or attachment of thofe two particular
perfons will not be found of long continuance-
When, in the nativities of any two given perfons, the one hath Venus
in the pofltion where the other hath the Moon, or the Sun, the part
of fortune, or the lord of the afcendant, it is a fubftantial proof that
there will be firm and lafting friendfliip between them ; but, whenever it
is found, in anv two nativities, that the fign upon the afcendant of the
one occupies the cufp of the twelfth, eighth, or iixth, houfes of the
other, there cannot poffibly be any durable attachment or fiiendfliip be-
tween the parties. It hath been determined, by repeated obfervation,
that thofe perfons regard each other with the pureft friendfliip where
the lord of the afcendant in one nativity applies to the lord of the af-
cendant in the other, or where the benevolent planets are found in re-
ception of each other. By the fame parity of reafoning, they hate moe
inveterately where the fame number of malignant planets occupy thft
afcendant of each other's nativity ; or where the lord of the afcendant in
one nativity, being of a contraiy or adverfe nature with the lord of the
afcendant of the other nativity, are thereby configurated under a con-
ftitution of eternal enmity.
The
OF ASTROLOGY. 753
The concord or enmity of the planets is a moft obvious fpeculation,
compriledin their own natural quality and a^^ion ; viz. Saturn hath fyni-
pathy with Jupiter, Mercury, and the Moon ; but a ftrong antipathy to
the Sun, Mars, and Venus. Jupiter hath affinity with Saturn, the Sun,
Venus, IVIercury, and the Moon; and is only difcordant with the planet
Mars. Mars hath pacific tendency only to Venus, and that by means
of her fuperior property in allaying his intemperate heat; for otherwife
they are contrary in nature. Mars being hot and diy, and Venus cold
and moift. '
The Sun hath friendfliip only to Jupiter and Venus ; and
is inimical to Saturn, Mars, Mercury, and the Moon. Venus is com-
placently beheld by Jupiter, Mars, the Sun, Mercuiy, and the JMoon
;
but rigid Saturn is her mortal enemy. Mercury hath friendlhip to Sa-
turn, Jupiter, and Venus ; but the Sun, the Moon, and Mars, are his
enemies. The Moon pacifically beholds Saturn, Jupiter, and Venus ;
but hath enmity to IMars, the Sun, and MercurJ^ The Dragon's Head
hath fympathy with Jupiter and Venus ; but antipathy to Saturn, Mars,
the Sun, Mercury, and the Moon. The Dragon's Tail hath Saturn
and Mars in friendfliip ; but Jupiter, the Sun, Venus, Mercury, and the
Moon, are enemies : the Part of Fortune is in this cafe conftituted pre-
cifely the fame as the Moon.
By thefe rules it will be obvious, that, where we find, in two naivi-
ties, the Sun and Moon, or Mercury and the Moon, or the Sun and IMer-
cury, configurated in each other's places, there will exift fome degree of
refpeCt and good-will between the natives ; but, if Saturn, Jupiter, Ve-
nus, or Mars, are thus found, there will be fome diffenfion, mixed with
a defire of friendfliip. If Jupiter or Saturn are found in reception of each
other's place in the different nativities, their friendfliip will exift merely
for the purpofes of emolument or avarice ; but, if ^lars and Venus are
in each other's place, the attachment of the parties will be formed for
illicit and diflionourable pra6lices.
When in the nativities of any two perfons,wefind the Sun or Mars in
oppofition to Mercury or the Moon, the parties will delight to injure
and opprefs each other ; but, where Saturn or Mars are in oppofition, the
enmity will be perpetual. Where the malefic ftars agree, the parties
will agree in the puifuit of wickednefs, though unfaithful to each other.
The Sun in the place of any friendly planet, declares unity between the
parties for integrity ; Jupiter, for utility ; Venus, for pleafure ; and tlie
Moon, according to the couftru(ftion of her nature.
The
754 AN ILLUSTRATION
The quality and nature of friends are determined by the planet that
is principal fignificator. For inftance, if Saturn is pofited in the ele-
venth or tirft houles, and in no dignities, he is the fignificator, and de-
notes falfe and faithlefs friends ; but, if well dignified, he declares coii-
iiantand honourable friends, according to the particular circumltances of
his oAvn nature and quality ; as doth each of the planets refpeAively,
according to which rule I examine the prefent nativity. I find the iign
occupying the eleventh houie is Virgo, the exaltation of Mercury; and,
as thtne are no planets therein, we muft particularly regard, the pofitiou
of Mercury, who is lord of tl'e eleventh houfe, from whence this judg-
ment is deduced . I obferve Mercury is in reception of Mars ; and Mars
being lord of the native's afcendant is a demonltrable proof that he Ihould
have many and great friends ; fuchas were of a Icientific turn themfelves,
and well qualified to forward the views of the native ; who would admire
his afpiring genius, and take him by the hand. This was completely
verified, as the native hath often told me, even in the early part of his
life, when his literary produclio'us introduced him to the knowledge and
friendlhipof the celebrated JMr. Charles Brent, Mr. Fraucili^o Forrecefy,
Docl-tor IJevis, Mr. Thomas Simpfbn, and many other Fellows of the
Royal Society. And, as it was with his friends, fo we might fay of the
native's hopes, confidence, and trull; for he was generally ver}' fortunate
in his expedlations, and fucceeded well in whatever he ardently Ibove
after, or anxioully defired.
CONSIDERATIONS refulting from the TWELFTH HOUSE.
From this houfe we obtain cognizance of our malignant private ene-
mies, and of the calamitous misfortunes of adverfity and imprifonraent.
Whether this houfe be properly under the government of malefic influence
or not, is of little" importance to the objedts of our prefent inquiry ; fuf-
fice it to fay, that it anfwers every purpofe for detei!:ting thofe forked or
double-tongued raalefics in Ibciety, who by every difcordant means
wound and blaft the reputation of their neighbours. And I am forry
to add, that, within my obfervation at leall, there are very few indeed,
even among the more liberal and humane, that with a friendly hand
and companionate heart are forward to call the mantle of charity over
the frailties of their fellow-mortals ; or that, like the good Samaritan,
will pour the balmy oil into the bleeding wounds of thofe who are
im.de the vi6tims of releiitlefs and unfeeling llander, which Ikulks be-
hind
OF ASTROLOGY. 755
hind the curtain, and ftabs us in the dark. Metals are never fo briglit*as
when completely poliihed; nor are enemies ever fo dangerous as when
concealed. It is therefore not the leall important among our aftral en-
quiries to inform ourlelves well of the quality and ftrength of our private
enemies; and, to make this enquiry obvious to all my readers, I have, in
page 449, given ample rules to detect and to elude their malice. I
Ihall now apply them in my obfervations on the prefent nativity. On
the cufp of the twelfth houfe, we find the fign Libra, which is the day-
houfe of Venus, and wholly under her government, in the houfe of her
exaltation ; and, as flie is in dired; oppofition to the lord of the afcen-
dant, and is alfo lady of the feventh houfe, flie obvioufly declares that
fome woman fliould become an implacable enemy to the native ; and that
this woman fliould not be of the mean or vulgar fort, is declared by
Venus being in her effential dignities. But, as neither of the lumi-
naries are affected, nor the lord of the afcendant vitiated by malefic rays,
it is impolVible the malignity of this woman's refentraent fliould ever
materially affect the well-being of the native. Befides, there are two
royal fixed ftars pofited in the twelfth houfe, viz. Ar(5turus and Spica
Virginis, which not only furniili an argument that this female opponent
fliould do him little injury, but that no private enemies fliould ever be
able to accorapliili his ruin, or opprefs him by imprifbnment. And as
the luminaries are free from the affliction both of Saturn and Mars, and
as no malignant planet occnpies the afcendant, twelfth, or fixth, houfe of
the figure, I am free to declare my opinion, that the native never will be
expofed even to the danger of imprifonment, either by civil or criminal
procefs, which might arife either from the hand ofjuilice, ov through
his own indifcretion.
Having thus completely inveftigated the various afpecls of this nati-
vity, according to the genuine import they bear in each of the twelve
horofcopical places or houfes of the heavens ; I fliall now proceed to bring
thofe afpects refpedivCly. irito vi^W' in the predife order in which they
come up b}^ direkStion, and in wliieh they aftetled the mundane a6lions,
purfuits, and eventually the life, of the native; whence it will appear^
that the nativity of any man, when correctly and judicioufly calculated,
williii^a manner'difplayacOiAperidiumof the principal incidents of-the
nritiive's: life, from his birth fo his dllfoktfeibn ; taking into view, as well
tlie/things pail as tliofe AVhich ar^ to come To make this the -fi^bre in-
teMigible to thofe who trteian >tb<^u(*y the fciencc, as well as to the 'bulk
of my reader!^, Iflmllconfider the directions of this nativity "exaclly in
the order* they oecur/ift^€*» the' time of Mr.' Witcheil's birth to the day
No. 38. 9 A of
756 AN ILLUSTRATION
of his death. And, that thofe afpecfts may all be feen and confidered at
o»€ view, I have colle6led them into aSpeculmri, in the annexed plate^
of which the following is an explanation.
The top colum-H of the Table, from left to right, difplays^ in regular
fncceffion the twelve figns of the zodiac, beginning with Aries, and
ending with Pifces; under which are rerpe6tively placed thirty degrees
of the zodiac for each fign, making in the whole three hundred and
fixty degrees. The firll column on the left contaiivs degrees and mi-
nutes as far as completes one lign ; and, wherever minutes are joined to
degrees, it flioM^s there is an afpe6l in the nativity tliat falls in that degree
and minute of the correfponding fign under which the planet ftands.
For example, under the letters D. M. at the top of the iirll column.
Hand o 44, and under the fign Virgo, in the common angle of meeting,
is found the planet Mars, which ihows that Mars, in this nativity,
is pofited in forty-four minutes of the fign Virgo ; and gives us at
one view every configuration made by that planet throughout the
zodiac ; for at thirty degrees from his given place he forms a femi-
fextile ; at fixty degrees from the fame point he forms a fextile ; at
feventy-two degrees he forms a quintile ; at ninety degrees a quartile
;
at one hundred at twenty degrees a trijie ; at one hundred thirty-five
degrees a fefiG[uiquadrate ; and at one hundred and eighty degrees an
oppofition ; whereby every afpec^ is at once fought out, as well thofe
of the other planets as of Mars. The terms and faces of the planets
are alfo denoted throughout the zodiac, by the initials T and F ; the
ufe of which is to point out to the I'eader an eafy and concife method of
facilitating zodiacal dire<5lions ; particularly to the Sun, as the ecliptic
line is the only orb in which he moves, and wherein he meets with all
the afpedls of the erratic fl^ars, with their terms, faces, exaltations, &c.
I fhall now take thefe afpe<Sts from the Speculum, in the order they
Hand in the Table, p. 686, as well mundane as zodiacal, and explain
their refpe6live fignificators, by fhowing their power and effect upon the
life and actions of the native, and how far his body and mind were
influenced and impreflfed by them.
The firft direction in this nativity is M. C. A 0, the medium coeli,
or midheaven, to the trine afpedt of the Sun ; or in other words, the
Sun to the cufp of the fixth houfe. This was a dire6tion to the native's
mother, productive of a journey ; for, as the tenth houfe of the native's
figure is his mother's tenth, and the fixth her ninth, it is apparent,
that, when the Sun, who is lord of the tenth houfe, approached the cufp
of
P'
OF A S T R O L O G Y. 757
cftlie fixtli, a journey fliould be determined on and put in execution.
And, as Mars, the native's iignificator, is polited in the mother's tenth
houfe, and the Sun, who reprefents the mother, being lord of the tenth,
and by- accidental polition in the houl'e of Mais, Ihows that this direc-
tion fliould carry the native a long journey with his mother, which really
happened in tlie month of O^ober 1731, when the native was but three
yeais and feven months old ; and conftitutes the iirft material occurrence
of his life, after his entry into this world, under the impreflion of his
fignificators. It must however be noted, that the effect of this dire6tion
falls moll effentially upon the parent ; and that it atled only in an acci-
dental or fecondary degree upon the perfon of the native, whowas in this
cafe wliolly under the influence of his motlier.
O n ]) . The Sun to the quartile of the Moon by di're6t motion^
This afpeCt,. being formed from the third and fixth houfes, and the
Moon being afflidled in the houfe of Saturn, threatens the native, i»
his early days, with a dangerous tit of ficknefs. The diforder implied
may be of a bilious kind accompanied with retchings and fever; fore
watery defluxions of the eyes, irruptions of humours, meafles, or fmall
pox. This dire6tion came up, and Avas at its higheft influence, when
the native was five years and two months old, at which time I have been
confidently aflured that he was attacked by the meafles in a very violent
and dangerous manner.
@ g b- The Part of Fortune to the oppofition of Saturn. This is-
another afpe6t productive of ficknefs. The Part of Fortune, in this
nativity, is giver of life ; and, being in oppofition to Saturn in a fiery
fign, and Saturn in an airy, denotes an atEid;ion engendered of thofe
two qualities, which, fliould befal the native whenever the direction oS
this afpe6t began to operate, which, as we have already worked up and
proved, took place when the native was feven years and about two
months old ; at which time he was attacked with the fmall pox, and
was a long time before he recovered his health and ftrength, as is.
obvioufly implied by the flow and ponderous quality of the planet
Saturn.
3) n 9 . The Moon to the quartile of Mercury. The Moon, in
this geniture, being lady of the ninth, and Mercury lord of the eighth
and eleventh houfes, the quartile afpec^ formed between them under
thefe circumftances denotes a journey to the native, which fliould bring^
him back, from the place where his mother had fojourned in the country,
to
758 AN ILLUSTRATION
to London, the place of his nativity. The force of the direction which
bronght up this afpe6l took place in feven years from the.re6liried time
of birth, when the Iquarc was completely formed by the two planets ;
and it is a well-known fa<5l in Mr. Witchell's family, that at feveiv
years of age he was brought back to town, to be prefented to fome
gentlemen, who out of refpedlto the pai'euts had profelied their readinefs
to patronize the child.
}) Q- —© 6 C. L. The Moon to the quintile of the Sun, and
Part of Fortune to the conjunction of Cor Leon is. Thefe benignant,
afpedls came up by good diretlions to fupport the influence of the pre-
ceding ; and gave the native a confiderable Ihare of favour in the eyes
of thole gentlemen the moment he was prefented to them ; and befpeak
at the fame time a fweet and placid appearance in tlie youth, with a gra-
vity and fedateneis in his manners that could not but acquire eileem and
commendation from every obiei-ver, but more efpecially from his friends.
>|c l;^ in M. The Sun to the Textile of Jupiter in Mundo. This
direction follows up the former two, and participates of the fame be-
nign influence; for, inafmuch as Jupiter is lord of the fecond, and the,Sun
is lord of the tenth, by their joint concurrence they not only prefage the
general approbation of his friends and teachers, but areahappy fymbol
of that early defire of learning and improvement, which was for fome
time a fubjecl:^ ofaftonhhment to them all, and laid the foundation-llone
of profperity to the native.
Sfq. c? . TheSun to the fefquiquadrate ofMars. This direction
is implicative of a ftrong natural defire for the Itujdy of Icience ; and
lays a good foundation for honour refulting from knowledge ; and a
very apt direction it is for that purpofe, fince the Sun is lord of the
tenth, the houfe of honour and preferment, and Mars lord of the fii-lt
andlixth, who difpofes of the Sun and Mercury. The afpect, by fall-
ing in the terms* of Mercury, quickens- the fancy, and enlai^es the
• Whenever judgment is drawn from a direflion, particular regard muft be had to jhe terms
in which the afpefts of the planets fall ; otherwife our conclufions will be erroneo\is, and
oftentimes abfurd. For, if malefic diredlions are wrought from tlje evil configurations of
Saturn or Mars, and thofe direftions fail in the terms of Jupiter ot Venus, in g(X>d places of
the figure, the evil declared by fuch direiflions will operate, with much lefs force, and the
cffeifl be fcarcely difcerned. For this reafon, all oppofing qualities, whether in good or evil
direflions, muft be duly confidered, and their tffeU allowed, {jefore we make our judghiieilt
final. For, if there be a good direftion from the benefic rays of Jupiter or Venus, y:6t,, if
they fall in the terms of Saturn or Mars, the good promifed will be greatly abated; and in
fuch proportion as rsafon and good fenfe will invariably dilate,
'
native's
O F A S T n O L O G Y. 759
native's defive of learning. This and the three former directions came
up progreffively, and operated upon the mental powers of the native
by regular gradation, until he was near twelve years of age, before the
effect of the lail direction wholly fublkled.
]) All — ]) P- 9 ]M. The Moon to the trine of Jupiter. This is a
good direction. The Moon is conftituted lady of the ninth houle,
the houfe of fcience ; and Jupiter is lord of the fecond and fifth, co-
operating in the force of mental endowments. Under this direction
the native made his firft eflTay in fcientific literature, having compiled
a fmall piece, for the Gentleman's Magazine, which was highly-
approved. With thi,s direction he had another operating, namely, the
Moon to the parallel of Venus in mundo ; which, being of the fame
quality, gave force and energy to the influence of the preceding.
© M. C. Part of Fortune to the medium-coeli. This is a very re-
markable, and equally^ potent, direction, operating upon the mental
faculties ; and it came up when the native was about thirteen years and
four months old, as may be feen by the calculation p. 661, where thefe
directions are worked up and equated by the folar motion. Under the
influence of this direction, the native, at that early period of his life,
compiled a moft ingenious mathematical difquifition, which was printed
in the Gentleman's Dairy, and received univerfal approbation.
© n "y. Part of Fortune to the quartile of Jupiter. This direClion
portends evil to the native's ftate of health, and has a malefic tendency.
Jupiter, though in nature the moft benignant planet, in this cafe pro-
duces an evil effedl, by the conftitution of the afpeft he forms. He is
pofited, according to his latitude in Gemini, in the eighth houfe, among
fixed ftarsof the quality of Mars, in quartile with the Part of Fortune,
which, in this nativity, is Hyleg, and ftrongly appertains to the na-
tive's health; and life ; and therefore, according to the radical effect
of Jupiter in this pofition, which caufes heat and putrefadtion of the
blood, I concluded that this diretftion muft have brought with it a
violent fever, becaufe the quartile afpeCl is produClive of the greatefl
evil, and becaufe this dire(5tion falls in the terms and face of Mars, who
is the author of choler, and uniformly produtlive of putrefad;ion ofthe
animal juices ; though here are no teftimonies to fliow that its violence
lliould be fuch as to endanger life. This direction came up in fourteen
years from the time of birth ; and I have been afliired that ]\f r. Witchell,
at the age of fourteen, fuffered feverely from a fever, whicli held him a
confiderable time, as the force of this direction obvioully demonftrates.
No. 38. 9B oP.
^6o AN ILLUSTRATION
qP. "il M. The Sun to the parallel of Jupiter in jMundo. As ths
parallel is made to the feventh hoiifc, it mull relate to fome contract
on the part of the native; and as the Sun is lord of the tenth, the
houfe of trade and profeflion, I concluded this afpe(^l governed fome
contra<5l in bufinefs. Upon enquiry, I found the native was bound
apprentice to a watchmaker and goldfmith ; which is aptly enough
defcribed by a conjun(:-l;ion of the Sun and Mercury in Aries, This
dired:ion, as we ha^•c before proved, came up in fifteen years and
twenty-one da3's ; at that precile age the native and his mafter, as he
hath fmce informed me, executed the indenture, and he became appren-
tice to a watchmaker.
^ Sfq. 5 — D Z. P. If.—® 6 S Thefe remarkable afpe(5ts imme-
tliately fucceeded, and produced, as their direftious feverally brought
them into effedt, thofe unplealant circumftances which are invariably
felt in all fimitar cafes. Tiie Part of Fortune to the lefquiquadrate afpedt
of Mercuiy, is a direction that took off the thoughts and the attention of
the native from all mechanical employment, and fixed them upon ma-
thematical contemplation. The Moon to a zodiacal parallel of Jupiter,
ftrengthens and enlarges this ftudious and contemplative faculty,expands
the underftanding, and allures the mind to a purfuit of thofe acquire-
ments, whichrender manual employments infupportable. The Part of
Fortune to the conjun(!ytion of Mars, could not fail, when the direction
came up, to produce violent contentions between the native and his maf-
ter, in confequence of his total negle6t of the bufinefs, and of his inatten-
tion to the orders and inftruftions given him therein. Upon enquiry, I
found my judgment in no refpe(ft eiToneous ; for, although the matter was
on the one hand continually remonitrating and complaining of neglect
and inattention, the apprentice, on the other,was totally indifferent as to
the ill confequences threatened, and flill additted himfelf to the ufe of
books, to the folving and propounding mathematical queftions, and to
the publication of anonymous pieces in the magazines,
© 5|i tp . This is unqneftionably a good direction. The Sun is lord
of the tenth, the lioufe of profellional honour, and Saturn is lord of the
fourth, the houfe of hereditary acquifitions ; fo that the Textile afpect,
formed betwixt them, leads me to conceive, that the native, while un«
der the influence of this diredion, formed a refpe^lable and advantage-
ous connexion with fome elderly perfons, who approved his ftudious
turn, and admired the gravity of his manner, notwithftanding its unfit-
nefs for a life of mechanical labour, and the anger and unealinefs it oc-
caiioned iu the bi^eaft of liis mafter. Yet in fpite of all this, I liad no
difficulty
OP A S T II O L O Cr Y. 76»^
difficulty in declaring, that, when this direction came to operate with
its fuUeft force,' the native would be patronized and encouraged by fame
perfons of eminences who were friends to his father, or allied to his fa-
mily. This I have heard repeatedly acknowledged by the native him-
felf, who was at that period llrongly patronized by his uncle.
oSmq. 9 —Afc. n b- The Sun to the femiquartile of Venus, and
the Afcendant to the quartile of Saturn. Thefe afpects are of a baneful
quality, and exprefsmuch uneafinefs, anger, and afKirtion, in the family
with whom the native refided.—All quartiles are mifchievous, when di-
re(5ted to particular peifons. The fii"ft of thefe joint afpects relates to
the native and his miltrefs, on whofe account he iliould ftand in imme
nent danger of difgrace and ruin, by means of an occurrence, which,
though of a molt deftru6tive tendency, yet is too common to perfons
of ftrong pallions, of both fexes. I fliall not, however, enter into a
detail of the matter ; it is fufificient for me to remark, that, as the afpe<Sb
only forms a femiquartile, its effe6t, when brought up by dire6tion,
which was in the native's feventeenth year, would be the lefs mifchiev-
ous to the parties, and the difgrace be the fooner blown over. The
fecond of thefe joint afpedts a6ted, as it were, in concert, and relates to
the nati\eand, his mailer, and, being a perfect quartile of the greater in-
fortune, hath fatality annexed to it. In fliort, it argues violent anger
between the parties ; but when the direction is perfect, which happened
quickly after the above, it deprived the mafter of life, and left the ap-
prentice and his miltrefs at large.
©4cl/M.—©AoM. Thefe afpedls are both ih Mundo. They
import a itruggle between the native and his father, concerning the pur-
fuit of his bulinefs. Whilll the native, on the one hand, was fedulous
to oecome a ftudent, the father was decifive, on the other, to put what is
termed, '•
a good trade in his belly." Thefe direftions came up in fe-
venteen years and four months, at which exad;age the native was turned
over to another mafter of the fame profeffion.
3)Q. ? M. The Moon to the quintile of ISfercury in IMundo. This
is another direction which applies to the intellectual faculty, and alfo
Itrengthens tiie brain. It denotes an enlargement of the underftanding,
and a fruition of rational ideas in fcientilic difquilitions. Under this
diredlion the native turns his back upon all fubordinate fpeculatiolis, is
deaf to the calls of bufmefs, and to the remonftrances of his mafter, and
applies
762 i\ N ILLUSTRATION
applies hiinrf If, in fpite of evervob{tacle,to rigid contemplation and flndy.
The efte(^k of this direc^tion was at its utnioll height, when the native
was ci.^hteen )'eais and fonr months old ; about which time, as lie has,
lliire told me, he was fo intent upon ftudy, as to frame a contrivance to
blind up the crevices of the doors and windows, that no part of the fa-
mily might have a fufpicion of his pailing the greatclt part of the night
in reading and contemplating the diflerent branches of I'cience.
M. C.g h. The medium cceli to the oppofition of Satm'n. This
is a no Icfs remarkable than fatal direction, again appertaining to the
native and liis mailer. It Ibows an animoiity between them, fo far as it
relates to the bufinels ; but it prefages the death of the mafter, and once
more fets the apprentice at liberty ; as though fate had really ftrove
with him to obtain a different purfuit. But here, as I have been con-
fidently informed, the parent again interpofed his fbvereign authority,
and in fpite of every aigument, and of every importunity, lb prejudiced
was he in favour of the emoluments of trade, and fo fixed in hi.s mind -up-
on that which he had before hngled out for his fon, that he loft no time in
choofmg him out a new fituation. Here we perceive, in its flrongell
colours, the abfurdity, as well as the evil conlequence, of forcing upon
the hands of youth, avocations which their nature loathes, and which
are foreign both to their ability and their inclination. Let us here for
a moment paufe ; and, look which way we will, we Ihall tind ample tef-
timonies of the truth of this miftaken zeal for the provifion of our chil-
dren. A zeal which has, more than all other caufes put togethei', fui-
niflied the world with a race of bunglers in almoft every profelfion ;
for the mind, like the temperatme of the body, cannot be forced, but
will be governed by its own immediate laws ; a circumftance, which if
duly attended to, and regulated by the quality of the fignificators at birth,
would not only prove much more highly advantageous ta children, but
infinitely more beneficial to mafters of every craft and occupation.
© n 5 — S nlf.. Thefe afpe^ls are both made in the world ; an'i
their directions are of courfe mundane. They are both quartiles of a
pernicious tendency, and even threaten the life of the native. Under
the influence of the firft, he is put, forely againft his will, to a new maf-
ter, with whom he fliews but little difpofition to. attend to bufmefs.
Under the fecond, which a6ls in contact with, or rather follows up, the
evil nature of the firft, his life is endangered by fome violent accident
of fire. This is nioft aptly denoted by the pofition of JMercury in a
fiery
OFASTROLOGY. 7^3
fiery fign, with the violent planet Mars, his fignificator, and the Part of
Fortune, which in this nativity is giver of life, all in quartile aCped;
;
but, whether this danger Ihould occur to the native by his falling into
the fne, or by the burning the houfe he lived in, or by what particu-
lar misfortune, was impoflible to determine ; but it was evident to my
underftanding that his danger would come by means of fire. After con-
iidering and recoufidering thefe configurations, I enquired of the native,
whether he had not, feme time between nineteen and twenty years of a<£e.
had the misfoilune to fet his bed-curtains on fire, or his room; for, as I
knew he had often accuftonied himfelf to read in bed, I had a flrong
iufpicion that he h^d fallen afleep, and that the cmtains had taken fire,
and expofed him to the danger of being burnt in bed. But thivhe ab-
folutely denied, and contended much for his carefulnefs and precaution
on thole occahons. Had he by any accident fallen into the fire ? or had
the candle caught his clothes ? No ; he never had met withfuchan accident
in his life. I perfifted moft confidently that some such accident
mull have befallen him, and at that particular time, whereby he was ex-
pofed eiiher to great bodily hurt, if not to the danger of loiing his life;
andlrequefted him to reflect upon the matter, and to tell me ingenuoufly
the fad:. At lalt, he fatisfied my doubts, by relating the following cir-
cumltance
:
He had not been many days with his new mailer, before he ^ras left:
in the fhop with no other companion than a young lad, who had been
put apprentice to the fame perfon a year or two before. At the fame
time that the matter's abfence furniihed Mr. Witchell with an oppor-
tunity of taking a book from his pocket to read, which was invariabljr.
the cafe upon all fuch occafions, it afforded the other lad fit time to go
to play. A foldier's mufquet ftood in one comer of the fliop, moll aptly
denoted by the quartile pofition of JVIars, which the boy took up, and
began to perform the manual exercile with. When lie came to that
paii, " make ready—prefent—fire," he levelled the piece clofe to the
body of' his fellow-apprentice Witchell, who fat with the utmoll
calmliefs and compofure, reading his book ; a circumltance evidently-
implied by the pofition of JVIerc'iiry. The boy drew the trigger, the
gun fnapped, and he recovered his arms. Pleafed of courfe with any
employment rather than with his bufinefs, he proceeded with the ma-
nual a fecond time. When he prefented the piece again, it was ele-
vated fomewhat above Mr. Witchell's head ; he drew'the trigger, the
gun went off, and carried away a large piece of the window, leaving
both of them, as Piovideuce would have it, totally unhurt. With this
No. 38. 9 C 1 wa»
764 AN ILLUSTRATION
I was quite fatisficd ; it relieved me from my doubts ; and Upon equut-
ini;- tlio direction, I told him this muft have happened on or very near
the 26th of September, 1747 ; for, thoiigh the other ulpe(!:l caujc up
fooner, yet its inBuencc was iield on by the quick fuccx^llion and fimilar
quality of the co-operating or fecondary afpect, -which wa.s not ripe in
its malefic tendency, until the day ]\Iars began to feparatc from his
auxiliaries, which was on the day above-mentioned, at w hich time the
native was near twenty years of age. After endeavouring to recolle(^l all
the circumftances of the faft, he acknowledged I was ttrictly right in
point of time, as well as in my judgment of the danger he had been ex-
pofed to by means of fire,
Tiie aftrological reafon of this narrow but happy efeape is thus de-
fmed from the native's horofcopicai figure of birth. In the eighth
boufe, which is the houfe of death, we find the benevolent planet Ju-
piter, which is an irrefragable argument that the native ihould not die a.
violent, but a natural, death. Now, had Saturn or Mars been there, the
evil had certainly touched his life. Another deciiive teltimony for the
prefervation of the native's life is, that the direc^lion oj)erating comes
from a bcnefic planet ; and, though the direction be ot an evil quality,
yet, as it is not governed by the anareta, nor by any crofs direction either
from Saturn ,JNiars, or the Sun, to the Part of Fortune, it is impoflible,
according to the radical import of the fignificators, that hfe fliould be
deftroyed, although expofed, in this remarkable manner, tot he moil
vneqiiivoail initrument of death.
I have dwelt the longer upon thefe two dire(5lions, becaufe I confider
them as the moll remarkable in the whole figure ; and I am fure their
cffe^l is equally extraordinary ; beiides, it tends to Ihow, that, in geni-
tures where the fignificators clearly demontlrate a long life and natural
death, and where no crofs malefic configuration ilrongly irradiates
the aphetic place, however the native, in his journey through life,
may be expofed to the moft imminent perils and dangers ; yet, if benefic
fignificators, as in the prefent nativity, have the afcendancy in point of
dignity and conftitution of place, he ihall fafely overcome them all, and
enjoy life until that period of time arrives, when exhautted nature can
no longer exercife her proper functions, and dilTolution becomes the ne-
ceflary confequence,
I do not here mean to enter into any arguments againft that abfurd
ftile of reafoning, which, reftin^ all its force upon fuppofed propofitions,
will
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 76,-
will contemi, that, if the mullvethad been pointed the fecond time to tlie
bofly of the native, he mufl have been killed, let the ftars have been
poiited hmv they ma)\ But what man would be hardy enough reiioufly
to avow this? or, if he did, it could avail nothing, fmce JolIs and fufrpo-
fitivns would be ftill at variance. . The piece was not levelled the fecond
time at the native, and xvhy it was not, who can deiiiie? It is enough
for nie to flioy% that, by tlie native's figure of birth, he was not to re-
ceive any fatal injury; I will now thank the man, who by any other
or equalhj reafopable hypothefis, will point out to me xcliy the piece was
vat levelled at-the native \X\e fecond time? or, if it had, let him prove
that the piece muft of neceflity have gone off, and that the confequeut
wound ynitft have beeen mortal? \Vhen this is done, I fliall be ready to
give it an anfwer.
INT. C. n ^. This afpe6l imports no good; it is a quartile between
Jupiter and the Midheaven ; and, as Jupiter is lord of the fecond and fifth
houfes, it declares lofs of fubftance to the native, by the interference of
fome religious or clerical perfon, who Ihould prove his enemy. This
came up by direction in twenty years and five weeks from the time of
birth; at which period of the native's life, as he hath frequently aflured
me, he was prevented from receiving a fum of money from a relation who
had actually promifed to give it him, but for the perfualions of the cu-
ijate of the parifli, who, having taken fome offente at the native, fet every
engine at work to injure him in the opinion of his friends. This afpe(3;
is likewife baneful to all contrails or purchafes under it.
O c5 5 —M. C. d Cor Leo.— © 8 9 • The Sun to the conjunaion of
Mercury, the Midheaven to theconjundion of Cor Leonis.and the Part
of Fortune to the oppofition of Venus. Thefe directions were all opera-
ting at nearly the fame time. Under the firft, he was very Itudioully
inclined, and influenced to the regular purfuit of the mathematics. Un-
der the fecond, he was introduced to the acquaintance of lisveral refpecla-
ble charadeis, eminent in the line of fcience, and who ihould feel a pre-
dilection in favour of the native. And this really laid the foundaLion for
his being introduced into the mathematical fociety. The third direc-
tion operated with the laft, and fliows, that, while he was engaged in
forming fuch connections as fliould introduce him into public life, he
fliould fall pretty much in the way of the ladies, and that a large and
perplexing female acquaintance would be the refult, which is indicated
)y the oppofition of Venus to the Part of Fortune.
Thefe
1
766 AN ILLUSTRATION
Thefe hvo laft direftions have their force continued in a more or left
fenfible degree, until the influence of fonic other dirertion begins to
take place; and this, we find, by looking in the Table of Dire<?lions, p,
687, admits a fpace of almoft three years. And here let it be remembered,
that the fulfilment of any matter or thing promifed by a direction is
completely formed when its afpet'^ is in all refpefts perfect, and the
irradiations of each contributing ftar fully complete ; though, according
to the latitude of that principal fignificator by which the direction is
brought up, the fahjeB of the matter, or thing fo to be brought about,
may by certain gradations of influence be Ibnle time in preparation, ere
the abfolute event is really brought to pafs. For, in the cafe of mar-
riage, there is ufually fometime fpent in courtfliip and dalliance, before
the parties repair to the hymeneal altar. But, when this is performed,
or about to be performed, the exa6t working up of the direction fully de-
monftrates. So it is in all other cafes where a matter is declared to be
brought to pafs by the force of a direc-lion ; except where a direction of
a contrary quality, and fnperior fl:rength, falls in its way, and overturns
its tendency and influence; on all which occafions the thing orginally
predi(^ed is fet afide, and a contrary efte6t takes place; as we frequently
obferve in perfons betrothed, who, even at the church-dooi', or befoi'e
the altar, change their fentiments, and put the marriage afide. But, if
no fuch crofs direc'tions interpole, and a length of time occurs between
them, then the original afpedt holds its own proper force and (juality to
the full extent, and, whatever it denotes, is in a general way fully com-
pleted, with all its confeqnences and contingent eff'edts.
Afof: ]) . Under this diret'T;ion, the influence v.TOught by the l"aft is
brought to perfe(^t maturity. A connexion with one of the ladies, which
. had for fome time been formed, is now brought to its crifis ; and, when
this afpe^l was complete in all its rays, the parties were married. The
perfonal defcription which this afpect gives of the wife, is of a middle
Itature, pale dark complexion, brown hair, comely, and agreeable; in
mental endowments difcreet and ingenious, rather petulant, and worldly
minded, and therefore fufliciently faving and fnigal.
Afc. n S — (? Afc. Tltefe are both directions of all evil defignation
.
They import no fmall fliare of vexation and difagreement between the
native and his wife, through the means of detraction, and the whifpers of
falle female friends, connected with the native's wife, v/ho low the feeds
of jealoufy, and lay the foundation of enmity anddifcord betwixt them.
The attention of the native is thus for a time taken oft' from objet'^s of
preferment and advantage; his aftairs go backward iiithe world, and he
iuffers
OF ASTROLOGY. 767
fuffers a two-fold anxiety of mind, accompanied with a depreflion of
fpirits, conltitutional by the tem))erature of his iignificators at birth,
but greatly enlarged by the force of this latter direction.
]) >!< O —©c5'?5. Thefe afpecls are found jointly operating, after
the influence of tiie preceding are fpent, though of an oppofite atlion and
quality. Under the firft, the native affumes his former puifuit of literapy
acquilltions, and endeavours to enlarge his connexions with men of let-
ters and character. He fucceeds much to his wiflies, lieing, at ihe
time this <liie6lion came up, which was in twenty-five years and nearly
a half from his birth, introduced to leveral gentlemen of the firlt literary
talents and refpetlability, who promifed him their patronage and friend-
fliip. But in the height of thefe flatterhig profpe6ts, the fecond direc-
tion, viz. the Part of Fortune to a conjunction of the Dragon's Tail,
fubje<fts the native to a violent fore throat and fever, occafioned by cold
taken inpurfuing the objects of the other direction. This atfii6tion was
^ery fevere, and feized the native, as he hath lince aflurcd me, when he
was twent}'^-five years and a half old, and confined him to his bed for
near a fortnight.
O'
O A (5 • This direction imports much good to the native, from
thofe who are his fuperiors. Under its influence he will extend his li-
terary connections ; and will derive honour and eftimation from the ex-
tent of his own abilities, in the opinion of thofe who are difpofed to
ferve him. This direction likewife, from the prolific fituation of the
fignificators in the figure of birth, imports conception to the native's
wife, which I have no fcruple to affirm took place under its influence.
}) A 5 • This is a very flattering direCiion, and prefages much good
to the native. Under its force he will apply very close to fcientific ex-
ercifes, and enlarge the number of his friends. It was under this di-
rection that he was introduced to the acquaintance of Dr. Bevis, who was
afterwards very much his friend, and rendered 'him feveral eminent fer-
vices. This gentleman was a great encourager of fcientific fpeculations,
and was fo perfectly mafter of aitrology, as to have calculated feveral
national events, which feverally came to pals with the moft remarkable
cxaCtnefs
.
M. C. d <?- This direction implies good to the native, becaufe
Mars is lord of the alcendant, otherwife it would have operated to his
difadvantage. He was warmly engaged in allronomical enquiries, when
No. 38. 9 D -
this
768 AN ILLUSTRATION
this direction operated, which likewife introduced him to a turtlier ac-
quaintance witli p;entlemen eminently diilinguithed in that line. It
was atthi.s time that he became intimately acciuaiuted with Mr. Charles
Brent, altrologer to George II. under whofe royal authority and di-
jection he calculated the nativity of our prefent illuilrious uwnarch,
King George the Third ; a copy of which nativity he prcfcnted to Mr.
Witchell, who afterwards gav^e it to me, and which I have now. fidereally
projected in this work.
'^ M. C-A 5- Under this direction the nati\e hatii a Ton born. It
hath likewite a lirong inlci!e(''tual operation upon the native himfelf,
who is innxiiled to a critical iuveitigationof the thenfta'.e of the feveral
departments of fbieuce, and imports great honour and p)ecimiary advan-
tage from hirs labours tlierein, and accelerates his deilres fur attempting
to improve them. I iiave had a great deal of converfation with Mr.
Witchell on the fubject of this diredion, which I conlidcred fomewhat
remarkable ; and he allures me that it was about the time when this direc-
tion came up, namely, wlien he had completed his twenty-feventh year^
that the firlt thought of correcting and improving the longitude prefented
itfelf to his mind, and which was ever after infeparable from it, until he
had fully accompliilied that moil invaluable difcovery.
}) Smq O M.-^U* 9M. The Moon to the femiquartile of the
Sun in Mundo, and the Moon to the Textile of Venus in JNIundo. Here
are two generally-good directions operating together, which piomife the
Dative health of body, and felicity of mind. The affairs of his family
will profper under them, and all matters lelating t(j fubltance and ad-
vantage will fncceed well. He takes feveral little journeys, Avhich iliall
prove profitable and pleafant, and hath the pleafure of receiving fome
unequivocal marks of the hncerity and confidence of his friends. And
the native has frankly acknowledged to me, that no part of his life was
I'o free from the intrufions of care and perplexity as the fpace of time
occupied by thefe two afpe6ls, which carry hun from the twenty-feventh
to the twenty-eighth year of his age.
©A3 M.—Afc.n 9 . The firft of thefe joint directions hath the
defignation of much good to the native; for while it prompts him to a
laudable purfuit in the improvements of fcience, it will enlarge the
circle of his friends, and promote his reputation with the world. But
as the brighteft day is not without its clouds, fo this direction is united
H'ithone not quite fo aufpicious. The quartile of Venus to the afcen-
dant.
OF A S T R O L O G Y. 769
daiit, is produclive of family broils and diflenfions. Jealoufies are re-
newed under this dire6tioa; and the native perhaps will find, tliat
dealings with the fair fex are not altogether fo piofitabie to him. On
the contraiy, he will experience, about this time, the flrongeit exertions
of a quondam favourite female to work his deftruclion, which, however,
flie will not be able to effect. Under this direction the native's wife con-
ceives a fecond time with a male child.
T/.-a T?M. Jupiter to the quartile of Saturn in Mundo. This di-
rection continues the baneful eflfec^ls of the former, transrerrina the
malignity of his female enemy to thofe of his male, whereby a variety
of unpleafant occurrences follow, and many mean and ungenerous ad-
vantages are attempted to be taken of him. This is followed by a con-
fequent lofs of fubiiance, which appears ultimately the means of ter-
niinating the evil machinations enforced againll him. Were the parti-
culars of this feries of vexations and perplexity to be unfolded, with the
caufe which gave them being, it might tend to Ibengthen the reijiita—
tion of planetary prefcience ; but the beft of people are not without
tlieir weak fule, and God forbid T Ibould take pleafure in expofino- the
foibles of any man, mach lei's of one who may be ranked amon« tlie
number of the raoft deferving, and to whom I am under many^obli-
gations. Suffice it to fay, that the party of the offended female made
head againft him, until he confented to pay a handfome douceur, which
as he himfelf informed me, put an end to hoftijities, and reftored the
olive-branch of peace.
'
O A o M. This direcSfcion promifes advantage to the native, the Sun-
being lord of the tenth, and Mars of the afcendant. This denotes prol-
perity and refpedt, and fome advantage by the fidelity and ability of "ood;
fervants. It likewife gives the native feveral mathematical fchotars
who become lludents under him.
M. €.<?$. Under the mal-influence of this diredion, the native
feels the vindictive lliafts of private enemies, and again encounters fome
family broils, and dilingenuous refle(5lions, which likewife originate-
from a female caufe, and for a time diiturb the internal tranquilfity of
his mind.
0* $ . This direction leftores peace and harmony to his family,
gives him another pupil in the ftudy of the mathematics, and all thin'gi
gQ ojj. fmoothiy, and much to the native's fatisfaClion and advantaoS
He
770 AN ILLUSTRATION
He receives pleafiue in the purfuits of feveral amufemenis, and is on
terms of perfect amity with his wife and her friends. Under this direc-
tion Hkewife ]Mrs.. Witchell becomes pregnant with a daughter.
® 3|c 5 M. This dire(?^ion operates upon the mental faculties, and
promifes much good to the native. Under its iufluence he writes the
Mathematical Magazine, and acquires unbounded reputation in the lite-
rary world. He alio obtains an increale of pupils to his mathematical
fchool, and meets with encouragement and luccefs in all his under-
takings.
D Z. P. b- The Moon to the zodiacal parallel of Saturn. This
direction imports no pleafmg occurrence to the native; under its opera-
tion his father falls fick, and his family is opprelTed with vexation and
forrow, arifmg from thofe evils which chequer life, and render the moft
oerfedt Hate of human blifs mutable and precarious. The native hiui-
lelf will be much afflicted with melancholy by this dir-e6tion.
J Z. P. c? . The Moon to the zodiacal parallel of Mars. This gave
Mrs. Witchell another daughter, and demonftrates a bad and fickly la-
bour, attended with a dangerous fever to the native, as is declared by
the conftitution of tiiis parallel with Mars ; for parallels are either good
or bad, according to the nature and quality of the planets by which they
are refpe6tively brought up. This judgment is likewiie confirmed by
the polition of the Dragon's Tail in the tenth.
©/li^M. This configuration being in Mundo, denotes increafe
of fubftance to the native, either by legacy, or by hereditary right
to the effecils of fome deceafed perfon, which happened when this direc-
tion was completely wrought. It Hkewife indicates profperity to the
native, by means of profeffional application and perfeverance in the ob-
jedis before him.
D Smq. 5 M.—© n 1/. . Thefeare directions which induce a fort of
<:hc{i[uered life to the native; for, having an oppofite quality and influence
to each other, whatever the one impels, the other countera(^ts, and
renders all attempts, and all endeavours, while thefe directions are ope-
rating, totally abortive. The native will take fome Ihort journeys under
the conftitution of thefe afpe6ls, in hopes of obtaining preferment ; but
his labours will prove fruitlefs, and all his prefent hopes terminate in
difappointment-
OF ASTROLOGY 771
difappointment. Juft fo, as the native lumfelf afllired me, was the
greater part of his thirty-fixth year diftiugaifhed, at which period thefe
duedions yielded their influence; and niany times, when he had reafon
to expeft the full completion of his wiflies, fome untoward circumftance
or other conftantly intervened, to fet his hopes afide.
Q. Tp — ]) (5 h). Thefe dire^ions are fraught with no good, but
threaten great anxiety of miud and depreflion of fpirits to the native,
refulting from fome iecret enemies, who make a point of oppofing his
career, and who vilify and traduce him to fome perfons of diftind^ion
and power. He will likewife fufFer fome afflidlion in his eyes, and
dizzinels of the head, with melancholy and perturbation of mind, whilft
the fecond direction is under its operation.
J> -Jji. ^. The Moon to the fextile of Saturn, by converfe motion.
Under this diredtion the native has another daughter born ; but its in-
fluence upon his temporal affairs is but little better then the former;
lince this afpedl comes up very quickly after them, and participates of
their quality and temperature. The native recovers completely from
his indifpofition ; but the viciffitudes of fortune, and the vexations of his
mind, continue with little abatement, until the effe61s of this diredliou are
wholly taken off by the fucceflion of another.
D >|< 5 . This is a very promifing diredlion, replete with happinefs
and good fortune to the native. The powers of fenfe, of difcernment,
and invention, are here ftrongly combined, and the refult leads to
profperity and fame. The native's difcoveries in the longitude are here
moft aptly depidled ; and I have no doubt, but under the force of this
diredtion they were rendered complete. The friendly rays of the Moon
and Mercury, in elevated places of the horofcope, are uniformly pro-
dutlive of the moft acute intelledlual endovi^ments; but relate, in a
more peculiar manner, to an extenlive knowledge in faience, and to an
unbounded comprehenfion of the power and extent of figures. This
diredlion came up in thirty-eight years and eight months from the hour
of birth, at which period the native made his laft and final improve-
ments in the longitude, for which his raajefty rewarded him with a
liberal annuity during the refidue of his life. Let it be remembered
that this afpedl falls in twenty-five degrees fifteen minutes of Aquarius ;
and that the nature of thefe planets being fo exadlly conftituted with
the quality of the fign, clearly demonftrares that the improvement and
difcovery, brought up by this direction, (hould, in a particular manner.
No. 39. q E relate
772 AN ILLUSTRATION
relate to the fea; a circumftance deferving the attention of every curious
reader.
© Smq. 11 M. Part of Fortune to the femiquartile of Jupiter in
mundo. Under this direction the native fufFers a flight indiipofition.
The internal peace of his family \\ ill likewile be dilturbed, from a fe-
male caufe ; which however will (hortly fubhde.* He will likewife
experience lome (hurt peiplexity in mones -matters, which perhaps may
make him more cautious of fupplying the neceffities of others betore he
provides for his own.
. D A O M. This afpedi: brings frefh honour and reputation to the na-
tive ; for under its influence he will experience the united recommenda-
tions and good offices of his friends. The direction comes up in iMay
1766, and holds on to the middle of October following, as may be leen in
the Table of Direftions belonging to this nativity, p. 689; in which
fpace Mr. VVitchell has allured me he experienced the moll: remarkable
inftances of civility and fnendfhip from feveral members of the Royal
Society, and from other gentlemen of dillino-uifhed merit.
]) Z. P. 5 . This direftion participates much of the benevolent na-
ture of the preceding, and promiles additional prolperity to the native in
a moft eminent degree. It prepares and fortifies his mind for frelh
ftudies, and influences a laborious application to books, and to experi-
mental philolbphy. Under this direftion we perceive the foundation of
a journey, which will probably be taken in confequence of fome advan*
tageous occurrence.
}) ^ 5 . This, and the foregoing dire<Slion, have in many refpeds
a joint influence, as they follow in io quick a fucceffion, and partici-
pate of the fame benignant quality. This afpect completes itie good
fortune begun by the former J) >H ? , under which he received a reward
for his difcoverles. The prefent benignant configuration, conftituted
with other rays, brings him a frefh inllance of the approbation of his
ibvereign, who appoints him under this direction, to the Mafter-
ftiip of the Royal Academy at Portfmouth. This diredlion comes
up in November 1766, and operates until the month of Odlober 1767,
at which time another diredion fucceeds. Mr. W itchell took pofTefiion
of his new-appointed office the 26th of March, 1767, when this diretlion
was ill its utmoft force. And we might here Uace the completion of that
journey,
O F A 8 T R O L O G Y T^o,
journey, predicted under the laft dire»5tion, which now conveys the native
and his tamily to a new refidence, in a ditFerent part of the kingdom.
And, if we contemp ate the quality and pofition of the correfponding"
fignificators, with the affinity of Mercury and Venus, and the llgn they
are pofited in, near the fortunate node of the Moon, we fhall find that
they exadly defcnbe the fituation to which the native's family fhould
remove, and that their refidence. ftiould be permanent and profperous.
J) Sirjq. 5 M. This is likewifa a profperous diredlion, and ftill
continues the good etFects of the former three. The native derives ad-
vantage and pledlurc from an acquifition of new friends and acquaintance,
addicts himfelf to literary purfuits, and is more ftudious than for a con-
fiderable time before. Under this dire<5iion, as I fince learn, he publifhed
his Mathematical Queries.
c5 9 . The Sun to the conjunft'-on of Venus, by converfe motion.
Although this afpe6l is fraught with fome good, and gives the native
an addition to his family by the birth of a daughter, yet the etFe6l of
its direttion w^ill bring to pais fome unpleafant occurrences, particu-
larly relating to the female part of his family, which is obvious in this
configuration, by Venus being conftituted lady of the eighth and
twelfth houfcs.
1) 8 If. M. This gives the native fome fruitlefs journeys to feveral
eminent perfons, from which he returns with no great fhare of con-
tent. He will lofe money by fome fpeculative adventure; and, what-
ever fcheme he fets on foot under this diredion, either for emolument
or fame, will prove abortive, and eventually tend to his difadvantage
and prejudice. About this time, I find Mr. Witchell loft a large fum by
adventuring in the lottery, •''
2> D 1/ . This configuration is made in the zodiac, and participates
of the fame unfriendly quality with the laft. The Moon is lady of the
ninth, and Jupiter lord of the fifth and fecond, whereby this direction
will bring up lofs of fubflance to the native, by means of the uon ability
of Ibme quondam friend, or clerical perlon, to fulfil his eiiijagements in
money-concerns. It likevvife argues the exertions of fome private enemy,
to biaft the native's charadcr and reputation, with regard to his friends
and familv. This occurrence, the native told me, he had too much
realbn to recoUedl, with heart-felt regret.
P. 6 M,
774 AN ILLUSTRATION
O P. c? M. The Sun tn the parallel of Mars in Mundo. This di-
re6iion pron:iiles to advance the native's profeflional charadter; Mars
being the fignificator of his proieilion, exalted by a parallel from the
Sun. Traiiquiility and luccels accompany this direction, and under its
influence the native will have a (on go out to fea. Tho(e in iubordinate
ftations to the native will afford him fatisfadion, and his fervants and
domeftics will be found orderly aiid faithful. All things now go
fmoothly on, and his own wiftics and delires are in almofi: every (hape
completely gratified.
1> S 6 ' lender this dirc<51ion the native fuffers feme uneafinels re-
lative to his fon's voyage. He will likewile experience lome lofs by a
Ipeculative adventure, which never can fucceed under this aipe6l. An
unplealant dilagrcement appears very likely to happen in his family ;
and whatever friendftiip or conne6lion he forms under this configuration
will prove faithlefs and vexatious.
A b M. This configuiation gives folidity and ftability to the
mind, conlolidates the ideas, and influences an unufual ferioufneis of
imagination, which, confidering the phlegmatic temperature of the
native, will moft likely affli<5l him with lownels of Ipirits, nervous af-
fections, and habitual melancholy. Under this direction, however,
the native's mind will be engaged in a defire of purchafing ibme houfe
or land, which will occupy mofl of the time this dlredVion continues
in force; and whatever purchafe he makes under it will be advantage-
ous and latisfaftory to himfelf and his family.
Q 8 6' The Sun to the oppofition of Mars, by converfe motion.
This is a malevolent direflion, and imports no good to the native, thro'
the means of fome fubordinate perfon, fervant, or domertic, but which
the native will dete6t and defeat. He will fuffer a few weeks' illnels
under a flow nervous fever, which goes off with the termination of this
difcordant arj}e6t, and is fucceeded by an indifferentiy-good fliate of health,
and celerity of fpirits; which is demonftrated by the direftion arifing
from the parallel of Mercury and Jupiter, which comes up immediately
upon it, abating the evil, and removing the intemperate quality, by
milder rays.
}) (5 9 • This configuration is extenfively good, and gives the na-
tive profperity and fuccefs in all things which relate either to the ninth,
fifth, or eighth, houfes. Under this diredion=he takes a pleafant and
profitable
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 7;,-
profitable journey, has the fatisfaciion of feeing all his defa-es profper,
and has peace, harmony, and content, in his own family, and good fellow-
fhip with his affociates and neighbours.
A ]) • This is a very excellent and profperous direftion, in-
fluencifig a variety of favourable occurrences to the native, both in the
line of his profeffion and in the general approbation and regard of his
luperiors and friends. The trine alpeft of the two luminaries, in emi-
nent places of the horofcope, is in all cafes to be regarded as a fvmbol
of great good, and of an advantageous and honourable intercourie, ac-
cording to the birth and flation of the native, with Ibme high and ele-
vated perfons of rank and fortune. Had the native not been previoufly
appointed to the ftation he now filled, he would, under this diredion,
in all human probability, have obtained fome fimilar preferment, from
the fimilarity of the afpeds ; but, as it was, the good efFcd of this di-
redion was fenfibly wrought upon him, fince it introduced him to feve-
ral noble perfonages, who at this time placed their fons under his care
and tuition, for the purpofes of obtaining a nautical education.
% § Afc. Jupiter to an oppofition of the afcendant. This direction
impairs the native's health, alters the ftate of his blood, and induces a
bilious complaint in the bowels. He will moft likely fufFer by Ibme
difputation or difagreement with an acquaintance, and perhaps experi-
ence a very unplealant embarraflment on the occalion,. with- lofs of
fubftance.
1> A © M. The Moon to the trine of the Part of Fortune in mundo.
This configuration always forbodes increafe of fortune, fuccefsful en-
terprife, benefit in fpeculation, and profperity in bufinefs. Under this
direftion the native experienced a great fhare of eftimation from his fupe-
riors, and felt the emoluments arifing from it.
^P. 9 M. This diredion imports death to fome female in the na-
tive's family; and, as Venus is conflituted lady of the feventh houfe,
with clofe affinity to the native in his radical figure, it is mofl probable
he will lofe his wife ; it is apparent, however, that this configuration-
will produce him much anxiety and perturbation of mind, with deprel-
fion of fpirits and deep melancholy.—Upon enquiry, I found that Mrs.
Witchell reallv died under this diredion.
D Smq. If. M.—© M. P. }) . The Moon to the femiquartile of Jupi-
ter in mundo; and the Sun to the mundane parallel of the Ptloon.
No. 39. 9 F Tbcfc
^jr6 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Thefe are both propitious direftions, and., prefagc a continuance pf
much good to the native. He will prolpcr in all undertakings in the
way of his profefTion, will receive frelli marks of the approbation and
attention of his friends, and will rife in the eftln:iation of Ibme high
and noble patron; whereby his fpirits v.ill be exhilarated and his me-
lancholy removed. Thele pleafmg eircumftances alternately occurred
durino- the time thefe diredions contributed their influence, which laited,
in a more or lefs powerful degree, from the beginnmg of November,
1778, to the month of September, 1779, ^'^'^^ ^^^^^ efFetts .
totally
iublided.
Afc. ^ b • This diredion is armed with the moft ferious affliftion
to the natiVe of any thing that hath yet gone before it. It is the
.harbinger of I'ome fudden difeafe that threatens life. And, if we con-
fider the radical miport of this al'ped, taken colle6lively with the irra-
'diatlons of the other planets, and their relpedive pofitions and par-
ticular places in the figure, as they ftand influenced and impregnated
with the ambient quality of the figns, we can have no realbn to hefitate
in our judo-ment, that this aflSiftion will fall as it were inftantaneoufly,
and that it will come by fome defeft in the animal, circulation, or in
the fundtions of the brain, whereby fenfation will be deftroyed, me-
mory obliterated, or bodily motion withheld; but the mod probable
efi^ed of the three arifes from the fuperior dignity of Saturn, who
o-overns this afpedt ; and, as he rules the retentive faculty of man,
ft becomes pretty evident that this diforder fhould be a fit of the
palfy, falling upon the brain, whereby the native fhould lufi^er a
privation of fenfe and motion, particularly deflruftive to the ideas
of the mind, and to the force of memory. Under this diredion
Mr. Witchell really had the misfortune to fall down in an apo-
ple6lic fit, which held him for fome time in a f1:ate of perfe6t
infenfibility, deprived of fight and motion, and of every vifible ap-
pearance of life. When circulation was reflored, and pulfation re-
turned, the native became fenfible to pain, and re-pofTe/Ted all the
funftions of the body; but his memory continued for fome time wholly
arrefled, and was ever after greatly impaired: his whole frame felt the
fhock, and his conf^itution was vifibly flruggling with it, during the
full time of this direction. Our recovery, indeed, from all complaints
- influenced by Saturn is ufually flow; but particularly fo, when they are
occafioned almofl: entirely by his own malignant influence, unabated by
4»ildier rays.
4 A $M.
OF ASTROLOGY, ///
c? A 9 M. This dire<^ion is of a more grateful quality, giving the
native cheerfuhiefs, and removing 'in fome meafurc his habitual melan-
choly. This direftioa naturally inclines the fancy to women, and in-
cites amorous defires; and I have no doubt but the native, even under
an impaired conftitution, and a confirmed nervous habit, was more
than ordinarily awakened to thefe defires during the operation of this
afped. It was, neverthelefs, too indelicate a queftion for me to put,
however my curiofity might have been excited by the vifible defignation
of the planets, or however anxious I might have been to juftify the di-
rettions of a nativity which were intended for public fcrutiny.
I> A d M. This dire6lion participates extremely of the quality of
the foregoing, and they operate in many inftances with a joint influ-
ence, being both from afpc61:s made in the world, and coming up
nearly together. The native hath certainly ftrong predilections in fa-
vour of fome particular female; and, if his conftitution was not fome-
what impaired, and his mind pretty much engrofled by other concerns, I
have no kind of doubt but he would have married again wiiile this di-
reftion operated ; but, though it gives radical import of fuch an
event, yet when we come to confider it maturely with the quality of
other planets, whofe horofcopical places at the birth gave them a con-
cern in the completion of fuch an event, we fhall find fome few argu-
ments wanting to give it a complete turn in favour of a fecond matrimo-
nial engagement. But that the native had ftrong prepofTeflions that way
1 have not the leaft doubt, and with a lady who perhaps is now living, and
might confirm the truth of my remark,
Afc. A c? • This direftion is naturally good, inclining the native to
fortitude and perfeverance, and gives animation to the fpirits, and vigour
to the mind. He will, however, be fomewhat abfolute and arbitrary
under it, particularly in his own family, and with his more immediate
domeftics and dependents. With refpeit to bodily infirmity, he will
feel an affliction of choler, and feverifh tendency, induced by the qua-
lity of Mars, who has borne rule in the three laft diredlions ; and, by
thus encreafing the energy of his influence upon the fpirits, will leave
them fubjeft to a flow nervous fever, deftrudlive to the radical moifture
of nature, and to the free circulation of the blood and juices.
© Q. b M. This diredion is the forerunner of a worfe. It is not
a configuration that deftroys life ; but it is one that unhinges the ner-
vous fyftem, and reduces the native to a painful ftate of hypochondriacal
melancholy.
778 AN I L L LJ S T R A t f O N
melanchoh-. It is a remarkable circumftance, that Saturn and the Sua
Ihoiikl form the lait afpeft in this nativity, which precedes that of
death; and that of the Sun, he\ug ana> eta, no fooner feparates from Sa-
turn, the moil malevolent planet, then lie appli-S to and receives tlie
Part of Fortune, which is /ly/eg. Neither is it lefs curious to remark
the gradual fatality which is here brought on and announced to the na-
tive. Mars, the Imaller infortune, occupies the chief influence of the three
diredions which operate prior to this; and he no fooner retires, than he
is fucceeded by the greater infortur.e, Saturn, who gives place to tlie
Sun, the anareta. And thus, ojjerating by a gradual yet fenfible influ-
ence, from a lefs to a fuperior ftate of infirmity, brings on that inevita-
ble and final cleftiny, which gives every good and virtuous individual *' a
place amongft the gods."
(5> O. In this direction, therefore, we fee the two principal fig-
jiificators of life and death, which were conflituted in the radical figure
of birth, form that fatal configuration, which, in all countries, and
in all nati\ities, is uniformly the fame. The one, at the moment we
enter into this world, is conftituted hyleg, that is, giver or protestor
of life, becaufe we are formed and nouriflied in the womb under the
influence and temperature of that particular planet, and becaufe it
guards us in every peril of our earthly pilgrimage. The other is in the
fame early period conftituted anareta, or deflroyer of life, becaufe it is
tempered by its horofcopical pofition, with qualities diametrically op-
pofite to the hyleg; and becaufe, whenever it can form an evil confi-
guration with the hyleg, it will deprive it of all its power and efficacy,
and overcome its preferving faculty, by a fuperabundant energy of op-
pofing matter, which nothing lefs than a fupernatural caufe can either
alter or prevent. And therefore, when that certain caufe, that vege-
tative faculty, which fupports nature and fuflains life, is thus over-
whelmed by a redundancy or fuperioi ity of matter or influence, incom-
patible with, and contrary to, itfelf, its cxiftence becomes annihilated,
and the native dies. Thus it is in the prefent cafe. The Sun, in this
uativity, being conflituted of a dire6l oppofite quality to the Part of
Fortune, will, whenever they form an oppofition or quartile aipeiSf,
abforb its power, and deftroy its influence ; in which cafe, whatever
be the thing that was nourifhed or brought into being under it, will be
deftroyed likevvife.
If we regard, with a critical eye, the prefent figure of birth, wc
fliall find every proof of thofe oppofing qualities in thefe two fignifica-
tors.
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 779
tors, that conftitute the hyleg and anareta; but the number of days,
weeks, months, or years, which thele two llgnificators will occupy
before they meet or form this difcordant afpeft, can only be known by-
equating the arch of diredion which brings them into conta6l. This
I have done in p. 685, where it appears, that thefe two fignincators
were fifty-lix years and ten months in coming to this pofition in the
heavens, from their refpeftive places or pofitions at the time of the na-
tive's birth; and it is a fa6t too well eftabliihed to admit either doubt or
refutation, that the native died with a ftroke of the palfy, which this
afpedt defcribes, on the 29th of January, 1785, at which time he was
exa6tly fifty-fix years and ten months old!
Thus it is apparent, that, however unaccountable or undefinable thefe
planetary irradiations might appear, they certainly are what the Su-
preme Author of all things originally intended them to be, the natural
and efficient caufes of thofe flrange and complicated mixtures and af-
fe6tions in men, which have confounded the fpeculations of the wifeft:
philofophers. And I am perfuaded that no man, unleis it be thofe
who are wilfully obftinate, can hefitate in forming his opinion of the
truth of thefe premifes ;
particularly after obferving that no remarkable
incident of this native's life ever happened, but under the uniform influ-
ence, and as it were by the conlent, of one or other of thefe direflions,
the defining of which conftitutes the only true and rational mode of
prediding by, or of calculating, nativities.
But, before I difmifs this fijbjeft, and in order to render every part
of the icience as plain as poflible, it will be proper, in this place, to
explain what is meant by Revolutions and Tranfits. A revolution is a
returning or revolving back of any one of the celeftial bodies to the
tame place or point in the heavens from whence it firft receded; for fo
the word radically imports. But, in our application of it to explain or
illuftrate any particular circumflance in a nativity, it ufually refers only
to the return of the Sun to his radical place in the zodiac, that is, to
the fame degree and minute of the fign wherein he was pofited in the
hour of birth. For the truth is, that revolutions and tranfits more
properly appertain to the fate of empires than to the circumfiances of
a nativity. It has, however, been found, by eflablilhed obfervatioa
and long practice, that the revolutions, not only of the Sun, but of all
the other principal fignificators in a nativity, to their radical places in
the horofcope, excite a very powerful additional influence in the alpecfls
and dire6tions then operating, whether of a good or evil nature; but
No. 39. 9 G more
y2o AN ILLUSTRATION
more particularly when the planet, fo falling into its radical point,
participates ftrongly of the fame quality and temperature as the confi-
guration or direftion then in force. And hence it is ufual for every
judicious proficient in this art, when he is calculating and bringing up
the directions of a nativity, to ere6t rcvolutional figures through the
whole period of the native's life, in order to obtain the moCl: latisfadtory
information in the probable or poflible means, whereby any important
direction, whether good or bad, might be increafed or diminished in
its natural quality and import, by the falling in of the revolution of
any other fignificator, or of any particular planet tranfiting the place,
tinder the influence of which the cuflomary effeft of the diredion may
be varied.
The ufual way of ereCting a revolutional figure is by adding five
hours and fortv-eight minutes to the exa6t time of the native's birth
for every year's revolution; and when the aggregate exceeds twenty-
four hours, the twenty-four are to be caft away. For example, I would
fet a revolutional figure of Mr. Witchell's birth. Now the time of
the day on which he was born was feven hours fifty-two minutes in
the afternoon. The figure of birth, it muft be obferved, flands for the
firft year; confequently the firfl: revolutional figure to be fet for the na-
tive exhibits the pofitions of the luminaries and planets for the fecond
year of his asre; and the leventh alio anfwers from the feventh to the
eighth; and therefore, if we add five hours forty-eight minutes for every
year, cafling away the aggregate of twenty-four hours as often as they oc-
cur, we fliall unifoimly obtain the precife fituations and precifions of the
planets for the year required.
A. m.
Thus, {&\t\\ times five hours forty-eight minutes is 40 36
From which fubtraCl — — ,
— 24 o
And there remains — — 16 36
To which add the hours from noon on the day of the na-
tive's birth, viz. — — ,
—
7 52
'
And the fum will be — — 24 28
From this fum the twenty-four hours are again to be caft away, and
the Table ©f Houfes is to be entered with twenty-eight minutes, under
the title of Time from Noon, in the fame manner as before directed for
eredling the horofcope; and the heavenly bodies will be found to dif-
play themfelves in the following manner:
Ilavino:
OF ASTROLOGT 781
Having delineated the figure, we are to examine how it agrees with
the radix, or original figure, of birth, and whether it be in Textile,
trine, or oppofition, to it; and alfo what planets make their return to
their own radical places, or to the radical places of others; and alio
whether the luminaries be well beheld by the benefics, or afflided by
the rays of noxious planets, or by the fixth, eighth, or twelfth, houfes
of the radical figure of birth; or whether Saturn or Mars afflift the
places of the Sun, Moon, or afcendant of the radix, or'whether there
occur any eclipfe cither upon or near the radical places of the three
Hylegiacals; for, according as thefe circumftances- are found, fo will the
affairs of the native be either injured or advantaged, and his health
either impaired or eftablilhed, as the cafe fhall happen to be. For, if
vinbenign occurrences in the revolution fall in with the qualities and rays
of the fame difcordant nature in the radix, evil and afHidion w ill be
predided, in proportion to the ftrength and qualities of the fignifica-
tors;,
782: AN ILLUSTRATION
tors; and, on the contrary, if grateful and benign influences thus con-
cur, and mutually aid and unite in benevolent temperatures, then great
and lafting good, according to the different natures of the planetary
caufes and effedls, will undoubtedly take place. But, to make this
I'omewhat more familiar to the reader's underftanding, I fhall give a few
general rules, whereby judgment may be determined in other cafes.
Whenever the hyleg, or giver of life, whether it be the Sun, Moon,
Part of Fortune, or Afcendant, in the radix or genethliacal figure of
birth, is found t-o behold its {)Iace in the revolutional figure, by form-
ing a Textile o\- trine afpecT: with each other, it is confidered a vifiblc
argument that the native {hall, during that year, enjoy health of body,
and that his affairs will in a general way go well; but if this afpect be
made by a quartile or oppofition, the contrary effe6ls are denoted. So
if the Moon, in both the radix and revolutional figure, be free from the
malignant rays of the infortunes, and not combufl, it is likewife an
argument of aji healthful and profperous year, more efpecially if fhe be
configurated with benefic ftars. But, if the Moon be combuft, or af-
flided with the malefic rays of Saturn or Mars, it will prove an unlucky
and fickly year.
If, in the revolutional figure, an eclipfe or comet fliould fall upon
the afcendant, it threatens a year of great trouble and anxiety to the
native. But, if the eclipfe in the revolutional figure, whether of the
Sun or Moon, fhould fall exactly in the lame degree as the hyleg, or
giver of life, in the radical figure of birth, and any violent configuration
.of the malefics fliould begin to operate at the fame time, it will, in
all probability, affe61: the native's life, by increafing the malignancy of
the alpedl, and heightening the violence of the means, whatever it may
be, by which life is threatened. So, if an eclipfe of the Sun fhould
fn like manner fall in the fame degree and minute of the Dragon's
Head, it alio endangers life; but, if it only falls near the fame point,
it th^n threatens danger or dlfeale in that year, but not fuch as fhould
touch life.
If in the revolution the Part of Fortune falls in the fame desrree
as in the radix, it is implicative of the fame effefts, and will tend to fa-
cilitate them in a more eminent and obvious manner; and, if it happens
that this petition falls in a good afpetl with its difpofitor, it will greatly
tend to increafe the native's wealth or fubflance during that year; but,
it' Liie afped be made with malefic rays, and the horofcopical polition
of
OFASTROLOGY. 783
of the Part of Fortune in abjeft places, it portends a dired contrary
efFe6l. It is, however, always to be remembered, that any planet
ftrong and eflentially dignified in a revolution, and at the fame time' in
good afpe6t with the Part of Fortune, or with the lord of the fecond
houfe, or with Jupiter, Venus, or the Moon in reception, uniformly
prefages good fortune to the native during that year.
If the Sun be in the firft houfe, mid-heaven, or eleventh houfe of
the revolutional figure, in good aipefl: with Jupiter or Venus in the
radix, and free from the unbenign radiations of the infortunes, it de-
notes an increale of honour and reputation, of refpeft and efteem,
during that year, although no direftion whatever fhould be then ope-
rating to increafe its influence. So Jupiter, well configurated in the
afcendant, or in Pifces, Cancer, or Sagittarius, indicates the fame, ac-
cording to the quality and occupation of the native; but he denotes
honour and eftieem in a much more eminent degree when pofited in the
medium coeli. Or, if the revolutional afcendant be the place of the
Dragon's Head in the radix, and irradiated by Jupiter, it likewife pro-
motes honour, and increafes worldly efteem ; and fo, vice verfa, if the
afcendant of the radical figure of birth be the place of the Dragon's
Head in the revolution, it denotes the fame.
If in the revolutional figure the luminaries are conjoined in the fe-
venth or fourth houfe, it prefages death either to the father or mother
of the native ; more efpecially if their places in the radical figure be
likewife infortunated by malignant rays. If Saturn be found to afHidl
the Sun by quartile or oppofition, or by conjundHon in one of the an-
gular houfes, it is an argument that the father fhall make his exit ; but
if the Moon be thus afflifted by Saturn, with relative pofitions in the
two horofcopes, it prefages death to the mother; for in thefe cafes the
Sun is natural fignificator of the. father, and the Moon of the mother
;
and, when, thus configurated in a revolutional figure, they forbode
death to happen within the year.
Whenever the lord of the fifth is pofited in the afcendant, or the lord
of the afcendant in the fifth houfe of the revolutional figure, and in a
fruitful fign, with due affinity to the radix, it is a moft propitious con-
figuration to give the native iffue, if married ; but, if fingle, it will be a
very dangerous year to the native, by intercourfes with the other fex.
—
If the native be a male, he will mofl probably have an illegitimate ofF-
fpring to provide for; but, if a female and a virgin, fhe will rarely
No. 39. 9 H efcape
784 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
efcapc ruin, and will probably become the unproteiled mother of an
nnfortunate orphan. This afpevSi: is therefore to be regarded with the
titmofl: attention, and relifted with becoming fortitude and refolution by
both (exes.
If the lord of the fifth be pofited in the twelfth, (it being the eighth
from the fifth,) in fimilar afpetl to the radix, it threatens death to the
native's children. So likewile if Saturn oj- Mars, or the Dragon's Tail,
be pofited in the fiftii houfe of the revolutional figure, in evil afpedt
with the radix, it forbodes death to the native's iflue in the courfe of
that year. Or if Saturn or Mars affli6t the fifth houfe or its lord by
conjunftion, quaitile, or oppofition, it implies the fame.
t
Whenever the lord of the afcendant, in the revolutional figure, is po-
fited in the feventh houfe, and comes by diredion to the ladical place of
Venus in the figure of birth ; or if the lord of the feventh, in the revo-
lution, is brought by dire£tion to the alcendant of the radix, they afford
ample proofs that the native will marry in the courfe of that year. Or
if Jupiter, Venus, the Moon, or Part of Fortune, be thus irradiated, it
denotes a propenfity in the native to coatra6t matrimony, although cir—
cumflances might occur to prevent it.
Whenever Saturn is pofited in the feventh houfe of the radix, and
found alfo in the feventh houfe of the revolution, it threatens death to
the native's wife before the expiration of that year. Mars and the Dra-
gon's Tail thus configurated, imports little lefs. Mercury,, if afflidfed
by the malevolents, and in the feventh houfe, declares muck danger to-
the native; but, if configurated with Venus, under the fame malignant
rays, it threatens mifchief both to the native and his wife.
Mars, Mercury, and Venus, being the proper fignificators of pro-
feffion, if they are afflicted in the revolutional figure, with direct affinity
to the fame places in the radix, prelage great Ibrrow and embarraflrrK nt
to the native in his line of bufinefs during that year. But a comet
or eclipfe falling upon the mid-heaven of the radix and revolution,
irradiated by the good afpedb of either the Sun or Mars, will p: oduce.
a very profperous year to the native, and will bring him honuur and
preferment.
Thus far we have confidered the general tendency and import of the
feveral l^gnificators in a revolutional figure, as they are conne6ted with
or
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 7^5
or behold the radical figure of birth. There is now another effe6t to
be confidered, which the erratic ftars produce by their refpedlive motions
round the Sun, which are called tranlits, that is, a returning to or
re-ailuming either their own place, or the place of any other planet in
the revolutional figure, fo as exadly to correfpond with their radical
places in the figure of birth. Thele tranfits, when of a remarkable or
eminent nature, always produce an efFe6t or influence of their own,
peculiar to the nature and quality of that particular ftar by which fuch
tranfits are made; but whenever they fall in places of the figure, or in
configuration with other planets, where a diredion is coming up, or
any dil1in61 afpeft then operating, they never fail to co-operate with,
and give additional force and efficacy to, fuch afpeds or diredlions,
whether good or evil, as the cafe and quality of the feveral fignificators
Ihall nappen to be. And for this reafon it is highly proper, whenever
the fpeculum of a nativity is proje6ted, and the various dire6lions
brought up, to examine what tranfits are likely to occur in the courfe
of the native's life that may poffibly vary the effeft of any particular
direction; and, confequently, of the incidents or events predi6ied there-
by, as likely to happen to the native. For this reafon 1 have annexed a
few general obfervations, calculated to dired the reader's judgment un?-
der this fpeculum,..
When Saturn returns to or tranfits his own radical place in the revo-
lutional figure, well dignified, he indicates profperity to the native; and,
if he be lord of the afcendant either in the radical or revolutional horo-
fcope, he will render that profperity ftill more excellent and confpicu-
ous. If Saturn tranfits the radical place of Jupiter, propitioufly confi-
gurated, it denotes increafe of fortune by the favour of eminent men
;
if he tranfits the place of Mars, it gives advantages from friends or bre-
thren; and, if thefe tranfits are made v/ith evil configurations, the con-
trary evils will be produced.
When Saturn tranfits the place of the Sun, it is implicative of fbme
ftrong or violent contention with magiftrates, or with men in power, in
the courfe of that year ; and, if accompanied with alpefts of difeafe,
will produce bodily ficknefs and infirmity. If Saturn tranfits the place
of Venus, it demonftrales infelicity from a female caufe; if the place
of Mercury, it implies advantages from fludy; if the place of the
Moon, it declares afflidlion both of the body and' mind; if the place
of the Dragon's Head, it tends to promote the native's good fortune;
but, if Saturn tranfits the place of the Dragon's Tail, it has a moft
dangeroui
786 AN ILLUSTRATION
dangerous and malignant tendency. If the place of the Part of For-
tune be tranfited by Saturn, with benevolent rays, it denotes increafe
of I'ubltance and ellate; but, if by evil rays, the contrary effed will
be produced.
Precifely the fame is the refult of all the other fignificators tranfit-
ing their own or other planets' places in the radical or revolutional
horofcopes; with only this invariable difi:in<51:ion, that the etfe6ts vary
according to the nature, quality, and temperature, of each refpe6tive
planet, and to the radiations and alpeds formed with them, or to the
directions then operating; for revolutions or tranfits of a benevolent
and friendly nature, falling in with good diredions then operating,
will vifibly increale their propitious quality, and gieatly benefit the
native; whilft, on the other hand, revolutions or tranfits of an evil de-
fignatlon, falling in with noxious and malignant diredlions, will in-
creafe the evil, or deftroy life. But good revolutions or tranfits falling
in with bad direftions mollify their malignancy; whilll: evil ones, oppofed
to good directions, lelTen the good fortune then operating, and deprive
the native of the full completion of thole golden advantages which per-
haps appeared almoft within his grafp.
To difcover the precife time when any event or direCtion fhall take
place in a revolutional figure, we dire6t the five hylegiacals, as in the
radix; always obierving, as it is for the year enfuing, to direcft the tem-
porary progrefs of the zodiac for five hours forty-eight minutes. For
inftance, fuppoie the eufp of the medium coeli hath one degree of Gemini,
that point is to be direfted to every afpeCt that falls between that one de-
gree and twenty-four degrees of Leo; and alfo, if the afcendant hath at
the liime time eight degrees of Virgo, it muft be direCted to all promit-
tors between that point and nine degrees of Scorpio, becaufe that point
will be upon the cufp of the afcendant for the enfuing year, and Leo
will occupy the mid-heaven. In like manner the Sun, Moon, and
Part of Fortune, muft be directed unto their promittors, always remem-
bering, that the diftance of a planet from the alcendant is found by ob-
lique afcenfion, and from the mid-heaven by right afcenfion. But, when
one planet is direded to another for the purpofe of afcertaining tranfits,
their diltances from each other are found, by oblique alcenlion or deicen^-
fion, under the pole of that planet which is taken for fignificator; and
the diftance which is thus given by degrees muft- be converted into time,
by entering with the given denomiaatioa of degrees into the following
Table,
A RE-
OF ASTROLOGY. 75/
A
788 AN ILLUSTRATION
A TABLE,
Collefting all the Days of the Year, and ferving fucceflively to find
the Month and Day of any Accident.
Whether
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 789
Whether the directions be radical or revolutional, the table in the
foregoing page will ferve equally for both, by changing the names of
the months to any other, accoiding to the given day of the month of
any nativity, making the day of birth the firft day of the year; and
always remembering, that, when it happens to be leap-year, one day mufi:
be added to February, and there will then be three hundred and fixty-
fix days in that year.
I have now completed every remark and every inftruction that is or
can be neceflary for the perfefl calculation of nativities; and 1 am
bold to fay, that whoever will beftow fufficient time and application to
the rules I have laid down, and that will attend properly to the colla-
teral circumftances, will find no difficulty in obtaining a forekowledo^e
of all material events relating to himfelf, or to any other perlbn, whofe
real nativity is laid before him. 1 have, in the management of the
foregoing nativity of Mr. Witchell, been particularly plain and copious,
that no underflanuiiig might go uninformed, as well of the fimplicity
and verity of the art, as of its moral tendency to promote the o-ood of
mankind, and the certainty with which human events might be fouo'ht
out through ito means.
Every thing I have ftated with refpeft to Mr. Witchell's nativity is
incontrovertible fa61:. That gentleman, when in perfect health, and
in full vigour of mind, reforted to mc for no other purpofe than to
hold dil'putations upon the rudiments of the fcience, and to inform
himfelf as to its hypothecs, and probability in the fcale of reafon and
fcience. The more he enquired, the more convinced he was of pla-
netary influence and efFeft. He proceeded from theory to pradice. He
amufed himfelf with a variety of difquifitions upon the different branches
of the art ; and had the pleafure to find, that, in all cafes where truth
and perfpicuity were the bafis of his enquiries, there were no in-
flances of doubt or deception in the predidions refulting from them.
Well grounded in all the common departments of aftronomy, he obtained
an extenfive theoretical knowledge of this part of it with the greater
facility; and, to reduce it to regular pra61ice, he began with calcu-
lating his own nativity. In comparing the afpeds with the particular
incidents of his life, he was foon convinced they were infeparable from
each other ; and hence it was that he committed the revifion and com-
pletion of it to my care, with a firm and manly folicitation to have the
anaretical diredtion brought up and afcertained, as well as thofc of fmalJer
magnitude and importance. This was a tafk I performed with the
greater
790 ANIL LUSTRATION
o;reater fatisfaftioii, becaufc it was to iiiideroro the fcrutinv of the mod
perfeft mathematician of the age; and becaufc his conviftioii and ap-
probation of it would ftamp new reputation upon a fcience, which,
having few or no real advocates, has been long borne down by popular
prejudice and obftinate declamation. Having performed every part of
the calculation with an exa6titude that highly pleafed him, he made
ufe of it as a friendly monitor of the good and evil that awaited the re-
fidue of his days ; and, when he approached towards the flated time of
his dilTolution, he would mention it without the fmalleft emotion, and
confidered the knowledge of it as one of the greateO: bleffings of his
life, which not only drew his attention to his Maker, and fixed his
thoughts upon celeftial defires, but raifed his mind above the contem-
plation of earthly enjoyments, and gave ferenity and calmnefs to his
converfation and deportment. It was on one of thefe occafions, that
he requefted me to print his nativity in my work, which I had begun
to publilh fome little time before; obferving that the evidence of fo
recent and refpeftable a proof of aftrological predi6fion might tend to
bring mankind to reafon, and admonirti them no longer to abandon this
fublime and interefl:ing branch of knowledge.
And now, what need can there be of further argument in Ibpport of
fo felf-evident a do6trine ? Or what advantage could it poffibly be to
me, or to any difmterefted man, to preach up the advantages of a fci-
ence which hath no exiftence in reafon or in truth? The fads here
laid down are unqueftionable; and fuch, 1 think, as no reafonable man
will attempt to refute. If farther proofs are required, I fhall at
all times be ready to furnifh them, or to explain any matter or thing
herein before laid down that might be deemed unintelligible, or that
is not thoroughly underftood ; at the fame time that, if any obflinate
unbeliever, or any other defcription of men, can offer a fair and candid
argument in oppofition to aftral influence, I fhall be ready to hear them
with refpeft and attention. Wretched indeed fhould I be, if, after
every precaution to guard myfelf againfl the encroachments of enthu-
fiafin, I fhould fall a vi6lim to its phrenzy, or be deemed a madman
or a fool : at the fame time let me not fhut my eyes againfl demon-
ftrable fads, merely becaufe the bulk of mankind choofe to difcounte-
nance them, or determine to become wilfully blind. I have examined,
and am convinced ; and I trufl I have fufficienily eftablifhed the reality
of this fcience; and have abundantly fhown that the ambient matter,
colleded by the rays of the celeftial bodies, and communicated by a
fympathy of a6tion to all fublunary things, is the caufe of all thofe
unde-
'
OF ASTROLOGY. 791
undefcribable occurrences in human nature, which, for want of a more
clear comprehenfion of the wonderful works of creation, are frequently
attributed to caufes, which call in queftion the benign attributes of the
Deity, and difgrace the underllanding of the meanefl of his creatures
upon earth.
It hath been contended by fome, in oppofition to that part of aftro-
logical dodrine which determines the bodily form and mental difpo-
fition of the native from the feveral fignificators in his own and in
his parents' genethliacal figures, that this likenefs or fimilitude in body
and temper is ftamped by the energy or idea of the parents in the ad of
copulation. Although I am willing to admit this obfervation in part,
yet I contend that the primary caufe, which furnifhes that energy or
motion in the parents, is derived from their refpedive fignificators in
the heavens; and that they imprefs their particular quality in propor-
tion as they happen to be in dignity and power at that precife time. If
the fignificators of the mother are then fuperior in force and dignity,
the mother's features and difpofition will be moft vifible ; if the fa-
ther's geniture be the flrongeft, the father's temper and fimilitude will
be moft predominant in the offspring then begotten ; but, if both their
fignificators are equally ftrong, the child then equally participates in
the likenefs and difpofition of both his parents. Let it neverthelefs be
remembered, that, however ftrong the fignificators of both or either of
the parents might be, yet thofe proper to the foetus or conceptional
matter invariably take the lead, and ftamp that peculiar form and tem-
perature upon the native, which in a great meafure fupplant the firft
impreffions given by thofe of the parent, and form a perfon and mind
effentially differing from both, though with fome veftiges of hereditary
fimilitude. And hence the reafon why fons and daughters more or lefs
depart from the ftature, features, complexion, and temper, of their
parents; and why no two human beings, in the whole compafs of ge-
neration, were ever yet formed precifely alike ! If, therefore, the man
lives, who can fairly and completely refute this argument, he (hall
have my thanks and my applaufe. And I will add further, in the em-
phatic words of an unrivalled author, that " My heart is already with
" him. I am willing to be converted. I admire his morahty, and
" would gladly fubfcribe to the articles of his faith. Grateful as I am
" to the good Being whofe bounty has imparted to me this reafoning
" intelled, I hold myfelf proportionably indebted to him from whole
" enlightened underftanding another ray of knowledge communicates
" to mine. But neither (hould I think the moft exalted faculties of
No. 40. 9 K " the
792 AN ILLUSTRATION
'^
the human mind a gift worthy of the Divinity, nor any afliflance m
" the improvement of them a fubje(fl of gratitude to my felloW' creatures,
" if I were not fatisfied, that really to inform the underfhandiiigcorredts
" and enlarges the heart."
OBSERVATIONS on the NATIVITY of the Rev. GEORGE
WHITFIELD, M. A.
I fhall now, agreeably to the plan I have before laid down, introduce,
bv way of example, a number of remarkable geiiitures, in order to (how
that the afpefts of the planets, and the influence of diredlions, are uni-
formly and invariably the fame in all cafes, and corre611y dirtinguifh thofe
extraordinary aftions in every native's life, for which he afterwards be-
comes celebrated and famous.
The well-known life and charader of the Rev. Mr. Whitfield, and
his remarkable prowefs in the line he adopted, render him no unfit
fubjecl for our prefent purpofc. He was born on the i6th of Decem-
ber, 1 714, as in the annexed plate of his geniture. At a very early
period of his life he loft his father, and was left unprovided for in the
world. When he arrived at the age of ten years, his mother again con-
trafted matrimony,' which turned out very unhappy : this is demon-
ftrated by the mid-heaven coming at this time to a contra-antifcion of
the Moon; and, as both, are fignificators of the mother, they prelage
much trouble and anxiety as well to her as to the native. At fourteen
he was taken from fchool, and affifted his mother in the bufinefs of a
public-houfe ; at which time the mid-heaven came to a quartile of the
Sun, which always brings difgrace and trouble. His mother quitting
the inn, it was taken by his brother ; and, his fifter-in-law and himlelf
not agreeing, they frequently fell out, and he would fometimes not
fpeak to her for three weeks together. This fullen auftere temper is
produced in the radix of his birth by the quartile of the Sun and
Mars; and to complete the obftinate perfeverance of his mind, the
Moon is in conjundtion of Saturn, which invariably produces fuch a
temperature.
In fifteen years and twelve days from his birth, the Moon came to
the trine of Venus, who is the fignificatri^ of joy and pleafure. It is a
remarkably-good direftion, by falling in the eleventh houfe, which de-
notes friends ; and, as Venus is in the third, it relates to kindred and
(hort
,OF ASTROLOGY. 795
(hort jotrrneys. Under this dire6tion it was refolved to fit the native for
the univeiTit) ; but he went on fome vilits of pleafure before he con-
figned himfelf to the difcipHne of a preparatorj fchooh At the age of
feventeen years and one hundred and eighty-eight days, the Moon came
to a bodily afpeft with Mars. This direction hath an evil fignification,
becaufe thefe two planets are by nature inimical to each other, as we have
already fufficieatly fhov\'n ; and it would have had a ftill more malignant
influence, had not Venus at the fame time caft her trine afpedl to Mars.
Under this diredtion he contrafted an intimate acquaintance with feveral
debauched young gentlemen, who led him into a variety of fcrapes, and
into the company of proftituted females.
At about eighteen years of age he was received into tlie univerfity ; for
which there came up a moll lignificant direftion of the afcendant to the
trine of Jupiter, which hath reference to preferment under the nobility,
clergy, religious focieties, and fuch-like. Under this direition he was
chofen fervitor to feveral gentlemen of the Univerfity, whereby he con-
duced his pecuniary affairs fo well, that he did not fland his friends in
twenty-four pounds in three years. At the period of eighteen years two
hundred and fifty-fix days, the Sun came to the trine of Saturn; under
which dire6lion the native abandons the eflablifhed dodrines of the
church, and takes up the religious tenets of Methodifm, to the utter
aflonifhment and concern of all his relations and friends. At nineteen
years two hundred and forty-four days, the Sun again came to the trine
of Saturn ; under which direftion the native more vigoroufly purfucd
his religious principles, and became intimately acquainted with the
Rev. John Wefley, by whofe friendly advice and exemplary condudl, he
ufed frequently to fay, " he had been delivered from the fnares of Sa-
« tan."
At nineteen years one hundred and twenty-fix days from the time of
birth, the mid-heaven came to the oppolition of Jupiter. At this
time many infelicities arife by means of clerical men. The native's
mind is tormented and opprefTed, and he is loaded with calumny and
contempt. He incurs the difpleafure of the heads of his college ; his
relations alfo confpire agalntl: him, and his mind becomes a prey to per-
turbation and defpair. This laid the foundation of a violent fit of fick-
nefs, which lafled upwards of feven weeks, whilfl this direffion
operated with its utmofl force ; his life was fuppofed to be in danger,
and his enemies rejoiced in his afflidion. At twenty years and two davs,
the Moon came to the fextile of Mercury; under which favourable
diredtion
794 AN ILLUSTRATION
direction he was reftored to health, and recovered his wonted refolutlon
and (pirits.
At twenty years and two hundred and eighty-fix days from his birth,
the mid-heaven came to the trine of Venus, which produced him the
fuicere regard of many perfons, with health and content, and profperity
in worldly affairs. Under this direftion the native journeyed to Glou-
cefter, and foon afterwards to Briftol; in the courfe of which he ex-
perienced many offices of friendfliip from thofe whom he hadconfideredhis
enemies. Lady Selwyn, of Gloucefter, recommended him to the pa-
tronage of the bifhop, who immediately fent for him, and offered to or-
dain him whenever he defired ; and at the fame time prefented him with
five guineas. And the next direction coming up at twenty years three
hundred and fixty days from the time of birth, namely, on the i2th of
December, 1735, greatly increafed the good fortune promifed by the for-
mer; for, under the influence of this diredion, Sir John Phillips agreed
to allow him thirty pounds a-year.
At twenty-one years and eighty-feven days, 14th of March, 1736, J:he
afcendant came to the fextile of Venus. While this dire£iion was ope-
rating, it gave the native a pleafant and agreeable time, full of profpe-
rity and content, with reputation and fuccefs in his vocation; fo that in
May following he was ordained. What renders this dire6iion more re-
markably propitious is, that it falls in a good part of the horofcope,
and that Venus is no way afflidted. In Augufl following he returned to
London.
When he was twenty-one years three hundred and forty days old, /. e.
on the 22d of November, 1736, the Moon came by dire61ion to Spica
Virginis, a fixed ftar of the firft magnitude. Fixed ftars of a benevo-
lent quality, in fuch conjun6tions, uiiially denote fudden honour and
preferment, and frequently bring men into higher repute than any fingle
erratic influence ; but, when mixed with planets of their own nature
and quality, they give durable reputation and profperity, as was
the cafe in the prefent inflance. At twenty-two years and twenty-
four days from the birth, namely, on the loth of January, 1737, the
Sun came to the trine of the Moon from the tenth houfe, the houfe of
profeffional honour ; and, as the Moon is fignificatrix of the mixed mul-
titude, or common people, it declares that the native (hould experience
an uncommon fhare of honour and refpetSt from the middle clafs of peo-
ple, which every one knows was really the cafe. This afpefi likewife
implies
OF A S T R O L O G Y. 795
implies fome diftant journey; and we find that Mr. Whitfield now firft
formed his determination of going to America. Under this dire61iou
the native acquired great popular applaufe, as he hath declared himfelf
;
and at this' time he preached in the parifh-churches. On the 3Cth of
O61:ober following, the aicendant came to the fextile of Venus, which
promifes luccefs; and, by reafon that fo many benevolent direftions
following fo clofely after one another at thisjundture, his fuccefs became
more rapid and confpicuous. On the loth of December, the afcendant
came to the fextile of Mars; and on the 28th of the fame month the
native embarked for Georgia. This direction brings him into the fo-
ciety of military men, with whom harmony and attachment is rnofl am-
ply denoted by the fextile afpedl. It likewife gives the native fuitable
magnanimity, fortitude, and courage.
The next direftion is of a very dangerous and evil import, namely,
the medium coeli to the body of Mars, which, genethliacally confidered,
fuddenly expofes a native to the mifchance either of life or fortune ; it
ftirs up the wrath of powerful men againfl him, and excites his mind
to popular tumults and commotions. 1 his was in an extraordinary man-
ner exemplified in the perfon of Mr. Whitfield ; for under this direftion
'
he returned to England, landed at Briftol, and behaved with great arro-
gance to the chancellor of that diocefe; and afterwards infulted and re-
buked the Vice-chancellor of Oxford, and contemned his authority, with
that of all the other dignitaries of the church. He was now prohibited
from performing divine fervice in any of the proteftant churches; in
confequence of which he commenced field-preacher, in the neighbour-
bourhood of Kingfwood, near Briftol. In February 1739, ^^^ afcendant
came to the conjunction of Mercury, at which time he was feized with
a violent fever, and continued very ill for upwards of fix weeks.
At twenty-four years and feventy-eight days from the native's birth,
March 5, the mid-heaven came to the body of Mercury, ruler of the
tenth-houfe ; fo that, notwithftanding the oppofition and cenfure he met,
with, yet he was remarkably fuccefsful, and received great encourage-
ment from the populace, as this direftiou, obvioufly denotes. Under its
operation he preached openly in Iflington church-yard, then at Moor-
fields, afterwards at Kennington Common, and at feveral other places
in the open fields round London. The novelty of his do£lrine and de-
portment excited public curiofity, and the populace flocked to hear hjm
from all quarters. He coUedled large fums of money daily, in the
form of a fubfcription for building the Orphan Houfe in Georgia ; for
No. 40. 9 L which
796 AN ILLUSTRATION
which purpofe the truftees had granted him five hundred acres of land
for ever. This direftion likewife inclines the native to travel; and under
its influence he embarked for Georg-ia in Ausrull, but returned to England
again in March 1741.
From the thirty-fecond to the thirty-fixth year of the native's age,
there happened four remarkably-good direftions, viz. the Part of Fortune
to the conjunclion of the Moon, the Sun to the I'extile of Jupiter, the
Sun to- the conjun£tion of Venus, and the Sun to the trine of Mars.
Under thefe feveral diretlionshe confiderablv increafed his fubftance, grew
daily into higher repute amongft his difciples, and publiOied feveral tra61:s
that met with very great approbation. He likewife under this influence
married the widow of an apothecary in Wales, with a fmall landed
eftate. On the 27th of June, 1751, the Sun came to the trine of Mars;
under which diredion he collefled large I'ums of money, and completed
his tabernacle in Moorfields.
At the age of forty-two years and fixty-eight days, March 4, 1757, the
afcendant came to the quartile of the Moon, an evil direflion, prefaging
much mifchief. The native was now publicly molefted and abuled
by the populace. He was driven from the chapel in Long Acre with
indignant violence; and in feveral of thefe popular tumults he nar-
rowly efcaped with his life. He embarked for Ireland under the evil in-
fluence of this direftion, where he in vain attempted to gain profelytes
to his do6lrine. The populace were in a fhort time irritated againfl: him;
and after feveral fruitlefs efforts to fubdue the paffions and fpirits of his
auditors, and after patiently enduring a copious fhare of nifult and abufe,
accompanied with fome levere chaftifement, he re-landed in England,
and came back to purlue his fortune in London.
At the age of forty-two years two-hundred and fifty-fcven days, the
mid-heaven came to the fextile of the Sun, which is an afped denoting
much good. Under this direftion he found himfelf well received by
the populace; he refumed his former places of public declamation, and
went round the country, preaching in the open fields, or public flreets,
as beft fuited his purpofe. His colledions upon thefe occafions were
generally pretty liberal, particularly in places where his doflrine and
manner were novel, and he gained over many difciples. He returned
.to town, and under this benevolent diredion he built his chapel ia Tot-
tenham-Court Road.
J ax sicori ai
^
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 797
At forty-five years one hundred and eighteen days from the time of
birth, viz. April 17, 1760, the Moon came to the quartile of Venus.
This direction falls in the twelfth houfe, and is the forerunner of anguifli
and afRidion. At this time Foote's comedy of the Minor made its ap-
pearance, which fo ftigmatifed the native's chara6ter, that he never got
the better of it. He devoted himfelf to the tafk of preaching it down,
and perfevered for a long while in this fniitlefs attempt; but the infult and
fatire of the populace was fo great, that he was under the neceflity of
withdrawing himfelf from the performance of divine lervice even in his
own chapels. At this time likewife many of his principal followers de-
ferted him, patticularly a diftinguiflied lady, from whom he had received
very great fupport. This direftion is immediately followed up by the
Part of Fortune to the oppofition of Jupiter, a baneful afpecl, which
came up the zoth of Alay, 1760, and alio declares a lofs of reputation and
fubftance to the native. Under this direftion feveral others of his moft
opulent difciples abandoned him, and the pecuniary emoluments of his
chapels were greatly decreafed.
In September 1764, the Part of Fortune came by dire<5tion to the
bodily afpe61: of Mars, which hath fignification of many violent 9on-
tentions between the native and his adherents about the loaves and
fiHies ; with lofs of property and refped in confequence. The next
afpc6l came up the 5th of December following, that is,, in forty-nine
years three hundred and Hfty-three days from the time of birth, when
the mid-heaven, which reprefents the native's honour and reputation,
comes to the quartile of Venus in the twelfth houfe. This is a malignaat
direflion, calculated to blafl: the native's general charafter, and to
produce fome liidden evil from a female quarter. Thefe lucceflive di-
redlions, being fraught with difappointments and infurmountable per-
plexities to the native, prepared his mind to feek an afylum in the more
grateful climes of America.
At fifty years one hundred and eighteen days from the time of birth,
the afcendant came to the conjun6tion of the Sun, and is then brought
to a quartile afpefi; of Jupiter, in an equally malignant radiation of the
Moon. The union of thefe afpefts is extremely iingular, as is the
manner in which the hyleg and anareta are here brought together, by
the united force of the three co-operating malevolent diredtions, all of
which came up in September 1770, and deprived this celebrated charac-
ter of life, on the x 8th day of that month, at Newbury, near Boflon, in
America.
As
798 AN ILLUSTRATION
As to the natural temper and difpofition of Mr. Whitfield, it was
none of the beft^, as might be colleftcd from his own words: " I can
" truly confefs," faith he, " that I was brutifh from my mother's
" womb; and fo brutilh, as to hate, inftrudion. I can date fome early
" acls of uncleannefs, with flagrant proofs of an impudent temper, a
" lying and filthy talking tongue, addifted to ftealing, frequently taking
" money out of my mother's pocket before fhe got up in the morning
;
*' likevvife fpending money that I received in the houfe, it being a pub-
" lic-houfe; joining others in roguifh tricks, but was generally dete6ted."
This account agrees precifely with the temperature and bent ofmiud
denoted by the feveral fignificators in his nativity; and is more mani-
feflly declared by the fign Scorpio upon his alcendant, and the evil po-
fitions of Saturn and the Moon with refpeft to Mercury, which governs
his difpofition. But, as the meaning and radical import of all thefe fio--
nificators, together with their various afpeds and relative pofitions, have
been fo amply delcribed, it is unneceifary to repeat them. I therefore
mean this feledion of remarkable nativities as fo many fl:riking exam-
ples, whereby to exercife the underftanding and judgment of my readers,
in obtaining a perfe6l knowledge of the aftral faience.
OBSERVATIONS oii the NATIVITY of the Rev. JOHN HEN-
DERSON, A. B. of Pembroke College, Oxford.
THIS nativity exhibits a coUeflion of the moft remarkable configu-
rations I ever faw comprifed in one horofcope during the whole courfe
of my praftice ; and it is really curious to remark their oppofite defig-
nations, as they refpeftively occur upon the face of the genetlalical figure
of birth, illuftrated in the annexed plate.
According to the reftification of parallels, this native was born when
the Sun was at its highefl meridian altitude; at which time one degree
fifteen minutes and twenty-four feconds of the princely fign Leo af-
cended the eaftern finiter of the heavens, and affords the moft exalted
teflimony of a noble and generous difpofition. The fenfitive powers
<
and underftanding of the native are reprefented by Mercury and the
Moon. Mercury, who rules the aftive and rational part of the brain,
is pofited in the ninth, the houfe of religion and fcience ; in the dig-
nities of Jupiter, in conjun6lion of Mars, and within orbs of the
benefic planet Venus. This iharpens the wit, and furniflies the
imagination
OF ASTROLOGY 799
imagination with inexhauftible powers of reafoning ; and, if we add to
the foregoing teftimonies, that Mars is configurated in his own tripli-
city, and Venus in her exaltation, we (hall difcover the endownnents of
a mind apt for invention, with an impetuofity of natural ideas fcarcely
to be equalled; which is ftill more confirmed by the ftrength and good
afpe6l caft by Mercury to the Moon, who rules the moifture of the brain,
and thereby frudifies and ftrengthens the retentive faculty. This pofition
of the fignificators likewifc gives the native a ftrong tafle for fcientific
knowledge, impels him to the confideration of abftrufe and occult rea-
foning, and to the inveftigation of myftical divinity.
It is however much to be lamented, that, in the midft of all thefe
propitious configurations. Mercury happens to be in his detriment ; for
thereby it is declared, that thefe fplendid endowments will profit the
native little or nothing. And, as five of the fignificators are pofited in
watery figns, it is too obvious a proof that he will be regardlefs of repu-
tation and preferment, but will give himlelf up to the pleafures of con-
viviality, and facrifice too frequently at the fhrine of Bacchus. This
failing is {o flrongly marked, that furrounding fpectators, whilft they
admire the brilliancy of his wit, and the acutenefs of his underflanditig,
will be equally furprifed that he fhould not apply them to an ufeful and
advantageous purfuit.
Nature has fo endowed his rational intelledl, that he is alike qualified
for law, phyfic, or divinity ; three avocations that perhaps few or none
befides himielf can claim equal pretenfions to. Thefe extraordinary
qualities are thus defined from the horofcopical fignificators : Venus
in the ninth houfe, in trine to Jupiter lord of the ninth, infpires him
with a confcientious mind, formed for divinity; Mars in conjun6lion
with Mercury, gives him a depth of judgment and an acutenefs of rea-
foning fitted for the law ; and, as Venus is in conjundion with Mars
and the Moon, at the fame time that Jupiter beholds Mars and Mercury
with a trine afpec>, and Mars being lord of the tenth houfe, with the
Sun exalted therein, thefe are fo many decifive arguments to fiiow, that,
had the native been profeffionally bred to the law, he would not only have
acquired an immenfe fortune, but would have increafed likewife in re-
putation and chara£ter. That he would have made an excellent phyfi-
cian, is every way obvious. Jupiter, lord of the fixth, the houfe of
pharmacy and phyfic, is in Scorpio, a phyfical fign, and is dignified in
the fifth, the houfe of profperity and pleafure; and, being in partile
trine of Venus, and in trine alfo with his difpofitor, as well as in re-
No. 40. 9 M ception,
8oo AN ILLUSTRATION
ccptiou, at the lame time that he is forming a Textile afpedl with Saturn,
lord of the feventh, thefe are evident demonftrations of a perfon born
with the heavenly art of healing; and who, like the good Samaritan, not
only ponefTes the alMlity, but the difpofition likewile, of ajfFording relief
to his wounded or atflifted fellow-creatures.
This native is not onlv born with an extraordinary talent for either
of the foregoing profefiions, but hath, in a mofl: eminent degree, the gift
of acquiring univerlal knowledge ; pofTelling from nature a ftrong re-
tentive faculty, a quick and lively perception, and a fruitful genius, apt
for every kind of ftudy, and formed for invention. In fhature he is
but fhort, as is defcribed by the Sun in Aries ; brown hair, grey eyes,
full round features, and of a mild and placid diipolition ; though given
to be latirical upon the ladies, as is demonftrated by Mars being in con-
junftion with Venus and Mercury in his detriment.
That the native might obtain perferment in the church, is abundantly
evident, from the pofitions of fo many planets in his ninth houfe ; and
therefore an excellent profeffion for him to follow, provided he would
fum up refolution to fet afide the diflipating rays of Mercury. I only
fubmit this as a friendly hint to the native himfelf, who being alive,
and pofTeffmg the ability of analyfing his own geniture, and of fore-
feeing the different events that are likely to refult from the diretlions,
it is my duty to leave the confequences thereof as a proper monitor to
his future condu61, meaning to difplay the figure of his birth as an ex-
ample only to my readers of the extraordinary circumftance of many
illuftrious afJDedls being deprived of perfect efficacy by one difcordant
configuration.
OBSER-
OF ASTROLOGY. So I
OBSERVATIONS on the NATIVITY of Mr. JAMES GILBERT.
14S . 16
\ <9 X\ . y
<S.
<8> V^
JAMES GILBERT,
23d May, 5h. 8m. P. M.
1726.
Latitude.
b
6
9
5
D
o
I
I
o
2
5
21
12
20
o
20
56
o
S.
S.
N.
S.
S.
N.
Declination.
8oa AN ILLUSTRATION
ing in the eaft, and Mars and Leo in trine of Venus in Aries, declare
him to be of a well-formed body, and of a middling ftature ; of an open
generous difpofition, and fair and jiifl: in all his dealings, which is parti-
cularly defcribed by Jupiter being in his own dignities, and in a good
afpeft with the Sun.
With regard to the native's fubftance, if we confider his birth, we
fhall find it has increafed in a true proportion with what is promifed
by the fignificators in his genethliacal horofcope. The Part of For-
tune is well fituated in the iecond houfe; the Moon is likcwile pofited
in her own houfe, increafing in light and motion ; Jupiter, who is
lord of the fecond, the houfe of fubftance, and difpofitor of the Part of
Fortune, is conjoined with the Moon's fortunate node; and, having
dignities in the fifth and fixth houfes, prenotes that the native (hould
derive advantages from fuch things as particularly relate to thofe
houles, which are fully explained in page i
55, &c, but, as thefe figni-
ficators are all of them either in fiery or watery figns, it is apparent that
fuch occupations as are more immediately under the government and
controul of thofe figns would be found moft profitable for the native to
follow.
We might eafily perceive that this native is not of a clofe and fordid
difpofition, owing principally to the remarkable configurations of the
Moon in quartile of Venus, in fextile with Mercury, and within orbs of
an oppofition of Saturn. The force of thefe predominant qualities,
while under the particular diredion of each refpedive afpcft, will in-
cline the native to be profufe, and carelefs about money-matters; will
expofe him to the impoiition of the crafty and defigning, and eventu-
ally to the lofs of property, and the diminution of his fubftance, L.nlefs a
great degree of fpirit and refolution be exerted, to modify and corre6t
this good-natured, but fatal, propenfity. A hint to the wife is ufually
fufficient; and as this native is ftill living, and extenfively furrounded
with friends, I would by no means wifh to hurt his feelings, or draw
down upon myfelf the refentment of thofe who might have it in con-
templation to take advantage of the native's generofity.
But to return. The third houfe is the houfe of journeys ; and here
we find the malevolent planet Saturn retrograde. This is a fure argu-
ment, that change of refidence, and journeys in general, fhould prove un-
fuccefsful and injurious to the native, either in the pocket or by bodily
afflidion, or both, and fhould therefore be avoided as much as poffible.
The
OFASTROLOGY, 805
The fourth houfe bears delignation of the principal fcope and end of
the native's hfe. In this angle we find the fixed fign Aqua ries ; and,
as Saturn is pofited in that fign, it is an argument that fome houfes or
land ftiould devolve to the native by hereditary fucceffion ; but Saturn
being retrogade fhows that this patrimony fhall not be pofTeded until
the native is far advanced in years, or in the latter ftage of his life.
The fifth houfe denotes advantages to be obtained, or lolfes to be fuf^
fered, by any fpecies of adventure ; and, as the Moon's fortunate node falls
in this houfe, it is apparent that the native fhould in a general way be
fortunate upon every fuch occafion, as cards, dice, hazard, dealing ni
the lottery, or fending goods upon the chance of a market to any of our
fettlements or connexions abroad. I have no doubt but this pofition of
the dragon's head, conjoined with the benevolent planet Jupiter, who
is lord of the fecond houfe, the houfe of fubflance, and bears rule like^
wife over the fifth, which relates to adventure, would prove extremely
favourable to the native, were he to try his fortune in the lottery; more
efpecially if he would be careful to choofe his ticket under a favourable
and correfponding revolution or diredlion,. many of which are to be.
found in his nativity..
With regard to fickneis or difeafe, and the accidents which are likely
to be mod fatal to the native, we fhall, if we regard the fixth houfe,,
and the planets bearing configuration therewith, eafily dilcover of what
kind and quality they fhall be. If we carefully confult the figur-e, we
Ihall find that cboler is the moft predominant hiunour in the native's
conflitution ; and that the efFeds of fire and air fhall be mofl offenfive
and injurious to him ; and for thefe very fubflantial reafoiis ; namely-,
becaule we find a fiery fign occupies the cufp of the fixth houfe, with-
Jupiter, who governs the fiery tripUcity, and he is pofited therein.
Jupiter likewife beholds the Sua with a friendly ray,, and thereby
flrengthens his quality, becaufe the Sun bears rule over the lame tripli-
city, and. is potited in an airy fign in the eighth houle. We find alfo
an airy fign upon the cufp- of the twelfth houfe; and Mars, the lord
of this native's afcendant, hath his feveriih quality much increafed,
by being pofited. in a fiery fign ; and, as this malefic beholds Venus
with a trine aipedl ia the fixth, at the fame time thatfhe is a lady of the
twelfth, and in. quartile to the Moon, it renders that' othervvife-benefic
planet inimical to the native's conftitution. Thele tefUmonies all:
confpire to fhow,. that the native Ihould be more than ordinarily fubje^i
to hot and feverifh complaints, and to accidents fromviolent falls and
bruifes. ''%'*^{^
No. 40. 9 N According.
8o4 AN ILLUSTRATION
According to thefe pofitions of the plaiiets, and to tlie dire61ions
wherewith their afpefts are Teverallv brought up, will the infirmities
and misfortunes of this native be rcfpe6tively found. At about eigh-
teen years of age, namely, when Venus pcfefted her mundane parallel
with the Sun and Mercury, he was afflided with a long and violent in-
termittent fcvev. At twenty-four years of age, he had another violent
fever, which produced the meafles. This was brought on by the bale-
ful configuration of Saturn in oppofition of Mars, lord of the afcendant,
and was fo powerful and violent, owing to Saturn being in his own houle,
and coming at the fame time to a mundane parallel of Mars, that no per-
fon whatever expefted his life; nor could he have lurvived fo fevere an
attack, had the hylegiacal and anaretical ftars been united in the configu-
ration, to the want of which we can alone attribute the prefervation and
continuance of the native's life.
At the age of thirty-four years and three months, the native is again
attacked with a violent fcorching fever, which nearly abforbed all the
humours of his body, and annihilated the blood and animal juices.
This was produced by a joint and moft remarkable oppofition of the
Sun and Jupiter to the afcendant ; whereby Jupiter partakes of the con-
fuming heat and violence of the Sun, being in fexiile afpeft with him,
in the fiery fign Aries, in the fixth houfe; at the fame time that the Sun,
being in the airy fign Gemini, in the eighth, is mofl: apt to corrupt the
blood, and to promote putrefaction. This fever continued withaftonilh-
ing violence, until the Moon's crifis fuperfeded the force of the direction,
and abated, by its nutritive and moiftening quality, the confuming heat
of the preceding configuration.
At the age of forty years and one hundred twenty-feven days, the
Sun comes to a mundane quartile of the ponderous malefic planet Sa-
turn, which from natural defignation portends little lefs than inevitable
deftrudion, from fome fudden bruife or violent concuffion of the cir-
cumambient matter. Had this afpe6t been formed of Mars inftead of
Jupiter, 1 fhould have predifted danger of death from, the fudden and
all-devouring ftroke of lightning; but the quality of Saturn defcribes
it to be the effedl of fome violent blow, or fall from an eminence. And
the fa6t has really turned out, that the native mofl improvidently, at
this age, got up into a tree, from whence he fell to the ground, and
broke feveral of his bones, and lay for a confiderable time without the
leaf} profped or hopes of recovery ; but, as this malevolent afpe<5t was
not made to the hyleg, it was impoflible it (hould deftroy life, no
matter
OF ASTROLOGY. toj
tnatter how much the haman frame was injured atid deranged by the
violeiic? ai tLlft'^,.f^li. ... ,
From the feventh houfe we colledV information concerning wedlock and
marriage, and its probable confequences. This houfe therefore repre-
feius the native's wife, who is defcribed by Mercury in Taurus as a
lively but head-ftrong woman ; ingenious, quick, and penetrating, but
pofitive and felf-willed. This marriage was brought ,»ap by the mundane
Textile of the Sun and Moon, and may be ranked amongft the mediocrity
of the happy ones.
The eighth houfe fhows us what might be expelled from the wife's fub-
flance, either from dowry or from legacy; and likewife what portion
of happinefs and content may probably be found in company therewitli;.
As to the firft of thefe, we may obferve that the Sun, in fo impeded a
pofition, rather deftroys the fortune of a wife than adds to it; and,
as to the fecond, there does not appear, either from earthly conneflions,
or from heavenly configurations, any reafou to form extenfive expefta-
tions. The beft way in all thefe cafes is wifely to learn to be content
with our lot.
The ninth houfe relates to profeffional fcience, to fea-voyao-es, and
the like. And, as the Moon is pofited therein, it (hows that the native, in
his early days, (hould have a ftrong inclination to go to Tea, and to tra-
vel into foreign parts; but Saturn being in oppofition to the Moon, and
a fuperior planet, over-rules this difpofition ; and (hows, by his pofition,
that, if the native had gone to fea, he would have fufFered an uncommon
ftiare of perils and dangers, by ftormy weather, public enemies, and
(hipwreck. As to fcience, we have already feen the native's inclination
and propenfity towards it; and, confidering his fituation, and the difficul-
ties he had to encounter, he has made great proficiency therein, althou«rh
Saturn has often proved detrimental to him even in this purfuit, not-
withftanding the vigour of his mind, and the zeal of enthufiafm ; for
Saturn, by cafting an oppofite malignant ray to the Moon, who rules the
moifture of the brain, proportionably dulls the underftanding, and caufes
the native to labour hard for every grain of knowledge he has the o-ood
fortune to obtain.
The tenth houfe is the houfe of trade, honour, and profefiion.
In this portion of the horolcope we find Mars, lord of the afcendant,
beheld by the trine afpedt of Venus ; but, as Venus is in her detriment.
8o6 AN ILLUSTRATION
it is apparent flie cannot afford that eminent profperity and unimpeded
fuccefs fhe otherwife might do. It is however pretty obvious that the na-
tive's advancement in life is not to be ranked amongft the moft inconfi-
derable ; and that this fuccefs, in the department of phyfic and chemiftry,
fhould neither be difreputable nor unprofitable. Mars pofited in the
mid-heaven, out of all his effential dignities, generally declares the native
to be violently paflionate and rafli ; but here we find his hafly temperature
cooled by the mild trine of Venus, which meliorates the native's difpoli^
tion, and induces him to be more gentle and kind.
In the eleventh houfe we find the unfortunate node of the Moon,^ com-
monly called the Dragon's Tail, which implies hypocritical enemies and;
perfidious friends. Of thefe I make no doubt but the native has had
ample experience ; and therefore, from what has already come to pafs, I
"would admonifh him of the future; being convinced, from this pofitioH
of his geniture, that no part of his life will be exempted from the at«
tacks of thofe affailants. This pofition of the malefic node like wife de-
clares, that the native fhall- fuffer great difappointments in his pecuniary
hopes and expectations.
The twelfth houfe relates to public enemies, imprifonmfnt, and great
cattle. Venus being lady thereof, pofited in the fixth, in oppofition, de-
clares the native fhaU be unfuccefsful in any dealings in cattle ; at the
fame time it difcovers his profefled enemies to be in too abjeft a fituatioa
to do him much injury. As to imprifonment, there does not appear to
be the leaft apprehenfions of ; but that the native will live in profperity
during the remainder of his days, and yield up the ghofl upon the bed
of liberty, fuW of years, and amidft the good offices of his friends, I am
bold to affirm, from the confideratien of thofe ccleftial intelligencers that
have never yet deceived mc. '
fbnt;
oi anr
CONSIDE-
O F A S T K O L O G Y. 807
CONSIDERATIONS on the NATIVITY of Mr. THOMAS
CHATTERTON.
Latitude.
8o3 AN I L L U" S T R A T I O N
without even allowing him to attain its meridian altitude. In fhort,
this is a very remarkable, at the fame time that it is a moft unfortunate,
geniture. Upon the afcendant we find the fign Gemini, and Mercury
lord thereof, which lays the foundation of a fharp wit, and an acute un-
derftanding. But then Mercury, his principal fignificator, is polited ii\
the fixth houfe, in his detriment, and in combuftion of the Sun; au in-
fallible argument of a wretched life and a fatal end.
This judgement is corroborated and confirmed in a moft extraordinary
manner, by the coalition of the Sun, Saturn, Venus, Mercury, and
the Part of Fortune, in the fixth houfe, which prefages every Ipecies
of misfortune that can arife from poverty, and from the chicanery of
proftituted women; the immediate effe61: of the baleful rays of Saturn
and Venus. This fatal conjunction, to which Mars is approaching
with accumulated malevolence, hath defignation of a thoufand diftreffing
occurrences, which occafionally torment, and alternately pervade, the
native's mind.
We likewife find the Moon pofited in the twelfth houfe, receding
from a fextile with Jupiter, and forming an oppofition with the Sun;
that i?, departing from the early good and prolific temperature, to in-
creafe the virulence of the other malefic rays. The Moon is lady of the
fecond houfe, and therefore in a more particular manner governs his lub-
ftance; and, by being in the twelfth houfe, the houfe of imprifonment
and afflidion, denotes a frequent want of prefent cafli, and the dangers
to which the native would be often expofed on that account ; which
would have been dreadful indeed, and perhaps fecured the native for a
length of time within the iron gates of a prifon, had not the more be-
nevolent planet Jupiter been in his exaltation in the fecond houfe, which
fortunate configuration lelfens the fore2;oini2; baleful influences, and is
the means of producing timely and unexpected relief, in pecuniary
matters, to the uative, when nothing but the moft dull and barren
profpeCts ftood before him ; and but for which fortunate occurrence, he
had certainly experienced the moft abjeCt penury and want. And here
it is remarkable, that whatever blelfing, or whatever abundance, ftiould
be thrown in his way by the genial influence of Jupiter, is either
abufed, or improvidently fquandered away, under the oppofition of the
Sun and Moon ; and, by the Moon's conjunction with her unfortunate
node, we are more clearly conviCted that tlie native will experience very
cBobarrafled circumftaaces.
The
OF ASTROLOGY. Sog
The Part of Fortune unluckily falls in conjunilion with Saturn and
Venus; and, as Saturn is pofited in a lign out of all his dignities, and is
the lord alfo of the eighth houfe, his influence is implicative of certain
ruin by means of wicked and debauched women, defcribed by Venus,
conjoined to the worft rays of Saturn. This conftru6lion is abundantly
confirmed by the conftltution of the hylegiacal and anaretical places of
the figure, and the difpofition of the lignificators by which they are
refpe6tively irradiated. The afcendant, in this horofcope, muft l)e
confidered as hyleg, or giver of life, fin'ce neither the Sun, Moon, nor
Part of Fortune, is fo pofited in the geniture, as to entitle either of
them to the pre-eminence; and it is the peculiar quality of the afcen-
dant, occupied by Gemini, and governed by Mercury, to ftamp upon
the native fo early and fo extraordinary a turn for literary purfuits ; which
are too well eftablifhed to neecWany other proof, than that they were com-
municated to the intelleftual faculty bv this conftruction of the hyleg
and circumambient matter at the time of birth.
We are here likewife to remark, that Saturn is the atiareta, or de-
ftroyer of life, and is pofited in the mod noxious pofition that could
have happened, and where he ufuallv prenotes the fatal comraiffion of
fuicide, without fo much as one friendly ray to oppofe his influence, or
to render the fhocking attempt partial, or lefs dellruftive than a caule
that will certainly touch life. On the contrary, here is a concatenation
of evil rays, which i.n a remarkable manner contribute to a premature
death. The Sun and Moon are in oppofitionto houfes that are under the
influence of the worft caules of death; and as Venus is in conjunttion
with Saturn, who rules thefe evils, and draws them as it were within the
focus of her own orb, it is evident that his death would come by his own
hand, under the preffure of defpair, heightened by meagre want, through
the perfidy of fojne abandoned female.! -"Jtw^t'-
If we inquire minutely into the life of this unfortunate man, we
Ihall find every aClion and prediftion of the ftars, which were the im-
preffors at his birth, fully and completely verified. He was born of no
very diftinguifhed parents, and received but a fmall (hare of claffical
education ; yet his produdions, at a very early period, were fuch as
excited the admiration of the firft fcholars of his day, and proved him
to inherit great natural ability and genius; infomuch that A'Ir. Whartorii'
in his additions to his Hiftory of Poetry, vol. ii. hath taken occafion to'
obferve, " that Mr. Chatterton had given a fingular inrtance of prematu-
" rity of abilities, a«d that he had acquired a ftore of general informatiotv-
" far.
Sio A X ILLUSTRATION
" far exceeding his years; that he pofTefTed a comprehenfioii of mind, ahd
" activity of underftanding, which predominated over his fituation in
" life and his opportunities of inftru6tioh." But notwithftanding he was
thus gifted, and pofTcfTed lo eminent a (liare of llerling fenfe, yet he com-
bined with it all the vices and irregularities of youth; and his profligacy
was at kail: as coni'picuous as his abilities.
Finding himfelf cncompaffed with private enemies, furrounded with
the evils of poverty, and deftitute of everv means of fubfiftencc, he quit-
ted Briflol, to try his fortune in the metropolis. Having fixed himfelf
in private lodgings, he fought for bread through the medium of his li-
terary talent, which falliig fhort of his expedtations, as well as of his
merit, he mofl: unfortunately fell into the hands of the lower order of
proftitutcs, by whom he was duped, difeg^ed, and finally deferted ! In
this deplorable fituation he continued a few months, occafionally
drudging for the bookfellers, who neither having the generofity to re-
ward him as he deferved, nor fpirit to advance upon tne credit of his
future produdions, he at length, oppreffed with poverty and difeafe,
and overcome by defpair, put an end to his exiftence, in the month of
AugufI:, 1770, by a dofe of poifon, which he prepared with his own
hand.
If we confider the quality of the dirc6lion which produced his death,
we fhall find the manner of it moft: aptly defcribed in his figure of birth.
Saturn thus configurated with Venus, in that particular part of the hea-
vens, and under fuch noxious irradiations, hath at all times, as well by
Ptolemy as by every other refpe6lable profefTor of this fcience, been found
to occaiion death by poifon; and lb many concurrent teftimonies in the
houfe of ficknefs and difeafe bear the ftridefi: affinity thereto; and this
fatal direftion is much flrengthened by coming up with the revolution of
Saturn.
Mr. Chatterton, notwithftanding his foibles, and his want of a more
fcholaflic education, was nevertheleis a benevolent man, and a good
fcholar. He certainly laboured hard, and combated many obllacles, in
his literary attainments; but his fuccefs was great; and, had he been
born to great profperity, and under the influence of milder ftars, he
had been an ornament to the age in which he lived, and an honour to his
country. I have manv reafons to believe, that his knowledge of the
uranical part of Aflronomy had enabled him to forleee, by his own
geniture, the evils he had to combat, and the fatal termination of a
life,
OF ASTROLOGY. 8ii
life, which his own folly had rendered infupportable ; but which an op-
pofite conduft, and a more manly refolution, might confefTediy have re-
medied and prevented. This ferves to flicw, that there certainly is a fate
in nature, which nothing but the rational means made ufe of by Heze-
kiah, 2 Kings, chap. xx. can alleviate or prevent, namely, unfeigned
prayer, and a determined fpirit to abandon the allurements of vice and
to walk perfe6l in the ways of God and Truth ; which verifies the an-
cient pro\erb, that wife men rule thejlars^ and none but the giddy and the
thoughtkfs are ruled by them.
That Mr. Chatterton's acquaintance with this fcience, and his ap-
probation of it, may not be difputed by thofe critics who are unwilling
to admit it has ever had the fanction of men of fenfe or learning in the
prefent age, I fhall conclude my remarks on his nativity, by fubjoining
fome excellent verfes he wrote upon the occafion, after he had made
progrefs enough in the ftudy to be convinced of its importance and
utility.
THE Sun revolving on his axis turns.
And with creative fire intenfely burns
;
Impell'd by forcive air, our earth fupreme
Rolls with the planets round the folar gleam
:
Firft Mercury completes his tranfient year.
Glowing refulgent with reflefted glare
;
Bright Venus occupies a wider way.
The early harbinger of night and day;
More diftant ftill our globe terraqueous turns.
Nor chills intenfe, nor fiercely heated burns
;
Around her rolls the lunar orb of lisht.
Trailing her filver glories through the night
:
On the earth's orbit fee the various figns
Mark where the Sun, our year completing, fliines.
Firfl the bright Ram his languid ray improves ;
Next glaring wat'ry through the Bull he moves :
The ani'rous Tvnns admit his genial ray ;
Now burning through the Crab he takes his wav :
No. 41. 9P The
8i3 AN ILLUSTRATION
The Lion, flaming, bears the folar power;
The Virgin faints beneath the fultry fhower.
Now the jufl Balance weighs his equal force.
The flimy Serpent fwelters in his courfe
;
The fabled Archer clouds his languid face ;
The Goat, with tempeft, urges on his race
;
Now in the water his faint beams appear.
And the cold Fiflies end the circling year.
Beyond our globe the fanguine Mars difplays
A flrong refleftion of primaeval rays ;
Next belted Jupiter far diftant gleams.
Scarcely enlight'ned with the folar beams ;
With four unfix'd receptacles of light,
He tours majeftic through the fpacious height.
But farther yet the tardy Saturn lags.
And five attendant luminaries drags
;
Invefling with a double ring his pace.
He circles through immenfity of fpace.
Thefe are thy wond'rous works, Firft Source of Good
!
Now more admir'd IN BEING UNDERSTOOD.
Bristol, Dec, 23.
CONSIDER.
OF ASTROLOGY. 813
CONSIDERATIONS on the Nativity of JOHN CDLLONS.
65 18
Latitude.
b
8i.i AN ILLUSTRATION
This unfortunate man refided in Briflol. He controfted an intimacy
with a female, and hved with her m the cloR^d habits of the fexes,
until they had feveral children. y\t length difigreements aroir, in
conl'equence of his refufing to marry her. and a voU-iit quarrel f'pcU-ated
them. The woman itniufdiately attached herf^lf to another man, to
whom {he was fhortly after married, totally f nfaking her former con-
nexion. The native, enraged at this cironinllance, took frequent op-
portunities of way-laying and remonflratnig with her: of claiming a
prior right to her perfon, and of infiflmg on having familiarity and
contafct with her, whenever he pleafed ; but, (he rejefled him with con-
tempt, and threatened profecution whenever he attempted to force her.
Hurt at this repulfe, and exafperated at the indiflference with which
lie was treated, he took an opportunity of watching the hufband from
his bed, who, being a labouring man, went early to his work ; upon
which the native made his way into tl'.e houfe, went up Hairs, and
found the wife in bed. Demanding fatDiliarity witli her, he was refufed,
with fevere refle61ions on the method he had taken to get into her bed-
chamber. He then drew his knife, and with a degree of inhuman
barbarity, better conceived than exprelTed, he threw himfelf upon the
bed, and cut her throat from ear to ear.
The alarm was foon given, and the cry of innocent blood became
general. Tlie culprit was feized, examined, and coinmitted to New-
gate for trial. He there affe6led to fhew marks of infanity, and for fome
confiderable time before the affizes was generally believed to have per-
petrated the bloodv aft in a paroxyfm of madnefs, which was now be-
come vifible in all his words and a6lions. His friends availed them-
felves of this circumdance to palliate his guilt, and took every ftep to
improve the advantage againd the day of trial, when it was generally
believed that he would be acquitted. Different parties, however, had
taken up the matter on different grounds; and it was at laft agreed, by
fome gentlemen of refpe6iability in BriRol, that I fhould be requefted
to infpeft his nativity, and to give my judgment whether he would be
found guilty or acquitted. I readily accompanied the gentlemen to
Newgate, and obtained the eftimate time of the prifoner's birth, which
I reclified by the method heretofore laid down, and found the ficrnifica-
tors of his nativity difpofed as in the foregoing horofcopical figure, which
I thus explained.
Mercury being lonl of the afcendant, irradiated by a malefic quar-
tile afped of the planet Mars, and afflifted by an oppofiiion with Ju-
piter
»
OF ASTROLOGY. ^815
piter, declares that the native fliall be involved in an abyfs of troubles
and afflictions, even to the hazard of his life. As to temper and pro-
penfity of the will, he is rafh, violent, and arbitrary ; undable in his
purfuits, and ufually difappointed in his expeftaiions. This is denoted
by the oppofition of Jupiter to Mercury ; but the quartile of Mercury
with Mars, particularly when Mercury is conftituted principal fignifi-
cator, hath implication of high crimes and mifdemeanours, and ufually
produces violent contention, afTaflTmation, murder, rapine, robbery, and
bloodfhed, as we have more particularly delineated, in p. 229, 230.
Upon a further infpeftion of the figure, we find a baneful quartile
afpeft of Mars and Jupiter, with a mifchievous oppofition of Saturn
and Mars. To the fird of thefe we are to attribute the diffolute man-
ners of the native, fince it influenced the mind to thofe immoral habits,
which eventally lead to perfidioufiiefs and treachery, whilft the fecond
configuration not only confirms thefe vices, but fhews that they will be
the means of his death. Here is unqueftionably a favourable trine
of the Sun and Saturn ; but no great good can refult from it, becaufe
the Sun is lord of the twelfth houfe, pofited in the tenth, out of all his
efiential dignities ; at the fame time that Saturn is lord of the fixth, lo-
cated therein, and both the fignificators are under the dominion of the
evil genii, vitiating the mind and affeflions of the native, and tending
to an ignominious and premature end.
At the time the unhappy native was prompted to commit this bar-
barous aft, the Moon came to an oppofition of Mars by direft direftion,
vvdiile file occupied the cufp of the feventh houfe, which reprefents the
unfortunate woman ; and the quartile of Jupiter lord of the fourth,
with Mercury lord of the afcendant, hath defignalion of the native, and
points out the fatal conneftion betwixt them.
-Having confidered fo much of the horofcope, it was my next care to
afcertain'the hylegiacal and anaretical ftars, and the particular influx
flowing from them. The Sun I find to be giver of life, pofited in the
tenth houfe, the houfe of juftice ; Mercury, lord of the afcendant, be-
ing in Gemini, an airy fign, and the Moon likewife in an airy fign,
iliev the manner of the native's death, that he would die fufpended in
the air, while the oppofition of four planets in the radix, and the mun-
dane quartile of the Sun and Mars, from the tenth, the houfe of juf-
tice, fhew the quality of it, namely, that it fliould be in due courfe of
law, by the hand^ of the common hangman, and not by fuicide.
No. 4 1
.
9 Q The
8i5 AN ILLUSTRATION
The fignificators of jufticc likewife, confidered judicially from their
rerj)c61ive pofitions in relation to each other, give no profpefi: whatever
of favour from the judge, nor of any effeclual interpofuion after convic-
tion; fb that I made no fcruple to affirm. That, notwithflanding the
hopes that had been formed of faving the native's life by pleading his
infanity, and the number of perfons who appeared anxious to ferve him,
yet all their endeavours would prove abortive, fince he would certainly
be found guilty, and fuffer the fentence of the law in confequence.
It would be needlefs here to relate, how much this prediftion was
ridiculed by all degrees of people in Briflol ; or with what contempt
my opinion was treated by moft of the poor man's friends. And it was
with fbme difficulty I could pafs without infult. I was determined,
however, to place my judgment in a more Hi iking point of view. The
affizes were not fixed, nor could any perfon undertake to fay when they
would be, much lefs afcertain the day of the native's trial, I therefore
brought up the direftion of death, with great nicety and precifion, and
found he would be plunged into eternity, when the Sun came to the
anaretical point in the midheaven, and met the noxious beams of the
Moon and Mars in oppofition, which, thus conflituted, is ever produc-
tive of a violent death. Thofe, who will take the pains to equate this
direftion, will find the content of its arch to be twenty-feven degrees
thirty-four minutes, which, turned into time, and reckoned from the
hour of birth, will be found to come up on the eighth day of April,
1785, and gives the fpace of life twenty-fix years, nine months, and
fome odd days, which cxaftly anfwered to the native's age, I then
publicly declared, notwithflanding the popular clamour was fo much
againft me, that the prifoner would fuffer on the above day ; and, as the
affizes were not fixed, no one could charge me with having drawn my
conclufions from the probable event of the day of trial.
When the folemn hour arrived, every one appeared anxioufly interefl-
ed in the event ; and the utmofl exertions were ufed to fave the unfor-
tunate prifoner from the fate impending over him—but in vain ! After
a long and indulgent trial, the jury pronounced him guilty, and he fuf-
fered the law, as thoufands can tefl:ify, on the very day I had predifted.
And here let me jufl remark, that this geniture not only points out,
by the conflitution of the Moon and Mercury in airy figns, that the
native would be hanged ; but Mars being in quartile to the Sun, who
is giver of life, and upon his afcendant, defcribes the circumftajice of
his diffcclion, as may be feen by the rules already laid down in the for-
mer part of this work,
CONSIDE-
OF ASTROLOGY. 817
CONSIDERATIONS on the Nativity of Mrs. KEZIA LAMPARD,
who died in Child-bed.
160 43
Latitude.
b
8i8 AN ILLUSTRATION
This geniture befpeaks a female of a fharp wit, and lively difpofition.
Mars is lord of the afc'endant, pofited in Virgo, the exaltation of Mer-
cury, but in no afpeft with any planet in the heavens, confequently the
faihion and temperatun/of 'he native will be formed principally of Mars
;
who, as we have feen before, produces, when in Virgo, a middling fta-
ture, inclining to brevity, hot and fiery temper, rafli and invincible in
all difputes, and ungovernably violent in hafty quarrels, yet foon ap-
peafed by good nature and fubmiffion, which at all times induce her to
be tradable and induftrious, and for the mod part fober and frugal.
Her features are defcribed to be thin and pale, occafioned by the Moon's
conjunftion with Venus ; yet of a pleafing and agreeable vifage, owing
to the influx of the beams of Venus, who is the author of beauty. But,
by reafon that Venus is in her fall, the fymmetry of features will be
proportionably deranged ; and, as Saturn, the author of deformity, be-
holds both the Moon and Venus with a fextile ray, it becomes evident
that the native could only be modeiately handfome. The mixture of
thefe fignificators gives her brown hair, and great volubility of fpeech,
from which great inconveniences arife, and fometimes lofles and inju-
ries, as is particularly denoted by the reception of Mercury and Mars,
and the conjunftion of Saturn with Mercury in the twelfth, the houfe of
private enemies.
This nativity might be claffed amongft thofe of a mean and obfcure
defignation, fince we find no one planet through the whole horofcope
elTentially fortified, except Mercury and Mars, and that is only by re-
ception, which, from the conftitution of their places, declares good by
evil means, with a difpofition to low and vulgar purfuits. And here
it may not be improper to remark, that, whenever we find the planets,
in any nativity, out of all their eflential dignities, we might fafely con-
clude, that their effefts will in no fliape be remarkable or extraordinary,
and that the native will lead generally a mean and obfcure life.
That this perfon fhould live to years of maturity, is abundantly evi-
dent from the confl;itution of her horofcope ; as well as that fiie would
enter into the marriage ftate. Venus and Mercury, in this figure, give
tefl:imony to the hufband, who is defcribed by Jupiter, on twenty de-
grees of the afcendant, under the government of Saturn ; fo that it
was very improbable, if not impoflible, that the native would marry
young, becaufe Saturn is above the earth, conjoined with the fignifica-
tor of her hufijand, and declares flie would not enter into that ftate at
leaft under thirty years. In faft, there is but one direftion within that
period, that could pofllbly have brought it to pafs ; and that came up
wher^
OF ASTROLOGY, §19
xvhen (lie was only about twelve years old, fo that its efFecl pafTed off in
her minority, without producing any fenfible operation. The dire6lion
which perfefted her marriage came up when (he was thirty-one years
three months and eleven days old, namely, on the fifth of February, 1780,
when Venus came to the trine of Jupiter ; as appears by the following
calculation :
The right afcenfion of the A of "y
,
- - ipi" ^2'
The right afcenfion of 9 , with latitude, - - 160 43
Arch o^dire6lion, - - '
- - 3^ 59
Which, added to the right afcenfion of the Sun, and turned into
time, as before pointed out, produces exaftly tliirty-one years, three
months, and eleven days.
Upon a further inveftigation of the horofcope, we (hall faid that Mars
is not only lord of the alcendant, but hath fole dominion over the fifth
and twelfth houfes, which prefage thofe kind or fpecies of evils to the
native as are ufually produced in thofe particular pofitions of the hea-
vens. The twelfth houfe being the houfe of affliftion, and Mercury
and Mars in reception therein, it declares the native Ihall prove in many
refpefts her own enemy ; and, as Mercury is in conju6lion with Saturn,
who likewife communicates an influx of malefic rays to Venus and the
Moon, whereby they participate of his quality and nature, in the fign
Scorpio, which rules the fecret parts, it evidently demonftrates gieat
and imminent danger to the native by child-bearing. And the Sun
being in the eleventh houfe, oppofed to the fifth, which is the houfe
of children, and being likewife the armreta, or deftroyer of life, it evi-
dently proves the native's death fhall arife from child-birth; and fo it
really happened; for foon after her delivery of the fifth child, in the
thirty-ninth year of her age, fhe was fuddenly feized, and died in a few
hours, on the 13th of Augufl, 1787.
The direflion under which flie died, is the Moon, which is apheia,
or giver of life, to the conjunftion of the Sun in the eleventh houfe
;
at which exaft time Venus came to the fame anaretical point, and Mars,
lord of the afcendant, to the twelfth houfe, where the malefic rays of
Saturn and Mercury contribute their baneful influence, all which con-
fidered together, denote, in the mod remarkable and decifive manner,
a child-bed death to the native.
No. 41. 9 R ^
Many
820 AN ILLUSTRATION
Many other confiderations might be adduced from this geniture ;
but, as the only proof we wi(h to eftablifh is to (hew, according to na-
tural caufes and effefts, the certainty with which the time and manner
of death might be afcertained by the force and influx of the ambient
and elementary matter, prefcribea by the laws and motions of the hea-
venly bodies, it would be deviating from our plan, and prove deroga-
tory to the good fenfe of the reader, to dwell longer upon fubordinate
fpeculations.
It may not however, be unentertaining to the curious reader, were
he to compare the configurations formed by the planets in^this horo-
fcope, and the particular influx of their refpe6live beams, with thofe
general rules and obfervations heretofore laid down, for the purpofe of
afcertaining the quality of death. The wonderful harmony, order,
and precifion, with which the heavenly bodies operate upon this
fublunary world ; the uniformity with which the fame caufes are found
to produce the fame effefts ; and the certainty with which the time and
manner of human diflblution is fought out by them, will at once infpire
the mind with the moft elevated ideas of the omnipotence of God, and
lead the foul to thofe divine contemplations, which are founded in hu-
mility, gratitude, and love!
CONSIDER-
OF ASTROLOGY. 821
CONSIDERATIONS on the NATIVITY of the HONOURABLE
BARON EMANUEL SWEDENBORG.
o
^<9
^^_ o
X
Baron Emanuel
SWEDENBORG,
BORN
29th January, 5h. 30m. A. M.
1686.
Lat. ^g, 22.
'P,
^.
&
s^
I^^l ^
The fingularity of the charafter and doftrine of this illuflrious native
would be a fuflBcient reafon for my offering a (ketch of his geniture to
the inquifitive reader, had I no other motives for taking notice of him
in this place. But, as the literary purfuits of Baron Swedenborg have
been principally dircfted to an explication of the dodrine of fpirits, and
the ftate of departed fouls, which we fliall have occafion to advert to
in the magical part of this work, I conceive it highly proper to fpeak
of his endowments by nature, agreeable to that doftrine of fecret and
occult influence received by the terreftrial from the fpiritual world,
which he has with fo much ability and acutenefs endeavoured to prove.
And, when I refle6l that he was our co-temporar)', and his pcrfon and
manners well known to many refpeftable perfonages now living in this
coun-
822 AN ILLUSTRATION
country; that he is the latefl; writer upon the nature and exiflencc of
immaterial beings, and has thrown much new light upon the fubjcft
;
it cannot be unentertaining, nor unimportant, to illuftrate, by his na-
tivit)', the extraordinary endowments of his mind.
But, before I fpeak of the conftitution and quality of his gcniture, it
will not be amifs to introduce the reader to a nearer acquaintance with
this celebrated author, which I (hall do by quoting his own account of
himfeif, as given in a letter to a friend, publiflied in his works.
Baron Swedcnborgs Anfwer to a Letterfrom a Friend, printed in his Preface
to the World of Spirits.
I TAKE pleafure in the friendfhip you exprefs for me in your letter,
and return you thanks for the fame ; but, as to the praifes therein, I
confider them as belonging to the truths contained in my writings, and
fo refer them to the Lord our Saviour as his due, who is in himfelf the
Fountain of all Truth. It is the concluding part of your letter that
chiefly engages my attention, where you fay as follows :
" As after your
'
departure from England difputes may arife on the fubjeft of your
*
writings, and fo give occafion to defend their author againft fuch falfe
'
"reports and afperfions, as they who are no friends to truth may invent
'
to the prejudice of his charafter, may it not be of ufe, in order to
'
refute any calumnies of that kind, that you leave behind you fome
'
fliort account of yourfelf, as concerning, for example, your degrees
'
in the univerfity, the offices you have borne, your family and con-
'
neftions, the honours which I am told have been conferred upon you,
'
and fuch other particulars as may ferve to the vindication of your
'
charafter, if attacked ; that fo any ill-grounded prejudices may be
'
obviated or removed ? For, where the honour and intereft of truth are
'
concerned, it certainly behoves us to employ all lawful means in its
'
defence and fupport." After reflefting on the foregoing paffage, I
was induced to comply with your friendly advice, by briefly communi-
cating the following circumflances of my life.
I was born at Stockholm, in the year of our Lord 1689, Jan. 29.
My father's name Jefper Swedberg, who was Biftiop of Weftrogothia,
and of celebrated charafter in his time. He was alfo a Member of
the Society for the propagation of the Gofpel, formed on the model of
that in England, and appointed prefident of the Swedifh churches in
Pennfylvania and London by King Charles XII. In the year 1710 I be-
gan riiy travels, firfl; into England, and afterwards into Holland, France,
and
OF ASTROLOGY. 823
and Germany, and returned home in 1714. In the year 1716, and af-
terwards, I frequently converfed with Charles XII. King of Sweden,
who was pleafed to bellow on me a large fliare of his favour, and in that
year appointed me to the office of AffefTor in the Metallic College, in
which office I continued from that time till the year 1747, when I
quitted the office, but flill retain the falary annexed to it as an appoint-
ment for life. The reafon of my withdrawing from the bufinefs of
that employnient was, that I might be more at liberty to apply myfelf
to that new funftion to which die Lord had called me. About this
time a place of higher dignity in the ftate was offered me, which I de-
clined to accept, left it fhould prove a fnare to me. In 1719, I was
ennobled by Queen Ulrica Eleonora, and named Swedenborg ; from
which time I have taken my feat with the Nobles of the Equeftrian
Order, in the Triennial Affemblies of the States. I am a Fellow, by
invitation, of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Stockholm, but have
never defired to be of any other community, as I belong to the Society
of Angels, in which things fpiritual and heavenly are the only fubje6ls
of difcourfe and entertainment ; whereas in our litetary focieties the at-
tention is wholly taken up with things relative to the body and this
world. In the year 1734 I publiffied the Regnum Minerale, at Leipfic,
in three volumes, folio; and in 1738 I took a journey into Italy, and
flaid a year at Venice and Rome.
With refpeft to my family connexions ; I had four fiftcrs; one of
them was married to Erick Benzelius, afterwards promoted to the Arch-
bifhopric of Upfal ; and thus I became related to the two fucceeding
Archbiffiops of that fee, both named Benzelius, and younger brothers
of the former. Another of my fifters was married to Lars Benzelftierna,
who was promoted to a provincial government ; but thefe are both dead;
however, two bifhops, who are related to me, are ftill living ; one of
them is named Filenius, Biffiop of Oftrogothia, who now officiates as
Prefident of the Ecclefiaftical Order in the General Affembly at Stock-
holm, in the room of the archbiffiop, who is infirm ; he married the
daughter of my fifter ; the other, who is named Benzelftierna, Biffiop
of Weftermannia and Dalecarlia, is the fon of my fecond fifter ; not to
mention others of my family who are dignified. I converfe freely, and
am in friendffiip, with all the biffiops of my country, which are ten in
number, and alfo with the fixteen fenators, and the reft of the gran-
dees, who love and honour me, as knowing that I am in fellowffiip with
angels. The king and queen themfclvcs, as alfo the three princes
their fons, ffiew me all kind countenance ; and I was once invited to eat
with the king and queen at their table, (an honour granted only to the
Nq. 41. q. S. peers
824 AN ILLUSTRATION
peers of the realnij) and lil-^ewife fince with the hereditary prince. AH
in my own ccunlry wifh for my ifturn home; fo far am 1 from the
leal't danger of perfecution there, as yoa feem to apprehend, and are alfo
fo kiiidly fohLiLous lo provide againfl ; and, (houid any thing of that kind
btfal rr^e elfe^vhccj it will give ine no concern.
Whatever of worldly honour and advant?igc may appear to be in the
things before- mentioned, I hold them as matters of low ef.imation,
when compared to the honour of that facred office to which tiie Lord
hiinfelf hath c\!led me, who was gracioufly p'eafed to manifefl himfelf to
me, his un\'0uhy fcrvant, in a perfo.iai appearance in the year 1743 ; to
open m me a fight of the fpiritual world, and to enable mc to converfe
with fpirits and angels; and this privilege has been continued to me
to this day. From that time I began to print and publifli various un-
known arcana, that have been either feen by me, or revealed to me, con-
cerning heaven and hell ; tlie Rate of men after death ; the true worfhip
of God ; the fpiritual fenfe of the Scriptures ; and many other im-
portant truths tending to falvation and true wifdom : and that mankind
might receive benefit from thefe communications, was the only motive
which has induced me at different times to leave my home to vifit other
countries. As to this world's wealth, I have fufficient, and more I nei-
ther feek nor wifli for.
Your letter has drawn the mention of thefe things from me, in cafe,
as you fay, they may be a means to prevent or remove any falfe judg-
ment or wrong prejudices with regard to my perfonal circumft;ances.
—
Farewel ; and I heartily wifii you profperity both in things fpiritual
and temporal, of which I make no doubt, if fo be you go on to pray to
our Lord, and to fet him always before you.
London, 1769. •
EMAN. SWEDENBORG.
Upon the horofcope of this eminent perfon there are four planets
•efTentially dignified, viz. Saturn, lord of the afcendant; the Moon, lady
of the feventh ; Mercury, lord of the fifth and eighth; and Mars, lord
of the third and tenth; v/ith Jupiter on the afcendant. Thefe are in-
fallible tePumonies not only of an high and exalted mind and charafter,
but are proofs of a devout and examplary life. Venus and the Sun ap-
pear to give but little of their qualities in the temperature and coniii-
tution of the native ; firfi:, becaufe the Sun is fixed in his detriment
upon the cufp of the afcendant ; and, fecondly, becaufe Venus is pofited
out of ail her fortitudes and dignities ; and hence we find no trait in
the
OF ASTROLOGY. 8^5
the I'fe and a^^ions of the native, wliich dtfcribes h-"s having formed
a'-y coneflion wiih the fofter fex, or been at any time ftinmlated with
l!: fe unconquerable defires for connubial enjoyments, which thofe only
viio Jiave Venus ftrongly dignified in their gcnitures are qualified to
explain.
Upon the afcendant we find fixteen degrees of the tropical fign Ca-
pricorn, with Jupiter's benign afpeft located therein. Tiiis denotes
rofy health, and uninterrupted profperity to the native. It is the em-
bl( m of dignity, an infallible argument of efteem, and a ground of
Jalhng reputation to the end of his days. /\nd we need no further evi-
dence than the foregoing well-authenticated narrative of his own life,
to convince us of the full completion of all that thefe fortunate beams
had promifed.
We muff not, however, forger to remark, that as Jupiter hath his
fall in Capricorn, fo it denotes likewife that the native fiiall feel fome
occafional indignities from the oppofition of perfons difcordant to his
own opinions and doftrine, who, in the very midft of the honour and
favour he is receiving from eminent and royal perfonages, will infult
him with perfonal reflexions and poignant fatire. This, I have no
doubt, was a thoufand times verified, in almofl every flage of his life,
by thofe who confidered Baron Swedenborg fuperior to themfelves,
either in favour or abilities, or who fuppofed him touched with infa-
nity, among which clafs there are more to be numbered in this ifland
than in any other part of the globe.
The a6live planet Mercury we find likewife in the afcendant, ap-
proaching his own triplicitv in the fign Aquarius. The influx of this
planet's beams, and the effeft of their predominant mixture with the
qualities of the other planets, in forming the inteileftual part of manj
has been already fufiiciently explained. In the prelent cafe, it is evident,
tliat this pofition of Mercury gives to the native an acute and penetrat-
ing genius, a fliarp and ready wit, with a mind apt for thefciences.
And, when we add to thefe confiderations, that Saturn is lord of the af-
cendant, in his exaltation, and beholding the afcendant with -triangular
beams, at the fame time that the Sun, the prince over the planetary
fyflcm, beholds Saturn with a trine alio, we fliall not be furprifcd to
find ihis native poflefl'ed of a moft comprehenfive and elaborate under-
flandlng, fraught with the ftrongefl: and fuhlimefl: ideas. Indeed I am
ready to confefs, that out of all the long catalogue of nativit-es I have
hitherto infpetied, I never found the planet Saturn fo properly confi-
gurated
826 AN ILLUSTRATION
gurated to give an enlarged mind, nor the other fignificators at the fame
time fo happily correfpondent therewith, as in tlie geniture now under
confideratipn. How far this ability has been eflabhfhed and confirmed
in the pcrfon of the native, let his attempts to pry into the depths of
eternal Nature, and to folve the vifions of the Deity, determme for him.
But, as there can be no eminent portion of good in this world, fince
the fall, without fome intermixture of evil ; fo in this nativity, notwith-
ftanding its eminent defignation, and the high and important benefits
promifed by it in the fcale of human acquirements, flill we fliall find a
certain portion of malefic influence, of imperfeftion and misfortune,
vheiehy the feeds of difcontent and death are nourilhed up, until they
become predominant over all the powers and funftions of our nature. Of
this tendency is the baneful oppofition of Saturn and Mars ; an afpeft
which operated with uncommon flrength and duration, both upon the
mental and bodily funftions of the native, giving him the mofi extra-
ordinary enthufiaflic flights of imagination, and expofing him to the
cenfure of the learned, as well as of the illiterate, who charged him with
exorcifm and madnefs. But let me here embrace the opportunity of
affuring thofe who ha\'« taken up this idea, that there are not the
fmallelT traces of infanity to be found in any part of this geniture. The
native is perfeftly found, and Angularly competent, in his underfl;and-
ing ; but, like the man who purfues the longitude, or the philofopher's
ftone, beyond the beaten track of other adventurers, and is elated in
proportion to the new lights he receives, or the hopes he forms of fur-
paffing every other competitor, precifely by the fame ratio will the
world nieafure his wits, and decide upon the competency of his under-
iianding and the foundnefs of his brain.
We have before feen, that the native's mind was by no means formed
for focicty; for the beginning of all our defires for community with
others inufl be naturally founded in our love of intercourfe with the
female fex. The native never knew a predile61:on of the kind, but felt
himfelf happielf in the uninterrupted contemplation of his own ideas;
and to fuch a pitch has he indulged himfelf in this particular, that he
has remained mat up in his private chamber for two, three, and four,
days together, \v'iLhout admitting any perfon to make his bed, or even
to rap at his door. This uncommon difpofition can only be accounted
for by the pofition of Saturn, fo remarkably elevated, at the fame time
that both the luminaries are under the earth, which gives a ftrong and
invariable propenfity to the native to lead a fingle folitary life.
To
O F A S T R O L O G y. 827
To this grave and folitary turn we are to attribute his early acquain-
tance and familiarity with Ipirits-. He has been often heard, in houfes
where he lodged during his abode in London, for whole nights together,
ill converfation with the(e miffionarv bein^js, who become viiible to thofe
only that have reiolution to devote the whole of their time and attention
to a community with them. How far Baron Swedenborg; has benefited
fociety and himfelf, by the intercourle he has had with them, let his fe-
veral publications, now in univerfal fale, determine for him. The quef-
tion is too delicate and abftrufe even for an aflrologer to decide upon ; and
it is a morfel which even the critics nibble at with unufual precaution,
left they fliould be found biting at ajile.
It has been a fubjeft of difpute, whether the fplrlts, with which
Swedenborg had familiarity, were good or evil. For my own part,
I have no difficulty in deciding, from the confliitution of the planets in
his geniture, that he had community with both ; which I believe to
have been the cafe with every perfon fince the days of Adam, who has
had familiarity with fpirits. Indeed Swedenborg himfelf tells us, that
a certain fpecies of the infernal fpirits would at times intrude themfelves
upon him ; but that he was always preferved, by the goodnefs of the
Lord, from thefe infidious deceivers of men ; whofe malice and enmity
towards us is fo great, that, were it not for the watchful care and pro-
tedion afforded us by the clemency of God through the. medium of the
good genii, or lower order of the angelic hoft, it would be utterly im"
poffible for man to deliver himfelf from the power of hell and the
craft of the devil. But I fhall defer entering upon an elucidation of
this fubje£l, until 1 come to treat of Spirits, in the magical part of this
work, where Baron Swe<lenborg's intercourfe with them will be com-
pletely inveftigated.
I fliall next confider the fignificators of the temper and difpofition of
this native, to fhow how far his general deportment correfponded with
them. As we find Jupiter, Mercury, and the Sun, in his afcendant,
and the Moon at the fame time beholding that important angle with
triangular rays, it is evident the temper and difpofition of the man muft
be formed from a due mixture of their influxive qualities, each of
which would prove vifibly predominant, as they alternately came to adl
through the medium of their refpe(flive directions. Exaftly fo we find
the native agitated and imprefled. At one time his exterior would be
uncommonly pious and devout, exhorting all men, who came within
the- reach of his voice, to humility, charity, and repentance. At ano-
ther time he would totally leclude himfelf from all company, fhut
No. 43..
'
9, T himlelf
828 ANIL LUSTRATION
himfelf up for whole days together, and obferve lo folemn and profound
a filence, as not even to give an anfwcr when Ipoken to. Yet at other
times he would enter into converfation with the utmoft vivacity and
Iprightlinefs, and continue for a long time together in this communicative
humour ; but always in a ftile and manner remarkably elevated and
majeftic.
The reafon of all this is abundantly obvious from the face of his
horofcope. The fuperior planets being pofited in his afcendant, in
their full dignities, and coniequently in their grcateft influence and
energy, afted upon the temperature both of his mind and body, as they
rcfpetiively came up by dire61ion, with uncommon force and power,
whence the affections of his mind, his words, his actions, and every
motion of his frame, were wound up to an uncommon degree, and
diftinsulfhed themfelves accordingly.
It will be readily feen, by any perfons acquainted with his difpofitlon
and charafter, that the fame general turn of temper and condu6t was
uniformly fl^.pported throughout the whole of his life, which might
fairly be ranked amongfl: thofe of remarkable longevity. And it may
be feen, by any perfon who will take the pains to equate the direftions
of thofe fuperior afpeds, that they operated by alternate fucceffion with
equal force and influence, until the dire6lions of death extirpated the co-
incidence of then- beams.
The natural caufe of dlfTolution in the teiTiperament and conflitution
of Baron Swedenborg, was, as may be ieen by the geniture, a decay of
vital heat, occafioned by a redundancy of cold rheum, accompanied with
the bloody flux. The direftion under which he died, was the Sun to
a partile conjunftion with the body of the Moon, taken under the pole of
the Sun. The pole of the Sun is fifty-one degrees ; the latitude of the
Moon is one degree one minute north; then, by taking the oblique afcen-
fion of the Sun and the oblique afcenfion of the Moon, the arch of direc-
tion will be fixed at eighty degrees feventeen minutes.
If we equate this arc!) or track of the aphetical and anaretical ftars,
by the rules heretofore laid down, we fhall find it gives the fpace of life
to be eighty-fix years and near two months, at which time the native
emerged from this world into a world of fpirits ; namely, on the 1 9th day
of March, 1772.
CONSI-
^-^
OFASTROLOGY. 829
CONSIDERATIONS on the NATIVITIES of FOUR TWINS,
whofe Genitures are difplayed in the annexed Plate.
Thefe four twins were the produce of two births. The firfl: birth
confifted of a male and a female, who were brought into the world nearly
together ; from which circumftance the reader would naturally infer, that
the influx of the ftars inuft have been the fame on both of them ; and,
confequently, that the duration of life, with its incidents and events, were
infeparable from each other. This »not being the cale, however, I (hall
proceed to account for it, upon the true principles and grounds of this
fcience. And firft of
The FEMALE T W 1 N.
This child was born precifely at the time fpecified in the plate. Leo
afcends the oriental horizon, and confequently the Sun is lord of the
afccndant ; but being in the eighth houfe, the houfe of death, is an infalli-
ble argument of a fhort life. The Moon, being in an aphetical place,
is the giver of life ; but fhovvs the deftruftion of it, by forming a quartile
afpedl with the Sun in the houfe of death. No Wronger evidence of an
immediate death can well be adduced ; for, fuice the Sun is author of
vital heat, and the Moon of radical moifture, and both of them at once
deprived, by malefic rays and cadent pofitions, from affording a fit and
due proportion of thofe nourifhing qualities, it is impolTible that life
fliould be longer fuflained than during the time this unfortunate afpetl
was forming:.
*0'
It might be contended, that the pofition of the benevolent planet Ju-
piter in the medium coeli, or tenth houfe, is highly favourable to the pre-
fervation of the child. But, when it is confidered that this planet has no
afpe6t with the luminaries, that its beams are only refledted into itfelf, and
that all communications with the afcendant and fignificators of life and
death are cut off, v/e fhall find that this eligible pofition of the benign
Jupiter is in the prefent cafe totally without the power of communicating
the leaft aid to the funftions of life, or of mitigating or leflening the
malevolent effedts of the anaretical influence.
A farther proof of this child's difiblution arifes from the Moon's
pofition in the terms of Mars, at the fame time that his fiery intempe-
rate beams are conjoined with the worft irradiations of the cold planet
Saturn, and thereby a6t upon the conftitution with violent oppofite ex-
tremes.
830 ANIL LUSTRATION
tremes. We find alfo that both the Sun and Saturn are difpofed of by
Mars; to whole fupcrior influence Mercury bends, who, with the Moon,
nourifhes and proteds the brain. Hence it is obvious that the child
i>iould die in its infant ftate, partly from the want of natural- rtamina
and ftrength, and partly from the effe6ls of a cold fucceeded by a fever
;
and that this cold (hould be of the moift kind appears from the trian-
gular rays of Mercury and the Moon in the watery fign Pifces. The
ciiild lived only until the quartile afped of the Sun and Moon was
completely formed, when the weaknefs and debility of its body and
lungs gave way to the convuHive agitations of the whooping cough, fuc-
ceeded by cold chills and fever, the immediate effe6ts of the configura-
tion of Saturn and Mars ; fo that nothing lefs than a fupernatural caufe,
which we juflly call a miracle, could poffibly have faved this child's life.
I fliall next confider the little offspring which accompanied it ; and this
was
A MALE T W I N.
This child came into the world only about two hours after the former ;
and yet it is not fubjefl to the fame fate. The Moon is prorogator in
this nativity, as well as in the other ; but with this remarkable differ-
ence, that both the luminaries are going from afpedls ofaffliftion, in-
flead of approaching to them. The Sun is entering into the feventh
houfe, promifing vital heat and ftrength ; while the Moon, juft fepa-
rated from a noxious quartile, gives teftimony to it, by affording a due
proportion of health and nourishment, being located in her own houfe
in the fign Cancer. So that, confidering the newly-acquired ftrength of
the Moon, and the pofition of the Sun in a fign of his own exaltation,
emerging from quadrangular beams of affli6tion, we are afforded the moft
fatisfaftory evidence of a found and perfe6t conflitution in the tempera-
ture of this native, with fufficient teftimonies to enfure health antl
longevity.
The varied pofitions of the other fignificators afford us additional rea-
fons, of a very flrong and decifive nature, why this twin fhould live to
years of maturity, while its little companion fhould fcarcely be permitted
to fee the light of this world. The conceptional arrangement defcribes
the fuperior ftrength of this child in the womb, and declares it to have
drawn to itfelf a confiderable part of that nourilhment which fliould have
fallen to the fhare of its fifler.
As therefore the pofition of the luminaries in the other birth declared
a fhort life, fo in this they afford equal teftimonies of longevity ; and
confc"
O F A S T R O L O G V. 831
coiifequently the caufe of death will be fought from different fpeculation ;
for, though the Moon be giver of life, the caul'e of death will be diffe-
rent. In this nativity Saturn is the anaretical planet ; and the native
will in all probability be carried into the other world by the droply.
He will live until the Moon's body forms a mundane quartile aipett
with Saturn and Mars ; at which time, according to natural caufes, his
thread of life will be cut in twain—when his body will return back to
the earth, and be re-incorporated with the elements; while his etliereal
or eflential part mixes with that tormented or bleffed clats of fpirits to
which the complexion of his conduct here fhall recommend him hereafter.
The youth is living, and I hope will draw a friendly admonition from
thefe premifes.
Of TWINS born immediately together.
The genitnres of thefe Twins arc difplayed in the lower part of the
fame plate. The one was born on the 19th of June, Sh. 40m. P. M.
or afternoon, and the other at only 8h. 4.2m. of the fame day. The
difference of time is therefore only two minutes; which admits of fo
little variation in the pofitions of the planets, and in the coincidence of
their beams, either in refpeft to the angles of the figure, or to the tem-
perature of the ambient matter, that each twin muft of neceffity fliare
the lame fate, in all the important confiderations attending the iffues of
life and death.
To eftablifli this faft, we need only contemplate the horofcope, and
compare it with the circumflances of the genitures we have jutt dif-
miffed ; whereby it will be feen, that the difference of two hours has
moft effentially varied the impreffions of the fignificators at the time of
birth in the former horofcope ; while, in the prefent cafe, no fuch dif-
lin61ion can be found; and coiifequently, the effe61s of the elementary
matter being the fame, and the beams of the ffars falling in the fame
direction, and with equal force, cannot afflift one infant without the
other feeling the fame affedion; not inftantaneoufly, but in a fpace of
time precifely equal to that in which the planetary fyffem moves in two
minutes. This I have obferved in a variety of inflances; and, it is to
this very remarkable circumftance that the common notion of mankind
relative to twins, that 'when 07ie is takcfi ill and expires, the other ivill
foon follow, has obtained fo much confidence in every part of the uni-
verfe; though we have feen, in the foregoing geniture, that this hap-
pens only where twins are born immediately together, and not where
any coniiderable time intervenes between their birth, unlefs the confti-
No. 42. 9 U tutioa
f{j2 ANILLUSTRATION
tutiouofthe ftars fliould be fo configurated as to continue the fame
bencfic or malefic influence during tlie whole of that fpace of time;
which rarely happens, owing to the difference of velocity in each reipec-
tjve planet, and the accidental circumitances of their becoming ret rogradc
or ftationary.
To determine the fate of thefe twins, we have only to confider the
pofitions of the luminaries with tfce afpedls of the erratic flars, antl it
will be evident that their exigence can be but of very fhort duration,
and is determined by the motion of the pritnum mobile; for, when Mars
came to the oppofite point of the iVIoon, which in thel'e geniturcs is
giver of life, it is apparent they would die. This was exaftly verified;
Mars came to the firft anaretical point in two hours, and to the fecond
in two hours and a half; and the children accordingly died within half
an hour of each other, and within two hours aiid a half of the time of
their birth.
But, to fhow that life could not be prolonged in either of thefe infants,
we will take a further view of their genitures. The Moon, we find,
is in her detriment, difpoled of by the malignant planet Saturn, within
the ravs of an oppofition of Jupiter and Mercury, who become fubfer-
vient thereby to the affliftion of that ponderous malefic. The Sun is
going down under the affli6fion of Mars, dilj)ofed of by Mercury, in
houfes cadent and naturally evil; whereby every thing born under their
influence is deprived of vital heat and nourifhment. The Moon's
pofition, likewife, in the phafis of Mars and terms of Mercury, much
ilrengthens this judgement ; befides. Mars is dignified in his own terms,
while the Sun is received in the terms of Mais as well as of Jupiter;
fo that four planets out of feven are in the dignities of his malefic influ-
ence, and partake of his temperature. Thefe are all teftimonies of a
fhort life; and, falling fo immediately together, render the fpace of life
of a ftill lefs duration.
But, had it been poffible for thefe twins to have out-lived the ele-
mentary influx of thefe defVru6tive configurations, flill they would have
died fhortly after they had pafled their infancy, under the anaretical
afflitfiion of the Sun direded to the oppofitional rays of the Moon, who,
being giver of life, would have had her vegetive flrength and virtue totally
abforbed by him, whereby vital heat and animal pulfation muft have
totally fubfided.
And
O F A S T R O L O G Y.
"
833
And here we deduce a caufe moft obvious to the feiifes, and ftriilly
conformable to the laws of nature, why the anaretical influence is fome-
times baffled by the (uperior ftrength of the native's conftitution, affiilred
by the rays of aphetic ilars^ whereby the difeafe or accident is baffled,,
though death were pronounced inevitable, both by phyficlans and friends;
fo that, when the anaretic influence is thus overcome, the patient
acquires immediate flrength and Ipirits, eats and fleeps, and recovers his
health and vigour in fo furprifnig a manner, that the pliyfician is cried up
to the Ikies, as the fineft man in the world, at the very moment when he
himfelf is as much at a lofs to account for the caufe as the moft ignorant
of his panegyrifts.
Thus it happens in many genitures, and requires the aid of reafon and
philolbphical acquirements to decide pofitively on the effects of configura-
tions which involve fo much doubt, and appear equally undecifive in point
of life or death, though obvious and certain as to the violence of the dif-
eafe or accident whereby the native (hall be affli6fed.
The fu reft way of forming our judgement in thefe cafes, is to dired the
afpedlsof the ftars which bear principal rule in the hylegiacal and anare-
tical places of the horofcope, far beyond the asra of fuch undecifive malig-
nant influx, at leaft till another death-like configuration is formed by
them; and, if this appears the moft ftrong and powerful in favour of the
killing rays of the anareta, it will generally be found that abfolute death
will not happen to the native until the fecond congrefs of thefe important
fignificators is completed in the heavens, notwithftanding the danger
threatened by them in their firft configuration may make it next to a miracle
that the native efcapes with his lif.?.
Of
834 . AN ILLUSTRATION
Of GIGANTIC STATURE.
The following figure exhibits the geniture of a Child born with fix fingers
each handfand fix toes on each foot, and thofe double-jointed.
on
Latitude of the Planets.
b
OF ASTROLOGY. 835
This nativity is of a very rare kind, affording an eminent example of
the effeO. of prolific configuration, where only one foetus is produced
under the nutritive qualities nature had intended for two. The pofition
of the luminaries here, in ligns fruitful and obeying, with nearly all the
planets under the earth, give the mofl demonftrable proofs of large and
high feature that can be well adduced ; but the additional fingers and
toes refult from the fecundity of four-footed figns, occupying the angles
of the figure, at the fame time that the luminaries are fuperior to all the
other planets, whofe regulating influence in this nativity is totally with-
held.
The Sun being in the twelfth houfe, and in degrees increafing fortune,
{hows that the native fhall thrive in the world by the rarity of his parts ;
and i'o it has in ibme mealbre already happened, and will in a much more
eminent manner hereafter, as this youth increafes in bulk and flature.
He has now been fhown as a natural curiofity for fbmc year's, and a great
deal of money has been accumulated by that means.
We have, in the iiitrodu6lory part, already fhown the radical caufe of
this fuperabundance of nature in its formatory operation ; and in this figure
thofe rules are completely verified. For neither the fuperior nor inferior
planets having dignities in the alcendant or medium coeli, nor alpedt
therewith, and the principal light of time being in the twelfth houfe, with
the Moon in the mid-heaven, and in the figns Gemini, Sagittarius, or
Pifces, in azimene degrees, is a demonftrable proof that what is then born
Ihall exceed the common line of nature, and be either monftroufly mif^
(hapen,or above the common bulk of mankind. In the prefent cafe we
hud both have happened, as well in the excefs of members as in the
mufbular proportion and altitude.
According to the fame mixture and quality of the formative matter,
we find fimilar conceptions take place, whenever Saturn afflicts the Moon
in an angle pofTefTed by beaft-like or double-bodied figns, with the Sun's
fuperior beams increafed by figns of long afcenfion, and carried to the
fame point by fextile or triangular rays. Under fuch a fynod of'plane-
taiy fignificators, gigantic ftature, or inconceivable corpulency, is Ibre to
take place. Indeed I have been confidently informed by a gentleman
who had for many years made Aftrology his amufement, that this was
nearly the pofition of the heavens in the genethliacal figure of the much-
celebrated Ivir. Bright, i'o famed for his corpulency and ftature.
No. 42. 9 X Again,
836 anillustrAtion
Again, whenever the afcendant, Sun, or Moon, at the time of concep-
tion, is afflifted in the obfcure parts of the figure by Saturn, and in iigns
double-bodied, beaft-like, and prolific, excels of parts and ftature will be
prod iced, either general, as to the whole body, or elfe in thofe particular
paits only which are under the government of the litnis refpe6tively
occupying the alcendant and mid-heaven. But, to alcertain thefe cir-
cumftances with due precifion, we mufi: ere6t the conceptional figure of
every nativity, to difcover the tendency and influence of the formative
virtue in the earliefl ftate of the embryo.
It may alfo be remarked, that monftrofity in brutes originates from the
fame caufe ; and, as they are deprived of the fun6lions of realon, it is,
plain the planetary influx a6ts with greater force upon them, and more
frequently produces this furprifing effed.
The
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 837
The G E N I T U R E of a DWARF.
Latitude of the Planets.
b
8^8 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
medium of Mercury, who, being in conjun6lion with Saturn, difpofes
of the Moon, and participates in the qualities both of Capricorn and
Saturn. Mercury at beft gives but a fmall ftature ; but, configurated
with thefe rays, he contributes all his influence to check the growth and
nouriihment of whatever is conceived under it.
It is here likewife a moft remarkable circumftance, that Mars, fiom
a flgn of brevity, beholds the Sun by a fextile ray pofited alfo in a fign
of brevity, fo that the figns occupying the principal angles in this ge-
niture are precifely of an oppofite quality and influence with thofe in
the lafl: figure, and confequently have a tendency and etfe(5t diametiically
oppoilte thereto. And ib indeed we find it ; for tliis native, inftead of
exceeding the common fize and flature of man, will never grow to the
height of four feet, nor pofTefs limbs nor parts larger than the common
run of boys of feven years old.
An additional teftimony in favour of this opinion is the quartile afpedt
of JujHter and the Sun from brevious figns, which ufually demonftrate
the conception of a Dwarf. But indeed it is an univerfal maxim in this
fbience, that whoever hath an earthy fign afcending the horizon of his
nativity-, with two or three planets pofited therein, will certainly be but of
low flature, particularly if Saturn be located amongft them; for a cold
and dry temperature, excluded from the heat and moillure of the two
luminaries, is contrary to the natural growth of any thing, as wc may fee
by the flate of vegetation in the autumnal equinox.
Of
OF ASTROLOGY. «39
Of a SHORT LIFE, or EMBRYO not nourifhed.
Latitude of the Planets.
b
^4© AN ILLUSTRATION
houCe of death, in oppofition with the Moon ; and Mars, who beholds the
Sun with triangular beams, hath the vivifying quality obtained thereby
totally dcrtroyed by the pernicious- quartile configurations with Saturn,
lord of the fixth houfe.
Thefe qualities and temperatures of the planets demonftrably (how,,
that the embryo in its original formation was void of ftamina, and that
the nourifhment, during its continuance in its mother's womb, was
fcarcely fufficient to fuftaln life. It is evidently born without any par-
ticular accident or indifpolition ; and yet it is as plain that it cannot lono-
lurvive the day of its birth ; and the reafon is, becaufe the digeftive and
expulfive facultieSjthe motion of the lungs, and the vibration of the heart,
have not fufficient ftrength or ftamina to perform their refpedtive func-
tions ; and the moment the ftomach comes to be furcharged with food
beyond its digeftive power, the infant will be feized with Ipafms, and die
almotl: inftantaneoully, nearly in the fame manner as though it were
fufFocated.
I caft this nativity foon after the child was born, and prepared the
mind of its mother to meet its lofs with refignation and fubmiffion to the
will of God and nature. The fpace of life will be feen by taking the
diftance of the Moon from that preclfe point in the heavens which forms
an oppofition with Jupiter, lord of the houfe of death. Th:s gives by the
iblar motion about four days ; and the child died exaftly in the way I had
defcribed, OQ the firft of Auguft following, which was four days from its
birth.
Another
OF ASTROLOGY. 841
Another EMBRYO not nouriftied.
«»/-X
^J>
x^
A Male Child,
BORN
loth March, 4111. before eight
o'clock in the morning, i^afi.
Lat.. ji". 32'.
V/'
- J
Latitude of the Planets.
b
-S42 A N 1 L L U S T R x\ T I O N
having dignities at the fame time in the twelfth ; which is a powerful
argument, not only of certain death, but rather of an immediate and
violent nature. Jupiter, being lord of the eighth houfe, is in fextile with
Mars, and both of them are lords of the twelfth. Venus, lady of the
afcendanr, is befieged by Mercury, lord of the fixth ; and the Sun, the only
light of time, and the Moon, lady of the fourth, afford neither nourifhment
nor affiftance, whereby conception could be ftrengthened, or the functions
of lilc fufficicntlv formed.
In the conceptional figure of this infant, both the luminaries are afflidled
in angles, by the noxious rays of the malefics, whereby flamina are
ilenied, and proper nourifhment entirely prevented from reaching the
vital parts of the body. This may be feen, by comparing the figure with
thofe rules heretofore laid down in the former part of this work ; from
\\hence the attentive reader will be fufficiently enabled to perceive, that
the duration of this child after its birth could not exceed four days ; at
which time it was feized with convulfions at the breaft, and died in the
Sireatefl agonies.
Many other nativities might be adduced, of this and the like kind, to
Ihow the obvious power and agency of the fuperior world, in forming
earthly Man, who is an epitome of the whole fyftem, and " wonderfully
and fearfully made," partaking of all its effence and parts, and comprifing
the fair image of the Deity. But furely, after the fads that have been
eflablifhed, and the examples we have given, in almoin every flate and
contingency of human na^ture, it can anfwer no good purpofe to multiply
thefe inflances of aflral influence and predi£lion, particularly to minds that
are wilfully deaf to reafon and argument, and who obflinately fhut out the
light of heaven, left it fhould irradiate their underftanding, and convince
them they are but men of low and humble conception, in no fhape quali-
fied to determine the pathlefs ways of God, or to meafure the extent of his
omnipotence.
CONSIDERATIONS on a QUESTION of MARRIAGE, deduced
from the NATIVITIES of the CONTRACTING PARTIES, and
confirmed by an horofcopkal Figure of the Heavens at the precfe Time
of celebrating the Nuptials.
Much has been faid on the fubjedl of Matrimony ; and it muft be
con felled, that the importance of the contra6t, and the great end of our
exiftence being involved in it, as well as the iublunary happinefs or
*mifery of the greatefl part of God's children upon earth, renders it a
fubjeft
OFASTROLOGY. 843
fubjefl of the firft magnitude, in which the hands and hearts of both
fexes, of all ages and degrees, are with one confent united. I therefore
confider myfelf in fome reipeiSls bound to ftate the prelent queftion, as an
example whereby to render this inquiry ea(y to fuch of my readers as
choofe to employ their leilure hours in this fpeculation.
The circumftances of this marriage came under my own immediate
cognifance and oblervacion ; and they are fuch as, I truft, will operate
as a caution to every fingle perfon, not to enter into that holy ftate from
mere motives of advantage or convenience, when love is confeiredly
wanting on the fide of either of the parties. But caution now-a-days
is out of date ; and the admonition of friendfhip is regarded only
as the fubtile declamation of hypocri(y, or the bufy officioufnefs of a
marplot.
The lady, who is the fubje^l of the prefent queftion, came to obtain my
opinion and advice how far the prelent marriage would prove advantage-
ous and happy ; confeffing, at the fame time, that fhe had no great regard
for the old gentleman. 1 flopped her, as is always my cuftom, from en-
tering into particulars, and defired her only to furnifh me with the exaft
time of her own nativity, and to procure me, if poflible, that of the party
to whom fhe was engaged. This was complied with, and I drew my
judgment accordingly.
Upon comparing the radical conflitution of the two genitures, I could
not find a fingle configuration in the one that bore the leafl harmony or
fimilitude with the other. The benefic flars in the angles of one figure
were oppofed by the malefics in the angles of the other. The tnafculine
temperature was ftrongeft in the female horofcope, with the Moon and
Mercury in good afpeCt in the fifth houle ; while, in the man's geniture,
the effeminacy oi female influence was but too apparent, with the mortify-
ing telVimony of Saturn, lord of the afcendant, in oppohtion to Mars, the.
lord of the fifth, and the Moon affiitled in a cadent houfe.
The places of marriage in both figures were occupied with the lefTer
infortunes, but not difcordant ; neither were they harmonized by a fin-
gle ray of benefic influence. I therefore faw the probability of marriage
taking place betwixt them, at the lame time that the warm palfions of
the woman rendered it impoflible for her to be happy in the arms of a
'
cold, frigid, aged, barren, and almofl impotent, hulband. I clearly law
avarice had a iliare in her compofition, and that the hope of advantage lup-
plied the place of connubial alfe^fion. This I deteded, and condemned
. No. 43. 9 Z as
841 AN ILLUSTRATION
as highly reprehcnfible, and at the fame time candidly pointed out the na-
tural infirmities of the man (he propored to call huihand, which, added
to his advanced age, made it impoflible for her to enjoy the natural felici-
ties of a married life, or that they could long live and cohabit together.
My advice was therefore to drop all thoughts whatever of luch a connex-
ion, and a relolution was apparently formed for that purpofe ; but the
contrary perlualions of friends, added to the fordid temptations of lucre,
in a (hort time got the better of my advice ; and on the 29th of Novem-
bei-then next following this couple were married.
Determined to be confirmed in my judgment of this curious match,
I took down the exadt time the ceremony was performed, which was at
forty minutes pafl nine in the morning, when the heavenly intelligencers
difplayed themfelves as in the annexed plate, and the fignificators corref-
ponded with their refpedive genitures, in a manner aflonifhingly correft,
and fo as to prove, to the fatisfaction of every reafonable mind, that the
impulfive or infl:in6tive faculty within us is ftirred up and excited by the
medium or influxive agency of the celeftial bodies.
The afcendant of this matrimonial figure is given for the bridegroom,
and the leventh houfe for the bride. Saturn we find is (iiW lord of the
atcendant, located in his own houfe ; and mofi: aptly defcribes the per-
i'on of the bridegroom, viz. a tall, lean, Qender, perfon, advanced in
years, with long vilage, dark hair, meagre complexion, and peevifii dif-
pofition ; whilft his imbecility is moft correctly denoted by the pofition of
Venus, dilpofed of by the frigid planet Saturn in Capricorn.
The Moon in Cancer, in the feventh houfe, reprefents the bride ; and
defcribes her to be of a middle ftature, round full face, brown hair, and
well proportioned; and, as the Moon is approaching to a trine aljjeft
with Mars, it (hows her to be a woman of ftrong paifions and fpirit ; hot,
fiery, and impatient, though good-natured and courteous.
Let it here be premifed, that, in all marriages where the two fignifica-
tors which reprelent the bride and bridegroom are not in good afpe<5t with
each other, it is impoflible the parties can live in harmony ; neither do
they come together by the impulle of pure love, but for fome other motive,
which may generally be known by examining what houle the lord of the
aicendant or feventh houfe applies to, and the nature of the planets by
which they are then occupied ; for, if the lord of the eighth apply to the
lord of the afcendant, or if there be no reception of the luminaries in their
nativities, they are carried to the hymeneal altar, not by the force of love,
-i^ ;> but
OF ASTROLOGY. «45
tiat by motwes of avarice. Sometimes indeed -a c £nd love to be <» one
fide, and iatereft oolj on the other. Tbi» is when the lord of the aSotn-
dant is a fuperior p]an£t, and the lord of the iVverith an iiiierior one of a
coatraiy nature, and yet applying to the lord of the afixodant. Again,
we find marriage take pkure where there is no love at all, as is the ca£c
in the above figure, where Saturn, a fuperior and ponderous planet, figni-
ficator <rf die man, is pofited in hb own boofi: ; and the Moon, a lig^
and inficfior one, and ^nificatrix f^ the woman, likewife in her own
houfe ; bitt both ofthem in oppofite figiB ; being a demooftfable proof of
avarice on one fide, bat of love on o^her.
Upon the whole, mutual convenience may be traced out as the pri-
mary incetttive in both theKe parties. The man was rich and old ; die
woman young—but not rich. So Mars, being lord of the tenth honie;
and pofited therein, coUeds die ra^s both of Satura and the Mood ; and.
being io nmch higher elevated, imprefles with a fironger influx ths d'lf-
pofitioa upon their iwrlinationa, aaf proves to us that their hands were
joined, but not their hearts.
Jt-p:ter, in all rai'es v. bere he is free firom malignant beams, hath de-
%;natioa of perfed faoncfij. In this figure we find him watt eotering
into his own houfe, in platic trine to the Biooo, and in Icztsle widi Ve-
Bus. But, akboo^ he thus favouraMy inaifiases thefi; two prolific pla-
nets, fi> as to ic?pel a joint incfinatioo to have the mairiage-cereiiiooj
perfiMmed,yct, by beingaqnar^e a^ied to the Son andM^cmj in the
devendi hmife, which is the bride's fifth, and coofeqaendfher hoole of
dnldren, pkalufc, and ddigfit, it plainly demonflntes, that, thoiK^ (he
ihould have no ofepring by her fanuai^ flie woold take care to acquire ic
b^odier
The Sun and liercnry have dignities in the tc%xulh haa£c, VkA cooie-
quently have flroog fympadij with the bride ; but, hao^ poftied in the
elevendi, tb^ hfroBir figaificiior* of ewemips of the brid^raom. The j
Sun faavii^ his tnpGcity in the twdfili, and being within five degrees
of die cui^ united at the Jamc time with Mercury, Ihows that their
influence win be of the like nature and tendency; and, » both of them ^
are in the bride's fiith, which, accordii^ to the rotatiaa of the ^ihcre,
is her houie of pleal'nre and ^scundity, they give defignation of two per-
fims with whom flbe would have jfaiaiharity and criminal ooctsrdt;
which is finther illufirated by their beii^ m end quintile to the Mooo,
her immediate figmficator; which, being in no a^pe6t vl^tever with j
Saturn* i
846 AN ILLUSTRATION
Saturn, the fignificator of her hufbaiid, Oiows that they M'ill feparate, and
abandon each other, without any bodily union whatever.
The extraordinary circumftances of the cafe induced me to give my
opinion of the marriage very freely, in the company I was in, the fame
davit was, if I may fo /f;7« //, con fum mated. Much mirth, of courfe,
refuhed from my obfervations ; but very few believed the circumftances 1
mentioned would fo fuddenly come to pafs ;
particularly that a feparation
would prove the conlequence of a fingle night's embrace: and that both
parties would difunite with fo much indifference.
The fa6fs quickly followed the prediction. The new-married pair
were put to bed
—
ivherc love andjoyJJioulJ take theirJill : but fuch was the
fingularity of the cafe, that the bride rofe up with the fun, and, having
been refufed that participation of fortune her friends had blazoned out,
and finding no other allurement to fupply that defe6f, flie immediately
deferted her hufband, who never took the pains to retrieve her; and fhe
has fince attached herfelf to two other perfons, by both of whom fhe has
had children.
Whoever contemplates the horofcope given in the annexed plate, will
eafily account for this otherwife extraordinary-narration. They will
likewife perceive that we have given a lively contraft of a bad marriage,
by an emblematical reprefentation of a good one, where heart and hand,
and innocence and love, draw down the foflering hand of heaven with
fruitfulnefs and joy. Interefl and ambition ought furely never to guide
the laws of love. The fweet intercourle of the fexes, and the ecftatic
blending of foul and body in the bonds of matrimony, becomes a crime,
when not diredled by that heavenly flame. It is the attic fire of all-
powerful love, which alone teaches us to be happy here, and leads to
immortal happinef's hereafter ; for,
Well-chofen love on earth can never die,
But with our nobler part afcends the fky.
TRAITS
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 847
TRAITS of Illuftrious and Extraordinary CHARACTERS,
deduced from their genethliacal Figures of Birth.
ALEXANDER the GREA T. Born in Lat. 420.
The perfon of this illuftrious monarch is moft aptly defcribed by the
refpe£tivc flgnificators of his geniture, in the aimexed plate. We find
the lord of the afcendant, and the two luminaries, are in Cancer, Virgo,
and Taurus, all of which are figns of brevity, and denote a low or mean
ftature ; and, as Saturn, lord of the afcendant, is pofited in a pitted
degree of Taurus, it fhows that he was wry-necked, conftantly holding
his head on one fide. He was likewife hafty and choleric ; which is
defcribed by the Moon in conjunction with Mars, a configuration that
gave him at the fame time an uncommon {hare of courage, an intrepid
Ipirit, and an unconquerable mind. Experience hath taught, that Venus
adorns and enriches that part of the body which is governed by the fign in
which fhe happens to be pofited at the hour of birth. In this nativity,
Venus is in nineteen degrees fortyminutesof Leo, which reprefents the back
and heart ; and in conjunction of Jupiter. Thefe circumftances prove
the native to have been endowed with a large, benevolent, and courage-
ous, heart; all of which, in the courfe of his life and aCtions, were in a
thoufand inftances exemplified. Nor are thefe excellent endowments
prefigured only by the benefic irradiations of Jupiter and Venus ; they
are further illuftrated and ftrengthened by the north node of the Moon
falling in the afcendant, while Saturn, the difpofiter thereof, is in trine to
the Moon and Mars, and the Sun, in the exaltation of Jupiter, in trine of
them all.
The time of this monarch's inauguration and inveftiture of the king-
dom is prefigured by the trine of the midheaven with Venus ; at the fame
time that Venus is within orbs of a conjunction with Jupiter, who is lord
of the tenth and eleventh houfes, which have defignation of the crown,
kingdom, and people. The diredtion of thefe afpeCts came up in about
twenty-one years from the native's birth, at which time his coronation
took place ; when he, in every fenfe of the word, began to reign in the
hearts of his people.
In this nativity the Moon is certainly Hyleg, and is therefore to be
directed for death. The Sun, Mars, and Mercury, are co-fignificators of
death ; and, hence it is that the learned Gadbury attributed his death to
poifon, which misfortune befel him when the Moon came to the quartile
No. 43. 10 A of
848 A N I I. L U S T R A T 1 O N
of IMercurv in the eighth houfe. This prediftion of the native bein^
poilbned, is uuqueflionably confirmed by what is recorded of Olympics
his mother; who having, fix years after his. death, difcovered the fa6l,
caufed many fufpedtcd perfons to be put to death, ab acceffaries in the
murder.
NERO C.^LSAR .
Born in Lat. 5 1".
This native is ufually denominated Bloody Nero ; and indeed, if we
but caH: our eye upon the horoicope of his birth, we fliall find ample de-
monltrations of a cruel and vindictive difpofition. Mars is oppofite to
Jupiter and Venus in the twelfth houfe, an afpeCt of noxious and direful
tendency. Jupiter, we find, is lord of the tenth, aiid confequently figni-
ficator of the native's mother. Mercury is lord of the alcendant, in exadl
quartile of the Moon, which is an obvious proof that the native fhould
cruelly treat and abufe his mother ; and, as Mercury is at the fame time
in Textile of Mars, it is a piobable argument that he would become a
murderer. The quartile of the Sun and Saturn is a configuration pro-
ductive of every vicious inclination, and of every atrocious crime. Under
the influence of this malignant diredion, which held for a confiderable
length of time, he not only became hated by the people under his govern-
ment, but exercifed thofe bloody and unparalleled cruelties that darJcen
and difgrace the annals of his reign.
In the black catalogue of his offences it is recorded, that he not only
murdered his mother, but firft committed incefl: upon her. He poifoned
his own brother ; killed his fifter in law ; and deflroyed his wife Poppea,
by kicking her to death when pregnant. He wantonly fet fire to Rome,
and exultingly made an entertainment in fight of the flames, while the
city was burning ; and, being afterwards proclaimed by the Roman fenate
an enemy to the il:ate, he, the moment he heard it, became his own exe-
cutioner, and deftroyed himfelf in the thirty-fecond year of his age; the
directions for which are the Moon to the conjunftion of Mars, and Jupiter
to the oppofition of the Sun, who, in this nativity, was Hyleg, or giver of
life. Thus the configurations precifely defcribe the quality of the man,
and the diredions fliow the manner of his death; all of which minutely
came to pafs.
POPE
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 849
POPE SIXTUS V. Born in Lat. 43".
Latitude of the Planets.
b
850 AN ILLUSTRATION
the oppofing irradiations of the beneiic ftarsdefcribe the manner in which
he was preferved.
Tn the year 1633, ^ confpiracy was formed againft this prince, and he
was in the utmoft danger of being ftabbed. This is declared by the direc-
tion of Mars to an oppofition with the afcendant by direft diredlion, and
prevented by the fuperior force of the benefic rays.
In 1649, when the native was nearly forty-four years old, he was at-
tacked by a (harp and violent fever, and his life was defpaired of. This
indifpofition came by the configuration of the Moon, which is the aphe-
ta, or giver of life, direfted to the quartile of Mars : but fatality was pre-
vented by the nourifhing beams of Jupiter dire6led at the fame time to
the afcendant.
In the year 1656, a war broke out betwixt this prince and Oliver
Cromwell, then Lord High Prote6:or of England ; an event which is
moft aptly foretold by the body of the Sun coming to the Bull's Eye, a
violent fixed ftar ; at the fame time that the Part of Fortune comes by
diredion to an oppofition of the Sun in violent figns.
In the year 1659, King Philip made peace with France, and married
his daughter to the French king. Thefe events are prefigured in his
geniture, exemplified in the foregoing plate, by the afcendant coming by
direvStion to the fextile of Mercury, lord of the feventh houfe ; and the
Moon to a perfeft fextile of the Sun.
In 1 66 1, the afcendant came to the body of Jupiter ; and was fucceed-
ed by the revolutional fextile of the Moon to her own radical place in the
geniture ; at the fame time that Venus forms a mundane trine with the
midheaven. Thefe directions promife much happinefs, honour, and re-
putation, to the native, and point out the happieft and mofl illuftrious part
of his reign.
The Moon in this nativity being giver of Life, and the Sun Anareta,
forfhows the time and manner of his death. Let the diredtion of their
oppofite beams be equated by the rules already given ; and it will be
found, that the perfedtion of the afped in the anaretical place of the horof-
cope agrees precifely with the hour in which this illuftrious prince yielded
up the ghoft.
HENRY
OB' A S T R O L O O Y. ^51
HENRY VI. KIXG of ENGLAND.—Born in Lat. 51^ 32'.
This prince rucceeded to the crown of his anceflors when he was but
two months old, and was crowned King of England on the 6th of No-
vember, 1429 ; the midheaven being then dircc^ted to a trine afped of the
Moon. At ten years of age he was crowned King of France hi the cifv
of Paris, under the influence of the afcendant direded to the body of the
Moon, which configuration participates of the fame nature and quality
with the former, and they both moft aptly denote thefe illuilrious events,
when applied to the perfons of princes of the blood, or to heirs appare;it to
the throne.
At twenty-four years of age, the afcendant is irradiated by the fextile
rays of Jupiter ; under which direftion he marries the celebrated Lady
Margaret, daughter to the Duke of Anjou, a princefs of mafculine refo-
lution and courage, which is reprefented by the fiery planet Mars, located
in the feventh houfe, in his exaltation. This violent and intrepid fpirit of
Margaret was quite oppofite to that of her confort, who imbibed from
nature a difpofition remarkably mild and meek, as is obvioufly prefaged
by thepaffive qualities of feveral fignificators in his geniture difplayed in
the foregoing plate.
In his thirty-ninth year, this native wds taken captive by the Earl of
March ; and, by confent of the people, ftripped of his royalties, and fent
prifoner to the Tower. This untoward event is prefaged by the Moon's
quartile application, firft to the midheaven, and then to a malefic quartilc
of Mars, both which directions came up precifely at the time thefe circum-
ilances took place. After he had been twelve years a clofe prifoner,
namely, on the sift of May, 1642, being then fifty years of age, he was
inhumanly murdered by the hand of Richard, the- bloody Duke of Glou-
cefter. Mars then came to the quartile of the Moon, which, in this
nativity, was Giver of Life.
If we confider the relative pofitlons of the planets in this geniture, we
fhall not wonder that this prince was unfortunate in war, and unfuccef<;-
ful in all his enterprifes. The Moon in oppolition to Mars, ffrenethened
by angular places, and Mars, fignificator of public enemies, fo powerfully
located in his own houfe, at the fame time that he is conftituted the
governing planet of the geniture, is an irrefragable argument that Fate and
the Stars were combined againft this unfortunate prince. The caule and
manner of his captivity are clearly pointed out by Venus, lady of the afcen-
No. 43, 10 B ' daiTt,
852 AN ILLUSTRATION
dant, in quartlle with Saturn ; and by Jupirer, lord of the twelfth houie, the
houfe of imprironmcnt, in qnartile with the afcendant ; whereby is fliowii
the fiiperiority and fuccefs of his enemies over him. The Moon's oppofi-
tion to Mars, from fixed (igns, and near the Pleiades, denotes the violent"
and untimely death which this native fufFered ; but who inherited fo mild
and pailivea temper, that, when jftruck. by a common ruflic, he gentl re-
plied, " Forfooth you wrong yourielf more than you do me, by flriking
the Lord's anointed !"
HENRY VIII. KING of ENGLAND.—Born in Lat. 51^ 34'.
The lofty fpirit and arbitrary will of this prince are demonftrably
proved by the pofition of the luminaries in cardinal ligns, as difplayed in
the annexed plate. His temperature aiid inclinations are afcertained by the
configurations of Mercury in trine of the Moon, and in Textile to Venus ;
at the fame time that he beholds ihe afcendant with a fextile ray, and
forms concordant familiarities with the other figuificators. This not only
bcfpeaks a winning and complacent deportment, but manifefts a luxuri-
ancy in the gifts of nature, not commonly beftowed upon the mafculine
conformation. Here are however ftrong marks of obftinate refentment,
and obdurate revenge, even againft offending females; whom it was not
in his nature to forgive, when once ferioufly incenfed againft them ; as the
houfes and figns teftify, wherein Venus and Mercury are located.
The aftrological caufe of this native's defire after many women is de-
duced from the fextile irradiations of Venus and the Moon with Mercury,,
the Moon being- at the fame time dignified in the feventh houfe. And
the reafon of his continual difagreements and contentions with them, is
becaufe Jupiter, lord of the feventh, is in quartile with Mars and the af-
cendant, which ftir up the choleric humour, unallayed by lafcivioufnefs
and luft. The feverity of his treatment to them, is depi6ted by the lumi-
naries being in quartile to each other; the Moon in the weft angle, in
the houfe of Mars ; while Venus, the fignificatrix of his concubines, is in
conjundtion with the Dragon's Tail.
The circumftance of this monarch changing his religion, and encou-
raging the reformation of Luther and Calvin, is moft admirably defcribed
by the quadrate-afpedl of Jupiter and Mars, with the Dragon's Tail in
the ninth houfe. I fhall not go into detail of this remarkable event, nor
confider it aftrally in all its parts | my purpofe here being only to mark
out the extraordinary incidents of thefe great men's lives, and to fhow the
diredions
C F A S r R O L O G r. 853
tive reader, mi^^afylj diean as rxan^e^ and profit b^ the re^ioSt.
> Ths prince re^oed oecr Gscat BnitaDui idurlyHiiisiie jeaxs ; and dood tm
^aSthoif Janioajry, 1 547, ia tbe £&j-fixdi j«ar of Ms ^e. In tbii gexu-
tnre tike Soua b I^lg^ or giver of life, whodi, heiaag diire^-ci to tlae
Aoareta* wall be loaad tto coffrd^oiai casaMj to tSictimeaf 8&s diiIal]£doi3.
EDWARD Vr. KJKG ©f ENGLA\"T>.—Bwra in Ltt. ji*. 32'.
{f North Latifs'de i ^o
! N-oTtb Latarnde o 4.
J Souiii L2titi>de 4 17
ft iy icnBsisdile of tins aasi«c» tfnt be was estraKSed bf wwaww^ (
itirwi firom his noathet^s woonb, and bis fiife ptPE&rv^iBd. At te<a vears &f
9^ be focciDedBd to fbecTDwn of Great Britain, naameiy, on tibe 2&th of
JanoaxT* 1547 » a<t wbkb tisa^ theafcuadant ofhis itifily came hj dorec-
tsoo tDtbe cuajavtfhKMt aqtcft ofdie phact Ven<Bj lady ef dae teottb boiidle^
~ ~~
'iHudt is tbe faoadfe of d^ail^, boraoor, aiid fagf&ac
Tim prince reiigned aaiw fEc years aisd £ve trtontits, aad expireil "a bea
liearaBfitldeHMMCllaBi&sdtscB-yeaRaU. UteajExadaai^ miusgenixiarc,
raft betaken farl^egjor grw ofUfev becaaie aciAer tbe Sao, Moon,
anr Past of Fortoae, are in apbctkal places. Sarmm is die Aiiaicta, or
dcAio^Er of life ; and oaBipqpM3al^|t» wbea Sitimiiu. caaae by dire<3aoa to
To prove iAb t» be a: l&gal
dae£uDetiaie,tfae Son to tbe qnaitale of Mus and tbe Maoa tD tbeop.
pofidkn of tbe fimc malefic planet ;. lb tbat both the kaninaries were
afflhOcd wbenSatwa tnrao&d ihrafecadaBt^aod gppe Adh ¥^umi to
the band of death. Hence k is apparent, dsat dais aaizre wzs not do-
%aBd by aataire ddifBt fiv aJang^ ac aJapfij Eg:;.
sjaiY;
8-54 A N 1 L L U S T R A T I O N
MARY, QUEEN of ENGLAND.—Born in Lat. 51°. 34'.
In this genlture we find Saturn lord of the afcendant, out of all his own
dignities, but in the dignities of Jupitei", and in a fiery fign. Jupiter we
find is the difpofitor of Saturn ; but is pofited in a fiery fign likewife.
Thele are infallible arguments of an opprefiive and rigorous government.
The Moon being in oppofition to Jupiter from angles, hath defignation
ofgrievous difTenfions about religion. The quartile configurations of the
Sun with Mars, and Mars with Mercury, in the dignities of Jupiter, in
bicorporal figns, near Aldebaraiv, ihow the diflionourable and bloody
reign of this princel's, and the perfecution of her fi.ibje6ts in matters of
confcience and religion. Venus, being lady of the third houfe, repre-
fents her fifter ; and, being pofited in the twelfth, mofi: aptly de-
clares her fifter's imprifonment ; and the more fo, as Saturn is not only
lord of the afcendant, but lord likewife of the twelfth, the houfe of im-
prifonment and afflidion.
When the afcendant came to the fextiie of the Sun, fhe fucceeded to
the crown of Great Britain, namely, in the year 1553, being then near
thirty-feven years of age. In the year 1554, fhe was fuddenly married
to Philip king of Spain, under the direction of the Sun to the trine of
Venus.
This native died in the forty-fecond year of her age, after (he had
reigned about five years and a half. The time and manner of her death
are pointed out by the Sun, which is giver of life, direfted to the
quartile of the Moon, in quartile to Saturn, lord of the afcendant ; and on
the day fhe died the Moon came to the oppofitionof Mars. Thefe direftions
are all of a violent nature ; and whoever equates them by the Sun's mo-
tion will find them correfpond exactly to the time and manner of her
death.
ELIZABETH, QUEEN of ENGLAND.—Born in Lat. 51". 32'.
Upon the afcendant we find the regal fign Sagittarius, with Jupiter,
its lord, located therein ; which declares the native to inherit a moft
mafculine and intrepid fpirit, a poignant wit, and undaunted refolution ;
qualities which are greatly heightened by the degree afcending being in
the dignities of the planet Mars.
In
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 855
In the twenty-firft year of her age (he was oppreffed and imprifoned,
and fufFered every fpecies of perfecutiou that could refolt from the vin-
didlive jealoufy and refentment of her enemies. Durmg theie troubles,
Ihe had operating a moft malefic direftion of Saturn to the quartile of the
Sun, in the ninth houfe, which exadiy defcribes the caufe for which (he
was perfecuted, namely, her hereditary right to the crown, and her attach-
ment to the proteftant religion.
When this illuftrious princefs attained her twenty-fifth year, (he
triumphed over her domeftic enemies, and was crowned Queen of Eng-
land. At this time the afcendant was direfled to a trine afpeft of the Sun,
who is the patron of honour and fovereignty.
In the fixty-ninth year of her age, this celebrated princefs made her
exit, under the mortal direftion of the afcendant to the quartile afped of
the fun ; leaving pofterity to record the bleffings of her reign, in which
were laid thefolid foundations of the proteftant eflablilhment.
Should the young ftudent take the pains to fet a revolutional figure for
the year of the native's death, he will find there was a conjundion of
the two infortunes in the oppofite place of the Moon in her radical na-
tivity : and the figure itfelf nearly in quartile to that of her birth. The
lord of the afcendant was in the eighth, and the Sun was falling in the
lixth houfe; and on the day of her death, viz. the 24th of March, 1602,
the Sun and Mars were both in the place of the diredion, and the Moon
in quartile of them both, as if nature herfelf fympathifed with her fubjedts in
the lofs of their fovereign.
'a
The EARL of ESSE X. Born in Lat. 52°.
^ North Latitude 1 o
% North Latitude i o
9 North Latitude 10
5 North Latitude 1 o
]) North Latitude i o
It was not until the twenty-eighth year of his age that any thing re-
markable occurred to diftinguilh the chara6ter of this celebrated noble-
man. About that time he had a very eminent and powerful diredion
operating, of both the luminaries to a fextile configuration of Jupiter,
under which he became powerful and elevated at court, and acquired the
efteem and confidence of the queen, in a mofl unlimited degree, as the
feveral fignificators very aptly teftify.
No. 43. 10 C At
856 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
At thirty-two years of age he was deputed, as the principal in com-
mifiion, to leize the Spanifli fleet ; and loon after he was created earl-
marflial by the queen. This latter honour begat him abundance of
enemies, and created great jealoufies and fufpicions among the nobles,
and particularly among thofe who were inverted with the feveral dig-
nities and offices of llate. At this time the native had the luminaries
direded to the Textile of Venus ; and, to fhow the envy and malevolence
of his enemies, he had the midheaven directed to the oppofition of the Sun.
In the thirty- third year of his age this native was appointed to Ire-
land, viz. on the 27th of March, 1599. The Dragon's Tail was then
on the afcendsnt; and, the day he fet off", the Sun and Saturn were in
oppofition from the tenth and fourth houfes ; and, what was worfe, the
medium-coeli came by dirediou to an oppofition with the Moon. It
is hence evident that he would not profper ; and the event proved the
fa£l ; for, on the 28th of September following, he returned to the court
of London, the Sun being then in the place of Saturn at the time of
his fetting out.
On the 2d of OtStober, 1599, he was committed to the Tov/er ; and
in June following he was fufpended from all his employments and offices
in the flate. On the 19th of February, 1600, he was arraigned, tried,
and condemned ; and on the 25th of the fame month, being Afti-Wed-
nefday, at eight o' clock in the morning, he was beheaded ; at which time
the midheaven came to a malefic oppofition with Mars.
The arguments of a violent or premature death, in this nativity, are
many. The two luminaries in conjundion with Mars, in afpe6l with a
violent fixed flar ; the Sun and Moon, and lord of the eighth houfe, in
violent figns ; and Mars in Sagittarius afflicting the luminaries ; are fo
many arguments, in any geniture, of an ignominious and untimely end ;
and, in the nativities of perfons of quality and diftinftion, they are al-
ways confidered as emblems of the lofs of life, honour,, and reputation.
At the moment of this unfortunate nobleman's death, the radical
place of the Dragon's Tail afcended ; the Sun and Mars were in oppoli-
tion to the afcendant of the revolutional figure, and Saturn was in exaft
oppofition to the Dragon's Tail, all which circumflances declare his life
to have been taken away by violence and treachery, to fatiate private re-
fentment, and to appeafe the clamours of thole who were too powerful to
be oppofed, and too fanguinary to rile in the political hemifphere but at
the price of the blood of thofe by whom they Imd been eclipfed.
JAMES
O F A S T R O L O G Y. S5;
JAMES I. KING of ENGLAND. Boiu in Lat. 56".
This geniture is remarkable for giving a great number of teflimonics
to the honour, dignity, and pre-eminence of the native. The Sun be-
ing in exa6t fextile to the afcendant from the tenth houfe ; the Moon ia
partile fextile of Jupiter; Jupiter in conjundion with the Part of For-
tune in the fecond houfe; Venus, lady of the tenth, located therein, hav-
ing familiarity with many eminent fixed ftais, in trine to the fecond
houfe; the two luminaries in perfedl reception of each other; and the
lord of the afcendant in the tenth houfe in conjundlion with the Sun,
and in fextile to the afcendant; —are teftimonies of dignity, honour, mao--
nificence, and fupreme power, rarely to be found in one and the fame o-e-
niture ; but which were in the moft remarkable manner verified in the
perfon of this illufi:rious prince.
But, notwithflanding thefe extraordinary arguments of fplendour and
fovereignty, deduced from the influx of the ftars, yet we fliall on the
other hand find, that this celebrated monarch was not without his fhare
of anxiety and trouble ; as the annals of the Britifli page abundantly
prove. In the aftral fcience thefe perplexities are prefaged bv the famili-
arity of Venus with the Dragon's Tail, in perfed quartile of Saturn and
Mars ; which fufficiently accounts for every evil that befel him. Added
to w hicb, we mufl: not forget to remark the difcordant rays of the Sun
and Mercury, in quartile to Jupiter, lord of the feventh houfe, and in
cardinal figns, whereby the enmities and confpiracies againft him are mofr
accurately forefeea.
The coronation of this prince took place in London, when he was
thirty-lfven years of age ,• at which time the Sun came to the zodiacal
parallel of Venus, lady of the tenth houfe, which hath defignation of fame,
honour, magnificence, and preferment.
The mernorable powder-plot (memorable only for its diabolical malig-
nity) happened in the thirty-ninth year of the native's age, under the moil
noxious quartile afped of the lefTer malefic, the infortune Mars; the ten-
dency of which mifchievous diredlion was removed, by the fuperior rays of
the benevolent Jupiter.
In this nativity the Sun is Hyleg ; and we find Mars, Venus, and
Saturn, all of them operating in the anaretical place of the geniture^
Hence it is obvious, that, when the Sun came to the conjunction of Mars,.
joiutlj
858 AN ILLUSTRATION
jointly with the quartile of Venus and conjundtion of Saturn, the native
would fuffer a violent death; which really took place, when thefe direc-
tions came up, in the fixtieth year of his age. The conftitution of Venus
with the Dragon's Tail, irradiated both by Saturn and Mars, in the anaretic
place, fhows the native's death to have been occafioned by poifon ; for the
immortal Ptolemy faith, that, whenever Venus is joined with the malefics,
in familiarity with the Dragon's Tail, in dire(51ions to the hylegiacal or
anaretical parts of the horofcope, it portends death by poifon—and fo it
really happened in the prefent inftance.
CHARLES 1. KING of ENGLAND. Born in Lat. 560.
This unfortunate monarch was crowned king of this empire in the
twenty-fifth year of his age ; and was foon after married to the daughter
of Henry IV. of France. The medium-coeli was then direded to the
triangular rays of the Moon, in the houfe of dignity.
In the twenty-ninth year of his geniture he had the medium-coeli di-
re6led to the oppofition of the Sun, under which influence he diflblved
his parliament. The Scotch enthufiaftic phrenzy took place in his thirty-
eighth year, under the dire6lion bf Saturn to a conjun6tion of the Moon.
In 1 641, being in the forty-firft year of his age, he fummoned a new par-
liament, in which the famous contention about the militia took place.
It likewife fermented religious jealoufies, and laid the foundation of ferious
machinations againft the king's life ; all which misfortunes are prefigured
by, and happened under the influence of, the afcendant dire<5led to the
quartile of Venus, lady of the tenth houfe, and of the medium-coeli diredled
to the quartile rays of Jupiter.
It was in the forty-fixth year of his geniture, that this monarch placed
his life in the hands of the Scotch army, expeding from them that fafety
and proteftion they had proffered to give. But, when they had effedled
their bargain with the parliament, they bafely furrendered him up, in
violation of all the ties of honour, humanity, and benevolence. This
tranfatSlion took place under the malevolent influence of Saturn tranfiting
the midheaven, a configuration in the world known to be the forerunner
of ingratitude, treachery, and deceit.
In his forty-eighth year, this unhappy monarch was beheaded, before
the front of his own palace, Whitehall. This memorable event was ef-
fe<5led under the diredion of the Part of Fortune to the quartile of the
Moon,
OF ASTROLOGY. 859
ISToon, atid the zodiacal parallel of Saturn to the niundanc parallel of
IMars; and might ferve as an ufeful monitor to fucceeding princes, not
to trifle witli the remonftrances of a free people ; nor to hold in defiance
tliat genuine flame of heaven-born patriotilin, Avhich, when once feri-
onily kindled through an empire, carries all before it, and breaks down
every barrier of protection, even to the lacred perfon of the Lord's
anointed.
OLIVER CROMWELL, Lord High Protect* r of England.
Born in Lat. 52° . 19'.
Li the nativity of this enterprifmg and extraordinaiy character, we
find iix planets ciTentially fortified, and four of them in friendly trine
to each other, with the luminaries and Jupiter in lextile. Thele confi-
gurations prefage the moll important acquifitions to the perlbn of the
native ; at the lame time that tliey illultrate the intrepidity and valour
of his fpirit, with the capaciouliiels and fagacity of his mind. The
profeflbrs of this art, both ancient and modern, agree, that, where
only three planets are found effentially dignified in a nativity, it is an
earnelt of lingular profperity and good fortune to the native ; but, where
fix teftimonies of the lame nature occur, it is an evident proof that the
perlbn born under their influence will eclipfe all his contemporaries in
his advancement to glory and fame. How far this was verified in the
perfon of Oliver Cromwell, when the humble fituation of hinifelf and
his anceftors is coniidered, I Ihall leave to the decilion of the candid and
ntelliwent reader.
In the year 1640, this native was elevated to a feat in the Britifli par-
liament. This was his firft ftep to public fame and honour, and haj>-
pened under the courfe of the medium-coeli to the Dragon's Head,
leconded by a favourable revolution, in which Jupiter occupied the cufp
of the tenth houfe.
In the year 1642, Cromwell was appointed to the command of a re-
giment of horfe; and he railed one troop at his own expence. The
JVIoon was then directed to the Scoi-pion's Heart, an eminently martial
and jovial fixed ftar. In 1643, he was elected Lieutenant General to
the Earl of Manchefter, under the diredion of the Moon to the trine
alpe6t of Mars.
The memorable difpute between Cromwell and the Earl of Man-
chefter took place in the year 1644, with uncommon acrimony on.
No. 44. 10 D bot
SfSo A N 1 L L U S T R A T I O N
botli fides. The earl conceiving hiinfelf the better man, and fup-
pofijig liis interell in parliament to be inuch i'ii})erior, he preferred
divers informations againll his lieutenant-;,';eneral, but to little or no
effeet. The native quickly exculpated himlelf, and triumphed over liis
acculer. During the whole of this year, Saturn occupied the alcendant
of his revolutional figure; and in his radix, or figure of birtii, the af-
<:endant was at the fame directed to the term of Mars.
In 1641;:, the native was appointed Lieutenant General under Sir
Thomas Fairfax; and now his fame began to fpread abroad. Tlie
Moon was then diret':tcd to the fextile afpec^t of Saturn, lord of the
raeditim-coeli ; and und^er this dire(!:lion he eventually took the lead of
Fairfax himlelf.
In the year 1648, h<* remQuftrated with the parliament, and contended
with the levellers, by which he fell into difgrace. Under the influx
of the fame direc^'tions, he formed the plan of bringing his fovereign's
Ivead to the block. Tl^efe malignant beams proceeded from the quar-
tile afpect of the Sun and Saturn, accompanied by the Part of Fortune
to the oppolition of Venus.
In 1649, Cromwell attended the army in the expedition againft Ire-
land. He fucceeded in the undertaking, but was feverely indifpofed
with a flux and fever." This all happened under the fucculent beams of
the Moon, diret^ed to the parallel of Jupiter in the zodiac. The years
16^0 and i6ji were employed in fubduing the oppolition in Scotland.
Wherever the native turned his arms, he came oft" vi6torious. This was
the Sun directed to his own fextile, and the fortunate irradiations of the
]>rincipal flgnificators in the revolutional figures of thofe two years
to their radical places in the geniture ; whereby all things appertaining
to the native profpered well, and terminated generally to his own parti-
cular interell and advantage.
The memorable asra of his afTuming the power of Lord Prote(^or of
England, was i65'3, when he boldly pofleffed hiinfelf of the avenues
leading to the lioufe of Commons, and put an end to the fittings of
parliament. Eying the Speaker's mace, he ordered his attendants to
take away ^^
that idolati-ous bauble;" though he afterwards thought it
no vanity to have three fuch borne before him. Thefe events took
place when the Sun came to the bodily afpe(5l of Jupiter, and to the
fextile of the Moon, at the fame time that the Part of Fortune received
the
OF ASTROLOGY. 8(Ji
the fextile beams of Venus ; fo that both the benefic planets coacurred
in the fuccefs of this daring enterprife.*
In the year 1 6)4, CroniM-ell eft'e<^edan honourable peace with France,
through the medium of Cardinal Mazarin ; and he concluded a treaty
of alliance with the King of Sweden, through the indefatiijable perfe-
veranceof Mr. Whitlock. Tiiis gentleman was rewarded for his merit,
by being dignified with a title, and appointed ambalTador to the S-.ve-
difli court. Thefe incidents occurred under the influx of the Part of
Fortune diredled to the trine of Mars.
The craft and fubtlety of the native were never more confpicuous, than
when he convened a new parliament, for the purpofe of getting himfelf
confirmed in the fovereignty of the empire, under the alTumed title of
Lord High Piotcftor. This took place in tlie year 1656, when the
Part of Fortune came to the fextile rays of the inlidous planet .Saturn,
lord of the tenth houfe, joined with a favourable revolution; whereby is
moft aptly prefaged, the attainment of advantage and preferment under
the hypocritical malk of piety and religion. To fuch a pitch of adulation
M'ere fome of his creatures arifen, that they not only confirmed him in
the title of Lord High Protettor, butintreated him to affume the name
and dignity of King. This, however, he had the fagacity to refufe :
deeming it fafer to poflefs the power, without the pomp, of majefty.
In the year 16^7, when thus invefted with the supreme jurifdiction of
tlie kingdom, he lent fix thoul'and men upon an expedition into Flan-
ders, under the command of Sir John Reynolds. This valiant knight had
likewile confnlted Mr. Lilly befoie his embarkation, and he Ihortly
aftenvards reduced and took pofleffion of Dunkirk, as that proficient ia
the aftral fcience had previoully aiTured him would be the cafe. The Sun
was then forming aperfe(!:l fextile of the planet ^Icrcury in cardinal fiijns
applying to Mars.
In the year 1658, on the third of September, 3h. 1 ^m. P. ]\f. this
plienomenou amongfl mankind departed this life, in the natural way,
without aflaffination—which is perhaps the greatell wonder of the age
• It is a circumftance worthy of remark, that, before Cromwell put this daring fcheme into execution,
he fent for the celebrated Mr. Lilly, (who at that time of day was fingularly eminent for his knowledge
in this fcience,) and confulted him upon the occafion. Mr. Lilly only requefted to be put in poirefTioii
lh« hour of his nativity, and he would foon inform him of the probability of the event. This was
complied with ; the dircAions above fpccified were equated and coniidered, and the confequences ex-
aAly foretold. Cromwell is therefore fuppofed to have entered with more confidence into the Houfe
cf Commons, and to have condui.^ed his exterior with greater courage and dignity,
in
ZCi AN ILLUSTRATION
in which he hved ; and can only be attiil)uted to the fear—not to the
love — of tliofc who had accels to him. In tiic directions wliich pro-
duced his death, tlie Sun is tlie Apheta, or giver of Hi^, and Saturn the
Anaicta, or deitroying ])!anet ; and the incidence of their beams met by
quartile rays, precifely at the time this iUultrious native gave up the
gholl, as any one might perceive, by equating the arch of direction.
Thus terminated tlie life and anions of a man, who perhaps never
had his equal—whofe refources were within himlelf; and whole pro-
grefs through life was marked with itrong portions of temerity and hy-,
pocrily—of perfeverance and good fortune. He attempted nothing
but what he accompliihed ; and furmounted difficulties, which would
have plunged half the univerfe into ruin and defpair.
C H A R L E S II. KING of ENGLAND.
Born in Lat. 51". 32'.
It muft be pretty obvious to the reader, that the utmoft of my defign
in giving thei'e nativities, is merely to ihow the principal incidents of
each native's life, and diftinclly to point out the configurations or oc-
curhons of the planets, under which they happened ; that, by com-
paring the one with the other, in every age, occupation, or diltin(5;tion,
of human life, we might be convinced, by the uniformity of fac^ls, and,
the evidence of our own fenfes, that the one is, in a limited degree,
lubfervient to the other ; and that the motion of the heavenly bodies,
variegated and qualified by a coincidence of their beams, is the real:
inedium by which the affairs of this world are influenced and directed;
and whereby the attentive reader, from obfervation alone, might be ena-
bled to predial the principal occurrences of any man's life, from a bare
irifpe6tion of his nativity.
According to this fpeculation, we find the Moon in early figns, ap-
plying to the terms of Mars, near the place of tlie Pleiades, at the time
this prince was nine years old. The natural inference to be drawn from
this afpe6i is, a broken limb, a violent bruife, or fome accidental afflic-
tion ; accordingly we find the native, when this dire6lion came up, had
the jnisfortune to break his arm.
Again, at ten years of age, he was afflicted with the jaundice, and
fuffered greatly by a fever. Thefe are the difeafes of Mars ; and the
Sun, being Giver of Life, and paffing the terms of Mars to a configura-
tion
F A S T R O L O G Y. 863
tion with violent fixed ftars of the fame nature, evidently produced
them. The violence and duration of thefe diforders are pointed out
by the oppofition of Mars to the Sun's radical place in the geniture in
quartile to the afcendant, with the Sun and Saturn conjoined in the
lixth houfe.
The afcendant came to an oppofition of Jupiter when this prince
was afflicted with the meafles, which happened when lie was about
twelve years old. Soon after this he left London with his royal father,
and was plunged into a labyrinth of forrows and diltreffes. Thefe are
pointed out in the molt aftonifliingly correi!^ and uniform manner, by a
chain of malefic configurations in his revolutional figure of that year.
The moft remarkable al"pe6ts are, a quartile of the Sun and Jupiter ; a
conjun6lion of Saturn and Mars ; a quartile of the Sun and Saturn ; a
quartile of Saturn and Mercury ; a quartile of IMars and Mercury ; a
quartile of Saturn and Venus ; and a quartile of Mars and Venus ; all
in progreCTive order, accompanied with feveral unpropitious and moft
alarmins; tranfits.
'o
In the j'ear 1646 this prince left his native country, and went for
fafety to France, where he fellfickwitha fcarlet fever, and his life v as
defpaired of. At that time the Sun, Giver of Life, was directed to the
terms of Mars, and to the ftars of Hercules, and Saturn pafled the
Moon's place in the i-adical figure of birth. But Jupiter tranfiting the
Moon and Venus, and to the afcendant, not only gave him a mott
friendly and cordial reception at the court of France ; but prevented
the fatality threatened by the evil rays of Mars and Saturn.
In the twentieth year of his age, he was crowned King of Scotland.
This was under the influx of the mid-heaven to the trine of Jupiter.
In his twenty-firft year, namely, in the year 1651, he entered England
with a confiderable anny ; but was quickly attacked and defeated by
Oliver Cromwell, then Lord Protec'tor of England. At this time the
afcendant came to the quartile afped, of the Sun ; Saturn tranfited the
eleventh houfe ; and Jupiter formed a quartile with the afcendant in his
own radical place in the figure of birth.
It is very remarkable, tJiat on the precife day the battle of Worcefter
was fought, which ended to difgracefully to the native, the Sun came
in quartile with his radical place in the geniture ; Jupiter formed a
quartile with the afcendant ; Mars was in oppofition to the jMoou and
mid-heaven, and the Aloon in quartile both of Mars and Venus. Under
No. 44. 10 E fuch
864 AN ILLUSTRATION
fuch inaufpicious flars, what lefs could be expe6ied than an Inglorious
defeat, and a cowardly defalcation on the part of his troops ?
In the year 1657, the King of Spain affifted the native with money
to the amount of one hundi(;d thoufand pounds. The dirc6tion then
operating exartly points out tlie circumftance, which was the Sun to
the trine of Jupiter. lu the year 1685, the native died, 'i'Jie direction
which produced his death, was Saturn, the Anareta, to the oppofitioa
of the Sun, the Giver of Life.
If we compare the geniture of this illuftrious prince with that of
the king his father, we Ihall find tlie afcendant of that nativity to be
the place oflMars in this. Secondly, the Dragon's Tail, in tiie geniture
of this native, is upon the place of the Sun in the other. Thirdly,
the Sun in the geniture of the father, is in oppoiition to himfelf in the
geniture of the fon. Fourthly, the Sun in this nativity is in quartile
to the place of Jupiter in the other; arguments, whicii ferve abun-
dantly to Ihow, that the father and the fon Ihould both be involved in
one and the fame unfortunate quan-el ; that the father ihould fall a
vi6\im to its rancour, whilft the fon fhould rife fupcrior to the enemies
of them both, and be reinftaied in the hereditary rights of the" crown,
and in the hearts of his people ; which, I believe, was at lalt pretty
nearly the caie.
JAMES II. K I N G of ENGL A N D.
Born in Lat. 51°. 32'.
The firft accident we meet with in this geniture, befel the native in
his infancy, when he was only a year and a half old, which was an hn-
pofihimic in liis head, and continued, after it broke, for five years,
before a perfec^t cure could be formed. This liappened imder the di-
re(^ion of the Moon to the quartile afpec'-.t of the Sun; whicli, being in-
fixed figns, declares the obftinacy and continuance of the diforder.
In the year 1646, the native was afflicted witli a fevere ague, which
reduced him in a manner fingularly rapid and alarming. Tlie caufe of
this illnefs I find in a revolutional horofcope of that year, where a
malefic oppoiition of the Sun and Saturn, in quartile to the Moon's
radical place, produces aguilh affections, accompanied with a ^iolenl
fever. The ponderoiity of Saturn declares the tranfit fhould be accom-
panietl with dangerous fymptoms. Again the afcendant came to tlie
body
OF ASTROLOGY. 865
body of Mars in the year 1650, and the Moon to a quartile with the
Part of Fortune, which influx likewife produced a violent fever, and a
remarkable lafiitude of the whole human frame. The native was then in
his feventeenth year.
In 1653, ^^^'^ prince headed awing of the army in Flanders, and re-
ceived a dangerous wound. It was in its nature not mortal ; but, being
accompanied with a violent fever, tlie dangerous fymptoms weie in-
creafed, and the native's life in confequence defpaired of. This wai
produced by the beams of the Sun, when lord of the afcendant, diteded
to the hoftile rays of a perfect quartile of ]\Iars. Another fever was
produced by theJMoon dire(fted to the body of IVIars, and the Sun to
the body of Saturn, which attacked the native in the year 1667, wlicn
no perfon expected he would have furvived. Thele configurations ferve
to Ihow, that, from the radical conftitution of the feveral fignificators
in the figure of birth, the native was more liable to fevers than to anv
otiier complaint. From the lame fource of information we likewile
difcover, that this prince was fubje£t to weak eyes and imperfe6t fight.
This Is declared by the quartile pofltion of the two luminaries to each
other ; the one being placed near nebulous ftars, and the other in familiar
congrels withiiarsof a violent nature.
Anno Domini 1685, this prince fucceeded to the crown, of Great
Britain. Tliis is predicted by the planet Jupiter, to a favourable con-
junction of Mars, in the medium-coeli, or tenth lioufe, the houfe of
honour, glory, and preferment. But here tlie influx of JMars, who is
the leiTer infortune, molt aptly points out to us, that, thougli he is
brouglit by the priwum inobile to a coincidence with the benefic beams
of tlie princely Itar Jupiter, and bears teltimony to his coronation, yet
llie conlc<{uences would lavour veiy much of the evils wherein this ma-
lefic planet is obferved to delight.
So many crofs and unpropitious directions as we find in this nativity
are at fiift fight futficient to convince us, that the unha])py native would-
drink deep of the bitter cup of difappointment and affliction. To juf-
tity the remark, requires only to advert to the private and public anec-
ilotes of this piince, who, though he lived to the age of fixty-leven
years, enjoyed but a veiy moderate fliare of health, and {"till lels of
happincfs.
GEORGF.
866 AN ILLUSTRATION
GEORGE, DUKE of ALBEMARLE.-Bom in Lat. 51V
b
O F AS T RQ L O G Y. 86^7
<S."^"]-F'^.^^^^'T^^''°"'l
y^^"" °^ ^'^ age/ namely, in May iGfyo he
reft^red Charles the S,d>nd to hi^ cr.?wn and dignity, after 1 e had
been twelve years n. exile; and re-eftablilhed i,eace and tranquillity h
the three kmgdonis, England, Ireland, and Scotland. He had then
I^^cftXtttY 'r 'n'"'"^'^
'''' of Jupiter; and Jupite. be ng
Imdottheteith houie of his nativity, made that action more eminent
and lionourable. This was not a little augmented by the Part of For-
tune being alfo directed to the trine of Jupiter; and/ to fliow the opoQ-
h ion and 1 ruggles he Ihould meet with in the accompliihment of \hat
glorious undertaking he had the afcendant directed to the contra-antif-
enemies
'""^'' '"'^ "^'^" ^^^""'^^ ^^^"^^^' ^"^ '^'' ^'S"iiicator of"i^n
That this native Avas born for great and illuftrious undertakin<T.s ad-
mits ot no doubt. We find the Sun pofited in the tenth houfe' ifa
nob e fiery hgn, and in trine aipec^ of the Moon, in a iic^n of the fame
hiphcity. Jupiter is likewife pofited in the afcendant, in trine of
a^S.nt -'^'T^
in the eleventh. Mars, being alVo upon tl?e
a cendant, gues hiiu intrepidity and courage ; and, in Textile of the
planet Saturn added deliberation to his enterprifes, and formed him
notonly tor the foldier, but for the itatefman and patriot le ha
the Moon hkewife in the very degree of the Sun's ex'altatiou, upon ?he
afcendan o England, ,n the fign Aries, which difpofed hinl to fuch
fdng aiid csi;:;;"'
'"'"^"'^'"' *" ^'^ ^°^" ^^^ ^^>'^'^>^ ^- ^-- ^° *-
J A IM E S, D U K E of H A M I L T O N.-Born in Lat. 56".
b North Latitude 1
^ North Latitude 1
6 South Latitude 2
9 South Latitude 3
5? South Latitude 4
D South Latitude ^
o
o
o
o
o
o
This IS a glorious nativity ; there being no lefs than five planets
mo I eminently dignified with the luminaries above the earth, in admi-
rable reception of each other. The light of time is located in the houfe
or anole of dignity; and the lord of the afcendant is in his own efien-
tial di-nitics. 111 the medium-coeli, all which are lb many arguments of
martial tame and glorious atchievements, produtlive of iimnortal ho-
iiom- and renown. But, though this native's hfe was for. the molt part
No. 44. 10 F thus
us AN ILLUSTRATION
thus eminently diftinguiflied, yet his end was tiagjcal and unfortunate,
for he died by the hands of his enemies, in tfio forty-fecond year of his
age, having at that time theafcendant dire6led to the quartile of the ma-
lefic planet Saturn, in the beginning of the fign Libra, and Saturn radi-
cally pofited in the fourth houfe. And on the day he was routed by
Cromwell in Lancaihire, namely, on the 17th of Auguit, 1648, ]\Iars, in
his revolution, was in the quartile place of the Moon, and Saturn llation-
ary, to retrogradation, in the place of Mercuiy, lord of his afcendant ; the
Moon being then in oppofition, and the Sun in the very oppofite place
of Jupiter; all which malicious tranfits in his revolutional figure were
•eminent tokens of difcomfiture and defeat in that ill-advifed engagement
;
and this the rather, becaufe the raid-heaven was thus directed to the op-
pofition of Saturn.
In 1643, Jaiiuary the 3d, he was fent prifoner from Oxford to Pen-
dennis Caftle in Cornwall, where he continued until the year 1646. Sa-
turn was then in quartile to the Sun, and Mars in oppoiition to the lord
of the afcendant, and a veiy bad revolution he had for that year. But,
towards the end of the 5'ear 1642, King Charles entertained him very ho-
nourably at court, and advanced him to confiderable honours and employ-
ments. He had then operating the mid-heaven to the trine afpe6l of
Jupiter.
On the day he was beheaded, being March the 9th, 1648, the Moon
was in conjun6tion ofSaturn, whofe quartile waspromittor in the dired;ion of
his death ; and the Sun was upon the very degree of the eighth lioufj of his
nativity, nearly in oppofition with Jupiter ; and the fiery planet Mars
hadjuft paffed the horofcope of his birth. Hence we derive the following
arguments of a violent death : namely, Saturn oppofing the Sun from an-
gular houfes ; the Dragon's Tail on the cufp of the eighth houfe ; Mars
on the cufp of the fourth, in oppoiition to the tenth, and the Moon by
her latitude in the eighth houfe.
The EARL of STRAFFORD.—Born in Lat. 51° 32'. viz. London.
This native was a perfon fo fmgularly accompliflied, that King
Charles, after bemoaming his unfortunate end, and reflecting upon
himfelf for confenting to his death, wrote as follows: " I looked upon
my lord of Strafford as a gentleman whofe abilities might make a prince
rather afraid than afliamed to employ him in the greateft aftairs of Itate ;
for thefe high talents were prone to create in him great confidence of un-
dertakings.
OFASTROLOGY. 869
deitakings, and this temper was likely enough to betray him into great
errors, and to raile him many enemies, whereof he could not but con-
tra6t good Itore, while moving in fo high a fphere, and with fo vicforous
a luftre ; he niuft, Uke the I'un, raife many envious exhalations, which,
condenfed by a popular odium, were capable to call a cloud upon the
brighteft merit and integrity."
To denote the eminent accomplifliments of this noble perfonage for
the purpofes of government and good policy, he hath Virgo afcending,
a lign which uniformly reprefents a native admirably ingenious and pru-
dent. JMercury, lord of the afcendant, is in Taurus, with the Sun, the
fovereign light of time, calling a trine afpedl to the afcendant. Mer-
cury is at the fame time lord of the tenth houfe, and of the afcendant
likewife, which is a certain prefage of honour and dignity to the native
by the natui-al excellencies and endowments of his mind. It is never-
thelefs to be conlidered, that IVIercury is combult of the Sun, and the
Moon and jVIars are in exacl; quartileto him; configurations which not
only eclipfed the reputation of his great abilities, but argue that his re-
lations and friends, as well as his enemies, Ihould envy him the honour
and preferments thofe great abilities procured him.
I\Iars, with the Sun and Moon, govern the eleventh, twelfth, and
third, houfes of the horofcope ; and Saturn, being locally and virtually
in the eleventh houfe, in oppofition to Jupiter, fliows the falfliood and
perfidioufnefs of his friends, and the violence and malice of his enemies ;
and, toaddtothefe difcordant configurations, the cufp of the midheaven
is the exatl antifcion of Saturn and the contra-antifcion of Jupiter.
When this nobleman was near forty years of age, he was conftituted
and appointed Lord Deputy of Ireland. He had then operating in his
nativity, the Moon to the textile rays of the Sun, and the midheaven to
the antifcion of Venus by dired:ion. At forty years old, viz. November
12, 1640, he was impeached for high treafon. Mars was that day in
oppofition to the afcendant, and in quartile of Mercury, lord of the
medium-coeli and of the afcendant. On the 19th of November he
applied for bail, but was refufed. The Moon was then in oppofition to
Mercury, and the Sun in oppofition to the tenth houfe. On the 2 3d of
the fame month he was committed to the Tower : the Moon was then in
oppofition both to Mars and to her own radical place in the geniture.
On
870 AN ILLUSTRATION
On the 28tli of Januaiy, 1641, he was firft impeached in the houfe
of commons : the Moon was at this time in oppolition of Saturn's place,
and Mars poflefled the Sun's place in the radix. On the 30th of January-
he was impeached in the houfe of lords ; Mars ftill occupied the Sun's
place, and the Moon continued in conjunction with the Sun in the fixth
houfe.
On the 1 jth of April, 1641, this native was declared guilty of the
trealbnablc practices with which he liad been charged : the Moon was
tlien in oppofition to the Sun, near his radical place ; Saturn was in
oppofition to the afcendant ; the .Sun was in quartile of the place of
Mars, and INIars upon the j)lace of Venus, in the tenth houfe. On tlie
10th ofJVIay the king tigned the warrant for his execution ; JMercury
was then Itationary, and Saturn in oppolition to the afcendant ; and the
Moon was in quartile of Mars and Venus. On the tenth day of the fame
month this native was beheaded, in the forty-eighth year of his age.
The IMoon was then in exact oppolition to the Sun, and Saturn was in
oppofition to the afcendant. But, to fliow a more eminent deiignation
of thefe afflictions, and eventually the lofs of his life by them, he liad
the mid-heaven directed to the conjun6tion of Saturn and to the
oppofition of Jupiter ; the Moon was likewife ten digits eclipfed in the
very beginning of the revolutional figure of that year, and Saturn and
Mars were both afflicting the afcendant of the geniture. Thus fell this
great and diftinguilhed charadler, who was excelled by few in the bright
ornaments of wifdoin and underllanding.
GEORGE VILLERS, DUKE of BUCKINGHAM.
Born in Latitude 53°.
b South Latitude 1 o
% South Latitude . 1 o
c? North Latitude o o
9 North Latitude 10 '
.
5 Nortli Latitude 2 o
D North Latitude 4 o
This native was a remarkable favourite of King Charles the Firft;
and indeed, to a perfon verfed in the aftral fcience, there can be no
wonder, fince there is fuch an aftoniihing fympathy in their nativities
;
for the figns are not only pofited the fame upon cufps of the cele !ial
houfes, but Jupiter's place iiithe one nativity is the place of the Sun
in
OF ASTROLOGY. 871?
in the other; and the Moon's place is precifely the fame in both. Such
an harmony and fimilar coincidence of matter in the temperature and
endowments of thefe two natives, could not but produce that rei.iark-
able concurrence of judgment, and familiarity of fentiment, which
was uniformly difcovered in the a(^ions and manners of thefe eminent
perfons.
This illuftrious native was not without his fhare of private enemies,
who ufed every means to alienate the king's good opinion and favour
from him. But vain was the attempt ; for, where the heavens form
an unity of fentiment, it is beyond the fubtiety of human invention to>
diflblve it.
In the year 1627, on the 27th of July, this native being then near
thirty-five years old, embarked for the Ifle of Rhe. The fuccefs of
this undertaking by no means anfwered the expectations that had beeii
formed of it ; and which was before-hand but too evident ; for, on the
very day he fet fail. Mars was in exad; quartile to his afcendant at birth,
and to the Sun's place alfo ; the Moon was in quartile to the place of
Mars and Venus, and to the Sun, and in oppofition of Jupiter ; all which
unfortunate pofitions previoufly declared the expedition to be as unfuc-
cefsful as it eventually proved.
In the year 1628, on the 23dof Auguft, this native, being near thirty-
fix years old, was bafely aflTaCrmated and ftabbed at the Crown Inn, in
Portfmouth, by a ruffian of the name of Felton. The Moon was
that day in quartile of the afcendant at birth, and the Sun in the radical
place of Mars ; and, in the revolutional figure for that year, the Mooa
was in exa6t quartile of Mars and Jupiter. And befides this congrefs of
malefic tranfits, which in themfelves were alone fufficient to deftroy life,
there was a fatal direction operating at the fame time, of the afcendant
to the body of Mars. The grand argument of a violent death in this
nativity, is the conjunction of the Sun and Mars, in quartile to the lord of
the eighth houfe, who is in conjundion of that violent fixed ftar, the
Heart of the Scorpion.
No.. 44. 10 G WILLIAM
1
OFASTROLOGY. 873
imprifonment, founded on the principles of falfe teftimony, of trea-
chery, and deceit. Befides this, the fiery planet IVIars is upon the cufp
of the twelfth lioufe, in oppofition to the Moon, and in quartile to her
own difpofitor ; and that he fliould die a violent and premature deatli,
is obvious from the pofition of Mars in oppofition to the IMoon, and the
lady of the afcendant pofited in a violent fign in conjunction of Saturn,
lord of the fourth houie.
The mid-heaven dire(?led to the body of IMars, was the occafion of
this native's imprifonment; and, according to Air. Gadbury, from
whom nioft of thefe ncrtivities are taken, .Saturn directed to the conjunc-
tion of the afcendant was the caufe of his death. But, according to the
true P/acidian method, the Sun muft be directed for death, becaufe he is
Hy/eg, and Mars is undoubtedly the Anareta. For a proof of this, let
the revolutional fio;ure for the year of the native's death be examined;
vhere we lliall find jNIars in conjunction with the Sun, and Saturn lo-
cated in the lixth houfe, in the fign Aries, the lioufe of Mai's ; fo that
the two infortunes contributed to the untimely death of this celebrated
divine, who for learning and abilities was equalled by few, and excelled
by none.
CORNELIUS AGRIPPA.
The nativity of Cornelius Agrippa, as handed to us from the ancients,
is difplajed in the annexed Plate. But as this geniture has been confi-
dered, by all the profeffors of the aftral fcience, not authentic; wliich
indeed appears but too obvious from the difcordancy of its parts, and
from the impoflibility of its admitting the teft of rectification, 1 decline
giving any remarks of my own upon it ; and iliall leave it, as he was an
uncommon character, to the contemplation of thofe, who may hereafter
rile to greater perfection in aftrological enquiiies.
MARCUS TULLIUS CICERO.—Born under the latitude of Rome.
We have no right, if we credit Garden and LjTidbolt, to queftion the-
time of this celebrated native's birth. The figure exaCtly correfponds
with the defcription of his perfon given us by Plutarch, which is that
of a lean, weak, and fickly, temperature and conftitution ; which is aptly
enough declared by the Moon in Capricorn, in the fixtli houfe, the
being lady of the afcendant, and Saturn her difpofitor in quartile of the
Sun, and IVIercury approaching the afcendant from fixed figns. Now
concerning his manners and gift of fpeech, Carden defcribes him toi
have
«74 ANIL LUSTRATION
have poflefled a loud and clear articulation, but that it was harfli, and
the lefs captivating, on account of the deficiencies of his perfon and
manner, which wanted grace and comelinefs. This feems well prenoted
by theconjunaion of Venus and Mercury in the afcendant, afflided by
the prefence of the Dragon's Tail, accompanied with Saturn's quartile
combuft of the Sun.
The honour and reputation which this native acquired are reprefented
m a very ftriking manner, by the elTential dignities of the Sun, in trine
afpedt with Mercury, Venus, and Mars, in the angle of dignity and fo-
vereignty; the Sun likewife having his exaltation therein. Jupiter,
who is lord of the ninth, is in conjunction alfo of Saturn in the fifth
houfe, and thence emitting his benign rays to the afcendant, which is
an additional argument of very important acquifitions in the fcale of ho-
nour and preferment.
Plutarch tells us, that Cicero's nurfe was admoniflied by a vifion to
beftow the utmoft care and attention upon the child then at her bread ;
for that he Ihould become the moll dillinguilhed character amongft all
the Romans, and yet he was but the fon of a bond-woman, and of
mean extract;. This predi6lion, however, whether imaginary or real,
was literally fulfilled ; for he was twice made conful of Rome, and for the
timely difcoveiy and prevention of Catiline's conlpiracy he was fur-
named by Cato, ''The father of his country." He died by aflaffination
in the fixty-fourth year of his age, having fuffered the chief misfortunes
of his fife in his grand clinia6terical year.
It is written of him, that, when he was fent into exile, he was fore-
warned of his death, by an uncommon flight of crows, which came and
fettled upon the mall and yards of the ihip in which he was failing.
That, when he came on fliore, the fame flight of birds followed him to
the houfe in which he was accommodated, and even forced their way
through the chamber-windows where he lay, clofe to his bed-fide. He
was foon after betrayed by his own fervant, a youth he had bred up,
into the hands of lierrenius and Popilius L^na, who bafely mur-
dered him.
^^CHOLAS
3
8;6 ANILLUSTRATION
As to matters of eftate, he had the fixed fign Aquaries on the ciifp of the
fecond houfe, and the Moon and Jupiter calling their friendly rays to the
lame point, with the fortunate node of the Moon in the houlc of Jupiter ;
all which are teftimonies of a competent fortune. Yet, oppofed to this,
we find the lord of the fecond houle retrograde, upon the cufp of the
fourth, in quartile to the fecond, and Venus his difpofitrix combull, in
quartile of Mars, and in quartile to the fecond, alfo; which are plain
demonftrations of the lofs of fubflance, and of the decay of his paternal
patrimony. And hence we find that Mars affliding Mercury with the
Part of Fortune in an obfcure part of the heavens, and the Sun lord
thereof in oppofition to Saturn, influenced him to Iquander away his
eftate, both carelelsly and improvidcntly, even to the lliocking extremity
of reftraint or imprilbnment. This gave occafion to that jocular laying of
his brethren of the faculty, that poor Culpeper was forely afflided with a
confumption of the purfc.
However feverely this refledlion might be confidered, its application
was but too jull. At the univeriity, he was as free with his purle as with
his pen, and cared not how little was left for himfelf, lb that he could
efFecft the happinefs or welfare of others. And really, if he had not
bad the Dragon's Head in the fecond houfe of his geniture, he would have
been perpetually poor; for the arguments of poverty in his radix are fo un-
commonly Ifrong, through the propenfity of his will, that, had he been
born to the moft ample eftate, he would in a fliort time have fquandered it
away, and become pennylefs.
As to the native's kindred and lliort journeys. Mars is the principal
fignificator thereof; and his pofition in the eighth is the mofl: unfortunate
place in the whole heavens. He is likewife in quartile of four planets,
viz. the Sun, Venus, Saturn, and Mercury ; which is a further proof
of great unhappinefs to the native from family difputes ; and promifes no
great liiccefs m his fhort and inland journeys. Again, we find Aries upon
the cufp of the third houfe, and Mars pofited in a Herd fign, which
fhows a deficiency of brothers and fillers, or no harm.ony with them, in
cafe of any. It were needlefs to repeat the many misfortunes this na-
tive fufiaincd on account of his relations; or to recount the perils and
dangers he encountered upon fome of his journeys ; it being liifficient
to confirm the verity of this art, by affirming that he never gained any ad-
vantage by either.
With regard to his parents, we find Saturn the general fignificator
»f fathers, and Venus the reprefentative of mothers, are in oppofitionj
and
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 877
and Mars, lord of the tenth houfe, in quartile to them both, from fixed
figns, which clearly (Lows (hat the parents of this native would die be-
fore he was of age; but, had they lived till he had come to years of ma-
turity, I do not fee how he would have been bettered by them, fince
their fignificators are every way found fquaring and oppofing his. By
the account he himfelf gives of his parents, they died while he was
young, and his mother's relations cheated him out of a good part of his
eftate.
As to the fignificators of wife and children, we have the Moon, lady
of the feventh houfe, in a double-bodied fign, which feems to prtfage
two wives; but Venus, a general fignificatrix of wives, being combufi: of
the Sun, in an evil afpedl of the infortunes, oppofes this influence fo pow-
erfully, that, did (lie not cad: a prolific beam to the afcendant, and another
to the feventh houfe, the native would fcarcely have ever married at all.
Under thefe circumftances we deduce an argument for one wife only, which
happened in courfe.
Venus governing the fifth houfe in Scorpio, a fruitful fign, irradi-
ating both the afcendant and feventh, promifes the native many chil-
dren. But Caput Medufas being upon the cufp of the fifth, and Venus
combufi:, in oppofition to Saturn, and in quartile of Mars, in the houfe
of death, declares very few, if any of them, (hould live. It afterwards
turned out, that the native had but one wife, and by her he had feven chil-
dren, and they all died young, except a daughter, who lived to years of
maturity.
The native's public and private enemies are fignified by the Moon
and Jupiter; but principally by Jupiter himfelf, becaufe he hath great
dignities in the twelfth and feventh houfes. Mars has alio a fhare in
the defignation of his enemies, becaufe he is in trine of Jupiter, and in
fextile of the Moon, and beholds the lord of the afcendant with a quar-
tile ray. Now it is well known that Mars reprefents phyficians, apo-
thecaries, &c. and Jupiter divines ; and thofe two defcriptions of men
were really found to be the greatefl: enemies of the native, both public
and private : the faculty hated him for fimplifying the art of medicine
;
and the church contemned him for his fuperior knowledge in the aftral
fcience. Yet neither of them durft venture to difpute with him upon the
iimplicity of the one, or the reality of the other, notwithftanding he
gave feveral public challenges to both the colleges, to enter the lills with
them.
a We
878 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
We fliall now take notice of the repre'entatives of his friends ; and
here, I am forry to fay, we have but few teitimonies in their favour. Mars,
lord of the eleventh houfe, being in quartib to four planets, denotes that
the native's friends, or at leafl: fuch as pretend to be fo, are hypocritical and
deceitful ; and of fuch covetous difpo^itious, that he would feldom be
bettered by them. It is well known the native often declaied, that he
had a few who called themfelves his friends, but that he was more pre-
judiced than ferved by them ; for that, when he moft ilood in need of
their aflidance, and promifed himfelf the advantage of it, they generally
deceived him.
With regard to honour and preferments, Origanus tells us, that the
Sun in the tenth houfe is a certain prefage of honour and preferment
;
and that Venus, when polited in the tenth, is a general fignilicatrix of
honour by the means of women ; and alfo, that the Moon in fextiie of
Mars, and the Sun in reception with him, when he is lord of the tenth
houfe, are evident proofs of future honour, fame, and renown. And
indeed, had not Saturn, who is lord of the afcendant, been in oppofition
of the Sun, the general fignificator of honour, and in quartile of Mars,
the native would certainly have obtained a far higher degree of eminence
in life than he really did. But, although he was an enemy to his own pre-
ferment, yet in the latter part of his life he increafed very much
in fame, honour, and reputation ; and, if we enquire by what means,
we fhall find the fextiie of the Moon and Mars, lord of the tenth, and
Venus lady of the ninth, locally pofited in the tenth, and carting a fextiie
afpecft to the afcendant, in joint familiarity with Mercury lord of the
fixth, the ftrongeft planet in the figure; we fliall not therefore be fur-
prifed to fee the native arriving at a very elevated degree of fame, honour,
and reputation, on account of his ingenuity, ability, and knowledge in
the arts and fciences. This, however, is not likely to be obtained with-
out much difficulty and oppofition, as appears by the quartile afped; of
Mars to Mercury. It is, I believe, very well known, that the native
grew into public efieem, by means only of his great abilities, and fupe-
rior underftanding, particularly in phyfic and furgery, and of the fciences
in general.
The caufe and manner of his death, according to the aflrologers of his
time, are pointed out as follows. The fiery planet Mars, pofited in
the eighth houfe, in quartile to Saturn, lord of the afcendant, feems to
portend a violent death; but the Sun being on the cufp of the mid-
heaven, near the body of Venus, and in reception of Mars, with the
Moon in the fixth houfe, abates much of the fury of Mars, and makes
it
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 8^79
it ibmewhnt probable the native may die of a confumption, or by decay
of natural ftrength and flamina. However this may be, he died 011 Mon-
day the loth of January, 1654, when the Moon was in quartile to the
radical place of Mars, and the Sun in quartile to his own and to Saturn's
place in his .nativity; Saturn and Jupiter at the fame time beholding each
other with an oppofition. From this pofition of the fignificators, it has
been thought by fome, that he was malicioufly poifoned ; and indeed, by
the above configurations, it is not unlikely but fome af the Efculapian tribe
had a hand in his death.
The accidents or events by which this nativity is redlified are thefe. At
eighteen years old, he went to thr univerfuy : the Sun was then- directed
to tbe body of Mercury, and the afcendant to the Textile of the fame pro-
mittor. At twenty-four years old, he particularly applied himfelf to the
flu'dy of phyfic : the Moon was then directed to the trine of Mercury, her'
difpofitor, in the radical figure of birth. At the age of twenty-feven
years he went into the army, and was wounded by a mufket-fhot in the
fore part of his body, of which he never recovered to the day of his death i
at the time of this accident, the afcendant came to the quartile of the Sun,
and foon afterwards to the quartile of Saturn, which prolonged and conti-
nued the malady. In the thirty-eighth year of his age, he died : the af-
cendant then came to the oppofition of Mars with latitude. Upon exa-
mining and comparing the revolutional figure with the radical horofcope,
we find the ftridlefl: agreement betwixt them : Saturn paffes the radical
place of Mars, and re-occupies the afcendant j the Sun and Jupiter behold
each other with a quartile ray ; and Jupiter comes in oppofition to the
place of Mars, and in quartile to his own radical place likewife : which
evil revolutions, agreeing with malefic diredlions, neceflarily prefigure ap-
proaching death.
WILLIAM LILLY, Student in Aftrology.—Bom in Lat. 52° 38'.
h
North Latitude
OFASTROLOGY. 881
JOHN GADBURY, Student in Aftrology .—Born in LaU 51^ 45'.
h
eSa A N r L L U S T RATION
VINCENT WING, Student in Aftrology.—Born in Lat. 54= 40',
^ South Latitude i 51
y. South Latitude o 57
f.
North Latitude 2 46
5 North Latitude o 20
•jf
South Latitude i 23
J North Latitude o 46
In this nativity Libra afcends the horofcope, and Spica Virginis, an
eminent fixed ftar, is pofited in the alcendant. Venus, lady thereof, is
in Pifces, in trine of the Moon in Cancer in the ninth houfe, in an emi-
nent reception of Jupiter. Mercury, the patron of arts and fciences, is
in the fign Aries, in reception of Mars ; and there are in the Icheme no
lefs than four planets effentially dignified, viz. the Sun, Jupiter, Venus,
and the Moon ; tv/o of them in their exaltation, and two in their own
houfes. Thefe are teftimonies of an admirable fignification and tendency,
which not only procure credit and fame, but conftitute the natural and
proper fupport thereof, viz. a generous mind with a competent eftate. To
Tender this the more eminent and durable, the Sun cafts an amicable afpedt
to the Part of Fortune; as doth the Moon and Venus to the cufp of the
fecond houfe.
All the angles of the figure are pofiTeffed by cardinal figns ; and in that
refped: he had honour and fuccefs in his profeffion as an aftronomer ; and
was efteemed by the great, and regarded by all, as the wonder of his time,
and the prodigy of the age in which he lived, for the eminent and famous
things he did in the fcience of Aflrology.
This native began to write for public information and utility when he
was but twenty-two years old. He had then the Sun dire(5led to the lextile
rays of Venus, lady of the alcendant, in Taurus, her own dignities; which
is an eminent argument of the happy and deferved efteem his writings met
^with in the world.
Many fpeculations and interefting conclufions might be drawn from this
figure; but, as my defign herein is only to give the rudiments whereby to
initiate the young Undent into the art of bringing up direftions, I fhall only
take notice of the manner of his death.
The Sun is without difpute the giver of life, and Mars and Saturn
are the deftroyers. The Sun is therefore to be dire<a:ed to the quartile
4 of
OFASTROLOGY. 883
of Mars in mundo, and to the conjundtion of Saturn in the zodiac, and,
immediately after fuch conjundlion was formed, heightened by the beams
of Aldebaran, it was natural to fuppofe the native would expire under the
oppreffion of a Gonfumptive or hedical habit of body ; which really put a
period to his exiftence on the 20th of September, 1668.
HENRY COLEY, Mathematician and Aftrologer.
Born in Lat. 51° 43'.
T, I 28
14. O 23
^ I 56
9 I 13
5 20
B I 59
When this native was between nine and ten years of age, he had the
fmall pox ; at which time the Moon was directed to the Virgin's Spike,
upon the cufp of the eighth houfe. This dircdlion is found by oblique de-
fceniion, under the Moon's pole, viz. 50° 4'.
In the middle of Auguft, 1 644, aged ten years and ten months, the na-
tive was afflidlcd with a violent fpotted fever and fore throat. This was
produced by the afcendant to the oppofition of Mars. At fourteen years
of age he had a tertian ague. This was the afcendant to the quartile of
Saturn.
When fourteen years and fix months old, the native entered into the
army. This inclination is pointed out by the Sun to the quartile of Mar»
in Scorpio. At feventeen years old, he had a dangerous fall from a
horfe, and was likewife in danger of being drowned. This is defcribed
by the conjundtion of the Moon and Mercury in the eighth houfe. I:i
September 1652, the native was fettled in a regular line of bufinefsj and
then the trine afpedt of Mars came to the mid-heaven. In April 1654, the
native went a journey to London, and was taken ill with a fever and fur-
felt. '1 his was produced by the conjundlion of the Sun and Moon in the
eighth houfe.
On the firfl: of May, in the year 1656, the native entered into the
holy flate of matritnony. This was occaiioned by the force of the af-
cendant, directed to the oppofition of Venus ; which Ihows likewife that
the marriage would not be very harmonious nor happy, nor of long
No. 45. 10 K duration
884 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
duration with refpeft to the life of the bride. This marriage, hoivcver,
produced one child, which was born in June, 1657, under the alcendant
diredted to the quartilc of Jupiter in a fruitful fign.
On the 24th of April, 1660, the native was married the fecond time,
under the influence of the alcemlant to the Dragon's Head; which, being
a good benevolent diredion, produced a good wife, and a happy marriage.
On the third of September, 1661, the native had a fon by this lady, born
under the afccndant diredled to the trine of Saturn in Sagittarius and Aries,
which are both mafculine figns.
In the year 166 3, the native publiflied his Clavis Elmata, under the di-
redion of the Sun in the fextile of Mercury. In May 1672, he had a
lliort but violent fever, which feemed to threaten life. This was produced
by the alcendant to the oppofition of the Sun. Upon his recovery, he
greatly enlarged and improved his Clavis Elmata ; at which time the Aloon
cajTie by direction to the mid-heaven. In the year 1673, ^^^ native firfl:
wrote and publifhed his lb niuch celebrated Almanac. The mid-heaven
was then in trine of the Moon.
Thefe are the accidents given by Mr. Coley himfelf, for the purpofe of
re(5lifying and difplaying his nativity ; and are therefore to be relied on.
Had this eminent profefTor of Aflrology undenlood the power of mundane
afpeifts and parallels, he would have avoided many abfurdities which ap-
pear in his works, and given lefs occafion for cavil and exultation to the
enemies of the fcience.
Upon the whole, this nativity promifcs much on the fcore of ingenuity
and invention, and has many teftimonies of confequent reputation and emi-
nence. Firft, Mercury is diredl, and fvvift of courfe, and in reception with
the fortunate planet Venus, which argues a clear underfl:anding and an up-
rio"ht judgment, and is the forerunner of refpedl and efteem. Secondly,
Mercury is in conjundlion of Spica Virginis, an eminent and benign fixed
flar, which adds both to the mental and wordly acquirements. Thirdly,
we find Mercury applying to a fextile configuration with Mars, in famili-
arity with anothet eminent fixed ftar. This endows the native with a lively
imagination, and an excellent invention. Fourthly, Mercury's triangular
rays cafl to the afcendant multiplies all thefe arguments, and ftrengthens his
title to public eftimaiion and regard.
But here are other arguments in favour of worldly honour and efteem,
Firft, becaufe the lord of the afcendant is upon the very cufp of the mid-
heaven.
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 8a5
heaven, which fcarcely ever fails to produce public fame and reputation ;
and, being in afpe(fl with an eminent fixed ftar, fhows that the native Vv-ill
never live in obfcurity or difefleem. Secondly, Jupiter, lord of the mid-
heaven, is in his exaltation, in trine of the Sun, which is a mofl illaftrious
configuration. Befides, the Sun being in reception of Mars proves that
the native fliall be in high efteem with the public. Yet Saturn's malefic
jiofition in the mid-heaven muft needs reduce the happy effeds of the fore-
going indulgent ftars, and give fome caufe of vexation and difappointment.
Saturn being lord of the twelfth, the houfe of private enemies and impri-
fonment, and being pofited in the tenth, denotes many ftrong and po.v-
erful enemies, and (hows fome reflraint of liberty, with temporary lofs
of honour and reputation ; yet it neverthelefs denionftrates that honour
fliall eventually court him, and the malignity of his enemies be totally
baffled.
The pofition of Mars in the feventh houfe, in oppofition to the afccnd-
ant, renders the native obnoxious to a particular defcription of men ;
which is alfo confirmed by the Sun's platic quartile to the afcendant, and
the Moon's pofition in the feventh houfe, in platic quartile to the mid-
heaven and to Saturn. But, fince Mars and the Sun both befriend the
native in a far more powerful degree than they affliift him, it is apparer.t
that all confequen: difputations will in the end turn out to the native's ho-
nour and advantage.
It is here worthy of remark, that this pofition of Mars in the feventh
houfe is to be found in the nativities of three eminent profelTors of the
aftral fcience, who were all contemporaries in the laft age, namely, John
Gadbury, William Lilly, and this native, Henry Coley ; all of whom
had flrong oppofitions to encounter with their enemies; but they lived
to triumph over them, and to fee their extirpation from the land of the
living.
JOHN PARTRIDGE, ProfclTor of Aftrology.—Born in Lat. 51° 3a'.
Tf
886 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
find Mars in his exaltation, and in reception of Saturn, with the Moon in
oppofition to one, and in quartile to the other. This configuration gave
the native a very acute and latirical turn of mind. The ftrokes of his pen,
when direded againft his enemies, were poignant and fevere; and, even
when drawn in behalf of his friends, he could not help expofing their in-
advertencies, and attacking their weak fide.
In the grand endowments of folid fenfe and undcrftanding, this native
was in no refpecft deficient; as is apparent by the fituation of Mercury
with the Sun, in the fcientific fign Aquaries ; both which fignificators
being in the trine of the Moon, and in Textile of their difpofitor Sa-
turn, afford the highefl proofs of a mind enriched with every brilliant
endowment.
That the native fliould be rich and fortunate, and arrive to the pinnacle
of honour and preferment in human life, is apparent, from the pofition of
the two fortunate planets, which behold each other in a fextile configura-
tion, v/hilfl: the Moon, lady of the eleventh houfe, the lord of the medium-
coeli, and the vital Sun, behold each other in a benefic trine. But this
nativity having been already moft completely invefligated, renders it un-
necefi!ary for me to fpeak of its dired:ions.
GEORGE PARKER, Profeffor of Aftrology.—Born in Lat. 53° N.
h
OFASTROLOGY. 887
efleemed his friends. After fuffering a deal of trouble and affli<5lion, it is
apparent he will overcome all, fincc the Sun, the lord of the afcendant, is
located in the afcendant, and is the ftrongcft planet in the heavens, difpofing
both of Mars and Saturn.
Between twenty-three and twenty-four years of age, the native en-
tered into the ftate of wedlock. This was effeded by the planet Venus
direded to the fextile of the afcendant. When he was thirty-nine years
and three months old, he was taken into cuftody and accufed with form-
ing a dangerous plot, but was cleared of this charge, under the afpect of
the Sun direded to the oppofition of Jupiter. The native wrote many
fmall trads, and was contemporary with Henry Coley, and John Partridge,
by whom he was mortally hated, and who threw out many wicked
invedives againfl him. He died in the year 1742, aged eighty-eight
years.
JAMES USHER, Archbidiop of Armagh in Ireland.—Born in Lat. 53^.
h
S8^ A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
occupying the cufp of the ninth houfe; which, aftiologically confidcred,
portends the going out of his glory and fame into every part of the
earth.
In the year 1600, and in the twentieth of his age, he was created Mafter
of Arts, a thing at that time of day not very common in either of the (Jni-
verfities ; it was therefore a greater dcmonflration of his piety and abihties,
and of the refpecft paid him by the learned. He had then operating the
Sun diredted to the fextile of Venus, and to the midheaven alfo. In the
year 1612, aged thirty-two, he was promoted to the dignity of a Dodtor
in Divinity ; at which time he had the midheaven dircdtcd to the fextile of
ihe Moon. In the year 1624, and in the forty-fourth year of his age, he
•was created Archbilliop of Armagh, and Lord Primate of Ireland ; though
he was. not put in poffeflion thereof till two years after. He had now the
Sun diredled to the fextile rays of Jupiter upon the cufp of the eleventh
houfe, in the higheft dignities; and therefore moft admirably fignificant of
thefe honourable preferments.
Soon after this native was created archbifhop, he was afflicflcd with a vi-
olent fit of ficknefs, which continued for nine months. The afcendant was
then direded to the oppofition of the Sun, and the Sun to the quartile of
Mars, which diredlion, falling in Cancer and Pifces, denotes it to be of the
putrid kind, and of long continuance. In the year 1640, being lixty years
of age, he came to England, under the impulfive force of the midheaven
diredied to the quartile of the Moon,'and the Part of Fortune to the fextile
of Mars. He was requefted, in the year 1647, by the benchers of Lin-
coln^'s Inn, to engage fonftantly to preach before them, and they would
allow him a confiderable maintenance j it being then the time of the bi(hops*
perfecution. At this time he had the Moon diredled to the fextile of Jupi-
ter, and the afcendant to the trine of Venus.
In the year 1655, on the twenty-firft day of March, this learned and
pious churchman, after he had been feventy- five years a pilgrim on the
earth, and fifty-five years a preacher of the gofpel, died at Ryegate in Surrey.
The diredlions operating were, the afcendant to the oppofition of Saturn,
lord of the eighth houfe of the nativity, and the Part of Fortune to the op-
pofition of Mercury.
NASC.
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 889
NASC-E RASMUS, of Rotterdam, in Holland.
Elevation of the Pole, 54°.
In this nativity we find Mercury and Venus pofited in the afcendant;
a proof of volubility and freedom of fpeech ; and being alfo in an airy
fign, beheld by ;i benefic trine of Jupiter from the ninth houfc, de-
dares the native to be a perfon of flrong natural parts, and rich mental
endowments.
The learned Cardan has fhown, that the reafon why this native aban-
doned his own country, and undertook fo many complex journeys, was
becaufe the luminaries were in the dignities of Mars, with the lord of the
ninth in the afcendant, in the conjundlion of the lady thereof, in a
moveable fign. The fame ingenious author further obferves, that, while
the midheaven was under the direftion of the fextile rays of Venus, the
native enjoyed times of happinefs and reft. This, was mofl completely
felt about the thirty-fourth year of his age, but its continuance was fhort.
His fifty-fixth year proved a mofl dangerous and unfuccefsful one to him,
for he then laboured under the baneful oppofition of the Moon to Jupiter,
llimulated by the quartile irradiation of Mars. He died in the feventieth
year of his age.
MARTIN LUTHER.
The nativity of this celebrated divine is remarkable for having fo many
planets located in the ninth houfe. Saturn and Mercury are in conjundlion
in the fign Scorpio, which affords a ftriking prefage of the zeal and per-
feveranie of his mind;, whilft the five planets in the ninth houfe declare
his fuccefs in religious controverfy. There is no need of pointing out the
feveral diredtions; they are already confidered by the ingenious Mr. Ga^-
bury j and it will be no improper exercife for fuch of my readers who have
an inclination to become further acquainted with this fcience, to colledt
the feveral configurations and diredlions from the horofcope in the annexed
plate, and to equate and bring thenri up, according to the rules here-
tofore laid down.
The diredlions of all thefe nativities, which are feledted from Mr.
Gadbury, by way of example, are fo eminent and remarkable, and the
characters of the different natives fo well known, that they comprife a mofl
excellent fet of EXERCISES for any perfon denrous of learning the aftral
fcience.
BISHOP
890 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
BISHOP HALL.—Born under the elevation of the Pole of 53'*.
T,
y^if.
OFASTROLOGY. 891
GEORGE III. KL\G of GREAT BRITAIN.
Werelto enter minutely into a calculation of this nativity, the event
might be prejudicial to many, and draw upon me the contempt of fome
and the refentment of others. Therefore, fince it is my wifli to give
offence to no party, nor to ftir up the embers of ftrife and diifenlion
am: ngft the different orders of fbciety, 1 fhall content myfelf with
making only a few remarks, whereby the inquifitive reader may be led
to a contempfttion of thofe celeftial influences, which ftimulate and
govern the attions and purfuits of men, and form the bafis of ail fublu-
nary events.
Upon the oriental horizon of this illuflrious geniture, we find the
noble and princely fign Leo afcending, with Caput Algol and the
benefic Jupiter mo!! glorioufly elevated in the medium-cceli, the houfe
of i^ingly honour, eminence, and unbounded fovereignty; which are
true emblems of that univerfal joy, of that glory, honour, and renown,
wherewith his majefly moft delervedly afcended the Britifh throne. As
to the fignificators of temperature and difpofition, no geniture in the
woild ever produced more evident proofs of that reftitude of principle,
of that benevolence of heart and mind, of that regard to judice, mercy,
and truth, which affimilates the human nature to the divine image of
the Deity, and forms the interior of a patriot king. That the refult has
uniformly kept pace with this defignation, I am fure no good man, nor
any loyal fubjeft, will deny.
The mofl remarkable circumftance in this geniture is the congrefs for-
med m the eleventh houfe; which it is my wifh that every fcientific
reader would pay particular regard to ; and I have no doubt but they
will readily make out, by the rules heretofore given, a pretty correft
prefage of all the principal public occurrences that have happened during
the prefent reign.
Whoever turns to page 166 of this work, will find it laid down as a
fundamental principle in the rules of this fcience, that, by the conftitu-
tion of the eleventh houfe, that is, of the configuration formed therein,
we deduce all enquiries concerning friends and friendfhip, hope, trufl,
expeftation, or defire; alfo whatever relates to the fidelitv or perfidiouf-
nefs of friends; or to the counfellors, advifers, affociate*, favourites,
flatterers, or fervants, of kings, princes, or men in power. The co-iig-
nificators of which are the Sun and Aquaries.
No. 46. 10 M I would
892 ANILLUSTRATION
I would now wifh the planets in the eleventh houfe to be well confi-
dered, their tendency and defignation afcertained, and compared with the
revolutional figures of the royal horofcope, in thole years when any re-
markable national event came to pals. J he lelult would not fail to
enlighten the underltanding of molt men, and would lead the mind to
an unalienable love and attachment to the perfonand family of our nioft
gracious fovercign.
For example;' let the radical horofcope, the revolutional figure for the
thirty-eighth year of his majelly's life, and the fcheme of the American
aera of independence, be projefted by the fide of each other: let the
cardinal houfes be well confidered, with the manner in which they alpeft
or irradiate each other; and give the refpeftive fignificators, as their poli-
tions are found to vary, their true and genuine implication, according,
to the known and eftablilhed rules of the fcience; and I am bold to fay,
that no one will be at a lofs to account for thole unhappy events, which
have leldom been attributed to the right caufe.
The NATIVITY of our BlelTed LORD and SAVIOUR
JESUS CHRIST.
Upon this nativity I fhall not venture to give any opinion of my own.
It was calculated above a century ago, by that learned and ingenious au-
thor, Dr. John Butler, chaplain to his grace James duke of Ormond^
and re6lor of Litchborougn, in the county and diocefe of Litchfield.
He publiflied it in an 8vo volume, with a very learned and ingenious in-
trodu6lion, fupported by a fet of Chronological Tables, calculated to
place the day and hour of our Saviour's birth at a certainty beyond dif-
pute; and, as that book has been many years out of print, and is now
become very fcarce and valuable, I have thought proper to copy that
part of it which contains the immediate calculation of this nativity, in
the doftor's own words, without adding to or diminifhing from the text,
or prefuming to introduce any remarks of my own.
The geniture, or figure of birth, difplayed in the annexed plate, was
alfo proje6led by this learned author, which I have caufed to be carefully
engraved from a correfled copy in the doftor's own hand; and I flatter
myfelf, that the reputation which this traft has acquired in every part of
Europe, added to the refpe6iability and eminence of its author, will not
fail to render it highly acceptable to the reader. The following extra6l
commences with page 256 of the doftor's book.
Of
D
8gi ANILLUSTRATION
over twenty-nine complete years, he was baptized, and entered into his
niiniltry; and at the lame time he was forty-days tempted of" the devil;
and at the end of thofe was very contcmptuoudy caR out of Nazareth by
the rude rabble there. Yet, notwithltanding, he was very well received
at Capernaum; and at Jerufalem lie drove the buyers and fellers out of the
temple. And laftly, after three years and three mondis fpent in his mi-
niftry, at thirty-two years of age and one hundred and one days over, he
was crucified upon Mount Calvary, between two thieves, and died upon
the crofs. But, although he lived unto that time, yet it was about fix
months fooner, at what time the Jews confpired againft him to kill him at
the feafl of tabernacles; and about two months before the tiioe he was
condemned by the Sanhedrim, and a proclamation was ifTued out to take
him. Now may we find a time, according to the experienced rules of
art, to fuit fitly with all thefe accidents, and fuch a time as fhall aptly
delcribe him to be the man that in Holy Writ he is fet forth to be. 1 hen
fay I, it is a certain argument that both the day, hour, and minute, of
Chrift's birth are demonftratively determined. And fo will all acknow-
ledge, who know what Aftrology is.
The DIRECTIONS of this NATIVITY, whereby the gencthliacd
Scheme of Birth is "uerifeJ.
ob. af. a. d. ye. d.
^ to Algol's Head - 32 7 o 12 o 74'
M. H. to ^ O - - 92 11 o 30 o 185
O to D D - - 294 45 o 38 o 235 ^^^ flj .^ j^j^ £
©to 5 with Lat. - 271 3b o 7 o 40 1 ° °'^
To 5 without Lat. - 272 42 o 57 o 352
M. H. to <? 9 at - 93 8 1 27 1 172
Afc. to D 9 - - 183 22 1 41 1 259^
]) toTer. 9yo - 34 72 12 2 85C The return.
5 to Flying Vult. vy - 518 o o 00 o^
yToTer. % - 192 43 3 3 3 351
^iTo A b - - 193 54 4 14 4 108
1
,
cTo A - - 36 45 4 30 4 2o6j.Heincreafedinwifdom.
^iTo A 5 - - 37 26 5 31 5 208
1
btoA$ - - 00000 Oj
aV";'°o°.^ "
JP^ 5 52 5 3481 Bodily diftempers and
^/\?'^r?., ' " ^^ ^
62461801 ,,o,Idly afftonts.
M. H.toD ^ - 99 22 7 41 7 331
J
'
Afc.
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 895
ob. af, a. ye.
Afc. to ^ - - 190 1 8 20 8 1 60 Healthful.
}) to ?5 - - 42 n 10 16 10 152 Slanders.
?/ to A 9 - - 100 13 10 33 10 2431, A pleafant time.
9 to * ]) - - 324 57 11 58 12 52
^ (to A :^ - - 306 15 12 6 12 119
ao A without Lat. o o 12 14 12 138 VThe difputation with
Afc. to A b Lat. - 193 58 12 17 12 169 the doctors.
Afc. to A l/f without Lat. 194 1 12 20 12 193
IXth to A ^ Lat. -
73 46 12 5 12 101 j
© to A b - - 310 3 15 50 16 61 Gain by old folks.
J) to contra-an, 9 - 48 37 10 42 16 345 His mother ill.
to contra-an. '}/. - 289 5 17 20 17 214 His father ill.
IXth to c5 h - - 77 43 16 8 16 98 Scorned at for his piety.
9 to :4; O - - 329 22 16 23 16 278 Favour of great men.
Afc. to A >6 - 200 24 18 43 18 301 A very pleafant time.
IXth to A^ 9
' -"
^83 48 22 ^3 It 46l"°"°"'''^^°''^'''P^"'y-
}) to n 9 - - 54 23 22 28 22 291 7 Scorned and hated for
:^ to ^ ]) - - 212 35 22 S5 23 92 i the fame.
D to Rigel - , 56 10 24 15 24 221 j^'^^i
^"^°
'i'^
°''^^'
° ^ t 3 t ^ lof the four and twenty.
9 to Tp - - 340 24 27 25 27 299 More hatred for religion
^/ f« I ^ r..-, ,^ ^-, r.^ ^o r Refpeft from great men
4^ to -k O - - 217 10 27 30 28 o-J r u- (^
^ ' ' "^
1 for his religion.
("Great affronts from all
to n J) - - 99 45 28 o 28 150] forts of people for
L his piety and religion.
In Jan. he was baptiz-
-,, 4.^ , u o o ed, and began to preach,
:?^ to * « - - 218 19 28 39 29 25] 'd was fuccefsful in
gathering difciples.
iHe
was by means of
this affronted and cafl
out at Nazareth.
IXth to Caftor's Head at o o o o 29 &c. His miniftry.
}) to the Goat -
63 73112?
M. H. to Hydr. Heart 122 37 31 12^^ ^'^^
Afc. to <? }) - 212 50 31 9 31 222 1
jj crucified.
Afc. to 8 J) with Lat. 213 2 31 21 o 296 { "^ ^^* """'^^°'
No. 46. 10 N Now,
Sg6 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Now, as ChriR had a real body made of a woman, fo was it no fmail
argument oF the reality of his body, in that it fubmitted unto the im-
prelFions of the (lars, as do thofe of other men. For, ahhough the ini-
mcafurable power of the fpirit upon him was able to (way, and did fway,
all imprelfions and inclinations of nature, lb as to fubjc£l them abfolutely
to be obedient in all things unto the command of his holy will, yet
were not only the complexion of his body, but alfo the qualities of
his mind and affections, much of them preffed and wrought by the
power of the heavens. Only excepted, that, whereas he was born with-
out (in, neither evil planets, nor evil afpetls of any planet, could have
that advantage to work upon his manners and difpofuion, lo as to incline
tnem with fuch command as they do by others. But, as for the acci
dents of his life, in refpeft of what belel him, as for matter of love Oj-
hatred, ficknefs and health, life and death, the ftars had as free and full
liberty and power over him and his body as upon any the leaft of us.
For, though he was able, by fpecial authority of his own, to force the
utmoit power of ftars, or heaven, yet herein lay his humility, and his
charity in that humility, in that he voluntarily fubmitted his body to be
ordered according to the courfe of nature: whereas, would he himfelf,
he might have made it lord overall that nature could do. And, though
he raifed the bodies of others from death unto life, in defpite of nature,
yet would he fuffer his own body quietly to be ordered even as nature
would herfelf.
Thefe things confidered, next come we to meafure the time between
the accidents of life and time of birth. It is obferved, and a continued
experience has verified it according to obfervation, that, (unlefs fome
Ipecial interruption intervene, either by a tranfit, or fome revolution ut-
terly crolTmg,) from the fignificator in a nativity unto the promittor of
the thing fignified, there are ordinarily fo many times one year and five
days and eight hours as there are degrees either of afcenfion or defcen-
fion between the one and the other. The molt remarkable accident of
Chrill's life, that we can work by, was his death, and the manner of it
at the end of thirty-two years and an hundred and one days after birth.
To bring this about, the Moon claims nothing as a fignificator. The
Sun feems to proffer fomething, as if his direction to the quartile of the
Moon fhould proclaim fome fuch matter. But then the Sun, being
neither giver of life, nor years, in this nofturnal geniture, could hardly
have fuffered fo fatally by that quartile, that death fhould follow upon
it. And befides, upon examination it appears, that the direftion came
up fon;e years too foon for thirty-two, m what pofition foever placed
under ground. And now therefore, if neither Sun nor Moon were
aftors
OFASTROLOGY. 897
aflors in fuffering that direful fate, then it follows, that certain!)' it was
that point of the fcheme which is called the afcendant. And, if lo, then
it was either the direction of the afcendant to the quartiie of the bun.
(and thus it was a ten-o'clock birth, and Virgo afcendcd;) or it was> the
oppohtion of Mars a quarter of an hour after the fame, Virgo afcending.
Or it was the oppofition of the Moon, and then \\'as it a nndnignt
birth, and Libra afccnded; or it was to the oppoiition of Saturn, and
then was it a birth at almoft half an hour pad eight in the morning, and
iScorpio alcended. But, of all thefe, none will fuit with a defcription o;'
the perfon, and the other accidents of his life, but that of the a'cendant
to the conjunftion of the Moon. The Moon at midnight of the fore-
mentioned day, we find in the fign Aries, and in twenty-eight degrees
and one minute thereof, upon the cufp of that which is called the eighth
houfe of heaven, or the houfe of death; and there is hie nearly in con-
junftion with a ftar called Algol's Head, which is one of the mofl ma-
lignant ftars in the whole heavens, and difpofed of by the planet Mars,
who is the lord of the native's profefTed enemies, and alio of death. The
Moon of herfelf is naturally a giver of life; but, as fhe fits upon the houle
of death, and difpofed of as fhe is, fhe fignifies a murderer: and, as for
the perfons fhe fhould work it by, they are the common people and rude
rabble, and efpecially women, whom fhe naturally reprefents; and tlie
chief magiflrate of the place, whom alio fhe reprefents by accident, by
virtue of that dominion which fhe claims in the tenth houfe, or houfe of
honour and dignity; and fome ecclefiaflical perlbn or perfons by acci-
dent alfo, as fhe has dominion in the ninth houfe; and laftly f'oldiers,
as fhe is difpofed of by Mars, who naturally fignifies men of war. Now,
all thefe fignifications fo fitly meeting in the Moon, and fhe fb aptly re-
prefenting a murderer, how readily flands fhe to ferve our purpofe? 'Jo
proceed therefore, we find the oblique defcenfion of her in that degree
and minute to be two hundred and twelve degrees and fifty minutes:
but, if we confider her latitude, the oblique defcenfion will prove two
hundred and thirteen degrees and two minutes. Next, as for the time
when the afcendant fell under this direful direftion, we mufl allow fome
time for the flrength of conflitution, which this fcheme, pofited alter
this manner, feems to aflPord the native to wreflle with the flrokes of
death. For Jupiter, a benevolent planet, lord of the fixth, and in the
afcendant, together with his antifcions in the fixth, and a fextile of the
Sun lighting there alfo, befpeaks an healthful body, and of a very flrong
conflitution, and luftily able to flruggle with its deftinies, before deaili
fhall get the maffery. Wherefore we mult not lay the afcendant under
the oppofition of the Moon jufl upon the very day of death, but fome
weeks before it. And, feeing we have an oppofition, firft v.ithout lati-
3 tude,
8g8 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
tude, and then wlih it; we iherefore lay the introduftion to this fatal
murder firit, under the oppofition with latitude, and that was at the end
of the fealt of tabernacles, at what time the Jews firft took up ftones
to flone him; but he elcapcd away and hid himfelf; and this was fome-
what before the very day of his nativity, at the end of thirty-two years
of age, on the 17th of (Jclober. Now, between the oppofition without
and the oppofition with latitude are feventy-four days, and, during this
time, Jefus was llruggling with crofs fates, and preached privately in
Judea, and not openly, for fear of the Jews: only, at the feall ol de-
dication, he appeared in vindication of the blind man, unto whom he
had given fight. But at that feall again, took they up ftones to kill
him, and they fought to take him, but he efcaped, and went away be-
yond Jordan : and this was about the twenty-fifth of December, at
thirty-two years of age: and yet he lived three months ftill after that,
but then it was as a wounded perfon, all the while debating with death:
for the Jews condemned him to die abfolutely, and laid wait to take him,
and he could not walk openly among them any more, but went away
beyond Jordan unto Ephraim on the borders of the wildernefs. To
meafure therefore from the 17th of 06lober, or the morrow after the
feaft: of tabernacles, in the thirty-fecond year of Chrift almoft ended,
unto the day of his nativity, there are thirty-one years and two hundred
and ninety-feven days; which, turned into degrees after the rate of one
vear five days and eight hours to a degree, (as was before mentioned,)
do make thirty-one degrees and twenty-one minutes; and thefe again
fubtrafted from the oblique afcenfion of the Moon's oppofition in Libra,
twenty-one degrees one minute, which is two hundred and thirteen de-
grees two minutes, do make the oblique afcenfion of the afcendant to be
an hundred and eighty-one degrees forty-one minutes; and that oblique
afcenfion, under the elevation of thirty-one degrees and fifty minutes,
places the afcendant of this nativity in the fign Libra, one degree twenty-
fix minutes; and from the oblique afcenfion of the afcendant, one hundred
and eighty-one degrees forty-nine minutes, fubtra6ling ninety degrees, the
right afcenfion of the mid-heaven muft be ninety-one degrees and forty-
one minutes; and the right afcenfion placeth the mid-heaven itfelf in
the fign Cancer, In one degree thirty-three minutes: and now again
fubtra6l we the right afcenfion of the Sun, which is two hundred and
feventy-two degrees eleven minutes, from the right afcenfion of the
mid-heaven, which is ninety-one degrees forty-one minutes ; or, be-
caufe that cannot be, from four hundred and fifty-one degrees forty-one
minutes, which is the addition of the whole circle of heaven to the
right afcenfion of the mid-heaven; and the remainder is one hundred
and feventy-nine degrees thirty minutes of the equator, which turned
into
O F A S T R O L O G Y. ' 8gg-
into the hours and minutes of the day, do befpeak the equal time of
Chrifl's birth to have happened at eleven hours and fifty-eight minutes
in the afternoon, to which add one minute and thirty-eight feconds for
equation, and the apparent time was eleven hours, fifty-nine minutes,
and thirty-eight feconds, which comes within a fmall matter of midnight.
The time of birth being thus propofed, I calculate all the planets
places for this time, and dire6l them to their promittors, together with
the afcendant, mid-heaven, and the ninth houfe, in order to fuit all
other accidents according to this time, that by fo doing it may appear,
according to the moll experienced rules of Afirology, we have laid the
time right. And, this being done, it appears, firft, that the angels adored
him ; but this aft had nothmg of the Itars in it. Then, that the Ihep-
herds came and publiflred his glory all over the city, and in thirteen days
after came the wife men from the eaft to worfhip him; all thefe were
nothing elfe but the fruit of famous tranfits at the time of birth: the
Virgin's Spike and Ar6lurus (two great and noble liars) were newly gone
by, and, oeing within orbs, drew after them a goodly race of honour
and glory; Jupiter who accidentally reprefented Ihepherds, as he was
lord of the fixth houfe, and naturally fignificd religious perlons, or royal
priefts, being in the afcendant, and near upon the cufp, was much about
rifing, when the fhepherds entered, and drew the prieflly kings out ot
the eaft to vifit him; the Sun, alfo a fignificator of honour, was in con-
jun6lion of Venus, who had dignity in the ninth, and v/ith the Flying
Vulture, a royal ftar, and the famous Fomahaut, by latitude, was
within his beams, with thefe tranfits accompanying thefe honourable
direftions. Firft the mid-heaven was nearly coming up to the oppofi-
tion of the Sun, and the afcendant was haftening after to the quartile of
the fame, and the Moon alfo was nearly in trine of the Sun and Mercury.
But that which came neareft to the purpofe, was the Moon to the con-
junftion of Algol's Head, at the end of twelve days and odd hours, at the
very point of time as the wife men came. Now this Algol's Head is a
ftar of Saturn and Mercury, and, though it be a mifchievous ftar, yet
it fignifies preferment, though it be with a vengeance at the heels of it.
And fo it was here. For, the wife men being gone, Herod, by means
of their coming, plotted Chrift's murder, and forced him to flight.
The mid-heaven alfo to the oppofition, and the afcendant to the
quartile, of the Sun, afted much iuch another part as Algol's Head did,
giving honour of kings, though not without a mifchief in it. But the
Moon in trine of the Sun and Mercury, argued an aptnefs of the native
to be honoured both of kings and priefts, and of all men in authority.
No. 46. 10 O And,
<po a'n illustration
And, although thel'e direftions came not up until above four years after,
yet, by means of good tranfits, the virtue of them diftilled fo long
before.
After thefe things followed the flight into Egypt within the firft year.
And this needed no more anger than from what direftions gave the pre-
ceding honour, as the Moon to Algol's Head, at thirteen days of age;
for here Herod plotted his murder; and the mid-heaven to the oppofi-
tion of the Sun at an hundred and eighty-five days end; and the afcen-
dant to the quartile of the Sun at two hundred and two days end; and
to Mercury at three hundred and fifty-two days end; for all this while
was our Lord and bleffed Saviour a llranger in a flrange land, and aR
exile who durll not (hew his head, neither durft his parents be known,
who, or what, or where, he was. The Sun to Mercury as lord of the
twelfth houfe, fignifies a milchief by means of private enemies; and yet,
as Mercury was alfo lord of the ninth, it helped out of that mifchief, by
means of a long journey : with thefe alfo accompanied the Part of For-
tune to a quaniie of the Moon at two hundred and ninety-three days end;
and the mid-heaven to the oppofition of Mercurv at one year's end and
one hundred feventy-two days: and laftly, the afcendant to the quar-
tile of Mercury at one year's end and two hundred and fifty-nine days,
(for fo long continued our Saviour's exile in Egypt.) But when the
Moon entered into terms of Venus in Taurus o o, at two years of age
and eighty-five days, he returned home with his parents. At much
about the fame time came Mercury alfo to the Flying Vulture, and
Jupiter to the North Balance with latitude: and at three years and
thirty-five days came Jupiter into his own terms: and at four years and
one hundred and eight days, he came to a trine of Saturn: and a little
after, at four years and two hundred and fix days, the Moon gained the
trine of the Sun: and in the next year, at five years of age and two hun-
dred and eighteen days, fhe attained to the trine of Mercury: and Saturn
about the fame time came to a trine of Venus. Now during thefe time*
Jefus greatly increafed in wifdom; and, befides that, the graee of God
was mightily upon him. Thefe things aptly furthered his great parts
by nature. But at five years and three hundred and forty-eight days,
the mid-heaven occurred to the quartile of Mars; and at fix years and
one hundred and eighty days, the afcendant was encountered with an
oppofition of the fame. And during thefe times Jefus wanted not his
(hare of worldly erodes: he feems to have been laden with quarrelfome
affronts, and likely enough it is that his parents fuffered in the lame way,
if they efcaped ficknefs, and loffes in edate and honour. Moreover, our
I >
Saviotir.
OFASTROLOGY. goi
Saviour feems to have tailed fome (harp diflempers of body himfelf, or
elfe very great wrongs from his enemies. But ftorms laft not for ever:
the afcendant came to Jupiter, at eight years and one hundred and fixty-
fix days, and gave him a very halcion time; and he then lived in much
love of neighbours and kindred. At ten years and one hundred and fifty-
two days, he feems to have encountered fome more misfortunes, or effe
his mother bore them for him, by means of the Moon falUng into the
pit called the Dragon's Tail. But within three months afte*r, Jupiter
coming -to the trine of Venus gave him great content, whether it was by
means of fome long journey, or by realon of the pleafure of his ftudies,
or both :
however, it was a pleafant time, and the world feemed to wel-
come him with fome of her favours.
But, at the end of twelve years and fome three months over, he began
to be taken notice of publicly for his great wifdom and parts. Venus-
was lady of his afcendant, and alfo principal fignificatrix of his mind.
And, at twelve years of age and fifty-two days over, fhe came, by di-
reftion, to a fextile of the Moon's difpofitrefs of his honour and ad-
vancement; which is as much as to fay, fhe brought him to be well
accepted for his inward worth, and excellency of mind, amongft men
of power and authority. And the virtue of this good diredion
wrought to purpofe at the paffover after, at the latter end of March,
about fome forty-one days after the direftion happened. But, from this
time forward there is no queftion but he was every year more and more no-
ted and admired, as he came yearly up to the feaft at Jerufalem; for at
twelve years and one hundred and nineteen days, which was but a month
after the paffover, the Part of Fortune came to a trine of Jupiter witb
latitude, and about feventy-four days after to the fame trine without
latitude; and at one hundred and fixiy-nine days over twelve years-
came up the afcendant to a trine of Saturn out of ^he ninth houfe, with
latitude, and eighteen days after that to the fame trine without latitude -,.
and thefe are directions to credit a man, amongfl ancient and ferious
people, to purpofe. But that which hit nearelt upon the very week,
was the dire6lion of the ninth houfe unto the trine of Jupiter with-
latitude, which happened at the end of tvv^elve years and one hundred
and one days, at the beginning of April, prefently after the paffover
week; and the fame houfe came to the fame trine without latitude about
forty days after. But, however, the direftions preceding and fucceeding
all concurred to heap up the glory of his difputation amongft the doftors^.
Alfo thefe kind of direftions macie him dexterous at his qalling too, in
building houl^, and following his bufinefs ferioufly, and wuth great
induflry. After this, at over fixteen, came the Part of Fortune to a
trine
go2 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
trine of Saturn, and that was good, but had relation chiefly to his trade,
as if he had gained by it in deaUng with elderly people. But, half a
year after, the Moon to the contra-antifcion of Venus was- ill either to
himfelf or his mother, or both. And at over fevenieen, the Sun fell
under the contra-antifcions of Saturn, and that feems to have been
grievous to his reputed father. At fixteen years and ninety-eight days,
the ninth houfe came up to the body of Saturn, and then no doubt but
he was I'ufficiently unhappy in his grave counfels, and met with more
derifion than attention. And they, who formerly had applauded his wif-
dom, would be apt enough now to betray their own weaknefs, in chan-
ging their (lory. Yet Venus coming to the fextile of the Sun a little
after, in the fame year, would not only allay much of that difpa-
ragement, but alfo would be raihng friends amongft the more prudent
fort of powerful perfons, to reprove and bridle the licentious lips of en-
vious and upbraiding tongues. At eighteen years and three hundred and
fixty-one days the afcendant happened upon the trine of Venus, and
that was an healthful and a pleafant time, cleaving off the reproaches of
Saturn and envious people. At twenty-two entering, the Part of For-
tune fell into the lap of Venus in the fifth houfe, and rendered a time
religioufly pleafant. And at twenty-two years and one hundred and
thirty-fix days, the ninth houfe got out of the clutches of envious Saturn,
and encountered a trine of Venus, in the fign Gemini. And this un-
doubtedly gave him to fee favoury fruits of his good counfels and grave
admonition, to his great contentment. But towards the year ending,
the Moon coming to the quartile of Venus interrupted the pleafant pro-
grefs of his affairs. And, in the twenty-third year well entered, he met
with great oppofition, as well from men in power as the rabble-rout,
greatly gainfaying his facred converfation, and this by means of Jupiter
falling under the Moon's oppofition, both without and with latitude.
At twenty-four years* of age and two hundred and twenty-one days,
came the Moon to the Foot of Orion, called Rigel ; at what time might
poflibly happen the preferment into the order of the twenty-four, Ipoken
of by Suidas, of which he never made either proHt, ufe, or advantage,
unlefs it were by accident. At twenty-feven years and two hundred and
ninety-nine days, Venus, lady of the afcendant and of the ninth houfe,
fell upon the quartile of Saturn; and this adminiltered unto him much
of trouble in his mind, and of difturbances in his religious courfes, and
perhaps he met with ibme wrong in his journey to the feafl of taberna-
cles, which happened about that time. At twenty-eight years of age
complete, Jupiter attained unto the fextile of the Sun, and that admi-
niflered unto him much favour and refpeft from perfons of quality.
But, the Sun being at the very bottom cf heaven, it feems as if all his
greatelt
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 903
greateft friends favoured him, like Nicodemus, more by night than by
day. At one hundred and fifty days over twenty-eight years of age, the
Sun was encountered with the quartile of the Moon. And at this time,
John the Baptifl entering into his miniftry. Jefus feems greatly to have
been affronted by people of all forts. It is very likely too, that old JolVph,
his reputed father, yielded unto nature about this time; for the Sun hg-
nifies parents. And whether it was wl^cn Saturn came to the oppofition
of the Sun, or now that the Sun came to the quartile of the Moon, we
cannot certainly determine; but much about this lime it feems he left
this world for a better.
But now the time draws on, wherein Jefus began to fhew himfelf the
Chrirt; at this time he was baptized of John in Jordan. His kingdom
was not of this world, neither was his miniftry of men, or by man's
authority, but by a divine commiffion; and by figns and wonders it was
confirmed to be fo. We cannot therefore expe6l infkience from heaven
for thofe things which come from beyond heaven; nor mull we expe6l
a commiflfion from the ftars for thofe miracles he a6ted as it were in
defiance of them. And, as for what applaufe followed by virtue of thofe
miracles, we muft look for the realbn of it from the Maker of all things,
rather than from any created being, though never fo much exceeding
all other creatures. Yet, for fuch natural paffages as amongft his mi-
racles did accrue, we cannot debarnature from executing her office ftill.
And firft, we find him thruft out contemptuoully and rudely at Nazareth,
with great fcorn unto his facred funflion; infomuch that he removed
his houfehold upon it unto Capernaum. And in this great affront his
mother alfo feemed nota little concerned, who removed her houfehold with
him, from where flie feems to have been bred and born, unto a Itrange
place. Now at this time the mid-heaven, the fignificator of Chriit's
honour and his mother's perfon, came to quartile of the Moon, which
very fitly fuits with all that happened. The dire6lion came up on the
fixth of November, before the twenty-eighth year was quite run out.
But the malice of it laded not only unto this affront, whicn was a6ted in
March of the twenty-ninth year entered, but alfo unto the paffover
following, whereat it encountered him with much fnarling of the Jews
againft him, notwithfl:anding all his great miracles. And worfe would
it have proved, but that Jupiter, the natural fignificator of his divine
funftion, came to a trine of Mercury, lord of the ninth. This happened
at twenty-five days over twenty-nine years of age, much about the
time of his entrance into his minillry. And, though we cannot fay
it purchafed him that honour, yet we can fafely fay that it prompted
his human mind to comply with his divine commiflionj and facilitated
No. 46. 10 P his
904 AN ILLUSTRATION
his reception, wherever lie came, with a kind of luck whereby this di-
reftion ll-rved him; for God Almighty makes ule of natural inilruments
to ferve divine ends. About this tmie alfo came the ninth houfe to the
mercurial flar called Caftor's Head; and the Moon encountered the She-
Goat, a liar ofMercury and Mars, at thirty-one years and two hundred
and forty days. Thefc are ftars furthering ingenuity, though not with-
out troubles, and fuch our Saviour wanted not for all the time of his
miniftration, until finally the afcendant came to the oppofition of the
Moon, firfl without latitude, at the end of thirty-one years and two
hundred and twenty-two days, about the beginning of Auguft; at which
time his neighbours of Capernaum began to deride his miniftry, and the
pharifees, complying with the Herodians, made him fly the country;
and, laftly, the afcendant to the oppofition of the Moon, with latitude,
the afcendant being in this figure Hyleg, and the Moon, which is Ana-
reta, being on the eighth houle, deprived him of life, as God had ap-
pointed it from the beginning.
Thus we find the time propofcd moft fitly agreeing with all pafTages of
his life, as well as with his death. But yet, to make fure work, we
ufed to compare the fituation of a fcheme alio with the complexion and
(jualities of the native, before we determine that the time is right. And
now to do as much by this; Firft, it is apparent, by the known rules of
art, that Jel'us was born, as it weie purpolely, and that fo as may be
dilcerned by the fcheme of his nativity, to die a violent death. For
here we have the Moon, the common fignificatrix of life, fitting upon
the very brink of death, upon the cufp of the eighth houfe: then we find
her in conjun^lion with the very word of malignant flars, Algol's
Head. The Dragon's Tail alfo is in the eighth, in lefs than ten de-
grees of her: but as bad or worie than all this is Mars in oppoHtion
unto Jupiter in the afcendant, and in quartile with Mercury, and the
Sun in the fourth. It is true indeed, that, as he came into the world
without fin, fo was he above the power of any influence of heaven to be
able to hurt him: and, had he not voluntarily fubmitted unto the infir-
mities of nature, they had never in the lead reached him. And, though
the fignificator of his enemies was fironger and better armed than inch
Itars were which flood for his own perlon. yet was his armour of inno-
cency eafily able to have overturned all, would he have uicd his mighty
pov/er to that purpofe: but fuch was his love, that he was willing to
lay down his life; and therefore he put hinTelf under the power of
nature, in order to lofe his life. And hence, by means of *his fubmif-
fion. Mars, in the houfe of enmity, the lord thereof, being fironger than
Venus, lady of the houfe of life,, or Jupiter, her aCTociate^ placed in
that
O F A S T R O L O G r. 905
that houfe, rendered his enemies too ftroner for hi~, and b~ckffi ihem wiUi
bitter choler, Ipite, and malice, again{t him. The Sun being in quar-
t;ie to Jupiter a'ld the afcendant, inclined ihe magillrates averfe both to
his perion and dodtrine. Mercury alfo in the lame quartiie incHncd the
chMrchmen with the fame averfenefs to oppofe liim. Mars in oppofition
exafperared ihe men of war. And, laRly, the Moon ftirred up the vul-
gar people to cry him down. And all this might have been as aptly fore-
ken by his nativity when he entered the world, as it is now known by
his life pail it.
But, to purfue the refidue of his perfon, as well as his condition, we
find, tliat Libra, a cardinal hgn, of temper fanguine, hot, and moift,
afcends ; and Jupiter is in the afcendant, near the point of rifing, at birth,
in a fign of his own nature; and Venus, lady of the afcendant, in Aqua-
ries, a Iknguine fign too, do all befpeakhim to have been a perfon ofa very
level temp r, and of a fanguine complexion. Venus, in trine to the
afcendant in the houfe of Saturn, endued him with a fober cheerfulnefs
in his converfation : and Saturn, being in a fanguine fign too, in trine
of Jupiter in the afcendant, from the ninth, or houfe of ingenuity and
religion, and in dignities of Mercury, v.-ith a reception from him in the
higheft degree by houfe, infufes melancholy into his temper, to mingle
with his mirth, and feeds him with a mighty (Irength of judgment and
deep policy: alfo he dillils gravity and ferioufhefs into all his anions : and
thus Jupiter, Venus, and Saturn, are mod excellently united in him
with the beft of afpefts. To thefe we may add the Moon, with almolt
a moiety of her orbs in her exaltation, and there in trine of the Sun and
Mercury. The Moon is the great miftrefs of life and nature, and the
trijies to the Moon do gratify the native, even as firongly as if they fell
into the afcendant. Hence therefore is he armed from the Sun with a
majeRicand a royal prefence, and princely prudence, and from Mercury
with as great a rtock of ready wit and ingenuity, and the rather, lor tliat
he is in Cazimi with the Sun, and in fo ilrong reception with Saturn. To-
gether with all thele we hnd Sp:ca Virginis, a ftnr of the fweetefl influ-
ence of all the fixed itars in" heaven, fitting near upon the cufp afccnd-
ing, and there admirably qualifying for oratory, and that efpttially in
divinity. Artturus is there too, a princely liar, tliat adminillers courape
and a noble reiolution. Laftly, the fign of jullice afcends; and Jupiter,
the planet of religion, joins with it, to increafe devotion ; and Sa-
turn and Venus are botii in figns humane and temperate. And, al-
though our Saviour was not as common people are, yet had nature
wonderfully fet him out.
But
9o6 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
Bui yet there arc exceptions. For the-Moon is ill placed on the eightli,
in an unlucky houfe, and joined with a peevilh and crabbed flar, which
mull needs infeft her to be fo too. Mars is alfo fet as if he Hood on pur-
pole to dellroy a nativity fo oppofite to Jupiter and the afcendant; and,
being flrong withal, he Teems to threaten all good qualities with an over-
turn, infuling nothing but choler, fury, and mahce, into the native's
liead; and, difpoling of the Moon, he makes her fo too. The Sun alfo
looks upon the cufp afcending with an evil quadrature, anrl fuch as ufu-
ally renders a native much more proud and ambitious than either wife or
good-natured; and Mercury, complying with the Sun in the lame afpe£l,
endeavours to incline this facred perfon unto theft and lies. But what
now? Was Jefus thus? or rather does not Aflrology belie him? No,
neither. For, had thele evil afpefts courted an ordinary nature unto
evil manners naturally, yet would they not have forced him, but he
might have overcome all by gracious habits. But much more than this
mult we note in our ever blelled Lord Jelus Chrifl. For, he being born
without fm in his nature, the heavens wrought upon him in a different
manner of influence from what they do by us. For, feeing that the divine
nature withheld fb as no fm could enter him, the word of afpecls (for
matter of qualification) became the befl unto him. For, by how much
an oppofition or a quartile is a flronger afpeft than a fextile or a trine,
may they be withheld from doing harm, they mufl: needs afpe6l with the
greateli; force of their virtues. And thus the oppofition of Mars, falling
mto his head, inflead of fury and choler, adminiftered the greater courage
in him; and the quartile of the Sun, inflead of pride and ambition, gave
him the greater inajeff y and wifdom ; and the quartile of Mercury, inftead
of lies, gave him the more prodigious wit; and the Moon with Algol's
Head, inftead of peevifli, made him the more foberly wife. But we mufl
remember, that, though Chrift could not fm, yet die he could. And
thus therefore oppohtions and trines, and evil flars, were as evil to him,
in as a high a degree, as unto the meanefl of us ; for in all things, faving
fin, was he as we are.
Next proceed we to his body, only fo as to compare that too with our
fcheme. For, though we have no proof either of his flature or his
colour, yet may we be bold to fay (by rules of art) that. Libra afcend-
ing, he was fomewhat inclined to be tall and fair: but this was the Jefs,
few degrees of that fign afcending, and they in terms of Saturn: elfe
is there nothing to except, unlefs the Moon, with Algol's Head, may
be thought fomewhat to abate from both. Jupiter m the afcendant
gives an handfome brown feature, hinders not tallnefs, but befpeaks
fome-
OFASTROLOGY. 907
fomewhat ofcorpulency ; fave that the trine of Venus from Aquaries, and
of Saturn out of Gemini, forbid it. Jupiter gives a grey eye, and fo
fays Venus; and none can hinder. Venus would sladlv beautify the
face, by virtue of her intereft in Libra ; and fomething fhe does to
render it rather fair than brown. And Saturn from Gemini can hinder
but very little : he would pacify, but Jupiter and Venus are refolved
to keep up the complexion. Jupiter adminifters brown hair, and Venus
renders flaxen; but Saturn would have it black ; whence, between both,
Jupiter carries it. Venus give a pleafant fmiling look, and Jupiter
denies it: not only Saturn attempts it, but prevails no farther than to
render it foberly ferious withal. The Sun and Mercury, with their trines
fo near the culp, would fain deform; but Mercury in the Sun has not
power to darken. The Sun would only caft fwarth ; but Jupiter in the
afcendant on one fide, and the Virgin's Spike upon it on the other fide,
utterly defeat him. Alars in oppolition would fain fcarify, but Jupiter
fo near defies him alfb. Laftlv, the Moon between Aries and Taurus
contraries but little from the reft ; efpecially for that fhe has fo few rays
falling into her bofom. The moft fhe does in oppolition is only, by
means of her place in the eighth, and being with Algol's Head fo near,
to wrinkle the brows, and furrow or dent the cheeks ; but fhe wants
flrength. Jupiter would have a full face, and Venus a round; and fa
it is concluded between them, faving that Saturn and the Moon together
prevail fo far as to render it oval.
Laflly, as for his other fortunes. Firfl, we find his afcendant and
fixth well fitted with a very flrong conftitution for health. The oppo-
fitionof Mars and a quartile of the Sun and Mercury prevail to harm
more by unlucky outward accidents than by inward diflempers. His
houfe of wealth is direftly oppofed by the Moon, lady of the mid-
heaven, and is not defended by any good afpefl: His mid-heaven is
alfo very low ; the lady of it is fufficiently afili6ted ; and, being incum-
bered with a croud of evil afpe61:s, had no help of either of the fortunes.
No, the Sun in the very bottom of heaven befpeaks that the native's
kingdom is not of this world. Only the Moon upon the houfe of
death, after void of courfe, is in trine of the Sun, which fhows to pro-
mife his kingdom by death, or after it. His ninth houfe has the help
of both the fortunes. But Saturn bodily dwells there, and hatcheth a
world of crofTcs, both in his functions and long journeys. His houfe
of enmity is very flrong, with the lord thereof therein, and at home ill
his own houfe, and threatens malice enough. The eighth houfe is
even malignant too ; and fo is the lord of the twelfth, faving his trine
to the Moon. But this lord is under the Sun, weakens his force.
No. 47. 10 Q aiid
9o8 AN ILLUSTRATION
and difcovers all his private fpleen. His fifth houfe, or houfe" of chil-
dien, has a rich jewel in it ; and the lord thereof looks pleafingly upon'
the afcendant, which argues he had a body fufficiently fruitful for itTue.
The lady of the afcendant alfo in the houfe of children, in trine to the
lord of that houfe, and both in good afpedl unto the houfe of marriage
and the lord thereof, do all agree, that it was no hindrance in nature
which rendered our Saviour wifelefs or childlefs. No, it was his great
gravity, or rather his infinite piety, which, for the kingdom of Heaven's
lake, led him to defpife nature's treafures. And hence came it to pafs,
that the church was his only fpoufe ; and by her hath he a numberlefs
offspring of holy faints unto his children. The lord of the fixth
is in the afcendant, and the great fortune ; whence were his fervants
true and faithful; only one Judas (when that fixth houfe came by di-
re6lion to the quartile of Mercury, in the entrance of the houfe of en-
mity) fatally betrayed him ; and the reft, more out of fear than for
falfehood, forfook him and fled. The lord of the ninth is very low, and
in quartile of Jupiter and Marr, and in conjunftion of the twelfth lord ;
which rendered his friends men of low condition, and befriending him
more by night than by day ; as being terrified by mighty enemies, and
not encouraged by any outward promifes from himfelf. The lord of
the third is in the houfe of enmity, and thence rendered moft of his
neighbours bitter and envious, efpecially during the times of ill direc-
tions operating. Only Jupiter, having dignities in that houfe, made
others of his neighbours and kindred as much his friends. Laftly, the
Sun upon the cufp of the fourth feems fitly to comply with that fove-
reignty which attended upon his death, and appeared by his refurre61ion
and afccnfion into heaven. When Adam entered, the Sun was juft
upon fetting. When Jefus Chrift was incarnated, he was jufl upon
rifing. But at his birth he was at loweft. For it was not the Sun of the
Firmament, but the Sun of Righteoufnefs, who arofe with healing in his
wings.
Such was the fortune of our Saviour, during his progrefs through this
earthly world ; and fuch were the qualities of his human mind, even
as the ftars defcribe them ; and fuch was the complexion of his hu-
man body, juft as the heavens do befpeak. And, though we never faw
his perfon, or any true portraiture of the fame, yet know we, by the
fcheme of his nativity, that he was a man fomewhat tall of ftature, of
an oval face, of a ruddy complexion between fair and brown, of a
grey eye, yet (harp and piercing, of a bright brown hair, of an high,
forehead, of much beard, of a pleafant look, fmiling, yet foberly le-
rious, and of a body well compofed, and indifferently fet, between
flender
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 909
{lender and corpulent. And all this know we by the canons of Aftro-
logy. And that thofe canons are true, ft is no fmall evidence, in that
all the known paffages of his life fo punftually comply with them.
And, be thefe canons true, (as we know by multitude of experience that
they are certainly fo,) then it appears by thefe canons, that at midnight
of December the twenty-fifth day, was i658* years complete, fince his
birth. And every birth-day of this our ever blefled Lord and Saviour
Jefus Chrift falls on the twenty-fifth day of December, His life points
out the very moment of time whereon he came into the light. And, the
fcheme of the heavens to that moment is a true pifture of his life ; and
fuch as no moment can Ihow again, in any hundred years time, before
or after.
To thefe may be added, the frame of the heavens at his death, fo fitly
fuiting with the time of the great bufinefs in hand, and defcribing what
was done. And firfl we note, that on the over-night of the paffover-
feafl:, at what time our Saviour was apprehended, the fign of the fourth
houfe in the nativity (which always carries with it the chara61er of death,
or the end of every matter) was then afcending ; and the Sun-, which
was therein at birth, was then in the bloody feat of Mars in the radix,
which was at that point of time the fourth houfe, or the bottom of hea-
ven, fhowing all the glory of his prefent life to be lying in the duft, and
his end of days hall:ening apace to overtake him. The malignant Saturn
was upon the houfe of pleafure, envioufiy eclipfing all his mirth :
Jupiter, who was radically a great affiftant in the afcendant, was the lord
of the afcendant, and fignificator of life at this time, but was locally in
tiie houfe of fervice and ilavery, in conjun6tion of Mars, lord of enmity
in the nativity, and now lord of his end, who was greatly afflidting him
in the radical place of Saturn, The fignificator of Judas in this fcene was
Mercury in his detriment and fall in Pifces, who, as he (lands in the
third, with the lady of the mid-heaven in conjunftion, and difpofes
of his mafter in the fixth, afHi6ts him with a malignant quartile ; and
laftly, the Moon, which was radically in the eighth, or houfe of
death, was now lady of death, and, being advanced unto the top of
heaven, feemeth to {land ttiere trampling on the head of the Sun in
the fourth, as it were in his grave, with her worft of rays, and they
too not a little poilbned with the nearnefs of the Dragon's Tail. Such
was the flate of heaven at his apprehenfion by Judas and his company at
twelve o'clock at night, on the evening preceding Friday the third of
April.
* The year in which this author (Dr. Butler) wrote, and calculated our Saviour's nativity.
Let it be remembered, that the alteration of the ftile has nothing to do with this calculation.
As
9IG AN ILLUSTRATION
As the Sun approached the afccndant, Jefus was led before Pontius
Pilate, the Moon in the feventh malicioufly oppofing ; for fb the judges
at his firft apprehenfioii became now his accuiers, and, poffen'uig" the
natural lign of Chrift himfelf, which afcended at birth, and which was
the fign of juflice, as the labourers in the vineyard^ under pretence of re-
ligion, caft they him out of his own : and Mercury and Venus, one
lignifying the traitor, and the other the magiftrate into whole hands he
•was betrayed, were then in the twelfth, afting the part of private ene-
mies. But, as the Sun drew into the eleventh, or houfe of hopes and
friends, and there infected by the envious place of Mars i.i the radix,
Pilate alfo, his Ibme- while friend, yielding at lafl to the oppolition of the
Moon, or the rabble, and turning enemy, condemned hirn to be crucified;
And, by that time the Sun in the radical chair of Mars came into the
houfe of honour, the Sun of righteoulnefs was lifted up upon the crofs,
as if he was hafting towards heaven, and that in order to draw all men
after him. And here the Mc<jn, iignifying the rabble, oppofrs him
with bitter railings. Saturn rpon the eleventh, and lord of enmity,
complies with them to deftroy his hopes ; and Jupiter, lord of the ninth,
iignifying the priefts, and Mars the foldiers, being both in the twelfth,
are private enemies. But finally, as they continue railing and reviling,
lo! at the very point of high noon, an univerfal daiknels overwhelmed
all, and the Sun himfelf blufhed to behold what curled things were a6t-
ing. The Sun was now where Mars was at birth, as it were difpofed of
by his mortal enemies. Jupiter, which afcended at birih, was in the
hands of Saturn, in his very feat of the radix, as it were in the dungeon
of bitter reftraint ; and Mars, the natural enemy, was afflicting him
there. The Moon, which was radically lady of the mid-heaven, and
placed upon the houfe of death, was now at length fettled and feated
together with the Dragon's Tail upon the afcendant, or the feat of life,
as who would fay, the utmofl: period thereof is now expiring ; and, even
as the darknefs fell, the Moon upon this place of life was juft under-
ground with it.
Laftjy, at three in the afternoon, the darknefs vaniflied, and the light
returned ; and then was the Sun falling into the houfe of death, flill being
in oppofition of the Moon. Saturn was in the ninth, enjoying the eccle-
liaftical, and Mirs in the tenth, ufurping the civil, authority. But, as
Chrifl: died, all his mifery dieii v/ith him : and that death brought light
into the world, and uHiored our ever-ble(fed Saviour in that glorious light
into his eternal glory. And fiially, the Moon arofe at fun-fetting; but
it was eclipfed, lignifying the fall of all fuch as thought to rife upon their
fovereign's ruins. And the frame of all thefe things ye may behold as fol-
lows, in the annexed fchemes.
But,
-^.^^%f^^^^M^^J/4K
M
w
Ou.
n
>i
n
CO
CD
O
w
-^
n>
C/D
Wjb
OFASTROLOGY. 911
But, becaufe the life and death of St. John the Baptist was io ncarlv
related to the life and death of our ever blefled Saviour, and the day of
his nativity appears alfo with much (how of certainty, I have thertfjre
taken the pains to calculate a fcheme of his nativity alio, as follows :
J South Latitude
f) South Latitude
1/. North Latitude
^ South Latitude
9 North Latitude
$ South Latitude
5
o
1
'>
1
I
2
45
6
'3
Here the Dragon's Head and Antares, with latitude upon the afceii-
dant, give a very bold man. The Moon with Regulus in trine of Mars
confirms the fame.
The fign Scorpio, with the contra-antifcion of Saturn in the afcendant
give one of a furly and auftere difpofition. Saturn in oppofition of Mars'
confirms the fame.
No. 47. 10 R The
9IJ AN ILLUSTRATION
The antiicion of Saturn on the ninth, with the Moon upon the afcen-
dant with the Dragon's Head, as alio the Sun, Venus, and Mercury,
in Textile of Jupitei ; incline unto honefty, gravity, and good manners.
Mercury in reception with Jupiter, and in trine to the afcendant
;
alfo the Moon in trine of Mars, and in reception with the Sun, and
the Sun in the Textile of Jupiter ;
give a fuiiicient wit, and a found
judgment.
Nothing promifes worldly wealth, but contrarily. Jupiter in the
mid-heaven, in Textile of the Sun and Venus, promiTes honour enough.
But Antares, a violent fixed Ttar, upon the afcendant, with latitude,
and that within a degree, beTpeaks a violent death. And Saturn in op-
pofition of Mais, from angles, (the one beaig lord of the afcendant,
and the other of the fourth,) peremptorily threatens it. And it came to
paTs, as it Teems to be u(hcred in by thefe diredions as follows.
Firfl", he entered into his miniftrv at the acre of twenty-nine years and
fome little odds ; and was immediately buoyed up with wonderful ap-
plauTe. At this time were operating, the afcendant in trine of the Moon,
with latitude firfl:, and then without ; the mid-heaven to the Virgin's
Spike, with latitude firfi:, and then Avithout ; alTo the mid-heaven to
Ardurus, without latitude. AlTo the Moon to the Textile of Mercury,
and the Sun to Regulus. But the afcendant came to->the conjundion of
Mars without latitude, at the Tame time.
Secondly, at thirty years of age and upwards, he was imprifoned. At
which time was operating, the Moon to the quartile of Mars, and the
Sun to Hydra's Head. The afcendant to the conjundion of Mars, with
latitude, and the mid-heaven to the quartile of the Sun, were coming
up. But,
Thirdly, he was beheaded; at which time came the afcendant to a
conjunftion with Mars, with latitude, at about thirty-one years of age,
and two hundred and Tixty days, or thereabouts. And the mid-heaven
to the quartile of the Sun was near in a6lion about the very Tame time.
Laftly, we find how this death was brought about by a fiie private
enemy. And Tuch a one we find Venus, lady of the twelfth, with the
Sun, lord of the mid-heaven, in the eighth.
Oa
O F A S T-R O L O G Y. 913
On ELECTIONS.
What fs meant by Eledions, is nothing more than, projecting a fcheme
of the heavens, to find the leveral pofitions and configurations of the
planets, on any given day, whereon we propofe to begin any bufinefs of
importance, to take a long or interefling journey, to make overtures of
nvarriage, or to purlue any objeft of our happinefs or advantage ; for the
purpofe of chooiing, what is vulgarly called, a lucky time to begin, that is,
when the influx of the principal fignificators is fuch as fliall correfpond
with the deliresof our own mind, and with the bufinefs, whatever it may
be, we wifh to take in hand.
I purpofely declined taking notice of this fpeculation in the Firfl
Part, that I might not be laughed at; which I muff own the abfurdity
and folly of thole, who, on every ludicrous and trivial occafion, have
reforted with religious folemnity to this cuifom, have given but too
much occafion to infpire : yet I will now take leave to hope that
enough has been faid to fhovv, that in our more Important concerns, and
in the real and heartfelt perturbations of our minds, upon the com-
mencement of any arduous and extenfive undertaking, it may be as Avell
to choofe thofe feafons when the befh and moll favourable influences of
the heavens concur, as when they put forth the moll: noxious and difcor-
dant irradiations. To a thinking mind, there cannot be a moment's he-
fitation, fince no man in his fenfes would prefer a flormy tempeftuous
day (o ride out for pleafure, to thofe diftlnguifhed by calmnefs and fere-
nity ; nor would he choofe an intenle frofty morning for the pleafiares
of a cold bath, which is luxuriant only in a milder feafon ; and yet all
thefe differences in the weather are produced by the varied pofitions and
changes of the planets, by an influx and cffed upon the ambient matter,
which we can no more lee than v/e can the influx produced by the lame
bodies upon the bent of our minds, or which determines this certain
order of times, {q fitly appropriated to all human concerns, that the
Scriptures pioufly recommend a due obfervation of them, and which
the Plalmifi declares, are beautiful in theirfeafons !
Thofe therefore, who witli to confult the heavens, previous to any
important undertaking, fhould projed the horofcope for that nrecile
time when they feel their inclinations moft completely bent upon en-
gaging in the bufinefs. This will fhow them the particular influence of
every fignificator then operating ; and, being compared with the geneth-
liacal figure of birth, and with thole diredions in the nativity which
are to operate both for our good and evil, will, upon a fair and true
com-
914 AN ILLUSTRATION
comparifon, quickly inform us whether the bufiiiefs in contemplation
will generally or eventually tuin out to our advantage, or not. But,
for the mt)re particular dilcoverv of wliat relates to the good or ill fuc-
cefs of the bulinels itfelf, with all its confequenccs and collateral
incidents, a figure muft be projected of the exa6l time when that bufinels
is begun, and the face of the heavens then operating ; mofl: particularly
and minutely confidered. The figns, the fignificators, the angles of the
figure, and the good and evil places of the horofcope, are to be allowed
their natural and accuflomed application, exaftly the fame as in all the
rules heretofore laid down ; and, if the two figures thus projc6led form
an harmony and concurrence with the figuie of birth, and fall in with
the good directions and revolutions thereof, the undertaking will un-
doubtedly be profperous, and the bufinefs i'uccefsful. But, if thefe
figures are difcordant in themfelves, and oppofe the benevolent fignifi-
cators in the geniture, it will, if purfued, prove dangerous or defi:ru<ftive
to the native, and will forv/ard the evil events prenoted by the diredlions
of the seniture.
A mediocrity in the pofitions and influences of the fignificators, and
of the angular houfes of the eledtional figures compared with the geni-
ture, will, as in all other cafes, produce a medium between the two
extremes, and fhow that the event of the matter in hand fhall neither
greatly ferve nor materially injure the party then about to engage in it.
END of the SECOND PART.
AN
ILLUSTRATION
OF THE
CELESTIAL SCIENCE
OF
ASTROLOGY.
PART the THIRD,
CONTAINING THE
METEOROLOGICAL PART of URANOLOGY;
WITH CERTAIN
RULES for prejudging ths Revolutions of every Part of the habitable WORLD.
GENERAL EFFECTS OF
Great Conj.i actions, Eclipses, Comets, Blazing Stars,
And other Extraordinary PHENOMENA:
WITH THE
ART of Calculating ECLIPSES, TIDES, and WEATHER,
For any Number of Years to come.
THE WHOLE
llluftrated by a FIGURE of the SUN'S Ingrefs into the Sign ARIES;
and by a
Revolutional Figure of the Commencement of the AMERICAN EMPIRE.
By EBENEZER SIBLY, Astro. Philo.
PRINTED IN THE YEAR lyiDCCCXIV.
AN
ILLUSTRATION
Of the CELESTIAL SCIENCE of
ASTROLOGY.
PART THE THIRD.
nPHE Meteorological Part of Aftrology is that which enables us,
-- by a certain well-known influence of the planets, feconded by
obfervation and experience, to afcertain the caufes of the different
qualities of the air, the generation of meteors, thunder, lightnino-,
and all the various phenomena of the heavens ; whence the predidlions
of the weather, of the temperature and quality of the four feafons of the
year, and of the profpefl of a healthy and plentiful time, or of plague,
peftilence, and famine, are neceflarily deduced.
This part of the fcience likcwife comprehends the doftrine of
eclipfes, comets, blazing flars, and the great conjunftions of the llipe-
rior bodies; whence the revolution of empires, the fate of kingdoms, the
renovation of cuftoms, and the civil and political fluftuation of all the
provinces, flates, principalities, and commonwealths, upon the furface
of the globe, are fought out and predi6led. We ihall therefore airange
thefe fpeculations under their refpedive heads, and confider them dif-
tinftly in the order they ftand.
Of METEORS in GENERAL.
Meteors are divided into two forts, or clafTes : the one arifincr from va-
pours and exhalations, called mperfedly-mixed bodies, becaule they are
eafily reduced into their firft nature, or proper element, as into hail,
fnow, or water; and the others are termed perfe5lly-mixed, as thunder-
bolts, and fuch-like petrified fubftances, becaufe they cannot fo foon be
converted into the firft element from whence they were derived. The
material
9i8 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N"
material caufe of meteors ar^ hot ai\d moift .y.ajiours, or liot and dry
exhalations frpm watd^r and earth ; the efficient caufe is from the fixed
aiid wandering ftars, by virtue of whofe beams a light rarefied fubftance
is extrafted from grofs and heavy bodies,- as vapours from wafer, and
exhalations from earth. Their qualities are heat and moifture, which
produce divcrfities of effefts, efpecialiy in tho/e which are lefs. perfectly
.mixed, and of a light and convertible nature^
-'
Vapours confift of the four elements; but the fubflance is water; as
the fleam of a boiling pot, which hangs like dew upon the lid or cover.
Exhalations are commonly like fmoke, of a hot and dry quality, as is
perceived in a fummer's day to ofFLifcate the air, or make it fecm dufky
with the afcending of thin fumes; and after this ufually comes thunder,
which fhows from whence thele exhalations were extracted; for out of
fire and air oidy, no meteor can generate, as wanting matter: the fire
of itfelf being an elen-.ent fo fubtile, that it cannot be purified ; whereas
all exhalations and vapours muft be refined, and confequently extracSled
from fome grofler body. For the air, if much rarefied, will turn to
fire, as is feeii in the violent motion of wheels, and in fuch things as
are fet on fire by rarefa61ion, where the matter is dry and combuftible.
When the air becomes grofs, it turns to water; as appears from our
breath in the winter feafon, or from the inclofed air in vaults, or other
hollow places, which will quickly be condenfed by oppofition of the
outward air, or coldnefs of the place, efpecially againft rainy weather.
But the element of air is divided into three feveral regions, or parts,
varioully qualified, in which are generated many imperfed and mixed
bodies; and thefe divifions are nominated the upper, middle, and lower,
regions of the air. The firft and uppermcfl: is clofe adjoining to the
element of fire, and hath a circular motion from eafi: to weft, carried
about by \k\^ prhmim mobile. This region of air is perpetually hot and
dry ; and, by reafoji of its violent motion and proximity to the fire, will
not admit the generation of clouds, becaufe of the heat, and .remotenefs
of the earth from whence they are extrafted. To this place are lifted
up exhalations, by nature hot and diy, which eahly afcend to that height,
by reafon of their heat and levity. Thefe imperfedl bodies, by the heat
of the fun, and influence of the flars, are conceived to be exhaled from
the earth, or out of lakes, rivers, feas, and other watery places ; and
this meteor, as it afcends, leaves the grofier parts in the lowefl: and
middle regions ; and, as it rarefies, it elevates itfelf unto the upper region,
like a fubtile and thin fume.
Thefe
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 919
Thefe exhalations, having penetrated the middle region, and attained
unto the height of the elements, are circumvolved with a flimy matter,
oily, and apt to be inflamed. Thus having alTumed a body, it is violently
carried about with the air, until with the motion and "vicinity of the fire
it is inflamed ; and then, nourished with more exhalations continually
drawn unto it, it burns and converts itfelf into divers forms, according
to the difpofition of the matter then generated.
But others appear to fall, and Aide through the air; the lightefl: part
being confumed, or drawn away by fome other means, or the levity of it
being unable to fupport the groffer part, lets it defcend obliquely through
the air ; and, thus enhghtened, is termed a falling ftar. Some conceive
that this meteor afcends not fo high, being of a grofs body, (yet hot and
ftriving to afcend,) but is repulfed by a coldnefs of the middle region, or
the moiftnefs of the clouds ; and fo, by reafon of its own v/eight, and by
the oppofition of the element, it is thrown down again. The fubftance
of it is like a jelly, tranfparent, lucid, and apt to be illuminated.
Fiery meteors are ufually moved, by the region they are in, from eaft
to Aveft, according to the raptile motion of the fpheres ; though Seneca
affirms that he perceived one which moved parallel to the horizon, from
the north by the wefl: into the fouth, and fo by the eaft into the north
again. This is by no means improbable, fmce many lucid meteors move
with the air, and are impelled by the matter which nourifhes them ; as
may be feen by fire in ftubble. Another kind of meteors are feen to
remove fuddenly from one place to another, cafl:ing forth fparks like
fire, and are by fome termed goats; whilft others again appear fixed and
immoveable, both in refpedl to latitude and longitude. Thefe are ge-
nerated in any part of the heavens, and at all times of the year ; but
rarely, in cold countries, at any other time than autumn ; for then the
heat is fufficient to raife up the matter, and the temperature of the air is
apt to fufFer the exhalations to draw to it a flimy matter, which cannot
exift in the fpring-time, the heat not being then fufficient to elevate
them. And, in fummer, the exhalations are not fo grofs, becaufe the
Sun's heat diffipates thofe vapours, and rarefies the air ; and, if it could
be drawn together, the middle region is fo cold, that it cannot afcend to
the upper ; and the winter-quarter is fo cold and moift, and oppugnant
to fuch exhalations, that it is quite unapt for the generation of meteors of
this kind.
The middle part or region of the air is generally conceived to be
vehemently cold and moift, by antiperiftafis : and its effed alfo proves
No. 47. 10 T the
j^ZO AN ILLUSTRATION
tlie fame, as we are aflured by thofe who have afcended to a confiderablc
height ill air-balloons. And this we fee in all things that are oppuguant,
incloled, and comprehended by their contraries ; for being of greater
force doth cauie the contrary, which is inclofed, and not being able to
break forth, and at the fame time repulfed by its oppofite quality,
contra6ls, and, as it were, fortifies itfelf This is feen by experience in
all living and fenfitive creatures ; their inward parts being much hotter
in winter than in fummer : and their ftomachs apter and more able to
dlgcft their food. The caufe is, that the heat is then repulfive to the
inward parts, by the oppofition and coldnefs of the outward air. Eefides,
the fire, and all combufUble things, will burn more violently in wintec
than in fummer ; and, the colder the weather is, the more fire will fcorch.
The reaion in all thefe is the fame ; fince the fire is found to grow more
violent by how much the more it is oppofed by the contrary quality of
the fubdued cold. The cafe is the fame in the middle region of the air;
for the upper part is made hot by the violent motion uf it, and by its prox-
imity to the element of fire ; and the lower region is made hot by reflec-
tion of the Sun beams; whence the cold included between them becomes
the more violent in proportion as the lower region is inflamed by the
Sun's refle£lion, and by that means is colder in fummer than in winter.
Thefe divifions or portions of the air have no determined fpace ; nor hath
the water in refpedl of quality ; for, by the motion of the celeftial bodies,
both cold and moifture being drawn together, the element of water will
increafe, by which the air mufl of neceflity diminifh. So, by the con-
jun<5lion of heat and moifture, the fphereof water will be diminifhed, and
the air as much increafed. By this means the air more abounds in fum-
mer than in winter, and the w^ater more in winter than in fummer ; and
thus the middle region of the air is occafionally contra6ted and dilated,
and is confequently greater at one time than another.
By the heat of the Sun-beams, and influence of the ftars, meteors are
elevated to the middle region of the air. Thole which by nature are tem-
perately hot and moifl are extraded from wet and waterifh places ;
yet
they retain as much heat as is fufficient to elevate them unto" the height
of the middle region, where, by reafon of the coldnefs of that place, they
are condenfed, and there generate feveral kinds of imperfedly-mixed
bodies. The clouds, thus incorporated, are with the cold turned into
fnow, and congealed many times before it engenders water. To prove
this afTertion, we may obferve that fnow, if compadlcd or beaten together,
is not fo foon difTolved into water by the Sun, or any other means, as ice
will be ; which argues, that, had this fubftance been water firft, it would
have
O F A S T R O L O G Y. -
921
have been fooner reduced. Thefe vapours, or thick exhalations, drawn
up into the middle region of the air, are often digefted and turned into
Avater, and fronn thence diftilled down like mifts, or in very fmall drops
;
for the greateft rain is fuppofed not to fall far through the air, but out of the
inferior part of the lower region.
It is generally conceived, that the rain which falls from the middle
region defcends in little orbs, whereby to preferve itfelf, and to refift the
violence of the air through which it pafles ; and it becomes fmall, by
reafon of the diftance and time it occupies in falling. For hail demon-
flrates both the bignefs and rotundity of the drops, which, from humid
exhalations drawn up into the middle region, are there converted into
water ; and, immediately as the drops diftil down, they are contradled-
•into ice by the coldnefs of the air, in that part which is called hail; de-
rived from the High Dutch hagell, or from the Hebrev/ egel/^ which
fignifies congealed drops.
In the winter-feafon it is feldom obferved to hail, becaufe the cold in
the middle region is more remifs than in warm weather ; and in fummer-
time it is feldom obferved in any very hot day, becaufe the heat of the
lower region will not permit it to pafs, without diffolving it before it
a'eaches the earth. But in the fpring, and in autumn, we frequently fee,
and are fubjeft to, hail-florms ; the heat being then fufficient to elevate
the matter, and yet not fo violent as to difTolve it in its fall. Sometimes,
however, it happens that very large hail-ftones are precipitated at mid-
fummer, or in the very hotteft fealons ; and thefe hail-flones are then the
greater, if the elevated matter be fufficient, by how much the more its
nature is oppofed by the lower region, made hot by the reflection of the
Sun ; for in all times of the year, and in all countries, there are more and
greater ftorms of hail obferved to fall in the day than in the night.
There is unqueflionably a fiery nature included in hail-ftones, very
different from the heat of that fubtile vapour which occafions it to afcend
the middle region; for by the force of contraries it is evidently con-
gealed, as may be illuftrated by the limple quahty of fait, which,' being
hot and dry, is made of water, whofe natural temperatures are diredlly
oppofite ; being cold and moift in open weather, or by the fire-fide, or in
the fummer-feafon. Take a handful of fait, and mix fomc fi)ow with it
;
flir them together till they incorporate; and they will immediately contradi
themfelves into ice ; which is done by antiperiftafis, or repulfion on everv
part ; fo, the middle region of the air being cold, thefe frjgid meteors are
thereby generated.
The
922 ANILLUSTRATION
The lower region of the air receives all the former qualities by neceffitj,
according to the feveral feafons of the year ; and by the means already
mentioned there are exhaled from the earth moift and crude vapours ;
the groffer parts being earthy, and containing but little heat, they are
unable to alcend to the middle region ; yet, by the help of that heat, and
the attradlive virtue of the celeiliial orbs, they are raifed above the earth,
and there oftentimes congeal before they can be diflblved into water.
Thefe are called frofls, whereof there be many kinds, accorduig to the
matter exhaled, and the temperature of the feafon. At fome times of the
year, the ground in the mornings will be hoary, like the head of thyme,
and the grafs crifped with the froft ; at other times rime-froft, or con-
gealed mifts, hang pendant on the branches of trees ; or elfe black x>v wind
frofts, which are not lb wholefome ; for they confift of grofs and earthy
vapours, exhaled out of more undigefted humours, and are not fo eafily
difcovered by the fight as by the fenfe of feeling.
There are other vapours exhaled, which are called mi/is, derived from
the mixture of air and water. Of thefe there are feveral forts ; fome are
thin and fterile, and have not moifture fufficient to beget water, nor is
the heat in them fufficiently prevalent to elevate the grofs humours, and
caufe them to afcend ; but they hang upon the earth until the Sun rifes
;
then he ufually chafes them away, and, being diffipated, it becomes a
fine day.
Befides the above, there are grofs mifts or fogs, which are more
earthy than the former, compofed of crude and undigefted vapours,
drawn from corrupted places, out of fens and wet marfliy grounds.
Thefe are very unwholefome, and unpleafant to the fmell ; in proportion
either to the noxious ftagnate waters from whence they were extra61ed,
or to the putridity of the air, occafioned by a long continuance of calm
moift weather.
There is another exhalation called dew, which is a liquid vapour,
extracted from water or earth. This hath an affinity to froft, as rain
hath to fnow ; and are alike in the material caufe ; the efficient caufe
being attributed to the ftars, and to the coldnefs of the air. The
dews are conceived to be very earthy and ponderous ; for they do
not afcend high, but are converted into a watery fubftance almoft
as foon as extra6led, being obferved much more upon low and wet
grounds than upon high and dry hills ; and thicker upon the hum-
ble fhrub than upon trees of an high and exalted nature like the lofty
cedar.
The
OFASTROLOGY. 923
The ufual time of thefe dews is in the evening; the heat of the Sun,
declining, being then unable to fupport the meteors which it raifed in
the day; and, on his deferting the hemifphere, thofe that were more ele-
vated muft like wife fall. The hotter the day, the greater are the exha-
lations ; and the nights are then ufually colder, to convert them into
water. All dews aie obferved to be greater at the Moon's increafing
;
but greateft of all at the fall. The feafon of the year is to be confidered,
and the weather ; for, the hotter the day is, the colder will be the night,
by reafon of the (hadow which the terreftrial globe then makes; as is ex-
emplified by the fhades of trees, or of any other interpofed body, which
are colder in fummer-time than in winter, in refpedl of the air in gene-
ral. For in fhadowed places, in the heat of fummer, the air, as in op-
pofition to the heat, is found to contract itfelf into a grofler body; from
whence it appears that the whole element of air is by nature cold.
There is a dew that flies in the air like fmall untwifted filk; which,
falling upon the ground, or on plants, converts itfelf into a form like
fpider's webs. The matter they conhfl: of is an earthy and flimy vapour
or exhalation, fomething dry ; and they are found equally in fpring, fum-
mer, and autumn ; but in thefe northern countries they are moft frequent
when the Sun is near Libra, the days being then temperately warm, the
earth not exceeding dry, nor yet overcharged with moifture.
There is alfo another fort of dew, called honey-Jezv, which confifts of
earthy exhalations mixed with watery vapours ; and many luppoje them
to be exhalations from plants and tTovvers; and this more evidently appears
from fugar-canes, and divers kinds of Indian reeds, which have, in the
morning, dews hanging upon them, in tafte refembling honey; and argue,
by their fweetnefs, that they are extracted from the plants. Thefe honey-
dews afford plenty to the (lores of the induilrious bee; nor have their
purveyors much labour or trouble to procure their loading ; but, tliough
thefe honey-dews are good for bees, they are deftru6tive to many kinds
of animals, as Iheep, goats, deer, and the like ; and are in ;general inju-
rious to all fruits and blooming flowers ; efpecially to hops, grapes, and
corn ; and often blaft them in their prime. It was for the purpol.e of di-
verting thefe evil effeds, that Numa, one of the Roman kings, fuperfti-
tioufly inftituted the feafls called Rubigalia and Floralia, in the year from
the building of Rome 516; which feafts were obferved on the 28th
of April to the 3d calend of May. This feftival, the Catholic Church
hath fince converted into Alcenfion Week, calling it Rogation, trom
the circumflance of imploring a bleffing upon the fruits of the
earth.
No. 48. 10 U The
924 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
The next efFedt to be coufidered is rain. Rain -water is found mucli
more inlipid at one time than at another; and is verv often impregnated
with a brackiih tarte, yet comfortable to vegetation ; and, by reafon of
the warmth, it nouridies more abundantly, and is more natural for that
purpofe, than fpring-water, or what is drawn out of wells, which is cold,
and too earthy ; whereas, the other participates of the air, which is hot
and moifi: ; but, by reafon of this co-mixture of the elements, it is apt
to form divers animalcules, efpecially in calm times; which, like the air,
wanting motion, may corrupt ; and lb, confequently, generates many
things, according to the undigefted matter exhaled from the earth.
The loweft meteor in the air fomewhat relembles a burning candle ;
and is by lome called Ignis Fatuus. This is a hot and moifl vapour,
which, ftriving to afcend, is repulfed by the cold, and, forced by anti-
periftafis, moves dole to the eaith, and is carried along by the vapours
that feed it, always kreping in low moill places. The lucid rays are of
an exceeding pale colour, and very unwholelome to meet with, by rea-
fon of the noxious vapours it attracts, which nourifh the pallid flame.
It is frequently leen to alcend with a very rapid motion ; but it as llid-
denly falls, the moment it is repelled by the cold atmofphere ; from
whence its name is derived.
There are likewife vapours, hot and moift, co-mixed with exhalations
that are hot and drv, involved thus within one another, and form what is
termed eleSlrical matter. They alcend, by virtue of their heat, into the
middle region of the air, where the exhalations, by antiperiftaiis, grow
inflamed, and ftrive to break forth from the cloud in which they are in-
volved. The upper part of the cloud, where the heat would pafs, by
oppolition grows more ftrong; and t!ie exhalation, grown over hot by
being thus conftrained, breaks forth with violence from the weakeft place,
againft the air that is in the lovvefl: part ; and, by realon of thecoid above
it, the heat and fubtilenefs of the exhalation, with its own violence in
breaking forth, glances down upon the earth, without doing any injurv,
ifunrefirted; as a conluming Iword, without hurting the fcabbard. This
is the natural generation of thunder and lightning; which Dr. Franklin,
Dr. Prieftley, and other ingenious men, have largely treated of in their
eledrical dilquilitions.
The clap of thunder is firfl:, but the lightning foontfl: appears ; becaufe
our fenle of feeing is much quicker than that of hearing ; as may
be exemplified by a thouland common experiments ; particularly by the
difcharge of the gun, or cannon, where we lee the fire before we hear
the
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 925
the report. With the conjundion ot' thefe compound vapours and
exhalations, ftones are generated in the air, as otlier minerals are in the
earth, but more fiery by nature ; and thefe are what are vulgarly called
thunder-bolts; which, in their form, are perfedl: cones, like the flame
o\ fire which generates them out of the terrene exhalations ; they pervade
the earth in proportion to the proje6tile force of their velocity. The pre-
fervatives againft thunder and lightning are many. All hard things will
preferve what is foft and liquid ; as iron laid upon veflels will keep the
liquor from fouring, by the former alleged reafons; befides this, it is
naturally refifted by a cover made of {eal's Ikin, which preferves any crea-
ture by which it is covered. The like doth the laurel-tree; for which
reafbn many of the Roman Emperors, in times of thunder and light-
ning, were accuftomed to wear a garment made of laurel-boughs. The
pale lightning is moft unwholelome ; but the red aptefl: to burn ; the
befl: and molt alTured prefervative againft which is the protection of
Heaven.
But let it be noted, that there may be thunder without lightning, and
lightning without thunder ; for, when thefe hot and dry exhalations are
inflamed, and the cloud weak in which they are involved, the incenfed
exhalation breaks forth without violence, not being reftrained ; and
the coldnefs of the middle region ftrikes the flaihes downward, but not
always to the earth, though its glittering and reflecting upon the watery
clouds makes it appear clofe by ; the lame as when the Sun-beams, or
any other fudden light, falling upon the water, will reverberate the
lufire, and dazzle the eye; particularly if the water be moved with any
wind. Thefe corrufcaiions are common in hot countries, and with us in
the heat of fummer.
Thunder without lightning alfo happens when the hot and dry exha-
lations break violently through the clouds in which they are circum-
volved, but not inflamed ; yet making a roaring noiie in the burft of the
cloud which reftrained it. We alio frequently fee little bladders filled
with wind give a crack or report at the fudden and violent breaking of
them. Sometimes thunder happens, and yet no lightning will appear,
by reciprocal winds ; the clouds violently breaking themlclves in meet-
ing with one another ; and this may often happen, by the inlurrection
of leveral mutinous exhalations dilturbing t e air with divers commo-
tions. Thele ufually happen after much calm weather; and are very
uleful to purify and purge the air, left with too much quietnels it Ihould
corrupt.
Rainbows
926 AN ILLUSTRATION
Rainbows are generated in waterifh clouds, which are ready to be
diflblved into rain. Thefe are obferved to be always dire£lly oppofite the
Sun or Moon : as, if the Sun be in the fouth, the rainbow will be in
the north ; and, when the Sun is in the eaft, the rainbow will be in the
weft; and thus in every part of the globe. The lower or nearer the Sun
is to the horizon, the larger will the rainbow appear ; though it never
can exceed a fcmicircle, and is the lefs in proportion to the light of the
Sun above, in any fphere ; which is the reafon that at noon-day we
fo feldom fee any rainbow, particularly when the Sun is in the lummer
folftice, or near the tropic of Cancer ; except in fuch places as are far
northward, or towards the antarctic pole, where, for fome weeks, there
is continual day.
The Sun in winter, near Capricorn, may caufe a rainbow at noon-day
in our climate; for they are formed by the light rays of the Sun falling
upon vapours and waterifh exhalations oppofite to him, and but little
elevated above the earth ; and, by reafon of the great diftance or remote-
nefs of the Sun, the illuminated beams defcribe his form after an ob-
fcure and imperfefl manner, portraying an arc of a ciicle, adorned
ufually with the colours red, green, and purple, inclining to bluifh.
The diflindion of thefe proceeds from the rays of the Sun refle<5ting
upon the vapours ; and thofe colours are light in it which are neareft to
the Sun, and thofe which are moil; remote always tend more to obfcurity;
for a demonftration, both of the colours and form of the rainbow, it only
requires to caft water in a circular manner againft the Sun when it (hines,
and the whole is produced artificially, il'i^q r^\p ^d
Some think the red colour only is made by the Sun's rays, and fuppofe
the fecond colour is produced by refle(5tion, and third by the fecond ; and
that all are contained within one condenfed hollow cloud, co-mixed with
airy and watery exhalations. For, if more rainbows than one appear at a
time, it is certain that they are produced by refledion of one another
;
but the colours in the fecond will be weaker than thofe in the firft ; and
the third rainbow will be more palid than the fecond, if there happen to
be three, which is very feldom ; then the colours in the firft will be coun-
terchanged in the fecond, and the third again like the firft. The arches
in the clouds or rainbow ufually continue longer than the circles about
the Sun, becaufe the diftance in thefe arefo great, that his beams cannot
fo foon diflipate the exhalations which caufed them. Rainbows in the
night-time are exceeding rare, becaufe they are made by the Moon,
whofe beams are too weal: to caufe fuch refleftions upon any cloud at fo
great a diftance ; but, though they are rare, they fometimes happen.
The
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 927
The Aurora Borealis, or Northern Light, is an extraordinary meteor,
or himinoiis appearance, fhowing itfelf in the night-time, in the northern
part of the heavens. It is ufually of a reddifh colour, inclining to yel-
low, and fends out frequent corrufcations of pale light, which feem to
rife from the horizon in a pyramidal undulating form, and fhoot, with
great velocity, up to the zenith.
The Aurora Borealis appears mofl: commonly in form of an arch ;
chiefly in the fpring and autumn ; after a dry year. The arch is partly
bright, partly dark; but generally tranfparent. And the matter of
v/hich it confifts is alfo found to have no effe6ton the rays of light which
pafs through it. Dr. Hamilton obferves, that he could plainly difcern
the fmalleft fpeck in the Pleiades through the denfity of thofe clouds
which formed part of the Aurora Borealis in 1763, without the leaft di-
minution of its fplendour, or increafe of twinkling.
This kind of meteor never appears near the equator; and was fo rare in
England, that none are recorded in our antials fuice that remarkable one,
November 14, 1574, till the furprifing Aurora Borealis, March 6, 171 6,
which appeared for three nights fucceffively, and put the whole kingdom
into the utmofl: confternation, terrifying brutes as well as men. Indeed
the horfes were fo frightened, that no fences could keep them in the
inclofures ; it "was impoffible to travel in the evenings; and the road-
waggons, and all other carriages, were obliged to lie by immediately
as tihe Sun was down. In the years 1707 and 1708, five fmall ones
were obferved in little more than eighteen months; but they bore no
comparifon with the above. Hence it fliould feem, that the air, or
earth, or both, are not at all times difpofed to produce this phenomenon,
for, though it is poffible it may happen in the day-time in bright moon-
./hine, or in cloudy weather, and fo pafs unobferved; yet that it flhould
appear fo frequent at fome times, and fo feldom at others, cannot well
this way be accounted for. That in March, 17 16, was vifible to the weft
of Ireland, on the confines of Ruffia, and to tne eaft of Poland ; extend-
ing at leaft near thirty degrees of longitude, and from about the fiftieth
degree in latitude over almoft all the north of Europe : and in all places
at the fame time it exhibited the like wondrous appearances.
Many attempts have been made to affign the caufe of this phenome-
non. Dr. Halley imagines the watery vapours, or effluvia, rarefied ex-
ceedingly by fubterraneous fire, and tinged with fulphureous ftreams,
which many naturalifts have fuppofed to be the caufe of earthquakes,
may alfo be the caufe of this appearance : or that it is produced by a
No. 48. 10 X kind
928 ANILLUSTRATION
kind of fubtile matter, freely pervading the pores of the earth, and which,
entering into it nearer the fouthern pole, pades out again with fome
force into the aether at the fame diftance from the northern ; the ob-
liquity of its diredlion being proportioned to its diftance from the pole.
This fubtile matter, by becoming fome way or other more denfe, or
having its velocity increafed, may be capable of producing a fmall de-
gree of light, after the manner of effluvia from the eledric bodies, which,
by a ftrong and quick friftion, emit light in the daik : to which fort of
light this feems to have a great affinity.
The celebrated M. de Mairan, in an exprefs treatife on the Aurora
Borealis, publilhed in J 731, afligns its caufe to be the %odiacal light,
which, according to him, is no other than the Sun s atinofphere : this
light happening, on fome occafions, to meet the upper parts of our air-
on the fide of the -limits where univerfal 2:ravitv begins to adl more
forcibly towards the Earth than towards the Sun, falls into our atmo-
fphere to a greater or lefs depth as its fpecific gravity is greater or lefs-
compared with the air through which it paffes. —Mr. Fuller thinks the
caufe of the Aurora Borealis not owing to the zodiacal light, as M. de
Mairan fuppofes ; but to particles of our atmofphere driven beyond its
limits by the impulfe of the light of the Sun. On this fuppoiition, he
endeavours to account for the phenomena obferved concerning this light.
He fuppofes the zodiacal Hght, and the tails of comets, to be owing to
a fimilar caufe. This light lometimes appears remarkably red, as it
happened Dec. 5, 1737; of which there were a variety of accounts
from different parts of Europe.
Ever fince the identity of lightning and of the ele(51ric matter has
been afcertained, philofophtrs have been naturally led- to leek the expli-
cation of aerial meteors in the principles of eleflricity ; and they feem to
have no doubt but moft of them, and efpecially the Aurora Borealis, are
formed of elcdrical matter. Befides the more obvious and known ap-
pearances which conjflitute a refemblance between this meteor and the
ele6lric matter wliereby lightning is produced, it has been obferved,. that
the Aurora occafions a very fenfible fluduation in the magnetic needle ;
and that, when it has extended lower than ufual into the atmofphere,
the flafhes have been attended with various founds of rumbling and
hiffing, taken notice of both by Sig. Beccaria and M. Meffier. Mr.
Canton, loon after he had obtained eleftricity from the clouds, offered a
conjedture, that the Aurora Borealis is occafioned by the dafhing of elec-
tric fire from pofitive towards negative clouds at a great diftance, through
the upper part of the atmofphere where the refiftaiice is leaft. And he
fuppofes,
OFASTROLOGY. 929
fuppofes, that the Aurora, which happens at the time when the mag-
netic needie is difturbed by the heat of the earth, is the eledtricity of
the heated air above it; and this appears chiefly in the northern regions,
as the alteration in the heat of the air in thefe parts will be the greateft.
Nor is this hypothefis improbable, when it is confidered, that the clouds
being furcharged with ekclrical matter is- the caufe of thunder and light-
ning ; that it has been extraded from the air at the time of an Aurora
Borealis ; that the inhabitants of the northern countiies obferve it to be
remarkably ftrong when a Hidden thaw fucceeds very fevere cold wea-
ther; and that the tourmalin is known to emit and abforb the eledtric
fluid only by the increal'e or diminution of its heat.
Pofitive and negative eleftricity in the air, with a proper quantity of
moiflure to ferve as a condu6lor, is fuppofed to account for this and
other meteors, fometimes feen in a ferene Iky. Mr. Canton has fince
contrived to exhibit this meteor by means of the Torricellian vacuum, in
a glafs tube about three feet long, and fealed hermetically. When one
end of the tube is held in the hand, and the other applied to the con-
dudtoi', the whole tube will be illuminated from end to end ; and will
continue luminous without interruption for a confiderable time after it
has been removed from the condu6for. If, after this, it be drawn
through the hand either way, the light will be uncommonly intenfe,.
and without the leaft interruption from one hand to the other, even tO'
its whole length. And, though a great part of the electricity is dif-
charged by this operation, it will flill flafh at intervals, when held only
at one extremity, and kept quite ftill ; but, if it be grafped by the other
hand at the fame time in a different place, ftrong flafhes of light will
hardly ever fail to dart from one end to the other, and thefe will conti-
nue twenty-four hours, and longer, without any frefli excitation. An
arched double barometer, of a confiderable height, is an improvement
of this contrivance, for exhibiting the appearance of an Aurora Borealis
by means of the eledfric fire. Sig. Beccaria, who has puriued his ob-
fervations on atmofpherical eleftricity farther than any of his afTociates in
thefe inquiries, conjedures that there is a conftant and regular circula-
tion of the eleflric fluid from north to fouth ; and he thinks, that the
Aurora Borealis may be this eleftric matter performing its circulation in
fuch a ftate of the atmofphere as renders it vifible, or approaching nearer
the earth than ufual. Dr. Franklin fuppofes, that the eleftrical fire
difcharged into the polar regions from many leagues of vaporifed air
raifed from the ocean between the tropics, accounts for the Aurora
Borealis ; and that it appears firffc where it is firft in motion, i. e. in the
mod northern part ; and the appearance proceeds fcuthward, though the
fire really moves northward.
AIL
930 AN ILLUSTRATION
All this, however, appears to be little more than the conjedlura'l
fpeculation of modern phiiofophers. The ancients, it is plain, never
law this phenomenon; nor did it ever occur in their days, fnice no
mention whatever is made of it in their writings ; nor is any notice taken
of it in the records of the moderns until the year 1574, which is the
firfl time, I believe, the Aurora Borealis ever made its appearance in the
v/orld ; and, being a new phenomenon in nature, muft undoubtedly have
been produced by lome great conjunction, or by the violent heat of fome
invifible comet, or by a variation in the frame and fyftem of the world,
or of the heavenly bodies, which at that particular aera muft have taken
place, and which ftill continues, at times, to produce the fame luminous
and fiery appearance. ,
Blazing Jiars are fiery luminous appearances generated in the upper
region ot the air, and formed into a body, whence they take an oblique
diredion with aflonifhing velocity, and defcend to the earth. The light
they convey will fometimes exceed that of the Moon, as was the cafe
a few years fince with a very remaikable one, which pafTed from north
to fouth, very near the lurface of the earth, and was fuppofed to fall into
the fea. Their appearance is at once beautiful and tremendous.
Signior Beccaria, in one of his philofophical papers, makes mention of
a very remarkable one, which appeared about an hour after fun-let, and
diredled its courfe immediately towards the fpot where he and f. me
friends were walking. It grew apparently larger and larger as it ap-
proached, and went off very near them ; when it left their faces, hands,
and clothes, with the earth, and all the neighbouring objedts, fijddenly
illuminated with a diffufed and lambent light, without any vifible noife.
Blazing ftars are like wife underftood by fome to mean comets, on ac-
count of their tails, pr extended train of light on fire, which is obferved
to ilTue from them. But, as the do6trine of comets is an immenfe fpecu-
lation, I Ihall treat of them under a diftind and feparate head.
Of COMETS.
A comet is now certainly defined to be a heavenly body, in the pla-
netary region, appearing fuddenly, and again difappearing ; and, during
the time of its appearance, moving in a proper though very eccentric
orbit, like a planet. As to their nature, the unfrequency of their ap-
pearing, together with the feeming irregularities of their phenomena,
have
OFASTROLOGY. 931
have left philofophers much in the dark. Thofe who lived before Arif-
totle accounted for them by fuppofing the heavenly fpaces full of an
infinite number of ftars ; and many of them too remote, or too fmall, to
have ever come under the notice of aftronomers ; thefe invifible ftars they
farther kippofed to move by ther own proper motion every way ; finifh-
ing their courfes in very unequal times. And a comet, according to them,
was a vafi: heap or afTemblage of thefe little flars, meeting together, by
reafon of the inequality of their motions, and uniting into a vifible mafs
;
which mufl: again difappear, as thofe fl:ars feparated, and each proceeded
in its courfe. But, how thofe flars fhould thus meet, coalefce, and form
a body, which in all pofitions of the Sun (hould refemble a tail, and again
feparate, is totally inexplicable. This opinion Ariftotle overturned, by
fubflituting another in its ftead : he infjfled that comets were only a kind
of tranfient fires, or meteors, confifting of exhalations raifed to the up-
per region of the air, and there fet on fire, far below the Moon's courfe.
But neither is this hypothefis more juft than the other; for, on this prin-
ciple, the light of the comet, being independent of the Sun, would be
difperfed every way alike, without any appearance of a train, or tail,
which is contrary to the phenomena. Moreover they are obferved at the
fame time in places on the earth very remote from each other Befides,
the modern aflronomers, who have meafured the diftance between the
comets and the earth, find that the comets have no fenfible diurnal paral-
lax; which could not be, were they not much more remote than the Moon,
whofe parallax is fenfible : and yet, as they have a fenfible annual paral-
lax, they are not fo remote as the fixed fl:ars. Tycho Brahe was the
firfl among the moderns, who, after diligently obferving the comet of
1577, and fin<ling that it had no fenfible diurnal parallax, affigned it its
true place in the planetary regions.
Hevelius, from a great number of obfervations, propofes it as his opi-
nion, that the comets, like the folar maculae, or fpots, are formed and
condenfed out of the grofler exhalations of his body. In which notion
he agrees nearly with Kepler, who maintains, that comets are generated
in the ^ther in vafl numbers, like fifhes in the ocean r though they do
not all become vifible, either becaufe of their fmallnefs, or becauie they-
lie a long time under the horizon.
But Sir Ifaac Newton has fhown the fallacy of this hypothefis, by
proving that the comet of 1680, in its paffage through the neighbour-
hood of the Sun, would have been diffipated had it confifted of exhala-
tions of the Sun and planets ; for the heat of the Sun^ it is allowed,
is as the denfity of his rays, i, e. reciprocally as the fquares ot the
No. 4S. 10 Y diftancea.
93^ AN ILLUSTRATION
diftances of places from the Sun. Wherefore, fince the diftance of that
comet in its perihelion, December the 8th, was obfervcd to be to the dif-
tance of the Earth from the Sun nearly as 6 to looo ; the Sun's heat in
the comet, at that time, was to his heat with us at Midfummer, as
loooooo to 36, or 28000 to i. And again, finding by experiment that
the heat of boiling water is little more than three times the heat of our
dry earth, when expofed to the Midfummer's Sun; and affumingthe heal
of red-hot iron to be about three or four times as great as that of boiling
water; he thence concludes, that the heat of the dried earth, or body of
the comet in its perihelion, muft be laear 2000 times as great as that of
red-hot iron.
Such an immenfe heat once acquired in its perihelion, the comet muft
be a long time in cooling again. The fame author computes, that a
crlobe of red-hot iron, of the dimenfions of our earth, would fcarcely be
cool in 5000 years. If then the comet be fuppofed to cool 100 times
as faft as red-hot iron, yet, fince its heat was 2000 times greater, fup-
pofing it of the bignefs of the earth, it would not be cool in a million of
years.
James Bernouilli, in his Syftema Cometarum, fuppofes fome primary
planet revolving rouhd the Sun in the fpace of four years and one hun~
dred and fifty-feven days, and at the diftance from his body of 2583
femidiameters of the magnus orbis ; this planet, he concludes, either
from its vaft diftance or fmallnefs, to be invifible to us ; but, however,
to have, at various diftances from him, feveral fatellites moving round
him, and fometimes defcending as low as the orbit of Saturn ; and that
thefe, becoming vifible to us when in their perigasum, are what we call
comets,
Des Cartes advances another opinion ; he conje6tures that comets are
only ftars, formerly fixed, like the reft, in the heavens ; but which, be-
coming by degrees covered with maculae, or fpots, and at length wholly
robbed of their light, cannot keep their place, but are carried off by the
vortices of the circumjacent ftars ; and, in proportion to their magnitude
and folidity, moved in fuch manner as to be brought nearer th^ orb of
Saturn ; and thus, coming within reach of the Sun's light, rendered
vifible.
But the vanity of all thefe hypothefes abundantly appears from the
phenomena of comets ; the chief of which are as follow : i ft. Thofe
comets, which move according to the order of the figns, do all, a little
before they difappear, either advance flower than ufual, or elfe go retro-
grade,
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 933.
grade, if the Earth be between them and the Sun ; and more fwiftly, if
the Earth be fituate in a contrary part. On the other hand, thofe which
proceed contrary to the order of the figns, proceed more fwiftly than
ufual if the Earth be between them and the Sun ; and more flowly, or
go retrograde, when the Earth is in a contrary part. 2d.' So long as
their velocity is increafed, they move nearly in great circles ; but, to-
wards the end of their courfe, they deviate from thofe circles ; and,, as,,
often as the Earth proceeds oneway, they go the contrary way., 3(|^.
They move in ellipfes, having one of their foci in the centre of the
Sun ; and, by radii drawn to the Sun, defcribes areas proportionable to-,
the times. 4th. The light of their bodies, or nuclei, increafes in their>>
recefs from the Earth toward the Sun ; and on the contrary, decreafes, in
their recefs from the Sun. 5th. Their tails appear the largeft and.--
brighteft immediately after their tranfit through the region of the .Sun,;>
or after their perihelion. 6th. The tails always decline from 3- juft op-i >
pofition to the Sun towards thofe parts which the bodies, or nuclei, pafsjj
over, in their progrefs through their orbits. 7th. This declination, ceteris
paribus^ is the fmalleft, when the heads, or nuclei, approach neareft- the,
Sun ; and is lefs, ftill, nearer the nucleus of the comet, than towards the;^
extremity of the tail. 8th. The tails are fomewhat brighter, and more
diftinilly defined, in their convex than in their concave part. 9th, The^
tails always appear broader at their upper extreme than near the centre of-
the comet. loth. The tails are always tranfparent, and the fmallefl; ftars
appear through them.
Thefe are the chief phenomena of comets ; which it is. evident, cabi-
net eafily be reconciled with the wild notions of the ancients, and thcr
weak conje6lures of many of the moderns. Indeed, there were fbme-,;
Pliny tells us, among the ancients, who, " had jufter notions ; who-j
" took thefe ftars to be perpetual, and believed they moved in theifij
" proper orbs; but were never feen, unlefs when left by the Sufi."-,
Apollonius Myndius declared, that he took comets for regular ftars;
and ventured to foretel, that one day the periods and laws of their motion
would be difcovered. And more fully Seneca, Quaeft. Nat. lib. vii. cap,;
25. " I am not of the common opinion, nor do I take a comet to be a
" fudden fire, but efteem it among the eternal works of nature." QuiJi
autem miramur cometas, tarn varum 7nundifpedlaculum^ nondum teneri legibus-'.
certisy nee hiitia illorum finefque innotefcere, quorum ex ingentibus nee inter-
vallis recurfus ejif Veniet tempus quo ijia quae nunc latent in lucem dies
extrahat, & longioris cevi diligeniia. Veniet tempus quo pojieri noflri tarn
aperta nos nefcijfe mirentur, Erit qui detmnjiret aliquandot in quibus cometce
partibus erreni : cur tarn fe duSii a ceteris errent, quanti quale/que Jint.
This
934 AN ILLUSTRATION
This predidion we have feen accomplifhed in our days, by the great Sir
Ifaac Newton ; whofe dodrine is as follows
:
The comets, he fays, are compad, folid, fixed, and durable, bodies ;
in one word, a kind of planets ; which move, in very oblique orbits,
every way with the greatefi freedom ; perfevering in their motiotis, even
againft the courfe and dire6lion of the planets ; and their tail is a very
thin {lender vapour, emitted by the head, or nucleus, of tiie comet,
ignited or heated by the Sun. This at once folves all the foregoing
phenomena : for *' It is evident, that thofe which proceed according to
*' the order of the figns, a little before they difappear mufl: move more
*' flowly, or appear retrograde, if the Earth be betwixt them and the
"• Sun ; and fwifter if the Earth be in a contrary part. On the contrary,
*' thofe proceeding againft the order of the figns," &c. For, fiiice this
courfe is not among the fixed ftars, but among the planets ; as the mo-
tion of the Earth either confpires with them, or goes againft them ; their
appearance, with regard to the Earth, muft be changed ; and, like the
planets, they muft lometimes appear fwifter, fometimes flower, and
fometimes retrograde. " When the comets move the fwifteft, they muft
*' proceed in ftraight lines; but, in the end of their courfe, decline,'*
&c. becaufe, in the end of their courfe, when they recede almoft di-
re6tly from the Sun, that part of the apparent motion which arifes from
the parallax muft bear a greater proportion to the whole apparent
motion.
The comets muft move in ellipfes, having one of their foci in the cen-
tre of the Sun ; becaufe they do not wander precarioufly from one
fidlitious vortex to another; but, making a part of a folar fyftem, return
perpetually, and run a conftant round. Hence, their elliptic orbits be-
ing very long and eccentric, they become invifible when in that part
moft remote from the Sun. From confidering the curvity of the paths
of comets. Sir Ifaac concludes, that, when they difappear, they are much
beyond the orb of Jupiter ; and that, in their perihelion, they frequently
defcend below the orbit of Mars and the interior planets. The light of
their nuclei muft increafe in their recefs from the Sun, and vice verfa ;
becaufe, as they are in the regions of the planets, their accefs toward the
Sun bears a confiderable proportion to their whole diftance.
Froth obfervations of the comet of 1680, Sir Ifaac Newton found
that the vapour in the extremity of the tail, January 25th, began to
afcend from the head before December 1 1 ; and had therefore fpent
more than forty-five days in its afccnt ; but that all the tail which ap-
peared
OFASTROLOGY. 935
peared December loth afcended in the fpace of thofe two days, then
jufl paft, fince its perihelion. The vapour, therefore, at the beginning,
when the comet was near the Sun, afcended prodigioufly fwift ; and af-
terwards continued to alcend with a motion retarded by the gravity of
its particles ; and by that afcent increafed the length of the tail ; but the
tail, notwithftanding its length, confided almofl wholly of vapours,
which had afcended from the time of its perihelion ; and the vapour
which afcended firft, and compofed the extreme part of the tail, did not
vanifh till it was too far from the Sun to be illuminated by him, and
from us to be vifible. Hence alfo, the tails of comets that are fhorter
do not afcend with a quick and continual motion from the head, and
then prefently difappear ; but are permanent columns of vapours and
exhalations, gathered from the head by a very gentle motion and a
great fpace of time; which yet, by participating of that motion of their
heads they had at the beginning, continue eafily to move along with
their heads through the celeflial regions ; whence alfo the vacuity of
thofe regions is ur2:ed.
Their tails muft appear the largeft and brighteft immediately after
their tranfit through the region of the Sun. Becaufe, then, their heads,
being the moft heated, will emit the moft vapours. From the light of
the nucleus, or apparent ftar, we infer their vicinity to the earth, and
that they are by no means in the region of the fixed flars, as fomc have
imagined ; fince, in that cafe, their heads would be no more illuminated
by the Sun than the planets are by the fixed ftars. The tails muft ftill
decline from a diftinft oppofition to the Sun towards the parts which
the heads pafs over in their progrefs through their orbits ; becaufe all
fmoke, or vapour, emitted from a body in motion, tends upwards
obliquely, ftill receding from that part towards which the fmoking body
proceeds. That declination will be flill the leaft near the nucleus of the
comet, and when the comet is neareft the Sun ; becaufe the vapour
afcends more fwiftly near the head of the comet than in the higher ex-
tremity of its tail ; and when the comet is at a lefs diftance from the Sun
than when at a greater. The tail is bris-hter and better defined in its
convex part than in its concave ; becaufe the vapour m the convex part,
which goes firfl, being fomewhat nearer and denfer, reflects the light
more copioufly. The tail muft appear broader towards the higher ex-
tremity of the comet than towards the head ; becaufe the vapour in a
free fpace is perpetually rarefied and dilated. The tails muft be tranf-
parent, becaufe confifting of infinitely thin vapoux, &c. Thus accurately
does the hypothefis tally to the phenomena.
No. 48. 10 Z The
936 AN ILLUSTRATION
The nuclei, which we occafionally call the heads and bodies of comets,,
viewed through a telefcope, (how a very different face from thofe of the
fixed ftars, or planets. They are liable to apparent changes, which Sir
Ifaac Newton aicribes to changes in the atmofphere of comets; and this
opinion was confirmed by obfervations of the comet in 1744. Sturmius
tells us, that, oblerving the comet of 1680 with a teleicope, it appeared
like a coal dimly glowing, or a rude mafs of matter illuminated with a
dufkv fumid light, lefs fenlible at the extremes than in the middle; ra-
ther than as a liar, which appears with a round dilk, and a vivid light.
Hevellus obferved of the comet of 1661, that its body was of a yel-
lowifti colour, very bright and conlpicuous, but without any glittering
light : in the middle was a denfe ruddy nucleus, almofl: equal to Jupiter,,
encompaffed with a much fainter thinner matter. On February the 5th,.
its head was fomewhat bigger and brighter; of a gold colour; but its
light more dulky than the reft of the ftars : here, the nucleus appeared
divided into feveral parts. February the 6th, the di(k was lefiened ; the
nuclei ftill exifted, though lefs than before ; one of them, on the lower
part of the dilk, on the left, much denier and brighter than the reft : its
body round, and reprefenting a very lucid little ftar : the nuclei ftill en-
compaffed with another kind of matter. Februaiy loth, the head lome-
what more obfcure, and the nuclei more confuted, but brighter at top
than bottom. February 13th, the head diminifhed much, both in mag-
nitude and brightnefs. March 2d, its rouadnefs a little impaired, its-
edges lacerated, &c. March 28th, very pale and exceeding tliin ; its
matter much difperfed ; and no diftindt nucleus at all appearing.
Weigelius, who faw the comet of 1664, the Moon, and a little
cloud illuminated by the Sun at the fame time, obferved that the Moon,,
through the teleicope, appeared of a continual luminous furface ; but the
comet very different ; being perfeftly like a little cloud in the horizon,
illuminated by the Sun. From thefe obfervations it was, that Hevelius
concluded comets to be like maqulas, or fpots, formed out of the folar
exhalations.
The eftimates that have been given by Tycho, Hevelius, and fome
others, of the magnitude of comets, are not fufficiently accurate to be
depended upon ; for it does not appear, that they diftingui(hed between,
the nucleus and the furrounding atmofphere. Thus Tycho computes^
that the true diameter of the comet in 1577 ^^^ ^" proportion to the
diameter of the earth as 3 is to 14. Hevelius made the diameter of the
comet of 1652 to that of the earth as 52 to 100. The diameter of
the
OFASTROLOGY. 937
the atmofphere is often ten or fifteen times as great as that of the
nucleus: the former, in the comet of 1682, when meafnred by Flam-
fleed, was found to be two minutes, but the diameter of the nucleus
only eleven feconds. Some comets, from the apparent magnitude and
diftance compared, have been judged to be much larger than the Moon,
and even equal to fome of the primary planets. The d a meter of that
of 1744, when at the diftance of the Sun from us, meafured a'rout one
minute, and therefore its diameter mull: be about three times the diameter
of the Earth : at another time the diameter of its nucleus was nearly
equal to that of Jupiter.
The lengths of the tails of comets are various, and depend on a va-
riety of circumftances. Longomontanus mentions a comet that in
16 1 S, December 10, had a tail above a hundred degrees in leno-th
:
that of 1680, according to Sturmius, about the 20th of November, was
but fmall ; at moft, not exceeding twenty degrees in length ; in a little
time it grew to a length of fixty degrees, after which it dwindled very
fenfibly. The comet of 1744 had a tail which at one time appeared to
extend above fixteen deo;rees from its bodv ; and which, allowing the
Sun's parallax ten feconds, muft have been above twenty- three millions
of miles in length.
Sir Ifaac Newton fhows, that the atmofphere of comets will furnifh
vapour fufficient to form their tails ; this he argues from that wonderful
rarefaction obferved in our air at a diflance from the earth : a cubic inch
of common air, at the diftance of half the earth's diameter, or four
thoufand miles, would neceflarily expand itfelf fo far as to fill a fpace
larger than the whole region of ftars. Since then the coma or atmo-
fphere of a comet is ten times higher than the furface of the nucleus,
counting from the centre thereof, the tail, afcending much higher, muft
neceflarily be immenfely rare ; fo that it is no wonder the ftars ihould
be vifible through it.
Now, the afcent of vapours into the tail of the comet he fuppofes
OGcafioned by the rarefaction of the matter of the atmofphere at the
time of the perihelion. Smoke, it is obferved, afcends the chimnev bv
the impulle of the air wherein it floats ; and air, rarefied by heat, afcends
by the diminution of its i'pecihc gravity, taking up the fmoke along with-
it ; why then ftiould not the tail of a comet be liippofed to be raiied after
the fame manner by the Sun.' for the fun-beams do not a6t on the-
mediums they pafs through any otherwife than by refledion and rarefac-
tion. The refleding particles, then, being warmed by the adion, will
again*
938 AN ILLUSTRATION
again warm the a;ther wherewith they are compounded ; and this, rare-
fied by the heat, will have its fpecific gravity, whereby it before tended
to defcend, diminifhed by the rarefaflion, lb as to alcend, and carry
along with it thofe refledting particles whereof the tail of the comet is
compofed. This afcent of the vapours will be promoted by their cir-
cular motion round the Sun ; by means whereof, they will endeavour
to recede from the Sun, while the Sun's atmofphere, and the other mat-
ters in the celeftial fpaces, are either at reft, or nearly fo ; as having
no motion but what they receive from the Sun's circumrotation. Thus
are the vapours raifed into the tails of comets in the neighbourhood of
the Sun, where the orbits are moft curve ; and where the comets, being
within the denfer atmofphere of the Sun, have their tails of the greateft
lensith.
The tails thus produced, by preferving that motion, and at the fame
time gravitating toward the Sun, will move round his body in ellipfes, in
like manner as their heads ; and by this means, will ever accompany,
and freely adhere to, their head. In effedf, the gravitation of the va-
pours towards the Sun will na more occafion the tails of the comets to
forfake their heads, and fall down towards the Sun, than the gravitation
of their heads will occafion them to fall off from their tails ; but by their
common gravitation they will either fall down together to the Sun, or
be together fufpended or retarded. This gravitation, therefore, does
not at all hinder but that the heads and tails of comets may receive and
retain any pofition towards each other, which either the above-men-
tioned caufes or any other may occafion. The tails, therefore, thus pro-
duced in the perihelion of comets, will go off", along with their heads, into
remote regions ; and either return thence, together with the comets, after
a long feries of years ; or rather be there loft, and vanifti by little and
little, and the comets be left bare ; till at their return, defcending to-
wards the Sun, fome little fhort tails are gradually and flowly produced
from the heads ; which, afterwards, in the perihelion, defcending into the
Sun's atmofphere, will be immenfely increafed.
The vapours, when they are thus dilated, rarefied, and diffufed through
all the celeftial regions, the fame author obferves, may probably, by little
and little, by means of their own gravity, be attradled down to the pla-
nets, and become intermingled with their atmofpheres. He adds like-
wife, that, for the confervation of the water and moifture of the planets,
comets feem abfolutely requifite ; from whofe condenfed vapours and
exhalations, all that moifture, which is fpent in vegetations and putre-
faftions, and turned into dry earth, &c. may be re-fupplied and re-
cruited.
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 939
fcruited. For all vegetables grow and increafe wholly from fluids; and,
again, as to their greateft part, turn, by putrefaction, into earth again ;
an earthly flime being perpetually precipitated to the bottom of putrefy-
ing liquors. Hence the quantity of dry earth mtift continually increale,
and the moifture of the globe decreafe, and at laft be quite evaporated,
if it had not a continual fupply from fome part or other of the uiiiverfe.
And 1 fufpedV, adds our great author, that the fpirit, which makes the
fineft, fubtileft, and the befl, part of our air, and which is abfolutely
requifite for the life and being of all things, comes principally from the
comets.
On this principle, there feems to be fome foundation for the popular
opinion of prefages from comets ; fince the tail of a comet, thus inter-
mingled with our atmofphere, may produce changes very fenfible in ani-
mal and vegetable bodies. Another ufe which he conje6tures comets may
be defigned to ferve, is that of recruiting the Sun with frefh fuel, and re-
pairing the confumption of his light by the ftreams continually fent forth
in every direftion from that luminary. In fupport of this conje£lure he
obferves, that comets in their perihelion may fufFer a diminution of their
projecSlile force by the refinance of the folar atmolphere ; fo that by de-
grees their gravitation towards the Sun may be fo far increafed as to pre-
cipitate their fall into his body.
There have been various conjeftures about the generation of the tail
of comets. Appian, Tycho Brahe, and fome others, apprehended that
they were produced by the Sun's rays tranfmitted through the nucleus of
the comet, which they luppofed to be tranfparent, and there refraded as
in a lens of glafs, fo as to form a beam of lisrht behind the comet. Des
Cartes accounted for the phenomenon of the tail by the rarefadtion of light
from the head of the comet to the eye of the fpedlator. Mairan fuppofes
that the tails are formed out of the luminous matter that compofes the
Sun's atmofphere; M. De la Lande combines this hypothecs with that
of Newton above recited. Mr. Rowning, who is not fatisfied with Sir
Ifaac's opinion, accounts for the tails of comets in the following manner:
It is well known, fays he, that, when the light of the Sun pafles
through the atmofphere of any body, as the Earth, that which pafles
on one fide is, by the rarefa6lion thereof, made to converge towards that
which pafles on the oppolite one; and the convergency is not wholly ef-
fe61ed either at the entrance of the light into the atmofphere, or at its go-
ing out ; but, beginning at its entrance, it increafes in every point of its
progrefs. It is alfo agreed, that the atmofpheres of the comets are very
large and denfe. He therefore fuppofes that,; by fuch time as the light
No. 49. 1 1 A
'
of
940 A N I L L U S T^ R A T I O N
of the Sun has palled through a conriderable part of the atraofphere of a
comet, the rays thereof are fo far refracled towards each other, that they
then beghi lenfibly to illuminate it, or rather the vapours floating therein,
and fo render that part they have yet to pafs through vifible to us: and
that this portion of the atmofphere of a comet thus illuminated appears to
us in form of a beam of the Sun's light, and palTes under the deiiomina-
tion of a comet's tail.
We have an enquiry into the caufe of the tails of comets, by Mr. Eu-
ler. He thinks there is a great affinity between thefe tails, the zodiacal
licrht, and the Aurora Borealis; and that the common caufe of them all
is the aftion of the Sun's light .on the atmolphere of the comets, of the
Sun, and of the Earth. He fuppofes^ that the impulfe of the rays of
light on the atmofphere of comets may drive fome of the finer particles
of that atmofphere far beyond its limits ; and that this force of impulfe,
combined with that of gravity towards the comet, would produce a tail,
v/hich would always be in oppofition to the bun, if the comet did not
move. But the motion of the comet in its orbit, and about its axis, muft
vary the pofition and figure of the tail, giving it a curvature, and devia-
tion from a line drawn from the centre of the Sun to that of the comet
;
and that this deviation will be greater, as the orbit of the comet has the
greater curvature, and the motion of the comet more i^apid. It mav
even happen, that the velocity of the comet, in its perihelion, may be lo
great, that the force of the Sun's rays may produce a new tail before the
old one can follow ; iii which cafe the comet might have two or more
tails. The poflibility of this is confirmed by the comet of 1744, which
was obferved to have feveral tails while it was in its perihelion.
Dr. Hamilton urges feveral objedlions againft the Newtonian hypothe-
cs; and "concludes that the tail of a comet is formed of matter which hath
not the power of refrading or refleding the rays of light : but that it is
a lucid or felf-fhining fubftance, and, from its fimilarity to the Aurora
Borealis, produced by the lame caufe, and is a proper eledtrical phenome-
non. Dr. Halley feemed inclined to this hypothe'fis, when he faid, that
the ftreams of lioht in the Aurora Borealis fo much refcmbled the Ions
tails of comets, that at firft fight they might well be taken for fuch : this
light feems to have a great affinity to that which eledric bodies emit in
the dark.
M. Fatio has fliggefted, that fome of th^ comets have their nodes fb
very near, the annual orbit of the earth, that, if the earth fhould hap-
pen to be found ii;i that part next the node, at the time of a comet's paffing
O F A S T R O L O G Y. y+i
by, the moft dreadful confequences might be apprehended ; as the appa-
rent motion of the comet will be incredibly Avift, fo its parallax will be-
come very lenfible ; and the proportion thereof to that of the Sun will be
given : whence luch tranfits of comets will afford the befl means of de-
termining the diftance of the Earth and Sun.
The comet of 1472 had a parallax above twenty times greater than
that of the Sun : and, if that of 161 8 had come down in the beginning
of March to its dcfcending node, it would have been much nearcf to
Earth, and its parallax much more nclable. But, hitheito, none has
threatened the Earth with a nearer appuliethan that of 1680; for, by cal-
culation, Dr. Halley finds, that, November iith, ih. 6 min. P. M, that
x;omet was not above one femidiameter of the Earth to the northward of
the way of the Earth ; at which time, had the Earth been in that part of
its orbit, the comet would have had a parallax equal to that of the Moon.
What might have been the confequence of fo near an appulfe, a contad,
or, laflly, a fhock, of the celeflial bodies ? Whifton fays, a deluge!
If the paths of comets be fuppofed direftly parabolical, as fome have
imagined, it would follow, that, being impelled towards the Sun by a
centripetal force, they defcend as from fpaces infinitely diftant ; and by
their falls acquire fuch a velocity, as that they may again run off into the
remoteft regions : ftill moving upwards with fuch a perpetual tendency
as never to return. But the frequency of their appearance, and their de-
gree of velocity, which does not exceed what they might acquire by their
gravity towards the Sun, feems to put it pafl: doubt that they move, planet-
like, in elliptic orbits, though exceedingly eccentric; and fo return
again, after very long periods. The apparent velocity of the comet of
1472, as obferved by Regiomontanus, was luch as to carry it through
forty degrees of a great circle in twenty-four hours: and that of 1770
was obferved to move through more than forty-five degree in the laft
twenty-five hours.
Newton, Flamfteed, Halley, and the Englifh aftronomers, feem fatif-
fied of the return of comets: Caffini, and others of the French, think it
highly probable ; but De la Hire, and others, oppofe it. Thofe on the
affirmative fide fuppofe the comets to defcribe orbits prodigioufly .eccentric,
inlomuch that we can only lee them in a very fmall part of their revo-
lution ; out of this, they are loft in the immenle fpaces ; hid not only
from our eyes, but from our telefcopes. That little part of their orbit
near us, M. Caffini, &c. have found to pafs between the orbits of Venus
and Mars. For the reafons of the return of comets, M. Caffini gives
thefe
94* AN ILLUSTRATION
thefe which follow: i. In confidering the courfe of the comets, with
regard to the fixed ftars, they are found to keep a confiderable time in
the arch of a great circle, i. e. a circle whofe plane paffes through the
centre of the earth ; indeed, they deviate a little from it, chiefly towards
the end of their appearance ; but this deviation is common to them with
the planets. 2. Comets, as well as planets, appear to move lo much the
fafter as they are nearer the earth ; and, when they are at equal diflances
from their perigee, their velocities are nearly the fame.
By fubtra<5ling from their motion the apparent mequality of velocity
occafioned by their different diflances from their earth, their equal motion
misht be found ; but we fhould not be certain this motion were their true
one; becaufe they might have confiderable inequalities, not diflinguifh-
able in that fmall part of their orbit vilible to us. It is indeed probable,
that their real motion, as well as that of the planets, is unequal in itfelf
:
and hence we have a realbn why the obfervations made dujing the ap-
pearance of a comet cannot give the juft period of its revolution.
There are no two different planets whofe orbits cut the ecliptic in the
fame angle, whofe nodes are in the fame points of the ecliptic, and whofe
apparent velocity in their perigee is the fame : confequently, two comets
feen at different times, yet agreeing with all thofe three circumflances-,
can only be one and the fame comet. And this were the comets of 1577
and 1680 obferved to do, and thoie of 1652 and 1698 ; not that this ex-
a6l agreement, in thefe circumflances, is abfolutely neceffary to deter-
mine them the fame comet. M. Caflini finds the Moon herfelf irregular
O
in them all : accordingly, he is of opinion, there are feveral which difa-
gree herein, and yet may be accounted the fame.
The great objeiSlion againfl the return of comets, is, the rarity of their
appearance, with regard to the number of revolutions affigned to them.
In I 702, there was a comet, or rather the tail of one, feen at Rome,
which M. Caflini takes to be the fame with that obferved by Ariflotle,
and that fince feen in 1668, which would imply its period to be thirty-
four years. Now it may feem ftrange, that a flar which has fo fhort a re-
volution, and of confequence fuch frequent returns, fhould be fo feldom
feen.—Again, in April of the fame year, 1702, a comet was obferved by
MefT. Bianchini and Maraldi, fuppofed by the latter to be the fame with
that of 1664, by reafoii of its motion, velocity, and direftion. M. de
la Hire took it to havefome relation to another he had obferved in 1698,
which M. Caffini refers to that of 1652. On this fuppofition, its period
appears to be forty-three months ; and the number of revolutions, between
1652
OFASTROLOGY. 943
1652 and 1698, fourteen: but it is hard to fuppofe, that, in this age,
wherein the heavens are To narrowly watched, a ftar (hould make fourteen
appearances unperceived ; efpecially fuch a fhar as this, which might ap-
pear above a month together, and of confequence be frequently difen-
gaged from the crepufcula. For this reafon, Caffini is very referved
in maintaining the hypothefis of the return of comets; and only propofes
thofe for planets, where the motions are eafy and fimple, and are folved
without ftraining, pr allowing many irregularities.
M. de la Hire propdfeTone^ generaT^difficulty againfl: the whole fvftem
of the return of comets, which would fcem to hinder any comet from be-
ing a planet: ^rid it is tills ; that, by the difpofition neceflarily given to
their courfes, they ought to appear as large at firft as at laft ; and always
increafe, till they arrive at their greateft proximity to the earth: or, if
they fhould chance not to be obferved, as foon as they become vifible, for
want of attention thereto, at leaft it is impoffible but they muft frequently
(how themfelves before they have arrived at their full magnitude and
brightnefs. But he adds, that none were ever yet obferved till they had
arrived at it. Yet the appearance of a comet in the month of October,
1723, while at a great diftance, fo as to be too fmall and dim to be
viewed without a telefcope, may ferve to remove this obftacle, and fet
the comets, ftill, on the fame footing with the planets. Sir Ifaac New-
ton fuppofes, that as tbofe planets which a*re neareft the Sun, and revolve
in the leaft orbits, are the fmallcft ; fo, among the comets^ fuch as in
their perihelion come tieareft the Sun^arc t|je, fiBaUefl:, and revolve in
fmaller orbits.
'
',
'^i ^^ X
'
Dr. Halley haFgiven us a Table of the aftronomical elements of all the
comets that had been obferved with due care ; whereby, whenever a
new comet (hould appear, it might be determined, by comparing it thore-
with, whether it were any of thofe which had yet appeared : and confe-
quently its period, and the axis of its orbit, be determined, and its return
foretold. This Table contains the aftronomical elements of twenty-four
comets, on the fuppofition that they moved in '
parabolas ; though he
thought it extremely probable that they really moved in very eccentric;'
ellipfes, and confequently returned after long periods of time. This)
Table commences with theje^r 1337^ .anddolie8.witli,;n698l. . >....' ^1... ,;^
.
\r,il' -^..j
•'' ' mi; . VOfi I'ii ' ""Hi:! - ^1 : J i;: . ii;: jfi^ ,.n" " I "^o
^^Jdilitii; . .dibnc,^?? I bni;4:dn '1o iJufljl!;
.i«.mrii...;r: 3ri:ono3Jn::rn.K^:!j b^i/ \^'/^- _.„,^
No. 49. ijj]Sii L^ic..
,
• " TABi^
94+ AN ILLUSTRATION
TABLE OF COMETS.
OF ASTROLOGY. 945
SUPPLEMENT tc
946 AN ILLUSTRATION
mod: four times the height of the planet Saturn ; and whofe velocity, if
b\it a little increafed, would change its elliptic orb into a parabolic one ?
What farther confinriS the identity, is the appearance of another comet
in the lummer of 1456, which, though obferved by none with accuracy,
yet, by its period and the manner of its tranfit, he concludes to be the
fame; and thence ventured to foretel its return in the year 1758, or the
beginning of the next year : and time has verified the prediftion. It ap-
peared in March 1759. Halley alfo thought that the comet of 1680 was
the fame that was obferved in 1106, 531, and in the forty-fourth year
before Chrift, when Julius Caefar was murdered ; and that its period was
five hundred and feventy-five years. Mr. Dunthorne, in the Philofophi-
cal Tranfaftions, vol. xlvii. has endeavoured to fhow, from a MS. in
Pembroke-hall Library, that the comet of 1106 could not be the fame
with that of 1680. But M. de la Lande adopts the opinion of Dr.
Halley.
To determine the place and courfe of a comet, obferve the diftance of
the comet from two fixed ftars whofe longitudes and latitudes. are known :
from the diftances thus found, calculate the place of the comet by trigo-
nometry; and, by repeating the obfervations and operations for feveral
days fucceffively, the courl'e of the comet will be had. We might alfo
determine the courfe of a comet mechanically, without any apparatus of
inftruments, by the following ingenious method, with a thread, which
we owe to Longomontanus. Obferve four ftars round the comet, fuch
as that the comet may be in the interledion of the right lines that join
the two oppofite fl:ars ; which is eafily found by means of a thread placed
before the eye, and extended over-againft the ftars and comets. Find thefe
four flars upon a globe, and extend two threads crofsways, from one
corner to the other of the fquare fpace defcribed by the four ftars; and the
central point where the threads interfe6t each other will give the place of
the comet. This pradice being repeated for feveral days, the comet's
courfe will be had on the globe ; which courfe will be found to be a great
circle, from any two points whereof it will be eafy to find its inclination
to the ecliptic, and the place of the nodes, only by obferving where a
thread, ftretched through the two points, cuts the ecliptic.
Such is the do6lrine of comets, as laid down from time to time both by
the ancient and modern philofophers ; but which, like mofl other abflrufe
phenomena, is founded pretty much upon conje6fure and arbitrary concep-
tion. Should the comets of 1264 and 1556 (which are fuppofed to be the
fame) appear in or about the year 1848, it will confirm a great deal of
the foregoing fpeculation, as to their pofTefling a determinate place in the
lyftem
;
i
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 947
fyftem ; and will convince us that their revolutions, though extremely
eccentric, are neverthelefs definable, and fuch as may hereafter throw
great light upon philolophical difquilitions.
Dr. Halley conjedured, that the comet obferved by Apian in 1532, was
the fame as that obferved by Hevelius in 1 66 1 ; if fo, it ought to have re-
turned in 1790, but it has never been obferved. ButM. Mechain, having
collefted all the obfervations in 1532, and calculated the orbit again, found
it to be fenfibly different from that determined by Dr. Halley, which ren-
ders it very doubtful whether this was the comet which appeared in 1661;
and this doubt is increafed by its not appearing in 1 790. The comet in
1770, whofe periodic time M. Lexell computed to be five years and feven
months, has not been obferved fince.
Of E C L I P S E S.
An Eclipfe, from ixXj,,}/.,-, of txxtiiro, to fall, fignifies a^ failure or priva-
tion of the light of one of the luminaries, by the interpofition of fome
dark or opaque body falling between it and the eye, or between it and
the Sun. The Moon, being a dark and opaque body, receives her light
from the Sun by refle6lion ; which is proved by her increafing and de-
creafing in light as fhe is nearer or farther off from her conjunftions with
the Sun. At the ecliptical conjundion, or New Moon, the dark body
of the Moon paffes diredly between the Sun and us, which hides that
luminary from our fight, and this conftitutes an eclipfe of the Sun ; but
at an ecliptical oppohtlon, or Full Moon, the Sun, the Earth, and the
Moon, are in one dired and diametrical line ; the dark globe of the
Earth, being then between the Sun and Moon, deprives the Moon of
the Sun's light, whereby fhe becomes darkened and eclipfed, having no
light of her own. The line or way wherein the Moon makes her con-
flant periodical revolutions croffes the ecliptic wherein the Sun moves
at an angle of about five degrees ; the diftance of thefe lines conftitutes
the Moon's latitude; and the places in the ecliptic which thefe lines in-
terfeft are called the Moon's nodes, or the Dragon's Head and Dragon's
Tail. Thefe interfeftions do not always happen in one place of the
ecliptic, but move once through the fame, contrary to the fequel or fuc-
celTion of the figns, in eighteen years and two hundred and twenty-five
days.
If the Moon at full be diftant from the Dragon's Head or Tail more
than fifteen degrees, there can be no eclipfe of the Moon ; and, when at
the time of the change the Moon is more than nineteen degrees diflant
No. 49. II C from
948 ANIL LUSTRATION
from the Dragon's Head, according to the fucceffion of the figns, there
can be no ecli()le of the Sun ; neither can there be any ecliple of the Sun,
when the Moon at the change is above feven des;rees from tlie Drasfon's
Tail accordincr to the fucceflion of tiv: fiens, oi' more than le\ en de2:i'ees
from the Dragon's Head contrary lo the fuccenion of the figns.
Eclipfes of the Sun are various both in quantity and quality, being
beheld from different parts of the Earth; where he will appear partially
eclip(ed to a fpe6lator on the north fide of his body, and totally to a
fpe6lator on his fouth fide; whilll: to others he will appear at the fame
inftant not at all eclipfed. The reafon is, the Sun in his edipfes is not
darkened, but only hidden from our fight by the interpofition of the Moon,
whofe various parallaxes produce this diverfity in the Sun's eclipie.
The eclipfe of the Moon, on the contrary, appears the fame to all part^
of the Earth, and to all people above whofe horizon (he is at that time
elevated; for, when fhe is deprived of the light of the Sun, flie becomes
really darkened. To eftimate the quantities of the ecliples of either lu-
minary, their diameters are fuppofedly divided into twelve equal paits,
called digits, becaufe their diameters appear to fight about a foot in
length ; fo that, when the Moon obfcures half the Sun's diameter, he is
faid to be fix digits eclipfed.
Amongfl the coeleftial phenomena, the do6lrine of edipfes takes pre-
cedency ; becaufe from their obfervation the primary foundation of
the whole body of aftronomy is demon ftrated and confirmed. Hence the
folar eclipfes manifeft the Moon to be lower and lefs than the Sliu ; the
lunar eclipfes prave that the Earth is not founded infinitely below us,
but that the heavens under us are diftant from the Earth as far upwards,
in refpeiSl of our antipodes, as they are here ; and confequently that the
Earth is not cubical, pyramidal, nor cylindrical, but on every fide per-
ftSly round, or terminated by a globular figure ; not only becaufe the
fhadow of the Earth in the Moon's body is always and on every part ob-
ferved to be round, but alfo becaufe thofe who live eaftward number
more hours from their meridian, for the beginning or ending of any
eclipfe, than fuch as live weilward, proportionably to their diftance.
Lunar eclipfes demonftrate the fiiadow of the Earth to be conical, ter-
minating in a fharp point ; and the fame place of the Moon's tranfits to
be fometimes thicker, and at other times more flender, notwithftanding
a certain rule and refpedt had to the Sun's motion ; and confequently
thar
OF ASTROLOGY. 9<9
that the Sun is moved, or {o Teems to be, in an eccentrical orb. By
eclipfes of the Moon we al(b know that the Earth is moved or placed in
the middle of the zodiac, becaufe fhe is eclipfed in the oppofite places
thereof. The lunar ecliples beft difcover to us the longitude of places
upon the Eajth, and afTure us that the Earth and Water make but one
globe ; and the oriental and occidental eclipfes of the Moon inform us,
that one half of the world is alwavs vifible, and that one half of the zo~
diac rifes above the horizon.
The true and certain place of the Moon cannot be had by any inftru-
ment whatioever, becaufe of her parallaxes. Nature, or rather the God
of nature, hath therefore fiipplied this defect by her eclipfes; for the
Moon pofited in mediis tenebris is then underftood to be oppohte to the Sun,
by which means the motions and mutations of the Moon are found out
and rationally demonftrated. And, as by lunar eclipfes we gather, that
the Sun is far greater than the Earth, and the Moon lefs, fo by folar
eclipfes we demonftrate the diftance of the luminaries from the Earth to
be different, and to be moved in eccentrics or epicycles ; whence a rule
is found for meafuring the diftance of the Sun and Moon from the Earth,
together with the magnitudes of the feveral celeftial bodies.
Eclipfes of the Moon happen only in the Time of Full Moon ; becaufe
it is only then the Earth is between the Sun and Moon : nor do they hap-
pen every Full Moon, by reafon of the obliquity of the Moon's way with
refpedl: to the Sun's; but only in thofe Full Moons which happen either
in the nodes, or very near them, where the aggregate of the apparent
femidiarneters of the Moon and the Earth's Ihadow is greater than the
latitude of the Moon, or the dill:ai5ce between their centres.
The raoft confiderable circumftances in the eclipfes of the Moon are.
That, as the fum of the femidiarneters of the Moon and Earth's fhadovv
is greater than the aggregate of the femidiameters of the Sun and Moon,
(that, when leaft, being 54; and this, when greateft, fcarcely 31 ;) it is
evident that lunar ecliples may happen in a greater latitude of the Moon
and at a greater diftance from the nodes, and confeqoently are more often
obferved, in any one part of the Earth, than folar ones ; though, with
refpedl: to the whole Earth, the latter are more frequent than the former,
becaufe the Sun's ecliptical limits are greater than the Moon's.
Total eclipfes of the Moon, and thofe of the longeft duration, hap-
pen in the very nodes of the ecliptic ; becaufe the fedion of the Earth's
ihadow?
95<3 AN ILLUSTRATION
fliadow, then falling on the Moon, is confiderably greater than her difk.
There may likewife be total eclipfes within a little diftance of the nodes;
but, the farther, the lefs their duration ; farther off {till, there are only-
partial ones, and at length none at all, as the latitude and the femidia-
meter of the Moon, together, are either lefs, equal to, or greater, than the
femidianneter of the Ihadow. A lunar eclipfe, that is both total and
central, lafls three hours fifty-feven minutes fix feconds from the begin-
ning to the end when the JNIoon is in her apogee, and three hours thir-
ty-feven minutes twenty-fix feconds when in perigee ; her horary motion
being floweft in the former cafe, and quickefl in the latter. In all lunar
eclipfes, the eaftern fide is what firfl: immerges, and alfo emerges; fo that,
though at firfl: the Moon be more wefterly than the Earth's fliadovv,
yet, her proper motion being fwifter than the fame, fhe overtakes and
outgoes it. The Aloon, even in the middle of an eclipfe, has ufually a
faint appearance of light relembling tarnifhed copper ; which Gaflendus,
Ricciolus, Kelper, &c. attril)ute to the light of the Sun, refracted by the
Earth's atmofphere, and tranfmitted thither : and, laftly, (he grows fen-
fibly paler, and dimmer, before fhe enters within the Earth's fliadow ;
which is attributed to the Earth's penumbra.
Solar eclipfes, being an occultation of the Sun's body occafioned by
an interpofition of the Moon between the Sun and the Earth, are diftin-
guiflied, like thofe of the Moon, into total and partial, &c. to v/hich muft
be added a third fpecies, called annular. As the Moon is found to have a
parallax of latitude, eclipfes of the Sun only happen when the latitude of
the Moon, viewed from the Earth, is lefs than the aggregate of ihc appa-
rent femidiameters of the Sun and Moon. Solar eclipfes therefore only
happen when the Moon is in conjun61ion with the Sun, in or near the
nodes, i. e. at the new moons. Confequently, the memorable eclipfe
of the Sun, at our Saviour's pafi^ion, happening at the time of full moon,
when the Sun and Moon are in oppofition, was preternatural. Betides,
the darknefs in total eclipfes of the Sun never lafts above four miiuites in
one place ; whereas the darknefs at the crucifixion lafted three hours,
(Matthew xxvii. 45.) and overfpread at leaft all the land of Judea.
But though the New Moon pafs between the Sun and the Earth, yet is
not there an eclipfe every Moon; becaufe the Moon's way is not pre-
cifely under the ecliptic, but is placed obliquely thereto, interfering it
twice in every period : fo that eclipfes can only be occafioned in fuch
New Moons as happen in thefe interfedlions or nodes, or very near them.
In the nodes, when the Moon has no vifible latitude, the occultation is
total
;
ECLIFSBj^
OFASTROLOGY. 951
total ; and with fome continuance, when the diik of the Moon in perlgso
appears greater than that of the Sun in apogseo, and its fhadow is extended
beyond the furface of the Earth ; and without continuance, at moderate
diftances, when the cufp or point of the Moon's fhadow barelv touches
the Earth : laftly, out of the nodes, but near them, the echples are
partial. The folar eclipfes, though total, can never be univerfal or
vilible throughout the whole hemifphere which the Sun is then above,
becaufe the Moon's dark fhadow covers only a fpot on the Earth's fur-
face about one hundred and eisihtv Ens:lifli miles broad, when the Sun's
diftance is greatcft, and the Moon's leafl ; and thus far only can the to-
tal darknefs extend ; which explains the reafon why a folar eclipfe does
not appear the fame in all parts of the earth where it is feen ; but, when
in one place it is total, in another it is only partial. And farther, that
the Moon, when, in her apogee, appears much lefs than the Sun, as hap-
pens mofi: fenfibly when he is in perigao ; the cufp of the lunar fhadow
not then reaching the Earth, flie becomes in a central conjun6lion
with the Sun, yet not able to cover his diik, but lets his whole limb
appear like a lucid ring or bracelet ; this is hence called an annular eclipfe
;
which does not happen at the fame time in all places where it is feen ;
hut appears more early to the weflern parts, and later to the eaftern, as
will hereafter be farther explained.
In moil folar eclipfes, the Moon's difk is covered wilh a faint dawhino-
light; which is attributed to the reflection of the light from the illumi-
nated part of the Earth. In total eclipfes of the Sun, the Moon's limb
is feen furrounded by a pale circle of light ; which fome aftronomers take
for a manifefl indication of a lunar atmofphere ; but which is probably
the atmofphere of the Sun ; becaufe it has been obferved to move equally
with the Sun, and not with the Moon ; and befides, the Mooti is now
generally believed to have no atmofphere. The foregoing obfervations
will be farther illuftrated by what follows.
TO PROJECT ECLIPSES of the SUN.
The Sun, beirtg a luminous body, vaftly larger than the Earth, will
enlighten fomeWhat mbrethah one half of it, and caufe it to projeft a
l<)ng conical fhadow^ as reprefented in the annexed Plate, fig. l... where S
is the Sun, E the Earth, and HBD its conical fhadow.
The height or length of this fhadow, at the mean difl:ance of the Sun,
may be found by this proportion : As the tangent of the angle CBD, or
No, 49. II P the
95* AN ILLUSTRATION
the femi-diameter under which the Sun appears at the Earth, viz. AS
=16': radius : : i : the length of the fhadow CB=2i4"8 femi-diame-
ters of the Earth : but, when the Sun is at its greateftdiflance, the length
of the (hadow CB will be equal to 21 7 of thele femi-diameters. Hence
it appears, that, though the height of the (hadow is near three times as
great as the mean difkance of the Moon, yet it falls far fhort of the dif-
tance of Mars, and confequently can eclipfe none of the heavenly bodies
but the Moon.
To find the height of the Moon's (hadow, fuppofed to be fimilar to
that of the Earth, and confequently proportional to the diameters of
the bafis, the proportion is, As the diameter of the Earth 1 00, is to the dia-
meter of the Moon 28 ; fo is the mean altitude of the Earth's (hadow
214-8, to the altitude of that of the Moon, 6o-i44 of the Earth's femi-
diameters. The (hadow of the Moon, therefore, will juft reach the Earth
in her mean difl^ance, which it cannot in her apogee ; but in her pe-
rigee it will involve a fmall part of the Earth's furface.
Befides the dark (hadow of the Moon, there is another, called the pe-
jiumbra ; to reprefent which, let S, fig. 8. be the Sun, T the Earth, D the
Moon, KCFandABE the two lines touching the oppofite limbs
of the Sun and Moon ; then it is evident that CFEB will be the dark
er abfolute (hadow of the Moon, in which a perfon on the Earth's fur-
face, between Fand E, is wholly deprived of the Sun's light. Again, let
KBG and ACH be two other lines touching the fides of the Sun and
Moon alternately, and interfe(51ing each other at the point above the
Moon; then will HCBG, a fruftum of the cone GIG, be the pe-
numbra above mentioned, in which a fpeflator on the Earth's furface,
between F and H, and E and G, will fee part of the Sun, whilft the
reft is eclipfed.
To calculate the angle of the cone HIG, draw the dotted line SB;
then, in the oblique triangle BIS, the external angle BID is equal to
both the internal and oppofite angles IBS and I SB; but ISB, the angle
under which the femi-diameter appears at the Sun, being infenfibly fmall,
the angle BID will be equal to IBS or KBS, equal to the apparent
femi-diameter of the Sun. Therefore the part of the penumbral cone
CIB is equal and fimilar to the dark (hadow of the Moon.
Next, to find how much of the Earth's furface can be at any time in-
volved in the Moon's dark (hadow, or the quantity of the arch EF, fig. 2.
let
OFASTROLOGY. ^^^
let us fuppofc the Sun to be in apogee, and the Moon in periaee •
and
in this cafe, the height of the Moon's fhadow will beabout°6i femil
diameters, and the diftance of the Moon about 5^ ; that is CK=6i
5J=56,
and TE=i. In this cafe alfo, the half-angle of the fhadow
u r j^^^T>^° ' ^^ .''^'"S Jeaft of all. Then the proportion is : As i, or
the hde TE, is to the fide of TK=s ; fo is the fine of the femi-angle
^F^'^T^tl^"' iVif ^";V^
'^' ^-"^^' TEK=i" 19 10. Wherefore
TEK+TKE=ATE=AE=i° ssi the double of which FE is ^ lo'
==190, or 220 miles, the diameter of the dark fhadow on the furface
of the Earth when greateft.
After a like manner you may find the diameter of the penumbra!
fhadow at the Earth, GEFH, fig. 8, when greateft of all, that is, when
the .Larth is in perihelio, and the Moon in apogee ; for then will the
buns apparent diameter be equal to 16' 23 =T I G, the greateft femi-
angle of the cone; and thence we ftiall find 10=524 femf-diameters of
the Earth In this cafe alfo, the diftance of the Moon from the Earth is
DT=64 femi-diameters. Therefore, AsTG=i is to T1=1224, fo is
the line of the angle TIG=ri6' 23" to the fine of the angle IGN=2co
42. But IGN=TIG+ITG; and therefore, ITG=IGN=TIG==
35" 25'; the double of which 70" 5o'=GEFH=49oo Englifh miles
nearly, for the diameter of the penumbral ftiadow when greateft.
From the principles of optics it is evident, that, if the plane of the
Moon s orbit coincided with that of the Earth's orbit, there would ne-
ceflarily be an eclipfe of the Sun every new moon : thus, if S, in ficr 7
be luppofed to reprefent the Sun. B the Moon, and T the Earth, fince
the apparent magnitude or dilk of the Sun is nearly the fame with that
of the Moon, it muft neceffarily be hid or eclipfed as often as the Nevr
Moon came between the Earth and the Sun. But if, as is really the
cale, the Moon's orbit be not in the plane of the ecliptic, but inclined
thereto under a certain angle, there may be a New Moon, and yet no
cclipfe of the Sun. To illuftrate this, let ABCDE be a circle in
i?^ P'^"^ ""i t^ ^^^^Pt^^' defcribcd at the diftance of the Moon's orbit
FGH, interfeaing the fame in the points B and D, and making an
angle therewith A BF, whofe meafure is the arch GC, as being ninety
degrees diftant from the angular points or nodes B and D. Now it is
evident, that if the arch GC be fomewhat greater than the fum of the ap-
parent fem.-diameters of the Sun and Moon, then at G, and fome diftance
from G towards B, there may be a New Moon, and yet no eclipfe of the
bun ;
becaufe, m this cafe, the diflt of the Moon, G, is too much elevated
or
954 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
or deprefTed above or below the apparent difk or face of tbe Sun at C, to
touch it, iTiuch lefs to hide or eclipfe any part thereof. But, at a certain
point M in the Moon's orbit, the Moon will have a latitude only equal
to the fum of the femi-diameters of the Sun and Moon ; and therefore,
when the Moon is new in that point, fhe will appear to a fpe6lator in the
point Z, to touch the Sun only ; whence this point M is called the
ecliptic limit, inafmuch as it is impoilible there fhould happen a new
Moon in any part between it and the node B on each fide, without eclip-
fing the Sun lefs or more : thus, in the figure, may be feen a partial
eclipfe at K, and a total one in the node itfelf B, at which point only
total ecliples can happen.
What has hitherto been faid regards the phenomena of an eclipfe of
the Sun, as they appear to a fpeflator on the Earth's furface, in whofc
zenith the Moon then is, and when there is no refra6tion to cHter the true
l-atitude of the Moon : but, when the Moon has any latitude, there the
procefs of calculating the appearances of a folar eclipfe will be fomewhat
more complex, on account of the variation of the Moon's latitude and
longitude for every different altitude, and confequently for every moment
of the eclipfe.
The bell: way of reprefenting a folar eclipfe, is by a projection of the
Earth's dilk, and of the ledion of the dark and penumbral Shadows as
they appear, or would appear, to a fpe61ator at the diftance of the Moon
in a right line joining the centres of the Sun and the Earth. In order to
this, we are to find the dimenfions of the apparent femi-diameters of the
Earth, dark fhadow, and penumbra, at the diftance of the Moon. As to
the firfl:, viz. the Earth's femi-diartieter, it is equal to the Moon's hori-
zontal parallax. That of the dark ihadow is thus eftimated ; Let C, in
fig. 5, be the centre of the Moon, DB its diameter, DHB its dark
fhadow, and KAL the penumbral cone. Then let EF be the dia-
meter of the penumbra at the Earth, and IG that of the dark fhadow,
and draw CG and CE; then is the angle CGB=:BHC+ GCH,
and fo GCH=BGC—BHC; that is, the apparent femi-diameter
of the dark fhadow is equal to the difference between the apparent
femi-diameters of the Sun and Moon. And in like manner the angle
ECH=DEC+DAC; that is, the apparent femi-diameter of the
penumbra, at the Earth, is equal to the fum of the apparent femi-
diameters of the Moon and Sun. Now the femi-diameter of the Sun
and Moon, and alfo the Moon's horizontal parallax, are already calcu-
lated for their various diftances from the Earth ; and for the leafl, mean,
and
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 955
and gieateft eccentricity of the lunar orbit, in the agronomical tables.
Therefore, let A E, fig. 3, reprefeiit a fmall portion of the annua! orbit,
and FH the vifible path of the centre of the lunar Shadows, which will
exactly correfpond to the polition of the Moon's orbit with refpect to the
ecliptic in the heavens ; fo that the point of interlection SI w ill be the
node, and the angle H ft E the angle of inclination of the lunar orbit to
the plane of the ecliptic, which is about 5*^. Hence, if tEPQS repre-
fent the dilk of the Earth, according to the orthographic projection, in
the feveral places 8,,B,C,D, whofe femidiameter is made equal to the
number of minutes in the Moon's horizontal parallax at the time of the
ecliple ; and if, in the path of the fhadows in the points 0, R, N, G,
we defcribe a Imall circle whofe lemidiameter is equal to the difference
of the femidiameters of the Sun and Moon, that will be the circular lec-
tion of the Moon's dark fhadow at the diflance of the Earth ; again, if a
circle is defcribed on the lame centre, with a femidiameter equal to the
fum of the femidiameters of the Sun and Moon, it will leprefent the pe-
numbral Ihadow expreffed by the dotted area. Here then it is evident,
that if the Moon, v.'hen nev/, be at the diftance ft G from the node, the
penumbral fhadow will not fall near the Earth's dilk, and fo there cannot
pofTibly happen an eclipfe. Again, if the Moon's diftance from the node
be equal to a N, the penumbral Ihadow will juft touch the difk, and
confequently ft C is the' ecliptic limit, which may be found by the fol-
lowing analogy, viz. As the fine of the angle N ftC=5'' 30' (the angle
of inclination of the lunar orbit to the plane of the ecliptic) is to the ra-
dius =90", fo is the logarithm of the fide NCr=TC+NT=62' ic
+ 16' 52' + 16' 23=95' 25' to the logarithm of the lide ft C, equal to
the ecliptic limit, which is found to be 16° 36', beyond which diftance
from the node ft there can be no eclipfe ; and within that diilance, if the
Moon be new, the Ihadow will fall on Ibme part of the Earth's dillc, as
at B ; where all thole places over which the fhadows pals will fef; the
Sua eclipfed. in part only, by the dotted penumbral fliadow ; but the Sun
will be centrally eclipled in all places over which the centre of the flia-
dows pafs ; and, if the Moon be new in the node, then will the centre of
the jQiadovvs pafs over the centre of the dilk, as reprelented at ft. In this
cafe, if the apparent diameter of the Moon be greater than that of the
Sun, the face of the Sun will be wholly eclipfed to all places over which the
centre of the fhadow pafles ; but, if not, the Sun will only be centrally
eclipfed, his circumference appearing in the form of a bright annulus,
or luminous ring, the width whereof will be equal to the difference of the
diameters of the luminaries. The difk of the Earth, here projeded, re-
piefents the cafe of ^n ecliple on an equino<5tial day ; AK being the eclip-
No. 50. 1 1 E tic.
95^ A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
tic, JEQ the equator, X Y the axis of the ccHptic, PS the axis of the
equator, P and S the north and fouth poles, &c. By this projecliou the
palfage of Ihadows over the Earth's dilk may be exhibited for any place
f)ftheSiin, or declination of the Moon.
To find the digits eclipfed, add the apparent femidiameters of the
kuninarics into one fum ; from which lubtraft the Moon's apparent la-
titude ; the remainder are the fcruples, or parts of the diameter, eclipfed.
Then fay, As the femidiameter of the Sun is to the fcruples eclipfed, fo
are 6 digits reduced into fcruples, (or 360 fcruples,) to the digits eclipfed.
To determine the duration of a folar eclipfe, find the horary motion of
the Moon from the Sun for one hour before the conjundion and another
hour after : then fay. As the former horary motion is to the feconds in an
hour, fo are the fcruples of half-duration to the time of immerfion ; and,
as the latter horary motion is to the fame feconds, fo are the fame fcru-
ples of half-duration to the time of immerfion. Laftly, adding the time
of immerfion to that emerfion, the aggregate is the total duration.
As different authors follow very different hypothefes, with regard to
the apparent diameters of the luminaiies, and the greateft parallax of la-
titude, they differ much in affigning the bounds at which folar eclipfes
happen. Ptolomy makes the utmoft bounds of eclipfes at 19" 25' diftance
from the node; Copernicus, at 19° 12'; Tycho, at 18^ 25'; Kepler, at
17"^ 16'.; Ricciolus, at 18° 49'. Though Ptolomy in other places judges
j6° 42 diflance from the node neceffary ; Copernicus, 16'' 25'; Tycho,
17^ 9'; Kepler, 15° 55'; and Ricciolus, 15° 58'. Aftronomers have ge-
nerally affigned ly^ as the limit of folar eclipfes; but this admits of fome
variation : for, in apogeal eclipfes, the folar limit is but i6| degrees, and
in perigeal eclipfes it is i8|.
The Moon's apparent diameter when largcd, exceeds the Sun's when
leafl, only one minute and thirty-eight feconds of a degree; and in the
greatefl: folar eclipfe that can happen at any time and place, the total
darknefs can continue no longer than whilft the Moon is moving through
i' 38" from the Sun in her orbit, which is about three minutes thirteen
feconds of an hour; for the motion of the fhadow on the Earth's dilk is
equal to the Moon's motion from the Sun, which, on account of the
Earth's revolution on its axis towards the fame way, or eafhvard, is about
30^ minutes of a degree every hour, at a mean rate ; but fo much of the
Moon's orbit 1^ equal to 30^*^ of a great circle ou the Earth, becaufe the
circumference
O 1<^
A S T R O L O G Y; 957
circumference of the Moon's orbit is 6 j times that of ihe Earth ; and
therefore the Moon's (hadow goes 30I degrees, or 1830 geographical
miles, in an hour, or 30^ miles in a minute.
To find the Moon's apparent latitude at the beginning and end of an
eclipfe, it requires onlv to fubtrafl, from the argument of the Moon's
latitude computed for the time of the apparent conjun6tion, the fcruples
of half-duration, together with the motion of the Sun anfwering to the
time of incident; the remainder is the argument of latitude at the be-
ginning of the eclipfe. To the fame fum add the fame fcruples, together
with the Sun's motion anlwering to the time of emergence ; the aggre-
gate is the argument of latitude at the end of the eclipfe. The argument
of the latitude given, the Moon's true latitude is found after the common
manner.
To calculate eclipfes of the Sun, the following data are requifite : i.
Find the mean new Moon, and thence the true one ; together with the
place of the luminaries for the apparent time of the true one. 2. For the
apparent time of the true new Moon, compute the latitude feen. 3. For
the apparent time of the new Moon feen, compute the latitude Icen. 4.
Thence determine the digits eclipfed. 5. Find the times of the greateffc
darknefs, immerfion, and emerfion. 6. Thence determine the besinnino;
and ending of the eclipfe. From the preceding problems it is evident,
that all the trouble and fatigue of the calculus arife from the -parallaxes
of longitude and latitude; without which the calculation of folar eclipfes
would be the fame with that of lunar ones. But eclipfes, both of the
Sun and Moon, might be calculated with much more eafe and expedition
by the help of a book of Tables, publifhed for that purpofe by Mr. Fer-
gufon, to which I beg leave to refer the reader, to fave him the trouble
of fuch calculations.
To PROJECT ECLIPSES of the MOON.
Thefe being occafioned by the immerfion of the Moon into the Earth's
fhadow, all that we have to do, in order to delineate a lunar eclipfe, is
to calculate the apparent femidiameter of the Earth's fhadow at the Moon.
Thus, let AB, fig. 6, reprefent the Earth, T its centre, AEB its conical
fhadow, D C the diameter of a Icdion thereof at the Moon ; and, draw-
ing DT, we have the outward angle ADT=DTE+DET; fo that
DTE=A.DT—DET; that is, the angle DTE, under which the
femidiameter of the Earth's fhadow appears at the diflance of the
Moon,
958 A N 1 L L U S T R A T I O N
Moon, is equal, to the difference betwebn the Moon's horizontal parallax
ADT and the lernidiameter of the Sun DET. If, therefore, AE,
rig. 4, reprefent the path of the Earth's ihadow at the diflance of the
JMoon near the node ??, and FH a part of the lunar orbit, and the fec-
tion of the Earth's (hadow be delineated at "6, B, C, 13 ; and the full
Moon at??,I,N,G; then it is evident there can be no eclipfe of the
Moon where the leafl diilance of the centres of the Moon and Hiadovv
exceeds the funi of their femidiameters, as at D. But, where this chf-
tance is lefs, the Moon muft be eclipfed either in part or wholly, as at B
and e; in which latter cafe the Moon pafl'es over the diameter of the
fhadow. But in a certain pofition of the fhadow, as at C, the leafl dif-
tance of the centres, N C. is equal to the fum of the femidiameters; and
confequently O C is the ecliptic limit for lunar eclipfes : to fin<l which,
we have this analogy, As the line of the angle N 83 C=s° (the inclina-
tion of the Moon's orbit to the plane of the ecliptic) is to the radius, fo is
the logarithm of the fide NC=63' 12' to the logarithm of the fide 5 C=i 2"^
5'= the ecliptic limit. Hence, if the Moon be at a lefs diilance from
the node ?5 than 12^ 5', there will be an eclipfe; otherwife none can
happen.
If the Earth had no atmofphere, the fhadow would be abfolutely dark,
and the Moon involved in it quite inviiible ; but, by means of the atmol^
phere, many of the folar rays are refracted into and mixed with the fhadow,
whereby the Moon is rendered vifible in the midfl of it, and of a dufk^
red colour.
For calculating eclipfes of the Moon, the following data are neceflary:
I. Her true diftancc from the node, at the mean conjunction. 2. The
true time of the oppofition, together with the true place of the Sun and
Moon, reduced to the ecliptic. 3. -The Moon's true latitude at the time
of the true conjunftion, and the diftance of the luminaries from the Earth :
alfo their horizontal parallaxes, and apparent femidiameters. 4. The
true horary motions of the Moon and Sun, and the apparent femidiameter
of the Earth's fhadow. With thefe data it is eafy to find the duration,
beginning, middle, and quantity, of eclipfes.
The number of eclipfes, of both luminaries, in any year, cannot be
lefs than two nor more than feven ; the mofl: ufual number is four, and
it is rare to have more than fix. The reafon is obvious ; becaufe the
Sun palTes by both the nodes but once a-year, unlels he pafTes by one of
them in the beginning of the year ; in which cafe he will pafs by the
fame
O F A S T R O I. Q G Y. 9^59^
fame a^^ain a little before the year be fTniihed ; becaufe the nodes move
backwards 19^- deg. every vear, and therefore the Sun will come to eitjier
of them 173 davs after the other.. And, if either node is withiu 17° ot
the Sun at the time of the new Moon, the Sun will be eclipfed ;
and at
the fublequent oppofition, the Moon will be eclipfed m the other node,
and come round to the next conjunaion before the former node is i 7*^ be-
vond the Sun, and eclipfe him again. When three eclipfes happen about
cither node, the like number generally happen about the oppohte ; as the
Sun comes to it 173 davs afterwards, and fix lunations contain, only tour
days more. Thus there may be two eclipfes of the Sun, and one of the
Moon, about each of the nodes. But, if the Moon changes m either ot
the nodes, flie cannot be near enough the other node at 'the next tull to be
eclipfed ; and in fix lunar months afterwards fhe will change near the
Other node ; in which cafe there can be only two ecliples in a year,, both
of the Sun»
In two hundred and twenty-three mean lunations aftei- the Sun,
Moon, and nodes, have been once in a line of conjundion, they return
ib nearly to the fame ftate again, as that the fame node, which was in
conjunaion with the Sun and Moon at the beginning of the firft of thele
lunations, will be within twenty-eight minutes twelve fecondsof a degree
of a hne of conjunaion with the Sun and Moon again, when the laft of
thefe lunations is completed. And therefore, in that time, there will
be a regular fucceffion or return of the fame eclipies for many ages.—
In this period (which was ftrft difcovered by the Chaldeans) there are
d^^hteen Julian vears, eleven days, feven hours, forty-three minutes^
twenty-feconds, when the laft day of February in leap-years is four times
included; but, when it is five times included, the period confifts of only
eighteen years, ten days, feven hours, forty-three minutes, twenty feconds.
Confequentlv, if to. the mean time of an eclipfe, either of the Sun or Moon,
you add eighteen Juhan years, eleven days, feven hours, forty-three mi-
nutes, twenty feconds, when the laft day of February in leap-years comes
in four times, or a day lefs when it comes in five times, you will have
the mean time of the return of the lame eclipfe.
But the falling back of the line of conjunaions or oppofitions of the
Sun and Moon twenty-eight minutes twelve feconds with refpea to the
line of the nodes in every period, will wear it out in procels of time
;
and after that it will not return again in lefs than tw^elve thoufand four
hundred and ninety-two years. Thefe eclipfes of the Sun which happeu
about the afcending node, and begin to come in at the north pole ot the
No. 50. n F Earth,
960 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N"
Earth, will go a little Ibutherly at each return, till they go quire ofT the
Earth at the ibuth pole ; and thole which happen about the delcending
node, and begin to come in at the fouth poic of the Earth, will go a lit-
tle northerly at each return, till at laft they quite leave the Earth at the
north pole.
To exemplify this matter, it may not here be amifs to examine fome
of the moft remarkable circumdances of the return of an ecliple men-
tioned in Mr. Smith's ingenious Diflbrtation, which happened Julv 14,
1748, about noon. This ecliple, after traverling the voids of fpace from
the creation, at laft began to enter the Terra Aujiralis Ivicognila about
eighty-eight years after the Conqueft, which was the laft of King Ste-
phen's reign ; every Chaldean period, namely, i 8 years 1 1 days 7 hours
43 minutes 20 leconds, as above-mentioned, it has conftantly crept more
northerly, but was ftill invilible in Britain before the year 1622, when
on the 30th of April it began to touch the Ibuth parts of England about
two in the afternoon ; its central appearance riling in the American South
Seas, and traverling Peru and the Amazons country, through the Atlantic,
ocean into Africa, and letting in the Ethiopian continent, not far from
the beginning of the Red Sea.
Its next vifible period was after three Chaldean revolutions, in 1676,
0!i the firft of June, rifuig central in the Atlantic ocean, pafling us about
nine in the morning, with four digits eclipfed on the under limb ; and
fetting in the gulph of Cochin China in the Eaft Indies.
It being now near the folftice, this eclipfe was vifible the very next
return in 1694, in the evening; and in two periods more, which was in
1730, on the 4th of July, was feen above half eclipfed juft after fun-rife,
and obferved both at Wirtemberg in Germany and Pekin in China, foon
after which it went off. Eighteen years more afforded us this eclipfe
again, which happened the 14th of July, 1748. The next vifible return
happened on the 25th of July, 1762, in the evening, about four digits
eclipfed; and, after two periods more, it was vifible again, on the i6th
of Auguft, 1802, early in the morning, about five digits, the centre com-
ing from the north frozen continent, by the capes of Norway, through
Tartary, China, and Japan, to the Ladrone Iflands, where it went off..
Again, in 1820, Auguft 26, betwixt one and two, there will be ano-
ther return of this ecliple at London about 10 digits; but happening fo
near the equinox, the centre will leave every part of Britain to the weft,
enter
OF ASTROLOGY. 961
enter Germany at Embden, pafluig by Venice, Naples, and Grand Cairo,
and let in the gulph of Baflbi a near that city. It will be no more vifible
till 1874, when five digits will be obfcured (the centre being now about
to leave the Earth) on September 28. In 1892 the Sun will go down-
cclipfed at London, and again in 1928 the palTage of the centre will be in
the expanfum^ though there will be two digits eclipfed at London, October
the 31ft of that year ; and about the year 2090 the whole penumbra will
be worn off; whence no more returns of this eclipfe can happen till after
a revolution of ten thoufand years.
From thefe remarks on the entire revolution of this eclipfe, we may
gather, that a thoufand years, more or lefs, (for there are Ibme irregulari-
ties that may protract or lengthen this period roo years,) complete the
whole terreftrial jihenomena of any fingle eclipfe : and lince 20 periods of
54 years each, and about -3,2) days, comprehend the entire extent of their
revolution, it is evident that the times of the returns will pafs through a
circuit of one year and ten months, every Chaldean period being ten or
eleven days later, and of the equable appearances about 32 or 33 days.
Thus, though this eclipfe happens about the middle of July, no other
fubfequent ecliple of this period will return to the middle of the fame
month again ; but wear conftantly each period ten or eleven days for-
ward, and at lafl appear in winter; but then it begins to ceafe from af-
feding us.
Another conclufion from this revolution may be drawn, that there will
feldom be any more than two great eclipfes of the Sun in the interval of
this period, and thefe follow fometim.es next return, and often at greater
diflances. That of 171 5 returned again in 1733 very great ; but this
prefent eclipfe will not be great till the arrival of 1820, which is a re-
volution of four Chaldean periods : fo that the regulations of their cir-
cuits muft undergo new computations to aflign them exadly.
Nor do all eclipfes come in at the fouth pole : that depends altogether
on the pofition of the lunar nodes, which will bring in as many from the
expanfum one way as the other : and fuch eclipfes will wear more fouthcrly
by degrees, contrary to what happens in the prefent cafe.
The eclipfe, for example, of 1736, in September, had its centre in the
expanfum, and fet about the middle of its obfcurity in Britain ; it will wear
in at the north pole, and in the year 2600, or thereabouts, go off in the
expajvfum on the fouth fide of the Earth.
^ ^
The
961 AN ILLUSTRATION
The eclipfes therefore which happened about the creation are little
more than half-way yet of their ethereal circuit; and will be 4000 years
before tliey enter the Earth any more. This grand revolution fecms ta
have been entirely unknown to the ancients.
It is particularly to be noted, that eclipfes whrth liavc happened many
centuries ago will not be found by our prefent Tables to agree ex-
ax5tly with ancient obfervations, by reafon of the great anomalies in the
lunar motions ; which appears an iuconteftible demonftration of the
non-eternity of the univ^erfe. For it feems confirmed by undeniable
proofs, that the iNIoon now fmifhes her period in iels time than foi-merly,'
and will continue by the centripetal law to approach nearer and nearer
the Earth, and to go fooner and fooner round it : nor will the centrifugal
power be fufficient to compenilite the ditferent gravitations of fuch an af-
lemblage of bodies as conftitute the folar lyflem, which would come to
ruin of itfelf, without Tome new regulation and adjuflment of their origi-
nal motion.* We ai^e crediblv informed, from the teilimonv of the
ancients, that there was a total ecliple of the Sun prcdided by Thales to
happen in the fourth year of the 48th Olympiadj-f- either at Sardis or Mi-
* There are two ancient eclipfes of the Moon, recorded by Ptolomy from Hipparchus, which
afford an undeniable proof of the Moon's acceleration. The firfl: of thele was obferved at Babylon,
December the szd, in the year before Clinft 383 ; when the Moon began to be eciipfed about half
an hour before the Sun rofe, and the eclipfe was not over before the Moon fet; but, by moft of our
Aftronomical Tables, the Moon was kt at Babylon half an hour before the eclipfe began; in which
cafe, there could have been no poflibility of obfcrving it. The lecond eclipfe was oblerved at Alex-
andria, September the szd, in the year before Chrift 201 ; where the Movin rofe fo much eciipfed,
that the eclipfe m\i([ have begun about half an hour before fhe rofe: whereas, by molt of our Ta-
bles, the beginning of this eclipfe was not till about ten minutes after the Moon rofe at Alex-
andria. Had thefo eclipfes begun and ended while the Sun v/as below the horizon, v/e might have
imagined, that as the ancients had no certain way of meafuring time, they might have fo far
miftaken the hours, that we could not have laid any firefs on the accounts given by them. But,
as in the firft eclipfe the Moon was fct, and confequcmly the Sun rifen, before it was over} and
in the fecond eclipfe thi Sun was fet and the Moon not rifen till fome time after it began: th-fe
are fuch circumftances as the obfervers could not poffibly be miftaken in. Mr» Struyk, in
bis catalogue, tiotwithftanding the exprefs words of Ptolomy, puts down thefe two eclipfes
as obferved at Athens; where they might have been feen as above, without any acceleration o£
the Moon's motion; Athens being twenty degrees weft of Babylon, and feveii degrees weft of
Alexandria.
t Each Olympiad began at the time of full Moofi next after the fummer folftice, and Lifted
four years, which were of unccjual length^, becaufe the time of full Moon differs eleven days
every year: fo that they might iometimcs begin on the next day after the IbUfice, and at oilier
limes not till fur weeks after it. The firft Olympiad b.^gan in the year of the Julian period 3938',
which was 776 years before the fiift year of Chrift, or 775 before the year of his bir;h: ^nd the
laft Olympiad, which was the 293d, began A- D. 393. Ac the expiration of each Olympiad, the
Olympic Games were celebrated in the Elean fields, near the river Alpheus in the Peloponnefus
(now Morea), in honour of Jujjitcr Olympus. See SJtrauchius's Ikeviaiiuro Chronologium, p.
447-25.1.
Ictus
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 963
letus in Afia, where Thales then refided. That year correfpoads to the
585th year before Chrift ; when accordingly there happened a very iignal
eclipfe of the Sun, on the 28th of May, anfvvering to the prefent loth of
that month,* central through North America, the fouth parts of France,
Italy, &c. as far as Athens, or the Ifles in the ^gean Sea; which is the
farthell that even the Caroline Tables carry it; and confequently make
it invifible to any part of Alia, in the total charadler ; though I have good
realbns to believe that it extended to Babylon, and went down central
over that city. We are not however to imagine, that it was fet before it
pafled Sardis and the Afiatic towns, where the predi6lor lived ; becaufe
an invifible eclipfe could have been of no fervice to demonflrate his ability
in aflronomical fciences to his countrymen, as it could give no proof of
its reality. .
For a farther illuftration, Thucydides relates, that a folar eclipfe hap-
pened on a fummer's day in the afternoon, in the firfl year of the Pelo-
ponnefian war, fo great that the ftars appeared. Rhodius was vi6tor in
the Olympic games the fourth year of the faid war, being alfo the fourth
of the 8;th Olympiad, on the 428th year before Chrift. So that the
eclipfe mull: have happened in the 431ft year before Chrift ; and by com-
putation it appears, that on the 3d of Auguft there was a fignal eclipfe
which would have pafled over Athens central about fix in the evening,
but which our prefent Tables being no farther than the ancient Syrtes on
the African coaft, above 400 miles from Athens; which, fufFering in that
cafe but 9 digits, could by uo means exhibit the remarkable darknefs re-
cited by this hiflorian ; the centre therefore feems to have pafTed Athens
about fix in the evening, and probably might go down about Jerufalem,
or near it, contrary to the conftrudion of the prefent Tables. 1 have
only mentioned thefe things by way of caution to the prefent aftronomers,
m re-computing ancient eclipfes; and refer them to examine the eclipfe
* The reader may probably find it difficult to unuerftand why Mr. Smith fhould reckon this
eclipfe to have been in the 4th year of the 48th Olympiad, as it was only in the end of the third
year : and alfo why the 28th of May, in the 585th year before Chrift, fhjuld anfwer to the prefent
10th of that month. But we hope the following explanation will remove thefe difficulties. Tho
month of May (when the Sun was eclipfcd) in the 585th year before the firft year of Chriff, which
was a leap-year, fell in the latter end of the third year of the 48th Olympaid ; and the fourth year
of that Olympiad began at the fummer folftice following; but perhaps Mr. Smith begins the
years of the Olympiad from January, in order to make thorn correspond more readily with Julian
years ; and fo reckons the month of May, when the eclipfe happened, to be in the fourth year
of that Olympiad. The place or longitude of the Sun at that time was 8 29 degrees 43 minutes
i7feconds, to which fame place theSunreturnad (after 2300 years, viz.) A. D. 1716, on May 9d 5h
6ai after noon : fo that, with refpe<S to the Sun's place, the 9th of May, 1716, anfwers to the 28th
of May in the 585th year before the firft year of Chrift ; that is, the Sun had the feme longitude on
thofe days.
No. 50. 1 1 G of
96+ AN 1 L 1. U S T R A T I O N
of Nicias, fo fatal to the Athcuian fleet; that which overthrew the Mace-
donian army, &c.
A longer period than the above-mentioned, for comparing and examin-
ing eclipfes which happened at long intervals of time, is
557 years 21
days rS hours 30 minutes 11 feconds, in which time there are 6890 mean
lunations ; and the Sun and node meet again fo nearly as to be but 1 1
leconds diftant ; I)ut then it is not the fame eclipfe that returns, as in the
ihorter period above mentioned.
The following are the chief of the vi/ll>/e Eclipfes, which will happen
from this time-to the year 1808.
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
Eclipfe
of the
of the
of the
of the
of the
of the
of the
of the
of the
of the
of the
of the
of the
of the
of the
of the
of the
of the
Moon,
Moon,
Sun,
Moon,
Sun,
Moon,
Sun,
Sun,
Moon,
Moon,
Sun,
Sun,
Moon,
Moon,
Moon,
Moon,
Sun,
Moon,
Nov. 2,
April 28,
April 3,
Oft.
Sept
Feb.
Sept.
Jan.
Feb.
Feb.
June 25,
Dec. 4,
May
Oct
Nov. 15,
Nov. 29,
Nov. 3,
12,
16,
5.
3',
14,
4,
16,
2,
1789,
1790,
1792,
1793'
1793,
1794,
1794,
1795.
1795'
^797'
^797'
1798,
1800,
1807,
1807,
1808,
at 12 at night. Partial.
at I 2 at night. Total.
at I in the afternoon Partial.
at 3 in the morning. Partial.
at 1 1 in the morning. Partial.
at ioatni2:ht. Partial.
at 3 in the afternoon. Partial.
at 4 in the afternoon. Partial.
at 1 1 at night. Total.
at I in the morning. Partial.
at 9 in the morning. Partial.
at 8 in the evening. Partial.
at 6 in the morning. Partial.
at 7 at night. Total.
at 1 1 at night. Partial.
at 7 in the mornuig Partial.
at 31 m. afternoon. Partial.
at 7 in the morning. Total.
In Aflronomy, eclipfes of the Moon are of great ufe for afcertaining
the periods of her motions, efpecially fuch eclipfes as are obferved to be
alike in all circumftances, and have long intervals of time betweej\ them.
In Geography, the longitudes of places are found by eclipfes, as already
fhewn ; but for this purpofe eclipfes of the Moon are more ufeful than
thofe of the Sun, becaufe they are more frequently vifible, and the fame
lunar eclipfe is of equal largenefs and duration at all places where it is feen.
In Chronology, both folar and lunar eclipfes ferve to determine exaftly
the time of any paft event : for there are fo many particulars obfervable
in
O F A S T R O L O G V. 965
/^r^^^'7
*=^'^P^^ ^^^^^^ refpeft to its quantity, the places where h is vlhble
(if ot the Sun), and the time of the dav or night; that it is impofiible
there can be two lolar ecHpfes in the courie of many ages which areahk-
in all circumflances.
Of the FIGURE and MOTION of the EARTH, the CHANGE of
SEASONS, the CAUSE of EARTHQUAKES, Sec.
The Earth, among Aftronomers, is confidercd as one of the primary
planets; and its figure was accounted by fome of the ancients to be like
that of an oblong cylinder ; by others, of the form of a drum, and by
others to be flat. But the moderns have demonftrated it to be nearl'v
fpherical, or rather an oblate fpheroid, flatted towards the poles.
Before we enter more minutely into thefe fpeculations, it will be pro-
per to defcnbe the various circles of the globe, and to explain its feveral
divilions and boundaries, as well imaginary as real, in order to c^ive all
my readers a perfeft idea of the fubjeft before them. For this purpofe I
havefubjoined a plate of the Armillary Sphere, which is an artificial con-
trivance, reprefenting the feveral circles proper to the theory of the
mundane world, put together in their natural order, to eafe and affift
the imagination in conceiving the conftitution of the fpheres, and the va-
rious phenomena of the celeftial bodies. For this purpofe the Earth is
placed in the centre, pierced by a hne fuppofed to be its axis, the
upper point of which is fixed in the arftic, or north pole, and the lower
extremity in the antardic, or fouth pole ; whence the two fmall circles
defcribed near thefe points are called the arflic and antar6lic circles.
The outer circle, in which the axis or poles of the world are fixed]
reprefents the meridian, or fuppofed line over any given place, to which
when the Sun comes, it is then mid-day, or noon. The broad circle,
which crofles the whole, and divides the fphere into two equal parts, is'
called the horizon ; becaufe it divides the heavens and the earth into two
equal parts or hemifpheres, called the upper and the lower, the one liaht
and the other dark. It likewife determines the rifing and fetting of t'he
Sun, Moon, or ftars, in any particular latitude; for, when anv of theie
appear juft at the eaftern part of the horizon, we fay, it rifes ; and,-when
It does lo at the weftern part, we fay, it fets. From hence alfo the lati-
tude of the Sun and ftars is reckoned,, which is their height above the
horizon. The poles of the horizon are the zenith and the nadir, or the
points immediately over our heads and under our feet, diametrically
oppofite to each other, in the upper and lower hemifpheres. The inner
wide
966 A N 1 L L U S T R A T I O N
wide circle reprefents the zodiac, the middle line of wliich is the ecliptic,
or Sun's way in the zodiac, from which he never departs. It is not fo
with the Moon and the planets ; for, though their conllant way is in this
circle of the zodiac, yet they continually deviate from its centre, or
ecliptic line, from north to ibuth, and from fouth to north; which
deviations are called their latitudes, and their extent each way deter-
mines the width of the zodiac. The two circles within the zodiac,
which interled each other at right angles, conftitute the equinoctial co-
lure, and the equator, or equinoftial line. The points where thefc cir-
cles interfed each other, divide the quarters in the year. That which
pafles through the two equinoxial points, determines the equinoxes
;
and that which pafles through the poles of the ecliptic, determines the
iblftices. When the Sun is in the firft of them, viz. in the fpring, March
20th, it is called the vernal equinox ; and when in autumn, Se])tember
23d, it is called the autumnal equinox ; at both which times, 'it is equal
day and night all over the world. So like wife, when the Sun is in the other,
and at his greateft afcent above the equator, and feems to defcribe the
tropic of Cancer, it is called the fummer folflice, and makes the longeft
dav ; and on the contrary, when he is at the greateft defcent below the
equator, and feems to defcribe the tropic of Capricorn, it is called the
winter folftice, or Ihorteil day. Thefe tropics are two circles defcribed
one immediately under and next adjoining to the ardic circle; and the
other, tliat next above the antarftic circle. They are diftant from the
equinodlial twenty-three degrees twenty-nine minutes. That on the
north fide of the line is called the tropic of Cancer, and the foutheni
tropic has the name of Capricorn, as pafling through the beginning of
each of thoie figns.
It mufl here likewife be noted, that the Equator, or Equinoctial Line,
pafles through the eafh and weft points of the horizon, and at the meri-
dian is raifed as much above the horizon as is the complement of the
latitude of the place. From this circle, the latitude of places, whether
north or fouth, begin to be reckoned in degrees of the meridian; but
the loncritude of places are reckoned in degrees of the equator itfelf. All
people living on or under this circle, which is called by. geographers and
navigators the Line, have their days and nights conftantly equal: and
this is the reafon why, when the Sun enters two points where the
ecliptic interfeds the equinoftial, and is exactly upon this line, namely,
in the fpring and autumn, as above-mentioned, that the days and nights
become of equal duration all over the globe. All the ftars diretSlly under
this circle have no declination, but always rife due eaft, and let full weft.
The hour circles are drawn at right angles to it, pafluig through every
fifteenth
O F A S T R O L O G Y. ^
967
fifteenth degree; and the parallels to it are called parallels of declination.
Having prcmifed (o much by way of explaining the fphere, I fhall now
proceed with the fubjedt immediately before us.
That the Earth is a fpheiical body, may be demonftrated from the
following among other confideratious. i. All the appearances of the
heavens, both at land and at fea, are the fame as they would be if the Earth
were a globe. 2. In eclipfes of the Moon which are caufed by the fha-
dow of the Earth falling upon the Moon, this fhadow is always circular,
and a body can be no other than a gioble, which in all fituations cafts a
circular fhadow. 3. Several navigators have failed quite round the globe,
fleering their courfe directly fouth and weft, till they came to the Ma-
gellanic Sea, and from thence to the north and well, till they returned
to their port from the eaft ; and all the phenomena which (hould natu-
rally arife from the Earth's rotundity happened to thern. Belides, their
method of failing was alfo founded upon this hypothelis, which could
never have fucceeded fo happily, if the Earth had been of any other figure.
It is true, the furface of the Earth is not an exact geometrical globe, but
then the inequalities are fo inconfiderable, that the higheft mountain
bears no greater proportion to the bulk of the Earth than a grain of duft
does to a common globe. The figure of the Earth then was reckoned by
mathematicians and geographers as perfectly fpherical, excepting the fmall
inequalities in its furface, of mountains and valleys, till an accident en-
gaged the attention of Sir Ifaac Newton, and Mr. Huygens, who de-
monftrated, from the laws of hydroftatics, and the revolution of the Earth
about its axis, that its figure was not a true fphere, but an oblate fphe-
roid flatted towards the poles. Monfieur Richer, when at the ifland of
Cayenne, about five degrees diftant from the equator, found that his clock,
which at Paris kept true time, now loft two minutes and twenty-eight
ieconds every day. Now, though heat will lengthen pendulums, and
confequently retard their motion, it is certain the heats of Cayenne were
not fufficient to folve this phaenomenon, which can flow only from a di-
minution in the prefTure of gravity. For, as the Earth revolves about
its axis, all its parts will endeavour to recede from the axis of motion, and
thereby the equatoreal parts where the motion is quickeft will tend lels
towards the centre than the reft ; their endeavour to fly off from the axis
about which they revolve taking off part of their tendency that way
;
fo that thofe parts will become lighter than fuch as are nearer the poles.
The polar parts, therefore will prefs in towards the centre, and raiie
the equktoreal parts, till the quantity of matter in the latter is fo fai- iu-
creafed as to compenfate for its lightncfs, and an equilibrium be reftored.
On which account, the fwm which the Earth affumes will be th^t of an
No. 50. 1 1 H oblate
968 AN ILLUSTRATION
oblate fpheroid, whofe fhorter axis pafTes through the poles. By virtirc
only of the rotation of the Earth about its axis, the weight of bodies at
the equator is lefs than at the poles, in the proportion of 288 to 289.
From hence arifes, as before obfcrved, a Ipheroidicai form of the Earth,
and from that fpheroidical form arifes another diminution.-of gravity at
the equator, by which, if the Earth were homogeneous throughout, bo-
dies at the equator would lofe one pound in 112.1, aiid fo, on both ac-
counts taken together, the gravity of bodies at the poles would be to the
fame at the equator as 230 to 229. From whence, if we fuppofe the
gravity of bodies within the Earth to be diredly as their diflance from
the centre, thofe numbers will alio exprefs the relation between its polar
and equatoreal diameter. This is upon a fuppofition that the Earth was
at firft fluid, or a chaos, having its folid and fluid parts confufedly mixed
together ; but if we luppofe it at firft partly fluid and partly dry, as it
now is, fince we find that the land is very nearly of the Icrme figure with
the fea, except raifed a little to prevent its being overflowed, the Earth
muft ftill be of the fame form ; for otherwife the major part of the water
would flow towards the equator, and fprcad itfelf like an inundation over
all the land in thole parts. This theory met with great oppofition from
Monfieur Caffmi, who, having fneafured the meridian of France, declared
(with great realbn likewife, if the obfervations had been correct) that the
Earth, inftead of being flattened, was lengthened towards the poles, that
is, inftead of being an oblate it was an oblong fpheriod, higher at the
poles by about ninety-five miles. So wide a differe;xice, between philo-
fophefs of fo high rank, determined at length the King of France, at an
expence becoming a monarch, toemploy two companies of mathemati-
cians, the one to meafure the length of a degree of the meridian at the
equator, and the other the length of a degree at the polar circle, that by
comparing them together, and with the length of the degree of France, it
might be known whether the Earth were oblong or flat towards the poles.
It is certain, if the lengths of the degrees of latitude decreafe as we
go from the equator towards the poles, then the axis is greater, and the
figure an oblong fpheriod ; but on the contrary, if thefe lengths increale
as you remove towards the poles, the axis is lefs than a diameter at the
equator, and confequently the figure an oblate fpheriod. This laft ap-
pears, as well by -the theory of Sir Ifaac Newton, to be the true figure,
as it does by the refpe61:ive menfurations of thele mathematicians, which
were performed with furprifing exa61nefs. The figure of the Earth be-
ing thus determined, we next proceed to fhew the triple means whereby
it IS agitated and governed in its motion, and whereby night and day, and
all die phasnomena of the feafons, are produced.
In.
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 969
_
In the firft place, the Earth is found to have a diurnal motion round
its own axis, from well: to eaft, which it performs in twenty-four hours,
and thereby occafions the perpetual fucceffion of days and nights. It is
every way agreeable to realon, that the Earth fliould revolve ab^'out its own
axis,' to account for the appearance of fuch a vaft number offtars, which
leem to perform their revolutions round the earth in tvventv-four hours ;
for the motion of thefe liars, were it real, would be incredibly fwift, and
beyond all imagination, becaufe their diftance in refpea of u3 is almoft
infinite, and the orbit they have to run round fo prodigioufly great, that
they mull: move at leaft 100,000 miles in a minute.
The Earth has, fecondly, 3iU annual motion round the Sun, which it
performs every year, whereby it produces the different feafons, and the
lengthening and Ihortening of the days. It being now an eflablilhed
do6tnne that the Sun is the centre of our fyltem, and that the Earth
moves roun.d "it, we lliall ayoid entering into any dilquilitions upon that
head, fince it is only neceffdry we Ihould explain the phenomena which
anle from, the earth's annual motion, in conjunftion with the rotation
round Its axis; having firft premifed, that, the earth, in its annual mo-
tion, hath Its axis always in the famfe diredion, or parallel to itfelf.
Suppofe vf r 2B - (iti the annexed figure of the Earth's motion) be
the Earth's orbit, and 8 the Sun. Through the centre of the Sun draw
the right line r S ii parallel to the common fedion of the equator and
the ecliptic, which will meet with the ecliptic in two points r ^. And
when the Earth feen from the Sun is in either of the points r or a, a
right luie S r or S ii, joining the centre of the Earth and Sun, will coin-
cide with the common leftion of the equator and ecliptic, and will then
be perpendicular to A B, the axis of the Earth, or of the equator, becaufe
It is in .the plane of the equator. But the fame line is alfo perpendicular
to the circle which bounds the light and darknels, and therefore the axis
of the Earth will be in the plane of that circle, which will therefore pafs
through the poles of the Earth, and will cut the equator and all its pa-
rallels into equal parts. When the earth, therefore, is in the becrinnino-
of ii, the Sun will be feen in r, in the common fedion of the equato?
and echptic, m which pofition, the circle of illumination touchel both
poles: the Sun is vertical to the equator, and the days and nights arc
equal all the world over ; and this is the fpring feafon, or vernal equinox.
The Earth in its annual motion going through ^, m, and ;, towards
vf, and the common feftion of the equator, and the ecliptic remainincr
always parallel to itfelf, it will no longer pafs through the bodv of th?
>un
970 AN I L L 1/ S T R A T I O N
Sun ; buti in vf , it makes a right angle with the line S P, which joins
the centre of the Son and Earth. And becaufe the line SP is not in the
plane of the equator, but in that of the ecliptic, the angle BPS, which
the axis of the Earth BA makes with it, will not now be a right angle,
but an oblique one of 66:^ degrees, which is the fame with the inclitia-
tiou of the axis to the plane of the ecliptic. Let the angle SPI. be a
right angle, and the circle, bounding light and darknefs, will pafs through
the point L, and then the arch BD, or the angle BPL, will be 23^ de-
grees, that is, equal to the complement of the angle BPS to a right angle.
Let the ang;le BPE be a rislit ansile, and then the line PE will be in the
plane of the equator. Therefore, becaufe the arches BE and LT are equal,
each of them being quadrants, if the common arch BT be taken away,
there will remain TE equal to LB, equal to 23^ degrees. Take E M equal
to ET, and through the points M and T defcribe two parallel circles, TC,
MN ; the one reprefents the tropic of Cancer, and the other the tropic of
Capricorn. And, the Earth being in this fituation, the Sun will approach
the neareft that it can come to the North Pole: he will fhine perpendi-
cularly on the point T, and conlequently will be vertical to all the in-
habitants under the tropic of Cancer, when he comes to their meri-
dians. It is manifefl: that the circle which bounds light and darknefs
reaches beyond the North Pole B to L : but towards the fouth it falls
fhort to the South Pole A, and reaches no further than F.. Through
L and F, let two parallels to the equator be defcribed. Thefe will re-
prefent the polar circles, and, while the Earth is in P, all that trail of
it which is included within the polar circle KL continues in the light,
notwithftanding the conftant revolution round the axis. Oix the contrary,
thofe that lie within the antardlic circle remain in continual darknefs.
It is alfo manifefl-, that all the parallels between the equator and the
ar6tic circle are cut by the circle bounding light and darknefs into un-
equal portions, the largeft portions of thefe circles remaining in the light,
and the fmalleft in darknefs; but thefe parallels which are towards the
antarftic circle have their greateft poitions in darknefs, and their leaft in
light ; and the difference of thefe portions will be greater or lefs, accord-
ing as the circles are nearer to the pole or to the equator. Therefore
when the Sun is feen in Cancer 55, the inhabitants of the northern he-
mifphere will have their days at the longefl, and their nights at the
fhortefl, and the feafon of the year will be fummer. The contrary of
this will happen to the inhabitants of the fouthern hemifphere.
As the earth moves on from w by ^, K, the north pole returns, the
diurnal arches begin gradually to decrcafc, and the noffTjinial to iiicreafe,
and
OFASTROLOGY. 971
and of confequence the Sun's rays will fall more and more obliquely,
and his'^heat proportionably diminifh, till the Earth comes to T, when
the Sun will appear in ^, at which time, the days will again be equal
to the nights to all the inhabitants of the earth, the circle bounding light
and darknefs paffing in this pofition through the poles. This will be the
feafon called autumn.
The Earth moving on through T» b > and n , the Sun will be feen to
go in the ecliptic through :0:, m, and $ , and will appear to decline from
the equator towards the fouth; fo that, when the Earth is really in 25,
the Sun will appear in VJ. And, whereas the axis AB always retains its
parallelifm, the Earth will have the fame pofition and afpeft in refped
to the Sun that it had when it was in Vy ; but with this difference, that,
whereas the trad within the polar circle K L was in continual light while
the Earth was in VJ, now, the Earth arriving at 25, the fame trad will be
altogether in darknefs; but the oppofite fpace, within the circle FG,
will be in a continual illumination, and at the pole A there will be no
night for the fpace of fix months. Here likewife, of the parallels be-
tween the equator and the north pole, the illuminated portions are much
lefs than the portions which remain in darknefs, the contrary of which
happened in the former pofition; fo likewife the Sun at mid-day will
appear vertical to all the inhabitants that live in the tropic M N ; fo that
it will appear to have defcended towards the fouth from the parallel T C
to the parallel MN, through the arch CQN, which is forty-feven de-
grees. This will be the feafon called winter.
Laftly, as the Earth journeys on from 25 through SI and ftjH to :£^y the
Sun appears to pafs through ::: and ^ to T, and the northern climes
begin to return, and receive more diredtly the enlivening beams of the
Sun, whofe meridian height does now each day increafe; the days now
lengthen, and the tedious nights contraft their refpedtive arches; and
every thing confpires to advance the delightful feafon of the fpring, with
the equality of days and nights, as was ihown when the Earth was in zc^,
from which point we began to trace its motion.
The third motion of the Earth is that motion by which the poles of
the world revolve about the poles of the ecliptic, and occafion what is
commonly called the precefl~ion of the equinoxes, which is a flow motion
of the equinoctial points towards the weft, that is, in antecedefitia, or
contrary to the order of the figns. This retrogade motion, by carrying
the equino6iial points to meet the Sun in his apparent annual motion,
makes him arrive at them fooner every year than he would do if ihofe
No. 51. Ill points
972 AN ILLUSTRATION
points continued immoveable; and this arch of regrelTion being fifty
feconds a-year, or one degree in feventy-two years, makes the equinoxes
hapi)en twenty minutes in time fooner each year than they would other-
wiie do. And, though this change be not fenfible in a few years, yet
thefe points are found to have a very different fituation from what they
had two thouland years ago.
By reafon of this preceflion of the equinodlial points, the fixed flats
feem to move towards the eaft, and thereby to have their longitude,
which is always reckoned upon the ecliptic, from the vernal equinodtial
point, increafed. And hence the Conflellations feem to have deferted
the places allotted them by the ancient aftronomers; for inflance, the
beginning of the fign Aries, which in llipparchus's time was near the
vernal equinodial point, and gave name to that point of the ecliptic, is
now removed near a whole llgn, or thirty degrees, eaftward ; lb that
Aries is now where Taurus ufed to be, Taurus where Gemini uled to be,
Sec. and thus all the conflellations of the zodiac have changed their
ancient places. But, to avoid confufion, aflronomers have thought fit
to let the leveral portions of the ecliptic, where thefe conftellations were
at firft obferved to be, retain their old names; fo that the vernal equi-
no6tial point is dill reckoned the firft degree of Aries. However, thefe
portions of the ecli|)tic, where the conflellations were at firfl:, are called
anafira, to diftinguifh them from the places where they now are, which
are termed J^e//ata.
The orbit, in which the Earth moves round the Sun, common ex-
perience proves to be elliptical; for, were it circular, the Sun's apparent
diameter would always be the fame; but we find it is not; for, if it be
mealured with a micrometer in winter time, it will be found confidera-
bly larger than in fummer, and it will be greatcfl: of all when the Sun
is in the eighth degree of Capricorn, which fhows that is the place of
the aphelium, it being then thirty-two minutes forty-feven feconds;
whereas, when the Sun is in the eighth degree of Cancer, his diameter-
is but thirty-one minutes forty feconds. Hence it is evident, that the
Sun is really nearer to us in the midft of winter than it is in the midft of
fummer: but this feems a paradox to many, who think the Sun muft
needs be hottefl when it is the nearefl to us, and that the Sun is apparently
more diftant from us in December than in June. As to the Sun's being
hotter, it is true, it is fo to all thofe places which receive his rays dire6lly
or perpendicularly; but we find his heat abated on account of the obli-
quity of the rays, and his fhort continuance above the horizon at that
time. And, as to his diftance, it is only with refped to the zenith of
the
OF ASTROLOGY. 973
the place, not the centre of the earth; fince it is plain the Sun may ap-
proach the centre of the earth at the fame time that it recedes from the
zenith of any place. And, agreeably to the Sun's nearer diftance in the
winter, we oblerve his apparent motion is then quicker than in the fum-
mer; for in tlie eighth degree of Capricorn it is about fixty-one minutes
per day, but in the eighth degree of Cancer his motion is but fifty-feven
minutes per day. Accordingly, we find the fummer half-year eight days
longer than the winter half-year, as appears by the following computa-
tion, according to the new ftyle.
The Summer half-year includes
In March lo^ Days.
The Winter half-year includes
974 ANILLUSTRATION
to the fhifting of the earth's centre of gravity, and therefore will have
all parts drowned fucceflively; and our famous theorift, Dr. Burnet,
fancies an earth made on purpofe to be drowned at that time, which,
being in form of an orbicular cruft on the face of the fea, as we now call
it, (for he fays there was none before the deluge,) fell down into the
water, and fo drowned its inhabitants. This is the moft abfurd theory
of all.
But the Holy Scriptures tell us, that the waters of the deluge came
from two funds, " the great deep below,'' and the " rains above." Again,
when we look to the internal parts of the earth, even to the greateft depth
men have ever reached, we find that the body of the terreftrial globe is
compofed of ftrata, or layers, lying over one another, which appear to
be fediments of a flood ; befides, in the bodies of thefe flrata, though never
fo iblid, nay, even inclofed within the folidity of the firmefl flints, mar-
ble, ftone, &CC. we find a prodigious variety of the exuvize, or remains
of fifties, fuch as their fhells, teeth, &c. as well marine ones as thofe
which live in lakes and rivers; and from a due obfervation of thefe, and
repeated confiderations upon them, it was, that the learned Dr. Wood-
ward founded what he delivers upon this fubjeft, which therefore is not
fo much a theory of the earth, as neceflary deductions, and unavoidable
confequence?, drawn from the matters of fa6t, as they are laid down in
the fecond part of his Natural Hiftory of the Earth, i . That thefe marine
bodies, and the other fpoils of frefti-water fifties, were borne forth out of the
Tea by the univerfal deluge, and, on return of the water back again from ofF
the earth, thev were left behind on land. 2. That, durins; the time of the
deluge, all the ftone and marble of the antediluvian earth, all the metals
in it, all the mineral concretions, and in a word, all foflils whatever,
that had before attained any folidity, were totally diflblved; their confti-
tuent corpufcles disjoined, and their cohefion perfeflly ceafed; and that
the faid corpulcles, together with the corpufcles of thofe which were not
before folid, fuch as iand, earth, and the like; as alfo, all animal bodies,
teeth, fhells, vegetables, in fliort, all bodies whatever they were, either
upon the earth, or that conftituted the niafs, if not quite down to the
abyfs, yet to the greateft depths we ever dig, were aflumed up promil^
cuoufly into the water, and fuftained therein; fo that the water and thefe
bodies made up one common mafs. 3. That at length all the mafs that
was thus borne up in the water was again precipitated, and fubfided to-
ward the bottom, and that this fubfidence happened generally according
to the laws of gravity. That the matter, fubCding thus, formed the
ftrata of ftone, earth, maible, coal, &c. of which ftrata the terreftrial
globe, or at leaft as much of it as hath been dil'played to human view,
doth chiefly confift. 4. That the ftrata of marble, &c. attained their
folidity
OF ASTROLOGY. 975
folidity as foon as the fand, or other matter, whereof they confift, was
arrived at the bottom, and well fettled there; and that all thofe ftrata
which are folid at this day, have been lo ever fince that time. 5. That
thefe ftrata were originally parallel, plane, and regular, and confequently
rendered the furface of the earth even and fpherical; that they were
Contiguous, and not broken and interrupted as we find them now ; and
that the water lay then upon them, conftituting a fluid fpherc, envi-
roning all the globe round. 6. That after fome time, by the force of an
agent featcd within the earth, thofe ftrata were broken on all fides of the
globe ; that they were diflocated, and their fituation varied ; from whence
thefe elevations and depreffions on the furface of the globe, as the moun-
tains, valleys, and other inequalities.
From thefe obfervations, he concludes, that Noah's deluge was quite
univerfal, covering the whole earth, even the higheft: mountains quite
round the globe. That, at the time of the deluge, the water of the ocean
was firft brought out on the earth, and immediately fucceedcd by that of
the abyfs. That, upon the difruption of the ftrata, or the elevation of
fome, and the depreffion of others, towards the end of the deluge, this
mafs of water fell back towards the lovveft parts of the earth, into lakes
and other cavities, into the channel of the ocean, and through the fiflures
by which this communicates with the ocean, in the abyfs which is filled,
till it came to an equilibrium with the ocean. That the deluge com-
menced in the fpring feafon, the waters coming forth upon the earth in
the month which we call May. That the deluge did not happen from
an accidental concourfe of natural caufes; but that many things then
happened, which never could pofTibly happen without the affiftance of a
fupernatural power.
Mr. Whifton, on the contrary, iti his New Theory of the Earth, fup-
pofes the deluge began on the i8th of November, in the 2365th vear of
the Julian period, that is, 2349 years before the Chriftian sera; that a
comet defcending towards its perihelion, in the plane of the ecliptic,
pafled quite near the globe of the earth the very fame "day that the deluge
began: he afcribes to the univerfal deluge all the changes and alterations
that have happened in the furface and infide of the globe: he adopts the
hypothefis of Dr. Woodward, and indifcriminately makes ufe of all the
obfervations of this author, with regard to the prefent ftate of the globe.
The terreftrial globe having once met with the tail of the comet, con*-
fifting of a tranfparent fog, or aqueous atmofphere, it muft, in paffing
through it, appropriate to itfelf fome part of the matter it contained.
No. 51. II K All
976 AN ILLUSTRATION
All that was found within the fphere of attraction of the globe, muft
have fallen upon the earth, and that in form of rain, fmce this tail partly
confifted of aqueous vapours. This tail being " the catarafts of heaven
that were opened,'^ the rain may be made as plentiful as one pleafes, even
to occafion an univerfal deluge, the waters of which would eafilv cover
the highefl: mountains. However, Mr. Whifton does not attribute the
whole deluge to thefe waters only; for, agreeably to Scripture, he affirms
that the earth, upon the approach of the comet, would no doubt feel the
force of its attraftion ; fo that the fluid, contained in the great abyfs,
would be agitated by fo violent a flux and reflux, that the fuperlicialcruft
of tl)e earth could not refift it, but be broken in feveral places, and the
internal waters diffufed over the furface, " and the fountains of the great
deep broken up." Mr. Whifton, to difpole of all this water, fuppofes,
that as foon as the earth, in continuing its courfe, had got fome way from
the comet, the efFe6ls of its attra6tion, the flux and reflux, ceafed in the
great abyfs, and then the fuperior waters were violently precipitated
through the fame palfages by which they came out; the great abyfs
fwallowed up all the fuperfluous waters, and its cavity was found capable
enough to receive, not only the waters which it had already contained,
but alfo of thofe which the tail of the comet had left behind it ; fince
during the time of its agitation and the burfting of its crufl:, it had en-
larged the fpace by breaking down, on all hands, the earth that environed
it. It was, in like manner, at this time, that the earth, which till then
was fpherical, became elliptic, occafioned not only by the effefl of the
centrifugal force caufed by its diurnal revolution, but likewife by the
adion of the comet; and that becaufe the earth, in paffing through the
tail of the comet, was fituated in fuch a manner, that it prefented its
equatorial parts to this body; and becaufe the force of the comet's attrac-
tion, concurring with the centrifugal force of the earth, took away thofe
parts of the equator with fo much the more facility, as the crulT: was
broken and disjoined in avail: many places; and becaufe the a6lion of
the flux and reflux of the abyfs made a more violent imprefliion upon the
parts under the equator than any where elfe.
Dr. Hallev refolves the deluge into the fhock of a comet, or fome other
fuch tranfient body: the srcat agitation that muft have been occafioned
by it in the fea, he obferves, would be fufficient to account for all thofe
ftrange appearances of heaping vaft quantities of earth, and high cliffs,,
upon the beds of Ihells which once were the bottom of the fea, and
raifing up mountains wiiere none were before: luch a fhock as this,
impelling the folid parts, would occafion the waters, and all fluid
fubftances that were unconfined, as the fea is, to run violently with an.
impetus
OFASTROLOGY. 977
impetus toward that part of the globe where the blow was received, and
that with force fufficient to take with it the very bottom of the ocean,
and would carry it upon land. There are various other fyftems of the
univerfal deluge, feveral of which may be Ceen m Monfieur BufFon's
Natural Hiftorv, torn. i.
Monfieur de Buffon, arguing from the fpheroidal figure of the earth,
and the laws of hydroftatics, fuppofes that the Earth, as well as the other
planets, are parts ftruck off from the body of the Sua by the collifion of
comets, and confequently, when the earth alTumed its form, it was in a
ftate of liquefa6tion by fire. Of this, fays he, we fhall be the more eafily
convinced, when we confider the nature of the matter contained in the
body of the earth, the greateft part of which, as fand and clays, are vi-
trified, or vitrifiable fubftances; and, on the other hand, when we reflect
upon the impoffibility of the earth's being ever in a flate of fluidity pro-
duced by water, fince there is infinitely more land than water; and be-
fjdes, water has not the power of diffolving lands, flones, and other
fubftances of which the earth is compofed. How far the inequalities in
the face of the earth, the beds of rivers, lakes, &c. and the various ftrata
in its internal parts, ferve to confirm this hypothefis, may be icQii in
Hiftoire Naturelle, &c. torn. i. by M. de Bufix)n.
The arguments of different philofophers and hifi:orians, relative to
the deluge, and theory of the earth, have furnifhed matter of enquiry
to naturalifl:s how far the fame caufes, which muft have produced not
only the mixtures, but the cavities and fifiTures in the earth, have been
the inlet and caufe likewile of earthquakes and volcanoes. Earthquakes
confifl of a violent agitation or trembling of the earth, generally attended
with a terrible noife like thunder, and fometimes with an eruption of
fire, water, wind, &c. Volcanoes are hollow, fubterraneous, combuftible,
mountains, which vomit forth fire, flame, afhes, cinders, &c. Earth-
quakes and volcanoes are both accounted for upon the fame principles,
and may be thus explained. Thofe countries which are hollow and
fubterraneous, and which naturally yield great flore of fulphur and nitre,
or where fulphur is fublimated from the pyrites, are by far the moft in-
jured and incommoded by earthquakes; for, where there are fuch mines,
they muft fend up exhalations, which, meeting with fubterraneous ca-
verns, mull: flick to the arches of them, as foot does to the fides of our
chimneys; where they mix themlelves with the nitre or faltpetre which
comes out of thefe arches, in like manner as we fee it come out of the
infide of the arch of a bridge, and fo makes a kind of cruft which will
very eafily take fire. There are ieveral ways by which this cruft may
take
978 ANILLUSTRATION
take fire, viz. r. By the inflammable breath of the pyrites, which is a kind
of fulphur that naturally takes fire of itfelf. 2. By a fermentation of va-
pours to a degree of heat equal to that of fire and flame. 3. By the
falling of fome great fl:one which is undermined by water, and, flriking
againft another, produces fome fparks that fet fire to the neighbouring
combufliible matter, which, being a kind of natural gunpowder, at the
appulfe of the fire goes off with a fudden blafl or violent explofion, rum-
bling in the bowels of the earth, and lifting up the ground above it, fo
as fometimes to make a miferable havock and devaftation, till it gets
vent or adifcharge. Burninsr mountains and volcanoes are only fo many
fpiracles ferving for the difcharge of this fubterranean fire, when it is
thus preternaturally affembled. And where there happens to be fuch
a ftruflure and conformation of the interior parts of the earth, that the
fire may pafs freely and without impediment from the caverns therein,
it aflembles into thefe fpirals, and then readily and eafily gets out from
time to time without fhakinsj or difturbinsf the earth. But, where a
communication is wanting, or the paflages are not fufficiently large and
open, fo that it cannot come at the faid fpiracles without firft forcing and
removing all obflacles, it heaves up and fhocks the earth, till it hath
made its way to the mouth of the volcano; where it ruflies forth,
fometimes in mighty flames, with great velocity, and a terrible bellow-
ing noife. Earthquakes are fometimes confined to a narrow I'pace, which
is properly the effect of the re-a6tion of the fire, and they fhake the earth
juft as the explolion of a powder-magazine caufes a fenfible concuffion at
the diftance of feveral leagues. Thus a violent eruption of Etna will
caufe an earthquake over all the ifland of Sicily; but it never will extend
to the diftance of three or four hundred leagues. In like manner, when
fome new vents of fire have been formed in Mount Vefuvius, there are
felt at the fame time earthquakes at Naples, and in the neighbourhood
of the volcano; but thefe concuffions have never fhaken the Alps, nor
been communicated to France, or other countries remote from Vefuvius.
Sometimes they are felt at coiifiderable diftances, and fhake a long tra(5i
of ground without any eruption or volcano appearing. We have in-
ftances of earthquakes which were felt at the fame time in England,
France, Germany, and even in Hungary, and thefe extend always a great
deal more in length than in breadth; they fhake a tradl: of ground with
more or lefs violence in different places, in proportion as it is remote from
the fire; and they are almoft always accompanied with a dull noife like
that of a heavy carriage rolling along with great rapidity.
Dr. Woodward gives us another theory of earthquakes. He endea-
vours to fhow, that the fubterraneous beat or fire, which is continually
* elevating
O F A S T R O L O G T. 979
elevating water out of the abyfs to furnifh the earth with rain, dew,
fprings, and rivers, being flopped in any part of the earth, and fo di-
verted from its ordinary courfe by fonne accidental glut or obftrudlion in
the pores or pafTages through which it ufed to afcend to the furface, be-
comes by fuch means preternaturally aflembled in a greater quantity than
ufual into one place, and therefore caufeth a great rarefa61ion and intu-
mefcence of the water of the abyfs, putting it into great commotions and
diforders, and at the fame time making the like effort on the earth; which
being expanded upon the face of the abyfs, occafions the agitation and
concuffion which we call an earthquake.
But Dr. Stukeiey has introduced a new notipn in the theory of earth-
quakes, and has endeavoured to prove that they are caufed by ele61ricity.
He urges a variety of objedions againft the foiegoing hypothefis, which
afcnbes earthquakes to fubterraneous winds, fires, vapours, or any thing
that occafions an explofion, and thus heaves up the ground. He thinks
there is no evidence of the cavernous flrufture of the earth, which this
hypothefis requires; but that, on the contrary, there is reafon to believe
that it is in a great meafure folid. Earthquakes have alfo frequently
happened without any eruption of fire, vapour, fmoke, or fmell, which
he thinks it utterly inconfiftent with the fuppofition of their being oc-
cafioned by any fubterraneous vapours; efpeciaily in cafes where the
fhock is of confiderable extent; befides, this is a caufe altogether inade-
quate to fuch an effeft ; for a fubterraneous power capable of moving a
lijrface of earth only thirty miles in diameter, mufl: be lodged at leaft
fifteen or twenty miles below the furface, and move aa inverted cone of
folid earth, whofe bale is thirty miles in diameter, and its axis fifteen or
twenty miles, which he judges to be abfolutely impoffible; how much
more inconceivable, then, that any fuch power could produce the earth-
quake of 1755, which was felt in various parts of Europe and Africa,
and the Atlantic Ocean; or that of Afia Minor, A.D. 17, by which,
thirteen great cities were deftroyed in one night, and which (hook a
mafs of earth three hundred miles in diameter, in order to which the
moving power,, if it had been internal fire or vapour, muft have been
lodged two hundred miles below the furface! Farther, in earthquakes
the etfedl is inftantaneous; whereas the operation of elaflic vapour and
the difcharge of it muft be gradual, and require a long fpace of time;
and, if they were owing to cxplofions, they muft alter the lurface of the
country where thev iiappened, deftroy the fountains and fprings, and
change the courfe of its rivers, which is contradi6ted by hiftory and ob-
fervation.. To all which it is added, that the ftrokes which ftiips receive
during an earthquake muft be occafioned by fomething that could commu-
No. 5 r
.
1 1 L uicate
980 AN ILLUSTRATION
nicate motion of a much greater velocity than any heaving of the earth
under the fea by the elafticity of generated vapours, which would only
produce a gradual Iwell, and not an impuHe of the water, refembling a
thump againfl: the bottom of a (hip, or flriking againft a rock. Dr.
Stukeley, finding the common hypothefis infufficient, was led to con-
clude that earthquakes were proper ele6trical fliocks ; and a particular
furvey of the phenomena, that either precede or attend them, confirmed
this opinion: he obferved that the weather was ufually dry and warm
for fome time before an earthquake happened, and that the furface of
the ground is thus previoufly difpofed for that kind of electrical vibration
in which it confifts; whilfi: at the fame time, in fome places where earth-
quakes have happened, the. internal parts, at a fmall depth below the fur-
face, are moifl: and boggy; and thence he infers, that they reach very
little below the furface. He adds, that the fouthern regions are more
fubjeCl to earthquakes than the northern, on account of the greater
warmth and drynels of the earth and air, which are qualities io neceflary
to eledricity. It was alfo obferved, that, before the earthquakes at Lon-
don in 1749, all vegetables were remarkably forward; and eleclricity is
well known to quicken vegetation. They were likewile preceded by
frequent and fingular appearances of the aurora borealis and auftralis,
and by a variety of other meteors which indicate an electrical ftate of the
atmofphere. Dr. Stukeley apprehends, that, in this ftate of the earth and
air, nothing more is neceffary to produce an earthquake than the ap-
proach of a non-eleCtric cloud to any part of the earth, when in an
highly-ele6lrified ftate, and the difcharge of its contents upon it; and
that, as the difcharge from an excited tube occafions a commotion in the
human body, fo the fhock, produced by the difcharge between the cloud
and many miles in compafs of folid earth, muft be an earthquake, and
the fnap from the contadt be the noife attending it. He luppofes that a
large black cloud, which fuddenly covered the hemifphere a little before
the earthquake of 1749, might have occafioned the fhock, by the dif-
charge of a fhower. The noife, it has been obferved, ufually precedes
the (hock ; whereas, if the concuffion depended upon a fubterraneous
eruption, it muft have been quite the contrary. The flames and ful-
phureous fmells which fometimes attend earthquakes are more eafily ac-
counted for, as Dr. Stukeley thinks, from the fuppofition of their being
electrical phenomena than on any other hypothefis. The fudden exten-
five agitation, both of land and water, occafioned by earthquakes, can
only be effeCted by eleCtricity. The nature of the impulfe which they
give to fliips, already taken notice of, fuggefts an argument, that they are
owing not to any convulfion in the bowels of the earth, but to an uniform
vibration along its furface, occafioned by an eleCtrical fnap ; and that they
are
OFASTROLOGY. 981
are ele(51:rlcal phenomena, Dr. Stukeley farther infers, from their chiefly
affefting the fea-coaft, or places near rivers; we may add alfo, eminences;
and finally from the efFe6ls which they produce on weak, conftitutions,
fuch as pains in the back, head-achs, cholics, &c. fimilar to thofe oc-
cafioned fometimes by ele6lrification. After all, he does not prefume to
fay how the earth and atmofphere are put into that eleflrical and vibra-
tory ftate which prepares them to give or receive that fnap, and rtiock,
which is called an earthquake; but this he thinks as difficult to account
for as magnetifm, gravitation, mufcular motion, and many other fecrets
in nature.
Several circumfi:ances have been remarked by other writers, which
confirm the theory that fuppofes earthquakes to be eleftrical phenomena.
Signior Beccaria, whofe name often occurs in the hiftory of electricity,
agrees with Dr. StukeJy, in fuppofing, that earthquakes are ele<Sliical
phenomena; but he imagines that the elettric matter which occafions
them is lodged deep in the bowels of the earth; and, if in this fituation
its equilibrium fhould by any means be deflroyed, fo that the bed method
of reftoring it fhall be by the fluid's burfting its way into the air, and tra-
verfing feveral miles of the atmofphere to come to the place where it is
wanted, it may eafily be conceived, that violent concuflions may be given '
to the earth by the fudden paffage of this powerful agent; and that the
eledtric fluid is fometimes coUeded in the bowels of the earth, he thinks
probable from the appearance of ignes fatui \n mines, which fometimes
happens, and is very probably an eledrical phenomenon. This ingenious
philofopher obferves, that, if two pieces of glafs, inclofed in a thm piece
of metal, be held in the hand, while a large fhock is fent through them, a
ftrong concuffion or vibration will be felt, which fometimes breaks them
to pieces. Mr. Henley, another excellent eledrician, has difcovered a me-
thod of increafing the efFedl of the explofion upon glafs, fo as to afford a
very natural idea of an earthquake. Between the ends of two wires, laid
on a piece of glafs, with their extremities pointing to each other, and
about an inch diflant, through which the difcharge is to be made, he
places a thick piece of ivory upon the glafs, and on the ivory a weight
at pleafure, from one-fourth of an ounce to fix pounds; the glafs is
broken by an explofion into innumerable fragments, and fbme of it is
reduced into an impalpable powder; the weight is (haken by the explofion,
and fometimes thrown ofF from the ivory. In this experiment, if the
glafs is very thick, fo that the force of the expljfion is not fufficient to
break it, it will be found marked with the moll: lively prifmatic colours.
The appearance of an earthquake may be alio reprefented by caufing the
explofion of a battery to pafs over the furface of any fubftance on which,
fmall .
982 AN ILLUSTRATION
fmall fticks or cards are placed, which will never fail to be fhaken, and
often be thrown down, by the explofioii ; or, by making a diicharge over
the furface of water, in which cafe the report will be much louder than
when the difcharge is made through the air; and a hand plunged deep
into the water will feel the concuffion ; and we may add, that the fpark
which paflcs over the furface of the water in this experiment bears a
sreat refemblance of thofe balls of fire that have fonietimesbeen feen over
the furface of the fea or land in the time of an earthquake. Dr. Prieftley
contrived various methods of exhibiting the phenomena of earthquakes.
He made the electric flafh to pafs over wet boards fwimming in water,
over either of thefe feparately, or over both at once, on which pillars,
&c. were eredted; and thus, while the board reprefented the earth, and
the water the fea, the phenomena of both during an earthquake were
exhibited at the fame time. Dr. Prieftley, the ingenious hiflorian of
eledtricity, after having largely recited the obfervations of Dr. Stukeley
and Signior Beccaria, does not abfolutely decide which of thefe two phi-
lofophers has advanced the more probable opinion concerning the feat
of the eledric matter which occafions earthquakes; but he thinks a more
probable general hypothefis than either of them may be formed out of
them both. Suppofe, fays he, the ele6lric matter to be fome way or
other accumulated on one part of the furface of the earth, and, on ac-
count of the drynefs of the feafon, not eafily to difFufe itfelf; it may,
as Signor Beccari fuppofes, force itfelf away into the higher regions of
the air, forming clouds in its paflage out of the vapours which float in
the atmofphere, and occafion a fudden fhowcr, which may farther pro-
mote the paflage of the fluid. The whole furface, thus unloaded, will
receive a concuffion, like any other condu6ting fubftance, on parting
with, or receiving, a quantity of the elediric fluid; the rufliing noi'le
will likewife fweep over the whole extent of the country ; and, upon
this fuppofition alfo, the fluid, in its difcharge from the country, will
naturally follow the courfe of the rivers, and alfo take the advantage of
any eminences to facilitate its afcent into the higher regions of the air.
See farther on this fubjeft, Phil. Tranf. vol. xli. Beccaria Lettre dell'
Ele6^ricifmo; and the article Earthquake in the Encyclopaedia Londinea-
fis, vol. vi. p. 215, &c.
How far thefe arguments and obfervations are fuflScient to explode the
former theory of earthquakes, and to folve the various and compli-
cated effects of their deftructive operation, muft be left to the determina^
tion of the attentive reader, after he has maturely contemplated the fol-
lowing authentic narration of lome of the moft fatal earthquakes that
ever excited terror and trepidation in the minds of men.
The
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 9S5;
The earthquake which happened hi Sicily in the year 1692-3, as re-
lated by Mr. Hartop, F. Burgos, and Vin. Bonajutus, is one of the
rnoll: fatal, and exhibits the moft lamentable cataftrophe of the kind,
recorded in hiftory. It extended over the whole ifland ; and even Naples
and Malta were afFedted by thefhock. It was one of the fecond kind men-
tioned by Ariftotle and Pliny, viz. a perpendicular pulfation or fuccuflion.
The motion was fo rapid and violent, that nobody could ftand upon.
their legs; tbofe who lay on the ground were tofled from fide to fide as
on a rolling billow, and high walls leaped from their foundations many
yards diftant. The mifchief it did is amazing; almoft all the buildings
in the country were thrown down. Fifty-four cities and towns, befides
an incredible number of villages, were either deftroyed or greatly da-
maged. We fhall only inftance the fate of Catania, one of the mbft
famous, ancient, and flourifhing, cities in the kingdom, the refidence of
feveral monarchs, and an univerfity. This once famous, now unhappy,
Catania, to ufe the words of F. Burgos, had the greateft fhare in the
tragedy. F. Anton. Serrovita, being on his way thither, and at the dif-
tsmce of a few miles, oblerved a black cloud, like night, hovering over
the city; and there arofe from the mouth of Mont Gibello great fpires of
flame, which fpread all around. The fea, all of a fiidden, began to
roar, and rife in billows; and there was a noife as if all the artillery in
the world had been at once difcharged. The birds flew about aftonifhed;
the cattle in the fields ran crying, &c. His and his companions' horfes"
flopped fhort, trembling; fo that they were forced to alight. They
were no fooner off, but they were lifted from the ground above two palms;
when, carting their eyes towards Catania, they with amazement faw no-
thmg but a thick cloud of duft in the air. This was the fcene of their
calamity; for of the magnificent Catania there was not the leaft footftep
to be feen. S. Bonajutus allures us, that, of 18,914 inhabitants, i8,ooa*
perifticd therein. The fame author, from a computation of the inhabi*
tants, before and after the earthquake, in the feveral cities and towas,^
finds that near 6o,coo periflied out of 254,900.
Jamaica is remarkable for earthquakes. The inhabitants. Sir Han*
Sloane informs us, expedt one every year. This-author gives us the hiftory
of one in 1687; and another horrible one in 1692 is defcribed by feveral
anonymous authors. In two minutes time this Ihook down and drowned
nine-tenths of the town of Port Royal. The houfes funk outright, thirty
or forty fathoms deep. The earth, opening, fwallowed up people; and
they rofe in other ftreets, fome in the middle of the harbour; and yet
many were faved, though there were 2000 people loft, and 1000 acres of
land funk. All the houles were thrown down throughout the iOand.
Noi 51.. II M. One
984 AN ILLUSTRATION
One Hopkins had his plantation removed half a mile from its place.
Of all wells, from one fathom to fix or feven, the water flew out at the
top with a vehement motion. While the houfes on one fide of the ftreet
were fwallowed up, on the other they were thrown on heaps ; and the
fand in the ftreet rofe like waves in the fea, lifting up every body that
flood on it, and immediately dropping down into pits; and at the fame
inftant a flood of water, breaking in, rolled them over and over ; fome
catching hold of beams and rafters, &c. Ships and floops in the har-
bour were overfet and loft; the Swan frigate, particularly, was thrown
over by the motion of the fea and finking of the wharf, and was driven
over the tops of many houfes. The calamity was attended with a hollow
rumbling noife like thunder. In lefs than a minute, three quarters of the
houfes and the ground they ftood on, with the inhabitants, were all
funk quite under water; and the little part left behind was no better
than a heap of rubbifli. The fhake was fo violent, that it threw people
on their knees or their faces as they were running about for Ihelter,
The ground heaved and fwelled like a rolling fea; and feveral houfes, ftill
ftanding, were (huffled and moved fome yards out of their places. A
whole ftreet is faid to be twice as broad now as before; and, in many
places, the earth would crack, and open and fhut quick and faft; of
which openings, two or three hundred might be feen at a time ; in fome
whereof, the people were fwallowed up ; others, the earth clofing, were
caught by the middle, and prelTed to death; as to others, the heads only
appeared. The larger openings fwallowed up houfes; and out of fome
would ilTue floods of water, fpouting up a great height into the air, and
threatening a deluge to that part the earthquake Ipared. The whole
was attended with ftenches and ofFenfive fmells, the noife of falling
mountains at a diftance, &c. and the Iky in a minute's time was turned
dull and reddifla like a glowing oven. Yet, as great a futFerer as Port
Royal was, more houfes were left ftanding therein than on the whole
ifland befide. Scarcely a planting-houfe or fugar-work was left ftanding
in all Jamaica. A great part of them were fwallowed up, houfes, peo-
ple, trees, and all at once; in lieu of which, afterwards appeared great
pools of water, which, when dried up, left nothing but iand, without
any mark that ever tree or plant had been thereon. About twelve miles
from the fea the earth gaped, and fpouted out with a prodigious force
vaft quantities of water into the air. Yet the greateft violence was
among the mountains and rocks; and it is a general opinion, that the
nearer the mountains the greater was the fhake, and that the caufe
thereof lay there. Moft of the rivers were ftopped up for twenty-foui
hours, by the falling of the mountains, till, fwelling up, they made
themfelves new tracks and channels, tearing up their pafTage, trees, &c.
After
D F A S T R O L O G Y. 985
After the great fhake, many of thofe people who efcaped got on-board
(hips in the harbour, where many continued above two months ; the
Ihakes all that time being fo violent, and coming fo thick, fomeiimes two
or three in an hour, accompanied with frightful noifes like a ruftling
wind, or a hollow rumbling thunder, with brimftone blafts, that they durft
not come afliore. The confequence of the earthquake was a general
ficknefs, from the noifome vapours belched forth, which fwept away above
3000 perfons of thofe who were left.
After the detail of thefe horrible convulfions, the reader will have but
little curiolity left for the phenomena of the earthquake at Lima in 1687,
defcribed by Alvarez de Toledo, wherein above 5000 perfons were de-
ftroyed; this being of the vibratory kind, fo that the bells in the church
rangof themfelves ; or that at Batavia, in 1699, by Witzen; that in the
north of England, in 1 703, by Mr. Thorefby ; thofe in New England,
iii 1663 and 1670, by Dr. Matthew ; that of Italy in 1742 ; that of Lima
and the port of Calais in Peru, in 1746, which lafled fifteen minutes,
and demolifhed moft of the buildings in the city, and deftroycd mofl: of the
inhabitants, and fwallowed up feveral (hips then in the port ; that of Lon-
don, in 1749; thofe in 1750, felt in many parts of England; that of
1777, felt in the north of England; or that at Lifbon, in 1755, though
this deferves a more particular account than many others of much lefs
confiderable extent and duration.
The thiee preceding years had been remarkably dry, infomuch that
fomefpri/igs of water were totally loft; and the predominant winds were
eaft and north-caft, accompanied with various, though very fmall, mo-
tions and tremblings of the earth. The fpring of the year 1 755 was very
rainy and wet ; the weather on the day preceding the earthquake, which
happened on the ift of November, was clear, and uncommonly warm for
the feafon, and had continued clear and rather warmer than ufual for fe-
veral days before. The day of the earthquake broke with a fcrene fky,
the wind continuing at eaft; but about nine o'clock the fun began to
grow dim ; and foon after was heard a rumbling noife, like that of car-
riages, which increafed to fuch a degree as to equal that of the loudeft
cannon ; upon which the firft (hock was felt, which was immediately
Tucceeded by a fecond and a third, the whole duration of which was
about eight minutes ; about twelve o'clock another fliock was felt. Du-
ring the firft fhock, the greateft part of the public edifices and other
buildings of the city were thrown down ; and not lefs than fixty thou-
fand of its inhabitants buried in the ruins. The earth opened in fiflures
in feveral parts, and feveral light flames of fire were obferved to ilTue
from the fides of the mountains, refembling thofe of kindled charcoal.
7 ^ Subterraneous
986 AN ILLUSTRATION
Subterraneous rumblings were alfo felt, attended with a difcharge of
great quantities of fmoke. The water in the fea rofe feveral times,
and in a few minutes made three fluxes and refluxes, rifing above the
greateft fpring-tides no lefs than fifteen EngUfli feet. The (hock was
fo violent fifty leagues off at fea, as greatly to injure the deck of a fhip,
and to lead the captain to apprehend, that he had miftaken his reckoning
and ftruck on a rock. The fhock was alfo felt about the fame time at
Oporto, by which the whole city was fhaken, feveral chimneys, ftones,,
and crofTes, were thrown down, and fome buildings opened at top ; and
the fwclling in the river was fo confiderable, that two large fliips, which
were juft got over the bar, were driven back into the harbour. The
fame fhosk was equally violent at Madrid, Seville, and Cadiz ; in this
laft place the fea rofe in a wave at leafl: fixty feet higher than ufual, dafhed
againft the rocks on the wefi: part of the town, and againft the walls, with
fuch violence as to beat in the breaft-work and a great part of the walls,
and feveral perfons were drowned by it. The day when the earth-
quake happened at Cadiz was as clear and ferene as the finefl: fummer-day
in England. Many other cities, both in Spain and Portugal, were con-
fiderably damaged. The efFefts of this earthquake, in violently agitating
the waters, were perceived in many parts of England, Scotland, and Ire-
land ; and the fliock not only reached to Swiiferland, Holland, and other
parts of Europe, but it was communicated to Africa, and deftroyed fe--
veral cities on the coaft of Barbary; and it was alfo felt about the fame
time in the ifland of Madeira, where the water rofe full fifteen feet per-
pendicular above high-water mark.
The laft terrible earthquake of which we have an account happened
in Sicily and Calabria in the year 1782. It began about fix o'clock in
the morning of the 5th of February, and the fhocks continued to be felt
with more or Icfs violence for near two months. The commotions firft
broke out at Mount Caulone, one of the Apetmines, which traverfes
all Italy. The undulations were obferved to be in every direc-
tion; but the vertical ones were the moft fataL The towns and villages-
in Calabria, that were either totally or partly deftroyed by it, were very
numerous: among the principal ones were Franca Villa, Batatico, Mon-
teleone, Vallelonga, Francia, Mileto^ Soriano, Areta, RofTano, Palma^^
Cinqucfronde, Sinopoli, St. Euphemia, Scilla, Reggio, Beva, Meflina,.
Oppido, Bagnara, Cozenza, Catanzara,^ Maida, Caftiglione, &c. The
face of the whole country became entirely changed; the courfes of
many fprings and rivers were either totally abforbed, or turned into new
directions; and feveral water-mills were left dry, without the leaft
veftigesof the channels by which they had been driven. A confiderable
O F A S T R L O G Y. 9^7
tradt of country was entirely fvvallowed up by the fca ; and that which
was before covered with water became dry land. Whole Hocks of
Iheep, and herds of cattle, were fwallowed up as they were grazin"-;
the earth opened and Ihut, exhibiting chafms of the moll horrible deptli*
vomiting forth fiilphureous flanie and vapour. Upwards of tvvcnty-(ix
thoufand fouls were either precipitated into the bowels of the earth, or
iiianglcd by the fall of buildings, and buried in the ruins! By 'this
no lei's fatal than recent example of the phenomena of earthquakes, it
Ihould feem that the caufe or feat of them lies f^ir below the iurface of
the earth, or depths of the ocean.
Of the TIDES.
The Tides are two periodical motions of the waters of the fea, called
alfo the flux and reflux, or the ebb and flow. When the Moon is in
the firft and third quarter, 1. e. when (he is new and full, the tides arc
high and fwift, and are called fpring-tides—whtn ihe is in the feccnd
and lafl: quarter, the tides are lower and flower, and are called map-tides.
In the phenomena of the tides, the fea is obferved to flow, ?ov certain
hours, from fouth towards north ; in which motion, or flux, which lalls
about lix hours, the fea gradually fwells ; fo that, entering' the moutlis
pf rivers, it drives back the river- waters toward their head's, or Iprings.
After a continual flux of fix hoursT the fea feems to rell for about a
quarter of an hour; after which it begins to. ebb, or retire Hack again
from north to fouth, for fix hours more; in which time, the w-ater
finking, the rivers refume their natural courfe. Then, aft'r a feemin^
paufe of a quarter of an hour, the fea again begins to flow, as before •
and thus alternately. Thus does the fea ebb twice a-day, and flow as
often; but not in the fame hours thereof. The period of a flux and
rcflu^x is twelve hours forty-eight minutes, fo that the tides return later
and later each day, by forty-eight minutes, or three quarters of an hour
and three minutes. Now twelve hours forty-eight minutes is a lunar
day ;
i, e. the Moon paflTes the Earth's meridian later and later each dav
by forty-eight minutes. So that the fea flows as often as the Moon
pafles the two meridians of the world, namely, that above and that
below the horizon ; and ebbs as often as fiie pafles the horizon both
the eaftern and weftern points thereof. This f^irther acrreement we
likewife obferve between the Mcon and the {ca, that the tides, though
conftant, are not equal ; but are greateft when the Moon is in conjunc-
tion or oppofition, and leafl when in quartile thereto. But thofe tides
are the greafefl which happen in the new and full Moon, at the time
No. 53 II N Q^
r)88 ANILLUSTRATION.
of the equinoxes. And thcfe flime efFedts are obferved- throughout moft
of the coafls ot Europe; only that the tides are fo much the lefs, and'
happen later, as the coafts are the more northerly.
Thcfe phenomena of the tides are admirably accounted for from the
principles of gravitation. All that is rcquifite to their folution is, that
the Earth and Moon, and every particle thereof, mutually gravitate to-
wards each other j the rcafonablenefs of which allumptiun is every way
apparent. Indeed, the lligacious Kepler, long ago, cpnjedured this to
be the caufe of the tides. "If, (fays he,) the Earth ceafes to attrart its
waters towards itfelf, all the water in the ocean would rife and flow
into the Moon: the fphere of the Moon's attraction extends to our Earth,
and draws up the water.*' Thus thought Kepler, in his Introd. ad.
Theor. Mart. This furrrafe, for it was then no more, is now abun-
dantly verified in the theory firil amply deduced by Dr. Halley from
the Newtonian principles. However, we may obferve, with M. de la
Lande, (Aftronomie, vol. iv. Paris, 178 1.) that feveral of the ancients,
and among others, Pliny, Ptolemy, and Macrobius, were acquainted
with the influence of the Sun and Moon upon the tides. And Pliny
lays cxprefily, that the caufe of the ebb and flow is in the Sun, which at-
tracts the waters of the ocean; and adds, that the waters rife in propor-
tion to the proximity of the Moon to the Earth.
To illuftrate the foregoing obfervations, let N E S Q^ in the annexed
plate, 75^^. I. reprefent the Earth, covered with water ABDFj NS the
axis of the earth, E Q_ the equator, TR the tropic of Cancer, tr the
tropic of Capricorn, M the Moon in her orbit, S the Sun in his. Now,
iince all bodies are endued with an attrarting virtue, the Moon will attraft
all the water in the neareft hemifphere FAB, with degrees of force which
are inverfely as the fquares of the diftances from all parts; and therefore,
with the ftrongeft force where the diftance is leaft, viz. in the point A,
diredtly under her: and, this attraction being in this hemifphere contrary
to that of the Earth, the water in all parts from B to F, towards A, will-
have its gravity decreafing, and be higheft of all at the part A ; and con-
iequently muft there ftand higher than at the point F, where, being more
attracted by the Earth, it muft be heavier and nearer to the centre, as is
evident from the laws of hydroftatics. Again, in the hemifphere F D B,
the attradlion of the Moon confpires with that of the Earth ; but, de-
creafing as the fquares of the diftances increafe, the joint force of attrac-
tion will every where decreafe from F and B towards D, fiie point op-
pofite to the Moon ; where again the waters will be lightefl;, and there-
fore ftand highcfl to preferve the equilibrium. Whence it appears, that
I by
O F A S T R O L G Y: 989
By tHis fum and difference of the Moon's and Earth's attraclion there
will necelTarily enfue a protuberance or fsvelHng of the waters, which
we call tidv^s of flood, in the two points A and D direcftly under the
Moon. Alfo in the two points F and B, as the waters are there moft
attracted, lb they will be heavieft, and confequently rife to the leaft
height fnim the Earth's furface, whence they are called tides of ebb, or
the ebbing of the water. If to the power of the Moon we add that of
the Sun, we fhall have the tides confiderably augmented at the conjunc-
tion in S, or oppolition in H, that is, at the new and full Moons,
which are called the fpring-tides ; as thofe which happen when the Sun
is at O or P are calle-J neap-tides, the waters at A and D being then
lowelt, becaufe the attracftion of the Moon is then counterbalanced by
that of the Sun. It is farther to be obferved, that of the two tides of
flood, at A and D, that at A is greateft to any place T in the northern
latitude, when the Moon is in the northern figns, and above the horizon:
for the point A is then nearer the zenith of the place G than the oppo-
fite point D is to the fame place at R twelve hours afterwards ; and con-
fequently, the height of the tide T G is greater than that of the oppolite
tide i\ g. The contrary of this happens when the Moon is in the
fouthern figns.
That there are two tides of flood, and two of ebb, fucceeding each
other alternately at about the interval of fix hours, is obvious from the
figure : and that they happen later each day near an hour, is owing to
their exadl correipondence to the motion of the Moon, which daily
culminates lb much later. That they happen not when the Moon is in
the meridian, but about three hours after, is owing to the force of the
Moon being then greater than when in the meridian of any place; as the
heat of the day is greater at three o'clock than at twelve ; and the heat
of the fummer is greater in Auguft than at the 21 ft: of June. Laftly,
that the greatefl: fpring-tides happen not at the 21ft: of March and 23d
of Sejjtember, but in February and October, is becaufe, the Sun being
neareft the Earth in December, his influence is then ftrongeft, and lb
mufi; quicken the time of the greateft vernal tides ; and, being weakeft in
June, the time of the autumnal tides will necelTiirily be retarded. The
fum of what has been faid is this: if NOPQ^_y^ 2. be the furface
of the Earth, T its centre, IFKGLHCE a circle reprefenting the
fpherical furface of the waters covering the earth, and affeded only by
the attractive power of the earth : upon placing an attrading body at S,
the waters will no longer continue their fpherical figure, but be inime-
diately drawn into the fpheroidical figure A C B D, in fuch manner as
to be dcprefled at C and D to M and K, and elevated from L and I to A
and
990 A N I L L U S T R A T 1 O N
andBjaiv.i the elevation A L or B I is double the deprcdion CM or
D K.
'
That, if S be the Sun, then A P—O K=\ L^K D— 2,- inches :
or II-5- feet, if S be the Moon. That at the points E, F, G, H, which
are called the odants,) the WiUer is neither elevated nor deprefied. That
if any other body be placed at O, as the JMoon, in the fame right line
T S i then, by the joint influence of both S and O, the elevation at A and
h will be incrcafcd, and the depreflion at C and D likevvife. Laftly, if
S be in the fituation S, or vertical to the point D, it is plain its adion to
raifc the water D will be ditedly contrary to that of the Moon in de-
prefTing it there j wherefore the deprcffion will not be fo great as before i
tor the fame reafon the elevation at A and B will be diminiflied, being
now only as the difTcrence of the tv/o forces, wbereas before they were
as the fum.
"We (hall now confider the phenomena of the tides which remain ; and
firft, it is evident, that if P N be the axis of the Earth, and QJ) the
diameter of the equator, then the Moon fituated at O, over one
of the poles, would accumulate the water over each pole, and the fphe-
roid would be fo poiited as to have its iongcfl axis A B coinciding with
the axis of the eavt^h P N. In this pofuion of the fpheroid, it is plain, there
could be no fuch thing as a tide in any part of the ocean over all the earth
;
for every fedion of the fpheroid, parallel to the equator, would be a circle ;
confequently, in any parallel of latitude, the water would be at an equal
dirtance from the earth's furface every moment of the diurnal revolution,
or natural day. Suppofe the Moon were removed from the diredlion of
the earth's axis, and pofited at S,fg. 3. then will the axis of the aque-
ous fpheroid A B be turned towards S, and make an angle with the earth's
axis, as A T P or B T N. Ihen we obferve, that fmce C, D, are the
places of loweil water, that parallel I K which pafles through the point
I on one fide the equator, and L M which palfes through M on the other,
will divide the Earth into three zones, in two of which, viz. E N K and
L P M, there will be but one tide each day, of the fame kind ; for in-
flance, in the parallel E F, a perfon at F will have high water, and at
E low water for twelve hours after. Again, in all the zone I K M L»
there will be two tides of the fame kind each day, as is evident from the
figure. Thefe limits, or the arch Q^I or O M, is the complement of
the Moon's declination from the equator. If the Moon at S, ^g. 4. be
over the equator, the longer axis of the fpheroid A B will now coincide
with the plane of the equator Q_0, and the fliorter axis C D with the
axis of the earth N P. Here it is obvious, that, in this fitaation of the
fpheroid, the waters in the parts A B, with refped to th ofeat C D, will
give the greateft difference of high and low water poliible to all parts of
the
OF ASTROLOGY. 991
the Earth; and that there is no place but thofc two at the poles N, P, but
what has two tides of flood and two of ebb every twenty-four to^fs*
And this difference of the flux and reflux will dccreafe from the equator
to the poles.
It has been already obferved, that the greatef!: elevation of tlie waters
is not when the luminary is in the meridian, but about three hours after,
becaufe the motion communicated to the waters during the arrival of the
meridian is not innmediately dcftroyed, but remains for fome time, and
receives a farther augmentation from that which is imprelled for about
three hours after. For the fame reafon, Vv'e ohferve, the greateft and
leaft tides happen not on the day of the fyzygy, or quadrature, but on
the third or fourth after; the fum or difference of the forces of the lu-
minaries not being till then at a maximum. Let S FLG, fig. 5, be the
orbit of the Moon about the Earth C^N O P; but, as this is not circular,
hut elliptical, the centre, of the Earth T will not be always at an equal
diitance from the Moon; but the M6on will be fometimes neareft the
Earth, as when at S, and fometimes fart hell off, as at L. The point S
is called the pcrigaeum, or perigee; and the point E the apogJEum,
or apogee. The power of the Moon in her perigee is to. that in the apo-
gee nearly as T E? toTS'; and confequently the greatefl: tides will be
on the day of the perigee, or rather a few days after, for the reafons
above-mentioned.
Such would the tides regularly "be, if the Earth were all over covered
with fea very deep, fo that the water might follow the influence of the
Sun and Moon; but, by reafon of the flioalnefs of fome places, and
the narrownefs of the flreights in others, by which the tides are propa-
gated, there arifes a great divcrfity in the efted, not to be accounted
for without an exadl knowledge of all the circum fiances of the feveral
places where they happen; as the pofition of the land, the breadth and
depth of the channels, diredlion of the winds, 6cc.
For a very flow and imperceptible motion of the whole body of water,
where it is (for example) two miles deep, will fuftice to raife its furface
ten or twelve feet in a tide's time ; whereas, if the fame quantity of water
were to be conveyed through a channel forty fathoms deep, ic would re-
quire a very great ftream to effedl it in fo large inlets as are the channel of
England and the German ocean; whence the tide is found to fet
ftrongeil in thofe places where the fea grows narroweft, the fime quan-
tity .of water being, in that cafe, to pafs through a fmaller paffage. This
is mofl: evident in the flreights between Portland and Cape la tlogue m
No. 52. II O Normandy,
992 AN ILLUSTRATION
Normaritlv. where tlie tide runs like a fluice; and would be yet moiK:
between Dover and Calais, if the tide coming round the iiland did
not chetk it. This force, being once imprelVcd upon the water, conti-
nues to carry it above the level of the ordinary height in the ocean, par-
ticularly where the water meets a diredl obitacle, as it does in St. Ma-
loes ; and where it enters into a long channel, which, running far into the
land, grows very Oraight at its cxtre-nity, as it does into the Severn fea
at Chepflow and Briflol. This ihoalnefs of the fea, and the intercur-
rent continents, are the reafons that in the open ocean the tides rile but
to very fmall heights in proportion to what they do in vviJc-mouthed
rivers, opening in the diredtion of the ftream of the tide, as it is obferved
upon all the weilern coails of Europe and Africa, from L'cland to the
Cane of Good Hope; in all which a fouth-vveft Moon makes high v/a-
ter*; and the fiime is reported to hold in the weft of America. So that
tides happen to different places at all dillances of the Moon from the me-
ridian, and confequently at all hours of the lunar day.
It is to be confidered that, in order to allow the tides their full mo-
tion, the ocean, in which they are produced, ought to be extended from
eaft to weft ninety degrees at leaft. Becaufe the places, where the Moon
raifes mod and moll: dcprelfes the water, are at that diftancc from each
other. Hence it appears, that it is only in the great oceans that fuch
tides can be produced, and why in the larger Pacific ocean they exceed
thofe in the Atlantic ocean. Hence alfo it is obvious, why the tides are
not fo great in the torrid zone, between Africa and America, where the
ocean is narrower, as in the temperate zones on either fide ; and we may
hence alfo underftand, why the tides are fo fmall in iflands that are very
far diftant from the fliores. It is manifeft that, in the Atlantic ocean, •
the water cannot rife on one Ihore but by dclcending on the other; ib
that, at the intermediate diftant iflands, it muft continue at a mean
height betwixt its elevation on one and on the other Ihore. But when
tides pafs over flioals, and through ftreights, into bays of the k.\, their
motion becomes more various and complicated, and their height depends
on many circumftances.
The tide that is produced on the weftern coafls of Europe, in the At-
lantic, corrcfponds to the fituation of the Moon already defcribed. Thus
it is high-water on the coafts of Spain, Portugal, and the weft of Ireland,
about the third hour after the Moon has paffed the meridian ; and thence
it flows into the adjacent channels, as it finds the eafieft paflage. One
current from it, for example, runs up by the fouth of England, another
comes in by the north of Scotland; they take a coniidcrable time to
move
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 993
move all this way, and it is high-water foonefl: at thofe places to which
they lirfi: come, and it begins to fall at thofe places whilft they are flill
going on to others that are tarther in their coiirfe. As they return, they
are not able to raife the tide, becaufe the water runs fafter off than it
returns, till, by a new tide propagated from the open ocean, the return
of the current is (lopped, and the water begins to rife again. '1
he tide,
propagated by the Moon, in the German ocean, when flie is three hours
palt the meridian, takes twelve hours to come from thence to London-
bridge ; lo that, when it is high-water there, a new tide is already come
to its height in the ocean ; and, in fome intermediate place, it mult be
low-water at the fame time. Confequently, when the Moon has north
declination, and we fliould expeft the tide at London to be the greatell
when the Moon is above the horizon, we find it is leall ; and the con-
trary when fhe has fouth declination. At feveral places it is high-water
three hours before the Moon comes to the meridian; but that tide which
the Moon puflies, as it were, before her, is only the tide oppofite to that
which v/as railed by her when flie was nine hours paft the meridian.
It would be endlcfs to recount all particular folutions vi'hich are
eafy corollaries from this do<5lrine; as, why the lakes and feas, fuch as
the Cafpian fea and the Mediterranean fca, the Black fea and Baltic, have
no fenfible tides: for lakes are generally lo fmall, that when the Moon,
is vertical Ihe attrads every part of them alike, and therefore no part of
the water can be raifed higher than another; and, having no communica-
tion with the ocean, it can neither increafe nor diminilh their water, ia
order to rife or fall; and feas that communicate by fuch narrow inlets,,
and are of fo immenfe an extent, cannot, in a few hours time, receive
and empty water enough to raife or fink their furface any thing fcnfibly.
To dem.onftrate the excellency of this dodtrine, the example of the
tides to the port of Batlha, in the kingdom of l"onquin in the Eafl: In-
dies, in 20 degrees 50 minutes north latitude, which are fo extraordinary
and different from all others we have yet heard of, may fuffice. The
day in which the Moon palfes the equinodial, the water Itagnates there,
without any motion ; as the Moon removes from the equinodlial, the
water begins to rife and fall once a-dav ; and it is high-water at the fet-
ting of the Moon, and low-water at her rifing. This daily tide in-
crtafes for about feven or eight days, and then decreafes for as many days
by the fame degrees, till this motion ceafes, when the Moon has returned
to the equinoctial. When fhe has paffed the equinodial, and declines
toward the fouth pole, the water riles and falls again as before; but it is.
high-water now at the rifing, and low-water at the fctting, of the Moon.
Sir Ifaac Newton, in order to account for this extraordinary tide, confi-
3 ders
994
ANILLUSTRATION
ders that there are two inlets to this port of Batflia, one from the Chinefc
ocean, betwixt the continent and the Manillas, the other from the Indian
ocean, betwixt the continent and Borneo. This leads him to propofe, as
a folution of this phenomenon, that a tide may arrive at Batfha, through
one of thefe inlets, at the third hour of the Moon, and another through
the other inlet, fix hours after, at the ninth hour of the Moon. F'or,
while the tides are equal, the one flowing in as the other ebbs out, the
water mu-ft ftagnatc j now they are equal when the Moon is in the equi-
noAial J but, as foon as the Moon begins to decline on the fame tide of
the equator with Batlha, it has been fliown that the diurnal tide muft
exceed the nodurnal, i'o that two greater and two lefs tides mufl: arrive
at Batflia by turns. The difference of thefe will produce an agitation of
the water, which will rife to its greateft height at the mean time betwixt
the two greateft tides, and fall loweft at a mean time betwixt the two
leaft tides; fo that it will be high-water about the fixth hour at the fet-
ting of the Moon, and low-water at her rihng. When the Moon has got
to the other fide of the equinocflial, the nodurnal tide will exceed the
diurnal; and, therefore, the high-water will be at the rifing, and low-
water at the fetting, of the Moon. The fame principles will fcrve to
account for other extraordinary tides, which, we .are told, are obferved
in places whofe fituation expofes them to fuch irregularities, and which
appear to admit of no other folution.
"When the time of high-water at any place is, in general, mentioned,
it is to be underftood on the days of the fyzygies, or days of new and full
Moon ; when the Sun and Moon pafs the meridian of the place at the
fame time. Among pilots, it is curtomary to reckon the time of flood,
or hi^^h-water, by the point of the compals the Moon bears on, allowing
three quarters of an hour for each point, at that time; thus, on the full
arid change davs, in places where it is flood at noon, the tide is faid to
flow north and fouth, or at twelve o'clock ; in other places, on the fame
days, where the Moon bears i, 2, 3, 4, or more, points to the eaft or
weft of the meridian, when it is high-water, the tide is faid to flow on
fuch point; thus, if the Moon bears S. E. at flood, it is faid to flow
S. E. and N. W. or three hours Sefore the meridian, that is, at nine
o'clock; if it bears S. W. it flovvs S. W. and N. E. or at three hours
lifter the meridian ; and in like njanncr for other times of the Moon's
bearing. The tiines of high-water in any place fall about the f^ime hours
after a period of about fifteen days, or between one fpring-tide and ano-
ther ; but, during that period, the times of high-water fall each day later
by about forty-eight minutes. From thefe calculations, affifted by the
oblervations of a number of different perfons, there have been colleded,
on
OF ASTROLOGY. 995
the times when
«n moft of the fea-coafts of Europe, and many other places,
it is high-water on the days of the new and full moon ; of which the follow
ing exhibits a corred: and ufeful Table.
Abbevrak, in France
Aberdeen, in Scotland
Aldborough, England
]fle of Aldcrney, ditto
River Amazon's mouth, America
Ifle of Ameyland, Dutchland
Amflerdam, ditto
St. Andrew's, Scotland
Ifle of Anholt, Denmark
Antwerp, Flanders
Archangel, Ruliia
Ifle of Arran, Ireland
R. Alhley, Carolina
St. Auguftine, Florida
Baltimore, Ireland
Cape Barfleur, France
Ifle de Bas, ditto
Bayonne, ditto
Beaehy Head, England
North Bear, |
South Bear, J
Belfaft, Ireland
Bellifle, France
Ifle Bermudas, Baham.a Ifles -
Berwick, England
Ifle du Bic, Acadia
Blackney, England
Cape Blanco, Negroland . -
Blanchart Race, France
Port Louis, ditto
'
Cape Bojador, Negroland
Bourdeaux, France
Boulogne, ditto
Bremen, Germany
Breefound, Dutchland
Brefl:, France
Bridlington Bay, England -
Brill, Dutchland
No. 52,
Labrador -
Englifh channel
German ocean
Ditto
Englifli channel
Atlantic ocean
German ocean
Ditto
Ditto
Sound
River Schelde
White fea
St. George's channel
Atlantic ocean
Ditto
Weft:ern ocean
Englifli channel
Ditto
Bay of Bifcay
Englifli channel
Hudfon's Bay
Irifli fea
Bay of Bifcay -
Atlantic ocean
German ocean
River St. Lawrence
German ocean
Atlantic ocean
Englifli channel
Bay of Bifcay
Atlantic ocean
Bay of Bilcay
Englifli channel
River Weler
German ocean
Bay of Bifcay •
German ocean
Ditto
II P
H. M.
4
o
9
12
6
7
3
2
o
6
6
1
1
o
4
4
7
3
3
o
10
3
7
2
2
6
9
o
3
o
3
10
6
4
3
3
30
45
45
00
00
30
00
15
00
CO
00
00
45
30
30
30
45
30
00
00
00
30
00
30
00
00
45
00
00
00
00
30
00
30
45
45
30
Briftol,
996 AN ILLUSTRATION
Briftol, England
Biichanncfs, Scotland
Button's Ifles, North Britain
Cadiz, Spain
Caen, France
Calais, ditto
lile of Caldy, England
Camfer, Dutchland
Ifle of Canaria, Canaries
Cape Cantin, Barbary
Caikets, Ifle of Guernfey
Caitbnefs point, Scotland -
Charles town, Carolina
Ifle of Charles, Labrador
Chignedow, Nova Scotia -
Cherbourg, France
Cape and R. Churchill, N. Wales
Cape Clear, Ireland
Concarneau, France
Conquet, ditto
Ifle of Coquet, England
Corke, Ireland
Cape Corfe, Guinea - .
Cromer, England
Dartmouth, ditto
St. David's Head, Wales
Dieppe, France
Dort, Dutchland
Dover, England
Downs, ditto
Dublin, Ireland
Dunbar, Scotland
Dundee, ditto
Dungarvan, Ireland
Dungenefs, England -
Dunkirk, France
Dunnofe, Ifle of Wight
Edinburgh, Scotland
Edyftone, England
R. Elbe mouth, Germany
Embden, ditto
Enchuyfen, Dutchland
St. George's channel
German ocean
HuJfon's flraights
Atlantic ocean
Engliih channel
Ditto
St. George's channel
German ocean
Atlantic ocean
Ditto
Englifh channel
Wefl:ern ocean
AAlley river
Hudfon's ftraights
Bay of Fundy
Englifli channel
Hudfon's bay
Wellcrn ocean
Bay of Bifcay
Englifli channel
German ocean
St. George's channel
Ethiopian fea
German, ocean
Englifli channel
St. George's channel
Englifli channel
German ocean
Englifli channel
German ocean
Jrifli fea
German ocean
Ditto
Atlantic ocean
Englifh channel
German ocean
Englifli channel
German ocean
Englifli channel
German ocean
Ditto
Zuyder fea
H.
EAapks, France
Falnvijfh, England
F!amboioiigh-head, ditto
Cape Florida, Florida
Flufhing, Dutchland
Ifle of y\v, ditto
Nor^h Forelari, England
Soiuh ditto, ditto
Foulp'.fs, ditto
Foye, ditto -
R. Garonne, France
Gafpey hd) , Arcadia
Gibraltar, Spuir.
Cape of Good Hope, Caffers
Gninvillf, Frince
Graveline, ditto
Gravefend, En^'land
Grpine, or Cape Corunna, Spain
Ifle ot Guernf^v, England
Haliifax, Nova '.cotia
Hamburgh, Germany
Haarlem, Dutchland
Hartlepool, England
Harwiciu ditto
Havre de Grace, France ^
Cape Henry, Virginia
Holyhead, Wales
Honfleur, France
Hull, England
R. Humber entrance, ditto
Ice Cove, North Main
Fort St. John's, Newfoundland
St. John de Eus, France
Port St. Julian, Patagc;iia
KentiOi Knock, England
Ifle of Kilduin, Lapland - J
Kinfale, Ireland
Land's En>i, England
Leith, Scotland
Leoftoffe, England
Liverpool, ditto
Ifle of Lewis, N. Fort, Scotland
R O L U G Tr
998 AN ILLUSTRATION
Lime, England
Lilbon, Portugal
Lizard, England
London, ditto
Korth London, New England
Long ifland, ditto
Longfand-Head, England
Ifle of Lundy, ditto - -
Lynn, ditto
Ilie of Madeira, Canaries
R. Maes mouth, Dutchland
St. Maloe's, France
Ifle of Man, weft end, England
Margate, ditto
Milford, Wales
Mount's Bay, England
Nantes, France
>Jaze, Norway
Needles, England
NevvcaRle, ditto
Nieuport, Elajiders
IS ore, England
North Cape, Lapland
Orfordnels, England
Orkney ifles, limits, Scotland
Oftcnd, Flanders
Placentia, Newfoundland
Plymouth, England
Portland, ditto
Portfmouth, ditto
QiiebecJ Canada
llle of Rhee, France
Rochefort, ditto
Rochelle, ditto
Rochefter, England
Rotterdam, Dutchland
Rouen, France
Rye, England
Sandwich, ditto-.
Scarborough head, ditto
Scilly ifles, ditto
R. Senegal, Negroland
OF ASTROLOGY. .999
Serern, K. England
Seine, R. France
Sheernefs, England
Sierra Leona, Guinea
Shoreham, England
Ifle of Shetland, limits, Scotland
Ifle of Sky, ditto
Southampton, England
Spurn, ditto
Start-Point, ditto
Stockton, ditto
Strongford Bay, Ireland
Sunderland, England
Svvin, ditto
Samarin Town, Sokotra
Tees, R. mouth, England
Ille of TenerifFe, Canaries
Ifle of Texel, Dutchland
Thames, R. mouth, England
Tinmouth, ditto
Topfliam, ditto
Torbay, ditto
Ifle of Torey, Ireland
St. Valery, France
Vannes, ditto
Ifle of Ufliant, France
Waterford, Ireland
Weymouth, England
Whitbv, ditto
Ifle of Wight, N. S. E. & W. end
Winchelfea, England
Wintertonnefs, ditto
Yarmouth, ditto
York Fort, New Wales
New York, America
Youghall, Ireland
By the foregoing Table, the times of high-water at all the places con-
tained in it may be found for ever. The firll columns contain the
names of all the places refpedively ; the fecond the coalls of the fea by
which they are bounded : and the figure-column the hour and minute
when it is higb-water at each of thofe places on the days of every New
No. 52. - iiQ^ ^"^
St. George's channel
1000 AN ILLUSTRATION
and Full Moon, which will happen conftantly the liime for ever, becaufc
the '^loonfomks, or comes to the meridian ot" the fame places, every firll
and fixtcenth day, i. c. at every firft and third cjwartcr, when Ihe is new
and full, and confequently the tides mutt return at the fame intervals of
time ; therefore, to know the time of high-water on any given day, fintl
the time of the Moon's fouthing, and then add.the time which the Moon
has palled the meridian at the full and change days, to make high-water
at that place ; and the fum will be the time of high-water on the given
day. For example, at what time was it higli-water at Portfmouth,
on the 21ft of Odlobcr, 1789 ? Moon fouths at 2h. Soaii. to whicli add
3 ; and the fum 5h. 39m. Ihows that it was high-water at thirtj'-nine
minutes paft five o'clock in the afternoon. And fo for any other place ia
the Table.
This theory of tides has been extended fo far, as to eftimate the tides^
or elevation of the waters of the Moon, produced by the attra<5lion of
the Earth -, thus, let us fuppofe the quantity of matter ( Q^) in the Earth
to be to that in the Moon [q) as forty to one, that is, Qj y : : 40 : 1 ;
and let us firlt fuppole the Earth and Moon of equal bulk, and rcprefented
by A I K, fg. t). and B D E, and the force (F) of the Earth, at the fur-
face of the Moon B, will be to the force (f) of the Moon at the fur-
face of the Earth A, directly as the malies of matter in each (becaufe of
the equal diftances T B and L A) ; that is, F : f : :
Qj j' : : 40 : 1
.
Again, let L B be to L C as the diameter of the Earth to that of the
Moon, which is as 365 to loc, then will the force at B be to the force at C
as L B to L C, which let be as F to/, then F -.fi : 365 :. 100, 'whence
r=y^ ; and above we have F=4of, therefore ^ooof—^6^f; and fo
f : /":; 365 : 4000 : : i : 1 1 nearly; that is, the power of the Earth to
raife the water at the Moon C is to that of the ^toon at the Earth A as
eleven to one, very nearly. If the Moon can raife the \A\iter here 10
feet, the Earth can raife the water there to the height of i 10 feet; but,
becaufe the Moon always turns about her axis in the fame time as ihe
revolves about the Earth, the waters (if any there be) will be raifed on
this and the oppolite tide, and always continue over the fame part of the
Moon's furface, fo that there can be no ditferent heights of water there,
and conlequently no tides, except what fmall ones may happen on accourtt
of the Sun's attraction, and her various inequalities of motion, and dil^
tance from the Eartli.
Of
O F A S T R O L O G Y. looi
Of the WINDS.
The Wind, ventus, is a fenfible agitation of tlie air, wlierebv a larn-f
quantity thereof flows in a current or ftream out of one place, or region
into another Ihe wnads are divided into pcrenmal, /lalcd, and vana/^.
Ihey are alio divided into ^r/;.;v./ and parttcu/ar. Wmds perenniai or
co^ijtant, are luch as always blow the fame way: of thefe we have i
very notable one between the two troj)ics, blowing conftantly from eaft to
Avelt, called the ge.era/ trade-t^nnd. Winds>/.^, ov fenodicul, are llich
as conllantly return at certain times: fuch are the fea and land breezes
blowmg trom fea to land in the evening, and from land to fea in the
morning; luch alfo are the /v///>;^ or particular //W.-avW^, whicl,
for certain months of the year blow one way, and the rell of the year
the contrary way. Winds variable, or erratic, are fuch as blow now^his
now that way; and are now up, now bullied, without any rule or re-u
Jarity either as to time or place :
fuch are all. the winds obfened in die
inland parts ot England, &c. though feveral of thefe claim their certain
imes ot the day ;
thus, the weft wind is moll frequent about noo'
the fouth wind m the night; the north in the morning. &c. AVind p/
W, is luch a one. as at the fame time blows the fame wav, over a verv
large traft ot ground almoft all the year: fuch only is the general trade-
wind But even this has its interruption; for at land it is fcarcely fenlible
at all, as being broken by the interpolition of mountains, valleys &c
at lea, near the fliore, it is difturbed by vapours, exhalations, and parti"
cular ^vTnds blowing from landward; lb that it is chieliv corlidcrcd -is
general only at mid-fea ; and even there it is liable to be dilhirbed
by clouds driving trom other quarters. Winds particular, include all
others, excepting the general trade-winds. Thofe peculiar to one little
canton, or part, are called topical ox provincuil 'xinds i fuch is the north
wmd on the wellern fide of the Alps, which does not blow above one
or two leagues lenglhwife, and much lefs in breadth : fuch alfo is the
pontias in France, &c.
Some philofophers, as Des Cartes, Rohault, &c. account for thn
general wind from the diurnal rotation of the earth; and from this jre'
neral wind derive all tjie particular ones. The atmofphere, lay thev
invelling the earth, and moving round it, that part will perlbrm its cir-
cuit foonelt which has the fmalleft circle to defcribe; the air therefo-e
near the equator, will require a fomewhat longer time to perforin its courfc
in, from well to call, than that nearer the poles. Ihus, as the earth
turns ealtward, the particles of the air near the equinodial, being ex-
ceedingly
looz AN ILLUSTRATION
ceedin";ly light, are left behind ; Co that, in refpeft of the Earth's furface,
they move eallward, and become a conftant eafterly wind. This opi-
nion feems confirmed by this, that thefe winds are found only between
the tropics, in thofe parallels of latitude where the diurnal motion is
Iwifteil. But the conftant calms in the Atlantic fea near the equator,
the wellerly winds near the coaft of Guinea, and the periodical welterly
monfoons under the equator in the Indian feas, declare the infufficiency
of this hypothefis. Belides, the air, being kept clofe to the earth by the
principle of gravity, would, in time, acquire the fame degree of velocity
that the earth's furface moves with, as well in refpecl of the diurnal
rotation as of the annual about the Sun, which is about thirty times
Iwiftcr. Dr. Hallcy, therefore fubllitutes another caufe, capable of
producing a like conllant effeft, not liable to the fame objedions, but
agreeable to the known properties of the elements of water and air, and
the laws of the motion of fluid bodies. Such a one is the action of the
Sun's beams upon the air and water, as he pafles every day over the ocean,
conlidered together with the quality of the foil and the fituation of the
adjoining continents.
According to the laws of llatics, the air which is lefs rarefied, or ex-
panded by heat, and confequently is more ponderous, mull have a motion
towards thole parts thereof which are more rarefied, and lefs ponderous,
to brino- it to an equilibrium ; alfo, the prefcnce of the Sun continually
Ihifting to the weftward, that part to \\hich the air tends, by reafon of
the rarefaftion made by his greateft meridian heat, is, with him, carried
weftward > and, confequently, the tendency of the whole body of the
lower air is that way* Thus a general eallerly v^dud is formed, which,
being imprefled on the air of a vail ocean, the parts impel one the other,
and fo keep moving till the next return of the Sun, whereby fo much of
the motion as was loll is again reftored ; and thus the eaftcrly wind is
made perpetual. From the fame principle it follows, that this eafterly
wind Ihould, on the north fide of the equator, be to the northward of the
call:, and in fouth latitudes to the fouthward thereof; for near the line
the air is much more rarefied than at a greater diftance from it, becaufe
the Sun is twice in a year vertical there, and at no time diftant above
twenty-three degrees and a half; at which diftance the heat, being as
the fine of the angle of incidence, is but little ftiort of that of the per-
pendicular ray; whereas, under the tropics, though the Sun ftays longer
vertical, yet he is a long time forty-feven degrees oif, which is a kind of
winter, wherein the air fo cools, as that the fummer heat cannot warm it
to the fame degree ^\'ith that under the equator. Wherefore, the air
towards the north and fouth being lefs rarefied than that in the middle, it
follows, that from both fides it ought to tend towards the equator.
1 This
OF ASTROLOGY. 1003
This motion, compounded with the former eafterly wind, accounts
for all the phenomena of the general trade-winds, which, if the whole
furface of the globe were fea, would undoubtedly blow quite round the
world, as they are found to do in the Athmtic and Ethiopic oceans.
But feeing that fo great continents do interpofe, and break the continuity
of the ocean, regard muft be had to the nature of the foil, and the poli-
tion of the high mountains, which are the two principal caufes of the
variations of the wind from the former general rule; for, if a country
lying near the Sun prove to be tlat, fandy, and low land, fuch as the
deferts of Lybia are ufually reported to be, the heat occafioned by the
reflexion of the Sun's beams, and the retention thereof in the fand, is
incredible to thofe who have not felt it ; whereby the air being extremely
rarefied, it is neceilary that the cooler and more denfe air Ihould run
thitherwards to reltore the equilibrium. This is fuppofed to be the caufe
why, near the coalt of Guinea, the wind always fets in upon the land,
blowing weilerly inftead of eallerly, there being futticient rca.on to be-
lieve, that the inland parts of Africa are prodigioully hot, lince the
northern borders thereof were fo very intemperate, as to give the ancients
caufe to conclude, that all beyond the tropics was uninhabitable by ex-
ecs of heat.
Mr. Clare, in his Motion of Fluids, p. 302. mentions a familar ex-
periment, that lerves to illullrate this matter, as well as the altei-nate
courfe of land and fea breezes. Fill a large diili with cold water, and
in the middle of it place a water-plate, filled with warm water : the firlt
will reprefent the ocean, the other an illand, rarefying the air above it.
Then, holding a wax-candle over the cold water, blow it out, and the
fmoke will be feen, in a Itill place, to move toward the warm plate, and,
rifing over, it will point the courfe of the air, and alfo of vapour, from
fea to land. And if the ambient water be warmed, and the plate filled
with cold water, and the fmoking wick of a candle held over the plate,
the contrary will happen. •
From the fame caufe it happens, that there are fo conltant calms in
that fame part of the ocean, called the rains ; for this trad being placed
in the middle, between the welterly winds blowing on the coaft of
Guinea, and the eafierly trade-winds blowing to the wcllward thereof,
the tendency of the air here is indifierent to either, and fo llaVids in equi-
librio between both ; and the weight of the incumbent atmofphere being
dim.inilhed by the continual contrary winds blowing from hence, is the
reafon that the air here holds not the copious vapour it receives, but lets
it fall in fo frequent rains. But as the cold and denfe air, bv reafon.
No. 53. 11 R "of
1004 AN ILLUSTRATION
of its fjrcater gravity, prelTes upon the hot and rarefied, it is dcmonftfabic,
that tliis latter mull afcend in a continued llreani, as fall as it rarefies ; and
that, being afcended, it mull dilperfc itfelf, to preferve the equilibrium ;
that is, by a contrary current, the upper air mull move from thole parts
where ihe greatell heat is; fo, by a kind of circulation, the north-eall
trade- wind below will be attended with a fouth-wefterly wind above; and
the fouth-eall, with a north-well wind above.
That this is more than a bare conjedure, the almoll inllantaneous
change of the wind to the oppolite point, which is frequently found in
palling the limits of the trade-winds, fcems Itrongly to allure us;
but that which above all confirms this hypothtiis, is the phenomenon of
the monfoons, by this means moll ealily Iblved, and without it hardly
explicable. Suppofing, tlierefore, fuch a circulation as above, it is to be
conlidered that to the north\A'ard of the Indian ocean there is every where
land, within the ufual limits of the latitude of 3o" ; viz. Arabia, Perfia,
India, &c. which, for the fame reafon as the Mediterranean parts of
Africa, are fubjed; to infufferable heats, when the Sun is to tht north,
palTing nearly vertical ; but yet are temperate enough when the Sun is
removed towards the other tropic, becaufe of a ridge of mountains at Ibme
dillance within the land, faid to be frequently, in winter, covered with
Ihow, over wtiich the air, as it paffes, mull needs be much chilled.
Hence it happens, that the air coming, according to the general rule,
out of the north-eall, to the Indian fea, is fometimes hotter, fometimes
colder, than that which, by this circulation, is returned out of the
fouth-well i and, by confequence, fometimes the under current, or wind,
is from the north call, fometimes from the fouth-well. That this has
jio other caufe, is clear from the times wherein thefe winds fet, viz. in
April : when the Sun begins to warm thefe countries to the north, the
fouth-well monfoons begin, and blow, during the heats, till OAober,
^vhen the Sun being retired, and all things growing cooler northward,
and the heat increafing to the fouth, the north-eall winds enter, and
blow all the winter, till April again. And it is, undoubtedly, from the
fame principle, that to the fouthward of the equator, in part of the Indian
ocean, the north-well winds fucceed the fouth-eall, when the Sun draws
near the tropic of Capricorn. Phil. Tranfad. No. 183. or Abridg.
vol. ii. page 139.
Some philofophers, dilTatisfied with Dr. Halley's theory above recited,
or not thinking it fufficient for explaining the various phenomena of the
wind, have had recourle to another caufe, viz. the gravitation of the Earth
and its atmofphere towards the Sun and Moon. I'hey allege tliat, though
3 we
OF ASTROLOGY. ]oo5
we cannot difcover aerial tides, of ebb or flow, by means of the baro-
meter, becaufe columr.s of air of unequal height, but different denfitj,
may have the fame preflure or weight ; yet the protuberance in the at-
mofphere, which is continually following the Moon, mull:, they fay, of
courfe produce a motion in all parts, and fo produce a wind more or lefs
to every place, which, confpiring with, or counteracled by, the u inds
ariling from other caufes, makes them greater or leis. Several dillerla-
tions to this purpofe were publiflied, on occalion of the fubjecl pro])ofed.
by the Academy of Sciences at Berlin for the year ] 7-40. M. Muf-
chenbroeck, however, will not allow that the attraction of the ^^oon is
the catife of the general wind ; becaufe the eali wind does not follow the
motion of the Moon about the Earth ; for in that cafe there would be
more than twenty-four changes, to which it would be fubjecl in the
courfe of a year, inllead of two. Mr. Henry Eeles, apprehending that
the Sun's rarefving of the air cannot limply be thecaufe of all the regular
and irregular motions which we find in the atmofphere, afcribes them to
another caufe, viz. the afcent and dcfcent of vapour and exhalation, at-
tended by the eledrical fire or fluid; and on this principle he has endea-
voured to explain at large the general phenomena of the weather and
barometer.
The indullrj of the above-mentioned, and that of fome of the later
writers, have brought the theoiy of the production and motion of winds
to fomewhat of a mathematical demonltration, which is thus defined
:
If the fpring of the air be w^eakened in any place more than in the adjoin-
ing places, a wind will blow through the place where the diminution is.
For, fiince the air endeavours, by its elaftic force, to expand itfclf every
way; if that force be lefs in one place than in another, the eflx^rt of the
more againll the lefs elafiic will be greater than the effort of the latter
againll the former. The lefs elaftic air, therefore, will refiit with lels
force than it is urged by the more elallic j confequently, the lefs elaltic
will be driven out of its place, and the more elafiic will lucceed. If, now,
the excels of the fpring of the more elaftic above that of the lefs elallic air,
be fuch as to occafion a little alteration in the barofcope ; the motion both
of the air expelled, and that which fuccecds it, will become fenliblc, i. e.
, there will be a wind. Hence, fince the fpring of the air incrcafcs as the
comprcfling weight increafes, and comprefled air is denier than air lefs
comprelled ; all winds blow into rarer air, out of a place filled with a
denfer. Wherefore, fince a denfer air is Ipecifically heavier than a rarer,
an extraordinary lightnefs of the air in any place muft be attended with
7- extraordinary windsj or ftorms.
Now,
J 000 AN ILLUSTRATION
Now, an extraordinary foil of the Mercury in the barometer lliowing
an extraordinary lightnels of the atmofphcre, it is no wonder if that for-e-
fels 'Itorms. For, if the air be fuddenly condenfcd in any place, its
fpring will be fuddenly diminiflied : hence, if this diminution be great
enough to afFccf the barometer, there will a wind blow throngli the
condenfcd air. But, lince the air cannot be fuddenly condenfcd imlefs
it have before been much rarefied, there ^^ilI a N\'ind bUnA' through the air,
as it cools, after having been violently licated. In like manner, if air be
fuddcidy rarefied, its ipring is fuddenly increafed : wherefore it will
flow through the contiguous air, not acted on by the rarefying force,
A wind, therciore, will blow out of a place, in which the air is fud-
dcnlv rarctied ; and on this principle, in all probability, it is, that, fince
the Sun's power in rarefying the air, is notorious, it mull necellarily
have a great inilucnce on the generation of winds; which likcw ife pe-
netrate the very bowels of the earth, fincc moll caves and chafms arc
found to emit wind, either iliore or lefs. M. Mufchenbroeck has enu-
merated a variety of caul'es that produce winds, exiliing in the bowels of
the earth, on its lurface, in the atmofphere, and above it. See Intr. ad
Phil. Nat. vol. ii, p. ill 6, &i,c.
The rifing and changing of the winds are determined experimentally,
by means of weather-cocks, placed on the tops of houfes, &c. But
thefe only indicate what palles about their own height, or near the fur-
face of the earth : Wolfius afl'ures us, from obfervations of feveral years,
that the higher winds, which drive the clouds, are ditTerent from the lower
ones, \Ahich move the weather-cocks ; and Dr. Derham obferves fome-
thing not unlike this, Phyf. I'heol. lib. i. cap. 2. This author alfo re-
hites, upon comparing feveral feries of obfervations made of the winds in
divers countries, viz. England, Ireland, Swilferland, Italy, France, New
England, &c. that the winds in thofe feveral places feldom agree ; but, when
they do, it is commonly when they are llrong, and of long continuance
in the fame quarter; and more, he thinks, in the northerly and eallerly than
in any other points. Alfo, that a llrong wind in one place is oftentimes
a weak one in another, or moderate, according as the places are nearer or
more remote. Phil. Tranf. No. 267 and 321.
Philofophcrs have ufed various methods for determining the volocity
of the %\ ind, which is very different at different times. The method ufed
by Dr. Derham was that of letting light downy feathers fly in the wind,
and accurately obferring the dillance to which they were carried in any
number of half-feconds. This method he preferred to that of Dr.
Hooke's mola alata, or pneumatica, (fee Phil. Tranf. No. 24. and Birch's
Jiiltory of the Royal Society, vol. iv. p. 225.) He tells us, that he
thu5
OF ASTROLOGY. 1007
tiuis meafured the velocity of the wind in the great llorm of Augult
1705, and by many experiments found that it moved at the rate of
thirty-three feet per half-fecond, or of forty- live miles per hour: whence
he concludes, tfiat the moll vehement wind (as that of November 1703)
does not tiy at the rate of above fitiy or lixty miles per liour, and that at
a medium the velocity of. wind is at the rate of twelve or fifteen miles
per hour. Phil. Tranf. No. 3 13. or Abr. vol. iv. page 411. Mr. Jirice
o1)ferves, that experiments with feathers are fubjed to uncertainty; as
they feldom or never defcribea Itraight line, but delcribe a fort of fpirals,
moving to the right and left, and riling to very different altitudes ia
their progrefs. He therefore conliders the motion of a cloud, or its
fliadow% over the furface of the earth, as a much more accurate meafure
of the velocity of the wind. In this way he found, that the wind, in a
conliderable Itorm, moved at the rate of 02*9 miles per hour ; and that,
^vhen it blew a frelli gale, it moved in the fame time about twenty-one
miles; and that, in a iinall breeze, the wind moved at the rate of 9-9
miles per hour. Phil. Tranf. vol. Ivi. page 220.
A TABLE of the different Velocities and Forces of the WI N D S.
Velocity of tlie
Wiiicl.
iSIiles in ''^Feet in one
one Hour.; Second.
Perpendicular
Force on one S(|tiare
Foot in Avoirdupois
Pounds.
1
2
3
4
5
10
15
20
25
30
25
40
45
50
60
80
lOO'
•005
•020"1
•0-14/
•079?
•123i
•492?
1107i
1-968|
3-075/
4'420l
G-027J
7-8731
9-903/
12-300
17715
31-490
49-200
Common .\ppellatlons of tlie
Forces of Winds.
1*47
293
4-40
5-87
7-33
I4-G7
22-po
29-34
3G 07
44-01
51-34
•58-08
00-01
f5-35
» 88-02
117*30
I4G-70
trees, and carries buildings, &c. before it
Hardly perceptible.
Jul! perceptible.
Gentle pleafant wind,
Pleafant brifli gale,
V^ery brilk.
High wind.
Very high.
A florm or tempeft,
A great llorni.
A hurricane.
A hurricane that tears "P,
No. 53, lis The
looB AN ILLUSTRATION
Tlie force of the wind is as the iquare of its velocity; as iSIr. Fergufoir^
has Ihown by expeiiinents on the whirling-table; and in moderate velo--
cities this will hold very nearly. It is obferved, with regard to this
table, that the evidence for thofc numbers, where the velocity of the
wind exceeds fifty miles an hour, docs not feem of equal authority with
that of thole of fifty miles or under: Phil. Tranf. vol. li. page 165.
Dr. Hales found (Statical ElL vol. ii. page 320.) that the air rulhed out
of a pair of fmith's bellows at the rate of 08'73 feet in a fecond of time,
when compreffed with a force equal to the weight of one inch perpendi-
cular depth of mercury, lying on the whole upper furface of the bellows,.
The velocity of the air, as it palled out of the trunk of his ventilators,,
was found to be at the rate of three thoufand feet in a minute ; which is
at the rate of thirty-four miles in an hour. Dr. Hales lays, that the ve-
locity with which impelled air pall'es out at any orifice, may be deter-
nnned by hanging a light valve over the nofe of a bellows, by pliant
leather lunges, which will be much agitated and lifted up from a per-
pendicular to a more than horizontal polition by the force of the rulhing
air. There is another more accurate way, he fays, of efi;imating the
velocitv of air, viz. by holding the orifice of an inverted glafs fiphort
full of water, oppoiite to the Itream of air, whereby the water \\ill be de-
prclfcd in one leg, and raifed in the other, in proportion to the force with;
which the water is impelled by the air.
As to the qualities and efFeds of the wind, it is to be obferved, that
a wind blowing from the fea is always moift : in fummer, it is cold ;
and in winter, warm, unlcls the fea be frozen up. This is demonfl:rated.
thus : there is a vapour continually rifing out of all water, (as appears
even hence, that a quantity of water, being left a little while in an open
vefiel, is found fenfibly diminilhed,) but efpecially if it be expofed to the
Sun's rays; in which cafe the evaporation is beyond all expedation.
By this means, the air incumbent on the fea becomes impregnated with.',
a quantity of vapours. But the winds, blowing from off the fea, fweep
thefe vapours along with them ). and confequently they are always moill.
Again, water in fummer, &c. conceives lefs heat than terreftrial bodies,
expofed to the fame rays of the Sun, do; but, in winter, fea-vvater is
warmer than the earth covered with froft and fnow, &c. Wherefore,
as the air contiguous to any body is found to partake of its heat and cold,
the air contiguous to fea-water will be w^armer in winter, and colder in.
fummer, than that contiguous to the earth. Or thus ; vapours raifed
from water by the Sun's warmth in winter, are warmer tlian the air they
rife in, (as appears from the vapours condenfing, and becoming vifible,
almoft as foon as they are got out into air.) Frelh quantities of vapours,
therefore.
OF A S T R O L O G r. iooq
therefore, continually warming the atmolphere over the Tea, -will raile its
heat beyond that of air over the land. Again, the Sun's rays reflected
from the earth into the air, in fummer, are much more than thofe from
the water into air; the air, therefore, over the earth, warmed by the
r-eflecliion of more rays than that over water, is warmer. Hence, fea-
winds make thick, cloudy, hazy, weather.
Winds blow^ing from the continent are always dry; in fummer,
warm ; and cold in winter. For tliere is much lefs vapour ariling froni
the earth than from water; and therefore the air over the continent
wall be impregnated with much fewer vapours. Add, that the vapours,
or exhalations, raifed by a great degree of heat out of the earth, are
much finer, and lefs fenlible, than thofe from w-ater. The wind, there-
fore, blowing over the continent, carries but little vapour with it, and
is therefore dry. Farther, the earth in fummer is vrarmer than water
expofed to the fame rays of the Sun. Hence, as the air partakes of the
heat of contiguous bodies, that over the earth in fummer will be warmer
than that over the water. After the like manner it is Ihown, that the land-
winds are cold in winter. Hence, we fee why land-winds make clear,
cold, w^eather. Our northerly and foutherly winds, however, which are
commonly efteemed the caufcs of cold and warm weather, Dr. Derham
obferves, are really rather the efFedl of the cold or warmth of the atmof-
phere. Hence it is, that we frequently fee a warm foutherly wind, on a
fudden, changed to the north, by the fall of fnow or hail ; and, that in a
cold, frofty, morning, we fee the wind north, which afterwards wlieels
about toward the foutherly quarter, when the Sun has well warmed the.
air ; and again, in the cold evening, tui'ns northerly or ealterly.
The utility of winds has been univerfally acknowledged. The an-
cient Pertians, Phoenicians, Greeks, and Romans, I'acrificed and erecled
temples to the winds; as we learn from Voffius, Theolog. Gentil. lib.
iii. part i. cap. i. Befides their ufe in moving bellows, mills, and
other machines, applied in various ways to the fervice of mankind, and
the benefits refulting from them to navigation and trade, they ferve to
purify and refrefti the air, to convey the heat or cold of one region to
another, to produce a regular circulation of vapours from the ocean to
countries remote from it, and to fupply, by wafting them in their progrels
againft hills, &c. fprings and rivers.
Wind has been, by many authors, made the bafis of many different
difeafes: among others. Dr. Reyn has given it as his opinion, in a
Treatife on the Gout (De Aithritid.) that flatufeS; or wind inclofed be-
tween.
3010 AN ILLUSTRATION
tw ecn tlic pcriollcum and the bone, are the true caufe of tliat (liicafc,
and accordingly, that all the methods of cure ouglit to tend to the ex-
pelling of that wind. IJe luppofes this wind to be of a dry, cold, and
malignant, nature, conveyed by the arteries to the place afTecied, Avliere,
forcibly leparating that fenfible membrane, the perioll^eii'm, and diftend-
ing it, the pain mull needs be very great. He is alfo of opinion, that
head-achs, palpitations of the heart, tooth-ach, plcurily, conviiliJons,
cholics, and many otiier difeafes, are originally owing to the fame caufe,
and only differ in regard to the place ali'ecled, and to the various mo-
tipns and determinations of the wind. The moveablcnefs of the pain in
gouty perlons from one part to another, he looks upon as a proof of
this, and thinks that the curing of the gout by burning moxa, or the cotton
-of the mugwort leaves, upon it, is owing to its giving way to the \Aind
in the part to evaporate itfelf. That thefe winds are cold ai)pears frojn
the Ihivering fits which generaliy precede a paroxyfm of the gout; and,
that the lliiverings in the beginning of fevers, and before all fits of
agues, are owing to the fame caufe, is fuppofcd by this author a natural
c;onclufion from the former obfcrvations.
The winds, according to this author, and Fienus, are a fort of halituous
fpirits, railed by the impToj)er degree of our native hent, or out of our
meat and drink ; or, finally, out of an abundance of black choler. Their
ditferences, he fays, principally proceed from the various ferments, pro-
ducing in us a variety of humours; which, acting upon one another, do
in their cfTervefcenccs create winds of various effects, and denominate dif-
eafes from the places which are the fcenes of their aclion. It is on this
account that the acupun^f ura, or pricking with long needles, among the
Chinefe, is of ufe : the Japanefe, and other neighbouring nations, having
•no other cure for molt difeafes than the pricking with the needle, and the
burning of the moxa on the part.
The hufbandman often fuffers extremely by high winds, in many dif-
ferent rcfpecis. Plantations of trees, at a linall dillance from the barns
and houfes, are the bell I'afeguard againlt their futfering by windsj but
they muft not beplanted fo near as that their fall, if it fliould happen, would
endanger them. Yews grow very llowly, otherwife they are the bell of
all trees for this defenlive plantation. Trees fufFer by winds, being ei-
ther broken or blown down by them ; but this may be in a great meafure
prevented by cutting otf part of the heads and branches of them in
places where they ftand moll expofed. Hops are the moll fubje6t to be
injured by winds of any crop; but this may be in a great meafure pre-
>^;nted by a high pale or very thick thorn-hedge ; this will both keep otf
O F A S T R O L O G Y. loii
flie fpring-vvind, which nips the young buds, and be a great fafegnard
againlt other winds that would tear the plants from their poles.
^
The
poles lliould ahvays be very firm in the ground ; and the beftlerurlty to
be added to this is a row of tali trees all round the ground. "Winds at-
tended w ith rain do great injury to the corn, by laying it flat to the
ground. Ihe belt method of preventing this, is to keep up good cn-
clofures ; and, if the accident hapjiens, the corn Ihould be cut immedi-
ately, for it never grows at all afterwards. It Ihould be left on the
ground, in this cafe, fome time after the cutting, to harden the grain
in the ear.
Many valuable obfervations on the winds, as they relate to navigation,
have been made by ikilful feamen, and particularly by Dr. Halley. It is
found, that between the limits of Go degrees, viz. from 30 degrees of
north latitude to 30 degrees of fouth latitude, there is a constant eall
wind through theyear, blowing in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, called
the trade- wind. Thefe trade- winds, near their northern limits, blow be-
tween the north and eafi: ; and, near their fouthern limits, they blow be-
tween the fouth and eatl ; but their general motions are difiurbed on the
continents and near their coalts. In fome parts of the Indian ocean there
are periodical winds, which are called monfobns.
In the Atlantic ocean, near the coalts of Africa, at about a hundred
leagues from the Ihore, between the latitude of 2S degrees and 10 degrees
north, feamen conltantly meet with a frcfli gale of w-ind blowing from
the N. £. Thoie bound to the Caribbee illands, acrofs the Atlantic
ocean, find, as they approach the American fide, tliat the laid N. E. wind
becomes eallerly, or feldom blows more than a point from the eaft,
either to the northward or fouthward. Thefe trade-winds, on the Ame-
rican fide, are extended to 30, 3i,ior. even to 32, degrees of N. llititude
;
which is about 4 degrees farther than they extend to on the African fide:
alio, to the fouthward of the ecpuitor, the trade-winds extend three or four
degrees farther to the coall of Brafil, on the American lide, than they
do near the Cape of Good Hope on the African lide.
Between the latitudes of 4 degrees N. and 4 degrees S. the wind al-
ways blows between the fouth and call: on the African fide the winds are
nearett the fouth ; and, on the American fide, nearelt the ealh In thefe
feas. Dr. Halley obferved, that, when the wind was eallward, the wea-
ther was gloomy, dark, and rainj^, with hard gales of wind ; but, \\ hen
the wind veered to the fouthward, the weather generally became fercne,
with gentle breezes, next to a calm. Thefe winds are fomewhat changed
No. 53. 11 T by
1012 AN ILLUSTRATION
by the fcafons of the year; for, when the Sun is far northward, the Brafil
S. E. wind gets to the fouth, and the N. E. wind to the eall ; and, when
the Sun is far fouth, the S. E. wind gets to the call, and the N. E. winds
on this fide of the equator veer more to the north.
Along the coaft of Guinea, from Sierra Leona to the ifland of St. Tho-
mas, under the equator, which is above five hundred leagues, the foutli-
erly and fouth-wctl winds blow perpetually; for, the S, E. trade-wind,
having pafl'ed the equator, and approaching the Guinea coafiwithiii eighty
or a hundred leagues, inclines toward the fliore, and becomes fouth, then
S. E. and b}-^ degrees, as it comes near the land, it veers about to Ibnth,
S. S. W. and in with the land it is S.W. and fometimes W. S. W. 'i his
tracl is troubled with frequent calms, and violent fudden gulls of wind,
called tornadoes, blowing from all points of the horizon.
Between the fourth and tenth degrees of north latitude, and between
the longitudes of Cape-Verd, and tlie eafternmoll of the Cape-Verd illes,
there is a tract of fea fubjecl to perpetual calms, attended with frequent
thunder and lightning, and rains : Ihips, in failing thefe fix degrees, are
faid to have been fometimes detained whole months.
The three laft obfervations account for two circumfiances which ma-
riners experience in failing from Europe (o India, and in the Guinea trade.
The firll is, the difficulty which fliips, in going to the fouthward, efpe-
cially in the months of July and Auguft, find in pafling between the
coafts of Guinea and Brafil, although the breadth of this lea is more than
five hundred leagues. This happens, becaufe the S.E. winds at that
time of the year, commonly extend forae degrees beyond the ordinary li-
mits of four degrees N. latitude; and, befides, coming fo much foutherly,
as to be fometimes fouth, fometimes a point or two to the welt ; it then
only remains to ply to windward: and, if, on the one fide, they fieer
W. S.W. they get a wind more and more eafterly ; but then there is a
danger of falling in with the Brafilian coalt, or Ihoals; and, if they fieer
E. S. E. they fall into the neighbourhood of the coall of Guinea, from
whence they caimot depart without running eallerly as far as the illand of
St. I'homas; and, this is the conllant practice of all the Guinea Clips.
Secondly, all fhips departing from Guinea for Europe, their direct
courfe is northward ; but on this eourfe they cannot go, becaufe, the coafi:
bending nearlj' call and weft, the land is to the northward : therefore, as
t'ne winds on this cot^tl are generally between the S. and \V. S.W. they
are obliged to fieer S. S. E. or fouth, and with thefe courfes they runoff
the fliore ; but, in fo doing, they always find the winds more and more con-
trary ;
OF ASTROLOGY. lois
trary ; lb that, when near the flioie, they can lie fouth ; at a greater dif-
tance thev can make no better than S. E. and afterwards E. S. E. with
which courfes they commonly fetch the illand of St. Thomas, and Cape
Lopez, where, finding the winds to the eallvvard of the fouth, they fail
wellerly with it, till coming to the latitude of four degrees fouth, where
they find the S. E. winds blowing perpetually. On account of thefe
general winds, all thofe that ufe the \V elt-india trade, even thofc bound
to Virginia, reckon it their bell courfe to get as foon as they can to the
Ibuthward, that fo they may be certain of a fair and frelh gale to run be-
fore it to the wellward : and, for the fame reafon, thofe homeward-bound
from America endeavour to gain the latitude of thirty degrees, where
they firll find the winds begin to be variable; though the molt or-
dinary winds in the north Atlantic ocean come from between the fouth
and welt.
Between the fouthern latitudes of ten and thirty degrees, in the Indian
ocean, the general tratie-wind, about the S. E. by S. is found to blow all
the year long in the fame manner as in the like latitude in the Ethiopic
ocean; and, during the lix months from May to December, thefe winds
reach to within two degrees of the equator; but, during the other fix
months, from JSovember to June, a N. W. wind blows in the tracl Ivino-
between the third and tenth degrees of fouthern latitude, in the meridian
of the north end of Aladagafcar ; and, between the fecond and twelftk
degrees of fouth latitude, near the longitude of Sumatra and Java.
In the tra6l between Sumatra and the African coaft, and from three
degrees of fouth latitude quite northward to the Aliatic coalls, including
the Arabian lea and the gulf of Bengal, the monloons blow from Septem-
ber to April on the N. E. and from March to October on the S. W. Li
the former half-year the wind is more lleady and gentle, and weather clear-
er, than in the latter fix months ; and the wind is more Itrongand lleady in
the Arabian iea than in the gulf of Bengal.
Between the ifiand of Madagafcar and the coafi: of Africa, and thence
northward as far as the equator, there is a tradl, wherein, from April to
06lober, there is a conllant frelh louth-fouth-well wind ; which to the
northward changes into the welt-fouth-weft wind ; blowing at that time
in the Arabian fea.^
To the ealtward of Sumatra and i\Lilacca on the north of the equator,
and along the coalls of Cambodia and China, quite through the Philip-
pines as tar as Japan, the monfoons blow northerly and foutherly ; the
northern
1014 AN I L L U S T R A T 1 O N
northern letting in about October or November, and the Ibuthern about
IMaj : the \\ intls are not quite lo certain as thole in the Arabian Ic'as.
Eetwcen Sumatra and Java to the well:, and New Guinea to tlie eafi,
the lame northerly and Ibutherly winds are oblcrved, but the lirll half-
year raonlbon inchnes to the N. W. and the latter to the S. ¥.. '1 hele
winds begin a month or lix weeks alter thofe in the Chinefe leas let in,
and are quite as variable. 'Jhefe contrary winds do not fhitt from one
point to its oppolite all at once ; in fome places the time of the change
is attended with calms, in others by variable winds ; and it often hap-
pens, on the Ihores of Coromandcl and China, towards the end of the
monfoons, that there are nwll violent llormSi greatly refembling the
hurricanes in the Well-Indies; wherein the wind is lb very Itrong, that
hardly any thing can refill its force. All navigation in the Indian ocean
mult nccclfarily be regulated by thefe winds; lor, if mariners Ihoiild de-
lay their voyages till the contrary monlbon begins, they mult cither fail
back or go into harbour, and wait for the return ot the trade-wind. See
Phil. Tranf. No. 183. or Abr. vol. ii. p. 133, &:c. Robertlbn's Elein.
of Nav. book vi. fedl. 6.
The winds are divided, with refpecl to the points of the horizon from
which they blow, into dirdinal and collateral. Winds cardifuil are thofe
blowing from the four cardinal points ; call, well, north, and fouth.
Winds collateral are the intermediate w^inds between any two cardinal
winds ; the number of thefe is infinite, as the points from which they
blow are; but only a few of them are confidered in practice, i. e. only a
few of them have their dillinguithing names. The ancient Greeks, at
iirlt, only ufed the four cardinal ones ; at length they took in four more.
Vitruvius gives us a table of twenty, belides the cardinals, which were
in life among the Romans. Ihe moderns, as their navigation is much
more perfecl than that of the ancients, have given names to twenty-eight
collateral winds, which the\' range into /^/vwt^/^ and Jeco/nlary ; and the
fecondary they fubdivide into thofe of the Ji/Jl and J'econd order, 'ihe
Englilli names of the primary collateral winds and points are compounded
of the names of the cardinal ones, north and fouth being llill prefixed.
The names of the fecondary collateral winds of the firll order are com-
pounded of the names of the cardinals and the adjacent primary one.
Thofe of the fccond order are compounded of the names of the cardinal
or the next adjacent primary and the next cardinal, with the addition of
the word hy. The Latins have diltinift names for each ; all which are
expreired in the following Table.
3 Names
OF ASTROLOGY. 1015
Names of the WINDS, and Points of the
COMPASS.
toi6 AN ILLUSTRATION
•
O F A S T R O L O G Y. '
1017
APPLICATION of all the foregoing PHENOMENA in natural
and METEOROLOGICAL ASl ROLOGY. >
Having defcrlbed the nature and properties of meteorolic appearances,
and explained the phenomena of eclipfes, comets, &c. with the motions
and attractions of the Earth, Moon, and Sun, as they afFett the tides,
winds, and atnjofphere, we fhall now confider their influence, jointly
with that of the other planets and flars, in producing the continual
changes and mutations in the general affairs of flates and empires; and
in the variations aiid changes of the weather, whereby plagues and
peRilcnces,' droughts and inundations, and the confequent calamities of
iickly and diftrefsful times, are fought out and predi(5ted ; for, all having
the fame primitive caufe, namely, the attractive power and influence of
the planetary fyftem upon the elementary and terreftrial matter, they are
alike definable from a contemplation of the occult properties of that celeftial
influx, which this department of the afl:rologic fcience has, in all ages, been
found to teach.
From what has been premifed concerning the foregoing phenomena,
it becomes evident, that whatever affedts the (late of the air or atmof-
phere mull: necefl^irily, in an adequate proportion, alter the fl:ate of the
weather; and that, by how much the more the elements are impregnated
or charged with eleArical matter, or that the motions of the winds are
increafed or diminiflied, or that the clouds are furcharged with moift
and difcordant vapours, by fo much the more will fl:ormy, tempefluous,
and unfettled, weather, be produced. So likewife, it is equally demon-
ilrable, that, as the temperature of the air, and the flate of the "ambient
and elementary matter, is from time to time varied and changed, or
furcharged to a greater or le(s excels with any particular quality, fo in a
proportionate degree will the animal funilions and fpirits of men be raifed
or deprelTed, their minds agitated, and their paffions inflamed; whence
arife putrid and malignant complaints throughout whole provinces, and
difcord and malevolence among the different governments and orders of
fociety. And, feeing thefe things are fo, that their caufes are brought
about by the attrad:ions and niutations of the Sun, Moon, and Stars, ia
their different motions and pofitions, and in their conjundlions and op-
politions, and various configurations among themfelves and with the
Earth ; and fince we have (een that thefe motions and pofitions of the
planets, and all their different afpeds, can be afcertained for any feries
of years to come ; fo, it is manifefl, that, by knowing their influences
and effects upon the air, earth, winds, and elements, and upon the
confti-
ioi8 AN ILLUSTRATION
conOitutions and paflions of men, a' prcHige of times and fcafons, of
famines, pelUlcnccs, inundations, and of all great and univcrfal calami-
tics ariling therefrom, is fought out, and indifputably eftablilhed.
This fpeculation is therefore deftined to be, the art of prognoftication by
the rides of ^jy?/w/owy- It 's divided into two principal or diilindt parts;
the one whereof is called general, or univerfal, becaufe it relates to whole
empires, nations, or provinces; and the other local, or particular, fince it
relates only to the 'scathcr applicable to particular and diftindl climates ;
which, from the foregoing theory of eclipfes, tides, and winds, it is mii-
nifeft, might be afcertained with very great degrees of exadlnefs.
In thefe confiderations, two things are to be regarded, as the principal
ground-work of the whole, namely, the tendency and familiafity of the
twelve figns of the zodiac, and the planets and flars, to the temperature
of the different climates; and the qualities produced in certain feafons by
the ecliptical conjundions of the Sun and Moon, and by the revolutions
and tranfits of the planets, with their riiings and flations. The firft and
greater caufe hath refped: unto whole regions, and Hioweth the uncertainty
of national glory and perfection, fo liable to be difturbed by wars and in-
tefline broils, ordeftroyed by famine, peftilence, earthquakes, or inundations.
The fecondary or inferior caufe is produced in certain times, as in the
contrariety of feafons, and their mutations more or kfs in their different
quarters ; as heats or winds more vehement or remifs, out of their proper
andaccuftomed times, whereby plenty, or fcarciry, ordifeafes, are produced,
as the caufe and quality fiiall happen to be. Hence are difcovered th.e
fympathies exilling between the motions and configurations of the pknets,
and between the mutations and varieties of weather obfervable in the Hmie
feafons of the year; and of the general good or evil attendant on mankind;
all which are here acccounted for according to the principles of natural
reafon. For it is an undeniable fatft, that every diftindT: property will have
its diftind effedl; and that the knowledge of thefe effeds points out the
property, whether it be good or evil. Thus we know that t!ie property of
tiie planets ruling particular feafons, as the Moon does the tides, will con-
ftantly produce the fame effed, when unimpeded with the property or
influence of other attradive bodies; for then the effedive property is
chan<^ed, and can only be determined by contemplating the proper force and
mixture of the different planets^ according to their co-operation and power,
or places in the zodiac.
In this fpeculation, likewife, not only the natures and mixtures of the
pUnets amongft themfelves are to be obferved, but alfo the mixtures of
thofc
^OF ASTROLOGY. loig
tiiofo qualities which comBiunicate their properties to the planets and
iTgns: 4"uch as the more pov\erl"ul inliuences of the Sun and InIoop, ajid
the parallels of attraction made with the Earth. But, when any of the
planets ncl dilHncHy of themlblves, regard mull folely be had to their
own proper government and quality. I'hercfore, if the tiar of Saturn
rules alone, he caufeth corruptions by cold, conipiracies in Irates, willi
difcontents and fedition. But the influx which properly fcizeth men,
engendering cold and crude matter, produces chronical dileafes and con-
fuinptions, coUiquations, rheumatifms, cold moift dii'tempers, agues,
<"pideniic fevers, detluxions, &c. which will be the general or prevailing
complaints in thofe countries over which this planet bears rule, and
%vhere his parallels or alpecls /« JiniriJo are vifibly made, ^^'ith i-efpcct
to the political government of thofe countries, it Itirs up dillentions
amongll kings and princes, begets violence and contention betwixt ma-
gUlrates and rulers, and anarchy and confution amongll the people; it
forebodes war, forrow, and defolation, and often terminates in the over-
throw of Itates, and in the death of princes. Among irrational animals,
it moftly feizeth thole of the domellie kind, producing the diftemper in
horfes and dogs, the rot in Iheep, and the murrain amongll horned cattle.
Its effecl: upon the atmofphere will produce milty, dark, dole, humid,
lowering, corrufcuous, w^eather ; or elle turbulent, and violentlv intem-
perate ; or extremely intenfe cold, durable frolts, and Inow, as the clime
and feafon of the year Ihall chance to be. Hence will arile inundations
of waters, lliipwrecks, and diltrcfs at feaj and drowning, or freezing to
death, on land. The fruits of the earth will be diminilhed, and chiellv
thole which are moll needful for the lullenance of man \\ ill totally fail,
being liruck with blight, Imut, blafr, and mildew, or overcome with
£oods, rain, hail, fnow, or trolls, lb that the evil begets a paucitv of the
neceiraries of life, and proceeds to famine.
If Jupiter alone be lord of the year, he influences all things io the
greatelt good. Amongll men will be a time of blellednels, vigour, and
iminterrupted health; of long and happy days of tranquillity and peace.
Thofe things which are neceflary for man's uie and benefit are nourilhed
and augmented, and all nature tends both to mental and corporeal good.
In political events, thofe countries move immediately imder his dominion
and' influx will be the moll happy and profperous, the affairs of llate
will tend to the promotion of national wealth, magnanimitj-, and honour;
the government will be niild, and the laws dilpenfed with jullice and
moderation ; there will be mutual agreement between kings and princes,
and an imiverfal dilpofition to peace; alliances will be formed for the
profperity of the people, and trade and commerce will flonrifli under
2So. 54. J 1 X them.
]02o AN ILLUSTRATION
them. The increafe amongft irrational animals, of tlie domellic and ufe-
ftil kind, will be great, and men will be enriched thereby, parLicuiarly
Inch as deal in Iheep and black cattle. The conltitution of the air will
be mild and healthful, tempered with gentle winds and refrefhing Ihow-
ers, whereby the fruits of the earth will be repleniflied, and feedtimeand
liarvcll, and heat and cold, fucceed each other in their proper and accuf-
tomed feafons. The elements, participating in a more equal mixture of
their qualities, will be lets diilurbed ; lakes and rivers Iwell only to a
moderate height, lb as to increale fertility and vegetation.—The reltlels
ocean, now unatiiiiled by turbiil Itorms and winds, affords lafe pallageta
the richly-freighted Ihips from every quarter of the globe. In lliort, un-
der the unimpeded influence of this benign ftar, the productions of the
earth will be poured forth in abundance, and all things contribute their
llore for the health and proipcrity of man.
INIars, having alone the dominion of the year, produces thofe evils
refulting Ipontancoully from his nature, which are intemperate heat
and drought. Mankind will hence be feized with violent corruptions
of the blood, apoplexies, and fudden deaths. Spotted and fcarlet fevers
will abound principally in thofe countries over which he prelides, and
where his mundane alpedls motl forcibly pervade the earth ; for, there
will his noxious influence prove mofi: fatal. Political affairs, under this
influx, are marked with violence and oppreflion. Wars break out be-
tween contending princes, and fire and fword defolate the country,
and level all before them. Inteltine broils, infurreclions, treafon, and
murder, flain the land with innocent blood, and complete the lad cata-
logue of human misfortunes. The brute creation, and particularly thofe
appropriated for the food and lervice of man, will be grievoullv afiiided ;
epidemic diforders will break out amongtt them, and the heat and
drought will prove extremely fatal to horfes. The fruits of the earth
will be burnt up, fodder and grals for cattle every where deftroyed, and
all vegetation in a manner lufpended. Rivers, lakes, and ponds, will be
dried up, the fprings of the earth exhaufled; and, at the rifing of the
dog-Jiar, nature, as it were, will ficken, and refpiration be difficult and
tiaint ; dogs will run mad, and epidemic contagion fpread throughout
whole empires. The lea, in a manner Itagnated with calms, will put
navigation and commerce almoft to a ftand, whereby a dearth of corn,,
and other neceflaries of life, will be felt in many countries, and pave
the way to the fevereft ravages of pellilence and plague.
The fole rule and government of Venus will draw our attention from
this walle and barren wild to a fcene more grateful and pleafing. Under
I her
OF ASTROLOGY. .1021
ficr mild and o^cntle iVay, all nature ii^clincs to moderation and tlclight.
The inflax which leizrcth men will difpole them to cultivate the bleilings
of peace, and conciliate thejaning interells of contending Iiates. Fruit-
ful'nefs and fecundity will blefs the land ; the minds of men will be foft-
ened by the all-fubduing charms of the fmiling fair, whofe benignant
intluences hai'monize fociety, and prefage the golden sera of felicitous and
happy marriages, harbingers ofjoy, of children, and delight. Political
affairs will now grow mild and peaceful j and the minds of monarchs
more inclined to negociations for family-alliances, and the chains of
wedlock, than to enforce the favage rage of war, and painful fhackles of
imprifonment or ilavery. All animated nature will increafe and multi-
ply, and the creatures which do not fly the dominion of man will be
healthful and profitable. The ftate of the air will be prolific and ferene,
tempered with refrefliing fliowcrs and falubrlous winds, producing heaw-
and luxuriant crops of all the fruits of the earth. Ships fail Inifkly and
lafely at fea, and the produce of ditTerent climes are wafted from fhore to
lliore, trebling their value. The fprings and rivers murmur through the
groves, pouring over their molly banks the beverage of fatnefs on tiie
verdant plains, fmiling in all the variegated drefs of blooming fpring.
The alternate lealons will fucceed, without turbulent or violent excefs;
and the delicious fruits and ripened corn, gathered into the garner in
plenty and perfe6lion, will influence the minds of men, while fitting ia
liifety and peace under their own vine and their own fig-tree, to pour
out to a bountiful and gracious Providence, the unbounded efFulions
of pious and grateful hearts.
When Mercury hath alo?ie the dominion, and not allured to the qua-
lity of other bodies by the foi'ce of attratlion, or the mutability of his
own nature, he quickens the minds of men, and difpofes to indullry and
invention. The conlHtution of the air under him w ill be acflive and un-
fettled, frequently changing in the fpace only of a few hours ; and, by
realbn of his proximity :o the Sun, when in his fvvittell motion, he oc-
calions drought, and diiiurbs the ambient by generating winds and va-
pours, thunder, lightning, corrulcations, and dark lowering clouds; and
on this account he induceth corruption in animals and plants, particu-
larly fuch as are moll ufeful and profitable to n.ian. In matters of Itate-
pdlicy and government, he infufes artifice and cunning into the conrlucl
of princes, gives fagacity to minillcrs, and dilpatch to the deliberations
of council ; he promotes the liberal arts, and forwards the improvement
offcience, difpofing all men to fobriety, perfeverance, and labour. In
voyages and navigation, the influx of this planet is not very propitious,
fmce it occafions fudden and violent florms, and perpetual changes of the
wind.
1022 A N 1 L L U S T R A T I O N
wind. Lakes and rivers, under this dominion, fvvcll pn a fiiddcn U*
inimoderate heights; break down their banks, and carry away tlx-ir
brid<;es ; inundate the country for miles round, and lay whole towns
muler water; theie again, as fuddenly liibfide, and drouglits frequently
enfuc. Hence the difeafes engendered will be quotidian agues, violent
colds and coughs, eruptions of the blood, atthmas, and confu'mptions. In
-the occidental quadrants he diminiiheth the waters, and in the oriental
he increafcth them. Under this influence, therefore, when it acls alone,
men win experience a mediocrity of good and evil ; the fruits of the earth
will in general Ijc lufficicnt, but vary much in quality and value, accord-
ing to the mutation of the weather, and as the blights and rains ihall
have been more or let's general or partial. Peace will for the moll; part
prevail under this governance; lince the animofities of princes will he
more likelv to cool by negociation, tlian be inflamed or exhaulled bv
the devattations of war.
I'hus each planet, according to its nature, quality, and force, pro-
<luceth thefe things, when left to its own proper action and ctfcct, un-
mixed w'ith the influx of other bodies, and tlie beams and copulations
of the luminaries unoppoling or correfponding thereto. But, v\ hen one
liar is mixed with another by alpecf, or by familiarity in figns, then the
clTccl will happen according to the mixture and temperament ariling from
the conmumication of thofe mixtures, which being as it were manifold
and infinite, from the number and diverflties of other liars and afpecls,
thev can only be afcertained by attentive calculations, founded on ma-
thematical precepts. And, in our judgment of events which appertain
to certain dillricls, we ought moll attentively to weigh \\vt fwiiliarities of
thofe planets which bring up the event ; for, if the planets are benefics,
and conformed to the region upon which the eflect falls, and are not
overcome by contraries, they more powerfully produce tlie benefit accor-
ding to their proper nature; as, on the contrary, they are of lefs advantage,
if any impediment happens in the familiarity, or their influence be over-
come b}^ oppofing afpecls. So again, if the ruling liars of the events arc
malefics, and have familiarity with the regions on which the accident
jails, or are overcome by contraries, they do lefs harm ; but, if they have
no fanfrliarity with thole countries, nor are overcome by them that have
familiarity therewith, they do much greater harm. As to their effetls
upon the difeafes of men, they are feizcd by more imiverfal aifcClions,
having the feeds thereof in their nativities, and receive, by lympathy in
their conllitutions, the more fenfible operation ot thefe general accidents.
Thefe conllderations form the grand outline of this department of altro-
Jjogy ; from which particulars are alone deduciblc.
Seeing
OF ASTROLOGY. 1023
Seeing, therefore, th<tt this fpecuktion comprifes two different and
diftindt Tubjefts, namely, the general (late of the weather; and, f^con i-
ly, the mutations and revolutions of countries and empires: it will be
proper to confider them upon the bafis already laid down, und^r ih.nr
rt'fpeclive and particular heads ; and firff.
Of the W E A T H E R.
As it is in the air or almofphere that all plants and animals live and
breathe, and as that appears to be the great principle of mofb animal and
vegetable productions, alterations, &c. there docs not feem any thing,
in all philofophy, of more immediate concernment to us, than the ftate
of the iveather. In effedl, all living things are only aflcmblages or
bundles of vcffels, whofe juices are kept moving by the prelfure of the
atmofphere; and which, by that motion, maintain life. So that any al-
terations in the rarity or denfity, the heat, purity, &c. of that, mud
neceffarily be attended with proportionable ones in thefe. Vv'hat great,
yet regular, alterations, a little change of weather makes in a tube tilled
with mercury, or fpirit of wine, or in a piece of firing, &c. every body
knows, in th.c common inftance of barometers, thermometers, hygrome-
ters, &c. and it is owing partly to our inattention, and partly to our unequal
intemperate courfe of living, that we do not feel as great and as regular
ones in the tubes, chords, and fibres, of our own bodies. It is certain, a
great part of the brute creation have a fenlibility, and figacity, this way,
beyond mankind; and yet, without any means or difpofition thereto, more
than we; except that their velTels, fibres, &.c. being, in other refpeds, in
one equable habitude, the fame or a proportionable caufe from without has
always a like or proportionable eflecft on them ; that is, their vefTels are re-
gular barometers, 6cc. afFeded only from one external principle, viz. the
difpofition of the atmofphere .^ whereas ours are atfled on by divers from
within, as well as without : fome of which check, impede, and prevent, the
aftion of others. But to afccrtain the limits of thefe various affedtions
requires a theory of the weather founded on aflrological and mechanical
principles.
To obtain a proper knowledge of the weather for any given year,
it is requifite exadlly to obferve the ingrefs of the Sun into the firfl
point of Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn, at the change or com-
mencement of the four different quarters of the year ; together with the
conjunctions or oppofitions of the luminaries next preceding the fame in-
greffes. Then to tiie time of the ingrefs ere(5l the fcheme of heaven, and
obferve whether the places of the luminaries, at the time of their conjunc-
No. 54. 11 y tion
1024 AN ILLUSTRATION
tion or oppofition, happen in a moid, dry, or cold, manfion j and of wliaf
planets they are afpeded, ancj Ukevvife it the ruhng planets be conjoined
in fuch a manfion with the lord of the fign of that conjundtion or oppo-
iition, and the lord of the afccnjant ; as alio the almutcn, or general lord
of the figure, not ncgledting the fixed flars of the firll, fecond, and third,
magnitude, their rifing, fetting, and culminating, with planets of the fame
nature, or having conveniency of afpecl or radiation. Alio, diligently
confider the lord of the cclipfe, or ruling planet, of tlie great conjuntlioii
next preceding, li any do immediately precede ; which, being truly-
noted, ohfcrve carefully wh.at planet or fixed rtar he Ihall be corporally-
conjoined with, or apply to, next after the conjunction or oppofition of the
Sun and Moon j for according to the nature thereof will the feafon generally
be inclined. If Saturn therefore be well difpofed in an angle, and in a
moift aflerifm, with.out impediment, or applying to another planet at the
time of the Sun's ingrefs, it preiages temperate and feafonable ihowers, and
fiUeth the heaven with oblcure clouds, efpecially in that lunation wherein
he hath the chief dominion. But if, on the contrary, he be impedited, or
evilly difpofed, it portends turbulent ftorms of wind and rain, and cold,
denle, and thick, clouds, efpecially if Venus or Mercury be in tiioifl; fgns,
and behold him from an angle: for, in that cafe, there will be much rain.
Jupiter, in fuch a pofition, produceth ivinds and rain, with reddifh clouds;,
Mars engenders yellow clouds, thunder, corrufcations, and rain,
efpecially in thofe times and places proper and convenient, and
the rather if Jupiter and Mercury give any tefttmony thereto. The
Sun, irradiated in that manner, produces red clouds and a great deal of
•wet. The Moon applying to Venus, and afluming the above prerogatives,
brings gentle rain: but, if the Mcon applies to Mercury, or if Mercury
be lord and ruler of the figure with Jupiter, it portends fliowers and
violent winds, and cloudy air; yet fometimes more violent, and fometimes
more remifs, according to the figns, ailerifiii, manfions of the Moon, and
the conjundlions of the other fiars, either fixed or erratic. And here note,
that, if the ruling planet be oriental, his efFeds will appear in the end; if
occidental, in the beginning, whether it be in a revolution, folar ingrefs, or a
lunation.
A fcheme of the heavens, ereded for the Sun's entrance into the firft
fcruple of Aries, will, with the help of the Moon's principal afpedls
and configurations with the Sun and other planets at her leveral changes,
determine the general ftate of the weather for that quarter. But, in this
fpecies of predidion, we muft never lofe fight of the influence and at-
traction of the Earth, nor of the force and peculiarity of each climate
refpedively, as heretofore laid down in our confideration of tides, winds,
1 earth-.
a F A S T R O L O G Y. 1025
» MFthqi-akes, &c. becaufe thefe peculiarities arife entirely from the particu-
lar fituation of different climates or countries with refpedt to the Sun, and
would have their weather fixed and certain, the fame as their increaie or
decreafe of day or night, were it not for the attractive and expulfive force
ot the other celelfial bodies, which are incedantly varying that of the Sun
and of one another, according to their different pofitions and afoedts.
Hence it is neceluiry, before we attempt to give judgment of the wea-
ther in any particular country or. climate, to be well mformed oi its par-
ticular ikuation with refpec^t to land and fea, mountains and valltys,
iflands and continents, caverns and lakes, as well as of its geographical
pofition, with rcfpedl to the tropics, equiivodial, ecliptic, &c. for, as
every different climate is diffl:rently affedlted by the Sun's influence upon
it, as well as by the quality of its own proper foil or component parts,
fo will the adlion of the other ceieftial bodies thereupon be more power-
ful or remifs, as their nature and quality fliall be found to agree with, or
oppofe the ffate and temperature of, thofe climates, and the Sun's influence
at tho(e times upon them. Hence we fee clearly the extreme difficulty
of calculating the weather for England, Ireland, or any of the iflands,
which, being furrounded by the fea, are fabjedt to much greater varia-
tions of weather than any of the continents or great oceans. The
caufe is apparent. In England, we find almoff every flight configura-
tion of the Sun and Moon, and the riling and fetting of particular flars,
will change the ffate of the atmofphere almoft inftantaneoully ; and, from
the proximity of the fea every way round us, and the confequent moiit
vapours incefllintly drawn up into the air by the attradtion of thefe bodies,
we become fubjett to wet, cloudy, corrufcuous, weather, which extends
not to any of the furrounding coafts, but is peculiar only to the il'land
over which thefe vapours are engendered. And hence it is we fo often
fee fhovvers, which, though accompanied with violent thunder, lightning,
wind, and hail, are frequently not heard of at a few miles diffance j and that
when in one county there has been a drought, and the land and corn
almoft dried and parched up, in the next adjoining county they fliall be
vifited with frequent fhovvers, and the fruits of the earth be luxuriant
and flourifliing. This fadt muft be within every man's obfcrvation who
refides in England, and the caufe is entirely peculiar to the country. The
moift vapours of the contiguous ocean are drawn up into the clouds one
hour; and, by the oppofing influence of forne planet or ftar then rifing
or culminating, are driven down the next; whence it is obvious, that all
attempts to foretel fuch mutations and changes as thefe are abfurd and
futile. The objedl of this part of Aflrology means only to afcertain thofe
great and powerful operations of the flars, which fliall be felt generally
Siroughout whole provinces ; that, having their caufe in the principal
con-
,o.i6 AN ILLUSTRATION
conjundions, oppolitions, or quadratures, of the fuperior bodies, will
Liile tempells over a whole continent ; pervade the bowels of the c:^rtli
in porous and fubterraneous countries, and produce earthquakes; that
fliall clothe the whole face of nature with fleecy (how or hoary frort ;
or, from humidity and heat, fliall either parch the land, while its faint-
ing inhabitants gafp for breath, or putrefy its air with pe(lilential qualities,
which fends them by thoufands to the grave.
The next thing to be conlidered in relation to the weather, is the con-
iuncftions and afpedls of the planets. The conjundion of Saturn and Ju-
piter, which ought accurately to be obferved, produces its eftccfts in the
mutation of the air many days before and after, in regard of the tardinefs
of their motions. 'J his conjunction happening in hot and dry manlions,
or with fixed ftars of that nature, generally produces drynefs ; increafeth
heat in fummer, and mitigates the cold in winter; but in moift figns
it portends rain and inundations. Yet this is diligently to be noted, that
the efleds produced by this conjundion will be of the nature of (he rul-
ing planet; for, if Saturn claims principal dominion in the place of the
coniundlion, and is elevated above Jupiter in rcfpedl of latitude, it denotes
many difeafes, and much evil in general ; but the contrary, if Jupi-
ter prevails. So likewife thefe two ponderous planets being in oppofition,
quartile, trine, or fextile, is a fign of continuance of feafons; but for
the mod: part they bring forth impetuous florms of rain and hail ;
parti-
cularly happening in the fpring time, in moift afterifms, they produce tur-
bulent air; in fummer, hail and thunder ; in autumn, winds and wet ; in
winter, obfcure and thick clouds, and dark air. Saturn and Mars in
conjundlion, quartile, or oppofition, and Jupiter giving teftimony, ufu-
ally prefage winds and rain, hail, thunder, lightnings, and corrufca-
tions, according to the feafons of the year ; for, in the fpring it portends
wind, rain, and tiiunder; in fummer, hail and thunder ; in autumn, vio-
lent rain ; and in winter, diminution of cold. Kut above all, obferve the
ruling planet, and, according to his nature, judge. Saturn and the Sun in
conjuniilion, quartile, or oppofition, is apertio portanan, elpecially if it
happens in a moift conflcllation ; for then, in the fpring time, it threa-
tens dark and heavy clouds; in fummer, hail, thunder, and remiflion of
heat; in autumn, rain, and cold; in winter, froft, fhovv, and cloudy
weather. Saturn and Venus in conjundion, quartile, or oppofition,
generally produce cold, rain, and fhowers ; in fpring, they bring forth
rain and cold ; in fummer, fudden and hafly fliowers ; in autumn, cold
rain, (as, in fpring or winter, fnow or cold rain.) Saturn and Mercury
in conjundion, quartile, or oppofition, in dry figns and manfions, bring
forth drynefs; in moill figns, rain; in the airy, Vvindsj in the earthy,
cold
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 1027
cold air and di'}'nefs; particularly in tlie fprin":, it produces wind and
rain; in fummer, wind and iliowcrs ; in autumn, wind and clouds;
and, in winter, wind and Inow. Sattn-n and the ISFoon, in conjunction,
quartile, or oppolition, iit{rc\ the air according to that part of the. alterifm
wherein they are conjoined or aipct^ed. In the moitl ligns, it portends
clouds and coldnefs ; in the airy, and in Sagittarius and Capricorn, it in-
crealeth cold, efpecially when the Moon is of full light; and, when the
is void of courfcj it brings forth drynefs ; but, in dry ligns, it begetteth
llnvp air; and a froliy fealbn, if it be in winter; generally the Moon and
Saturn Hir up thick clouds and gentle fliowcrs- In the fpring it is a
fign of a turbid and moift air; in fummer, nioilhire, with remiilion of
heat, and fometiraes hail, if there be any alpect of Mars or Mercury ;
in autumn, it prefages a cloudy air ; in winter, clouds and Ihow, with
vehement cold.
Jupiter and Mars, in conjunction, quartile, or oppolition, change the
quality of the air, according to the nature of the ligns and Itars to which
they are conjoined or otherwife afpected. In hot and dry manlions, it
ca'ai'eth great heat ; in the moilt ligns, thunder and rain ; but, particularly
in the fpring time, it [)roduceth winds and turbulent air; in fummer,
-heat, and thunder and lightning ; in autxunn, tempeltuous and windy
iiir; and in winter, remilfion of cold and temperature of air. Ikit, in
this ccnjunction, we mull obferve the ruling planet; for, if Jupiter diall
rule and be elevated above Mars, it lignilles much good and felicity, plenty
of fruit, and fuch things as ferve for the fullenance of mankind, accord-
ing to his benevolent nature; but. Mars ruling, produceth many dileafes,
xlrynefs, houfe-burnings, and the like. Alio, Jupiter and Mars, with tem-
pelluous Itars, as ArClurus, the Eagle, Tail of the Dolphin, light Itar of
the Crown, &c. llir up wind and hail, and in fummer alio thunder;
in winter, he inclinetli the air to warmth, efpecially if Jupiter be then
llationary. Jupiter and the Sun, in conjunClion, quartile, or oppoli-
tion, bring forth wholefome winds and ferenity ; particularly, in fpring
and autumn, they fignify winds; in fummer, thunder, and, in winter, re-
miliion of cold. Jupiter and Venus, in conjuncfion, quartile, or oppoli-
tion, do generally pi'oduce ferenity and temperature of air; in the moitt
ligns they promife gentle ihowers ; in other ligns, fair weather, \\'bolefome
winds, and fertility of all things. Jupiter and Mercury, in conjunction,
quartile, or oppofition, Itir up the winds, and fometimes there is aper-
tio portarum to winds and rain ; in the fiery ligns they bring drynefs and
warm winds ; in the airy figns, fiiir weather, but winds in all fealbns of
tlie year ; particularly, in the fpring and autumn, they portend hail, and
in winter fnc w. Jupiter and the ^Sloon in conjun«il:ion, quartile, or oppo-
No. 54. 11 Z fition,
IC2S ANILLUSTRATION
lltion, produce gentle winds, fcrenity, and temperature of the air; yet
thev alter the weather, according to the quality of the fign and all^rilm
which thev pollefs; but at all times they generally denote a mild and
temperate leafon. .
•<
Mars and the Sun, in conjunction, quartile, or oppofition, in tlie fiery
fjgns, portend heat and drjncfs; in the watery, hail, thunder, and light-
iifng; in the airy, clouds; and, in the earthy, violent winds; in thelpring
and*^ autumn, they excite dry winds ; in fummer, great heat, lightning,
and thunder; and, in winter, remillion of cold. JNIars and Venus, in
conjuncliion, quartile, or oppofition, are apcrtio portarum to much rain,
if it happen in moitl figns, efpecially in Ipring and autumn ; in fummer
it enoendereth Ihowers; in winter, remiffion of cold, yet oftentimes fnow
when Saturn beholds them. Mars and Mercury, in conjuncfion, quar-
tile, or oppofition, in winter and Ipring foretel fnow; in fummer, thun-
der' and hail; in autumn, hail and great winds; and, in fiery and dry
ligns, they prefage warmth and excefiiTe drynefs. Mars and the Moon,
in conjunction, quartile, or oppofition, in moill ligns, demonltrate rain;
in fiery, drynefs, red clouds, and fometiraes rain; in fummer, liglitning,
hail, and corrufcations. Mars, entering new figns, very often changeth
the air; fo ISfars, paffing by Suculje, or Hyades, caufcth clouds and
moirture. Mars in Cancer, with north latitude, in autumn and winter,
brlnoeth warm weather, with wind and rain, and (harp dileafes, if Mars
Ihairafpec'l Saturn, Venus, or Mercury. Mars palTing by the Pleiades
maketh a cloudy feafon, and, being accompanied with Itars of a tempeit-
uous nature, as Artturus, the Eagle, bright liar of the Crown, Bull's
Eve, Tail of the Dolphin, Procyon, Fidicula, Scorpion's Heart, Virgin's
Spike, &c. rifing or letting with them, fignifies a turbulent, windy, and
oftentimes a fultry and unwholefome, air.
The Sun and Venus in conjunclion, commonly produce moifiure ; in
fpring and autumn, rain ; in fummer, fliowers and thunder ; in winter^
rain. The Sun and Mercury in conjundion, in the airy figns, produce
winds, in the watery figns rain, in the fiery drynefs and warm winds,
(hurtful to mankind.) The Sun and Moon, in conjun6lion, quartile, or
oppofition, in moill figns, portend rain; in fiery figns, fair weather; but
generally it alters the air according to the nature of the ruling planet and
the nature of the feafon. The conjunction, femi-fextile, and textile, of
Venus and Mercury, infer llore of winds, and wet; and, in winter, fnow;
provided they be almoll equal in motion ; Venus in the firlt decade of
Cancer, prefageth rain; alio, her being with \}a& Pleiades^ Hyades, and the
Jijfeili, prenotes a moill feafon.
In
•r
OF ASTROLOGY. 1029
In the revolution of the year, if Mars Ihall be in his own fign, it por-
tends much rain -, if he be in the houle of Saturn, it lliows but httle ; in
others, but a mediocrity. In the revolution of tlie year, when Venus,
Mercury, and the Moon, are found in moift manlions, it portends much
ft'ain. At the ingrefs of the Sun in tropical ligns, if Venus Ihall afpecl the
Moon from a moift place, it is a token of much rain, or, if Mars from
Scorpio lliall afpcci Venus, it portends likewife rain. When the Sun is
in Aries or Taurus, if Venus be then retrograde, the fpring will be
moift. The Sun in the terms of Mars increafeth the heat in fummer,
and drvnefs of the fprings in winter. In the conjunclion or oppolitioa
preceding the entrance of the Sun into Aries, and ahb in the ingrefs it-
felf, if the Moon behold Saturn, and both be in moift figns, it is the
prefage of thick clouds, or foft and gentle fliowers continuing long ;
but, if Venus or Mercury behold Saturn, then the rain will be more
vehement, and of long continuance.
If, in the autumnal quarter, more retrograde planets be with the Sun
than in the other feafons, which in the winter following \vill become di-
rect, it is afign of great drynefs. When the Sun enters the eighteenth de-
gree of Scorpio, if Mercury be in a moift place, it is a lign of rain ; and
obferve alfo the planet that is then almuten of the figure erected for that
moment, and pronounce judgment according to his nature and polltion.
Venus in winter, direcl and oriental of the Sun, lignifies but little rain
in the beginning of winter, and more ftore towards the end. When
Venus applies to Mars in Scorpio, it brings rain immediately. When
the Sun, Moon, Venus, and Mercury, are all conjoined together, it ar-
gues continual ftiowers that day, if the Moon beholds them from fome
other place, or if flie be in oppofition to them. When at the time of
the conjmKftion or oppofition of the luminaries, Venus ihall be in an an-
gle, it is a certain fign of rain ; the lord of the alcendant in a watery fign
begetteth rain.
To determine judgment of the particular ftate of the air, we muft con-
lider thele fix tilings; firft, at the time of the conjunction, quartile, or
oppofition, ot the luminaries, to oblerve the planet that is lord or ahnu'
ten; for, according 10 his quality and nature, will the leafon be inclined.
Secondly, to confider the fign v\hich the laid lord pofiefieth, with his
nature and quality. Thirdly, to obferve the fign afcending, the nature,
and of what inaniion oi the Moon it is in. Fourthly, the places of the
planets, both in the zodiac and the celeftial houfes, ^vhether they be
in angles or elfewhere. Fifthly, to obferve, next after the conjunction,
oppofition, or quartile, what planet the jNIoon is firft conjoined with in
1 afpeCl.
1030 AN ILLUSTRATION
afpect. An 1, laftly, to conficler to which of the planets, or fixed ffars,
the lord is fiill join'cd, or of whom he is beheld. 'J hcfe things being
well coniidered, judgment maybe given as follows: namely, if the lord
of the conjunction, ctuartile, or oppoiltion, be of a moill nature, and the
planets in Inoill places, and the faid lord alfo be joined to liars or phmeis
of a moill nature, and the Moon after feparation fliall conjoin or have af-
pcrtVith a moifl planet, the nature of the tim.e will be wet and nsiny ;
if all incline io drvnefs, it will be dry ; if to warmth, pronounce hot
weather; if to cold, c(;ld weather. 'J he nature of the time will then
chictiy be moved, when the ISfocn, after conjunclion, <]uartile, or op-
poiltion, Ihall be conjoined by body or any iirong afpecl to the tigni-
ficalor. And, when the Moon comes to the lign afcending of the con-
iunction, cjuartile, or oppolition, the time will be changed according to
the (juality and nature of the llgn and allerifm.
Daily experience fliows, that the weather is much varied by the fitua-
tion of the winds j for, according to their different bearing is the feafon
much inclined, fonietimes to hail, rain, and fnow, and again to fair v>ea-
ther J
wherefore I Ihall ffate thofe afpecls \\hicli are found to attriici, raiie,
varv, or alter, the polition of the ^^ inds, as they alternately rife or fel ia
parallels to the different bearings of the earth. Bclides thefe, there are
the lateral an<l collateral winds blowing between thcfe points, which
partake more or lefs of the quality of the foregoing, as they approach or
recede from them. In the figure of the Sun's ingrefs into any of the car-
dinal figns, or conjunction or oppofition of the luminaries preceding, or
monthly lunation) obferve carefully what planet is predominant in the
fiourerand their pofitions one to another mutually, as before Hated, will
<rive a near conjecture of the wind.
Saturn is the mover of the eaftern winds, Jupiter of the northern,
Mars of the well and Ibuth, Venus of the ibulhern, and Mercury ac-
cording as he fliall be conjoined with others ; the Sun and Moon of the
weftern winds. The quality of the winds, and their bearing, is alio
known from their pofitions in the figure ; for, the planets with latitude
and fouth declination, from the mid-heaven, move the fouthern winds to
blow. From the itntim cali, with latitude and northern declination, the
northern winds ; the oriental planets move the eallern winds, but the
occidental the wellern winds ; and, when they are weak, they attrad or
caufe the intermediate winds to blow.
Alfo the fituation and quality of the winds are gathered from the lati-
tude of the Moon^ as flie inclines to the north or fouth j lb the figns do
alfo
OF ASTROLOGY. rojl
alio demonflrate the winds : for x\ries, Leo, and Sagittarv, excite the
north-well winds; Taurus, V^irgo, and Capricorn, the Ibuth-eall ; Gemini,
Libra, and Aquaries, the north-ealt ; Cancer, Scorpio, and Piiccs, the
ibuth-MClt. Likcwile, from the application of Mercury to tiie other pla-
nets, we may in fomc meafure prognolticate the quahtv of the \\ inds :
for, if Mercury apply to Saturn, it produces great winds, clouds, and rain ;
if to Jupiter, mild winds; if to Mars, Marni winds j if to Mars and the
Sun, warm and hurtful winds; if toYcnus, cold winds.
Alfo the rifmg, culminating, and letting, of the fixed liars, with the
Sun, Moon, and other planets, alter the Irate of the M'inds in the follow-
ing manner: Reg'ulus, or the Lion's Heart, letting with the Sun, excites
the well winds to blow many days together. The rifmg of Pleiades with
the Sun moveth the call wind. The letting of Ar<^furus Itirreth up the
fouthern winds. The letting of Pleiades with the Sun excites the north-
ealt wind. The riling of the Dolphin with the Sun alfoproduceth wind.
The riling or felting of Arcturus, (the head of the former twin,) the fouth-
ern belly of Pifces, the fbr of the Triangle with the Sun, Saturn, Jupiter,
Mars, or Mercury, begetteth winds. The. letting of Hyades troubleth
both fea and land, efpecially when INfars and INIercury give teftimojny.
If, at the time of the matutine letting of the Dolphin, there be Ihowers,
there will be none at the riling of Arclurus. The i-ifing of the Haedi
produces rain. The matutine riling of the greater Dog begetteth heat»
-troubleth the leas, and changeth all things.
The great Ptolomy, from many years obferA'ation, deduced the follow-
ing effeds from the fixed liars riling with the Sun. Orion's Girdle, rihng
with tJie Sun, maketh a turbid air. The letting of the Crown pre-
fageth tempells. Syrius and Aquilo, rifing in the evening, produce tem-
pells. The letting of Regulus caufeth the north wind, and fometimes
alfo rain. The letting of the Dolphin produces wind and fnow. The
letting of Vindemiator moveth the north-call wind. The rifing of the
Ram's-Horn brings forth rain and fnow. The vefpertine rifing of Arc-
turus portends tempells. The rifing of the Pleiades maketh the well
w-ind to blow. The vefpertine fetting of Syrius produceth the fouth
and north-north-call winds. The matutine letting of the Ilyades pre-
fageth rain and the fouth wind. The vefpertine fetting of tlie Pleiades
moves the fouth wind, terminating in the well. The rifing of the Suo-
cuke brings rain. '1 he rifing of Orion maketh the well wind to blow.
The matutine ibtting of Arcturus promifcth good weather. The matu-
tine letting of the Eagle caufeth great heat, and the fouth wind. The
matutine rifing of Regulus moveth Aquilo. The. matutine fetting of
No. 54. A2A Arcturu5
1032 AN ILLUSTRATION
Ar(flurus prefageth fhowers. The matutiiie fctting of the Succulae be-
»'-ettctli rain, Ihovv, and winds.
fc
The Sun, riling with the AiTcIH, tronblcs the air with thunder, liglit-
ning, fhowers, and the like. The Sun riling with the Eagle produceth
I'now, as alio with the tail of the Goat and head of jSledufa, His rifing
with Aldebaran and the Itars of Orion moveth wind, rain, thunder, and
Jightninf. When he rifeth with the cloudy liars in Leo, with Orion,
w'ith the tail of Leo, the light itar of Hydra, tlie Cro\^n, or the ftars
in the forehead of the Scorpion, it portends a cloudy feafon. The
Sun fetting with the Harp prefageth a cold and moitt time ; with the
Pleiades, it begets wind and rain ; with Regulus, flioweis, thunder, and
IJcrhtnin^T; with the Greater Dog, a fair warm time, with thunder and
lightning; with Orion and Aldebaran, a turbid, windy, and wet, air;
with Acarnar and the liars of Jupiter, a ferene and temperate feafon
;
with the Itars of the nature of Saturn, he produceth cold rain or Ihow ;
with the ftars of Venus, rain and moifture; with the liars of JNLirs,.
thunder and lightning. Saturn, with the head of ISIedufa, begetteth
cold and moifture; with the Pleiades, he troubleth the air, and engenders
clouds, rain, and fnow; with the liars of Orion, he produceth wind and
fliowers ; with Ar6turus, wind and rain ; with the Virgin's Spike, Ihow-
ers and thunder; with the Dolphin, bright liar of the Crown, Goat's
Tail, or the Harp, it cauleth a moift and cloudy time, fometimes fnow
and rain ;
with Prefepe, and the Hyades, it begetteth winds, clouds, rain,
and thunder ; Avith the Lion's Heart, it pi-oduceth thunder and rain, and
inftability of weather ; with the Greater Dog, it fignilies winds, rain,
thunder,"aud lightning.
Jupiter, rifmg with Regulus, brings fair weather in winter, and miti-
o-ates the cold, and increafeth the heat in fummer ;
with the Neck of the
Lion it raifeth the winds, and with Acarnar it promifeth ferenity. JNIars
riftn''' with the Goat's Tail foretelletha moill time; with the liars in the
Scorpion's Forehead it denotes cold rain or fnow; with Ar6lurus, vehe-
ment winds, rain, thunder, and lightning ; with the Eagle, rain, fnow,
and great coldnefs; with the ftars of Orion, Hyades, Regulus, and the
Dogs, it fignilies great heat. Mercury wdth the Pleiades begetteth winds
and rain ; with the Eagle, fnow or rain ; with the liars of Orion, Hyades,
Reo-ulus, and the Dogs, it produceth winds, Ihowers, thunder, and light-
ning ; w'ith the Goat's Tail, cold winds, fnow, or Ihowers ; with the Back
and Neck of the Lion, moiftnefs with winds ; with the Lion's Tail, Spica
Virgo, the Harp, &c. itjportends a ludden change to w-jnd and rain.
The
OF A S T R O L O G T. I03J
The rifin^ and fctting of thefe ftars and conftellations might be known,
and their cttectsin Ibme degree pre-determined, by the ludden alterations
and changes we perceive in the atmofphere ; from wliich, by diligent
obfervation, and repeated experience, we may derive pretty accurate rules
how to judge of the weather, fo as to regulate our conduct in the profe-
cution of journeys, or the management of bufinefs, particularly fuch as
relates to gardening and hufbandry.
The air, in which w^e breathe, being co-mixt Avith inflammable va-
pours, at \yhich time it is hotter than ordinary, and unapt for refpira-
tion, Ihovvs the approach of thunder and lightning.—When the ringing
of bells, or other founds, are heard lond and faint, with difcordant parti-
cles, and by intervals, it Ihows the air to be dilated and dilturbed, pre-
fages either wind or rain, and fometimes both.—A (liarp and cold wind
after rain forefliows more to come, the exhalation or vapour not be-
ing fpent in the former Ihower. —Winds, that continue long in anv one
of the cardinal points, will caufe the weather to continue the lame,
whether it be fair or foul ; but, if it Ihifts often in changing its place, it
prefageth rain quickly after to enfue j but, in times of frotl, it is a fign
that the weather is about to break.—Whirlwinds predict approaching
llorms of rain and hail ; thefc winds are known by railing the dult or
any light materials, and they are oftentimes forerunners of great tern-
pelts, for it is a windy exhalation driven obliquely upon the horizontal
plane, and forced down by the coldnefs or moitture of the lower region
;
this reperculiion of the air caufeth chimneys to fmoke which do not at
other times, and forefliows great winds.—Sometimes whirlwinds are
caufed by the meeting of one another, and fo, railing light particles of
matter, as it were in contention with each other, hurls them to and fro at
the pleafure of the prevailing power; and fuch as thefe ufually prefage
tempelts, and may be known by the clouds moving feveral ways at once,
from the lame caufe above as below.—When the air is dilated or rarefied,
it is a fign of much heat, or elfe produces rain, which might be known
by the llench of fewers, foul places, or things corrupted, which are
more ofFeniive than at other times.—When the clouds be dark, deep,,
and lowering, it is a fign of rain, and fometimes of tempelluoas weather,
or of violent Itorms of thunder and lightning. If there be more thunder
than lightning, it argues a ftrefs ofwind from that part whence it thunder-
ed, and alio of rain. —When it lightens and no clap of thunder fucceeds,
it is a lign in lummer of much heat, and fometimes of rain. —When it light-
ens only from the north-welt, it betokens rain the next day.—Lightning
from the north prefages winds,- and oftentimes great trmpells.
—
if from
the fouth or weft it lightens, exped both wind ami raio from thofe parts.
—^jMornJiig;
1034 A N I L L U S T R A T I O N
"Moniin»>- tlnindcr produces winds ; but mid-day, or in the evenina:,
Itorms ot rain and wind.—It" the lightning appears very pale, it argues
the air to be full of eledric fluid ; if red or fiery, it foreihows winds and
tcmpclls. —When the flaflies of lightning continue long before they va-
nifli, thev denote the Irorm to be general throughout a whole province.
. Thunder and lightning in winter in hot climates is ufual, and hatli
the fame effeds; but in thefe northern climates it is held ominous, and
feldom occurs without being the forerunners of much mifchief—INIany
fcattcring clouds wandering in the air, and moving fwiftly, argue wind
or rain ; if from the north or fouth, it denotes an approaching ftorm ; but,
if the rack rides both ways, it forefhows a tempeft.—If the rack in the
forenoon rides in tlie air from the eatlward, it argues rain at night; but,
if from the weft, it foreihows a cloudy morning, and rain ; and at any
time of the day, when the fun-beams and wind meet, it may caule the
fame cffeS. by' virtue of his rays.—When the clouds feem piled upon
heaps like fleeces of wool, it prefagcs wet weather to be near at hand.
—
If the clouds fly low in fummer, it is a fign of rain; and in winter it
forelliows fnow and cold weather will enfue.—Wfien the clouds feem
white and jagged, as if rent afunder, gathering together in a body, their
forces uniting, they foretel a ftorm ; the nature of the exhalation is ap-
parently turbulent by the form and colour.—Hollow and murmuring
winds prelage llormy weather, for it fliows the air to be moift and dilated,
nnd cannot find palTage, but is oppofcd or hindered in its motion by
hills, trees, and hollow places, which it gets into, and then evacuates
v\ ith a roaring noife.—The air, being a fubtile body, infufes itfelf into
the pores of timber, boards, &c. and denotes rain, by being converted
into drops of water, or a moifture on the furface, which makes doors and
boards fwell, wainlbots crack, &c. for fome time before the rain comes
on. Fairer againft wet weather will grow weak, damp, and 1 well ; the
reafon is' the fame with the lall ; but, in writing-paper it Avill fooneft be
perceived, and more certainly predict the weather, becaufe it is ftzed
with a thin fubftance of a gummy nature, which, with the waterillinefs
of the air, dilfolves and grows moill, giving way for the ink to foak into
the paper, which the frze in dry weather will not permit.—When the
<-louds feem overcharged, and collect in white Ipirals or towers, expect
then rain, hail, or fnow, according to the leafon of the year.—After a ftorm
of hail, expecl froit to follow the next day.—Milts defcending from the
tops of hills, and fettling in the valleys, is a fign of a fair day, efpeci-
aJlv in fummer-time, and is then an argument of heat ; for, they are exha-
lations raifed by the fervour of the Sun, which by the air in the evening-
are converted into nftfts and dews, as a neceflary provifion for nature to
cool the earth, and refrelli her fruits, whereby to enable them that they
juay
OF ASTROLOGY. 1035
may endure the next day's heat. White niifts are the fame, but more
waterifh, and inchning to rain ; and if they afcend it prefageth rain, and
argues that the middle region of the air is temperate, the lowefl: waterifh,
and the vapours warm.—If iri calm and ferene weather the rack be ob-
ferved to ride apace, expert winds from that quarter, for it is evident
that the exhalations in the clouds are converted into wind or rain, and
will defcend ; but, if the clouds afcend, it fhews the ftorm is paft, and
has happened at fome little diftance.—A thick or dark ity, laltiiig for
fome time in a morning, without either Sun or rain, becomes fair to-
wards the middle of the day, but foon after turns to wet rainy weather.
A change in the warmth of the weather is generally followed by a change
in the wind. Hence it is common to fee a warm foutherly wind fud-
denly changed to the north by the fall of fnow or hail ; or to fee the
wind in a cold frofty morning, after the Sun has well warmed the earth
and air, wheel from the north towards the fouth ; and again to the north
or eafl: in the cold evening.
Moft vegetables expand their down and flowers in fair fun-fhiny wea-
ther ; but clofe them previous to cold weather or rain. This is remark-
ably vifible in the down of dandelion, and eminently diflinguifhed in
the flowers of pmipernel ;* the opening and fhutting of which ferve as
the hufl^andman's weather-glafs, whereby he foretels the weather of the
enfuing day with aftonifhing exaftnefs. The rule is, if the blofToms are
clofe fhut up, it betokens rain and foul weather ; if they be expanded
and fpread abroad, the weather will be fettled and ferene. The flalks
of trefoil fwell againft rain, and become more upright and ere6l ; and
the fame mav be obferved, though not fo fenflbly, in the flalks of al-
moft every other plant.
Now, by way of example to the reader, I fhall here give the figure of
the Sun's ingrefs into the equinodlial fign Aries, which commenced the
vernal or fpring quarter in the year 1789, together with the afpeds of
the Sun, Moon, and planets, throughout that quarter ; which will be
fufEcient to enable any attentive reader to perform this part of the fciencc
with fatisfatfion and pleafure for any length of time to come.
* See thefe curious properties, amongft a thoufand others peculiar to the herbary creation, more
particularly defcribed in my Notes and llluftrations to the improved edition of Culpeper's Englifh
Phyfician and Complete Herbal, 4to. with upwards of four hundred engravings of the different Bri-
tifh plants, coloured to nature, to be had of the fame bookfelier that publiibes all my works.
No. f,S' ^2 B The
1036 AN ILLUSTRATION
Such was the pofition of the heavens at the time of the Sun's en-
trance into the firft point of Aries, being the commencement of the fpring
or vernal quarter of 1789, which happened that year on the 19th of
March, at ijh. 52 m. or, according to civil time, at fifty-two minutes
part three o'clock in the morning of the 2oth day, for which the above
fcheme is accurately calculated.
In drawino- judgment of the ftate and temperature of the weather from
this fio-ure, we miift not only confider the afpeds and configurations of
the luminaries and planets, but note the quality of the figns and tripli-
cities wherein they are pofited, and what will be the chief or predomi-
nant influence of the fuperiors. After which, the alpefts muff be regu-
larly fet down in fucceffion till the commencement of the next enfuing
quarter, when a figure of that ingrefs mufl alfo be calculated, and con-
fidered in the fame manner as the preceding, together with the place of
the Sun and quality of the feafon; by which means we fhall find the
weather
OF ASTROLOGY. 1037
weather will be pretty accurately afcertained, for any length of time that
the calculation is made.
At the commencement of the fpring quarter, we find the cold ponder-
ous planet Saturn juft departed from an almofl: abfolute rule and o-overn-
ment in the watery flgu Pilces, and in no alped either with Jupiter or
the Sun. This is a demonftnble proof of the intenfe coldnefs of the pre.
ceding quarter; for, fince Saturn is of a hardening aftringcnt nature, the
waters muft be congealed ; and a cold durable froft evidently diftinguiftied
tlie commencement of the year 1789. But the cafe was materially dif-
ferent towards the approach of the vernal equinox, when the Sun entered
into the fjgn Aries ; at which time the cold influence of Saturn was mi-
tigated by a trine afpeft of Jupiter, and by the increafing ftrength of
the beams of Sol. Neverthelcfs, fince there are five planets configurated
in watery figns, and the influx of Saturn not entirely abated, and alfo,
fince we find the pieceding provential Full Moon in a watery fign, we
lafely concluded that the fpring quarter muft for the firft part be cold
and wet; the wind, leaning moflly to the north and eaft, occafioned fleet,
and fnow or hail intermingled with rain ; towards the middle, wefl:erly
gales of wind, and florms of rain and hail ; but moderate towards the
end, with the wind moftly down to the fouthern point of the compafs.
The following afpecfts, particularly of the Sun and Moon, will fhow the
precife variations and general inclinations of the weather on each of thofe
days.
ASPECTS of the PLANETS operating on the WEATHER, from
the 17th of March to the 29th of June, 1789.
The Moon's lafl: afped, previous to the following, was comixt with Sa-
turn, a cold afliringent planet, in a watery fign.
March
1 7'
1038
March
24,
25>
26,
27»
29,
3o»
AN I L L U S T R A i I O N
6
6
6
6
A
6
6
April
I,
5.
7»
8,
9'
D
5
D
J)
D
b
O
Stationary
9 Saturn in X
c5' Moon in X
in perihelion
in ?5
b Moon
Moon
Moon
CoU and cloudy
y/,"r in
^ ^ Coldjliarp winds, and thick
^ ^ atmoj'phere.
Mars
A -y
D ^
* D
J>
>K D
* ])
* J)
A ?
* o
D 1)
D D
D D
A 1;^
D D
in X
in )<
in X
in >^
in T
9 Jupiter in 25
% Moon in T
5 Moon in b
in apogee
% Moon in «
,5 Moon in b
9 Moon in y
Tp Moon in y
(5 Jupiter in 25
]) Sun in T
Saturn in
Venus in
Jupiter in
Venus in
Jupiter in
Mercury in
S
^ f Thick dark clouds,withzvind
_ , and fnow.
rain.
\ Condenfed air, but no
sr •) Cold weather withwinds and
25 \
Jliozvers.
^ Cold and cloudy.
1
Jupiter
Mars
Venus
Saturn
Mars
Moon
in
in
in
in
in
in
Fleaf
ant andjine weatherfor
the feafon.
K ) Unfettled, but for the mof
n > part fine.
A
A
c5
A
D
5
b
d
9
h
5
A })
d b
A O
A %
*
<?
D
D D
Moon
Moon
Moon
Jupiter
Moon
Moon
Moon
% Moon
$ Moon
Sun
Moon
Saturn
Sun
Tp Moon
$ Jupiter
% Moon
Moon
Moon
Sun
Moon
D
9
5
5
})
9
% Moon
in n
in n
in n
in £5
in n
in 25
in 25
in So
in 25
in r
in 25
in ¥i
in r
in n,
in 25
in IR
in -^
in t^)
in T
in :i::
in ^
in
in
in
in
Mercury in
Saturn in
Mars
Mars
Venus
Saturn
Mercury in
Jupiter in
Mars in
Moon in
Venus in
Mercury in
Moon in
Sai\irn in
Mercury in
Jupiter in
Mercury in
Mars in
Moon in
Venus in
Jupiter in
Wind andturbulent air, with
hafiy Jliowers of rain.
"] According to the mixture of
"7 \ thcfe flars, there vuill be
^ J dark clouds andfeet.
^ X Some rain and %vind.
^ Fine dry rarefied air.
^ 1 Turbulent cold winds, with
qr
J
rain.
^ Gentle fiiowers.
X yFine pleafant 'Xeather.
25J
II, A
OF ASTROLOGY. 1035
April
11, A 3> b Moon in n| Saturn in ^ Cold rain.
12, A D % Moon in til Jupiter in S5"|
A J
5 Moon in ni Mercury in
^ 1
^^^^ ^^-^^
A D c? Moon ni H), Mars jn ^ (
]) in perigee J
13, A }) 9 Moon in | Venus in T Fine dav.
14? A }) Moon in ^ Sun in T > „, ,
D ]) b Moon in X Saturn in K ^
^"''^^ ^''^^'s^^.
15. D D c? Moon in ; Mars in )^ > .,, . ,„
D 3) 5 Moon in ; Mercury in ^SPle^fant Weather,
16,* J bMoon iaj^ Saturn in
>^^^^^^^ ^^^^ j^^^^ ^
8 D % Moon in Vy Tupiter m S >- •
D }) 9 Moon in Vy Venus in T '
17, D O 3) Sun in T Moon in VJ'"]
d d 5 Mars in >^ Mercury in )^ I Goo.^ weather far the
* ]> c? Moon in vy Mars in Y^ j
y^(?/w.
>j< 3) 5 Moon in Vj" Mercuryin >^J
1 8, * ]) 9 Moon in ^ Venus in T ClearJky.
1 9, * O D Sun in T Moon in rr /Tarw weather.
A D :VMoon in ^ Jupiter in 25> //^ow^rx.
1/9 Jupiter in 03 Venus in t'
23, d
J
c? Moon in T Mars in T J
^ ,/,«, andpleajant day.
d 3) 3 Moon in X Mercury in T > ^ -'
-^
24, d
J
9 Moon in T Venus in T J
g.«//. yZ/.-u/.r/.
3) ^ Moon in f Jupiter in 25 '
25» d O 3) Sun in y Moon in d A pieaf
ant day.
26, ^ }) b Moon in y Saturn in ^ ^
J> in apogee ^
'^''^''^ ^'=^''>^ clouds.
jjc J) 1/ Moon in y Jupiter in 55
28, Q 3) b Moon in n Saturn in K )^Dull morning, but plea/ant
* ]> (J Moon in E Mars in Ti afternoon.
if; ]) 5 Moon in EI Mercuryin T
29» D "y 5 Jupiter in 25 Mercuryin T Pleafant day.
30, * O 3> Sun in y Moon in
^\opg„ freeair.
31, >|c ]) 9 Moon in 05 Venus in y > '^ '^
May
I > A 3) b Moon in 55 Saturn in ){
1
d 3) "¥ 3) and :!^ in 05 ^
S'o/wf /oivm.
D 3) § Moon in 25 Mercury in "f
*
No. 55. 12 C 2, Q
X.040
May
2,
AN 11. LUSTRATION
n D Sun in « Moon in a) , , „ .
A D J Moon in a Venus in r\Jrarm arid_pleafanliveat/ier,
]) 9 Moon in SI Venus m ti^
A, A Q 1> Sun in « Moon in r^?.^
,
, /- , ,/
A D 2 Moon in rri) Venus in y, ^Serene andpleafantweaiher.
A D ^ Moon in. i% Mercury in a
)
5, ^ ]) b Moon in ^ Saturn in K
J
^^,„^ ^^;.^, ^/o«^j.
>!<:]) 1/ Moon in \rji Jupiter in 25
>
7, D D ^ Moon in- Jupiter '^}^
"^^ ipr^rmjhowers.
§ ^ S Moon in zO: Mars in T 5
8, § j^ S Moon in tti ^Mercury in '6)
^ jj^o^,,s.
^ ]) 9 Moon in ni_ Venus in b ^
0, 5? D Moon in n\ Sun in b JVindy mid ivet.
]) in perigee _ 1
A 3) h Moon in ni, Saturn ']''
^^\]r^^,^,iouds wiihpwers.
/\ ^ H Moon in n^ Jupiter in S5 |
X 9 g Venus in « Mercury m « ->
lo, Sob Sun in b Saturn in )^ ^«^^^7> .
i^; D? b Moon in t Saturn in K C..^^«A^«/r.
13, A }) 9 Moon in VJ- Venus m ^ > ^-o/w^ (^/o«^j, but no rain.
A ]) 5 Moon in vy Mercury m «
)
14, A ])
Sun in « Moon m \^-j.
5^ D b Moon m VJ Saturn m ^t \Fine fpring iveathei.
g J)
-y Moon in V^- Jupiter j" ^ I
^ ]) (5
Moon in xsr Mars i'^
^:|
16, D ^ c?
J"Pit^'- i"
^ Mars jti T ,
^^^^^^^ ^^ ^;^, ,„y.^^,, ,/
*^ 5 Jupiter in
^ Mercury m^! ,^,j^J j^.efpringwea-
^0 ^ Sun m a Jupiter in - thirmaybeexpecled.
^ V) 5 Saturn in )< Venus m O [
-^ -^
^ g
Sun and 5 in b J
19, d D ^^ Moon in ^ Saturn j" )^ -j
A D "2/ Moon in )4 Jupiter in ^ {^Many Jhowers.
v]<
]) 9 Moon in )^ Venus in b
^
20, * D 5 Moon m ^ Mercury in b
22'
6 1> 6 Moon in r -^lars in T |
ir/^^ ^uam tc^^/Z/f/'.
'
a D T/ Moon in T Saturn ui ffi
24, * D ^ Moon in b .
Jupiter in )^
^
:jc D i Moon in b Jupiter in 25
25. d D 5 Moon and § j"- d
d }) 9 Moon and 9 i" ^
(5 O D Sun and Moon botK m b -^
Q > b
Fineferem weather.
OF ASTROLOGY. 1041
May
26,
•27,
28,
29,
3°»
D D
* 3)
A D
d J)
*
D 3)
d
A
n
D
D
o
D
D
une
2,
3>
4,
D O
S D
* D
D D
A
A ])
D 5
<? })
A :^
])
b Moon
b Moon
b Moon
1/. Moon
}) Sun
Moon
Moon
Moon
Sun
Moon
Moon
Sun
6
?
6
9
D
in n
in n
in °5
in 25
in n
in SI
in SI
in SI
in n
in a
in rr^
in n
in
in
in
ill
in
in
in
h, Moon
:y Moon
5 Moon
})
Sun
$ Moon
1/. Moon
(5
Moon
5 Moon
6,
7'
8,
9»
10,
12,
^3'
14,
A
A
<?
<? D
D
A
<?
D
* D
^ D
D
A O
D 3)
A D
D
* ])
A D
m nji
in rrji
in rr)^
m n
in ii
in :Or
in Tq^
in ni,
in perigee
b Moon in n]^
"^ Moon in n;
]) Sun in n
in l
in I
in '/y
in Vf
inVy
in b
in n
in ;xo
in ;:sr
in n
in ^
Saturn
Mars
Saturn
Jupiter
Moon
Mars
Venus
Mercury in
Venus in
Mars in
Venus in
Moon in
Saturn in
Jupiter in
^lercury in
Aloon in
Venus in
Jupiter in
Mars in
Mercury in
Saturn
Jupiter
Moon
Venus
Saturn
Mars ,
Mercury in
Saturn in
Jupiter in
Mercury in
Mercury in
Moon in
Mars in
Venus
Saturn
Mars
^ Some clouds.
~f Fine day.
( Some f/iowers.
SI ) IFarm weather, but unfet-
y S tied, and perhaps thun-
n ) der.
n Pleafant day.
T
n
25
n
n
25
d
Very Jine pleafant ivea-
^ ther.
Some clouds, but mild and
fair weather.
Pleafant warm weather.
A good day.
Some thunder^ with florms
of rain.
Dark clouds with rain,
GentieJIiowet s.
Pleafant weather.
Fine day.
Warm day.
9 INIoon
% Moon
(3" Moon
% Moon
h Moon
X Moon inVJ
5 Saturn in ^
§ Mars
]) Sun
^ Moon
9 Moon
Tp Sun
^ Moon j.i ;„: ....... " u V. c .in
Mooa \n^ Mercury in 25^
'^""'''^'''^'^'^^'''-^
in
in
in
Gentle breezes with fome
clouds.
y /• Fery pleafant weather.
n)
X Some clouds.
I5> D
J042 AN II. L U S T R A T I O N
June
OF A S T R O L O G Y,
Having the time given of xh&firjl New Moon in Januarv, all other
Afpefts of the Sun and Moon may be colleded throughout the year, bv
adding to
'
Jan I. the Moon being New or Full, her age
For the Sextile Afpeft take —. -
Foi- the firfl Quartile
For the Trine Afpe6t
Full Moon or Oppofition .-
Full Moon's laft Triangle
iiecond Quartile .
Second Sextile Afpefl
D.
I044 AN ILLUSTRATION
parts are more hot and hurtful, the middle parts temperate, the lafl: parts
watery. Moreover, the north parts move winds, but the ibuth are tem-
perate. Libra is generally variable and mutable : the fore and middle
parts are temperate, the latter parts are watery : the north parts are
windy, the fouth parts moifl: and plentiful. Scorpio caufcth thunder,
and is fiery: the fore parts produce fnow ; the middle parts are tempe-
rate; and the laft parts caule earthquakes: its north parts are hot; the
fouth parts moift. Sagittary produces winds ; the fore parts are moift,
the middle temperate, the laft parts caufe earthquakes. The north parts
are windy, the fouth parts caufe variety and moifture. Capricorn is
wholly moift : the fore parts are burning and hurtful, the middle tem-
perate, and the laft ftir up ihowers; the north and fouth parts are moift
and hurtful. Aquaries is cold and watery: the firft parts are moift, the
middle temperate, and the laft windy : the north parts are heating, and
the fouth caufe fnow. Pifces is moift and a cauler of winds : the fore jjarts
are temperate, the middle moift, the laft parts burning : the north partg
ftir up wind, and the fouth parts are watery.
Of the REVOLUTIONS of KINGDOMS and STATES.
The fignificators which take precedence in this department of the oc-
cult fcience, and the governing afpeds, having already been amply ex-
plained, it will in this place be only neceflary to lay down the general
ground of its theory, and to offer forae recent examples ii,n juftiEcation of
its practice, and in proof of its utility.
After the.impreffive i«flux of the planetary configurations, the uni-
verfal and particular efFeSs of comets, eclipfes, and great conjundlions,
are next to be confidered in this fpeculation. Comets, indeed, rarely
appear; but, whenever they do, fome great and fignal event has always
been- remarked to follow, and o-f the nature and quality of thofe figns
and manfions of the heavens where they form perfed afpe6ls with the
^rth ; but Wihich is raoft fenfibly felt in thofe countries or ftates to
which the nucleus or tail of the comet is at thofe times apparently di-
r*<Sted. There the particular effe6t becomes univeffal, and overfpreads
that whole region with defolation, diforder, or famine, according to the
ftate and quality of the comet, and its pofttion with regard to the Sun.
The manifcftation of its eiFed will be in proportion to its proximity to
the earth ; amd the revolutipu or event will immediately follow. Hence
we have feeii recorded the unhappy defolation of whole provinces, either
deluged by iawmdationss of water, engendered aud fent forth from the
nucleus
OF ASTROLOGY. 1045
nucleus of the comet; or burnt up by its intemperate heat, in its recefs
from its perihelion, whereby the ambient becomes unapt for refpiration,
radical moillure is dried up, and all nature, as it were, lickens under it.
Hence the depopulation of ftates, the extirpation of whole families, of
difcontents and infurredioiis amongft the people, and finally a change in
the politics and government of the country.
The influence of Eclipfes upon mundane affairs has been much quef-
tioned by fome modern authors of no fmall weight in the literary fcale ;
but 1 beg leave to remark, that the moft perfcdt of human beings are at
beft but imperfed, and confequcntly fubje6l to be fwayed by prejudice,
and to adopt falle notions of whatever do6lrines they oppole. —That
fuch is the cafe with thofe authors who deny the force of eclipfes, re-
quires nothing more than unprejudiced enquiry and experimental obfer-
vation to prove. The precifion with which they are foretold, and the
familiarity of their phenomena, feems to leffen their importance, and to
take off from . their external awfulnefs and grandeur ; but their effect
upon the ambient, and confeqiaently upon the affairs of the world, wJU
be ever found to remain the fame.
The effe(51:s of eclipfes arife not merely from the obfcuration of light,
but from their pofition, the quality of the ligns wherein they fall, and of
the fignificators with which they are conjoined. Hence their confi-
deration is diverfe, of which one is local, and by it we know o^Qr what
countries eclipfes will happen, and the ftations of the impulfive planets
atling with them, which will be either Saturn, Jupiter, or Mars, when
ftationary, for then they are fignificative. Another coniideration is tem-
poral, by which we know the time when the event prefaged will happen,
and how long its effe6l will continue. Another is general, as in what
kind or quality the event will be comprehended. And \?L\k\y,Jpecial, by
which is foreknown what the event fhall be that will happen. To digefl
thefe feveral Ipeculations, we muft carefully confider the ecliptical place
of the zodiac, and the countries or ftg.tes which, accordmg to that place,
hyave familiarity with the Trigon ; for thofe will unqueltiQa&bly be moft
Ceufibly affe,61:ed.
Thofe cities gnd count;-ies >vhich fympathi^e with the fign of the
eclipfe, either becaufe the fame horofcope correiponds to the time or
their building and incorporating, or the irradiation of the limainaries in
both cafes to the fame place; or the midheaven comes by direftion to the
fame point of the geniture of the king, prince, or governor; then, what-
ever city Qr country be found it> thele familiarities, they will be firlt
feized
1046 AN ILLUSTRATION
fcizcd by the accident ; and \\ith greater or lefs violence, in proportion
to the quantity of digits eclipfed over each place refpeftively. For eclip-
fes have no influence where they are invisible, and acl with the greateft
force where they are central and total ; and therefore fubterrancan eclipfes
have no effetl or influence whatever, notwithftanding what hath been
v.'fitten to the contrary by coinmon aihologers, almanac-makers, and
the hlce.
The fecond confideration is temporal, by which we know the time
when the events fliall happen, and hov.' long they will continue. This
we furvey after the following manner. In eclipfes which are made at
the fame time, feeing they do not fall every where alike, nor fuflain uni-
verfally the fame degrees of oblburatioii, nor continue alike in point of
time at any two given places, it is necefTary to ere6t a figure under the ele-
vation of the pole of that particular place for which its effed is to be cal-
culated. By means of this, we exaitly fee the beginning, middle, and end,
of the eclipfe, and the content of its duration ; by which the time is
known when the portended event will begin to happen. If the eclipfe
be of the Sun, fo many years are allowed for the event as the obfcuration
meafured hours ; but, if an eclipfe of the Moon, inflead of years fo
many months are to be accounted ; becaufe of her proximity to the earth,
and quicker influence. The beginning of the event and the general in-
tention are known from the fituation of the eclipfe with refpeft to the
ecliptical line, and the angles of the figure. If the middle time of afolar
eclipfe falls in or near the afcending horizon, its effed will begin to appear
in that country over which it is elevated, in the firfl four months after its
appearance; but its greatefl effett will happen in the firfl third-part of that
o-iventime. Should the middle time of the Sun's eclipfe fall in or near
the midheaven, the event will not begin till the fecond four-months ;
and the intention or grand effeft will not take place till the fecond third-
part of the time given. And fo likewife, if the middle of the eclipfe
happens in or near the vveflern horizon, the effe61 will take place in the
third four-months after, and its intention or greater force in the laft
third-part thereof. But, in eclipfes of the Moon, the time is equated
differently; for, if they happen in or near the eaftern horizon, their ef-
fe6t will fall upon the place over which they are elevated almoft imme-
diately ; and, if in or near the meridian, within a week or ten da}S ; or,
if in or near the weflern horizon, tiien their influence will be felt within
a fortnight or twenty days after ; and the general intention or mofl vifible
influence will in each cafe almoft iuftantaneoufly fucceed.
From thefe confiderations it will by confequence follow, that the
near er any planet or ftar, afpe6l or familiarity, congrefs or conjundlion,
][iappeiw
O.F ASTROLOGY. 1047
happens to the ecliptic line, the more forcibly will this influence and
effe6t be found to operate. So likewifc the planets or ftars, concerned in
the influence of eclipfes or other configurations, happening in an oriental
quarter, bring a more immediate appearance of itsefFed; while an occi-
dental pofition retards and keeps it off. After the fame manner, by ob-
ferving the ecliptical new and full Moons, and their quartile afpeds, and
how they unite with or behold the principal place or medium of the
eclipfe, the particular times in which the effefts of.eclipfes will increafe or
diminifh are fought out and difcovered. According to which we find, that,
when ftars emerge, or are relieved from the obfcuration of the Sun-
beams, and increafe in light and motion, their influence and power iii-
crcafes ; but, when a planet is ftationary, and flow of motion, they caufc
the greater intenfion of the accident. And hence it is that Saturn and
Jupiter, being flower of motion than the reft of the planets, have much
more influence and power upon the particles floating in the ambient, and
confequently upon the minds and pafTionsof men.
The third confideration is to define what kind or fpecies will fufFer
under the effeiSls ; and this is judged from the form of the figns and their
property; and from the quality of the ftars, both fixed and wandering,
that are pofited in the fign where the eclipfe happens, or in the angle pre-
ceding. The Almutan, or lord of the eclipfe, is thus to be confidered,
and may be thus taken : of the wandering ftars which ever hath moft af-
finity to the place of the eclipfe and angles of the figure, and applies, or
recedes, according to vicinity and appearance ; hath more refpeft to thofe
that have familiarity of afpeft, and is either lord of the houfes, trigons,
exaltations, or terms; fuch alone is to be conftituted lord of the eclipfe.
But, if feveral planets are found nearly equal and alike in power,
we eleft him to the dominion which is moft angular, or that hath
greater familiarity of action. So far it is the rule with the planets.
But of the fixed ftars, we chufe the brighteft of the firft magnitude,
which at the time of the eclipfe hath commerce with the preceding an-
gles, and is neareft to the ecliptical conjundion. We alfo prefer that
which at the ecliptic hour is in a vifible fituation, either rifing with, or
culminating upon, the angle fucceeding to the place of the eclipfe.—By
the quality of thefe, and the figns wherein they fall, are for the moft part
judged the kind and quality of the accident portended. If they fall
in figns of human ftiape, the efFeds will fall on the human fpecies;
but, if they are not of human ftiape, but of terreftrial, or four-.
footed, it is evident the misfortune will fall upon that fpecies of animals.
If the ftars and conftellations partake of their nature, which fly the do-
minion of man,- evil will occur by their means ; but, if theaflSnity be by.
No. 55. 12 E thofe
,048 AN ILLUSTRATION
thofe which are fubfervient to man's ufc, it argues the evil will arife
throuo'h them, as a murrain, rot, or epidemic difeaie. Moreover, ii the
ruling places fall in or near the Eagle, or fimilar conftellations, the evil
will fall on volatiles, and fuch chiefly as are apt for the food and fufte-
nance of man ; but, if they fall in or near the Dolphin, the efFe6is will
happen at fea, and deftrudion is portended to the flet-ts and navies of that
country over which the influence bears the greateft rule. If they happen
in tropical or equinodlial figns, the evil comes by intemperate feafons, and
by inundations of many waters. If ni the midheaven, they threaten
evil to the reigning powers of that country over which they prefide
;
and a vifible alteration either in its government or laws commonly hap-
pens. But the quantity or importance of the event is known from the
greatnefs of the obfcuration, confidered with regard to the fignificators
or rulincr planets which have dominion with the eclipfe. For occidental
confio^urations made to folar eclipfes, or oriental to lunar, diminifli the
eff^efls ; whereas, on the contrary, oriental afpeds made with folar
eclipfes, and occidental with lunar, greatly augment them.
The fourth and laft confideration is, the knowledge and prefcience of
the effect, whether good or evil ; and this we know, from the virtue of
the ftars ruling or claiming dominion over the principal places of the fi-
CTure; and, from the mixture which they have with each other, and
with the influences of the eclipfes over which they have dominion. For
the Suu and Moon, as it were, rule and govern the ftars ; becaufe they have
a certain power and dominion over them. And the fpeculation of the
mixture of the flars, as they are fubordinate to each other, manifefts the
quality of their effed ; and hence it is that the effedive power is deduced,
whether o-ood or bad, from the temperature of thofe fignificators which
hold the dominion and produce the efFeft, agreeable to their own proper
nature and quality, as hath been heretofore abundantly fhown.
To reduce what has been faid into praftical obfervation, we will re-
vert back to the foregoing fcheme or figure of the heavens, erected for
the Sun's entrance into Aries, in the fpring of the year 1 789. The figns
and fio-nificators in this horofcope are to be confidered in the fame man-
ner, and with the fame quality and influence, as in a nativity ; only their
properties, inftead of being applied to the faculties of an individual, are
to be confidered as the reprefentatives of Princes and States, and holding
the refpeciive influences over them, by virtue of their peculiar quality
and affinity to thofe quadrants and parts of the terreflriar globe, as hath
been refpedively allotted them, and which is full) explained in the in-
trodudory part of this work.
The
OF ASTROLOGY. 1049
The fcheme being ere6ted for the meridian of London, of courfe its
application applies moft nearly to the affairs of this country ; but in a
fecondary degree to our natural enemies and allies, and to the general af-
fairs of the northern hemifphere. For, if great exaflnefs be wifhed
in any particular calculation, the fcheme mufl: in all fuch cafes be ere6ted
for the precife latitude of the place or province to which the calcula-
tion more immediately appertains ; and, where any ftruggle exifts, or
event is foreboded, between any two particular ftates or empires, the
fafeil: way i^ to ereft a fcheme for the meridian of each, and to examine
them by the fame rules as have been laid down for comparing a revolutional
figure with the radix of a nativity.
In the figure before us, we find twenty-feven degrees fifty-two minutes
of Capricorn afcend the eaftern horizon ; with thirty minutes of Sa-
gittarius upon the cufp of the midheaven; which imports in .a general
view peace and honour to the government of Great Britain. Saturn wc
find is lord of the afcendant, in conjunction with Mars, lord of the ninth
and fecond houfes ; and Venus, lady of the third and eighth, in fa-
miliar congrefs with Mercury, lord of the fourth, fifth, and eighth,
houfes. Thefe are configurations particularly interefling and important;,
and, being in the watery fign Pifces, they forebode amazing ftruggles and
contentions upon the continent ; in which France, Germany, Ruffia, and
Turkey, will be moft eflentially concerned.
Now, if we examine the introduflory part of this work, page 90, &c.
we fhall find Great Tartary, Sweden, Ruflia, &c. under the fign Aqua-
ries; and that Mufcovy, Saxony, Turkey, &cc. are under the fign Capri-
corn ; and are confequently reprefented by the afcendant of this figure,
and by the ponderous planet Saturn. The countries under the fign Scor-
pio and Aries, which are the houfes of Mars, are England, France, Ger-
many, Poland, Denmark, &c. and therefore Mars becomes fignificator
of them, and, being in conjundlion of Saturn, forefliows violent debate
and contention between them. Thofe countries that are under Taurus
and Libra are Ireland, RufiTia, Poland, South of France, Auftria, &c. and
therefore under the planet Venus ; and the places under Virgo and Ge-
mini are Flanders, America, &c. with the cities of London, Paris, Ver-
failles, Lyons, &c. and Mercury, being lord of thefe figns, muft of nc-
cefl^ity more or lefs unite thofe powers in this counfel of (late, held in the
watery triplicity. And, as Jupiter difpofes of all of them, and is in his
own exaltation in the fign Cancer, and in the fixth houfe, it repre-
fents ina moft extraordinary and plcafing manwrthe peculiar ftate of Great
Britain, which he difpofes to peace and amity with all the contending
ftates ; particularly as Jupiter is in his eflential dignities.
The
,o5o AN ILLUSTRATION
The fign Cancer, wherein Jupiter is pofjted, is the {Ign under which
the city of Conllantinople is feated, and therefore reprefents the Grand
Si<ynior ; and, as Jupiter is pofited therein, it declares he will not be
overthrown or -conquered, though aflailed on all fides by powerful ene-
mies ; but, what is worfe, I find there will be occafional iniurredions
amono-ft themfelves, which is declared by the Moon's approach to the
oppofition of Jupiter ; but, as the Moon is difpofed of by Saturn, and
in Textile to her difpofitor, and her difpofitor beholding Jupiter with a
o-ood trine afpeft, it declares that the evil which hath been flirred up by
the enemies of the prefent Signior fliall be defeated and eventually done,
away by his fucceffoi", who will commence his reign in the midH: of thofe
troubles, with the moft vigorous preparations for war, though his incli-
nation is for peace ; which will be at length brought about by the aid
and interpofition of thofe powers pointed out by Mercury, Venus, Mars,
and Saturn, who are all in conjunftion in the afcendant in the dignities
of Jupiter, Mars, and Venus ; and thefe three planets declare that Great
Britain Ihall be the principal aftor in bringing all animofity to a conclu-
fion between Sweden, France, Ruffia, Denmark, and the Grand Turk.
This appears to be the natural interpretation of the effeft of thefe four
planets in the afcendant, in the vernal equinox ; but, to know when thefe
matters will come to pafs, we muft have recourfe to new figures for the
Sun's entrance into the next two tropical points, and the equinoftial
fio-n Libra, and muft likewife obferve the preceding full Moon, and the
new Moon fucceeding, according to the do(51rine of the immortal Ptolo-
my, heretofore laid down ; as well as to obferve the dignities and debili-
ties of the planets, whence particular judgment will arife the fame as from
the diredions in a nativity, and afford pleafure and fatisfaftion to the fpe-
culative mind.
The fignificators which reprefent the Court of France fhnw a difpofi-
tion to difturb the peace of Great Britain, through the infidious and am-
bitious views of a female, who takes the lead in ftate-afFairs. The
aftive pofition of Venus and Mercury, conjoined in this Ibheme, denotes
much reftlelTnefs and inftability in the counfels of that country, which
ieems diftraded by the arbitrary will of the Gallic Queen, here reprefented
by Venus, upheld and affifted by light, volatile, time-ferving, men, pre-
noted by Mercury, the creatures of the Queen, who, from motives of ava-
rice, and views of ambition, will be forward to raife cabals ; to oppofe
the common hopes and interefts of the people ; to plunge the nation into
difcord and contention, and eventually to bring about difputes with their
neio'hbours, or wafteful war among themfelves. Saturn, the fignificator
of the French King, being united in a friendly conjunftion with Mars,
the
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 1051
the co-fignificator of Great Britain, and difpofed of by Jupiter, the
princely fignificator of George the Third, Ihows that amity and concord
will ftill exift between the two powers, notwithflanding their domeitic
broils, and the endeavours of reftlels fpirits to ftir up the minds of the
people to rapine and war. Hence will probably follow great diflurbances
amongft the heads of the church, and lead to new difcoveries in the an-
nals of popifli fuperftition and religious perfecution, which the people of
that unhappy countiy feera inclined to iliake off, with the fliackles of
flavery, mifery, and want. In fine, here is every profpecft, from the
difpoiition of the fignificators in this fcheme, that fome very important
event will happen in the politics of France, fuch as may dethrone, or
veiy nearly touch the life of, the king, and make vi6lims of many great
and iiluftrious men in church and Hate, preparatory to a revolution or
change in the affairs of that empire, which will at once aftonifli and
furprife the fun'ounding nations.
England, I am happy to fay, has every profpett of harmony and peace;
and, from the fuperior Itrength and elevation of her fignificators, will give
laws to her enemies, and peace and profperity to her allies. She will be
looked up to from the belligerent powers in the north, to interpofe her
potent arm to bring about a reftoration of peace amongft them, and to
awe, with her thunder, thofe who afpire to extend their dominion by the
ravages of war. In the internal management of her affairs, the prefent
epoch will be glorious ; and, fave a few anxieties amongft party men, and
a temporary alarm for the fcarcity of corn, which will be augmented by
the uncommon continuance of wet weather, occaiioned by the long fta-
tions of the Moon and other fignificators in the watery trigon, I do not
fee any probability of the peace and harmony of Great Britain being dil^
turbed by the prefent contentions between other ftates ; but, on the con-
trary, flie will a(ft as a mediator between them, and will advance in gloiy
and renown over eveiy part of the habitable globe.*
Having faid thus much upon the vernal fcheme or figure of the heavens,
for the year 1789, I Ihall in this place call the attention of my reader to
that remarkable a^ra in the Britiih hiftory, which gave independence to
America, and reared up a new empire, that fliall foon or late give laws to
the whole world. The revolution carries with it fomething fo remarka-
ble, and the event is fo important in this country, that I Ihall make no
apology for introducing the fcheme of the heavens for the fpring and
* Let the reader compare the foregoing remarks with the events that have happened, particularly in
France, fmce the firft editions of this work were publHhed ; and I truft I fhall obtain credit for other
matters which I have predided, but which are as yet in the womb of time. N^te n ike edition of 1792.
No. 56. 12 F fummer
1052 AN ILLUSTRATION
lummer quarters of the year 1776, when this revolution happened, and for
examining and explaining the lame, according to the rules 1 have fo amj)ly
laid down for that purpoi'e. The Sun's revolutional ingrels into the lign
Aries in the year 1776, under which the independence of America was
eftabliflicd, and the face of tlie heavens at the fummer folftice, may be
feen in the annexed figures, wnich were calculated with great accuracy
and precifion for this purpofe.
In the vernal equinox, Ave find Jupiter is lord of the afcendant, and in
liis detriment. ]Mars we find in Aries, which is the afcendant of England,
ftrong and powerful in his own houfe, but under the earth. The Moon,
who repreients the common people, we find under affii(5f ion, being coni-
buft of the Sun ; and Mars, being combuft alfo, forelhows that poor Eng-
land, though licr internal llrength is great and permanent, yet flie will
this year be accidentally afflicted and deprefled ; more efpecially aswe find
Mars going to an oppolition of Saturn, and Saturn uncommonly ftrong in
the midheaven, in his exaltation, and beheld by the two fortunes Jupiter
and Venus; and confequently liiperior to Mars in power and dignity, who
is under the earth, and combult of the Sun, though located in his own
houfe ; which in this cafe ferves however to fliow tlie permanency and
itability of Great Britain during the whole of this tiying confii6l.
In this figure the planet" Saturn is the fignificator of America, and Mars
reprefents the people of Britain ; as may very eafily be feen by taking
down the dignities of Saturn and Mars, according to the Table in page
120 of this work. That Saturn hath the fuperiority of power, and that
Mars and Saturn are inimical in their nature to each other, are fa6ls too
evident to be denied ; and, as the afpe6l which is about to be fonned be-
tween them is a malevolent one, namely, a partile oppofition, it declares
the event fliall be fuch as to caufe a total and eternal feparation of the two
countries from each other ; and that the congrefs, which is reprefented by
Saturn, will eftablifli an independent and complete revolution, which
fhall be built upon a firm and durable foundation ; and the increafing
ftrength and durability of the new ftate is reprefented by Saturn in his
exaltation, fupported by the benefic rays of the two fortunes. And fince
there is a remarkable reception between the two planets Saturn and Venus,
i. c. Venus in the houfe of Saturn, and Saturn in the houfe of Venus ;
fupported by a propitious trine afpedl of Venus and Jupiter, while Jupi-
ter and Saturn, and Saturn and Venus, with the three preceding planets,
oocupy and poffefs tlie whole expanfe of the heavens ; it is hence de-
clared, that whatever is effected under this revolution of the Sun's ingrefs
into Aries by the Americans, ihall not only be permanent and durable, but
ihall be fupported by thofe three grand pillars of ftate;, wifdom, ftrength,
and
O F x\ S T 11 O L O G Y. 10,-3
and unanimity ; -which are pointed out by thofo three planets, agreeable
to their tendency and nature, viz. Saturn, ftrength and durabilhy; Ju-
piter, wifdoni and juftice; and Venus, unanimity and perfeverance ;
and their mutual trine al'pe6l to each otlier, is exprelhve of future perfec-
tion and harmony; io that, if we attentively contemplate the above po(i-
tion of the heavenly bodies, we lliall find no point ftrained, to fliow their
natural tendency towards the good fortune and fucceis of the Americans ;
and confequently the difappointment and prejudice of the Britilh arms
and adminiitration.
We fliall now take notice of the time in which this extraordinary re-
volution fliould come to its crifis, or completely take place, as pointed out
by the feveral (ignificators in the figure. To do this, we muft equate the
diitance of Mars from Saturn, they being the two pruicipal a6tors in this
revolution. Their diftance is taken by right afcenfion, according to their
latitude ; becaufe Mars, which is the iignificator of Great Britain, is with-
in three degrees of the cufp of the fourth houfe.
deg. min.
The right afcenfion of Saturn is - - - 18
The right afcenfion of Mars is - - - 2
52
30
Subtract, and the remainder is the diftance of Mars from
Saturn -,- - - - - 16 22
Which arch of direction mufl be converted into time,- by adding to it
the right afcenfion of the Sun, as taught in the Do6trine of Nativities ; by
which rule we are to examine how many days the Sun takes in going that
fpace in the ecliptic ; and this being an annual revolution, with the two
fignificators in common figns, which denote weeks, we muft therefore
allov/ for each day's motion of the Sun one week : by which it will
appear that the crifts or effe6t of the oppofttion of Mars and Saturn came
up in fifteen weeks and two days from the time the Sun came into the
firft fcruple of the equinodial fign Aries ; at which time to a day the
Americans declared themfelves independent of the Britifli government,
and became a free ftate.
At this time the heavenly intelligencers were pofited as in the fcroll
prefented by the hand of Fame in the annexed Plate ; and from whence
the following concluftons naturally follow. So many ftgnificators being
pofttedin the fifth houfe, in the watery and fruitful lign Cancer, the lign or
houfe of the Moon, with the Moon in the afcendant"; and Venus, Jupiter,
Sol, and Mercury, all beholding the afcendant with atrineafped; ; clearly
evince that the ftate of America lliallin time have an extenlive and flou-
riftiing
1054 A^f ILLUSTRATION
rifliing commerce ; an advantageous and univerfal traffic to every quarter of
the globe, with great fecundity and profperity amonglt the people. At this
period we are in ibnie meaCure enabled to fpeak experimentally of the truth
of this prefcience ; though the ftars point out thefe particulars, with all
other important incidents relative to the rife and progrefs of the United
States, with as much certainty and precifion as by the IVIoon we calculate
the ebbing and flowing of the fea, the times and periods of eclipfes, the
couries and effects of comets, or any other extraordinaiy phenomena,
wherein nature, and the ordinations of God, the great and primary caufe
of all things, are at the bottom.
The better to fatisfy the curious in thefe mundane revolutions, and to
enable them to draAv conclufions with greater exactnefs, I have fubjoined
the figure of the Sun's ingrefs into the tropical iign Cancer, which took
place near fourteen days before the Americans declared their independence ;
and, what is very remarkable, Mars, who is the ligiiificator of Great Bri-
tain, is dilpoied of in the imum coeli by Mercury, the lignificator of the
French king, who, when the Sun entered into Aries, was lord of the
tcventh houfe, the houle of public enemies, of falfehood, and deceit. He
HkeAvife difpofes of Jupiter, lord of the afcendant at that time, which had
co»-fignification with ^lars, in reprefenting the people of England. From
thefe remarkable pofitions and effects, we may fairly conclude, that the
Americans had not only the French nation to aflift them, but had many
ftrong and powerful friends in Great Britain, who would fupport the caufe
and fecond the exertions of the French in eitabliiliing their independence.
It is to be noted, that, in the preceding figure of the Sun's entrance in-
to Cancer, Mars is found in conjunction of Venus ; and, although Venus
is a fortune, and declares England lliould not be ruined by the Itrong in-
fluence of iVIercury, their difpolitor, yetlhe foftens and takes off the war-
like courage and intrepid impetuolity of IVIars, and inclines him more to
amity and peace than to bloodflied and flaughter. Belldes, we find the
Sun, who is king amongil the planets, inftead of being in conjuncl:ion of
Mars, the implicative afpeft of war and conqueft, is in conjunction
with Jupiter, who is the natural lignificator of peace and concord ; fo
that the Sun's ingrefs into Cancer declares that the counfels of his Bri-
tannic majeily fliould not prove effed:ive, nor his arms virtorious ; but
inclined only to pulli on a defenfive war with the Americans, as the
nature of their lituation and the neceflity of the times might require,
though an unlimited thirft for conqnelt was predominant ; which exad;ly
correiponds with the fituation of the heavenly ordinances at the time the
Americans chofe to declare their defection from the mother-country.
At
]^.'S't
Iiei \r/uf7 071 (Tj" ^L/Zli'f 7 ( v/
OPASTitOLOGY. lo J J
At tRis time Jupitei* and Venus were in' conjunaibn; and appeared to
meet as counfel with tiie Sun and Mercuiy in the celeftial Crab, in that
flart of the heavens appropriated to the manfions of the JVIoon. The
Moon was then alfo arrived at the oppolite point of that particular place
in the heavens where Hie ^v^as pofited at the time of the in-refs and dii-
pofed of by Satum, the fignificator of America. Hence it will appear,
that if we read the hiftory of the American war, and examine with at-
tention the various tranfattions of thofe who were the principal adois
in the bufinefs, and compare therefult with what is prenoted by the
foregoing figures, according to the rules heretofore laid down to deter-
mine planetary influx, we flmll find no difficulty in tracing every important
event, with aftonilhing exadnefs and precifion, that can in any Ihape
relate to this department of the aftral fcience.
I could here add a vai-iety of other examples, in fupport of aftral influ-
ence upon fynods and Itates, and in promoting, as lecond caules under
heaven, the rife and fall of empires, and the revolutions of the world
But enoucrh has furely been faid to illuftrate this enquuy to the fullclt
extent, and to render it obvious to the meaneft capacity, particularly as
the nature of the planets- and ftgns, and the Iwufe^-aitd uianfions of the
heavens, continue unalterably the fame in all cales, with re ped to their
influence and tendency ; and require only to be applied to the nature of
the queftion, nativity, or revolution, whichever it may chance to be,
acrreeable to the rules fo amply given for that purpole; and 1 will be
bold to fay, that the utmoll fatisfadion will relult to every lober en-
quirer, the more he purfues, and the deeper he contemplates, this incom-
parable ftudy.
I am not, however, to exped, that all men will be converts to my
opinion, or fubfcribe to the evidence I have fo abundantly brouiiht in
defence of my dodrine. The felf-willed, and the claflically ob tinate,
are not to be moved by any fpecies of reafoning, incompatible with their
own way of thinking; and it would be the extreme ot folly, after the
ar.mments I have adduced, to attempt to remove that milt from before
their eyes, which blinds their reafon, and contaminates their fenle. If
proofs of all denominations, and the experience of every day and hour we
live are incapable of impreffing the mind with the truths ot dementary
influx and fidereal affedions, it is not all my faint ideas can turnilh
throuoh the medium of my pen, that will either penetrate the heart, or
operate to convince on this occahon. Others there are, wl'.o molt cor-
dially believe whatever their own eyes and their own ears can demon-
ibate; but who are infidels to every occult property, and to the lecrct
No. 56. 12 G influence
io;6 AN I L L U S T R A T I O K, &c.
influence and eflfed of feconcl caufes. Yet. they know there is a fecrct
power in the magnet, which they can neither fee nor comprehend. They
are fenfible of all the phenomena and furprifing properties of air, though
they cannot fee it, nor demonftrate its particles. They admit the ebb-
ing and flowing of the tides, and allow the moon produces the efl^'edl;
yet in the fame moment they deny her influence, and queftiou the ordi-
nations of Providence. To contend with fuch men would be ridiculous
and abfurd, fmce it could neither fupport arguments, nor alter fads
;
nor would the fanction or applaufe of fuch a defcription of beings add
cither to the merit or reputation of the fcience.
END of the THIRD PART.
AN
ILLUSTRATION
OF THE
CELESTIAL SCIENCE
O F
A S T R O L O G Y.
PART the FOURTH.
CONTAINING THE
DISTINCTION between ASTROLOGY
AND THE
WICKED PRACTICE of EXORCISM.
WITH A GENERAL DISPLAY OF
WITCHCRAFT, MAGIC, and DIVINATION,
FOVNDED UPON THE
EXISTENCE OF SPIRITS Good and Bad, and their
Affinity with the Affairs of this World,
»! I
By EBENEZER SIBLY, Astro. Philo. .
I'RINTED IN THE YEAK MDCCCX.
A I«
ILLUSTRATION
Of the CELESTIAL SCIENCE of
ASTROLOGY
PART the FOURTH.
FROM what has been premifed in the foregoing parts of this work,
it will now become manifeft to every unprejudiced reader, that At-
trology and Magic, how much foever they have been confounded with
each other, and confidered by the vulgar as one and the fame doclrine,
are neverthelefs two very oppofite and diftindl purfuits. The one not
only fuppofes, but in truth is, an attainment of the contingencies and
events of futurity, from a natural caufe implanted in the motion and
influence of the fpheres, which it is at once honourable and praife-
w'orthy to iludy ; the other, an acquirement of particular events to come,
or milchjefs to be performed, by means of occult fpells, diabolical in-
cantations, the agency of fpirits, or confederacy with the devil. This
conftitutes what is termed Magic, Exorcii'm, Witchcraft, and Divina-
tion, veiy aptly termed, " The Black Art," which it fliall be the prin-
cipal object of the following pages to illultrate ; as well to give the reader
fome rational idea of that very ancient but mifchievous practice, as to
clear the fublime contemplation and ftudy of the ftars from the grofs
imputations it hath on that account fuftained.
I have no doubt but the greater part of my readers, and perhaps the
bulk of mankind at this day, totally dilbelieve the pofllbility of witch-
craft, magic, or divination ; becaufe, they deny the very exiltence of fpi-
rits, ihe agency of the devil, and the appearance of ghofts or fpirits of
deceafed men, upon which belief the prail^tice of the black art entirely
depends. But, however incredulous tlie wifeft critic may be, as to what
has been re'ated on this fubjert, certain it is, that fuch fpirits really do
exift, and that confederacy and compa(!il with them was in former times
No, i^<o, 12 H no
io6o AN ILLUSTRATION
HO uiicoinnion thing. Blackftonc feems to have eftablifhed tliis fad in a
very fatislartoiy manner, Avhere he I'peaks of the laws formerly provided
in this country ajijainlt magicians and witches, and thofe who held con-
federacy with ipirits ; which to dilbelieve, would not only be found tp
militate aiiainft numerous important pailivges of Scripture, ))ut v/ould
call in queftion the exprefs words of our Saviour hiniielf, and give the
lie to authors and atteltators of the iirll reputation and charatJler. Iisdeed,
the force of Revelation, and the doctrine of Chrift, depend entirely upon
our opinion of the exiftcnce of fpirits ; for that, being confefied or doubt-
ed, either affirms or denies the eternity of the Ibul.
Thofe perfons, who have taken pains to contemplate tlie nature and
ftruc'-ture of man, will have no difficulty to believe, from th.c ]>rinciples
of realbn and common lenfe, that a ibul, ellence, or fpirit, abfolutely
exilts within his body, totally independent of all material functions or
defires; that flies in his face upon the commiilion of every nnjuil or im-
proper a6t, and that leads tlie human ideas to a Itate of being, ini'iintely
beyond the bounds of the terreftrial globe, and luiconitrained by the limits
of time. This applies to the ellence, foul, or fpirit, of man; wherea^^
the body, being compounded of the elements of this world, is fwayed,
ruled, and eventually overcome, by them, in proportion as the elements
operate upon one another, lo as to produce diieafes, imbecility, and death.
As it is agreed by all authors, and admitted in the creed of all icfts
and perfualions of people, that, before the fall, the feafons and elements
were in one unalterable flate of perfection and harmony ; fo the condi-
tion of man was not then under the poAver.of the elements, but he was
clothed with purity and immortality as Avith a garment. The exter-
nal grofs elements had then no fway ; and the alhal powers, inilead of
inflaminji his defu'es, contributed unto him the influences of like unto
like, forming an union of delectable ideas between foul and body, which
led to the unabated praife and adoration of his beneficent Creator. The
pure elements were then congenial to his Itate of immortality, and the
aftral powers were turned upon his back, while innocence and incor-
ruptibility fmiled on his brow. His food was not limited to palpable
matter, but was combined with the pure ethereal fpirit of the univerfe,
which perfumed the air, and enriched the feat of paradife.
Such was the primeval happy ftate of Man. But departing from his
innocency, by the fecret inlinuations infufed into his mind by the fal-
len fpirit Satan, he lulled after palpability in the flelli, turned his face
to the elements, deferted his reafon and his God, and fell from his ethe-
real
O F. A S T II O L O G Y. 1061
'Tra! ilzLie intu all the perils of mortality and death. Ilavir.p; no longer
all powers under I'.is lubjection, he became lubjeot to iidereal and ele-
mentary inllux, v>ith his underftanciing darkejied, and his mental facvd-
ties abridged ; vliieh 1 have exhibited by the fom* figures in the annex-
ed Plate. The firlt reprelents the primeval ftate of man, \vith his hand
lifted up. to his head, denoting the feat of comprehenlive fenfibility, to
which the light of reafon and lenfe flowed from the mirror of the Deity,
in Avhole image he was formed. The fecond figure Ihows the elemen-
tary and aftral influence in the primeval Hate of man^ as having no ac-
tion v/hate-\er internally, but falling on his exterior or back parts ;
V'hilft his face, turned to the light, received tlie beatific vifion of im-
mortality and life from the gate of heaven. The third figure fliows the
internal adion of the elementary and planetary influx after the fall, upon
the vital parts of man, wlience difeafes and death follow in a direct and
regular courfe. For, as the action of theftars on man are agents, and the
elements of which lie is compofed patients, the fame as in the outward
world; i'o we find, as they are fituated in the outward world at the time
of birth, either as to Itrength or imbecility, fo fliall be the inward
Aveakneis or vigour of the vital parts of man born under them ; and of
liich fliall be the inbred quality of the difeafe thus implanted in our tliUen
nature to bring on corruptibility and death. The fourth figure is in-
tended to fliow a faint refemblance of an abandoned and more degenerat-
ed ftate of fallen human nature, Avhen the will and pafllons of man are
given up to vice, and contaminated with the grofs or beftial quality of
deadly iin and wickednefs. lie is led captive by an evil fpirit, the agent
of Lucifer, having his will darkened and every fpark of light cxtin-
guifhed, that could flow from the intelledual faculties of the foul, or
fiom the collifion of virtue and fenfe. Such are the men defcribed by
St. Paul in his Epiltle to the Romans, chap. i. ver. 28, 29, 30.
In this adion of the ftars upon man, it leaves the will and the foul
totally unconftrained ; whiUt the body or corruptible part only is influ-
enced, which allures and attrads the will ; and, as obfervation and ex-
perience fliow us, too commonly leads it captive to all the excefles and
intemperance of the paihons. But, as this is the utmoft effed. the force
of the liars, or the power of the elements, is found to produce in our na-
ture ; fo the dodrhie of aftrology goes no further than to define and ex-
plain them througli all the tracks of occult fpeculation and Icience.
Whereas the art of magic, of divination, and exorcifm, forms an alli-
ance with the agents of the devil, lulls after compaoi with tlanmed
fouls, and holds converfe with the departed fpirits of men.
To.
io6z AN ILLUSTRATION
To illuftrate this extraordinary pra(5iicc of the ancients, I fiiall here
conlider the nature of the world of Ipirits, their quality and olfice, and
the affinity which they bear to this world, agreeable to the doctrines
laid down by thofe ancient authors, whofe works are now rarely to
be feen, though fanrtioned by tiie moft remarkable experiments, and
confuined by the ilrongelt evidence that can be collecteu at fo diiiant
a period.
The noble and learned Swedcnborg, whofe nativity we have confi-
dered in the foregoing part of this work, has with great ingenuity ex-
plained the nature and lituation of the departed fpirits of men, after their
recels from this life. The world of ipirits, fays this author, is neither
heaven nor hell, but a place or Itate betwixt both, into which man im-
mediately enters after death ; and, after ftayingtherea certain time, longer
or fliorter, according to m hat his palt life had been in this world, lie is
either received up into heaven, or call down into hell. It muil be
noted here, that this intermediate Hate has nothing in it of the pro-
bationaiy kind ; for that is all over with the life of this world ; but is a
ftate of a reparation or reducing every one to his own proper prevail-
ing }M-inciple, and as Inch finally preparatory for an eternal happineis
or inifeiy.
In the world of fpirits is always a very great number of them, as be-
ing the firlt fort of all, in order to their examination and preparation;
but there is no fixed time for their flay; for fome are tranilated to
lieaven and othei'S conllgned to hell foon after their arrival ; whilil fome
contiiuie there for weeks", and others for feveral years, though none more
than thirty, this depending on the correfpondence or non-correfpon-
dence between the interior and exterior of men. As fbon as they arrive
in the world of fpirits, they are claflTed according to their feveral qualities,
inclinations, and difpolitions. The evil, with fuch infernal focieties as
they had communication with in this world, in the ruling paifion ; and
the good, with fuch heavenly focieties as they had conniumicated with,
in love, charity, and faith. But, however they are diverfely clafl'ed,
they all meet and converlie together in that world, when they have a de-
lire fo to do, who have been tViends and acquaintances in this lite ; more
efpecially hulbands and wives, brothers and iiflers, &c. But if they are,
according to their different ways of life, of different inclinations and ha-
bits of mind, they are foon parted ; and it may be obferved, both con-
cerniiig thofe wlio fuiailv go to heaven, and thoie that go to heil, that,
after tlieir arrival in ihofe two different kingdoms, they no more fee or
know one another, unlets they are of like minds and affections. The
realbn
O F A S T R O L O G Y. io5J
iTafon why they meet and know one anotlier in the woihl of fpirits, and
not ib in heaven or hell, is, becau(e in the world of fpirits they pal^
through the lame ttate they were in in this life, and lb from one to another ;
but afterwards all are fixed in one permanent Itate reipectivcly, accordiiig
to the Hate of that love which prevails in them, in which one knows an-
otlier from iimilarity of condition ; for limilitude joins, but diiiimilitude
i'eparates.
As tlie world of fpirits is a middle ftate with man, between heaven and
hell+ fo it is alfo a middle place, having the hells underneath and the
lieavens above ; all the hells are Ihut next to that world, except that
fome holes or clefts, like thofe in rocks or caverns, are left open ; and
thefe lo guarded, that none can pals through them but by permiffion,
which is granted on particular occalions. Heaven likewile appears as
fenced all round, fo that there is no palVmg to any of the heavenly foci-
eties, but by a narrow way, which is likewile guarded. Thefe outlets
and inlets are what in fcripture are called the doors and gates of heaven
and hell.
The world of fpirits appears like a valley, between mountains and
rocks, here and there linking and riling ; the doors and gates opening to
the heavenly focieties are only feen by thofe wiio are in their prepara-
tion for heaven ; nor are they to be found by any others. To every fo-
ciety in heaven there is an entrance from the world of fpirits, after pal-
ling which there is a way, which as it rifes branches into fevcral others :
nor are the doors and gates of the hells vifible to any but thofe that are
going to enter therein, to whom they are then opened ; at which time
thele appear like, as it were, dark and footy caverns, leading obliquely
down to the infernal abyls, where there are alio more gates. Througlx
thole dark and difmal caverns exhale certain foetid vapoms, which are
molt offenlive to ihe good fpirits ; but which the evil ones are greedily
fond of; for, as were the evils which any one took molt delight in when in
this world, fuch is the ftink correfponding Uiereto which moil pleafes
him in the other; in which they may be aptly compared to thofe birds
or beafK of prey, as ravens, Molves, and Twine, which are attracted by the
rank effluvia emitted from carrion and putrid carcalies.
There are alfo in every man two gates, the one of which opens to-
wards hell, and to all that is evil and falfe proceeding therefrom; the
other gate opens towards heaven, and to all the good and truth ilfuing
thence. The infernal gate is open thofe who are in evil, and they
receive from above only lome glimmering of heavenly li.i^ht, jult lulh-
No. 56. J2 I cient
io64 AN ILLUSTRATION
cient to fervc them to think, reafon, and talk of heavenly things; but
the gate of lieaven ftands open in thofe Avho are good and in truth. 1 here
are alfo two ways leading to tlie rational mind in man ; the hiperior or
internal, by which good and truth are communicated from the Lord
;
and the inferior or external wa^^ by which evil and falle are conummi-
caled from hell, and the rational mind is in the midft of thefe two ways;
hence it is, that as much of the heavenly light as any man receiveth into
his mind, lb far is he truly rational; and fo much as he admits not of it,
in fuch proportion lie is not rational, however he may think himfelf fo.
Thefe things here offered, ilrow the correlpondence that fubiiils between
ntan and heaven and hell ; for his rational mind, during the formation
of it, correfponds to the Avorld of fpirits, things above it being in heaven,
and things beneath it in hell; tlie former are opened, and tlie latter (as
to all influx of evil and the falfe) are lliut, with refpeCl to thoib who
are in their preparation for heaven ; but, on the other Jiand, the things
from beneath are opened, and the things above are Ihut (as to all influx
of good and trutii) with reipei^ to thole who are in their preparation for
liel! ; conlequently the latter can only look down to the things beneath
theuj, or to hell, and the former only to things above them, or to heaven.
Now to look up is by correfpondence to look to the Lord, who is the
conniion centre to Avhich all heavenly things point their afpert and ten-
dency ; but to look downwards is to turn from the Lord to the oppolite
centre, of attraction, and conlequently to all things of a helliih uaiure.
Tiiefc confiderations are applied only to the immediate after-flatc of
the ibul and I'pirit of man, as the coniequence of the mortality of this
world. ISIany there are, however, who entirely din)elieve the faculty of
tlie foul, or the exifteiice of tlie fpirit ; but wlioever rightly con'iders the
matter, cannot but know, that it is not the body, or material part, but
the foul, or fpiritual part, that thinks within liim. Now the foul is his
fpirit, immortal in all its [iroperties, and receptive of what is fpiritual,
as havnig a fpiritual life, wh.ich confiits in thinking and willing; conle-
quently, the whole of the rational life appertains thereto, and not to the
body, though manifefted therein : f>r the body is only thoughtlels mat-
ter, and an adjunct or inflrument to the fpirit of man, whereby it may
manifeil its vital powers and func^iions in this natural world, where all
things are material, and as fuch void of life; it is indeed cuPcomary to
afcribe action, motion, and power, to the body, in the connnon forms of
fpcaking; but to fuppofe that the properties belong to the inflrument,
and not Iblely to the principle that actuates it., is eri-oncous and abihrd.
OF ASTROLOGY. 1065
As all vital power, both of ading and thinking, appet'tains folely to
the Ipirit, and in no wiie to the body, it follows,^ that the fpirit is truly
and properly the man, and that without its influence and operation there
is neither thought nor life from the crown of the head to the foie of the
foot: conlequently, that the feparation of the body from the fpirit,
which we call death, takes nothing from that which in reality confti-
tutes the man. For man would not be capable of thinking and willing,
unlefs there were in him a fubftance to ferve as the fubjeft of thefe opera-
tions ; and to fuppofe otherwife would be afcribing exillence to non-
entity, as may appear from man's not being able to fee without that organ
which is the fubiec?t of vifion, or to hear without the organ of hearing
;
thefe fenfes being nothing without fuch fubjects of their operations.
NoAv thouuht is internal villon, or the light of the mind, as perception
is the internal heaving, and thefe without internal organized fubliances,
as their proper fubjects, cannot exiit: fo that the fpirit of a man has
equally a form, and that a human one, as alio its lenfory and fenfes, when
divefted of its material body, as it had before ; for all the percepiive lif«
of the eye and the ear, and" of every other fenle that appertains to man,
is not from his material body, but from his Ipirit and the vital powers
thereof, in all and lingular the organs and parts of his body : hence it is,
that fpirits fee, hear, and feel, as well as men, in the fpiritual world,*
though not in this natural vv'orld after their feparation from this mortal
body! That the fpirit had natural fenfations in this world, was owing
to its union with a natural or material body; but then alfo it had its
fpiritual fenfes in various modes of thinking and willing.
The foregoing dodrine is here offered to convince the rational reader,^
that man, confidered in himfelf, is a fpirit, and that the corporeal part .of
his compofition annexed to him in this natural and material world is in
order to his relation thereto, and what he has to do therein, but is not
the man himfelf, but only deligned to be inltiimiental to the operations
of his fpirit: but, as few are "capable of receiving abitrad reafonings,
• To fuppofe a hiitnan fpirit void of a human form and fenfes, is to annihilate th: very id:a of fpiiit
;
for as every cffence has its proper form, and every form its own cifencc, (they being ntcelfary correla-
tives,! fo every fpirit has its body fuited to the world it belongs to, according to that (i'lt"n£lion la;d down
by the apoftle :
" There is a natural bo^ly, and there is a fpiritual body :" and indeed, it is as rational to
c;;nclude, that a human fpirit fliould have a human orj^anized body emlued with fpiritual lenfes in a fpi-
ritual world, as that the fame fpirit ftiould be invefted with a material organized body v,h\} natuial fti:fe3
in this natural world. It i.s tu be lairenied, and the mote for its tendency to promote inHdclity, that many
of the learned, fo t-alled, have in a manner defined and refined fpiritual nature into nothing, by di\e(ting it
of fubiVantia'.itv, to which it his a mjre peculiar right by far than matter; nor is the Ud/ of inangcl^
lefs fiibibntial in a proper fcnfe of the word than a fohd rock, tlmugh nor according to the coni:itio'.i ot
ir,aterial nature. Upon the whole, the common ideas of the vulgar and illiterate conne much i carer to
the trafh aiid realitj of heavenly tilings, than the vain conceits of fuch fpcciiUting iciolii's.
and
ro66 AN ILLUSTRATION
ami many are apt to run them into matter of (loubtfii! difputation, by
arguments drawn from fajlacious appearances of fenlc, 1 choofe, for con-
iirmation oftlie dodnne in hand, to appeal to truths founded on expe r
cncc. Such as have conrtrmed themfelve.s in tlie belief of the contrary
fide, are jiiven to think, that, as the bcalts have life and fenfations as well
as men, io they have both the fame fpirit and tlie iume end ; but this is
a grofs error, as the f[)iritof a beail immenfely differs from that of a man,
as being deltitnte of that fublime principle of a heavenly life, by wiiich
the latter is made receptive of the divine influx, and capable of beiiiii;
exalted to a participation of the divine nature ; and therefore it is that
man is fo highly privileged above the bealls, that he can think of God,
and the things pertaining to his kingdom both in heaven and earth, and
be led thereby to love the Creator, and to be united to him: now that
which is in the capacity of fuch union is not liable to perilli, like that
•which is Jiot. For there is in every angel and in every man an nnnoil
and fupremc degree or part; which more immediately admits the divine
influx from heaveji, whereby all that is within man in the inferior de-
grees are orderly dilpofed and regulated. This inmoil or fnprcmc part
of the fpirit or foul, may be called the Lord's entrance into angels and
men, nay, his very habitation in them; and hereby it is that man is dil-
tinguiflied from tlie brute animals, which have it not, and is rendered
capable of near communications with heaven in the inner man, of be-
lieving in the Deity, of loving him, and of feeing liim : nay, from hence
it is that man is a recipient of underftanding and wifdom, and alfo that
lie is endowed with a rational life, and an heir of immortality : but how
or what the Creator operates in this iiimoll recefs or fuprcme part of
•man, exceeds the capacity of an angel to comprehend.
When the body of a man is no longer able to perform its natural
functions correfponding to the thoughts and affertions of his fpirit, and
which are derived to him from the fpiritual world, then he is faid to die;
which comes to pafs when the lungs and the heart ceafe their refpiratory
atul contractile motions ; not that man then fuffers extinrtion of life,
but only is feparate.l from that corporeal pait of his corapofition, which
ieived him for an inftrument of ufefulneis in this world ; but he ftill
continues a living man, and that in a proper and literal fenfe of the ex-
])reflion, inafmuch as man receives his denomination not from his body,
but from his fpirit, fince it is the latter that thinks in him, and that
thought with affcrtion cflentially conftitutes the man ; fo tliat, when any
man is faid to die, it means no more than that he pafles from one world
into another; and hence it is, that by Deafh in the Scripture, according
to the internal fenfe of the word, is "iignified refurredion, and continua-
tion of life.
There
OF ASTROLOGY. 1067
There is a very near communication and correfpondence betwixt the
fpirit and refpiration, and the motion of the heart (fy/lolej, betwixt
thinking and refpiration, and betwixt the affe6tion of love and the lieart;
fo that, when thefe two motions ceafe in the body, a feparation prefently
enfues; for thele two motions, viz. that which is refpiratory in the
lungs, and that which is called the fyftole or contractile power of the
heart, are tlie tw-o bonds of union, which when broken, the fpirit is
left to itfelf, and the body, being deltitute of life from the fpirit, be*
comes cold and putrefies. That fo intimate a communication fublilVs
between tlie human fpirit and refpiration, and the heart, is, becaufe all
the vital motions in this world depend thereon, not only in common,
but alfo in every particular part of the body.
The fpirit of a man remains fome little time in the body after all figns
of life difappear, but not longer than till a total cefTation of all power in-
the heart enfues, which varies according to the nature of the difeafe he
dies of, for the motion of the heart continues long after in fome, but
not fo in others; but, as foon as the total ceffation of it happens, the re-
fufcitation of man commences, and this by the Ible power of the Lord.
By refufcitation here is meant the liberation of the fpirit of a man from
his body, and the introdud;ion of it into the world of fpirits, and com-
monly called Refurrcttion. That the fpirit of a man is not feparated
from his body before all niotion and power in the heart entirely ceafes,
is becaufe the heart correfponds to the affedion of love, which is the
very life of man, for it is from love that every one derives his vital heat;
therefore, fo long as this conjundion lafts, fo long the correfpondence
continues, and itis from coiTefpondency that the fpirit aduates and com-
municates life to the body.
That the form of the fpirit of a man is a human form, or, in other
words, that the fpirit is the true formed man, may be evinced from many
articles, particularly from thefe, viz. that every angel is in a perfe<5t Im-
uian form, and alfo, that every man is a fpirit as to his inner man; and
that angels in heaven are from the human race. This alfo more evident-
ly appears from man's being denominated man from his fpirit, anol not
from his body, and becaufe the corporeal form is an adjunct to the fpirit
after its form, and not contrariwife, the former being but the clothing of
the latter. Moreover, the fpirit is the fole moving power in man, acting
upon and a6tuating every the moll minute part of the body, infomuch
that, when any part no longer derives vital influence therefrom, it pre-
fently dies. Now, the ruling powers, which govern the body as their fub-
je6l, are the thought and the will ; but thefe are from the fpirit only,
nay, conftitute its very cffence. The reafoii why we do not fee any fe-
No. 57. 12 K parate
,o68 AN ILLUSTRATION
parate fpiiit, nor yet that of another man Avhilll in his body, in its hu-
man form, with our prefent organs of fight, is becaufe thefe organs of vi-
fjon arc material, and therefore only capable of difcerningobjeil'tsof a ma-
terial nature, whereas fpiritual things muft be feen by a ipiritual eye* ;
but, when the corporeal fight is extinguilhed by the death of the body,
and the fpirit's eye is opened, then fpirits appear to one another in their
btiniau form, not only in the fpiritual world, but they alfo fee the fpirits
of thofe who yet live here in the body.
That a human form is proper to a human fpirit, follows from man's
being created in the form of heaven, and alfo receptive of all things of a
lieavenly nature and order, confequently ,with the faculty of recen'ing
Tnidcrilanding and wifdom ; for, whether we exprefs it by the words, fa-
cult}' of receiving underilanding and wifdom, or, the facidty of receiving
heaven, it comes to one and the fame thing. So that what has hitherto
been faid on this fubjet^, may be underftood by the rational man, from
liis view of caufes and their effe6ls, of premifes and tlieir confequences ;
but not fo by the obftinately irrational, and that for many alVignable rea-
fons ; but principally, becaufe he is averfe to all doctrines which are con-
trary to the falfe principles that he has adopted in the room of truths ;
and, he that has thus iluit up his mind hath thut the gate of heaven
againft hinilelf, fo tliat no light from thence can. illuminate his rational
faculties ; and yet that gate might be opened, if his will did not refill.
This makes it evident, that they, who are in falfe thinking from an evil
priiu'iple, might be pofleficd of a rational undeiitanding, if they were in
a wiilijig diipolitiou for it; and, that the reafon why tiiey are not fo, is
becaufe they love the falfe above tlie true, as more agreeing with the evil
they have adopted, and which they choofe to follow. It is to be obferved,
that to love and to will a thing is the liime ; for, what a man wills he
loves, and what he loves he alfo wills.
When tlic fpirit of a man firft enters into the world of fpirits, which
is foon after his rel'ufcitation, (of which mention has been nrade before,)
lie as yet letains the fame face and voice that he had in this world, as be-
ing hitherto in his exterior ilate, that of his interior being yet unmani-
feited ; and this is his fiift ftate after death ; but fome time after, his
face becomes entirely changed, fo as to corrclpond with the particuhir
aftcction or love that poiTefied his fpirit when in the body ; for the face
of a man's fpirit differs greatly from that of his body, the latter being
* It is to be noted here, that, wlicn fpirits arc feen by any on? in the body, they sre not fcen with
the corporeal organs of vifion, but by the fpirit of the b( holder abftraftcdlv froni the body, thou.^h the
appearance is cxaftly the fa-ne in both cafes, as implied in thofe words of the apotlle, where, fp-jking
of his vifions, he fays, " Whether in the body, or out of the body, I cannot tell."
derived
OF ASTROLOGY. 1069
derived from bis parents, but the former a correfpondent to his predo-
minant affedion, of which it is the fignature or image, and which be-
comes appropriated to man in the other world, upon the manifeil:ation of
his interior ftate ; for the fpirit of a man, rightly confK.'ered, is the fame
with his predominant affedlion or love, and his face is the externa! form
of it. This change relpeding faces, in thofe who pafs from hence into
the other world, is founded on this law, that no diflimulation or coun-
terfeiting is there allowed, but all mull appear to be what they really aie,
and coniequently exprefs their thoughts in their words, and their affec-
tions and deiires in their looks and adions, fo that the faces of all there
reprefent their minds refpedively. Hence it is, that, though all who
knew one another in this world are alike mutually acquainted in the world
of tpirits, yet it is otherwife in heaven and hell.
The faces of hypocrites undergo not their proper change fo foon as the
faces of others, and that becaul'e' they have by cuftom contracted a habit
of forming their minds to a kind of imitation of good fentiments and affec-
tions, and" therefore they appear not uncomely for fome time ; but as the
difguife gradually Avears off, and their iiunolt thoughts and affections ma-
nifell themfelves, they appear more ugly than others. The hypocrites
Jiere fpoken of, are fuch as know how to talk like angels upon divine
iubjeCts, and yet in their hearts exalt nature on God's throne, and diibe-
lieve all heavenly truths acknowledged in the Chriftian church.
It is to be obfci-ved, that the human form of every man after death is
beautiful in proportion to the love he had for divine truths, and a life ac-
cording to the fame, for by this ffandard things within receive their out-
ward manifeitation and form, lb that, the deeper grounded the aftedion for
-what is good, the more conformable it is to the divine order in heaven,
^nd coniequently the more beauty the face derives from its influx. Hence
it is, that the angels of the third or inmoff heaven, whole love is of the
third or higheil degree, are the nioft beautiful of all the angels ; wherea'j
they whole love for divine things had been in a lower degree, or more
trxternal than that of the celeilial or higheff angels, poflels an inferior
degree of beauty ; and the tranflucent lultre in their faces, as proceeding
from afmaller degree of divine virtue within them, is comparatively dim ;
for, as all perfection riies in degrees from the inward to the imnoff, fo
the external beauty, to which it gives life and vigour, has its degrees in
the fame proportion.
When a man pafles from this natural world into the fpiritual, whici\
is at tlie time of his death, he takes with him all that belonged to him as
man.
lOTo AN ILLUSTRATION
man, and poffefTes every fenfe, both external and internal, that he poffciTed
before. Thus, for inllance, all in heaven have their light, their hearing,
and ail their fenfes, in far greater perfei"^ion than wlien in this worl^j
and alfo their minds more abundantly replete with wifdom: for they fe^
by the light of heaven, which greatly exceeds that of this world, and they
hear througli the medium of a (piritual atmofphere, to which that of our
earth is not comparable. The comparative difference between thefe two
fenles there and here, is as that of a bright fl<y to a thick fog, or as tlm
luftre of the meridian hm to the dufk of the evening. Now the light of
heaven, which is the divine truth, makes manifell the minuteft things to
the perception of angels ; and, as their external correfponds to their inter-
nal or intellectual light, fo by mutual influx they co-operate in forming
the high perfei^tion of angelic perfpicuity. In like manner their fenfe of
hearing correfponds to their perception, both in the underftanding and
will ; fo that in the found of the voice, and in the words of the fpeaker,
they can trace the minute particulars of his affertions and thoughts; iii
the found Mdiat relates to his affetlions, and in the words what concernf*
his mind or thoughts; but it is to be obferved, that the other fenfes of
the angels are not in the fame high degree of perfection with thole of
light and hearing, and that becaufe the latter are fubfervient inftruments
to their underftanding and wifdom, and not fo the others, Avhich, if equal
.in power, would lelien their preference to intelledtual delights over and
above thofe of their fpiritual bodies, as we find to be the cafe with men
in this world, who, according to their greater relilh and indulgence as to
their grofler fenfes, have the lels appetite and fenfibility with relpe<^l to
Spiritual things.
A few words fliall here be fpoken concerning the cultivation of the ra-
tional faculty in man. Genuine rationality confifts in truths, not in falfe^-
hoods. Now tniths are of three kinds, civil, moral, and fpiritual: civij
truths relate to judicial matters, and fuch as refpe6l public government;,
and, in a general confideration, juftice and equity : moral truths havf:
relation to the condud; of life with refpe6l to focieties and inferior con-
nections ; in general, to lincerity and rectitude ; and in particular, to
virtues of every clafs; but fpiritual truths relate to the things of heaven,
and of the church on earth ; and in general to the good of love, and the
truths of faith. There are three degrees of life in every man: the ra-
tional part in man is opened to the firft degree by civil truths ; to the fe-
cond by moral truths ; and to the third by fpiritual truths. But let it
here be oblerved, that man's rational part is not opened and formed mere-
iy by his knowing fuch truths, but by living according to them when
knowUj
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 1071
known, that is, by loving them with a fpiritual affection, or the affection
of his fpiiit, or, in other words, by loving jultice and equity as fuch,
fnicerity and re6iitude of manners as fuch, and good and truth as fuch;
whereas, to love them only from external regards, is loving them for the
fake of felf, for one's own charadter, honour, or profit ; and therefore fuch
a love, as it terminates in felf, gives not a man any right to th-j charac-
ter of rational, as fuch a one ufes truths as a lordly mafter ufes his fer-
rants, viz. for his pleafure or intereft : and where this is the cafe, they
make no part of the man, nor open fo much as the firft degree of life in
him, but onlj' have a place in his memorj^ like other fcientifical ideas,
under a material form, where they unite with the love of felf in mere ani-
mal nature. Hence it may appear, how man becomes truly and properly
rational, viz. in the third or higheit degree, by the fpiritual love of
good and truth, or the things of heaven, and its reprefentative the church ;
in the lecond degree, by the love of fmcerity and rectitude ; and in the
firlt degree, by the love of juftice and equity ; which two laft loves be-
come fpiritual by influx of the fpiritual love of good and truth from tlie
higheit degree, by joining itfelf to the inferior loves, and forming in them
its own likenefs. There are three degrees in man correfponding to the
three heavens ; and, as the thiixl or higheit heaven does, as it were, fanc-
tify the two inferior heavens by the defcending influx of its celeftial fu-
perior virtue, fo the fpiritual love of all that is good and true in man (cor-
refponding to the third heaven) fpiritualizes or fanctifies his virtues,
though of an inferior clafs ; thus, to give a cup of cold water to another
is a little thing; but when it is the molt we can do, and love is in the
doing of it, the act has in it the effence of Chriftian charity.
There are three ftates which man goes through after death, before he
enters into heaven or hell ; the fii-ft refpetfts hi« exterior part ; the fecond
his interior ; and the third is his Hate of final preparation. Thefe flates
manpalfes through in the world of fpirits ; however, there are exceptions,
as fome are immediately after death taken up into heaven, or cait into
liell ; of the foi'mer clafs are they who are regenerated, and fo prepared
for heaven in this world, and that in fo high a degree as to need only the
putting oft' all their natuial impiuities, in order ta be carried by the
angels into heaven. On the other hand, fuch as have been internally evil,
under the madi of externally-apparent goodnefs, and lb have tilled up the
raeafure of their iniquities by hypocrify and deceit, ufmg the cloak of
goodnefs as a means whereby to deceive others ; thefe are immediately
call into hell. There are alfo fome who are committed to caverns im-
mediately after their deceafe, and fo feparated from others in the world of
fpirits, but afterwards releafed, and remanded thither by turns : fuch
are they who, under civil pretexts, deal fraudulently with their neigh-
No. 57. 12 L hours
;
toyi AN ILLUSTRATION
hours ; but the fore -mentioned are very (ew compared to the many clafTos
of tliole who arc detained in the world of fj)irits, in order to their pre-
paration for heaven or hell, according to the ellablilheJ order of divine
economy.
As to the firft ftate before-mentioned, or that which i*efpe6ls the exte-
rior, this man enters upon immediately after death. Every one's fpirit
has belonging to it properties exterior and interior ; the former are thofe
by Avhich he governs and acconmiodates the corporeal functions in this
world, more efpecially the fnce, fpeech, and bodily gelture?, according to
his focial conne6tions ; the latter are propei'to his will and free thoughts,
which are feldom made manifeft by the face, fpecQh, and 9utward be-
liaviour, man being accuftomed through education and example to coun-
terfeit friendlhip, hncerity, and benevolence, and to conceal his true
thoughts even from his infancy. Hence it is, that fo many learn the ex-
ternal pra6tice of morality and good manners, however different they may
in reality be M'ithin, and fo, miftaking cuftom for principle, know not
themfelves, nor enter into any examination concerning the matter.
As the life of men newly become fpirits is fo like to their natural life
in this world, and as they are at lirll llrangers to their new ftate, Avithout
knowing any thing more of heaven and hell than what they have learned
from the letter oflcripture, and their preachers ; therefore, after wonder-
ing for fome time at their being clothed with abodv, and polfeHing every
fenfe as in this world, and alio at their feeing things under the like ap-
pearance as before, they fmd themfelves urged by a deiire of knowing
what and where heaven and hell are ; upon which they arc infiruc^ted by
itheir friends in things relating to eternal life, and are conducted to various
.places, and different focieties, and fome into cities, gardens, and beauti-
ful plantations, and more particularly to fee magnificent buildings, as
fuch external objed:s fuit with the prefent external ftate of their minds.
Then they are led to iufpett thofe interior fcntiments and ideas, which
they had in this life concerning the Itate of fouls after death, and con-
cerning; heaven and hell, not without indiiination to think of their own
pait ignorance, indalfo that of the church, in relation to thefe important
iubjet*:ts. Almoft all in the world of fpirits are defirous to know whe-
ther they fhall goto heaven or not, and'the greater part judge in favour
of themfelves as to this particular, efpecially fuch as had lived by the
external rules of morality and civil obligation here; not confidering that
both g(jod and bad do the fame to outward appearance, as alfb do many
good offices to others, and in like manner go to church, hear fermons,
and beiar a part in the public worfliip ; not reflecting that thefe external
ads,'
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 10/3
'fi^s, and this outward form of worfliip, avail nothing in themfelves, con-
sidered leparately from the difpofitiou and principle of the worfliipper,
and that it is the interior or inner man tliat ftamps thccharafter and value
upon the outward w^ork and form ; but fcarcely one in a thoufand knows
what is meant by the interior, and, even after being taught it, place all
in the words and bodily fervice ; and fuch is the greater part of thofe whb
at this day pafs from the Chriftian world into the other.
The fecond ftate of man after death is called liis interior ftate, as he
then pafles into the more recondite things of his mind, or of his will
and thoughts, whilft the more external fun6tions of it, as exercifed in
his {nit (late, are then quiefcent and dormant. NVhoever carefully attends
to the lives, words, and adions, of men, may foon find that every one
has both his exterior and interior thoughts and intentions ; thus, for ex-
ample, the man of civil connections and manners forms his judgment of
others by what he knows of them by character and converlation ; and,
though he fliould find them to be far othenvife than men of probity aud
worth, yet he does not fpeak and behave to them according to his real
fentiments of them, but with fomcthing of feeming refpecl; and civility :
and this is ftill more ftrongly exemplified in the behaviour of perfoiis
addicted to diffimulation and flattery, who fpeak and act quite contrary
to what they think and mean ; and alfo in hypocrites, who can talJc of
God, of heaven, and Spiritual things, and alfo of their country and neigh-
bour, as if from faith and love, when at the fame time they have neither
the one nor the other, and love none but themfelves. This evinces that
there are thoughts in the fame mind of two different complexions, the
one interior, and the other exterior, and that it is common for men to
fpeak from the latter, whilft their real fentiments in the interior are con-
trary thereto ; and that thefe two arrangements of thoughts are of diftinCt
and Separate apartments in the mind, appears from the pain's fuch perfons
take to prevent thofe that are interior from flowing into the exterior to
manifeftation. Now man was fo fomied by his original creation, that
both thefe were as one by correfpondence and confent, as is the cafe now
with the good, who both think and fpeak what is good and true ; whereas;
in the evil the interior and the exterior are divided, for they tliink evil,
and fpeak good, thus inverting the order of things, whillVthe evil is in-
nermoft, and the good outerrtioft, the former exercifing rule over the
latter, and ufing its Services for temporal and Sclfilh ends, So that the
feeming good which they Say and do is corrupted and changed into evil,
however the undifceming may be deceived by its outAvard appearance.
On the other hand, they who are in the good principle Sand hi the divine
erder of God's creation, whilll the good in their interior flow^s into the.
exterior
1074 AN ILLUSTRATION
exterior of their minds, and thence into their words and actions. Thv*
is tlie ilate in which man was created, and thus they have communication
with lieaven, and have the Lord for their leader. Thus much may I'erve
to fliow, tha,t man thinks from two diftinft grounds, the one called the
interior, the other the exterior; and, when we Ipeak here of his thinking.,
we include likewife his faculty of willing, as his thoughts are from his will,
neither can they exift feparately.
After that man, now become a fpirit, has gone througlr his firft
ftate, which is that of his exterior thoughts and will, he then pafles
into his fecond or interior ftate, and this he enters upon infeniibly,
which refembles that of a man of this world, who, finding himfelf at
liberty from every reftraint and diffipation, recolleCis himfelf, and enters
into the moll fecret recefles of his foul. Now in this ftate of introverlion>
when he thinks freely from his inraoft difpofition and affections, he is
properly himfelf, or in his true life. All without exception enter into
this ftate in the other world, as proper to fpirit, for the former is aftumed
and pradtifed in accommodation to fociety and tranfaCtions in this world
;
and therefore, though it remains with man for fome time after death, yet
it is not long continued in, as not being fuitable to the nature of a fpirit,
for the following reafons : firll, becaufe a fpirit thinks and fpeaks fron^
the governing principle of life without difguife ; nay, the fame is the cafe
of man in tliis world, when he enters into his inmoit felf, and takes an
intuitive view of his inward man, in which kind of furvey he fees more
in a minute than he could utter in an hour. Secondly, becaufe in his-
converfation and dealings in this world, he fpeaks and acts under the re-
ftraint of thofe rules which fociety has eftabliflied for the maintenance of
civility and decorum. Thirdly, becaufe man, when he enters into the
interior recefles of his fpirit, exercifes rule over his outward economy,
prefcribing laws thereto, how to fpeak and a6l in order to conciliate the
<2;ood will and favour of others, and that by a conftrained external beha-
viour. Thefe conliderations may ferve to fliow, that this interior ftate
of liberty is not only the proper ftate of the fpiiit of a man after death,
but even in this life. When a fpirit has pafted into this fecond or interior
ftate, it then appears outwardly what manner of man he had been in this
World, as he now acts from his proper felf; thus, if he had been a wife
and good man before, he now manifefts ftill higher degrees of rationality
and wifdom in his words and actions, as being freed from thofe corporeal
and earthly erabarraflinents which had fettered and obfcured the inward
operations of his mind, whereas the bad man evidences greater folly than
before; for, whilft in this world, he fafliioned his external behaviour by
the rules of piudence, in order to fave appearances; but, not being under
the like reftraiuts now, he gives full fcope to his infanity.
OF A S T R O L O G Y. 1075
All who in this world lived uprightly, and preferved a good confcience,
walking in the fear of God, and in the love of divine truths, ap])lying
the fame to practical ufe, feem to themfelves as men awaked out of lleep, ^
and as having pafled from darknefs to light, when they firft enter upon
their fecond or interior ftate, for they think upon the light of pure wif-
dom, and they do all things from the love of goodnefs; heaven influ*
ences their thoughts and aftedions, and they are in communication with
angels. But the condition of the evil in this ftate is according to his par-
ticular concupifcence. They who had been abforbed in lelf-love, fo as
not to attend to the good ufes of their refpedtive offices and fundlions, but
difcharged them only with a view to their own ellimation and honour,
appear more ftupid than others; for, in proportion to the degree of felt-
love in any one is his diilancefrom heaven, and confequently from wifdom :
but they, who to the evil of felf-love had added crafty devices, and by
means thereof advanced themfelves to worldly, honours, aflfociate them-
felves to the word of fpirits, and addict themfelves to the magical
arts, which are profane abufes of the divine order, by means of wiuclj*
they raoleit and vex all that pay them not honour. The practifingof
infidious wiles, and to kindle Itrife and hatred, yield them the higheft
pleafure; they burn with revenge, and long for nothing more than to
tyrannife over all that fubmit not to their will ; and all thefe wicked paf-
lions they gratify as far as their evil aflbciates give them alViftance ; nay,
fo far does madnefs hurry them on, as to make them wifli to fcale heaven,
either to fubvertthe government of the holy kingdom, or to caufc them-
felves to be worlhipped for gods therein. As to thofe who in tiiis world
afcribed all creation to nature, and fo in effect denied a God, and confe-
quently all divine truths, fuch herd together in this ftatc, calling every
one a god who excelled in fubtlety of reafoning, and giving him divine
honour. Such in the world of fpirits are feen in their conventicle wor-
Ihipping a magician, holding conferences concerning nature, and be-
liaving more like brlite-beafts than human creatures ; and among them
fome who were dignitaries in this world, and had the reputation of being
learned and wife, and others of a different charad^r. From this much
we may gather what they are, the interior of whofe minds is Ihut againft
divine things, as theirs is, who receive no influx from heaven througK
.looking up to God and a life of faith.
The third ftate of man, or of his fpirit, after death, is the liate of in-
struction, which is appointed for thofe that go to heaven, and become
angels ; but not for thofe that go to hell, as Inch are not in a capacity of
inftruction, and therefore their fecond ftate is their lalt, and anfwers to
the third in others, as. it terminates in their total change into that pre-
vailing love which conftitutcs their proper principle, and confequently
'No. 57. 12 M • int®
1076 AN ILLtlSTRATION
into a conformity to that infernal fociety with which they have fellowftiip.
When this is accompHihed, their will and thoughts flow fpontaneoully
from their predominant love, which, being infernal, they can only choofe
the evil and falle, and rejeft all that apparent good and truth which be-
fore they had adopted, folely as means I'ubfervient to tiie gratification of
-their ruling paffion. On the other hand, the good fpirits are introduced
from their fecond into their third ftate, which is that of preparation for
heaven by the means of inilruiStion ; for none can be qualified for heaven
but through the knowledge of Ipiritual good and truth, and their oppo--
fites, evil and falfehood, which can only come from previous inftrud;ion.
As to good and truth in a civil and moral fenfe, commonly called
juftice and fincerity, thefe may be learned from the laws of nations, and
from converfation in virtuous company ; but fpiritual good and truth, as
ingi-afted principles in the heart, are only received by the teachings of a
divine light : for though they are literally fet forth in the fcripture, and
the dodtrines of the Chriftian churches founded thereon, yet they only
gain the efficacy of a vital principle from a celeftial influence manifelling
itfelf in a eonfcientious obedience to the divine laws, as promulgated in
the written word, and that in refpe6l to the divine authority of them, and
not from felfifii and worldly motives ; then a man is in the heavenly life,
or in heavenj even whilfl; in this world.
The way of conveying inftru<ftion in the other world differs from that
on earthj inafmuch as truths there are committed not to the memory, but
to the life ; for the memory of fpirits is in their life's principle, and they
receive and imbibe only what is conformable thereto ; for fpirits are fo
many human fonns of their own affections. As the natuie of fpirits is
fuch, therefore they are continually infpired with an affection for truth
for the ufes of life ; for the Lord has fo ordered it, that every one fhould
love the ufes that accord with their particular gifts and qualities : which
love is likewife heightened by the hope of their becoming angels ; for in
heaven all particular and fmgular ufes have relation to the general ufe or
good of the Lord's kingdom, and may be confidered as fo many parts of
one whole, fo that the truths which they learn are both truths and the
ufes of truths conjunctly : thus the angelical fpirits are prepared for hea^
ven. The affection or love of truth for the purpofes of ufe is infinuated
into them many ways not known in this world, more particularly by
various reprelentations of ufe imder fuch delightful forms as afte6t both
their minds and fenfes with unfpeakable pleafure ; fo that, when any fpirit
is joined to the fociety for which he was prepared, he then enjoys life
mofl; when he is in the exercife of its proper ufes. Hence it may appear,
that not the ideal knowledge of truths, as things without us, but an im-
plantation
OF ASTROLOGY. 1077
pjantation of them in the aflfe6lions and Hfe for the purpofe of ufes, is that
which qualifies for the kingdom of heaven.
After that the angels are duly prepared for heaven in manner defcribed,
which comes to pafs in a fliort time, as fpiritual minds are of quick com-
prehenfion, they are then clothed in angelical garments, wliich, for the
molt part, are white, as of fine linen, and conducted to the way which
leads up to heaven, and delivered to the guardian angels there ; after
which they are received by other angels, and introduced to difterent fo-
eieties, where they partake of various delights : after this eveiy one is
led by the Lord's guidance to his particular proper fociety, and this by
various ways, fometimes dire(5t, fometimes otherwife, not known to any
of the angels, but to the Lord only. Laftly, when they are come to their
own fociety, their inmoft thoughts and aftedtions open and expand them-
felves ; which meeting with the like returns of cordial f5Tnpathy from^
their fellow-angels, they are immediately known and received by them,
with a joyful welcome.
A*n equilibrium is neceflTaiy to the exiftence and fubfiftence of all things,
and conlifts in the equality of a6tion and re-a^lion between two oppofite
powers, producing reft or equilibrium ; and this according to an efta-
blifhed law through the natural world, abferved in the very atmofpheres,
in which the lower and denfer air re-a6ls on the fuperincumbent columns ;
nay, even betwixt heat and cold, light and darknefs,.dry and moift ; and
the middle point is the temperature or equilibrium. The fame law ob-
tains throughout the three great kingdoms of this world, the mineral,
vegetabJe, and animal ; wherein all things proceed and are regulated ac-
cording to action and re-a6tion, or a<ftive8 and paffives, producing orre-
ftoring an equilibrium in nature. In the phyfical world, the agent and
re-agent are called poAver and conatus ; and in the fpiritual world, life
and will, as being living power and conatus ; and here the equilibrium is
called liberty. Thus there exifts a fpiritual equilibrium or liberty be-
twixt good and evil, by the action of one, and the re-adion of the other
;
for example, in good men this equilibrium is aife(^edby the adion of the
good principle, and the re-adion of the evil principle ; but in bad men,
evil is the agent, and good is but the re-agent. That there is a fpiritual
equilibrium betwixt good and evil, is becaufe every thing appertaining to
the vital principle in man has relation to good or evil, and the will is
the receptacle of both. There is likewife an equilibrium betwixt true
and faJfe ; but this depends on the equilibrium betwixt good and evil, ac-
cording to their kinds refpedively. The equilibrium betwixt truth and
falfehood is fimilarto that which is betwixt light anddarknefs Cu^^ramJ,
which
loyS AN ILLUSTRATION
Avhich operates, according to the beat and cold therein, on the fubjecls of
the vegetable kingdom ; for that light and darknefs have no fuch operation
in themfelves alone, but only through the heat in them, may appear from
the funilarity there is betwixt the light and darknefs in Minter and in
fpring. The comparifon of truth and falfehood with light and darknels
is from rorrefpondency ; for truth correfponds to light, and falfehood to
darknefs, and heat to the good of love. Spiritual light alfo is the fame
with truth; and fpiritual darknels is tlie fame with falfehood.
There is a perpetual equilibrium betwixt heaven and hell; from the
latter continually exhales and afcends a conatus of doing evil ; and from
the former continually emanes and defcends a conatus (tendency to or
will) of doing good. In this equilibrium is the world of fpirits, whicii
is htuatcd in the midli. betwixt heaven and hell ; and this may aj)pcar
from hence, that every m.an immediately after death enters into the world
of fpirits, and there continues in the lame Itate in which he dii:d ; is ex-
amined and proved thereby, as a touchllone of his piinciplcs ; and re-
mains under the fame free will, which all indicate an equilibrium ; for
fuch a fpiritual equilibrium there is in every man and I'pirit, as obfciTed
before. The particular kind and tendency of this liberty or free will is
well known b}- the angels in heaven, by the communication of thought.s
and affections; and it appears vifibly to the evangelical fpirits, by the
})aths and ways which they choofe to walk in, as the good fpirits take
thofe which lead to heaven, and the evil fpirits thofe which lead to hell
;
for fuch ways and walks havcadually a viiible appearance in that world ;
and this is the reafon that the word way or ways in fcripture figniftes
thofe truths which lead to good, and, in an oppofite fenfe, thofe falfe-
hoods which lead to evil ; and hence alfo it is, that to go, walk, or jour-
ney, fignify the progrclhons of life in the fame facred writings.
That evil continually exhales and afcends from hell, and that good con-
tinuallv flows and defcends from heaven, is becaufe everyone is furround-
cd by a fpiritual fphcre, flowing or tranfpiring from his vital affettions
and thoughts, and conl'equently the fame from eveiy fociety celeftial or
infernal, and collectively from the whole heaven and the whole hell.
This univerfal efflux of good from heaven originates in the Lord, and
ixitles through the angels without any mixture of their property or felf-
iioodj for tins is fupprefled in them by the I,rOV^, who grants them
to live in his own divine property ; whereas the infernal fpirits are in their
pro]ierty of felfiih nature, or wliat only belongs to themfelves, which, as
unblefled with divine comnumications from the fole fountain of all good,
is only evil in every one continually.
The
OF ASTROLOGY. 1079
The heaven!?, in tlie general, are diftinguiflied into two kingdoms; the
one of which is called the celeltial, the other the Ipiritual, kingdom. The
lielis likewile are diitinguiflied into two kingdoms ; the one of which is
oppolite to the celeitial, the other to the fpiritual. That which is op-
polite to the celeltial is in tlie weft, and they who belong to it are called
genii ; and that which is oppolite to the Ipiritual kingdom is in the
north and fouth, and they who belong to it are called evil Ipirits. All
in the celeftial kingdom excel in love to the Lord, and all that are in the
hells oppolite to that kingdom are under the prevailing power of fclf-
love; all that belong to the ipiritual kingdom are diltinguiihed in excel-
lence by love to their neighbour, and all that are in the hells oj)po(ite to
this kingdom are Haves to the love of the world ; f<j that love to the
Lord and the love of lelf are in the fame diametrical oppolition to each
other as the love of our neighbour and the love of the world. Effectual
proviiion is made by the Lord, that no power of evil, from the hells that
are in oppofition to the celeitial kingdom, may reach the fubje(!:ts of the
Ipiritual kingdom, as the coniequence in that cafe would be the fubver-
fion of the latter. Thus does the Lord keep the balance betwixt {joocl
and evil in his own hand for the prefervation of his kingtloms.
As good and evil, truth and falfehood, are of a fpiritual nature, fo alfo is
that equilibrium in which confiits the power of thinking and willing the
one or the other, and the liberty of choofmg or refufing accordingly.
This liberty, or freedom of the will, originates in the divine nature, but
is given to every man by the Lord for a property of his life, nor does he
ever take it back again. This good gift to man is to the end that he may
be regenerated and laved, for without free will there is no falvation for
him ; but that he actually poflelTes it, he may know from the operations
of his own mind, and what pafles inwardly in his Ipirit, he being ablcto
think and choofe either good or evil, whatever reltraints he may be under
from uttering or a(^ting the latter part in rclpe6t to laws divine or human.
Now tins inward experience evinces, beyond a thouland arguments, that
liberty l)elongs to man, as his fpirit is his proper felf, and it is that
which freely thinks, wills, and choofes ; confequently, liberty is to be
eftimated according to the inner man, and not from what he may be out-
wardly through fear, human refpetls, or other external reltraints.
That man M-ould not be capable of being reformed or regenerated with-
out free will, is becaule he is by the original conltitution of his nature
born to evils of every kind, which mult be removed in order to his lal-
vation ; and that can only be by his knowing, owning, renouncing, and
abhorring, them. To this end, he mult be inlhuCted in the nature of
No. 57. 12 N good;
1080 AN ILLUSTRATION
good; for it is bj-^ good only that he can fee the evil, but by evil lie can-
not fee the good : accordingly, he muit be early educated in the knowledge
of I'piritual truths, by teaching, by reading the fcriptures, and by the
preaching of the word, that fo he may attain to the right underftanding of
what is good; as he is likewife to cultivate his mind with the knowledge
of moral and civil truths from his intercourfe with foe icty in thu different
relations of life ; all which imply the ufe and exercife of freedom. An-
other thing to be confidered is, that nothing becomes appropriated to man,
or can be called his own, that is not received iiito the afteclionate part;
other thiiigs he may apprehend or form an ideal knowledge of, but what
enters not his will or love, which is the lame thing, (for what a man
wills he loves,) that makes no part of him, nor abides with him. Now,
man being naturally prone to evil, he could not receive its contrary,
the good, into his will or love, fo as to become appropriated to him,
unlefs he were endowed -with liberty or freedom of will, feeing that the
good is oppolite to the evil of his nature.
As man is poflfefied of liberty or free w^lll, in order to be capable of re-
generation, therefore he can have communication in fpirit Avith heaven
or witli hell ; for evil ipirits from the one, and angels from the other,
are prefent with him; by tiie former he pofleiles his own evil; by the
latter he is in the principle of good from the Lord ; and herein Hands his
equilibrium or liberty. Not that this conjunction of man with heaven
or hell is an immediate conjimCtion, but mediate only, and that through
the I'pirits that belong to the world of fpirits ; for thefe are the Ipirits
that attend on man, and not any immediately from heaven or hell. ]]y
the evil fpirits belonging to the world of fpirits, man joins himi'elf to
hell ; and by the good fpirits of the fame world he has communication
Avith heaven; for tiie world of ipirits is intermediate between heaven and
hell, and conititutes the true equilibrium. Let it be obferved, as touch-
ing tliofe fpirits that a;c appointed to be man's aiVociates here, that a
whole fociety may hold communication with another fociety, and alfo
with any individual wherefoeAcr, by means of an emiil'ary fpirit, which
tpirit is called, The fuhje^l of many. The cafe is funilar Avith refj^ect to
man's communication Avith the focieties in heaven and in hell, by the
intervention of his ailbciate ipirit from the world of fpirits. The good
fpirits belonging to tlie Avorld of fpirits, being in their final preparation
for the angelical Hate, are called angelical Ipirits ; and, as they ha\'e im-
mediate comnmnication with the heaA-enly angels, fo has man, througk
them, a mediate communication Avith the lame. And the bad fpirits
vice verfa. Thus all communications, betAveen man and the highelt and
loAvell in heaven and hell, arc conducted through the mediums adapted to
liis nature and Itates rcfpedively.
What
OF ASTROLO G Y. 1081
What has been delivered concerning heaven, the world of fpirits, and
hell, will appear obfcure to thole who have no relifli for fpiritual truths,
but clear to fuch as take delight therein, more efpecially to all who are
in the love of truth for its own fake. What we love, we readily receive
and underftand ; and, where truth is the objeel of our afteclions, it re-
conunends itfelf to the mind by the evidence it brings with it; for trutli
is the light, by v,hich all things are known and diftinguilhed.
Such is the opinion of Baron Emanuel Swedenborg, with re{\)e(5l to
the, fpirits and departed fouls of men. But the Magi, or wife men of the
Eaft, have defined fpirits, good and bad, of a great variety of kinds and
orders, whereof Ibme are fuited to the purpofes of witchcraft and exor-
cifm, and others not. The form and nature of fpirits, fay they, are to
be conlidered according to the iburce to which each caterva doth belong ;
for fonie, being altogetlier of a divine and celeltial nature, are not fubjec>.
to the abominable conjurations and enchantments of vicious men ; whilll
others, of a diabolical and infernal nature, are not only ready upon all
occafions to become fubfervient to exorcilts and magicians, but are ever
watching opportunities of exciting evil affections in the mind, and of llir-
ring up the wickedly-inclined to the commilhon of e\ery fpecies of ini-
quity and vice. As to the fliapes and various likenefles of thele wicked
I'pirits or devils, it is generally believed, that, according to their dilYerent
capacities in wickednefs, fo their fliapes are anfwerable after a magical
manner, refembling fpiritually fomc horrid and ugly moniters, as their
conipiracies againft the power of God were high and monitrous when
they fell from heaven. For the condition of Ibme of them is nothing
but continual horror and defpair, whilll others triumph in fiery nhg;ht
ftnd pomp, attempting to pluck the Almighty from his throne; but the
quality of heaven is Ihut from them, and they can never reach it, which
a<.-LS upon them as an eternal Iburce of torment and mifery. But that
they are materially vexed and fcorched in flames of fu'e, is onU'' a figura-
tive idea, adapted to our external fenfe, and by no means to be literally
imderftood; for their fubftance is fpiritual, and their clVence too lubtilc
for any external torment. Their mifery is unqucflionably great and in-
finite ; but not through the effect of outward flanies ; for their bodies
are capable of piercing through wood and iron, itone and all terreltial
things. Neither is all the fire or fuel of this world able to torment
them; for in a moment they can pierce it through and chrough. The
endiels fource of their mifery is in themfelves, and itands continually
before them, fo that they can never enjoy any reft, being abfent from
the prefence of God ; which torment is greater to them than all the tor-
tures of this world combined togctlier.
Tiie
io82 AN ILLUSTRATION
The wicked fouls that are departed this life, are alfo capable of ap-
f)earing again, and of an fwe ring the conjurations and magical quettions of
cxorciils, becaufe tlie quality of their minds, and the bent of their incli-
nations, being fnnilar to thofe of the fallefi angels or devils, it cannot be
conceived that their torment and purfuits hereafter are much difTcrent
;
for the Scripture faith, flmt evcnj one is rewarded according to his icorks ;
and, that xvhich a )nan foxes, that he (Jiall reap. Hence it follo\rs, that, as
the damned fpirits of departed men, while they lived on earth, heaped. up
vanity, and loaded their fouls with iniquity and vice ; fo, when they en-
ter the next world, the fame abojninations which here they committed
ferve them to ruminate and feed upon, and, the greater thefe offences have
been, the greater is the torment arifmg from them every moment. But
very contrary to this is the ftate of the righteous "fouls departed, who
are entered into eternal reft ; and of the different degrees and orders
of the angelic hoft, which appertain to heaven, and have places in tlie
manfions of the bletfed. Nor is it poffible for any one, how expert fo-
ever in magical experiments, to compel thefe bleffed fpirits, of any de-
gree, order, or quality, of creation, to beexorcifed, or called up, or made
appear, at the Xiill of the magician, by any forms of convocation or com-
anunication, or by tiie power of magical rites and ceremonies of any dafs
or defcription whatfoever. It may indeed be believed, and it is by moifc
authors admitted, that infinite numbers of the angelic hoft are employed
for the glory of God, in Avatching over and protecting the purfuits of
good men; but they are not fubjedt to fpells or conjurations of any kind
let on foot by the impious profelibrs of the Black Art.
Of a different opinion, however, are fome of thofe who attempt to
juftify the magic art under fanc^ion of the holy fcriptuies, and for this
purpofe inftance the fupplication of Saul to the witch ofEndor. This
paHage imdoubtedly ferves to fliow, how greatly the pradice of exorcifm
reigned amongft the Jews, and proves the poflibility of railing up fpirits
m thofe ancient times ; but that the exorcilt never meant to bring up
the fpirit or ghoft of Samuel, but tliat of an evil da?mon to reprefent him,
is apparent from her exclamations to Saul, when fhe accufes him of hav-
ing deceived her; and is a convincing proof, tliat this particular inftance,
of the funilitude of a bleffed fpirit being called up by aprofeflbr of fpells
and incantations, was owing to the immediate permiffton of the Deity,
for the purpofes of forwarding the Jewifti difpenfation, and manifefting
his peculiar regard to the perfbn of David, through whole loins the
Mefllah was to come.
Such fpirits as r^rj termed ajlral fpirits, which belong to- this oiit-
ATard world, and are compounded of the elemental quality, having their
Iburce
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 108 ^
fowice from the ffars, and bcini,^ fuh^^'St to a beginning aiut cuuihit. may
befolicited and brought into league ^vith magicians'and Avitches; and
can alio infonn them of many wonderful and occuit ])ropertics in nature,
and of many important concerns relating to the ftate and afiairs of men iii
this terreitrial world. This delcription of fpirits is faid lo occupy va-
rious places of the earth; as woods, mountains, waters,, air, fiery flames,
clouds, itars, mines, fea-lliores, ancient buildings and ruins, aiid placei
oftheflain. They are capable of hunger, grief, paflion, and vc?iation,
being in Ibme meafure temporal, and compounded of the molt fpiritual
part of the elements, into which they are eventually refolved, as ice into
v/ater; and have been more or lefs celebrated bv liiftorians aaid poets in
ail ages of the Avoild.
There are likewife another fpecies, called Tgncoics or Ficnj Spirits,
that inhabit the burning mountains of J/cr/r/, Vtfuvhui, JEfna, Pocovtf\
&c. which fome authors have affirmed to be infernal Spirits, and daumed
fouls, who for a term of years, are confined to thefe burning mountains
for their iniquities. But the molt received opinion is, that they arc of a
middle vegetative nature, and periihable, which, at the diiTolution of the
media iiafura, fliall be again reduced into their primary Kther. And from
natural caufcs it may be eafily demonttrated, that there is great corre-
fpondencc betwixt fuch fubllances and the element of fire, by reafon of
the internal flagrat and central life proceeding from the quinteflence of
one only element, which upholds them in motion, life, and nourilhment;
as every natural and fupeniatural being is upheld and maintained out of
the felf-fame root from whence it had its original. So the angels teed
upon the celeftial manna ; the devils upon the fruits of hell, which is
natural to the propcnjihj of their ap])ehtes ; the aitralfpirits upon the
fource of the Itars, and the gas of the air; upon a principle that every
thing is nouriibcd by its mother, as infants at the brcalt. or chickens from
the egi^, &:c. The proper nourilhment of fieiy ipirits, however, is
radical heat, and the influence of the airy region;" nor is it to be wonder-
ed at that they are ib much delighted with the fiery quality, in rciiaixl of
their affinity and near approach to the eflence and quality of infernal
Ipirits or devils, whole Hate and being is altogether damnable and deplo-
rable; for although they have not the ability of attaininf>f either the
heavenly or infernal quality, by reafon that they are utterly^void of the
innermolt centre, and may be rather termed monlters than rational ani-
nials, yet, becauie they are compounded of the outerraoft principle, fuch
is their innate affinity and unity with the dark world or infernal kingdom,
that they often become the devil's agents, to propagate his works^upoii
the face of the earth. Tims by the inftigation of internal foirits, and
No. 58. 12 O
'
.their
1084 AN ILLUSTRATION.
their own prompitiule, they often terrify men with nocturnal vifions ;
provoke melancholy people to fuicide ; tempt drunkards and incendiaries
to fet houies on tire, to burn thofe who are in them, and allure carelel's
fervants and others to found and incautious lleep, that fuch unlucky
accidents might happen ; befides innumerable other ways they have of
executing the devices of iniquitous fpirits through malicious inltigations,
or fecret llratagems, projeAed for the overthrow and deiiruclion of mortal
men; efpecially when the work to be effected by the devil is too hard for
his I'ubtle and fpiritual nature to effetl, becaufe the fame belongs to the
outward fource or principle to which thefe dubions fpirits more innne-
diately belong. For, being compounded of the fiery element, they are
moft officious in this kind of fervice, beiug fuch as the antecedent mat-
ter hath fufficiently demouftrated ; but according to their different ranks
-and orders fome of them are much more inveterate and malicious in their
agency than the reit. Thefe, as well as every other kind of altral fpirits,
arc more or lefs obfequious to the kingdom of darknefs; and tiie devil,
it feems, can efted; little or nothing without their afliftance in this out-
ward or elementary world, upon the pailions of mankind ; becaufe their
bodies are too crude for the dirert conveyance of their influence, either
in dreams, charms, viiions, raptures, or other foft and alluring means.
Thefe fiery fpirits are likewife apt for conjuration, and are always ready
at the call of the magician, for the execution of any cruel or diabolical
purpofe.
Dirtin6l from fiery fpirits, are a fpecies wliich properly belong to tlie
metallic kingdom, abiding in mountains, caves, dens, deeps, hiatas or
chafnis of the earth, hovering over hidden gold, tombs, vaults, and l"e-
pultures of the dead. Thefe fpirits are termed by the ancient philo-
l><>phers '^protectors of hidden trcafure," from a principle or quality in
their nature, whence they exceedingly delight in mines of gold, lilvcr,
and places of hidden treafin'e; but are violently inimical to man, and en-
vy his benefit or accommodation in the difcovery thereof; ever haunting
ihofe places where money is concealed, and retaining malevolent and
poifonous influences to blaft the lives and limbs of thole who attempt to
make fuch difcoveries ; and therefore extremely dangerous for magicians
to exorcife or call them up. It is recorded in iiiveral of the ancient Bri-
tilh authors, that Peters, the celebrated magician of Devonlhire, together
v/ith his aflbc:a.tes, having exorcifed one of thefe malicious fpirits to con-
duct them to a fubterranean vault, where a confiderable (quantity of trcafure
was known to be hid, they had no fooner quitted the magic circle, than
they were inftantaneouQy cruflied into atoms, as it were in the twinkling
of an eye. And in this particular we have too many fatal examples
upon
O F A S T R O L O G Y, 1085
upon record, of the fudden deitiniclion of thofe who by magical fpells had
called up this description of fpirits, for the purpofe of difcovering hidden
gold ; which examples feem to prove,that thel'e fpirits have more affinity with
the infernal than with the a/iral hierarchy ; and that they are the diabo-
lical agents of Mammon, brin^ins; about all the evils of this world, which
fpring from an inlatiable lull after gold; whence the faying in fcripture,
that " zee cannot fcrve God and Mammon,"- and that " 'tis cafter for a camel
to pafs through the ctje of a needle, tlian for a rich man to enter into the king-
dom of heaven ;" hyperbolically fpoken, in reference to the innumerable
iins and wiekednelles committed by mankind, for the fake of temporary
wealth and riches! Hence too a reafon offers, why, of all other fubordi-
nate fpirits, thefe are the molt pernicious to mortal men. The nature of
them is lb violent, that, in the hiftories of the gold and lilver mines
abroad, it is recorded that whole companies of labourers have been de-
ftroyed by them at once ; and that their deUght is in tormenting, killing,
and crulhing to death, thofe who molt greedily lull after and icek for fuch
treafures. The richeft and largelt fdver-mine in Germany was haunted
by one of thefe fpirits, who fometimes ufed to appear in the lliape of a
he-goat. With golden liorns, pulhing down tlie workmen with uncom-
mon violence ; and at others in the fliape of a horfc, breatlung fiery
flames and peltilential vapours at his noftrils, till by continual deftruction,
fear, and alarm, they were obliged to defift from working that mine any
longer ; and it continues Ihut to this day.
Thus far we have confidered fpirits fuhordinatc, or fuch as properly
belong to the elementary or outward world. We will now take a view
of ti)e infernal fpirits or devils, and damned fouls ; which are to be
claimed according to their refpectivc ranks and orders, exactly correfpon-
dent or appolite to the choirs and hierarchies of the angels, or blelled
fpirits in lieaveu.
The origin of devils and infernal fpirits, as fcripture revelation hath
confirmed and eftablillied, proceeded from confpiracy and rebellion in
heaven, under the arcli-fiend Lucifer, who was originally of the highelr
order of the angelic iiolt; becaufe it is written of him, ''In Clterubim
extentus profegeus, pofid te montc fandlo Dei;"—Extended upon a Che-
rubim and protet'ling, I have put thee in the holy mountain of God. And
further, becaufe it is alio written, " Quomodo eni/n mane or/eharis, Luci-
fer
"
—For then didft thou rife in the morning, O Lucifer. Various are
the opinions as to the exprefs^ occalion of his fall. Some fay, it was for
fpeaking thele words : " Ponem fedem mcam in aquiloyie, fimilis ero
altijJit7io" ;
io86 AN ILLUSTRATION
nhifjtmo ;" —I will put my feat in (lie Nortli, and I vill be like the Moil
Iliiih. Oiliers allirm, that it proceeded from his uiie^-hj rcfitjing fc/icilij,
(Did linlilin<x the h/ti/ing-s of /wnirn in dcn/wn. 8onie again, bccinife he ajfcrfcd
that all ///.? /Irciigfh proccct/cd front h'nii/'c/f, and not from God. OtJieis,
bccaufc hv a'Icniptcd to cfjccl that hy hmj'elf and his oxen [Ircngth, xchicfi 7cas
alone the proper gift of God. Other opinions fay, That his condemnation
proceeded from hi'i cliallenging the place of the Mc/fiah; Avhilft others inhll,
that it uas becauie he impiou/lif challenged the on/n/po/etici/ of God, xcilh
•ichom he claimed equal poxcer. But the Chriltian church in all countries
agree, that it was for all thefe crimes put together, and many more ; cx-
clufivti of liis drawing aiide tiie allegiance of otiier angels, and iuborning
the whole of his own legion in eon fpi racy, to attempt to pluck the Al-
mighty from his Throne ; wjiereupon a dreadful conflict enlued between
iMichael the archange!, with tlie lieavenly hoft on one iide, and Ijucifer
and his rebellious tribes o\\ theothej', whicJi ended in their total extermi-
nation from the manlions and light of heaven, to luft'er eternal torment in
the dark abodes of the infcrnul regions.
Here began the kingdom of darknefs, and the devil's enmity to mortal
man; who being created of a nature inferior to the angels, but, by u
ftate of probation, capable of arriving to the fame degree of excellence,
and of filling up the vacancy in lieaven occafioned by the fall of Lucifer
and his legions, it excited his envy IHll the more, and laid the ground of
that ceafelefs warfare, Avhich, from the fall of Adam to the prelent hour,
hath exilled between the king of darknels, and the Ibuls of men. And,
though this conflict is not conducted by outward and vifdjle nieans, yet
it is etfected by I'ecret liiares and ambuJcades, which take us at unawares,
and when we are molt off our guard. For the Devil, Avhile we feed,
allures us to hn by gluttony ; he thruiteth lult into our generation, and
lloth into our exercife ; into our converfation, envy ; into our traffic,
avarice; into our correcUon, wrath; into our government, pride; he
putteth into our hearts evil cogitations ; and into our mouths, lies.
When we awake, he movetli us to evil works ; w^hen we lleep, to evil
and filthy dreams ; he provokes the jocund to lafcivioufnefs, and the fad
to defpair; whence fpring the various evils with which frail human na-
ture is furrounded ; and which nothing, but a full confidence in heaven,
and the gofpel difpenliition, can alleviate or remove.
But as to the locality or circumfcription of the khigdom of darknefs,
it is far othenvife to be confidered than the common and vulgar idea of
it, which efteems the infernal habitation as a diftinrt chalm or gulph in a
certain place, either above, under, or in the centre of, the earth, where
innu-
OFASTROLOGY. 1087
innumerable devils and wicked fouls inhabit, and are perpetually fcoiched
and tormented with material flames of lire. This is the opinion which
the vulgar are naturally addided and prone to believe. But, if we rightly
confider the kingdoms of heaven and hell, in refpect of each other, we
muft look upon the limilitude oi light and darknefs, in this outward world,
which is not circumfcribed, nor feparate, as to locality, from one ano-
ther; for, when the Sun rifes, the darknefs of the night difappears; not
that it removes itfelf to fome other place or country, but the brightnefs
of the light overpowers and fwallows it up, fo that, though it difappear§,
yet it is as abfolutely there as the light itfelf. The fame fimilitude is
alfo to be coniidered in the defcription of the habitations of good evil
beings, that are really in one another, yet not comprehended of one
another ; neither indeed can they be, for the evil fpirits, though they
fliould remove ten thoufand miles, yet are they in the fame quality and
fource, never able to find out or difcover where the kingdom of heaven is,
though it be really through and through with the dark kingdom ; but
in another oppofite quality, which feparatesand makes them eternal llran-
gers to each other. A fimilitude hereof we have in the faculties of hu-
man life, confidered with refpect to the endowments of the foul in the
juil, and in the wicked; for to be good, pure, and holy, is really pre-
fent as a quality in pofentia with the depraved foul, although at that in-
ftant the loul be clothed with abomination, fo that the eye which
fliould behold God, or goodnefs, is put out. Yet, if the foul would but
come out of itfelf, and "enter into another fource, or principle, it might
come to fee the kingdom of heaven within itfelf, according to the .Scrip-
ture and JMoies, " the word is nigh thee, in thy heart, and in thy tnouth!'
True it is, that the devils, or fallen angels, cannot ail alike manifeft
themfelves in this aftral M^orld ; becaufe the nature of fome of them ap-
proaches nearer to the external quality than others ; fo that, although/;;o-
pcrly the very innermofi; and outermoft darknefs be their proximate,
abode, yet they frequently flourilh, live, move, and germinate, in the aiiy
region. Bat, according to the fieiy nature, it is very difficult for them
to appear in tl-.is outward world, becaufe there is a whole principle or
gulf betwixt them, namely, they are Ihut up in another quality or ex-
iftence, fo that the\^ can with greater difficulty find out the being of this
world, or come with full prefence unto it, than we can remove into the
kingdom of heaven or hell with our intelleciual man. For, if it were
otherwife, and the devils had power to appear unto mortals as they lift,
how many towns, cities, ^c would be deftroyed, and burnt to the
ground ! how many infants would be pluckt away in their innocency, and
unoffending creatures be deitroved by their malicious power? Indeed
No. 58. 12 P few
io88 AN ILLUSTRATION.
few or none would efcape with their lives, or poffeffions, or found minds ;
whereas now all thefe enjoyments are free amongft mankind ; which
proves, that it is extremely hard for infernal fpirits to appear in the
third principle of tliis world ; and as difficult as for a man to live under
water, or fiilies on the ihore. Yet we muft grant, that, when the imagi-
nations and earneft defires of the wicked have ftirredup the centre of liell
within themfelves, then the devil hath accefs to this world in their
defires, and continues here to vex and torment them, fo long as the
ftrength of thole defires remain, which was thefirft attractive cauie.
The caufe of the paucity of appearances of e\'il fpirits in thefe days,
is the fulnefs of time, and the brightnefs of Chriftianity, difpcUing the
mifts of herefy and idolatry, as the Sun doth the fogs, which vanifli on
its appearance ; not by any violence or compulfion, but from a caufe im-
planted in the nature of things and their oppofites. Even fo the king-
dom of light, as it overfpreads the foul in power and dominion, doles
up the centre of darknefs, and fcatters the influences of the devil before it,
who becomes as it were entirely /^a/Z/re as to the works and will of man.
In the time of the law, when the wrath and jealoufy of the Father had
the dominion in the kingdom of nature, infernal fpirits had more eafy ac-
cefs to mankind than they now have; for, before the incarnation of Chrift,
the anger of God was unappeafed, and had more dominion over the foul
of man, which was then at greater diftance from the divine goodnefs
;
confequently the devils could with more facility fpring up in the element
of wrath, and manifeft themfelves in this outward principle ; becaufe
the very idea and bafis of hell is founded on the wrath of God, which is
the only channel by which the devil is conveyed into this world. So,
when the miracles of Chrift began to manifeft themfelves in the world,
the multiplicity of diabolical appearances, and poflefTed with the devil,
began infenfibly to decay and vanifli. It is true, that the greateft inftances
known of the temptations andpowerof Satan, were exercifed in that fpace
oi time betwixt the incarnation and crucifixion of our Saviour ; yet it is as
rertain, that the devil knew he had but a fliorttime longer to uphold his
kingdom hei-e, and therefore he employed all his ftrength and forces to
torment thofe captive and miferable fouls to whoiu Chrift came to preach
deliverance. But, after the partition-wall was broken down, and the vail
of Mofes, and the wrath of God, were removed, there was a fenfible and
vifible decay of Satan's power in the world ; fo that, though it be pof-
fible, even in thefe days, by a renunciation of the falvation of Ct; -ift,
and by becoming a difciple of the devil, to hold correfpondence with,
or to be vs^holly poffeffed by, him ; yet thefe things happen fo rarely, and
require
OF ASTROLOGY. 1089
require fo depraved a ftate of mind and condud, that, whenever they are
pretended fo to be, there is great room to doubt the tnith of fuch afler-
tions, though o/ipare/i^'^ well authenticated.
But, notwithftanding that the coming of Chiift has thus curtailed
the power of the devil over all Chriftian countries, yet fuch nations as
have never embraced the Chriftian faith, but purfue the ancient fuperltition
and idolatry, are ftill deluded and bewitched by him, becaufe, the centre
of truth and light never having been awakened in them, the power of
Satan eafily prevails to feduce them to worfhip things vifible, inftead of
the true God : for, where moll darknefs and fuperftition is found, whe-
ther in religion or perfonal underftanding, there his power is always moll
predominant. Thus it is now with the miferable inhabitants of the
greateft part of Afia, and the uncultivated and ferocious parts of Africa
and America; yet we have hopes that the goodnefs of Providence, in his
own lit and appointed feafon, will, through fome favourable channel,
communicate the light of the Gofpel to thofe miferable beings, whereby
the Ihocking idea of feeding on human flefh, of devoting one another
to deftruction and llavery, and of purfuing the inlinuations and works
of the devil, may l->€ totally aboliflied, and every part of the habitable
globe be united in the acknowledgment of one God, of one Saviour, and
of one liberal, candid, and impartial, Chriftian perfuafion.
As to the different fhapes and forms of the devils, it is fuggcfted by
Scripture, and admitted by all Avriters upon the fubject, that' they were
anfwerable in monftrolity and hideoufnefs to the fuperior rank they held
in heaven, and to the enormity of the offence which was the caule of their
fall. Thus, in Revelation, Lucifer, as the leader and prime apoftate, is
termed the great dragon, and king of the devils. And hence it is con-
ceived, that thofe who belonged to the fupreme hierarchies in heaven,
and were the foremoft to rebel, were, immediately on their expulfion
from the realms of blifs, transformed from angels of fplendour and i^lory,
to devils in the lliape of dragons, crocodiles, ferpents, tisjers, and the
hke; lb that the moft perverfe and potent among the devils polfefs the
nioft ugly and frightful of the beftial lliapes, but'a thoufand times more
terrific and frightful than can pofTibly be conceived from the moft fero-
cious of thofe animals. In this confideration, however, there is a mate-
rial diftindion to be made between the apoftate angels and the danmed
fouls, which have deferted God in his world, and become inhabitants of
the infernal regions in the other. For the moft part, thefe unhappy ciea-^
tures retain t'uc human fhape, but with afpedls difmal and melancholy,
and expreffive of the unfpeakable torments they are doomed to fuller ; for
in-
I090 AN II^LUSTRATJON
ill theinfelves they reft not, neitlier are they capable of the i]iQi'ti)efs or
duration of time, nor of the alternate courfes of day and night. The fins
and wickednefs they committed in this hfe is the fource of their conti-
nual torment, which gnaws and corrodes them, rifing and boiling up
continually in their minds, without reft or intermiflion. All the refri-
geration they have, is by intercourfe with the devils, when the height of
wickednefs ftirs them up to blafphemies againft God, and towering up
above heaven and omnipotence in their adulterated and deluded imagina-
tions, which, figuratively fpeaking, ferves as fport and paftime amonglb
one another, but of a ibort and certain duration. Not that this is of the
fmalleft advantage, or the lealt mitigation of their torments ; for pain dif-
continued returns the greater ; neither would vexation be vexation, if
it had no refpite nor forbearance that the contrary might be alfo manifeft,
nayn contrariajuxtafe poftta inajus elucejcunt. Yet is their tormen exceed-
ingly different; fo that the fuffering of one in refpecS: to that of another
is but a mere dream or phantafv.—1 mean, amongft the damned foul.?,
and not the devils ; for the pain and torment of the devils is greater than
the greateft of the loft fouls by many million degrees, according to the
courfe of nature and reafon ; for that which falls higheft fuffers nioft, and
optima corruptajiunt pejjhna.
But w^ondeiful and manifeft are the torments which loft fouls en-
dure, accoi-ding to the various lufts and licentioufnefs they indulged in
whilftthey lived upon earth, or died in without expiation or repentance.
The cruel murderei-s, who died in the boiling fource of blood and envy,
fuffer the greateft torment, becaufe they are continually murdering in
their imaginations, and feeking, like dreaming men, to effect what the
want of the correfpondent organ will not permit them to do. For, ac-
cording to fcripture, and the wifeft authors upon this fubjedl, the prin-
cipal torment and mifery of damned fouls proceeds from their continu-
ally wiftiing and willing ; whence they generate ideas and reprefenta-
tions, founded in impoliibility, which is the fource of their continual
aggravation, difappointment, and mifery. By the fame reafoning, thoie
who died in luft and gluttony, lafcivioufnefs and inebriety, are over-
whelmed with correfpondent torments, though much inferior to the firlt.
They are continually imagining their former pleafures in the w^^w as in
a dream, which, when they awake, torments them cruelly ;
as with us,
when we awake from a frightful dream, and find it is only a dream, our
pleafme is more fufceptible—whereas, with them, the cafe is reverted
;
for, as their time is fpent in eternal torment, fo their dreams ofblifs,
when they awake, or become more fenfible to their mifery, but aggra-
vates their misfortunes, and gives frefh poignancy to the toruients they
endure
OF ASTROLOGY. 1091
endure. Such fouls, in whom the boiling fource of anger and revenge
hath had a dwelling or receptacle here, if they depart this life in their
fms, do likewife endure a moil dreadful kind of torment, which arii'es
continually as a biting worm and hungry fire, to double and accumulate
an excels of defpair upon them. Thofe alfo who reigned in pride and
oftentation upon earth, treading under foot the meek and humble in
heart, are tortured with the utmoft reverfe of their delires, which are ever
uppermoil ia their infatuated imaginations. Tiiey are ever feeking to
pull the Almighty from his throne, and toAvering up in the pride of
their hearts, hoping to gain tlie kingdom of iieaven to infult and boalt in.
But the quality of the beatific fource is utterly occult and eftranged from
them, fo that they can never find, tafte, hear, nor fee, it, though it be
wrapt round and round with their own peculiar fource and principle.
This adds eternally to their mifery, and rifes upoiv their fenfes with
horrible pangs and bitter gnawings, like the irkfome and vexatious pains
and achs of man's body, only a thoufand times more acute and infupptjr-
table. The nature alio of their habitation is fuch, that their punilh-
ment is exceedingly aggravated that way ; becaufe the extremity of the
four elements is there converted into a whole principle of wrath and tor-
ment. The excefs of cold and heat, drought and moifture, are alternate-
ly raging amongft them by intercourfe ; nor is there any light or lultro
Within their courts, but that which is emitted from their fiery eyes, or
flaming nollrils, as a deadly glance or glimmering, which fen'es only to
render the momentaiy fight of their miferable habitation ten times more
difgufting and intolerable. And as every kind of being feeds upon Ibme-
rhing proper to his own nature or element, whether it be plaint, animal,
or metallic production, fo the devils are neither deliitute of meat nor
drink, accordmg to their own kingdom and quality, having fruits
fpringing up and growing before them, of hellilh, four, and poi-
fonous, natures, Vvliich are real and palpable to them, and not imagi-
nary or typical, though to us magical and invilible. Neither is this
at all to bo wondcied at, if we confider the nature of man's foul in media
natura; for if it feed not upon the internal and fubftantial Word, which
is the veiy head of life itfelf, it mull and will of necelhty ruminate on
Ibmething ellie, viz. the fruits of iniquity; which it takes in and fwal-
lows up, even as an ox drinks the water; fo that to the foul the fm be-
comes palpable, glutting, and fatiating, from which it never can be freed,
but by works of expiation and repentance. Alfo, in the altral fource,
when called up by magical fpells and incantations, or otherwife, they are
not deliitute of food, but receive the influences of the air and water into
their liinbus, Avhich they convert into food, according to their own poi-
fonous quality ; as of fweet and wholefome herbs the filthy toads and
other venomous reptiles form their poifon, converting them into a nature
No s'^' 12 Q hke
1091 AN ILLUSTRATION
like thc-iv oviii. And fo likewife thefe infernal fpirits, confideied in re*
fpcrl of the four elements, have a tone or language peculiar to themfclves,
which they exercife and fpeak one aniongit another, as mortals do; but
they have utterly loft the dignity of their founds according to the eternal
nature, and are totally corrupted in their pronunciation or dialect, lince
they fell from their fidl celeitial gloiy; ib that their articulation is harflj,
doleful, fierce, aud terrible, like the fruits they feed upon, and place
they dM'ell in. This' deprivation is very apparent in the kingdom of
this world, in the divided languages of every region, according to the con-
llellation under which they are htuated ; the tme and magical language
of nature, notwithftanding the induftrious Lcxicogiapliers, Itill reuiahiiiig
hidden from the knowledge of eveiy country in the habitable world.
' ii lii) i
Tims far I have endeavoured to ilitrftrate the caufes, natures, and pu-
nilliments, of infernal fpirits; which, notwithftanding, is a fubjett fo
intricate atid copious in itfelf, by realbn of the variety of their qualities
in tlie fource of dailcnefs, wherein they live, move, eat, breathe, aufl in-
habit, having qualities, alliens, and palllons, innumerable, and which are
to mankind almoit utterly imknown and incomprehenfible,— -that to
attempt an ample demonltration of the matter, would require deeper fpe-
culatian than the fubjefet deferves, or tlian I am mailer of; particularly
as the inhabitants of that gloomy kingdom are never in one regular iiay,
(ontinuance, or property, but from one hour to another are continually
floating and ohauging ; like the fwiftnels of the winds, or the gliding
along of running waters, which pals away as a thought, and are no more
remembered. So it is with the devils and damned fpirits in thatlachry-
mable itate of darknefs, where their exiftence is a continual anguiih and
toniient, (liifting from the pangs of one Ibrrow to the bitternefs of ano-
•
ther, unto all eternity
!
Now according to the fpirit af Cin-iftian Revelation, there hath been
always oppofed to the machinations ofthe devil and his imps upon earth,
who'"^o ahojit tike roarinff lions fcek'm^ ichom they may devour," a certain
defcription of good and holy fpirits, whofe province it is to watch over
the affairs of men, and to guard them from the invifible aflaults of the
devil; exClufive of the miniitration of God's holy angels, which hath
been manifeftcd in a thoufand different inftances in fcriptuie; but whofe
appearances and manifeltations to the eyes of mortal man, never have
been nor can be permitted, but on the moft important diipenfa-
tions eif divine Providence. The received opinion however is, as
to the former doArine, that there is, according to the dif|wfition of the
mind or foul, a good or evil Genius, that accompanies invifibly every per-
fon
OF ASTROLOGY. 1093
fon born into the world. Their office is principally that of forewarning
the perrons they attend of any imminent invpendiii«f danger, fometimes
by inArard inftin6t, or by outward appearances ; and Sometimes by dreams
in the night. Thefe Genii change their quality and office as the perfon
or party change their's; if from gopfl we degenerate to evil, then by de-
grees the good Genius is elbanged -fl'OJH vis, and an evil demon naturally
fucceeds, according to that fyra^thy of things, wherein each draws af-
ter it that which is its like. There have been likewife defined, by the
learned do6tors and rabbis, who have written on this intricate fubject,
Jeven ^ood An^eh, who watch over and fuperinteiid the general affair* of
mankind, and who are ever ready to forwar<l, by intellectual affociation,
mental iiiftigation, or ftrong no(^turnal vifionarj'^ manifeftation, tlie gene-
ral profperity and fuccefs of all men's affairs, who are governexi by tlie laws
of integrity and religion, and who are, by fome one or other ofthef«
means, allured or prompted to fuch particular conduct or determination,
as fliall tend ultimately to their honour and preferment, to the good of
Society, and to the glory of God and true religion, which is the grand
•office of tJiefe feven good fpirits to promote. And oppofed to tliefe are
Jeven evil Spirits or Demo7is, proper to the infernal world, Avhoic office is
to infufe evil into thofe men's minds who are naturally fo addicted, and
who never fail to join in aflbciation, though invifibly, with depraved
perfons ofevery defcription, whofepaffionsthey influence, and whofe delircs
they lead to the commiffion ofall the abominations of this world. The names
of the feven good angels or fpirits are, I. Jubayiladace, diftinguiflied in the
dominion ofthrones, as the appointed guardianofall publicand national en-
terprizes, where the good of Ibciety, ^nd the honour of God, are united-
ly concerned. He is delineated in all the. brig;htnefs of a celeftial mef-
fenger, bearing a ttaaiing iword, girded about the loins, with an helmet
on his head ; and this is the magical character by which he is dif-
tinguiflied, and which is worn by many, as a lamin round the neck, for ^
prefervative agaiuft putrid infection and fudden death.
The fecond is Pah-li-Pah, one of the celeftial powers, whofe peculiar
office it is to guard and forewarn fuch as are virgins and iincontaminated
youth againil all the evils of debauchery and proliitution ; and to elevate
the mind to a love of virtue, honour, and revealed religion. He pcrfoni-
iies tlic charaiiter of an illuftrious angel, of a bright but moll compla-
cent
1094 AN ILLUSTRATION
cent countenance ; and is known by the following magical fymbol,
which is worn about the neck of virgins as a prote6tion from all the af-
faults of evU demons, and it is i'aid to be infallible againft the powers of
reduction.
*l*
The third is Nal-gah, devoted to the prote6lion of thofe who are af-
faulted by evil fpirits or witches, and whole minds are funk by fearful
and melancholy apprehenfions of the afl'aults of the devil, and the power
of death. His proper office is to fortify the mind, and to lead the fenfes
to a contemplation of the attributes of God, and the joys of heaven, the
reward of all good works. His appearance is reprelented as perfedly ce-
lelHal, having a crown of gold upon his head, with a lliield and fpear in
his hands, for the protection of thofe over whom he prefides. The fol-
lowing is his magical chara(^ter, which is worn round the neck as a pre-
fervation againll witchcraft and fuicide.
The fourth is Maynom, one of the powers who hath the ability of fubfer-
vient adminiitration and protection ; tliat is, at one and the fame time to
be prefent with many. His prefence nmft be fought by humility and
prayer. The fiftli good Genius is Gaonim, an angel of celellial brightnefs,
\A\i hath the peculiar ability of rendering his pupil invilible to any evil
fpirits whatfoever, as often as attacked by them. The fixtii is Hnlam,
theouardian and promoter of all good and great ideas, by whom Beza/iah
2iX\^Aholiab were divinely infpired for the ItrmT^ure of the tabernacle.
The feventh is Raninh-umi, the genius of geometrical proportion, and the
power of numbers; the fecrets and extent of which are not yet half known,
even to the raoll favoured of thofe whofe capacities are enlightened by
his fuperior aid.
Now the office of the feven evil demons or fpirits is to counteract and
delhoy the effect of the good ; . for, as the power and capacity of the
good proceeds from the omnipotence of God in the quality of heaven, lb
is the force of the evil Genii, in the infernal quality, made correfpondent
thereto, from a principle of contraries ; for it is to be noted that thefe
feven evil angels, befm'e their fall, enjoyed the fame places and degrees of
^lory, that new belong to the feven good angels or Genii ; fo that, as
^
their
OF ASTROLOGY. 1095
their office is to inftrud and allure mankind to the purfuit of every thing
that is good, great, virtuous, and honourable, it is the bufineft of the
others to tempt and feduce the mind to a purfuit of whate\'er is vile,
vicious, and abominable, and that may be inltrumental in extending the
kingdom of darknefs and the power of the devil. The names of thefe
feven evil fpirits or Genii ftand upon record as follow: i. Panalcarp, in
the likenefs of acroco<lile-with two heads. 2. Barafro?i, appearing like
a magician in a folemn prieftly habit. 3. Sondennah, in the caparifon
and limilitude of an Indian huntfman. 4. Greizmedal, in the fawning
fliape of a large fpaniel dog. 5. Ba/iifargon, in the fimilitude of a cove-
tous mifer, lulling after gold ; he is the grand enticer to thieving and
robbeiy, and ufually brings his followers to an ignominious and deftruc-
tive end. 6. Morborgran^ who, under various likenefles of a friendly
ferving-man, induces the worll examples of hypocrify and deceit. This
dsemon, it is faid, was the conftant attendant of Judas Ifcariot. The 7th
is Barman, ready to enter into league with any conjurer, witch, or wiz-
ard; but who moll commonly polfelTes the foul of whomfoever he is in
league with. Thefe good and evil fpirits^ it feems, are the moft eafv to
be invoked or called up, agreeable to the defires and lituation of the ma-
gician's mind and inclination, becaufe they are moll near and familiar to
the a6tions and purfuits of men, and officially attendant upon them.
Different from every fpecies of all the foregoing orders of fpirits, are
the gholls and apparitions of deceafed perfons, which have been known
for many years to furvive and continue ; particularly where the deceafed
perfon hath departed this life in difcontent, melancholy, or unquiet mind ;
for in thefe cafes they have been often known to return again, and, with-
out a derive of caufmg terror and alarm to houfes and families, leek onl}'^
for an opportunity of dilburthening themfelves, that at length they may
come into their delired reft. Such perfons as are fecretly murdered, or
that fecretly murder themfelves, are moft apt to appear again, wandering
near the place where the cataftrophe happened, till the radical moifture
of the body be totally confumed. After which, according to the opinion
of Paracelfus, and many other learned writers, they can appear no more,
but are refolved into their firft being or aftrum, after a certain term of
years, when the humidum radkale becomes exficcate and dried up, according
to the vigour or force of that firft attraction, which was the only caufe of
their returning. And hence was derived the cuftom of urns and fune-
ral piles amongft the Romans, whoufed to reduce the corpfes of their de-
ceafed friends into aflies, left their ghofts ftiould return and wander; which
it was fuppofed they could not do when the body was burnt, and all
moifture totally exterminated and confumed thereby.
No. 58. 12 R The
1096 AN I L L U S T 11 A T I O N
TKe manner and feafbns -wheiein apparitions and i>;]ioits appear are as
various as Ihey are uncertain. Sometimes, before the peribn to whom
thev properly belong departs this life, they will, by external vilible prefen-
tation of themlelves, forewarn him of the time or day wherein death ihail
approacli hi.n. Sometimes the apparition of a perfon will appear to its
belovofl friend, hufband, wife, or relation, at many thouiand n)iles dil-
tance, to aequaint them of its departure from this life, whilit otlierwile
the party would be totally ignorant of this event. And it has often been
known, that when no one individual of the kindred or family of the
dece^led [)ei I'm has been viiited or difturbed by it, or even made fenllble
of its appearing, yet to fome of its molt intimate or beloved acquaintance
it difc;overs itfelf, and importunes them to peiform fome ceremony or
jMomife, that it may be admitted into reft. At other times it diicovers
ibme trcafure which was hidden by the deceafed party; or elfe Ibme
murder which it had committed. But the moft frequent caufe of their
returning;, is when the party himfelf hath been privately murdered ; for
lach is the poifonous malice and rancourous fpirit of murderers, that in-
nocent blood, thus inhumanly fpilt, criethup to heaven, and the departed
fpirit cannot reft till the murder be made manifeft to the world, after
which difcovery it is received into reli. This is the reafon why, for
many years together, ghofts continue, to be feen in one particular place,
ever watching for fit opportunity to difcover or make known the caufe
of their appearing ; but which is often attended with great difficulty and
delay, as well on account of the natural timidity of human beings, as for
want of the prcper organs of corporeal voice and touch in the fpirit,
which, being no part of their quality or effence, is procured with great
difficulty, and at beft but inarticulate, doleful, and in broken accents.
That this is true, the ufual manner of their appearance in a great mea-
fure proves ; for all that they are able to effe6t, if they have been mur-
dered, is to appear near the place where the body lies, and to feem as if
they funk down or vaniflied in the fame ; or elfe to appear in the form
of a murdered corpfe, with mangled body, and bleeding wounds, diflie-
velled hair, and convulfive countenance ; but it is rarely known that
fuch apparitions have plainly fpoken, or uttered, by words, either the
time and place of their murder, or the caufe, manner, or perfon's name ;
unlefs the perpetration of the deed be marked with circumftances uncom-
monly horrid and execrable, in which cafes, I am told, the remembrance
of the fame doth fo mucli more powerfully operate upon the faculties of
the apparition, as to enable it to frame the fimilitude of a voice, fo as to
difcover the fad;, and give fome leading clue ta deted and puniili the
wicked perpetrator.
But,
OF ASTROLOGY. 1097
But to give a reafon why apparitions are fo feldom feen, and why thofe
%\hich do ajtpear, cannot without man's alliltance accomphUi their dehgn,
it may eatily be conceived, that all fpirits, or fpiritual iubftances, of what
denomination foever, have their life, breath, and vital motion in another
fource yery different from the elements of this external v.orkl; and con-
fequcn'tU- that their manifeftation and continuance in this louice wlien-
cver they appear, muft be both painful and irklbmc ;
as it wou d be tor
a man tb continue v/ith his liead under water, or for the inhabitants of
the watery element to be pla ccd upon dry land .
Bu c it is only the appa-
ritions of'perfons thus fuddenly taken off m their tins, or of fuch as die in
confirmed and habitual wickednefs, that, in the natural courfe of t^hings,
are fubiecT: to return into the terreftrial fource, and manifelt themfelves to
human eves. For thofe who die in perfect peace, with mmds diveffea
b-y true repentance of every turbulent and iinful delire, enter at once into
their delired reft, without the poiVibility of returning to this fublunary
world again, but in the capacity of angels of light, to execute tae divine
miffions of the Deity.
In the writings of Plate, there are many ft range and ftngular reprefen-
tations of the amjaritions or departed fouls of men, with accounts of their
torments and purgations, the caufe of their returning w-jiat tncir na-
ture and employment are, their fubftance and. property, food and nourifli-
menf from all which that great philofopher and hiftorian was induced
to believe, that, when the fpirits of good and exemplary men returned, it
was to perfons of a like habit and difpofition with themfelves, warning,
them in their fleep of certain dangers or malevolent defigns forming
aoainft them ; or elfe conveying heavenly doarines or ingenious inven-
tions to their mind, for the honour of religion or the good of fociety.
And in like manner, if the ghoft of a wicked and execrable chara6ler re-
turned, it was to thofeof a profligate and abandoned courfe of life, whom
it infticrates, afteep or awake, to the invention and exercife of notorious
villani?s, to blafphemies againft God, and to fedition, rapine, and mur-
der amonc^ft men. The difciples of Pythagoras eftabliftied an opinion,
not' very different from this. They held that there was a continua
traduction and tranfmigration of fouls from one ftate to another, till
they became deified at lalt; and that they frequently appeared to per-
fons of the fame bent of mind and inclination, to initrud and forewarn
them. It was alfo the opinion of many great and.^vife philolophers that
the Oracles of old proceeded from fuch fpirits as had been the ghofts or
departed fouls of wife and excellent men; as the oracle of Apollo, the
oracle of Pallas, or Minerva, and the like. And, upon the whole, the
variety of examples throughout the writings of wife and learned men, in
1098 AN ILLUSTRATION
all ages of the world, in all coimtries, and in the facred as well as the
profane hiftory, of the various appearances of gholls and apparitions of
departed men, as well as of ipirits of other kinds and properties, afford
a llronger inducement to our belief af their exiftence and agency in
this iublunaiy world, than we fliould, in this more learned and enlight-
ened age, be otherwiCe fo willing to admit as an article of our belief.
But, feeing thefe things are abfolutely fo, we will now give fome particu-
lars of the mode and manner in which magicians and other profefl'ors of
the Black Art obtain an intercourfe with them; from which it will ap-
pear, that the Science of Aftrology is an art founded on philofophy and
mathematical demonftration, and totally unconne6ted with any agency
but what proceeds from fecond caufes under God and Nature ; whereas
the other is a wicked confederation with evil fpirits, which ought to be
difcouraged and fupprefled by the utmoft exertions of the iron arm of the
law.
To the honour of the prefent century, we have had but few inflances
of perfons openly and publicly entering into compact with fpirits, or of
profeffing to refolve queftions in futurity by means of their agency ; but,
prior to that ffira, it was no uncommon thing ; and thofe who had an op-
portunity of blending claflical learning and fcientific fpeculation with it,
were efteemed the moil elevated chara6lers of their day, and were fre-
quently honoured with the prote<^ion and confidence of princes and other
men of rank and fortune. I fliall here jnention a few of thofe charac-
ters who were efteemed the moft confiderable magicians of tlieir time,
AppoUonius Tai/anem, in the time of the Emperor Domitian, from the
wonderful and miraculous things he did through the agency of fpirits,
added to fo great an appearance of fan6tity and limplicity, with which his
exterior was endowed by nature, occafioned all ranks of people to regard
him with a mixture of reverential awe and refpe^t. Even the Chriftians,
who lived within the circle of his fame, thought him fomething more
than human, and looked up to him with confidence and efteem. From
a variety of circumftances, and accounts in different authors, it appears
that tliis fmgular chara(^er had not only the faculty of knowing what
was tranfacling at many hundred miles dillance, but had the means alfo
of being conveyed almoft inftantaneoufly from one place to another,
where he was feen, known, and converfed with many of his acquain-
tance. It is alfo recorded of him, that, at the inftant the Emperor Do-
mitian was affaffinated at Rome, he fpoke of it in a public afi'embly at
Ephefus, and declared the mode and manner of his death ; which, upon
enquiiy, was found to happen at the precife moment of time he fpoke of it,
and in the exadl manner he had defcribed.
OF ASTROLOGY. 1099
DoHor Dec was another very extraordinar}^ character of tlie fame clais,
«nd a native of this illand. 'He was not only a famous magician, but a
great author, having written upwards of forty-eight different volumes,
the firft of which was publiihed in 1 594. A full account of his con-
verfaiton and intercourfe with fpirits is now extant, written with his
own hand, and eileemed a very curious and lingular performance. His
company and acquaintance were much fought by the Emperor Charles V,
and by Ferdinand his brother; and, during his travels over the conti-
nent, he had not only every refpecft and attention paid him, but his com-
pany was courted by all the learned and religious people wherever he
went. He was certainly one of the moil learned men of the age in
which he lived, and had coUeded a library of upwards of 4,000 volumes
of curious and valuable writings, moitly upon phylical, theological, and
occult, fubjedts, which he had the misfortune to fee burnt by the fury of
a mob, who aflailed his houfe, and confpired againft his life, under an
idea that by magical fpells and incantations he had altered the natural
courfe of the weather, and brought on Itorms, hurricanes, tempefts, and
continual rain, in order to ruin the harveft, and deftroy the fruits of the
earth. Yet he bore the torrent and fury of this infatuated multitude
with the greateft compofure, faying, ''They would fee their error Jhon
enough to treat hi??i xvith greater Idndne/'s hereafter, than their perfecution rcas
7mc cruel." And lb it happened ; for, having by means of his confederacy
with fpirits foretold and detet^led a fatal conipiracy againlt his countiy,
he was then as much honoured and carelVed as he had before been flig-'
inatized and abufed by the hally multitude. He wrote the mathematical
preface to Euclid's Elements, and has left tables of the harmony and ex-
tent of numbers infinitely beyond the capacity of the prelent times,
though fo much more learned and refined.
Edicard Kelly w2i^ alfo a famous magician, and the companion and alVo-
ciate of Dr. r>ee, in moft of his magical operations and exploits; having
been brought in unilbn with him (as the Dodor himlelf declares, in tlie
preface to his work upon the minilhation of fpirits) by mediation (jf the
angel Uriel. But Dr. Dee was undoubtedly deceived in his opinion,
that the fpirits which miniftered to him were executing the Divine will,
and were the meflengers and fervants of the Deity. Througliout his
writings on the fubjed, he evidently conliders them in this light, which
is ftill more indifputably confirmed by the piety and devotion invaria-
bly obferved at all times when thefe 'fpirits had intercourle with him.
And further, when he found his coadjutor Kelly was degenerating into the
the lowed and worft fpecies of the magic art, for the purpofes of fraud
and avaricious gain, he broke off all manner of connexion with him, and
No. 59. " 12 S would
I ICO AN ILLUSTRATION
would never after be Iccn in his company. But it is believed, that the
Dudor, a little before his death, became fenlible that he had been im-
pofed upon by thcfe invifible agents, and that all their pretences of adting
under the aulpices of the angel Uriel, and for the honour and glory of
God, were but mere hypocrily, and the dcluhons of the devil. Kelly,
being thus rejected and"^ difcountenanced by the dodor, betook himfelf
to tlie meaneit and moft vile practices of the magic art; in all which pur-
I'uits money, and the works of the devil, appear to have been his chief
aim. Many wicked and abominable tranladlions are recorded of him,
which were performed by witchcraft, and the mediation of infernal fpi-
rits ; but nothing more curious, or more apropos to the prefent fubjed",
than what is mentioned by AVeaver, in his Funeral Monuments. He
there records, that Edward Kelly the magician, with one Paul Waring,
who aded in capacity of companion and aflfociate in all his conjurations,
went together to the church-yard of Walton Ledale, in the county of
Lancafter, where they had information of a perlbn being interred, who
was fuppofed to have hidden or buried a conliderable fum of money, and,
to have died without difcloling to any perfon where it was depofited.
They entered the church-yard exadly at twelve o'clock at night ; and,
having had the grave pointed out to them the preceding day, they exor-
cifed The fpirit of the deceafed by magical fpells and incantations, till it
appeared before them, and not only fatisfied their wicked defues ' and en-
quiries, but delivered feveral Itrange prediAions concerning perfons in
that ne'ighbourhood, which were literally and exadly fulfilled. It was
vulgarly reported of Kelly, that he outlived the time of his compact with
the'^devil, and was feized at midnight by fome infernal fpirits, who car-
ried him oif in fight of his own wife and children, at the inftant he
was meditating a raifchievous fcheme againft the minifter of his parifli,
with whom he was greatly at enmity.
The character of Mahomet is too well known throughoirt all the world,
as the inflitutor of the Turkifh Alcoran, to need much comment from
me in this place. It is futficientif 1 only remark, that all his wonderful
miracles were wrought by the aid and confederacy of familiar fpirits,
which he called the miniflration of angels from heaven, fi'om whence he
pretended to have been fent, to perform the commands of the Deity, and
to corrcA and reform the manners and religion of mankind. He had
the peculiar addrefs to eftablifli this idea amongft his contemporaiies, and
to lav the foundation of the prefent faith at Conftantinople, and through-
out the vaft extent of the Turkiib territory.
Roircr Bacon was aiiother veiy famous aflfociate with familiar fpirits, and
performed many aftonifliing exploits through their means. He was born
at
OF ASTROLOGY. noi
at Ilchefter in Somerfetftire, where he ftudied philofophy, alchemy, and
aftrolot^y ; and wrote feveral learned and ingenious books, the manu-
lcripts°of which are now preferved as valuable curiofities in the Britiih
Muleum. I attempted to make fome interelting extrads from them, for
the further amufement and information of my readers in this part of my
work; but I was prevented from going on with my plan, under an idea
that the information it would convey might be produdive of milchiev-
ous confequences to fociety, by putting too much in the power of evil-
minded and vindid;ive men.
Paracelfm was a great cabalift, phyfician, aflrologer, and magician, and
appears to have been intimately acquainted with all the fe.cret and occult
properties of nature. He was the firft we know of who ever treated upon
animal 7na£;neti/m ; and his performances in that line were luch as to
aftonifli the world, and to draw upon him the united gratulations of the
difeafed and infirm. His method, notwithlianding it is fo clearly laid
down by himfelf, and demonftrated by a variety of pleafmg examples in
his works, has lain dormant till the prefent time ; and now it begms
again, under the fuccefsful endeavours of a few perfevering individuals,
to convince mankind that the fecret and occult properties of nature are
not yet half known or undei-ftood; nor their advantages received with
that thankfulnefs and regard which ought inceffantly to be poured forth
to the great Author of our being, for the bleffings that may fo eafdy be
derived from them. This was the opinion and nearly the words of Para-
celfus himfelf, who hath been recorded by all our biographers, as a learn-
ed, judicious, and ingenious, philofopher. Yet his having been fo much
addided to magical rites and ceremonies, and having had familiarity
with fpirits and ^devils, and performed fo many wonderful conjurations
through their means, caufcd him t o have been ever fuppofed to have
done by the agency of fpirits what was really the true and genuine effect
of nature only.—In the annexed engraving I have given portraits of the
above fix extraordinary perfonages.
As to the particular forms, manner, method, rites, ceremonies, confe-
crations, time, place, and ability, requifxte to call up and enter into com-
pact or femiliarity with fpirits, it is neither fafe nor prudent, nor con-
hftent with the well-being of fociety in general, that I ihould dwell fo,
extensively upon it, or give fuch explanations, as to put a weapon into the
hands of theblood-thirfty or revengeful, to defpite their enemies or neigh-
bours, or to enable thofe Avho are prone to fuch dealings from idle cuno-
fity, completely to put in execution this fpecies of league with the devil,
•or his fuboidinate agents ; which is as ihidlly forbidden by the word of
God, as by the laws o£ the land. Let it lutfice therefore, that I only
give
1 io> AN ILLUSTRATION
give fuch ail outline of it, as may enable the inquifitive reader fufticlcntly
to judiije of its merits, without enabhng the vicioufly-inclincd to adopt its
practice.
INIagicians and conjurors who h£e\'e written upon and followed the Black
Art, contend, that it is poilible to i-aife up and hold an intercouri'e with
fpirits, and make them fuhfervient to their commands, without any abfo-
lute compact or l?argain with the devil, either for body, foul, or works;
though they are ready to admit, that fuch a fnare is eventually intend-
od for them, by their oificioufnefs upon every occafion, and they are as
willing to believe that it has induced many of its pra6titioners to fin-m fuch
a league. Many inftances indeed have been adduced in proof of this,
where, at the expiration of a certain term, the devoted wretch has been
carried off in the height of his tins and wickednefs, by fome of the in-
fernal melVengers. Such is recorded to have been the cafe with feveral
in this ifland ; fuch alfo was the cafe with Lewis Gaufndi, a French prieft,
who, to be revenged of fome of his fuperiors for not promoting him to
the extent of his ambition, compared with the devil for fourteen years
power, to commit whatever detcftable works he pleafed without detec-
tion or difcovery. So likewife, a certain execrable charader, who a fevv^
centuries back overran this country, was at length publicly taken off in
fire and flame, before the eyes of a vaft multitude, having covenanted for
body, Ibul, and works. Tt is to bt; notod, that, where a compa6l is form-
ed, the devil, or familiar fpirit, is ever at hand, and ready to obey the
magician's will, without ceremony or trouble ; but where no fuch league
or compact exifts, and the magician is defuous of bringing up or con-
flruining fome particular fpirit or gholl to appear before him, there are
many rites and ceremonies to be performed. In the full place they are
to fix upon a fpot proper for fuch a purpofe ; which muft be either in a
fubterrantous vault hung round with black, and lighted with a luagical
torch ; or elfe in the centre of fome thick wood or defert, or upon Ibme
extenlive unfrequented plain, where feveral roads meet; or amidft the
ruins of ancient caftles, abbeys, monafteries, &c. or amongll the rocks on
the fea-fliore; in fome private detached church-yard, or any other
folemn luelancholy place, between the hours of twelve and one in the
night, either when the moon Ihines very bright, or elfe when the ele-
ments are difturbed with itorms of thunder, lightning, wind, and i-ain
;
for in thefe places, times, and feafons, it is contended, that fpirits can
with lefs difficulty manifeft themfelves to mortal eyes, and continue
vifible with the leall pain, in this elemental external world.
When the proper time and place are fixed on, a magic circle is to
be formed, within which, the mafter and his aflbciate (for in all thefe
cafes
JS7i(n irv'i/ hr ASi7>/<y.iAJ//v/<u/)
y^M).
jS / (f 7t J , (7j(f / Vf r/~er^J , r/ // // . l/^rr// { <//ji /nje .
I '//,.. r 7V,/,u;- ,••/'//, I',,r7,- for 3,-Jr,I//^r,lli,/ 7ji.,-37/riy3-
,/i/tri i/jiiiiii,/ Ii,yii;iriiJ ,>)7,lVfli,rI h'llntni l1p'lii/if Ii,7iin,7,' .
-li'l/7^7iifJx>f-f^g7'rr/'n,-/t>ra/n-('')7iT7/,<'rJ/^if_S7iiA(V/,'t:^ (r/if^-
OF ASTROLOGY. U03
cafes tliere mult be two perfons) are carefully to retire. The dimenfions
of the circle are as follow : A piece of ground is generally chofen nine feeC
feet fquare, at the full extent of which parallel lines are drawn one within
another, having fundry crolfes and triangles defcribed between them,
clofe to which is formed thelirft or outer circle; then, about half a foot
within the fame, a fecoiid circle is defcribed ; and within that another
Iquare correfpondent to the firft, the centi"e of which is the feat or I'pot
Avhere the malter and affociate are to be placed. The vacancies formed
by the various lines and angles of the figure, are filled up with all the
holy names of Gk)d, having croffes and triangles defcribed between them;
agreeable to a flvetch I have given in the annexed plate, vv'here likewile I
have projected the form of magic feals, pentacles, &c. &:c. jail to give
the reader an idea of wliat is meant, when we have occafion to fpeak of
them in the following difcourfe. The reafons aihgned by magicians and
others for the inftitution and ufe of circles, is, that fo much ground being
blefled arid confecrated by fuch holy words and ceremonies as they make
ufe of in forming it, hath a fecret force to expel all evil fpirits from the
bounds thereof; and, being fprinked with pure fanc^tified water, the
ground is purified from all uncleannefs ; befides, the holy names of God
being written over every jxirt of it, its force becomes fo powerful, that no
evil fpirit hath ability to break through it, or to get at the magician or
his companion, by reafon of the antipathy in nature they bear to thefe
facred names. And the reafon thev give for the triangles is, that, if the
fpirit be not eafily brought to fpeak the truth, they may by the Exorcil'e
be conjured to enter the fame, where, by virtue of the names of the Eifence
and Divinity of God, they can fpeak nothing but what is true and right.
The circle therefore, according to this account of it, is the principal fort
and fhield of the magician, from which he is not, at the peril of his life,
to depart, till he has completely difmiiied tlie fpirit, particularly if he be
of a fiery or infernal nature. Inllances are recorded of many who periihed
by this means; particularly, C/"tt«c««£'?, the famous Kgyptiaii fortime-
teller, who in the laft century was ib famous in England. lie under-
took, for a wager, to raife up the fpirit BoAVw ; and, having defcribed tlie
circle, he feated his filter Napala by him as his alfociate. After fre-
quently repeating. the forms of exorcifm, and calling upon the fpirit
to appear, and nothing as yet anlwering his deniand, they grew impatient
of the buiinel's, and quitted the circle, but it coft them their lives; for
they were inltantaneoull)' feized and crulhed to death by that infernal
fpirit, who happened not to be fuiricicntly conllrained till that moment
to manifcil himielf to human eyes.—The ufual form of conlecrating the,
cirle, is as follows :
No. 59. 12 T T,7o}to
1104 AN ILLUSTRATION
J, who am the fervant of the Higheft, do, by the virtue of his HolyNamcTm-
ffiamie/, J'ancli/'y unto inyjelf the circumference of nine feet round about me,
^ ^ »{< from the ca/i, Glaitrnh ; from the iceft, Garron; from the north,
Cabon ; from the foufh, Berith ; ichicli p'oiind I take for my proper defence
from all malignant fpirits, that they may have no paiver over ?ny foul or bodt/,
nor come beyond ihc/c limitations, but anfwer truly, being Jummoncd, without
daring to tranfgrefs their bounds. Worrh. rvorrah. harcot. Gambchn.^ »J< if(.
The proper attire or /?oj«i'i//ca//6*..>; of a magician, is an epliod made of
fine white linen, over that a prieftlj' robe of black bombazine, reaching
to the ground, with the twofeals of the earth, drawn correctly upon vir-
-gin parchment, and affixed to the breaft of his outer veftment. Kound
his watte is tied a broad confecrated girdle, Avitli the names Ya, Ya, ^
Aie, Aaie, i^ E/ibra »J< Elohim ij* Sadai »J< Pah Adoiici »{• luo roborc ^
cindusfum*y. Upon his flioes mull be written Tetragrammatotu, with
croflfes round about ; upon his head a high-crown cap of fable liik ; and
in his liands a holy bible, printed or written in pure Hebrew. Wiien
all thefe things are prepared, the circle drawn, the ground confecrated,
:and theJ£xorciit fecurely placed within the circle, he proceeds to call up
or conjure the fpiritby his proper name, under a form fomewhat hmilar
to the following:
I exoreife and eoiijuj-e thee, thou fpint of (here naming the fpirit), by the
'holy and xcondcrful names of the Almighty Jehovah, Athanato ^ AioJios *{<
DominusJ'empifernus >i«
Aletheios ^ Sadai »i< Jehovah, Kedcfti, El gabor
^ Deusforti/Jimus lit Anapheraton, Atnorule, Amcron ^ t{« »J< Pafithmi i^i
Craton lit Muridon*^ Jah, Jehovah, Elohim penfejjaron i^t i^t trinus et unus
»i« >i< •!< I exoreife -and conjure, I inxoeate and command, thee, thou afore-
faidJpirif, by the poxeer of augcls and archangels, cherubim andferophim , by
the fnighty Prince Coronzon, by the blood ofAbel, by the righfeoiifnefs of Seth,
and the prayers of Noah, by the voices of Thunder and dreadful day of Judg-
ment ; by all thefe poxcerful and royal xoords abovefaid, that rcithout delay or
walicious i}ifcnt, thou do come before me here, at the circumference of this confe-
crutcd circle, to anfxccr my propqfals and dejires, without any manner of terrible
form, either of thyfcIf or attendants ; but only obediently, fairly, and with good
.intent, to prcfent thyfelf befere me, this circle being my defence, through his
power xcho is Almighty, and hath fanBifed the name of the Father, Son, and
Jloly Ghof. Amen.
After thefe forms of conjuration, and juft before appearances are expe6l-
,'<?d, the infernal fpirits make ftrange and frightful noiles, bowlings, trem-
^blings, flaihes, and moll dreadful flirieks and yells, as forerunners of
their-
\
O 1^ A S T R O L O G Y. 1105
their prefently becoming vifible. Their firft appearance is generally in
the form of fierce and terrible lions or tigers, vomiting forth fire, and
roaring hideonfl}'' about the circle 1 all M'hicli time the Exorcilt muit not
I'uffer any tremor or dilmay ; for in that cafe they will gain the afcen-
dency, and the confequences may touch his life. On the contrary, he
niuft fummon nip a iliare of refolation, and continue repeating all the
forms of conftriction and confinement, until they are drawn nearer to the
influence of the triangle, when their forms will change to appearances lefs
ferocious and frightful, and become more ibbmiflive and tractable. When
the forms of conjuration have in this manner been i'ufficiently repeated,
the fpirits forfake their beltial fliapes, and endow the human form, ap-
pearing like naked men of gentle countenance and behaviour. Yet is the
magician to be Avarily on his guard that they deceive him not by fuch
Tirild geftures; for they are exceedingly fraudulent and deceitful in their
<lealings with thofe who conftrain them to appear without compaft ; hav-
ing nothing in view but to fuborn his mind, or accomplilb his dellruc-
tion. But with fuch as they have entered into agreement with, tliey are
frequent and oflficious ; yet they more or lets require certain oblations,
which are frequently made to them, fuch as fumigations, odours, of-
ferings or facrifices of blood, fire, wine, ointments, rncenfe, fruits, ex-
crements, herbs, gums, minerals, and other ingredients ; by which, from
a magical caufe, they have more influence and authority over the de^
generated fouls of men, and can infmuate into their inmofl; fource and
afteclion, piercing even through their bones and marrow, till they liave
fo habituated them to their fervice that it becomes their daily and fole
delight to accomplifli every villainy and abomination which the malicious
andfubtle infl:igations of Satan might purpofe to lead them to So that
the Exorcifl; muft be greatly upon his guard, and when he has com-
pleted the exorcifm, and made fuch enquiries as he wiihed to obtain
from the fpirit, he muft carefully difcharge liini by fome form or cere-
mony like the following
;
Becaufe thou, heji diligenfly mifxvered niy demands, and been ready fo come
at myfiijl call, I do here licenfethec to depart unto thy proper place, without
injury or danger to 7nan or beajl ; depart, I fay, and be ever ready at my call,
being duly exorcifed and conjured by /acred ritex of Magic : I charge thee to
Tvithdraw rcith quiet and peace ; and peace be continued betmit thee and me,
in the name of the Father, Son, and HolyGhoJi. Amen.
After this ceremony is finifhed, the fpirit will begin to depart, relum-
ing again the flu-ieksand noifes, with flafhes of fire, fulphur, ond fmoke,.
which the magician is to endure with patience, until it is entirely gone oft',
and
nc6 AN I L L U;« T H AT I O N
and no fis^ns ^vllatever of fuch a procedure left. Then lie may venlure-
to uith(lra\\' from the circle, repeating the Lord's Prayer, after wiiiclr
he jiiay take up tlio various utenlils, and, having deftroyed all traces of
tiie circle, may' return in fafetj'' to his proper home.
But if, inftead of infernal or familiar fpirits, tlie ghoft or apparition of
a departed perlbn is to be exorciled, the proceis is materially different.
TJie perfon being fixed on, whole apparition is to be brought up, the
magician, with liis alliltant, muft repair to the church-yard or tomb'
where the deceaied was buried, exactly at midnight ; as tlie ceremony
can only be performed in tiie night, between the hours of twelve and
one. The grave is firll to be opened, or an aperture made, by which
accefs may be had to the naked body. The magician having defcribed
the circle, and holding a magic wand in bis right hand, while his com-
panion or affillant beareth a confecrated torch, he turns himfelf to all the
four winds, and, touching the dead body tluee times with the magical
wand, repeats as follows:
Bif the virtue of the hohj refurreflion, and the torments of the' damned,^
I conjure and exorcife thee, J'pirit of"^. deccafed, to anfxver my liege demands,
being obedient unto thcfe Jacred ceremonies, on pain of everlajiing torment and
diflrefs. Then let him fay, Herald, Bcroald, Balbin gab gabor agaba >
Ar'ifey arifi, I charge and command thee.
After which fol•n^s and ceremonies, the ghoft or a.pparitiou will become
vifible, and will anfwer to any queltions put to it by the Exorcill. .
But if it be defired to put interrogatories to the fpirit of any corpfe tliat
hath hanged, drowned, or otherwife made away with, itfclf^ tlie conjura-
tion muft be performed while the body hangs, or on the fpot where it is
firft found after the fuicide hath been committed, and before it is touched
©r removed by the coroner's jur3^ The ceremony is as follows : The
Exorciil binds irpon. the top of his wand a bundle of St. John's wort, or
miUiis perforatum, with the head of an owl; and having repaired to the
fpot where the corpfe lies, at twelve o'clock at iiiglit, he draws the circle,
and folemnly repeats the following words i
By the myjicries of the deep, by theflames of Banal,, by the pomer of the cajl,
and the filence of the night, by the holy rites of Hecate, I conjure and exorci/e
thee, thou d'ljlrejfcdfpirit, to prefent thyfelf here, and reveal unto me the caiifc
of thy calamity, why thou didft .offer violence to thy oxon liege life, where thou
uri iwxv in being, and nhcre thou uilt hereafter be. He then, gently fmit-
ing
6 F A S T R O L G Y. no;
in'g the cai-cafe nine times wit'n the 3-od, fays, I coujurc thcc, thoufpint
v/'this N. (lecea/'cd, fo anjke.r my demands that I am to propound unfa thee, as
thou ever hopc/i for the rejl of the holy ones, and eafe of all thy mifery ; by the
blood of Jefu xchich he JJicdfor thy fmil, I conjure and bind thee to utter unto
vie what IJJiall ajkthce.
Then, cutting doAvntlie carcafc from the tree, they lay his head tojvards
the eaft ; and in the fpace that this following conjuration is repeating,
they fet a chaffing dilh of fire at his right hand, into which they pour a
little wine, fomeniaftic, and gum aromatic, and laftly a viol full of the
fweeteft oil, having alfo a pair of bellows, and fonie unkindled charcoal
to make the fire burn bright at the inftant of the carcafe's rifmg. The
conjuration is thus :
/ conjure thee, thou fpirit of N. that thou do immediately enter into thy
ancient body again, and anjxcer to my demands, by the virtue of the holy refnr-
rection, and by the pofiure of the body of the Saviour of the xvorld, I charge
thee, I co7ijure thee, I command thee on pain of the tor?nents andxcandering of
thrice feven years, xchich I, by theforce of facred magic rites, have poxcer
fo irifii&upon thee ; by thyfighs and groans, I conjure thee to utter thy voice ;
fo help thee God and the prayers of the holy church. Amen.
Which ceremony being thrice repeated, while tlie fire is burning witii
mallic and gum aromatic, the body will begin to rife, and at laft will Itand
upright before the Exorcilt, anfwering Avith a faint and hollow voice,
the queftions pi-opounded unto it : Why it deftroyed itfelf, where its
dwelling is, what its food and life are, how long it will be ere it enter into
reft, and by what means the magician may alliit it to come to reft : Alfo,
of the treafures of this world, where they are hid : JMoreover, it can an-
fwer very punctually of the places where ghofts refide, and how to comnui-
nicatewith them; teaching the nature of aftral fpirits and hellilh beings,
fo far as its capacity reacheth. All -^vhich when the gholt hath fully
anfwered, the magician ought, out of commiforation and reverence to the
deceafed, to ufe what means can poftibly be ufed for tlie procuring relt
tmto ihe fpirit. To which eft'ect he mult dig a grave, and filling the fame
half full of quick lime, and a little fait and connnon fulphur, put the
carcafc naked into it; wiiich experiment, next to the burning of the
body into afhes, is of great force to quiet and end the difturbance of the
aftral fpirit.
But in this, and in all cafes where the ghofts or apparitions of deceafed
perfons are raifedup and confulted, great caution is to be obfeiTcd by the
No. 59. 12 U magician
no8 AN ILLUSTRATION
maoician to keep clofe within the circle ; for if the magician, by the
t'onltellation and pofition of the ftars at his nativity, be in the predica-
ment of thofe who follow the Black Art for iniquitous purpofes, and
arcfo dirtitiuuilhed by the pofitions of their radical fij^ure of birth, it is
very dangerous for fuch men to conjure any fpirits witliout defcribing
the circle after the form already given, and wearing npon their breaft,
or holding in their hand, the Pcntade ofSo/o/non. Fw the ghofts of men
deceafed can eafily effert fudden death to the magician born under fuch a
conformation of the planets, even whiiit in the atl of being exorcifed ;
and it is yet more remarkable, that the genethliacal figures of all perfons
who are naturally addicted to the puriuit of magical incantations and fa-
miliarity witli fpirits, do almoft without exception portend fuddcil death,
or an mtamous termination of their exiitence.
Sucli arc the rites, ceremonies, and modes, by whicli Exorcifts and
^Magicians obtain familiarity with fpirits, and carry on a viiible and pal-
j)able correl'pondence with the devil. But bclides thefe means of work-
ing wonders, they have others, of an invitible or occwlt property, as
charms, fpells, periapts, and the like, which operate both on the body
and mind, bv the agency of fome fecret power, which the patient can nei-
ther feel nor comprehend. They are of various names, forms, and
qualities, according to the ufe for which they are intended. Firft, Amu-
lets, which are moulded and engraved in the form of money or coin, un-
der certain forms of confecration ; and are jumg alx)at the neck in cer-
tain planetary hours, for the purpofe of provoking to love and familiarity
with fome certain perlbn detired. iSecoiidly, Spells or Charms, eonlilting
of various forms of words, and magical, characters, written on virgin
j)archment, either with human blood, or ink of a particular quality, and
•'onfecrated imder certain magical forms and ceremonies, to be worn as
Periapts to cure difeafes, to flrive away evil fpirits, to preferve from peiti-
lence and infection, to make the party valiant and intrepid, and for a
thoufand other purpofes. Thirdly, Corfelets, which are the ancient
Diin/JJi charm, being a kind of necklaces compofed of tinmder-ftones,
upon which are engraven certain magical chaiaoters, which refilt all nox-
ious influences, and all danger from thunder and lightning. Pentacles
arc a fourth fort of appendix, which conjurors and magicians ufe, being
made Avith five corners, correfponding to tlie five fenfes of man, with
their virtue and operation infcribed upon the five corners refpectively.
They are compofed of fine linen doubled up, and done with cerecloth
between. This figure the magician holds in his hand, lifting it up from
the Ikirt of his garment to which it is annexed, whenever fpirits that are
itiifed become Itubborn and rebellious, refufmg to conform to the rites
and
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 1109
and requifitions of exorcifm, and offering menacing looks and actions to tlie
magician ;
but when theie Pentac'es are held out to the fpirits, with the
Avoi-ds G/aurofi, Amor, Aworula, Beor, Beorka, Bcroald, Ancpheralott, in-
fcribed upon them, tliey become exceedingly tortured and amazed, and
are more mild and tradable. There is fikewiie another fort of charm
called Te/ifi//s, which is uled by magicians when they perform any con-
juration or exorcilui by moon-light in the mountains or valleys •
upon
which occalions they ulually bury them towards the north, eiift, weft,
and fouth, within a hundred yards of the place where the circle is de-
Icribed ; for thefe Telefms have the occult power of pre\'enting any liv-
ing creature coming near them until the incantation be performed, except
the fj)irit itfelf whole prefence they ardently defa-c, and are preparing to
fununon before them.
But to make fieiy and infernal fpirits more familiar, magicians have
clalVed them into feven diftindl orders, anfwerable to the nature and qua-
lities of the feven planets ; under which they refpectively make offerings
to them of aromatic fumigations, previous to invoking or calling them
up ; wlicreby they conceive the information or alliltance required from
theniM'ill be more eafdy and expeditioully obtained. Thus the finniga-
tions for fj)irits under Saturn are made of frankincenfe-tree, |:)epper-wort
roots, ftoiax, and galbanum ; by thefe the fpirits Marbas, Corlmn, Sfti/con,
Idas, &c. and all of the firft order in the aftringency, are appealed a!Td pro-
voked, when the ftunes are ))ut upon- a Tripod in the hour of Saturn ac-
cording to the planetary divifion. For fpirits under Jupiter, they take
lignum aloes, aflitree-keys, benjamin, llorax, peacocks-feathers, nnd /apis
lazuli, mixing the fame with the blood of a Ifork, a fwallow, or a hart ;
the brains- being alfo added: i\\c fumes arc kindled in Jupiter's hour,
and in a place appropriate to his nature. They make fumigations mifu
fuch Ipirits of the order of powers as are under Mars, in the planetai-y
divifion, with aromatic gum, bdellium, euphorbium, load-ftone, hellebore
wliite and black, and an addition of fulphur to make them into an anial-
gama, with man's blood, and the blood of a black cat; which mixtures
are laid to be ih exceeding magical, that, without any other addition, they
fay, this fumigation is able of itfelf to make fpirits under Mars appear
before the Exorcift. To the fpirits under Sol, being of the order of
thrones, they likewife fuft'umigate laffron, mulk, laurel, ciimamon, am-
ber2;rife, cloves, myrrh, and frankincenfe, nuin\, and the ballamic tree,
mix^d up together with the brains of an eagle, and the blood of a white
cock, beinu made up like pills, or little balls, and put upon ihc Tripod.
The fumigations appropriate to fpirits under Venus, are rofes, coral,
lio-num aloes, and fpermaceti, made up Mith fparrows brains, and blood
° ^
of
7 110 A K I L T. U S T R A T I O N
of pigeons. To tliofc under Mercury, they fumigate frankincenfe,
inaltic, cinquefoil, incorporated with the brains of a fox, and the blood of a
jnajipye. To fpirits under Luna, fumigations are offered of frogs dried,
white poppy-feed, bull's eyes, camphire, and frankincenfe, incorporated
with goofe's blood, and^fiuxus nnUicbris. Thefe are the diviiions of fpirits
under the feven planets, with their fumigations ; neither can it be denied,
l)ut that in many ceremonies of this kind, there is great inherent virtue,
according to the doctrine of fympathy and antipathy, whereby every
tlung is drawn by its like in the idea, whether by words or actions, ac-
cording to the faying. In verbis, herhis, ^- lapididus, latet virtus ; lb that
the ceremonies and charms, with other circumltances ul'ed by magicians,
are doubtlels prevalent to the accomplilliment of that work which they
undertake ; to wit, The calling up and exorciling of infernal fpirits by
conjurations.
And as by natural reafon eveiy magical charm or i-eceipt had its firfl
inltitution ; in like manner have magicians difpofed the matter and manner
together with the times of their utenJils and inltruments according to the
principles of nature : as, the hour wherein they compofe their garments
juull either be in the hour of Luna, orelfe of Saturn, in the Moon's in-
creafe. Their garments they compofe of white linen, black cloth, black
cat-fkins, wolves, bears, or fwines (kins. The linen, becaufe of its ab-
ftratted quality for magic, delights not to have any uteniils that are put to
common ufes. The lliins of the -aforefaid animals are by reaibn of the
Saturnine and magical qualities in the particles of thefe beafts. Their
iewing-thrcad is of iilk, cat's gut, man's nerves, aiies hair, thongs of ikins
from men, cats, bats, owls, and moles, -all which are enjoined from the
like magical caufe. Their needles are made of liedge-hog prickles, or
bones of any of the above-mentioned animals ; their writing-pens are of
owls or ravens, their ink of man's blood : their ointment is man's fat, blood,
ufnea, hog's greafe, or oil of whales. Their characters are ancient Hebrew
or Samaritan : their fpeech is Hebrew or Latin. Their paper mull be of
the membranes of infants, which they call virgin parchment, or of the
fluns of cats, or kids. They compofe tlieir fires of fweet wood, oii, or
rolin : and their candles of the fat or marrow of men or children : their
veflelsare earthen, their candleiticks with three feet, of dead mens bones :
Their i'words are Heel, without guards, the points being reverfed. Thefe
are their materials, which they particularly choofe from the magical qua-
lities M-hereof they are compofed. Neither are the peculiar Ihapes with-
out a natural caufe. Their caps are oval, or like pyramids, with lappets
on each fide, and fur within : their gowns reach to the ground, being
furred with white fox- ikins ; under which they have a linen garment reach-
ing
OF ASTROLOGY. 1111
ing to their knees. Their girdles are three inches broad, and have, ac-
coiding to Its ufe, many caballiftical names, with croffes, trines, and cir-
cles, infcribed thereon. 1 heir knives are dagger-fafliion : and the circles
by which they defend themfelves are cominonly nine feet in breadth,
though the ealtern ma-icians allow but feyen ; for both of which a na-
tural caufe is pretended, in the force and fympathy of numbers.
Such fpelis or charms as are compounded of fome cdibk matter, witli
magical characters engraven upon them, are fucceisfully given for a^ues,
head-achs, epilepfy, fits of the mother, and the like ; and it is remarkable
that they operate with moft eifecl on thofe patients who are ignorant of
the charm, or its properties. . There are alfo particular magical charac-
ters attributed to the planets, whereof Telefms, Periapts, Amilcfs, and
Philtres, are compofed by buryings under ground, writings, bindings, en- -
gravings, allegations, &c. which, done in certain aftrological hours, are to
conquer enemies, cure difeafes, remove obitructions, provoke love, and
preferve from evil both the body and the foul, which they contend are
effected by mediums of this- kind, alfifted by the force of imagination.
But as for philtres, potions, love-cups, and the like, they unqueliionably
proceed from a natural caufe, and ought not to be clalVed with the oc-
cult properties of charms. There are many natural compofitions of
herbs and minerals, which have a furpriiing eflFecl in themlelves, with-
out the leaft aflirtance from fuperftitious imprellions, or the affillance of
fupernatuial agency. For, in the commixture of bodies of a limiliar na-
ture, there is a two-fold power and virtue ; fii'ft, when the celeftial pro-
perties are duly difpofed in any natural fubftance, then under one form di-
vers influences of fuperior powers are combined ; and fecondl}', when,
from artificial mixtures and compofitions of natural things combined
amongft themfelves in a due and harmonicat proportion, they agree with
the quality and force of the heavens, under certain correfpondent conftel-
lations. This proceeds from the occult affinity of natural things amongft
themfelves, by the force and fympathy of which many altonilhing effects
are produced.
In the writings of Paracelfm Ave findmany furpridng examples of the
power of fympathy and antipathy, by means of images, telefms, and
"
amulets, compounded of nothing more than natural ingredients. And
he particularly defciibes an infallible method- by the image of any bird or
beaft, to deftroy it, or to effed its death, though at a diltance. So like-
wife, by the hair, fat, blood, excrements, or excrefcences, of any animal,
the difeafes of that animal might be cured, and its life preferved or de-
Itroved. This is {^tvi in the armary unguent, d,m\Ji/fnpafhefica/porider; and
'
No, 59.
'12 X there
,„i.i2 AN I X L U S T Tv A T I O TSr
there are multiplied inftances and hiftoiies, both at home and abroad, otf
thofe who have been burnt, hanged, or otherwife puniflied, for the ufe of
rcaxen images, which they conipofe in divers poltures, under certain con-
ftellations, whereby the perfons they are made to reprefent, have been
Teverely tormented, or macerated to death. For, according to the tor-
ment or puniihment the magician, witch, or wizard, may intend to in-
flirt upon the objed of their" refentment, fo they difpofe the hour of the
conftellation, the quality of the compound, and the poitureor femblance
of the image ; for, if they intend to confume and pine away the health
and life of any perfon they are oflfended with, they mould his image in wax,
of fuch an ominous form and alped as may conduce to the extent of their
dehgn, making feveral magical characters upon the fides of the head, de-
fcribing the character of the planetary hour upon the breall of the image ;
the name of the perfecuted perfon on its forehead; and the intended
effect to be wrought upon him, on its back. If they mean to produce
violent pains and tortures in the flelh or finews, they ftick pins or thorns
,in divers places of the arms, legs, or breaft, of the image. If to caft them
into violent fevers and confumptions, they fpend a certain hour every day
to warm and turn the image before a doleful and lingering fire, compofed
of divers exotic gums and magical ingredients, of fweet odours, and roots
of particular flirubs, efficient and conducive to their purpofe ; and when
the whole operation has been performed, and the image is completed, it
is aftonifliing to human comprehenfion, what furpriling effects they are
capable of producing upon the body they are intended to reprefent ; and
the reader can only attain a competent idea of it, but by reading the ac-
counts of the trials and confeffions of many witches and wizards, who
fuffered the law, in the 17th, and commencement of the 18th, century,
for tranfadtions of this kind; an incredible number of which are not
only recorded in the notes and memorandums of the judges, but attefted
. by a great variety of noblemen, gentlemen, clergy, phyiicians, apothe-
caries, and others, who have been eye-witnefles of thefe diabolical proceed-
ings, and for which reafon I fliall on no account mention the moft perfect
and effectual part of the compofition and preparation of thefe magical
images, left the evil-minded and malicious part of my readers fliould at-
tempt to work abominable fpecies of revenge upon the perfons or property
of their unfufpedting neighbours.
Thoufands of other ftrange and uncouth inventions might be here de-
fcribed, according to the exadt form in which tradition Whleft them;
but, for the reafon above alhgned, the I'eader mull be content with the
general outline only. And, as the Europeans have the ability of effecting
iiich aftonilbing things by the medium of images, telefms, periaots, &c.
fo
OF ASTROLOGY.
fo the Tartars have a faculty of producing fimilar effects by boiths, rjohdi-
fkins, rods, bafins, leffers, ox miffives, unto certain familiar fpu'its, who are
the ai^ents in their raa^ic rites. As to the old and favourite trick ol
witches in the lail century, that of iy'ing of the point, we have realon to
hope it has long hnce died away ; for it is a charm which produces lo
ftrono- on impediment to conjugal embraces, as totally to reltrain the act
of confummation betwixt married people; and the tying of this knot or
licrament under certain inasical ceremonies or mcantations, was io no-
toaous. both in practice and effect, throughout England France, .Spain,
Italy, and the eaftem countries, that laws were enaded by the legillature
in each of thole kingdoms expreflly to prohibit the pertormance ot it on
pain of death. The form and manner of it is m par mentioned in the
Itatutes, though .by no means fit to be openly
'^"^^^'^^''f^^^^-.Jl'^l'^
of Travfphntation is alfo reckoned amongil charms and fvgils, and in-
deed one part of It, viz. the transferrin, of diieales, is
j-^ Y -^g-^^^;
J^^
was much in practice amongft witches and wizards; and I am conh-
dently informed is now freque^itly done in the more remote and un^^o-
linXa s of this ifland. The method is, by giving certain baits or pre-
pa atiom to any domeilic animal, they remove fevers, agues, coughs con-
Fump ii^^s afthmas, &c. from any perfon, applying to them for that pur-
pofe or they can ranfplant or remove them from one perfon to another,
•bvb;•^^noc^ertaln images in their ground, or againit heir houles with
cJrtain^ommou infcriptions and Hebrew words -yet, though tnele things
ceitain ominous ""<- F
^ jj ^ ^^^^^ ^^^ derived more from
?reSSies atl an^ipa^^^^^^ than from magical cha..der,
T^^d conima ons ; for mlny perlbns, without knowing any thmg ot the
^a^fr^wh^it . ef^,
r^^- f^^rtry^.:^;?:^
-"^-SS^ ori^oin-iri:;
Avhich the human ^o^]'.\f ^^^^^^tl^^^^^
Avondered that natura things ^'^mg httec to tne t
•
.^j^^j,^ ii^^uld
and compounded of correfpondent «;.
J> "X^^'^'J' ,,e\%ncy o f pints
produce Lh effeds, without
^XTex i^oil'iaiy eparation, cilled a
This is perfedly exemplified in that
^>^^^« f^^^^^^^J, ^f the party oV
n^agkal candle, which benig lighted
^^^J^^^^^^^^^ ^^^^^ ^.^ following
whofe blood It was prepared, it is compoui
manner.
,,14 AN illustration:
manner : They take a good quantity of the venal blood luke-warm as it
eame out of the vein, which, being chemically prepared with fpirits of
wine and other ingredients, is at laft made up into a candle, which being
once kindled, never goes out till the death of the party whole blt»od it is
compofed of; for when he is fick, or in danger, it burns dim and trou-
bled ; and wh^n he is dead, it is quite extinguilhed ; of which compofi-
tion a learned philofopher hath written an entire tract, viz. De Bio/j/c/mio,
or, The Lamp cf Life.
In the limpie operations of nature many wonderful things are Avroughty
which upon a fuperficial view appear impoilible, or elfe to be the work of
the devil. Thel'e certainlv ouyht to be conlidered in a far different liulifc
from magical performances, and fliould be claffed among the furpriling
phienomena of nature. Thus lamps or torches made of Terpen ts' ikins,'
and compounded of th.e fat and fpirit of vipers, when lighted in a dark-
room, will biing the iimilitude of fnakes or ferpents writhing and twilling
upon tlie walls. So oil compounded of grapes, being put into a lamp-
and lighted, will make the room appear to be full of grapes, though in
reality it is nothing more than the idea or iimilitude.—The fame thing
is to be done with all the plants and flowers throughout the vegetable
fyftem, by means of a chemical analyfis, whereby alimple fpirit is pro-
duced, which will reprefent the herb or flower from which it is extrac^ted,
in full bloom. And as the procefs is eafy, fimple, pleating, and curious,
I will hei'e ftate it in fuch a mannei' as might enable any perfon to put-
it in pra(^lice at pleafure.
Take any whole herb, or flower, with its root, make it very clean, and'
bruife it in aftone mortar quite fmall ; then put it into a glais veflel her-
metically fealed; but be lure the veflel be two parts in three empty.
Then place it for putrefadion in a gentle heat in balneo, not more than-
blood warm, for fix months, by which it will be all relblved into water.
Take this water, and pour it into a glafs retort, and place a receiver
thereunto, the joints of which iimfl; beNvell clofed ; diftil it into a fand
iieat unt il there come forth a water, and an oil ; and in the upper part of the
veflel will hang a volatile fait. Separate the oil from the water, and keep
It by itfelf, but with the water purify the volatile fait by diflblving,
filtering, and coagulating. When the fait is thus purified, 'imbibe with
It the laid oil, until it is well combined. Then digefl; them well to-
gether for a month in a veflel hermetically fealed ; and by this means
will be obtained a mofl; fubtile eflence, which being held over a gentle
lieat of a candle, the fpirit will fly up into the glafs Vhere it is confined,
and reprefent the perfed idea or fimilitude of that vegetable whereof it
is.-
\
,/Jin\intr7icnrii .fmijilf .ffrm7.7ii try-l'^e /j^vr/TV/-^ fr 7 r7iTej-eiit^
OF ASTROLOGY. 1115
is the effence : and in^this manner will that thin fubflance, which is Hke
impaljmble aflies or fait, fend forth from the bottom of the glafs the
manifefl form of whatever herb it is the rnenftruum^ in perfeft vegetation,
growing by little and little, and putting on lb fully the form of f^alks,
leaves, and flowers, in full and perfefl appearance,' that any one would
beheve the fame to be natural and corporeal : though at the fame time it
is nothing more than the fpiritual idea endued with a fpiritual effence.
This fhadowed figure, as foon as the veffel is taken from the heat or candle,
returns to its caput moriuum, or a(hes, again, and vanilhes away like an
apparition, becoming a chaos or confufed matter. For more on the me-
dicinal virtues of decoftion of fait, or effence of herbs, flowers, roots,
or feeds, fee my .new edition of Culpeper's Complete Herbal, juft pub-
liflied, with notes, additions, and illuftrations, in quarto, with upwards
of 400 elegant engravings of Britifli herbs, plants, and flowers, coloured
to nature.
To make a vegetable more quickly yield its fpirit, take of what vege-
table you pleafe, whether it be the feed, flowers, roots, fruit, or leaves;
cut or bruife them fmall, put them into warm water, put upon them
yeafl: or barm, and cover them up warm, and let them work three days,
in the fame manner as beer ; then diftil them, and they will yield their
fpirit very eafily. Or elfe take of what herbs, flowers, feeds, &c. you
pleafe, fill the head of a flill therewith, then cover the mouth with
coarfe canvas, and fet on the ftill, having firft put into it a proportionable
quantity of fack or low wine ; then give it fire, and it will quickly yield
its fpirit ; but obferve, that, if the colour of the vegetables is wanted, you
muft take fome of its dried flowers, and fill the nofe of the flill therewith,
and yovi will have the exadl colour of the herb.
To elucidate this procefs with better effe61^, I have fubjoined a plate
of the elaboratory, where a perfon is in the a61: of producing thefe flowery
apparitions, in which fig. i, reprefents a flione peftle and mortar, where-
in the herbs, &c. are to be bruifed before they are placed for putrefaiflion.
Fig. 2, 2, are glafs veffels hermetically fealed, containing the bruifed
herbs for putrefadion. Fig. 3, an empty glafs retort. Fig. 4, a retort
filled with the effence of an herb,' and put into a fand heat for dirtil-
lation. Fig. 5, a glafs receiver joined to the retort, to receive the oil
and fpirit. Fig. 6, a ftool on which refts the receiver. Fig. 7, the
furnace made with different conveniences either for land heat, or balnea.
Fig. 8, the furnace holes wherein the fire is placed. Fig. 0, a table
whereon are placed the glafs veffels hermetically fealed. Fig. 10, a
veffel containing the reprefentation or fimilitude of a pink in tuil bloom.
No. 60. 12 Y Fig.
ri6 AN ILLUSTRATION
Fio-. II, the rcprefentatioii of a fprlg of rofemary. Fig. 12, the repre-
I'eiuation of a fpric^ of baum. Fig. 13, a candlertick. with a candle light-
,ed for the purpofe'of heating the fpirit. Fig. 14,, a chemift in the ad
'
of holding the glafs vclTel over the lighted candle ; whereby fig. 15, re-
j)refents the idea of a rofe in full bloona.
Now this efFe6>, though very furprillng,. will not appear fo much a
fubject of our afl:oni(hment, if we do but confider the wonderful power
of fympathy, which exifts throughout the whole fyftem of nature, where
every thincr is excited to beget or love its like, and is drawn after it, as
the loadftone draws iron ; the male after the female ; the evil after the
evil ; the o-ood after the good ; which, is alfo leen. in wicked men and
their purfuits, and in birds and beafls of prey ; where the lamb delights
not with the lion, nor the flieep in the fociety of the wolf; neither do
men whofe minds are totally depraved and eftranged from God, care to-
adopt the oppofite qualities, which are virtuous, innocent, and juft.
Without contemplating thefe principles, we fhould think it incredible
that the grunting or fqueaking of a little pig, or the fight of a fimple
fheep, (hould terrify a mighty elephant ! and yet by that means the Ro-
mans put to flight iPyrrhus and all his hoft-. One would hardly fuppofe
.
that the crowing of a cock or the fight of his comb, fhould abalh a
puiffant lion ; but experience has proved the truth of it to all the world.
Who would imagine that a poifonous ferpent could not live under the
fhade of an a{h-tree ; or that fome men, deficient neither in courage,
ftrength, or conftitution, fhould not be able to endure the fight of a
cat ? and yet thefe things are {ten and known to be fo, by frequent obfer-
vation and experience. The friendly intercourfe betwixt a fox and a fer-
pent is almoft incredible ; and how fond and loving the lizaid is to
man we read in every treatife on natural hiftory ; which is not far, if
anything, behind the fidelity of a fpaniel, and many other fpecies of dogs,
whofe fagacity and attention to their mafter is celebrated in an infinite
variety of well-founded though almoft incredible ftories. The amity be-
twixt a caftrel and a pigeon is remarked by many authors ; particularly
how furioufly the caftrel will defend a pigeon from the fparrow-hawk, and
other inimical birds. In the vegetable lyftem, the operation and virtue of
herbs is at once a fubjeft of admiration and gratitude, and which it were
almofl: endlefs to repeat.* There is among them fuch natural accord and
• For the wonderful virtues and properties of herbs and plants, with their alimentary and me-
dicinal qualities; a/id how to prevent or cure all difeafes incident to the human body, ztthe/eq/f
expence, and at the grtatejl certainty^ fee alfo my new edition of Culpeper's Britifli Herbal, and
Domeftic Phyfician, prmted uniformly with this vyork, in z vols. 4 to,
difcord.
OF ASTROLOGY Illy
Jifeord, that fome will profper more luxuriantly in another's company;
while fome again will droop and die away, being planted near each other!
The lily and the rofe rejoice by each other's fide ; whilfl: the flag and the
fern abhor one another, and will not live together. The cucumber loveth
water, but hateth oil ; and fruits will neither ripen nor ^row in af-
pefts that are inimical to them. In flones likewife, in minerals, and in
earth or mould, the fame lympathies and antipathies are preferved. Ani-
mated nature, in every clime, in every corner of the globe, is alfo preg-
nant with fimilar qualities ; and that in a moft wonderful and admirable
degree. Thus we find that one particular bone taken out of a carp's
head will ftop an hemorrhage of blood, when no other part or thino- in
the fame creature liath any fimilar effe6t. The bone alfo in a hare's foot
inftantly mitigates the moft excruciating tortures of the cramp ; yet no
other bone nor part of that animal can do the like. I might alfo recite
infinite properties with which it has pleafed God to endue the form and
body of man, which are no lefs worthy of admiration, and fit for this
place, had we but limits to recount them. Indeed I do not know a much
more remarkable thing, (were it as rare as it is now fhamefuUy prevalent,)
or that would more puzzle our fenfes, than the etfefts of intoxication,
by which we fee a man fo totally overthrown, that not a fingle part or
member of his body can perform its funftion or office, and his under-
flanding, memory, and judgment, fo arrefted or depraved, that in everv
thing except the ihape, he becomes a very beaft ! But we find, from
obfervations however important, however wonderful, how inexpli-
cable or miraculous, foever any thing may be, yet if it is common, or fa-
miliar to our fenfes, the wonder ceafes, and our enquiries end. And
hence it is, that we look not with half the admiration upon the fun,
moon, and ftars, that we do upon the mechanifm of a globe, which
does but counterfeit their order, and is a mere bauble, the work of men's
hands! whence I might almoft be juftified in remarking, that, if Chrirt:
himfelf had continued long in the habit of working miracles, and had
left that power permanent and hereditary in the church, they would have
long fince grown into contem.pt, and not have been regarded as events
worthy of our attention.
From what has been premifed, we may readily conclude that there are
two diftinft fpecies of magic ; one whereof being inherent in the occult
properties of nature, is called natural magic ; and the other, being ob-
noxious and contrary to nature, is termed infernal magic, becaufe it is
accomplifhed by infernal agency or compad with the devil. Each of
thefe we will confider feparately, with the good and evil confequences
likely to refult from them.
Under
11,8 AN ILLUSTRATION
Under the veil of natural magic, it hath pleafed the Almighty to con-
ceal many valuable and excellent gifts, which common [>coplc eithei'
think miraculous or next to impoflible. And yet in truth, natural ma-
gic is nothing more than the workmanfhip of nature, made manifeft by
art ; for in tillage, as nature produceth corn and herbs, fo art, being
nature's handmaid, prepareth and helpeth it forwaid ; in which times
and feafons are materially to be confidered ; for annua, non arvus, producit
arjjias. A»d, though thefe things, while they lie hid in nature, do many
of them feem impollible and miraculous, yet, when they are known
and their fimplicity revealed, our difficulty of apprehenfion ceafes, and the
wonder is at an end ; for that only is wonderful to the beholder whereof
he can conceive no caufe nor reafon, according to the faying of Ephefins,
Miraculum folvitur unde videtur ejfe miraculum ; yet we often fee perlons
take great pains, and put themfelves to vaft expence, to difcover thefe
impalpable tracks of nature, from whence pecuniary advantages feldom
refult ; fo that a man muft not learn philofophy to grow rich ; but muft
get riches to learn philofophy. There is unqueftionabiy much praife
due, and great induftry required, for obtaining a competent knowledge of
natural magic ; for to fluggards, niggards, and narrow-minded men, the
fecrets of nature are never opened, though the ftudy of them is certainly
conducive to the glory of God, and to the good of fociety, by more vili-
bly manifefting the omnipotency of his works, and by IkilfuUy applying
them to man's ufe and benefit. Many philolbphers of the firft eminence,
as Plato, Pythagoras, Empedocles, Democritus, &c. travelled through
every region of the known world for the accomplilliment of this kind of
knowledge ; and at their return, they publicly preached and taught it.
But above all, we learn from facred and profane hifliory, that Solomon was
the greateft proficient in this art of any either before or fince his time ;
as he himfelf hath declared in Ecclefiafl-es and the book of Wifdom, where
he faith, " God hath given me the true fcience of things, fo as to know
*' how the world was made, and the power of the elements, the begin-
" ning, and the end, and the midft of times, the change of leafons, the
" courfes of the year, and the fituation of the jflars, the nature of human
" beings, and the quality of beafts, the power of winds, and the ima-
" ginations of the mind ; the diverfities of plants, the virtues of roots,
" and all things whatfoever, whether fecret or known, manifeft or in-
*' vifible." And hence it was that the magi, or followers of natural
magic, were accounted wife, and the ftudy honourable; becaufe it con-
lifts in nothing more than the moft profound and perfe6l part of natural
philolophy, which defines the nature, caufes, and efFeds, of things.
How
O F A S T R O L O G Y. 1119
How far fuch inventions as are called charms, amulets, peiiapts,
and the like, have any foundation in natural magic, may be worth our
enquiry ; becaufe if cures are to be cffeaed through their medium, and
that without any thing derogatory to the attributes of the Deity, or the
principles of religion, I fee no reafon why they fhould be rejected with
that inexorable contempt, which levels "the works of God with the
folly and weaknefs of men. Not that I would encourage luj^erftition,
or become an advocate for a farrago of abfurdities ; but when the fimpli-
city of natural things, and their effeds, are rejefted merely to encourage
profeffional artifice and emolument, it is prudent for us to diftinguifb
between the extremes of bigotted fuperftition and total unbehef.
It was the opinion of many eminent phyficians of the firfl ability and
learning, that fuch kind of charms or periapts as confided of certain odo-
riferous herbs, balfamic roots, mineral concretions, and metallic fub-
ftances, might have, and moft probably pofTeffed, by means of their
ftrong medicinal properties, the virtue of curing or removing fuch com-
plaints as external applications might effeft, and which are often ufed
with fuccefs, though without the leaft furprife or admiration ; becaufe
the one appears in a great meafure to be the confequence of manual ope-
ration, which is perceptible and vifible to the fenfes, whilft the other
afts by an innate or occult power, which the eye cannot fee, nor the
mind fo readily comprehend ; yet, in both cafes, perhaps, the elTect is
produced by a iimilar caufe ; and confequently all fuch remedies, let them
be applied under what form or flyle they may, are worthy of our regard,
and ought to excite in us not only a veneration for the fimple practice of
the ancients in their medical experiments, but a due fenfe of gratitude
to the wife Author of our being, who enables us, by fuch eafy means, to
remove the infirmities incident to mankind. Many reputable authors,
particularly A. Ferrarius, Alexander Frallianus, Aetius, Odavianus, Mar-
cellus, Philodotus, Archigines, Philoftratus, Pliny,and Diofcoridcs, contend
that not only fuch phyfical alligations, appenfions, periapts, amulets,
charms, &c. which from their materials appear to imbibe and to diffufe
the medical properties above defcrihed, ought in certain obftinate and
equivocal diforders to be applied ; but thcfe likewife, whk-h from their
external form and compofition have no fuch inherent virtues to recom-
mend them ; for harm they can do none, and .good they might do ;
either by accident, or through the force of imagination. xAnd it is af-
ferted, with very great truth, that through the medium of hope and
fear, fufficiently impreffed upon the mind or imagination, whether by
charms, or any other Homerical contrivance or device, the moft wonder-
ful and inftantaneous cures are fometimes wrought. They are called
No. 60. 1 2 Z *
Homerical
II20 AN ILLUSTRATION
Homerical devices, or Homerica medicaiio, becaufe Homer was the firft
who dilcovered the blood to be llippreffed, or its motion accelerated, by
the force of imagination ; and that clileales were to be removed or ter-
minated thereby." Of the truth of this we have the ilrongeft and moft
infallible evidence in the hiccough, which is inftantanccufly cured by
any Hidden cffeft of fear or furprife; lb likewife agues and many other ma-
ladies are removed ; and to the famecaufe we might attribute the only cer-
tain cure known for the bite of a mad dog, which is the efFed of fear and
ftac^nation wrought upon the mals of blood by immerging the body in the
fea. Nor are the inftances few , where perfons lying bed-ridden, and
unable to move either hand or foot, have through the fudden fright of
fire, or the houfe falling in upon them, forgot their infirmity, and run
away with as much a61ivity as though no fucb malady had exifted. See-
ing, therefore, that fuch virtues lie hid m the occult properties of na-
ture, united with the (cn{c or imagination of man, where one is the
agent, and the other the patient ; where the one is adlive, and the other
paffive, without any compaft with ipirits, or dealings with the devil; we
furely ought to receive them into our pratSiice, and to adopt them as
often as occafion ferioufly requires, although profeffiODal emolument, and
pecuniary advantage, might in fome inftances be narrowed by it.
But, thouo-h I misiht be an advocate for fuch charms or occult reme-
dies as are in themfelves perfedly innocent and fimple, I by no means
wifh it to be underftood", that I either approve or recommend any thing
bordering upon fuch inventions as arc obviouily founded in magical
confederacy, and aft by the medium of aerial or infernal Ipirits.. To that
mind, which has but (lightly contemplated the works of nature, it mufl
be abundantly evident, that the great and good God which fuilains and
governs the univerfe, hath in the works of creation mercifully afforded
us a natural remedy for all our infirmities ; and it is repugnant to common
lenfe, and incompatible with religion and morality ; nay, it would im-
ply a deficiency either in the goodnefs or power of the Deity, were we
for a moment to admit the neceffity of charms, amulets, or any other
inventive cures or benefits to men, refulting from a compaft with fpi-
rits, in which all the powers and performances of witchcraft had their
beginning ; and therefore we may without the fmallefl hefitation con-
clude, that whatever hath its foundation in fuch confederacy, let
the external objeft or pretence be what it may, it is not only con-
trary to nature, but highly ofl^enfive to the Deity, and nearly allied
to the (hocking fin of idolatry, by applying the works of God to
the power of the devil. For this reafon, it is impoffible to be too cau-
tious how the ufe of fuch defcription of charms or lamins are adopted,
where.
OF ASTROLOGY. I 121
^here, uiftead of natural medicaments, magical charatlers, incantations,
and nodurnal ceremonies, conftitute the component parts. A very wife
and learned author, who has written largely upon this lubjea, alFerts,
that in thole very charms and fignatures compacts themfelves are virtually
contauied, which evil Ipirits at firft llibtilly deviled or invented to blind
men's eyes, that thereby they might lead them lefs fcrupulouflv into the
fnares ox'' the devil. And hence we have good ground to believe, that
none are able abfolutely, and bona fide, to call up any Ipirits, without
fome fuch compa6l firfl: formed ; and that whofoever has (b far ventured
in the art of magic or conjuration, hath, though to himfelf perhaps
unknown, compaded with and worlhipped the devil, under fome fuch
form of myftical words and chara61:ers wherewith infernal charms and
amulets are compofed ; neither is it to be thought a matter of furprife,
that Inch a conipa/t fliould unwittingly be made through the medium of
thole myftical charafters, which, with the devil's aid, have in themfelves
a power to enchant, infeft, allure, preferve, or deflroy. And to Ihow,
ill ftriking colours, the danger of being drawn away by fuch allurements,
I fhall inftance the extraordinary cale of a very harmlefs and well-mean-
ing young man, which was published to the world at the commencement
of the prefent century, by the Billiop of Gloucefter, in the following
well-authenticated letter to that prelate.
Authentic Copy of a Letter fcnt to the BiJJiop of Gloucejler, by the
Reverend Mr. Arthur Bedford, Minijier of Temple Church, in BrifioL
My Lord, Brijiol, Augufl 2, 1703.
Being infoimed by Mr. Shute of yoin- lordlhip's delire that I fhould
communicate to you what I had known concerning a certain perfon, who
was acquainted with fpirits to his ov^'n delT:ru6lion, I have made bold to
give you the trouble of this letter, hoping my defire to gratify your
lordfhip in every particular may be an apology for the length thereof. I
had formerly given an account to the late Bilhop of Hereford, in which
there are probably ibme things contained, which I do not now remember,
vv'hich, if your lordlhip could procure from his lady, (who now lives near
Gloucefter,; would be more authentic.
About thirteen years ago, whilft I was curate to Dr. Read, rector of
St. Nicholas in this city, I began to be acquainted with one Thomas
Perks, a man about twenty years of age, who lived with his father at
Mongatsfjeld, a gunfmith ; and contraded an intimacy with him, he
being not only a very good-natured man, but extremely Ikilled in mathe-
matical ftudies, which were his conftant delight, viz. arithmetic, geo-
metry,.
I 122 AN ILLUSTRATION
mctry, gauging, furveylng, aftronomy, and algebra; he had ^
a notion
of the [fcrpetual motion, much hke that wheel in Archimedes's Mathe-
matical Magic, in which he had made Ibme improvements, and which
he has held° was demonftrable from mathematical principles, though I
could never believe it. 1 have feen an iron wheel, to which he intended
to add .leveral things of his own invention, in order to finifli the fame.;
but, thinking it of no ufe, and being otherwife unfortunately engaged,
it was never perfeded. He gave himfelf lb much to allronomy, that he
could not only calculate the motions of the planets, but an ecliple alio,,
and demonftrate any problem in fpherlcal trigonometry from mathema-
tical principles, in which he difcovered a clear force of realbn. When
one Mr. Bayley, minifter of St. James's in this city, endeavoured to fet
up a mathematical fchool, 1 advifed him to this Thomas Perks, for an
acquaintance, in whom, as he told me, he found a greater proficiency
in thofe fludies than he expeded or could have imagined. After this he
applied himfelf to aftrology, and would fometimes calculate nativities and
relblve horary queftions. When by the providence of God I was fettled
in Temple parifh, and not having feen him for fome time, he came to
me, and, we being in private, he afked my opinion very ferioufly con-
cerning the lawfulnefs of converfing with fpirits ; and after I had given
mv thoucrhts in the negative, and confirmed them with the beft reafons
1 could, he told me he had confidered all thefe arguments, and believed
they only related to conjurations, but there was an innocent fociety with
ihcm which a man might ufe, if he made no compa£ls with them, did
no harm by their means, and were not curious in prying into hidden
things ; and that he himfelf had difcourfed with them, and heard them
fing to his great fatisfadion ; and gave an offer to me and Mr. Bavlev at
another time, that, if we would go with him one night to Kingfvvood,
we fhould lee them, and hear them boch talk and fing, and talk with them
whenever we Had a mind, and we fhould return very fafe ; but neither
of us had the courage to venture. I told him the fubtilty of the devil
to delude mankind, and to transform himlelf into an angel of light ; but
he would not believe it was the devil. I had feveral conferences with
nim upon this fubjecl, but could never convince him, in all which I
could never obferve the leaft diforder of mind, his difcourfe being very
rational, and I propofed (to try him.) a queftion in aftronomy relating
to the projedion of the Iphere, which he projeded and refolved, and
did afterwards demonftrate from the mathematics, fo as to demonllrate at
the fame time that his brain was free from the lealt tindure of madisefs
and diiliadion.—Having this opportunity of alk-ng him feveral particu-
lars, concerning the methods he ufed, and the difcourfes he had with
thefD, he told me he had a book whofe diredions he followed, and ac-
cordingly
OF ASTROLOGY. 1123
eordino;ly, in the deat] time of the night, he went out to a crofs way, with
a lanthorn and candle confecrated for this purpofe with leveial incanta-
tions He had alfo confecrated chalk, confifting of feveral mixtures, with
which he made a circle at what diftance he thought fit, within which no
fpirit had power to enter. After this he invoked the fpirit by feveral
forms of words, (fonie o( which he told me were taken out of the holy
Scriptures, and therefore he -thought them lawful, without confidering
how they might be v. refted to his deftruftion ;) accordingly the fpirits ap-
peared to him which he called for, in the fliape of little maidens, about
a foot and half high, and played about a circle. At firll: he was fome-
what sfFrighted, but, after fome fmall acquaintance, this antipathy in
nature wore off, and he became pleated with their company. He told
me they fooke with a very flirill voice, like an ancient woman. He afked
them if there w^s a heaven or hell ? they faid there was. He alked them
what place heaven was ? which they defcribed as a place of great glory
and happinefs; and he afked them what hell was ? and they bade him alk
no quelHons of that nature, for it was a dreadful thing to relate, and the
devils believe and tremble. He further alked them what method or order
they had amono^ themfelves ? they told him they were divided into three
orders ; that they had a chief whofe refidence was in the air ; that he had
feveral counlellors which were placed by him in form of a globe, and he
in the centre, which was the chiefeft order ; another order was employed
in o-oing to and from thence to the earth, to carry intelligence from thofe
lower fpirits ; and their own order was on the earth, according to the-
direftions they fhould receive from thofe in the air.
This defcription was very furprifing, but, being contrary to the account
we have in fcripture of the hierarchy of the blefled angels, made me con-
clude thev were devils, but I could not convince him of it.. He told me
he had bade them fing, and they went to fome diftance behind a bulTi,.
from whence he could hear a perfeft concert of fuch exqulfite mufic as
'
he never before heard ; and in the upper part he heard fomething very
harfh and fhrill like a reed, but, as it was managed, did give a particular
grace to the reft.
About a quarter of a year after he came again to me, and wifned he had
taken my advice, for he thought he had done that which would coft him
his life, and which he did heartily repent of; and indeed his eyes and
countenance ftiowed a great alteration. I aiked him what he had done.
He told me that, being bewitched to his acquaintance, he refolved to pro-
ceed farther in this art, and to have fome familiar fpirit at his command,
according to the diredions of his book, which were as follows ;
- No. 60. 13 A He
„34 AN ILLUSTRATION
He was to have a book made of virgin parchment confecrated with Teveral
incantations ; likewifc a particular ink-horn, ink, &c. for his purpofe ;
with thei'e he was to go out as ufual to a crofs way, and call up a fpirit,
and alk him his name, which he was to put in the 6r{1: page of his book,
and this was to be his familiar. Thus he wa? to do by as many as he
pleafcd, writing their names in diftind pages, only one in a leaf; and then,
whenever he took the book and opened it, the fpirit whofe name appear-
ed fhould appear alfo ; and, putting this in pra6^ice, the familiar he had
was called Maichi, (be my king,) a word in Hebrew of an unknown fig-
nification. After this they appeared fafter than he defired, and in molT:
dilmal (hapes, like ferpents, lions, bears, &c. hiiiing at him, and attempt-
inor to throw fpears and balls of fire, which did very much afiright hirr),
and the more when he found it not in his power to ftay them, inlbmuch
that his hair (as he told me) flood upright, and he expedted every moment
to be torn in pieces ; this happened in December about .midnight, when he
continued there in a fweat till break of day, and then they left him, and
from that time he was never well as long as he lived. In his ficknefs he
came frequently to Briftol, to conlult with Mr. Jacob, an apothecary in
Eroad-ftreet, concerning a cure, but I know not whether he told him
the origin of his ficknels or not ; he alfo came to me at the fame time,
and owned every matter of f.i6t, until the lafl, and infifled that, when he
did any thing of this nature, he was deluded in his confcituce to think it
lawful, but he was fince convinced to the contrarj-. He declared he made
no compafts with any of thofe fpirits, and never did any harm by their
means, nor ever pryed into the future fortune of himfelf or others, and
exprefl'ed a hearty repentance and deteflation of his fins ; fo that, though
thofe methods coft him his life in this world, yet I have great reafon to
believe him happy in the other. I am not certain that he gave this account
to any other perlon but myielf, though he communicated fomething of it
to Mr. Bayley, minifter of St. James's, in this city ;
perhaps your lord-
ihip may be further informed by his relations and neighbours of Man-
gotsfield, which lies in Gloucefterlhire, not above a mile out of the road
to Bath.
I have frequently told this ftory, but never mentioned his name before,
and therefore, if your lordfhip hath any defjo-n of printing fuch accounts
as thefe, I defire it may be with fuch tendernels to his memory as he de-
ferved, and foas may not be the leaft prejudice to his relations, who have
the defcrved character of honefl: and fober people. I am
Your lordfliip's dutiful
fon and lervant,
ARTHUR BEDFORD.
This
OF ASTROLOGY. 1125
This pool' deluded young man, it is very apparent, had no evil defio-n,
but entered into this infernal affociation for no other motive than to gra-
tify an idle curiofity ; the confequence of which was that he underwent
the moft indefcribable terror and fright, which at firft deprived him
of his health, and eventually of his life. I have no doubt but the cir-
cumftance of dijbelieving the exiftcnce of fpirits (which I apprehend
is more or lefs the cafe with moft people) was the firft, if not the
only, inducement that urged him to make the experiment. There are
many inftances of a iimilar kind, equally well founded, and as fatal
in their confequences, which might be here adduced, tofhow the dread-
ful effects of being led away by a preflimptuous or a hardened mind-, to
dilbelieve the word of God revealed in a thoufand paftages of fcripture,
where this infernal intercourle is ferioufly forbidden ; but I fincerely hope,
and have reafon to believe, that this example vnll operate as a fufficieut
bar againft all fimilar enquiries, where it is once read, and the melan-
choly confequences duly confidered. Wherefore let me entreat all my
readers to ftifle every inordinate defire, which might unguardedly prompt
them to folicit an intercourfe with fuch dangerous company ; not to at-
tempt the conjuration of Ipirits of any defcription or order ; no, not even
out of joke or bravado, or for fun or frolic ; for the devils are continu-
ally goingabout ''
feeking whom they may devour " they are ever on the
watch, and ready at hand to catch at every thought that might be turned
to their purpofe ; and, when they have once fo far I'ucceeded as to occupy
the fmalleft place in the mind, I fear it will prove no eafv talk to difpof-
fefs them.
Let it ever be remembered, that the firft afiaults of Wicked Ipirits
are ufually made upon our fenlual delires, whereby they infuiuate them-
felves into our very appetites, enticing our inclinations, and depraving -
the moral faculties of the mind ; until they become, as it were, incorpo-
rated with our nature, leading us infenfibly from folly to vice, until a
depravity of heart iiiid an obftiaate will betray us into a corporal as well
as ipiritual compaft with the devil. Theie confiderations, leconded by
an anxious with to refcue the aftral fcience from the imputation of
magical and diabolical connetlion, and v/hich, I truft, I have fully and
efFecftually accomplifhed, were the grand inducements that led me to ex-
plore the fpiritual and infernal kingdoms, and to expofe the iniquity, as
well as to explain the theory, of familiarity orcompa<!:t with them. And
in doing this, I have fcrupuloufly avoided giving the ellenlial forms and
particular confecrations adapted to myftical performances, lefl the unwary
Ipeculator might carry his experiments too far, and, as in the example
before us, unvv'ittinVly leek his own deftrudion. Yet 1 have, as far as
1 126 AN ILLUSTRATION OF ASTROLOGY.
fafety or conveniency would permit, explained the fpeculative part ; re-
iervjngonly thole fpecial forms and incantations, which, beiiia not'onlv
very facile but of wonderful occult power, would be dancrerous to dif-
clole ;
and at beft could only ferve to ftrengthen the hands'of the mali-
cious and evil-mnided, or to extend more widely the infernal empire •
againft which wc ought to put on the whole armour of God •
for we
wrejlle not agamji fejh anJ blood, but againft prinapallties and towers •
for
which caufe ^ve Jhould rcfolutely withjland the ajfaults of *he deviL our loins
bctng gtrt about with verity, and having on the breaf -plate of rirhtc-uC-
nefs Nor let us vamly feek to know the myfteries of the orher"world
farther than it hath pleafed God to reveal them to us by his divine word -
for, mjimtt adfmtum nulla ej! proportio, nec^ue loci potejl circumfcribt - of
that which IS finite to that which is infinite, there is no proportion nei-
ther can that which is immeafurable be contained within the links of
fpace, or be .defined by human comprehenfion I"
INDEX.
( II27 )
N D E X.
A. Page
ABSENT fori, whether dead or alive... 332
Agents of the world are angels and men 15
Anaretical, or killing planet, of the quality of
death •
454
Apheta, Hyleg, or figmficator of life, and
the places proper thereto 453
Aphorifms for guiding the judgment upon
nativities and horary queltions 241
Art of calculating nativities made plain and
eafv ;
•••• 38°
Art t>f refolving horary queftioiis 267
Afpe6ts of the planets operating on thi- wea-
ther, from March 17 to June 29, in the
year 1790 i°37
Aftrologv implanted in the frame of na-
ture '3
B.
Bent and quality of the mind as fixed .hy
nature 4^°
C.
Caufe of blemifhes and bodily difeafes 425
Chara(Slers rcprefenting the figns, planets,
&c • 144
Climadterical years of a nativity 692
Comets, Halley's Table of, and Supplement
to Halley's Table 944
Confiderations rcfulting from the firft houle 695
Conceptional figure 696
Confiderations rel'uking from the fecond
houle V 70<»
. — relulting from the third houle 710
ariling from the fourth houfe 711
— refulting from the fifth houfe 713
.
J-
refulting fiom the fixth houfe 71b'
.
^ arifing from the feventh houfe 737
relulting from the eighth
houfe ••••••• 74<
,
~ refulting from the ninth houle 743
refulting from the tenth houfe 747
refulting fp6m the eleventh
houfe •• ,
,•••• 755
_. refulting from the twelfth
houfe •• •• : 754
. . on a quettionor marriage ... 842
.. -on Comets 934
No. 60,
D. Pags
Deluge, accounted for 973
Dignities and honours 437
Dignities and debilities of the planets in a
nativity 691
Directions for eredling the figure of heaven
and placing the planets in the horofcope 161
Diredions Z'>diacal 457
of the fun being near the horo-
fcope on the feventh houle 458
of the fun above the earth 458
.
under ihe pole of pofition, or cir-
cle of pofitijn of the fun 459
• '
of the fun to any afpe£t, being
under the earth 460
•
of the fun being found beyond the
parallel of twilight upon the earth 461
. of the fun to zodiacal parallels
being in any part of the heavens 462 •
fignificator having latitude to any
conjunfirionor afp (ft ibid
•
^—• of a fignificator having latitude
to parallels 463
— of a fignificator to his own pio-
perafpedts • ibid
_ mundane 464
, of the midheaven, or the afcen-
dant, to the fextile, quartilc, or trine, of
any flar ••
'^^'^<^
of theafcendant,or medium cceli,
to the conjunftion or oppofition of any
ftar ;:
•;••••;•• 4^5
of the medium cocli to a lextile,
quartile, or trine..... 466
. . of the afcendant 467
to a quartile afped ibjd
. of the rfcendant or medium roeli
to femiquartile, quintile, fefquiqu.drate or
biquintile, atpedl 467
.
of a fignificator to any afpedt or
promittor, either direct or converfe 46S
——^— of a fignificator being above
three degrees diltant from the cufp of
any houfe •• 4"9
.
•
another way of the fame -... 48
. of the fun, being under the earth,
to any 'afpe^ •f;:"J''''^
J
.
B Directions
II38 I N D E X.
Page
Diredions of a fignificator to his own af-
pcift 470
a fignificator to parallels in the world ibid
of the fun out of the fpace oi twi-
light 473
of a fignificator to all afpefts con-
verfe that are made in the world ibid
' — how to equate the arches, where-
by to afcertain the length of time in
which the events denoted by them will
be in coming to pafs 474
'
fecondjry ibid
•
to the angles of the figure in the
horofcope 656
•
of the afcendant to the various af-
pe£ts of the planets ibid
of all the planets to their afpscfts
in mundo 63110663
of all the planers to their afp^its
in the zodiac 669 to 680
Difeafes incident to the mind by nature 4V3
Difeafes produced by the Part of Fortune,
when Hilcg, or giver of life, and afflidted
by the Anareta, or killing planet .-
730
Difeafes produced by the Afcendjnt, when
Hileg, or giver of life, and ^fflidted by the
Anareta, or deltroyiiig planet 731
Dragon's head and tail, their fituation and
influence 12
E.
Eclipfcs, the theory of 947
of the fun 951
of the moon 957
' vifible which will happen from
this time to the year 1808 964
EfFedts (general) of the planets, in each of
the 12 figns of the zodiac zoz
from the pofition of the lords of
the houfes 204
(general) produced by theafpedls
of the conjunction 207
of the houfes of children 447
tleiSions 913
Explanation of the technical words and
terms of art ufcd in aftrology 137
Explanation of the twelve houfes of heaven,
with directions forereiSling the horofcope 14^
F.
Figure of the horofcope, or 12 houfes of
heaven 146
Form and temper.iture of the body 424
Friends and enemies 449
G.
General judgments to be inferred from di-
redlions 226
GholV, to raife 1106
Page
Hilsg, or deftroying planet 731
Horary Qusftions 267
Horofcope, what, and how ereiied, 145, 147,161
todire(!l;its angles 656
I.
Inclinations, natural or profeflional 43s
natural for travelling 453
Judgments to be inferred from Jupiter's
tranfits 231
to be inferred from revolutions in
general 233
'
— proper for the firft houfc 2S0
proper fjr the fecond houl'e 2S7
proper to the third houfe 290
proper to the fourth houfe 294
proper to the fifth houfe 299
proper to the fixth hcufe 303
proper to the feventh houfj 307
proper to the tigV;'. houfe "31J
•
proper to the ninth houfe 318
proper to the tenth houfe 321
proper to the eleventh houfe 323
proper to the twelfth houfe 325
Jupiter, his fituation, appearance, and in-
fluence 100
difeafes under him lot
. herbs and plants ibid
ftones, metals and minerals ibid
animals, weather, and wind ibid
^countries and colours 102
L.
Letter from the Reverend Mr. Arthur Bed-
ford, minifter of Temple church in Brif-
tol, to the Biftiop of Glouccfter, on the
fubjedlof converfing with fpirits 1121
Loadllone, its virtues j8
Logiftical logarithms 601
M.
Magic, and the doftrine of exorcifm, 1098 to
1 1 20
Mars, his place and orbit 103
his difeafes, herbs, plants, ftones,
metals, minerals, animals, weather, winds,
and regions 104 .
Mercury, his fituation and orbit 110
difeafes, herbs, and plants, under... 221
ftones, metals, animals, weather,
and winds 112
regions governed by H2
Meteors, their nature, fubftance, form, and
caufe ... 917
Moon's influence on tides, animals, vege-
tables, &c 43
Moon,
N D E X. r i:
Page
i,Moon, its fituation and defcription 105
— difeafes under it loS
_ herbs, plants, ftones, metals, and ani-
mals, under it 107
—: winds, weather, and regions ibid
N.
Nativities, Judgments thereupon, 241. Art of
calculating .
380
Nativity of John Collons, 813. Of Mrs. Kezia
Lampard, 817. Of Baron Emanuel bweden-
borg, 8zi. Of four twins,' 82g. Of Thomas
Beliisford, a giant, 834. Of a dwarf, 837.
Of a (hort life, or embryo, 839. Of Alex-
ander the Great, 847. Of Nero Caefar, 848.
Of Pope Sextus, 849. Of Philip 11. icing of
Spain, 849. Of Henry IV. king of Eng-
land, 851. Of Edward VI. 853. Of Q_aeen
Mary, 854. Of Queen Elizabeth, 855. Of
the Earl of Eflcx, 855. Of James 1. king
of Eiigiand, 857. Or Charles i. king of
England, 858. Of Oliver Cromwell, 859. Of
Charles II. king of England, 862. Of
James II. king of England, 864. Of George
duke of Albemarle, 866. Of James duke of
Hamilton, 867. Of the Earl of Strafford, 868.
Of George Villers duke of Buckingham,
870. Of William Laud archbifhop of Can-
terbury, 872. Of Cornelius Agrippa, 873.
Of Nicholas Culpeper, fludent in phyfic and
aftrology, 875. Of William Lilly, ftudent
in aftrology, 879. Of John Headon, chemift
and aitrologer, 880, Ot John Gadbury, flu-
dent in aftrology, 881. Of Vincent Wing,
ftudent in ditto, 882. Of Henry Colley, ma-
thematician and aftrologer, 883. Of John
Partridge, profefTor of aftrology, 885, Of
George Parker, profeflbr of ditto, 886. Of
James Ufher, Bifhop of Armagh, in Ireland,
8S7. Of Nafc-Erafmus, of Rotterdam, in
Holland, 889. Of Martin Luther, 889., Of
Bifhop . Hall, S89. Of Melancthon, 889.
Of George HI. king of Great Britain, 891.
Of our bkffed Lord and Saviour Jefus Chriil,
892. Of the Rev. George Whitfield, A. M.
792. Of the Rev. John Henderfon, A. B. of
Pembroke College, Oxford, 798. Of Mr.
James Gilbert, 800. Of Mr. T. Chatterton,
807.
P. .
Part of Fortune, its fitu ition and influence 113
. direcl-;! to promittors ... 680
to the oppofuion of
Saturn ibid
to the conju nation
of Cor Leonis • •.. 681
to theconjundlion
Page
Part of Fortune, directed to the quartile of
Jupiter in the zodiac ibid
• ___— to the oppofuion
of Venus 863
to the conjunction
of the dragon's tail or moon's fouth node 684
asHileg tothe fun.
4Df Mars 682
which in this nativity is Anareta, or the
direftion of death 684
Perfons, how to defcribe their fhape, form, fize,
complexion, conflitution, &c. by the planets,
309 to 377
Planets, their influences and eftevfi:=, 97. Their
terni^,triplicities,exaItations,orbs, motions, and
all their natural and eflential qualities, 122 to 135
Poles of the different pianets, how tu find, 626
to 629
Power of magical charms, 1 1 1 1.
Queftions proper to the twelve houfes of heaven,
280 to 287.
horary, on the length of life, 337. On
the fate of a (hip at fea, 329. An ablent fon,
whether dead or alive, 331. On the profpedl
of riches, 333. On the fuccefs of a journey,
33J. On paternal inheritance, 337. On a
change of fituation, 339. On child-bearing,
340. On hiring fervants, 344. On courtfhip
and marriage, 346. On war and battle, 348.
On theft, 351. On legacies, 354. On the
fuccefs of a fleet, 356. On places of prefer-
ment, 359- On impr ifonment, 361.
R.
Revolutions of kingdoms and ftates, 1044.
Rudiments of the do(Slrine of horary queftions, 257
S.
Saturn, his defcription and fituation, 97. Dif-
eafes under him, 98. Herbs, plants, ftones,
metals, minerals, animals, weather, wind, and
regions, under him, gg.
Scheme of the folar ingrefs governing the year
1776, 1052. Of the fun's ingrefs governing
the year i78g, 1036.
Spirits, their different orders, natures, and power,
1097. To raife up and exorcife, 1 1 10.
Stars fixed, their influence, 26 ; fignification in
nativities, 234
Sun, his fituation, dimenfions, and motion, 112.
Difeafes, herbs, and plants, governed by him,
113. Stones, metals, animals, weather, winds,
and regions, 114.
T.
Table of the ancient Conftellations, 81. Of the
unformed ftars, by Hevclius, 83. Exhibit-
int' the aftedlions and fignifications of the de-
grees in each fign of the zodiac, 83 to 96.
Of the periods, revolutions, magnitude, &c.
of
1 130
M D
of the planets, 116. Of the effoiitial dig-
nitiesof the planctf, 118. Of ihe fortitudes
and debilities of the planets, 120 C»f the for-
titudes and drbiiities of the part of fortutie,
izi. •
Of the phmeiary iiours for every day oi
the week', bc-!;inning at fun,rifing, 162. Of
the planetary hours for every day and night
in the vveelc, 165. To reduce the motion ot
pl:inets to any hour of the day or night, 166.
Of Houfes, calculated for the latitude of 51 de-
crees 32 rridutcs for double^ horary times,
TjDto i8i. Of the principal Fixed Stars near
the ecliptic, (liowing tbeir true longitude, la-
titude, a-.d nature, \ 88. Showing the places
of the fixed ftars, at any time paftor to come,
191. Of the circles of pofitions of the i ith,
thiid, twelfth, and lecond, houfes, from 31 to
60 degrees of lat'tude, 192. For converting
mean folar lime into degrees and parts of the
terreftrial tquator, and alio for converting
degrees and parts of the tquator irrto mean
folar time, 196. Of the latitude and longitude
of the principal cities and towns in England,
198. Forcalculating Nativities, 412. Of femi-
diurnal aiu; feminodturnal arches, 481. Of twi-
light,482. Of Mundane Afpcas,ib. OfRight
AfcenliDiis, 483. Of Declinations, lb. Of
the arceiifuiiial diff rences of the planets, 484.
Gf Oblique Aiceiifu'tis for ihe latitude of Lon-
don, 485. Of Semidiurnal and Seminodlurnal
Arches, 487 to 489. Showing the femidiurnal
E X.
arch, to every degree of the ecliptic, caku-.j
latid for the latitude of.5! degrees, 32 n-iinufriir
4go. Showing the femiAosflurnal nrch to eve'f ^
degree of the ecliptic f(w the latitude of i^l
^
32 minutes, 451.- Of twilight, from latitt.ide,
44 JO 56, 492 10 500. 0/ Mwndane Afpri>?^
(;oi, 502. Of Right AfcenficfriS, 503 to 54c)!,';
Of Afcenfional Differences, 5*3 fo SS*- ^^
the Oblique Afcenfi oi; ^f the Flaneis for the
latitud' of LonoMM, 55s i:
i 578. Of Logiftical
Logarithms, 585 to 60^ Ot direitious inihe
nativity of Mr. ^VitcJiell, 686 to 690. A re-
volutional one, 787. Colledting the afpefts of
all the days of the' year. 7S8. C^f v/.nds, looy.
Tides, the theory and caule of, 987.
W,
Weather, how to calculate, 92
Winds, their theory and caule, looi. TaWe of
their different force and velocity, 1007. Their
names, and poinds from the compafs, 1015.
Witchell, George, his nativity, 624
V.
Venus, hT fituation and orbit, 108, Difeafes
under Venus, 109. Herbs, plants, and ani-
mals, ib. Stones, rretals, weather, and wind,.
no.
Zodiac, its
85.
1 2 figns confidered i.-A explainedj
.
LIST of the PLATES, and Direaions to Place them.
Page
FRONTISPIECE to face the Title
Harmony of the world 60
Table, exhibiting the nature, dignities, tri-
plicities, and aff<--£tions, of the figns and
planets 97
Head of the author,as Frontifpiece to Vol. 1 J
.
Mr. Witchell .^. 619
Speculum Phenomenorum of G. Witchell 756
Head of the Rev. Mr. Whitfield 792
the Rev. Mr. J. Henderfon 798
Four twins 829
Marriage of Benjamin Brownfel 844
Head of Alexander the Great, &c 847
Henry VIlL&c 852
James L &c 857
——James Duke of Hamilton, &c. ... 867
Page
HeadofCic o, &c 873
•
N'incent Wing, &c 8Sz
Martin Luther, &c 889
King George HI 89c
Nativity of Jcfus Chrift 892
Scheme of the Heavens at the Crucifixion 910
Plate of Ecliples 951
Armillary Sphere 96;
Annual Motion of the Earth 969
Solar Ingrefles, governing the year 1776 1052
Revolution of America io;4
Four Figures of Man 1061
Six Heads of the Lifpirati 109S
Magical Circle, Seals, and Charadters .. 1103
Edward Kelly raifing up a fpirit 1106
Plate of the Elaboratory 11J5
F 1 N
yf* LEWIS, PrintiT,
Pateroo&l«r-rim.
