{"name":"The True Fortune Teller","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1818__anonymous___the_true_fortune_teller.pdf","mytitle":"The True Fortune Teller","mylang":"de"}
THE TRUB
FORTUNE TELLER;
on
UNIVERSAL BOOK OF FAIE.
t^taininff hesidei other valudtte information, directions hy whieh «nf
OfM may know under what planet he wot bom.^An account of the ««0
mtdj^riloits days of every month of Ike year.^How to choote a husband
or wife by the hair, eyes, dec, &e»
GLASGOW:
PRINTED FOR TUB BOOKSELLERS.
78
EXPLANATION OF THE THEE OF FATE,
OiiSEiiVE.—Tiififc you may either pick a iiumljer bliiK
folded amidst the leaves of this valuable tree, or thro
for tliem with dice ; if you pick for them and get amon
tho branches^ or in the bhink It^ivos, it shows a speed
misfortune or disappointment at hand, TJieniark nuir
ber of 1,000 shows a great advancement in Hfe, if you ai
60 fortunate as to hit on it.
Gifts of Money
Prosperous ran of b^jsinoss
Speedy Marriage
Mai)y Cliildreu
A good partner in marriage
You will become rich
Money through love
Cash by Trade
'
A rise in Life /
A long journey
ArJf,^er and discontent
An important ionruey
A letter that'vviU aitci- -our
present circumstance.^;
'}*\'md what you say to a lover
Present from a distance
Dispute with one you love
A law fsuit
Yisit from a distant friend
Party of pleasure
Preferment
Love at first slight
A prize worth havinjj
Wealth and dignity
Yi^il to a fori^i;.:U land
Troll t by inriustry
Prosj)ei i •
y Aiy marriage
A muLtitiitWof ciiv^a
l>y fiiends you vv ill profit
Second partnor better thyn
first
Su:^i©unt many dililculties
•A false friend
A pleasing surprise
A change in your arfalrs
A ramble bv moonlight
SraiMial
U11 p 1 e a s i rig t i di ngs
Loss in a 'iHort timo
A christetiing
Get rich through a legacy
Chang*» vour situation
New wearing apparel
A spccrty preserit
i\ews from sea
Pleasant paths in future
You will be asked- a question
importance to-iiiorro\r
TO THE
READ ER.
"
I ushering into the wrld such a perfoimanoe
'
I this, it niaj bo necessary to give our readers
I
miQ account of the life of the person who left the -
{ Jlowing little work for the benefit and instruction
•
the world, a person whose fame, though not
I90rded among iiie roll of those wliose heroic
jtions have trumpeted them to the world, jet her
i^cerning eje, and her knowledge in prescience,
sudor her not unknown to the generality of tlioso
ho devote any attention to this interesting study.
Mrs Bridget, vulgarly called Mother Bridget,
red, in lior peregrinage through this life, in a kind
'
cave, or ra^tlier a hollow, formed by nature abovQ.
'ound, with the assistance of a little art, and com-
ising an exceeding warm shelter from the air
mpany of all sorts resoiiied to her, nobility, gen-
tradesmen, and mechanics—men, women, girls,
id boys, of all degrees and classes.
Our heroine w^as born on the spot where she
^?ed, and from the most juvenile part of her life
tokened an early propensity to prcsoi^^uce, which
eyinced slie liad it instiiicfced in her hj natur
Her parents dying wlien she was young, left lie
to ramble abroad at lier will ; and she supporto
herself chiefly by begging. It was then strongl
remarked in her, that she made observations
people's features and manners ; would sit up whol
nights when the atmosphere was clear, and seemei
as intent on considering the stars, as the greate
astrologers would bo with their glasses ; this gav
her a groat knowledge of the weather, the alte
tion of tlie air, and the effect it had ; and from hei
sometimes casually acquainting the neighbouriiij
farmers of any change which generally took plac^
her fame began to spread when young, and she wa
consulted by them on almost every occasion ; nol
a farmer would go to plough, not a sower woull
put the seed in the ground, without first asking till
young gipsey (for so they then styled her) liel
opinion, and following according to her dictates.
Her fame now began to spread, and Bridget!
prescience became more universal ; other person
besides farmers and her neighbours came to cor
suit her, and the truth of her perdictions made hel
veracity gain ground, and she became the topic ^
conversation of the politest circles, many of whorl
came in their equipages to consult her ; and shl
never asked for any particular sum, so the un
bounded generosity of those who applied to he
oracles, put her in posscsaou of more money tha
was sufficient to maintain her.
As »he grow in years, like the generality of ol
hlks, she became fond of dumb animals, which mr^
her chief companions ; and of these she always had
numbers ; people, indeed, have said hundreds, and
others have declared she could call as many on the
earth as she pleased ; but this is fabulous, for I ne-
ver saw more than ten at a time. Dogs and cata
were tho principal companions of her retirement,
which, being of the smallest breed, would, as she sat,
creep from different parts of her garments, and not
a little surprise those that came to see her, and,
indeed, frightened many ; though, to do her justice,
she desired her visitors not to bo terrified at her do-
mestics, as she termed them, for they were not like
many that attcncled on the gentry, saucy, imperious,
and unfaithful, i>ut were always attendant on tho
will of her whoso hand fed them, nor would injure
without provocation, a lesson, she used to say, she
wished was learned by all mankind.
Of a pipe of tobacco our Bridget was exceeding-
ly fond, and, indeed, was continually whiffing ; and
as she indeed, humourously used to observe, she had
**
sent more puffs into the world, than all tho quacks
ih the kingdom from a long contracted habit,
likewise, when she was smoking, of ever being
seated so that her knees almost touched lier visage,
her limbs became so contracted, that when she be-
came in years, she was almost double, which, to*
gether with her enormous length of nose and chin,
her pipe, and the number of animals about her,
made her cut a most hideous figure, and appear
ratlier uncommonly tei'rifying to those who were
not apprised of it.
Though tliis famous old woinan had never IjA
taught to write, yet l)v long practice she had fom
ed to herself a kind of lueroglyphical clmractcrs, i
^
which s-ho decyphered her observations, knowledge \
and roiiSarks ; these I found concealed withm th
thatch of her cave ; but as th«y .were so imiutellig'
ble, I tliought it would be impossible to mak
'^'^
head or talc of such a heap of monsters, and othc ^'J
figures as were attempted to be drawn ; but as I ai
rather of a studious turn, I thought as .Llmd mad f
it my business formerly to transcribe th^ F-gyptia ^
hieroglyphics, which, when they were as liDintolligi w
bio to mo as these, I rnigJit by persev:eraucc got. a '
the depth of this valuable manuscript, or at leas ^'
it would serve to deposit in the British !Museum, a '
the remains of a woman who was so famous, an
whose name was so well know among mankind. . ^
I was therefore immediately determined on r€ ^
newing my labours with redoubled ardour and un "Oi
wearied application ; and at length, as perscveranc "
and resolution will conquer difficulties, I found i1 ^
and the whole mystery was opened unto me. Thin)
of my joy : not the miser who has found a treasuar
he supposed lost ; not a maiden who fmds her love -
retuiTied after a long voyage, whom she though i
perished in the waves, but finds . restored to h« -
arms with love and fidelity ; not—^but a truce witl
'
metaphors —it is enouglito tell tho reader that-;
.
was at length enabled to read this valuable work
and found by experience, that the maxims and r© •
marks, her observations and judgement, have beei
n extensive, aro true, stronglj characteristic, and
fTOuld do honour to the most experienced astrolo-
^.gcrs.
in Nature sometimes in her roughest coat drops
^ her brightest jewel, which for a long time lies hid
lij till do eloped br somo experienced adept. So we
may obser\'0 of our authoress, that tliough cloth-
ig ed in the meanest garb, nature showed herself in
ijj her abilities, and left it for mo to hand down to
»i
posterity what otherwise woukl be lost in obli-
f], vion.
aj
Thinking, therefore, so precious a jewel should
si
not remain long hid, but shed its lustre to all eyes,
3j
I immediately set about putting it into English
;
wliich at length I have accomplished, and usher it
into tho world, requesting the gentle reader to ex
re-
Guse my literal errors ; and if he reaps any benefit
]. from this production, I shall not think my labour
HI
ill bestowed, though all the merit is due to the
ii,
deceased authoress.
THE TRUE
rOKTUNE TELLER.
An Explanation of the Circles of the Sphere, and
some other Terms of Astrology, for the easier Un^
derstanding of this Book, and further information
of the Header,
The Equinoctial circle, Equator, or Equinox, is
a great circle or line, equally distant from the two
poles of the world, dividing the sphere in the
midst.
Zodiac is a broad oblique circle, crossing the
equinoctial in two opposite places, viz., in the bor
ginning of Aries and that of Libra, so that one
half declines towards the south ; and in this circle
is comprehended the twelve constellations or signs,
every sign containing thirty degrees in length, and
twelve in breadth. Note also, that the first six are
northern signs, and the last six southern signs.
The Ecliptic line, is a line imagined to go along
in the midst of the Zodiac as a girdle, out of which
the sun never goes ; but the moon and other planets
are sometimes on the one side, and sometimes on
the other side, which is called their latitudes, only
the fiixed stars alter not their latitudes, whether
gi'eat or small ; but the longtitude of a star is the
arch, or parts of the ecliptic in degrees, between the
beginning of Aries, and the circle which passeth
through the body of the stars ; where note, that
all the circles of the sphere, or heavens, whether
they are largo or small, haye 360 degrees allowed
to each of them.
Colours are said to be two great moveable cir-
cles, crossing each other at the poles of the world,
one cutting the equinox at the beginning of Aries,
Cancer, and Capricorn, and so dividing the globo
into four equal parts.
Horizon is a great circle which dividoih the up-
per hemisphere, that is, the upper part of the world,
from the lower, we always being supposed to bo
between.
Meridian is a great circle passing through the
polo of the world, and the poles of the horizon,
called the Zenith and Nadir, (which are two points,
one directly over our heads, the other directly un-
der our feet) on which the* sun is always just at
noon, and to go directly north and south, the me-
ridian is changed ; but to go to east and west, it is
changed to sixty miles, either way makes one de-
gree, or four minutes of time difference under the
equinox, viz. 60 miles eastward, it is noon four
minutes sooner, and sixty miles vestward, four
minutes later.
Tropics are supposed to be two lesser circles,
parallel with the equinoctial, and distant from it on
either side 23 degrees 31 minutes each ; the eclip-
*'ic line touches the tropics of Cancer on the north
side of the equinoctial, and it touches the tropics
of Capricorn on the south side thereof, so that the
sun hath his motion between these two circles.
The Arctic circle is equally distant from the
north pole, as the tropics are distant from the equi-
nox—23 degrees 31 minutes.
The Antarctic circle is the sajaae distance from
tlie south pole.
Zones, so called, are five in number, two cold,
two temperate, aud one hot, wliioh are divided by
10
the tropies and p®lar circles from each ofelier ; the
hot zone is counted between tlic two tropics that
are extended from one to tlie other, being about 47
degrees 2 minutes broad ; the temperate zones are
extended from the tropics, on either side, to about
42 degrees 58 minutes, that is northward to the
article circle, and southward to the antarctic circle
and the two cold zones are each within those twc
small circles, liaving the poles for their centre.
The Poles of the world—rtwo points exactly op-
posite to each other in the heavens, one in the
north, the other in the south, the earth being in
the midst, so that it seems to turn about as if it
wore borne up by them ; therefore by some it is
tenned the axle-tree of tlie world, as if there was
a lino supposed to be - drawn from one pole through
tlie centi'e of the earth to the other, and the earth
turning thereon; though Holy Writ tells us
—
The Lord hangeth the earth upon nothing, it
being upheld by his mighty^ power.*' The pole
arctic, or north pole, is elevated above our horizon
about 51 degrees, and the stars within that dis-
tance from it never set with us, but keep their
course round it daily; so likewise those that are
that distance from the south pole never rise with
us, but perform their course in the like order.
Azimuths are supposed lines, or circles of dis-
tance from the meridian, di^awn from the zenitli to
any degree, or two degrees of the horizon, or ac-
cording to the 32 points of the mariner's compass,
so that in travelling or sailing any way, supposing
a circle to go from om* zenith directly before us to
the horizon, is the azimuth, called the vertical
point, as well a^the zenith.
Almicantharats, or Almadarats, or cii'cles of Al-
titude, are imagined lines passing through tlie me-
ridian parallel with the horizon.
The Splioro is a round body represontiug iba
II
frame of the wKole world, tlio circle of the hea-
ven and the eartli. Tins is sometimes called a
martial sphere, for tlio orbs of the planets are call^
ed tlieir spheres, that is, the circles in which thejr
move. . '-•.iii^oTT Mi
Ascension is the rising of any star, Olrady part
of the e-cliptic above the horizon—Desconsion is
its going down. -
Riglit ascension of a -star, is that part of the equi-
nox that riscth or sctteth with a star in the right
pphere ; but' an oblique sphere, is that part of the
•iquinoctial in degi'ees, containing between the first
point of Aries, and that part of the equinoctial
which passeth by the meridian with the centre of
the star.
Oblique ascenison is a part of the equinoctial in
degrees containing between the beginning of Aries
and th.at of the equinox, which rises with any star
or part of the ecliptic in an oblique sphere.
Essential difference is the difference between tho
right and oblique ascension, or the number of de-
grees contained between that place and the equi-
nox that riseth with the centre of a star, and that
place of the equinox that conieth to the meridian
with the same star. " •
•
Solstice is in the summer when the siln is in the
beginning of Cancer ; and in the winter when the
sun enters into Capricorn : because then the days
seem to stand still, and seem neither to increase or
decrease above two minutes in ten or twelve days.
Constellation is a certam number of stars suppos-
ed to bo limited withni some form or likieness ; as
Aries the Ram is said to have thirteen stars;—
i
Taurus, the Bull, thirty-three ;
Areturus, Orion,
and the Pleiades, mentioned in Job,-ix. 9, are said
to be constellatia-dfr.
Planets are the seven cratique, or wandering stars^
called Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, YeaaSi M^rourji'
13
Sol, and Luna. Tliese planets have also tlioir so*
?eral motions, as
—
Direct, is a planet moving in its natural course,
liich is forward.
Retrograde, is tlieir moving backward, contrary
to their direct motion.
Combust is their being under the sun's beams, or
within eight degrees of it.
Oriental, is when a planet riseth before the sun,
-—Occidental, after him.
Latitude of the earth is the distance or breadth
on either side of the equinox towards the pole, and
tliey that are under the equinox have no latitude,
but the poles of the world are in the- horizon. This
is a right sphere, and every 60 minutes directly
north and south, are said to make a degree of la-
titude in an oblique sphere ; as London is counted
to be in 51 degrees 32 minutes, the pole thereof
being exalted as much. The like is to be observed
in any other place or region.
Longitude of the earth is the outside thereof,
extending from west to east, crossing the latitude at
right angles ; the beginning of which (according
to some astronomers) is the Canary Isles, so going
eastward quite round the world, unto the same place
again, which is 360 degrees : and under the equi-
noctial is reputed to be 29,600 miles, reckoning
60 miles to a degree ; but the farther off the equi-
noctial the fewer miles in a degree ; for at London
about 37 make a degree of longitude, so these de-
grees grow less and less, until they meet at the la-
titude of 90, that is under the poles.
Parallels—the lines straight and circular, equally
distant from each other, as the equinox, ti'opics,
degi'ees of latitude, &c.
Climate, or ciime, is such a space of earth com-
prehended between two parallels, in which space
there is half an hour difference iu the sun dials and
length of the days.
Antipodes aro those whose feet are directlj
against ours ; as if a Hue were drawn from one
through the centre of the earth to the other.
And this shall suffice for an explanation of things,
which I hare done as briefly as I could for the
advantage of the reader ; to whom possibly, tliese
things so necessary to bo known, may have hither-
to been concealed.
Of the Planetary Days and Fours, and how to know
what Planet a Man is horn under.
The planetary hours are those hours in which each
planet reigns, and has the chief dominion ; of which
the ancients gave the following account.
Saturn is lord on Saturday—Jupiter lord on
Thursday—Mars is lord on Tuesday—Sol is lord
on Sunday—Mercury on Wednesday—Venus on
Friday—and Luna on Monday.
On Saturday, the first liour after midnight, Sa-
turn reigns, the second Jupiter, the third Mars,
the fourth Sol, the fifth Venus, the sixth Mercury,
and the seventh Luna ; and then again Saturn the
eight, and so on to Mars the 24th ; and then Soi
beginneth the first hour after midnight on Sunday,
Venus the 2d, and so on ; Luna the first on Mon-
day, and Saturn the 2d ; Mars the first on Tuesday,
Sol the 2d, and so forward, planet by planet, accord-
ing to their order, by which every planet reigns the
fii-st hour of liis own day; and so likewise the
eighth, fifteenth, and twenty-second ; as for instance
Saturn reigns tlie first hour, the eighth, fifteenth,
and twenty. second, on Saturday, Sol the same
hours on Sunday, Luna the same on Monday, Mars
tlie same on Tuesday, Mercury the same on Wed-
nesday, Jupiter the same on Thursday, and so
Venus on Friday, which I have thus set
P2 O P
^ «^ ,p H-t O P
» p:^ S. '-'
§ (- El
p ^ ^ 5* ^
^ P H-
r»- CD
S-i >
—
6
r/3
p trr* o
p
Ci "
r- P
d ^ ^ M
O is Q •-'
S f/i c- tJ ^
S H;- 2^
ii- a^ E. CI.
„ e+- ^ P i-S o
p
^ 6
s ? g: 2 ^ g- g
P5 GO
P
P, ^
ft) en- ^
»2 _ O
S O
5=: ^ - ^ F» J« O
o
C-i •<! W^l ;
H-i O O QO ff*- OD- to
>«j 'f—i H-i to to v-*
OO C5 Ox »—' o o
lO lO lO
Hj^ 0^ to •
)—'
""^ C5 CJi l+s^ CO to
00 tf^ 00 tN^ o o
I—'
tO) to H-« )—' H-»
t§
Cji h-* O O.OO O ^
to to to •
to tf^
Ol. CO t^S *r-l C?> T 1^ ,
to *—' O O 00 rf^ OJ
H-« i—« H-«' to' to
O 00 VI O 0\ J—»
Q
to t>3 to
H?^ CO to
to f-i-^ C5 Ci ri^^.CO-
t^^'K^
O GO rf^ OO tND »-*
p ^
>—' t—» to lO H-J H-« V-W
"
, o oi o o co>»<r
f r
- '•>»,
Oh
a.'
tNl) to
CO to
;to
S3-*
'17
CO t>0 O 00 rfi^ .
to H-i H-« t—J t—
»
o o GO -<r C5
K-i to,
0« H-
»
to to
to
Cs3 to >—'
•<!
O O CO rfi^ CO to i
1—' h-* t—' to to I—' H-»
O O O 00
to to to
^ oo t o
^1 O CJT CO to
Jr*' OO to i--* O O OO
'tC l-O I—'
to to" to
^ cr t-o
15
Kut I shall now come to speak of tlio sigtiifica.
iion of the planetary hour of each planet, and what
it portemis to tliom tliat are born iu them.
The hour of Saturn is strong, is good to do all
things tliat require strength ; such as fighting, bear-
ing burdens, and the like ; but for those things it is
yory evil. He that is born in the liour of Saturn is
slow, dull, and melancholy, of dogged temper and
disposition, black and swarthy complexion, being
quarrelsome, wrathful, and very malicious.
The hour of Jupiter is in all things good, and
denotes peace, love, and concord. He that is born
in the hour of Jupiter is of a ruddy and sandy com-
plexion, fair hair, well-proportioned body, and of a
lovely countenance ; his face rather broad than
long. He is also courteous, of a very aiffable car-
^iage, moral, and religious.
:
The hour of Mars is evil, and denotes the per-
son born in it to be of a choleric disposition, and
of a robust strong body, soon angry, and hard to
be reconciled ; his face red, and his eyes sparkling'
and fiery, much addicted to fighting, and read vta
quarrel with every man ho meets', wliich often
brings him to an untimely end.
The hour of the Sun*' signifies great strength,
f^ry fortunate for kings and princes. He that is
born in this hour has sharp eyes, brown hair, and
1 round face, denotes one tliat is a great projector,
lims at great things, but is often disappointed, and
seldom brings his design to pass
The hour of Venus is very propitions and for-
;unate, but it is better by night than by dav, rs-
)ecialiy mid-day, for the sun '^covers it.
"
He that
s born in this liour has fair hair, soft eyes, a little
orehead, and a round beard, very complaisant in
lis carriage, mighty amorous, a gi-eat admirer ciC
f^pmen, much addicted to singing
spends ]iis money in courtiii^g
16
The hour of Mercurj is very good, but chiel
from the beginning to the middle. He that is bo
m this hour, has stature inclining to tallness,
sliarp long face, large eyes, a long nose, his foj
head narrow, a long beard, and thin hair, long ai
and fingers, of a good disposition, and obligi;
temper, much given to reading, and very des
ous of knowledge, delighting to be among bool
very eloquent in his speech, and yet addicted
lying, and if ho is poor, he is commonly light fi
gered.
Tlie hour of the moon is both good and ev
according to the day ; for from the fourth to t
seventeenth it is good to those that are born und
it ; but from the seventeenth to the twentieth it
counted unfortunate to be born under it ; and frc
the twentieth to the twenty-seventh very liapp
He that is born in the hour of the moon (especial
upon her own day) shall be pale faced, of a tli
meagre visage, with hollow eyes, and of a middli
stature ; he appears very courteous and obligii
but is very crafty and deceitful, variable in 1
humour, malicious, and his constitution phlegmat
Thus have I given the reader the judgment
ancients upon the planetary hours, and wliat th
portend to those that are bom under them,
which a person, comparing himself to what is he
set down, may easily know under what planet
was bom.
Of the Birth of Children with respect to the Age
the Moon,
u
To be bom tlie first day of the new moon,
very fortunate, for to such all things shall succe
well ; their sleep will be sweet, and their dreai
pleasant ; thov shall have long life and increase
ii
A child bora the second day of the new mo<m
"i fihall grow apace ; but it will be much inclined to
lust, whether it be male or female. On this day
P
also, all thy dreams shall quickly come to pass,
^ whether they be good or bad. It is also good on
D
this day to open a vein if there be occasion.
A child bom on the third day of the moon shall
i
die soon, or at least short-lived ; on this day to be-
i
gin any work of moment is unfortunate, for it sel-
i
dom comes to a good conclusion.
On the fourth day of the moon the child that is
i
born shall prosper in the world, and be of good
I
repute. On this day it is good to begin any en-
1(
terprise, provided it be done with good advice,
and with dependence on Heaven for a blessing.
II
The fifth day of the moon is unfortunate ; and
the child that is born therein shall die in its infancy,
lie that is in danger, and thinks to escape this day
i
sliall certainly be mistaken. If good counsel be
a given thee to-day take it, but execute it to-morrow.
This day thou may let blood with good success.
The sixth day of the moon the cliild that is born
shall bo of long life, but very sickly. To send
I cliildren to school on this day is very fortunate,
and denotes they shall increase in learning.
On the seventh day the child that is born may
live many years; on this day it is good to shave
the head, to tame wild beasts, and buy hogs, for he
that doth so shall gain much by them, he that takes
physic this day is like to recover.
On the eighth day a child born shall be in danger
of dying young ; but if he survives his first sickness,
he shall live long and arrive at a great estate. lie
that dreams a dream shall quickly have it come to
I
pass. Any tiling that is lost shall be found.
On the ninth day the child that shall bo born
shall be very fortunate, enjoying long life, and ar-
riving to ^reat riches. What thou undertakest this
15
^iay shftH como to a good issue ; ho that ?? pur -
icd
'
shall escape ; and ho that gi-oans under t}ic bm loti
of oppression, shall be opportunely relicrcd. l>o
not let blood on this day, for it is dangerous.
On tho tenth day a child that is bom shall be o
great traveller, pass through many kingdomr? nnd
regions, and at last die at home in his old age. Do
nothing on this day but what you would have known,
for all secrets shall be brought to light
On the eleventh day of the moon the child that
is bom shall be of a good constitution, and be mighti-
ly devoted to religion, shall bo long-lived, and of a
lovely countenance ; and if it be a female, she shall
be endowed with wisdom and learning. On this
day it is good to marry, for the married couple shall
be happy all their lives, and be blessed with many
children.
The twelfth day of the moon's age, in allusion to
the twelfth sign of the Zodiac, betokeneth no-
thing but soiTOW and woe : and tlie cliild born this
day shall be given to wrathfulness, and subject to
many afflictions.
On the thirteenth day the child that is bom shall
be of a short life, and by reason of peevish crossness
never be pleased. To wed a wife on this day^is
good, for she shall be both loving and obedient tc
her husband.
On tlie fourteenth day the child that is born sliall
bo an enemy to his country, and seek the destruc-
tion of his prince, which shall bring him to his de-
served end. On this day if you give to a sick man
physic, it shall restore him to his former health.
On the fifteenth day the child that is bom slial]
quickly die. On this day begin to work for it is
fortunate. Tliat which was lost yesterday will be
found this day.
On the sixteenth day the child born shall bo oJ
Mil manners, and very unfortunate, insomuch thai
Lhoiigh Iio may live long, yet liis life will be a bur-
<^ (Ion to liim. It is not good to dream on this day
^ fer thby arc commonly hurtful, and such as como
to pass a long time after.
On tlie seventeenth day the child that shall bo
born will be foolish to that degree, that it shall bo
i^almost a natural, and thereby become a great afflic-
tion to its parents ; yet to contract matrimony, com-
r.|>otind physical preparations, and take physic is very
good ; but by no means let blood.
On the eighteenth day the child that shall be
- born, if mt?le, will be -violent, courageous, and elo-
quent ; and if female, chaste, industrious, and beau-
rtiful, and shall come to honoar in her old age.
; '-^Gn the nineteenth day the child then born, if a
^*m6,le, shall be renowned for wisdom and virtue, and
• tliorebv arrive to great honour ; but if a female, she
will be of a weak and sickly constitution, yet slio
€wiil live to be married.
On the twentieth day the child that shall be born
'^'S^hali be stubborn, quarrelsome, and a great fighter,
jet he shall arrive to riches and a great store of
money;
i^nLOn th^ one and twentieth day the child that is
born v/i'il be unliappy, and thougli he will be witt)
and ingenious, yet he shall be addicted to stealing.
JIo that is minded to keep his money, ought on
this day to abstain from gaming, else he may
^chance to lose all. Abstain from bleeding this
day.
- On the twenty-second day the child born shall
:Jbe fortunate and purchase a good estate ; he shall
itlso be of a clieerful countenance, comely, and reli-
^gious, and sliall be well loved.
V •
On the three and twentieth day tlio child born
shall be of an ungovernable temper, and will give
himself up to wandering abroad in the world, and
«oeking his fortune m foreign parts, and in the end
shall be mistaken. Tliis is a good daj to wed a
wife ; for he that can meet with a good wife ought
to marry her while he can have her.
On the Twenty-fourth day the child then bom
shall be a prodigy in the world, and make all men
admire his surprising wonderful actions, which shall
exceed those of the ordinary sort of men.
On the five and twentieth day the child then born
shall be wicked, he shall encounter with many dan*
gers and at last will perish by them. This is an
unfortunate day to those who begin any enterprize
of moment thereon.
On the six and twentieth day the child that shall
be then born shall be very beautiful and amiable ;
but yet of an indifferent state in the world, if it be
a male ; but if it be a female, a rich man marries
her for her beauty.
The twenty-seventli day the child that shall bo
born shall be of that sweet and affable temper and
disposition, that it will contract the love of every
one with whom it shall converse : and yet if a male
shall never rise to any great height in the world ;
but if a maiden, the sweetness of her disposition
may advance her, for such a temper is to be esteem-
ed above riches.
On the twenty-eighth day the child that is bom
sliall be the delight of his parents, but yet subject
to much sickness and many distempers, which shall
take it away before it is at perfect age.
On the twenty-ninth day the child that shall be
born shall be fortunate and happy, blessed with long
life, and attain to an eminent degree of holiness,
wisdom, and virtue. To marry a good wife is a
good fortune, and such shall be his that shall marry
on this day.
On the thirtieth day the child that shall be bom
will be fortunate and happy, and well skilled in arts
and sciences
21
!
''These, and clivers otlicr like things, happen to
mankind according to the different ages and courses
}f tlie moon, which has a great influence upon all
iiuman bodies.
I will, therefore, for the advantage and benefit
)f my readers, treat a little more distinctly of tho
po\^^rs and influences of the heavenly bodies, as
tliey are laid down by ancient and modern astro-
logers, who have written upon that subject more
largely.
A brief Prognostication concerning Children horn
on any day of the Weeh
The child bom on Sunday shall be of a lojig life
ind obtain riches.
On Monday. Weak and of an effeminate tem-
per, which seldom brings a man to honour.
On Tuesday. Worse, though he may with ex-
traordinary violence, conquer the inordinate desires
to which he will be subject, still he will be in dan-
ger of dying by violence, if ho has not great pre-
caution.
On Wednesday. Shall be given to the study of
learning, and shall profit thereby.
On Thursday. He shall arrive at great honour
stud dignity.
On Friday. He shall be of a strong constitution,
stud perhaps lecherous.
On Saturday. This is another ba<i day, never-
theless the child may come to good, though it be
but seldom ; but most children born on this day are
of a heavy, dull, and dogged disposition.
Of the evil and perilous Days of every Month oftht
Tear,
There are certain days in the year which it con*
Wriis all persons to know, because thev are so pe*
22
riloTi^ CvniJ. 4jiiigomis ; for on (iie.^o dajs if a mm
or^woman lot "blood, ihoy sball dio wiUiin twentj-,
oi\q (lays following ; and whosoever falletli sick
ofi any of tlieso days siiall certainly die ; and wlio-
SQOver bogiunetli any jonrney on any of tlicse dnys
ho shall be in danger of death before ho returns.
Also ho iliat vnarrieth a wife on any of these days
they shall either he quickly parted, or else live to-;
gcther witli sorrow and discontent. And lastly,
wliosoever on any of these days beginneth any great
business, it will never prosper or come to tlio de-
sired perfection. ,
Now, since those days are so unfortunate, it high-
ly concerns every one, both to know and take no-
tice of thcni ; which that tlic reader may do, I have
sot down in the following order :~
In January are eight days, that is to say, tlie
1st, 2d, 4lh, 5th, 10th, IStli, 17th, and 19tli.
In February are three days, tha^ is, the 8tli, 17tji
and 21st.
In March are three days, thjit is, tjie i3th, IGtli,
and 21st.
'
.
In April are two, the 15th and 21st
In May three, the 15th, 17th, and 20tli
In June two, the 4th, and 5th.
July two, the loth, and 20th. .
In August two, the 10th, and 25th.
In September two, the Ctli, and 7th«
In October one, the 19th.
In November two, the 5th and 7th.
In D*$cember three, the Gth, 7th, and l ltli.
Biit besides tliese, there are also the canieula^,,
or dog" days, which are those of the greatest dan-
ger and peril ; they begin the 19th day of July,
and end the 27th of August, during which time
it is very dangerous to fall sick, take physic, or to
!• 1 b}oc>d ; but if necessity call for it, it is best to be
imo^ boforo the middle of the day.
^3
JUDGMENTS DEDUCED FROM TITS
NAILS.
Tliej who have tlicir nails broad, arc of a goisile
disposition, bashful, and uft'aid of speaking befoio
their superiors, or indeed to any without hcsitatioii
If round the nails there is u.sual]y any oxcoria-
lion, or sprouting of tlio skin, the person is luxuri-
ous, fearful, and- an epicure, loving enjoyment,
provided it is^ to bo obtained without danger.
When there are' certain wliite marks at the end,
it testiiies that the person is improvident, soon
pining their fortune through negligence.
.^Narrow Nails. Tho person with such nails is
desirous of ' attaining knowledge in the sciences
;
hxii is never «it. peace long with ]>is neighbours.
When to narrowness tliey add some , degree of
length, the person is led away by ambitious desires^
aimiiig at tliingtj ho cannot obtain : one who, hav-
ing formed notions of grandeur, grasps at the
^^adow while he loses- the substance.
*..^,J.f,at botli e^ds tkere is a redness, or mixture of
f?evcral colours, the person is choleric, and delights
tU^ fighting...
'^'''wiicjalh^ end ig the man loves agricul-
ture ; he 'places h.appiness in mediocrity, and
from thence avoids tlie cares attendant on either
extreme of fortune.
Kouud nails declare a hasty person, yet good-
natured,, and very forgiving, a lover of knowledge,
.honest in mind, doing no one any harm, and act-
ing according to his ovni imagination, being rather
too proud of his ovrn ahilities.
Long Nails. When tho nails are long the per-
son is good-natured, but placing confidence in no
man, being from liis youth conversant in deceit^
24
yet not practising it, from the goodness of his
nature and a love of virtue.
Fleshy Nails. A calm person and idler, loving
to sleep, eat, and drink ; not delighting in bustle
und a busy life.
Little Nails. Little round nails discover a per-
son to bo obstinate, seldom pleased, inclining to hato
every one, as conceiving himself superior to others,
though without any foundation for such conception.
Pale or Lead-coloured Nails. A melancholy
person, one who through choice leads a sedentary
life, and would willingly give up all things for the
sake of study.
Red and Spotted Nails. Choleric and martial,
delighting iu cruelty and war ; his chief pleasure
being in plundering of towns, where every feroci-
ous particle in human nature is glutted to satiety.
When upon the nails you find any black spots>
they always signify evil, as white ones are a token
of good.
White Naiis. When the nails are whira and
long, the person is subject to great sickness ; he is
well-made and comely, but much inclined to
women, who deceive him through false pretences,
and sliortly bring him to ruin.
If upon the white there appear pale lead-coloured
spots, a short life and addicted to melancholy.
TO THE READER.
The foregoing pages are published principally to show tbe snpersti-
lions which engrossed the mind of the population of Scotland
durini? a past Ajije, and whicli «re happily disappearing before the
progress of an enli-;.-!! toned oiviUzation. It is hoped, therefore,
that the reader wifl not cittncii the slightest importance to the
solutions of the dreams as rendered above, as dreams are geHe7;^Jly
th© result of ft disordered stomach, or an exciU*'' imagination.
