{"name":"The English Physician","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1809__parkins___the_english_physician.pdf","mytitle":"The English Physician","mylang":"de"}
CROSBY's IMPROVED EDITION.
THE
ENGLISH PHYSICIAN,
ENLARGED WITH
THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY-NINE MEDICINES
MADE OF ENGLISH HERBS,
NOT IN ANY FORMER IMPRESSION OF
CULPEPER'S
BRITISH HERBAL,
CONTAINING
An Astrologo-Physical Discourse on the various Herbs of this Nation
and also a complete Method of Physic, whereby Man may preserve
his Body in Health, or cure himself w hen sick, with such Remedies
only as grow in England, being the best adapted for English
Constitutions :
ILLUSTRATED WITH
Correct Copper Plates of the most Useful and Remarkable Plants
TO WHICH IS ADDED
THE FAMILY PHYSICIAN,
AND A PRESENT FOR THE LADIES,
Containing the best Remedies for every Disease incident to the Human Body
By Dr. PARKINS,
Author of the Holy Temple of Wisdom, &c.
The Lord hath created Medicines out ofthe Earth j and he that is wise will not
abhor them. Ecclesiasnais, xxxviii. 4,
LONDON :
Printed byJ. & E. Hodson, Cross Street, Hatton Garden,
For B. CROSBY & Co. Stationer's Court, Paternoster Row.
Sold also by every Bookseller in the United Kingdom.
1809.
Price on Fine Paper, with coloured Plates, 7s. 6d. boards.
On Small Paper, with plain Plates, 5s. bound.
‘GENERAL CONTENTS,
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . v.
£xplantion of the Temperaments of the Herbs...... ix
Of the Principal Virtues. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . xi
Alphabetical Table of Herbs and Plants..... . . . . . . xiv.
General Index. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . xxiii
TheEnglish Physician enlarged.................. 1
Directions for making Syrups, &c. . . . . . . . . . . . ... 349
A curious Figure of the Heavens. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 365
A most shocking Disease. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366
A most remarkable Cure . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... 368
Tables for gathering Herbs and Plants............ .370
-to find the beginning and ending of the Planetary
Hour. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37.2
to find the Planetary Hour every Day in the
Week. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 375
£xplanation of the Tables. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 376
The Family Physician. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 379
A Present for the Ladies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .387
Table of Diseases. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
* : * ~… . . ." ..
*, *.*.* -
8*-
Wiś50830
CONTENTS
op -
Directions for making Syriifs, &;c.
SECT. I.
"The way of gathering, drying,
and preserving Simple!, and
their Juices.
Chap. 1. Of Leaves, of Herbs
or Trees 349
Chap. 2. Of Flowers S50
Chap. 3. Of See.'s 351
Chap. 4. Of Roots ib.
Chap. 5. Of Barks 352
Chap. 6. Of Juices ib.
SECT. II.
The way of making and keep
ing all necessary compounds
Chap. 1. Of distilled Waters
353
Chap. 2. Of Syrups 354
Chap. 3. Of Juleps 355
Chap. 4. Of Decoctioas 356
Chap. 5. Of Oils ib.
Chap. 6. Of Electuaries 367
Chap. 7. OfConserves 358
Chap. 8. Of Preserves 359
Chap. 9. Of Lohochs 360
Chap. 10. Of Ointments in.
Chap. 11. Of Plaisters 361
Chap. 12. Of Poultices ib.
Chap. 13. Of Troches 362
Chap. 14. Of Pills ib-
Chap. 15. The way of mixing
Medicines according to the
eourse of the Disease, and
parts ofthe body afflicted 363
TABLE OF ASTRONOMICAL SIGNS.
xa Aquarins Libra * Sextile
V Aries Mars |j Saturn
,^ Cancer Mercury- 0 Sun
Yf Capricorn 5 Moon 0 Taurus
<5 Conjunction £ Opposition A Trigonus
Q Earth Pisces J Venus
U Gemini □ Quadril 1% Virgo
% Jupiter t Sagittarins
a Leo Scorpio
THE PREFACE.
Courteous Reader, 1
I Now enjoy the heartfelt satisfaction of laying
before you a new and elegant improvement of
CuLPEPiiit's Herbal ; which work having pone
through such a vast number of editions, will, I
trust, prove a sufficient recommendation in respect
to its great utility and benefit to the public at
large, with the addition of some elegant Plates, in
orderr to enable you to know the various and dif-
ferentkinds of Herbs when you see them. We have
likewise taught you to know the true nature of
each plant, in r spect to the temperament of the
same. You have also herein a complete Family
Physician, together with the best remedies for
every disease incident to the Human Body; for
seeing that our frail mortal bodies are subject to
a vast multitude of diseases, both internal and
external, it hath most graciously pleased Almighty
God, of his infinite mercy, goodness and compas
sion to sinful man, to plant remedies in our gar
dens, before our doors, and even on every side
of our paths, in order that we might (with our
hearts full of gratitude and thanksgivings) put
forth our hands, and duly receive the healing
balm, in the day of pain and most grievous afflic
tion. We must really stand astonished, and be
even lost in admiration, when we find that all
these plants are impregnated with, and do possess,
such an healing property as is found to overcome
and vanquish every disease incident to the human
body! and the plain reason thereof is this, because
they are governed, made rich, preserved, and are
THE PltEFACE.
everyway made proper and fit to heal the body of
man, under alt his \arions diseases, sicknesses and
infirmities, by the celestial ministers of Heaven,
acting under the great power and authority of the
most glorious Creator of the Universe, in order
that those who were wise enough, might duly
receive the benefit and advantage of the same, in
the day of need and necessity, I could shew you
how and by what means, and also in what way and
manner, the glorious host of Heaven cloth act and
operate upon all terrene and terrestrial herbs, roots,
plants, men, women, animals, fowls, fishes, sub
jects, matters and things here below ; but my
present limits will not admit of it, and it is not
my intention to trouble you with a long Preface,
The admirable harmony of the creation is herein
seen in the wonderful influence of the Sun, Moon,
Planets and Stars, upon all herbs, plants, and
the body of man, &c. how one part of the crea
tion is subservient to another, and all for the use
and benefit of ungrateful man ; whereby the in
finite power and wisdom of God in the creation
appears. Rom. 1. 28.
Because out of thy thoughts Godshould notpass>
His image is stamped on every grass.
I now come to shew you
How to make the most Profitable Use ofthis Book t
The herbs, plants, &c. are here arranged under
their proper planets ; therefore, First consider
what planet causeth the disease.
Secondly, What part of the body is afflicted,
and whether it doth lay in the flesh, or blood, or
bones, or ventricles.
Thirdly. By what planet the afflicted part of
the body is governed.
Fourthly, You have likewise in this book, th&
2
THE PREFACE. vii
rarious herbs for the cure appropriated to tlie
several diseases, and the said diseases are all set
down under each part, whereby you may strength
en and comfort the afflicted part of the body by
its like ; as the brain by herbs of $ ; the breast and
liver by herbs of % ; the iicart and vitals by herbs
of the O, &c. but I would not have you think that
you will find every herb that grows in this book,
though you will find as many herein as will remove
every disease (that is curable) that can ever possi
bly afflict the human body, at any time or place
whatsoever, and what would you please to desire
more?
Fifthly, You may oppose diseases by herbs of the
planet opposite to that which causeth them ; as
diseases of % by herbs of and the contra
ry ; diseases of the luminaries by herbs of J; , and
the contrary ; diseases of $ by the herbs of &
and the contrary.
Sixthly, There is a way to cure diseases, some
times by sympathy, and so every planet cures his
own disease, as the sun and moon by their herbs
cure the eyes ; Tj the spleen, % the liver, <J the
gall and diseases of choler, and <f diseases in the
instruments of generation.
Seventhly, Young students would dothemselves
much good, if they would only take the trouble to
view the virtues of the herbs, &c. in this book,
and then compare them with these rules : they
will, to their exceeding great content, find them
all agreeable to them, and will thereby see the
reason why such an herb conduceth to the cure of
such a disease.
Eighthly, 1 have given you the whole key to-
physic under the herbs W ormwood and Carduus
Benedictus, if you please to make a good and
profitable use of this said key, together with all
and every one of these most excellent rules here--
inbefore mentioned, and by giving a proper atten
tion, to all of them, you w-ill find them true
A.*'
via THE PREFACE.
throughout this book, by which means you will
also be most fully enabled to give a reason for your
judgement to him that asketh you. Hereby you
see what reason may be given for medicines, and
also what great necessity there is for every phy
sician to be an astrologian. Nothing now remains
but that you daily labour to glorify God, and see
that you also duly answer the great end of your
creation, in your several stations and situations in
life, and do good to yourselves first, by daily in
creasing your knowledge; and afterwards by heal
ing the sickness and bodily infirmities of your neigh
bours. Some such characters as these, 1 hope are now
to be found in this nation ; to such shall I remain a
Friend, and that you may all receive much bene
fit from my work, is the sincere w ish of your ever
Faithful and Sincere Friend,
Dr. PARKINS
Little Gonerby, near Grantham,
Lincolnshire,
AN EXPLANATION
OF '
THE TEMPERAMENTS OF THE HERBS.
I. ALL medicines simply considered in themselves are
either hot, cold, moist, dry or temperate.
The qualities of medicines are considered in respect of
man, not of themselves ; for those simples are called hot,
which heat our bodies ; those cold, which cool them ;
and those temperate, which work no change at all in
them, in respect to either heat, cold, dryness, or mois
ture. And these may be temperate, as being neither hot
nor cold; yet may be moist or dry: or being neither
moist nor dry, yet may be hot or cold 5 or lastly, being
neither hot, cold, moist nor dry.
II. Iu temperature there is no degree of- difference,
the differences of the other qualities are divided into four
degrees, beginning at temperature; so that a medicine
may be said to be hot, cold, moist or dry, in the first,
second, third or fourth degree.
The use of temperate medicines is in those cases where
there is no apparent excess of the first qualities, to pre
serve the body temperate, to conserve strength, and to
repair decayed nature. And observe, that those medicines
which we call cold, are not so called because that they
are really cold in themselves, but because the degree of
their heat falls below the heat of our bodies, and so only
in respect of our temperature are said to be cold, while
they are in themselves really hot ; for without heat there
could be no vegetation, springing, nor life.
III. Such as are hot in the first degree, are of equal
heat with our bodies, and they only add a natural heat
thereto, if it be cooled by nature or by accident, thereby
cherishing the natural heat when weak, and restoring it
when it is wanting.
X TEMPERAMENTS OF THE HERBS.
Their use is, I. To make the offending humours thiry
that they may be expelled by sweat or perspiration. 2.
By outward application to abate inflammations and fevera-
hy opening the pores of the skin- 3. To help concoc
tion, and keep the blood in its just temperature.
IV. Such as are hot in the second degree, as much ex
ceed the first, as our natural heat exceeds a tempera--
ture.
Their use is, to open the pores, and take away ob
structions, by cutting tough humours through, and by
their own- essential force and strength,, when nature can
not do it.
V. Such as arc hot in the third degree, are more pow
erful in heating, they being able to inflame and cause
fevers.
Their use is to provoke sweat or perspiration extremely,
and cut tough humours ; and-thcrefore all of them resist
poison.
VI. Such as are hot in the fourth degree, do burn the-
body, if outwardly applied.
Their use is to cause inflammations, raise blisters, and'
corrode the skin.
VII. Such as arc cold in the first degree, fall asmucli
on the one side of temperature as hot doth on the other.
Their use is, 1. To qualify the heat of the stomach
and cause digestion. 2. To abate the heat in fevers; and
3, to refresh the spirits being almost suffocated.
VIII. Such as are cold in the third degree, are such as
Save a repercussive force;
And their use is, I, to drive back the matter, and
stop defluctions; 2, to make the humours thick ; and 3,
to limit the violence of choler, repress perspiration, and
keep the spirits from fainting.
IX. Such as are cold in the fourth degree, arc such as
stupify the senses.
They are used, 1. In violent pains ; and 2. in extreme
watchings. and the like cases, where life is despaired of.
X. Drying medicines -consume the humours, stopr-
fluxes, stiffen the parts and strengthen nature.
But if the humidity be exhausted already, then thos*
consume the natural strength.
TEMPERAMENTS OF THI HEKBS* .
XII. Such as are dry in the first degree strengthen ; in '
the second degree bind ; in the third, stop fluxes, but
spoil the nourishment, and bring consumptions ; in the
fourth, dry up the radical moisture, which being . ex»-
hausted, the body must needs perish.
XIII. Moist medicines are opposed to drying ; they
a»e lenitive, and make slippery.
These cannot exceed the third degree j for all things-
are either hot or cold. Now heat dries up, and cold'
eongeals ; both which destroy moisture.
XIV. Such as are moist in the first degree, ease coughs
and help the roughness of the windpipe ; in the second, -
loosen the belly ; in the third, make the whole habit of
body watery and phlegmatic ; filling it with dropsies,
lethargies, and such like diseases.
XV. Thus medicines alter according to their tempera
ture, whose active qualities are heat and cold, and whose
passive are dryness and moisture.
XVI. The active qualities eradicate diseases, the pas- -
sive are subservient to nature. .
So hot medicines may cure the dropsy, by opening ob
structions; and the same may also cure the yellow jaun
dice, by its attractive quality in sympathising with the
humour abounding ; and contraryvvise cold medicines
may compress or abate a fever, by condensing the hot
vapours, and the same may stop any defluxionor loose- -
Bess—
OF THE PRINCIPAL VIRTUES..
The virtue procreative is seated iii the instruments of"
generation, and is under ? ; fortified by her herbs and
plants, but diminished and cleansed by those- of (J, and
extinguished by those of Tj -.
The virtue conservative is- either natural, - vital oe
animal.
The natural virtue resides in the liver, and is disp< i»ed
xii OF THE PRINCIPAL VIRTUES.
through the body by the reins, and is under % ; from
.whence springs blood, phlegm, choler and melancholy.
Blood is hot and moist, made of food perfectly con.
cocted, and is under If ; it is increased by his herbs and
plants; cooled by those of 5 and the j ; purged by
those of J1 ; corrupted by those of ^ , an<^ destroyed,
by those ot Tj .
Phlegm is cold and moist, made of meat not per
fectly digested, its seat is in the lungs, and is governed by
$ and the 5 ; it makes the body slippery, qualifies the
beat of choler, and cools and moistens the heart. It is
purged by the herbs and plants of If ; and destroyed
by the herbs of <J.
Choler is hot and dry, made of food more than per
fectly concocted, its seat is in the gall, and is under $ ,
It heats the body, comforts the brain, and purge*
all the humours. It is destroyed by the herbs of
the J .
Melancholy is cold and dry, and is called burnt cho.
ler, or the sediment of blood. Its seat is in the spleen,
and is under Tj ; this strengthens the retentive faculty,
fortifies the memory, and abates lust. It is destroyed
by the herbs and plants of the © and If.
The vital spirit resides in the heart, is dispersed by
the arteries and veins, and is under the ©.
This cT diminishes, and destroys, the © and If
Strongly fortify it.
The animal spirit resides in the brain, and is governed
by ^ and tne & . The J rules the bulk of the brain
and sensitive parts, $5 tne rational.
The animal virtue is either intellective or sensitive.
The intellective consists in imagination, judgement,
and memory, and is under $ ; the imagination is hot
and dry, is seated in the forepart of the brain, and
is under $ ; judgment is seated in the middle of the
brain, and is hot and moist, approving of what is good,
and rejecting that which is bad, and is under If.
Memory is seated in the hinder part of the brain, and is
cold and dry, recording things that are past, present,
or to come, and is under Ij .
The sensitive part of the animal faculty consists in see
ing, hearing, smelling, tasting and feeling, the sight is
OF THE PRINCIPAL VIRTUES. Xtii
cold and moist, and resides in the eyes, in the crstyal-
line humour, and is under the 0 and 5 ; the hearing is
cold and dry, resides in the ear, and s under ^ and j ;
the smelling is hot and dry, resides in the nose, and is
under <J ; the taste is hot and moist, resides in the
palate, and is under 11 ; and the feeling is hot, cold,
moist and dry, is spread over the whole body, and
is under $ .
AN"
ALPHABETICAL TABLE OF HERBS & PLANTS^
also what Planet governeth them.
A MARADulcis,isiMidcrMER-
cury Page I
All-IIeal, is under the dominion
of Mars - 2
Alkanet, is under the dominion
of Venus - 3
Adder's Tongue, is under the
Moon inCanCER - 4
Agrimony, is under Jupiter
and the sign CanCER - 6
Water Agrimony, is under Jir-
piTERand the sign Cancer 7
Alehoof, is- under Venus 8
Alexander, or Alisander, is
under"Juwter - 10
Blnck Alder Tree, is under Ve
nus - 1 1
Common Alder Tree, is under
Venus - 12
Angelica, is under the Sun in
Leo - - 13
Amaranths!, is under the do
minion of Saturn - 16
Anemone, is under Mars 17
Garden Arrach, is under the
Moon - - 18
Arrach, wild and stinking, is
under the dominion of Venus
and the sign Sconrio 18
Archangel, red, white,"yellow,
are under Venus - 19
Arsmart, and Dead Arsmart, un
der Saturn and Mars 21
Asarabac< a, is under Mars 22
Asparagus and prickly Spara-
gus, arc under J upiter 24
Artichokes, are under Venus
15fr
Ash Tree, is governed by the
Sun '- 25-
Avens, is under Jupiter 26-
Arum - 105
Alecnet, see Costmary
Aparine," see Clever
Acanthus, see 13rank Ursine-
Ammi and Ammios, see Bishop's .
weed -
B.
Balm, is an Herb of Jupi
ter - 28
Barbary, is under Mars 29
I Barley is a notable plant of
Saturn - 29
.' Garden.Basil, or Sweet Basil,
is an herb of Mars and under
the sign Scorpio 30-
The Bay Tree is a tree of the
Sun, under the sign Leo 31
Beans are under Venus 33
French Beans belong to Ve
nus - 34
Ladies Bedstraw, is under Ve
nus - 35
1 Beets, the red under Saturn,. .
and the white under Jupi
ter - 36 .
Water Betony, called also
Brown Wort, and Bishop's
Leaves, an herb of Jupi
ter - 37
Wood Betony, appropriated
to Jupiter and the sign
Aries - 38
Beech Tree is under Saturn 41
Bilberries, isunder Jupiter 41-
Bifojl isa plant of Saturn 42
Birch Tree, is under Venus 43 .
Birds-foot belongs to Sa
turn - 44
Bishop's Weed, or Bulwort, is
under Venus - 44
Bistort, isunder Satcrn 45
One Blade is an herb of the
Sun - 4T
Bramble, or Black-berry bush,
a plantof Venus in Aries
48-
Elites*
IS ALSO' \TIIAT PLANET GOVEttNETH THEM. XT
Blftes are under lire dominion of
Venus - 49
Borage and Bugloss are under
Jupiter - 50
Bluebottle, and Blue-blow, arc
under Saturn 51
Brankursine and Bear's breech-,
are under the Moon 52
Briony, is under Mars 53
Brooklime, is under Mars 54
Butcher's Broom and Bruscus-,
are under Mars - 56
Broom and Broom rape, are
under Mars - 57
Bucks-horn Plantane, is under
Saturn - 58
Buckshorn is under Saturn 59
Bugle, or Brown Bugle, is under
Venus - 60
Burnet, an herb of the Sun 62
Butter-bur, an herb of the Sun
63
Burdock, an herb of Venus 64
Bitter sweet, see Amara dulci*
Spanish Bugloss,.see Alkanet
Bruisewort, see Sopewort
Bare-foot, see black Hellebore-
Baldmoney, see Gentian
Brimstone-wort, see Fennel
Barba-aron, see Cuckow- point
Balsam herl>, see Costmary
Bull's-foot, see Colt's foot
Blessed Thistle, see Canluns Be
nedicts
Bipennula, see Burnet
Bastard Agrimony, see Water
Agnmouy
C.
Cabbages and Coleworts, are
herbs of the MoOn 65
The Sea Colewort, the Moon
owns it - 67
Calamint, or Mountain Mint, is
an herb of Mercury 67
Camomile is uuderthe Sun. 69
Water Caltrops, or Caltrops,
are under the government of
the Moon - 70
Campions Wild, arc under the
Sun. ' - L
Carduns Benedictus, is an herb-
of Mars - 62'
Carrots arc under Mercury 73'"'
Carraway is under Mercury *"
74
Celandine, an herb of the Sun
. 75- .
The lesser Celandine is under
Mars - 77
Tfte ordinary small Centaury,
is an herb of the Sun 73
The Cherry-tree is under Ye-**
nus - SO
W inter Cherry, a plant of Ve
nus - 80
Chervil Carefolinm is under Ju
piter - 82
Sweet Chervil and Sweel Cicely
are under Jupiter 82
ChesnutTree is under Jutiter f
83
Earth Chesnutsand Ciper Kuts,
are under Venus 81
duckweed,under the Moon 84
Chirk Pease, or Cicers, is under
Venus - 85
Cinquefoil,anherb of Jupiter
86
Cives, Chives, and Chivet, are
under Mars - 88
Clary, or Clear Eyes, is under
the Moon - 88.
Wild Clary, or Christ's Eye, is
ander the Moon 89
Clev.crs and Glavers, are under
the Moon - 90
Clown's Woundwort s under
Saturn 91
Cock's-Head is under Ven. 92
Columbines, are under Ven. 93
. Coltsfoot, or Coughwort, is nn
der Ven. 94
Cnmfiey is an herb of Sat. 95
Coralwort, unde r the Moon 9ti
Costmary, is under J up. 97
Cudweed, or Cotton Wood, is
an herb of Ven. 98
Cowslips, are under Ven. 9!)
Crab's Claw is under Ven. 100
Black Cresses, under Mars 100
Sciatica Cresses, under Sat.
10L
Watee
A TABLE OF THE HERBS ;
Water Cresses, are under the
Moon 102
Crosswort is under Sat. 103
Crowfoot, is under Mars. 104
Cucknwpint, or Calves foot, is
under Mars 105
Cucumbers, are under the Moon
107
Caterach, see Spleenwort
Carpenter's herb, see Self heal
Cauiniock, see Rest-harrow
Corn Rose, see Poppy
Champetys, see Ground Pine
Callians, see Orchis
Catmint, see Nep
Cuckow t lower*, see Ladies
Smock
Christmas Herb, see Black
Hellebore
Call me to you, see Heart's
Ease
Crane's Rill, see Dove's-foot
Crop, see Darnel
Middle Censound, Comfrey, or
herb Carpenter, see Bugle
Corn Flowers, see Blue Bottle
Cummin Royal, and Ethiopian
Cummin seed, for both, see
Bishop's Weed
Clovewort, see Avers
Catsfoot, see Aleboof
D
Daisies are governed by Ven.
and under Can. 108
Dandelion is under JUP. 109
Darnel is under Sat. 110
Dill is under Mer. Ill
Devil's Bit is under Ven. 112
Docks are under Jo p. 112
Dodder of Thyme, and other
Dodders, are under Sat. 113
Dog's Grass is under Jvr. 115
Dove's Foot is a Martial Plant
116
Duck's Meat, Cancer claims
the herb, and the Moos will
be lady of it I IT
Down or Cotton Thistle, is un
der Mars 117
Dragons, is a plant of Mars
118
Great round leaved Dock, or
Bastard Rhubarb
Garden Patience, sec Monk's
Rhubarb
Over's Weed, see Wold and
Weld
Dittander, see Pepper Wort
Dog's Stone, see Orchis
Dewberry Bush, see Gooseber
ry bush
Crop Wort, see Filipendula
Dentaria, see ( oral Wort
Dragon Wort, see Bistort
Dog's and Goat's Arrach, see
Arrach wild and stinking
E
Elder Tree, is under Ven. 1 19
Dwarf Elder is under Ven.
119
Elm Tree is under Sat. 120
1 ndive is under V en. 121 ,f
Elecamp ue is under Mer. 122
Eringo is a venereal plant 123
Eye-Bright, the Sun claims
dominion over it, and it is un
der the Lion 125
Epithimum, see Dodder of
Thy me
Earth Nuts, see Earth Cbesnuts
English Serpentnry, see Bistort
Eupatorinm, see Water Agri
mony
F
Fern is under Mer. 126
Water Fern is under Sat. 127
Featherfew is under Ven. 187
Fennel is an herb of Mercury,
and under Virgo , 129^'
Sow Fennel and Hog's Fennel
are herbs of Mer. 130
Figw ort is under Ven. 131-
Filipendula is under Ven. 132
Fig-Tree is under Jvr. 133 "
The
As ALSO WHAT PLANET GOVERNETH THEM. xvii
-
The yellow Water Flag, or
Flower-de-luce, is under the
Moon 134
Flax-weed is under MARs 135
Flea Wort is under SAT. 136
Flux-weed is under SAT. 137
Flower-de-luce, Moon 138
Fluellin, or Lluellin, is a Lu
NAR herb 139
* Foxglove is under VEN. 141
Fumitory is under SAT. 142
Furz Bush is under MARs, 144
Felwort, see Gentian
Frog's foot, see Crow's foot
Fresh Water Soldier, see Crabs'
Claws
Foal's foot, see Colt's foot
Five finger, or five leaved grass,
see Cinquefoil
Fig-wort, see the lesser Celan
dine
Flower-gentle, Florimen, and
Velvet Flower, see Amaran
thus
G
Garlick is under SAT, 144
Gentian is under MARs 145
Glove Gilliflowers are under the
dominion of JUP. 147
* Germander, is under M.E.R. 147
Stinking Gladwin is under SAT.
148
Goldenrod, Wen. claims it 150
Gout wort, or Herb Gerrard,
SAT. rules it 151
Gromwell, three sorts are un
der WEN. 151
Gooseberry bush, under WEN.
152
Winter Green is under SAT. 153
Groundsel is under WEN. 154
Garden Patience, see Monk’s
Rhubarb
Goat-stones, see Orchis
Gofts, see Furz Bush
Quick-grass, or Couch-grass,
see Dog's-grass
Gold knobs, Gold Cups, see
Cowfoot
Goose-grass, or Goose-share, see
Clevers
Ground nuts, see Earth Chesnuts
Gill-go-by Ground, and Gill
creep-by Ground, see Ale
hoof.
H
Hercules All-heal, see All-heal
Hercules Woundwort, see All
heal
Hearts-ease is SATURN IN E 155
Harts-tongue, under Jup. 156
Hazel-nut is under Mr. R. 157
Hawk-weed is under SAT. 158
Hawthorn is under M A Rs. 159
Hemlock is under SAT. 160
Hemp is under SAT. 161
Henbane is under SAt. 162
Hedge hyssop, under MARs 164
Black-Hellebore, an herb of
SAT. J 65
Herb Robert is under V EN. 166
Herb Truelove is under VEN. 167
Hyssop is under J U P. 168
Hops are under MARs. 169
Horehound is under MER. 170
Horse-tail is under SAT. 172
Housleek is under J up. 173
Hound's Tongue is under MER.
- 174
Holly, Holm, or Hulver bush,
is under SAT. 175
Honey-suckles, see Meadow
trefoil
Honey-suckle, see Woodbine
Small Housleek, see Stone-crop
Heliotropi'im, see Turnsole
Hook-head, see Self-heal
Horse-rhadish, see Rhadish
Herb Two-pence, see Money
Wort
Horse-strange, and Horses
strong, see Hog's Fennel
Horse-hoof, see Colt's-foot
Holy Thistle, see Carduus Bene
dictus
Hart's horn, Herba-stella, Her
ba stellaria, Herb-eye, and
Herb-ivy, see Buckthorn
Heart sickle, see Blue-bottle
Herb William, see Blue-bottle
Herb
xviii A TABLE OF THE HERB ;
~s hiquorice, MERCURY governs
it
Herb Wiliam, see Bishop's-
weed
Herb Bennet, see Avens
Horse-parsley, see Alexander
Haymaids, see Alehoof
Hepatorium, see Water. Agri
meny
J
St. John's Wort is under the
SUN, and the sign LEo 176
Ivy is under SAT. 177
Juniper-bush is a SolAR heb
178
St. James's-wort, see Rag-wort
Juray, see Darnel
Jarus, see Cuckow-point
Ground-ivy, see Ale-hoof
K.
Kidney-wort is under VEN. 179
Knapweed is under SAT. 180
Knot-grass is under SAT. 182
King's Clover, see Melilot
Knight's Pound-wort, see Crab
claws
Knee-holm. Knee-holly, Knee
hulver, see Butcher's Broom
L
Ladies Mantle, is governed by
WEN.
Lavender, MER. owns it 184
Lavender - cotton, MERCURY
governs it 185
Ladies Smock, the Moo N go
verns it 185
Lettuce, the Moon owns it 186
Water Lily, white and yellow
are under the Moo N 187
Lilly of the Valley, Gom al
Lilly, May Lilly, and Lilly
Confancy, are under MER.
White Lillies are governed by
the Moo N 188
189
Liverwort, is under JUP. 189
Loose-strife, under the Moon
- 190
Loose-strife, with spiked heads
of flowers, is an herb of the
Moo N 19]
Lovage, an herb of the S.
192
Lung-wort, an herb of JUPITER
193
Love in Idleness, see Heart's-
ease
Locher's Goulons, see Crowfoot
Lappa Major, see Burdock
Ladies Seal, see Briony
Langue de beuf, see Borage and
Bugloss
Mi
~ Sweet Marjoram, an herb of
00
*~, 2
Moral, see Amara Dulcis
Madder, an herb of MARs 194
Maiden-hair, or Wall-rue; is
under MERCURY 195
Golden Maiden-hair, an herb
of MERCURY 196.
Nº Mallows and Marshmallows, are
196
under VENUS
Maple-tree, is nnder JUP.
Wild, Bastard, and Grove Mar
joram, are under MERCURY
ib.
MERCURY
Marigolds, are herbs of the SUN
20t
Master-wort, an herb of MER
CURY 202
Sweet Maudlin, an herb of
JU P. see Costmary.
Medlar, is under SATURN 203
Melilot, or King's Clover, is
under MER cu R Y 204
French and Dog's Mercury, are
under VENUS 205.
NMint, an herb of VEN. 208.
Misselto, under the SUN 210
Money-wort, under VEN. 212
Moon-wort, the Moon owns it
213.
Mosses, SATURN owns them 214
Mother-wort, under WEN, 213.
Mouse--
AS ALSO WHAT PLANET GOYEKNETH TBEK. XIX
Mouse-ear, under Moos 251
Mugwort,under Venus 216
Mulberry-tree, Mercury owns
it 218
—•Mullein, Saturn owns it 218
^ Mustard, is under Mars 220
Hedge Mustard, Mars owns it
221
Mcdick-fetch, . see Cock's head
Myrrhs, see Chervil
Macedonian parsley seed, see
Alexander
N
Nailwort Mercury 222
Nep Catmint, under Venus223
Nettles are under Mars- 224
-J Nightshade, under S at. 225
Bead Nettles, see Archangel
O
'< Oak, Jup. owns it 227
^ Oats, Mbr. 228
One Blade, Sun owns it ib.
Orchis, is under Venus 229
Onions, ate under Mars ib.
Orpine, the Moos owns it 230
One berry, herb True-love, is
under Venus 166
Orgains, Origanum, see wild
Marjoram
Osmond Royal, see Water
Fern
Ox-tongue, see Bugloss
Oyster-loit, see Bistort
Orach and Oragi, see Garden
Arrach
Opoponax-wort, see AlLheal
Orchanet, see Alkanet
P
^ Parsley is under Mer. 231
Parsley-piert, or Parsley
^, Breakstone, Venus 232
Parsnip is under Ven. 233
toiv Parsnip, under M£R. 234
Peach-Tree belongs to Vev.
235
Pear-Tree, Venus 236
Pellitory of Spain under Mer
cury 23T
Pellitory of the Wall, Mercu
ry owns it 238
Penny-royal, Venus owns \t^-
240
Peony, masculine and feminine, i^-
the Sun owns- them 244
Pepper - Wort, a Martial
herb 244
Periwinkle, Venus owns it 244
St. Peter's-wort, under the Sun
245-
Pimpernel is a Solar herb 246
Ground Pine, Mars owns it
, 24T
Plantain is under Ven. 249'
Plumbs are under Vev. 250" V
Polipody of the Oak, an herb
of Saturn 251
Pbpiar-Tree, under Sat. 25S ***
Poppy, white and black,, and t-"
the wild Poppy, or Corn
rose, the Moon rules 254
Purslain, under the Moon 257
Primroses are under V en. 258
Privet, the Moon rules 258-
Park-leaves, see Tutsan
Prick-Madam, see Stone-croy
Prunel, see Self-heal
Pansy, see Heart's ease
Piss-a-bed, see Dandelion.
Priest-pintle, see Cuckiw-point
Poults, see Crowfoot
Peagles, see Cowslips
Pig-nut, see Earth-Chesnuts
Pile-wort, see the lesser Celan
dine
Petesitis, see Butter bur
Pimpinella, see Bnrnet
Pettigree, see Butcher's broom
Passions, see Bistort
Porticaria, or Peach-wort, or
Plumbago, see Arsmart
Black potherd, see Alexander
Wild Parsley, see Alexander
Panacea, see All-heal
Queem
xx A TABLE of THE HERBs;
Q
Queen of the Meadows, Mea
dow sweet, or Mead sweet,
VENUS claims 259
- Quince-tree, SAT. owns it 260
-
~
-
R
Y Rhadish and Horse rhadish are
under MARs 262
Ragwort, under WEN. 263
Rattle-grass, red and yellow,
both are under the Moon 264
Rest harrow, or Cammock, are
under MARs 265
Rocket is under MARs 266
Winter rocket, or Winter-cress
`-- is under VENUs 267
Red roses are under Jupiter
* Damask roses are under WEN.
White roses are under the
Moon - 268
Rosa solis, or Sun-dew, the
SUN rules it 272
Rosemary, under the SUN 273
* Rhubarb, or rhaphontick,
MARs claims it 275
Garden Patience, or Monk’s
Rhubarb, or Bastard Rhu
- barb, MARs governs them ib.
* Meadow Rue SUN 278
`-- Garden Rue is an herb of the
SUN, and under LEo 279
Rupture wort is Satu RNINE
281
Rushes are under SATURN 282
Rye, VENus ib.
Ramp and Wake Robin, see ~
Cuckow pint
Red Fatching, see Cockhead
Rush Leeks, see Cives
Ruscus, see Butcher's Broom
S
s Saffron, an herb of the SUN 282
Sage, an herb of Jup. 283
Wood Sage, under VEN. 284
Solomon's Seal, SATURN owns
285
Samphire an herb of Jup. 287
Sanicle, an herb of VEN. ib.
Saracens consound, or Saracens
Wound-wort, SAT. governs
989
Sauce-alone, or Jack by the
hedge, an herb of MER. 290
Winter and Summer Savory,
MER. governs them ib.
Savine, MAR's owns it 219
The common white Saxifrage,
the Moon governs 292
Burnet Saxifrage, the Moon
governs it 293
Scabious, three sorts, MER cu
R Y owns them 294
Scurvy-grass, under Jup. 296
Self heal, and Sickle-wort, are
under VENUS 297
Service-tree is under the do
minion of SATURN 298
Shepherd's purse is under SAT.
ib.
Smallage, an herb of MER. 299
Sope-wort is under VEN. ib.
* Sorrel is under VENUs 300
Wood Sorrel is under V EN. 301
Sow-thistle is under V EN. 302
Southernwood is a MERCURIAL
plant ib.
Spignel is under VENU's 303
Spleen-wort is under SAT. 304
Star-thistle is under MARS 305
Strawberries are under V E N.
306
Succory is under Jupiter .307
Stone-crop, small Housleek, is
under the Moon 308
Septsoil, see Totmentil
Silverwood, see Wild Tansy
Stagserwood and Stammerwort
and Segrum, see Ragwort
Satyrion, see Orchis
Sengreen
*
As ALSo WHAT PLANET GOVERNETH THEM. xxi
Sengreen, see Housleek
Setter-wort, and Setter-grass,
see Black Hellebore
Sulphur-wort, see Sow Fennel
Sea-holly, see Eringo
Starch-wort, see Cuckow-pint
Sweth, see Cives
Saligot, see Caltrops
Sickle-wort, see Bugloss
Sanguinare and Swine-cresses,
see Buckthorn
Syamus, see Blue-bottle
Snakeweed, see Bistort
Sparagus, or Sperage, see As
paragus
Serpent's Tongue, see Adder's
Tongue
Spanish Bugloss, see Alkanet
T
* English Tobacco, is a Martial
plant 308
> Tamarisk-tree, is governed by
SAT. 309
Garden Tansy, is under WEF.
Wild Tansy, VEN. rules it 311
Thistles, MAR's rules them 312
Melancholy Thistle, is under
CA PRI corn,and therefore un
der SAT. and MAR's ib.
Our Lady's Thistle, is under
JUP. 313
Woolly, or €otton Thistle is a
plant of MAR's 314
Fullers Thistle, or Teasle, is
an herb of VEN. ib.
Treacle and Mithridate Mustard
are herbs of MARs 315
Black Thorn, or Sloe Bush 316
Thorough-wax, or Thorough
leaf under SAT. 317
* Thyme, Ven. 3.18
Thyme (Mother of) is under
VEN. ib.
Termentil, or septfoil, is an
31
herb of the SUN.
Turnsole, or Heliotropium, an
herb of the SUN 321
Meadow Trefoil, or Honey
suckles, under MER. ib.
Heart Trefoil, is under Sun 322
Pearl Trefoil, is under the do
minion of the Moon ib. .
Tut-san, or Park-leaves, an
herb of the Sun ib.
Three Faces in one Hood, see
Heart's Ease
Throat-wort, see Fig-wort
Cotton Thistle, see Down
Tooth-wort, toothed, and Dog
tooth Violet, see Coral-wort
Tribus Aquaticus, and Tribus
Mecinus, see Water Caltrops
Tamas, see Briony
Twa-blade, see Bifoyl
Turnhoof, see Alehoof
V
Garden Valerian, under the go-->
vernment of M ER. 323
Vervain, is under VEN. 325 °
The Vine is under VEN. 326**
Violets, are under WEN. 327 ºr
Vipers Bugloss, an herb of the
Sun. 328
Black and White Vine, Wild,
or Wood Vine, see Briony
W
Wall Flowers, or Winter Gilli
flowers, the Moon rules them
329
Walnut, under the SUN 330 *
Wold, Weld, or Dyer's Weed,
under M A R s 331
Wheat, is under VEN. 332 *
The Willow-tree, is governed --
by the Moon 333
Woad, is under SAT. 334
Woodbine, or Honey-suckle, a
plant of MER. 335
Wormwood an herb of MARs ºr
336
Whitlow-grass, MER. 337
Wall-penny - royal, or Wall
penny-wort, see Kidney-wort
Wine
xxii A TABLE OF THE HERBS.
Wine-berry-bush, see Goose
berry-bush
Whins, see the Furz bush
Water-flag, see yellow Flower
de-luce
Wall-wort, see Elder-tree
Wray, see Darnel -
Wading Pond-weed, see Crabs
Claw, and Water-sea-green
Water-nut, and Water-chesnut,
see Caltroops
Water Pimpernel, see Brook
lime -
Worts, and Whortle-berrics, see
Bil-berries
Wind-flower, see Anemome
Woody Night-shade, see Ama
ra Dulcis
Hercules Wound-wort, see All
heal
Y
Yarrow, called Nose bleed, Mii
foil, and Thousand-leaf, is
under the influence of VEN. 34&
^-
º
s
".
º
INDEX.
A
A Remedy for an Asthma and shortness of Breath — 381
A Cure for the falling down of the Almonds of the Ears 388
A Remedy for St. Anthony's Fire — — tA.
For an Ague — — ib.
A Cure for an Asthma — — ib.
fi
Mow to Cure a Bruise or Scald outwardly
Bruise inwardly —
How to make Balsam of Life —
A Cure for a Burn or Scald —
A Remedy for a Costive Body
How to stop Bleeding —
- with or by Wards
How to make Bread Sauce —
Forced Meat Balls
Straughton's Bitters
Friar's Balsam —
c
A Cure for the Chincough — — 382
How to make Paste for Cheesecakes 388
———— Cheesecakes — — ib,
Rice Cheesecakes — — ib.
a Crust for raised Pies — — ib.
Cup Custards 389
1 Shrewsbury Cakes — — ib.
a Plumb Cake ib.
Currant Pudding — 38T
To help the Courses that is stopped — 385
A Remedy for a Consumption ib.
E
How to make Egg Sauce —— 387
• Eye Water — — 38G
F
How to take away Red Spots or Pimples from the Face 385
G
How to make Godfrey's Cordial — — 382
An excellent Cure for the Stone and Gravel — 386
II
A Cure for the Heartburn — — 381
383
384
386
ib.
ib.
384
3HH
ib.
388
INDEX.
I & J.
How to make Iceing for Tarts — — 388
How to Cure the Black Jaundice — — 384
Yellow Jaundice without Medicine — — ib.
A.valuable Key to Physic under the Herbs? 33/;
Carduns Benedictus and Wormwood J '
L
A most valuable Treasure for Pregnant Ladies — — 152
A most valuable Treasure for all Young Ladies — — — 162
M
How to make minced Pies without Meat — — 388
A Cure for a Canker in the Mouth 384
o
The essential Virtues of the Oil of Carawayseeds 379
—of Juniper Berries 380
- of Rosemary ib-
P
How to make Potatoc Pudding —— 387
Dr. Parkins' Eve Water 3^6
Salve for all Wounds 378
1—Remedy for loss of Appetite — 380
— for Cold Aches and Pains — 381
: Cure for a Strain —-— ib.
— Essence for the Headach ib*
Pills for Giddiness, Palsy, Headachs 382
-for the Chincough 382
Currant Wine . ' ~ ~«' 387
Sugar Cakes . s87
Gingerbread ' —' ' IJJ'"' S87
How to Pickle Walnuts — — — 389
French Beans — — — 389
Onions — — — . 389
A Cure for the Piles or sores — — — 384
s
Compound Tineture of Sena, commonly called Daffy's Elixir 381
A Cure for the Stoppage of Urine — — — 386
Scurvy in the Gums — — 384
T
How to make Turlington's Balsam of Life — — 385
w
How to Cure Warts — — — 383
Hew to kill Worms in the Body of Man — — — 385
THB
ENGLISH PHYSICIAN
ENLARGED.
Amara Dulcis. $ (h. d. 2.)
Considering that different names are given to the same
herb in different parts of the country, and that the com
mon name which it bears in one county is not known in
another ; great pains have here been taken to select all
the various names by which each herb is distinguished.
Besides Amara Dulcis, this is also called Mortal, Bitter
sweet, Woody Night-shade, and Felon-wort.
Deseript.'] It grows up with woody stalks even to a
man's height, and sometimes higher. The leaves fall off
at the approach of Winter, and spring out of the same
stalks at Spring-time. The branch is compassed about
with a whitish bark, and hath a pith in the middle of it.
The main branch divideth itself into many small ones
with claspers, laying hold on what is next to them, ai
vines do. It bears many leaves, they grow in no order
at all, or at least in no regular order. The leaves are
longish, though somewhat broad, and pointed at the
ends : many of them have two little leaves growing at
the end of their foot-stalk ; some have but one, aud some
none. The leaves are of a pale green colour ; the flow
ers are of a purple colour, or of a perfect blue like
to violets, and they stand many of them together in
knots ; the berries are green at first, but when they are
ripe they are very red ; if you taste them, you shall find
them just as the crabs which are in Sussex, called bitter
sweets, viz. sweet at first, and bitter afterwards.
Place."] They grow commonly almost throughout Eng
land, especially in moist and shady places.
Time.] The leaves shoot out about the latter end of
March if the temperature of the air be ordinary ; it flow-
ereth in July, and the seeds are ripe soon after, usually
in the next month.
B
2 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Government and Virtues.'] It is under the planet Mer
cury, and a notable herb of his, if it be rightly gathered
under his influence. It is excellent to remove witchcraft
both in men and beasts, as also all sudden diseases what,
soever. Being tied round about the neck, is one of the
most admirable remedies for the vertigo or dizziness in
the head that is ; and that is the reason (as Tragus saith)
the people in Germany commonly hang it about their
cattle's necks, when they fear any such evil hath betided
them : Country people commonly use to take the berries
of it, and having bruised them, they apply them to felons,
and thereby soon rid their fingers of such troublesome
guests.
Having now shewn you the external use of the herb,
we shall speak a word or two of the internal, and so
conclude. Take notice, it is a Mercurial herb, and
therefore of very subtle parts, as indeed all Mercurial
plants are ; therefore take a pound of the wood and
leaves together, bruise the wood, put it into a pot, and
put to it three pints of white wine ; put on the pot-lid
and shut it close; and let it infuse hot over a gentle fire
twelve hours ; then strain it out, and you have a most
excellent drink to open obstructions of the liver and
spleen, to help difficulty of breathing, bruises and falls,
and congealed blood in any part of the body ; it helps the
yellow-jaundice, the dropsy and black jaundice, and to
cleanse women newly brought to bed. You may drink
a quarter of a pint of the infusion every morning. It
purgeth the body yery gently, and not churlishly, as
some hold. And when you find good by this, remem
ber me.
All-heal. $ (h. d. 3.)
It is called All-heal, Hercules's All-heal, and Ilercules's
Wound-wort, because it is supposed that Hercules learned
the herb and its virtues from Chiron, when he learned
physic of him. Some call it Panay, and others Opo-
pane-wort.
Descript.] Its root is long, thick, and exceeding full
of juice, of a hot and biting taste, the leaves are great
and large, and winged almost like ash-tree leaves, but
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGE!).' S
that they are something hairy, each leaf consisting of
five or six pair of such wings set one against the other
upon foot-stalks, broad below, but narrow towards the
end ,. one of the leaves is a little deeper at the bottom
than the other, of a fair, yellowish, fresh green colour ;
they are of a bitterish taste, being chewed in the mouth.
From among these ariseth up a stalk, green in colour,
round in form, great and strong in magnitude, five or
six feet in altitude, with many joints, and some leaves
thereat : Towards the top come forth umbles of small
yellow flowers,- after which are passed away, you may
find whitish, yellow, short flat seeds, bitter also in taste.
Place.'] Having given you the description of the herb .
from the bottom to the top, give me leave to tell you,
that there are other herbs called by this name ; but be
cause they are strangers in England, I give only the de*
scription of this, which is easily to be had in the gardens
of divers places.
lime.] Although Gerrard saith, That they flower
from the beginning of May to the end of December, ex
perience teacheth them that keep it in their gardens, that
it flowers not till the latter end of the Summer, and sheds
its seed presently after.
Government and Virtues.] It is untler the dominion of
Mars, hot, biting, and cholerick ; and remedies what
evils Mars afflicts the body of men with, by sympathy, as
vipers flesh attracts poison, and the loadstone iron. It
kills the worms, helps the gout, cramps, and convulsions,
provokes urine, and helps all joint-aches. It helps all
cold griefs of the head, the vertigo, falling sickness, the
lethargy, the wind cholick, obstructions of the liver and
spleen, stone in the kidneys and bladder. It provokes the
terms, expells the dead birth : It is excellent good for the
griefs of the sinews, itch, stone, and tooth-ach, the biting
of mad dogs and venomous beasts, and purgeth choler
very gently.
Alkanet. $ (tern. m. 2.)
Besides the common name, it is called Orchanet, aa<i
Spanish Bgloss, and by apothecaries, Enchnsa.
b 2
4 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED,
Descript.] Of the many, sorts of this herb there is but
one known to grow commonly in this nation; of which
one takes this description : -It hath a great and thtck root,
of a reddish colour, long, narrow, hairy leaves, green
like the leaves of Bugloss, which lie very thick upon the
ground ; the stalks rise up compassed round about, thick,
with leaves, which are lesser and narrower lhan thefor-
mer ; they are tender, and slender, the flowers are hol
low, small, and of a reddish colour, the seed is grayish.
Place.] It grows in Kent near Rochester, and in many
places in the West Country, both in Devonshire and
Cornwall.
Time.] They flower in July, and beginning of August,
and the seed is ripe soon after, but the root is in its prime
as carrots and parsnips are, before the herb runs up to
Stalk.
Government and Virtues ] It is an herb under the domi
nion of Venus, and indeed one of her darlings, though
somewhat hard to come by. It helps old ulcers, hot in
flammations, burnings by common fire, and St. Antho
ny's iire, by antipathy to Mars ; for these uses, your best
way is to make it into an ointment ; also if you make a
vinegar of it, as you make vinegar of roses, it helps the
morphy and leprosy ; if you apply the herb to the privi
ties, it draws forth the dead child. It helps the yellow-
jaundice, spleen, and gravel in the kidneys. Dioscorides
saith, it helps such as are bitten by venomous beasts,
whether it be taken inwardly, or applied to the wound;
nay, he saith further, if any that halh newly eaten it, do
but spit into the mouth of a serpent, the serpent instantly
dies. It stays the flux of the belly, kills worms, helps
the fits of the mother. Its decoctiou made in wine, and
drank, strengthens the back, and easeth the pains thereof.
It helps bruises and falls, and is as gallant a remedy to
drire out the small pox and measles as any is ; an oint
ment made of it, is excellent for green wounds, pricks or
thrusts.
Adder's Tongue. j and ffi. (t, d. 2.)
This little plant is likewise called Serpent's Tongue,
and although common in our meadows, requires diligence
to gather it.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 5
Descript.] This herb hath but one leaf, which grow*
with the stalk a finger's length above the ground, being
flat and of a fresh green colour ; broad like Water Plan-
tane, but less, without any rib in it ; from the bottom of
which leaf, on the inside, riseth up ordinarily one, some
times two or three slender stalks, the upper half whereof
is somewhat bigger, and dented with small dents of a
yellowish green colour, like the tongue of an adder
serpent (only this is as useful as they are formidable.)
The roots continue all the year.
Place.] It grows in moist meadows, and such like places ;
but must be diligently searched for before it can be dis
covered, as it is entirely buried among the grass.
Time.] It is to be found in May or April, for it quickly
perisheth with a little heat. „
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb under the domi
nion of the Moon and Cancer, and therefore if the weak
ness of the retentive faculty be caused by an evil influ
ence of Saturn in any part of the body governed by the
Moon, or under the dominion of Cancer, this herb cures
it by sympathy. It cures these diseases after specified, in
any part of the body under the influence of Saturn, by
antipathy.
It is temperate in respect of heat, but dry in the second
degree. The juice of the leaves drank with the distilled
water of Horse-tail, is a singular remedy for all manner of
wounds in the breasts, bowels, or other parts of the body,
and is given with good success unto those that are troubled
with casting, vomiting, or bleeding at the mouth or nose,
or otherwise downwards. The said juice given in the
distilled water of Oaken-buds, is very good for women
who have their usual courses, or the whites flowing down
too abundantly. It helps sore eyes. Of the leaves in
fused or boiled in oil, omphacine, or unripe olives, set ia
the sun for certain days, or the green leaves sufficiently
boiled in the said oil, is made an excellent green balsam,
not only for green and fresh wounds, but also for old
and inveterate ulcers, especially if a little fine clear
turpentine be disolved therein. It also staycth and re-
fresheth all inflammations that arise upon pains by hurta
and wounds.
s 3
0 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
What parts of the body are under each planet and
sign, and also what disease, may be found in my Holy
Temple of Wisdom.
Lastly, To avoid blotting paper with one thing many
times, and also to ease your purses in the price of the
book, and withall to make you studious in physick ; you
hare at the latter end of the book, the way of preserving
all herbs either in juice, conserve, oil, ointments or
plaister, eleciuary, pills or troches.
Agrimony. If and °s (k. d. 2.)
The common Agrimony is a very useful plant, whose
virtues are much neglected.
Descript.] This hath divers long leaves (some greater,
tome smaller) set upon a stalk, all of them dented about
the edges, green above, and greyish underneath, and a
little hairy withall. Among which ariseth up usually but
one strong, round, hairy, brown stalk, two or three feet
high, with smaller ,'eaves set here and there upon it.
At the top hereof grow many small yellow flowers, one
above another, in long spikes, after which come rough
beads of seed, hanging downwards, which will cleave to
and stick upon garments, or any thing that shall rub
Against them. The root is black, long, and somewhat
woody, abiding many years, and shooting afresh every
Spring; which root, though small, hath a reasonable
scent.
Place.] It groweth upon banks, near the sides of
hedges.
Time.'} Itflowereth in July and August, the seed being
ripe shortly after.
Goternment and Virtues.] It is an herb under Jupiter,
and the sign Cancer ; and strengthens those parts under
the planet and sign, and removes diseases in them by
sympathy, and those under Saturn, Mars and Mercury,
by antipathy, if they happen in any part of the body
governed by Jupiter, or under the sign3 Cancer, Sagitta-
ry, or Pisces, and therefore must needs be good for the
gout, either used outwardly in oil or ointment, or in.
wardly in an electuary, or syrup, or concreted juice; for
which sec the latter end of this book.
It is of a cleansing and cutting faculty, without any
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 7
manifest heat, moderately drying and binding. It open*
eth and cleanseth the liver, helpeth the jaundice, and it
very beneficial to the bowels, healing all inward wounds,
bruises, hurts, and other distempers. The decoction of
the herb made with wine, and drank, is good against the
biting and stinging of serpents, and helps them that make
foul, troubled or bloody urine, and makes them void
water speedily. It also helpeth the colick, cleanseth the
breast, and rids away the cough. A draught of the de
coction taken warm before the fit, first removes, and in
time rids away the tertian or quartern agues. The leaves
and seeds taken in wine, stays the bloody flux ; outwardly
applied, being stamped with old swine's grease, it helpeth
old sores, cancers, and inveterate ulcers, and draweth.
forth thorns and splinters of wood, nails, or any other
such things gotten in the flesh. It helpeth to strengthen
the members that be out of joint ; and being bruised and
applied, or the juice dropped in it, helpeth foul and
imposthumed ears.
The distilled water ofthe herb is good to all thesaid pur
poses, either inward or outward, but a great deal weaker.
It is a most admirable remedy for such whose lives are
annoyed either by heat or cold. The liver is the former
of blood, and blood the nourisher of the body, and
Agrimony a strengthener of the liver.
I cannot stand to give you a reason in every herb, why
it cureth such diseases ; but if yon please to peruse my
judgment in the herb Wormwood, you shall find them
there, and it will be well worth your while to consider
it in every herb, you shall find them true throughout the
book.
Water Agrimony. 11 and sb (h. d. 2.)
It is called, in some countries, Water Hemp, Bastard
Hemp, and Bastard Agrimony, Eupatorinm, and Hepato-
rinm, because it strengthens the liver.
Descript.] The root continues a long time, having many
long slender strings. The stalk grows up about two feet
high, sometimes higher. They are of a dark purple colour.
The branches are many, growing at distances the one from
the other, the one from the one side of the stalk, the other
b 4
8 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
from the opposite point. The leaves are winged, and much
indented at the edges. The flowers grow at the top of the
branches, of a brown yellow colour, spotted with black
spots, having a substance within the midst of them like
that of a daisy : If you rub them between your fingers,
they smell like rosin or cedar when it is burnt. The seeds
are long, and easily stick to any woollen thing they touch.
Place."] They delight not in heat, and therefore they
are not so frequently found in tho southern parts of Eng
land, as in the northern, where they grow frequently :
You may look for them in cold grounds, by ponds and
tides of ditches, as also by running waters ; sometimes you
(hall find them grow in the midst of the waters.
June.] They all flower in July or August, and the
seed is ripe presently after.
Government and Virtues.] It is a plant of Jupiter, as
well as the other Agrimony: this belongs to the celestial
sign Cancer. It hcaleth and drieth, cutteth and clcanseth
thick and tough humours of the breast, and for this I
hold it inferior to few herbs that grow. It helps the
cachexia or evil disposition of the body, the dropsy and
yellow jaundice. It opens the obstructions of the liver,
mollifies the hardness of the spleen, being applied out.
wardly. It breaks imposthumes, taken inwardly. It is
an excellent renredy for the third day ague. It provokes
urine and the terms. It kills worms, and cleanseth the
body of sharp humours, which are the cause of itch and
scabs ; the herb being burnt, the smoke thereof drives
away flies, wasps, &c. It strengthens the lungs ex
ceedingly. Country people give it to their cattle when
they are troubled with the cough, or broken-winded.
Alehoof, or Ground-Ivy. ? (h. d. I.).
Several counties give it several names, so that there is
scarce an herb growing of that bigness, that has got so
many. It is called Cats-foot, Ground-ivy, Gillgo-by-
ground, and Gill-creep-by-ground, Turnhool, Hay-maids,
and Alehoof, and Jack-by-the-Hedge.
Dcbcript.] This well known herb lieth, spreadeth, and
creepeth upon the ground, shooteth forth roots at the
corners of tender jointed stalks, set with two round leaves
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 11
yon may no longer eat it out of ignorance, but out of
knowledge.
The Black Alder-tree. ? and s (t. m. 1.)
Tins is likewise called the Berry-bearing Alder ; but
has more the appearance ofa shrub than a tree.
Descript] It seldom groweth to any great bigness, but
for the most part abideth like a hedge-bush, or a tree
spreading its branches, the woods of the body being
white, with a dark red cole, or heart ; the outward bark
is of a blackish colour, with many whitish spots therein :
but the inner bark next the wood is yellow, which being
chewed, will turn the spittle near into a saffron colour.
The leaves are somewhat like those of an ordinary Alder-
tree, or the Female Cornet, or Dogberry-tree, called in
'Sussex Dog-wood, bnt blacker, and not so long. The
flowers are white, comingforthwith the leaves at the joints,
which turn into small round berries, first green, after
wards red, but blackish when they are thorough ripe,
divided, as it were, into two parts, wherein is contained
two small round and flat seeds. The root runneth not
deep into the ground, but spreads rather under the upper
crust of the earth.
Place.] This tree or shrub may be found plentifully in
St. John's wood by Hornsey, and the woods on Hamp-
stcad-Heath ; as also in a wood called the Old Park in
Barcomb in Sussex, near the brook's side. .
Time.] It flowereth in May, and the berries are ripe in
September.
Government and Virtues."] It is a tree of Venus, and
perhaps under the celestial sign Cancer. The inner yel
low bark hereof purgeth downwards both choler and
phlegm, and the watery humours of such that have the
dropsy, and strengthens the inward parts again by bind
ing. If the bark hereof be boiled with Agrimony, Worm
wood, Dodder, Hops and some Fennel, with Smallage,
Endive, and Succory roots, and a reasonable draught
taken every morning for some time together, it is very
effectual against the jaundice, dropsy, and the evil dis
position of the body, especially if some suitable purging
soedkines have been taken before, to xoid the grosser
a 6
J 2 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
excrements ; it purgeth and strengthened the liver and
spleen, cleansing them from such evil humours and hard
ness as they are afflicted with. It is to be understood that
these things are performed by the dried bark ; for the
fresh green bark taken inwardly provokes strong vomit
ings, pains in the stomach, and gripings in the belly; yet
if the decoction may stand and settle two or three days,
until the yellow colour be changed black, it will not work
10 strongly as hefore, but will strengthen the stomach,
and procure an appetite to meat. The outward bark con
trariwise doth bind the body, and is helpful for all lasks
and fluxes thereof, but this also roust be dried first, where
by it will work the better. The inner bark thereofboiled
in vinegar is an approved remedy to kill lice, to cure the
itch, and take away scabs, by drying them up in a short
time. It is singularly good to wash the teeth, to tak«
away the pains, to fasten those that are loose, to cleanse
them, and keep them sound. The leaves are good fodder
for kine, to make them give more milk.
In Spring-time if you use the herbs before mentioned,
and will take but a handful of each of them, and to them
add an handful of Elder buds, and having bruised them,
all, boil them in a gallon of ordinary beer, when it is
new ; and having boiled them half an hour, add to this
three gallons more, and let them work together, and drink
a draught of it every morning, half a pint, or thereabouts,
it is an excellent purge for the Spring, to consume the
phlegmatic quality the Winter hath left behind it, and
withall to keep your body in health, and consume those
evil humours which the heat of Summer will readily stir
up. Esteem it as a jewel.
,
The Common Alder-Tree. ? and X. (c. m.2.)
The common Alder-trec is sufficiently distinguished from
the Black-Alder by its size.
Descrip.] It groweth to a reasonable height, and spreads
much if it likes the place. Its stem is tree-like and full
of branches; the bark is rough, of a dark brown colour,
and irregularly blotched with white, having large
round leaves that are irregularly notched on the edges
and clammy to the touch, especially while young. Its
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 9
at every joint somewhat hairy, crumpled, and unevenly
dented about the edges, with round dents ; at the joints
likewise, with the leaves towards the end of the branches,
come forth hollow, long flowers, of a blueish purple
colour, with small white spots upon the lips that hang
down. The root is small with strings.
Place.] It is commonly found under hedges and on the
sides of ditches, under houses, or in shadowed lanes, and,
other waste grounds, in almost every part of this land.
Time.] They flower somewhat early, and abide a great
while; the leaves continue green until Winter, and some
times abide, except the Winter be very sharp and cold.
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb of Venus, and
therefore cures the diseases she causes by sympathy, and
those of Mars by antipathy ; you may usually find it aH
the year, except the year be extremely frosty; it is quick,
sharp, aud bitter in taste, and is thereby found to be hot
and dry; a singular herb for all inward wounds, exul-
cerated lungs, or other parts, either by itself, or boiled
with other the like herbs ; and being drank, in a short
time, it easeth all griping pains, windy and choleric hu
mours in the stomach, spleen or belly ; helps the yellow
jaundice, by opening the stopping of the gall and liver,
and melancholy, by opening the stoppings of the spleen ;
expelleth venom or poison, and also the plague; it pro.
vokes urine and women's courses ; the decoction of it in
wine drank for some time together, procureth ease unto'
them that' arc troubled with the sciatica, or hip-gout; as
also the gout in the hands, knees, or feet ; if you put
to the decoction some honey and a little bnrnt allum, it
is excellent good to garg'e any sore mouth or throat, and
to wash the sores and ulcers in the privy parts of man or
woman ; it speedily helpeth green wounds, being bruised
and bound thereto. The juice of it boiled with a little
honey aud verdigrease, both wonderfully cleanseth fistulas,
ulcers, aud stayeth the spreading or eating of cancers and
ulcers ; it helpeth the itch, scabs, wheals, aud other
breakings out in any part of the body. The juice of
Celandine, Field-daises, and Ground-ivy clarified, and a
little fine sugar dsssolved therein, and dropped into the
eyes, is a sovereign remedy for all pains, redness and
watering of them ; as also for the pin and web, skins and
b 5
10 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
films growing over the sight ; it helpeth beasts as well ai
men. The juice dropped into the ear, doth wonderfully
help the noise and singing of them, and helpeth the hear
ing which is decayed. It is good to tun up with new
drink, for it will clarify it in a night, that it will be the
fitter to be drank the next morning ; or if any drink be
thick with removing or any other accident, it will do the
like in a few hours.
Alexander. %. (h. d. 3.)
It is also called Alisander, Horse-parsley, and Wild-
parsley, and the Black Pot-herb ; the seed of it is that
which is usually sold in apothecaries shops for Macedo
nian Parsley-seed.
Desc] It is a biennial long and very thick root. It
has a strong smell and a sharp acrid taste ; the leaves are
doubly compound ; they proceed immediately from the
root and are very numerous ; the main leaf stalk is
divided into three principal parts, and each of these is
subdivided into three others, which support a number of
short oval segments with saw-like edges. Its stem is firm,
upright and scored on the surface, and is six or seven feet,
high, and is decorated with a few leaves of the same
general structure with those described above, but smaller.
The flowers terminate the stem in large naked rundles,
which are small and white. The seeds are shaped like a
crescent or New Moon, and are a little convex on the- one
side and furrowed, but flat on the other.
Place.] It grows wild among the cliffs of the rocks on
the sea coast, and is usually cultivated in gardens.
Time.] It flowereth in June and July, and the seed i»
ripe in August.
Government and Firtuei.'] It is an herb of Jupiter, and-
therefore friendly to nature, for it warmeth a cold sto
mach, and openeth a stoppage to the liver and spleen; it
is good to move women's courses, to expel the after-birth,
to break wind, to provoke urine, and helpeth the stran-
guary ; and these things the seeds will do likewise. If
either of them be boiled in wine, or bruised and taken in
wine, is also effectual against the biting of serpents.
And you know what Alexander pottage is good for, that
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 15
grows. It resists poison by defending and comforting the
heart, blood, and spirits; it doeth the like against the
plague and all epidemical diseases, if the root be taken in
powder to the weight of half a dram at a time, with some
good treacle in Carduns water, and the party thereupon
laid to sweat in his bed ; if treacle be not to be had, take
it alone in Carduns or Angelica water. Every part of this
excellent plant is full of virtue ; but the roots and seeds
in the highest degree, they being cordial, sudorific and
stomachic; of great efficacy in pestilential and contagious
disorders. They are likewise serviceable in all cold
flatulent complaints, and seldom fail of removing the ague,
if taken three or four times repeatedly on the approach
of the fit. A scruple of the dried root in powder, or ten
grains of the seed is a moderate dose. The stalks or
roots candied and eaten fasting, are good preservatives
in time of infection ; and at other times to warm and com
fort a cold stomach. The root also steeped in vinegar,
and a little of that vinegar taken sometimes fasting, and
the root smelled unto, is good for the same purpose. A
water distilled from the root simply, as steeped in wine,
and distilled in a glass, is much more effectual than the
water of the leaves ; and this water, drank two or three
spoonfuls at a time, easeth all pains and torments coming
of cold and wind, so that the body be not bound ; and
taken with some of the root in powder at the beginning,
helpeth the pleurisy, as also all other diseases of the lungs
and breast, as coughs, phthisick, and shortness of breath ;
and a syrup of the stalks doth the like. It helps pains
of the cholic, the stranguary and stoppage of the urine,
procureth women's courses, and expelleth the after-birth,
openeth the stoppings of the liver and spleen, and briefly
easeth and discusseth all windiness and inward swellings.
The decoction drunk before the fit of an ague, that they
may sweat (if possible) before the fit comes, will, in two
or three times taking, rid it quite away; it helps diges
tion, and is a remedy for a surfeit. The juice, or the
water being dropped into the eyes or ears, helps dimness
of sight and deafness; the juice put into the hollow teeth,
easeth their pains. The root in powder, made up into a
plaister with a little pitch, and laid on the biting of mad
dogs, or any other venomous creature, doth wonderfully
16 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
help. The juice or the water dropped, or tents wet
therein, and put into filthy dead ulcers, or the powder of
the root (in want of either) doth cleanse and cause them
to heal quickly, by covering the naked bones with flesh ;
the distilled water applied to places pained with the gout,
or sciatica, doth give a great deal of ease.
The wild Angelica is not so eifcftual as the garden ; al
though it may be safely used to all the purposes aforesaid.
Amaranthus. ^ . (c. d. 2.)
Besides its common name, by which it is best known by
the florists of our days, it is called Flower Gentle, Flower
Velure, Floiamor, and Velvet Flower.
Descript.] It being a garden flower, and well known
to every one that keeps it, I might forbear the descrip
tion ; yet, notwithstanding, because some desire it, I shall
give it. It runneth up with a stalk a cubit high, streaked,
and somewhat reddish toward the root, but very smooth,
divided towards the top with small branches, among
which stand long broad leaves of a reddish green colour,
slippery ; the flowers are not properly flowers, but tuffs,
very beautiful to behold, but of no smell, of a reddish co
lour ; if you bruise them, they yield juice of the same co
lour; being gathered, they keep their beauty along time;
the seed is of a shining black colour.
Time.] They continue in flower from August till the
time the frost nips them.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Saturn, and is an excellent qualifier of the unruly actions
and passions of Venus, though Mars also should join with
her. The flowers dried and beaten into powder, stop the
terms in women, and so do almost all other red things.
And by the icon, or image of every herb, the ancients at
first found out their virtues, Modern writers laugh at
them for it; but I wonder in my heart, how the virtue of
herbs came at first to be known, if not by their signatures;
the moderns have them from the writings of the ancients;
the ancients had no writings to have them from; but to
proceed. The flowers stop all fluxes of blood, whether
in man or woman, bleeding either at the nose or wound.
There is also a sort of Amaranthus that bears a white
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 13
flowers arc barren and fertile on the same individual, and
the flower-cup of the barren flowers a longish cat
kin, composed of different scales, each of which includes
three little flowers, and the blossom a single petal divided
into four small expanding segments, and the flower-cups
of the fertile flowers is a scaly catkin as above ; the scales
are placed opposite by threes and include two little flowers
which are in the shape of an heart, notched at the end,
with a sharp point in the middle. The seeds are in the
shape of an egg, and surrounded with a border.
Place.] Itdelighteth to grow in moist woods, and watery-
places.
Time.] It flowereth in April or May, and yieldeth ripe
seed in September.
Government and Use.] It is a tree under the dominion
of Venus, and of some watery sign or other, I suppose
Pisces; and therefore the decoction, or distilled water of
the leaves, is excellent against burnings and inflamma
tions, either with wounds or without, to bathe the place
grieved with, and especially for that inflammation in the
breast, which the vulgar call an ague.
If you cannot get the leaves (as in Winter 'tis impos
sible) make use of the bark in the same manner.
The leaves and bark of the Alder-tree are cooling,
drying, and binding. The fresh leaves laid upon swel-
ings dissolve them, and stay the inflammation. The
leaves put under the bare feet gauled with travelling, are
a great refreshing to them. The said leaves gathered
while the morning dew is on them, and brought into a
chamber troubled with fleas, will gather them thereunto,
which being suddenly cast out, will rid the chamber of
those troublesome bed-fellows.
Angelica. © in & (h. d. 2.)
In time of Heathenism, when men bad found out any
excellent herb, they dedicated it to their gods ; as the
Bay-tree to Apollo, the oak to Jupiter, the Vine to Bac
chus, the Poplar to Hercules. These the Papists follow
ing as the Patriarchs, they dedicate to their saints ; as our
Lady's Thistle to the Blessed Virgin, St. John's Wort to
St. John, and another wort to St. Peter, &c. for they
14 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED".
blasphemeonsly call Thansies or Hearts-ease, an herb for
the Trinity, because it is of three colours ; and a certain
ointment, an ointment of the Apostles, because it consists
of twelve ingredients. Alas, I am sorry for their folly,
and grieved at their blasphemy, God send them wisdom
the rest of their age, for they have their share of igno
rance already. Oh! Why must ours be blasphemous,
because the Heathens and Papists were idolatrous ? Cer
tainly they have read so much in old rusty authors, that
they have lost all their divinity ; for unless it were amongst
the Ranters, I never read or heard such blasphemy. The
Heathens and Papists were bad, and our's worse ; the
Papists giving idolatrous names to herbs for their virtues
sake, not for their fair looks ; and therefore some called
this an herb of the Holy Ghost; others more moderate
called it Angelica, because of its angelical virtues, and that
name it retains still, and all nations follow it so near as
their dialect will permit.
Descript.] It hath a biennial long thick root, which is
hung with innumerable fibres. It is warm and aromatic
to the taste, and has a very agreeable smell. Its leaves
are large and numerous, and consist of several broad-
pointed little leaves, disposed in a winged manner on the
ribs of a divided leaf stalk, growing on a stem which is
robust but hollow, six or eight feet high, and divided into
several branches, which terminate in large rundles or
tufts of flowers, which are small and white. The seeds
are connected, and encompassed with a border, flat on
the one side, on the other convex, and marked with three
furrows.
Place."] This useful and very valuable plant is cultivated
in gardens ; but grows wild in some parts of the
kingdom.
Time.'] It flowers in July, and the seeds are ripe in
September.
Government and Virtues."] It is an herb of the Sun in
Leo ; let it be gathered when he is there, the moon ap
plying to his good aspect ; let it be gathered either in his
hour, or in the hour of Jupiter, let Sol be angular; ob
serve the like in gathering the herbs of other planets, and
you may happen to do wonders. In all epidemical dis
eases caused by Saturn, that is as good a pieservative as
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 17
lower, which stops the whites in women, and the running
of the reins in men, and is a most gallant antiyenerea),
and a singular remedy for the Venereal Disease.
Anemone. <J. (h. d. 2 )
Called also Wind Flower, because, they say the flowers
never open biJt when the wind bloweth. Pliny is my
author ; if it be not so blame him. The seed also (if it
bears any at all) flies away with the wind.
Descript.] It hath a perennial thick root, full of knobs,
creeping beneath the surface of the ground, and is very
acrid to the taste. Its leaves are supported on long leaf
stalks, which are divided into three parts, each of which
support a number of pointed and jagged segments, having
a round slender and purple stem, six or eight inches high,
with three leaves surrounding it near the top. The flowers
are large and white, with more or less of a purple tinge,
which stand on tender foot stalks, which rise from the
center of the leaves, which surround the stem. The seeds
are very numerous ; they are pointed, and the shaft re
mains upon them till they come to maturity.
Place, j It is sometimes found in shady woods, and by
the sides of hedges ; but is mostly cultivated in the gardens
of the curious, where its colour is more beautiful and
various.
Time.] It flowers early in the Spring.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Mars, being supposed to be a kind of Crow-foot. The-
leaves provoke the terms mightily, being boiled, and the
decoction drank. The body being bathed with the de-
coction of them, cures the leprosy. The leaves being
stamped, and the juice snuffed up the nose, purgeth the
head mightily ; so doth the root, being chewed in the
mouth, for it procureth much spitting, and bringeth
away many watery and phlegmatic humours, and is
therefore excellent for the lethargy. And when all is
done, let physicians prate what they please, all the pills
in the dispensatory purge not the head like to hot things
held in the mouth. Being made into au ointment, ami
the eye lids anointed with it, it helps inflammations of the
eyes, whereby it is palpable, that every stronger draweth;
18 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
its weaker like. The same ointment is excellent good to
cleanse malignant and corroding ulcers.
Garden. Arrach. D. (c. m. 3.)
It is also called Orach, and Arage, and is cultivated for
domestic uses.
Descript.] It is so commonly known to every house
wife, it were labour lost to describe it.
Place.] It is an annual, and, as its name implies, raised
in gardens for the use of the kitchen.
Time.'} It flo^ereth and seedeth from June to the end
of August.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the government
of the Moon ; in quality cold and moist like unto her.
It softeneth and looseneth the body of man being eaten,
and fortifieth the expulsive faculty in him. The herb,
whether it be bruised and applied to the throat, or boil
ed, and in like manner applied, it matters not much, it
is excellent good for swellings in the throat; the best way
is to boil it, and having drunk the decoction inwardly,
apply the herb outwardly. The decoction of it besides is
au excellent remedy for the yellow jaundice.
Arrach, wild and stinking. ? and v\ (c. m. 3.)
Called also Vulvaria, from that part of the body upon
which the operation is roost ; also Dogs Arrach, Goats
Arrach, and Stinking Motherwort,
Descript."] This hath small and almost round leaves, yet
a little pointed and without dent or cut, of a dusky mealy
colour, growing on the slender stalks and branches that
spread on the ground, with small flowers in clusters set
with the leaves, and small seeds succeeding like the rest,
perishing yearly, and rising again with its own sowing.
It smells like rotten fish, or something worse.
Place.'] It grows usually upon dunghills.
Time.] They flower in June and July, and their seed
is ripe quickly after.
Government and Virtues.] Stinking Arrach is used as a
remedy to help women pained, and almost strangled with
the mother, by smelling to it ; but inwardly taken there
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 19
js no better remedy under the moon for that disease. I
would be large in commendation of this herb, were I but
eloquent. It is an herb under the dominion of Venus,
and under the sign Scorpion ; it is common almost upon
every dunghill. The works of God are given freely to
man, his medicines are common and cheap, and easy tot
be found. I commend it for an universal medicine for the
womb, and such a medicine as will easily, safely, and
speedily cure any disease thereof, as fits of the mother,
dislocation, or falling out thereof ; it cools the womb
being over-heated. And let me tell you this, and I will
tell you the truth, heat of the womb is one of the greatest
causes of hard labour in child-birth. Jt makes barren
women fruitful. It cleanseth the womb if it be foul, and
strengthens it exceedingly ; it provokes the terms if they
be stopped, and stops them if they flow immoderately ;
you can desire no good to your womb, but this herb will
effect it ; therefore if you love children, if you love health,
if you love ease, keep a syrup always by you, made of
the juice of this herb, and sugar, (or honey, if it be to
cleanse the womb) and let such as be rich keep it for their
poor neighbours ; and bestow it as freely as I bestow my
studies upon them, or else let them look to answer it
another day, when the Lord shall come to make inquisi
tion of blood.
Red, White and Yellow Archangel. ? (cm. I.)
To put a gloss upon their practice, the physicians call as
herb (which country people vulgarly know by the name
of Dead Nettle) Archangel ; whether they favour more
of superstition or folly, I leave to the judicious reader.
There is more curiosity than courtesy to my countrymen,
used by others in the explanation as well of the names, as
description of this so well known herb ; which that I may
not also be guilty of, take this short description, first of
the Red Archangel. It is also called Bee Nettle.
Descript.] This hath divers square stalks, somewhat
hairy, at the joints whereof grow two sad green leaves
dented about the edges, opposite to one another to the
lowermost upon long foot stalks, but without any toward
the tops, which are somewhat round, yet pointed, and a
Jtt THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
little crumpled and hairy ; round about the upper joints,
where the leaves grow thick, are sundry gaping flowers
of a pale reddish colour ; after which come the seeds
three or tour in a husk. The root is smaller and thready,
perishing every year ; the whole plant hath a strong scent,
but not stinking.
White Archangel hath divers square stalks, nons
standing straight upwards, but bending downward,
whereon stand two leaves at a joint, larger and more
pointed than the other, dented about the edges, and
greener also, more like unto Nettle leaves, but not stink
ing, yet hairy. At the joints with the leaves stand larger
and more open gaping white flowers, husks round about
the stalks, but not with such a bush of leaves as flowers
set in the top, as is on the other, wherein stand smalt
roundish black seed ; the root is white, with many strings
at it, not growing downward, but lying under the upper
crust of the earth, and abideth many years increasing ;
this hath not so strong a scent as the former.
Yellow Archangel is like the White in the stalks and
leaves ; but that the stalks are more straight and upright,
and the joints with leaves are farther asunder, having
longer leaves than the former, and the flowers a little
larger and more gaping, of a fair yellow colour in most,
in some paler, the roots are like the white, only they
creep not so much under the ground.
Place."} They grow almost every where, the yellow
most usually in the wet grounds of woods, and sometimes
in the drier, in divers counties of this nation.
Time.'] They Bower from the beginning of _the Spring
all the Summer long.
Virtues and Use.] The Archangels are somewhat hot
and drier than the stinging Nettles, and used with better
success for the stopping and hardness of the spleen, than
they, by using the decoction of the herb in wine, and after-
wards applying the herb hot unto the region of the spleen
as a plaister, or the decoction with spunges. Flowers of
the White Archangel are preserved or conserved to be
used to stay the whites, and the flowers of the red to stay
the reds in women. It makes the heart merry, drives
away melancholy, quickens the spirits, is good against
quartern agues, staucheth bleeding at the mouth and nose,
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 21
if it be stamped and applied to the nape of the neck ;
the herb also bruised, and with some salt and vinegar and
hogs-grease, laid upon an hard tumour or swelling, or
that vulgarly called the king's evil, doth help to dissolve
or xiiscuss them ; and being in like manner applied, doth
much allay the pains, and give ease to the gout, sciatica,
and other pains of the joints and sinews. It is also very
effectual to heal green wounds, and old ulcers ; also to
stay their fretting, gnawing and spreading. It draweth
forth splinters, aud such like things gotten into the flesh,
and is very good against bruises and burnings. But the
yellow Archangel is most commended for old, filthy,
corrupt sores and ulcers, yea, although they grow to be
hollow ; and to dissolve tumours. The chief use of them
is for women, it being an herb of Venus.
Arssmart. <J and }; . (h.d.i.)
The hot Arssmart is called also Water-pepper, or
Culrage. The mild Arssmart is called dead Arssmart,
Percicaria, or Peach-wort, because the leaves are so like
the leaves of a Peach-tree; it is also called Plumbago.
Description of the Mild.] This hath broad leaves set at
the great red joint of the stalks, with semi-circular
blackish marks on them, usually either bluish or whitish,
with such like seed following. The root is long, with
many strings thereat, perishing yearly ; this hath no
sharp taste (as another sort hath, which is quick and
biting) but ra-ther sour like sorrel, or else a little drying,
or without taste.
Place.'] It groweth in watery places, ditches, and the
like, which for the most part are dry in Summer.
Time.'] It flowereth in June, and the seed is ripe in
August.
Government and Virtues.] As the virtue of both these
is various, so is also their government; for that which is
hot and biting, is under the dominion of Mars, but Saturn
challengeth the other, as appears by that leadeu coloured
spot he hath placed upon the leaf.
It is of a cooling and drying quality, and very effc&ual
for putrified ulcers in man or beast, to kill worms, and
cleanse the putrified places. The juice thereof dropped
1
22 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGEdl
in, or otherwise applied, consumeth all cold swellings,
and dissolreth the congealed blood of bruises, by strokes,
falls, &c. A piece of the root, or some of the seeds
bruised, and held to an aching tooth, taketh away the
pain. The leaves bruised and laid to the joint that hath
a felon thereon taketh it away. The juice destroyeth
worms in the ears, being dropped into them; if the hot
Arssmart be strewed in a chamber, it will soon kill all
the fleas ; and the herb or juice of the cold Arssmart, put
to a horse, or other cattle's sores, will drive away the fly
in the hottest time of Summer ; a good handful of the hot
biting Arssmart put under a horse's saddle, will make him
travel the better, although he were half tired before.
The mild Arssmart is good against all rmposthumes and
inflammations at the beginning, and to heal green wounds.
All authors chop the virtues of both sorts of Arssmart
together, as men chop herbs to the pot, when both of
them are of clean contrary qualities. The hot Arssmart
groweth not so high or tall as the mild doth, but hath
many leaves of the colour of peach leaves, very seldom
or never spotted ; in other particulars it is like the for
mer, but may easily be known from it, if you will but be
pleased to break a leaf of it cross your tongue, for the
hot will make your tongue to smart, so will not the cold.
If you see them both together, you may easily distinguish
them, because the mild hath far broader leaves. Culpeper
says that if you take a handful of this herb wetted in clean
water, and lay it gently on a wound or sore, then take it
away and bury it in some place that is moist, the said
wound will heal as the same rots.
Asarabacca. <J (h. d. 3.)
Appears as an evergreen, keeping its leaves all Winter,
but putting forth new ones in the Spring.
Descrip.] Asarabacca hath many heads rising from the
roots, from whence come many smooth leaves, every one
npon his own foot-stalk, which are rounder and bigger
than Violet leaves, thicker also, and of a dark green
shining colour on the upper side, and of a pale yellow
green underneath, little or nothing dented abont the
edges, from among which rise small, round, hollow,
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. - 23
brown green husks, upon short stalks, about an inch long,
divided at the brims into five divisions, very like the cups
or heads of the Henbane seed, but that they are smaller;
and these be all the flowers it carrieth, which are some
what sweet, being smelled unto, and wherein, when they
are ripe, is contained small cornered rough seeds, very
like the kernels or stones of grapes or raisins. The roots
are small and whitish, spreading divers ways in the
ground, increasing into divers heads ; but not running or
creeping under the ground, as some other creeping herbs
do. They arc somewhat sweet in smell, resembling
Nardus, but more when they are dry than green; and of
a sharp but not unpleasant taste.
Place.] It groweth frequently in gardens.
Time.] They keep their leaves green all Winter ; but
shoot forth new in the Spring, and with them come forth
those heads or flcwers which give ripe seed about Mid
summer, or somewhat after.
Government and Virtues."] 'Tis a plant under the domi
nion of Mars, and therefore inimical to nature. This
herb being drank, not only provoketh vomiting, but
purgeth downward, and by urine also, purgeth both
choler and phlegm. Ifyou add to it some spikenard,
with the whey of goat's milk, or honeyed water, it is
made more strong, but it purgeth phlegm more mani
festly than choler, and therefore doth much help pains
in the hips, and other parts; being boiled hi whey,
they wonderfully help the obstructions of the liver and
spleen, and therefore profitable for the dropsy and
jaundice; being steeped in wine and drank, it helps those
continual agues that come by the plenty of stubborn
humours ; and oil made thereof by setting in the sun,
with some laudanum added to it, provoketh sweating,
(the ridge of the back being anointed therewith) and
thereby driveth away the shaking fits of the ague. It
will not abide any long boiling, for it loseth its chief
strength thereby ; nor much beating, for the fine powder
doth provoke vomits and urine, and the coarser purgeth
downwards.
The common use hereof is, to take the juice of five or
seven leaves in a little drink to cause vomiting ; the roots
have also the same virtue, though they do not operate so
24 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
forcibly; they are very effectual against the biting of
serpents, and therefore are put as an ingredient both into
Mithridate and Venice treacle. The leaves and roots
being boiled in lye, and the head often washed therewith
while it was warm, comforteth the head and brain that is
ill affected by taking cold, and helpeth the memory.
I shall desire ignorant people to forbear the use of the
leaves; the roots purge more gently, and may prove
beneficial in such as have cancers, or old putrified ulcers,
or fistulas upon their bodies, to take a dram of them in
powder in a quarter of a pint of white wine in the morn
ing. The truth is, 1 fancy purging and vomiting medi
cines as little as any man breathing doth, for they weaken
nature, nor shall ever advise them to be used, unless upon
urgent necessity. If a physician be nature's servant, it
is his duty to strengthen his mistress as much as he can,
and weaken her as little as may be.
Asparagus or Sparagus.. (temp.)
This is also called Prickly Asparagus, and Sperage.
It is distinguished into Garden, and Wild. The roots of
the wild are of more use in Medicine, but its shoots have
not that fine fleshy substance.
Descript.] It riseth up at first with divers white and
green scaly heads, very brittle or easy to break while they
are young, which afterwards rise up in very long and
slender green stalks, of the bigness of an ordinary riding
wand, at the bottom of most, or bigger or lesser, as the
roots are of growth; on which are set divers branches of
green leaves, shorter and smaller than fennel to the top ;
at the joints whereof come forth small yellowish flowers,
which run into round berries, green at first, and of an
excellent red colour when they are ripe, shewing like bead
or coral, wherein are contained exceeding hard black
seeds, the roots are dispersed from a spongeous head into
many long, thick, and round strings, wherein is sucked
much nourishment out of the ground, and increaseth plen
tifully thereby.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 2»
Place.] It groweth usually in gardens, and some of it
grows wiid in Appleton meadows, in Gloucestershire,
where the poor people do gather the buds of young shoots,
and sell them cheaper than our garden Asparagus is sold
at London.
Time.] They do for the most part flower and bear their
berries late in the year, or not at all, although they are
housed in Winter.
Government and Virtues.'] They are both under the
dominion of Jupiter. The young buds or branches
boiled in ordinary broth, make the belly soluble
and open, and boiled in white wine, provoke urine,
and is good against the stranguary, or difficulty of
shaking water ; it expelleth the gravel and stone out
of the kidnies, and helpeth pains in the reins. And
boiled in white wine or vinegar, it is prevalent for them
that have their arteries loosened, or are troubled with the
hip-gout or sciatica. The decoction of the roots boiled
in wine and taken, is good to clear the sight, and being
held in the mouth easeth the tooth-ach ; and being taken
fasting several mornings together, stirreth up bodily lust
in man or woman (whatever some have written to the
contrary.) The garden Asparagus nourisheth more than
wild, yet hath it the same effects in all the afore-mentioucd
diseases. The decoction of the roots in white wine, and
the back and belly bathed therewith, or kneeling or lying
down in the same, or sitting therein as a bath, hath been
found effectual against pains of the reins and bladder,
pains of the mother and colic, and generally against all
pains that happen to the lower parts of the body, and no
less effectual against-stiff and benumbed sinews, or those
that are shrunk by cramps, and convulsions, and helpeth
the sciatica.
Ash Tree. 0. (h. d. 2.)
This is so well known, that time will be misspent in writ-
ing a description of it; and therefore I shall only insist
upon the virtues of it. o '.
Government and Virtues.] It is governed by the Sun ;
and the young tender tops, with the leaves taken in-
wardly, and some of them outwardly applied, are singula*
26 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
good against the biting of riper, adder, or any other
venomous beast ; and the water distilled therefrom being
taken, astnall quantity every morning fasting, is a singular
medicine for those that are subject to dropsy, or to abate
the greatness of those that are too gross or fat. Th«
decociion of the leaves in white wine hclpeth to break
the stone, and expel it, and cureth the jaundice. The
ashes of the bark of the Ash made into lye, and those
heads bathed therewith, which are leprous, scabby, or
scald, they are thereby cured. The kernels within the
husks, commonly called Ashen Keys, prevail against
stitches and pains in the sides, proceeding of wind, and
voideth away the stone, by provoking urine.
I can justly except, against none of this, save only the
first, viz. That Ash-tree tops and leaves are good against
the biting of serpents and vipers. I suppose this had its
rise from Gerard or Pliny, both which hold, That there
is such an antipathy between an adder and an ash.tree,
that if an adder be encompassed round with ash-tree
leaves, she will sooner run through the fire than through
the leaves. The contrary to which is the truth, as
both my eyes are witness. The rest are virtues some
thing likely, only if it be in Winter when you cannot
get the leaves, you may safely use the bark instead of
them. The keys you may easily keep all the year,
gathering them when they are ripe.
Avens. y. (h. d. 2J
This is also called Colewort, and Herb Bennct
Descript.] The ordinary Avens hath many long, rough,
dark green winged leaves, rising from the root, every one
made of many leaves set on each side of the middle rib,
the largest three whereof grow at the end, and are snipped
or dented round about the edges ; the other being small
pieces, sometimes two and sometimes four, standing on
each side of the middle rib underneath them. Among
which do rise up divers rough or hairy stalks, about two
foot high, branching forth with leaves at every joint, not
SO long as those below, but almost as much cut in on the
edges, some into three parts, some into more. On the
tops of the branches stand small, pale yellow flowers.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 27
consisting of five leaves, like the flowers of Cinquefoil,
but large, in the middle whereof standeth a small green
herb, which when the flower is fallen, groweth to be
round, being made of many long greenish purple seeds
(like grains) which will stick upon your cloaths. The
root consists of many brownish strings or fibres, smelling
somewhat like unto cloves, especially those which grow
in the higher, hotter, and drier grounds, and in free and
clear air.
P/ace.] They grow wild in many places under hedges
sides, and by the path-ways in fields; yet they rather
delight to grow in shadowy than sunny places.
Time.] They flower in May and June for the most part,
and their seed is ripe in July at the farthest.
Government and Firtues.] It is governed by Jupiter,
and that gives hopes of a wholesome healthful herb. It
is good for the diseases of the chest or breast, for pains,
and stitches in the side, and to expel crude and raw hu
mours from the belly and stomach, by the sweet savour
and warming quality. It dissolves the inward congealed
blood happening by falls or bruises, and the spitting of
blood, if the roots, either green or dry, be boiled in
wine and drank ; as also all manner of inward wounds or
outward, if washed or bathed therewith. The decoction
also being drank, comforts the heart, and strengthens the
stomach and a cold brain, and therefore is good in the
Spring-time to open obstructions of the liver, and helpeth
the wind colic ; it also helps those that have fluxes, or are
bursten, or have a rupture ; it taketh away spots or
marks in the face, being washed therewith. The juice of
the fresh root, or powder of the dried root, hath the same
effect with the decoction. The root in the Spring-time
steeped in wine, doth give it a delicate savour and taste,
and being drank fasting every morning comforteth the
heart, and is a good preservative against the plague, or
any other pofejjn. It helpeth digestion, and warmeth a
cold stomach, and openeth obstructions' of the liver and
spleen.
It is very safe ; you need have no dose prescribed ; and
is very fit to be kept in every body's house.
c «
28 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
.' Balm. % and s (h d. 2.)
This herb is so well known to be an inhabitant almost in
every garden, that I shall not need to write any descrip
tion thereof, although the virtues thereof, which are many,
should not be omitted,
. Government and Virtue.] It is an herb of Jupiter, and
under Cancer, and strengthens nature much in all its
actions. Leta syrup made with the juice of it and sugar
(as you shall be taught at the latter end of the book)
be kept in every gentlewoman's house, to relieve the
weak stomachs and sick bodies of their poor sickly
neighbours; as also the herb kept dry in the house, that
so with other convenient simples, you may make it into
an electuary with honey, according as the disease is, you
shall be taught at the latter end of my book. The'
Arabian physicians have extolled the virtues thereof to,
the skies ; although the Greeks thought it not worth,
mentioning. Seraphio saith, it causeth the mind and
heart to become merry, and reviveth the heart, faintings
and swoonings, especially of such who are overtaken in
sleep, and driveth away all troublesome cares and thoughts
out ofthe mind, arising from melancholy or black choler ;
which Avicen also confirmeth. It is very good to help
digestion, and open obstructions of the brain, and hath
so much purging quality in it, (saith Avicen) as to expel
those melancholy vapours from the spirits and blood which
are in the heart and arteries, although it cannot do so in
other par.ts of the body. Dioscorides saith, That the
leaves steeped in wine, and the wine drank, and the leaves
externally applied, is a remedy against the stings of a.
scorpion, and the bitings of mad dogs; and commendeth
the decoction thereof for women to batbc or sit in to
procure their courses ; it lis good to wash aching teeth
therewith, and profitable for those that ha^ the bloody-
flux. The leaves also, with a little nitre taken in drink,
are good against the surfeit of mushrooms, help the grip-
iDg pains of the belly ; and being made into an electuary,
it is good for them that cannot fetch their breath; : Used
with salt, it takes away wens, kernels, or hard swellings
in the flesh or throat itcleanseth foul sores, and eascth
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 29
pains of the gout. It is good for the liver and spleen.
A tansy or caudle made with eggs, and juice thereof,
while it is young, putting to it some sugar and rose-water,
is good for a woman in child-bed, when the after-birth
is not thoroughly voided, and for their faintings upon
or in their sore travel. The herb bruised and boiled in a
little wine and oil, and laid warm on a boil, will ripen it,
and break it.
Barberry. $ (h. d. I.)
The shrub is so well known by every boy and girl that
hath but attained to the age of seven years, that it needs
no description.
Government and Virtues.] Mars owns the shrub, and
presents it to the use of my countrymen to purge their
bodies of choler. The inner rind of the Barberry-tree
boiled in white wine, and a quarter of a pint drank each
morning, is an excellent remedy to cleanse the body of
choleric humours, and free it from sach diseases as
choler causcth, such as scabs, itch, tetters, ringworms,
yellow jaundice, boils, &c. It is excellent for hot agues,
burnings, scaldings, heat of the blood, heat of the liver,
bloody flux, for the berries are as good as the bark, and
more pleasing ; they get a man a good stomach to his
victuals, by strengthening the attractive faculty which is
under Mars. The hair washed with the lye made of ashes
of the tree and water, will make it turn yellow, viz.
of Mars' own colour. The fruit and rind of the shrub,
the flowers of broom and of heath, or furze, cleanse the
body of choler by sympathy, as the flowers, leaves, and
bark of the peach-tree do by antipathy ; because these
are under Mars, that under Venus.
t
Barley. ^ . (c. d. I.)
The continual usefulness hereof hath made all in general
su> acquainted herewith, that it is altogether needless
to describe it, several kinds hereof plentifully growing,
being yearly sown in this land. The virtues thereof take
as followetb,
c 3
30 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Government and Virtues.] It is a notable plant of
Saturn; if you view diligently its effects by sympathy and
antipathy you may easily perceive a reason of them ; as
also why barley-bread is so unwholesome for melancholy
people. Barley in all the parts and composition thereof,
(except malt) is more cooling than wheat, and a little
cleansing. And all the preparations thereof, as Barley-
water and other things made thereof, do give great
nourishment to persons troubled with fevers, agues, and
heats in the stomach. A poultice made of barley-meal or
flour boiled in vinegar and honey, and a few dry figs put
in them, dissolveth all hard imposthumes, and assuageth
inflammations, being thereto applied. And being boiled
with melilot and camomile-flowers, and some linseed,
fenugreek and rue in powder, and applied warm, it
easeth pains in side and stomach, and windiness of the
spleen. The meal of barley and fleaworts boiled in
water, and made a poultice with honey and oil of lilies,
applied warm, curcth swellings under the ears, throat,
neck, and such like ; and a plaistcr made thereof with
tar, wax, and oil, helpeth the king's evil in the throat;
boiled with sharp vinegar into a poultice, and laid on hot,
helpeth the leprosy ; being boiled in red wine w ith pome
granate rind, and myrtles, stayeth the lask or other
Uux of the belly ; boiled with vinegar and quince, it
easeth the pains of the gout ; barley flower, white salt,
honey, and vinegar mingled together, taketh away the
itch speedily and certainly. The water distilled from the
green barley in the end of May, is very good for those
that have deductions of humours fallen into their eyes, and
easeth the pain being dropped into them ; or white bread
steeped therein, and bound on the eyes, doth the same.
Garden Bazil, or Sweet Bazil. 3 in r\. (h.m.3.)
The greater or ordinary Bazil is cultivated in gardens, on
account of its odoriferous scent.
Descript.] It riseth up usually with one upright stalk,
diversely brauching forth on all sides, with two leaves at
every joint, which are somewhat bread and round, yet
pointed, of a pale green colour, but fresh ; a litte snipped
about the edges, and of a strong healthy scent. The
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 31
flowers are small and white, and standing at the tops of
the branches, with two small leaves at the joints, in some
places green, in others brown, after which come black
seed.
Place.'] It groweth in gardens ; but as the rootperishetb
at the approach of Winter, it must be new sown every year.
Time.} It must be sowed late, and flowers in the
heart of Summer, being a very tender plant.
Government and Virtues.,J This is the herb which all
authors are together by the ears about, and rail at one
another (like lawyers.) Galen and Dioscorkles hold it
not fitting to be taken inwardly ; and Chrysippus rails at
it with downright Billingsgate rhetoric; Pliny, and the
Arabian physicians defend it. .
For my own part, I presently found that spech true ;
Non nostrum inter nos tantas componere lites.
And away to Dr. Reason went I, who told me it was an
herb of Mars, and under the Scorpion, and perhaps
therefore called Basilicon, and it is no marvel if it carry
a kind of virulent quality with it. Being applied to the
place bitten by venomous beasts, or stung by a wasp or
hornet, it speedily draws the poison to it. Every like
draws its like. Mizaldus affirms, that being laid to rot in
horse-dung, it will breed venomous beasts. Hilarious, a
Fench physician, affirms upon his own knowledge, that
an acquaintance of his, by common smelling to it, had a
scorpion breed in his brain. Something is the matter, -
this herb and rue will never ?row together, no, nor near
one another; and we know rue is as great an enemy to
poison as any that grows.
To conclude; it expelleth both birth and after-birth;
and as it helps the deficiency of Venus in one kind, so
it spoils all her actions ia another. I dare write no more
of it.
The Bay Tree. © in ft. (h. d. 3J
This is so well known that it needs no description '
I shall therefore only write the virtues thereof which are
many.
Government and Virtues.'] I shall but only add a word
or two to what my friend hath written, viz. That it is a
c 4
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
tree of the sun, and under the celestial sign Leo, and rc-
sisteth witchcraft very potently, as also all the evils old
Satan can do to the body of man, and they are not a
few ; for it is the speech of one, and I am mistaken if it
were not Mizaldus, that neither witch nor devil, thunder
nor lightning, will hurt a man in a place where a bay-
tree is. Galen said, that the leaves or bark do dry and
heal very much, and the berries more than the leaves;
the bark of the root is less sharp and hot, but more
bitter, aud hath some astriction withal), whereby it is
effectual to break the stone, and good to open obstructions
of the liver, spleen, and other inward parts, which bring
the jaundice, dropsy, &c. The berries are very effectual
against all poison of venomous creatures, and the sting
of wasps and bees ; as also against the pestilence, or
other infectious diseases, and therefore put into sundry
treacles for that purpose. They likewise procure women's
courses ; and seven of them given to a woman in sore
travail of child-birth, do cause a speedy delivery, and
expel the after birth, and therefore not to be taken by
such as have not gone out their time, lest they procure
abortion, or cause labour too soon. They wonderfully
help all cold and rheumatic distillations from the brain to
the eyes, lungs, or other parts ; and being made into an
electuary with honey, do help the consumption, old
coughs, shortness of breath, aud thin rheums, as also the
megrum. They mightily expel the wind, and provoke
urine; help the mother, and kill the worms. The leaves
^Jso work the like effects. A bath of the decoction of
the leaves and berries, is singularly good for women to
sit in, that are troubled with the mother, or the diseases
thereof, or the stoppings of their conrses, or for tho
diseases of the bladder, pains in the bowels by wind and
stopping of urine. A decoction likewise of equal parts
of Bay berries, cummin seed, hyssop, origanum, and
euphorbinm, with some honey, and the head bathed
therewith, doth wonderfully help distillations and rheums,
and settleth the palate of the mouth into its place. The oil
made of the berries is very comfortable in all cold griefs
of the joints, nerves, arteries, stomach, belly, or womb,
and helpeth palsies, convulsions, cramp, aches, tremblings
aud numbness in any part, weariness also, and pains that
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 33
come by sore travelling. All griefs and pains proceeding
from wind, either in the head, stomach, back, belly, or
womb, by anointing the parts affected therewith ; and
pains in the ears are also cured by dropping in some of
the oil, or by receiving into the ears the fume of the
decoction of the berries through a funnel. The oil takes
away the marks of the skin and flesh by bruises, falls, &c.
and dissolveth the congealed blood in them. It helpeth
alto' the itch, scabs and weals in the skin.
Beans. ? . (c. d. \.)
Both the garden and field Beans are so well known, that
it saveth me the labour of w riting any description of them
Their virtues follow.
Government and Virtues.'] They are plants of Venusr
and the distilled water of the flower of garden Beans, i»
good to clean the face and skin from spots and wrinkles,
and the meal or flour of them, or the small beans, doth the
same. The water distilled from the green husks, is held
to be very effectual against the stone, and to provoke
urine. Bean flour is used in poultices to assuage in
flammations rising upon wounds, and the swelling of
women's breasts, caused by curdling of their milk7 and
represseth their milk. Flour of beans and fenugreek
mixed with honey, and applied to felons, boils, bruises,
or blue marks by blows, or the imposthumes in the
kernels of the ears, helpeth them all, and with rose leaves,
fraukincense, and the white of an egg, being applied to
the eyes, helpeth them that are swollen or do water, or
have received any blow upon them, if used with wine.
If a Beau be parted in two, the skin being taken away,
and laid on the place where the leech hath beea set that
bleedeth too much, stayeth the bleeding. Bean flour
boiled to a poultice with wine and vinegar,, and some oil
put thereto, easeth both pains and swellings of the private
parts. The husks boileid in water to the consumption of
a third part thereof, stayeth a lask, and- the ashes of the
husks, made up with hogs grease, helpeth the old pains,
contusions, and wounds of the sinews, the sciatica and
gout. The field Beans have all the aforementioned
virtues ast he garden Ueans.
c 5
34 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Beans eaten are extremely windy meat; but if after the
Dutch fashion, when they are half boiled you husk them,
and then stew them, (I cannot tell you how, for I never
was cook in all my life) they are wholesome food.
French Beans. ? (c. d. I.)
Caller also Kidney Beans, and cultivated for domestic
use.
Descript.l It ariseth at first but with one stalk, which
afterwards divides itself into many arms or branches, but
all so weak that if they be not sustained with sticks or
poles, they will be fruitless upon the ground. At several
places of these branches grow foot stalks, each with
three broad, round, and pointed green leaves at the end
of them ; towards the top comes forth divers flowers, made
like unto pease blossoms, of the same colour for the
most part that the fruit will be of ; that is to say, white,
yellow, red, blackish, or of a deep purple, but white is
the most usual ; after which come long and slender flat
cods, some crooked, some straight, with a string running
down the back thereof, wherein is flatfish round fruit
made like a kidney ; the root long, spreadeth with many
strings annexed to it, and perishcth every year.
Thescarlet flowered Bean ariseth with sundry branches as
the other, but runs higher to the length of hop poles, about
which they grow twining, but turning contrary to the
the sun, having foot stalks with three leaves on each, as
on the other, the flowers also are like the other, and of a
most orient scarlet colour. The Beans are larger than the
ordinary kind, of a dead purple colour, turning black
when ripe and dry. The root perisheth in Winter.
Government and Virtues."] These also belong to Dame
Venus, and being dried and beat to powder, are as great
strengtheners of the kidnies as any are ; neither is there
a better remedy than it ; a dram at a time taken in white
wine, to prevent the stone, or to cleanse the kidnies of
gravel or stoppage. The ordinary French Beans are of
an easy digestion ; they move the belly, provoke urine,
enlarge the breast that is straightened with shortness of
breath, engender sperm, and incite to venery. And the
scarlet coloured Beans, in regard of the glorious beauty
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 35
of their colour, being set near a quickset hedge, "will
bravely adorn the same by climbing up thereon, so that
they may be discerned a great way, not without admira
tion of the beholders at a distance. But they will go
near to kill the quicksets by cloathing them in scarlet.
Ladies Bed-Straw. ? (h, d. 1.)
Besides the common name above written, it is called
Cheese Rennet, because it performs the same office ; as
also Gallion, Pettimugget, and Maid-hair ; and by some
Wild Rosemary.
Descript.'] This riseth up with divers small, brown and
square upright stalks, a yard high or more; sometimes
branches forth into divers parts, fall of joints, and with
divers very fine small leaves at every one of them, little
or nothing rough at all ; at the tops of the branches grow
many long tufts or branches of yellow flowers, very thick,
set together, from the several joints, which consist of four
leaves a piece, which smell somewhat strong, but not
unpleasant. The seed is small and black like poppy seed,
two for the most part joined together. The root is red
dish, with many small threads fastened unto it, which
take strong hold of the ground, and creepeth a little;
and the branches leaning a little down to the ground,
take root at the joints thereof, whereby it is easily
increased-
There is another sort of Ladies-Bed-Straw growing fre
quently in England, which.beareth white flowers as the
other doth yellow;, but tho branches of this are so weak,
that unless it be sustained by the hedges, or other things
near which it groweth, it will lie down to the ground.
The leaves are a little bigger than the former, and the
flower* not so plentiful as these, and the root hereof is-
also thready and abiding.
Place.] They grow in meadows and pastures both wet,
and dry, and by the hedges.
Time.} They flower in May for the most part, and the
seed is ripe in July and August.
Government and Virtues.], They, are both herbs of Ve
nus, aud therefore strengthening the parts both internal;
c G
36 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
and external, which she rules. The decoction of the for
mer of those being drank, is good to fret and break the
stone, provoke urine, stayeth inward bleeding, and healeth
inward wounds. The herb or flower bruised and put up
into the nostrils, stayeth their bleeding likewise. The
flowers and herbs being made info an oil, by being set
in the sun, and changed after it hath stood ten or twelve
days ; or into an ointment, being boiled in Axunga, or
sallad oil, with some wax melted therein, after it is strain-
rd ; cither the oil made thereof, or the ointment, dp help
burnings with fire, or scaldings with water. The same
also, or the decoction of the herb and flower, is good to
bathe the feet of travellers and lacquies, whose long
""running causeth weariness and stiffness in their sinews
and joints. If the decoction be used warm, and the
joints afterwards anointed with ointment, it helpeth the
dry scab, and the itch in children ; and the herb with the
white flower is also very good for the sinews, arteries, and
joints, to comfort and strengthen them after travel, cold,
and pains.
Beets, f? and 1/ (temp. h. d. 2.)
Or Beets there are two sorts, which are best known ge
nerally, and whereof I shall principally treat at this
time, viz. the white and red Beets, and their virtues.
Desyrtpt.'i The common white Beet hath many great
leaves next the ground, somewhat large, and of a whitish
green colour. The stalk is great, strong, and ribbed,
bearing great store of leaves upon it, almost to the very-
top of it. The flowers grow in very long tufts, small at
the end, and turning down their heads, which are small,
pale, greenish yellow buds, giving cornered prickly seeds.
The root is great, long and hard, and when it hath given
seed, is of no use at all.
The common red Beet differeth not from the white,
but only it is lesser. The leaves are differently red, some
only with red stalks or veins; some of a fresh red, and
others of a dark red. The root thereof is a deep red,
spungy, and eaten when boiled either alone or mixed with
sallad.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 57
Government and Virtues."] The government of these
two sorts of Beet are far different ; the red Beet being
under Saturn, and the white under Jupiter ; therefore take
the virtues of them apart, each by itself. The white Beet
doth much loosen the belly, and is of a cleansing, digest
ing quality, and provoketh urine. The juice of it open,
eth obstructions both of the liver and spleen, and is good
for the head-ach and swimmings therein, and turnings of
the brain ; and is effectual also against all venomous crea
tures; and applied unto the temples, stayeth inflamma
tions in the eyes; it helpeth burnings, being used without
oil, and with a little allum put to it, is good for St. An
thony's fire. It is good for all weals, pushes, blisters,
and blains in the skin ; the herb boiled and laid upon
chilblains or kibes, helpeth them. The decoction thereof
in water and some vinegar, healeth the itch, if bathed
therewith, and cleanseth the head of dandruff, scurf, and
dry scabs, and doth much good for fretting and running
sores, ulcers, and cankers in the head, legs, or other parts,
and is much commended against baldness and shedding
the hair.
The red Beet root is good to stay the bloody flux,
women's courses, and the whites, and helpeth the yellow
jaundice; the juice of the root put into the nostrils, pur-
geth the head, helpeth the noise in the ears, and the
tooth-ach ; the juice snuffed up the nose, helps a stinking
breath, if the cause lies in the nose, as many times it doth,
ifany bruise hath been there; as also want of smell coming
that way.
Water Betony. If. in °s. (h. m. 2.)
Called also Brown-wort, and in Yorkshire, Bishops,
leaves.
Descript.] Water Betony riseth up with square, hard,
greenish stalks, sometimes brown, set with brown dark
green leaves dented about the edges with notches, some
what resembling the leaves of the Wood Betony, but
much larger, for the most part set at a joint. The flowers
arc many, set at the tops of the stalks and branches,
being round bellied and opened at the brims, and divided
38 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
into two parts, the uppermost being like a hood, and the
lowermost like a lip hanging down, of a dark red colour,
which passing, there come in their places small round
heads with small points at the ends, wherein lie small
and brownish seeds. The root is a thick bush of strings
and shreds growing from the head.
Place.] It groweth by the ditch-side, brooks, and other
water-courses, generally through this land, and is seldom
found far from the water-side.
Time.] It flowereth about July," and the seed is ripe
in August.
Government and Virtues.] Water Betony is an herb, of
Jupiter in Cancer, and is appropriated more to wounds
and hurts in the breasts than Wood Betony, which fol
lows; it is an excellent remedy for sick hogs, it is of a
cleansing quality. The leaves bruised and applied are
effectual for all old and filthy ulcers ; and especially if the
jnice of the leaves be boiled with a little honey, and
dipped therein, and the sores dressed therewith ; as also
for bruises or hurts whether inward or outward. The
distilled water of the leaves is used for the same purpose,
as also to bathe the face and hands spotted or blemished,
or discoloured by sun burning.
1 confess I do not much fancy distilled water, I mean
such waters as are distilled cold ; some virtues of the herb
they may happily have (it were a strange thing else) ; but
this I am confident of, that being distilled in a pewter
still, as the vulgar and apish fashion is, both chymical
oil and salt is left behind, unless you burn them, and
then all is spoiled, water and all, which was good for as
little as can be by such a distillation.
Wood Betony. If. and r. (h. d.2.)
This is one of the herbs that ought to be kept in every
family .
Dei,cript.] Common or Wood Betony hath many
leaves rising from the root, which are somewhat broad
and round at the end, roundly dented about the edges,
standing upon long foot stalks, from among which arise
up small, square, slender, but upright hairy stalks, with
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 39
some leaves thereon to a piece at the joints, smaller than
the lower, whereon are set several spiked heads of flowers
like lavender, but thicker and shorter for the most part,
and of a reddish or purple colour, spotted with white
spots both in the upper and lower part, the seeds being
contained within the husks that hold the flowers, are
blackish, somewhat long and uneven. The roots arc
many white thready strings ; the stalk perisheth, but the
roots, with some leaves thereon, abide all the Winter.
The whole plant is something small.
Place.] It groweth frequently in woods, and delighteth
in shady places.
Time.] It flowereth in July, after which the seed H
quickly ripe, yet in its prime in May.
Government and Virtues.] The herb is appropriated to
the planet Jupiter, and the sign Aries. Antonins Musa,
physician to the Emperor Augustus Caesar, wrote a pecu
liar book of the virtues of this herb ; and among other
virtues, saith of it, that it preserveth the liver and body
of men from the danger of epidemical diseases, and from
witchcrafts also; it hclpeth those that loath or cannot
digest their meat, those that have weak stomachs, or sour
bclchings, or continual rising in their stomach, using it
familiarly, either green or dry ; either the herb or root,
or the flowers in broth, drink, or meat, or made into con-
serve, syrup, water, electuary, or powder, as every one
may best frame themselves unto, or as the time or season
rcquireth ; taking any of the aforesaid ways, it hclpeth
the jaundice, falling-sickness, the palsy, convulsions, or
shrinking of the sinews, the gout, and those that arc in
clined to dropsy, those that have continual pains in their
heads, although it turn to phrensy. The powder mixed
with pure honey, is no less available for all sorts of coughs
or colds, wheesing, or shortness of breath, distillations of
thin rheum upon the lungs, which causcth consumptions.
►The decottion made with mead, and a little penny-royal,
< is good for those that are troubled with putrid agues, whe*
• ther quotidian, tertian, or quartan, and to draw down
i and evacuate the blood and humours, that by falling into
the eyes, do hinder the sight; the decoction thereof
made in wine, and taken, killeth the worms in the belly,
opeueth obstructions both of the spleen and liver, cureth
1
40 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGE©;
stitches, and pains in the back or sides, the torments ami
griping pains of the bowels, and the wind-cholic ; and
mixed with honey purgeth the belly, helpeth to bring
down women's courses, and is of special use for those
that are troubled with the falling down of the mother,
and pains thereof, and causeth an easy and speedy deli
very of women in child-birth. It helpeth also to break
and expel the stone, either in the bladder or kidnies.
The decoction with wine gargled in the mouth, easeth the
tooth-ach. It is commended against the stinging or biting
of venomous serpents, or mad dogs, being used inwardly
and applied outwardly to the place. A dram of the
powder of Betony, taken with a little honey in some vi
negar, doth wonderfully refresh those that are over
wearied by travel. It stayeth bleeding at the mouth or
nose, and helpeth those that spit blood, or make bloody
urine, and those that are bursten or have a rupture, and
is good for such as are bruised by any fall or otherwise.
The green herb bruised, or the juice applied to any in
ward hurt, or outward green wound in the head or body,
will quickly heal and close it up ; as also any veins or
sinews that are cut ; and will draw forth any broken bone
or splinter, thorn, or other things got into the flesh. It
is no less profitable for old sores or filthy ulcers ; yea,
though they be fistulous and hollow. But some do adrise
to put a little salt to this purpose. Being applied with a
little hog's lard, it helpeth a plague sore, and other
boils and pushes. The fume of the decofition while it is
warm, received by a funnel into the ears, easeth the
pains of them, destroys the worms, and cureth the run-'
ning sores in them. The juice dropped into them doth
the same. The root of Betony is displeasing both to the
taste and stomach, whereas the leaves and flowers, by
their sweet and spicy taste, arc comfortable both to meat
and medicine.
These are some of the many virtues Anthony Muse, an
expert physician (for it was not the practice of Octavins
Cajsar to keep fools about him) appropriates to Betony ;
it is a very precious herb, that is certain, and most fitting ;
to be kept in a man's house, bothi in syrup, conserve,
ils, ointment, and plaistcr. The flowers are usually
conserved. •
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 41
The Beech Tree. \ (c. d. \.)
In treating of this tree, you must understand that I mean
the great mast-beech, which is, by way of distinction
from that other small rough sort, called in Sussex the
smaller Beech, but in Essex the Horn.bean.
I suppose it is needless to describe it, being already
well known tp my countrymen.
Place.] It groweth in woods and among oaks and other
trees, and in parks, forests, and chaces, to feed deer ;
and in other places to fatten swine.
Time.] It bloometh in the end of April, or beginning
of May, for the most part, and the frnit is ripe in Sep
tember.
Government and Virtues.] It is a plant of Saturn, and
therefore performs his qualities and proportion in these
operations. The leaves of the Beech-tree are cooling
and binding, and therefore good to be applied to hot swel
lings, to discuss them; the nuts do much nourish such
beasts as feed thereon. The water that is found in the
hollow places of decaying Beeches will cure both man
and beast of any scurf, scab, or running tetters, if they
be washed therewith ; you may boil the leaves into a
poultice, or make an ointment of them when time of
year serves.
Bilberries, called hy some Whorts, and Whortle-
Berries. Ij.. (k. d. 1.)
Op these I shall only speak of two sorts which are com
mon in England, viz. the black and red berries. And
first of the black.
Descript.] The small bush creepeth along upon the
ground, scarce rising half a yard high, with divers small
dark green leaves set in the green branches, not always
one against the other, and a little derived above the edges ;
at the foot of the leaves come forth small, hollow, pale,
bluish coloured flowers, the brims ending with five points,
with a reddish thread in the middle, which pass into
email round berries, of the bigness and colour of junipec
42 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
berries, but of a purple, sweetish sharp taste ; the juice
of them giveth a purplish colour in their hands and lips
that eat and handle them, especially if they break them.
The root groweth aslope under ground, shooting forth in
sundry places as it creepeth. This loses its leaves in
Winter.
The Red Bilberry, or Whortle-bush, riseth up like
the former, having sundry hard leaves, like the Box.
tree leaves, green and round pointed, standing on the
several branches, at the top whereof only, and not from
the sides as in the former, come forth divers round,
reddish, sappy berries, when they are ripe, of a sharp
taste. The root runneth in the ground, as in the
former, but the leaves of this abide all the Winter.
Place.] The first groweth in forests, on the heaths,
and such like barren places. The red grows in the
North parts of this land, as Lancashire, Yorkshire, &c.
Time.] They flower in March and April, and the
fruit of the black is ripe in July and August.
Government and Virtues.] They are under the domi
nion of Jupiter. It is a pity they are used no more in
physic than they are. The Black Bilberries are good in
hot agues, and to cool the heat of the liver and stomach ;
they do somewhat bind the belly, and stay vomitings and
loathings ; the juice of the berries made in syrup, or the
pulp made into a conserve with sugar, is good for the
purposes aforesaid, as also for an old cough, or an ulcer
in the lungs, or other diseases therein. The red Whorts
are more binding, and stop women's courses, spitting of
blood, or any other flux of blood or humours, being
used as well outwardly as inwardly.
Bifoil, orTwablade. J? . (c. d. I.)
Tins is a herb of very little note, and possesses very few
virtues.
Descript.] From a root somewhat sweet, shooting
downwards many, long strings, riseth up a round green
stalk, bare or naked next the ground for an inch, two
or three to the middle (hereof, as it is in age or growth;
as also from the middle upward to the flowers, having
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 43
only two broad plantain-like leaves (but whiter) set at
the middle of the stalk, one against another, compassing
it round at the bottom of them.
Place.] It is an usual inhabitant in woods, copses, and
in many other places in this land.
Another sort groweth in wet grounds and marshes,
which is somewhat different from the former. It is a
smaller plant, and greener, having sometimes three
leaves; the spike of the flowers is less than the former,
and the roots of this do run or creep in the ground.
They are often used by many to good purpose for
wounds, both green and old, and to consolidate or knit
ruptures, as well it may, being a plant of Saturn.
The Birch Tree. ?. (c. m. 2.)
Although the twigs of Birch are well known to every
school boy, yet few people have seen the tree in its per
fection. There is a degree of elegance in its appearance
in the summer; and in the winter the bark is frequently
variegated with red and white streaks.
Descript..] This groweth a goodly tall straight tree,
fraught with many boughs, and slender branches bending
downward; the old being covered with a discoloured
chapped bark, and the younger being browner by
much. The leaves at the first breaking out are
crumpled, and afterwards like Beech leaves, but smaller
and greener, and dented about the edges. It beareth
small short cat-skins, somewhat like those of the hazel
nut-tree, which abide on the branches a long time, until
growing ripe, they fall on the ground, and their seed
with them.
Place.] It usually groweth in woods.
Government and Virtues.] It is a tree of Venus; the
juice of the leaves, while they are young, or the distilled
water of them, or the juice that comes from the tree being
bored with an auger, and distilled afterwards, any of
these being drank for some days together, is available to
break the stone in the kidnies and bladder, and is good
also to wash sore mouths. The leaves have been used in
the itch, dropsy, &c. either externally applied, or taken
44 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
in decoction. Birch-wine made from the juice of the
tree, is an excellent remedy for consumptions, and also
for the scurvy; and the fungus which grows on the tree,
is a good styptic. -
Bird’s Foot. h. (c. d. 1.)
This herb groweth not above a span high, with many
branches spread upon the ground, set with wings of
small leaves. The flowers grow upon the branches, many
small-ones of a pale yellow colour being set a head
together, which afterwards turneth into small jointed
cods, well resembling the claws of small birds, whence
it took its name.
There is another sort of Bird's foot in all things like
the former, but a little larger; the flower of a pale
whitish red colour, and the cods distinct by joints
Jike the other, but a little more crooked, and the roots
do carry many small white knots or kernels among the
strings.
Place.] These grow on heaths, and many open untilled
places of this land, - -
Time.] They flower and seed in the end of Summer.
Government and Virtues.] They belong to Saturn, and
are of a drying, binding quality, and thereby very good
to be used in wound drinks; as also to apply outwardly
for the same purpose. But the latter Bird's-foot is found
by experience to break the stone in the back or kidnies,
and drives them forth, if the decoction thereof be taken ;
and it wonderfully helpeth the rupture, being taken in
wardly, and outwardly applied to the place.
Bishop's Weed, 2. (h. d. 3.)
Besides the common name Bishop's-weed, it is usually
known by the Greek name Ammi and Ammios; some
call it AEthiopian Cummin-seed, and others Cummin
royal, as also Herb-William, and Bull-wort.
Descript..] Common Bishop's-weed riseth up with a
round straight stalk, sometimes as high as a man, but
usually three or four feet high, beset with divers small,
*-
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 45
only two broad plantain-like leaves (but whiter) set at
the middle of the stalk, one against another, compassing
it round at the bottom of them.
Place.] It is an usual inhabitant in woods, copses, and
in many other places in this land.
Another sort groweth in wet grounds and marshes,
which is somewhat different from the former. It is a
smaller plant, and greener, having sometimes three
leaves ; the spike of the flowers is less than the former,
and the roots of this do run or creep in the ground.
They are often used by many to good purpose for
wounds, both green and old, and to consolidate or knit
ruptures, as well it may, being a plant of Saturn.
The Birch Tree. $ . (c. m. 2J
Although the twigs of Birch are well known to every
school boy, yet few people have seen the tree in its per
fection. There is a degree of elegance in its appearance
in the summer; and in the winter the bark is frequently
variegated with red and white streaks.
Descript.] This groweth a goodly tall straight tree,
fraught with many boughs, and slender branches bending
downward; the old being covered with a discoloured
chapped bark, and the younger being browner by
much. The leaves at the first breaking out are
crumpled, and afterwards like Beech leaves, but smaller
and greener, and dented about the edges. It beareth
small short cat-skins, somewhat like those of the hazel
nut-tree, which abide on the branches a long time, until
growing ripe, they fall on the ground, and their seed
with them.
Place."] It usually groweth in woods.
Government and Virtues.^ It is a tree of Venus ; the
juice of the leaves, while they are young, or the distilled
water of them, or the juice that comes from the tree being
bored with an auger, and distilled afterwards, any of
these being drank for some days together, is available to
break the stone in the kidnies and bladder, and is good
also to wash sore mouths. The leaves have been used in
the itch, dropsy, &c. either externally applied, or taken
44 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
in decoelion. Birch-wine made from the juice of the
tree, is an excellent remedy for consumptions, and also
for the scurvy; and the fungus which grows on the tree,
is a good styptic.
Bird's Foot. ^ . (c. d. 1.)
This herb groweth not above a span high, with many
branches spread upon the ground, set with wings of
small leaves. The flowers grow upon the branches, many
small-ones of a pale yellow colour being set a head
together, which afterwards turneth into small jointed
cods, well resembling the claws of small birds, whencs
it took its name.
There is another sort of Bird's foot in all things like
the former, but a little larger; the flower of a pale
whitish red colour, and the cods distinct by joints
Jike the other, but a little more crooked, and the roots
do carry many small white knots or kernels among the
strings.
Place.'] These grow on heaths, and many open unfilled
places of this land,
Time.'] They flower and seed in the end of Summer.
Government and Virtues."] They belong to Saturn, and
are of a drying, binding quality, and thereby very good
to be used in wound drinks ; as also to apply outwardly
for the same purpose. But the latter Bird's-foot is found
by experience to break the stone in the back or kidnies,
and drives them forth, if the decoction thereof be taken ;
and it wonderfully helpeth the rupture, being taken in
wardly, and outwardly applied to the place.
Bishop's Weed, ? . (h. d. 3.)
Besides the common name Bishop's-weed, it is usually
known by the Greek name Ammi and Ammios; some
call it ^Ethiopian Cummin-seed, and others Cummin,
royal, as also Herb- William, and Bull-wort.
Descript.] Common Bishop's-weed riseth up with a.
round straight stalk, sometimes as high as a man, but
usually three or four feet high, beset with diters small^
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 45
long, and somewhat broad leaves, cut in some places, and
dented about the edges, growing one against another, of
a dark green colour, haying sundry branches on them, and
at the top small umbels of white flowers, which turn into
small round seeds, little bigger than parsley seeds, of a
quick hot scent and taste ; the root is white and stringy,
perishing yearly, and usually riscth again on its own
sowing.
Place."] Itgroweth wild in many places in England and
Wales, as between Grecnhithe and Gravesend.
. Government and Virtues.] It is hot and dry in the third
degree, of a bitter taste, and somewhat sharp ; it pro
vokes lust ; I suppose Venus owns it. It digesteth hu
mours, provoketh urine and women's courses, dissolveth
wind, and being taken in wine it easeth pain and griping
in the bowels, and is good against the biting of serpents ;
it is used to good effects in those medicines which are
given to hinder the poisonous operation of Cantharides
upon the passage of the urine; being mixed with honey,
and applied to black and blue marks, coming of blows
or bruises, it takes them away ; and being drank or out
wardly applied, it abateth an high colour, and makes it
pale ; and the fumes thereof taken with rosin or raisins,
cleanseth the mother.
Bistort, or Snakeweed. ^ . (temp. d. 3.)
jfis called Snakeweed, English Serpentary, Dragon-wort,
Osterick, and Passions. v
Descript.] This hath a thick short knobbed root,
blackish without, and somewhat reddish within, a little
crooked or turned together, of a hard astringent taste,
with divers black threads hanging there, from whenco
spring up every year divers leaves standing upon long
foot-stalks, being somewhat broad and long like a dock-
leaf, and a little pointed at the ends, but that it is of a
bluish green colour on the upper side, and of an ash.
colour grey, and a little purplish underneath, with divers
veins therein, from among which rise up divers small
and slender stalks, two feet high, and almost naked and
without leaves, or with a very few, and narrow, bearing
48 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Government and Virtues."} It is an herb of the Sun, and
therefore cordial ; half a dram, or a dram at most, of the
roots in powder, taken in wine and vinegar, of each a
like quantity, and the party presently laid to sweat, is
held to be a sovereign remedy for those that are infected
with the plague, and have a sore upon them, by expel
ling the poison, and defending the heart and spirits from
danger. It is also accounted a singular good wound herb,
and therefore used with other herbs in making such balms
as are nacessary for curing wounds, either green or old,
and especially if the nerves be hurt.
The Bramble, or Black-berry Bush. ? in r.
(c. 1. d. 3.)
It is so well known that it needeth no description. The
virtues thereof are as follows :
Government and Virtues.] It is a plant of Venus in
Aries. If any ask the reason why Venus is so prickly ?
Tell them 'tis because she is in the house of Mars. The
buds, leaves, and branches, while they arc green, are
of good use in the ulcers and putrid sores of the mouth
and throat, and of the quinsy, and likewise to heal other
fresh wounds and sores; but the flowers and fruit unrip*
are very binding, and so profitable for the bloody flux, tasks,
and are a fit remedy for spitting of blood. Either the de
coction or powder of the root being taken, is good to
break or drive forth gravel and the stone in the reins and
kidnies. The leaves and brambles, as well green as dry.
are excellent good lotions for sores in the mouth, or secret
parts. The decofiion of them, and of the dried branches,
do much bind the belly, and are good for too much flowing
of women's courses ; the berries of the flowers are a pow
erful remedy against the poison of the most venomous
serpents; as well drank as outwardly applied, helpeth
the sores of the fundament, and the piles ; the juice of the
berries mixed with the juice of mulberries, do bind more
effectually, and help all fretting and eating sores and ul
cers whatsoever. The distilled water of the branches,
leaves, and flowers, or of tho fruit, is very pleasant in
taste, and very effectual in fevers, and hot distempers of
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 49
4he body, head, eyes, and other parts, and for the pur
poses aforesaid. The leaves boiled in lye, and the head
washed therewith, healeth the itch, and the running sores
thereof, and maketh the hair black. The powder of th«
leaves strewed on cankers and running ulcers, wonder,
fully helps to heal them. St le use to condensate the
juice of the leaves, and some the juice of the berries, to
Veep for their use all the year, for the purposes afore
said.
Blites. ? . (c.d. I.)
Of these there are two sorts commonly known, viz. White
and Red.
Descript.] The White hath leaves somewhat like unto
beets, but smaller, rounder, and of a whitish green co
lour, every one standing upon a small long foot-stalk ;
the stalk rises up two or three feet high, with such like
leaves thereon ; the llowers grow at the top in long round
tufts or clusters, wherein are contained small and round
seeds ; the root is very full of threads or strings.
The red Blitc is in all things like the white, but that
his leaves and tufted heads are exceeding red at first, aud
afterwards turn more purplish.
There are other kinds of Blites which grow, differing
from the two former sorts but little, but only the wild
are smaller in every part.
Place."] They grow in gardens, and wild in many placet
in this land.
Time.] They seed in August and September.
Government and Virtues.'] They are all of them cooling,
drying and binding, serving to restrain the fluxes of blood
in either man or woman, especially the red ; which also
stayeth the overflowing of the women's reds, as the white
Blites stayeth the whites in women. It is an excellent
secret, you cannot well fail in the use; they are all under
the dominion of Venus.
There is another sort of wild Blites like the other wild
kinds, but havo long and spiky heads of greenish seeds,
seeming by the thick setting together to be all seed.
This sort the fishers are delighted with, and it is a
good and usual barf, lor fishes will bite fast enough at
5Q THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
them, if you have but wit enough to catch them when
they bite.
Borage and Bugloss. % and £ (tern. m. 2. J
These arc so well known to the inhabitants in every
"garden, that I hold it needless to describe them.
To these I may add a third sort, which is not so com
mon, nor yet so well known, and therefore 1 shall give
you its name and description.
It is called Langue de Iiwfy but why then should they
call one herb by the name Bugloss, and another by the
name Langue de lieuf? It is some question to me, seeing
one signifies Ox-tongue in Greek, and the other signifies
the same in French.
Descript.] The leaves arc smaller than those of Bug-
loss, but much rougher; the stalk ariseth up about a foot
and a half high, and is most commonly of a red colour ;
the flowers stand in scaly rough heads, being composed
<>f many small yellow flowers, not much unlike to those
of Dandelions, and the seed flieth away in down, as that
doth; you may easily know the flowers by their taste,
for they are very bitter.
Place.] It groweth wild in many places of this land,
and may be plentifully found near London, as between
Botherhithe and Deptlord, by the ditch side. Its virtues
are held to be the same with Borage and Bugloss, only
this is somewhat hotter.
Time.] They flower in June and July, and the seed is
ripe shortly after.
Government and Virtues."] They are all three herbs of
Jupiter and under Leo, all great cordials, and great
strengthencrs of nature- The leaves and roots are to very
good purpose used in putrid and pestilential fevers, to
defend the heart, and help to resist and expel the poison,
or the venom of other creatures ; the seed is of the like
effects; and the seed and leaves are good to increase milk
in women's breasts; the leaves, flowers, and seed, all or
any of them, are good to expel pensiveness and melan
choly; it helpeth to clarify the blood, and mitigate
heat in fevers. The juice made into a syrup, prevaileth
much to all the purposes aforesaid, and is put with
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 51
other cooling, opening, and cleansing herbs to open
obstructions, and help the yellow jaundice, and mixed
with fumitory, to cool, cleanse, and temper the blood
thereby ; it helpeth the itch, ringworms, and tetters,
or other spreading scabs or sores. The flowers candied
or made into a conserve, arc helpful in the former
cases, but are chiefly used as a cordial, and are good
for those that are weak in long sickness, and to com.
fort the heart and spirits of those that are in a con.
sumption, or troubled with often swoonings, or passions
of the heart. The distilled water is no less eifectual to all
the purposes aforesaid, and helpeth the redness and in
flammations of the eyes, being washed therewith ; the
dried herb is never used, but the green ; yet the ashes
thereof, boiled in mead, or honied water, is available
against the inflammations and ulcers in the mouth or
throat to gargle it therewith; the roots of Bngloss are
effectual, being made into a licking electuary for the
cough, and to condensate thick phlegm, and the rheu
matic distillations upon the lungs.
Blue Bottle. ^ ' (c. d. 8.)
It is called Cyanus, I suppose from the colour of it ;
Hurtsickle, because it turns the edge of the sickles that
reap the corn; Blue-blow, Corn-flower, and Blue-bottle.
Descript.] I shall only describe that which is common
est, and in my opinion most useful ; its leaves spread upon
the ground, being of a whitish green colour, somewhat
on the edges like those of Corn-scabious, amongst which
ariscth up a stalk divided into divers branches, beset with
long leaves of greenish colour, either but very little in
dented or not at all; the flowers arc of a blue colour,
from whence it took its name, consisting of an innume
rable company of small flowers set in a scaly head, not
much unlike those of knapweed; the seed is smooth,
bright and shining, wrapped up in a woolly mantle; the
root perisheth every year.
Place.] They grow in corn-fields, amongst all sorts of
corn (peas, beans, and tares excepted). If you please
to take them up from thence, and transplant them in
your garden, especially towards the full of the moon,
o
52 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
they will grow more double than they are, and many
times change colour.
Time.'] They flower from the beginning of May to the
end of harvest.
Government and Virtues."} As they are naturally cold,
dry and binding, so they are under the dominion of Sa.
turn. The powder or dried leaves of the Blue-bottle, or
Corn-flower, is given with good success to those that are
bruised by a fall, or have broken a vein inwardly, and
void much blood at the mouth ; being taken in the water
of plaintain, horsetail, or the greater comfrey, it is a
remedy against the poison of the scorpion, and resisteth
all venoms and poison. The seed or leaves taken in wine,
is very good against the plague, and all infectious dis
eases, and is very good in pestilential levers ; the juice
put into fresh or green wounds, doth quickly solder up
the lips of them together, and is very effectual to heal all
ulcers and sores in the mouth ; the juice dropped into the
eyes takes away the heat and inflammation of them ;
the distilled water of this herb hath the same properties,
and may be used for the effects aforesaid.
Blank Ursine. 5. (c. m. 2.)
Beside the common name Brank Ursine, it is also called
Bears-breech, and Acanthus, tho' I think our English
names to be more proper ; for the Greek word Acan
thus, siguifies any thistle whatsoever.
Descript.] This thistle shooteth forth very many large,
thick, sad green smooth leaves upon the ground, with a
very thick and juicy middle rib ; the leaves are parted
with sundry deep gashes on the edges ; the leaves remain
a long time before any stalk appears, afterwards riseth
up a reasonable big stalk, three or four feet high, and
bravely decked with flowers, from the middle of the stalk
upwards ; for on the lower part of the stalk there is nei
ther branches nor leaf ; the flowers are hooded and gap.
ing, being white in colour, and standing in brownish
husks, with a long small undivided leaf under each leaf;
they seldom seed in our country. Its roots are many,
great and thick, blackish without, and whitish within,
full of clammy sap ; a piece of them, if you set in the gar
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 53
den, and defend it from the first Winter cold, will grow
and flourish.
Place.'] They are only nursed in the gardens in Eng.
land, where they will grow very well.
JZVme.] It flowereth in June and July.
Government and Virtues.] It is an excellent plant under
the dominion of the Moon. 1 could wish such as are stu
dious would labour to keep it in the gardens ; the leaves
being boiled and used in clisters, are excellent good to
mollify the belly, and make the passage slippery ; the de
coction drank inwardly, is excellent and good for the
bloody flux ; the leaves being bruised, or rather boiled,
and applied like a poultice, are very good to unite broken
bones, and strengthen joints that have been put out; the
decoction of either leaves or roots being drank, and the
decoction of leaves applied to the place, is excellent good
for the king's evil that is broken and runneth ; for by the
influence of the Moon, it reviveth the ends of the veins
which are relaxed; there is scarce a better remedy to be
applied to such places as are burnt with fire than this is,
for it fetches out the fire, and heals it without a scar ;
this is an excellent remedy for such as are bursten, being
either taken inwardly, or applied to the place'; in like
manner used it helps the cramp and the gout; it is ex
cellent good in hectic fevers, and restores radical moisture
to such as are in consumptions.
Briony, or Wild Vine. <?. (h. d. 3.)
It is called Wild, and Wood Vine, Tamus or Ladies
Seal. The white is called White Vine by some, and the
black, Black Vine.
Descript.] The common White Briony groweth ramp,
ing upou the hedges, sending forth many long, rough,
very tender branches at the beginning, with many very
rough and broad leaves thereon, cut (for the most part)
into live partitions, in form very like a vine leaf, but
smaller, rough, and of a whitish hoary green colour^
spreading very far, spreading and twining with his small
claspers (that come forth at the joints with the leaves)
very far on whatsoever standeth next to it. At the
several joints also (especially towards the top of the
d 3
54 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
branches cometh forth a long stalk, bearing many
whitish flowers together on a long tuft, consisting of fire
small leaves a-piece, laid open like a star, after which
come the berries separated one from another, more than
a cluster of grapes, green at the first, and very red when
they arc thorough ripe, of no good scent, but of a most
loathsome taste, provoking vomit. The root groweth
to be exceeding great, with many long twines or
branches going from it, of a pale whitish colour on the
outside, and more white within, and of a sharp, bitter,
loathsome taste.
Place."] It groweth on banks, or under hedges, through
this land ; the roots lie very deep.
Time.'] It fiowereth in July and August, some earlier,
and some later than the other.
Government and Virtues.] They are furious martial
plants. The root of Briony purges the belly with great
violence, troubling the stomach, and burning the liver,
and therefore not rashly to be taken ; but being cor
rected, is very profitable for the diseases of the head, as
falling sickness, giddiness and swimmings, by drawing
* away much phlegm and rheumatic humours that oppress
the head, as also the joints and sinews, and is therefore
good for palsies, convulsions, cramps, and stitches in the
sides, and the dropsy, and in provoking urine ; it
cleanseth the reins and kidnies from gravel and stone,
by opening the obstruction of the spleen, and consumeth
the hardness and swelling thereof. The decociion of
the root in wine, drank once a week at going to bed,
cleanseth the mother, and helpeth the rising thereof, ex-
pelleth the dead child ; a dram of the root in powder
taken in white wine, bringeth down their courses. An
electuary made of the roots and honey, doth mightily
cleanse the chest ot rotten phlegm, and wonderfully
helps any old strong cough, to those that are troubled
with shortness of breath, and is very good for them that
are bruised inwardly, to help to expel the clotted or
congealed blood. The leaves, fruit and root, do cleanse
old and filthy sores, are good against all fretting and
running cankers, gangrenes, and tetters, and therefore
the berries are by some country-people called tetter-
berries. The root cleanseth the skin wonderfully from
all black and blue spots, freckles, morphew, leprosy, foul
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 55
scars, or other deformity whatsoever; also all running
scabs and manginess are healed by the powder of the
dried root, or the juice thereof, but especially by the
fine white hardened juice. The distilled water of the
root worketh the same elFects, but more weakly ; the
root bruised and applied of itself to any place where
the bones arc broken, helpeth to draw them forth, as
also splinters and thorns in the flesh ; and being applied
with a little wine mixed therewith, it breaketh boil:,
and helpeth whitlows on the joints.—For all these latter,
beginning at sores, cancers, &c. apply it outwardly.
As for the former diseases, where it must be taken in
wardly, it purgeth very violently, and needs an abler
hand to correct it than most country people have ;
therefore, it is a better way for them, in my opinion, to
let it alone.
Brook Lime, or Water Pimpernel. <J. (h. d.2-)
This is one of those neglected vegetables which might
occasionally be used for culinary purposes, particularly
as a sallad.
Descript)] It sendeth forth from a creeping root
that shooteth forth strings at every joint, as it
runneth, divers and sundry green stalks, round
and sappy, with some branches on them, somewhat
broad, round, deep green and thick leaves, set by
couples thereon ; from the bottom whereof shoot forth
long footstalks, with sundry small blue flowers on
them, that consist of five small round pointed leaves
a-piece.
There is another sort nothing differing from the for
mer, but that it is greater, and the flowers of a paler
green colour.
Place.] They grow in small standing waters, and
usually near water-cresses.
Time.] And flowers in June and July, giving seed
the next month after.
Government and Virtues.] It is a hot and biting martial
plant. Brook-lime and water-cresses are generally used
together in diet-drink, with other things serving to
purge the blood and body from all ill humours that
» 4
56 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
would destroy health, and are helpful to the scurry.
They do all provoke urine, and help to break the
sfone, and pass it away; they procure women's courses,
and expel the dead child. Being fried with butter and
.vinegar, and applied warm, it helpeth all manner of
tumours, swellings, and inflammations.
Such drinks ought to be made of sundry herbs ac
cording to the malady.
Butchers Broom. <? (h. 2. d. I.)
It is called Ruscus and Bruscus, Kneeholm, Knee*
holy, Kneehulver, and Pettigree.
Descript.] The first shoots that sprout from the root of
Butcher's Broom, are thick, whitish, and short, somewhat
like those of asparagus, but greater, rising up to a
foot and a half, spread into divers branches, green, and
somewhat cressed with the roundness, tough and flexible,
whereon are set somewhat broad and almost round
hard leaves, and prickly, pointed at the end, of a
dark green colour, two for the most part set at a place
-very close and near together ; about the middle of
the leaf, on the back and lower side from the middle
rib, breaketh forth a small whitish green flower, con
sisting of four small round pointed leaves, standing
upon little or no footstalk, and in the place whereof
cometh a small round berry, green at the first, and red
when it is ripe, wherein are two or three white, hard,
round seeds contained. The root is thick, white, and
great at the head, and from thence sendeth forth divert
thick, white, long, tough strings.
Place.] It groweth in copses, and upon heaths and waste
grounds, and oftentimes under or near the holly bushes.
Time.] It shooteth forth its young buds in the Spring,
and the berries are ripe about September, the branches
of leaves abiding gre«n all the Winter.
Government and Virtues.] 'Tis a plant of Mars, being of
a gallant cleansing and opening quality. The decoction
of the root made with wine, openeth obstructions, pro-
vo-kclh urine, helpeth to expel gravel and the stone, the
wranguary and women's courses, also the yellow jaundice
and the hcad-ach ; and w ith some honey or sugar put
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 57
thereunto, cleanseth the breast of phlegm, and the chest
of such clammy humours gathered therein. The de
coction of the root drank, and a poultice made of the
berries, and leaves being applied, are effectual in knit
ting and consolidating broken bones or parts out of
joint. The common way of using it, is to boil the
root of it, and parsley and fennel, and smallage in
white wine, and drink the decoction, adding the like
quantity of grass.root to them ; the more of the root yon
boil, the stronger will the decoction be; it works no ill
effects, yet I hope you have wit enough to give the
strongest decoction to the strongest bodies.
Broom, and Broom-Rape. <J (h. d. %.)
To spend time in writing a description hereof is al
together needless, it being so generally used by all
the good housewives almost through this land, to sweep
their houses with, and therefore very well known to all
sorts of people.
The Broom-rape springeth up on many places from
the roots of the broom (but more often in fields, as by
Ledge-sides and on heaths). The stalk whereof is of
the bigness of a finger or thumb, above two feet high,
having a shew of leaves on them, and many flowers at
the top, of a reddish yellow colour, as also the stalks,
and leaves are. ,
Place.] They grow in many places of this land com
monly, and as commonly spoil all the land they grow in-
Time.] And flower in the Summer months,, and give-
their seed before Winter.
Government and Virtues."] The juice or decoction of the
young branches, or seed, or the powder of the seed taken
in drink, purgeth downwards, and draweth phlegmatic
and watery humours from the joints, whereby it helpeth
the dropsy, gout, sciatica, and pains of the hips and
joints ; it also provoketh strong vomits,, and helpeth the
pains of the sides, and swelling of the spleen, cleanseth
also the reins or kidnies, and bladder of the stone, pro
voketh urine abundantly, and hindercth the growing
again of the stone in the body. The continual use of
the powder of. the leaves and seed doth cure the black
58 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
jaundice. The distilled water of the flowers is profita»
ble for all the same purposes ; it also helpeth surfeits,
and altereth the fits of agues, if three or four ounces
thereof, with as much of the water of the lesser cen
taury, and a little sugar put therein, be taken a little
before the fit cometh, and the party be laid down to
Sweat in his bed. The oil or water that is drawn from
the end of the green sticks heated in the fire, helpeth
the tooth-ach. The juice of young branches made into
an ointment of old hog's grease, and anointed, or the
young branches bruised and heated in oil or hog's
grease, and laid to the sides pained by wind, as in
stitches, or the spleen, easeth them in once or twice
using it. The same boiled in oil is the safest and surest
medicine to kill lice in the head or body, if any; and is
an especial remedy for joint aches, and swollen knees,
that come by the falling down of humours.
The Broom rape also is not without its virtues.
The decoction thereof in wine is thought to be as ef
fectual to void the stone in the kidnies and bladder, and
to provoke urine, as the Broom itself. The juice thereof
is a singular good help to cure as well green wounds,
as old and filthy sores and malignant ulcers. The inso-
late oil, wherein there hath been three or four repetitions
of infusion of the top stalks, with flowers strained and.
cleared, cleanseth the skin from all manner of spots,
marks, and freckles, that rise either by the heat of the
eun, or the malignity of humours. As for the Broom
and Broom-rape, Mars owns them, and is exceedingly
prejudicial to the liver ; 1 suppose by reason of the an
tipathy between Jupiter and Mars, therefore if the liver
be disaffected, minister none of it.
Buck's-Hora Plantain. Tj . (c. d. 3)
So-named from the leaves, which are divided into
parts somewhat resembling a buck's horn.
Descripi.'] This being sown of seed, rise th up at first
with small, long, narrow, hairy, dark green leaves,
like grass, without any division or gash in them, but
those that follow are gashsd in on both sides the
loaves into thiwe or four gashes, and pointed at th«
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 59
ends, resembling the knags of a buck's horn, (whereof
it took its name) and being well ground round about
the root upon the ground, or order one by another,
thereby resembling the form of a star, from among which
rise up divers hairy stalks, about a hand's breadth high,
bearing every one a small, long, spiky head, like to
those of the common Plantain, having such like bloom,
ings and seed after them. The root is single, long and
small, with divers strings at it.
Place.] They grow in sandy grounds, in divers places
of this land.
Time.] They flower and seed in May, June, and July,,
and their green leaves do in a manner abide fresh all the
Winter.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Saturn, and is of a gallant, drying, and binding quality.
This boiled in wine and drank, and some of the leaves
put to the hurt place, is an excellent remedy for the-
biting of the riper or adder, which 1 take to be one and
the same. The same being also drank, helpeth those that
are troubled with the stone in the reins or kidnies, by
cooling the heat of the part afflicted, and strengthening
them ; also weak stomachs that cannot retain, but cast
up their meat. It stayeth all bleeding, both at mouth
and nose, bloody urine, or the bloody-flux, and stop-
peth the lask of the belly and bowels. The leaves hereof
bruised and laid to their sides that have an ague, sud
denly easeth the fit ; and the leaves and roots being
beaten with some bay salt, and applied to the wrists,
worketh the same eft"edl«. The herb boiled in ale or
wine, and given for some mornings and evenings toge
ther, stayeth the distillation of hot and sharp rheuins
falling into the eyes from the head, and helpeth all sorts
of sore eyes.
Bucks Horn. T; (c. d. 2.)
It is called Harts-horn,- Herba-stella, and Herba-stcl-
laria, Sanguinaria, Herb-eve, Herb-ivy, Wort-tresses,
and Swine-cresses.
Deseript.] They have many small and weak straggling
branches trailing upon the ground ; the leaves are many,
D 6
"SO THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
small and jagged, not much unlike to those of Bucks*
born Plantain, but much smaller, and not so hairy ; the
flowers grow among the leaves in small, rough, whitish
clusters; the seeds are smaller and brownish, of a bitter
taste.
Place.] They grow in dry, barren, sandy grounds.
Time.] They flower and seed when the rest of the
plantains do.
Government and Virtues.] This is also under the domi
nion of Saturn; the virtues are held to be the same as
Bucks-horn Plantain, and therefore by all authors it is
joined with it ; the leaves bruised andapplied to the place,
siop bleeding ; the herb bruised and applied to warts,
will make them consume and waste away in a short time.
Bugle. $ (h. m. 1.)
Besides the name Bugle, 'tis called Middle Confound
and Middle Comfrey, Brown Bugle, Sicklewort, and
Herb-Carpenter; though in .Essex we call another herb
by that name.
Descript.] This hath larger leaves than those of the Self-
heal, but else of the same fashion, or rather longer, in soma
green on the upper side, and in others more brownish,
.dented about the edges, somewhat hairy, as the square
stalk is also, which riseth up to be half a yard high some
times, with the leaves set by couples, from the middle
almost whereof upwards stand the flowers, together with
many smaller and browner leaves than the rest, on the
stalk below set at a distance, and the stalk bare betwixt
them; among which flowers are also small ones of a blu
ish and sometimes of an ash colour, fashioned like the
flowers of ground-ivy, after which come small, round,
blackish seeds; the root is composed ofmany strings, and
spreadeth upon the ground.
The white flowered. Bugle differcti not in form or
frcatness from the former, saving that the leaves and
stalks are always green, and never brown, like the other,
and the flowers thereof are white.
Place.] They grow in woods, copses, and fields, gene
rally throughout England, but the white flowered Bugle
>s oot so plentiful as the former.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 61
Time.] They flower from May until July, and in the
wean time perfect their seed ; the roots and leaves next
thereunto upon the ground abiding all the Winter.
Government and Virtuss.] This herb belongeth to Dame
Venus ; if the virtues of it make you fall in love with it
(as they will if you be wise) keep a syrup of it to take in
wardly, and an ointment and plaister of it to use out.
wardly, always by you.
The decoction of the leaves and flowers made in wine,
and taken, dissolveth the congealed blood in those that
are bruised inwardly by a fall, or otherwise, and is very
effectual for any inward wounds, thrusts or stabs in the
body or bowels ; and is an especial help in all wound-
drinks, and for those that are liver-grown (as they call it).
It is wonderful in curing all manner of ulcers and sores,
whether new and fresh, or old and inveterate; yea, gan
grenes and fistulas also, if the leaves bruised and appli
ed, or their'juice be used to wash and bathe the place,
and the same made into a lotion, and some honey and
allum, cureth all sores in the mouth and gums, be they
ever so foul, or of long continuance ; and worketh no less
powerfully and effectually for such ulcers and sores as
happen in the secret parts of men and women. Being al
so taken inwardly, or outwardly applied, it helpeth those
that have broken any bone, or have any member out of
joint. An ointment made with the leaves of Bugle, Sca
bious and Sanicle bruised and boiled in hog's grease, un
til the herbs be dry, and then strained forth into a pot for
such occasions as shall require ; it is so singular good for
all sorts of hurts in the body, that none that know its
usefulness will be without it.
The truth is, I have known this herb cure some dis
eases of Saturn, of which I thought good to quote one.
Many times such as give themselves much to drinking are
troubled with strange fancies, strange sights in the night
time, and some with voices, as also with the disease ephi.
altes, or the mare. I take the reason of this to be (accord
ing to Fernelins) a melancholy vapour made thin by ex
cessive drinking strong liquor, and so flies up and disturbs
the fancy, and breeds imaginations like itself, viz. fear
ful and troublesome; these I have known cured by tak
ing only two spoonfuls of the 6yrup of this herb, after
62 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
supper two hours, when you go to bed. But whether
this does it by sympathy or antipathy, is some doubt in
astrology. I know there is a great antipathy between
Saturn and Venus in matter of procreation; yea, such a
one, that the barrenness of Saturn can be removed by
none but Venus; nor the lust of Venus be repelled by
none but Saturn; but I am not of opinion this is done
this way, and my reason is, because these vapours, though
in quality melancholy, yet by their flying upwards, seem
to be something aerial ; therefore I rather think it is done
by sympathy; Saturn being exalted in Libra, in the house
of Venus.
Burnet. G) (temp. d. 1.)
It is called Sanguiforbia, Pimpinella, Bipula Solbegrel
la, &c. The common garden Burnet is so well known
that it needeth no description,--There is another sort.
which is wild, the description whereof take as followeth.
Descript..] The great wild Burnet hath winged leaves
rising from the roots like the garden Burnet, but not so
many; yet each' of these leaves are at the least twice as
large as the other, and nicked in the same manner about
the edges, of a greyish colour on the under side ; the
stalks are greater, and rise higher, with many such like
leaves set thereon, and greater heads at the top, of a
brownish colour, and out of them come small dark pur
ple flowers like the former, but greater. The root is
black and long like the other, but great also. It hath
almost neither scent nor taste therein, like the garden
kind.
Place.] The first grows frequently in gardens. The
wild kind groweth in divers counties of this island,
especially in Huntingdon and Northamptonshires, in
the meadows there; as also near London, by Pancras
church, and by a causey-side in the middle of a field by
Paddington.
Time.] They flower about the end of June, and be
ginning of July, and their seed is ripe in August.
Government and Virtues.] This is an herb the Sun chal
lengeth dominion over, and is a most precious herb,
little inferior to Betony; the continual use of it preserves
l -
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 63
the body in health, and the spirit in vigour ; for if the
sun be the preserver of life under God, his herbs are the
best in the world to do it. They are accounted to be
both of one property, but the lesser is more effectual,
because quicker and more aromatical. It is a friend to
the heart, liver, and other principal parts of a man's
body. Two or three of the stalks, with leaves put into
a cup of wine, especially claret, are known to quicken
the spirits, refresh and clear the heart, and drive away
melancholy. It is a special help to defend the heart
from noisome vapours, and from infection of the pesti.
lence, the juice thereof being taken in some drink, and
the party laid to sweat thereupon. They have also a
drying and astringent quality, whereby they are avail
able in all manner of fluxes of blood or humours, to
staunch bleedings inward or outward, lasks, scourgings,
the bloody-flux, women's too abundant flux of courses,
the whites, and the choleric belchings and castings of
the stomach, and is a singular wound herb for all sorts of
wounds, both of the head and body, either inward or
outward ; for all old ulcers, running cankers, and most
sores, to be used either by the juice or decoction of the
herb, or by the powder of the herb or root, or the water
of the distilled herb or ointment by itself, or with other
things to be kept ; the seed is also no less effectual both
to fluxes, and dry up moist sores, being taken in powder
inwardly in wine, or steeled water, that is, wherein hot
gads of steel have been quenched; or the powder, or the
seed mixed with the ointments.
The Butter-Bur, or Petasitis. Q. (k. d. 2i)
In some hcrbals this plant is called Colt's-foot ; but the
latter is quite a different plant.
Descript.] This riseth up in February, with a thick
stalk about a foot high, whereon are set a few small
leaves or rather pieces, and at the tops a long spike
head ; flowers of a blush or deep red colour, accord
ing to the soil where it groweth, aud before the stalk with
the flowers have abiden a month above ground, it will
be withered and gone, and blown away with the wind,
and the lpaves will begin to spring, which being full
61 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
grown, are very large and broad, being somewhat thin
and almost round, whose thick red sour-stalks above a
foot long stand towards the middle of the leaves ; the
lower part being divided into two round parts, dose al
most one to another, and are of a pale green colour, and
hairy underneath : the root is long, and spreadeth under
ground, being in some places no bigger than one's, fin
ger, in others much bigger, blackish on the outside,
and whitish within, of a bitter and unpleasant taste.
Place and Time.] They grow in low and wet grounds
by rivers and water-sides j their flower fas is said) rising
and decaying in February and March, before the leaves,
which appear in April.
Government and Virtues."] It is under the dominion ofthe
Sun, and therefore is a great strengthener of the heart, and
chearer of the vital spirits ; the roots thereof are by long,
experience found to be very available against the plague
and pestilential fevers, by provoking sweat ; if the pow
der thereof be taken in wine, it also resisteth the force
of any other poison ; the root hereof taken with zedoary
and angelica, or without them, helps the rising of the
mother; the decoction of the root in wine, is singular
good for those that wheese much, or are short winded. It
provoketh urine also, and women's courses, and kil-
leth the flat and broad worms in the belly. The
powder of the root doth wonderfully help to dry up
the moisture of the sores that are hard to be cured, and
taketh away all spots and blemishes of the skin. It were
well if gentlewomen would keep this root preserved to
help their poor neighbours. It infit the rich should help
the poor, for the poor cannot help themselves.
The Burdock. ? (k. d. I.)
They are also called Personata, and Loppy-major,
great Burdock and Clod-bur ; it is so well known,
even by the little boys, who pull off the burs to throw
and stick upon one another, that I shall spare to write
any description of it.
Place.'] They grow plentifully by ditches and water
sides, and by the highways almost every where through,
this land.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 65
Government and Virtues.} Venus challengeth this herb
for her own, and by its leaf and seed you may draw th«
womb which way you please, either upwards, by ap
plying it to the crown of the head, in case it falls out ;
or downwards, in fits of the mother, by applying it to
the soles of the feet; or if you would stay it in its place,
apply it to the navel, and that is one good, way to stay
the child in it. The Burdock leaves are cooling, mode,
rately drying, and discussing withal, whereby it is good
for old ulcers and sores. A dram of the roots taken
with pine-kernels, helpeth them that spit foul, mattery,
and bloody phlegm. The leaves applied to the places
troubled with the shrinking of the sinews or arteries,
give much ease. The juice of the leaves, or rather the
roots themselves, given to drink with old wine, doth
wonderfully help the biting of any serpents ; and the
root beaten with a little salt, and laid on the place,
suddenly easeth the pain thereof, and helpeth those that
are bit by a mad dog. The juice of the leaves being
drank with honey, provoketh urine, and remedieth the
pain of the bladder. The seed being drank in wine forty
days together, doth wonderfully help the sciatica. The
leaves bruised with the white of an egg, and applied to
any place burnt with fire, taketh out the fire, gives sud
den ease, and heals it up afterwards. The decoction of
them fomented on any fretting sore or canker, stayeth
the corroding quality, which mast be afterwards anointed
with an ointment made of the same liquor, hogs-grease,
nitre and vinegar boiled together. The roots may be
preserved with sugar, and taken fasting, or at other
times, for the same purposes, and for consumptions,
the stone, and the lask. The seed is much commended
to break the stone, and cause it to be expelled by urine,
and is often used with other seeds and things to that
purpose.
Cabbages and Coleworts. J>.(lemp: d. 1.)
I shall spare a labour in writing a description of
these, since almost every one that can but write at
all, may describe them from his own knowledge, they
66 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
being generally so well known, that descriptions are al.
together needless.
Place."] They are generally planted in gardens.
Time.] Their flower time is towards the middle or end
of July, and the seed is ripe in August.
Government and Virtues.] The Cabbages or Coleworts
boiled gently in broth, and eaten, do open the body, but
the second decoction doth bind the body. The juice
thereof drank in wine, helpeth those that are bitten by
an adder, and the deception of the flowers bringeth
down women's courses; being taken with honey, it
recovercth hoarseness, or loss of the voice. The often
eating of them well boiled, helpeth those that are en
tering into a consumption. The pulp of the middle ribs
of Coleworts boiled in almond milk, and made up into
an electuary with honey, being taken often, is very pro
fitable for those that are pursy and short-winded. Being
boiled twice, an old cock boiled in the broth and drank,
it helpeth the pains, and the obstructions of the liverand
spleen, and the stone in the kidnies. The juice boiled
with honey, and dropped into the corners of the eyes,
cleareth the sight, by consuming any film or cloud be
ginning to dim it ; it also cousumeth the canker growing
therein. They are much commended, being eaten be
fore meat to keep one from surfeiting, as also from being
drunk with too much wine, or quickly make a man sober
again that is drunk before. For (as they say) there is
such an antipathy or enmity between the Vine and the
Coleworts, that the one will die where the other
groweth. The decoction of Coleworts taketh away the
pain and ach, and allayeth the swellings of sores and
gouty legs and knees, wherein many gross and watery
humours are fallen, the place being bathed therewith
warm. It helpeth also old and filthy sores, being bathed
therewith, and hcaleth all small scabs, pushes and wheals,
that break out in the skin ; the ashes of Colewort stalks
mixed with old hog's grease, are very effectual to anoint
the sides of those that have had long pains therein, or any
other place pained with melancholy and windy humours.
Cabbages are extreme windy, whether you take them
as a meal or as a medicine : yea, as windy a meal as can
be eaten, and Colewort-flowers arc something more
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 67
tolerable, and the wholesomer food of the two; the
moon challengeth the dominion of the herb.
The Sea Coleworts. 5. (temp. d. l.jf
This differs from the former, therefore take its description
as follows :
Descript-1 This hath divers somewhat long and broad,
large, and thick wrinkled leaves, somewhat crumpled
about the edges, and growing each upon a thick foot
stalk, very brittle, of a greyish green colour, from
among which riseth up a strong thick stalk, two feet
high, and better, with some leaves thereon to the
top, where it branches forth much; and on every
branch standeth a large bush of pale whitish flowers, con
sisting of four leaves apiece; the root is somewhat great,
shooteth forth many branches under ground, keeping
the leaves green all the Winter.
Place.] They grow in many places upon the sea-coasts,
as well on the Kentish as Essex shores; as atLyddin Kent,
Colchester in Essex, and divers other places, and in other
counties of this land.
Time.'] They flower and seed about the time that other
kinds do.
Government and Ftrtues."] The moon claims the domi
nion of these also. The broth, or first decoction of the Sea
Colewort, doth by the sharp, nitrous, and bitter qualities
therein, open the belly, and purge the body ; it cleanseth
and digests more powerfully than the other kind ; the
seed hereof bruised and drank killeth worms ; the leaves
or the juice of them applied to sores or ulcers, cleansetk
and healeth them, and dissolveth swellings, and taketh
away inflammations.
Calamint. (A. d. 3.)
This is also called Mountain-mint, it is a useful herb,
but requires caution in some cases.
Descript.'] This is a small herb, seldom rising above a
foot high, with square hairy, and woody stalks, and
two small hoary leaves set at a joint, about the big
ness of marjoram, or not much bigger, a little dent
ed about the edges, and of a very fierce or quick scent,
68 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
as the whole herb is ; the flowers stand at several spaces
of the stalks, from the middle almost upwards, which are
small and gaping like to those of Mints, and of a pale
bluish colour; after which follow small, round blackish
seed ; the root is small and woody, with divers strings
spreading within the ground, and dieth not, but abideth
many years.
Place.] It groweth on heaths, and uplands, and dry
grounds in many places of this land.
Time.] They flower in July, and their seed is ripe
quickly after.
Government and Virtues."] It is an herb of Mercury, and
a strong one too, therefore excellent good in all afflictions
of the brain ; the decoction of the herb being drank, bring,
eth down women's courses, and provoketh urine. It is
profitable for those that are bursten, or troubled with
convulsions or cramps, with shortness of breath, or cho
leric torments and pains in their bellies or stomach ; it
also helpeth the yellow jaundice, and stayeth vomiting,
being taken in wine; taken with salt ard honey, it kill,
eth all manner of worms in the body. It helpeth such as
have the leprosy, either taken inwardly, drinking whey
after it, or the green herb outwardly applied. It hinder-
eth conception in women, but either burned or strewed
in the chamber, it driveth away venomous serpents. It
takes away black and blue marks in the face, and mak-
eth black scars become well coloured, if the green herb
(not the dry) be boiled in wine, and laid to the place,
or the place washed therewith. Being applied to the
huckle-bone, by continuance of time, it spends the hu
mours which cause the pain of the sciatica; the juice be
ing dropped into the ears, killeth the worms in them j
the leaves boiled in wine, and drank, provoke sweat,
and open obstructions of the liver and spleen. It helpeth
them that have a certain ague (the body being first pur
ged) by taking away the cold fits ; the decoction hereof,
with some sugar put thereto afterwards, is very profitable
for those that be troubled with the over-flowing of the
gall, and that have an old cough, and that are scare*
able to breathe by shortness of their wind ; that have any
cold distemper in their bowels, and ace troubled with the
hardness of the spleen, for all which purposes both the
powder, called Diacaluminthes, and the compound sy
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 69
rup of Calamint (which are to be had at the apothecaries)
are (he most effectual. Let not women be too busy with
it, for it works very violent upon the feminine part.
Camomile. ©. (h. d. 2.)
It is so well known every where, that it is but lost
time and labour to describe it; the virtues thereof
are as followeth :
A decoct ion made of Camomile, and drank, taketh
away all pains and stitches in the side ; the flowers of Ca
momile beaten, and made up into balls with Gil, drive
away all sorts of agues, if the part grieved be anointed
with that oil, taken from the flowers, from the crown of
the head to the sole of the foot, and afterwards laid te
sweat in bed, and that he sweats well ; this is Nichessor
an Egyptian's medicine. It is profitable for all sorts of
agues that come either from phlegm, or melancholy, or
from an inflammation of the bowels, being applied when
the humours causing them shall be concocied ; and there
is nothing more profitable to the sides and region of the
liver and spleen than it; the bathing with a decoction of
Camomile taketh away weariness, easeth pains, to what
part of the body soever they be applied. It comforteth
the sinews that are over.strained, mollifiethall swellings ;
it moderately comforteth all parts that have need of
warmth, digesleth and dissolveth whatsoever hath need
thereof, by a wonderful speedy property. It easeth all
the pains of the cholic and stone, and all pains and tor
ments of the belly, and gently provoketh urine ; the
flowers boiled in posset drink provoke sweat, and help
to expel all colds, aches and pains whatsoever, and is an
excellent help to bring down women's courses. Syrup
made of the juice of Camomile, with the flowers in white
wine, is a remedy against the jaundice and dropsy; the
flowers boiled in lee, are good to wash the head, and
comfort both it and the brain ; the oil made of the flowers
of Camomile, is much used against all hard swellings,
pains or aches, shrinking of the sinews, or cramps, or
pains in the joints, or any other part of the body. Being
ased in glysters, it helps to dissolve the wind and pains m
70 THE ENGLISH THVSICIAN ENLARGED.
the belly; anointed also, it helpetb stitches and pains in
the sides.
Nichessor saith, the Egyptians dedicated it to the Sun,
because it cured agues, and they were like enough to do
it, for they were the arrantest apes in their religion I ever
Tead of. Bachinus, Bena, and Lobcl, commend the sy
rup made of the juice of it and sugar, taken inwardly,
to be excellent for the spleen. Also this is certain, that
it most wonderfully breaks the stone ; some take it in sy
rup or decoction, others inject the juice of it into a blad.
der with a syringe. My opinion is, that the salt of it ta
ken half a dram in the morning in a little white or rhen-
ish wine is better than either; that it is excellent for the
stone, appears in this which I have tried, viz. That a
stone that hath been taken out of the body of a man, be
ing wrapped in Camomile, will in time dissolve and in
a little time too.
Water Caltrops, s. (c. m. 3.)
They are called also Tribulus Aquaticus, Tribulus
Laucosoris, Tribulus Marinus, Caltrops, Saligoss, Water
Nuts, and Water Chesnuts.
Descript.] As for the greater sort of Water Caltrop it is
not found here, or very rarely ; two other sorts there are,
which I shall here describe: the first hath a long creeping
and jointed root, sending forth tufts at each joint, from
which joints arise long, tlat, slender-kuotted stalks, even
to the top of the water, divided towards the top into many
branches, each carrying two leaves on both sides, being
about two inches long, and halt' an inch broad, thin and
almost transparent, they look as though they were torn;
the flowers are long, thick and whitish, set together
almost like a bunch of grapes, which being gone, there
succeed for the most part sharp-pointed grains altogether,
containing a small white kernel in them.
The second differs not much from this, save that it
delights in more clear water ; its stalks are not flat, but
round ; its leaves are not so long, but more pointed. As
for the place we need not determine, for their name
sheweth they grow in the water.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 71
Government and Virtues.] They are under the dominion
of the Moon, and being made into a poultice, are ex
cellent good for hot inflammations, swellings, cankers,
sore mouths and throats, being washed with the de-
coction ; it cleanseth and strengthcneth the neck and
throat, and helps those swellings which when people
have, they say the almonds of their ears arc fallen down ;
it is excellent good for the king's evil; they are excel
lent good for the stone and gravel, especially the nuts
being dried; they also resist poison, and bltings of ve
nomous beasts.
Campion Wild. . (c. d. 3)
There are forty-five kinds of Campion, those of them
which arc of a physical use having the like virtues with
the following, which I take to be the two chiefest kinds.
Descript.] The Wild White Campion hath many long
and somewhat broad dark green leaves lying upon
the ground, and divers ribs therein, somewhat like
plantain, but somewhat hairy ; broader, and not
so long ; the hairy stalks rise up in the middle
of them three or four feet high, and sometimes more,
with divers great white joints at several places thereon,
and two such like leaves thereat up to the top, sending
forth branches at several joints also ; all which bear on
several footstalks white flowers at the top of them, con
sisting of five broad-pointed leaves, every one cut in on
the end unto the middle, making them seem te be two
a-piece, smelling somewhat sweet, and each of them
standing in a large green striped hairy husk, large and
round below next to the stalk; the seed is small and
greyish in the hard heads that come up afterwards , the
root is white and long, spreading divers fangs in the
ground
The Red Wild Campion groweth in the same manner
as the White, but his leaves are not so plainly ribbed,
somewhat shorter, rounder, and more woolly in handling.
The flowers are of the same form and bigness; but in
some of a pale, in others of a bright red colour, cut in
at the ends more finely, which makes the leaves look
72 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN EN1ARGEB,
more in number than the other. The seeds and the roots
are alike, the roots of both sorts abiding many years.
Time.] They flower in Summer, some earlier than
others, and some abiding longer than others.
Government and Firlues.] They belong unto Saturn ;
and it is found by experience, that the decoction of the
herb, either in 'white or red wine being drank, doth stay
inward bleedings, and applied outwardly, it doth the
like ; and being drank, helpeth to expel urine being
stopped, and gravel and stone in the reins or kidnies.
Two drams of the seed drank in wine, purgeth the body
of choleric humours, and helpeth those that are stung
by scorpions, or other venomous beast, and may be as
effectual for the plague. It is of very good use in old
sores, ulcers, cankers, fistulas, and the like, to cleanse
and heal them, by consuming the moist humours fall,
ing into them, and correcting the putrefaction of humours
efiending them.
Carduus Benedictus. <J in r. (h. d. 2.)
It is called Carduns Benedictus, or Blessed Thistle, or
Holy Thistle : I suppose the name was put upon it
by some that had little holiness in themselves.
I shall spare a labour in- writing a description of this,
as almost every one that can but write at all, may describe
them from his own knowledge.
Time."] They flower in August, and seed not long after.
Government and Ftrtues."\ It is an herb of Mars, and
under the sign Aries. Now, in handling this herb, 1
shall give you a rational pattern of all the rest ; and if
you please to view them throughout the book, you shall,
to your content, find it true. It helps swimmings and
giddiness of the head, or the disease called Vertigo, because
Aries is in the house of Mars. It is an excellent remedy
against the yellow jaundice, and other infirmities of the
gall, because Mars governs choler. It strengthens the
attractive faculty in man, and clarifies the blood, because
the one is ruled by Mars. The continual drinking the
decoction of it, helps red faces, tetters, and ring-worms,
because Mars causeth them. It helps the plague, sores.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 73
boils, and itch, the bitings of mad dogs and venomous
beasts; all which infirmities are under Mars : Thus you
see what it doth by sympathy.
By antipathy to other planets it cureth the venereal
disease. By antipathy to Venus, who governs it, it
strengthens the memory, and cures deafness by antipa
thy to Saturn, who hath his fall in Aries, which rules
the head. It cures quartan agues, and other diseases of
melancholy, and adult choler, by sympathy to Saturn,
Mars being exalted in Capricorn. Also it provokes
urine, the stopping of which is usually caused by Mars
or the Moon.
Wild Carrots. (temp. m. 1.)
Garden Carrots are so well known, that they need
no description ; but because they . are of less phy
sical use than the wild kind (as indeed almost in alt
herbs the wild are most effectual in physic, as being
more powerful in operations than the garden kind) I
shall therefore briefly describe the Wild Carrot.
Descript.^ It groweth in a manner altogether like the
garden, but that the leaves and stalks are somewhat whiter
and rougher. The stalks bear large tufts of white
flowers, with a deep puTple spot in the middle, which
are contracted together when the seed begins to ripen,
that the middle part being hollow and low, and the
outward stalk rising high, maketh the whole umbel shew
like a bird's nest. The roots small, long and hard, and
unfit for meat, being somewhat sharp and strong.
Place.] The wild kind groweth in divers parts of this
land plentifully by the field-sides, and untitled places.
Time.] They flower and seed in the end of Summer.
Government and Virtues.] Wild Carrots belong to Mer
cury, and therefore break wind, and remove stitches in
the sides, provoke urine and women's courses, and
helpeth to break and expel the stone; the seed also of
the same worketh the like effeel, and is good for the
dropsy, and those whose bellies arc swollen with wind ;
helpeth the colic, the stone in the kidnies, and rising
•f the mother ; being taken in wine, or boiled in
wine, and taken, it helpeth conception. The leaves
74 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
being applied with honey to running sores and ulcers,
do cleanse them.
I suppose the seeds of them perform this better than
the roots .; and though Galen commended garden Carrots
highly to break wind, yet experience teachefh they
breed it first, and we may thank nature for expelling it,
not they ; the seeds of them expel wind indeed, and so
Diend what the root marreth.
Carraway. (h. d. 3.)
The Carraway is propagated chiefly for the seeds.
Descript.] It beareth divers stalks of fine cut leaves,
lying upon the ground, somewhat like to the leaves
of carrots, but not bushing so thick, of a little quick
taste in them, from among which riseth np a square
Stalk, not so high as the carrot, at whose joints are set
the like leaves, but smaller and fitter, and at the top
Small open tufts, or umbels of white flowers, which turn
into small blackish seed, smaller than the Anniseed, and
of a quicker and better taste. The root is whitish, small
and long, somewhat like unto a parsnip, but with more
wrinkled bark, and much less, of a little hot and quick
taste, and stronger than the parsnip, and abideth after
«eed-time.
Place.] It is usually sown with us in gardens.
Time.] They flower in June and July and seed
quickly after.
Government and Virtues.] This is also a Mercurial plant.
Carraway seed hath a moderate sharp quality, whereby
it breaketh wind, and provoketh urine, which also the
herb doth. The young root is better food than the parsnips;
it is pleasant and comfortable to the stomach, and
Jielpeth digestion. The seed is conducing to all cold
griefs of the head and stomach, bowels, or mother, as
also the wind in them, and helpeth to sharpen the eye
sight. The powder of the seed put into a poultice,
taketh away black and blue spots of blows and bruises;
The herb itself, or with some of the seed .bruised and
fried, laid hot in a bag or double cloth to the lower parti
of the belly, easeth the pains of the wind and colic.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 75
The roots of Carraways eaten as men eat parsnips,
strengthen the stomach of ancient people exceedingly,
and they need not to make a whole meal of them nei
ther.
Carraway confects, once only dipped in sugar, and
half a spoonful of them eaten in the morning fasting,
and as many after each meal, is a most admirable re
medy for those that are troubled with wind.
Celandine. © and ft. (h. d. 3.)
It is called Chelidoninm, from the Greek word cheli-
don, which signifies a swallow, because they say that if
you put out the eyes of young swallows when they are
in the nest, the old ones will recover their eyes again
with this herb ; this I am confident, for I have tried it,
that if we mar the very apple of their eyes with a needle,
she will recover them again ; but whether with this
herb or not, I know not.
Descript.] This hath divers tender, round, whitish
green stalks, with greater joints than ordinary in
other herbs, as it were knees, very brittle and
easy to break, from whence grow branches with large
tender broad leaves, divided into many parts, each of
them cut in on the edges, set at the joint on both sides of
the branches, of a dark bluish green colour, on the up
per side like columbines, and of a more pale bluish green
underneath, full of yellow sap, when any part is broken,
of a bitter taste, and strong scent ; the flowers consist of
four leaves a-piece, after which come small long pods, with
blackish seed therein ; the root is somewhat great at the
head, shooting forth divers long roots and small strings,
reddish on the out-side, and yellow within, full ofyellow
sap therein. *
Place.] They grow in many places by old walls, hedges
and way-sides in unfilled places, and being onee planted
in a garden, especially some shady places, it will remain
there.
Time.] They flower all the Summer long, and the seed
ripeneth in the mean time.
Government and Virtues.] This is an herb of theSun, and
e 2
76 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED/
under the celestial Lion, and is one of the best Cures for
the eyes ; for all that know any thing in astrology, know
that the eyes are subject to the luminaries ; let it then be
gathered when the Sun is in Leo, and the Moon in Aries,
applying to this time ; let Leo arise, then may you make
it into an oil or ointment, which you please, to anoint
your sore eyes with : I can prove it doth both by my own
experience, and the experience of those to whom I hate
taught it, that most desperate sore eyes have been cured
by this only medicine ; and then I pray, is not this far
better than endangering the eyes by the art of the needle?
For if this doth not absolutely take away the film, it will
so facilitate the work, that it may be done without dan
ger. The herb or root boiled in white wine and drank, a
few anniseeds being boiled therewith, openeth obstructi
ons of the liver and gall, helpeth the yellow jaundice ;
and often using it, helps the dropsy and the itch, and those
that have old sores in their legs, or other parts of thebody ;
the juice thereof taken fasting, is held to be of singular
good use against the pestilence ; the distilled water, with
a little sugar and a little good treacle mixed therewith
(the party upon the taking being laid down to sweat a
little) hath the same efl'edt ; the juice dropped into the
eyes, cleanseth them from films and cloudiness which
darken the sight, but it is best to allay the sharpness of
the juice with a little breast-milk. It is good in old filthy
corroding creeping ulcers wheresoever, to stay their
malignity of fretting and running, and to cause them to
heal more speedily ; the juice often applied to tetters, ring
worms, or other spreading cankers, will quickly heal
them, and rubbed often upon warts, will take them
away ; the herb with the roots bruised and bathed with
oil of Camomile, and applied to the navel, taketh away
the griping pains in the belly and bowels, and all the
pains of the mother; and applied to womens breasts,
stayeth the overmuch flowing of the courses ; the juice
or decoction of the herb gargled between the teeth that
ache, easeth the pain, and the powder of the dried root
laid upon any aching, hollow or loose tooth, will cause
it to fall out ; the juice mixed with some powder
of brimstone is not only good against the itch, but tak
eth away all discolourings of the skin whatsoever ; and
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 77
if it chance that in a tender body it causeth any kchings
or inflammations, by bathing the place with a little vine
gar, it is helped.
Another ill-favoured trick have physicians got to use
to the eye, and that is worse than the needle ; which is
to take away the films by corroding or gnawing medi
cines; this 1 absolutely protest against.
1. Because the tunicies of the eyes are very thin, and
therefore soon eaten asunder.
2. The callus or film that they would eat away, is sel
dom of an equal thickness in every place, and then the
tunicle may be eaten asunder in one place, before the
film be consumed in another, and so be a readier way to
extinguish thes;ght than to restore it.
Also 1 have read (and it seems to be somewhat proba
ble) that the herb, being gathered as I shewed before, and
the elements drawn apart from it by the art of the alchy-
mist, and after tbey are drawn apart rectified, the earth
ly quality, still in rectifying thera added to the Terra
damnata (as Alchymists calls it) or Terra sacratissima (as
some philosophers call it) the elements so rectified are
sufficient for the cure of all diseases, the humours offend
ing being known, and the contrary element given. It is
an experiment worth the trying, and can do no harm.
The Lesser Celandine, usually known by the
name of Pilewort and Fogwort. <$ . (h. d. 2.)'
I wonder what ailed the ancients to give this the name
of Celandine, which resembles it neither in nature or
form ; it required the name of Pilewort from its virtues,
and it being no great matter where 1 set it down, so I
set it down at all, I humoured Dr. Tradition so much,
as to set him down here.
Descript."] This Celandine or Pilewort (which you
please) doth spread many round pale green lea ves, set ou
weak and trailing branches, which lie upon the ground,
and are flat, smooth and somewhat shining, and in some
places (though seldom) marked with black spots, each
standing on a long footstalk, among which rise small yel
low flowers, consisting of nine or ten small narrow leaves,
upon slender faot.stalks, very like unto Crowsfoot,
78 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLAftGED.
whereunto the seed also is not unlike, being many small
kernels like a grain of corn, sometimes twice as long as
others, of a whitish colour, with some fibres at the end
of them.
P/«ce ] It groweth for the most past in moist corners of
fields and places that are near water sides, yet will abide
in drier ground if they be but a little shady.
Time.] It flowereth betimes about March or April, it
qjuite gone by May ; so it cannot be found till it spring
again.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Mars, and behold here another verification of the learn
ing of the antients, viz. that the virtue of an herb may
be known by its signature, as plainly appears in this ;
for if. you dig up the root of it, you shall perceive the
perfect image of the disease which they commonly call
the piles. It is certain by good experience, that the de-
coction of the leaves and roots doth wonderfully help
piles and haemorrhoids, also kernels by the ears and throat,
called the king's evil, or any other hard wens or tumours.
Here's another secret for my countrymen and women,
a couple of them together ; Pilewort made into an oil,
ointment, or plaister, readily cures both the piles, or hae
morrhoids, and the king's evil ; the very herb borne
about one's body next the skin, helps in such diseases,
though it never touch the place grieved ; let poor peo
ple make much of it for their uses ; with this 1 cured my
own daughter of the king's evil, broke the sore, drew
out a quarter of a pint of corruption, cured without any
scar at all in one week's time.
The ordinary small Centaury. Q. (h. d. 3.)
There are two kinds of this plant, one bearing pale red
flowers the other white ; but their virtues are the same.
Descript.] This groweth up most usually but with
one round and somewhat crusted stalk, about a foot
high or better, branching forth at the top into many
sprigs, and some also from the joints of the stalks
below ; the llowers thus stand at the tops as it
were in one umbel or tuft, are of a pale red, tending to
carnation colour, consisting of five, sometimes ux small
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED; 70
leaves, very like those of St. John's wort, opening them^
selves in the day time and closing at night, aftet which
come seeds in litttle short husks, in form like unto wheat
corn ; the leaves are small and somewhat round ; the
root small and hard, perishing every year ; the whole
plant is of an exceeding bitter taste.
Place.] They grow ordinary in fields, pastures and
woods, but that with the while flowers not so frequent
ly as the other.
Time.] They flower in July or thereabouts, and seed
within a mouth after.
Government and Virtues.] They are under the dominion
of the Sun, as appears in that their flowers open and shut
as the Sun either sheweth or hideth his face; this herb,
boiled and drank, purgeth choleric and gross humours,
and helpeth the sciatica; itopeneth obstructions of the li
ver, gall, and spleen, helpeth the jaundice, and easeth
the pains in the sides, and hardness of the spleen, used
outwardly, and is given with very good effect in agues.
It helpeth those that have the dropsy, or the green sick*
ness, being much used by the Italians in powder for that
purpose ; it killeth the worms in the belly, as is found by
experience ; the decoction thereof, viz. the tops of the
stalks, with the leaves and flowers, is good against the co
lic, and to bring down women's courses, helpeth to void
the dead birth, and easeth pains of the mother, and is ve
ry effectual in old pains of the joints, as the gout, cramps,
or convulsions. A dram of the powder thereof taken in
wine, is a wonderful good help against the biting and
poison of an adder; the juice of the herb with a little ho
ney put to it, is good to clear the eyes from dimness,
mists and clouds that offend or hinder sight. It is singu
lar good both for green and fresh wounds, as also for old
ulcers and sores, to close up the one, and cleanse the other,
apd perfectly to cure them both, although they are hollow
or fistulous, the green herb especially being bruised and
laid thereto ; the decoction thereof dropped into the
ears, cleanseth them from worms, cleanseth the foul ulcers
and spreading scabs of the head, and taketh away all frec
kles, spots, and marks in the skin, being washed with it.
The herb is so safe you cannot fail in the using of it, only
£4
80 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
giving it inwardly for inward diseases ; 'tis very whole
some, but not very toothsome.
There is, besides these, another small Centaury, which
beareth a yellow flower ; in all other respects it is like
the former, save that the leaves are bigger, and of a
darker green, and the stalk passeth through the midst of
them as it doth the herb Thorowan. They are all of
them, as I told you, under the government of the Sun :
yet this, if you observe it, you shall find an excellent
truth ; in diseases of the blood, use the red Centaury ;
if of choler, use the yellow; but if phlegm or water, you
will find the white best.
The Cherry-Tree. ? . (h. m. 2.)
I Suppose there are few but know this tree, for its
fruit's sake ; and therefore I shall spare writing a de
scription thereof.
Place.] For the place of its growth, it is afforded room
in every orchard.
Government and Virtues.] It is a tree ofVenus. Cherries,
as they are of different tastes, so they are of different
qualities ; the sweet pass through the stomach and the
belly more speedily, but are of little nourishment; the
tart or sour are more pleasing to an hot stomach, pro
cure appetite to meat, and help to cut tough phlegm,
and gross humours; but when they are dried, they are
more binding to the belly than when they are fresh, be
ing cooling in hot diseases, and welcome to the sto.
raach, and provoke urine; the gum of the Cherry-tree,
dissolved in wine, is good for a cold, cough, and hoarse
ness of the throat; mending the colour in the face,
sharpeneth the eye-sight, provoketh appetite, and help-
eth to break and expel the stone ; the black Cherries
bruised with the stones, and dissolved, the water thereof
is much used to break the stone, and to expel gravel
and wind.
Winter Cherries. ? . (h. m. 2.)
These grow not naturally in this land, but are cherished
in gardens for their virtues.
1
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 81
Descript.] The Winter Cherry hath a running or creep
ing root in the ground, of the bigness many times of
one's little finger, shooting forth at several joints in
several places, whereby it quickly spreads a great com
pass of ground ; the stalk riseth not above a yard high,
'whereon are set many broad and long green leaves, some
what like Night shade, but larger; at the joints whereof
come forth whitish flowers made of five leaves a-piece,
which afterward turn into green berries inclosed with
thin skins, which change to be reddish when they grow
ripe, the berries likewise being reddish, and as large as
a cherry, wherein are contained many flat and yel
lowish seeds lying within the pulp, which being gathered
and strung up, are kept all the year to be used upon oc
casion.
Time.] They flower not until the middle or latter end.
of July ; and the fruit is ripe about August, or the be
ginning of September.
Government and Virtues.] This also is a plant of Ve-
nus. They are of great use in physic ; the leaves being
cooling, may be used in inflammations, but not open
ing as the berries and fruit are ; which by drawing down
the urine provoke it to be voided plentifully when it is
stopped or grown hot, sharp, and painful in the pas.
sage; it is good also to expel the stone and gravel out of
the reins, kidnies, and bladder, helping to dissolve the
stone, and voiding it by grit or gravel sent forth in the
urine; it also helpeth much to cleanse inward impost-
humes or ulcers in the reins or bladder, or those that
void a bloody or foul urine ; the distilled water of the
fruit, or the leaves together with them, or the berries,
green or dry, distilled with a little milk and drank morn
ing and evening with a little sugar, is effectual to ail the
purposes before specified, and especially against the heat
and sharpness of the urine. I shall mention one way,
amongst many others, which might be used for ordering
the berries, to be helpful for the urine and stone; which
is this; take three or four good handfuls of the berries,
either green or fresh, or dried, and having bruised them,
put them in so many gallons of beer or ale when it i»
new and tunned up ; this drink, taken daily, hath been
found to do much good to many, both to ease the pains,
e 5
82 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
and expel urine and the stone, and to cause the stone
Jiot to engender; the decoction of the berries in wine and
water is the most usual way, but the powder of them
taken in drink is more effectual.
Chervil. If., (h. m. I.)
It is called Cerefolinm, Mirrhis, and Mirrha, Chervil,
Sweet Chervil, and Sweet Cicely.
Descript.] The garden Chervil doth at first somewhat
resemble Parsley, but after it is better grown, the leaves
are much cut in and jagged, resembling hemlock, be
ing a little hairy and of a whitish green colour, sometimes
turning reddish in the Summer, with the stalks also ; it
riseth a little above half a foot high, bearing white flow-
ers in spiked tufts, which turn into long and round seeds,
pointed at the ends, and blackish when they are ripe ;
of a sweet taste, but no smell, though the herb itself
smelleth reasonably well. The root is small and long,
and perisheth every year, and must be sown a-new in
Spring for seed, and after July for Autumn sallct.
Hie wild Chervil groweth two or three feet high,
with yellow stalks and joints, set with broader and more
hairy leaves, divided into sundry parts, nicked about
the edges, and of a dark green colour, which likewise
grow reddish with the stalks; at the tops whereof stand
small white tufts of flowers, afterwards smaller and
longer seed. The root is white, hard, and endureth
long. This hath little or no scent.
Place.'] The first is sown in gardens for a sallad herb;
the second groweth wild in many of the meadows of
this land, and by the hedge sides, and on heaths.
Time.] They flower and seed early, and thereupon
are sown again in the end of Summer.
Government and Virtues."] The garden Chervil being
eaten, doth moderately warm the stomach, and is a cer
tain remedy (saith Tragus) to dissolve congealed or
clotted blood in the body, or that which is clotted by
bruises, fails, &c. The juice or distilled water thereof
being drank, and the bruised lea^es laid to the p'ace,
being taken either in meat or drink, it is good to help
to provoke urine, or expel the stone in the kidnies, to
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 83
send down women's courses, and to help the pleurisy
and pricking of the sides.
The wild Chervil bruised and applied, dissolveth
swellings in any part, or the marks of congealed blood
by bruises or blows in a little space.
The sweet Chervil groweth very like the great hem
lock, having large spread leaves cut into divers parts,
but of a fresher green colour than the hemlock, tasting
as sweet as the anniseed. The stalks rise up a yard
high, or better, being cressed or hollow, having leaves
at the joints, but lesser ; and at the tops of the branched
stalks, umbels or tufts of white flowers; after which
come large and long crested black shining seed, pointed
at both ends, tasting quick, yet sweet and pleasant.
The root is great and white, growing deep in the ground,
and spreading sundry long branches therein, in taste and
smell stronger than the leaves or seeds, and continuing
many years.
Place.'] This groweth in gardens.
Government and Virtues."} These are all three of them
of the nature of Jupiter, and under his dominion. This
whole plant, besides its pleasantness hi sallets, hath its
physical virtue. The foot boiled, and eaten with oil and
vinegar, (or without oil) does much please and warm
old and cold stomachs oppressed with wind or phlegm,
or those that have the phthisick or consumption of the
lungs. The same drank with wine is a preservation from
the plague. It provoketh women's courses, and expel-
leth the after-birth, procureth an appetite to meat, and
expelleth wind. The juice is good to heal the ulcers of
the head and face ; the candied roots hereof are held as
effectual as Angelica, to preserve from infection in the
time of a plague and to warm and comfort a cold weak
stomach. It is so harmless you cannot use it amiss.
Chesnut Tree. %. (h. d. 2.)
It were as needless to describe a tree so commonly
known, as to tell a man he had gotten a mouth, therefore
take the government and virtues of them thus:
The tree is abundantly under the ilominion of Jupiter,
and therefore the fruit must needs breed good blood,
£ 6
84 THE ENGLISH PHVSICIAN ENLARGED.
and yield commendable nourishment to the body; yet,
if eaten over-much, they make the blood thick, procure
hcad-ach, and bind the body; the inner skin, that co-
vereth the nut, is of so binding a quality, that a scruple
of it being taken by a man, or ten grains by a child,
soon stops any flux whatsoever: The whole nut being
dried and beaten into powder, and a dram taken at a
time, is a good remedy to stop the terms in women. If
you dry Chesnuts, (only the kernels I mean) both the
barks being taken away, beat them into powder, and
make the powder up into an electuary with honey, so
have you an admirable remedy for the cough and spitting
of blood.
Earth Chesnuts. ? . (c. m. 3.)
They are called Earth Nuts, Earth Chesnuts, Ground
Nuts, Cipper Nuts, and in Sussex Pig Nuts. A de
scription of them were needless, for every child knows
them.
Government and Virtues.] They are something hot and
dry in quality, under the dominion of Venus, they pro
voke lust exceedingly, and stir up those sports she is
mistress of; the seed is excellent good to provoke urine ;
and so also is the root, but it doth not perform it so for
cibly as the seed doth. The root being dried and beaten
into a powder, and the powder made into an electuary,
is as singular a remedy for spitting and pissing of blood,
as the former Chesnut was for coughs.
Chickweed. J. (c.m. 3.)
It is so generally known to most people, that I shall
not trouble you with the description thereof, nor myself
with setting forth the several kinds, since but only two
or three are considerable for their usefulness.
Place.] They are usually found in moist and watery
places, by wood sides, and elsewhere.
Time.] They flower about June, and their seed is ripe
in July.
Government and Virtues.] It is a fine soft pleasing herb,
under the dominion of the Moon. It is found to be as
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 85
effectual as Purslain to all the purposes whereunto it
serveth, except for meat only. The herb bruised, or
the juice applied (with cloths or spunges dipped there
in) to the region of the liver, and as they dry, to have
it fresh applied, doth wonderfully temperate the heat of
the liver, and is effectual for all imposthumes and
swellings whatsoever, for all redness in the face, wheals,
pushes, itch, scabs; the juice either simply used, or
boiled with hog's grease and applied, helpeth cramps,
convulsions, and palsy. The juice, or distilled water,
is of much good use for all heats and redness in the
eyes, to drop some thereof into them ; as also in the
ears, to ease pains in them ; and is of good eflecT; to ease
pains from the heat and sharpness of the blood in the
piles, and generally all pains in the body that arise of
heat. It is used also in hot and virulent ulcers and sores
in the privy parts, or on the legs, or elsewhere. The
leaves boiled with marsh-mallows, and made into a poul
tice with fenugreek and linseed, applied to swellings and
imposthumes, ripen and break them, or assuage the swel
lings and ease the pains. It helpeth the sinews when
they are shrunk by cramps, or otherwise, and to extend
and make them pliable again by this medicine. Boil a
handful of Chickweed, and a handful of red rose leaves
dried in a quart of muscadine, until a fourth part be con
sumed ; then put to them a pint of oil of trotter's or
sheep's feet; let them boil a good while, still stirring
them well; which being strained, anoint the grieved
place therewith, warm against the lire, rubbing it well
with one hand ; and bind also some of the herb (if you
will) to the place, and, with God's blessing, it will help
it in three times dressing.
Chick-Pease, or Cicers. $. (h. m. l.J
The garden sorts, whether red, black, or white, are so
well known as to require no description.
Place and Time.] They are sown in gardens, or fields,
as pease, being sown later than pease, and gathered at
the same time with them, or presently after.
Government and Virtues.'] They are both under the do
minion of Veaus. They are less windy than beans,
86 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
but nourish more ; they provoke urine, and arc
thought to increase sperm ; they have a cleansing fa
culty, whereby they break the stone in the kidnies. To
drink the cream of them, being boiled in water, is the
best way. It moves the belly downwards, provokes
women's courses and urine, increases both milk and
seed. One ounce of Cicers, two ounces of French
barley, and a small handful of marsh-mallow roots, clean
washed and cut, being boiled in the broth of a chicken,
and four ounces taken in the morning, and fasting two
hours after, is a good medicine for a pain in the sides.
The white Cicers are used more for meat than medicine,
yet have the same effects, and are thought more power
ful to increase milk and seed. The wild Cicers are so
much more powerful than the garden kinds, by how
much they exceed them in heat and dryness ; whereby
they do more open obstructions, break the stone, and
have all the properties of cutting, opening, digesting,
and dissolving ; and this more speedily and certainly
than the former.
Cinquefoil, (If. temp.)
This is c lied in some counties five-fingered grass.
Descript.] It spreads and creeps far upon the ground
with long slender strings like strawberries, which
take root again, and shoot forth many leaves made
of five parts, and sometimes of seven, dented about
the edges, and somewhat hard. The stalks are slen
der, leaning downwards, and bear many small yellow
flowers thereon, with some yellow threads in the
middle, standing about a smooth green head, which,
when it is ripe, is a little rough, and containeth small
brownish seed. The root is of a blackish brown co
lour, as big as one's little finger, but growing long,
with some threads thereat ; and by the small strings it
quickly spreadeth over the ground.
P/ace.] It groweth by wood sides, hedge sides, the
path-way in fields, and in the borders and corners of
them, almost through all this land.
Time.] It flowereth in summer, some sooner, some
later.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 87
Government and Virtues.] This is an herb of Jupiter,
and therefore strengthens the part of the body it rules ;
let Jupiter be angular and strong when gathered ; and
if you give but a scruple (which is but twenty grains^)
of it at a time, either in white wine, or in white wine
vinegar, you shall very seldom miss the cure of an ague,
be it what ague soever, in three fits, as I hare often
proved, to the admiration both of myself and others ; let
no man despise it, because it is plain and easy, the ways
of God are all such. It is an especial herb used in all
inflammations and fevers, whether infectious or pesti
lential ; or among other herbs to cool and temper the
blood and humours in the body ; as also for all lotions,
gargles, infections, and the like ; for sore mouths, ul
cers, cancers, fistulas, and other corrupt, foul, or run-
nin£'sores. The juice hereof drank, about four ounces
at a time, for certain days together, cureth the quinsy
and yellow jaundice ; and taken for thirty days toge
ther, cureth the falling sickness. The roots boiled in
milk and drank, is a more effectual remedy for all fluxes
in man or woman, whether the white or red, as also the
bloody-flux. The roots boiled in vinegar, and the de
coction thereof held in the mouth, easeth the pains of
the tooth-ach. The juice or decoction taken with a
little honey, helpeth the hoarseness of the throat, and is
very good for the cough of the lungs. The distilled
.water of both roots and leaves is also effectual to all the
purposes aforesaid ; and if the hands be often washed
therein, and suffered at every time to dry in of itself
without wiping, it will in a short time help the palsy or
shaking in them. The root boiled in vinegar, helpeth
all knots, kernels, hard swellings, and lumps growing in
any part of the flesh, being thereto applied ; as also in
flammations, and St. Anthony's Fire ; all imposthumes,
and painful sores with heat and putrefaction ; the
shingles also, and all other sorts of running and foul
scabs, sores, and itch. The same also boiled in wine,
and applied to any joint full of pain, ache, or the gout
in the hands or feet, or the hip gout, called the Sciatica,
and the decoction thereof drank the while, doth cure
them, and easeth much pain in the bowels. The roots
are likewise effectual to help ruptures or burstings, being
1
88 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
used with other things available to that purpose, taken
either inwardly or outwardly, or both ; as all bruises
or hurts by blows, falls, or the like, and to stay the
bleeding of wounds in any parts inward or outward.
Some hold that one leaf cures a quotidian, three a
tertian, and four a quartan ague, and a hundred to one
if it be not Dioscorides, for he is full of whimsies. The
truth is, I never stood so much upon the number of the
leaves, nor whether I give it in powder or decoction :
If Jupiter were strong, and the Moon applying to him,
and his good aspect at the gathering, 1 never knew it
miss the desired effects.
Cives. (J. (h. d.
Called also Rush Leeks, Chives, Civet, and Sweth.
Temperature and Virtues.] I confess I had not added
these, had it not been for a country gentleman, who by
a letter certified me, that amongst other herbs, I had left
these out ; they are indeed a kind of leeks, hot and dry
in the fourth degree as they are, and so under the do
minion of Mars ; if they be eaten raw, (I do not mean
raw, opposite to roasted or boiled, but raw, opposite to
chymical preparation) they send up very hurtful va
pours to the brain, causing troublesome sleep, and
spoiling the eye-sight ; yet of them, prepared by the art
of the alchymisf, may be made an excellent remedy for
the stoppage of urine.
Garden Clary. ) .
This is also in some counties known by the name of
Clear-eye.
Descript.'] Our ordinary garden Clary hath four square
stalks, with broad, rough, wrinkled, whitish, or hairy
green leaves, somewhat evenly cut in on the edges, and
of a strong sweet scent, growing some near the ground,
and some by couples upon stalks. The flowers grow at
certain distances, with two small leaves at the joints
under them, somewhat like unto flowers of sage, but
smaller and of a whitish blue colour. The seed is brown
ish, and somewhat flat, or not so round as the wild. The
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 89
roots are blackish, and spread not far, and perish after
the seed-time. It is usually sown, for it seldom rises of
its own sowing.
Place.'] This groweth in gardens.
Time.] It flowereth in June and July, some a little
later than others, and their seed is ripe in August.
Government and Virtues.'] It is under the dominion of
the Moon. The seed put into the eyes clears them
from motes and such like things gotten within the lids
to offend them, also clears them from white and red
spots. The mucilage of the seed made with water,
and applied to tumours, or swellings, disperseth and
taketh them away ; also draweth forth splinters, thorns
or other things gotten into the flesh, the leaves used
with vinegar, either by itself, or with a little honey,
doth help boils, felons, and the hot inflammations
that are gathered by their pains, if applied before it be
grown too great. The powder of the dried root put
into the nose, provoketh sneezing, and thereby purgeth
the head and brain of much rheum and corruption. The
seed or leaves taken in wine, provoketh to venery. It
is of much use both for men and women that have weak
backs, and helpeth to strengthen the reins ; used either
by itself, or with other herbs, conducing to the same
effect, and in tansies often. The fresh leaves dipped in
a batter of flour, eggs, and a little milk, and fried in
butter, and served to the table, is not unpleasant to
any, but exceeding profitable for those that are troubled
with weak backs, and the effects thereof. The juice of
the herb put into ale or beer, and drank, bringeth down
women's courses and expelleth the after-births.
Wild Clary. 5. (c. m. 1.)
Wild Clary is most blasphemously called Christ's
Eye, because it cures diseases of the eyes. I could
wish from my soul blasphemy, ignorance, and tyranny
were ceased among physicians, that they may be happy
and I joyful.
Descript.] It is like the other Clary, but lesser, with
many stalks about a foot and a half high. The stalks
are square, and somewhat hairy ; the flowers of a blush
90 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
colour : He that knows the common Clary cannot be
ignorant of this.
Place.] It grows commonly in this nation in barren
places ; you may find it plentifully, if you look in the
fields near Gray's-Inn, and near Chelsea.
Time.] They flower from the beginning of June till
the latter end of August.
Government and Virtues.] It is something hotter and
drier than the garden Clary ; nevertheless it is under the
dominion of the Moon, as well as that : The seeds of it
being beaten to powder, and drank with wine, is an ad
mirable help to provoke lust. A decoction of the leaves
being drank, warm the stomach, and it is a wonder if it
should not, the stomach being under Cancer, the house
of the Moom. Also it helps digestion, scatters congealed
blood in any part of the body. The distilled water
hereof clcanseth the eyes of redness, waterishness and
heat : It is a gallant remedy for dimness of sight, to take
one of the seeds of it and put into the eyes, and there let
it remain till it drops out of itself, the pain will be no.
thing to speak on ; it will cleanse the eyes ofall filthy and
putrified matter; and in often repeating it, will takeoff 3
film which covereth the sight ; a handsomer, safer, and ea
sier remedy by a great deal, than to tear it off with a,
beedle.
Cleavers. ). (c. m. 1.)
It is also called Aparine, Goose-share, and Goose-grass.
Descript."] The common Cleavers have divers very
rough square stalks, not so big as the top of a point, but
rising up to be two or three yards high sometimes, if it
meet with any tall bushes or trees, whereon it may
climb, yet without any claspers, or else much lower,
and lying on the ground, full of joints, and at every
one of them shootcth forth a branch, beside the leaves
thereat, which are usually six, set in a round compass,
like a star, or a rowel of a spur : From between the
leaves or the joints towards the tops of the branches
come forth very small ' white flowers, at every end upon
small thready foot-stalks, which after they have fallen,
there do shew two small round and rough seeds joined
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 91
together, which, when they are ripe, grow hard and
whitish, having a little hole on the side, something
like unto a navel. Both stalks, leaves, and seed; are so
rough, that they will cleave to any thing that shall
touch them. The root is small and thready, spreading
much to the ground, but dieth every year.
Place.] It groweth by the hedge and ditch-sides in
many places of this land, and is so troublesome an in
habitant in gardens, that it rampeth upon, and is ready
to choak whatever grows near it.
Time.] It flowereth in June or July, and the seed is
ripe and lalleth again in the end of July and August, from
whence it spnngeth up again, and not from the old root.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
the Moon. The juice of the herb and the seed together
taken in wine, helpeth those bitten with an adder, by
preserving the heart from the venom. It is familiarly
taken in broth, to keep them lean and lank that are
apt to grow fat. The distilled water drank twice a
day, helpeth the yellow jaundice ; and the decodtion of
the herb, in experience, is found to do the same, and
stayeth lasks and bloody-fluxes. The juice of the
leaves, or they a little bruised and applied to any
bleeding wounds, stayeth the bleeding. The juice also
is very good to close up the lips of green wounds, and
the powder of the dried herb strewed thereupon doth
the same, and likewise helpeth old ulcers. Being boiled
in hog's grease, it helpeth all sorts of hard swellings or
kernels in the throat, being anointed therewith. The
juiee dropped into the ears, taketh away the pain of them.
It is a good remedy in the Spring, eaten (being first
chopped small, and boiled well) in water-gruel, to
cleanse the blood, and strengthen the liver, thereby to
keep the body in health, and fitting it for that change of
season that is coming.
Clown's Woundwort, ij . (c. d. 2.)
This herb deserves commendations, though it has gotten
such a clownish name ; and whosoever reads this (ifhe try
it as I have done) will commend it ; only take notice,
fhat it is of a dry earthy quality.
92 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Descript.] It groweth up sometimes to two or three
feet high, but usually about two feet, with square,
green, rough stalks, but slender, joined somewhat
liar asunder, and two very long, somewhat narrow
dark green leaves bluntly dented about the edges
thereof, ending in a long point. The flowers stand
towards the tops, compassing the stalks at the joints
with the leaves, and end likewise in a spiked top, having
long and much gaping hoods of a purplish red colour,
with whitish spots in them, standing in somewhat round
husks, wherein afterwards stand blackish round seeds.
The root is composed of many long strings, with some
tuberous long knobs growing among them, of a pals
yellowish or whitish colour; yet some times of the
year these knobby roots in many places are not seen in
this plant. The plant smelleth somewhat strong-
Place."} It groweth in sundry counties of this land, both
north and west, and frequently by path-sides in the fields
near about London, and within three or four miles
distant about it ; yet it usually grows in or near ditches.
Time.] It flowereth in June or July, and the seed is
ripe soon after.
Government and Virtues."] It is under the dominion of
the planet Saturn. It is singularly effectual in all fresh
and green wounds, and therefore beareth not this name
for nought. And it is very available in staunching of
blood, and to dry up the fluxes of humours in old fret
ting ulcers, cankers, &e. that hinder the healing of them.
A syrup made of the juice of it, is inferior to none for
inward wounds, ruptures of veins, bloody flux, vessels
broken, spitting, pissing, or vomiting blood. Ruptures
are excellently and speedily, even to admiration, cured
by taking now and then a little of the syrup, and ap
plying an ointment or plaistcr of this herb to the place.
Also, if any vein be swelled or muscle, apply a plaister
of this herb to it, and if you add a little Comfrey to it,
it will not do amiss.
Cock's Head. ? . (h. m. 2.)
This is also called Red Fitching, and Medick Fetch.
Descript.'] This hath divers weak but rough stalks, half
a yard long, leaning downwards, but set with winged
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 93
leaves, longer and more pointed than those of lintels,
and whitish underneath ; from the tops of these stalks
arise up other slender stalks naked without leaves unto
the tops, where there grow many small flowers in manner
cf a spike, of a pale reddish colour, with some blueness
among them ; after which rise up in their places, round,
and somewhat flat heads. The root is tough, and some
what woody, yet liveth and shooteth a-new every year.
Place. J It groweth under hedges, and sometimes in
the open fields in divers places of this land.
Time.] They flower all the months of July and Au
gust, and the seed ripeneth in the mean while.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Venus. It hath power to rarify and digest ; and there
fore the green leaves bruised and laid as a plaister, dis
perse knots, nodes, or kernels in the flesh ; and if when
dry it be taken in wine, it helpeth the stranguary ; and
being anointed with oil, it provoketh sweat. It is a
singular food for cattle, to cause them to give store of
milk ; and why then may it not do the like, being boiled
in ordinary drink, for nurses ?
Columbines. (h. m. 2.)
These are so well known, growing almost in every gar- -
den, that I think I may save expence of time in writing
a description them.
Time.] They flower in May, and abide not, for the
most part, when June is past, perfecting their seed in the
mean time.
Government and Virtues.] It is also an herb of Venus.
The leaves of Columbines are commonly used in lotions
with good success for sore mouths and throats. Tragus
saith, that a dram of the seed taken in wine with a little
saffron openeth obstructions of the liver, and is good for
the yellow jaundice, if the party after the taking there
of be laid to sweat well in bed. The seed also taken in
wine, causeth a speedy delivery of women in child-birth ;
if one draught suffice not, let her drink the second, and
it is effectual : The Spaniards used to eat a piece of the
root thereof in a morning fasting, many days together, to
help them when troubled with the stone in the reins or
kidnies.
54 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Colt's Foot. ? . (h. m. I)
Called also Coughwort, Foal's-foot, Horse-hoof, and
Bull's-foot.
Descript.] This shooteth up a slender stalk, -with small
yellowish flowers somewhat early which fall away quickly,
and after they are past, come up somewhat round leaves,
sometimes dented about the edges, much lesser, thicker,
and greener than those of butter-bur, with a little down
or frieze over the green leaf on the upper side, which
may be rubbed away, and whitish or meally underneath.
The root is small and white, spreading much under
ground, so that where it taketh, it will hardly be driven
away again, if any little piece be abiding therein; and
from thence spring fresh leaves.
Place.] Itgrowethas well in wetgrounds as in drier places.
Time.] And flowereth in the end of February ; the
leaves begin to flower in March.
Government and Virtues.] The plant is under Venus ;
the fresh leaves or juice, or a syrup thereof, is good for
a hot dry cough, or wheesing, and shortness of breath.
The dry leaves are best for those who have thin rheums
and distillations upon their lungs, causing a cough ; for
which also the dried leaves taken as tobacco, or the
root, is very good. The distilled water hereof simply,
or with elder-flowers and night-shade, is a singular good
remedy against all hot agues, to drink two ounces at a
time, and apply cloths wet therein to the head and sto
mach which also does much good, being applied to
any hot swellings or inflammations. It helpeth St. An
thony's fire and burnings, and is singular good to take
away wheals and small pushes that arise through heat ;
as also the burning heat of the piles, or privy parts,
clot hs wet thereinbeing thereunto applied.
Comfrey. ij . and s. (c. d. 3.)
This is a common, but most ncglected plant of great
virtues.
Descript.] The common Great Comfrey hath divers
very large hairy green leaves lying on the ground, so
liairy or prickly, that if they touch any tender part of
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 95
the hands, face, or body, it will cause it to itch; the
stalk that riseth from among them being two or three feet
high, hollow and cornered, is very hairy also, having
many such like leaves as grow below, but lesser and les
ser up to the top ; at the joints of the stalks it is divided
into many branches, with some leaves thereon, and at
the ends stand many flowers in order one above another,
which are somewhat long and hollow like the finger of a
glove, of a pale whitish colour, after which come small
black seeds. The roots are great and long, spreading
great thick branches under ground, black on the outside,
.and whitish within, short and easy to break, and full of
glutinous or clammy juice, of little or no taste at all.
There is another sort in all things like this, only some
what less, and beareth flowers of a pale purple colour.
. Place."] They grow by ditches and water-sides, and
in divers fields that are moist, for therein they chiefly
delight to grow. The first generally through all the land,
and the other but in some places. By the leave of my
authors, I know the first grows often in dry places.
Time.'] They flower in June or July, and give their seed
in August.
Government and Virtues.} This is an herb of Saturn, and
I suppose under the sign of Capricorn, cold, dry, and
earthy in quality. What was spoken of Clown's Wound
wort, may be said of this. The Great Comfrey helpeth
those that spit blood, or make a bloody uriae. The root
boiled in water or wine, and the decoction drank, helps
all inward hurts, bruises, wounds, and ulcers of the
lungs, and causeth the phlegm that oppresseth them to be
easily spit forth. Jt helpeth the defluction of rheum
from the head upon the lungs, the fluxes of blood or hu
mours by the belly, women's immoderate courses, as well
the reds as the whites, and the running of the reins, hap
pening by what cause soever. A syrup made thereof is
very effectual for all those inward griefs and hurts, and
the distilled water for the same purpose also, and for out
ward wounds and sores in the fleshy or sinewy part of
the body whatsoever, as also to take away the fits of
agues, and to allay the sharpness of humours. A de
coction of the leaves hereof is available to all the purpo
ses, though not so effectual as the roots. The roots being
96 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
outwardly applied, help fresh wounds or cuts immediate
ly, being bruised and laid thereto ; and is special good
for ruptures and broken bones ; yea, it is said to be so
powerful to consolidate and knit together, that if they
be boiled with dissevered pieces of flesh in a pot, it will
join them together again. It is good to be applied to
women's breasts that grow sore by the abundance ofmilk
coming into them ; also, to repress the overmuch bleed-
ing of the hemorrhoids, to cool the inflammation of the
parts thereabouts, and to give ease of pains. The roots
of Comfrey taken fresh, beaten small, and spread upon
leather, and laid upon any place troubled with the gout
doth presently give ease of the pains ; and applied in the
same manner, giveth ease to pained joints, and profitcth
very much for running and moist ulcers, gangrenes, mor
tifications, and the like, for which il hath by often expe
rience been found helpful.
Coralwort. J. (c. m. 2.)
It is also called by some Toothwort, Tooth Violet, Dog
Teeth Violet, and Dentaria.
Descript.] Of the many sorts of this herb, two of them
may be found growing in this nation ; the first of which
thooteth forth one or two winged leaves, upon long
brownish footstalks, which arc doubled down at their
first coming out of the ground ; when they are fully
opened, they consist of seven leaves, most commonly of
a sad green colour, dented about the edges, set on both
sides the middle rib one against another, as the leaves
of the ash-tree ; the stalk beareth no leaves on the lower
half of it; the upper half beareth sometimes three or four,
each consisting of five leaves, sometimes of three ; on the
top stand four or five flowers upon short-stalks, with long
husks ; the flowers are very like the flowers of stock-
gilliflowers, of a pale purplish colour, consisting of four
leaves a piece, after which come small cods, which con
tain the seed ; the root is very smooth, white, and shining ;
it doth not grow downwards, but creeping along under
the upper crust of the ground, and consisteth of divers
small round knobs set together ; towards (he top of the
stalk there grows some single leaves, by each of which
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 9?
coraeth a small cloven bulb, which when it is ripe, if it
be set in the ground, it will grow to be a root.
As for the other Coralwort which groweth in this na
tion, it is more scarce than this, being a very small plant,
much like Crowfoot ; therefore some think it to be one of
the sorts of crowfoot: I know not where to direct you to
it, therefere I shall forbear the description.
Place.] The first groweth in Mayfield in Sussex, in a
wood called Highread, and in another wood there also,
called Foxholes.
Time.'] They flower from the latter end of April to the
middle of May, and before the middle of July they are
gone, and not to be found.
Government and Virtues."] It is under the dominion of
the Moon. It cleanseth the bladder, aud provoketh
urine, expels gravel and the stone; it easeth pains in
the sides and bowels, is excellent good for inward
wounds, especially such as are made in the breast or
lungs, by taking a dram of the powder of the root every
morning in wine ; the same is excellent good for ruptures,
as also to stop lluxes ; an ointment made of it is excellent
good for wounds and ulcers, for it soon drives up the
watery humours which hinder the cure.
Costmary, or Alcost, or Balsam Herb. (k. d. 2.)
This is so frequently known to be an inhabitant in almost
every garden, that I suppose it needless to write a de
scription thereof.
Time.] It flowereth in June and July.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Jupiter. The ordinary Costmary, as well as Maudlin,
provoketh urine abundantly, and moistcneth the hard
ness of the mother ; it gently purgeth choler and phlegm,
extenuating that which is gross, and cutting that which
is tough and glutinous, cleanseth that which is foul, and
hindereth putrefaction aud corruption ; it dissolveth
without attraction, openeth obstructions, and helpeth
their evil effects, and it is a wonderful help to all sorts of
dry agues. It is astringent to the stomach, and strength
ened the liver, and all the other inward parts ; and taken
in whey, worketh more effectually. Taken fasting
98 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
the morning, it is very profitable for pains in the head
that are continual ; and to stay, dry up, and consume all
thin rheums or distillations from the head into the stomach,
and helpeth much to digest raw humours that are gathered
therein. It is very profitable for those that are fallen
into a continual evil disposition of the body, called
Cachexia, but especially in the beginning of the disease.
It is an especial friend and help to evil, weak and cold
livers. The seed is familiarly given to children for the
worms, and so is the infusion of flowers in white wine
given them to the quantity of two ounces at a time : It
maketh an excellent salve to cleanse and heal old ulcers,
being boiled with oil of olive, and adder's tongue with it;
and after it is strained, put a little wax, rosin, and tur
pentine, to bring it to a convenient body.
Cudweed, or Cottonweed. 2. (h. m. 2.)
BESIDEs Cudweed and Cottonweed, it is also called
Chaffweed, Dwarf Cotton, and Petty Cotton.
Descript..] The common Cudweed riseth up with one
stalk sometimes, and sometimes with two or three, thick
set on all sides with small, long and narrow whitish and
woody leaves, from the middle of the stalk almost up to
the top; with every leaf standeth a small flower of a dun.
or brownish yellow colour, or not so yellow as others;
in which herbs, after the flowers are fallen, come small
seed wrapped up, with the down therein, and is carried
away with the wind; the root is small and thready.
There are other sorts hereof, which are somewhat lesser
than the former, not much different, save only that the
stalks and leaves are shorter, so the flowers are paler and
more open. -
Place.] They grow in dry, barren, sandy, and gravelly
grounds in most places of this land.
Time.] They flower about July, some earlier, some
later, and their seed is ripe in August.
Government and Virtues.] Wenus is lady of it. The
plants are all astringent, binding, or drying, and there
fore profitable for deflućtions of rheum from the head,
and to stay the fluxes of blood wheresoever, the decoction
being made into red wine and drank, or the powder
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 99
taken therein. It also helpeth the bloody flux, and
easeth the torments that come thereby, stayeth the im
moderate courses of women, and is also good for inward
or outward wounds, hurts or bruises, and helpeth chil
dren both of burstings and worms, and being either drank
or injećted, for the disease called Tenesmus, which is an
often provocation to the stool without doing any thing.
The green leaves bruised, and laid to any green wound,
stayeth the bleeding, and healeth it up quickly. The
juice of the herb taken in wine and inilk, is, as Pliny saith,
a sovereign remedy against the mumps and quinsy ; and
further saith, that whosoever shall so take it, shall never
be troubled with that disease again.
Cowslips, or Peagles. 2 . (temp.)
Both the wild and garden Cowslips are so well known,
that I will neither trouble myself nor the reader with a
description of them.
Time.] They flower in April and May.
Government and Virtues.] Venus lays claim to this herb,
and it is under the sign Aries, and our city dames know
well enough the ointment or distilled water of it adds
beauty, or at least restores it when it is lost. The flow
ers are held to be more effectual than the leaves, and the
roots of little use. An ointment being made with them,
taketh away spots and wrinkles of the skin, sun-burning
and freckles, and adds beauty exceedingly; they remedy
all infirmities of the head coming of heat and wind, as
vertigo, ephialtes, false apparitions, phrensies, falling
sickness, palsies, convulsions, cramps, pains in the nerves ;
the roots ease pains in the back and bladder, and open
the passages of urine. The leaves are good in wounds,
and the flowers take away trembling. If the ſlowers be
not well dried, and kept in a warm place, they will soon
putrify and look green : have a special eye over them. If
you let them see the sun once a month, it will do neither
the sun nor them harm. .
Because they strengthen the brain and nerves, and re
medy palsies, the Greeks gave them the name Paralysis.
The flowers preserved or conserved, and the quantity of a
F 2
100 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
nutmeg taken every morning, is a sufficient dose for in
ward diseases ; but for wounds, spots, wrinkles, and sun-
burnings, an ointment is made of the leaves and hog's
grease.
Crab's Claw. ?. (c. m. 1.)
Called also Water Sengreen, Knight's Pond Water,
Water Houseleek, Pond Weed, and Fresh-water Sol
dier.
Descript.] It hath sundry long narrow leaves, with
sharp prickles on the edges of them also, very sharp-point
ed ; the stalks which bear flowers seldom grow so high as
the leaves, bearing a forked head like a crab's claw, out
of which comes a white flow er, consisting of three leaves,
with yellowish hairy threads in the middle; it taketh
root in the mud in the bottom of the water.
Place.] It groweth plentifully in the fens in Lincolnshire.
Time.'] It flowereth in June, and usually from thence
till August.
Government and Virtues.] It is a plant under the domi
nion of Venus, and therefore a great strengthener of the
reins; it is excellent good in that inflammation which is
commonly called St. Anthony's fire; it assuageth all in
flammations and swellings in wounds ; and an ointment
made of it, is excellent good to heal them ; there is scarce
a better remedy growing than this is for such as
have bruised their kidnies ; a dram of the powder of the
herb taken every morning, is a very good remedy to stop
the terms.
Black Cresses. (?. (h. d. 3.)
The name of Cresses is given to several herbs, distinguish*
cd as follows ;
Descript.] It hath long loaves, deeply cut and jagged
on both sides, not much unlike wild mustard ; the stalks
small, very limber, though very tough ; you may twist
them round as you may a willow before they break. The
stones be very small and yellow, after which comes small
cods, which contain the seed.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 101
Place.] It is a common herb, grows usually by the
way-sides, and sometimes upon mud walls about London ;
but it delights most to grow among stones and rubbish.
Time.] It flowers in Juno and July, and the seed is
ripe in August and September.
Government and Virtues/] It is a plant of a hot and
biting nature, under the dominion of Mars. The. seed of
Black Cresses strengthens the brain exceedingly, being in
performing that office little inferior to mustard-seed, if at
all ; they are excellent good to stay those rheums which
may fall down from the head upon the lungs ; you may
beat the seed into powder, if you please, and make it up
into an electuary with honey ; so you have an excellent
remedy by you, not only for the- premises, but 'also for
the cough, yellow jaundice, and sciatica. The herb
boiled into a poultice, is an excellent remedy for inflam
mations, both in women's breasts and men's testicles.
Sciatica Cresses. J? . (c. d. 2.)
These also are of two kinds.
Descript.] T\e first riseth up with around stalk, about
two Wet high, spread into divers branches, whose lower
leaves are somewhat larger than the upper, yet all of them
cut or torn on the edges, somewhat like garden cresses,
but smaller; the flowers are small and white, growing at
the tops of branches, where afterwards grow husks,
with small brownish seed therein, very strong . and sharp
in taste, more than the cresses of the garden ; the root is
long, white, and woody.
The other hath the lower leaves whole, somewhat long
and broad, not torn at all, but only somewhat deeply
dented about the edges towards the ends; but those that
grow up higher are lesser. The flowers and seeds are
like the former, and so is the root likewise, and both
root and seeds as sharp as it.
Flace.] They grow by the way-sides in unfilled places,
and by the sides of old walls.
Time.] They flower in lhc end of June, and their seed
is ripe in July.
Government and Virtues.] It is a Saturnine plant. The
leaves, but especially the root, taken fresh in summer.
r 3
102 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
time, beaten or made into a poultice or salve with old
hog's grease, and applied to the places pained with the
sciatica, to continue thereon four hours, ifit be on a man,
and two hours on a woman ; the place afterwards bathed
with wine and oil mixed together, and then wrapped with
wool or skins after they have sweat a little, will assuredly
cure not only the same disease in hips, huckle-bone, or
other of the joints, as gout in the hands or feet, but all
other old griefs of the head, (as inveterate rheums) and
other parts of the body that are hard to be cured; and if
of the former griefs any parts remain, the same medicine,
after twenty days, is to be applied again. The same is
also effectual in the diseases of the spleen ; and applied to
the skin, it taketh away the blemishes thereof, whether
they be scars, leprosy, scabs, or scurf, which although-it
ulcerate the part, yet that is to be helped afterwards with
a salve made of oil and wax. Esteem this as another
secret.
Water Cresses. J. (h. d. 3.)
Thf.sb arc so well known as not to require a description.
Place. I They grow (for the most part) in small stand-
ing waters, yet sometimes in small rivulets of running
water.
Time.] They flower and seed in the beginning of
fHimrner.
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb under the domi
nion of the Moon. They are more powerful against the
scurvy, and to cleanse the blood and humours, than
Brooklime is, and serve in all the other uses in
which Brooklime is available, as to break the stone,
and provoke urine and womens courses. The decoc
tion thereof cleanseth ulcers, by washing them there
with. The leaves bruised, or the juice, is good to be
applied to the face, or other parts troubled with frec-
klesj pimples, spots, or the like, at night, and washed
away in the morning. The juice mixed with vinegar,
and the fore part of the head bathed therewith, is very
good for those that are dull and drowsy, or have the
lethargy.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. -103
Water-cress pottage is a good remedy to cleanse ther
blood in the Spring, arid help head-achs, and consume
the gross humours Winter hath left behind ; those that
would live in health, may use it if they please, if they
will not, I cannot help it. If any fancy not pottage,
they may eat the herb as a sallet.
Crosswort. ? . (c. d. 2.)
This is so called from the situation of its leaves".
Descript.] Common Crosswort groweth up with square
hairy brown stalks, a little above a foot high, having four
small broad and pointed, hairy, yet smooth green leaves
growing at every joint, each against other cross-way.
Towards the tops of the stalks at the joints, with the
leaves in three or four rows downwards, stand small,
pale, yellow flowers, after which come small blackish,
round seeds, four for the most part, set in every husk.
The root is very small and full of fibres, or threads,
taking good hold of the ground, and spreading with the
branches a great deal of ground, which perish not in
Winter, although the leaves die every year, and spring
again new.
PlaceJ\ It groweth in many moist grounds, as well
meadows as untilled places about London, in Hamp-
stead church-yard, at Wye in Kent, and sundry other
places.
Time.'] It flowers from May all the Summer long, in
one place or other, as they are open to the sun ; the
seed ripeneth soon after.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Saturn. This is a singular good wound herb, and is
used inwardly, not only to stay bleeding of wounds,
but to consolidate them, as it doth outwardly any green
wound, which it quickly soldereth up and healeth. The
decoction of the herb in wine, helpeth to expectorate
phlegm out of the chest, and is good for obstructions
in the breast, stomach, or bowels, and helpeth a de
cayed appetite. It is also good to wash any wound or
sore with, to cleanse and heal it. The herb bruised,
and then boiled, applied outwardly for certain days to»
t. 4..
104 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
gether, renewing it often ; and in the mean time the de
coction of the herb in wine, taken inwardly every day,
doth certainly cure the rupture in any, so as it be not
too inveterate ; but very speedily if it be fresh aud lately
taken.
Crowfoot. <?. (h. d. 3.)
Many are the names this furious biting herb hath ob
tained, almost enough to make up a Welchman's pedigree,
if he fetch no farther than John of Gaunt, or WilJiam the
Conqueror; for it is called Frogsfoot from the Greek
lame Barrakion; Crowfoot, Gold Knobs, Gold Cups,
King's Knob, Baffioers, Troil-fiowers, Polts, Locket
Goulions, and Butter-flowers.
Abundance are the sorts of this herb, that to describe
them all would tire the patience of Socrates himself; but
because I have not yet attained to the spirits of Socrates,
I shall but describe the most usual.
Descript.] The most common Crowfoot hath many dark,
green leaves, cut into divers parts, in taste biting and
sharp, biting and blistering the tongue; it bears many
flowers, and those of a bright resplendent yellow colour;
I do not remember that I ever saw any thing yellower ;
virgins in ancient time, used to make powder of them to
furrow bride-beds; after which flowers come small heads,
some spiked and rugged like a pine-apple.
Place.] They grow very common every-where ; unless
you turn your head into a hedge, you cannot but see
them as you walk.
Time.'] They flower in May and June, even till Sep
tember.
Government and Virtues.] This fiery and hot-spirited
herb of Mars is no way tit to be given inwardly, but an
ointment of the leaves or flowers will draw a blister, aud
may be so fitly applied to the nape of the neck to draw
back rheum from the eyes. The herb being bruised and
mixed with a little mustard, draws a blister as well, and
as perfectly as Cantharides, and with far loss danger to
the vessels of urine, which Cantharides naturally delight
to wrong ; I knew the herb once applied to a pestilential
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 105
rising that was fallen down, and it saved life even beyond
hope ; it were good to keep an ointment and plaister of it,
if it were 'but for that.
CuckOw-point. c?. (h. d. 3.)
It is called Aron, Janus, Barba.aron, Calve's-foot,
Ramp, Starchwort, Cuckow-pint and Wake-Robin.
Descript."\ This shooteth forth three, four, or five leaves
at the most, from one root, every one whereof is some
what large and long, broad at the bottom next the stalk,
and forked, but ending in a point, without a cut on the
edge, of a full green colour, each standing upon a thick
round stalk, of a hand-breath long, or more, among
which, after two or three months that they begin to wither
riseth up a bare, round, whitish green stalk, spotted and
streaked with purple, somewhat higher than the leaves:
at the top whereof standeth a long hollow husks close
at the bottom, but open from the middle upwards, ending
in a point ; in the middle whereof stand the small long
pestle or clapper, smaller at the bottom than at the top,
of a dark purple colour, as the husk is on the inside,
though green without, which, after it hath so abided for
sometime, the husk with the clapper decaycth, and the
foot or bottom thereof groweth to be a small long bunch of
berries, green at the first, and of a yellowish red colour
when they are ripe, of the bigness of a 'hazel-nut kernel,
which abideth thereon almost until Winter ; the root is
round and somewhat long, for the most part lying along,
the leaves shooting forth at the largest end, which, when
it beareth his berries, are somewhat wrinkled and loose,
another growing under it, which is solid and firm, with
many small threads hanging thereat. The whole plant is
of a very sharp biting taste, pricking the tongue as net
tles do the hands, and so abideth for a great while without
alteration. The root thereof was anciently used instead
of starch to starch linen with.
There is another sort of Cuckow-point, with lesser
leaves than the former, and sometimes harder, having
blackish spots upon them, which for the most part abnlo
longer green in Summer than the former, and both leaves
106 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
and roots are more sharp and fierce than it : in all things
else it is like the former.
Place."] These two sorts grow frequently almost under
every hedge side in many places in this land.
Time.'] They shoot forth leaves in the Spring, and con
tinue but until the middle of Summer, or somewhat later ;
their husks appearing before they fall away, and their
fruit shewing in April.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Mars Tragus reporteth, that a dram weight, or more,
if need be, of the spotted Wake Robin, either fresh and
green, or dried, being beaten and taken, is a presentand
sure remedy for poison and the plague. The juice of the
herb taken to the quantity of a spoonful halh the same
effect. But if there be a little vinegar added thereto, as
well as to the root aforesaid, it somewhat allaycth the
sharp biting taste thereof upon the tongue. The green
leaves bruised, and laid upon the boil or plague sore, doth
wonderfully help to draw forth the poison. A dram of
the powder of the dried root taken with twice so much
sugar in the form of a licking electuary, or the green root,
doth wonderfully help those that are pursy and short-
winded, as also those that have a cough ; it breaketh,
digesteth, and riddeth away phlegm from the stomach,
chest, and lungs. The milk wherein the root hath been
boiled is effectual also for the same purpose. The said
powder taken in wine or other drink, or the juice of the
berries, or the powder of them, or the winfe wherein
they have been boiled, provoketh urine, and bringeth
' down women's courses, and purgeth them effectually after
clfild-bearing, to bring away the after-birth. Taken
with sheep's milk it healeth the inward ulcers of the bow
el*. The distilled water thereof is effectual to all the pur
poses aforesaid. A spoonful taken at a time healeth the
itch ; and an ounce or more taken at a time for some days
together, doth help the rupture : The leaves, either green
or dry, or the juice of them, doth cleanse all manner of
rotten and filthy ulcers, in what part of the body soever ;
and healeth the stinking sores in the nose, called Polypus.
The water wherein the root hath been boiled, dropped
1
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 107
into the eyes, clcanseth them from any film or skin, cloud
or mist, which begin to hinder the sight, and helpeth the
watering and redness of them, or when, by some chance,
they become black and blue. The root mixed with bean-
flour, and applied to the throat or jaws that are inflamed*
helpeth them. The juice of the berries boiled in oil of
roses, or beaten into powder mixed with the oil, and
dropped into the ears, easeth pains in them. The berries,
or the roots beaten with hot ox-dung, and applied,
easeth the pains of the gout. The leaves and roots boiled
in wine with a little oil, and applied to the piles, or the
falling down of the fundament, easeth them, and so doth
sitting over the hot fumes thereof. The fresh roots bruised
and distilled with a little milk, yieldeth a most sovereign
water to cleanse the skin from scurf, freckles, spots, or
blemishes, whatsoever therein.
Authors have left large commendations of this herb you
see, but for my part, I have neither spoken with Dr.
Reason, nor Dr. Experience about it.
Cucumbers. 3 . (c. 1. m. 2.)
There is no need to give any description of what are so
generally known.
Government and Virtues."] There is no dispute to bo
made, but that they are under the dominion of the Moon,
though they are so much cried out against for their
coldness, and if they were but one degree colder they
would be poison. The best of Galenisfs hold them to be
cold and moist in the second degree, and then not so hot
as either lettuces or purslain : they are excellent good for
a hot stomach, and hot liver ; the unmeasurable use of
them tills the body full of raw humours, and so indeed the
unmeasurable use of any thing else doth harm. The faco
being washed with their juice cleanseth the skin, and is
excellent good for hot rheums in the eyes ; the seed is
excellent good to provoke urine, and cleauseth the pas
sages thereof when they are stopped ; there is not abetter
remedy for ulcers in the bladder growing than Cucumbers
are. The usual course is, to use the seeds in emulsions,
as they make almond milk ; but a far better way (in my
opinion) is this : When the season of the year is,' take
108 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
the Cucumbers and bruise them well and distil the water
from them, and let such as are troubled with ulcers in the
bladder drink no other drink. The face being washed
with the same water, cureth the reddest face that is ; it
is also excellent good for sun-burning, freckles, and
morphew.
Daisies.. ?. and s (c. i. m. 9.)
These are so well known almost to every child, thai I
suppose it needless to write any description of them. Take
therefore the virtues of them as followeth.
Government and Virtues.] The herb is under the sign
Cancer, and under the dominion of Venus, and therefore
excellent good for wounds in the breast, and very fitting
to be kept both in oils, ointments and plaisters, as also in
syrup. The greater wild Daisey is a wound herb of good
respect, often used in those drinks or salves that are for
wounds, either inward or outward. The juice or dis
tilled water of these, or the small Daisey, doth much
temper the heat and choler, and refresh the liver, and the
other inward parts. A decoction made of them and
drank, helpeth to cure the wounds made in the hollowness
of the breast. The same cureth also all ulcers and pustules
in the mouth or tongue, or in the secret parts. The leaves
bruised and applied to any parts that are swoln and hot,
doth dissolve it, and temper the heat. A decoction made
thereof, of wallwort and agrimony, and places fomented,
or bathed therewith warm, giveth great ease to them that
are troubled with the palsy, sciatica, or the gout. The
same also disperseth and dissolveth the knots or kernels
that grow in the flesh of any part of the body, and bruises
and hurts that come of falls and blows; they are also used
for ruptures, and other inward burnings, with very good
success. An ointment made thereof doth wonderfully
help all wounds that have inflammations about them, or
by reason of moist humours having access unto them, arc
kept long from healing, and such are those, for the most
part, that happen to joints ofthe arms or legs. The juice
of them dropped into the running eyes of any, doth much
help them.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 109
Dandelion. "V (temp. d. 1.)
This herb is from its effects also called by country people
Piss-a-Bed.
Descript.] It is well known to have many long and
deep gashed leaves, lying on the ground round about the
head of the roots; the ends of each gash or jag, on both
sides looking downwards towards the roots ; the middle
rib being white, which being broken, yieldeth abundance
of bitter milk, but the root much more ; from among the
leaves, which always abide green, arise many slender,
weak, naked foot stalks, every one of them bearing at the
top one large yellow flower, consisting of many rows of
yellow leaves, broad at the points, and nicked in with
deep spots of yellow in the middle, which growing ripe,
the green husk wherein the flow ers stood turns itself down
to the stalk, and the head of down becomes as round as a
ball with long reddish seed underneath, bearing a part of
the down on the head of every one, which together is
blown away with the wind, or may be at once blown,
away with one's mouth. The root growing downwards
exceeding deep, which being broken off within the
ground, will yet shoot forth again, and will hardly be
destroyed where it hath once taken deep root in the
ground.
Place."} It groweth frequently in all meadows and
pasture-grounds.
Time.] It flowereth in one place or other almost all the
year long.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Jupiter. It is of an opening and cleansing quality, and
therefore very effectual for the obstructions of the liver,
gall and spleen, and the diseases that arise from them, as
the jaundice and hypochondriac; it openeth the passages
of the urine both in young and old ; powerfully cleanseth,
imposthumes and inward ulcers in the urinary passage,
and by its drying and temperate quality doth afterwards
heal them ; for which purpose the decoction of the roots
or leaves in white wine, or the leaves chopped as pot
herbs, with a few alisanders, and boiled in their broth,
are very effectual. And whoever is drawing towards a
110 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
consumption, or an evil disposition of the whole body,
called Cachexia, by the use hereof for some time together,
shall find a wonderful help. It hclpelh also to procure
rest and sleep to bodies distempered by the heat of ague
fits, or otherwise : The distilled water is effectual to drink
in pestilential fevers, and to wash the sores.
You see here what virtues this common herb hath, and
that is the reason the French and Dutch so often eat them
in the Spring : and now, if you look a little farther, you
may see plainly, without a pair of spectacles, that foreign
physicians are not so selfish as ours are, but more com
municative of the virtues of plants to people.
Darnel. . (c. 3. d. 2.)
It is called Jum and Wray, in Sussex they call it Crop, it
being a pestilent enemy among com.
Descript."] This hath all the Winter long, sundry long,
flat, and rough leaves, which, when the stalk riseth,
which is slender and jointed, are narrower, but rough
still ; on the top groweth a long spike, composed of many
heads set one above another, containing two or three
husks, with sharp but short beards of awns at the end ;
the seed is easily shaked out of the ear, the husk itself be
ing somewhat rough.
Place.] The' country husbandmen do know this to»
well to grow among their corn, or in the borders and
pathways of the other fields that are fallow.
Government and Virtues.'] It is a malicious part of sullen
Saturn. As it is not without some vices, so hath it also
many virtues. The meal of Darnel is very good to stay
gangrenes and other such like fretting and eating can
kers and putrid sores ; it also cleanseth the skin of all le
prosies, morphews, ringworms and the like, if it be used
with salt and reddish roots. And being used with quick
brimstone and vinegar, it dissolveth knots and kernels,
and breaketh those that are hard to be dissolved, being
boiled in wine with pigeon's dung and linseed. A decoction
thereof made with water and honey, and the places bathed
therewith is profitable for the sciatica. Darnel meal
applied in a poultice draweth forth splinters and broken
bones in the llesh. The red Darnel boiled in red wine
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. Ill
and taken, stayeth the lask and all other fluxes, and
women's bloody issues, and resrraineth urine that passeth
away too suddenly.
Tins plant is sometimes mistaken for Fennel.
Descript."] The common Dill groweth up with seldom
more than one stalk, neither so high nor so great usually
as Fennel, being round and fewer joints thereon, whose
leaves are sadder and somewhat long, and so like fennel
that it deceiveth many, but harder in handling, and some
what thicker, and of a stronger unpleasant scent ; the
tops of the stalks have four branches, and smaller umbels
of yellow flowers, which turn into small seed, somewhat
flatter and thinner than Fennelseed. The root is somewhat
small and woody, perisheth every year after it hath born*
seed, and is also unprofitable, being never put to any use.
Place.] It is most usually sown in gardens and grounds
for the purpose, and is also found in many wild places.
Government and Virtues.'] Mercury hath the dominion
of this plant, and therefore to be sure it strengthens the
brain. The Dill being boiled and drank, is good to ease
swellings and pains ; it also stayeth the belly and sto
mach from casting. The decoction thereof helpeth wo-
mother, if they sit therein. It stayeth the hiccough, be
ing boiled in wine, and but smelted unto, being tied in a
cloth. The seed is of more use than the leaves, and
more effectual to digest raw and vicious humours, and
is used in medicines that serve to expel wind, and the
pains proceeding therefrom. The seed being roasted or
fried, and used in oils or plaisters, dissolve the impost-
humes in the fundament; and drieth up all moist ulcers,
especially in the fundament ; an oil made of Dill is ef
fectual to warm or dissolve humours and iroposthumes,
to ease' pains and procure rest. The decoction of Dill,
be it herb or seed (only if you boil the seed you must
bruise it) in white wine, being drank, it is a gallant cx-
peller of wind, and provoker of the terms.
Dill., (h. 3 . d. 2.)
men that are troubled with and windiness of the
112 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Devil's Bit. ? . (h. d. 2.)
There are three sorts hereof, in nothing unlike, save the
colour of the flowers.
Descript.] This rises up with a round green smooth
stalk, about two feet high, set with divers long and some
what narrow, smooth, dark green leaves, somewhat
nipp'd about the edges, for the most part, being else all
whole, and not divided at all, or but very seldom, even to
the tops of the branches, which yet are smaller than those
below, with one rib only in the middle. At the end of
each branch standeth a round head of many flowers set
together in the same manner, or more neatly than Scabious,
and ofa more bluish, purple or white colour, which being
past, there followeth seed that falleth away. The root
somewhat thick, but short and blackish, with many
strings, abiding after seed time many years. This root
was longer, until the devil (as the friars say) bit away the
rest of it for spite, envying its usefulness to mankind ; for
sure he was not troubled with any disease for which it is
proper.
Place,J The first groweth as well in dry meadows and
fields as moist, in many places of this land ; but the other
two arc more rare, and hard to be met w ith, yet they are
to be found growing wild about Appledore, near Rye in
Kent.
Time.] They flower not usually until August.
Government and Virtues.] The plant is venereal, pleasing
and harmless. The herb or the root, (all that the devil
hath left of it) being boiled in wine and drank is very
powerful against the plague and all pestilential diseases
or fevers, poisons also, and the bitings of venomous
beasts ; it helpeth all those that are inwardly bruised by
any casualty, or outwardly by falls or blows, dissolving
the clotted blood ; and the herb or root beaten and out.
wardly applied, taketh away the black and blue marks
that remain in the skin. The decociion of the herb, with
honey of roses put therein, is very effectual to help the
inveterate tumours aud swellings of the almonds and
throat, by often gargling the throat therewith ; it helpeth
also to procure women's courses, and easeth all pains of
the mother, and to break and discuss wind therein, and
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 113
in the bowels. The powder of the root taken in -drink,
drivefh forth the worms in the body. The juice, or dis
tilled water of the herb, is effectual for green wounds, or
old sores, and cleanseth the body inwardly, and the seed
ontwardly from sores, 'scurf, itch, pimples, freckles, mor-
phew, or other deformities thereof, especially if a little
vitriol be dissolved therein.
Dock. "V. (tetnp. d. 3.)
Many kinds of these are so well known, that I shall, not
trouble you with a description of them. My book grows
big too fast.
Government and Virtues.} All Docks are under Jupiter,
, of which the red Dock, which is commonly called Blood-
wort, cleanseth the blood, and strengthens the liver ;
but the yellow Dock root is best to be taken when either
the blood or liver is affefited by choler. All of them leave
a kind of cooling (but not all alike) drying quality, the
former being most cold ; and the bloody-worts most
drying. Of the Burdock 1 have spoken already by itself.
The seed of most of the other kinds, whether the gardens
or fields, do stay lasks and fluxes of all sorts, the loathing
of the stomach through choler, and is helpful for those
that spit blood. The roots boiled in vinegar helpeth
the itch, scabs, breaking out of the skin, if it be bathed
therewith. The distilled water of the herb and roots
have the same virtue, and cleanseth the skin from freckles,
morphews, and all other spots and discolourings therein.
All Docks being boiled with meat, make it boil the
sooner ; besides Blood-wort is exceeding strengthening
to the liver, and procures good blood, being as whole
some a pot-herb as any grows in a garden ; yet such is
the nicety of our times (forsooth) that women will not
put it into a pot, because it makes the pottage black ;
(pride and ignorance a couple of monsters in the creation)
preferring nicety before health.
Dodder. \ .
Dodder of Thyme, Epithymum and other Dodders.
Descript."] This first from seed giveth roots in the
114 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
ground, which shooteth forth threads or strings, grosser
or finer as the property of the plant wherein it gioweth,
and the climate doth suffer, creeping and spreading on
that plant whereon it fasteneth, be it high or low. The
strings have no leaves at all upon them, but wind and
interlace themselves so thick upon a small plant, that it
taketh away all comfort of the sun from it ; and is ready
to choak or strangle it. After these strings are risen up>
to that height, that they may draw nourishment from that
plant, they seem to be broken off from the ground, either
by the strength of their rising or withered by the heat of
the sun. Upon these strings are found clusters or small
heads or husks, out of which shoot forth whitish, flowers,
which afterwards give small pale coloured seed, somewhat
flat, and twice as big as Poppy-seed. It generally parti
cipates of the nature of the plant which it climbeth upon ;
but the Dodder of Thyme is accounted the best, and is
the only true Epithymum.
Government and Virtues."] All Dodders are under
Saturn. Tell not me of physicians crying up Epithymum,
or that Dodder which grows upon Thyme, (most of which
comes from Hcmetins in Greece, or Hybla in Sicily, be
cause those mountains abound with Thyme) he is a
physician indeed, that hath wit enough to choose his
Dodder, according to the nature of the disease and hu
mour peccant. We confess Thyme is the hottest herb it
usually grows upon ; and therefore that which grows
upon Thyme is hotter than that which grows upon
colder herbs ; for it draws nourishment from what it
grows upon, as well as from the earth where its root is,
and thus you see old Saturn is wise enough to have two
strings to his bow. This is accounted the most effectual
for melancholy diseases, and to purge black or burnt
choler, which is the cause of many diseases of the head
and brain, as also for the trembling of the heart, faint-
ings and swoonings. It is helpful in all diseases and
griefs of the spleen, and melancholy that arises from the
windiness of the hypocondria ; it pucgeth also the reins
or kidnies by urine; it openeth obstructions of the gall,,
whereby it profiteth them that have the jaundice ; as also
the leaves, the spleen ; purging the veins of the choleric
and phlegmatic humours, and helpeth children in agues,
a little worm seed being put thereto.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 115
The other Dodders do (as I said before) participate of
the nature of those plants whereon they grow ; as that
which hath been found growing upon nettles in the
West-country, hath by experience, been found very ef
fectual to procure plenty of urine, where it hath been
stopped or hindered, and so of the rest.
Sympathy and antipathy are two hinges upon which
the whole mode of physic turns ; and that physician which
minds them not, is like a door from off the hooks, more
like to do a man mischief, than to secure him. Then all
the diseases Saturn causeth, this helps by sympathy, and
strengthens all parts of the body he rules ; such as be
caused by Sol, it helps by antipathy. What those diseases
are, see my judgment of diseases by astrology ; and if
you be pleased to look at the herb Wormwood, you shall
find a rational way for it.
Dog's Grass, or Couch-Grass. %. (temp.)
This is called Dog's Grass from its efficacy in relieving
dogs when sick.
De$cript,] It is well known, that the grass creepeth far
about under the ground, with long white jointed roots,
and small fibres almost at every joint, very sweet, in taste,
as the rest of the herb is, and interlacing one another,
from whence shoot forth many fair grassy leaves, small at
the ends, and cutting or sharp on the edges. The stalks
are jointed like corn, with the like leaves on them, and a
large spiked head, with a long husk in them, and hard
rough seed in them. If you know it not by this descrip
tion, watch the dogs when they are sick, and they will
quickly lead you to it.
Place.'\ It groweth commonly through this land, in
divers ploughed grounds, to the no small trouble of the-
husbandmen, as also of the gardeners, in gardens, to weed
it out, if they can ; for it is a constant customer to the
place it gets footing in.
Government and Ftrtues."] 'Tis under the dominion
of Jupiter, and is most medicinable of all the Quick-
grasses. Being boiled and drank, it openeth obstruction*
of the liver and gall, and the stopping ofurine, and easeth
the griping pains of the belly, and inflammation; wasteth
116 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
the matter of the stone in the bladder, and the ulcerf
thereof also. The roots bruised and applied do conso
lidate wounds. The seed doth more powerfully expel
urine, and stayeth the lask and vomiting. The distilled
water alone, or with a little wormsced, killeth the worms
in children.
The way of use is to bruise the roots, and having well
boiled them in white wine, drink the decoction ; 'tis
opening, but not purging, very safe ; 'tis a remedy
against all diseases coming of stopping, and such are
half those that are incident to the body of man; and
although a gardener be of another opinion, yet a physician
holds hal f an acre of them to be worth five acres of Carrots
twice told over.
Dove's Foot. <J. (h. d. 2J
This is also called Crane's Bill, from the appearance of
the seed-vessels.
Descript.] This hath divers small, round, pale-green
leaves, cut in about the edges, much like mallows,
standing upon long, reddish, hairy stalks, lying in a round
compass upon the ground ; among which rise up two, or
three, or more reddish jointed, slender, weak, hairy
stalks, with such like leaves thereon, but smaller, and
more cut in up to the tops, where grow many very small
bright red flowers, of five leaves a-piece ; after which
follow small heads, with small short beaks pointed forth,
as all other sorts of those herbs do.
Place.'] It groweth in pasture ground, and by the path
sides in many places, and will also be in gardens.
Time.] It flowereth in June, July, and August, some
earlier, and some later ; and the seed is ripe quickly
after.
Government and Virtues.] It is a very gentle, though
martial plant. It is found by experience to be singular
good for the wind colic, as also to expel the stone and
gravel in the kidnies. The decoction thereof in wine, is
an excellent good cure for those that have inward wounds,
hurts, or bruises, both to stay the bleeding, to dissolve
and expel the congealed blood, and to heal the parts,
also to cleanse and heal outward sores, ulcers, and
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 117
fistulas; and for green wounds, many do only bruise the
herb, and apply it to the place, and it healeth them
quickly. The same decoction in wine, fomented to any
place pained with the gout, or to joint-aches, or pain of
the sinews, giveth much ease. The powder or decoction
of the herb taken for some time together, is found by
experience to be singularly good for ruptures and burstings
in people, either young or old.
Duck Meat. >. in s. (c. m. 3.)
This is so well known to swim on the top of standing
waters, as ponds, pools and ditches, that it is needless
further to describe it.
Government and Virtues.] Cancer claims the herb, and
the Moon will be lady of it; a word is enough to a wise
man. It is effectual to help inflammations, and St. An
thony's fire, as also the gout, either applied by itself, or
in a poultice with barley meal. The distilled water by
some is highly esteemed against all inward inflammations
and pestilent fevers; as also to help the redness of the
eyes and swellings of the private parts, and of the breasts
before they be grown too much. The fresh herb applied
to the forehead, easeth the pains of the head-ach coming
of heat. ;
Down, or Cotton Thistle. <J. (k. d. 2.)
Thistles are so generally known as to require no
description j but this differs from the common thistle.
Descript.."] This hath large leaves lying on the ground,
somewhat cut in, and as it were crumpled on the edges,
of a green colour on the upper side, but covered with
long hairy wool, or Cotton Down, set with most sharp
and cruel pricks, from the middle of whose heads of
flowers, thrust forth many purplish crimson threads, and
sometimes (although very seldom) white ones, the seed
that followeth in the heads, lying in a great deal of white
down, is somewhat large, long, and round, like the seed
of ladies thistle, but somewhat paler. The root is great
and thick, spreading much, yet it usually dieth after
seed-time.
1
118 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Place."] It groweth in divers ditches, banks, and in corn
fields and highways, throughout the land.
Time.] It flowereth and beareth seed about the end of
Summer, when other thistles do flower and seed.
Government and Virtues.") Mars owns the plant, and
manifests to the world, that though it may hurt your
finger, it will help your body ; for I fancy it much for
the ensuing virtues. Pliny and Dioscorides write, That
the leaves and roots thereoftaken in drink, helpeth those
that have a crick in their neck, whereby they cannot
turn their neck, but their whole body must turn also
{sure they do not mean those that have got a crick in
their neck by being under the hangman'shand). Galen,
saith, that the root and leaves hereof arc of a heating
quality, and good for such persons as have their bodies
drawn together by some spasm or convulsions, as it is
with children that have the rickets.
Dragons, c?. (h. d. &.)
They are so well known to every one that plants them in
their gardens, they need no description ; if not, let them
Jook down to the lower end of the stalks, and see how
like a snake they look.
Government and Virtues.] The plant is under the
dominion of Mars, and therefore it would be a wonder if
it should want some obnoxious quality or other ; in all
herbs of that quality, the safest way is cither to distil the
herb in an alembick, in what vehicle you please, or else
to press out the juice, and distil that in a glass still in
sand. It scoureth and cleanseth the internal parts of the
body mightily, and it cleareth the external parts also,
being externally applied, from freckles, morphew, and
sun-burning: Your best way to use it externally, is to
mix it with vinegar ; an ointment of it is held to be good
in wounds and ulcers ; it consumes cankers, and that flesh
growing in the nostrils which they call Polypus : Also
the distilled water being dropped into the eyes, taketh
away spots there, or the pin and web, and mends the
dimness of sight ; it is excellent good against pestilence
a.nd poison. Pliny and Dioscorides affirm, that no serpent
w ill meddle with him that carries this herb about him.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 119
The Elder Tree, and Dwarf Elder. 5 . (temp. d. 2.J
I Hold it needless to write any description of this, since
every body that plays with a pop-gun will not mistake
another tree instead of Elder. I shall therefore in this
place only describe the Dwarf Elder, called also Dead,
wort, and Wall-wort.
Descript.] This is but an herb every year, dying with
his stalks to the ground, and rising fresh every Spring, and
is like unto the Elder both in form and quality, rising up
with a square rough hairy stalk, four feet high, or more
sometimes. The winged leaves are somewhat narrower
than the Elder, but else like them. The flowers are
white with a dash of purple, standing in umbels, very like
the Elder also, but more sweet in scent ; after which,
come small blackish berries, full of juice while they are
fresh, wherein is small hard kernels, or seed. The root
doth creep under the upper crust of the ground, springing
in divers places, being of the bigness of one's finger or
thumb sometimes.
Place.'] The Elder-tree groweth in hedges, being plan ted
there to strengthen the fences and partitions of ground,
and to hold the banks by ditches and water-courses.
The Dwarf Elder growing wild in many places of
England, where being once gotten into a ground, it is
not easily gotten forth again.
Time.] Most of the Elder Trees flower in June, and
their fruit is ripe for the most part in August. But the
Dwarf Elder, or Wallwort, flowereth somewhat later,
and his fruit is not ripe until September.
Government and Virtues."] Both Elder Tree and D»rarf
are under the dominion of Venus. The first shoots of
the common Elder boiled like asparagus, and the young
leaves and stalks boiled in fat broth, doth mightily carry
forth phlegm and choler. The middle or inward bark
boiled in water, and given in drink, worketh much
more violently, and the berries, either green or dry, ex
pel the same humour, and are . often given with good
success to help the dropsy ; the bark of the root boiled
in wine, or the juice thereof drank, worketh the same
effects, but more powerfully than either (the leaves or
fruit. The juice of the root taken, doth mightily pro
120 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
cure Tomitings, and purgeth the watery humours of the
dropsy. The decoction of the root taken, cureth the
bite ofan adder, and biting of mad dogs. It mollifieth
the hardness of the mother, if a woman sit thereon, and
openeth their veins, and bringeth down their courses :
The berries boiled in wine performeth the same eft'eel ;
and the hair of the head washed therewith, is made black.
The juice of the green leaves applied to the hot inflamma
tions of the eyes assuageth them ; the juice of the leaves
snuffed up into the nostrils, purgeth the tunicles of the
brain; the juice of the berries boiled with honey, and
dropped into the ears, helpeth the pains of them ; the
decodtion ot the berries in wine being drank provoketh
urine ; the distilled water of the flowers, is of much use to
clean the skin from sun-burning, freckles, morphew, or
the like ; and taketh away the head-ach, coming of a
cold cause, the head being bathed therewith. The leaves
or flowers distilled in the month of May, and the legs
often washed « ith the said distilled water, it taketh away
the ulcers and sores ofthem. The eyes washed therewith,
it taketh away the redness and blood-shot; and the hands
washed morning and evening therewith, helpeth the palsy,
and shaking of them.
The Dwarf Elder is more powerful than the common
Elder in opening and purging choler, phlegm, and water;
in helping the gout, piles, and womens diseases, coloureth
the hair black, helpeth the inflammations of the eyes,
and pains in the ears, the biting of serpents, or mad dogs,
burnings and scaldings, the wind cholick, cholick and
stone, the difficulty of urine, the cure of old sores and
fistulous ulcers. Either leaves or bark of Elder stripped
upwards as you gather it, causeth vomiting. Also Dr.
Butler in a manuscript of his, commends Dwarf Elder to
the sky for dropsies, viz. to drink it, being boiled in white
-wine; to drink the decoction 1 mean not the Elder.
The Elm Tree. Jj . (c. d. 2.)
This tree is so well known, growing generally in all
counties of this Uud, that it is needless to describe it.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 121
"Government and Virtues.] It is a cold and Saturnine
plant. The . leaves thereof bruised and applied, heal
green wounds, being bound thereoa with its own bark.
The leaves or the bark used with vinegar, cureth scurf
and leprosy very effc&ually : The decoltion of the
leaves, bark, or root, being bathed, heals broken bones.
The water that is found in the bladders on the leaves,
while it is fresh, is very effectual to cleanse the skin, and
make it fair ; and if cloths be often wet therein, and ap
plied to the ruptures of children, it healeth them, if they
be well bound up with a truss. The said water put into
a glass, and set into the ground, or else in dung for
twenty.five days, the mouth thereof being close stopped,
and -the bottom set upon a lay of ordinary salt, that the
foeees may settle and water become clear, is a singular
&ad sovereign balm for green wounds, being used with
soft tents : The decoction of the bark of the root fo
mented, mollifieth hard tumours, and the shrinking of
the sinews. The roots of the Elm boiled for a long
time in water, and the fat arising on the top thereof,
being clean scummed off, and the place anointed there
with that is grown bald, and the hair fallen away, will
quickly restore them again. The said bark ground with
brine and pickle, until it come to the form of a poultice,
and laid on the place pained with the gout, giveth great
ease. The decoction of the bark in water, is excellent to
bathe such places as have been burnt with fire. , .
Endive. V. (c. d. 2.)
Common garden Endive is well known by gardeners and
sallad eaters.
Descript.] It beareth a longer and larger leaf than
succory, and abideth but one year, quickly running up to
stalk and seed, and then perisheth ; it hath blue flowers,
and the seed of the ordinary Endive is so like succory
6ced, that it is hard to distinguish them.
Government and Virtues.] It is a fine cooling, cleansing,
jovial plant. The decoction of the leaves, of the juice,
or the distilled water of Endive, serveth well to cool the
excessive beat of the liver and stomach, and in the hot
fits of agues, and all other inflammations in any part
G
122 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
-of the body ; it cooleth the heat and sharpness of the
urine, and excoriations in the urinary parts. The seeds
are of the same property, or rather more powerful, and
besides are available for fainting, swoonings and pas
sions of the heart. Outwardly applied, they serve to
temper the sharp humours of fretting ulcers, hot tu
mours, swellings, and pestilential sores ; and wonder*
folly help not only the redness and inflammations of the
eyes, but the dimness of the sight also; they are also
ttsed to allay the pains of the gout ; you cannot use it
Amiss; a syrup of it is a fine cooling medicine for fevers.
See the end of this book.
^ : Elecampane. (h. d. 3.)
It is grown chiefly for the use of druggists and con
fectioners.
Deseript.'] It shooteth forth many large leaves, long and
broad, lying near the ground, small at both ends, some
what soft in handling, of a whitish green on the upper
side, and grey underneath, each set upon a short foot
stalk, from among which rise up divers great and strong
hairy stalks, three or four feet high, with some leaves
thereupon compassing them about at the lower end, and
are branched towards the tops, bearing divers great and
large flowers, like those of the corn-marigold, both the
border of leaves and the middle thrum being yellow,
which turn into down, with long, small, brownish seeds
among it, and is carried away with the wind. The
root is great and thick, branched forth divers ways,
blackish on the outside, and whitish within, of a very
bitter taste, and strong, but good scent, especially
when they are dried, no part else of the plant having
any smell.
Place.} It groweth in moist grounds and shadowy
places, oftner than in the dry and open borders of fields
and lanes, and in other waste places, almost in every
county of this land.
. Time.] It flowereth in the end of June and July, and
the seed is ripe in August. The roots are gathered for
ase, as well in the Spring, before the leaves come forth,
as in Autumn or Winter.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 123
Government and Virtues.'] It is a plant under the domi.
nion of Mercury. The fresh roots of Elecampane pre
served with sugar, or made into a syrup or conserve, are
yery effectual to warm a cold windy stomach, or the
pricking therein, and stitches in the sides caused by the
spleen ; and to help the cough, shortness of breath, and
wheezing in the lungs. The dried root made into pow.
der, and mixed with sugar and taken, serveth to the
same purpose ; and is also profitable for those who have
their urine stopped, or the stopping of women's courses,
the pains of the mother, and of the stone in the reins,
kidnies, or bladder; it resisteth poison, and stayeth the
spreading of the venom of serpents, as also putrid and
pestilential fevers, and the plague itself. The roots and
herbs beaten and put into new ale or beer, aud daily
drank, clearcth, strengthenetl), and quickeneth the sight
of the eyes wonderfully. The deco6iion of the roots in
wine, or the juice taken therein, killeth and driveth
forth all manner of worms in the belly, stomach, and
maw ; and gargled in the mouth, or the root chewed,
fasteneth loose teeth, and helps to keep them from pu
trefaction ; and being drank, is good for those that spit
blood, helpeth to remove cramps or convulsions, gout,
sciatica, pains in the joints, applied outwardly or in
wardly, and is also good for those that are bursten, or
have any inward bruise. The root boiled well in vine-
gar, beaten afterwards, and made into an ointment with
hog's suet, or oil of trotters, is an excellent remedy for
scabs or itch in young or old ; the places also bathed pr
washed with the decoction, doth the same; it also helpeth
all sorts of filthy old putrid sores or cankers whatsoever.
In the roots of this herb lieth the chief effect for the re
medies aforesaid. The distilled water of the leaves and
roots together, is very profitable to cleanse the skin of
the face, or other parts; from any morphew, spots, or
blemishes therein, and make it clear.
Eringo, or Sea Holly. £ . (h, m. 2.)
There are two species of Eringo, but their virtues are
the same.
C 2
124 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
. Descript."] The first leaves of our ordinary Sea Holly,
.are nothing so hard and prickly as when they grow old,
being almost round, and deeply dented about the edges,
hard and sharp.pointed, and a little crumpled, of a bluish
green colour, every one upon a long foot-stalk ; but
these that grow up higher with the stalk, do as it were
compass it about. The stalk itself is round and strong,
yet somewhat crested w ith joints, and leaves set thereat,
-but more divided, sharp, and prickly, and branches rising
ftom thence, which have likewise other small branches,
each of them having several bluish and prickly heads,
with many small, jagged, prickly leaves under them,
standing like a star, and sometimes found greenish or
whitish ; the root groweth wonderfully long, even to
eight or tea feet in length, set with rings and circles to
wards the upper part, cut smaoth and without joints
down lower, brownish on the outside, and very white
within, with a pith in the middle, of a pleasant taste, but
much more, being artificially preserved, and candied with
sugar.
Place. J It is found about the sea coast in almost every
, county of this land, which bordereth on the sea.
Time.] It flowereth in the end of Summer, and giveth
ripe seed within a month after.
Government and Firtues.'] The plant is venereal, and
breedeth seed exceedingly, and strengthens the spirit
procreative; it is hot and moist, and under the celestial
balance. The deco&ion of the root hereof in wine, is
very effectual to open obstructions of the spleen and li
ver, and helpeth yellow jaundice, dropsy, pains of
the loins, and wind colic, provoketh urine, and expel-
leth the stone, procureth women's courses. The con-
tinued use of the decoction for fifteen days, taken fasting,
and next to bedward, doth help the stranguary, the pis
sing by drops, the stopping of urine, stone, and all de-
fec!s of the reins and kidnies ; and if the said drink be
continued longer, it is found good against the French
pox. The roots bruised and applied outwardly, helpeth
the kernels of the throat, commonly called the King's
evil ; or taken inwardly, and applied to the place stung
or bitten by any serpent, healeth it speedily. If the roots
fee bruised and boiled is hog's grease, or salted lard,
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 125
jind applied to broken bones, thorns, &c. remaining in
the flesh, they do not only draw them forth, but heal
up the place again, gathering new flesh where it was
consumed. The juice-«f the leaves dropped into the ear^ .
hclpeth imposthumes therein. The distilled water of the
whole herb, when the leaves and stalks are young, is
profitably drank for all the purposes aforesaid ; and help,
eth the melancholy of the heart, and is available in quartan
and quotidian agues, as also for them that have their necks
drawn awry, and cannot turn them without turning their
whole body.
Eyebright. ©. in £. (h. d. 3.)
So called from the remarkably bright eye of its flower^
aud also from its efficacy in clearing the eye-sight.
Descript.] Common Eyebright is a small low herb,
rising up usually but with one blackish green stalk a span
high, or not much more, spread from the bottom into
sundry branches, whereon are small and almost round,
yet pointed, dark green leaves, finely snipped about the
edges, two always set together, and very thick. At the
joints with the leaves, from the middle uwpard, come forth
small white flowers, steeped with purple and yellow spots
or stripes; after which follow small roundheads, with very
small seed therein. The root is long, small, and thready
at the end.
Place.] It groweth in meadows, and grassy places in
this land.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the sign of the
Lion, and Sol claims dominion over it. If the herb was
but as much used as it is neglected, it would half spoil the
spe&acle-maker's trade; and a man would think, that
reason should teach people to prefer the preservation of
their natural before artificial spectacles, which that they
may be instructed how to do, take the virtues of the
Eyebright as followeth :
The juice, or distilled water of Eyebright, taken in
wardly in white wine or broth, or dropped into the
eyes, for divers days together, helpeth all infirmities of
the eyes that cause dimness of sight. Some make conserve
of the flowers to the same effect. Being used any of the
g 3 '
126 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
ways, it also helpeth a weak brain or memory. This
tunned up with strong beer that it may work together,
and drank, or the powder of the dried herb mixed
with sugar, a little mace and Fennel.seed, and drank,
or eaten in broth ; or the said powder made into an
electuary- with sugar, and taken, hath the same powerful
effect to help and restore the sight decayed through age;
and Arnoldus de Villa Nova saith, it hath restored sight
to them that have been blind a long time before.
Fern. £. (h. d 2.)
Or this there are two kinds principally to be treated ofj
viz. the Male and Female.
Vescript."] The Female groweth higher than the Male,
but the leaves thereof are lesser, and more divided or
dented, and of as strong a smell as the Male ; the virtue
of them are both alike, and therefore I shall not trouble
you with any description or distinction of them.
Place.] They grow both in heaths and shady places
near the hedge-sides in all counties of this land.
Time.J They flower and give their seed at Midsummer.
The Female Fern is that plant which is in Sussex called
Brakes, the seed of which some authors hold to be so rare.
Such a thing there is I know, and may be easily had upon
Midsummer Eve, and for ought 1 know, two or three days
after it, if not more.
Government and Virtues^ It is under the dominion of
Mercury, both Male and Female. The roots of both
those sorts of Feru being bruised and boiled in mead,
or honeyed water, anil drank, killeth both the broad and
Jong worms in the body, and abateth the swelling and
hardness of the spleen. The green leaves eaten, purge
the belly and cholerick and waterish humours that trouble
the stomach. They are dangerous for women with child
to meddle with, by reason they cause abortions. The
Toots bruised and boiled in oil, or hog's grease, make a
very profitable ointment to heal wounds, or pricks gotten
in the flesh. The powder of them used in foul ulcers,
dricth up their malignant moisture and causeth their
speedier healing. Fern being burned, the smoak thereof
driveth away serpents, gnats, and other noisome creatures
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED, 12J
which in fenny countries do, in the night time, trouble
and mosest people iying in their beds with their faces un,-
coyered ; it causeth barrenness.
Water Fern. ^. (c. d. l.J .
This is also called Osmond Royal,
Descript.'] It shooteth- forth in Spring-time (for in the
Winter the leaves perish) divers rough hard stalks, half
round and yellowish, or flat on the other side, two feet
high, having divers branches of winged yellowish green
leaves on all sides, set one against another, longer,
narrower, and not nicked on the edges as the former.
From the top of some of these stalks grow a long bush of
small and more yellow, green, scaly aglets, set in the same:
manner on the stalks as the leaves are, which are ac
counted the flower and seeds. The root is rough, thick
and scabby, with a white pith in the middle, which is
called the heart thereof. ,
Place.'] It groweth on moors, bogs, and watery places^
in many parts of this land.
Time.'] It is green all the Summer, and the root only
abideth in the Winter.
Government and Virtues!] Saturn owns this plank
This hath all the virtues mentioned in the former Ferns,
is much more effectual than they, both for inward and
outward griefs, and is accounted singular guod in wounds*
bruises, or the like. The decoction- to be drank, or
boiled into an ointment of oil, as a balsam or balm, and'
so it is singular good against bruises and bones broken,
or out of joint, and giveth much ease to the colic and
splenetic diseases ; as also for ruptures or burstings. The
decoction of the root in white wine, provpketh urine
exceedingly, and cleanseth the bladder and passages of the
urine..
FeYer-few, or Featherfew. 5. (k. 2. d* 3.)
This grows wild, but is cultivated in gardens, for the
beauty of the flower.
.... Descript.] It hath large fresh leaves, much torn or cut
on the edges. The stalks are hard and round, set withe
a 4*
428 THE ENGLISH PHYSICUN ENLARGED.
many such like leaves, but smaller, and at the tops stand
many single flowers, npon small foot stalks, consisting of
many small white leaves standing round about a yellow
thrum in the middle. The root is somewhat hard and
short, with many strong fibres about.it. The scent of the
whole plant is very strong and stuffing, and the taste is
very bitter.
Place.] This grows wild in many places of the land,
but is for the most part nourished in gardens.
Goverment and Virtues.] Venus commands this herb,
and hath commended it to succour her sisters (women)
and to be a general strengthener of their wombs, and
remedy such infirmities as a careless midwife hath there
caused.; if they will but be pleased to make use of her
herb boiled in white wine, and drink the decoction ; it
cleanseth the womb, expels the after-birth, and doth a
woman all the good she can desire of an herb. And if
any grumble because they cannot get the herb "n "Win*
ter, tell them, if they please, they may make a syrup of
it in Summer ; it is chiefly used for the diseases of the
mother, whether it be the strangling or rising of the mo.
ther, or hardness or inflammations of the same, applied
outwardly thereunto ; or a decoction of the flowers in
wine, with a little nutmeg or mace put therein, and
drank often in a day, is an approved remedy to bring
down women's courses speedily, and helpeth to expel
the dead birth and after-birth. For a woman to sit over
the hot fumes of the decoction of the herb made in water
or wine, is effectual for the same ; and in some cases,
to apply the herb warm to the privy parts. The decoc
tion thereof made with some sugar or honey, is used by
many with good success to help the cough and stuffing
Of the chest, by cold, as to cleanse the reins and bladder,
and helps to expel the stone in them. The powder of the
herb taken in wine with some Oxymel, purgeth both
choler and phlegm, and is available for those that are
short winded, and are troubled with melancholy and
heaviness, or sadness of spirits. It is very effectual for all
pains in the head coming of a cold cause, the herb being
bruised applied to the crown of the head ; as also for
the vertigo, that is, a runniag or swimming of the head.
The decoction thereof drank warm, and the herb bruised
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 129?
with a few corns of bay-salt, and applied to the wrists
before the coming of the ague fits, do take them away.
The distilled water taketh away freckles and other spots
-and deformities in the face. The herb bruised and
heated on a tile with some wine to moisten it, or fried
with a little wine and oil-, and applied warm outwardly
to the places, helpeth the wind and colic in the lower
part of the b«lly. It is an- especial remedy against opinm
taken too liberally.
Fennel. £. r"k. 2. <f. j,y
Every garden affordeth this so plentifully, that it needs*
no description..
Government and Virtues.] One good old fashion is not
yet left off, viz. to boil fennel with fish, for it consumes
that phlegmatic humour, which fish most plentifully af
ford and annoy the body with, though few that use it,
know wherefore they do it ; I suppose the reason of its
benefit this way is, because it is an herb of Mercury, and
under Virgo, and therefore bears antipathy to Pisces.
Fennel is good to break wind, to provoke urine, and
ease the pains of the stone, and helps to- break it. The
leaves or seeds boiled in barley water and drank, are
good for nurses, to encrease their milk, and make it more
wholesome for the child. The leaves, or rather the seeds
boiled in water, stayeth the hiccough, and taketh away
the loathings which oftentimes happen to the stomach of
sick and feverish persons, and allayetb the heat thereof.
The seed boiled in wine and drank, is good for those
that are bitten with serpents, or have eaten poisonous
herbs, or mushrooms. The seeds and the roots much
more help to open obstructions of the liver, spleen and
gall-, and thereby help the painful and windy swellings
of the spleen, and the yellow jaundice, as also the gout
and cramp. The seed is of good use in medicines to help
shortness of breath and wheezing by stopping of the
lungs. It helpeth also, to bring down the courses, and to
cleanse the parts after delivery. The roots are of most
use in physic drink and broths that are taken to cleanse
the blood, to open obstructions of the liver, to provoke?
uiiae, and amend the ill colour in the face after sick*
130 TUB ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
ness, and to cause a good habit through the body. Both
leaves, seeds and roots thereof, are much used in drink
or broth, to make people more lean that are too fat. The
distilled water of the whole herb, or the condensate juice
dissolved, but especially the natural juice, that in some
counties issueth out hereof of its own accord, dropped
into the eyes, clcanseth them from mists and films that
hinder the sight. The sweet Fennel is much weaker in
physical uses than the common Fennel. The wild Fen
nel is stronger and hotter than the tame, and therefore
most powerful against the stone, but not so effectual to
increase milk, because of its dryness.
Sow-Fennel, or Hog's Fennel. $ (h. 2. d. 1.)
Besides the common name in English, Hog's Fennel, and
the Latin name Peucidanum, it is called Hoar-strange and
Hoar-strong, Sulphur-wort and Brimstone-wort.
Descript.] The common Sow-Fennel hath divers
branched stalks of thick and somewhat long leaves, three
for most part joined together at a place, among which
ariseth a crested straight stalk, less than Fennel, with
some joints thereon, and leaves growing thereat, and
towards the tops some branches issuing from thence ;
likewise on the tops of the stalks and branches stand
divers tufts of yellow flowers, whereafter grows some
what flat, thin, and yellowish seed, bigger than Fennel-
seed. The roots grow great and deep, with many other
parts and fibres about them of a strong scent like hot
hrimstone, and yield forth a yellowish milk, or clammy
juice almost like a gum.
Place.] It groweth plentifully in the salt low marshes,
near Feversham in Kent.
Time.2 It flowereth plentifully in July and August.
Government and Virtues.] This is alsoan herb ofMercury.
The juice of Sow-Fennel (saith Dioscorides and Galen)
used with vinegar and rose-water, or the juice with a
little cuphorbinm put to the nose, helpeth those that arc
troubled with the lethargy, frenzy, or giddiness of the
head, the failing-sickness, long and inveterate head-ach,
the palsy, sciatica, and the cramp, and generally all the
diseases of the sinews, used with oil and vinegar. The
THE ENGLISH FHYSrCUN ENLARGED. 131
juice dissolved in wine, or put into an egg, is good for a,
cough, or shortness of breath, and for those that are
troubled with wind in the body. It purgeth the belly-
gently, expelleth the hardness of the spleen, giveth ease
to women that have sore travail in child-birth, and easeth
the pains of the reins and bladder, and also the womb.
A little of the juice dissolved in wine, and dropped into
the ears, easeth the pains in them, and put into a hollow
tooth, easeth the pains thereof. The root is less effectual
to all the aforesaid disorders ;yet the powder of the root
cleanseth foul ulcers, being put into them, and taketh,
out splinters of broken bonas, or other things in the
flesh, and healeth them up perfectly ; as also drieth up* ,
old and inveterate running sores, and is of admirable vir
tue in all green wounds.
Fig-Wort, or Throat-Wort. ? and ff. (h-d.A.}
Some Latin authors call it Cervicaria, because it is ap
propriated to the neck ; and the throat-wort, because it
is appropriated to the throat.
Descript.] Common great Fig-wort sendeth divers great,-,
strong, hard, square brown stalks, three or four feet
high, whereon grow large, hard, and dark green leaves,,
two at a joint, harder and larger than nettle leaves, but
not stinging; at the tops of the stalks stand many pur
ple flowers set in husks, which are sometimes gaping and
open, somewhat like those of Water Betony ; after which*
come hard round heads, with a small point in the middle,
wherein lie small brownish seed. The root is great, white,
and thick, with many branches at it, growing aslope
under the upper crust of the ground, which abideth many-
years, but keepeth not his green leaves in winter.
Place.'] It groweth frequently in moist and shadowy
woods, and in the lower parts of the fields and meadows.
Time.] It flowereth about July, and the seed will be
ripe about a month after the flowers arc fallen.
Government and Virtues.] Venus owns the herb, and
the Celestial Bull will not duny it; therefore a better re
medy cannot be for the king's evil, because the.Moon that
rules the disease is exalted there. The decoction of the
.herb taken inwardly, and the bruised herb applied ouU
132 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
wardly, dissolveth clotted and congealed blood within the
body, coming by any wounds, bruise, or fall ; and is
no less effectual for the king's evil, or any other knobs,
kernels, bunches, or wens growing in the flesh whereso.
ever ; and for the haemorrhoids, or piles. An ointment
made hereof may be used at all times .when the fresh
lierb is not to be had. The distilled water of the whole
plant, roots and all, is used for the same purposes, and
drieth up the superfluous virulent moisture of hollow and
corroding ulcers; it taketh away all redness, spots, and
freckles in the face ; as also the scurf, and any foul de
formity therein, and the leprosy likewise. 1
Fillipendula, or Drop-Wort. ?. (h. m. 2.)
This derives its name of Drop-wort (says Culpeper,)
'because it helps them who make water by drops.
Descript.J This sendeth forth many leaves, some big
ger, some lesser, set on each side of a middle rib, and
each of them dented about the edges, somewhat resembling
wild Tansy, or Agrimony, but harder in handling ; among
which rise up one or more stalks, two or three feet high,
with the leaves growing thereon, and sometimes also di
vided into other branches, spreading at the top into many
white sweet smelling flowers, consisting of five leaves
a-piece, with some threads in the middle of them stand
ing together, in a pith, or umbel, each upon a small
foot-stalk, which, after they have been blown upon a good
while, do fall away, and in their places appear small)
round, Chaffy heads, like buttons, wherein are the chaffy
seeds set and placed. The root consists of many small,
Mack, tuberous pieces, fastened together by many small,
long blackish strings, which run from one to another.
Place."] It groweth in many places of this land, in
the corners of dry fields and meadows, and the hedge
sides.
Time.] They flower in June and July^ and their seed
is ripe in August.
Government and Virtues.'] It is under the dominion' of
Venus. It effectually opens the passages of the urine,
helpeth the stranguary, the stone in the kidnies or blad
der, the gravel, and all other pains of the bladder and.
3
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 133
reins, by taking the roots in powder, or a decoction of
them in white wine, with a little honey. The roots made
into powder, and mixed with honey, in the form of an
electuary, doth much help them whose stomachs arc
swollen, dissolving and breaking the wind which was the
cause thereof ; and is also very effecTflial for all the diseases
of the lungs, as shortness of breath, wheezing, hoarse,
ness of the throat, and the cough ; and to expectorate
tough phlegm, or any other, parts, thereabout-
The Fig-Tree. (h. d. 2.),
To give a description of a tree so well known to every
body that keeps it in his garden, were needless. They
prosper very welt in our English gardens, yet are fitter for
medicine than for any other profit which is gotten by the
fruit of them.
Government and Virtues."] The tree is under the domi
nion of Jupiter. The milk that issueth out from the
leaves or branches when they are broken off, being drop
ped upon warts, taketh them away. The decoction of
the leaves is excellent good to wash sore heads with ; and
there is scarcely a better remedy for the leprosy than it
-is. It clears the face also of morphew, and the body of
white scurf, scabs, and running sores. If it be dropped,
into old fretting ulcers, it eleanseth out the moisture, and
.bringetb up the flesh ; because you cannot have the leaves
green all the year, you may make an ointment of them
whilst you may. A decofition of the leaves being drank
inwardly, or rather a syrup made of them, dissolves con
gealed blood, caused by bruises or falls, and helps the
bloody-flux. The ashes of the wood made into an oint
ment with hog's grease, helps kibes and chilblains.
' The juice being put into an hollow tooth, easeth pain ;
as also pain and noise in the ears, being dropped in them,
and deafness. An ointment made of the juice, and hog's
grease, is as excellent a remedy for the biting of mad
dogs, or other venomous beasts, as most are. A syrup
'Blade of the leaves, or green fruit, is excellent good for
coughs, hoarseness, or shortness of breath, and all dis
eases of the breast and lungs; it is also excellent good
ior the dropsy and falling-sicknessi They say that the
134 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
fig-tree, as well as the bay-tree, is never hurt by light
ning; as also if you tie a bull, be he ever so mad, to a
fig-tree, he will quickly become tame and gentle. As
for such figs as come from beyond sea, I have little to say,
because I write not of exoticks ; yet some authors say,
the eating of them makes people lousy.
The yellow Water-Flag, or Flower de-luce. >.
(h. d. 4.)
This plant should be extirpated from all meadows
where cattle are kept.
Descript.] This groweth like the flower-de-luce ; but
it hath much longer and narrower sad green leaves joint-
ed together in that fashion ; the stalk also growing often,
times as high, bearing small yellow flowers, shaped like
the Flower-de-luce, with three falling leaves, and other
three arched, that cover their bottoms ; but instead of the
three upright leaves, as the Flower-de-luce hath, this
hath only three short pieces standing in their places, after
which succeed thick and long three-square heads, con
taining in each part somewhat big and flat seed, like those
of the Flower-de-luce. The root is long and slender, of
a pale brownish colour on the outside, and of a horse,
flesh colour on the inside, with many fibres thereat, and
very harsh in taste.
Place."| It usually grows in watery ditches, ponds,
lakes, and moor-sides, which are always overflowed with
waters.
Time.'] It flowereth in July, and the seed is ripe in
August.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
the Moon. The root of this Water Flag is very, astrin
gent, cooliDg, and drying, and thereby helps aH laxes
and fluxes whether of blood or humours, as bleeding at
the mouth, nose, or other parts, bloody flux, and the
immoderate 'flux of women's courses. The distilled water
of the whole herb, flowers and roots, is a sovereign good
remedy for watering eyes, both to be dropped into them,
and so have cloths or sponges wetted therein, and applied
to the forehead ; it also helpeth the spots and blemishes
that happen in and about the eyes, or any other parts.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.. 135
The said water fomented on swellings, and hot inflamma
tions of women's breasts, upon cankers also, and those
spreading ulcers called Noli me tangere, do much good.
It helpeth also foul ulcers in the privities of man or wo.
man ; but an ointment made of the flowers is better for
those external applications.
Flax-Weed, or Toad-Flax. S. (temp.d. 3.)
This very noxious weed is reckoned, by some, to be
poisonous, though it is likewise very useful.
Descript.] Our common flax-weed hath divers stalks,
full fraught with long and narrow ash-coloured leaves,
aad from the middle of them almost upward, stored with
a number of pale yellow flowers, of a strong unpleasant
scent, with deeper yellow mouths, and blackish flat seed
in round heads. The root is somewhat woody, and
white, especially the main downright one, with many
fibres, abiding many years, shooting forth roots every
way round about, and new branches every year.
Place.] This groweth throughout this laud, both by
the way-sides, and in meadows, as also by hedge-sides,
and upon the sides of banks, and borders of fields.
Time.] It flowereth in summer, and the seed is ripe
usually before the end of August.
Government and Virtues.] Mars owns this herb. In
Sussex we call it Galhvort, and lay it on our chickens*
water, to cure them of the gall ; it relieves them when
they are drooping. This is frequently used to spend the
abundance of those watery humours by urine, which cause
the dropsy. The decoction of the herb, both leaves and
flowers, in wine taken and drank, doth somewhat move
the belly downwards, openeth obstructions of the liver,
and helpeth the yellow jaundice ; expeileth poison, pro-
voketh women's courses, and driveth forth the dead child
and after-birth. The distilled water of the herb and flow,
ers is effectual for all the same purposes ; being drank with
a dram of the powder of the seeds of bark, or the roots
of wall-wort, and a little cinnamon, for certain days to
gether, it is held a singular remedy for the dropsy. The
juice of the herb, or the distilled water, dropped into the
ryes, is a certain remedy for all heat, inflammation, and
316 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENtARGEU.
redness in them. The juice or water put into foul ulcers,
whether they be cancerous or fistulous, with tents rolled
therein, or parts washed and injected therewith, cleanseth
them thoroughly from the bottom, and healeth them up
safely. The same juiee or water also cleanseth the skin
wonderfully of all sorts of deformity, as leprosy, mor-
phew, scurf, wheals, pimples, or spots, applied of itself,
or used with some powder of Lupines.
Flea-Wort. Jj . (c. 2. temp.)
There are two kinds of Flea-wort, differing, very little,
only the leaves of one kind abide the winter, but the
others do not.
Descript.] Ordinary Flea-wort riseth up with a stalk
two feet high or more, full of joints and branches on
every side, up to the top, and at every joint two small,
long, and narrow whitish green leaves, somewhat hairy.
At the top of every branch stand divers small, short,
scaly, or chaffy heads, out of which come forth small
whitish yellow threads, like to those of the plantain herbs,
.which are the bloomings of flowers. The seed inclosed
in these heads is small and shining, while it is fresh, very
like unto fleas, both for colour and bigness, but turning
black when it groweth old. The root is not long, but
white, hard, and woody, perishing every year, and rising
again of its own seed for divers years, if it be suffered to
«hed. The whole plant is somewhat whitish and hairy,
smelling somewhat like rosin.
Place. ] The first groweth only i«r gardens, the second
plentifully in fields that are near the sea.
Time.] They flower in July, or thereabouts.
Government and Virtues.] The herb is cold, dry, and
Saturnine. I suppose it obtained the name of Flea-wort,
because the seeds are like fleas. The seed fried, and
taken, stayeth the flux or lask of the belly, and the cor
rosions that come by reason of hot, choleric, or sharp
and malignant humours, or- by too-much purging of any
violent medicine, as Scammony, or the like. The muci
lage of the seed made with rose water, and a little sugar-
eandy put thereto, is very good in all hot agues and burn
ing fevers, and other inflammations, to cool the thirst,
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 137
and lenify the dryness and roughness of the tongue and
throat. It helpeth hoarseness of the voice, and diseases
of the breast and lungs, caused by heat, or sharp salt hu
mours, and the pleurisy also. The mucilage of the seed
made with plantain-water, whereunto the yolk of an egg
or two, and a little populeon are put, is a most safe and
sura remedy to ease the sharpness, pricking, and pains of
the haemorrhoids, or piles, if it it be laid on a cloth, and
bound thereto. It helpeth all inflammations in any part
of the body, and the pains that come thereby, as the head,
ach and megrims, and all hot imposthumes, swellings,
or breaking out of the skin, as blains, wheals, pushes,
purples, and the like ; as also the joints of those who are
out of joint, the pains of the gout, and sciatica, the
bursting of young children, and the swelling of the
navel, applied with oil of roses and vinegar. It is also
good to heal the nipples and sore breasts of women, be
ing often applied thereunto. The juice of the herb with
a little honey put into the ears, helpeth the running of
them, and the worms breeding in them: the same also
mixed with hog's grease, and applied to corrupt and filthy-
ulcers, cleanseth and healeth them.
Flux-Weed. T? . {temp. d. 3.) -'
Of this also there are two kinds; differing- in nothing,
save only that one hath somewhat broader leaves; they
have a strong evil savour, being smelted unto, and are of
a drying taste. - .
Descript.] It riseth up with a round upright hard stalk,
four or five feet high, spread into sundry branches, wher*-
on grow many greyish green leaves, very finely cut and
severed into a number of short and almost round parts.
The flowers are very small and yellow, growing spike .
fashion, after which come small long pods, with small
yellowish seed in them. The root is long and woody,
perishing every year. ' . .. , " . .
Place.] They flower wild in the fields, by hedge-sides
and highways, and among rubbish and other places.
Time.'] They flower and seed quickly after, namely, in
June and July., ...'.* . 1
138 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Government and Virtues.] This herb is Saturnine also:
Both the herb and seed of Flux-weed are of excellent
use to stay the flux or lask of the belly, being drank in
water wherein gads of steel, heated, have been often
quenched; and it is no less, effectual for the same pur
pose than plantain or cumfrey, and to restrain any other
flux of blood in man or woman, as also to consolidate
bones broken or out of joint. The juice thereof drank
in wine, or the decoction of the herb, drank, doth kill
the worms in the stomach or belly, or the worms that
grow in putrid and filthy ulcers; and made into a salve
doth quickly heal all old sores, how foul or malignant so
ever they be. The distilled water of the herb worketh
the same effects, although somewhat weaker, yet, it is a
fair medicine, and more acceptable to be taken. It is
called Flux-weed because it cures the flux, and for its
uniting broken bones, &c. Paracelsus extols us to the
skies. It is fitting that syrup, ointment, and plaisters of
it were kept in your houses. * *
Flower-de-Luce. P. (c. m. 4.)
It is so well known, being nourished up in most gar
dens, that I shall not need to spend time in writing a des
cription thereof. -
Time.] The flaggy kinds thereof have the most physical
uses; the dwarf kinds thereof flower in April, the greater
sorts in May. -
Government and Virtues.] The herb is Lunar. The
juice or decoction of the green root of the flaggy kind of
Flower-de-luce, with a little honey drank, doth purge
and cleanse the stomach of gross and tough phlegm, and
choler therein; it helpeth the jaundice and the dropsy,
evacuating those humours both upwards and downwards ;
and because it somewhat hurts the stomach, is not to be
taken without honey, and spikenard. The same being
drank, doth ease the pains and torments of the belly and
sides, the shaking of agues, the diseases of the liver and
spleen, the warms of the belly, the stone in the reins,
convulsions and cramps that come of old humours; it also
helps those whose seed passeth from them unawares; it is
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED, 139
a remedy against the bitings and stingings of venomous
creatures, being boiled in water and vinegar and drank:
boiled in water and drank, it provoketh urine, helpeth
the colick, bringeth down women’s courses; and made
up into a pessary with honey, and put up into the body,
draweth forth the dead child. It is much commended
against the cough, to expectorate tough phlegm ; it
much easeth pains in the head and procureth sleep; being
put into the nostrils, it procureth sneezing, and thereby
purgeth the head of phlegm ; the juice of the root ap
plied to the piles or haemorrhoids, giveth much ease;
the decoétion of the roots gargled in the mouth; easeth
the tooth-ach, and helpeth a stinking breath. Oil called
Oleum Irinum, if it be rightly made of the great broad
flag Flower-de-luce (and not of the green bulbous blue
Flower-de-luce, as is used by some apothecaries) and
roots of the flaggy kind, is very effectual to warm and
comfort all cold joints and sinews, as also the gout and
sciatica, and mollifieth, dissolveth, and consumeth tumours
and swellings in any part of the body, also of the matrix;
it helpeth the cramp, or convulsions of the sinews; the
head and temples anointed therewith, helpeth the catarrh,
or thin rheum distilled from thence; and used upon the
breast or stomach, helpeth to extenuate the cold tough
phlegm ; it helpeth also pains and noise in the ears, and
the stench of the nostrils: the root itself, either green
or in powder, helpeth to cleanse, heal, and incarnate
wounds, and to cover the naked bones with flesh again,
that ulcers have made bare ; and is also very good to
cleanse and heal up fistulas and cankers, that are hard to
‘be cured.
Fluellin, or Luellin. ». (c. m. 2.)
THERE are two kinds of Fluellin, of which take the follow
ing description.
Descript..] The first shooteth forth many long branches,
partly lying upon the ground, and partly standing up
right, set with almost red leaves, yet a little pointed,
and sometimes more long and round, without order
thereon, somewhat hairy, and of an evil greenish white
colour; at the joints all along the stalks, and with the
140 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
leaves come forth small flowers, one at a place, upon a
very small short foot-stalk, gaping somewhat like snap
dragons, or rather like toad-flax, with the upper jaw of
a yellow colour, and the lower qf a purplish, with a
small heel or spur behind ; after which come forth small
brown heads, containing small black seed. The root is
small and thready, dying every year, and raiseth itself
again of its own sowing.
The other sort of Fluellin, hath longer branches,
wholly trailing upon the ground, two or three feet long,
and somewhat more thin, set with leaves thereon, upon
small foot-stalks. The leaves are a little larger, and
somewhat round, and cornered sometime in some places
oh the edges ; but the lower part of them being the
broadest, hath on each side a small point, making it seem
as if they were ears, sometimes hairy, but not hoary,
and a better green colour than the former. The flowers
come forth like the former ; but the colours therein are
more white than yellow, and the purple not so fair ; it is
a large flower, and so are the seed and seed vessels. The
root is like the other, and perisheth every year.
Place."} They grow in divers corn-fields, and in borders
about them, and in other fertile grounds about Southfleet
in Kent, abundant ; at Buchrite, Hamerton, and Rich,
manworth in Huntingdonshire, and in divers other places.
Time] They are in flowe-r about June and July, and
the whole plant is dry and withered before August be
done.
Government and Virtues."} It is a Lunar herb. The
leaves bruised and applied with barky meal to watering
eyes that are hot and inflamed by defluxions from the
head, do very much help them, as also the fluxes
blood or humours, as the lask, bloody-flux, women's
courses, and stayeth all manner of bleeding at the nose,
mouth, or any other place, or that cameth hy any bruise
or hurt, or bursting a vein ; it wonderfully helpeth all
those inward parts that need consolidating or strength-
euing, and is no less effectual both to heal and close
green wounds, than to cleanse and heal all foul or old
ulcers, fretting or spreading cankers or the like. Bees
are industrious, and go abroad to gather honey from each
plant and flower, but drones lie at home, and eat up
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 141
what the bees have have taken pains for just so do the
college of physicians lie at home and domineer, and suck
out the sweetness of other men's labour and studies,
themselves being as ignorant in the knowledge of herbs
as a child of lour years old, as I can make appear to anjr
rational man by their last dispensatory. Now then to
hide their ignorance, their is no readier way in the world
than to hide knowledge from their countrymen, that
so nobody might be able so much as to smell out their
ignorance. When simples were in use, men's bodies
were better in health by far than now they are, or shall
be, if the college can help it. The truth is, this herb is
of a fine cooling, drying quality, and an ointment or
plaster of it might do a man acourtesy that hath any hot
virulent sores : 'tis admirable for ulcers of the French
pox ; if taken inwardly may cure the disease. It was
.first called Female Speedwell, but a shentleman of Wales,
whose nose was almost eaten off with the pox, and so
near the matter, that the doctors commanded it to be cut
off, being cured only by the use of this herb ; and to
honour the herb, for saving hur nose whole, gave it one of
hur country names Fluellin.
Fox-Gloves. (temp.)
As every part of this beautiful plant hath an acrid taste,
children should be guarded against it.
Detcript.'\ It hath many long and broad leaves tying
upon the ground dented upon the edges, a little soft or
woolly, and of a hoary green colour, among which riseth
up sometimes sundry stalks, but one very often, bearing
such leaves thereon from the bottom to the middle, from
whence to the top it is stored with large and long hollow
reddish purple flowers, a little more long and imminent
at the lower edge, with some white spots with them, one
above another, with small green leaves at every one, but
all of them turning their heads one way, and hanging
downwards, having some threads also in the middle,
from whence rise round heads, pointed sharp at the ends,
wherein small brown seed lietb. The roots are so many
small fibres, aud some greater strings among them ;
the flowers have no scent, but the leaves have a bitter hot
taste.
142 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Place.'] It groweth on dry sandy ground for the most
part, and as well on the higher as the lower places under
hedge sides in almost every county of this land.
Time.] It seldom flowereth before July, and the seed is
tipe in August,
Government and Virtues.] The plant is under the domi
nion of Venus, being of a gentle cleansing nature, and
withall very friendly to nature. The herb is familiarly
and frequently used by the Italians to heal any fresh or
green wound, the leaves being but bruised and bound
thereon, and the juice thereof is also used in old sores,
to cleanse, dry, and heal them. The decoction hereof
made up with some sugar or honey, is available to
cleanse and purge the body both upwards and down*
.wards, sometimes of tough phlegm and clammy humours,
and to open obstructions of the liver and spleen. It hath
been found by experience to be available for the king's
evil, the herb bruised and applied, or an ointment made
with the juice thereof, and so used; and a decoction of
two handfuls thereof, with four ounces of Polypody in ale,
hath been found by late experience to cure divers of the
falling sickness, that have been troubled with it above 20
years. 1 am confident that an ointment of it is one of the
best remedies for a scabby head that is.
Fumitory. ^ . (c. d. I )
This beautiful little weed is very much neglected.
Descript.] Our common Fumitory is a tender sappy
herb, sendeth forth from one square, a slender weak stalk,
and leaning downwards on all sides, many branches two
cr three feet long, with finely cut and jagged leaves- of
Whitish, or rather bluish sea green colour : at the tops of
the branches stand many small flowers, as it were in along
spike one above another, made like little birds, of a
Teddish purple colour, with whitish bellies, after which
come small round husks containing small black seeds.
The root is yellow, small, and not very long, full of
juice while it is green, but quickly perishes with the ripe
seed. In the corn fields in Cornwall, it bcarcth white
flowers.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 143
Place.'] It groweth in corn fields almost everywhere, as
well as in gardens.
Time.] It flowereth in May, for the most part, and the
.seed ripeneth shortly after.
Government and Virtues."] Saturn owns the herb, and
presents it to the world as a cure for his own disease, and
strengthener of the part of the body he rules. If by
my astrological judgment of diseases, from the decutn-
-biture, you find Saturn author of the disease, or if by
direction from a nativity you fear a Saturnine disease
approaching, you may by this herb prevent it in the one,
and cure it in the other, and therefore it is fit you keep
-a syrup of it always by you. The juice or syrup made
thereof, or the decoction made in whey by itself, with
some other purging or opening herbs and roots to cause
it to work the better (itself being but weak) is very
effectual for the liver and spleen, opening the obstructions
thereof, and clarifying the blood from saltish, cholerick,
and adust humours, which cause leprosy, scabs, tetters,
and itches, and. such like breaking out of the skin, and
after the purgings doth strengthen all the inward parts.
It is also good against the yellow jaundice, and spendeth
it by urine, which it procureth in abundance. The
powder of the dried herb given for some time together,
cureth melancholy, but the seed is strongest in operation
for all the former diseases. The distilled water of the
herb is also of good eifect in the former diseases, and
conduceth much against the plague and pestilence, being
taken with good treacle. The distilled water also, with
a little water and honey of roses, helpeth all the sores of
the mouth or throat, being gargled often therewith. The
juice dropped into the eyes, cleareth the sight, and taketh
away redness and other defects in them, although it
procureth some pain for the present, and causes tears.
Dioscorides saith, it hindercth any fresh springing of hairs
on the eye-lids (after they are pulled away) if the eye
lids be anointed with the juice hereof, with Gum Arabick
dissolved therein. The juice of the Fumitory and Docks
mingled with vinegar, and the places gently washed or wet
therewith, cureth all sorts of scabs, pimples, blotches,
wheals, and pushes, which arise on the face or hands, or
•*ny other parts of the body. '
144 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
The Furz Busli <?. (h. d. 3.)
It is as well known by this name, as it is in some counties
by the name of Gorz or Whins, that I shall not need to
write-any description thereof, my intent being to teach
my countrymen what they know not, rather than to tell
them again of that which is generally known before.
Place.'] They are known to grow on dry barren heathi,
and other waste, gravelly, or sandy grounds, in all coun
ties of this land.
Time.] They also flower in the Summer mouths.
Government and Virtues.'] Mars owns the herb. They
are hot and dry, and open obstructions of the liver and
spleen. A decoction made with the flowers thereof
hath been found effectual against the jaundice, as also
to provoke urine, and cleanse the kidnies from gravel
or stone ingendered in them. Mars doth also this by
sympathy.
' Garlick. <J. (h. d. I.)
The offensiveness of the breath of him that hath eaten
. Garlick, will lead you by the nose to the knowledge
hereof, and instead of a description, direct you to the
place where it groweth in gardens, which kinds are the
best, and most physical.
Government and Virtues.] Mars owns this.herb. This
was anciently accounted the poor man's treacle, it being
a remedy for all diseases and hurts (except those which
itself breed.) It provoketh urine and women's courses,
helpeth the biting of mad dogs, and other venomous
creatures ; killeth worms in children, cutteth and voideth
tough phlegm, purgeth the head, helpeth the lethargy, is
a good preservative against, and a remedy for any plague,
sore, or foul ulcer ; taketh away spots and blemishes in
the skin, easeth pains in the ears, ripeneth and breaketh
imposthumes, or other swellings; and for all these dis
eases the onions are as effectual. But the Garlick hath
some more peculiar virtues besides the former, viz.it hath
a special quality to disscus inconveniencies coming by
corrupt agues or mineral vapours, or by drinking corrupt
and slinking waters ; as also by taking wolf-bane, hen,
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 145
banc, hemlock, or other poisonous and dangerous herbs.
It is held good in hydropick diseases, the jaundice, fall
ing sickness, cramps, convulsions, the piles or haemor
rhoids, or other cold diseases. Many authors quote ma-
ny diseases this is good for, but conceal its vices. Its
heat is very vehement, and all vehement hot things send
up but ill-favoured vapours to the brain. In cholerick
men it will add fuel to the fire ; in men oppressed by me
lancholy, it will attenuate the humour, and send up
strong fancies, and as many strange visions to the head
therefore let it be taken inwardly with great moderation ;
outwardly you may make more bold with it.
Gentian, Felwort, or Baldmony. <?,• (h.3. d. 1.)
It is confessed that Gentian, which is most used amongst
us, is brought over from beyond sea, yet we have two
sorts of it growing frequently in our nation, which
besides the reasons so frequently alledged why English
herbs should be fittest for English bodies, hath been pro
ved by the experience of divers physicians, to be not a
whit inferior in virtue to that which comcth from beyond
sea ; therefore be pleased to take the description of them
.as followeth. i
Descript.] The greater of the two hath many small
long roots thrust down deep into the ground, and abiding
all the Winter. The stalks are sometimes more, some
times fewer, of a brownish green colour, which is some,
times two feet high, if the ground be fruitful, having ma
ny long, narrow, dark green leaves, set by couples up to
the top ; the flowers are long and hollow, of a purple
colour, ending in fine corners. The smaller sort which
is to be found in our land, groweth up with sundry stalks,
not a foot high, parted into several small branches,
whereon grow divers small leaves together, very like
those of the lesser centaury, of a whitish green colour ;
on the tops of these stalks grow divers perfect blue flow
ers, standing in long husks, but not so big as the other;
the root is very small, and full of threads.
Place.'] The first groweth, in divers places of both the
East and West countries, and as well in wet as in dry-
grounds, as near Longfield by Gravesend, near Cobham
146 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
in Kent, near Linlinstonc in Kent ; also in a chalk-pit,
hard by a paper-mill, not far from Dartford in Kent.
The second groweth also in divers places in Kent, as
about Southfleet and Longficld ; upon Barton's Hills in
Bedfordshire ; also not far from St. Albans, upon a
piece of waste chalky ground, as you go out of Dunsta
ble way towards Gorhambury.
Time.] They flower in August.
Government and Virtues.] They are under the domini
on of Mars, and of them the most principal herbs he is
ruler of. They resist putrefactions, poison, and a more
sure remedy cannot be found to prevent the pestilence
than it is ; it strengthens the stomach exceedingly, helps
digestion, comforts the heart, and preserves it against
faintings and swoonings. The power of the dry roots
help the biting of mad dogs and venomous beasts, opens
obstructions of the liTer, and restoreth an appetite of
their meat to such as have lost it. The herb steeped in
wine, and the wine drank, refresheth such as be over
weary with travel, and grow lame in their joints, cither by
cold or evil lodgings ; it helps stitches, and griping pains
in the sides ; is an excellent remedy for such as are
bruised by falls ; it provokes urine and the terms ex
ceedingly, therefore let it not be given to women with
child ; the same is very profitable for such as are troubled
with cramps and convulsions, to drink the decoction ;
also they say it breaks the stone, and helps ruptures most
certainly ; it is excellent in all cold diseases, and such as
are troubled with tough phlegm, scabs, itch, or any
fretting sores and ulcers ; it is an admirable remedy to
kill the worms, by taking half a dram of the powder in
a morning in any convenient liquor ; the same is ex
cellent good to be taken inwardly for the king's evil.
It helps agues of all sorts, and the yellow jaundice, as
also the bots in cattle : when kine are bitten on the ud-
•dor by any venomous beast, do but stroke the place
.with the decoction of any of these, and it will instantly
heal them.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 147
Clove Gilliflowers. 1J-. (temp.)
It is vain to describe an herb so well known.
Government and Virtues.] They are gallant, fine,
temperate flowers, of the nature, and under the dominion
of Jupiter; yea, so temperate, that no excess, neither in
heat, cold, dryness, nor moisture, can be perceived in
them ; they are great strengtheners both of the brain and
heart, and will therefore serve either for cordials or cc-
phalicks, as your occasion will serve. There is both a
syrup and a conserve made ef them alone, commonly to
be had at every apothecary's. To take now and then a
little of either, strengthens nature much in such as are in
consumptions. They are excellent good in hot pestilent
fevers, and expel poison.
Germander. (h. d.3.)
This celebrated plant is cultivated chiefly for medical
purposes.
Descript.] Germander shooteth forth sundry stalks,
with small and somewhat round leaves dented about the
edges. The flowers stand at the tops, of a deep purple
colour. The root is composed of divers sprigs, which
shoot forth a great way roundabout, quickly overspread
ing a garden.
Place.] It groweth usually with us in gardens.
Time.] And flowereth in June and July.
Government and Virtues.'] It is a most prevalent herb
of Mercury, and strengthens the brain and apprehension
exceedingly when weak, and relieves them when drooping.
This taken with honey (saith Dioscorides) is a remedy for
coughs, hardness of the spleen, and difficulty of urine, and
helpeth those that are fallen into a dropsy, especially at
the beginning of the disease, a decoctiou being made
thereof when it is green, and drank. It also bringeth
down wemen's courses, and expelleth the dead child. It
is most effectual against the poison of all serpents, being
drank in wine, and the bruised herb outwardly applied.
Used with honey it eleanseth old and foul ulcers ; and
h 2
"H 48 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
made into an oil, and the eyes anointed therewith, taketh
away the dimness and moistness. It is likewise good for
the pains in the sides and cramps. The decoction thereof
taken for four days together, driveth away and cureth
both tertian and quartan agues. . It is also good against
all diseases of the brain, as continual head-ach, falling
sickness, melancholy, drowsiness and dullness of the
spirits, convulsions and palsies. A dram of the seed taken
in powder, purgeth by urine, and is good against the yel
low jaundice. The juice of the leaves dropped into the
ears, killeth the worms in them. The tops thereof, when
they are in flower, steeped twenty-four hours in a
draught of white wine, and drank, killeth the worms in
the belly.
Stinking Gladwin. h. (h. d. 3.)
This is one of the kinds of Flower-de-luce.
Descript..] It hasdivers leaves arising from the roots, very
like a Flower-de-luce, but they are sharp-edged on both
sides, and thicker in the middle, of a deeper green colour,
narrower and sharper pointed, and a strong ill scent, if they
be bruised between the fingers. In the middle riseth up a
reasonable strong stalk, a yard high at the least, bearing
three or four flowers at the top, made somewhat like the
flowers of the flower-de-luce, with three upright leaves,
of a dead purplish ash colour, with some veins dis
coloured in them; the other three do not fall down, nor
are the three other small ones so arched, nor cover the
lower leaves as the Flower-de-luce doth, but stand loose
or asunder from them. After they are past, there come
up three square hard husks, opening wide into three parts
when they are ripe, wherein lie reddish seed, turning
black when it hath abided long. The root is like that of
the Flower-de-luce, but reddish on the outside, and
whitish within, very sharp and hot in the taste, of as evil
scent as the leaves.
Place.] This groweth as well in upland grounds as in
moist places, woods, and º places by the sea-side
in many places of this land, and is usually nursed up in
gardens.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 149
Time.] It flowereth not until July, and the seed is
ripe in August or September; yet the husks after they
are ripe, opening themselves, will hold their seed with
them for two or three months, and not shed them.
Government and Virtues.] It issupposed to be under the
dominion of Saturn. It is used by many country people
to purge corrupt phlegm and choler, which they do by
drinking the decočtion of the roots; and some, to make
it more gentle, do but infuse the sliced roots in ale; and
some take the leaves, which serve well for the weaker
stomachs. The juice hereof put up, or snuffed up the
nose, causeth sneezing, and draweth from the head much
corruption; and the powder thereof doth the same. The
powder thereof drank in wine, helpeth those that are
troubled with cramps and convulsions, or with the gout
and sciatica, and giveth ease to those that have griping
pains in their body and belly, and helpeth those that
have the stranguary. It is given with much profit to
those that have ſomg fluxes by the sharp and evil quality
of humours, which it stayeth, having first cleansed and
purged them by the drying and binding property therein.
The root boiled in wine and drank, doth effectually pro
cure women's courses; and used as a pessary, worketh
the same effect ; but causeth abortion in women with
child. Half a dram of the seed beaten to powder, and
taken in wine, doth speedily cause a flow of urine. The
same taken with vinegar, dissolveth the hardness and
swellings of the spleen. The root is effectual in all
wounds, especially of the head; as also to draw forth any
splinters, thorns, or broken bones, or any other thing
sticking in the flesh, without causing pains, being used
with a little verdigrease and honey, and the great Cen
taury root. The same boiled in vinegar, and laid upon
any tumour or swelling, doth very effectually dissolve and
consume them; yea, even the swellings of the throat,
called the kihg's evil: the juice of the leaves or roots
healeth the itch, and all running or spreading scabs, sores,
blemishes, or scars in the skin, whatsoever they be.
H 3
150 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
6oldcn Rod. ?. (h. m. 2.)
This is by some people also called Woundwort.
Descript.] This ariscth up with brownish small round
stalks, two feet high, and sometimes more, having thereon
many narrow and long dark green leaves, very seldom
with any dents about the edges or any stalks or white
spots therein, yet they are sometimes so found divided
at the tops into many small branches, with divers small
yellow flowers on every one of them, all which are
turned one way, and being ripe, do turn into down,
and are carried away by the wind. The root consists
of many small fibres, which grow not deep in the ground,
but abideth all the Winter therein, shooting forth new
branches every year, the old one lying down to the
ground.
Place.] It groweth in the open places of woods and
copses, both moist and dry grounds, in many places of
this land.
Time.] It flowereth about the month of July.
Government and Virtues.] Venus claims the herb, and
therefore to be sure it respects beauty lost. Arnoldus de
Villa Nova commends it much against the stone in the
reins and kidnies, and to provoke urine in abundance,
whereby also all the gravel and stone may be voided.
The decoilion of the herb, green or dry, or the distilled
water thereof, is very efl'eclual for inward bruises ; as also
to be outwardly applied, it stayeth bleeding in any part
of the body, and of wounds ; also the fluxes of humours,
the bloody flux, and women's courses ; and is no less pre
valent in all ruptures or burstings, being drank inwardly,
and outwardly applied. It is a sovereign wound herb,
inferior to none, both for inward and outward hurts ;
green wounds, old sores and ulcers, arc quickly cured
therewith. It also is of especial use in all lotions for
sores or ulcers in the mouth, throat, or privy parts in man
or woman. The decoction also htlpcth to fasten the teeth
that arc loose in the gums.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 151
Goutwort. . (h. d. 2.)
It is also called Herb-gerrard, Ash-weed, aud Ground-
ash.
Descript.'] It is a low herb, seldom rising half a yard
high, having sundry leaves standing on brownish green
stalks by three, snipped about, and of a strong unplea
sant savour ; the umbels of the flowers arc white, and the
seed blackish, the root runneth in the ground, quickly
taking a great deal of room.
Place."} It groweth by hedge and wall-sides, and often
in the border and corners of fields, and in gardens also.
Time.'] It flowereth and scedeth about the end of July.
Government and Virtues.} Saturn rules it. Neither is
it to be supposed Goutwort hath its name for nothing,
but upon experiment to heal the gout and sciatica; as
also joint-achs, and other cold griefs. The very bearing
of it about one easeth the pains of the gout and defends
him that bears it from the disease.
Gromel. ?. (h. d. 2 )
Or this I shall brisfly describe their kinds which arc
principally used in physic, the virtues whereof are alike
though somewhat dilferent in their manner and form of
growing.
Descript.} The greater Gromel groweth up with slen
der and hard hairy stalks, trailing and taking root in the
ground as it licth thereon, and parted into many other
small branches, with hairy dark green leaves thereon.
At the joints with the leaves come forth very small blue
flowers, and after them hard stony roundish seed. The
root is long and woody, abiding the Winter, and shoot--
cth forth fresh stalks in the Spring.
The smaller wild Gromel sendeth forth divers upright
hard branched stalks, two or three feet high, full of
joints, at every of which groweth small, long, hard
and rough leaves like the former, but lesser; among
which leaves come forth small -white flowers, and after
them greyish round seed like the former ; the root is not
very big, but with many strings thereat.
The garden Gromel hath divers upright, slender,
H.4.
152 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
woody, hairy stalks, blown and cressed, very little
branched, with leaves like the former, and white flowers;
after which, in rough brown husks, is contained a white,
hard, round seed, shining like pearl, and greater than
either of the former ; the root is like the first described,
with divers branches and sprigs thereat, which continu
ed (as the first doth) all the Winter.
Place.] The two first grow wild in barren or untitled
places, and by the way-sides in many places of this
land. The last is a nursling in the gardens of the
curious.
Time.] They all flower from Midsummer until Septem-
ber sometimes, and in the mean time the seed ripencth.
Government and Virtues.'] The herb belongs to Dame
Venus; and therefore if Mars cause the colick or stone,
as usually he doth, if in Virgo, this is your cure. These
are accounted to be of as singular force as any herb or
seed whatsoever, to break the stone and to void it, and
the gravel either in the reins or bladder; as also to pro
voke urine being stopped, and to help the stranguary.
The seed is of greatest use, being bruised and boiled in
white wine, or in broth, or the like, or the powder of
the seed taken therein. Two drams of the seed in
powder taken with women's breast-milk, is very effec
tual to procure a speedy delivery to such women as have
sore pains in their travail, and cannot be delivered. The
herb itself (when the seed is not to be had) cither boiled,
or the juice thereof drank, is effectual to all the purpo
ses aforesaid, but not so powerful aud speedy in ope
ration.
Gooseberry-Bush . ? . (c. d. 2.)
Called also Feapberry aud in Sussex Dewberry-bush,
and in some counties Wineberry.
Government and Virtues.] They are under the domi
nion of Venus. The berries, while they are unripe,
being scalded, or baked, are good to stir up a fainting or
decayed appetite, especially such whose stomachs are
afflicted by cholerick humours ; they are excellent good
to stay longings of women with child. You may keep
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 153
f,hem preserved with sugar all the year long. The decoc
tion of ths leaves of the tree cools hot swellings and in.
flammation* ;- as also St. Anthony's fire. The ripe goose
berries being eaten, are an excellent remedy to allay the
violent heat both of the stomach and liver. The young
tender leaves break the stone, and expel gravel both from
the kidnies and bladder. All the evils they do to the body
of man is, they are supposed to breed crudities, and by
crudities, worms.
Winter-Green. ^ . (c. 2. d. 3.)
This plant is little known, except in particular places.
Descript.] This sends forth seven, eight, or nine leaves,
from a small brown creeping root,, every one standing
upon a long foot-stalk, which are almost as broad as long,
round-pointed, ofa sad green colour, and hard in handling,
and like the leaf of a Pear-tree ; from whence ariscth a
slender weak, stalk, yet standing upright, bearing at the
top many small white sweet-smelling Mowers, laid open,
like a star, consisting of five round-pointed leaves, with
many yellowish threads standing in the middle about a
green head, and a long stalk with them, which being ripe,,
is found five square, with a small point at it, wherein is
contained seed as small as dust.
Place.] It groweth seldom in fields, but frequent in the-
woods northwards, viz. ia Yorkshire, Lancashire, and,
Scotland.
Time.] It flowereth about June and July..
Government and Virtues."] Winter-green is under the-
dominion of Saturn, and is a.singular good wound herb,,
and an especial remedy for toheal'green wounds speedily,,
the green leaves being bruised and applied, or the juice
of them. A salve made of the green herb stamped, or.
the juice boiled with hog's lard,, or with sallad oil and'
wax, and some turpentine added unto it, is a sovereign:
salve, and highly, extolled by the Germans, who use it to
heal all manner of wounds and sores. The herb boiled ,
in wine and water, and given to drink to,them, that have
any inward ulcers in their kidnies, or neck of the bladder,,
doth wonderfully help them. It stayeth all fluxes, as thoo
154 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
last, bloody fluxes, women's courses, and bleeding of
wounds, and taketh away inflammations rising upon
pains of the heart ; it is no less helpful for foul ulcers
bard to be cured ; as also for cankers or fistulas. The
distilled water of the herb doth efl'c&ually perform the
tame things.
Groundsel. .? . (h. d. 2.)
Our common groundsel is too well known to require any
description.
Place."] This groweth almost every where, as w ell on
tops of walls, as at the foot, amongst rubbish and untilled
grounds, but especially in gardens.
Time.] It flowercth, as it is said before, almost in every
month throughout the year.
Government and Virtues.] This herb is Vcnus's mistress-
piece, and is a gallant and universal medicine for all
diseases coming of heat, in what part of the body soever
they be, as the sun shines upon ; it is very safe and-
friendly to the body of man, yet causeth vomiting if the
stomach be afflicted ; if not, purging ; and it doth it with
more gentleness than can be expected ; it is moist, and
something cold withal), thereby causing expulsion, and
repressing the heat caused by the motion of the interna]
parts in purges and vomits. Lay by our learned receipts ;
take so much Sena, so much Scammony, so much
Colocynthis, so much infusion of Crocus Mctallorum,
&c. This herb alone preserved in a syrup, in a dis
tilled water, or in an ointment, shall do the deed for
you in all hot diseases; and, shall do it, 1. Safely—
2. Speedily.
The decoction of the herb (saith Dioscorides) made
with wine, and drank, helpeth the pains of the stomach,
proceeding of choler, (which it may well do by a vomit)
as daily experience sheweth. The juice thereof taken in'
drink, or the decoclion of it in ale, gently performeth
the same. It is good against the jaundice and falling-
sickness, being taken in wine; as also against difficulty
of making water. It provokcth urine, expelleth gravel
in the reins or kidnies, a dram thereof given in oxymel,
after some walking or stirring of the body. It helpeth
THE ENGLISH PhysicIAN ENLARGED, 155,
º
also the sciatica, griping of the belly, the colick; defects
of the liver, and provoketh women's courses. The fresh
herb boiled, and made into a poultice, applied to the
breasts of women that are swollen with pain and heat,
, as also the privy parts of man and woman, the seat or .
fundament, or the arteries, joints and sinews, when they
are inflamed and swollen, doth much ease them ; and
used with some salt, helpeth to dissolve knots or kernels
in any part of the body. The juice of the herb, or (as
Dioscorides saith) the leaves and, flowers, with some fine
frankincense in powder, used in wounds of the body, ,
nerves or sinews, do singularly help to heal them. The
distilled water of the herb performeth well all the afore
said cures; but especially for inflammations or watering.
of the eyes, by reason of the defluxion of rheum into,
them.
Heart's-Ease. . . (c. 1. m. 2.): . . .
This is that herb, which such physicians as are licensed
to blasphame by authority, without danger of having.
their tongues burned through with an hot iron, called
an herb of the Trinity. It is also called by those
that are more moderate, Three Faces in a Hood,
Live in Idleness, Cull me to you : and in Sussex, we .
call them Pamsies. -
Place.] Besides those which are brought up in gardens,
they grow commonly wild in the fields, especially in such
as are very barren ; sometimes you may find it on the
tops of the high hills.
Time.] They flower all the Spring and Summer long. .
Government and Virtues.] The herb is really Saturnine,
something cold, viscous and slimy. A strong decoction.
of the herbs and flowers (if you will, you may make it
into syrup) is an excellent cure for the French-pox, the
herb being a gallant antivenerean ; and that antive-.
nereans are the best cure for that disease, far better and
safer than to torment them with the flux, divers foreign
physicians have confessed. The spirit of it is excellent
good for the convulsions in children, as also for the falling
sickness, and a gallant remedy for the inflammation of the
H 6, -
156 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLiRGED.
lungs and breast, pleurisy, scabs, itch, &c. It is under
the celestial Sign Cancer.
Artichokes. ? . (k. m. 2.)
The Latins call them Cinera, only our College calls them
Artichocus.
Government and Virtues.] They arc under the dominion
of Venus, and therefore it is no marvel if they provoke
lust, as indeed they do, being something windy meat ;
and yet they stay the involuntary course of natural seed
in man, which is commonly called nocturnal pollutions.
And here I care not greatly if I quote a little of Galen's
nonsense in his treatise of the faculties of nourishment. He
saith, they contain plenty of choleric juice (which, not
withstanding, 1 can scarcely believe) of which he saith is
engendered melancholy juice, and of that melancholy juice
thin choleric blood. But to proceed ; this is certain, that
the deco&ion of the root boile^l in wine, or the root
bruised and distilled in wine in an alembic, and being
drank, purgeth by urine exceedingly.
Harts-Tongue. %. (c. d. I.)
This is always green, though it hath fresh leaves in
Spring.
Descript."] This hath divers leaves arising from the root,
every one severally, which fold themselves in their first
springing and spreading: when they arc full grown, are
about a foot long, smooth and green above, but hard, and
with little sap in them, and streaked on the back, thwart
on the sides of the middle rib with small and somewhat
long brownish marks ; the bottoms of the leaves arc a
little bowed on each side of the middle rib, somewhat
narrow with the length, and somewhat small at the end.
The root is of many black threads, folded or interlaced
together.
Time.] It is green all the Winter; but new leaves
spring every year.
Government and Virtues.'] Jupiter claims dominion
over this herb, therefore it, is a singular remedy for the
liver, both to strengthen it when weak, and ease it when
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 157
afflicted ; you shall do well to keep it in a syrup all the
year : for though authors say it is green all the year, I
scarce believe it. Hart's Tongue is much commended
against the hardness and stoppings of the spleen and
liver, and against the heat of the liver and stomach, and
against lasks, and the bloody-flux. The distilled water
thereof is also very good against the passions of the
heart, and to stay the hiccough, to help the falling of
the palate, and to stay the bleeding of the gums, being
gargled in the mouth. Dioscorides suith, it is good
against the stinging or biting of serpents. As for the use
of it my direction at the latter end will be sufficient, and
enough for those that are studious in physic, to whet their
bruins upon for one year or two.
Hazel-Nut. $. (temp. d. I.)
Hazel-nuts are so well known to every body, that they
need no description.
Government and Virtues."] They arc under the
dominion of Mercury. The parted kernels made into an
electuary, or the milk drawn from the kernels with mead
or honeyed water is very good to help an old cough, and
being parched, and a little pepper put to them and drank,
digesteth the distillations of rheum from the head. The
dried husks and shells, to the weight of two drams, taken
in red wine, stayeth lasks and women's courses, and so
doth the red skin that covers the kernels, which is more
effectual to stay women's courses.
And if this be true, as it is, then why should the vulgar
so familiarly affirm, that eating Nuts causcth shortness of
breath ? than which nothing is falser. For how can that
which strengthens the lungs, cause shortness of breath ?
I confess, the opinion is far older than I am; I knew
tradition was a friend to error before, but never that he was
the father of slander : or are men's tongues so given to
slander one another, that they must slander Nuts too, to
keep their tongues in use ? If any thing of the Hazel-nut
be stopping, it is the husks and shells, and nobody is so
mad to eat them, unless physically ; and the red skin
which, covers the kernel, you may easily pull off. And
158 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED;
so thus have I made an apology for Nuts, which cannot
speak for themselves.
Hawk-weed. ^ . (c. <?. 2.J
Of this there are several kinds, but their virtues are
similar.
Descript.] It hath many large leaves lying upon the
ground, much rent or torn on the sides into gashes like
Dandelion, but with greater parts, more like the smooth
Sow Thistle, from among which riscth a hollow, rough
stalk, two or three feet high, branched from the middle
upward, whereon are set at every joint longer leaves,
little or nothing rent or cut, bearing on their top sundry
pale, yellow flowers, consisting of many small, narrow
leaves, broad pointed, and nicked in at the ends, set in a
double row or more, the outermost being larger than the
inner, w hich from most of the Hawk-weeds (for there are
many kinds of them) do hold, which turn into down,
and with the small brownish seed is blown away with
the wind. The root is long, and somewhat greater, with
many small fibres thereat. The whole plant is full of.
bitter milk.
Place.] It groweth in divers places about the field-.
sidrs, and the path-ways in dry grounds.
Time.'] It flowereth and flies away in summer months.
Government and Virtues.] Saturn owns it. Hawk-.,
weed (saith Dioscorides) is cooling, somewhat drying and .
binding, and therefore good for the heat of the stomach,
and gnawings therein ; for inflammations, and the hot
fits of agues. The juice thereof in wine, helpeth di
gestion, discusseth wind, hindereth crudities abiding in .
the stomach, and helpeth the difficulty of making water, .
the biting of venomous serpents, and stinging of the
scorpion, if the herb be also outwardly applied to the
place, and is very good against all other poisons. A
scruple of the dried root given in wine and vinegar, is
profitable for those who have the dropsy. The decoc- .
tion of the herb taken with honey, digesteth the phlegm
in the chest or lungs, and with hyssop helpeth the cough. .
The decoction thereof, and of wild succory, made with
wine, and taken, helpeth the wind colic, and hardness
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 15&
of thespleen ; it procureth rest and sleep, hindereth
venery and venerous dreams, cooling heats, purgeth
the stomach, increaseth blood, and helpeth the diseases
of reins and bladder. Outwardly applied, it is singularly
good for all the defects and diseases of the eyes, used
with some women's milk; and used with good success in
fretting or creeping ulcers, especially in the beginning.
The green leaves bruised, and with a little salt applied
to any place burnt with fire, before blisters do arise,
helpeth them ; also inflammations, St Anthony's fire, and
all pushes and eruptions, hot and salt phlegm. The same
applied with meal and fair water, in manner of a poultice,
to any place affected with convulsions and the cramp,
such as are out of joint, doth give help and ease. The
distilled water eleanseth the skin, and taketh away
freckles, spots, inorphew, or wrinkles in the face.
Hawthorn. (h. d. 3.)
It is not my intention to trouble you with a description
of this tree, which is so well known that it ncecleth
none. It is ordinarily but a hedge, bush, although
pruned and dressed, it groweth to a tree of a reasonable
height.
As for the Hawthorn-Tree at Glastonbury, which is said
to flower yearly on Christmas-day, it rather shews the
superstition of those that observe it for the time of its
flowering, than any great wonder, since the like may be
found in divers other places of this land; as in Whey-
street in Itomney-Marsh, and near unto Nantwich in
Cheshire, by a place called White-Green, where it flow,
ereth about Christmas and May. If the.weather be frosty,
it flowereth not until January, or that the hard weathef
be over.
Government and Virtues."] It is a tree of Mars. The
seeds in the berries beaten to powder, being drank in
wine, arc held singular good against the stone aBd the
dropsy. The distilled water of the flower stayeth the
lask. The seed cleared from the down, bruised and
boiled in wine, and drank, ip good for inward tormenting
pains. If cloths and spunges be wet , in the distilled
water, and applied to any place wherein thorns and
160 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED;
splinters, or the like, do abide in the flesh, it will notably
draw them forth ; and thus you see the thorn gives a
medicine for his own pricking, and so doth almost every
thing else.
Hemlock. T} . (c. 4. d. 3.)
The whole plant, and every part, hath an ilUfavoured'
scent, much offending the senses.
Descript.] The common great Hemlock groweth «pr
with a green stalk, four or five feet high, or more, full ofc
red spots sometimes, and at the joints very large winged,
leaves set at there, which are divided into many other
winged leaves, one set against the other, dented about the
edges, of a sad green colour, branched towards the top,,
w here it is full of umbels of white flowers, and afterwards,
with whitish flat seed ; the root is long, white, and some
what crooked, and hollow within.
Place.] It groweth in all counties of this land, by walls
and hedge-sides, in waste grounds and untitled places.
Time.] It flowereth and seedeth in July, or there
abouts.
Government and Firtues.] Saturn claims dominion over
this herb, yet.I wonder why it may not be applied to.
the privities in a priapism, or continual standing of the
yard, it being very beneficial to that disease ; I suppose,
my author'3 judgment was first upon the opposite dispo
sition of Saturn to Venus in those faculties, therefore
he forbad the applying of it to those parts, that it might
not cause- barrenness, or spoil the spirit procreative y
which if it do, yet applied to the privities, it stops its
lustful thoughts. Hemlock is exceedingly cold, and very,
dangerous, especially to be taken inwardly. It may safely,
be applied to inflammations, tumours and swellings ia
any part of the body, (save the private parts) as also to
St, Anthony's fire, wheals, pushes, and creeping ulcers.
- that arise of hot sharp humours, by cooling and repell
ing, the heat ; the leaves bruised and laid to the brow
or forehead are good for the eyes that are red and swol
len ; as also to take away a pin and web growing in
the eye; this is a tried medicine. Take a small handful,
of this herb, and half so much Bay salt, beaten toge-
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 1G1
ther, and applied to the contrary wrist of the hand for
21 hours, doth remove it in thrice dressing. If the root
thereof be roasted under the embers, wrapped in double
wet paper, until it be soft and tender, and then applied
to the gout in the hands and fingers, it will quickly
help this evil. If any, through mistake, eat the herb
Hemlock instead of Parsley, or the roots instead of a
Parsnip (both of which it is very like) whereby happeneth
a kind of frenzy, or perturbation of the senses, as if they
were stupid and drunk, the remedy is (as Pliny saith) to
drink of the best and strongest pure wine, before it strikes
to the heart, or gentian put in wine, or a draught of
vinegar, wherewith Tragus doth affirm, that he cured a
woman that had eaten the root.
Hemp. T? . ("e. d. 1.)
Tins is so well known to every good housewife in
the country, that I shall not need to write any description
of it.
Time."} It is sown in the end of March,, or beginning of
April.
Government and Virtues."] It is a plant of Saturn, and
good for fomething else, you see, than to make halters
only. The seed of Hemp consumeth wind, and by too
much use thereof disperseth it so much,, that it drieth up
the natural seed for procreation ;. yet, being boiled in
milk, and taken, helpeth such as have a hot dry cough.
The Dutch make an emulsion, out of the seed, and give it
with good success to those who- have the jaundice, espe.
cially in the beginning of the disease, if there be no ague
accompanying it, far it opencth obstructions of the gall,
and causeth digestion of choler.. The emulsion or de
coction of the seed stayetli tasks and continual fluxes,
caseth the colic, and allayeth the troublesome humours
in the bowels, and stayeth bleeding at the mouth, nose,
or other places, some of the leaves being fried with the
blood of them that bleed, and so given them to eat. It
is held very good to kill the worms in meu or beasts ; and
the juice dropped into the ears, killelh the worms in them,
and draweth forth earwigs, or other living creatures gotten
in them. The decoction of the root allayeth inflammations
162 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
of the head, or any other parts ; the herb itseif, or the
distilled water thereof, doth the like. The decoction of
the root easeth pains of tbe gout, the hard humours of
knots in the joints, the pains and shrinking of the sinews,
and the pains of the hips. The fresh juice mixed with a
little oil and butter, is good for any place that hath been
burnt with fire, being thereto applied.
Always observe the sympathys and antipathys which
we have already taught you in the herb Carduus Bene
dicts, for there is a sympathy and antipathy in the
stars, planets, men, women, herbs, animals, and in short
in every thing in existence, even as much as there is in
fire and water, good and evil, from whence arose the
use of amulets, telesmes, lamens, pentacles, &c. I
have cured diseases by them myself when all the powers
of medicines have failed ; they always answer the end
for which they are made. 1 haw made several of them,
being ordered, and are now daily worn by young ladies,
which most powerfully defends them from all the malig
nant powers of sedu&ion, &c. which are duly consecrated
according to art founded on the constant practice and
daily experience of the ancient Romans, Hebrew, Chal
dean, Greek, Arabian, Latin and Egyptian Doctors of
this said art and science, and also by Zoroastes, Appol-
lonins of Tyana, Agrippa, Merlin, Roger Bacon, Para
celsus, Dr. Dee, Petrus de Abano, &c. &c. who performed
a great number of most wonderful miracles by this said
Divine Art, which first originated from Moses and the
fiery serpent, being instituted by God himself, see Num
bers xxi. 8, 9.
I have placed the remedy for seduction under this
herb, because those that commit rapes are generally
afflicted by the Hemp Fever, which commonly cause
death.
Henbane. ^ . (c. 4. d. 1.)
The whole plant, more than the root, hath a very heavy,
ill, soporiferous smell, somewhat offensive.
Descript."\ Our common Henbane hath very large,
thick, soft, woolly leaves, lying on the ground, much
cut in, or torn on the edges, of a dark, ill greyish grctn
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 163
colour; among which arise up divers thick and short
stalks, two or three feet high, spread into divers small
branches, with lesser leaves on them, and many hollow
flowers, scarce appearing above the husk, and usually-
torn on one side, ending in five round points, growing
one above another, of a deadish yellowish colour, some
what paler towards the edges, with many purplish veins
therein ; and a dark, yellowish purple in the bottom of
the flower, with a small point of the same colour in the
middle, each of them standing in a hard close husk, which
after the flowers are past, groweth very like the husk of
Asarabacca, and somewhat sharp at the top points,
wherein is contained much small seed, very like Poppy
seed, but of a dusky, greyish colour. The root is
gtcat, white and thick, branching forth divers ways under
ground, so like a Parsnip root (but that it is not so white)
that it hath deceived others.
Place.'] It commonly groweth by the way-sides, and
under hcdgc.sides and walls.
Time.] It flowercth in July, and springeth again
yearly of its own seed. 1 doubt my authors mistook
July for Jdne, if not for May.
Government and Virtues.] I wonder how astrologers
could take on them to make this an herb of Jupiter ;
and yet Mezaldus, a man of penetrating brain, was of-
that opinion as well as the rest; the herb is indeed under
the dominion of Saturn, and I prove it by this argument:
All the herbs which grow in Saturnine places, are Satur
nine herbs. But Henbane delights most to grow in
Saturnine places, and whole cart loads of it may be found
near the places where they empty the common jakes, and
scarce a ditch to be found without it growing by it.
Ergo, it is an herb of Saturn. The leaves of Henbane do
cool all hot inflammations in the eyes, or any other part
of the body; and are good to assuage all manner of
swellings of the privities, or women's breasts, or elsewhere,
if they be boiled in wine, and either applied themselves, or
the fomentation warm ; it also assuageth the pain of the
gout, the sciatica, and other pains in the joints which
arise from a hot cause. And applied with vinegar to the
forehead and temples, helpeth the hcad-ach and want of
sleep in hot fevers. The juice of the herb or seed, or the
164 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
oil drawn from the seed, does the like. The oil of the seed
is helpful for deafness, noiscr and worms in the ears,
being dropped therein ; the juice of the herb or root doth
the same. The decoction of the herb or seedr or both,
killeth lice in man or beast. The fume of the dried herb,
stalks and seed, burned, quickly healcth swellings,
chilblains or kibes in the hands or feet, by holding them
in the fume thereof. The remedy to help those that have
taken Henbane is to drink goat's milk, honeyed water,
or pine kernels, with sw.eet wine ; or, in the absence of
these, fennel-seed, nettle-seed, the seed of cresses,
mustard, or radish ; as also onions or garlick taken in
wine, da all help, to free them from danger, and restore
them to their due temper again.
Take notice, that this herb must never be taken in
wardly ; outwardly, an oil, ointment, or plaister of it,, is
most admirable for the gout, to cool the venereal heat of
the reins in the French pox ; to stop the tooth.ach, being
applied to the aching side ; to allay all inflammations, and
tc help the diseases before premised.
Hedge Hyssop. <J. (h. d. 3.)
Diveus sorts there are of this plant ; the first of which is
an Italian by birth, and only nursed up here in the
gardens of the curious. Two or three sorts are found
commonly growing wild here, the description of two of
of which I shall give you.
Descript.] The first is a smooth, low plant, not a foot
high, very bitter in taste, with many square stalks,
diversly branched from the bottom to the top, with divers
joints, and two small leaves at each joint, broader at the
bottom than they are at the end, and full of veins. The
flowers stand at the joints, being of a fair purple colour,
with some white spots in them, in fashion like those of
dead nettles. The seed is small and yellow, and the roots
spread much under ground.
The second seldom groweth half a foot high, sending
up many small branches, whereon grow many small
leaves, set one against the other, somewhat broad, bat
very short. The flowers are like the flowers of the
other in fashion, but of a pale reddish colour. The
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 165
seeds are small and yellowish. The root spreadeth like
the other, neither will it yield to its fellow one ace of
bitterness.
Place.] They grow in wet low grounds, and by the
water-sides ; the last may be found among the bogs on
Hampstead Heath.
Time."] they flower in June and July, and the seed is
ripe presently after.
Government and Virtues."] They are herbs of Mars,
and as choleric and churlish as he is, being most violent
purges, especially of choler and phlegm. It is not safe
taking them inwardly, unless they be well rectined by
the art of the alchymist, and only the purity of them
given ; so used they may be very helpful both for tho
dropsy, gout, and sciatica ; outwardly used in ointments
they kill worms, the belly anointed with it, and are ex
cellent good to cleanse old and filthy ulcers.
Black-Hellebore. Tj , (c. 4. d. 2.)
It is also called Setter-wort, Setter-grass, Bear's-foot,
Christmas-herb, and Christmas-flower.
Descript.] It hath sundry fair green leaves rising from
the root, each of them standing about an handful high
from the earth ; each leaf is divided into seven, eight,
or nine parts, dented from the middle of the leaf to the
point on both sides, abiding green all the winter ;
about Christmas-time, if the weather be any thing tem
perate, the flowers appear upon foot-stalks, also con
sisting of five large, round, white leaves a-piece, which
sometimes are purple towards the edges, with many pale
yellow thumbs in the middle; the seeds are divided
into several cells, like those of Columbines, save only
that they are greater ; the seeds are in colour black, and
ia form, long and round. The root consisteth of num
berless blackish strings all united into one head. There
is another Black Hellebore, which grows up and down
in the woods very like this, but only that the leaves are
smaller aud narrower, and perish in the Winter, which
this doth not.
Place.] The first is maintained ia gardens. The
166 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLAKGED.
second is commonly found in the woods in Northampton-
shire.
Time.'] The first flowercth in December or January ;
the second in February or March.
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb of Saturn, and
therefore no marvel if it hath some sullen conditions
with it, and would be far safer, being purified by the
art of the alchymist, than given raw. If any have taken
any harm by taking it, the common cure is to take goat's
milk: if you cannot get goat's milk, you must make a
shift with such as you can get. The roots are very
effectual against all melancholy diseases, especially such as
are of long standing, as quartan agues and madness ;
it helps the falling sickness, the leprosy, both the yellow
and black jaundice, the gout, sciatica, and convulsions;
and this was found out by experience, that the root of
that which groweth wild in our country, works not so
churlishly as those do which are brought from beyond
sea, as being maintained by a more temperate air. The
root, used as a pessary, provokes the terms exceedingly ;
also being beaten into powder, and strewed upon foul
ulcers, it consumes the dead flesh, and instantly heals
them ; nay, it will help gangrenes in the beginning.
Twenty grains taken inwardly is a sufficient dose for
one time, and let that be corrected with half so much
cinnamon ; country people used to rowel their cattle
with it. If a beast be troubled with a cough, or have
taken any poison, they bore a hole through his ear, and
put a piece of the root in it, this will help him in 24 hours
time. Many other uses farriers put it to, which 1 shall
forbear.
Herb Robert. ?. (h. m. 2.)
Tins herb is in great repute amongst farmers, in diseases
of their cattle.
Descript.] It riseth up with a reddish stalk, two feet
high, having divers leaves thereon upon very long and
reddish foot-stalks, divided at the ends into three or five
divisions, each of them cut in on the edges, some deeper
than others, and all dented likewise about the edges,
which sometimes turn reddish. At the tops of the stalks
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 167
come forth divers flowers made of five leaves, much larger
than the dove's-foot, and a more reddish colour ; after
which come back heads, as in others. The root is small
and thready, and smelleth as the whole plant, very strong,
almost stinking.
Place.'] This groweth frequently every where by the
way-sides, upon ditch banks and waste grounds where,
soever one goeth.
Time.'] It flowereth in June and July chiefly, and the
seed is ripe shortly after. * .
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Venua. Herb Robert is commended not only against
the stone, but to stay blood, where or howsoever flow
ing ; it speedily healeth all green wounds, and is effec
tual in old ulcers in the privy parts, or elsewhere. You
may persuade yourself this is true, and also conceive a
good reason for it, do but consider it is an herb of Venus,
for all it hath a man's name.
Herb True-love, or One-berry. $. (temp. m. 1.)
It is also called Herb-Paris, and Four-leaved True
Love.
Descript.] Ordinary Herb True-love, hath a small creeping
root running under theuppermostcrustoftheground, some,
what like couch-grass root, but not so white, shooting
forth stalks with leaves, some whereof carry no berries,
the others do ; every stalk smooth without joints, and
blackish green, rising about half a foot high, if it bear
berries, otherwise seldom so high, bearing at the top four
Jeaves set directly one against another, in manner of a
cross or ribband tied (as it is called, in a true-love's knot)
which are each of them apart somewhat like unto a night
shade leaf, but somewhat broader, having sometimes three
leaves, sometimes five, sometimes six, and those some
times greater than in others, in the middle of the four
leaves riseth up one small slender stalk, about an inch
high, bearing at the tups thereof one flower spread like a
star, consisting of four small and long narrow-pointed
leaves of a yellowish green colour, and four others lying
between them lesser than they; in the middle whereof
stands a round dark purplish buttoii or head, compassed
168 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
about with eight small yellow mealy threads with three
colours, making it the more conspicuous, and lovely to
behold. This button or head in the middle, when the
other leaves are withered, become a blackish purple
berry, full of juice, of the bigness of a reasonable grape,
having within it many white seeds. The whole plant is
without any manifest taste.
Place.] It groweth in woods and copses, and some
times in the corners or borders of fields, and waste
grounds in very many places of this land, and abundantly
in the woods, copses, and other places about Chislehurst,
and Maidstone in Kent. -
Time.] They spring up in the middle of April or May,
and are in flower soon after. The berries are ripe in the
end of May, and in some places in June.
Government and Virtues.] Venus owns it; the leaves or
berries hereof are effectual to expel poison of all sorts,
especially that of the aconites: as also, the plague, and
other pestilential disorders : Matthiolus saith, that some
that have lain long in a lingering sickness, and others
that by witchcraft (as it was thought) were become half
foolish, by taking a dram of the seeds or berries hereof
in powder every day for 20 days together, were restored
to their former health. The roots in powder taken in
wine easeth the pains of the cholick speedily. The leaves
are very effectual, as well for green wounds, as to cleanse
and heal up filthy old sores and ulcers; and is very
powerful to discuss old tumours and swellings in the pri
vate parts, the groin, or in any part of the body, and
speedily to allay all inflammations. The juice of the
leaves applied to felons, or those nails of the hands or
toes that have imposthumes or sores gathered together at
the roots of them, healeth them in a short space. The
herb is not to be described for the premises, but is fit to
be nourished in every good woman's garden. Children
should be cautioned against eating the berries.
Hyssop. l. (temp. d. 2.)
Hyssop is so well known to be an inhabitant in every
garden, that it will save me the labour in writing a de
scription thereof. The virtues are as follow:
.*
The ENGLISH Physician ENLARGEp. 169
Temperature and Virtues.] The herb is Jupiter's, and
the sign Cancer. It strengthens all the parts of the body
under Cancer and Jupiter; which what they may be, is
found amply discoursed in my astrological judgment of
diseases. Dioscorides saith, that Hyssop boiled with rue
and honey, and drank, helpeth those that are troubled
with coughs, shortness of breath, wheezing and rheumatic
distillations upon the lungs; taken also with oxymel, it
purgeth gross humours by stool; and with honey killeth
worms in the belly; and with fresh and new figs bruised,
helpeth to loosen the belly, and more forcibly, if the
root of Flower-de-luce and Cresses be added thereto. It
amendeth and cherisheth the native colour of the body,
spoiled by the yellow jaundice; and being taken with
figs and nitre, helpeth the dropsy and spleen; being boiled
with wine, it is good to wash inflammations, and taketh
away the black and blue spots and marks that come by
strokes, bruises, or falls, being applied with warm water.
It is an excellent medicine for the quinsey, or swelling
in the throat, towash and gargle it, being boiled with figs;
it helpeth the tooth-ach, being boiled with vinegar and
agargled there with. The hot vapours of thedecoction
taken by a funnel in at the ears, easeth the inflammations
and singing noise of them. Being bruised, and salt, honey,
and cummin-seed put to it, helpeth those that are stung
by serpents. The oil thereof (the head being anointed)
killeth lice, and taketh away itching of the head. It
helpeth those that have the falling-sickness, which way
soever it be applied. It helpeth to expectorate tough
phlegm, and is effectual in all cold griefs, or diseases of
the chests or lungs, being taken either in syrup or licking
medicine. The green herb bruised, and a litttle sugar
doth quickly heal any cut or green wounds, being
thereto applied.
Hops. 3. (h. d. 2.)
These are so well known, that they need no description;
I mean the manured kind, which every good husband or
housewife is acquainted with.
370 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Detcript.] This wild hop groweth up as the other
doth, ramping upon trees or hedges that stand next to
them, with rough branches and leaves like the former,
but it giveth smaller heads, and in far less plenty than it,
so that there is scarce a head or two seen in a year on
divers of this wild kind, wherein consisteth the chief
difference. "
Place.] They delight to grow in low moist grounds,
and arc found in all parts of this land.
Time.] They spring not up until April, and flower not
until the latter end of June ; the heads are not gathered
until the middle or latter end of September.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Mars. This, in physical operations, is to open obstruc
tions of the liver and spleen, to cleanse the blood, to
loosen the belly, to cleanse the reins from gravel, and
provoke urine. The decoction ot the tops of Hops, as
well of the tame as the wild, worketh the same effects.
In cleansing the blood they help to cure the French dis
ease, and all manner of scabs, itch, and other breakings-
out of the body ; as also all tetters, ring-worms, and
spreading sores ; the morphew, and all discolouring of
the skin. The deco&ion of the flowers and tops do help
to expel poison that any one hath drank. Half a dram
of the seed in powder taken in drink, killcth worms in
the body, bringeth down women's courses, and expelleth
urine. A syrup made of the juice and sugar, cureth the
jellow jaundice, easeth the hcad-ach that comes of heat,
and tempercth the heat of the liver and stomach, and is
profitably given in long and hot agues that rise in choler
and blood. Both the wild and the manured are of one
property, and alike effectual in all the aforesaid dis
eases. By all these testimonies beer appears better
than ale.
Mars owns the plant, and then Dr. Reason will tell you
how it performs these actions.
Horehound. ?. (h. 2. d. 3.)
There are two kinds of Horehound, white and black ;
the latter is also called Hen-bit ; but the white is the one
here recommended.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 171
Descript.'] Common Horchound groweth up with square
hairy stalks, halfa yard or two feet high, set at the joint*
with two round crumpled rough leaves, of a sullen hoary
green colour, of a reasonable good scent, but a very bitter
taste. The flowers are small, white, and gaping, set in a
rough, hard prickly husk round about the joints, with the
leaves in the middle of the stalk upwards, wherein after
wards is found small round blackish seed. The root is
blackish, hard and woody, with many strings, and abideth
many years.
Place.'] It is found in many parts of this land, in dry
grounds, and waste green places.
Time.} It flowereth in July, and the seed is ripe in
Government and Virtues."] It is an herb of Mercury.
A decoction of the dried herb, with the seed, or the juice
of the green herb taken with honey, is a remedy for
those that are short-winded, have a cough, or are fallen
into a consumption, either through long sickness, or thin
distillations of rheum upon the lungs. It helpeth to ex
pectorate tough phlegm from the chest, being taken with
the roots of Iris or Orris. It is given to women to bring
down their courses, to expel their after birth, and to
them that have sore and long travails ; as also to those
that have taken poison, or are stung or bitten by veno
mous serpents. The leaves used with honey, purgeth foul
ulcers, stays running or creeping sores, and the growing
of the flesh over the nails ; it also helpeth pains of the
sides. The juice thereof with wine and honey, helpeth
to clear the eye-sight ; and snuffed up into the nostrils,
purgeth away the yellow jaundice ; and with a little oil
of roses dropped into the ears, easeth the pains of them.
Galen saith, it openeth obstructions both of the liver and
spleen, and purgeth the breast and lungs of phlegm ; and
used outwardly, it both cleanseth and digesteth. A
decoction of H.orehound (saith Matthiolus) is available for
those that have hard livers, and for such as have itches and
running tetters. The powder hereof taken, or the decoc
tion, killeth worms. The green leaves bruised, and boiled
in old hog's grease into an ointment, healeth the bitings of
dogs, abateth the swellings and pains that come by any
pricking of thorns, or such like means; and used with
172 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
-vinegar, clcanseth and healeth tetters. There is a syrup
made of Horehound to be had at the apothecaries, very
good for old coughs, to rid phlegm; as also to void cold
rheums from the lungs of old folks, and for those that are
asthmatic or short-winded.
Horsetail. . (c. d. 2J
Or that there are many kinds, but 1 shall not trouble you
nor myself with any large description of them, which to
do, were but as the proverb is, To find a knot in a rush,
all the kinds thereof being nothing else but knotted
rushes, some with leaves, and some without. Take the
description of the most eminent sort as followeth.
Descript.] The great Horsetail at the first springing
hath heads somewhat like those of asparagus, and after
grow to be hard, rough, hollow stalks, jointed at sundry
places up to the top, a foot high, so made as if the lower
parts were put into the upper, where grow on each side
a bush of small long rush-like hard leaves, each part re
sembling a horse-tail, from whence it is so called. At
the lops of the stalks come forth small catkins, like those
of trees. The root creepeth under ground, having joints
at sundry places.
Place.] This (as most of the other sorts hereof) groweth
in wet grounds.
Time.] They spring up in April, and their blooming
catkins in July, seeding for the most part in August, and
then perish down to the ground, rising afresh in the
Spring.
Government and Virtues.] The herb belongs to Saturn,
yet is very harmless, and excellent good for the things
following: Horsetail, the smoother rather than the rough,
and the leaved rather than the bare, is most physical. It
is very powerful to staunch bleeding either inward or
outward, the juice or the decoction thereof being drank,
or the juice, decoction, or distilled water applied out
wardly. It also stayeth all sorts of lasks and fluxes iu
man or woman, and also bloody urine; and healeth
also not only the inward ulcers, and the excoriation of
the entrails, bladder, &c. but all other sorts of foul,
moist, and running ulcers, and soon sodereth together
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 173
the tops of green wounds. It cureth all ruptures in
children. The decoction thereof in wine being drank,
provoketh urine, asd helpeth the stone and stranguary ;
and the distilled water thereof drank two or three times
in a day, and a small quantity at a time, also easeth the
entrails or guts, and is effectual against a cough that comes
by distillation from the head. The juice or distilled wa
ter being warmed, and hot inflammations, pustles or red
wheals, and other breakings-out in the skin, being
bathed therewith, doth help them, and doth no less ease
the swelling heat and inflammations of the fundament, or
- privy parts in men or women.
Houseleek, or Sengreen. If. (c. 3. te?np.)
Both these are so well known to my countrymen, that I
shall not need to write any description of them.
Place.] It groweth commonly upon walls and house*
tides, and flowereth in July.
Government and Pirtues.'] It is an herb of Jupiter; and
it is reported by Mezaldus to preserve what it grows upon
from fire and lightning. Our ordinary Houseleek is good
for all inward heats, as well as outward, ahd in the eyes
or other parts of the body : a posset made with the juice
of Houseleek, is singular good in all hot agues, for
it cooleth and temperetl] the blood and spirits, and
quencheth the thirst ; and also good to stay all hot
defluctions or sharp and salt rheums in the eyes, the juice
being dropped into them, or in the ears, helpeth them.
It helpeth also other fluxes of humours in the bowels,
and the immoderate courses of women. It cooleth and
restraineth all other hot inflammations, St. Anthony's
fire, scaldings and burnings, the shingles, fretting ulcers,
cankers, tetters, ring-worms, and the like; and much
easeth the pain of the gout proceeding from a hot cause.
The juice also taketh away warts and corns in the hands
or feet, being often bathed therewith, and the skin and
leaves being laid on them afterwards; it easeth also the
hcad-ach, and distempered heat of the brain iti frenzies,
or through want of sleep, being applied to the temples
and forehead. The leaves bruised and laid upon the
crown or seam of the head, stayeth bleeding at the uose
i, 3
174 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Tory quickly. The distilled wafer of the herb is pro
fitable for all the purposes aforesaid. The leaves being
gently rubbed on any place stung with nettles or bees,
doth quickly take away the pain.
Hound's Tongnc. ?• (c. d. 2J
The great Hounds-tongue, or Dog's-tongoe, hath a
disagreeable scent, resembling that of mice.
DescriptJ] The great ordinary Hound's Tongue hath
many long, and somewhat narrow, soft, hairy, darkish
green leaves lying on the ground, somewhat like unto
Bugloss leaves, from amongst which riseth up a rough
hairy stalk about two feet high, with some-smaller leaves
thereon, and branched at the tops into divers parts, with
a small leaf at the foot of every branch, which is somewhat
Jong, with many flowers set along the same, which branch
is crooked or turneth inwards before it flowereth, and
openeth by degrees as the flowers do blow, which consist
of small purplish red leaves of a dead colour, rising out
of the husks wherein they stand with some threads in the
middle. It hath sometimes a white flower. After the
flowers are past, there cometh rough flat seed, with a small
point in the middle, easily cleaving to any garment that
it toucheth, and not so easily pulled off again. The root
is black, thick, and long, hard to break, and full of
clammy juice, smelling somewhat strong, of an evil scent,
as the leaves also do.
Place.] It groweth in moist places of this land, in waste
grounds and unfilled places, by highway-sides, lanes, and
hedge-sides.
Time.] It flowereth about May or June, and the seed
is ripe shortly after.
Government and Virtues.] It is a plant under the domi
nion of Mercury. The root is very effectually used in
pills, as well as the decoction, or otherwise, to stay all
sharp and thin deflu&ions of rheum from the head into
the eyes or nose, or upon the stomach or lungs, as also
for coughs and shortness of breath. The leaves boiled
in wine (saith Dioscorides, but others do rather appoint
it to be made with water, and do add thereto oil and
salt) milJifieth or openeth the belly downwards. It als»
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 175
hclpeth to cure the biting of a mad dog, some of the
leaves being also applied to the wound. The leaves
bruised, or the juice of them boiled in hog's lard, and
applied, helpeth falling away of the hair, which cometh
of hot and sharp humours; as also, for any place that is
scalded or burnt; the lcarcs bruised and laid to any
green wound doth heal it quickly ; the root baked under
the embers, wrapped in paste or wet paper, or in a wet
double cloth, and thereof a suppository made, and put up
into, or applied to the fundament, doth rery effectually
help the painful piles or haemorrhoids. The distilled water
of the herbs and roots is very good to all the purposes
aforesaid, to be used as well inwardly to drink, as out
wardly to wash any sore place ; for it healeth all manner
of wounds and punctures, and those foul ulcers that
arise by the French-pox. Mizaldus adds, that the leaves
laid under the feet, will keep the dogs from barking
at you. It is called Hound's-tongue, because it ties
the tongues of hounds; whether true, or not, I never
tried ; yet I cured the biting of a mad dog. with this
only medicine.
Holly, Holm, or Hulvev Bush. T; . (h. d. 2.)
Fou to describe a tree so well known is needless.
Government and Virtues.'] The tree is Saturnine.
The berries expel wind, and therefore are held to be pro
fitable in the colick. The berries have a strong faeulty
with them j for if you eat a dozen of them in the morn
ing when they are ripe and not dried, they purge the
body of gross and clammy phlegm ; but if you dry the
berries, and beat them into powder, they bind the body,
and stop fluxes, bloody-fluxes, and the terms in women.
The bark of the tree, and also the leaves, are excellent
good, being used in fomentations for broken bones, and
such members as are out of joint. Pliny saith, the
branches of the tree defend houses from lightning, and
men from witchcraft.
4 i
176 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLAKGED,
St. John's Wort. 0. in ft. (/«. d. 2.)
This is a beautiful shrub, and a great ornament to our
Bieadows.
DescriptJ] Common St. John's Wort shooteth forth
brownish, upright, hard round stalks, two feet high,
spreading branches from the sides up to the tops of them,
with two small leaves set one against another at every
place, which are of a deep green colour, somewhat like
the leaves of the lesser Centaury, but narrow, and full of
small holes in every leaf, which cannot be so well per
ceived as when they arc held up to the light ; at the tops
of the stalks and branches stand yellow flowers of five
leaves a-piecc, whith many yellow threads in the middle,
which being bruised, do yield a reddish juice like blood;
after which come small round heads, wherein is contained
small blackish seed smelling like rosin. The root is hard
and woody, with divers strings and fibres at it, of a
brownish colour, which abideth in the ground many years,
shooting anew every Spring.
Place.'] This groweth in woods and copses, as well
' those that arc shady, as open to the sun.
'Time.] They flower about Midsummer and July, and
their seed is ripe about the latter end of July or August.
Government and Virtues.'] It is under the celestial sign
Leo, and the dominion of the Sun. It may be, if you
meet a Papist, he will tell you, especially if he be a
lawyer, that St. John made it over to him by a letter of
attorney. It is a singular wound herb; boiled in wine
and drank, it healcth inward hurts or bruises ; made
into an ointment, it opens obstructions, dissolves swel
lings, and closes up the lips of wounds. The decoction
of the herb and flowers, especially of the seed, being
drank in wine, with the juice of knot-grass, helpeth all
manner of vomiting and spitting of blood, is good for
those that arc bitten or stung by any venomous crea
ture, and for those that cannot make water. Two drams
fo the seed of St. John's Wort made into powder, and
drank in a little broth, doth gently expel choler or
congealed blood in the stomach. The decoction of the
leaves and seeds drank somewhat warm before the fits of
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED: 177
agues, whether they be tertians or quartans, alters the
fits, and, by often using, doth take them quite away.
The seed is much commended, being drank for forty days
together, to help the sciatica, the falling-sickness, and the
palsy.
Ivy. Tj. (h. d. 2 )
It is well known, to every child almost, to grow in woods
upon the trees, and upon the stone-walls of churches,
houses, &c and sometimes to grow alone of itself, though
but seldom.
Time.] it flowereth not until July, and the berries
arc not ripe till Christmas, when they have felt winter
frosts.
Government and Virtues."} It is under the dominion of
Saturn. A pugil of the flowers, which may be about a
dram (saith Dioscorides) drank twice a day in red wine,
helpeth the lask and bloody-flux. It is an enemy to the
nerves and sinews, being much taken inwardly, but very
helpful unto them, being outwardly applied. Pliny saith,
the yellow berries are good against the jaundice ; and
taken before one be set to drink hard, preserveth from,
drunkenness, and helpeth those that spit blood ; and the
white berries being taken inwardly, or applied outwardly,
killeth the worms in the belly. The berries are a singular
remedy to prevent the plague, as also to free them from it
that have got it, by drinking the berries thereof made
into powder, for two or three days together. They be.
ing taken in wine, do certainly help to break the stone,
provoke urine, aud women's courses. The fresh leaves
of Ivy boiled in vinegar, and applied warm to the sides
of those that are troubled with the spleen, ach, or stich
in the sides, do give much ease : the same applied with
Rose-water, and oil of Roses, to the temples and fore
head, easeth the head-ach, though it be of long continu
ance. The fresh leaves boiled in wine, and old filthy
ulcers, hard to be cured, washed therewith, do wonder
fully help to cleanse them : it also quickly healeth green
wounds, and is effectual to heal all burnings and scaldings,
and all kinds of cxulcerations coming thereby, or by salt
phlegm or humours in other parts of the body. The juice
J 78 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
of the berries or leaves snuffed up into the nose, purgetb
the head and brain of rheum that makcth defluxions into*
the eyes and nose, and curing the ulcers and stench
therein ; the same dropped into the cars, hdpeth the old
and running sores of them ; those that are troubled with
the spleen, shall find much ease by continual drinking out
of a cup made of Ivy, so as the drink may stand some
small time therein before it be drank. Cato saith, That
wine put into the cup, will soak through it, by reason of
the antipathy that is between them.
There seems to be a very great antipathy between wine
and Ivy ; for if one hath got a surfeit by drinking of wine,
his speediest cure is to drink a draught of the same wine,
wherein a handful of Ivy leaves, being first bruised, have
been boiled.
Juniper Bush. ©. (A- d. 3.)
For to giveadescriptionofa bush so commonly known,
is needless.
Place."} They grow plentifully in divers woods in Kent;
Warney Common, near Brentford, in Essex ; upon Finch-
ley Common without Highgate; hard by the Newfound
Wells near Dulwich, upon a common between Mitcham
and Croydon; in the Highgate, near Amersham, in?
Buckinghamshire ; and many other places.
Time.] The berries are not ripe the first year, but con
tinue green two Summers and one Winter .before they
are ripe, at which time they are all of a black colour, and
thereforeyou shall always find upon the bush green berries :
the berries are ripe about the fall of the leaf.
Government and Virtues.'] This admirable solar shrub
is scarce to be paralleled for its virtues. The berries are
hot in the third degree, and dry but in the first, being a
most admirable counter-poison, and as great a resister of
the pestilence as any grows ; they are excellent good
against the bitings of venomous beasts ; they provoke
urine exceedingly, and therefore are very available to-
dysuries and stranguaries. It is so powerful a remedy
against the dropsy, that the very ke made of the ashes
of !he herb being drank, cures the disease : it provokes
the terms, helps the fits of the mother, strengthens the
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 17SN
stomach exceedingly, and expels the 'wind ; indeed there
is scarce a better remedy for wind in any part of the »
body, or the colick, than the chymical oil drawn from,
the berries. Such country people as know not how to
draw the chymical oil, may content themselves by eating
ten or a dozen of the ripe berries every morning fasting.
They are . admirably good for a cough, shortness of
breath and consumption, pains in the belly, ruptures,
cramps, and convulsions. They give safe and speedy
delivery to women with child ; they strengthen the brain
exceedingly, help the memory, and fortify the sight by
strengthening the optic nerves ; are excellent good in:
all sorts of agues ; help the gout and sciatica, and
Strengthen all the limbs of the body. The ashes of the
wood is a speedy remedy to such as have the scurvy, to
rub their gums with. The berries stay all fluxes, help-.
the haemorrhoids or piles, and kill worms in children.
A lee made of the ashes of the wood, and the body
bathed with it, cures the itch, scabs and leprosy. The
berries break the stone, procure appetite when it is lost,
and are excellent good for all palsies, and falling
sickness.
Kidneywort. in £±. (temp. m. 1.)
This is also called Wall Pennyroyal, and Wall Penny,
worh
Descript.] It hath many thick, flat, and round leaves
growing from the root, every one having a long footstalk,
fastened underneath, about the middle of it, and a little
unevenly weaved sometimes about the edgesj of a pale
green colour, and somewhat yellow on the upper side
like a saucer ; from among which arise one or more
tender, smooth, hollow stalks, half a foot high, with two.
or three small leaves thereon, usually not round as those
below, but somewhat long, andrfivided at the edges ; the
tops are somewhat divided into long branches, bearing a
number of flowers, set round about a long spike one
above another, which are hollow like a little bell, of a
whitish green colour, after which come small heads, con
taining very small brownish seed, which falling on the.*
180 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
ground, will plentifully spring up before Winter, if it
have moisture. The root is round and most usually
smooth, greyish without, ar.d white within, having
small fibres at the head of the root, and bottom of the
stalk.
Place."] It groweth very plentifully in many places in.
this land, but especially in all the west parts thereof,
upon stone and mud walls, upon rocks also, and in stony
places upon the ground, at the bottom of old trees, and
sometimes on the bodies of them that are decayed and
rotten.
Time.] It usually flowereth in the beginning of May,
and the seed ripening quickly after, sheddeth itself; so
that about the end of May, usually the leaves and stalks
are withered, dry, and gone until September, and the
leaves spring up again, and so abide all Winter.
Government and Virtues. Venus challengeth the herb
under Libra. The juice or the distilled water being
drank, is very effectual for all inflammations and unna
tural heats, to cool a fainting hot stomach, a hot liver,
or the bowels : the herb, juice, or distilled water there
of, outwardly applied, healeth pimples, St. Anthony's
fire, and other outward heats. The said juice or water
helpeth to heal sore kidnies, torn or fretted by the
stone, or cxulcerated within ; it also provoketh urine,
is available for the dropsy, and helpeth to break the
stone. Being used as a bath, or made an ointment, it
cooleth the painful piles or hemorrhoidal veins. It is
no less effectual to give ease to pains of the gout, the
sciatica, and the inflammations and swellings in the
privates; it helpeth the kernels or knots in the neck or
throat, called the king's evil ; healing kibes and chil
blains if they be bathed with the juice, or anointed with
ointment made thereof, and some of the skin of the leaf
upon them ; it is also used in green wounds to stay the
blood, and to heal them quickly.
Knapweed. . (c. d. 3.)
Although this is well known in some parts, it may be
necessary to give a description thereof.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 181
Descript.] The common sort hereof hath many long
and somewhat broad dark green leaves, rising from the
root, dented about the edges, and sometimes a little rent
or torn on both sides in two or three places, and some*
what hairy withal ; amongst which ariseth a long round
stalk, four or five feet high, divided into many branches,
at the tops whereof stand great scaly green heads, and
from the middle of them thrust forth a number of dark
purplish red thrumbs or threads, which after they are
withered, and past, there are found divers black seeds,
lying in a great deal of down, somewhat like unto Thistle
seed, but smaller ; the root is white, hard and woody, and
divers fibres annexed thereunto, which perish not, but
abideth with leaves thereon all the Winter, shooting out
fresh every Spring.
Place.] It groweth in most fields and meadows, and
about their borders and hedges, and in many waste
grounds also every where.
Time.] It usually flowereth in June or July, and the
seed is ripe shortly after.
Government arid Virtues.] Saturn challengeth the herb
for his own. This Knapweed helpeth to stay fluxes, both
of blood at the mouth or nose, or other outward parts,
and those veins that are inwardly broken or inward
wounds, as also the fluxes of the belly ; it stayeth distil
lations of thin and sharp hnmours from the head upon
the stomach and lungs ; it is good for those that are
bruised by any fall, blows, or otherwise, and is profitable
for those that are bursten, and have ruptures, by drinking
the deco&ion of the herb and roots in wine, and applying
the same outwardly to the place. It is singularly good
in all running sores, cancerous and fistulous, drying up of
the moisture, and healing them up gently, without sharp
ness ; it doth the like to running sores or scabs of the
head, or other parts. It is of special use for the sore
ness of the throat, swelling of the uvula and jaws, and
excellent good to stay bleeding, and heal up all green
wounds.
182 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED1.
Knotgrass. . (c. d. 2.)
It is generally known so well that it necdeth no de
scription.
Place.] It groweth in every county of this land, by
the highway sides, and by foot paths in fields ; as also by
the sides of old walls.
Time.'] It springeth up late in the Spring, and abideth
until the Winter, when all the branches perish.
Government and Virtues."] Saturn seems to me to own
the herb, and yet some hold the sun; out of doubt 'tis
Saturn. The juice of the common kind of Knotgrass is
most effectual to stay bleeding of the mouth, being drank
in steeled or red wine ; and the bleeding at the nose, to
be applied to the forehead or temples, or to be squirted
up into the nostrils. It is no less effectual to cool and
temper the heat of the blood and stomach, and to stay
any flux of the blood and humours, as lasks, bloody,
flux, women's courses, and running of the reins. It is
singular good to provoke urine, help the stranguary, and-
allayeth the heat that cometh thereby ; and is powerful
by urine to expel the gravel or stone in the kidneys and
bladder, a dram of the powder of the herb being taken
in wine for many days together : being boiled in wine
and drank, it is profitable to those that are stung or
bitten by venomous creatures, and very effectual to stay
.- all defluxioRS of rheumatic humours upon the stomach,
and killeth worms in the belly or stomach, quieteth in
ward pains that arise from the heat, sharpness and cor
ruption of blood and choler. The distilled water hereof
taken by itself, or with the powder, of the herb or seed,
is very effectual to all the purposes aforesaid, and is ac
counted one of the most sovereign remedies to cool ail
manner of inflammations, breaking out through heat,
hot swellings and imposthumes, gangrene and fistulous
cankers, or foul filthy ulcers, being applied or put into
them; but especially for all sorts of ulcers and sores
happening in the privy parts of men and women. It
helpeth all fresh and green wounds,, and speedily healeth
them. The juice dropped in the ears, cleanseth them
being foul, and haying runuing matter in them.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 183
It is very prevalent for the premises, as also for broken
joints and ruptures.
Ladies-Mantle ? . (h. d. 2.)
This herb is more prized by the German than by the
English physicians.
Descript."] It hath many leaves rising from the root
standing upon long hairy foot-stalks, being almost round,
and a little cut on the edges, into eight or ten parts,
making it seem like a star, with so many corners and
points, and dented round about, of a light colour, some
what hard in handling, and as it were folded or plaited
at first, and then crumpled m divers places, and a little
hairy, as the stalk is also, which riseth up among them to
the height of two or three feet ; and being weak, is not
able to stand upright, but bendeth to the ground, divided
at the top into two or three branches, with small yellowish
green heads, and flowers of a whitish colour breaking out
of them ; which being past, there cometh a small yellowish
seed like like a poppy-seed : the root is somewhat long
and black, with many strings and fibres thereat.
Place.'] It groweth naturally in many pastures and
woodsides in Hertfordshire, Wiltshire, and Kent, and
other places of this land.
Time.] It flowereth in May and June, abitleth after
seed-time green all the Winter.
Government and Virtues.] Venus claims the herb as her
own. Ladies-Mantle is very proper for those wounds
that have inflammations, and is very effectual to stay
bleeding, vomitings, fluxes of all sorts, bruises by falls
or otherwise, and hclpeth ruptures ; and such vomea
or maids as have over great flagging breasts, causing
them to grow less and hard, being both drank, and out
wardly applied for 20 days together helpeth conception,
and to retain the birth ; if the woman do sometimes also
sit in a bath made of the decoclion of the kerb. It is
one of the most singular wound herbs that is, and there
fore highly prised and praised by the Germans, who use
it in all wounds inward and outward, to drink a de
coction thereof, and wash the wounds therewith, or dip
tents therein, and put them into the wounds, which
wonderfully drieth up all humidity of the sores, and
abateth inflammations therein. It quickly healetb. all
184 THESNGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
green wounds, not suffering any corruption to remain
behind, and curcth all sores, though fistulous and.
hollow.
Lavender. (h. d. 3.)
Being an inhabitant almost in every garden, it is so well
known, that it ncedeth no description.
Time.] It flowereth about the end of June and begin-
ning of July.
Government and Virtues."] Mercury owns the herb, and
it carries his effects very potently. Lavender is of a
special good use for all the griefs and pains of the head
and brain that proceed of a cold cause, as the apoplexy,
falling sickness, the dropsy, or sluggish malady, cramps,
convulsions, palsies, and often faintings. It strengthens
the stomach, and freeth the liver and spleen from ob.
structions, provoketh women's courses, and expelleth
the dead child and after-birth. The flowers of Lavender
steeped in wine, hclpeth them to make water that £rc
stopped, or troubled with the wind or colick, if the place
be bathed therewith. A decoc"tioumade with the flowers
of Lavender, Hore-hound, Fennel, and Asparagus root,
and a little Cinnamon, is very profitably used to help the
falling-sickness, and the giddiness or turning of the brain ;
to gargle the mouth with the deco&ion thereof, is good
against the tooth-ach. Two spoonfuls of the distilled
water of the flowers taken, hclpeth them that have lost
their voice, as also the tremblings aad passions of the
heart, and faintings and swoonings, not only being drank,
but applied to the temples, or nostrils to be smelt unto ;
but it is not safe to use it where the body is replete with
blood and humours, because of the hot and subtil spirits
wherewith it is possessed. The chymical oil drawn from
Lavender, usually called Oil of Spike, is of so fierce and
piercing a quality, that it is cautiously to be used, some
few drops being sufficient, to be given with other things,
cither for inward or outward griefs.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 185
Lavender-Cotton. (h. d. 3.)
It being a common garden herb, I shall forbear the
description, only take notice, that it flowereth in June
and July.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Mercury. It resisteth poison, putrefadtion and heals
the bitings of venomous beasts : a dram of the powder
of the dried leaves taken every morning fasting, stops
the runuing of the reins in men, and whites in women.
The seed beaten into powder, and taken as worm-seed,
kills the worms, not only in children, but also in people
of riper years ; the like doth the herb itself, being steeped
in milk, and the milk drank; the body bathed with the
decoction of it, helps scabs and itch.
Ladies Smock. J . (h. d. 3.)
Also called Cuckow-Flower, a pretty ornament to the
«ides of most meadows.
Descript."] The root is composed of many small white
threads, from whence spring divers long stalks of winged
leaves consisting of round, tender, dark green leaves, set
one against another upon a middle rib, the greatest being
at the end, amongst which arise up divers weak round,
green stalks, somewhat streaked, with longer and smaller
leaves upon them ; on the tops of which stand flowers
almost like the Stock Gilliflowers, but rounder, and not
so long, of a blushing, white colour ; the seed is reddish,
and groweth to small bunches, being of a sharp biting taste,
and so hath the herb.
Place. J They grow in moist places, and near to brook-
sides.
Time."] They flower in April and May, and the lower
leaves continue green all the Winter.
Government and Virtues.] They are under the dominion
of the Moon, and very little inferior to Water-Cresses m
all their operations ; they are excellent good for the
scurvv ; they provoke urine, and break the stone, and
excellently warm a cold and weak stomach, restoring lost
appetite, and help digestion.
186 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGES.
Lettuce. >. (c. 3. d. I.)
It is so well known, being generally used as a Sallet
herb, that it is altogether needless to write any de
scription thereof.
Government and Virtues."] The Moon owns them, and
that is the reason they cool and moisten what heat and
dryness Mars caused), because Mars hath his fall in
Cancer ; and they cool the heat because the Sun rules it,
between whom and the Moon is a reception in the gene
ration of man, as you may see in my Guide for Women.
The juice of Lettuce mixed or boiled with Oil of Roses,
applied to the forehead and temples, procureth sleep,
and easeth the head-ach proceeding of an hot cause.
Being eaten boiled, it helpeth to loosen the belly ; it
helpeth digestion, quencheth thirst, increaseth milk in
nurses, easeth griping pains in the stomach and bowels
that eome of choler; it abateth bodily lust, represseth
venerous dreams, being outwardly applied to the private
parts with a little Camphire. Applied in the same manner
to the region of the heart, liver or reins, or by bathing
the said place with the juice ofthe distilled water, wherein
some white Sanders, or red Roses are put ; also it not
only represseth the heat and inflammations therein, but
strengthens and comforts those parts, and also tcmper-
eth the heat of urine. Galen adviseth old men to use it
with spice ; and where spices are wanting, to add mints,
rochet, and such like hot herbs ; or else citron, lemon,
or orange seeds, to abate the cold of one, and heat of
the other. The seed and distilled water of the Lettuce
work the same effect in all things ; but the use of Let
tuce is chiefly forbidden to those that are short-winded,
or hare any imperfection in the lungs, or spit blood.
Water Lily. >. (c. d. 3.)
Of these there are two principally noted kinds, viz. tho
White and the Yellow.
Descript.] The White Lily hath very large and thick
dark green leaves lying on the water, sustained by long,,
and thick foot-stalks, that arise from a great, thick,
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 187
round, and long tuberous black root, spongy or loose,
with many knobs thereon, like eyes, and whitish with
in : from amidst which rise other the like thick green
stalks, sustaining one large great flower thereon, green
on the outside, but as white as snow within, consisting of
divers rows of long, and somewhat thick and narrow
leaves, smaller and thinner the more inward they be, en-
compassing a head with many yellow threads or thrums in
the middle ; where, after they are past, stand round Pop-
py-like heads, full of broad oily and bitter seed.
The Yellow kind is little different from the former,
save only that it hath fewer leaves on the {lowers, greater
and more shining seed, and a whitish root both within
and without. The root of both is somewhat sweet in
taste.
Place.] They arc found growing in great pools and
standing waters, and sometimes in slow running rivers,
and lesser ditches of water, in sundry places of this
land.
Time.] They flower most commonly about the end of
May, and their seed is ripe in August.
Government and Virtues.'] The herb is under the domi
nion of the Moon, and therefore cools and moistens like
the former. The leaves and flowers of the Lilies are
cold and moist, but the roots and seeds are cold and dry ;
the leaves do cool all inflammations, both outward and
inward heat of agues ; and so doth the flowers also, either
by the syrup or conserve : the syrup helpeth much to
procure rest, and to settle the brain of frantick persons,
by cooling the hot distemperature of the head. The
seed, as well as the root, is effectual to stay fluxes of
blood or humours, either of wounds or of the belly : but
the roots are most used, and more effectual to cool, bind,
and restrain all fluxes in men and women ; also running
of the reins, and passing of the seed when one is asleep ;
but the frequent use hereof extinguisheth venerous ac
tions. The root is likewise very good for those whose
urine is hot and sharp, to be boiled in wine and water,
and the decoction drank. The distilled water of the
flowers is very effectual for all the diseases aforesaid,
both inwardly taken and outwardly applied ; and is
much commended to take away freckles, spots, sunburn.,
188 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
and morphew from the face, or other parts of the body.
The oil made of the flowers, as Oil of Roses is made, is
profitably used to cool hot tumours, and to ease the pains
and help the sores.
Lily of the Walley. §. (h. d. 1.)
CALLED also Conval Lily, Male Lily, and Lily Con
fancy.
Descript..] The root is small, and creepeth far in the
ground, as grass roots do. The leaves are many against
which riseth up a stalk half a foot high, with many white
flowers, like little bells with turned edges, of a strong,
though pleasing smell; the berries are red, not much un
like those of Asparagus.
Place.] They grow plentifully upon Hampstead-Heath,
and many other places in this nation.
Time.] They flower in May, and the seed is ripe in
September.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion
of Mercury, and therefore it streugthens the brain, re
cruits a weak memory, and makes it strong again. The
distilled water dropped into the eyes, helps inflammations
there, as also that infirmity which they call pin and web.
The spirit of the flowers distilled in wine, restoreth lost
speech, helps the palsy, and is exceeding good in the
apoplexy, comforteth the heart and vital spirits. Gerrard
saith, that the flowers being close stopped up in a glass,
put into an ant-hill, and taken away again a month after,
ye shall find a liquor in the glass, which being outwardly
applied, helps the gout.
White Lilies. }. (c. m. 2.)
It were in vain to describe a plant so commonly known
in every one's garden, therefore I shall not tell you
what they are, but what they are good for.
Government and Virtues.] They are under the domini
on of the Moon, and by antipathy to Mars expel poison;
they are excellent good in pestilential fevers, the roots.
being bruised and boiled in wine, and the decoction
drank; for it expels the venom to the exterior parts of
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 189
the body; the juice of it being tempered with barley
meal, baked, and so eaten for ordinary bread, is an ex
cellent cure for the dropsy. An ointment made of the
root and hog's grease, is excellent good for scald heads,
unites the sinews when they are cut, and cleanses ulcers.
The root boiled in any convenient decoétion, gives
speedy delivery to women in travail, and expels the af.
ter-birth. The root roasted, and mixed with a little hog's
grease, makes a gallant poultice to ripen and break
plague-sores. The ointment is excellent good for swel
lings in the privities, and will cure burnings and scald
ings without a scar, and trimly deck a blank place with
hair.
Liquorice. §. (temp.)
This growing in our fields and gardens only by cultiva
‘tion, we need not give a description of it.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Mercury. Liquorice boiled in fair water, with some
Maiden-hair and figs, maketh good drink for those that
have a dry cough or hoarseness, wheezing or shortness of
breath, and for all the griefs of the breasts and lungs,
phthisic, or consumptions caused by the distillation of
salt humours on them. It is also good in all pains of the
reins, the stranguary and heat of urine. The fine pow
der of Liquorice blown through a quill into the eyes
that have a pin and web (as they eall it) or rheumatic
distillation in them, doth cleanse and help them; the
juice distilled in Rose-water, with some gum traga
canth, is a fine licking medicine for hoarseness, wheez
ing, &e.
Liverwort. 21. in 3. (c. d. 1.)
BotANIsrs reckon upwards of 300 species of Liverwort.
Descript..] Common Liverwort groweth close, and
spreadeth much upon the ground in moist and shady
places, with many small green leaves, or rather stick
ing flat to one another, very unevenly cut in on the ed
ges, and crumpled; from among which arise small slen
der stalks an inch or two high at most, bearing small star
190 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
like flowers at the top ; the roots are very fine and small.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Jupiter, and under the sign Cancer. It is a singular good
herb for all the diseases in the liver, both to cool and
cleanse it, and helpeth inflammations in any part, and
the yellow jaundice likewise ; being bruised and boiled
in small beer, and drank, it cooleth the heat of the li
ver and kidneys, and helpeth the running of the reins in
men, and the whites in women ; it is a singular remedy
to stay the spreading of tetters, ring worms, and other
fretting and running sores and scabs, and is an excel,
lent remedy for such whose livers are corrupted by sur
feits, which cause their bodies to break out, for it forti-
fieth the liver exceedingly, and makes it impregnable.
Loosestrife or Willowherb. > . (c. d. 1.)
There are three kinds of Loosestrife, viz. the creeping,
the Hyssop-leaved, and the Purple-specked.
Descript.] Common yellow Loosestrife groweth to be
four or five feet high, or more, with great round stalks,
a little crested, diversly branched from the middle of
them to the tops into great and long branches, on all
which at the joints grow long and narrow leaves, but
broader below, and usually two at a joint, yet some
times three or four, somewhat like willow leaves, smooth
on the edges, and a fair green colour from the upper
joints of the branches, and at the tops of them also stand
many yellow flowers of five leaves a-piece, with divers
yellow threads in the middle, which turn into small
round heads, containing small cornered seeds ; the root
creepeth under ground, almost like couch-grass, but
greater, and shooteth up every Spring brownish heads,
which afterwards grow up into stalks. It hath no scent
or taste, but only astringent.
Place.] It groweth in many places of this land in moist
meadows, and by water-sides.
Time.] It flowereth from June to August.
Government and Virtues.] This herb is good for all
manner of bleeding at the mouth, nose, or wounds, and
all fluxes of the belly, and the bloody-flux, given either
to drink or taken by clyster ; it stayeth also the abun.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 191
dance of women's courses ; it is a singular good wound-
herb for green wounds, to stay the bleeding, and quickly
close together the lips of the wound, if the herb be
bruised, and the juice only applied. It is often used in
gargling for sore mouths, as also for the secret parts.
The smoak hereof being burned, driveth away flies and
gnats, which in the night-time molest people inhabiting
near marshes, and in the fenny countries.
Loosestrife, with spiked Heads of Flowers.
5 . in 55. (c. m. I.)
Tins is also known by the name of Grass-poIIy.
Descript.] Itgroweth with many woody square stalks
full of joints, 3 feet high at least ; at every one whereon
stand two long leaves, shorter, narrower, and a larger
green colour than the former, and some brownish. The
stalks are branched into many long stems of spiked flow
ers, half a foot long, growing in bundles, one above
another, out of small husks, very like the spiked heads
of lavender, each of which flowers have five round point
ed leaves of a purple violet colour, or somewhat inclining
to redness ; in which husks staud small round heads after
the flowers are fallen, wherein is contained small seed.
The root crecpeth under ground like unto the yellow, but
is greater than it, and so are the heads of the leaves when
they first appear out of the ground, and more brown than
the other.
Place.] Itgroweth usually by rivers and ditch-sides in
wet grounds, as about the ditches at and near Lambeth,
and in many other places of this land.
Time.] ltflowereth in the months of June and July.
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb of the Moon,
and under the sign Cancer; neither do I know a better
preserver of the sight when 'tis well, nor abetter cure of
*ore eyes, than Eyebright, taken inwardly, and this used
outwardly; 'tis cold in quality. This herb is not a whit
inferior unto the former, it having not only all the virtues
which the former hath, but some peculiar virtues of its
ewn, found out by experience; as namely, that distilled
water is a present remedy for hurts and blows on the
eyes, and for blindness, so as the crystalline humour be
192 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
not perished or hurt; and this hath been sufficiently prov
ed true by the experience of a man of judgment, who
kept it long to himself as a great secret. It cleareth the
eyes of dust, or any thing gotten into them, and preser
veth the sight. It is also very available against wounds
and thrusts, being made in an oitment in this manner :
To every ounce of water, add two drams of May butter
without salt, and of sugar and wax, of each as much
also let them boil gently together ; let tents dipped into
that liquor that remaineth after it is cold, be put into the
wounds, and the place covered with a linen cloth doubled
and anointed with the ointment; and this is also an ap
proved medicine. It likewise cleanseth and healeth all
foul ulcers and sores whatsoever, and stayeth their in
flammations by washing them with the water, and laying
on them a green leaf or two in the Summer, or dry leaves
in the Winter. This water gargled warm in the mouth,
and some times drank also doth cure the quinsy, or king's
evil in the throat. The said water applied warm, taketh
away all spots, marks, and scabs in the skin ; and a little
of it drauk, quencheth thirst when it is extraordinary.
Lovage. G). in 3 (h. d. 1.)
THE whole plant and every part of it smelleth strong
and aromatically, and is of a hot sharp biting taste.
Descript..] It hath many long and great stalks of large
winged leaves, divided into many parts, like Smallage, but
cut much larger and greater, every leaf being cut about
the edges, broadest forward, and smallest at the stalk, of a
sad green colour, smooth and shining; from among which
rise up sundry strong, hollow green stalks, five or six,
sometimes Seven or eight feet high, full of joints, but
lesser leaves set on them than grow below ; and with
them towards the tops come forth large branches, bearing
at their tops large umbels of yellow flowers, and after
them flat brownish seed. The root groweth thick, great
and deep, spreading much, and enduring long, of a
brownish colour on the outside, and whitish within.
Place.] It is usually planted in gardens, where, if it be
suffered, it groweth huge and great.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 193
Time.] It flowereth in the end of July, and seedeth in
August.
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb of the Sun,
under the sign Taurus. If Saturn offend the throat
(as he always doth if he be occasioner of the malady, and
in Taurus is the Genesis) this is your cure. It openeth,
cureth, and digesteth humours, and mightily provoketh
women's courses and urine. Half a dram at a time of
the dried root in powder taken in wine, doth wonderfully
warm a cold stomach, helpeth digestion, and consumeth
all raw and superfluous moisture therein; easeth all
inward gripings and pains, dissolveth wind and resisteth
poison and infection. It is a known and much praised
remedy to drink the decoétion of the herb for any sort of
ague, and to help the pains and torments of the body and
bowels coming of cold. The seed is effectual to all the
purposes aforesaid (except the last) and worketh more
powerfully. The distilled water of the herb helpeth the
quinsy in the throat, if the mouth and throat be gargled
and washed therewith, and helpeth the pleurisy, being
drank three or four times. Being dropped into the eyes,
it taketh away the redness or dimness of them ; it like
wise taketh away spots or freckles in the face. The
leaves bruised, and fried with a little hog's lard, and laid
hot to any blotch or boil, will quickly break it.
Lungwort. M. (c. d. 1.)
This is a kind of moss that groweth on sundry sorts of
trees, especially oaks and beeches.
Descript..] It hath broad, greyish, tough leaves di.
versely folded, crumpled, and gashed in on the edges,
and some spotted also with many small spots on the upper
side. It was never seen to bear any stalks or flowers at
any time. - -
Government and Virtues.] Jupiter seems to own this
herb. It is of great use to physicians to help the diseases
of the lungs, and for coughs, wheezings, and shortness
of breath, which it cureth both in man and beast. It is
very profitable to put into lotions that are taken to stay
: the moist humours that flow to ulcers, and hinder their
-
194 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
healing, as also to wash all other ulcers in the privy parts
of a man or woman. It is an excellent remedy boiled in beer
for broken-winded horses.
Madder. (c. d l.J
Tins is principally cultivated for the use of dyers.
Detcript."] Garden Madder shooteth forth many very
long, weak, four-square, reddish stalks, trailing on the
ground a great way, very rough and hairy, aud full of
joints ; at everyone of thesejoints come forth divers long
and narrow leaves, standing like a star about the stalks,
rough and hairy, towards the tops whereof come forth
many small pale yellow flowers, after which come small
round heads, green at first, and reddish afterwards, but
black when they are ripe, wherein is contained the
seed. The root is not very great, but exceeding long,
running down half a Mian's length into the ground,
red and very clear while it is fresh, spreading divers
ways.
l'lace.r\ It is only manured in gardens, or larger fields,
for the profit that is made thereof.
Time.] It flowereth towards the end of Summer, and
the seed is ripe quickly after.
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb of Mars. It
hath an opening quality, and afterwards to bind and
strengthen. It is a sure remedy for the yellow jaundice,
by op :ning the obstructions of the liver and gall, and
cleansing those parts ; it openeth also the obstructions
of the spleen, and diminishcth the melancholy humour ;
it is available for the palsy and sciatica, and effectual for
bruises inward and outward, and is therefore much used
in vulnerary drinks. The root for all those aforesaid
purposes, is to be boiled in wine or water, as the cause
requireth, and some hony and sugar put thereunto after
wards. The seed hereof taken in vinegar and honey,
helpeth the swelling and hardness of the spleen. The
decoction of the leaves and branches is a good fomentation
for women to sit over that have not their courses. The
leaves and roots beaten and applied to any part that is
discoloured with freckles, morphew, the white scurf, or
any such deformity of the skin, cleanseth thoroughly, and
taketh them away.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 195
Wall Rue, or White Maiden Hair. ? . (h. d. l.J
This is generally known amongst village children, and
gathered by them under the name of Ladies Hair.
Descript.] This hath very fine pale, green stalks, almost
as fine as hairs, set confusedly with divers pale green
leaves on very short foot-stalks, somewhat in form,
but more diversly cut in on the edges, and thicker,
smooth on the upper part, and spotted finely under
neath.
Place.'] It groweth in many places of this land, at
Dartford, and the bridge at Ashford in Kent, at Beacons-
field in Buckinghamshire, at Wolly in Huntingdonshire,
on Framingham Castle in Suffolk, on the church walls at
May&eld in Sussex, in Somersetshire, and divers other
places of this land ; and is green in Winter as well as
Summer.
Government and Virtues.] Both this and the common
Maiden Hair are under the dominion of Mercury, and so
is that also which followeth after, and the virtue of both
these are so near alike, that I shall, in writing the
virtues of them, join them both together as fol
loweth :
The deco&ion of the herb Maiden-Hair being drank,
helpeth those that are troubled with the cough, shortness
of breath, yellow jaundice, diseases of the spleen, stop
ping of urine, and helpeth exceedingly to break the* stone
in the kidnies, (in all which diseases the Wall Rue is also
very effectual.) It provoketh women's courses, and
stays both bleedings and fluxes of the stomach and belly,
especially when the herb is dry ; for being green, it
looseneth the belly, and voideth choler and phlegm from
the stomach and liver; it eleanseth the lungs, and by
rectifying the blood, causeth a good colour to the whole
body. The herb boiled in oil of camomile, dissolveth
knots, ali.ayeth swellings, and drieth up moist ulcers.
The lee made thereof is singular good to cleanse the head
from sfenrf, and from dry and running sores, stayeth the
falling or shedding of the hair, and causeth it to grow
thick, fair, and well coloured ; for which purpose some
K. 2
196 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
boil it in wine, putting some Smallage thereto, and after,
wards some oil. The Wall Rue is as effectual as Maiden-
Hair, in all diseases of the head, or falling and recover,
ing of the hair again, and generally for all the afore
mentioned diseases : And besides, the powder of it taken
in drink for forty days together, helpeth the burstings in
children.
Golden Maiden Hair. $. (h. d. 2.)
To the former give me leave to add this, and I shall no
more but only describe it unto you, and for the virtues
refer you to the former, since whatever is said of them,
may be also said of this.
Descri]it.'] It hath many small, brownish, red hairs to
make up the form of leaves growing about the gr*ond
from the root; and in the middle of them, in Summer,
rise small stalks of the same colour, set with very fine
yellowish green hairs on them, and bearing a small gold,
yellow head, lesser than a wheat corn, standing in a great
husk. The root is very small and thready.
Time."] It groweth in bogs and moorish places, and also
on dry shady places, as Hampstead Heath, and elsewhere.
Mallows and Marshmallows. ?. (temp.m. 1.)
Common Mallows arc generally so well known, that they
need no description.
Our Common Marshmallows have divers soft hairy-
white stalks, rising to be three or four feet high, spreading
forth many branches, the leaves whereof are soft and
hairy, somewhat lesser than the other Mallow leaves, but
longer pointed, cut (for the most part) into some few di
visions, but deep. The flowers are many, but smaller
also than the other Mallows, and white, or tending to a
bluish colour ; after which come such long round cases
and seeds, as in the other Mallows. The roots are
many and long, shooting from one head, of the bigness
of a thumb or finger, very pliant, tough, and being like
liquorice, of a whitish yellow colour on the outside, and
more white within, full of a slimy juice, which being laid
in water, will thicken, as if it were a jelly.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 197
Place.] The common Mallows grow in every county
of this land. The common Marshmallows in most of
the salt marshes, fromWoolwich clown to the sea, both from
the Kentish and Essex shore, and in divers other places of
this land.
Time.] They flower all the Summer months, even until
the Winter do pull them down.
Government and Virtues.] Venus owns them both.
The leaves of either of the sorts before specified, and the
roots also boiled in wine and water, or in broth with
parsley or fennel roots, do help to open the body, and
are very convenient in hot agues, or other distempers of
the body, to apply the leaves so boiled warm to the
belly. It not only voideth hot, choleric, and other of
fensive humours, but caseth the pains and torments of
the belly coming thereby, and are therefore used in all
clysters conducing to those purposes. The same used
by nurses, procurcth them store of milk. The decoction
of the seed of any of the common Mallows made in milk
or wine, doth marvellously help excoriations, the phthisic,
pleurisy, and other diseases of the chest and lungs that
proceed of hot causes, if it be continued taking for some
time together. The leaves and roots work the same
effects ; they help much also in the excoriations of the
guts and bowels, and hardness of the mother, and in all
hot and sharp diseases thereof. The juice drank in wine,
or the decoction of them therein, doth help women to a
speedy and easy delivery. Pliny saith, that whosoever
shall take a spoonful of any of the Mallows, shall that
day be free from all diseases that may come upon him, and
that it is special good for the falling-sickness.. The syrup
also and conserve made of the ilowers, are very effectual
for the same diseases, and to open the body, being costive.
The leaves bruised, and laid to the eyes with a little honey,
taketh away the imposthumes of them* The leaves
bruised or rubbed upon the place stung with bees, wasps,
or the like, presently take away the pains, redness, and,
swellings that arise thereupon. And Dioscorides saith,
the decoction of the roots and leaves helpeth all sorts of
poison, so as the poison be presently voided by vomit.
A poultice made of the leaves, boiled and bruised, with.
198 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
some bean or barley flour, and oil of roses added, is an
especial remedy against all hard tumours and inflamma
tions, or imposthumes, or swellings of the privates and
other parts, and easeth the pains of them ; as also against
the hardness of the liver or spleen, being applied to the
places. The juice of the Mallows boiled in old oil and
applied, taketh away all roughness of the skin, as also
the scurf, dandriff, or dry scabs in the head, or other
parts, if they be anointed therewith, or washed with the
decoction, and preserveth the hair from falling off. It is
also effectual against scaldings and burnings, St. Anthony's
fire, and all other hot, red, and painful swellings in any
part of the body. The flowers boiled in oil or water,
(as every one is disposed) whereunto a little honey and
allum is put, is an excellent gargle to wash, cleanse, or
heal any sore mouth.or throat in a short space. If the
feet be bathed or washed with the decoclion of the leaves,
roots and flowers, it helpeth much the defluxions of rheum
from the head : if the head be washed therewith, it stayeth
the falling and shedding of the hair. The green leaves
(saith Pliny) beaten with nitre, and applied, draw out
thorns or prickles in the flesh.
The Marshmallows arc more effectual in all the dis
eases before-mentioned : the leaves are likewise used to
loosen the belly gently, and decoctions for clysters to
case all pains of the body, opening the strait passages,
and making them slippery, whereby the stone may de
scend the more easily, and without pain, out of the reins,
kidnies and bladder, and to ease the torturing pains
.thereof. But the roots are of more special use for those
purposes, as well for coughs, hoarseness, shortness of
breath aud wheezings, being boiled in wine, or honied
water, and drank. The roots and seeds hereof boiled in
.wine and water, are with good success used by them that
have excoriations in the guts, or the bloody-flux, by
qualifying the violence of sharp fretting humours, easing
pains, and healing the soreness. It is profitably taken of
them that are troubled with ruptures, cramps, or con
vulsions of the sinews; and boiled in white wine, for the
imposthumes of the throat, commonly called the king's
evil, and of those kernels that rise behind the ears, and.
inflammations and swellings in women's breasts. The
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 199
dried roots boiled in milk and drank, is specially good for
the chin-cough. Hippocrates used to give the decoction
of the roots, or the juice thereof, to drink, to those that
arc wounded, and ready to faint through loss of blood,
and applied the same mixed with honey and rosin to the
wounds; as also the roots boiled in wine, to those that
have received any hurt by bruises, falls or blows, or had
any bone or member out of joint, or any swelling, pain,
or ach in the muscles, sinews or arteries. The mucilage
of the roots, and of linseed and fenugreek put together,
is much used in poultices, ointments, and plaisters, to
mollify and digest all hard swellings, and the inflammation
of them, and to ease pains in any part of the body. The
seed either green or dry mixed with vinegar, cleanseth
the skin of morphew, and all other discolourings, being
boiled therewith in the Sun.
You may remember, that not long since there was a
raging disease called the bloody-flux ; the college of
physicians not knowing what to make of it called it the
plague of the guts, for their wits were at Ne plus ultra
about it : my son was taken with the same disease, and
the excoriation of his bowels was exceeding great ; my
self being in the country, was sent for up ; the only
thing I gave him, was Mallows bruised and boiled both
in milk and drink ; in two days (the blessing of God
being upon it) it cured him. And I here, to shew my
thankfulness to God in communicating it to his creatures,,
leave it to posterity.
Maple Tree. X. (temp.)
It is under the dominion of Jupiter. The decoction,
cither of the leaves or bark, must needs strengthen the
liver much, and so you shall find it to do, if you use
it. It is excellent good to open obstructions both in the
liver and spleen, and easeth pains of the sides thence
proceeding.
"Wild Marjoram. $?. (h. d. 2.)
Called also Origane, Origanum, Eastward Marjoram,
Wild Marjoram, and Grove Marjoram.
K4
300 THE ENGLISH rilYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Descript.] Wild or Field Marjoram hath a root which
crcepeth much under ground, which continueth a long
time, sending up sundry brownish, hard square stalks,
with small dark green leaves, very like those of Sweet
Marjoram, but harder, and somewhat broader; at the
top of the stalks stand tufts of flowers, ofa. deep purplish
red colour. The seed is small and something blacker
than that of Sweet Marjoram.
Place.] It groweth plentifully in the borders of corn
fields, and in some copses.
Time.] It flowereth towards the latter end of Summer,
Government and Virtues.'] This is under the domi
nion of Mercury. It strengthens the stomach and head
much, there being scarce a better remedy growing for
such as are troubled with a sour humour in the stomach;
it restores the appetite being lost ; helps the cough and
consumption of the lungs ; it cleanscth the body of
choler, expelleth poison, and reinedieth the infirmities of
the spleen ; helps the bitings of venomous beasts, and
helps such as have poisoned themselves by eating hem
lock, henbane, or opinm. It provoketh urine, and the
terms in women, helps the dropfy and the scurvy, scabs,
itch, and jellow jaundice. The juice being dropped into
the cars, helps deafness, pain and noise in the ears. And
thus much for this herb, between which and adders there
is a deadly antipathy.
Sweet Marjoram. in T. (h. d. 3.)
Sweet Marjoram is so well known, being an inhabitant in
every garden, that it is needless to write any description
thereof, neither of the Winter Sweet Majoram, or Pot
Marjoram.
Placed] They grew commonly in gardens ; some sort
there are that grow wild in the borders of corn-fields and
pastures, in sundry places of this land ; but it is not my
purpose to insist upon them ; the garden kinds being most
used and useful.
Time.] They flower in the end of Summer.
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb of Mercury,
under Aries, and therefore is an excellent remedy for the
brain, and other parts of the body and mind under the
«
THE ENGIISH PHYSICIAN ENtAltGED. 201
dominion of the same planet. Our common Sweet.Marjo
ram is warming and comfortable in the cold diseases of the
head, stomach, sinews, and other parts, taken inwardly,
or outwardly applied. The decoction thereof being
drank, helpeth all diseases of the chest which hinder the
frceness of breathing, and is also profitable for the ob
structions of the liver and spleen. It helpeth the cold
griefs of the womb, and the windiness thereof ; and the
Joss of speech, by resolution of the tongue. ' The decoction
thereof made with some pelhtory of Spain, and long pep
per, or with a little acorns or origanum, being drank, is
good for those that are beginning to fall into a dropsy,
for those that cannot make water, and against pains and
torments in the belly ; it provoketh women's courses, if
it be put as a pessary. Being made into powder, and
mixed with honey, it taketh away the black marks of
blows and bruises, being thereunto applied ; it is good
for the inflammations and watering of the eyes, being
mixed with fine flour, and laid upon them. The juice
dropped into the ears, easeth the pains and singing noise
in them. It is profitably put into those ointments and
salves that are warm, and comfort the outward parts, as
the joints and sinews j for swellings also, and places out.
of joint. The powder thereof snuffed up into the nose,
provoketh sneezing, and thereby purgeth the brain; and
chewed in the mouth, draweth forth much phlegm. The
oil made thereof, is very warm and comfortable to the
joints that are stiff, and the sinews that are hard, to mollify
and supple them. Marjoram is much used in all odor
iferous waters, powders, &c. that are for ornament or.
delight.
Marigolds. ©-. in $ • (h. d. I.)
These being so plentiful in every garden, are so well
known, that they need no description.
Time.] They llower all the Summer long, and sometimes
in Winter, if it be mild.
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb of the Sun, and
under Leo. They strengthen the heart exceedingly, and
are very expulsive and little less effectual in the small*
202 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
pox and measles than saffron. The juice of Marigold
leaves mixed with vinegar, and any hot swelling bathed
.with it, instantly giveth ease, and assuageth it. The
flowers, either green or dried, are much used in possets,
broths, and drink, as a comforter of the heart and spi
rits, and to expel any malignant or pestilential quality
which might annoy them. A plaister made with the
dry flowers in powder, hog's-grcase, turpentine, and
Tosin, applied to the breast, strengthens and succours the
heart infinitely in fevers, whether pestilential or not pes
tilential.
Masterwort. <?. (h. d. 3.)
This is not much known, being only cultivated in
gardens.
Descripl.") Common Masterwort hath divers stalks of
winged leaves divided into sundry parts, three for the most
part standing together at a small foot-stalk on both sides
of the greater, and three likewise at the end of the stalk,
somewhat broad, and cut in on the edges into three or
more divisions, all of them dented about the brims, of a
dark green colour, somewhat resembling the leaves of
Angelica, but that these grow lower to the ground, and
on lesser stalks ; among which rise up two or three short
ttalks about two feet high, and slender, with such like
leaves at the joints which grow below, but with lesser
and fewer divisions, bearing umbels of white flowers, ai d
after them thin, flat blackish seeds, bigger than Dill-seeds.
The root is somewhat greater, and growing rather side
ways than down deep in the ground, shooting forth sundrj
heads, which taste sharp, biting on the tongue, and is the
hottest and sharpest part of the plant, and the seed next
unto it being somewhat blackish on the outside, and
smelling well.
Place.] It is usually kept in gardens with us in England.
Time.] It flowereth and seedeth. about the end ofAugust. '
Government and Virtues.^ It is an herb af Mars. The
Toot of Masterwort is hotter than pepper, and very avail
able in cold griefs and diseases, both of the stomach and
body, dissolving very powerfully upwards and down
wards. It is also used in a deco&ioa with wjae against
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 203
all cold rheums, distillation upon the lungs, or shortness
of breath, to be taken morning and evening. It also
provoketh urine, and helpeth to break the stone, and ex.
pel the gravel from the kidnies ; provoketh women's
courses, and expelleth the dead birth. It is singular
good for strangling of the mother, and other such like
feminine diseases. It is effectual also against the dropsy,
cramps, and falling.sickness ; for the decoction in wine
being gargled in the mouth, draweth down much water
and phlegm from the brain, purging and easing it of what
oppresseth it It is of a rare quality against all sorts o€
cold poison, to be taken as there is cause ; it provoketh
sweat. But lest the taste hereof, or of the seed (which
worketh to the like effect, though not so powerfully)
should be too offensive, the best way is to take the water
distilled both from the herb and root. The juice hereof
dropped, or tents dipped therein, and applied either to-
green wounds or filthy rotten ulcers, and those that come
by envenomed weapons, doth soon cleanse and heal them.
The same is also very good to help the gout coming of ».
cold cause.
The Medlar. . (c. d.
This tree is cultivated for the use of the fruit, which have
the appearance of small rotten apples.
Descript.] It groweth near the bigness of the Quince
Tree, spreading branches reasonably large, with longer
and narrower leaves than either the apple or quince, and
not dented about the edges. At the end of the sprigs
stand the flowers, made of five white, great broad-pointed
leaves, nicked in the middle with some white threads
also ; after which cometh the fruit, of a brownish green
colour being ripe, bearing a crown as it were on the top,,
which were the five green leaves ; and being rubbed on,
or fallen away, the head of the fruit is seen to be some
what hollow. The fruit is very harsh before it is mellowed,
and hath usually five hard kernels within it. There ia
another kind hereof nothing ditfering from the former,
but that it hath some thorns on it in several places, which
the other hath not, and usually the fruit is small, and not
so pleasant*
204 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Time and Place.] They grew in this land, and flower
in May for the most part, and bear fruit in September and
Oćtober. -
Government and Virtues.] The fruit is old Saturn's,
and sure a better medicine he hardly had to strengthen
the retentive faculty ; therefore it stays women’s long
ings; the good old man cannot endure women's minds
should run a gadding. Also a plaister made of the fruit
dried before they are rotten, and other convenient things,
and applied to the reins of the back, stops miscarriage in
women with child. They are very powerful to stay any
fluxes of blood or humours in men and women; the
leaves also have this quality. The fruit eaten by women
with child stayeth their longings after unusual meats,
and is very effectual for them that are apt to miscarry,
and may be delivered before their time, to help that ma
lady, and make them joyful mothers. The deco&tion
of them is good to gargle and wash the mouth, throat
and teeth, when there is any defluxions of blood to stay
it, or of humours, which causeth the pains and swel
lings. It is a good bath for women to sit over, that have
their courses flow too abundant; or for the piles when
they bleed too much. If a poultice or plaister be made
with dried Medlars, beaten and mixed with the juice of
red roses, whereunto a few cloves and nutmegs may be
added, and a little red coral also, and applied to the
stomach that is given to casting or loathing of meat, it
effeótually helpeth. The dried leaves in powder strewed
on fresh bleeding wounds, restraineth the blood, and
healeth up the wound quickly. The Medlar-stones made
into powder and drank in wine, wherein some parsley
roots have lain infused all night, or a little boiled, do.
break the stone in the kidnies, helping to expel it.
Mellilot. l. (h. d. 1.)
This is also called King's Claver, and is much used by the
apothecaries. -
Descript..] It hath many green stalks, two or three
feet high, rising from a tough, long, white root, which
dieth not every year, set round about at the joints with
small, and somewhat long well-smelling leaves, set three
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 205
together unevenly dented about the edge. The flowers
are yellow, and well-smelling also, made like other tre
foil, but small, standing in long spikes one above another,
for an hand-breadth long or better, which afterwards turn
into long crooked pods, wherein is contained flat seed,
somewhat brown.
Place.] It groweth plentifully in many places of this
land ; as in the edge of Suffolk, and in Essex; as also in
Huntingdonshire, and in other places ; but most usually
in corn-fields, and in corners of meadows.
Time,] It flowereth in June and July, and is ripe
quickly after.
Government and Virtues.] Mellilot boiled in wine, and
applied, mollifieth all hard tumours and inflammations
that happen in the eyes, or other parts of the body and
the fundament, or privy parts of men and women ; and
sometimes the yolk of a roasted egg, or fine flour, or
poppy-seed, or endive, is added unto it. Jt helpeth the
spreading ulcers in the head, it being washed with a lee
made thereof. It helpeth the pains of the stomach, being
applied fresh, or boiled with any of the afore-named things;
also the pains of the ears, being dropped into them ; and
steeped in vinegar, or rose-water, it mitigateth the head-
ach. The flowers of Mellilot or Camomile are much used
to be put together in clysters to expel wind and ease pains;
and also in poultices for the same purpose, and to assuage
swelling tumours in the spleen or other parts, and helpeth
inflammations in any part of the body. The juice dropped
into the eyes, is a singular good medicine to take away
the film or skin that cloudeth or dimneth the eye-sight.
The head often washed with the distilled water of the herb
or flower, or a lee made therewith, is effectual for those
that suddenly lose their senses ; as also to strengthen the
memory, to comfort the head and brain, and to preserve
them from pain and the apoplexy.
French Mercury. ?. (h. <f. 3.)
This is a troublesome herb in those grounds, in which it
hath once got possession.
DescrtptJ] It riseth up with a square green stalk full of
joints, two feet high, or thereabouts with two leaves at
206 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
every joint, and the branches likewise from both sides of
the stalk, set with fresh green leaves, somewhat broad and
long, about the bigness ot the leaves of Basil, finely dented
about the edges : towards the tops of the stalks and
branches, come forth at every joint in the male mercury
two small rounu green heads, standing together upon a
short foot-stalk, which growing ripe, are seeds, not having
flowers. The female stalk is longer, spike-fashion, set
round about with small green husks, which are the flowers,
made like small bunches of grapes, which give no seed,
but abide long upon the stalks without shedding. The
root is composed of many small fibres, which perisheth
every year at the approach of Winter, and riseth again of
its own sowing ; and if once it is suffered to sow itself,
the ground will never want afterwards} even both sorts
ef it.
Dog Mercury. ?. (h. d. 1.)
Having described unto you that which is called French
Mercury, I come now to shew you a description of this
kind also.
Descript."] This is likewise of two kinds, male and fe
male, having many stalks slender and lower than Mer
cury, without any branches at all upon them ; the root
is set with two leaves at every joint, somewhat greater
than the female, but more pointed and full of veins, and
somewhat harder in handling ; of a dark green colour,
and less dented or snipped about the edges. At the
joints with the leaves come forth longer stalks than the
former, with two hairy round seeds upon them, twice
as big as those of the former Mercury ; the taste hereof
is herby, and the smell somewhat strong and virulent.
The female has much harder leaves standing upon longer
foot-stalks, and the stalks are also longer ; from the joints
come forth spikes of flowers like the French Female
Mercury. The roots of them both are many, and full
of small fibres, which run under ground, and mat them
selves very much, not perishing as the former Mercuries
do, but abiding the Winter, and shoot forth new
branches ever/ year, for the old. lie down to the
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 207
Place.] The male and female French Mercury are found
wild in divers places in this land ; as by a village called
Brookland, in Rumney-Marsh, in Kent.
The Dog Mercury in sundry places of Kent also, and
elsewhere; but the female more seldom than the male.
Time.'] They flower in the Summer months, and therein
give their seed.
Government and Virtues.] Mercuryr they say, owns
the herb, but I rather think it is Venus's, and I am
partly confident of it too, for I never heard that Mer.
cury ever minded women's business so much : I believe
he minds his study more. The decoction of the leaves of
Mercury, or the juice thereof in broth, or drank with a
little sugar put to it, purgeth choleric and waterish
humours. Hippocrates commended it wonderfully for
women's diseases, and applied to the secret parts, to ease
the pains pf the mother ; and used the decoction of it,
both to procure women's courses, and to expel the after,
birth, and gave the decoction thereof with myrrh or pep
per, or used to apply the leaves outwardly against the
stranguary and diseases of the reins and bladder. He
used it also for sore and watering eyes, and for the deaf
ness and pains in the ears, by dropping the juice thereof
into them, and bathing them afterwards in white wine.
The decoction thereof made with water and a cock
chicken, is a most safe medicine against the hot fits of
agues. It also cleanseth the breast and lungs of phlegm,
but a little offendeth the stomach. The juice or distilled
water snuffed up into the nostrils, purgeth the head and
eyes of catarrhs and rheums. Some use to drink two or
three ounces of the distilled Avater, with a little sugar
put to it, in the morning fasting, to open and purge the
body of gross, viscous and melancholy humours. It is
wonderful (if it be not fabulous) which Dioscorides and
Thcophrastus do relate of it, viz. That if women use
these herbs either inwardly or outwardly, or three days
together after conception, and their courses be past,
they shall bring forth male or female children, according
to that kind of herb they use. Matthiolus saith, that
the seed both of the male and female Mercury boiled
with wormwood and drank, cureth the jellow jaundice
in a speedy manner! The leaves or the juice rubbed
%
208 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
upon wharts, taketh them away. The Juice mingled with
some vinegar, helpeth all running scabs, tetters, ring
worms, and the itch. Galen saith, that being applied
in manner of a poultice to any swelling or inflammation,
it digesteth the swelling, and allayeth the inflammation,
and is therefore given in clysters to evacuate from the
belly offensive humours. The Dog Mercury, although
it be less used, yet may serve in the same manner, to
the same purpose, to purge watertsh and melancholy
humours.
Mint. ?. (h. d. 3.)
Of all the kinds of Mint, the Spear Mint or Heart Mint,
being most usual, I shall only describe as follows :
Descript.] Spear Mint hath divers round stalks, and
long but narrowish leaves set thereon, of a dark green
colour. The flowers stand in spiked heads at the tops of
the branches, being of a pale blue colour. The smell or
scent thereof is somewhat mar unto Basil ; it increaseth
by the root under ground, as all others do.
Place."] It is an usual inhabitant in gardens : and be-
cause it seldom giveth any good seed, the eti'ects is re
compensed by the plentilul increase of the root, which
being once planted in a garden, will hardly be rid out
again.
Time.] It flowereth not until the beginning of August,
for the most part.
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb of Venus, Dios-
corides saith it hath a heating, binding aud drying qua
lity, and therefore the juice taken in vinegar, stayeth
bleeding: it stirreth up venery, or bodily lust; twoorthree
branches thereof taken in the juice of four pomegranates,
stayeth the hiccough, vomiting, and allayeth the cholcr.
It dissolveth imposthumes being laid to with barley-mt al.
It is good to repress the milk in women's breasts, and for
such as have swollen, flagging, or great breasts. Applied
with salt, it helpeth the bning of a mad dog ; with mead
and honied water, it easeth the pains of the ears, and
taketh away the roughness of the tongue, being rubbed
thereupon. It suffereth not milk to curdle in the stomach,
if the leaves thereof be steeped or boiled in it before you
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 209
drink it : briefly it is very profitable to the stomach. The
often use hereof is a very powerful medicine to stay
women's courses and the whites. Applied to the fore
head and temples, it easeth the pains in the head, and is
good to wash the heads of young children therewith,
against all manner of breaking-out, sores or scabs therein,
and healcth the chops of. the fundament. It is also pro
fitable against the poison of venomous creatures. The
distilled water of mint is available to all the purposes
aforesaid, yet more weakly. But if a spirit thereof be
rightly and chemically drawn, it is much more powerful
than the herb itself. Simeon Sethi saith, it hefpeth a cold
liver, strengtheneth the belly, causeth digestion, stayeth
vomits and the hiccough ; it is good against the gnawing
of the heart, provoketh appetite, taketh away obstruc
tions of the liver, and stirreth up bodily lust ; but there
fore too much must not be taken, because it maketh
the blood thin and wheyish, and turneth it into choler,
therefore cholerick persons must abstain from it. It is a
safe medicine for the biting of a mad dog, being bruised
with salt, and laid thereon. The powder of it being
dried and taken after meat, helpeth digestion, and those
that are splenetick. Taken with wine, it helpeth women
in their sore travail of child-bearing. It is good against
the gravel and stone in the kidnies, and the stranguary.
Being smclled unto, it is comfortable for the head and
memory. The decoction hereof gargled in the mouth,
cureth the gums and mouth that are sore, and mendeth an
ill-favoured breath, as also the rue and coriander, causeth,
the palate of the mouth to turn to its place, the decoction
being gargled and held in the mouth. I have frequently
cured and healed many young ladies of weak delicate
relaxed and consumptive habits of body by ordering them
to go with the maid a milking for a few mornings, and
take with them a new laid egg beaten up with a large
table spoonful of Rum, and a little Spear Mint eut small,
to which add about a tea cup full of new milk, from the
cow ; this being beaten all together in a bason and drank
in the field, together with the addition of the morning air,
have done wonders.
The virtues of the Wild or Horsc-mint, such as grow
ia ditches (whose description I purposely omitted, in re
210 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
gard they are well enough known) are especially to dissolve
wind in the stomach, to help the colic, and those that are
short-winded, and are an especial remedy for those that
have venereal dreams and pollutions in the night, being
outwardly applied to the testicles or privates. The juice
dropped into the ears easeth the pains of them, and de-
stroyeth the worms that breed therein. They are good
against the venomous biting of serpents. The juice laid
on warm, helpeth the king's evil, or kernels in the
throat. Thedecoction or distilled water helpeth a stink
ing breath, proceeding from corruption of the teeth, and
snuffed up the nose, purgeth the head. Pliny saith, that
eating of the leaves hath been found by experience to
cure the leprosy, applying some of them to the face, and to
help the scurf or dandriff of the head, used with vinegar.
They are extreme bad for wounded people; and they say
a wounded man that cats mint, his wound will never be
cured, and that is a long day.
Misselto. ©. (h. d.2J
This is properly a shrub, which groweth upon other
trees, having no proper root of its own.
Descript.] It riseth up from the branch or arm of the
tree whereon itgroweth, with a woody stem, putting itself
into sundry branches, and they again divided into many
other smaller twigs, interlacing themselves one within
another, very much covered with a greyish green bark,
having two leaves set at every joint, and at the end like
wise, which are somewhat long and narrow, small at the
bottom, but broader towards the end. At the knots or
joints of the boughs and branches grow small yellow
flowers, which run into small, round, white, transparent
berries, three or four together, full of a glutinous mois
ture, with a blackish seed in each of them, which was never
yet known to spring, being put into the ground, or any
where else to grow.
Placc.^ It groweth very rarely on oaks with us ; bat
upon sundry other, as well timber as fruit-trees, plenti
fully in woody groves, and the like, through all this
land.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 211
Time.] It flowereth in the Spring-time, but the berries
are not ripe until October, abiding on the branches all the
Winter, unless the black-birds, anid other birds, do de
vour them.
Government and Virtues^ This is under the dominion of
the Sun, I do not question; and can also take for granted,
that that which grows upon oaks, participates something
of the nature of Jupiter, because an oak is one of his
trees ; as also that which grows upon pear-trees, and apple-
trees, participates something of his nature, because he
rules the tree it grows upon, having no root of his own.
But why that should have most virtues that grows upon
oaks 1 know not, unless because it is rarest and hardest
to come by; and our college's opinion is in this contrary
to scripture, which saith, God's tender mercies are over
all his works ; and so it is, let the college of physicians
walk as contrary to him as they please, and that is as
contrary as the east to the west. Clusins affirms, that
which grows upon pear trees to be as prevalent, and gives
order, that it should not touch the ground after it is
gathered ; and also saith, that, being hung about the neck,
it remedies witchcraft. Both the leaves and berries of
Misselto do heat and dry, and are of subtil parts ; the
birdlime doth mollify hard knots, tumours, and impos*
thumes; ripeneth and discusseth them, and draweth forth
thick as well as thin humours from remote parts of the
body, digesting and separating them. And being mixed
with equal parts of rosin and wax, doth mollify the
hardness of the spleen, and helpeth old ulcers and sores.
Being mixed with sandarick and orpiment, it helpeth to
draw off foul nails; and if quick-lime and wine lees be
added thereunto, it worketh the stronger. The Misselto
itself of the oak (as the. best) made into powder, and given
in drink to those that have the falling-sickness, doth as
suredly heal them, as Matthiolus saith ; but it is fit to
hsb it for forty days together. Some have so highly
esteemed it for the virtues thereof, that they have called
it Lignum SanSlce Crucis. Wood of the Holy Cross, be
lieving it helps the falling-sickness, apoplexy and palsy
very speedily, not only to be inwardly taken, but to be
hung at their neck. Tragus saith, that the fresh wood
212 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
of any Misselto bruised, and the juice drawn forth and
dropped in the ears that have imposthumes in them, doth
help and ease them within a few days.
Moneywort. °. (c. d. I.)
This is likewise called Herb Two-pence.
Descript.'] The common Moneywort sendeth forth
from a small thready root, divers long, weak, and
slender branches, lying and running upon the ground
two or three feet long or more, set with leaves two at a
joint one against another at equal distances, which are
almost round, but pointed at the ends, smooth, and of a
good green colour. At the joints with the leaves from
the middle forward come forth at every point sometimes
one yellow flower, and sometimes two, standing each on a
small foot-stalk, and made of five leaves, narrow-pointed
at the end, with some yellow threads in the middle, which
being past, there stand in their place small round heads
of seed.
Place."] It groweth plentifully in almost all places of
this land, commonly in moist grounds by hedge-sides, and
in the middle of grass-fields.
Time.] They (lower in June and July, and their seed is
ripe quickly after.
Government and Virtues.] Venus owns it. Moneywort
is singular good to stay all fluxes in man or woman, whether
they be lasks, bloody-fluxes, the flowing of women's
courses. Bleeding inwardly or outwardly, and the weak.
Hess of the stomach that is given to casting. It is very
good also for the ulcers or excoriations of the lungs, or
other inward parts. It is exceeding good for all wounds,
either fresh or green, to heal them speedily, and for all
ulcers that are of a spreading nature. For all which
purposes the juice of the herb, or the powder drank in
water wherein hot steel hath been often quenched ; or
the decodtion of the green herb, in wine, or water,
drank, or used to the outward place, to wash or bathe
them, or to have tcuts dipped therein and put into them,
are efl'ectual.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 213
Moonwort. 5. (c.d. 1.)
This has also been called Unshoe-the-Horse, from a
power which it is supposed to have of loosening the shoes
of the horses which tread upon it.
De-script."] It riseth up usually but with one dark green,
thick and flat leaf, standing upon a short foot-stalk not
above two fingers breadth ; but when it flowers it may be
said to bear a small slender stalk about four or five inches
high, having but one leaf in the middle thereof, which is
mucn divided on both sides, into sometimes five or seven
parts on a side, sometimes more, each of which parts is
small like the middle rib, but broad forwards, pointed
and round, resembling therein a half moon, from whence
it took the name ; the uppermost parts or divisions being
bigger than the lowest. The stalks rise above this leaf
two or three inches, bearing many branches of small long
tongues, every one like the spiky head of the adder's
tongues, of a brownish colour, (whether I shall call
them flowers or the seed, I well know not) which after
they have continued a while, resolve into a mealy dust.
The root is small and fibrous ; this hath sometimes divers
such like leaves as are before described, with so many
branches or tops rising from one stalk, each divided from
the other.
Place.] It groweth.on hills and heaths, yet where there
is much grass, for therein it delighteth to grow.
Time.] It is to be found only in April and May ; for in
June, when any hot weather cometh, for the most part it
is withered and gone.
Government and Virtues.] The moon owns the herb.
Moonwort U cold and drying more than adder's tongue,
and is therefore held to be more available for all wounds
both inward and outward. The leaves boiled in red wine,
and drank, stay the immoderate flux of women's courses,
and the whites. It also stayeth bleeding, vomiting and
other fluxes. It helpeth all blows and bruises, and to
consolidate all fractures and dislocations. It is good for
ruptures, but it is chiefly used by most, with other herbs
to make oils or balsams to heal fresh or green wounds,
(as I said before) either inward or outward, for which it
is excellent good.
214 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Mosses. \ • (c. 1. d. 2.)
I SHALi not trouble the reader with a description of these,
since my intent is to speak only of two kinds, as the most
principal, viz. Ground Moss and Tree Moss, both which
are very well known.
P/ace.] The Ground Moss groweth in our moist woods,
and in the bottom of hills, in boggy grounds, and in
shadowy ditches, and many other such like places. The
Tree Moss groweth only on trees.
Government and Virtues.] All sorts of Mosses are under
the dominion of Saturn. The ground Moss is said to be
singularly good to break the stone, and to expel and drive
it forth by urine, being boiled in wine and drank. The
herb being bruised, boiled in water and applied, easeth all
inflammations and pains coming from an hot cause, and is
therefore used to ease the pains of the gour.
The Tree Mosses arc cooling and binding, and partake
of a digesting and mollifying quality withal, as Galen
saith. But each Moss doth partake of the nature of the
tree from whence it is taken ; therefore that of the oak is
more binding, and is of good effect to stay fluxes in man
or woman ; as also vomiting or bleeding, the powder
thereof being taken in wine. The decoction thereof in
wine is very good for women to be bathed, or sit in, that
arc troubled with the overflowing of their courses. The
same being drank, stayeth the stomach that is troubled
with casting, or the hiccough ; and as Avicena saith, it
comforteth the heart. The powder thereof taken in drink
for some time together, is thought available for the dropsy.
The oil that had fresh Moss steeped therein for a time,
and afterwards boiled and applied to the temples and
forehead, doth marvellously ease the head ach coining of
a hot cause ; as also the distillation of hot rheums or hu
mours in the eyes, or other parts. The ancients much
used it in their ointments and other medicines against the
lassitude, and to strengthen and comfort the sinews ; for
which, if it was good then, I know no reason but it may
be found so still.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 215
Motherwort. ?. and SI- (h. d. 2.)
As it groweth only in gardens with us in England, it is
needless to give a description of it.
Government and Virtues."] Venus owns the herb, and
it is under Leo. There is no better herb to take
melancholy vapours from the heart, strengthen it, and
make a merry, chearful, blythe soul, than this herb. It
may be kept in a syrup or conserve ; therefore the Latins
called it Cardiacs. Besides, it makes women joyful
mothers of Children, and settles their wombs as they
should be, therefore we call it Motherwort. It is held
to be of much use for the trembling of the heart, and
faintings and swoonings ; from whence it took the name
Cardiaca. The powder thereof, to the quantity of a
spoonful, drank in wine, is a wonderful help to women
in their sore travail ; as also for the suffocating or risings
of the mother ; and for these effects it is likely it took the
name of motherwort with us. It also provoketh urine
and women's courses, cleanseth the chest of cold phlegm
oppressing it, killeth worms in the belly. It is of good
use to warm and dry up the humours, to digest and disperse
them that are settled in the veins, joints, and sinews of the
body, and, to help cramps and convulsions.
Mouse-Ear. ). (h.*d. 2J
Tins is a small herb possessing great virtues.
Descript.] Mouse-Ear is a low herb, creeping upon the
ground by small strings, like thestrawberry plant, whereby
it shooteth forth small roots, whereat grow upon the
ground many small and somewhat short leaves, set in a
round form together, and very hairy, which being broken,
do give a whitish milk : from among these leaves spring
up two or three small hoary stalks about a span high, with
a few smaller leaves thereon ; at the tops whereof standeth
usually but one flower, consisting of many pale yellow
leaves, broad at the point, and a little dented in, set in
three or four rows (the greater part uppermost) very like
a dandelion flower, and a little reddish underneath about
the edges, especially if it grow in a dry ground ; which
216 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
after they have stood long in flower, do turn into down,
which with the seed is carried away with the wind.
Place.'] It groweth on ditch banks, and sometimes in,
ditches, if they be dry, and in sandy grounds.
Time.] It flowereth about June or July, and abideth
green all the Winter.
Government and Virtues.] The Moon owns this herb
also ; and though authors cry out upon alchymists, for
attempting to fix quicksilver by this herb and Moonworr,
a Roman would not have judged a thing by the success ;
if it be to be fixed at all, it is by lunar influence. The
juice thereof taken in wine, or the deco&ion thereof
drank, doth help the jaundice, although of long con.
tinuance, to drink thereof morning and evening, and
abstain from other drink two or three hoursalter. It is a
special remedy against the stone, and the tormenting pains
thereof; as also other tortures and griping pains of the
bowels. The decoCtion thereof with succory and centaury
is held very effectual to help the dropsy, and them that
are inclining thereto, and the diseases of the spleen. It
stayeth the fluxes of blood, either at the moulh or nose,
and inward bleeding also; for it is a singuhr wound herb
for wounds both inward and outward: it helpeth the
bloody-flux, and helpeth the abundance of women's
courses. There is a syrup made of the juice hereof, and
sugar, by the apothecaries of Italy, and other places,
which is of much account with them, to be given to those
that are troubled with the cough or phthisick. The same
is also singular good for ruptures or burstings. The
green herb bruised, and presently bound to any cut or
wound, doth quickly solder the lips thereof ; and the
juice, decoCtion, or powder of the dried herb, is most
singular to stay malignity of spreading and fretting
cankers and ulcers whatsoever; yea, in the mouth and
secret parts. The distilled water of the plant is available
in all diseases aforesaid, and to wash outward wounds and
sores, and apply tents of cloths wet therein.
Mugwort ? . (h. I. d. 2.)
This is a very common herb, but its Tirtues muck
neglected.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 2If
Descript.] Common Mugwort hath divers leaves lying
upon the ground, very much divided, or cut deeply in
about the brims, somewhat like wormwood, but much
larger, of a dark green colour on the upper side, and
very hoary white underneath. The stalk rises to be four
or five feet high, having on it such like leaves as those
below, but somewhat smaller, branching forth very much
towards the top, whereon are set very small, pale, yel
lowish flowers, like buttons, which fall away, and after
them come small seeds inclosed in round heads. The root
is long and hard, with many small fibres growing from it,
whereby it taketh strong hold on the ground ; but both
stalks and leaf do lie down every year, and the root
shooteth anew in the Spring. The whole plant is of a
reasonable scent, and is more easily propagated by the slips
than the seed.
Place.] It groweth plentifully in many places of this
land by the water-sides; as also by small water-courses,
and in divers other places.
Time.] It flowereth and secdeth in the end of Summer.
Government and Virtues.'] This is an herb of Venus,
therefore maintaineth the parts of the body she rules, re
medies the'diseases of the parts that are under her signs,
Taurus and Libra. Mugwort is with good success put
among other herbs that are boiled for women to sit over
the hot decoctiou to draw down their courses, to help
the delivery of their birth, and expel the after-birth. As
also for the obstructions and inflammations of the mother.
It brcaketh the stone, and causeth one to make water
where it is stopped. The juice thereof made up with
myrrh, and put under as a pessary, worketh the same
effects, and so doth the root also. Being made up with
hog's grease into an ointment, it taketh away wens and
hard knots, and kernels that grow about the neck and
throat, and easeth the pains about the neck more effec
tually, if some field daisies be put with it. The herb it
self being fresh, or the juice thereof taken, is a special
remedy upon the overmuch taking of opium. Three
drams of the powder of the dried leaves taken in wine,
is a speedy and the best certain help for the sciatica. A
decoction thereof made with camomile aad agrimony, and
218 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
the place bathed therewith while it is warm, taketh away
the pains of the sinews, and the cramp.
The Mulberry Tree- (c. d. I.)
Tun is so well known where it groweth, that it needeth
no description.
Time.] It bcareth fruit in the months of July and
August.
Government and Virtues.} Mercury rules the Tree,
therefore are its effects variable as his are. The Mulberry
if of different parts ; the ripe berries, by reason of their
sweetness and slippery moisture, opening the body, and
the unripe binding it, especially when they are dried, and
then they are good to stay fluxes, lasks, and the abun
dance of women's courses. The bark of the root killeth
the broad worms in the body. The juice of the syrup
made of the juice of the berries, hclpeth all inflammations
or sores in the month, or throat, and palate of the mouth
when it is fallen down. The juice of the leaves is a
remedy against the biting* of serpents, and for those that
have taken aconite. The leaves beaten ,with vinegar,
are good to lay on any place that is burnt with fire. A
decoction made of the bark and leaves is good to wash
the mouth and teeth when they ach. If the root be a
little slit or cut, and a small hole made in the ground
next thereunto, in the harvest-time, it will give out a
certain juice, which being hardened the next day, is of
good use to help the tooth-ach, to dissolve knots, and
purge the belly. The leaves of Mulberries are said to stay
bleeding at the mouth or nose, or the bleeding of the
piles, or of a wound, being bound into the places. A
branch of the tree taken when the Moon is at the full,
and bound to the wrist of a woman's arm, whose courses
come down too much, doth stay them in a short space.
Mullein. . (temp. d. I.)
This, from the texture of the leaves, is also called Poor-
Man's Flannel.
Descript.] Common White Mullein hath many fair,
large, woolly white leaves, lying next the ground, some
2
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 219
what larger than broad, pointed at the end, and as it were
dented about the edges. The stalk riseth up to be four
or five feet high, covered over with such like leaves, but
lesser, so that no stalk can be seen for the multitude of
leaves thereon up to the flowers, which come forth on
all sides of the stalk, without any branches for the most
part, and are many set together in a long spike, in some
of a yellow colour, in others more pale, consisting of five
round-pointed leaves, which afterwards have small round
heads, wherein is small brownish seed contained. The
root is long, white, and woody, perishing after it hath,
borne seed.
Place.] It groweth by way-sides and lanes, in many
places of this land.
Time.'] It flowereth in July, or thereabouts.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion of
Saturn. A small quantify of the root given in wine, is
commended by Dioscorides, against lasks and fluxes of
the belly. The decoction hereof drank, is protfiable for
those that are bursten, and for cramps and convulsions,
and for those that are troubled with an old cough. The
decoction thereof gargled, easeth the pains of the tooth,
ach. And the oil made by the often infusion of the
flowers, is of very good effect for the piles. The decoction
of the root in red wine or in water, (if there be an ague)
wherein red hot steel hath been often quenched, doth
stay the bloody-flux. The same also openeth obstruc
tions of the bladder and reins when one cannot make
water. A deco6tion of the leaves hereof, and of sage,
marjoram, and camomile flowers, and the places bathed
therewith, that have sinews stiff with cold or cramps, doth
bring them much ease and comfort. Three ounces of the
distilled water of the flowers drank morning and evening
for some days together, is said to be the most excellent
remedy for the gout. The juice of the leaves and flowers
being laid upon rough warts, also the powder of the
dried roots rubbed on, doth easily take them away, but
doeth no good to smooth warts. The powder of the
dried flowers is an especial remedy for those that are
troubled with the "belly-ach, or the pains of the colick.
The deception of the root, and so likewise of the leaves,
is of great effect to dissolve the tumours, swellings, or
l 1
220 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
inflammations of the throat. The seed and leaves boiled
in wine, and applied, draw forth speedily thorns or
splinters gotten into the flesh, ease the pains, and heal
them also. The leaves bruised and wrapped in double
papers, and covered with hot ashes and embers to bake
a while, and then taken forth and laid warm on any
blotch or boil happening in the groin or share, doth
dissolve and heal them, 'lhc seed bruised and boiled in
wine, and laid on any member that hath been out of joint,
and newly set again, taketh away all swelling and pain
thereof.
Mustard. <?. (h. d. 4.)
This groweth with us in gardens only, and other manured
places, therefore needeth no description.
Time.] It is an annual plant, flowering in July, and
the seed is ripe in August.
Government and Virtues.] It is an excellent sauce for
such whose blood wants clarifying, and for weak sto
machs, being an herb of Mars, but naught for cholerick
people, though as good for such as are aged, or troubled
with cold diseases. Aries claims something to do with
it, therefore it strengthens the heart, and resisteth poison.
Let such whose stomachs are so weak they cannot digest
their meat, or appetite it, take of Mustard-seed a dram,
cinnamon as much, and having beaten them to powder,
and half as much mastick in powder, and with gum ara-
bick dissolved in rose-water, make it up into troches, of
which they may take one of about half a dram-weight
an hour or two before meals ; let old men and women
make much of this medicine, and they will either give
me thanks, or shew manifest ingratitude. Mustard-seed
hath the virtue of heat, discussing, rarifying, and drawing
out splinters of bones, and other things ofthe flesh. . It is
of good eflect to bring down women's courses, for the
falling-sickness or lethargy, drowsy forgetful evil, to use
it both inwardly and outwardly, to rub the nostrils,
forehead, and temples, to warm and quicken the spirits ;
for by the fierce sharpness it purgeth the brain by sneezing,
and drawing down rheum and other viscous humours,
which by their distillations upon the lungs and chest,
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 221
procure coughing, and therefore, with some honey added
thereto, doth much good therein. The decoction of the
seed made in wine, and drank, provoketh urine, resisteth
the force of poison, the malignity of mushrooms, and
venom of scorpions, or other venomous creatures, if it
be taken in time ; and taken before the cold fits of
agues, altereth, lesseneth, and cureth them. The seed
taken either by itself, or with other things, either in an
eleciuary or drink, doth mightily stir up bodily lust, and
helpeth the spleen and pains in the sides, and gnawings
in the bowels ; and used as a gargle draweth up the
palate of the mouth, being fallen down; and also it
dissolveth the swellings about the throat, if it be out
wardly applied. Being chewed in the mouth it often
times helpeth the tooth-ach. The outward application
hereof upon the pained place of the sciatica, discusseth -
the humours, and eascth the pains, as also the gout, and
other joint achs; and is much and often used to ease
pains in the sides or loins, the shoulder, or other parts
of the body, upon the applying thereof to raise blisters,
and cureth the disease by drawing it to the outward
parts of the body. It is also used to help the falling off
the hair. The seed bruised, mixed with honey, and
applied, or made up with wax, taketh away the marks
and black and blue spots of bruises, or the like, the
roughness or scabbiness of the skin, as also the leprosy,
and lousy evil. It helpeth also the crick in the neck.'
The distilled water of the herb, -when it is in the flower,
is much used to drink inwardly to help in any of the
diseases aforesaid, or to wash the mouth when the palate
is down, and for the diseases of the throat to gargle, but
outwardly also for scabs, itch, or other the like infirmities,
and cleanseth the face from morphew, spots, freckles, and
other deformities.
The Hedge Mustard. <J. (h. d. 2.)
This hath a very different appearance from the Gardeh
Mustard.
Descript.J This groweth up usually but- with one
blackish green stalk, tough, easy to bend, but not to
l 3 ,
222 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
break, branched into clivers parts, and sometimes with
divers stalks, set full of branches, -whereon grow long,
rough, or hard rugged leaves, very much tore or cut on
the edges in many parts, some bigger, and some lesser, of
a dirty green colour. The flowers are small and yellow,
that grow on the tops of the branches in long spikes,
flowering by degrees ; so that continuing long in flower,
the stalk will have small round pods at the bottom,
growing upright and close to the stalk, while the top
flowers yet shew themselves, in which are contained small
yellow seed, sharp and strong, as the herb is also. The
root groweth down slender and woody, yet abiding and
springing again every year.
Place.] This groweth frequently in this land, by the
ways and hedge-sides, and sometimes in the open fields.
Time."] It flowereth most usually about July.
Government and Virtues.] Mars owns this herb also.
It is singular good in all the diseases of the chest and lungs,
hoarseness of voice ; and by the use of the decoction
thereof for a little space, those have been recovered who
had utterly lost their voice, and almost their spirits also.
The juice thereof made into a syrup, or licking medicine,
with honey or sugar, is no less effectual for the same pur
pose, and for ail other coughs, wheezing, and shortness
of breath. The same is also profitable for those that have
the jaundice, pleurisy, pains in the back and loins, and
for torments in the belly, or colick, being also used in
clysters. The seed is held to be a special remedy against
poison and venom. It is singular good for the sciatica,
and in joint-achs, ulcers, and cankers in the mouth, throat,
or behind the ears, and no less for the hardness and swelling
of the testicles, or women's breasts.
Nailvrort, or Whitlowgrass (A. d. 2.)
This plant derives its name from its virtues.
Descript.] This very small and common herb hath no
roots, save only a few strings, neither doth it grow to be
above a hand's breadth high, the leaves arc very small,
and somewhat long, not much unlike those of chickweed,
-among which rise up divers slender stalk?, bearing many
white flowers one above another, which arc exceeding
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 223
small ; after which come small flat pouches containing the
seed, which is very small but of a sharp taste.
Place.'] It grows commonly upon old stone and brick
walls, and sometimes in dry gravelly grounds, especially
if there be grass or moss near to shadow it.
Time.'] They flower very early in the year, sometimes
in January and February ; for before the end of April
they are not to be found.
Government and Virtues.] It is held to be exceeding
good for those imposthumes in the joints, and under the
nails, which they call whitlows, felons, and icons and naM-
wheals.
Nep, or Catmint. ? . (h. d. 2.)
Although this is only nursed up in gardens it may be
necessary to describe it, as it is not generally known.
Descript.] Common Garden Nep shooteth forth hard
four-square stalks, with a hoariness on them, a yard high
or more, full of branches, bearing at every joint two broad
leaves like balm, but longer pointed, softer, white and
more hoary, nicked about the edges, and of a strong sweet
scent. The flowers grow in large tufts at the tops of the
branches, and underneath them likewise on the stalks,
many together, of a whitish purple colour. The roots are
composed of many long strings, or fibres, fastening them,
selves stronger in the ground and abide with green leaves
thereon all the Winter.
Time.] It flowereth in July, or thereabouts.
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb of Venus.
Nep is generally used for women to procure their courses,
being taken inwardly or outwardly, either alone, or with
other convenient herbs in a decoction to bathe them, or
sit over the hot fumes thereof; and by the frequent use
thereof, it taketh away barrenness, the wind and pains of
the mother. It is also used in pains of the head coming of
any cold cause, catarrhs, rheums, and for swimming and
giddiness thereof, and is of especial use for the windiness
of the stomach and belly. It is effectual for any cramp or
cold achs, to dissolve cold and wind that afflicieth the-
place, and is used for colds, coughs and shortness of
breath. The jaice thereof drank in wine, is profitable for
j. 4
224 . THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
(hose that are bruised by any accident. The green herb
bruised and applied to the fundament, and lying there two
or three hours, easeth the pains of the piles ; thejuice also
being made up into an ointment, is effectual for the same
purpose. The head washed with a decoction thereof, it
taketh away scabs, and may be effectual for other parts
of the body also.
Nettles. cT. (h. d. 2.)
Nettles are so well known, that they need no de
scription ; they may be found by feeling, in the daikest
night.
Government and Virtues.^ This is' also an herb Mars
claims dominion over. You know Mars is hot and dry,
and you know as well that Winter is cold and moist ;
then you may know as well the reason why Nettle-tops
eaten in the Spring consumcth the phlegmatic superfluities
in the body of man, that the coldness and moistness of
Winter hath left behind. The roots or leaves boiled, or
the juice of either of them, or both [made into an elec
tuary with honey and sugar, is a safe and sure medicine
to open the pipes and passages of the lungs, which is
the cause of wheezing and shortness of breath, and help-
eth to expectorate tough phlegm, as also to raise the im-
posthumed pleurisy, and spend it by spitting ; the same
helpeth the swelling of the almonds in the throat, the
mouth and throat being gargled therewith. The juice
is also effectual to settle the palate of the mouth, in its
place, and heal and temper the inflammations and sore
ness of the mouth and throat. The decoction of the
leaves in wine, being drank, is singular good to provoke
women's courses, and setttle the suffocation, strangling
of the mother and all other diseases thereof ; as also ap
plied outwardly, with a little myrrh. The same also, of
the seed, provoketh urine and expelleth the gravel and
stone in the reins or bladder, often proved to be effectual
in many that have taken it. The same killeth the worms
in children, easeth pains in the sides and dissolvcth the
windiness in the spleen, as also the body, although others
think it only powerful to provoke venery. The juice of
the leaves taken two or three days together, stayeth bleed-
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 225
ing at the month. The seed drank, is a remedy against
the stinging of venomous creatures, the biting of mad
dogs, the poisonous qualities of hemlock, henbane,
nightshade, mandrake, or such like herbs that stupify or
dull the senses ; as also the lethargy, especially to use it
outwardly, to rub the forehead or temples in the lethargy,
and the places stung or bitten with beasts, with a little
satl. The distilled water of the herb is also effectual
(though not so powerful) for the diseases aforesaid ;
as for outward wounds and sores to wash them, and
cleanse the skin from morphew, leprosy and other dis-
colourings thereof. The seed or leaves bruised and put
into the nostrils, stayeth the bleeding of them, and
taketh away the flesh growing in them called polypus.
The juice of the leaves, or the decoction of them, or the
roots, is singular good to wash either old, rotten, or
stinking sores or fistulas and gangrenes, and such as fret-
ting, eating, or corroding scabs, manginess and itch in
any part ot the body, as also green wounds, by washing
them therewith, or applying the green herb bruised
thereunto, yea, although the flesh were separated from
the bones; the same applied to our wearied members
refresh them, or to place those that have been out ofjoint,
being first set up again, strengtheneth, drieth and com.
forteth them, as also those places troubled with achs and
gouts, and the defluction of humours upon the joints or
sinews ; it eascth the pains, and drieth or dissolveth the
detluxions. An ointment made of the juice, oil, and a
little wax, is singular good to rub cold and benumbed
members. A handful of the leaves of green Nettles
and another of Wallwort, or Deanwort, bruised and
applied, simply themselves to the gout, sciatica, or joint
achs in any part, hath been found to be an admirable help
thereunto.
Nightshade. . (c. d. 4:.)
Common Nightshade is a different plant from that
poisonous one called Deadly Nightshade.
Descript.'] It hath an upright round, green hollow-
Stalk, about a loot or half a yard high, bushing forth ia
5
226 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
many branches, whereon grow many green leaves, some-
what broad, and pointed at the ends, soft and full of
juice like unto Bazil, but longer and a little unevenly
dented about the edges ; at the tops of the stalks and
branches come forth three or four more white flowers,
made of fire small pointed leaves a-piece, standing on a
stalk together one above another, with yellow pointels in
the middle, composed of four or fire yellow threads set
together, which afterwards run into so many pendulous
green berries, of the bigness of small peas, full of green
juice, and small, whitish, round, flat seed lying within it.
The root is white, and a little woody when it hath given
flower and fruit, with many small fibres at it : the whole
plant is of a waterish insipid taste, but the juice within the
berries is somewhat viscous, and of a cooling and binding
quality.
Place."] It groweth wild with us under our walls, in
rubbish, the common paths, and sides of edges and fields,
also in our gardens here in England, without planting.
Time.] It lieth down every year, and riseth again of its
own sowing, but springeth not until the latter end of April
at the soonest.
Government and Virtues.] It is a cold Saturnine plant.
The common Nightshade is wholly used to cool hot in
flammations outwardly, being dangerous to those that use
it, as most of the rest of the Nightshades are ; it mnst be
used moderately. The juice also clarified and taken,
being mingled with a little vineg.ir, is good to wash the
mouth and throat that is inflamed; but outwardly, the
juice of the herbs or berries, with oil of roses and a little
vinegar and ceruse laboured together in a leaden mortar,
is very good to anoint all inflammations in the eyes. It
also doth much good for the shingles, ringworms, and in
all running, fretting and corroding ulcers, applied there*
unto. A pessary dipped in the juice, and dropped into
the matrix, stayeth the immoderate flux of women's courses ;
a cloth wet therein, and applied to the testicles or private
parts, upon swelling therein, giveth much case, also to the
gout that cometh of hot and sharp humours. The juice
dropped into the ears easeth pains thereof that arise of
beat or inflammations ; and Pliny saith, it is good for hot
swellings uuder the throat, Jlavc a care you mistake not
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLAR&EP. 227
the Deadly Nightshade for this ; if you know it not, you
may let them both alone and take no harm, having other
medicines sufficient in the book.
ThoOak. 1/. (c. 1. d.3)
It is so well known (the timber thereof being the glory
and safety of this nation by sea) that it needeth no
description.
Government and Virtues.'] Jupiter owns the tree. The
leaves and bark of the Oak and acorn cups do bind and
dry very much. The inner bark of the tree, and the thin
skin that covereth the acorn, are much used to stay the
spitting of blood and the bloody-flux. The decoction of
that bark and the powder of the cups, do stay vomiting*,
spitting of blood, bleeding at the mouth, or other flax in
men or women ; lasks also, and the involuntary flux of
natural seed. The acorn in powder taken in wine, pro,
voketh urine and resisteth the poison ofvenomous creatures.
The deco&ion of acorns and bark made in milk, and taken,
resisteth the force of poisonous herbs and medicines, as
also the virulency of canlharides, when one by eating
them hath his bladder exulcerated, and voideth Wood.
Hippocrates saith, he used the fumes of Oak leaves to
women that were troubled with strangling of the mother ;
and Galen applied them being bruised, to cure wounds.
The distilled water of the Oaken buds, before they break
out into leaves, is good to be used either inwardly or
outwardly to assuage inflammations, and stop all mannet
of fluxes in man or woman. The same is singular good in
pestilential and hot burning fevers ; for it resisteth the
force of the infection, and allayeth the heat ; it cooletb.
the heat of the liver, brcaketh the stone in the kidnies
and stayeth women's courses. The decociion of the
leaves worketh the same effects. The water that is found
in the hollow places of old Oaks, is very effectual against
foul or spreading scabs. The distilled water (for concoc
tion, which is better) of the leaves, is one of the best re~
medics that I know of for the whites in women*
228 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Oats. (c. d. I.)
Are so well known that they need no description.
Government and Virtues.] Oats fried with bay salt,
and applied to the sides, take away the pains of stitches,
and wind in the sides of the belly. A poultice made of
meal of Oats and some oil of bays put thereunto, helpeth
the itch and leprosy, also the fistulas of the fundament,
and dissolveth hard imposthumes. The meal of Oats
boiled with vinegar and applied, taketh away freckles and
spots in the face, and other parts of the body.
One Blade. Q. (h. d. I.)
This small plant is so called because it never bcareth more
than one leaf, only where it riseth up with his stalk,
which thereon beareth another.
Descript.] The leaf is a bluish green colour, pointed
with many ribs or veins therein, like plantain. At the
top of the stalk grow many small white flowers, star-
fashion, smelling somewhat sweet ; after which come small
red berries, when they are ripe. The root is small, of
the bigness of a rush, lying and creeping under the upper
crust of the earth, shooting forth in divers places.
Place."] It groweth in moist, shadowy and grassy
places of woods, in many places of this land.
Time.'] It flowercth about May, and the berries aro
ripe in Juno, and then quickly perisheth, until the next
year it springeth from the same root again.
Government and Virtues."] It is a precious herb of the
Sun.- Half a dram, or a dram at most, in powder of the
roots hereof taken in wine and vinegar, of each equal
parts, and the party laid presently to sweat thereupon,
is held to be a sovereign remedy for those that are infecled
with the plague, and have a sore upon them, by expelling
the poison and infection, and defending the heart and
spirits from danger. It is a singular good wound herb,
and is thereupon used with other the like effects in many
compound balms for curing of wounds, be they fresh and
green, or old and malignant, and especially if the sinews
be burnt.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 229
Orchis. ? . (h. d. 1J
It hath gotten almost as many several names attributed to
the several sorts of it, as would almost fill asheet of paper;
as dog-stones, goat-stones, fool-stones, fox-stones, satiri-
Con, cullians, together with many others too tedious to
rehearse.
Descript."] To describe all the several sorts of it were an
endless piece of work ; therefore I shall only describe the
roots, because they are to be used with some discretion.
They have each of them a double root within, some of
them are round, in others like a hand ; these alter every
year by course, when the one riseth and waxeth full, the
other waxeth lank and perisheth ; now, it is that which is
full which is to be used in medicines, the other being
either of no use, or else according to the humour oOome
it destroys and disannuls the virtue of the other quite un
doing what that doth.
Time.] One or other of them may be found in flower,
from the beginning of April to the latter end of August.
Government and Virtues.'] They are hot and moist in
operation, under the dominion of Dame Venus, and pro
voke lust exceedingly, which they say, the dried and
withered roots do restrain. They are held to kill worms
in children ; as also, being bruised and applied to the
place, to heal the king's evil.
Onions, c?. (h. d. 4.)
They are sowell known, that I need not spend time about
writing a description of them.
Government and Virtues.] Mars owns them and they
have this quality, to draw any corruption to them, for if
you peel one, and lay it upon a dunghill, you shall find
him rotten in half a day, by drawing putrefaction to it;
then being bruised and applied to a plague sore, it is very .
probable it will do the like. Onions are flatulent, or
windy, yet they do somewhat provoke appetite, increase
thirst, ease the belly and bowels, provoke women's cour
ses, help the biting of a mad dog, and of other veno-
tnous creatures, to be used with honey aud rue, increase
230 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
sperm, especially the seed of them. They also kill worms
in children if they drink the water fasting wherein they
have been steeped all night. Being roasted under the em
bers and eaten with honey, or sugar and oil, they much
conduce to help an inveterate cough, and expectorate
the tough phlegm. The juice being snuffed up in the nos
trils, purgeth the head, and hclpeth the lethargy; yet
the often eating them is said to procure pains in the head.
It hath been held by divers country people a great pre
servative against infection, to eat Onions fasting with
bread and salt ; as also to make a great Onion hollow,
filling it with good treacle, and afterwards to roast it well
under the embers, which, after taking away the outer
most skin thereof, being beaten together, is a sovereign
salve for either plague or sores, or E.ny other putrified ul
cer. The juice of Onions is good for cither scalding or
burning by lire, water, or gunpowder, and used with vi
negar, taketh away all blemishes, spots and marks in the
skin ; and dropped into the ears, cascth the pains and
noise of them. Applied with figs beaten together, help-
eth to ripen and break imposthumes and other sores.
Leeks are as like them in quality, as the pome-water
is like an apple; they are a remedy against a surfeit of
mushrooms, being baked under the embers and taken;
and being boiled and applied very warm, helps the piles.
In other things they have the same property as the onions,
although not so effectual.
Orpine. 5. (c. d. 2.)
This groweth to greater perfection by cultivation than it
is in its wild state.
Descript.] Common Orpine riscth up with divers round
brittle stalks, thick set with flat and fleshy leaves, with
out any order, and little or nothing dented about the ed
ges, of a green colour. The flowers are white, or whit
ish, growing in tufts, after which come small chaffy husks,
with seeds like dust in them. The roots are divers ibick,
round, white, tuberous clogs; and the plant groweth not
so big in some places as in others where it is found.
Place.] It is frequent in almost every county in this
laud; audit is cherished iu gardens with us, where it
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 231
groweth greater than that which is wild, and growelh in
shadowy sides of fields and woods.
Time."] Itfiowereth about July, and the seed is ripe in
August.
Government and Virtues.] The Moon owns the herb,
and he that knows but her exaltation, knows what I say
is true. Orpine is seldom used in inward medicines with
us, although Tragus saith from experience in Germany,
that the distilled water thereof is profitable for gnawings
or excoriations in the stomach or bowels, or for ulcers in
the lungs, liver, or other inward parts, as also in the ma
trix, and helpeth all those diseases, being drank for cer
tain days together. It stayeth the sharpness of humours
in the bloody flux, and other fluxes in the body or in
wounds. The root thereof also performeth the like ef
fect. It is used outwardly to cool heat or inflammation
upon any hurt or wound, and easeth the pains of them ;
as also to heal scahlings and burnings, the juice thereof
being beaten with some green sallad oil and anointed.
The leaf bruised and laid to any green wound in the
hands or legs, doth heal them quickly ; and being bound
to the throat, much helpeth the quinsy; it helpeth also
ruptures and burstenness. Ifyou please to make the juice
thereof into a syrup with honey or sugar, you may safely
take a spoonful or two at a time, for a quinsy, and you
shall find the medicine pleasant, and the cure speedy.
Parsley. (A. 3. d. 2.)
This is so well known that it needs no description.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the dominion
of Mercury ; is very comfortable to the stomach; helpeth
to provoke urine and women's courses, to break wind,
both in the stomach and bowels, and doth a little open
the body, but the root much more. It openeth obstruc
tions both of liver and spleen, and is therefore accounted
one of the five opening roots. Galen commended it
against the falling sickness, and to provoke urine mightily,
especially if the roots be boiled and eaten like parsnips.
The seed is effectual to provoke urine and women's cour
ses, to expel wind, to break the stone, and ease the pains
and torments thereofj it is also effectual against the
232 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
venom of any poisonous creature, and the danger that
cometh to them that have the lethargy, ana is good
against the cough. The distilled water of Parsley is a fa-
miliar medicine with nurses to give their children when
they are troubled with wind in the stomach or belly,
which they call the frets ; and is much available to them
that are of great years. The leaves of Parsley laid to
the eyes that are inflamed with heat, or swollen, doth
much help them, if it be used with bread and meal ; and
being fried wjth butter, and applied to women's breasts
that are hard through the curdling of their milk, it abat.
cth the hardness quickly, and also taketh away black and
blue marks coming of bruises or falls. The juice thereof
dropped in the ears with a little wine, easeth the pains.
Tragus setteth down an excellent medicine to help the
jaundice and falling sickness, the dropsy, and stone in
the kidnies, in this manner ; take of the seed of Parsley,
Fennel, Annise, and Carraways, of each an ounce; of
the roots of Parsley, Burnet, Saxifrage and Carraways,
ofeach an ounce and a half; let the seeds be bruised, and
the roots washed and cut small ; let them lie all night in
steep in a bottle of white wine, and in the morning be
boiled in a close earthen vessel, until a third part or more
be wasted ; which being strained and cleared, take four
ounces thereof, morning and evening, first and last, ab
staining from drink after it for three hours. This openeth
obstructions of the liver and spleen, and expellcth the
dropsy or jaundice by urine.
Parsley Piert. ? . (h. d. 2.)
Tins is also called Parsley Break-stone, from its efficacy
in dissolving the stone in the bladder.
Descript.] The root,, although it be very small and
thready, yet it continues many years, from whence arise
many leaves lying along on the ground, each standing
upon a long small foot-stalk, the leaves as broad as a
man's nail, very deeply dented on the edges, somewhat
like a parsley leaf, but of a very dusky green colour.
The stalks are very weak and slender, about three or
four fingers in length, set so full of leaves that they can
hardly be seen, either haying no foot-stalk at all, or but
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 233
very short; the flowers arc so small they can hardly be
seen, and the seed as small as small as may be.
JPlace.y It .is a common herb throughout the nation,
and rejoiccth in barren, sandy, moist places. It may be
found plentifully about' Hampstead-Heath Hyde-Park,
and in Tothill-fields.
Time It may be found all the Summer-time, even from
the beginning of April to the end of Odlober.
Government and VirtuesJ] Its operation is very preva- »
lent to provoke urine, and to break the stone. It is a
very good sallad herb. It were good the gentry would
pickle it up as they pickle up samphire for their use all the
Winter. I cannot teach them how to do it ; yet this I
can tell them, it is a very wholesome herb. They may
also keep the herb dry, or in a syrup, if they please.
You may take a dram of the powder of it in white wine ;
it would bring away gravel from the kidnies insensibly,
and without pain. It also helps the stranguary.
Parsnip. ? . (h. d. 1.)
Tire garden kind thereo is so well known (the root being
commonly eaten) that I shall not trouble you with any
description of it. But the wild being of more physical
use, I shall in this place deseribe it unto you.
" Descript."} The wild Parsnip differeth little from the
garden, but groweth not so fair and large, nor hath so
many leaves and the root is shorter, more woody, and
not so fit to be eaten, and therefore more medicinal.
Place.] The name of the first sheweth the place of its
growth. The other groweth wild in divers places, as in
the marshes by Rochester, and elsewhere, and flowereth
in July ; the seed being ripe about the beginning of Au.
gust, the second year after the sowing; for if they do not
flower the first year, the country people call them Mad.
neps.
Government and Firlues.] The garden Parsnips arc
under Venus; it nourisheth much, and is good and
wholesome, but a little windy, whereby it is thought to
procure bodily lust ; but it fatteneth the body much if
much used. It is conducible to the stomach and reins
and provoketh urine. The wild Parsnip hath a cutting*
234 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
attenuating, cleansing and opening quality therein. It re.
sisteth and helpeth the bitings of serpents, easeth the pains
and stitches in the sides, and dissolveth wind, both in the
stomach and bowels, which is the colic, and provoketh
urine. The root is often used, but the seed much more.
The wild being better than the tame, shews Dame Na
ture to be the best physician.
Cow Parsnip. $?• (h. d. l.J
This is a very different plant from the former.
Descript."\ This groweth with three or four large-
spread-winged, rough leaves, lying often on the ground,
or else raised a little from it, with long, round hairy foot
stalks under them, parted usually into five divisions, the
two couple standing each against the other ; and one at
the end, and each being almost round, yet somewhat
deeply cut in on the edges in some leaves, and not so
deep in others, of a whitish green colour, smelling some
what strongly ; among which riseth up a round crusted,
hairy staik, two or three feel high, with a few joints
and leaves thereon, and branched at the top, where stand
large umbels of white, and sometimes reddish flowers, and
after them flat, whitish, thin, winged seed, two always
joined together. The root is long and white, with two
or three long strings growing down into the ground, smell
ing likewise strongly and unpleasant.
Place.] It groweth in moist meadows, the borders and
corners of fields, and near ditches, through this land.
Time.] It flowereth in July, and seedeth in August.
Governmentand Virtues.^ Mercury hath the dominion
over them. The seed thereof, as Galen saith, is of a
sharp and cutting quality, and therefore is a fit mediciuc
for a cough and shortness of breath, the falling-sickness
and jaundice. The root is available to all the purposes
aforesaid, and is also of great use to take away the hard
skin that groweth on a fistula, if it be but scraped upon
it. The seed hereof being drank, eleanseth the belly
from tough phlegmatic water therein, easeth them that
are liver-grown, women's passions of the mother, as well
being drank as the smoke thereof received underneath,
and likewise riseth such as are fallen into a deep sleep,
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 235
or have the lethargy, by burning it under their nose.
The seed and root boiled in oil, and the head rubbed
therewith, helpeth not only those that are fallen into a
frenzy, but also the lethargy or drowsy evil, and those
that have been long troubled with the head ach, if it be
likewise used with rue. It helpeth also the running scab
and the shingles. The juice of the flowers dropped into
the ears that run and are full of matter, cleanseth and
hcaleth them.
The Peach-Tree. ?. (c.m. 2.)
They are nursed in gardens and orchards through this
land, and need no description.
Government and Virtues.] Lady Venus owns this tree,
and by it opposeth the ill effects of Mars ; and indeed for
children and young people, nothing is better to purge
choler and the jaundice, than the leaves or flowers of
this tree, being made into a syrup or conserve; let such
as delight to please their lust regard the fruit; but such as
hare lost their health, and their childrens, let them re
gard what I say, they may safely give two spoonfuls of
the syrup at a time ; it is as gentle as Venus herself.
The leaves of peaches bruised and laid on the belly, kill
-worms ; and so they do also being boiled in ale and drank,
open the belly likewise ; and being dried is a safer medi
cine to discuss humours. The powder of them strewed
upon fresh bleeding wounds stayeth their bleeding, and
closeth them up. The flowers steeped all night in a little
wine standing warm, strained forth in the morning, and
drank fasting, doth gently open the belly, and move it
downward. A syrup made of them, as the syrup of roses
is made, worketh more forcibly than that of roses, for it
provoketh vomiting, and spendeth waterish and hydropic
humours by the continuance thereof. The flowers made
into a conserve, worketh the same effect. The liquor
that droppeth from the tree, being wounded, is given iiv
the decoclion of Coltsfoot, to those that are troubled,
with the cough or shortness of breath, by adding there
unto some sweet wine, and putting saffron also therein.
It is good for those that are hoarse, or hive lost theic
S36 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
voice ; helpeth all defects of the lungs, and those that vo
mit and spit blood. Two drams hereof given in the juice
of lemons, or of radish, is good for them that are troubled
with the stone. The kernels of the stones do wonderfully
ease the pains and wringings of the belly, through wind,
or sharp humours, and help to make an excellent medi
cine for the stone upon all occasions, in this manner :
Ilakefifty kernels of peach-stones, and one hundred of
the kernels of cherry stones, a handful of elder Jloioers
fresh or dried, and three pints of muscadel ; set them in
a close pot into a bed of horse dung for ten days, after
which distil in a glass, with a gentle fire, and keep it for
your use: You may drink upon occasion three or four
ounces at a time. The milk or cream of these kernels being
drawn forth with some vervain water, and applied to the
forehead and temples, doth much help to procure rest and
sleep to sick persons wanting it. The oil drawn from the
kernels, the temples being therewith anointed, doth the
like. The said oil put into clysters, easeth the pains in
the wind-cholic ; and anointed on the lower part of the
belly doth the like, and dropped into the ears easeth
pains in them ; the juice of the leaves doth the like*
Being also anointed on the forehead and temples, it help
eth the megrim, and all other parts in the head. If the
kernels be bruised and applied to the head, it marvellous
ly procures the hair to grow again upon bald places, or
where it is too thin.
The Pear-Tree. $ . (temp. m. 1.)
PEAR-Trees are so well known, that they need no de
scription.
Government and Virtues.'] The tree belongs to Venus,
and so doth the apple-tree. For their physical use they
are best discerned by their taste. All the sweet and lusci
ous sorts, whether manured or wild, do help to move the
belly downwards, more or less. Those that are hard
and sour, do, on the contrary, bind the belly as much,
and the leaves do so also : those that are moist do in some
sort cool, but harsh or wild sorts much more, and are
very good in repelling medicines; and if the wild sort be
boiled with mushrooms, it makes them less dangerous.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 237
The said Pears boiled with a little honey, helps much the
oppressed stomach, as all sorts of them do, some more
some less ; but the harsher sorts do more cool and bind
serving well to be bound in green wounds, to cool and
stay the blood, and heal up the wound without farther
trouble, or inflammation, as Galen saith he found it by
experience. The wild Pears do sooner close up the lips
of green wounds than others.
Schola Salerni adviseth to drink much wine after Pears,
or else (say they) they are as bad as poison ; nay, and
they curse the tree for it too ; but if a poor man find his
stomach oppressed by eating Pears, it is but working
hard, and it will do as well as drinking wine.
Pellitory of Spain. (h. d. 3.)
Common Pellitory of Spain, if it be planted in our gar.
dens, it will prosper very well ; yet there is one sort
growing ordinarily here wild, which I esteem to be little
inferior to the other, if at all. 1 shall not deny you the
description of them both.
Descript.) Common Pellitory is a very common plant,
and will not be kept in our gardens without diligent look
ing to. The root goes down right into the ground, bear-
ing leaves, being long and finely cut upon the stalk, ly
ing on the ground, much larger than the leaves of the ca
momile are. At the top it bears one single large Uower
at a place, having a border of many leaves, white on the
upper side, and reddish underneath, with a yellow
thrum in the middle, not standing so close as that of ea
rn omile doth.
The other common Pellitory which groweth there, hath
a root of a biting taste, scarce discernible by the taste
from that before described, from whence arise divers
brittle stalks, a yard high and more, with narrow long
leaves finely dented about the edges, standing one above
another up to the tops. The flowers are many and white
standing in tufts like those of yarrow, with a small,
yellowish thrum in the middle. The seed is very
small.
Place. J The last groweth in fields, in the hedges sides
and paths, almost every where.
2
238 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
I
Time.] It flowereth the latter end of June and July.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the government
of Mercury, and I am persuaded it is one of the best
purgers of the brain that grows. An ounce of the juice
taken in a draught of muscadel an hour before the fit of
the ague comes, it will assuredly drive away the ague at
the second or third time takin g at the farthest. Either
the herb or root dried and chewed in the month, purgeth
the brain of phlegmatic humours; thereby not only
easing pains in the head and teeth, but also hindereth
the distilling of the brain upon the lungs and eyes,
thereby preventing coughs, phthisies and consumptions,
the apoplexy and falling sickness. It is an excellent ap.
proved remedy in the lethargy. The powder of the herb
or root being snuffed up the nostrils, procureth sneezing,
and caseth the head-ach ; being made into an ointment
with hog's grease, it takes away black and blue spots
occasioned by blows or falls, and helps both the gout and
sciatica.
Pellitory of the Wall. $. (h. d. 2J
This plant is generally known where there are any old
walls or ancient ruins.
Descript.] It riseth with brownish, red, tender, weak,
clear, and almost transparent stalks, about two feet high,
upon which grow at the joints two leaves somewhat broad
and long, of a dark green colour, which afterwards turn
brownish, smooth on the edges, but rough and hairy, as
the stalks are also. At the joints with the leaves from the
middle of the stalk upwards, where it spreadeth into
branches, stand many small, pale, purplish flowers, in
hairy rough heads, or husks, after which come small,
black, rough seed, which will stick to any doth or gar.
ment that shall touch it. The root is somewhat long, with
small fibres thereat, of a dark reddish colour, which
abideth the Winter, although the stalks' and leaves perish
and spring every year.
Place.] It groweth wild generally through the land,
about the borders of fields, and by the sides of walls, and
among rubbish. It will endure well being brought up in
gardens, and planted on the shady side, where it will spring
of its ovtn sowing.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 239
Time.'] It flowercth in June and July, and the seed Is
ripe soon after.
Government and Virtues."] It is under the dominion of
Mercury. The dried herb Pellitory made up into an
electuary with honey, or the juice of the herb, or the
decoction thereof made up with sugar or honey, is a sin
gular remedy for an old or dry cough, the shortness of
breath, and wheezing in the throat. Three ounces of
the juice thereof taken at a time, doth wonderfully help
stopping of the urine, and to expel the stone or gravel
in the kidnies or bladder, and is therefore usually put
among other herbs used in clysters to mitigate pains in
the back, sides, or bowels, proceeding of wind, stopping
of urine, the gravel or stone, as aforesaid. If the bruised
herb, sprinkled with some muscadel, be warmed upon
a tile, or in a dish upon a few quick coals in a chafing-
dish, and applied to the belly, it worketh the same effect.
The decoction of the herb being drank, easeth pains of the
mother, and bringeth down women's courses : it also
easeth those griefs that arise from obstructions of the liver,
spleen and reins. The same decoction with a little honey
added thereto, is good to gargle a sore throat. The juice
held awhile in the mouth, easeth pains in the teeth. The
distilled water of the herb drank with some sugar, worketh
the same effects, and cleanseth the skin from spots, freckles,
purples, wheals, sun-burn, morphew, &c. The juice
dropped into the ears, easeth the noise in them, and taketh
away the pricking and shooting pains therein : the same,
or the distilled water, assuageth hot and swelling impos-
thumes, burnings, and scaldings by fire or water ; as also
all other hot tumours and inflammations, or breakings out
of heat, being bathed often with wet cloths dipped there
in ; the said juice made into a liniment with ceruse, and
oil of roses, and anointed therewith, cleanseth foul rotten
ulcers, and stayeth spreading or creeping ulcers, and
running scabs or sores in childrens heads ; and helpeth to
6tay the hair from falling off the head. The said ointment,
or the herb applied to the fundament, openeth the piles,
and easeth their pains ; and being mixed with goats tal
low, helpeth the gout : the juice is very effectual to
cleanse fistulas, and to heal them up safely ; or the herb
itself bruised and applied with a little salt. It is like*
240 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
wise also effectual to heal any green wound ; if it be
bruised and bound thereto for three days, you shall need
no other medicine to heal it further. A poultice made
hereof with mallows, and boiled in wine and wheat bran
and bean flour, and some oil put thereto, and applied
warm to any bruised sinews, tendon, or muscle, doth
in a very short time restore them to their strength,
taking away the pains of the bruises, and dissolveth the
congealed blood coming of blows, or fall from high
places.
The juice of Pellitory of the Wall clarified and boiled
in a syrup with honey, and a spoonful of it drank every
morning by such as are subject to the dropsy; if con.
tinning that course, though but once a week, if ever
they have the dropsy, let them come but to me, and I
will cure them gratis.
Pennyroyal. ? . (h. d. 3.)
Pennyroyal is so well known .unto all, I mean the com
mon kind, that it needeth no description.
There is a greater kind than the ordinary sort found
wild with us, which so abideth being brought in gar
dens, and differeth not from it, but only in the largeness
of the leaves and stalks, in rising higher, and not creep
ing upon the ground so much. The flowers whereof
are purple, growing in mndles about the stalks like the
other.
Place.'] The first, which is common in gardens, grow-
eth also in many moist and watery places of this land.
The second is found wild in divers places by the
highways from London to Colchester, and thereabouts,
more abundantly than in any other countries, and is
also planted in their gardens in Essex.
Time.] They flower in the latter end of Summer, about
August.
Government and Virtues.] The herb is under Venus.
Dioscorides saith, that Pennyroyal maketh thin tough
phlegm, warmeth the coldness of any part whereto it is
applied, and digesteth raw or corrupt matter j being
boiled and drank, it provoketh women's courses, and
expelleth the dead child and after-birth, and stayeth the
THE ENGLISH PHYSIcIAN ENLARGED. 241
disposition to vomit being taken in water and vinegar
mingled together. And being mingled with honey and
salt, it voideth phlegm out of the lungs, and purgeth
melancholy by the stool. Drank with wine, it helpeth
such as are bitten and stung with venomous beasts, and
applied to the nostrils with vinegar, reviveth those that
are fainting and swooning. Being dried and burnt, it
strengtheneth the gums. It is helpful to those that are
troubled with the gout, being applied of itself to the
place until it was red; and applied in a plaister, it takes
away spots or marks in the face; applied with salt, it
profiteth those that are splenetic, or liver-grown. The
decočtion doth help the itch, if washed therewith ; being
put into baths for women to sit therein, it helpeth the
swellings and hardness of the mother. The green herb
bruised and put into vinegar, cleanseth foul ulcers, and
taketh away the marks or bruises and blows about the
eyes, and all discolourings of the face by fire, yea, and
the leprosy, being drank and outwardly applied. Boiled
in wine with honey and , salt, it helpeth the tooth-ach.
It helpeth the cold griefs of the joints, taking away the
pains, and warmeth the cold part, being fast bound to
the place, after a bathing or sweating in a hot house.
Pliny addeth, that Pennyroyal and mints together, help
faintings, being put into vinegar, and smelled unto, or
put into the nostrils or mouth. It caseth head-achs,
pains of the breast and belly, and gnawing of the sto
mach; applied with honey, salt, and vinegar, it helpeth
cramps or convulsions of the sinews. Boiled in milk
and drank, it is effećtual for the cough, and for ulcers
and sores in the mouth ; drank in wine it provoketh
women’s courses, and expelleth the dead child and after
birth. . Matthiolus saith, the decoction thereof being
drank helpeth the jaundice and dropsy, all pains of the
head and sinews that come of a cold cause, and cleareth
the eye-sight. It helpeth the lethargy, and applied with
barley-meal, helpeth burnings, and put into the ears
caseth the pains of them,
242 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Peony. © in {h. d. 2.)
Tins plant is distinguished, by the names of Male and
Female.
Descript.] Male Peony riseth up wilh brownish stalks,
whereon grow green and reddish leaves, upon a stalk,
-without any particular division in the leaf at all. The
flowers stand at the top of the stalks, consisting of five or
six broad leaves, of a fair purplish red colour, with many
yellow threads in the middle standing about the head,
which after riseth up to be the seed vessels, divided into
two, three, or four crooked pods like horns, which being
full ripe, open and turn themselves down backward,
shewing within them divers round, black, shining seeds,
having also many crimson grains, intermixed with black,
whereby it maketh a very pretty shew. The roots are
great, thick, and long, spreading and running down deep
in the ground.
The ordinary Female Peony hath as many stalks, and
more leaves on them than the male ; the leaves not so
large, but nicked on the edges, some with great and deep,
others with smaller cuts and divisions, of a dead green
colour. The flowers are of a strong heady scent, usually
smaller, and of a more purple colour than the Male, with
yellow thrumbs about the head, as the Male hath. The
seed vessels are like horns, as in the Male, but smaller,
the seed is black, but less shining. The roots consist of
many short tuberous clogs, fastened at the end of long
strings, and all from the heads of the roots, which are thick,
and shorr, and of the like scent with the male.
Place and Time.'] They grow in gardens, and flower
usually about May.
Government and Virtues.-} It is an herb of the Sun, and
under the Lion. Physicians say, Male Peony roots are
best; but Dr. Reason told me Male Peony was best for
men, and Female Peony for women, and he desires to be
judged by his brother Dr. Experience. The roots arc
held to be of more virtue than the seed; next the flowers,
and last of all, the leaves. The root of the Male Peony,
fresh gathered, having been found by experience to cure
the falling sickness; but the surest way is, besides hanging
it about the neck, by which children have been cured, to
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 243
take the root of the Male Peony washed clean, and
stamped somewhat small, and laid to infuse in sack for
24 hours at the least, afterwards strain it, and take it
first and last morning and evening, a good draught for
sundry days together, before and after a full moon ; and
this will also cure older persons, if the disease be not
grown too old, and past cure, especially if there be a due.
and orderly preparation of the body with posset drink'
made of betony, &c. The root is also effectual for women,
that are not sufficiently cleansed after child-birth, and'
such as are troubled with the mother; for which likewise
the black seed beaten to powder, and given in wine, is
also available. The black seed also taken before bed
time, and in the morning, is very effectual for such as in
their sleep are troubled with the disease called Ephialte,
or Incubus, but we do commonly call it the Night-mare;
a disease which melancholy persons are subject unto ;
it is also good against melancholy dreams. The distilled
water or syrup made of the (lowers, warketh the same
effects that the root and the seed do, although more
weakly. The Female is often used for the purposes'
aforesaid, by reason the male is so scarce a plant, that
it is possessed by few, and those great lovers of rarities in
this kind.
Pepperwort, or Dittander. (h. 4. d. 3.)
This derives its name of Pepperwort from the biting taste
of its leaves and root.
Descript.'] Our common Pepperwort sendeth forth
somewhat long and broad leaves, of a light bluish greenish
colour, finely dented about the edges, and pointed at the.
ends, standing upon round hard stalks, three or four feet'
Jiigh, spreading many branches «n all sides, and having
many small white flowers at the tops of .them, after which
follow small seeds in small heads. The root is slender,
running much under ground, and shooting up again in
many places, and both, reaves and roots are very hot
and sharp of taste, like pepper, for which cause it took
the name.
m2 ,
244 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Place."] It groweth naturally in many places of this
land, as at Clare in Essex ; also near unto Exeter in
Devonshire; upon Rochester Common in Kent; in
Lancashire, and divers other places ; but usually kept
in gardens.
Time.'] It flowercth in the end of June, and in July.
Government and Virtues.] Here is another martial
herb for you, make much of it. Pliny and Paulas
iEgineta say, that Pepperwort is very successful for the
sciatica, or any other gout or pain in the joints, or any
other inveterate grief : the leaves hereof to be bruised,
and mixed with old hog's grease, and applied to the
place, and to continue thereon four hours in men, and
two hours in women, the place being alterwards bathed
with wine and oil mixed together, and then wrapt up with
wool or skins, after they have sweat a little. It also
amendeth the deformities or discolourings of the skin,
and helpeth to take away marks, scars, and scabs, or the
foul marks of burning with fire or iron. The juice hereof
is by some used to be given in ale to drink to women with
child, to procure them a speedy deliverance in travail.
Periwinkle. $. (h. 2. d. I.)
Of this there are two kinds, the Garden and the Common.
Descript.] The common sort hereof hath many branches
trailing or running upon the ground, shooting out small
fibres at the joints as it runneth, taking thereby hold in the
ground, and rootcth in divers places. At the joints of
these branches stand two small dark green shining leaves,
somewhat like bay leaves but smaller, and with them come
forth alfo the flowers, (one at a joint) standing upon a
tender foot-stalk, being somewhat long and hollow,
parted at the brims, sometimes into four, sometimes into
five leaves : the most ordinary sorts are of a pale blue
colour : some are pure white, and some of a dark reddish
purple colour. The root is little bigger than a rush,
bushing in the ground and creeping with his branches far
about, whereby it quickly possesseth a great compass,
and is most usually planted under hedges where it may
have room to run.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 245
Place.-] Those with the pale blue, and those -with the
white flowers, grow in woods and orchards, by the hedge-
sides, in divers places of this land ; but those with the
purple flower in gardens only.
IVme.] They flower in March and April.
Government and Virtues.'] Venus owns this herb, and
saith^ that the leaves eaten by man and wife together,
cause love between them. The Periwinkle is a great
binder, staycth bleeding at the mouth and nose, if some
of the leaves be chewed. The French use it to stay
women's courses. Dioscorides, Galen aud iEgineta,
commended it against the lasks and fluxes of the belly to
be drank in wine.
St. Peter's Wort. O in fl. (h. d. gj
If Superstition had not been the father of Tradition, as
well as ignorance the mother of Devotion, this herb,
(as well as St. John's Wort) had found some other name
to be known by ; but we may say of our forefathers, as
St. Paul of the Athenians, 1 perceive in many things you
ure too superstitious. Yet seeing it is come to pass, that
custom having got into possession, pleads prescription for
the name, I shall let it pass, and come to the description of
the herb, which take as followeth.
Descript.] It riseth up with square upright stalks for
the most part, some greater and higher than St. John's
Wort (and good reason too, St. Peter being the greater
Apostle", ask the Pope else ; for though God would have
the saints equal, the Pope is of another opinion) but
brown in the same manner, having two leaves at every
joint; somewhat like, larger than St. John's Wort, a little
rounder pointed, with a few or no holes to be seen
thereon, and having some smaller leaves rising from the
bosom of the greater, and sometimes a little hairy also.
At the tops of two stalks stand many star-like flowers,
.with yellow threads in the middle, very like those of^St.
John's Wort, insomuch that this is hardly discerned frou,
it, but only by the largeness and height, the seed b"11?
alike also in both. The root abideth long, seudi» *°rtl»
uew shoots every year.
»
m 3
S46 THE ENGLISH PHVSICIAN ENLARGED.
Place."] It groweth in many groves, and small low
woods, in divers places of this land, as in Kent, Hunting
don, Cambridge and Northamptonshire} as also near
watercourses in other places.
Time.] It flowereth in June and July, and the seed is
ripe in August.
Government and Virtues."] There is not a straw to
choose between this ami St. John's Wort, only St. Peter
must hare it, lest he should want pot herbs; it is of the;
same property of St. John's Wort, but somewhat weak,
and therefore more seldom used. Two- drams of the seed
taken at a timq in honied water, purgeth choleric humours
(as saith Dioscorides, Pliny and Galen) and therefore
hclpeth those that are troubled with the sciatica. The
leaves are used as St. John's Wort, to help those places oS
the body that have been burnt with fire.
Pimpernel. Q. (h. d. 3.)
This is a pretty ornament to meadows and corn fields.
Descript.] Common Pimpernel hath divers weak square
stalks lying on the ground, beset all with two smalt
and almost round leaves at every joint, one against
another, very like chickweed, but hath no foot-stalks j
for the leaves, as it were, compass the stalk, the flowers
5tand singly each by themselves at them and the stalk,
consisting of five small round-pointed leaves, of a pale red
colour, tending to an orange, with so many threads in the
middle, in whose places succeed smooth round heads,
wherein is contained small seed. The root is small and
fibrous, perishing every year. - .
Place.] It groweth every where almost, as well in the
meadows and corn-fields, as by the way-sides and in gar-
Jens, arising of itself.
Time.] It flowereth from May nntil August, and the seed
Tipeneth in the mean time and falleth.
Government and Virtues.] It is a gallant solar herb, of
a cleansing attractive quality, whereby it draweth forth
*'orns or splinters, or other such like things gotten into)
*he ^h, and put up into the nostrils, purgeth the head ;
and *-*'a-.n saith also, they have a drying faculty, where-
by they ' £ood to solder the lips of wounds, and to
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 3247
cleanse foul ulcers. The distilled water or juice is much
esteemed by French dames to cleanse the skin from any
roughness, deformity, or discolouring thereof ; being
boiled in wine, and given to drink, it is a good remedy
against the plague, and other pestilential fevers, if the
party after taking it be warm in his bed, and sweat for
two hours after, and use the same for twice at least. It
jbelpcth also all stingings and bitings of venomous beasts,
or mad dogs, being used inwardly and applied outwardly.
The same also openeth obstructions of the liver, and is
very available against the infirmities of the reins ; it pro-
voketh urine and helpeth to expel the stone and gravel
out of the kidnies and bladder, and helpeth much in all
inward pains and ulcers. The decoction or distilled water
is no less effectual to be applied to all wounds that are
fresh and green, or old, filthy, fretting and running ulcers,
which it very effectually cureth in a short space. A little
mixed with the juice, and dropped into the eyes, cleanseth
them from cloudy mists, or thick films which grow over
them, and hinder the sight. It helpeth the tooth.ack,
being dropped into the ear on the contrary side of the pain ;
it is also effectual to ease the pains of the hemorrhoids or
piles. .
Ground Pine. <?. (h. 2. d. 3.)
This is also called Chamepitys,
DescripC] Our common Ground Pine groweth low,
seldom rising above a hand's breadth high, shooting fortk
divers small branches set with slender, small, long, nar
row, greyish or whitish leaves, somewhat hairy, divided
into three parts, many bushing together at a joint, some
growing scattering!^ upon the stalks, smelling somewhat
strong, like unto rosin ; the flowers arc small and of a,
pale yellow colour, growing from the joint of the stalk
all along among the leaves ; after which come small and
round husks. The root is small and woody, perishing
every year. 4
Place. J It groweth more plentifully in Kent than any
county of this land ; as namely, many places on this side
Hartford, along to Southfleet, Chatham, and Rochester*
/ m 4
248 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
and upon Chatham Down, hard by the Beacon, and half
a mile from Rochester, in a field nigh a house called
Selesys.
Time.] It flowereth and giverh seed in the Summer.
Government and Virtues.] Mars owns the herb. The
decoction of Ground Pine drank, doth wonderfully pre-
Tail against the stranguary, or any inward pains arising
from the diseases of the icins and urine, and is special
good for all obstructions of the liver and spleen, and
gently openeth the body; for which purpose they were
wont in former times to make pills with, the powder
thereof and the pulp of figs. It marvellously helpeth all
the diseases of the mother, [inwardly or outwardly ap
plied, procuring women's courses, and expelling the dead
child and after-birth ; yea, it is so powerful upon these
feminine parts, that it is utterly forbidden for women with
child, for it will cause abortion or delivery before' the
time. The decoction of the herb in wine taken inwardly,
or applied outwardly, or both, for some time together,
is also effectual in all pains and diseases of the joints, as
gouts, cramps, palsies, sciatica and achs ; for which pur
pose the pills made with powder of Ground Pine, and of
hermodactyls with Venice turpentine are effectual. -The
pills also continued lor some time, arc special good for
those that have the dropsy, jaundice, griping pains of the
joints, belly or inward parts. It helpeth also all diseases
of the brain, proceeding of cold and phlegmatic humours
and distillations, as also for the falling sickness. It is a
special remedy for the poison of the aconites, and other
poisonous herbs, as also against the stinging of any veno
mous creature. It is a good remedy for a cold cough,
especially in the beginning. For all the purposes afore
said the herb being tunned up in new drink and drank, is
almost as effectual, but far more acceptable to weak and
dainty stomachs. The distilled water of the herb hath
the same effects, but more weakly. The conserve of the
flowers doth the like, which Matthiolus much commendeth
against the palsy. The green herb, or the decoction
thereof, being applied, dissolveth the hardness of women's
breasts, and all other hard swellings in any other part of
the body. The green herb also applied or the juice thereof
With some honeyj not only clcanseth putrid, stinking, foul,
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 2,f9
and malignant ulcers and sores of all sorts, but healeth and
soldereth up the lips of green wounds in any part also.
Let women forbear if they be with child, ibr it works
violently upon the feminine part.
Plantain. ?. (c. d. 2.)
This groweth usually in meadows and fields, and by
path-sides, and is so well known that it needeth no
description.
Time.] It is in beauty about June, and the seed ripeneth
shortly alter.
Government and Virtues.] It is true, Mizaldus and
others, yea, almost all astrological physicians, hold this to>
be an herb of Mars, because it cureth the diseases of the
head and privities, which are under the houses of Mars,
Aries, and Scorpio; the truth is, it is under the command
of Venus, and cures the head by antipathy to Mars, and
the privities by sympathy to Venus ; neither is therehardly
a martial disease but it cures.
The juice of Plantain clarified and drank for divers-
days together, either of itself, or in other drink, prevail-
eth wonderfully against all torments or excoriation in
the guts or bowels, helpeth the distillations of rheum
from the head, and stayeth all manner of fluxes, even
women's courses, when they flow too abundantly. It is
good to stay spitting of blood and other bleedings at
the mouth, or the making of foul and bloody water, by
reason of any ulcer in the reins or bladder, and also
stayeth the too free bleeding sf wounds. It is held an
especial remedy for those that are troubled with the
phthisic, or consumption of the lungs, or ulcers of the
lungs, or coughs that come of heat. The decoction or
powder of the roots or seeds is much more binding fov
all the purposes aforesaid than the leaves. Dioscorides
saith, that three roots boiled in wine and taken, helpeth
the tertian ague, and for the quartan ague, (but letting
the number pass as fabulous) 1 conceive the decoction
of divers roots may be effectual. The herb (but especi
ally the seed) is held to be profitable against the dropsy
the falling sickness, the yellow jaundice, and stooping*
350 THE ENG1ISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGE©,
.
of tbe liver and reins. The roots of Plantain, and PelL
litory of Spain, beaten into powder and put into the
hollow teeth, takcth away the pains of them. The clari
fied juice, or distilled water, dropped into the eyes,
cooleth the inflammations in them, and taketh away the
pin and web; and dropped into the ears, easeth the
pain in them, and helpeth and removcth the heat. . The
same also with the juice of houseleek is profitable against
all inflammations and breakings out of the skin, and
against burnings and sealdings by fire and water. The
juice or decoction made either of itself, or other things
of the tike nature, is of much use and good effect for old
and hollow ulcers that are hard to be eured, and for
cankers and sores in the mouth or privy parts of man or
woman ; and helpeth also the pains of the piles in the
fundament. The juice mixed with oil of roses, and the
temples and forehead anointed therewith, easeth the
pains of the head proceeding from heat, and helpeth lu
natic and frantic persons very much j as also the biting
of serpents, or a mad dog. The same also is profitably
applied to all hot goafs in the feet or hands, especially
in the beginning. It is also good to be applied where
any bone is out of joint, to hinder inflammations, swell*
ings and pains that presently rise thereupon. The pow
der of the dried leaves taken in drink, killeth worms of
the belly ; and boiled in wine kitleth worms that breed
in old and foul ulcers. One part of plantain water, and
two parts of the brine of powdered beef, boiled together
and clarified, is a most sure remedy to heal all spreading
•cabs or itch in the head and body, all manner of tetters,
ringworms, the shingles, and all other running and fret,
ting sores. Briefly, the Plantains are singular good wound
herbs to heal fresh old wounds or sores, either inward or
outward.
Plums. ?. (c, m. 1.)
Aim so well known, that they need no description.
Government and Virtues.'] All Plums are under Venus*,;
and are like women, some better and some worse. As
there is great diversity of kinds, so there is in the opera,
lion of Plums, for some that are sweet moisten the
THE ENGLISH PHTS1CIAN ENLARGED. 251
Stomach and make the belly soluble ; those that are sour,
quench thirst more and bind the belly ; the moist arid
waterish do sooner corrupt in the stomach, but the firm
do nourish more, and offend less. The dried fruit sold
by the grocers under the name of Damask. Prunes, do
somewhat loosen the belly, and being stewed, are often
used, both in health and sickness, to relish the mouth and
stomach, to procure appetite, and a little to open the body,
allay cholcr, and cool the stomach. Plum-tree leaves
boiled in wine, are good to wash and gargle the mouth
and throat, to dry the flux of rheum coming to the palate,
gums or almonds of the ears. The gum of the tree is
good to break the stone. The gum or leaves boiled in
vinegar and applied, kills tetters and ringworms. Mat-
thiolus saith, the oil pressed ont of the kernels of the
stones, as oil of almonds is made, is good against the in
flamed piles, and tumours or swellings of ulcers, hoarse
ness of the voice, roughness of the tongue and throat, and
the pains in the ears. And that five ounces of the said
oil taken with one ounce of muscadel, driveth forth the
stone, and helpeth the cholic.
i
Polypody of the Oak. Tfj. (temp. d. l.>
This is a perennial herb of the fern tribe.
Descript.] This is a small herb consisting of nothing
but roots and leaves, bearing neither stalk, flower, nor
seed, as it is thought. It hath three or four leaves rising
from the root, every one single by itself, of about a hand
length, are winged, consisting of many small narrow
leaves, c»t into the middle rib, standing on each side of
the stalk, large below and smaller up to the top, not
dented nor notched at the edges at all, as the male fern
hath, of a sad green colour, and smooth on the upper
side, but on the other side somewhat rough by reason of
some yellowish spots set thereon. The root is smaller
than one's little finger, lyint; aslope, or creeping along
under the upper crust of the earth, brownish on the out
side and greenish within, of a sweetish harshness in taste,
set with certain rough knags on each side thereof, having
also much mossiness or yellow haw mess upon it, and some
fibres underneath, whereby it is nourished..
* 9
252 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Place.] It groweth as well upon old rotten stumps, or
trunks of trees, as oak, beech, hazel, willow, or any
oiher, as in the woods under them, and upon old mud
walls, as also- in mossy, stony, and gravelly places near
unto wood. That which growcth upon oak is accounted
the best ; but the quantity thereof is scarce sufficient for
the common use.
Time.] It being always green, may be gathered for use
at any time.
Government and Virtues.'] Polypodinm of the Oak,
that which grows upon the earth is best 'tis an herb of
Saturn, to purge melancholy; if the humour be other
wise, chuse your Polypodinm accordingly. Meuse saith,
that it drieth up thin humours, digestcth thick and tough
and purgeth burnt choler, and especially tough and thick
phlegm, and thin phlegm also, even from the joints, and
therefore good for those that are troubled with melancholy,
or quartan agues, especially if it be taken in whey, or
honied water, or in barley water, or the broth of a chicken
with epithymum, or with beets and mallows. It is good
for the hardness of the spleen, and for prickings or stitches
in the sides, as also for the cholic ; some use to put to it
some fennel seeds, or annise seeds, or ginger, to correft
that loathing it bringeth to the stomach, which is more
than ncedeth, it being a safe and gentle medicine, fit for
all persons, which daily experience confirmcth; and an
ounce of it may be given at a time in a decoction, if there
be not sena, or some other strong purger with it. A dram
or two of the powder of the dried roots taken fasting in a
cup of honied water, worketh gently, and for the pur
poses aforesaid. The distilled water both of roots and
leav«s, is much more commended for the quartan ague,
to oe taken for many days together, as also against
melancholy, or -tearful and troublesome sleeps or dreams;
and with some sugar-candy dissolved therein, is good
against the cough, shortness of breath, a\ heelings, and
those distillations of thin rheum upon the lungs, which
cause phthisics and oftentimes consumptions. The fresh
roots beaten small, or the powder of the dried roots
mixed with honey, and applied to the member that is out
of joint, doth much help it ; and applied to the nose,
cureth the disease called Polypus} w hich is a piece of Jtesb
I
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 253
growing therein, which in time stoppcth the passage of
breath through that nostril ; and it helpeththose clefts or
chops that come between the fingers or ioes.
The Poplar Tree. . (c. m. 1.)
There are two sorts of Poplars, which are most familiar
w ith us, viz. Black and White, both which I shall here
describe unto you.
Descript.] The white Poplar groweth great, and rea
sonably high, covered with thick, smooth, white bark,
especially the branches, having long leaves cut into di
visions almost like a vine leaf, but not of so deep a green
on the upper side, and hoary white underneath, of a
reasonable good scent, the whole form representing the
form of coltsfoot. The catkins which it bringeth forth
before the leaves, are long and of a faint reddish colour,
which fall away, bearing seldom good seed with them.
The wood hereof is smooth, soft and white, very finely
waved, whereby it is much esteemed.
The Black Poplar groweth higher and straightcr thain
the White, with a greyish bark, bearing broad green
leaves, somewhat like ivy leaves, not cut in on the edges
like the White, but whole and dented, ending in a point,
and not white underneath, hanging by slender long
footstalks, which with the air are continually shaken
like as the aspen leaves are. The catkins hereof are
greater than those of the White, composed of many
round green berries, as if they were set together in a
long cluster, containing much downy matter, which
being ripe is blown away with the wind. The clammy
buds hereof, before they spread into leaves, are gathered
to make Ungucnum Populneum, and are of a yellowish -
green colour, and small, somewhat sweet, but strong.
The wood is smooth, tough and w hite, and easy to be
cloven. On both these trees groweth a sweet kind of
musk, which in former times was used to put into sweet
ointments.
Place.] They grow in moist woods, and by water sides
in sundry places of this land ; yet the white is not so fre
quent as the other.
254 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED;
Time. Their time is also expressed before. The caf-
Siks coming forth before the leaves in the end of the
ummcr.
Government and Virtues.] Saturn, hath dominion over
both. White Poplar, saith Galen, is of a cleansing pro
perty : the weight of one ounce in powder of the bark
thereof being drank, saith Dioscorides, is a remedy for
those that are troubled with the sciatica, or the stranguary.
The juice of the leaves dropped warm into the ears,
eascth the pains in them. The young clammy buds, op-
eyes before they break out into leaves, bruised and a
little honey put to them, is a good medicine for a dull
sight. The Black Poplar is held to be more cooling than
the White, and therefore the leaves bruised with vine
gar and applied, help the gout. The seed drank ia vine
gar is held good against the falling sickness. The water
that droppeth from the hollow places of this tree, taketb?
away warts, pushes, wheal . and other the like breakings
out of the body. The young Black Poplar buds, saith.
Matthiolus, are much used by women to beautify their
hair, bruising them with fresh butter, straining them after
they have been kept for some time in the sun. The oint
ment called Populneum, which is made of this Poplar, is
lingular good for all heat and inflammations in any part of
the body, and tempereth the heat of wounds. It is much
used to dry up the milk of women's breasts, when tbej
have weaned their children.
Poppy. J. (c. 4. m. 2.)
Of this I shall describe three kinds, viz. the White audi
Black of the garden, and the Erratic Wild Poppy, or
Corn Rose.
Descript.J The White Poppy hath at first four or five
whitish green leaves lying upon the grountk, which rise
with the stalk, compassing it at the bottom of them, ami
are very large, much cut or torn on the edges, and dented
also besides ; the stalk which k, usually four or five feet
high, hath sometimes no brandies at the top, and usually
but two or three at most, bearing every one but one
head wrapped up in a thin skin, « hich boweth down
before it is ready to blow, and then rising and being
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 255
Iroken, the flower within it spreading itself open, and
consisting of four very large, white round leaves, with
many whitish round threads in the middle, set about a
small, round green head, having a crown or star-like
cover at the end thereof, which growing ripe becomes as
large as a great apple, wherein are contained a great
number of small round seeds, in several partitions or di
visions next unto the shell, the middle thereof remaining
hollow and empty. The whole plant, both leaves, stalks
and heads, while they are fresh, young and green, yield
a milk when they are broken, of an unpleasant bittcf
taste, almost ready to provoke casting, and of a strong,
heady smell, which being condensate is called Opinm,
The root is white and woody, perishing as soon as it hath
given ripe seed.
The Black Poppy Iitttle differeth from the former, unv
til it beareth its flower, which is somewhat less, and of
a black purplish colour, but without any purple spots
in the bottom of the leaf. The head of the seed is much,
less than the former, and openeth itself a little round
about the top, under the crown, so that the seed which;
is very black will fall out, if one turn the head thereof
downward.
The wild Poppy, or Corn Rose, hath long and narrow
leaves, very much cut in on the edges into many divw
sions, of a light green colour, sometimes hairy withaHj
the stalk is blackish and hairy also, but not so tall as the
garden kind, having some such like leaves thereon to
grow below, parted into three or four branches some
times, whereon grow small hairy heads bowing down
before the skin break, wherein the flower is, which whert
it is full blown open is of a fair yellowish red or crimson
colour, in some much paler, without any spot in th»-
bottom of the leaves, having many black soft threads in the
middle, compassing a small green head, which when it i»
ripe, is not bigger than one's little finger's end, wherein;
is contained much black seed smaller by half than that
of the garden. The root perisheth every year, and
springeth again of its own sowing. Of this kind there
is one lesser in all the parts thereof, and diifercth- ia
nothing else.
256 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED1.
Vlace.] The garden kinds do not naturally grow wil'sl
in any place, but are sown in gardens where they grow.
The Wild Poppy, or Corn Rose, is plentiful enough,
and many times too much in the corn fields of all counties
through this land, and also upon ditch banks and by hedge
sides. The smaller wild kind is also found in corn fields,
and also in some other places, but not so plentifully as the
former.
Time."\ The garden kinds are usually sown in the
Spring, which then flower about the end of May, and
somewhat earlier, if they spring of their own sowing.
The wild kind flower usually from May until July,
and the seed of ti:em is ripe soon after the flowering.
Government and Virtues.'] The herb is Lunar, and of
the juice of it is made opium; only for lucre of money
.they cheat you, and tell you it is a kind of tear, or some
such like thing, that drops from poppies when they
weep, and that is somewhere beyond the seas,. I know
not where beyond the moon. The garden poppy heads
with seeds made into syrup, is frequently and to good.,
effect used to procure rest and sleep, in the sick and weak,
and to stay catarrhs and defluctions of thin rheums from
the head into the stomach and lungs, causing a continual
cough, the forerunner of a consumption ; it helpeth also
hoarseness of the throat, and when one hath lost their
voice, which the seed doth likewise. The black seed
hoiled in wine, and drank, is said also to stay the flux
of the belly, and women's courses. The empty shells
or poppy heads, are usually boiled in water, and given
to procure rest and sleep; so do the leaves in the same
manner : as also if the head and temples he bathed w ith
thedeco6tion warm, or with the oil of poppies, the green
leaves or heads bruised, and applied with a little vinegar,
o.r made into a poultice with bailey meal, or hog's grease,
cooieth and tempereth all inflammations, as also the disease
Called SU Anthony's fire. It is generally used in, treacle
and njithridatc, and in all other medicines that arc made
to procure rest and sleep, and to ease pains in the head ag
well as in, other parts. It is also used to cool inflamma
tions, agues, or frenzies, or to stay those defluctions,
which cause a cough, or consumption, and also othes
fluxes of the belly, or women's courses ; it is also put inta
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 257
hollow teeth to ease the pain, and hath been found by
experience to ease the pains of the gout.
The wild Poppy, or Corn Rose (as Matthiolus saith)
is good to prevent the falling sickness. The syrup made
with the dower, is with good effedt given to those that
have the pleurisy : and the dried flowers also, either
boiled in water, or made into powder and drank, either
in the distilled water of them, or some other drink, work-
eth the like effect. The distilled water of the flowers is
held to be of much good use against surfeits, being drank
evening and morning ; it is also more cooling than any of
the other poppies, and therefore cannot but be as effectual
in hot agues, frenzies, and other inflammations either in
ward or outward. Galen saith, the seed is dangerous to
be used inwardly.
Purslaine. >. (c. 3. m. 2.)
GARnEN Purslaine (being used as a sallad herb) is so well
known that it needeth no description ; I shall therefore
ol ynspeak of its virtues as followeth :
Government and Virtues.'] 'Tis an herb of the Moor*.
It is good to cool any heat in the liver, blood, reins, and
stomach, and in hot agues nothing better ; it stayeth hot
and choiorick fluxes of the belly, women's courses, the
whites, and gonorrhoea, or running of the reins, the
distillation from the head, and pains therein proceeding
from heat, want of sleep, or the frenzy. 'I he seed is more
effectual than the herb, and is of singular good use to
cool the heat and sharpness of urine, and the outrageous
lust of the body, veuerous dreams, and the like; inso
much that the over frequent use thereof extinguisheth the
beat and virtue of natural procreation. The seed bruised
and boiled in wine, and given to children, expelleth the
worms. The juice of the herb is held effectual to all the,
purposes aforesaid ; as also to stay vomitings, and taken
with some sugar or honey, helpeth an old dry cough,
shortness of breath, and the phthisick, and stayeth im
moderate thirst. The distilled water of the herb is used
by many (as the more pleasing) with a little sugar to work
the. same effedts. The juice also is singular good in the
inflammations and ulcers in the secret parts of man or
258 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
woman, as also the bowels and haemorrhoids, when they
are ulcerous, or excoriations in them. The herb bruised
and applied to the forehead and temples, allays excessive
heat therein, that hinders rest and sleep, and applied to
the eyes, taketh away the redness and inflammations in
them, and those otherparts where pushes, wheals, pimples,
St Anthony's fire, and the like, break forth ; if a little
vinegar be put to it, and laid to the neck, with as much of
galls and linseed together, it taketh away the pains therein,
and the crick in the neck. The juice is used with oil of
roses for the same causes, or for blasting by lightning and
burnings by gunpowder, or for women's sore breasts,
and to allay the heat in all other sores or hurts ; applied
also to the navels of children that stick forth, it helpeth
them; it is also goodJbr sore mouths and gums that are
swollen, and to fasten loose teeth. Camerarins saith,
that the distilled water took away pains in the teeth, when,
all other remedies failed, and the thickened juke made into
pills with the powder of gum tragacanth and arabick, being
taken, prevaileth much to help those that make bloody
water. Applied to the gout, it easeth pains thereof, and
helpeth the hardness of the sinews, if it come not of the
cramp, or a cold cause.
Primroses. ?. (h. d. I.)
They are so Well known, that they need no descrip
tion. Of the leaves of Primroses is made a fine salve to
heal wounds as any I know ; you shall be taught to
make salves of any herb at the latter end of the book 4
make this as you are taught there, and do not (you that
have ingenuity in you) see your poor neighbours go
with wounded limbs when a halfpenny cost will heal
them.
Privet, -y. (c d. I.)
Ocr common Privet is carried up with many sender
branches to a reasonable height and breadth, to cover
arbours, bowers and banquetting houses, and brought,
wrought, and cut into so many forms of men, horses, birds,
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 259
&c. which though at first supported, groweth afterwards
strong of itself.
Descript.] It beareth IoDg and narrow green leaves by
couples, and sweet smelling white flowers in tufts at the
end of the branches, which turn into small black berries
that have a purplish juice with them, and some seeds that
are flat on the one side, with a hole or dent therein.
Place.] It groweth on this land, in divers woods.
Time.] Our Privet flowereth in June and July, the
berries are ripe in August and September;
Government and Firtues.] The Moon is lady of this.
It is little used in physic with us in these times, more than
in lotions to wash sores and sore mouths, and to cool
inflammations, and dry up fluxes. Yet Maftiiiolus salth,
it serveth to all the uses for the which cypress, or the
East Privet, is appointed by Dioscorides and Galen. Ha
farther saith, that the oil that is made of the flowers. of
Privet infused therein, and set in the sun, is singular
good for the inflammations of wounds and for the head
ach coming of a hot cause. There is a sweet water also
distilled from the flowers, that is good for all those
diseases that need cooling or drying, and therefore hclpeth
all fluxes of the belly and stomach, bloody fluxes and
women's courses, being either drank or applied; as all
those that void blood at the mouth, or any other place,
and for distillations of rheum in the eyes, especially if it be
used with tutia.
Queen of the Meadows. ? . (h. d. 2.)
Also called Meadow Sweet, and Mead Sweet.
Descript.] The stalks of this are reddish, rising to be
three feet high, sometimes four or five feet, having at the
joints thereof large winged leaves, standing one above
another at distances, consisting of many and somewhat
broad leaves, set on each side of a middle rib, being hard,
rough, or rugged, crumpled much l>ke unto elm leaves,
having also -some smaller leaves with them, (as agrimony
hath) somewhat deeply dented about the edges, of a sad
green colour on the upper side, and greyish underneath,
of a pretty sharp scent and taste, somewhat like unto the
£60 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
burnet, and a leaf hereof put into a cup of claret wine,
giveth also a fiue relish to it. At the tops of the stalks
and branches stand many tufts of small white flowers
thrust thick together, which smell much sweeter than the
leaves ; and in their places, being fallen, some crooked
and cornered seed. The root is somewhat woody, and
blackish on the out side, and brownish within, with
divers great strings, and lesser fibres set thereat, of a
strong scent, hut nothing so pleasant as the flowers-and
leaves, and perisheth not, but abideth many years, shoot
ing forth anew every Spring.
Place. J It groweth in moist meadows that lie much wet,
or »ear the courses of water.
Time.] It flowereth in some places or other all the three
S mmcr months, that is, June, July, and August, and the
seed is ripe soon after.
Government and Virtues."] Venus claims dominion over
the herb. It is used to stay all manner of bleedings,
fluxes, vomitings, and women's courses, as also their
whites. It is said to alter and take away the fits of the
quartan agues, and to make a merry heart, for which
purpose some use the flowers, and some the leaves. It
helpeth speedily those that are troubled with the cholic ;
being boiled in wine, and with a little honey taken
warm, it openeth the belly, but boiled in red wine, and
drank, it stayeth the flux of the belly. Outwardly ap
plied it helpeth old ulcers that are cancerous, or hollow
and fistulous, for which it is by many much commended,
as also for the sores in the mouth, or secret parts. The
leaves when they are full grown, being laid on the skin,
will in a short time, raise blisters thereon, as Tragus
faith.' The water thereof helpeth the heat and inflamma
tion in the eyes.
The Quince-Tree. ^ . (c. 1. d. 2.)
Tuts is now cultivated only in our gardens, for culinary
purposes.
Descript.'] The ordinary Quince-Tree groweth often to
the height and bigness of a reasonable apple-tree, but
more usually lower, and crooked, with a rough bark,
spreading arms and branches far abroad. The leaves are
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 2CI
somewhat like those of the apple-tree, but thicker,
broader, and fuller of veins, and whiter on the other side,
. not dented at all about the edges. The flowers are large
and white, sometimes dashed over with a blush. The
fruit that followeth is yellow, being near ripe, and
covered with a white freze, or cotton ; thick set on the
younger, and growing less as they grow to be thorough
ripe, bunched out oftentimes in some places, some being
like an apple, and some like a pear, of a strong heady
scent, and not durable to keep, and is sour, harsh, and
of an unpleasant taste to eat fresh ; but being scalded,
roasted, baked, or preserved, becometh more pleasant.
Place and Time."] It best likes to grow near ponds
and water-sides, and is frequent through this land, and
llowereth not until the leaves be come forth. The fruit is
ripe in September or October.
Government and Virtues.] Old Saturn owns the tree.
Quinces when they are green, help all sorts of fluxes iu
men or women, and choleric lasks, casting, and what
ever needeth astridtion, more than any way prepared by
fire ; yet the syrup of the juice, or the conserve, are
much conducible, much of the binding quality being
consumed by the fire ; if a little vinegar be added, it
stirreth up the languishing appetite, and the stomach
given to casting ; some spices being added, comforteth
and strengthened the decaying and fainting spirits, and
helpeth the liver oppressed, that it cannot perfect the
digestion, or corrected choler and phlegm. Ifyou would
have them purging, put honey to them instead of sugar ;
and if more laxative, for choler, rhubarb; for phlegm,-
turbith ; for watery humours, scammony ; but if more
forcibly to bind, use the unripe Quinces, with roses and
and acacia, hypocistis, and some torrified rhubarb. To
take the crude juice of Quinces, is hold a preservative
against the force of deadly poison ; for it hath been found
most certainly true, that the very smell of a Quince hath
taken away all the strength of the poison of white hellebore;
If there be need of any outwardly binding and cooling of
hot fluxes, the oil of Quinces, or other medicines that may
be made thereof, are very available to anoint the belly or
other parts therewith; it likewise strengthened the
stomach and belly, and the sinews that are loosened by
£G2 TE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
sharp humours falling on them, and restraineth immoderate
sweatings. The mucilage taken from the seeds of Quince?,
and boiled in a little water, is very good to cool the heat,'
and heal the sore breasts of women. The same with a
little sugar, is good to lenify the harshness and hoarse
ness of the throat, and roughness of the tongue. The"
cotttfn or down of Quinces boiled and applied to plague
sores, healeth them up ; and laid as a plaister, made up
with wax, it bringeth hair to them that are bald, and'
keepeth it from falling, if it be ready to shed.
Raddish, or IIorse-Raddish. (A. 3. d. 2.)
Tub garden anil also the HorseRaddish are sowell known,
that they need no description.
Place."] It is found wild in some places, but is chiefly-
planted in gardens, and joyeth in moist and shady places.
Time.] Jt seldom flowereth, but when it doth, it is in
July.
"Government and Virtues.] They are both under Mars.
The Juice of the Uorse-Kaddish given to drink, is held
to be very effectual for the scurvy. Jt killeth the worms
in children, being drank, and also laid upon the belly.
The root bruised and laid to the place grieved with the
sciatica, joint-ach, or the hard swellings of the liver and
spleen, doth wonderfully help them all. The distilled
water of the herb and root is more familiar to be taken
with a little sugar for all the purposes aforesaid.
Garden Raddishes are in wantonness by the gentry
eaten as a salIail, but they breed scurvy humours in the
stomach, and corrupt the blood, and then send for a
physician as fast as you can ; this is one cause makes the
owners of such nice palates so unhealthful ; yet for such
as are troubled with the gravel, stone, or stoppage of
urine, they are good physic, if the body be strong that
takes them :' you may make the juice of the roots into a
syrup if you please, for that use. They purge by urina
exceedingly.
*THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 263
Ragwort. ? . (h. d. 2.)
It is called also St. James's-Wort, and Stagger-wort, and
Stammer-wort, and Segrum.
Descript.] The greater common Ragwort hath many
large and long, dark green leares lying on the ground,
very much rent and torn on the sides in many places;,
from among which rise up sometimes but one, and some
times two or three square or crested blackish or brownish
stalks, three or four feet high, sometimes branched,
bearing divers such-like leases upon them, at several
distances unto the top, where it branches forth into many-
stalks bearing yellow flowers, consisting of divers leaves,
set as a pale or border, with a dark yellow thrum in the
middle, which do abide a great while, but at last arc turned
into down, and with the small blackish grey seed, are
carried away with the wind. The root is made of many
fibres, whereby it is firmly, fastened into the ground, and .
abideth many years.
There is another sort thereof different from the former
only in this, that it riseth not so high, the leaves are not
so finely jagged, nor of so dark a green colour, but rather
somewhat whitish, soft and woolly, and the flowers usu
ally paler.
Place."\ They grow both of them wild in pastures, and-
untitled grounds in many places, and oftentimes both in
one field. ,
Government and Virtues.] Ragwort is under the com
mand of Dame Venus, and cleanseth, digestetl), and dis*
cusseth. The decoction of the herb is good to wash the
mouth or throat that hath ulcers or sores therein ; and for
swellings, hardness, or imposthumations, for it thoroughly
cleanseth and healeth them ; as also the quinsy, and the
king's evil. It helpeth to stay catarrhs, thin rheums, and
defiuciions from the head into the eyes, nose, or lungs.
The juice is found by experience to be singular good to
heal green wounds, and to cleanse and heal all old and
filthy ulcers in the privities, and in other parts of the body,
as also inward wounds and ulcers ; stayeth the malignity
of fretting and running cankers, and hollow fistulas, not.
suffering them to spread farther. It is also much com-
264; THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
mended to help achesand pains cither in the fleshy part,'or
in the nerves and sinews ; as also the sciatica, or pain of
the hips or huckle-bone, to bathe the places with the de
coction of the herb, or to anoint them with an ointment
made of the herb, bruised and boiled in old hog's suet,
with some mastic and olibanum in powder added unta
it after it is strained forth. In Sussex, we call it Rag
weed.
Rattle Grass. 5. (c. m. I.)
Of this there are two kinds which I shall speak of, viz.
the red and yellow.
Descript.] The common Hed Rattle hath sundry red
dish, hollow stalks, and sometimes green, rising from the
root, lying for the most part on the ground, some grow
ing more upright, with many smail reddish or green leaves
set on both sides of a middle rib, finely dented about the
edges : the flowers stand at the tops of the stalks and
branches of a fine purplish red colour, like small gaping
hooks, after which come blackish seed in small husks,
which lying loose therein, will rattle with shaking. The
root consists of two or three small whitish strings with
some fibres thereat.
The common Yellow Rattle hath seldom above one
round great stalk, rising from the foot about half a yard,
or two feet high, and but lew branches thereon, having
two long and somewhat broad leaves set at a joint, deeply
cut in on the edges, resembling the comb of a cock,
broadest next to the stalk, and smaller to the cud. The
flowers grow at the tops of the stalks, with some shorter
leaves with them, hooded after the same manner that the
others are but of a fair yellow colour, or in some paler,
and in some more white. The seed is contained in large
husks, and being ripe, will rattle or make a noise with
lying loose in them. The root is small and slender,
perishing every year.
Place, j They grow in meadows and woods generally1
through this land.
Time.] They are in flower from Midsummer until
August be past, sometimes.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 265
.Government and Virtues.] They are both of them under
the dominion of the Moon. The Red Rattle is accounted
profitable to heal up fistulas and hollow ulcers, and to
stay the flux of humours in them, as also the abundance
of women's courses, or any other flux of blood, being
boiled in red wine and drank.
The Yellow Rattle, or Cock's-Comb, is held to be
good for those that are troubled with a cough, or dim
ness of sight, if the herb, being boiled with beans, and
some honey put thereto, be drank or dropped into the
eyes. The whole seed being put into the eyes, draweth
forth any skin, dimness or film, from the sight without
trouble or pain.
Rest Harrow. <$. (//. d. 3.)
This is also known by the name of Cammock.
Descript.] Common Rest Harrow riseth up with divers
rough woody twigs half a yard, Or a yard high, set at the
joints without order, with little roundish leaves, sometimes
more than two or three at a place, of a dark green colour,
without thorns while they are young; but afterwards
armed in sundry places, with short and sharp thorns. The
flowers come forth at the tops of the twigs and branches,
whereof it is full fashioned like pease or broom blossoms,
but lesser, flatter, and somewhat closer, of a faint purplish
colour ; after which come small pods, containing small,
flat, round seed : the root is blackish on the outside, and
whitish within, very rough, and hard to break when it is
fresh and green, and as hard as a horn when it is dried,
thrusting down deep into the ground, and spreading like
wise, every piece being apt to grow again it it be left ia
the ground.
Place.'} It groweth in many places of this land, as well
in the arable as waste ground.
Time.'] It flowereth about the beginning or middle of
July, and the seed is ripe in August.
Government and Virtues.'] It is under the dominion of
Mars. It is singular good to provoke urine when it is
stopped, and to break and drive forth the stone, whick
266 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED,
.the powder of the bark of the root taken in wine per-
fortneth eftectually. Matthiolus saith, the same helpeth
the disease called Hernia Carnosa, the fleshy rupture, by
taking the said ponder for some months together con
stantly, and that it hath cured some which seemed in
curable by any other means than by cutting or burning.
The decoction thereof made with vinegar, gargled in tha
mouth, easeth the tooth-ach, especially when it comes of
rheum; and is very powerful to open obstructions of the
liver and spleen, and other parts. A distilled water in
Balnco Maries, with four pounds of the root hereof first
sliced small, and afterwards steeped in a gallon of canary
wine, is singular good for all the purposes aforesaid, and
to cleanse the passages of the urine. The powder of the
root made into an electuary, or lozenges, with sugar, also
the bark, of the fresh roots boiled tender and afterwards
beaten to a conserve with sugar, worketh the like effect.
The powder of the roots strewed upon the brims of
ulcers, consumeth the hardness, and causeth them to heal
the better.
Rocket (h. d. 3.) '
Tut. Garden-Rocket being rather used as a sallad herb
than to any physical purposes, I shall only speak of the
common wild Rocket.
J)escrij>t.] The common wild Rocket hath longer and
narrower leaves, much more divided into slender cuts aud
and jags on both sides the middle rib than the garden
kinds have; of a sad green colour, from among which
rise up divers stalks two or three feet high, sometimes
set with the like leaves, but smaller aud smaller up
wards, branched from the middle into divers slitf stalks,
bearing sundry yellow flowers o"u them, made of four
leaves a-piece, as the others are, which afterwards yield
them small reddish seed, in small long pods, of a more
bitter and hot biting taste than the garden kinds, as the
leaves are aNo.
Place.'] It is found wild in divers places of this land. -
Time.] It flowereth about June or July, and the seed
is ripe in August.
3
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED, 267
Government and Virtues.] The wild Rockets are for
bidden to be used alone, in regard their sharpness fumeth
into the head, causing achs and pains therein, and are
hurtful to hot and cholerick persons, for fear of in-
flaming their blood, and therefore for such we may say a
little doth but a little harm, for angry Mars rules them,
and he sometimes will be rusty when he meets with fools.
The wild rocket is more strong and effedtual to increase
sperm and vencrous qualities, whereunto all the seed is
more effectual than the garden kind; it serveth also to
help digestion, and provokelh urine exceedingly. The
seed is used to cure the bitings of serpents, the scorpion,
and the shrew mouse, and other poisons, and expelleth
worms, and other noisome creatures that breed in the
belly. The herb boiled or stewed, and some sugar put
thereto, helpeth the cough in children, being taken often.
The seed also taken in drink, taketh away the ill scent of
the arm-pits, increaseth milk in nurses, and wasteth the
spleen. The seed mixed with honey, and used on the
face, cleanseth the skin from raorphew, and used with
vinegar, taketh away freckles and redness in the face,
or other parts; and with the gall of an ox, it mendeth
foul scars, black and blue spots, and the marks of the
small-pox.
Winter-Rocket, or Cresses, c?. (h. d. 3.)
The Winter Rocket is a different plant from the former.
Detcript.] It hath divers somewhat large sad green
leaves laying upon the ground, torn or cut in divers parts,
somewhat like unto Rocket or turuip-leavos, with smaller
pieces next the bottom, and broad at the ends, which so
abide all the Winter, (if it spring up in Autumn, when
it is used to be eaten) from among which rise up divers
small round stalks, full of branches, bearing many small
yellow llowers of four leaves a-piece, alter which come
small pods, with reddish seed in them. The root is
somewhat stringy, and perisheth every year after the seed
is ripe.
Place.] It groweth of its own accord in gardens and
fields, by the way-sides, in divers places.
n 2
26& THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Time.'] It flowereth in May, seedeth in June, and then
perisheth.
Government and Virtues.'] It provokes urine, helps
stranguary, and expels gravel and the stone. It is good for
the scurvy, and found by experience to be a singular good
wound-herb to cleanse inward wounds : the juice or
decoction being drank, or ontwardly applied to wash foul
ulcers and sores, cleansing them by sharpness, and hinder
ing or abating the dead flesh from growing therein, and
healing them by the drying quality.
Roses. %. ?. 5. (temp. d. 2.)
It is altogether needless to trouble the reader with a
description of these, since both the garden Roses, and the
Roses of the briars, are well enough known.
Government and Virtues.] What a pother have authors
made with Roses! What a racket have they kept! I shall
add, red Roses are under Jupiter, damask under Venus,
•white under the Moon, and Provence under the King of
France. The white and red Roses are cooling and drying,
and yet the white is taken to exceed the red in both
the properties, but is seldom used inwardly in any me
dicine. The bitterness in the Roses when they are fresh,
especially the juice, purgeth choler, and watery hu
mours ; but being dried, and the heat which causeth the
bitterness being consumed, they have then a binding and
astringent quality ; those also that are not full blown, do
both cool and bind more than those that are full blown,
and the white Rose more than the red. The decoction
of red Roses made with wine and used, is very good for
the head-ach, and pains in the eyes, cars, throat and
gums ; as also for the fundament, the lower parts of the
belly and the matrix, being bathed or put into them.
The same decoction with the roots remaining in it, is
profitably applied to the region of the heart to ease the
inflammation therein ; as also St. Anthony's fire, and
other diseases of the stomach. Being dried and beaten
to powder, and taken in steeled wine or water, it helpeth
to stay women's courses. The yellow threads in the
middle of the Roses (which are erroneously called the
Rose Seed) being powdered and drank in the distilled
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 263
water of quinces, stayeth the overflowing of women's
courses, and doth wonderfully stay the defluctions of
rheum upon the gums and teeth, preserving them from
corruption, and fastening them if they be loose, being
washed and gargled therewith, and some vinegar of
squills added thereto. The heads with the seed being
used in powder, or in decoction, stayeth the lask and
spitting of blood. Red Roses strengthen the heart,
stomach, liver, and the retentive faculty : they mitigate
the pains that arise from heat, assuage inflammations,
procure rest and sleep, stay both whites and reds in
women, the gonorrhea, or running of the reins, and
fluxes of the belly; the juice of them doth purge and
cleanse the body from choler and phlegm. The husks of
the Roses, with the beards and nails of the Roses, are
binding and cooling, and the distilled water of them is
good for the heat and redness in the eyes, and to stay and
dry up the rheums and watering of them. Of the red
Roses are usually made many compositions, all serving to
sundry good uses. viz. Electuary of Roses, conserve both
moist and dry, which is more usually called Sugar of
Roses, Syrup of dry Roses, and Honey of Roses. The
cordial powder called Diarrkodon Abbatis, and Aromatica
Rosarum. The distilled water of Roses, vinegar of
Roses, ointment, and oil of Roses, and the Rose leaves
dried, are of very great use and effect. To write at large
of every one of these would make my book swell too big,
it being sufficient for a volume itself, to speak fully of
them. But briefly, the electuary is purging, whereof two
or three drams taken by itself in some convenient liquor,
is a purge sufficient for a weak constitution, but may be
increased to six drams, according to the strength of the
patient. It purgeth choler without trouble, and is good
in hot fevers, and pains of the head arising from hot
choleric humours, and heat in the eyes, the jaundice also,
and joint-achs proceeding of hot humours. The moist
conserve is of much use, both binding and cordial; for
until it be about two years old, it is more binding than,
cordial, and after that, more cordial than binding. Soma
of the younger conserve taken with mithiidate mixed
together, is good for those that are troubled with distil,
H 3
270 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
latioos of rheum from the brain to the nose, and deflu&ion
of rheum into the eyes ; as also lor fluxes and lasks of
the belly ; and being mixed with the powder of mastic, is
very good for the running of the reins, and for the
looseness of humours in the body. The old conserve
against faintings, swoonings, weakness and tremblings
of the heart, strengthens both it and a weak stomach,
hclpeth digestion, stayeth casting, and is a very good
preservative in the time of infection. The dry conserve,
which is called the Sugar of Roses, is a very good cordial
to strengthen the heart and the spirits, as also to stay
detluxions. The syrup of dried red Roses strengthens a
stomach given to casting, cooleth an over-heated liver,
and the blood in agues, comforteth the heart, and resisteth
putrefaction and infection, and hclpeth to stay lasks and
fluxes. Honey of Roses is much used in gargles and
lotions to wash sores, cither in the mnuth, throat, or
other parts, both to cleanse and heal them, and to stay
the fluxes of humours falling upon them, it is also used
in clysters both to cool and cleanse. The cordial pow
ders, called Diarrhodon Abbatis and Aromatica Rosarum,
do comfort and strengthen the heart and stomach, procure
an appetite, help digestion, stay vomiting, and are very
good for those that have slippery bowels, to strengthen
them, and to dry up their moisture. Red Rose water is
well known, and of a familiar use on all occasions, and
better than damask Rose-water, being cooling and cordial,
refreshing, quickening the weak and faint spirits, used
either in meats or broths, to wash the temples, to smell
at the nose, or to smell the sweet vapours thereof out of a
perfuming pot, or cast into a hot lire-shovel, it is also
of much good use against the redness and inflammations of
the e>es to bathe them therewith, and the temples of the
head ; as also against pain and ach, for which purpose also
vinegar of Roses is of much good use, and to procure rest
and sleep, if some thereof and Rose-water together be used
to smell unto, or the nose and temples moistened there
with, but more usually to moisten a piece of a red Rose-
rake, cut for the purpose, and heated between a double-
folded cloth, with a little beaten nutmeg, and poppy-seed
strewed on the side that must lie next to the forehead and
temples, and bound so thereto all night. The ointment of
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED*. 271
Roses is much used against heat and inflammations in the
head, to anoint the forehead and temples, and being mixt
with Unguentum-Populneum, to procure rest ; it is also-
used for the heat of the liver, the back and reins, and to'
cool and heal pushes, wheals, and other red pimples rising"
in the face or other parts. Oil of Roses is not only used
by itself to cool any hot swellings or inflammations, and
to bind and stay fluxes or humours unto sores, but is alsa
put into ointmeuls and plaisters that are cooling and
binding, and restraining the flux of humours. The dried
leaves of the red Rosrs are used both inwardly and out
wardly, both cooling, binding, and cordial, for with them
are made both Aromalicum Rosurum, DiarrhodonAbbatisy
and Saccharum llosarwn, each of whose properties are
before declared. Rose leaves and mint, heated and ap
plied outwardly to the stomach, stay castings, and very
much strengthen a weak stomach ; and applied as a
fomentation to the region of the liver and heart, do much-
cool and temper them, and also serve instead of a Rose-
cake (as is said before) to quiet the over-hot spirits, and
cause rest and sleep. The syrup of Damask Roses is
both simple and compound, and made with agaric. The
simple solutiye syrup is a familiar, sale, gentle and easy
medicine, purging choler, taken from one ounce to three
or four, yet this is remarkable herein, that the distilled'
water of this syrup should notably bind the belly. The
syrup with agaric is more strong and effectual, for one
ounce thereof by itself will open the body more than the
other, and worketh as much on phlegm as choler. The1
compound syrup is more forcible in working on melan
cholic humours; and available against the leprosy, itch,
tetters, &c. also honey of Roses solutive is made of the-
same infusions that the syrup is made of, and therefore^
worketh the same effeel, both opening and purging, but
is ottener given to phlegmatic than choleric persons, and
is more used in clysters than in potions, as the syrup
made with sugar is. The conserve and preserved leaves
of those Roses are also operative in gently opening the
belly.
The simple water of the damask Roses is chiefly used
for fumes to sweeten things, as the dried leaves thereof'
n 4
272 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
to make street powders, and fill sweet bags . and little
use they are put to in physic, although they have some
purging quality ; the wild Roses also are few or none
of them used in physic, but are generally held to come
near the nature of the manured Roses. The fruit of the
-wild briar, which are called Hips, being thoroughly ripe,
and made into a conserve with sugar, besides the pleasant*
ness of the taste, doth gently bind the belly, and stay
defluctions from the head upon the stomach, drying up
the moisture thereof, and helpeth digestion. The pulp of
the hips dried into a hard consistence, like to the juice of
liquorice, or so dried that it may be made into powder
and taken in drink, stayeth speedily the whites in women.
The briar ball is often used, being made into powder and
dr.ni6, to break the stone, to provoke urine when it is
stopped, and to ease and help the colic, some appoint it
to be burnt, and then taken for the same purpose. In the
middle of the balls are often found certain white worms,
which being dried and made into powder, and some of it
drank, is found by experience to kill and drive forth the
worms of the belly.
Rosa Solis, or Sun-Dew. © in s. (h. d. 40
It is also called Red-rot, and Youth-wort.
Descript.-] It hath divers small, round, hollow leaves,
somewhat greenish, but full of certain red hairs, which
make them seem red, every one standing upon his own
foot-stalk, reddish, hairy likewise. The leaves arc con
tinually moist in the hottest day, yea, the hotter the sun
shines on them, the moister they are, with a sliminess that
will rope (as we say) the small hairs always holding this
moisture. Among these leaves rise up slender stalks,
reddish also, three or four fingers high, bearing divers small
white knobs one above another, which are flowers; after
which in the heads arc contaicd small seeds. The root is
a few small hairs.
Place."\ It groweth usually in bogs and wet places, and
sometimes in moist woods.
Time.] It flowereth in June, and then the leaves are
fitt«t to be gathered.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 273
Government and Virtues.] The Sun rules it, and it is
under the sign Cancer. Rosa Solis is accounted good to
help those that have a salt rheum distilling on the lungs,
which breedeth a consumption, and therefore the distilled
water thereof in wine, is held fit and profitable for such to
drink, which water will be of a good yellow colour. The
same water is held to be good for all other diseases of the
lungs, as phthisics, wheezings, shortness of breath, or the
cough ; as also to heal the ulcers that happen in the lungs;
and it coraforteth the heart and fainting spirits. The
leaves outwardly applied to the skin, will raise blisters,
which has caused some to think it dangerous to be taken
iuwardly ; but there are other things which will also draw
blisters, yet nothing dangerous to be taken inwardly.
There i» an usual drink made thereof with aqua vitw
and spices frequently, and without any otFence or danger,
but to good purpose used in qualms and passions of the-
heart.
Rosemary. © and T. (H.. d. 3 }
Our garden Rosemary is so well known,, that I need nofc
describe it.
Time."] It flowcreth in April and May, sometimes again
in August.
Government and: Virtues.'] The Sun claims privilege in1
it, and it is under the celestial Ram. It is an herb of as
great use as any whatsoever, not only for physical but
eivil purposes. The physical use of it is both for inward
and outward diseases, for by the warming and comfort
ing heat thereof, it helpeth all cold diseases of the head,
stomach, liver, and belly. The decoction in wine, helpeth
the cold distillations ofrheums into the eyes, and all other
cold diseases of the head and brain, as the giddiness or
swimmings therein, drowsiness or dullnes of the mind and
senses like a stupidness, the dumb palsy, or loss of speech,
the lethargy and falling-sickness, to be both drank, and
the temples bathed therewith. It helpeth the pains in the'
gums and teeth, by rheum falling into them, not by putre
faction, causing an evil smell from them, or a stinking
breath. It helpeth a weak memory, and quickeaoth the
274 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED."
senses. It is very comfortable to the stomach in all the
cold griefs thereof, helpeth both retention of meat and
digestion, the decoction or powder being taken in wine.
It is a remedy for windiness in the stomach, bowels, and
spleen, and expels it powerfully. It helpeth those that
are liver grown, by opening the obstructions thereof. It
helpeth dim eyes, and procureth a clear sight, the flowers
thereof being taken all the while it is flowering, every
morning fasting, with bread and salt. Dioscorides and
Galen say, that if a decoction be made thereof with wa
ter, and they that have the yellow jaundice, exercise
their bodies presently after the taking thereof, it will
certainly cure them. The flowers and conserve made of
them, are good to comfort the heart, and to expel the
contagion of the pestilence; to burn the herb in houses
and chambers corredteth the air in them. Both the
flowers and leaves are profitable for women that are
troubled with the whites, if they be daily taken. - The
dried leaves shred small, and taken in a pipe, as tobacco
is taken, helpeth those that have any cough, phthisick,
or consumption, by warming and drying the thin distil
lations which cause those diseases. The leaves are much
used in bathings; made into ointments or oil, are good to
help cold benumbed joints, sinews, or members. The
chymical oil drawn from the leaves and flowers, is a
sovereign help for all the diseases aforesaid, to touch the
temples and nostrils wiih two or three drops for all the
diseases of the head and brain spoken of before ; as also
to take one drop, two or three, as the case requireth, for
the inward griefs ; yet it must be done with discretion,
for it is very quick and piercing, and therefore very little
must be taken at a time. There is also another oil made
by insolation in this manner. Take what quantity you
will of the flowers, and put them into a strong glass, close
stopped, tie a fine linen cloth over the mouth, and turn
the mouth down into another strong glass, which being
set in the snn, an oil will distill down into the lower glass,
to be preserved as precious for divers uses, both inward
and outward, as a sovereign balm to heal the diseases be
fore mentioned, t» clear dim sights, and take away spots,
marks and scars in the ski./.
THE ENGtlSH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 275
Rhubarb or Raphontick. <?. (h. d. 2.)
Do not start, and say, this grows you know not how far
off; and then ask me, how it comes to pass that I bring
it among our English simples? For though the name may
speak it foreign, yet it grows -with us in England, and that
frequent enough in our gardens ; and when you have-
thoroughly pursued its virtues, you will conclude it no
thing inferior to that which is brought out of China, and'
by that time this hath been as much used as that hath been,
the name which the other hath gotten will be eclipsed by.
the fume of this; but as it groweth only in gardens, by.
cultivation, we need not describe it.
Place.} It groweth in gardens, Howereth about the be
ginning or middle of June, and the seed is ripe in July.
Time.] The roots that are to be dried and kept all the-
next year, are not to be taken up before the stalk and"
leaves be quite w ithered and gone, and that is not until-
the middle or end of October, and it they be taken alittle
before the leaves do spring, or when they are sprung up,:
the roots will not have so good a colour in them;- I have
given the precedence unto this because in virtues also it
hath the pre-eminence. I come now to describe unto-
you, that which is called Patience, or Monk's Rhubarb :
and next unto that, the great round-leaved Dock, or
bastard Rhubarb, for the one of these may supply in.
the abscuce of the other, being not much unlike in their
virtues, only one more powerful and efficacious than the
other. And lastly,, shall shew you the virtues of all tho
three sorts.
Garden-Patience, or Monk's Rhubarb. <?.. (k. d. 2.),
This is a Dock bearing the name of Rhubarb for some
purging quality therein, and groweth up with large tall
stalks,, set with somewhat broad and long fair green leaves,
not dented at all. The tops of the stalks being divided
into many small branches, bear reddish or purplish,
flowers, and three-square seed, like unto other dock.
The root is long, great and yellow, like unto the wild;
docks, but a little redder ; and if it be alittle dried,.
278 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
happen in the eyes or eyelids, being steeped and strained';
as also to assuage the swellings and inflammations; and
applied with honey, boiled in wine, it taketh away ali
blue spots or marks that happen therein. Whey or wh ite
wine are the best liquors to steep it in, and thereby it
worketh more effectually in opening obstructions, aud
purging the stomach and liver. Many use a little Indian
spikenards as the best corrector thereof.
Meadow Rue. O. (k. d. 3.)
This is also called Spurious Rhubarb, or Rucweed.
Descript.] Meadow Rue riseth up with a yellow stringy-
root, much spreading in the ground, shooting forth new-
sprouts and round about, with many green stalks, two
feet high, erested all the length of them, set with joints
here and there, and many large leaves on them, above as
well as below, being divided into smaller leaves, nicked or
dented in the forepart of them, of a red green colour on
the upper side, and pale green underneath ; toward the
top of the stalk there shooteth forth brandies, on every
one whereof stand two, or three or four small heads, or
buttons, which breaking the skin that incloscth them,
shooteth forth a tuft of pale greenish yellow threads, which
falling away, there come in their places small three cor
nered pods, wherein is contained small, long and round
seed. The whole plant hath a strong unpleasant scent.
Place.'] It groweth in mauy places of this landr in the
borders of moist meadows, and ditch-sides.
Time.'] It flowereth about July, or beginning of
August.
Government and Firlues."] Dioscorides saith, that this
herb bruised and applied, perfectly hcaleth old sores, and:
the distilled water of the herb and flowers doth the like.
It is used by some among other potherbs to open the
body, and make it soluble ; but the roots washed cleau,
and boiled in ale and drank, provoke to stool more than,
the leaves, but yet very gently. The root boiled in
water, aud the place of the body most troubled with
Tcrmin and lice, washed therewith while it is warm, de-
itroyeth them utterly.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGE©. 279
Garden Rue. ©. in (h. 3. d. 4.)
Garden Rue is so well known by this name, and the
name Herb of Grace, that 1 shall not need to write any-
further description, but shall only shew you the virtue
of it, as followeth.
Government and virtues."] It is an herb of the Sun,
and under Leo. It provoketh urine and women's courses,
being taken either in meat or drink. The seed thereof
taken in wine, is an antidote against all dangerous me.
dicines or deadly poisons. The leaves taken by them,
selves, or with figs and walnuts, is called Mithridate's
counter-poison against the plague, and causeth all veno
mous things to become harmless ; being often taken in
meat and drink, it abateth venery and destroyeth the abi
lity to get children. A. decoction made thereof with
some dried dill leaves and flowers, easeth all pains and
torments inwardly to be drank, and outwardly applied
warm to the place grieved. The same being drank, help,
cth the pains of the chest and sides, as also coughs and
hardness of breathing, the inflammation of the lungs,,
and the tormenting pains of the sciatica and joints, being
anointed, or laid to the places ; also the shaking fits of
agues, to take a draught before the fit comes ; boiled or
infused in oil, it helps the wind colic, the hardiness and
windiness of the mother, and freeth women from the
strangling or suffocation thereof, if the share and the
parts thereabouts be anointed therewith ; it killcth and
driveth forth the worms of the belly, if it be drank after
it is boiled in wine to the half, with a little honey, it
hclpeth the gout or pains in the joints, hands, feet o,r
knees, applied thereunto ; and with figs it helpeth the
dropsy, being bathed therewith ; bruised and put into
the nostrils, it stayeth the bleeding thereof ; it helpeth
the swelling of the privities, if they be bathed with a
decoction of Rue and bay leaves. It taketh away wheals
and pimples, if being bruised with a few myrtle leaves,
it be made up with wax, and applied. It cureth the mor-
phew, and taketh away all sorts of warts, if boiled in,
wine with some pepper and nitre, and the place rubbed
therewith; and with almond and honey, helpeth the dry
280 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
scabs, or any tetter or ringworm. The juice warmed in,
a pomegranate shell or rind, and dropped into the ears
helpeth the pains of them. The juice of it and fennel,
with a little honey and the gall of a cock put thereunto,
helpeth the dimness of the eye-sight. An ointment
made of the juice thereof, with oil of roses, ceruse, and
a little vinegar, and anointed, cureth St, Anthony's fire,
and all running sores in the head, the stinking ulcers of
the nose or other parts. The antidote used by Mithri-
dates, every morning fasting, to secure himself from any
poison or infection, was this : take twenty leayes of Rne,
a little salt, two walnuts and two figs, beaten, together
into a mess, with twenty juniper berries, which is the
quantity appointed for every day. Another electuary is
made thus : take of nitre, pepper, and cummin-seed, of
each equal parts ; of the leaves of Rue clean picked, as
much in weight as all the other three weighed ; beat them
well together, and put as much honey as will make it up.
into an electuary (but you must first steep your cummin
seed in vinegar twenty-four hours, and then dry it, or
rather roast it in a hot fire-shovel, or in an oven) and it
is a remedy for the pains or griefs in the chest or stomachy
of the spleen, belly, or side,, by wind or stitches,, of the
liver by obstructions, of the reins and bladder by the
stopping of urine, and helpeth also to extenuate fat cor
pulent bodies. What an infamy is cast upon the ashes
©f Mithridates, or Methridates (as the Agustines read
his name) by unworthy people. They that deserve no
good report themselves, love to give none to other?,
cms That renowned King of Pontus fortified his body
by poison against poison. {He cast out devils by Beelze
bub, prince of the devils.) What a sot is he that knows
not if he had accustomed his body to cold poisons, hot
poisons would have dispatched him ? On the contrary,
if not, corrosions would have done it. The whole world
is at this present time beholden to him for his studies in-
physic, and he that useth the quantity but of an hazel
nut of that receipt every morning, to which hi* name is
adjoined, shall to admiration preserve his body in health,
if he do but consider that Rue is an herb of the Sun, and
under Leo, and gather it and the rest accordiogly.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 28 1
Rupture-Wort, h • (c. 1. d. 2.)
Tins derives its name from its principal virtue.
Descript. This spreads many thready branches round
about upon the ground, about a span long, divided into
many other smaller parts full of small joints, set very
thick together, whereat come forth two very small leaves
of a French yellow, green coloured branches and all,
where groweth forth also a number of exceeding small
yellow flowers, scarce to be discerned from the stalk and
leaves, which turn into seeds as small as the very dust.
The root is very long and small, thrusting down deep in
the ground. This hath neither smell nor taste at first,
but afterwards, hath a little astringent taste, without any
manifest heat; yet a little bitter and sharp withal.
Place.'] It groweth in dry, sandy and rocky places.
Time.'] It is fresh and green all the Summer.
Government and Virtues.] They say Saturn causetb
ruptures; if he do, he doth no more than he can cure;
if you want wit, he will teach you, though to your cost.
This herb is Saturn's own, and is a noble antivenerean.
Ttupture-wort hath not its name in vain ; for it is found
By experience to cure the rupture, not only in children,
but also in elder persons, if the disease be not too invete
rate, by taking a dram of the powder of the dried herb
every day in wine, or a decoction made and drank for
certain days together. The juice of distilled water of the
green herb, taken in the same manner, helpeth all other
fluxes either of man or woman ; vomiting also, and the
gonorrhea, or running of the reins, being taken any of
the ways aforesaid. It doth also most assuredly help
those that have the stranguary, or are troubled with the
stone or gravel in the reins or bladder. The same help
eth stitches in the sides, griping pains of the stomach or
belly, the obstructions of the liver, and cureth the yellow
jaundice; likewise it kills the worms in children. Being
outwardly applied, it congiutinateth wounds, and helpeth
to stay defluctions of rheum, from the head to the eyes,
nose and tceth^ being bruised green, and bound thereto;
282 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
or the forehead, temples, or nape of the neck, bathed with
the decoction of the dried herb. It also drieth upthe mois
ture of fistulous ulcers, or any other that are ſoul and
spreading.
Rushes.
Although there are many kinds of Rushes, yet they are
as well let alone as used in physic. There are remedies
enough without them for any disease, and therefore as the
proverb is, I care not a Rush for them; or rather, they will
do you as much good as if one had given you a Rush.
Rye. ?. (c. d. 1.)
This is so well known, especially to the country people,
who seed much thereon, that if I did describe it, they would
presently say, I might as well have spared that labour.
Government and Virtues.] Rye is more digesting than
wheat; the bread and leaven thereof ripeneth and break
eth imposthumes, boils, and other swellings; the meal
of Rye put between a double cloth, and moistened with
a little vinegar, and heated in a pewter dish, set over a
chaſing dish of coals, and bound fast to the head while
it is hot, doth much ease the continual pains in the head.
Matthiolus saith, that the ashes of Rye straw put into
water, and steeped therein a day and a night, and the
chops of the hands or feet washed therewith, doth heal them.
Saffron. G), in Q. (h. d. 2.)
The herb needs no description, it being known generally
where it grows.
Place.] It grows frequently at Walden, in Essex, and
in Cambridgeshire.
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb of the Sun, and
under the Lion, and therefore strengthens the heart ex
ceedingly. I.et not above ten grains be given at one
time, for the Sun, which is the fountain of light, may
dazzle the eyes, and make them blind; a cordial being
taken in an immoderate quantity hurts the heart instead of
helping it. It quickeneth the brain, for the Sun is exalted
in Aries, as well as he hath his house in Leo. It helps
onsumptions of the lungs, and difficulty of breathing;
The ENGLISH PhysiciaN ENLARGED. 283
it is excellent in epidemical diseases, as pestilence, small
pox, and measles. It is a notable expulsive medicine and
remedy for the yellow jaundice.
Sage. l. (h. 2. d. 3.)
Our ordinary Sage needeth no description.
Time.] It flowereth in or about July.
Government and Virtues.] Jupiter claims this, and bids
me tell you, it is good for the liver, and to breed blood.
A decoction of the leaves and branches of Sage made and
drank, saith Dioscorides, provokes urine, bringeth down
women's courses, helps to expel the dead child, and
causeth the hair to become black. It stayeth the bleed
ing of wounds, and cleanseth foul ulcers and sores. The
decoction made in wine, taketh away the itching of the
privities, if they be bathed therewith. Agrippa saith,
that if women that cannot conceive, by reason of the
moist slipperiness of their wombs, shall take a quantity
of the juice of Sage, with a little salt, for four days be
fore they company with their husbands, it will help them
not only to conceive, but also to retain the birth with
out miscarrying. Orpheus saith, three spoonfuls of the
juice of Sage, taken fasting, with a little honey, doth
presently stay the spitting or casting of blood in them
that are in a consumption. These pills are much com
mended: take of spikenard, ginger, of each two drams,
of the seed of Sage toasted at the fire, eight drams, of the
long-pepper, 12 drams, all these being brought into pow
der, put thereto'so much juice of the Sage as may make
them into a mass of pills, taking a dram of them every
morning fasting, and so likewise at night, drinking a
little pure water after them. Matthiolus saith, it is very
profitable for all manner of pains in the head, coming
*of cold and rheumatic humours; as also for all pains of
the joints, whether inwardly or outwardly, and therefore
helpeth the falling sickness, the lethargy, such as are dull
and heavy of spirit, the palsy, and is of much use in all
defluctions of rheum from the head and for the diseases of
the chest or breast. The leaves of Sage and nettles
bruised together, and laid upon the imposthume that
riseth behind the ears, doth assuage it much.
The juice of Sage taken in warm water helpeth a
hoarseness and cough. The leaves soddened in wine,
284 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
and laid upon the place affected with the palsy, helpeth
much, if the decoction be drank : also Sage taken with
■wormwood is good for the bloody-flux. Pliny saith,
it procures women's courses, and stayeth them coming
down too fast; helpeth the stinging and biting ol serpents
and killeth the worms that breed in the ear, and sores.
Sage is of excellent use to help the memory, warming
and quickening the senses; and the conserve made of the
flowers is used to the same purpose, and also for all the
former recited diseases. The juice of Sage drank with
Tinegar, hath been of good use in time of the plague at
all times. Gargles likewise are made with Sage, rosema
ry, honey-suckles and plantain, boiled in wine or water,
with some honey or allum put thereto, to wash sore
months and throats, cankers, or the secret parts of man
or woman, as need requireth. And with other hot and
comfortable herbs, Sage is boiled to bathe the body and
legs in the Summer time, especially to warm cold joints
or sinews, troubled with the palsy and cramp, and to
comfort and strengthen the parts. It is much commend,
ed against the stitch, or pains in the side coming of wind,
if the place be fomented warm with the decoction there,
of in wine, and the herb also after boiling be laid warm
thereunto.
Wood Sage. ? (h. d. 2.>
This is also called Wood-Germander.
Descript."] Wood-sage riseth up with square hoary
stalks, two feet high at least, with two leaves set at
every joint, somewhat like other Sage leaves, but smaller,
softer, whiter and rounder, and a little dented about the
edges, and smelling somewhat stronger. At the tops of
the stalks and branches stand the flowers, on a slender
large spike, turning themselves all one way when they
blow, and are of a pale and whitish colour, smaller than
Sage, but hooded and gaping like unto them. The seed
is blaekish and round ; four usually seem in a husk toge
ther, the root is long and stringy, with divers fibres
thereat, and abideth many years.
Place.] It groweth in woods, and by wood sides ; as
also in divers fields and bye lanes in the land.
Time.'] It flowereth in June, July and August.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 285
Government and Virtues-] The herb is under Venus.
The decoction of the Wood Sage provoketh urine and
women's courses. It also proyoketh sweat, digesteth
humours, and discusseth swellings and nodes in the flesh,
and is therefore thought to be good against the French
pox. The decoction of the green herb, made with wine,
is a safe and sure remedy for those who by falls, bruises,
or blows, suspect some vein to be inwardly broken, to
disperse and void the congealed blood, and consolidate
the veins. The drink used inwardly, and the herb out
wardly, is good for such as are inwardly bursten, and is
found to be a sure remedy for the palsy. The juice of
the herb, or the powder thereof dried,, is good for moist
ulcers and sores in the legs, and other parts, to dry
them and cause them to heal more speedily. It is no less
effectual also in green wounds, to be used upon any oc«
casion.
Solomon's Seal. \ . (h. d. I.)
Of these there are two kinds, the common and the sweet
smelling.
Descript.] The common SoIomon'sSeal riseth up with
a round stalk half a yard high, bowing or bending down
to the ground, set with single leaves one above another,
somewhat large, and iike the leaves of the lily-convally,
or May-lily, with an eye of bluish upon the green, with
some ribs therein, and more yellowish underneath. At
the foot of every leaf, almost from the bottom up to the
top of the stalk, come forth small, long, white and hoi.
low pendulous flowers, somewhat like the flowers ofMay-
lily, but ending in five long points, for the most part
two together, at the end of a long foot-stalk, and some
times but one, and sometimes also two stalks, with flow
ers at the foot of a leaf, which are without any scent at
all, and stand on one side of the stalk. After they are
past, come in on their places small round berries, great at
the first, and blackish green, tending to blueness when
they are ripe, wherein lie small, white, hard, and stony
seeds. The root is of the thickness of one's finger or
thumb, white and knotted in some places, a flat round
circle representing a Seal, whereof it took the name, ly«
2S6 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
ing along under the upper crust of the earth, and not
growing downward, but with many fibres underneath.
Place.] It is frequent in divers places of this land; as,
namely, in a wood two miles from Canterbury, by Fish-
Fool Hill, as also in Bushy Close belonging to the parson,
age of Alderbury, near Clarendon, two miles from Salis
bury ; in Chellon-wood, or Chcffoo-Hill, between New-
ington and Sittingbouru in Kent, and divers other places
iu lissex, and other counties.
Time.'] It flowereth about May : the root abideth and
shootcth anew every year.
Government and f/irtues.] Saturn owns the plant,
for he loves his bones well. The root of Solomon's Seal
is found by experience to be available in wounds, hurts,
and outward sores, to heal and close up the lips of those
that are green, and to dry up and restrain the flux of hu
mours to those that are old. It is singulaily good to stay
vomitings and bleeding wheresoever, as also all fluxes iu
man or woman, whether whites or reds in women, or the
running of the reins in men j also to knit any joint,
which by weakness useth to be often out of place, or will
not stay in long when it is set; also to knit and join bro
ken bones in any part of the body, the roots being brui
sed and applied to the places ; yea, it hath been found
by late experience, that the decoction of the root in wine,
or the bruised root put into wine or other drink, and after
a nighi's infusion, strained forth hard and drank, hath
heljied both man and beast, whose bones hath been bro
ken by any occasion, which is the most assured reluge of
help to people of divers counties of the land that they
can have. It is no less effectual to help ruptures and
burstings, the decoction in wine or the powder in broth
or drink, being inwardly taken, and outwardly applied
to the place. The same is also available for inward or
outward bruises, falls or blows, both to dispel the con.
gealed blood, and to take away both the pains and the
black and blue marks that abide after the hurt. The
same also, or the distilled water of the whole plant used
to the face, or other parts of the skin, cleanseth it from
morphew, freckles, spots, or marks whatsoever, leaving
the place fresh, fair, and lovely for which it is much
used by the Italian Dames.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 287
Samphire. 11, (h. m. 2.)
This is used more by the cook than by the apothecary.
Descript.] Rock Samphire groweth up with a tender
green stalk about half a yard, or two feet high, branch-
ing forth almost from the very bottom, and stored with
sundry thick and almost round (somewhat long) leaves,
of a deep green colour, sometimes more on a stalk, and
sappy, and of a pleasant, hot, and spicy taste. At the
top of the stalks and branches stand umbels of white
flowers, and after them come large seed bigger than feu-
nel seed, yet somewhat like it. The root is great, white,
and long, continuing many years, and is ot an hot and
spicy taste also.
Place.] It groweth on the rocks that are often moist- .
encd at the least, if not overflowed with the sea water.
Time.] And it flowcrcth and seedeth in the end of
July and August.
Government and Virtues.] It is in an herb of Jupiter,
and was in former times wont to be used more than now it
is ; the more is the pity. It is well known almost to every
body, that ill digestions and obstructions are the cause of
most of the diseases which the frail nature of man is sub
ject to ; both which might be remedied by a more fre
quent use of this herb. If people would have sauce to
their meat, they may take some lor profit as well as for
pleasure. It is a sale herb, very pleasant both to taste
and stomach, helping digestion, and in some sort open
ing obstructions of the liver and spleen ; provoketh urine,
and helpeth thereby to wash away the gravel and stone
engendered in the kidnies or bladder.
Sanicle. ?. (h. 2. d. 3.)
This is by some called Butterwort.
Descrip/.] Sanicle sendeth forth many great round
leaves, standing upon long brownish stalks, every one
somewhat deeply cut or divided into five or six parts,
and some of these also cut in somewhat like the leaf of
crow's-foot, or dove's-foot, and finely dented about the
edges, smooth', and of a dark shining colour, and some
288 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED'
times reddish about the brim; from which rise up small,
round green stalks, without any joint or leaf thereon,
saving at the top, where it branches forth into flowers,
having a leaf divided into three or four parts at that joint
with the flowers, which are small and white, starting out
of small round greenish yellow heads, many standing to
gether in a tuft, in which afterwards are the seeds con
tained, which are small round burs, somewhat like the
leaves of clevers, and stick in the same manner upon any
thing that they touch. The root is composed of many
blackish strings or fibres, set together at a little long
head, which abideth with green leaves all the Winter.
Place.] It is found in many shadowy woods.
Time.'] It flowereth in June, and the seed is ripe short
ly after.
Government and Virtues.'} This is one of Venus's herbs
to cure the wounds or mischiefs Mars inflicteth upon the
body of man. It heals green wonnds speedily, or any ul
cers, imposthumes, or bleedings inward, also tumours in
any part of the body ; for the decoction or powder in
drink taken, and the juice outwardly, dissipateth the
humours ; and there is not found any herb that can give
such present help either to man or beast, when the disease
falleth upon the lungs or throat, and to heal up putrid
malignant ulcers in the mouth, throat and privities, by
gargling or washing with the decoction of the leaves and
roots made in water, and a little honey put thereto. It
helpeth to stay women's courses, and all other fluxes of
blood, either by the mouth, urine, or stool, and tasks of
the belly ; the ulcerations of the kidnies also, and the
pains in the bowels and gonorrhea, or running of the
reins, being boiled in wine or water, and drank. The
same also is no less powerful to help any rupture or
burstings, used both inwardly and outwardly : and brief
ly, it is as effectual in binding, restraining, consolidat
ing, heating, drying and healing, as comt'rey, bugle,
self heal, or auy other of the vulnerary herbs whatso
ever.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 289
Saracen's Confound. T? . (c, d. 2.)
It is also called Saracen's Woundwort.
Descript.'] This groweth sometimes, with brownish
stalks, and other whiles with green, to a man's height,
having narrow green leaves snipped about the edges,
somewhat like those of the peach-tree, or willow leaves,
but not of such a white green colour. The tops of stalks
are furnished with many yellow star-like flowers, standing
in green heads; which when they are fallen, and the seed
ripe, which is somewhat long, small and of a brown co
lour, wrapped down, is therewith carried away with the
wind. The root is composed of fibres set together at a
head which perisheth not in Winter, although the stalks
dry away, and no leaf appeareth in the AVinter. The
taste hereof is strong and unpleasant, and so is the smell
also.
I'laceJ] It groweth in moist and wet grounds, by
woodsides, and sometimes in the moist places of shadowy
groves, as also the water side.
Time."] It flowereth in July, and the seed is soon ripe,
and carried away with the wind.
Government and Virtues."] Saturn owns the herb, and
it is of a sober condition like him. Among the Germans
this wound herb is preferred before all others of the same
quality. Being boiled in wine, and drank, it hclpeth
the indisposition of the liver, and freeth the gall from
obstructions ; whereby it is good for the yellow jaun
dice, and for the dropsy in the beginning of it ; for all
inward ulcers of the reins, mouth, or throat, and inward
wounds and bruises, likewise for such sores as happen
in the privy parts of men or women; being steeped in
wine, and then distilled, the water thereof drank, is
Singularly good to ease all gnawings in the stomach, or
other pains of the body, as also the pains of the mother :
and beingboiled in water, it helpeth continual agues ; and
the said water, or the simple water of the herb distilled,
or the juice or decoction, are very effectual to heal any
green wound, or old sore or ulcer whatsoever, cleansing
them from corruption, and quickly healing them up.
Briefly, whatsoever hath been said of Bugle or Sanicle,
may be found herein. O
290 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Sauce Alone. (h. d. 4.)
Also called Jack by the Hedge side.
Descript.] The lower leaves of this are roimder than
those that grow towards the tops of the stalks, and are
set singly on the joint, being somewhat round and broad,
pointed at the ends, dented also about the edges, some
what resembling nettle leaves for the form, but of a fresher
green colour, hot rough or pricking : the flowers are
white, growing at the top of the stalks one above another,
which being past, follow small round pods, wherein are
contained round seed somewhat blackish. The root
stringy and thready, perisheth every year after it hatli
given seed, and raiseth itself again of its own sowing. The
plant, or any part thereof, being bruised, smelleth of
garlic, but more pleasant, and tasteth somewhat hot and
and sharp, almost like unto rocket.
Place.] It groweth under walls, and by hedge-sides,
and path.ways in fields in many places.
Ti,ne."\ It flowereth in June, July, and August.
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb of Mercury...
This is eaten by many country people as sauce to their
salt fish, and helpeth well to digest the crudities and
other corrupt humours engendered thereby. It warmctli
also the stomach, and causeth digestion. The juice
thereof boiled with honey is accounted to be as good as
hedge mustard for the cough, to cut and expectorate the
tough phlegm. The seed bruised and boiled in wine, is a
singular good remedy for the wind cholic, or the stone,
being drank warm ; it is also given to women troubled
with the mother, both to drink, and the seed put into a
cloth, and applied while it is warm, is of singular good
use. The leaves also, or the seed boiled, is good to
be used in clysters to case the pains of the stone. The
green leaves are held to be good to heal the ulcers in the
legs.
Winter and Summer Savory. (h. d. 2.)
Both these are so well known (being .entertained as
constant inhabitants in our gardens) that they need no
description
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 291
Government and Virtues.] Mercury claims the dominion
over this herb, neither is there a better remedy against the
colic and iliac passion, than this herb ; keep it dry by you
all the year, if you lsve yourself and your ease, and it is a
hundred pounds to a penny if you do not: keep it dry,
make conserves and syrups of it for your use, and withal,
take notice that the Summer kind is the best. They are
both of them hot and dry, especially the Summer kind,
which is both sharp and quick in taste, expelling wind in
the stomach and bowels, and is a present help for the
rising of the mother procured by wind ; provoketh urine
and women's courses, and is much commended for women
with child to take inwardly, and to smell often unto. It
cureth tough phlegm in the chest and lungs, and helpeth
to expectorate it the' more easily; quickens the dull
spirits in the lethargy, the juice thereof being snuffed up
into the nostrils. The juice dropped into the eyes,
cleareth a dull sight, if it proceed of thin cold humours
distilled from the brain. The juice heated with oil ot
Roses, and dropped into the Cars, easeth them of the
noise and singing in them, and of deafness also. Out
wardly applied with wheat Hour, in manner of a poultice,
it gireth ease to them, and taketh away their pains. It
also taketh away the pain that comes by stinging of bees,
wasps, &c.
Savine. g. (h. d. 3.)
To describe a plant so well known is needless, it being
oursed up almost in every garden, and abiding green all
the Winter.
Government and Virtue?."] It is under the dominion of
Mars, being hot and" dry in the third degree, and being
of exceeding clean parts, is of a very digesting quality.
If you dry the herb into powder, and mix it with honey,
it is an excellent remedy to cleanse old filthy ulcers and
fistulas ; but it hinders them from healing. The same is
excellent good to break carbuncles and plague sores ;
also helpeth the king's evil, being applied to the place.
Being spread over a piece of leather, and applied to the
navel, kills the worms in the belly, helps scabs and itch,
"2S2 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Winning sores, cankers, tetters, and ringworms ; and
being applied to the place, may haply cure venereal sores.
This I thought good to speak of, as it may be safely used
outwardly, for inwardly it caunot be taken without mani
fest danger.
White Saxifrage. « . (k. d. 2.)
There are two kinds of Saxifrage, both of which are here
described.
Descripl.'] The common white Saxifrage hath a few
small reddish kernels of roots covered with some skins,
lying among divers small blackish fibres, which send forth
divers round, faint or yellow green leaves, and greyish
underneath, lying above the ground, unevenly dented
about the edges, and somewhat hairy, every one upon a
little footstalk, from whence riseth up round, brownish,
hairy, .green stalks, two or three feet high, with a few
6uch like round leaves as grow below, but smaller, and
somewhat branched at the top, whereon stand pretty
large white flowers, of five leaves a-piece, with some
yellow threads in the middle, standing in a long crested,
brownish, green husk. After the flowers are past, there
ariseth sometimes a round hard head, forked at the top,
wherein is contained small black seed, but usually they
fall away without any seed, and it is the kernels or grains
of the root which are usually called the White Saxifrage-
seed, and so used.
Place. J It groweth as well in the lowermost, as in
the upper dry corners of meadows, and grassy sandy
places.
Time.] It flowereth in May, and then gathered, as
well for that which, is called the seed, as to distil, for it
quickly perisheth down to the ground.
Government and Virtues."] It is eff'ectual to cleanse the
reins and bladder, to dissolve the stone in them, and to
expel it and the gravel by urine ; to help the stranguary ;
for which purpose the decoction of the herb or roots in
white wine, is most usual, or the powder of the small
kernel root, which is called the seed, taken in white wine.
The distilled water of the whole herb, root and flowers,
is most familiar to be taken. It provoketh also women's
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 293
courses, and freeth and cleanseth the stomach and lungs
from thick and tough phlegm. There are not many better
medicines to break the stone than this.
Burnet Saxifrage. 5 . (h. d. 3.)
Burnet Saxifrage groweth up with divers long stalks of
winged leaves, set directly opposite one to another on
both sides, caph being somewhat broad, and a little
pointed and d«nted about the edges, of a sad green,
colour. At the top of the stalks stand umbels of white
flowers, after which come small and blackish seed. The
root is long and whitish, abiding long. Our lesser Burnet
Saxifrage hath much finer leaves than the former, and very
small, and set one against another, deeply jagged about
the edges, and of the same colour as the former. The
umbels of the flowers are white, and the seed very small',
and so is the root, being also somewhat hot and quick in
taste.
Plaee.'] These grow in moist meadows, and are to be
found, by being well sought for among the grass, wherein,
many times they lay hid, scarcely to be discerned.
Time.'] They flower about July, and their seed is ripa
in August. .
Government and Virtues.'] They are both herbs of tha
Moon. They are hot as pepper. They have the same
properties the parsleys have, but in provoking urine, and
easing the pains thereof, and of the wind and colic, are
snore effectual, the roots or seed being used either it*
powder, or in decoctions ; and likewise helpeth the windy
pains of the mother, add to procure their courses, and to
break and void the stone in the kidnies, to digest cold, vis
cous, and tough phlegm in the stomach, and is an especial
remedy against all kind of venom. Castoreum being
boiled in the distilled water thereof, is singular good to be
given to those that are troubled with cramps and convul.
sions. Some make the seeds into comfits (as they da
carraway seeds) which is effectual to all the purpose*
aforesaid. The juice of the herb dropped into the most
grievous wounds of the head, drieth up their moisture, and
healeth them quickly. Some women use the distilled waxec
o 3.
294 THE ENGLISH PhysiciaN ENLARGEd.
to take away freckles or spots in the skin or face; and to
drink the same sweetened with sugar for all the purposes
aforesaid. f
Scabious, three Sorts. §. (h. d. 2.)
THERE are many other sorts of Scabious, but I take those
here described are the most familiar.
Descript..] Common field Scabious groweth up with
many hairy, soft, whitish green leaves, some whereof are
very little, if at all jagged on the edges, others very much
rent and torn on the sides, and have threads in them,
which upon breaking may be plainly seen; from among
which rise up divers hairy green stalks, three or four fect
high, with such like hairy green leaves on them, but more
deeply and finely divided, branched forth a little ; at the
tops thereof, which are naked and bare of leaves for a
good space, stand round heads of flowers, of a pale bluish
colour, set together in a head, the outermest whereof
are larger than the inward, with many threads also in
the middle, somewhat flat at the top, as the head with
the seed is likewise; the root is great, white and thick,
growing down deep into the ground, and abideth many
ears.
y There is another sort of Field Scabious different in no
thing from the former, but in being smaller.
The Corn Scabious differeth little from the first, but
that it is greater in all respects, and the flowers more in
clining to purple, and the root creepeth under the upper
crust of the earth, and runneth not deep into the ground
as the first doth. -
Place.] The first groweth usually in meadows.
The second in some of the dry fields, but not so plenti
fully as the former.
The third in standing corn, or fallow fields.
Time.] They flower in June and July, and some abide
flowering until it be late in August, and the seed is ripe in
the mean time. -
Government and Virtues.] Mercury owns the plant
Scabious isvery effectual for all coughs, shortness ofbreath:
and all other diseases of the breast and lungs, ripening and
digesting cold phlegm, and voiding them forth by cough
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 295
ing and spitting. It ripeneth also all sorts of inward
ulcers and imposthuraes ; pleurisy also, if the decoclion
of the herb dry or green be made in wine, and drank for
some time together. Four ounces of the clarified juice of
Scabious taken in the morning fasting, with a dram of
mithridate, or Venice treacle, freeth the heart from any
infection of pestilence, if after the taking of it the party
sweat two hours in bed, and this medicine be again and
again repeated, if need require. The green herb bruised
and applied to any carbuncle or plague sore, is found by
certain experience to dissolve and break it in three hours
space. The same decoction also drank, hclpeth the pains
and stitches in the side. The decoction of the roots taken
for forty days together, or a dram of the powder of them
takeu at a time in whey, doth (as Matthiolus saith)
wonderfully help those that are troubled with running or
spreading scabs, tetters, ring-worms, yea, although they
proceed from the French pox. The juice or decoction
drank, hclpeth also scabs and breakings out of the itch,
and the like. The juice also made up into an ointment
and used, is effectual for the same purpose. The same also
hcaleth all inward wounds by the drying, cleansing, and
healing quality therein ; and a syrup made of the juice and
sugar, is very effectual to all the purposes aforesaid, and
so is the distilled w ater of the herb and flowers made in
due season, especially to be used when the green herb is
not in force to be taken. The decoction of the herb and
roots outwardly applied, doth wonderfully help all sorts
of hard or cold swellings in any part of the body, is
effectual for shrunk sinews or veins, and healeth green
wounds, old sores and ulcers. The juice of Scabious, made
up with the powder of Borax and Samphire, cleanseth the
skin of the face, or other parts of the body, not only from
freckles and pimples, but also from morphew and leprosy ;
the head washed with the decoction, cleanseth from dan.
druff, scurf, sores, itch, and the like, used warm. The
iierb bruised and applied, doth in a short time loosen and
draw forth any splinter, broken bone, arrow head, or
«thcr such like thing lying in the flesh.
o 4
296 1HE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Scurvygrass. %. (h. d. 3.)
This is well known and much used by country people.
Descript.] English Scurvygrass hath many thick flat
leaves, more long than broad, and sometimes longer and
narrower ; sometimes also smooth on the edges, and some
times a little waved ; sometimes plain, smooth and pointed,
of a sad green, and sometimes a bluish colour, every one
Standing by itself upon a long foot-stalk, which is brownish
or greenish also, from among which arise many slender
stalks, bearing few leaves thereon like the other, but
longer and lesser for the most part; at the tops whereof
grow many whitish flowers, with yellow threads in the
middle, standing about a green head, which becometh the
seed vessel, which will be somewhat flat when it is ripe,
wherein \s contained reddish seed, tasting somewhat hot.
The root is made of many white strings, which stick deeply
into the mud, wherein it chiefly delights, yet it will well
abide in the more upland and drier ground, and taste a
little brackish and salt even there, but not so much as
where it hath the salt water to feed upon.
Place."] It groweth all along the Thames side, both on
the Essex and Kentish shores, from Woolwich round
about the sea coasts to Dover, Portsmouth, and even to
Bristol, where it is had in plenty ; the other with round
leaves, groweth in Lincolnshire, and other places by the
sea-side.
There is also another sort called Dutch Scurvygrass,
which is most known, and frequent in gardens.
Time.] It flowereth in April and May, and giveth seed
ripe quickly after.
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb of Jupiter.
The English Scurvygrass is more used for the salt taste it
beareth, which doth somewhat open and cleanse ; but the
Dutch is of better effect, and chiefly used (ifit may be had)
by those that have the scurvy, and is of singular good
effect to cleanse the blood, liver and spleen, taking the
juice in the Spring, every morning fasting, in a cup of
drink. The decoction is good for the same purpose, and
openeth obstructions, evacuating cold, clammy and phleg«
matic humours, both from the liver and spleen, aud bring
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 297
ing the body to a more lively colour. The juice also
hejpeth all foul ulcers and sores in the mouth, gargled
therewith ; and used outwardly, cleanseth the skin from
spots, marks, or scars that happen therein.
Self-Heal. ? . (h. d. I.)
Called also Prunel, Carpenter's Herb, Hook-heal, and
Sickle-wort.
Descript.'] Self-heal is a small, low, creepingherb, having
*iany small, roundish-pointed leaves, like leaves of wild
mints, of a dark green colour, without dents on the edges ;
from among which rise square hairy stalks, scarce a foot
high, which spread sometimes into branches with small
leaves set thereon, up to the tops, where stand brown,
spiked heads of small brownish leaves like scales and
flowers together, almostlike the head of a cassidony, which
flowers are gaping, and of a bluish purple, or more pale
blue, in some places sweet, but not so ill others. The
roots consist of many fibres downward, and spreading
strings also whereby it increaseth. The small stalks, with
the leaves creeping on the ground, shoot forth fibres
taking hold on the ground, whereby it is made a great tuft
in a short time.
Place. | It is found in woods and fields every where.
Time.'] It flowereth in May and sometimes in April.
Government and Virtues.] Here is another herb of
Venus, Self-Hcal, whereby when you are hurt you may
heal yourself; it is an especial herb for inward and out
ward wounds. Take it inwardly in syrups for inward
wounds ; outwardly in unguents and plaisters for out
ward. As Self-Heal is like Bugle in form, so also in the
qualities and virtues, serving for all the purposes whereto
Bugle is applied with good success, either inward or OHt-
wardly, for inward wounds or ulcers whatsoever within
the body, for bruises or falls, and such like hurts. If it
be accompanied with Bugle, Sauicle, and other the like
wound-herbs, it will be more effectual to wash or inject
into ulcers in the parts outwardly. Where there is cause
to repress the heat and sharpness of humours flowing to
any sores, ulcers, inflammations, swellings or the like, or
298 THE ENG1I9H PHYSICIitN ENLARGE!*.
to stay the flux of blood in any wound or part, this Fs-
used with some good success; as also to cleanse the foul-
ftees of sores, and cause them more speedily to be healed.
It is an especial remedy for all green wounds, to solder the
lips of them, and to keep the place from any further
inconveniencies. The juice hereof used with oil of roses
to anoint the temples and forehead, is very effectual to-
remove the head-ach, and the same mixed with honey of
roses, cleanseth and healeth all ulcers in the mouth and
throat, and those also in the secret parts. And the pro
verb of the Germans, French, and others, is verified in
this, that he needeth neither physician nor surgeon that
hath Self-heal and Sanicle to help himself.
The Service-Tree. . (c. d. 1.)
It is so well known in the place where it grows, that it
needeth no description.
Government and Virtues."] Services when they are mel
low, stay fluxes, scouring, and casting, yet less than med
lars. If they be dried before they be mellow, and kept
all the year, they may be used in deco&ions for the said
purpose, either to drink or to bathe the parts requiring it;
and are profitably used to stay the bleeding of wounds,,
and of the mouth or nose, to be applied to the forehead,
and nape of the neck ; and are under the dominion of
Saturn.
Shepherd's Parse. Pj . (c. d. 3.)
It is called Whoreman's Permacety, Shepherd's Scrips
Shepherd's Pounce, Toywort, Pickpurse and Casewort-
It is too well known to need any description.
Government and Virtues.^ It is under the dominion of
Saturn, and of a cold, dry, and binding nature, like to
him. It helps all fluxes of blood, either caused by inward
or outward wounds ; as also flux of the belly, and bloody
flax, spitting and pissing of blood, stops the terms in
women ; being bound to the wrists of the hands, and the*
solos of the feet, it helps the yellow jaundice. The herb
being made into a poultice, helps inflammations and St.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 299
Anthony's fire. The juice being dropped into the ears,
heals the pains, noise and matterings thereof. A good
ointment may be made of it for all wounds, especially
wounds in the head.
Smallage. g. (h. d. 2.)
This is very well known, therefore I shall not trouble
the reader with any description thereof.
Government and Virtues.'] It is an herb of Mercury.
Smallage is hdtter, drier, and much more medicinal than
parsley, for it much more openeth obstructions of the
liver and spleen, rarefieth thick phlegm, and cleanseth it
and the blood withal. It provoketh urine and women's
courses, and is singular good against the yellow jaundice,
tertian and quartan agues, if the juice thereof be taken,
but especially made into a syrup. The juice also put to
honey of roses, and barley water, is very good to gargle
the mouth and throat of those that have sores and ulcers
in them, and will quickly heal them. The same lotion:
also cleanseth and healeth all other foul ulcers and can.
kers, elsewhere, if they be washed therewith. The seed
is especially used to break and expel wind, kill worms,
and to help a stinking breath. The root is effectual to all
the purposes aforesaid, and is held to be stronger in opera
tion than the herb, but especially to open obstructions,
and to rid away any ague, if the juice thereof be taken in
wine, or the decoction thereof in wine be used. ,
Sopewort. ?. (h. d. 2.)
It is likewise called B»uisewort.
Descript."] The rot creepeth under ground, with many
joints, of a brown colour on the outside, and yellow
within, shooting forth in divers places weak and round
stalks, full of joints, set with two leaves a-piece at every
ene of them on the contrary side, which are ribbed some
what like the plantain, and fashioned like the common
field white campion leaves, seldom having any branches
from the sides of the stalks, but set with flowers at ther
top, standing in long husks, like the wild campions, mad*
300 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
of fire leaves a.piece, round at the cads and dented in the
middle, of a rose colour, almost white, sometimes deeper,
sometimes paler, of a reasonable scent.
Place.'\ It groweth wild in low and wet grounds, by-
brooks and the sides of running waters.
Time.] It flowereth in July, and continuelh all August
end part of September.
Government and Virtues.] Venus owns it. The country
people in divers places bruise the leaves of Sopewort, and
lay to their fingers, hands or legs, when they are cut, to
heal them. Some boast that it is good to provoke urine,
and thereby to expel gravel and the stone in the reins or
kidnies, and also account it singular good to void hydro-
pical waters ; and they no less extol it to perform an.
absolute cure in the French-pox, more than sarsaparilla,
guaiacum, or China can do ; which how true it is, I leave
others to judge.
Sorrel. $ . (h. d. U)
Sorrel grows in gardens, also wild in fields, and is so well
known that it needeth no description.
Government and firlues.] It is under the dominion of
Venus. Sorrel is prevalent in all hot diseases, to cool
any inflammation and heat of blood in agues, pestilential
and cholerick, or sickness and fainting, arising from heat,
and to refresh the overspent spirits with the violence of
furious or fiery fits of agues ; to quench thirsty and pro-
cure an appetite in fainting, or decaying stomachs. For it
resisteth putiefaction of the blood, killeth worms, and is a
cordial to the heart, which the seed doth more effectually,
being more drying and binding, and thereby stayeth the
hot fluxes of women's courses, or of humours in the bloody
flux, or flux in the stomach. The root also in a decoc
tion, or in powder, is effectual for all the said purposes.
Both roots and seed, as well as the herb, are held powerful
to resist the poison of the scorpion. The decoction of the
roots is taken to help the jaundice, and to expel the gravel
and stone in the reins or kidnies. The decoction of the
flowers made with wine and drank, helpeth the black
jaundice, as also the inward ulcers ot the body and bowels.
A syrup made with, the juice 0/ Sorrel and fumitory, is a
3
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 301
sovereign help to kill those sharp humours that cause the
itch. The juice thereof, with a little vinegar, serveth well
to be used outwardly for the same cause, and is also pro.
fitable for tetters, ring-worms, &c. It helpeth also to
discuss the kernels in the throat; and the juice gargled in
the mouth, helpeth the sores therein. The leaves wrapt
in colewort leaf and roasted in the embers, and applied to
a hard imposthume, blotch, boil or plague sore, doth ripen
and break it. The distilled water of the herb is of much
good use for all the purposes aforesaid.
Wood Sorrel. ? (c. 1. d. 2.)
This is a very different plant from the former.
Descript.] It groweth upon the ground, having a
number of leaves coming from the root made of three
leaves, like trefoil, but broad at the ends, and cut in the
middle, of a yellowish green colour, every one standing
en a long foot-stalk, which at their first coming up are
close folded together, to the stalk, but opening themselves
afterwards, and are of a fine sour relish, and yielding a
juice which will turn red when it is clarified, and maketh
a most dainty clear syrup. Among these leaves rise up
divers tender, weak footstalks, with every one of them a
flower at the top, consisting of five small-pointed leaves,
star-fashion, of a white colour, in most places, and in some
dashed over with a small shew of bluish, on the back side
only. After the flowers are past, follow small round
heads, with small yellow seeds in them. The roots are
small strings, fastened to the end of a small long piece ;
all of them being of a yellowish colour.
Place.] It groweth in woods and wood sides, where
they be moist and shadowed, and in other places not too
much open to the sun.
Time.'] It flowereth in April and May.
Government and y'irtues.] Venus owns it. Thfs serveth
all the purposes that the other Sorrels do, and is more
effectual in hindering putrefaction of blood, and ulcers in
the mouth and body, and to quench thirst, to strengthen
• a weak stomach, to procure an appetite, to stay vomiting,
and very excellent in any contagious sickness or pes*
562 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGE!*.
tilcntial fevers. The syrnp made of the juice is effectual
in all cases aforesaid, and so is the distilled water'of the
herb. Sptinges or linen cloths wet in the juice, and ap
plied outwardly to any hot swelling or inflammations,
doth much cool and help them. The same juice taken
and gargled in the mouth, and after it is spit forth,1 taken
afresh, doth wonderfully help a foul stinking canker or
ulcers therein. It is singular good to heal wounds, or to
stay the bleedings of thrusts or stabs in the body.
Sow Thistle. ?. (c. 9. OT. j j
Sow Thistles are generally so well known, that they Heed
no description.
Government and Virtues.] These are under the in
fluence of Venus. Sow Thistles are cooling, and some
what binding, and are very fit to cool a hot stomach and
case the pains thereof. The herb boiled in wine, is
helpful to stay the dissolution of the stomach, and the
milk that is taken from the stalks when they are broken,
given in drink, is beneficial to those that are short winded,
and have a wheezing. Pliny saith, that it hath caused the
gravel and stone to be voided by urine, and that the
eating thereof helpeth a stinking breath. The decoction
of the leaves and stalks causeth abundance of milk in
nurses, and their children to be well-coloured. The
juice or distilled water is good for all inflammations,
wheals and eruptions or heat in the skin,, or itching of
the haemorrhoids. The juice boiled or thoroughly heated
in a little oil of bitter almonds in the peel of a pomegra
nate, and dropped into the ears, is a sure remedy for
deafness, singing, &c. Three spoonfuls of the juice taken
warmed in white wine, and some wine put thereto, causeth
women in travail to have so easy and speedy delivery, that
they may be able to walk presently after. It is wonderfully
good for women to wash their faces with, to clear the skir*
and give it lustre.
Southern Wood. (k. d. I.)
This is so well known that I need not trouble you witS
any description thereof.
1
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Government and Virtues.] It is a mercurial plant,
worthy of more esteem than it hath. The seed bruised,
heated in warm water, and drank, helpeth those that are
bursten, or troubled with th« cramps or convulsions of
the sinews, the sciatica, or difficulty in making water, and
bringing down women's courses. Taken in wine is att
- antidote against all deadly poison, and driveth away
venomous creatures; the smell of this herb, being burnt,
doth the same. The oil thereof anointed on the back
bone, before the fits of the agues come, taketh theni
away ; it taketh away inflammations in the eyes, if it be
put with some part of roasted quince, and boiled with a
few crams of bread and applied. Boiled with barley-meal,
it taketh away pimples, pushes, or wheals that arise iii
any parts of thebody. The seed as well as the dried herb,
is often given to kill worms in children. The, herb
bruised and laid to, helpeth to draw forth splinters and
thorns out of the flesh. The ashes drieth up and healeth
old ulcers that are without inflammation, although by the
sharpness thereof it biteth sore, and putteth them to sore
pains ; as also the privy parts in man or woman. The
ashes mingled with old saliad oil, causeth the hair to grow
again either on the head or beard. Darantcrs saith, the
oil made of Southern Wood, and put among the oint
ments that are used against the French disease, is very
effec"tual, likewise killeth lice in the head. The distilled
.water of the herb is said to help them much that are
troubled with the stone, as also for the diseases of the
spleen and mother. It is held by all writers, ancient
and modern, to be more offensive to the, stomach than
.wormwood.
Spigncl ? . (h. 3. d. 2.)
Ar.so called Spicknel ; a herb in little use.
Descript.] The roots spread deep in the ground, many-
strings or branches growing from one head, which is hairy
at the top, of a blackish brown colour on the outside,
and white within, smelling well, and of an aromatical
taste, from whcDce arise sundry long stalks of most fine
cut leaves, like hair, smaller than dill, set thick on both
•ides of the stalks, and of a good scent. Among these
304 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED;
leaves rise up round stiff stalks, with a few joints, and
leaves on them, and at the tops an umbel of fine pure
white flowers ; at the edges whereof sometimes will be
seen a shew of the reddish bluish colour, especially before
they be full blown, and are succeeded by small, some
what round seeds, of a brown colour, divided into two
parts, and crusted on the back.
Place.] It groweth wild in Lancashire, Yorkshire,
and other northern counties, and is also planted in gar
dens.
Government and Virtues.] It is au herb of Venus.
Galen saith the roots of Spiguel are available to provoke
urine and women's courses ; but if too much be taken, it
causeth head-ach. The roots boiled in wine or water,
and drank, helpeth the stranguary and stoppings of the
urine, the wind, swellings and pains in the stomach, pains
of the mother and all joint-achs. If the powder of the
root be mixed with honey, and the same taken as a lick
ing medicine, it breaketh tough phlegm, and drieth up
the rheum that falletb. on the lungs. The roots are effec
tual against the stinging or biting of any venomous crea
ture.
Spleenwort. Jj . (A. 1. d. 2.)
Likewise called Ceterach, and Heart's Tongue.
Descript.] The smooth Spleenwort, from a black thready
and bushy root, sendeth forth many long single leaves,
. cut in on both sides into round dents almost to the middle,
which is not so hard as that of polypody, each division
being not always set opposite unto the other, cut between
each, smooth, and of a light green on the upper side,
and dark yellowish roughness on the back, folding or
rolling itself inward at the first springing up.
Place.] It groweth upon stone walls, in moist and shadowy
places, about Bristol, and other west parts plentifully ;
as also on Framlingham-Castle, on Beaconsfield church
in Berkshire, and at Stroude in Kent.
Government and Virtues.'] Saturn owns it. It is ge
nerally used against infirmities of the spleen ; it helpeth
the stranguary, wasteth the stone in the bladder, and is
good against the yellow jaundice, and the hiccough ;
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 305
but the juice of it in women hindereth conception.
Matthiolus saith, that if a dram of the dust that is on the
backside of the leaves be mixed with half a dram of amber
in powder, and taken with the juice of purslain or plan
tain, it helps the running of the reins speedily, and
that the herb and roots being boiled and taken, help,
eth all melancholy diseases, and those especially that
arise from the French disease. Camerarins saith, that
the distilled water thereof being drank, is very effectual
against the stone in the reins and bladder ; and that
the lee that is made of the ashes thereof being drank
for some time together, helpeth splenetic persons. It is
used in outward remedies for the same purpose.
"Star Thistle. S. (h. d. 2.)
The thistles differ very little in virtue from each other,
Des>cript."\ The Star Thistle hath divers narrow leaves
lying next the ground, cut on the edges somewhat deeply
into many parts, soft or a little woolly, all over green,
among which rise up weak stalks parted into many bran
ches, all lying down to the ground, that it seeiueth a
pretty bush, set with divers the like divided leaves up to
the top, where severally do stand small whitish green
heads, set with sharp white pricks (no part of the plant
else being prickly) which are somewhat yellowish ; out
of the middle whereof riseth the flowers, composed of
many small reddish purple threads ; and in the heads,
after the flowers are past, come small whitish round seed,
lying down as others do. The root is small, long and
woody, perishing every year.
Place.] It groweth wild in many places.
Time."] It flowereth early in July.
Government and Virtues.] Almost all Thistles are un«
dor Mars. The seed made into powder, and drank in
wine, provoketh urine, and helpeth to break the stone.
The root in powder, given in wine and drank in the
uiorning fasting for some time together, is very profitable
for a fistula in any part of the body-
206 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Strawberries ?. (c. m- 1.)
These are so well known through this land, that they
need no description.
Government and Virtues.] Venus owns the herb. Straw
berries, when they are green, are cool and dry ; but
when they are ripe, they are cool and moist : the berries
are excellent good to cool the liver, the blood and the
spleen, or a hot choleric stomach ; to refresh and com
fort the fainting spirits, and quench thirst ; they are good,
also for other inflammations ; yet it is not amiss to
refrain from them in a fever, lest by their putrifying
in the stomach they increase the fits. The leaves and
roots boiled in wine and water, and drank, do like
wise cool the liver and blood, and assuage all inflam
mations in the reins and bladder, provoke urine, allay
the heat and sharpness thereof. The same also being
drank, stayeth the bloody flux and women's courses, and
helps the swelling of the spleen. The water of the ber
ries carefully distilled, is a sovereign remedy and cor
dial in the panting and beating of the heart, and is good
for the yellow jaundice. The juice dropped into foul
ulcers, or washed therewith, or the decoction of the herb
and root, doth wonderfully cleanse and help to cure
them. Lotions and gargles for sore mouths, or ulcers
therein, or in the privy parts or elsewhere, are made
with the leaves and roots thereof; which is also good to
fasten loose teeth and to heal spungy foul gums. It
helpeth also to stay catarrhs, or defluxions of rheum in
the mouth, throat, teeth, or eyes. The juice or water
is singular good for hot and red inflamed eyes, if drop*
ped into them, or they be bathed therewith. It is also of
excellent property for all pushes, wheals, and other
breakings forth Of hot arid sharp humours in the face and
hands, and other parts of the body to bathe them there
with, and to take away any redness in the face, or spots,
6r other deformities in the skin, and to make it clear and
Smooth-. . Some use this medicine : take so many Straw
berries as you. shall .think'- fitting, and put them into a
distillatory, or body of glass fit for them, which being
well closed, set in a bed of horse-dung for your use.
J t is an excellent water for inflamed eyes, and ta tak.e>
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 307
away a film, or skin that beginnelh to grow over them;
and for such other defects in them as may be helped by
any outward medicine.
Succory. If., (h. d. I.)
Tins is a species of the endive and is commonly known by
the name of Chicory.
Descr/pl.] The wild Succory hath divers long leaves,
lying on the ground, very much cut in or torn on the edges,
on both sides, even to the middle rib, ending in a point ;
Sometimes it bath a rib down the middle of the leaves,
from among which riseth up a hard, round woody
stalk, spreading into many branches, set with smaller
and lesser divided leaves on them up to the tops, where
stand the flowers, which are like the garden kind, and
the seed is also ; the root is white, but more hard and
woody than the garden kind. The whole plant is exceed
ing bitter.
Place.] This groweth in many places of our laud in
waste, untitled and barren fields.
Government and Virtues.] It is an herb of Jupiter. Gar
den Succory, as it is more dry and less cold than Endive,
so it openeth more. A handful of the leaves or roots
boiled in wine or water, and a draught drank fasting, driv.
eth forth choleric and phlegmatic humours, openeth ob
structions of the liver, gall and spleen; hclpeth the yel
low jaundice, the heat of the reins, and of the urine;
the dropsy also, and those that have an evil disposition,
in their bodies, by reason of long sickness, evil diet, &c.
A decoction made with wine, and drank, is very effectual
against long lingering agues ; and a d,ram of the seed in
powder, drank in whie, -before the fit of the ague, help-
eth to drive it away. The distilled water of the herb and
flowers is especially good for hot stomachs, and in agues
for swoonings and passions of the heart, for the heat and
Mead ache in children, and for the blood and liver. The
said water, or the juice, or the bruised leaves applied
outwardly, allays swellings, inflammations, St.' Antho
ny's fire, pushes, wheals arid pimples, especially used,
with a little vinegar; as also to wash pestiferous sores. *
The said water is very cJfccl.ua! lor sore eyes th'at are in.*
308 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGE!?,
flamed with redness, and for nurses breasts that are pained
by the abundance of milk.
The wild Succory, as it is more bitter, so it is more
strengthening to the stomach and liver.
Stone-Crop. >. (c. d. 2.)
Ok small Houseleek.
Descript.'] It groweth with divers trailing branches
upon the ground, set with many thick, flat, roundish,
■whitish green leaves, pointed at the ends. The flowers
stand many of them together, somewhat loosely. The
roots are small, and run creeping under the ground.
Place.] It groweth upon the stone walls and mud-
walls, upon the tiles of houses and pent houses, and
amongst rubbish and in other gravelly places.
Time.] It flowereth in June and July, and the leaves
are green all the Winter.
Government and Pirtues."] It is under the dominion of
the Moon, cold in quality, and something binding, and
therefore good to stay defluxions, especially such as fall
upon the eyes. It stops bleeding, both inward and out.
ward, helps cancers, and all fretting sores and ulcers. It
abates the heat of choler, thereby preventing diseases
arising from choleric humours. It expels poison, resisteth
pestilential levers, being exceeding good also for tertian
agues: you m.iy drink the decoction of it, if you please,
for all the foregoing infirmities. It is so harmless an herb,
you can scarce use it amiss. Being bruised and applied
to the place, it helpeth the king's-evil, and any other
knots or kernels in the flesh ; as also the piles.
English Tobacco. (h. d. 2.)
This came from some part of Brasil, as it is thought,
and is more familiar in our country than any of the other
sorts;, early giving ripe seed, which the others seldom do,
but doth not grow wild.
Time.] It flowereth from June, to the end of August
Government and Virtues.] It is a martial plant. It is
found by experience to be available to expectorate tough
phlegm from the stomach, chest and lungs. The juice
made into a syrup, or the distilled water of the kerb drank
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 309
xvith some sugar, or the smoak taken by a pipe, fasting,
belpeth to expel worms in the stomach and belly, and to
tease the pains in the head, or megrim and the griping
pains in the bowels. It is profitable for the stone in the
kidnies, both to ease pains by provoking urine, and also
to expel gravel and the stone engendered therein, and
liath been found effectual to expel windiness, and other
humours, which causeth the strangling of the mother.
The seed hereof is very effectual to expel the tooth-ach,
and the ashes of the burnt herb to cleanse the gums, and
make the teeth white. The herb bruised and applied to
the place grieved with the king's-evil, helpeth it in nine
or ten days effectually. Monardus saith, it is a counter-
poison against the biting of any venomous creature, the
herb being outwardly applied to the hurt place. The
distilled water is often given with some sugar before the
fit of an ague. If the distilled faeces of the herb, having
been bruised before the distillation, and not distilled dry,
be set in warm dung for fourteen days, and afterwards
be hung up in a bag in a wine cellar, the liquor that dis-
tilleth therefrom is singularly good to use for cramps,
achs, the gout and sciatica, and to heal itches, scabs,
and running ulcers, cancers, and all foul sores whatsoever.
The juice is also good for all the said griefs, and likewise
to kill lice in children's heads. The green herb bruised
and applied, cureth any fresh wound or cut whatsoever ;
and the juice put into old sores, both cleanseth and heal-
eth them. There is also made hereof a singular good salve
to help imposthumes, hard tumours, and other swellings
by blows and falls.
The Tamarisk Tree. ?j . (h. d. 3.)
It is so well known in the place where it grows that it
iieedeth no description.
Time] It flowereth about the end of May, or in June,
and the seed is ripe and blown away in the beginning
of September.
Government and Virtues.] A gallant Saturnine herb
it is. The root, leaves, young branches, or bark boiled
in wine, and drank, stays the bleeding of the haemorr-
hoidal veins, the spitting of blood, the too abounding
310 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
of women's courses, the jaundice, the cholic, and the
biting of all venomous serpents, except the asp ; and
outwardly applied, is powerful against the hardness of
the spleen, and the toolh-ach, pains in the cars, red and
watering eyes. The ilccoction, with some honey put
thereto, is good to stay gangrenes and fretting ulcers, and
to wash those that arc subject to nits and lice. Alpinus
and Veslingins affirm, that the Egyptians do with good
success use the wood of it to cure the French disease, as
. others do with lignum vita; or guaiacum ; and give it also
to those who have the leprosy, scabs, ulcers, or the like.
Its ashes doth quickly heal blisters raised by burnings or
scaldings. It helps the dropsy, arising from hardness of
spleen, and therefore to drink out of cups made of the
wood is good for splenetic persons. It is also helpful
for melancholy, and the black jaundice that ariseth
thereof.
Garden Tansy. ?. (/;. 2. d. 3.)
fi.MiDKn Tansy is so well known, that it needeth no
description.
Time.'] It flowercth in June or July.
Uu-cerament and Virtues.'] Dame Venus was minded
to pleasure women with child by this herb, for there
.grows not an herb fitter for their use than this is ; it is
just as though it were cut out for the purpose. This
herb bruised and applied to the navel, stays miscarriages j
I know no herb like it for that use : boiled in ordinary
beer, and the- decoction drank, doth the like; and if
her womb be not so as she would have it, this decodtion
will iriake it so. Let those women that desire children
love this herb, it is their best companion, (their husbands
excepted.) Also it consumes the phlegmatic humours, the
cold and moist constitution of Winter most usually af
fecls the body of man with, and that was the first reason
of eating Tansies in the Spring. The decoction of the
common Tansy, or the juice drank in wine, is a singular
remedy for all the griefs that come by stopping of the
urine, helpeth the stranguary, and those that have
weak reins and kidnies. It is also very profitable to
dissolve and 'expel wind in the stomach, belly, or
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 311:
bowels, to procure women's courses, and expel windiness
in the matrix, if it be bruised and often smelled unto,
as also applied to the lower part of the belly. It
is also very profitable for such women as are given to mis
carry in child-bearing, to cause them to go out their full
time: it is used also against the stone in the reins, espe
cially to men. The herb fried with eggs (as it,is accus
tomed in the Spring-time) which is called a Tansy, help-
eth to digest and carry downward those bad humours that
trouble the stomach. The seed is very profitable given to
children for the worms, and the juice in drink is as effec
tual. - Being boiled in oil, it is good for the sinews
shrunk by cramps, or pained with colds, if thereto ap
plied.
Wild Tansy, or Silver-Weed. . (h. 2. d. 3.)
This is also so well known, that it needeth no descrip
tion.
Time."] It flowercth in June or July.
Government and Virtues.] Now Dame Venus hath -
fitted women with two herbs of one name, one to help
conception, the other to maintain beauty, and what
more can be expected of her ? What now remains for
you, but to love your husbands, and not be wanting to
your poor neighbours ? Wild Tansy stayeth the lask,
and all the fluxes of blood in men and women, which
some say it will do, if the green herb be worn in the
shoes, so it be next the skin ; and it is true enough, that
it will stop the terms, if worn so, and the whites too,
for aught 1 know. It stayeth also spitting or vomiting of
blood. The powder of the herb taken in some of the
distilled water, helpeth the whites in women, but more
.especially if a little coral and ivory in powder be put to
it. It is also commended to help children that are burst-
en,' and hav-j a rupture, being boiled in water and salt,
it easeth the griping pains of the bowels, and is good for
the sciatica and joint achs. The same boiled in vinegar,
with honey and allum, and gargled in the mouth, easeth
the pains of the tooth-ach, fasteneth loose teeth, helpeth
the gums that are sore, and settleth the palate of the
mouth in its place, when it is fallen down, it cleansetb.
312 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
and healeth ulcers in the mouth or secret parts, and is
very good for inward wounds, and to close the lips of
green wounds, and to heal old, moist and corrupt running
sores in the legs or elsewhere. Being bruised and applied
to the soles of the feet and hand-wrists, it wonderfully
cooleth the hot fits of the agues, be they never so violent.
The distilled water cleanseth the skin of all discolourings
therein, as morphew, sun-burnings, Sec. as also pimples,
freckles, and the like ; and dropped into the eyes, or
cloths wet therein and applied, taketh away the heat and
inflammations in them.
The Melancholy Thistle. . <J, Vf. (*• d. 2.)
Tins differeth Jrom other Thistles in its appearance.
])escript.] It riseth up with tender single hoary green
s.talks, bearing thereon four or five green leaves, dented
above the edges ; the points thereof are little or nothing
prickly, and at the top usually but one head, yet some
times from the bosom of the uppermost leaves there
shooteth forth another small head scaly and prickly, with
many reddish thrumbs or threads in the middle, which
being gathered fresh, will keep the colour, and fade not
ft-om the stalk a long time, while it perfects the seed,
which is of a mean bigness, lying in the down. The root
hath many strings fastened to the head, or upper part,
which is blackish, and perisheth not.
Place.] They grow in many moist meadows of this
land, as well in the southern, as in the northern parts.
Time.'] They flower about July or August, and their
seed ripeneth quickly after.
Government and Virtues."] It is under Capricorn, and
therefore under both Saturn and Mars ; one rids melan
choly by sympathy, the other by antipathy. Their vir
tues are but few, but those not to be despised ; for the
decoflion of the thistltt in wine being drank, expels su
perfluous melancholy out of the body, and makes a man
as merry as a cricket; superfluous melancholy causeth
care, fear, sadness, despair, envy, and many evils more
besides; but religion teacheth to wait upon God's pro
vidence, and cast our care upon hiru who careth for us.
What a fine thing were it if men and women could live so ?
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 313
And yet seven years care and fear makes a man never the
wiser, nor a farthing richer. Dioscorides saith, the root
borne about one doth the like, and removes all diseases of
melancholy. Modern writers laugh at him : Let them
laugh that zcin ; my opinion is, that it is the best remedy
against all melancholy diseases that grows.
Our Lady's Thistle. H. (h. d. 2.)
The virtues of thistles do not seem to vary so much as
their appearance.
Descript.] This hath divers large broad leaves lying on
fhc ground cut in, and as it were crumpled, but somewhat
hairy on the edges, of a white green shining colour,
wherein are many lines and streaks of a milk-white colour
running all over, and set with many hard and stiff prickles
all about, among which riseth up one or more strong,
round and prickly stalks, set full of the like leaves up to
the top, where, at the end of every branch, comes forth
a great prickly Thistle-like head strongly armed with
prickles, and with bright purple thrums rising out of the
middle : After they are past, the seed groweth in the said
heads, lying in soft white down, which is somewhat flattish
in the ground, and many strings and fibres fastened there
unto. All the whole plant is bitter in taste.
Place.] It is frequent on the banks of almost every
ditch.
Time.'] It flowereth and seedeth from June to August.
Government and Virtues.] Our Lady's Thistle is under
Jupiter, and thought to be as effectual as Carduns Bene-
dictus for agues, and to pretent and cure the infection
of the plague ; as also to open the obstructions of the
liver and spleen, and thereby is good against the jaun
dice. It provoketh urine, brcaketh and expelleth the
stone, and is good for the dropsy. It is effectual also for
the pains in the sides, aud many other inward pains and
gripings. The seed and distilled water are held powerful
to all the purposes aforesaid, and besides, it is often
applied both outwardly with cloths or spunges, to the
region of the liver, to cool the distemper thereof, and to
314 TEE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
the legion of the heart, against swoonings and passions
of it. It cleanscth the blood exceedingly ; and in Spring,
if you please to boil the tender plant (but cut off the
prickles, unless you hare a mind to choak yourself) it will
change your blood as the season changcth, and that is the
way to be safe.
The Woollen Thistle. <?. (*• d. 3.)
Called also the Woolly or Cotton Thistle.
Descript.'\ This hath many large leaves lying upon the
ground, somewhat cut in, and as it were crumpled on the
edges, of a -green colour on the upper side, but covered
over with a long hairy wool or cotton down, set with most
sharp and cruel pricks ; from the middle of whose heads
of flowers conic forth many purplish crimson threads, and
sometimes white, although but seldom. The seed that
followeth in thos« white downy heads, is somewhat large
and round, resembling the seed of Lady's Thistle, but
paler : The root is great and thick, spreading much, yet
roually dieth after seed-time.
Place.'] It groweth on ditch-banks, and ia the corn,
fields and highways.
Government and Virtues.] It is a plant of Mars. Diosco-
rides and Pliny write, that the leaves and roots hereof
taken in drink, help those that have a crick in the neck,
that they cannot turn it unless they turn their whole
body. Galen saith, that the roots and leaves hereof are
good for such persons that have their bodies drawn to
gether by some spasm or convulsion, or other infirmities ;
»as the rickets (or the college of physicians would have it,
llachites, about which name they have quarrelled suffici
ently) in children, being a disease that hindereth their
growth, by binding their nerves, ligaments, and whole
structure of their body.
The Fuller's Thistle, or Tcasle. ? . (temp. m. I.)
It is so well known, that it needs no description, being
used with the cloth-workers.
The wild Teasle is in all things like the former, but
that the prickles are smaller, soft and upright, not hooked
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 315
or stiff, and the flowers of this are of a fine bluish, or pale
carnation colour, but of the manured kind, whitish.
Government and Firtues."] It is an herb of Venus.
Dioscorides saith, that the root bruised and boiled in wine,
till it be thick, and kept in a brazen vessel, and after
spread as a salve, and applied to the fundament, doth heal
the cleft thereof, cankers and fistulas therein, also taketh
away warts and wens. The juice of the leaves dropped
into the ears, killeth worms. The distilled water of the
leaves dropped into the eyes, taketh away redness and
mists in them that hinder the sight, and is often used by
women to preserve their beauty, and take away redness
and inflammations, and all other heat or djscolourings.
Treacle Mustard. <$. (ft. d. 3.)
It is also known by the name of Treacle Wormseed.
De.script."l It riseth, with a hard round stalk, about a
foot high, parted into some branches, having divers soft
green leaves, long and narrow, set thereon waved, but
not cut into the edges, broadest toward the ends, some-
whatround pointed , the flowers are white that grow at the
tops of the branches, spike fashion, one above another ;
after which come round pouches, parted in the middle
with a furrow, having one blackish brown seed on cither
side, somewhat sharp in taste, and smelling of garlick,
especially in the fields where it is natural, but not so much
in gardens ; the roots arc small and thready, perishing
every year.
Mitbridate Mustard <?. (h. d. 3.)
Give me leave to add Mithridate Mustard, although,
it may seem more properly by the name to belong
to M. in the Alphabet.
Descript.] This groweth higher than the former,
spreading more and higher branches, whose leaves are
smaller and narrower, sometimes unevenly dented about
the edges. The flowers are small and white, growing on
long branches, with much smaller and rounder vesseli
after, them, and parted in the same manner, iia?ing smalle
o 2.
3l6 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
brown seeds than the former, and much sharper in taste.
The root perisheth after seed time, but abideth the first
Winter after springing.
Place.] They grofa in sundry places in this land, as
half a mile from Hatfield, by the river side, under a hedge
as you go to Hatfield, and in the street of Peckham on
Surry side.
Time.] They flower and seed from May to August.
Government and Virtues.] Both of them are herbs of
Mars. The Mustards are said to purge the body both
upwards and downwards, and procureth women's courses
so abundantly that it suffocateth the birth. It breakcth
inward imposthunies, being taken inwardly, and used in
clysters, helpeth the sciatica. The seed applied, doth the
same. It is an especial ingredient unto Mithridate and
, treacle, being of itself an antidote, resisting poison, ve
nom, and putrefaction. It is available in many cases for
which the common Mustard is used, but rather weaker.
The Black Thorn, or Sloe-Busb. *i (r. d. 2.)
It is so well known, that it needeth no description.
Government and Virtues.] All the parts of the Sloe
Bush are binding, cooling and dry, au'd all effectual to stay
bleeding at the nose and mouth, or any other place-; the
lask of the belly or stomach, or bloody-flux, the too
much abounding of women's eourses, and helpeth to ease
the pains of the sides and bowels, that come by overmuch
scouring, to drink the decoction of the bark of the roots,
or of the berries, cither fresh or dried. The conserve
also is of much use, and more familiarly taken for the
purpose aforesaid. But the distilled water of the flowers
first steeped in sack for a night, and drawn therefrom by
the heat of the Balneum Anglice, a bath, is a most certain
remedy, tried and approved, to ease all manner of gnaw-
ings in the stomach, the sides and bowels, or any griping
pains in any of them, to drink a small quantity when the
extremity of the pain is upon them. The leaves are good
to make lotions to gargle and wash the mouth and throat
wherein are swellings, sores, or kernels : to slay the
detections of rheum to the eyes, or other parts ; to cool
the heat and inflammations of them, and ease hot pains
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 317
of the head, to bathe the forehead and temples therewith.
The simple distilled water of the flowers is very effectual
for the said purposes, and the condensate juice of Sloes.
The distilled water of the green berries is used for the said
effects.
Thorough Wax. T? . (c. d. 2.)
Tuts is sometimes called Thorough Leaf, but It is not very
common.
Descript.'] Common Thorough Wax sendeth forth a
straight round stalk, twofeethigh, or better, whose lower
leaves being of a bluish colour, are smaller and narrower
than those up higher, and stand close thereto, not com-
passing it ; but as they grow higher, they do more en
compass the stalks, until it wholly pass through them,
branching toward the top into many parts, where the
leaves grow smaller again, every one standing singly, and
neAer two at a joint. The flowers are small and yellow,
standing in tufts at the heads of the branches, where after
wards grow the seed, being blackish, many thick thrust
together. The root is small, long and woody, perishing
every year, after seed-time, and rising again plentifully of
its own sowing.
Flace.] It is found growing in many corn-fields and
pasture-grounds in this land.
Time.] It flowereth in July, the seed is ripe in August.
Temperature and Virtues.'] Both this and the former
are under 'the influence of Saturn. Thorough-Wax is of
singular good use for all sorts of bruises and wounds
either inward or outward ; and old ulcers and sores like
wise, if the decoction of the herb with water and wine be
drank, and the place washed therewith, or the juice of
the green herb bruised or boiled, cither by itself, or with
other herbs, in oil or hog's grease, to be made into an
ointment to serve all the year. The decofition of the
herb, or powder of the dried herb, taken inwardly, and
the same, or the leaves bruised, and applied outwardly,
is singular good for all ruptures and burstings, especially
in children before they be too old. Being applied wilh a
little flour and wax to childrens navels that stick forth, it
helpeth them.
P 3
318 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Thyme. ?. (h. d. 3.)
It is in vain to describe an herb so commonly known.
Government and I irtues.] It is a noble strengthener
of the lungs, as notable a one as grows ; neither is there
scarce a better remedy growing for that disease in children
which they commonly call the Chin-cough, than it is.
It purgeth the body of phlegm, and is an excellent re
medy for shortness of breath. It kills worms in the
belly, and being a notable herb of Venus, provokes the
terms, gives safe and speedy delivery to women in travail,
and brings away the after.birth. It is so harmless you
need not fear the use of it. An ointment made of it
takes away hot swellings and warts, helps the sciatica
and dulness of sight, and takes away pains and hardness
of the spleen : 'Tis excellent for those that are troubled
with the gout ; as also, to anoint the privates that are
swelled. It easeth pains in the loins and hips. The herb
taken any way inwardly, comforts the stomach much, and
expels wind.
Wild Thyme, or Mother of Thyme. ? in r.
(k. d. 2.)
Wild Thyme also is so well known, that it needeth no
description.
Floce.] It may be found commonly in commons and
other barren places throughout the nation.
Government and Virtues."\ It is under the dominion of
Venus, and under the sign Aries, and therefore chiefly
appropriated to the head. It provoketh urine and the
terms, and easeth the griping pain of the belly, cramps,
ruptures, and inflammation of the liver. If yon make a
-vinegar of the herb, as vinegar ef roses is made (you
may find out the way in my translation of the London
Dispensatory) and anoint the head with it, it presently
stops the pains thereof. It is excellent good to be given
either in phrenzy or lethargy, although they are two
contrary diseases : It helps spitting and pissing of blood,
coughing, and vomiting ; it comforts and strengthens the
head, stomach, reins, and womb, expels wind and breaks
the stone.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 319
Tormentil. 0. (h. d. 3.>
This is also called Seplfoil, or Steptfoil.
Descript.] This hath reddish, sleuder, weak branches
rising from the root, lying on the ground, rather leaning
than standing upright, with many short leaves that stand
closer to the stalks than Cinquefoil (to which this is very
like) with the foot-stalk compassing the branches int
several places ; but those that grow to the ground are set
upon long foot.stalks, each whereof are like the leaves
of Cinquefoil, but somewhat long and lesser, dented
about the edges, many of them divided but into five
leaves, but most of them into seven, whence it is also
called Septfoil ; yet many have six, and some eight,
according to the fertility of the soil. At the tops of the
branches stand divers small yellow Uowers, consisting of
live leaves, like those of Cinquefoil, but smaller. The
root is smaller than Bistort, somewhat thick, but blacker
without, and not so Ted within, yet sometimes a little
crooked, having blackish fibres thereat.
Place."] It groweth as well in woods and shadowy
places, as in the open champain country, about the
borders of fields, and almost in every broomfield in Essexv
Time."] It fiowereth all the Summer long.
Government and virtues."} This is a gallant herb of the
Sun. Tormentil is most excellent to stay all kind of
fluxes of blood or humours in man or woman, whether
at nose, mouth, or belly. The juice of the herb and
root, or the decoction thereof, taken with some Venice
treacle, and the person laid to sweat, expels any venom,
or poison, or the plague, fever, or other contagious
diseases, as the pox, measles, &c. for it is an ingredient
in all antidotes or counter poisons. Andreas Valesins is
of opinion, that the decoction of this root is no less ef
fectual to cure the French pox than Guaiacum or China j
and it is not unlikely, because it so mightily resisteth.
putrefaction. The root taken inwardly is most effectual
to help any flux of the belly, stomach, spleen, or blood ;
and the juice wonderfully opens-obstructions of the liver
and lungs, and thereby helpeth the yellow-jiundice.
Xhc powder or decoction drank, or to sit thereon as a.
o 4
320 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
baih, is an assured remedy against abortion in women,
it it proceed from the over-flexibility or weakness of the
inward rctenthe faculty ; as alio a plai ter made there
with, and vinegar applied to the reins of the back, doth
much help not only this, but also those that cannot hold
their water, tbe powder being taken in the juice of
plaintain, and is commended against the worms in chil
dren. It is very powerful to ruptures and burstings, as
also for bruises and falls, to be used as well outwardly
as inwardly. The root hereof made up with pellitory
of Spain and allum, and put into a hollow tooth, not
only a&suageth the pain, but stayeth the flux of humours
which causeth it. Tormqntil is no less effectual and
powerful a remedy against outward wounds, sores and
hurts, than for inward, and is therefore a special in
gredient to be used in wound drinks, lotions and injec
tions, for foul corrupt rotten sores and ulcers of the
mouth, secrets, or other parts of the body. The juice
or powder of the root put in ointments, plaisters, and
such things that are applied to wounds or sores, is very
effectual, as the juice of the leaves, and the root bruised
and applied to the throat, or jaws, healeth the king's
evil, and easeth the pain of the sciatica ; the same used
with a little vinegar, is a special remedy against the run
ning sores of the head or other parts; scabs also, and
the itch, or any such eruptions in the skin, proceeding
of salt and sharp humours. The same is also effectual
for the piles or haemorrhoids, if they be washed or bathed
therewith, or with the distilled water of the herb and
roots. It is found also helpful to dry up, any sharp
rheum that dtstilleth from the head into the eyes, tausirig
redness, pain, waterings, itching, or the like, if a little
prepared tutia, or white amber, be used with the distilled
water thereof. Many women use this water as a secret
to help themselves and others, when they are troubled
with too much flowing of the whites or reds, both to
drink it, or inject it with a syringe. And here is enough,
only remember the Sun challengeth this herb.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 321
Turnsole, or Heliotropium. O. (h. d. 3.)
Tins groweth in gardens, and flowereth and seedeth with
us, notwithstanding it is not natural to this land, but to
Spain and France, where it grows plentifully.
Government and Virtues.] It js an herb of the Sun,
and a good one too. Dioscorides saith, That a good
handful of this, which is called the Great Turnsole,
boiled in water, and drank, purgeth both cholcr and.
phlegm ; and boiled with cummin, hclpeth the stone in
the reins, kidnies, or bladder, provokelh urine and.
women's courses, and causeth an easy and speedy delivery
in child-birth. The leaves bruised and applied to places
pained with the gout, or that have been out of joint,
and newly set, and full of pain, do give much ease ; the
seed and juice of the leaves also being rubbed with a little
salt upon warts or wens, and other kernels in the face,
eye-lids, or any other part of the body, will, by often
using take them away.
Meadow Trefoil, or Honeysuckles. (c' d. 1.)
It is so well known, especially by the name of Honey
suckles, white and red, that I ned not describe them.
Place] They grow almost every where in this land.
Government and Virtues.] Mercury hath dominion
over the common sorts. Dodoneus saith, The leaves and
flowers are good to ease the griping pains of the gout,
the herb being boiled and used in a clyster. If the herb
be made into a poultice, and applied to inflammations,
it will ease them. The juice dropped in the eyes, is a
familiar medicine, with many country people, to take
away the pin and web (as they call it) in the eyes ; it
also allayeth the heat and blood shooting of them.
Country people do also in many places drink the juice
thereof against the biting of an adder ; and having
boiled the herb in water, they first wash the place with
the decoctiou, and then lay some of the herb also to the
hurt place. The herb also boild in swines's grease, and
so made into an ointment, is good to appply to the biting
of any venomous creatures. The herb also bruised aud
v 5
322 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGE!?.
heated between tiles, and applied hot to the share,
causeth them to make water who had it stept before. It
is held likewise to be good for wounds, and to take away
seed. The decoction of the herb and flowers, with the
seed and root, taken for some time, helpeth women that
are troubled with the whites. The seed and flowers
boiled in water, and after made into a poultice with some
oil, and applied, helpeth hard swellings and imposthumes.
Heart Trefoil. O. (k. d. 3.)
Besides the ordinary sort of Trefoil, here are two more
remarkable, and one of which may be probably called
Heart Trefoil, not only because the leaf is triangular, like
the heart of a man, but also because eaeh leaf contains
the perfect icon of a heart, and that in its proper colours,
via. a flesh-colour.
Place.'] It groweth between Longford and Bow, and
beyond Southwark, by the highway and parts adjacent.
Government and Virtues.'] It is under the dominion of
the Sun, and if it were used, it would be found as great
a strengthener of the heart, and cherishcr of the vitil
spirits as grows, relieving the body against fainting and
swooning*, fortifying it against poison and pestilence,
defending the heart against the noisome vapours of the
jpleen.
Pearl Trefoil. 5. (c. m. 2.)
It differs not from the common sort, save only in this one
particular, it hath a white spot in the leaf like a peail.
It is particularly under the dominion of the Moon, and
its icon sheweth that it is of a singular virtue against the
pearl or pin and web in the eyes.
Tutsan, or Park Leaves. ^ . (c. d. 2.)
This deserves more notice than it generally obtains.
Detcript.] It hath brownish shining round stalks,
erected the length thereof, rising two by two> and some
times three feet high, branching forth even from the bot
tom, having divers joints, and at each of them two fair
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 323
large leaves standing, of a dark bluish green colour on
the upper side, and of a yellowish green underneath,
turning reddish toward Autumn, At the top of the stalks
stand large yellow flowers, and heads with seed, which
being greenish at the first, and afterwards reddish, turn
to be of a blackish purple colour when they ar« ripe,
with small brownish seed within them, and they yield
a reddsih juice or liquor, somewhat resinous, of a harsh
and styptick taste, as the leaves and the flowers be,
although much less, but do not yield such a clear claret
wine colour, as some say it doth ; the root is brownish,
somewhat great, hard, and woody, spreading well in the
ground.
Place.] It groweth in. many woods, groves, and woody-
grounds, as parks and forests, and by hedge-sides in many
places in this land, as in Hampstead-woood, by Ratley ire-
Essex, in the wilds of Kent, and in many other places
needless to recite.
Time.} It flowereth later than St. John's or St. Peter's-
wort.
Government and virtues.'] It is an- herb of Saturn, and«
a most noble anti-venerean. Tutsan purgeth cholerick
humours, as St. Peter's.wort is said to do, for therein it
worketh the same effects, both to help the sciatica and
gout, and to heal burnings by fire ; it stayeth all the
bleedings of wounds, if either the green herb be bruised,
or the powder of the dry be applied thereto. It hath
been accounted, and certainly it is, a sovereign herb to>
heal either wound or sore, either outwardly or inwardly,
and therefore always used in drinks, lotions, balms, oils,
ointments, or, any other sorts of green wounds, old ulcers,
er sores, in all which the continual experience of former
ages hath confirmed«the use thereof to be admirable good,
though it be not so much in use now, as when physicians
and surgeons were so wise as to use herbs more than now
they do.
Garden Valerian. $f. (k. d. 2 ) ;
There are twenty-two species of Valerian, but we sh.sH"
seed only to describe one-
324 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Descrijil.] This hath a thick short greyish root, lying
for the most part above ground, shooting forth on all
other sides such like small pieces of roots, which have ull
of them many long gveen strings arid fibres under them in
the ground, whereby it draweth nourishment. From the
head of these roots spring up many green leaves, which
at first are somewhat broad and long, without any divisions
at all in them, or denting on the edges ; but those that rise
up after are more and more divided on each side, some to
the middle rib, being winged, as made of many leaves
together on a stalk, and those upon a stalk, in like
manner more divided, but smaller towards the top than,
below ; the stalk riseth to be a yard high or more, some
times branched at the top, with many small whitish
flowers, sometimes dashing over the edges with a pale
purplish colour, of a little scent, which passing away,
there followeth small brownish white seed, that is easily
carried away with the wind. The root smelleth more
strong than either leaf or flower, and is of more use in
medicines. ,
Place.l It is generally kept with us in gardens.
Time.] It flowereth in June and July, and continueth
flowering until the frost pull it down.
Government and Virtues.] T his is under the influence
of Mercury. Dioscorides saith, that the Garden Valerian
hath a warming faculty, and that being dried and given
to drink, itprovoketh urine, and helpeth the stranguary.
The decoction thereof taken, doth the like also, and
taketh away pains of the sides, provoketh the women's
courses, and is used in antidotes. Pliny saith, That tike
powder of the root given in drink, or the decoclion
thereof takeu, helpeth all stoppings and stranglings in
any part of the body, whether the§ proceed of pains in
the chest or sides, and taketh them away. The root of
Valerian boiled with liquorice, raisins, and anniseed, is
singular good for those that are short.winded, and for
those that are troubled with the cough, and helpeth to
open the passages, and to expectorate phlegm easily. It
is given to those thct are bitten or stung by any venom
ous creature, being boiled in wine. It is of a special
»irtve against the. plague, the decoction thereof being
drank, and the root being used to smell to. It helpeth
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 325
to expel the wind in the belly. The green herb with
the root taken fresh, being bruised a:id applied to the
head, taketh away the pains and prickings there, stayeth
rheum and thin distillations, and being boiled in unite
wine, and a drop thereof put into the eyes, taketh away
the dimness of the sight, or any pin or web therein : It is
of excellent property to heal any inward sores or wounds,
and also for outward hurts or wounds, and drawing away
splinters or thorns out of the flesh.
Vervian. ? . {temp. d. 2.)
This has also obtained the name of the Simpler's Joy.
Descript.] It hath somewhat long broad leaves next
the ground, deeply gashed about the edges, and some only
deeply dented, or cut all alike, of a blackish green colour
on the upper side, somewhat grey underneath. The stalk
is square, branched into several parts, rising about two
feet high, especially if you reckon the long spike of
flowers at the tops of them, which are set on all sides one
above another, and sometimes two or three together,
being small and gaping, of a blue colour and white inter
mixed, after which come small round seed, in small and
somewhat Jong heads : The root is small and long, but of
nse.
Place.] It groweth in the edges and way.sides, and other
waste grounds.
Time.] It flowereth in July, and the seed is ripe soon
after.
Government and Firtues.] This is an herb of Venus,
and excellent for the womb to strengthen and remedy all
the cold griefs of it, as Plantain doth the hot. Vervain
is hot and dry, opening obstructions, cleansing and heal
ing : It helpelh the yellow jaundice, the dropsy and the
gout; if killeth and expelleth wo.ms in the belly, and
causeth a good colour in the face and body, strength
ened as well as correcteth the diseases of the stomach,
Jiver, and spleen ; helps the cough, wheezings, and
shortness of breath, and all the defects of the reins and
bladder, expelling the gravel and stone. It is held to
be good against the biting of serpents, and other TOf
326 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Domous beasts, against the plague, and both tertian and
quartan agues. It consolidateth and healeth also aH
wounds, both inward and outward, stayeth bleedings,
and used with some honey, healeth all old ulcers and
fistulas in the legs or other parts of the body ; as also-
thosc ulcers that happen in the mouth ; or used with-
hog's grease, it helpeth the swellings and pains of the
secret parts in man or woman, also for the piles or hae
morrhoids ; applied with some oil of roses and vinegar
unto the forehead and temples, it easeth the inveterate
pains and ache of the head, and is good for those that are
frantick. The leaves bruised, or the juice of them mixed
with some vinegar, doth wonderfully cleanse the skin,,
and taketh away morphew, freckles, fistulas, and other
such like inflammations and deformities of the skin in
any part of the body. The distilled water of the herb
when it is in full strength, dropped into the eyes^
cleanseth them from films, clouds, or mists, that darkeiv
the sight, and wonderfully strengthens the optiek nerves.
The said water is very powerful in all the diseases afore
said, either inward or outward, whether they be old cor
roding sores, or green wounds.
The Vine. ©. (c. 1. d. 3.>
The leaves of the English Vine (I do not mean to send
you to the Canaries for a medicine) being boiled, make at
good lotion for sore mouths ; being boiled with barley
meal into a poultice, it cools inflammations of wounds mr
the dropping of the Vine, when it is cut in the Spring,
which country people call Tears, being boiled in a syrup,.
With sugar, and taken inwardly, is excellent to stay
women's longings after every thing they see, which is a
disease many women with child are subject to. The
decoction of Vine leaves in white wine doth the like ^ also-
the tears of the Vine, drank two or three spoonfuls at a
time, breaks the stone in the bladder. This is a very good
remedy, and it is discreetly done to kill a Vine to cure a
nan, but the salt of the leaves are held to do better. The
ashes of the burnt branches will make teeth that are as
black as a coal, to be as white as snow, if you but every
morning rub them with it. It is a most gallant Tree of
.
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 327
the Sun, very sympathetical with the body of man, and
that is the reason spirit of wine is the greatest cordial
among all vegetables.
Violets. ? . (c. m. I.)
Both the tame and the wild are so well known that they
need no description.
Time.] They flower until the end of July, but are best
in March, and the beginning of April.
Government and Virtues^] They are a fine, pleasing
plant of Venus, of a mild nature, no way harmful. All
the violets are cold and moist while they are fresh and
green, and arc used to cool any heat, or distemperature
of the body, either inwardly or outwardly, as inflamma
tions in the eyes, in the matrix or fundament, in impost-
humes also, and hot swellings, to drink the decoelion o-f
the leaves and flowers made with water and wine, or to>
apply them poultice-wise to the grieved places ; it like
wise easeth pains in the head, caused through want of
sleep ; or any other pains arising of heat, being applied
in the same manner, or with oil of roses. A dram weight
of the dried leaves or flowers of Violets, but the leaves
more strongly, doth purge the body of choleric humours,
and assuageth the heat, being taken in a draught of wine,
or any other drink ; the powder of the purple leaves of
the flowers, only picked and dried and drank in water,
is said to help the quinsy and the falling sickness in chil
dren, especially in the beginning ol the disease. The
flowers of the white Violets ripen and dissolve swellings.
The herb or flowers, while they are fresh, or the flowers
when dry, arc effectual in the pleurisy, and all diseases of
the lungs, to lenify the sharpness of the rheums, and the
hoarseness of the throat, the heat and sharpness of urine,
and all the pains of the back or reins and bladder. It is
good also for the liver and jaundice, and all hot agues, to
cool the liver and quench the thirst ; but the syrup ©f
Violets is of most use and of better efl'ect:, being taken ia
some convenient liquor ; and if a little of the juice or
syrup of lemons be put to it, or a few drops of the oil of
vitriol, it is made thereby the more powerful to cool the
heat gftnd quench the thirst, and gireth to the drink a
328 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN" ENLARGED.
claret wine colour, and a fine tart relish, pleasing the taste.
Violets taken, or made up with honey, do more clranse
and cool, and with sugar contrary-wise. The dried,
flowers of Violets arc accounted among the cordial drinks,
powders, and other medicines, especially where cooling
cordials are necessary. The green leaves are used w ith
other herbs ro make plaistcrs and poultices lor inflamma
tions and swellings, and to case all pains whatsoever,
arising of heat, and for the piles also, being fried with
j oiks of eggs and applied thereto.
Viper's Bugloss. (temp. m. 2.) Q.
Of this there are two kinds, one with reddish purple, the
other with white flowers.
Descript.] This hath many long rough leaves lying on
the ground, from among which arise up divers hard round
stalks, very rough, as if they were thick set with prickles
or hairs, whereon are set such like rough, hairy, or
prickly sad green leaves, somewhat narrow : the middle
rib being for the most part white. The flowers stand at
the top of the sta]k, branched forth in many long spiked
leaves of flowers, bowing or turning like the turnsole,
all opening for the most part on the one side, which are
long and hollow, turning up the brims a little, of a pur
plish violet colour in them that arc fully blown, but more
reddish while they are in the bud, as also upon their decay
and withering ; but in some places of a paler purple
colour, with a long pointel in the middle, feathered or
parted at the top. After the flowers are fallen, the seeds
growing to be ripe, are blackish, cornered and pointed
somewhat like the head of a viper. The root is somewhat
great and blackish, arid woody, when it groweth towards-
seed time, and perisheth in the Winter.
Place.] The first groweth wild almost every where.
That with white flowers about old walls.
Time.'] They flower in Summer,, and their seed is ripe
quickly after.
Government and Virtues.] It is a most gallant herb of,
the Sun ; it is a pity it is no more in use than it is. It is
an especial remedy against the biting ofthe Viper, and all
other venomous beasts or serpents ; as lso against poison,
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 329
or poisonous herbs. Dioscorides and others say, that
whosoever shall take of the herb or root before they be
bitten, shall not be hurt by the poison of any serpent.
The root or seed is thought to be most effectual to com
fort the heart, and expel sadness, or causeless melancholy;
it tempers the blood, and allayeth hot fits of agues. The
seed drank in wine, procurcth abundance of milk in
women's breasts. The same also being taken easeth the
pains in the loins, back and kidnies. The distilled water
of the herb, when it is in flower, or its chief strength, is
excellent to be applied inwardly or outwardly, for all the
griefs aforesaid. There is a syrup made hereof very
effectual for the comforting the heart, and expelling sad
ness and melancholy.
Wall-Flowers, or Winter-Gilliflowers. j. (temp.')
The garden kind are so well known, that they need no
description, and the wild vary little from them.
Place.'] It groweth upon chnrch-walls and old walls of
many houses, and other stone-walls in divers places.
7Vme.] All the single kinds do flower many times in
the end of Autumn ; and if the Winter be mild, all the
Winter long, but especially in the months of February,
March and April, until the heat of the Spring do spend
them. But the double kinds continue not flowering in that
manner all the year long, although they flower very early
sometimes, and in some places very late.
Government and Virtues.] The Moon rules them.
Galen in his seventh book of simple medicines, saith, that
yellow Wall-Flowers work more powerfully than any of
the other kind, and are therefore of more use in physic.
It cleanseth the blood, and freeth the liver and reins from
obstructions, provoketh women's courses, expelleth the
seenndine,' and the dead child ; helpeth the hardness and
pains of the mother, and of the spleen also ; stayeth
inflammations and swellings, comforteth and strengthened
any weak part, or out of joint; helpeth to cleanse the
eyes from mistiness and films on them, and to cleanse the
filthy ulcers in the mouth, or any other part, and is a
330 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
singular remedy for the gout, and all achs and pains in the
joints and sinews. A conserve made of the flowers, is
.used for a remedy both for the apoplexy and palsy.
The Walnut-Tree. ©. (h. d. 2.)
It is so 'well known, that it ncedeth no description.
Government and Virtues.] This is also a plant of the
Sun. Let the fruit of it be gathered accordingly, -which
you shall find to be of most virtues whilst they are green,
before they have shells. The bark of the Tree doth bind
and dry very much, and the leaves are much of the same
temperature j but the leaves, -when they are older, are
heating and drying in the second degree, and harder of
digestion than when they are fresh, which by reason of
their sweetness, are more pleasing and better digesting in
the stomach ; and taken -with sweet wine, they move the
belly downwards ; but being old, they grieve the sto
mach ; and in hot bodies cause the choler to abound,
and the head-ach, and are an enemy to those that have
the cough ; but are less hurtful to those that have a colder
stomach, and are said to kill the broad worms in the belly
or stomach. If they be taken with onions, salt and
honey, they help the biting of a mad dog, or the venom,
or infectious poison of any beast, &c. Cains Pompeins
tound in the treasury of Mithridates, king of Pontus,
when he was overthrown, a scroll of his own hand
writing, containing a medicine against any poison or in
fection; which is this: Take two dry Walnuts, and as
many good figs; and twenty leaves of rue, bruised and
beaten together, with two or three corns of salt, and
twenty juniper berries, which take every morning fasting,
preserveth from danger of poison and infection that day it
is taken. The juice of the other green husks, boiled with
honey is an excellent gargle for a sore mouth, or the heat
and inflammations in the throat and stomach. The kernels
when they grow old, are more oily, and therefore not fit
to be eaten, but are then used to heal wounds of the
sinews, gangrenes, and carbuncles. The said kernels
.being burned, are then very astringent, and will stay lask>
and women's courses, being taken in red wine, and stay
the falling of the hair, and make it fair, being anointed.
-
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 331
-with oil and wine. The green husks will do the likej
bdng used in the same manner. The kernels beaten with
rue and wine, being applied, helpeth the quinsy; and
bruised with some honey, and applied to the ears, easeth
the pains and inflammations of them. A piece of the green
husks put into a hollow tooth, easeth the pain. The
catkins hereof, taken before they fall off, dried, and
given a dram thereof in powder with wine, wonderfully
helpeth those that are troubled with the rising of the
mother. The oil that is pressed out of the kernels, is
very profitable taken inwardly like oil of almonds, to help
the colic, and to expel wind very effectually : an ounce
or two thereof may be taken at any time. The young
green nuts taken before they be half ripe, and preserved
with sugar, are of good use for those that have weak
stomachs or defluctions thereon. The distilled water of
the green husks, before they be half ripe, is of excellent
use to cool the heat of agues, being drank an ounce or
two at a time ; as also to resist the infection of the plague,
if some of the same be also applied to the sores thereof.
The same also cooleth the heat of the green wounds and
old ulcers, and healeth them, being bathed therewith.
The distilled water of the green husks being ripe, when
they are shelled from the nuts, and drank with a little
vinegar, is good for the plague, so as before the taking
thereof a vein be opened. The said water is very good
against the quinsy, being gargled and bathed therewith,
and wonderfully helpeth deafness and noise, and other
pains in the ears. The distilled water of the young green
leaves in the end of May, pcrformeth a singular cure of
foul running ulcers and sares, to be bathed, with wet
cloths or sponges applied to them every morning.
Wold, Weld, or Dyer's Weed. S. (h. d.%.)
The common kind groweth bushing with many leaves,
Jong, narrow and flat upon the ground ; of a dark bluish
green colour, somewhat like unto Woad, but nothing
like so large, a little crumpled, and as it were round
pointed, which do so abide the first year ; and the next
Soring from among them rise up, divers round stalks, two
332 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
or three fect high, beset with many such like leaves
thereon, but smaller, and shooting forth small branches,
which with the stalks carry many small yellow flowers,
in a long spiked head at the top of them, where after
wards come the seed, which is small and black, inclosed
in heads that are divided at the tops in four parts. The
root is long, white, and thick, abiding the Winter. The
whole herb changeth to be yellow, after it hath been in
flower awhile.
Place.] It groweth every where by the" way-sides, in
moist grounds, as well as dry, in corners of fields and
bye-lanes, and sometimes all over the field. In Sussex and
Kent they call it Green Weed.
Time.] It flowereth about June.
Government and Virtues.] Matthiolus saith, that the
root hereof cureth tough phlegm, digesteth raw phlegm,
thinneth gross humours, dissolveth hard tumours, and
opencth obstructions. Some do highly commend it against
the bitings of venomous creatures, to be taken inwardly
and applied outwardly to the hurt place ; as also for the
plague or pestilence. The people in some counties of this
laud, bruise the herb, and lay it to cuts or wounds in the
hands or legs, to heal them.
Wheat. ?. (A. I. temp.)
Alt, the several kinds are so well known, that it is need
less to write a description.
Government and Virtues.'] It is under Venus. Dioscori-
des saith, that to eat the corn of Green Wheat is hurtful
to the stomach, and breedeth worms. Pliny saith, that
the corns of Wheat roasted upon an iron pan and eaten,
are a present remedy for those that are chilled with cold.
The oil pressed from wheat, between two thick plates
of iron or copper, heated, healeth all tetters and ring
worms, being used warm; aad hereby Galen saith, he
hath known many to be cured. Matthiolus commendeth
the same to be put into hollow ulcers to heal them up,
and it is good for chops in the hands and feet, and to
make rugged skin smooth. The green corns of wheat
b^ing chewed" and applied to the place bitten by a mad
dog, heals it j slices of Wheat bread soaked in red rose
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 333
water, anil applied to the eyes that are hot", red and in
flamed, or blood shotten helpeth them. Hot bread ap
plied for an hour at times, for three days together, per
fectly hcaleth the kernels in the throat, commonly called
the king's evil. The flower of Wheat mixed with the juice
of henbane, stay the flux of humours to the joints, being
laid thereon. The said meal boiled in vinegar helpeth the
shrinking of the sinews, satth Pliny ; and mixed with
vinegar, and boiled together, healeth all freckles, pim
ples and spots on the face, Wheat flour mixed vtilh the
yolk of an egg, honey and turpentine, doth draw, cleanse
and heal any boil, plague sore or foul ulcer. The bran
of Wheat meal steeped in vinegar, and bound in a linen
cloth and rubbed on the places that have the scurf, mor-
phew, scabs or leprosy, will take them away, the body
being first well purged and prepared. The decoction
of the bra,n of Wheat or barley, is of good use to bathe
those places that are bursten by a rupture, and the said
bran boiled in good vinegar, and applied to swollen
breasts, helpeth them, and stayeth all inflammations.
It helpeth also the biting of vipers (which 1 take to be
no other than our English adder) and all other venomous
creatures. The leaves of wheat meal, applied with salt,
take away hardness of the skin, warts and hard knots in
the flesh. Slarch moistened in rose water, and laid to
the privates, taketh away their itching. Wafters put in
water and drank, stayeth the lasks and bloody flux, and
are profitably used both inwardly and outwardly for the
ruptures in children. Boiled in water unto a thickjelly,
and taken, it stayeth spitting of blood ; and boiled with
mint aud butter, it helpeth the hoarseness of the throat.
The Willow Tree. 5 . (c. d. 2.)
These are so well known that they need no descrip
tion. I shall therefore only shew you the virtues
thereof.
Government and Virtues.] The Moon owns it. Both
the leaves, bark, and the seed, are used to staunch bleed
ing of wounds, and at mouth and nose, spitting of blood,
and other fluxes of blood in man or woman, and to stay
vomiting, and provocation thereunto, if the decoction.
I
334 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
of them in wine be drank. It helpeth also to stay thin,
bot, sharp salt distillations from the head upon the
lungs, causing a consumption. The leaves bruised wtih
some pepper, and drank in wine, helps much the wind
colick. The leaves bruised and boiled in wine, stay-eft
the heat of lust in man or woman, and quite extinguish
etl) it, if it be long used : The seed is also of the same
effect. Water that is gathered from the Willow, when
it flowereth, the bark being slit, and a vessel fitting to
receive it, is very good for redness and dimness of sight,
or films that grow over the eyes, and stay the rheums
that fall into them; to provoke urine, being stopped,
if it be drank; to clear the face and skin from spots and
discolourings. Galen saith, The flowers have an ad
mirable faculty in drving up humours, being a medi
cine without any sharpness or corrosion ; you may boil
them in white wine, and drink as much as you will, so
you drink not yourself drunk. The bark works the
same effect, it' used in the same manner, and the tree hath
always a bark upon it, though not always flowers ; the
burnt ashes being mixed with vinegar taketh away warts,
corns and superfluous flesh, being applied to the place.
The decoction of the leaves or bark in wine, takes away
scurf and dandriii'by washing the place with it. It is a
fine cool tree, the boughs of which are very convenient
to be placed in the chamber of one sick of a fever.
Woad. . (c. d. 3.)
Tins is sowed in fields for the benefit of it, where those
that sow it, cut it three times a year.
Time.'] It flowers in June, but it is long after before
the seed is ripe.
Government and Virtues.] It is a cold and dry plant of
Saturn. Some people affirm the plant to be destructive
to bees, and fluxes them, which if it be, I cannot help it.
I should rather think, unless bees be contrary to other
creatures, it possesseth them with the contrary disease,
the herb being exceeding dry and binding. However, if
any bees be diseased thereby, the cure is, to set urine by
them, but set it in a vessel, that they cannot drown them-
■felTGS, which may be remedied, if you put pieces of
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 335
cork in. The herb is so drying and binding that it is not
fit to be given inwardly. An ointment made thereof
stancheth bleeding. A plaister made thereof and applied
to the region of the spleen which lies on the left side, takes
away the hardness and pains thereof. The ointment
is excellent good in such ulcers as abound with mois
ture, and takes away the corroding and fretting hu
mours. It cools inflammations, qneucheth St. Anthony's
fire, and stayeth deduction ofthe blood to any part of the
body.
Woodbine, or Honey-Suckles. $.in&. (h. d- I.)
It is a plant so common, that every one that hath eyes
knows it, and he that hath none, cannot read a descrip
tion, if I should write it.
Ti.ne.] They flower in June, and the fruit is ripe in
August.
Government and Virtues.'} Doctor Tradition, that grand
introducer of errors, that hater of truth, that lover of
folly, and that mortal foe to Dr. Reason, hath taught
the common people to use the leaves or flowers of this
plant in mouth water, and by long continuance of time,
hath so grounded it in the brains of the vulgar, that
vou cannot beat it out with a beetle. All mouth wa
ters ought to be cooling and drying, but Uoney-Suckles
are cleansing, consuming and digesting, and therefore
no way fit for inflammations ; thus Dr. Reason. Again,
if you please, we will leave Dr. Reason awhile, and
come to Dr. Experience, a learned gentleman, and his
brother: Take a leaf and chew it in your mouth, and
you will quickly find it likelier to cause a sore mouth
and throat than cure it. If it be not good for this, What
is it good for ? It is good for something, for God and
nature made nothing in vain. It is an herb of Mercury,
and appropriated to the lungs ; the celestial Crab claims
dominion over it ; neither is it a foe to the Lion ; if the
lungs be afflicted by Jupiter, this is your cure. It is-
fitting a conserve made of the flowers of it were kept in
every gentlewoman's house: I know no better cure for
an asthma than this ; besides, it takes away the evil of
the spleen, provokes urine, procures speedy delivery of
women in travail, helps cramps,' convulsions, and pal
sies, and w hatbocver griefs come of cold or stopping ;
336 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
if yon please to make use of it as an ointment, it will
clear your skin of morphew, freckles, and sun-burnings,
or whatever else discolours it, and then the maids will
love it. Authors say, the flowers are of more effect than
the leaves, and that is true ; but they say the seeds are
least effectual of all. But Dr. Reason told me, that there
was a vital spirit in every seed 1o beget its like; and
Dr. Experience told me, that there was a greater hurt in
the seed than there was in any other part of the plant ;
and withal, that heat was the mother of action, and
then judge if old Dr. Tradition (who may well be ho
noured for his age, but not for his goodness) hath not
so poisoned the world with errors before I was born,
that it was never well in its wits since, and there is great
fear it will die mad.
Wormwood. <J. (h- d. I.)
Three Wormwoods are familiar with us ; one I shall not
describe, another I shall describe, and the third be critical
at; and 1 care not greatly if I begin with the last first.
Sea Wormwood hath gotten as many names as virtues,
(and perhaps one more) Seriphian, Santouicon, Bel-
chion, Narbinense, Uantonicon, Misneule, and a mat.
tcr of twenty more which I shall not blot paper withal.
A Papist got the toy by the end, and he called it Holy
Wormwood ; and in truth, I am of opinion, their giv
ing so much holiness to herbs, is the reason there re
mains so little in themselves. The seed of this worm
wood is that which usually women give their children
for the worms. Of ail wormwoods that grow here, this
is the weakest, but doctors commend it, and apotheca
ries sell it; the one must keep his credit, and the other
get money, and that is the key of the work. The herb
is good for something, because Goo made nothing in
vain. Will you give mc leave to weigh things in the
balance of reason ; then thus : The seeds of the common
Wormwood are far more prevalent than the seed of this
to expel worms in children, or people of ripe age ; of
both some are weak, some are strong. The Seriphian
Wormwood is the weakest, and haply may prove to be
Attest for the weak bodies, ("for it is weak enough of all
conscience.) Let such as are strong take the commou
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 337
Wormwood, for the other* will do but little good.
Again, near the sea many people lire, and Seriphian.
grows near them, and therefore is more fitting for their
bodies, because nourished by the same air ; and this I
had from Dr. Reason. In whose body Dr. Reason
dwells not, dwells Dr. Madness, and he brings in his
brethren, Dr. Ignorance, Dr. Folly, and Dr. Sickness,
and these together make way for Death, and the latter
end of that man is worse than the beginning. ' Pride was
-the Cause of Adam's fall ; pride begat a daughter, I do
not know the father of it, unless the deril, but she
christened it, and called it Appetite, and sent her daugh
ter to taste these Wormwoods, who finding this the ieast
bitter, made the squeamish wench extol it to the skies,
though the virtues of it never reached to the middle re»
gion of the air. Its due praise is this : It is weakest,
therefore fittest for weak bodies, and fitter for those
bodies that dwell near it, than those that lire far from it;
my reason is, the sea (those that live far from it, know
when they come near it) castcth not such a smell as the
land dtfth. The tender mercies of God being over all
his work9, hath by his eternal Providence planted Se-
- riphian by the sea side, as a fit medicine for the bodies
of those that live near it. Lastly, it is known to all that
know any thing in the course of nature, that the liver
delights in sweet things, if so it abhors bitter; then if
your liver be weak; it is none of the wisest courses to
plague it with any enemy. If the liver be weak, a con*
sumption follows. Would you know the reason? It is
this, a man's flesh is repaired by blood, by a third con.
coction, which transmutes the blood into flesh; it is well
I said concoction . if I had said boiling every cook
would have understood me. The liver makes blood,
and if it be weakened that it makes not enough, the
flesh wasteth ; and why must flesh always be renewed?
Because the eternal God, when he made the creation,
made one part of it in continual dependency upon
another. And why did he so ? Because himself only is
permanent to teach us. That we should not fix our af
fections upon what is transitory, but upon what endures
forever. The result of this is, if the liver be weak, and
cannot make blood enough, (I would have said san-
' Q
338 THE ENGLISH THYSICIAN ENLARGED.
goify, if I had only written to scholars) the Seriphian,
which is the weakest of Wormwood, is better than the
best. I have been critical enough, if not too much.
Place."} It grows familiarly in England, by the sea-side.
Descript.] It starts up out of the earth, with many-
round, woody, hairy stalks from one root. Its height is
fonr feet, or three at least. The leaves in longitude are
long, in latitude narrow, in colour white, in form hoary,
in similitude like Southernwood, only broader and longer ;
in taste rather salt than bitter, because it grows so near
the salt water. At the joints, with the leaves toward the
tops, it bears little yellow flowers ; the root lies deep and
is woody.
Common Wormwood I shall not describe, for every boy
that can cat an egg knows it.
Roman IVormicood ; and why Roman, seeing it grows
familiarly in England ? It may be so called, because it is
good for a stinking breath, which the Romans cannot be
very free from, maintaining so many bawdy-houses by
authority of his Holiness.
Deseript."\ The stalks are slender, and shorter than the
common \\ ormwood by one foot at least ; the leaves
are more finely cut and divided than they are, but some
thing smaller ; both leaves and stalks are hoary, the
flowers of a pale yellow colour ; it is altogether like the
common Wormwood, save only in bigness, for it is
smaller ; in taste, for it is not bitter ; in smell, for it is
spicy.
VlaceJ] It groweth upon the tops of the mountains (it
seems 'tis aspiring) there 'tis natural, but usually nursed
tip in gardens for the use of the apothecaries in London.
Time.] All Wormwoods usually flower in August, a
little sooner or later.
Government and Virtues.'] Will yon give me leave to
be critical a little? - 1 must take leave : Wormwood is an
herb of Mars, and if Pontanus say otherwise, he is beside
the bridge ; I prove it thus : What delights in martial
places is a martial herb j but Wormwood delights ia
martial places, (for about forges and iron works you may
gather a cart-load of it) ergo, it is a martial herb. It is
hoi and dry in the first degree, just as hot as your blood,
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 339
and no hotter. It remedies the evils choler can inflict on
the body of mau by sympathy. It helps the evils Venus
and the wanton boy produce, by antipathy ; and it doth
something else besides. It cleanseth the body of choler
(who dares say Mars doth no good ?) It provokes urine,
helps surfeits, or swellings in the belly ; it causetk ap.
petite to meat, because Mars rules the attractive faculty in
man. The sun never shone upon a better herb for the
yellow jaundice than this. Why should men cry out so
much upon Mars for an unfortunate, (or Saturn either?)
Did God make creatures to do the creation a mischief ?
This herb testifies, that Mars is willing to cure all disease!
he causes ; the truth is, Mars loves no cowards, nor Saturn
fools, nor I neither. Take of the flowers of Wormwood,
Rosemary, and Black Thorn, of each a like quantity, half
that quantity of satfron ; boil this in Rhenish wine, but
put it not in saffron till it is almost boiled : this is the way
to keep a man's body in health, appointed by Camera,
rins, in his book intitled, Hortus Medicus, and it is a
good one too. Besides all this, Wormwood provokes the
terms. I would willingly teach astrologers, and make
them physicians (if 1 knew how) for they are most fitting
for the calling. They say a mouse is under the dominion
of the moon, and that is the reason they feed in the
night ; the house of the moon is Cancer ; rats are of
the same nature with mice, bat they are a little bigger ;
Mars receives his fall in Cancer, ergo, Wormwood being
an herb of Mars, is a present remedy for fhe biting of rats
and mice. Mushrooms (I cannot give them the title of
llerba, Fmtex, or Arbor) are under the dominion of
"Saturn, (and take one time with another, they do as much
harm as good;) if any have poisoned himself by eating
them, Wormwood, au herb of Mars, cures him, because
Mars is exalted in Capricorn, the house of Saturn, and
that it doth by sympathy, as it did the others by antipathy.
Wheals, pushes, black and blue spots, coining either by
bruises or beatings, Wormwood, an herb of Mars, he'ps,
because Mars, (as bad as you love him, and as you hate
him) will not break your head, but he will give you »
plaister. If he do but teach you to know yourselves, his
courtesy is greater than his discourtesy. The greatest
a 2
340 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Antipathy between the planets, is between Mars and
Venus ; one is hot, the other cold ; one dinrnal, the other
nocturnal; one dry, the other moist: their houses' are
opposite, one masculine, the other feminine; one public;
the other private ; one is valiant, the other effeminate ;
one loves the light, the other hates it ; then the throat is
under Venus, the quinsy lies in the throat, and is an
inflammation there : Venus rules the throatfit being under
Taurus her sign.) Mars eradicates all diseases in the
throat by his herb, (of which Wormwood is one) and
sends to Egypt on an errand never to return more, this
done by antipathy. The eyes are under the Luminaries ;
the right eye of a man, and the left of a woman, the Sun
claims dominion over ; the left eye of a man and the right
eye of a woman, are privileges of the moon ; Wormwood,
an herb of Mars, cures both ; what belongs to the Sun by
sympathy, because he is exalted in his house ; but what
belongs to the Moon by antipathy, because he hath his
fall in her's. Suppose a man be bitten or stung by -a
martial creature, imagine a wasp, a hornet, a scorpion^
Wormwood, an herb of Mars, giveth you a present cure ;
then Mars, choleric as he is, hath learned that patience,
to pass by your evil speeches of him, and tells you by my
pen, that he gives you no affliction, but he gives you a
cure ; you need not run to Apollo, nor /KscuJapins; and
if he was so choleric as you make him to be, he would
have drawn his sword for anger, to see the ill conditions
ef those people that can spy his vices, and not his virtues.
The eternal God, when he made Mars, made him for public
good, and the sons of men shall know it in the latter1 end
of the world. £ caelum Mars solus habet. You say
Mars is a destroyer ; mix a little Wormwood, an herb of
Mars, with your ink, neither rats nor mice touch the
paper written with it, and then Mars is a preserver.
Astrologers think Mars causeth scabs and itch, and the
Virgins are angry with him, because wanton Venus told
them he deforms their skins ; but, quoth Mars, my only
desire is, they should know themselves ; my herb, Worm
wood, will restore them to the beauty they formerly had)
and in that I will not come an inch behind my opposite,
Venus ; for which doth the greatest evih. he that takes
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.' 341
away an innate beauty, and when he has done, knows how
to. restore it again ? Or she that teaches a company of
wanton lasses to paint their faces? If Mars be in a-Yirgin,
in the nativity, they say he causeth the cholic, (it is well
God hath set somebody to pull down the pride of man.)
lie in the Virgin troubles none with the cholic, but them
that know not themselves (for who knows himself, may
easily know all the world.) Wormwood, an herb of
IVlars, is a present cure for it ; and whether it be most like,
a christian to love him for his gopd, or hate him for his
evil, judge ye. I had almost forgotten, that charity
thinks no evil. 1 was once in the Tower and viewed the
wardrobe, and there was a great many fine cloaths : (I can
give them no other title, for I was never either linen or
woollen-draper) yet as brave as they looked, my opinion
was that, the moths might consume them; moths are
under the dominion of Mars ; this herb Wormwood being
laid among cloaths, will make a moth scorn to meddle
with the cloaths, as much as a lion scorns to meddle with
a mouse, or an eagle with a fly. Melancholy men can
not endure to be wronged in point of good fame, and that
doth sorely trouble old Saturn, because they call him the
greatest unfortunate ; in the,; body of man he rules the),
spleen ; (and that makes covetous men so splenetic) the
poor old man lies crying out of his left side. Father
Saturn's angry... Mars comes to him ; Come, brother,
I- confess thou art evil spoken of, and so am I : thou
knowest I have .my exaltation in thy house, I give him
an herb of mine, Wormwood, to cure the poor man;
Saturn consented, but spoke little, and Mars cured him
by sympathy. When Mars was free from war, (for he
loves to be fighting, and is the best friend a soldier hath)
I say, when Mars was free from war, he called a council
of war in his own brain, to know how he should do poor
sinful man good, desiring ta; forget .his abuses in being
called an unfortunate. He musters up, hjs own forces,
and places them , in battalia. Oh.! ijuoth he, why do I
hurt a poor sjlly man or woman ? His angel answers him,
It is because they have offended their God. (Look back
to Adam!) Well, says Mars, though they speak evil of
i. v,.;, .... - . 9 3, r ... ." . ',
342 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
me, I will do good to them; Death's cold, my herb shall
heat them; they are full of ill humours (else they would
never have spoken ill of me;) my herb shall cleanse them,
and dry them ; they are poor weak creatures, my herb
shall strengthen them; they are dull-witted, my herb
shall fortify their apprehensions; and yet among astrolo
gers all this does not deserve a good word: Oh the patience
of Mars
Felir qui potuit rerum cognoscere causas,
Inque domus superum scandere cura facit.
Oh happy he that can the knowledge gain,
To know th’ eternal God made nought in vain.
To this I add, -
I know the reason causeth such a dearth
Of knowledge; ’tis because men love the earth.
The other day Mars told me he met with Venus, and
he asked her what was the reason that she accused him
of abusing women He never gave them the pox. In
the dispute they fell out, and in anger parted, and Mars
told me that his brother Saturn told him, that an anti
venerean medicine was the best against the pox. Once
a month he meets with the Moon. Mars is quick enough
of speech, and the Moon not much behind hand, (neither
are most women.) The moon looks much after children,
and children are much troubled with the worms; she
desired a medicine of him, he bid her take his own herb,
Wormwood. He had no sooner parted with the moon
but he met with Venus, and she was as drunk as a bitch :
alas ! poor Venus, quoth he, What? thou a fortune, and
be drunk 2 l’ll give thee an antipathetical cure; take my
herb, Wormwood, and thou shalt never get a surfeit by
drinking. A poor silly countryman hath got an ague,
and cannot go about his business; he wishes he had it not,
and so do I ; but I will tell him a remedy, whereby he
shall prevent it: Take the herb of Mars, Wormwood,
and if infortunes will do good, what will fortunes do 2
Some think the lungs are under Jupiter; and if the lungs,
then the breath; and though sometimes a man gets a
stinking breath, and yet Jupiter is a fortune, forsooth ; up
comes Mars to him; Come, brother Jupiter, thou knowest
1 sent thee a couple of trines to thy house last night, the
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 343
one from Aries, and the other from Leo ; give me thy
leave by sympathy to cure this poor man with drinking
a glass of Wormwood beer every morning. The Moon
was weak the other day, and she gave a man two terrible
mischiefs, a dull brain and a weak sight ; Mars laid by
his sword, and comes to her, Sister Moon, said he, this
man bath angered thee, but I beseech thee take notice he
is but a fool ; prithee be patient, I will with my herb
Wormwood cure him of both infirmities by antipathy,
for thou knowest thou and I cannot agree, with that the
Moon began to quarrel ; Mars (not delighting much in
women's tongues) went away, and did it whether she
would or no.
He that reads this and understands what he reads, hath
a jewel of more worth than a diamond ; he that under
stands it not, is as little fit to give physic. There lies a
key in these words which will unlock, (if it be turned by
a wise hand) the cabinet of physic, i have delivered it
as plain as I durst ; it is not only upon Wormwood as I
wrote, but upon all plants, trees, and herbs ; he that un
derstands it not, is unfit (in my opinion) to give physic.
This shall live when I am dead ; and thus 1 leave it to
the world, not caring a farthing whether they like or
dislike it. The grave equals all men, and therefore shall
equal me with all princes ; until which time the eternal
Providence is over me. Then the ill tongue of a prating
fellow, or one that hath more tongue than wit, or more
proud than honest, shall never trouble me, Wisdom is
justified by her children. And so much for Wormwood.
Now I would advise the student to give the greatest
attention to the discourse delivered under this herb ; for
whomsoever well understands the whole and every part
of the same, will undoubtedly prove an excellent Phy
sician. For you will find recorded under this herb,
(together with the herb Carduns Denedictus) the whole
key to physic; which will most fully teach you how to
make a most profitable use of all the herbs in this book.
Perhaps some may laugh at Mr. Culpeper's language, in
which he hath delivered his sentiments under this herb :
It may indeed be rather uncouth, nevertheless it contains
344 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
many known solid plain truths. Under the herb Cardans
Benedictus you are most-fully instructed in the various
operations of the heavenly bodies, on all plants, herbs
and vegetables, in respect to their sympathetic and
antipathetical influences and operations on .the body of
man ; and whatever necessary intelligence and instruction
is there omitted, in order to complete the Physician, is
now: heje:kid open for your inspection ; and if you dp
not receive much profit from the same, remember it is not
my fault.
The following discourse under this herb is delivered
after the manner of men, in order to shew you how
celestial bodies work, and daily operate upon terrestrial
bodies ; which is delivered in similitudes, or even in any
way and manner, so that the meanest capacity may but
perfectly understand the true sense, intent, and meaning
of the same, and whatever you find written under this
said herb, understand the same, in respeet to all the other
herbs in this book, duly considering their natures,
temperaments, qualities, virtues, powers and effects, upon
all the- various berbs, plants* &c- and also the diseases,
sickness and bodily infirmities which are incident and
subject to afflict the body of man, at the various periods of
bis natural life. - .. - -'-
: I shall not give you much comment on this subject in
this place, seeing that I have most fully done and com-
pleatly performed the whole and every part of the same
in my most elaborate work entitled, The Holy Temple
of Wisdom ; unto which said book I must now refer
you ; where you will find that physic without astrology
is like a lamp without oil, and also that this most excellent
science is truly a legal and virtuous study, well becoming
all religious and good disposed men. We may easily
believe the accounts transmitted, to us by Josephus and
Other Historians concerning its antiquity and divine
original. We have read that Adam previous to , his
expulsion from Paradise, was instructed in a foreknow
ledge of futurity by the express command of God, as a
means of enlarging his mind and alleviating his distress
upon being turned adrift into the wide world. Josephus,
an historian of character and eminence who quotes the
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 345
most ancient authors of respectability for -what he asserts,
confirm* the same thing, and, further informs us, that
Adam before his death, instructed his son Seth in this
science, who afterwards engraved the rudiments of it
upon permanent pillars of stone which endured through
many generations, and were not entirely effaced till some
time after the deluge. See, Jos. Ant. lib. 1. cap. 4, 8,
12, &c. We have it from the same authority that,this
art was taught by Enos apd Noah, who preserved it to
the days of Abraham, and he increased the knowledge of
it by divine aids, teaching it to the Chaldeans and
Egyptians, Joseph is also said to have patronized and
taught it in Egypt, and is supposed by Origen, Diodorus
Siculus, and other ancient historians, to have been the
author .of an astrological work called, The Aphorisms of
Hermes the Egyptian.* Moses afterwards taught and.
professed it, independent of the gift of prophecy, which,
always came by divine inspiration, and consequently was
only exercised upon certain extraordinary occasions..
From Moses we are told the Prophets and Seers had it,
aqd that it was afterwards particularly taught amongst
the, tribe of Issachar, who are on that account stiled in.
the sacred writings, men who had understanding in the
times, i and were expert at resolving all questions con
cerning futurity, and as this tribe were neither priests nor
Levites, nor endued with the spirit of prophecy, it fol
lows that their understanding in the times, and their ability
in foretelling future events, arose entirely from an acquired
knowledge of the signs and influences of the- heavenly
bodies. For the same reasonthe Persian astrologers were
called magi, or wise men, who were skilled in the times ;
and the Chaldeans termed their young students in astro,
logy, men skilled in wisdom, and cunning science to learn
the learning of the Chaldeans. J And after the Chaldean
method of studying this science of astrology, Daniel,
Shadrach, Mesech and Abednego, were instructed by their
•Orig. torn, in Gen. Dldd. Sic. lib. 1. cap. 2. tl Chfodi xii.82-
t Esther, i. 13. Duo. i. 4.
- '- '' j,-1 - - * - " '
346 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
tutor Mclzar, and became ten times more learned in all
matters of wisdom and understanding than all the astro
logers in the realm; in consideration of which they were
elected members of the public Schools* at Babylon,
which were founded for the study of this art, and Daniel
was made by the King's decree Master over the Chaldean
astrologers. + In the days of Samuel it appears to have
been a common custom to go to the Seers, or men of
understanding in {he times, not only to be informed
concerning future contingencies, but also to enquire after
lost goods. To this effect; we find Saul and his servant
discoursing when they were sent out to find the strayed
asses of Kish, Saul's father ; and not being able to find
them, the servant proposes to go ar.d enquire of the Seer,
which way the asses were gone, and where they might be
found. Saul agrees to this, but asks, fVhat have we to
give him? ice have no bread left, nor have tee any
sufficient present. The servant replies, / have a fourth
part ofa shekel of silver, tU give him that. Saul answers,
Well said, let us go.% This passage ' enables us to
distinguish between the gift of prophecy for the purposes
of establishing God's true religion, and the art of answer,
ing all manner of questions and predicting future events.
The one was evidently effected by supernatural means,
and promulgated to the people without expencc ; whilst
the other by being calculated for the benefit of respective
individuals, was always accompanied with money or
presents. In the same way we find David, when in Keilah,
when he heard that Saul was coming to besiege him, was
desirous of knowing the truth whether Saul was coming
or not, and if he was, Whether the men of Keilah would
be true to him, or would betray him ? And being informed
they would betray him into the hands of the enemy,
who were seeking his life, he fled into the wilderness of
• In some of these schools Abraham is said to have been taught,
■nil that Bolus the father of Nimrod, afterwards built the school-
house where Daniel was instrueted in this science, see Jos. Ant.
Jib. 1. cap. 8. Biod. Sic. lib. cap. 8. +Dan. 1, 4, 8, 11, IT, 18,
19, 20. ii. 48, 49. Jl Sam. ix. 6, 7, 8, 10,
THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED. 347
Ziph, and escaped the danger that was then impending
over him.* Much more I could say on this subject, but
as my present limits will not admit of it, I must conclude
by informing you, that this said sacred science is of
divine institution and appointment, and will stand the
test in the midst of a world that licth in wickednesst
and ignorance, as long as the Bible will. For they are
both supported by one divine power and authority, and
although devils roar, and wicked men mightily resist
them, yet they will always stand fast : their foundations
cannot be moved, otherwise all these things would have
been done long before this time. Some will say, the
world is now much wiser than what it formerly was ; I
grant it may, in vice, wickedness, temporal things, and in
the common arts of this life ; but in respect to celestial
and spiritual subjects the generality of them arc only
babes when compared with the knowledge and most
extensive wisdom of the ancients, and primitive Christians;
and it is reasonable enough to suppose, that the spirit ei"
wisdom will not descend from on high upon atheists,
deists, unbelievers and the workers of iniquity : this
would be contrary to the laws of the great Creator of the
universe ; and therefore can never come to pass : and
remember reader, in all your contemplations on these
subjects, that God is a spirit, and those that worship him
must worship him in spirit and in truth, John iv. 24;
and also that the bodies of all such worshippers are the
temple of the Holy Ghost, 1 Cor. iii. 16, 17. vi. 19, 20 ;
and also that as when the spirit and soul of man leaveth
its body, there then remaineth nothing except a dead
corpse : So it is in like manner with the stars and planets
which are placed in the firmament of heaven, and if you
only go so far as to consider them in respect to the body
of each star and planet, leaving out of your calculation
all those spiritual beings who reside and dwell in the
same, you will never be able to make much progress in
these divine subjects, &c I would advise you to duly
examine the conclusion of this book, unto which I now
beg leave to refer you.
♦1 Sam. Miii. 10, 1), 12, 13. +1 John t. 19.
<J 6
348 THE ENGLISH PHYSICIAN ENLARGED.
Yarrow. ?. (c. I. d. 2.)
Also called Nose-bleed, Milfoil and Thousand-leaf.
«"! Descript.] It hath many long leaves spread upon the
ground, finely cut, and divided into many small parts
its flowers are white, but not all of a whiteness, ancf
stayed in knots, upon divers green stalks which rise from
among the leaves.
Place.] It is frequent in all pastures.
Time.] It flowercth late, even at the end of August.
Government and Virtues.] It is under the influence of
Venus. An ointment of them cures wounds, and is most
Jfit for such as have inflammations ; it being an herb of
Dame Venus, it stops the terms in women, being boiled '
in white wine, and the decoction drank ; as also the
bloody-flux ; the ointment of it is not only good for
green wounds, but also for ulcers and fistulas, especially
such as abound with moisture. It stays the shedding of
hair, the head being bathed with the deco&ion of it ; in.
wardIy taken it helps the retentive faculty of the stomach ;
it helps the running of the reins in men, and the whites
in women, and helps such as cannot hold their water;
and the leaves chewed in the mouth easeth the tooth-ach ;
and these virtues being put together, shew the herb to be
drying and binding. Achilles is supposed to be the first
that left the .virtues of this herb to posterity, having
learned of his master Chiron, the Centaur; and certainly
a very profitable herb it is in cramps, and therefore called
Militaris. . . . , . ... „- . „
349
DIRECTIONS.
Having in divers places of this Treatise promised you the
way of making Syrups, Conserves, ;Oils,, Ointments, &c. of
herbs, roots, flowers, &c. whereby you may have them ready for
your use at such times when" they cannot be had otherwise ; I
come now toperform what 1 promised, and you shall find me
rather better than worse than my word.
That this rnay be done methodically, 1 shall divide my di
rections into two grand sections, and each section into several
chapters, and then you shall see it look with such a countenance
as this is.
SECT. L
Of gathering, drying, and keeping Simples, and their Juices.
CHAP. 1.OfLeaves ofHerbs,
&c.
Chap. 2. OfFlowers.
Chap. 3. Of Seeds.
Chap."4. Of Roots.
Chap. 5. OfBarks.
Chap. 6. OfJuices.
SECT. H.
Of making and keeping Compounds.
CHAP. 1. Of distilled
ters.
Chap. 2. Of Syrups.
Chap. 3. OfJuleps,
Chap. 4. OfDecoctions.
Chap. 5. Of Oils, ' .,
OfElectuaries.
Of Conserves.
OfPreserves.
OfLohocks.
Wa-
Chap. 6.
Chap. 7.
Chap. 8.
Chap. g.
Chap. 10. Of Ointments.
Chap. 11. Of Plaisters.
Chap. 12. Of Poultices'.
Chap. 13. Of Troches.
Chap. 14. Of Pills.
Chap. la. The way of fit
ting Medicines to compound
Diseases.
Of all these in order.
CHAP. I.
Of Leaves of Herts or Trees.
1 . OF leaves choose only such as are green, and full of juice;
pick them carefully and cast away such as are any way declining,
for they will putrify the rest. So shall one handful be worth ten
of those you buy in any of the shops.
2. Note what places they most delight to grow in, and gather
them there ; for oetony that grows in the shade, is far better than
that which grows in the sun, because it delights in the shade ; so
also such herbs as delight to grow near the water, should be ga
thered near it, though haply you nay find some of them upon
dry ground ; the treatise will inform you where every herb de
lights to grow.
3 50 Direttions for making Syrups, Sfc.
3. The leaves of such herbs as run up to seed, are not so good
when they are in flower as before, (some few excepted, the leaves
of which are seldom or never used) in such cases, ifthrough neg
ligence forgotten, you had better take the top and the flowers,
than the leaf.
4. Dry them well in the sun, and not in the shade, as the say
ing of physicians is ; for if the sun draw away the virtues of the
herb, it must needs do the like by hay, by the same rule, which
the experience of every country farmer will explode for a notable
piece of nonsense.
5. Such as are artists in astrology, (and indeed none else are fit
to make-physicians) such 1 advise; let the planet that governs
the herb be angular, and the stronger the better ; if they can, in
herbs ef Saturn, let Saturn be in the ascendant ; in the herbs of
Man, let Mars be in the mid heaven, for in those houses they de
light ; let the Moon apply to them by good aspect, and let her not
be in the houses of her enemies ; if you cannot well stav till she
apply to them, let her apply to a planet of the same trepficity ; if
you cannot wait that time neither, let her be with a fixed star of
iheir nature.
6. Having well dried them, put them up in brown paper, sew
ing the paper up like a sack, and press them not too hard to
gether, and keep them in a dry place near the fire.
7. As for the duration of dried herbs, a just time cannot be
given, let authors prate their pleasure ; for
1st. Such as grow upon dry grounds, will keep better than such
as grow on moist.
2dly, Such herbs as are full of juice, will not keep so long as
such as are drier.
Sdly, Such herbs as are well dried will keep longer than such as
arc slack dried. Yet you may know when they are corrupted, by
iheirlossof colour, or smell, or both ; and if they be corrupted,
reason will tell you that they must needs corrupt the bodies of
those people that take them.
8. Gather all leaves in the heur of that planet that governs
them. See the Table of the planetary hours at the end of this
Book.
CHAP. II. Of Flowers.
1. The flower, which is the beauty of the plant, and of none
of the least use in physic, groweth yearly, and is to be gathered
when it is in its prime.
2. As for the time of gathering them, let the planetary hour
and the plant they come of, be observed, as we shewed you in the
foregoing chapter ; as for the time of the day, let it be when the
sun shines upon them, so that they may be dry ; for if you gather
either flowers or herbs when they are wei or dewy, they will not
keep.
Bire&ions for making of Syrups, 351
3. Dry them well in the sun, and keep them in papers near the
lire, as I shewed you in the foregoing chapter.
4. So long as they retain the colour and smell, they are good ;
either being gone, so is their virtue also.
CHAP. HI. Of Seeds.
1. THE seed is that part of the plant which is endowed with a
vital faculty to bring forth its like, and it contains potentially the
whole plant in it.
2. As for the place, let them be gathered from the place where
they delight to grow.
3. Let them be full ripe when they are gathered : and forget
not the celestial harmony before mentioned ; for 1 have found Dy
experience that their virtues are twice at great at such times as at
others ; '* There is an appointed time for every thing under the
" sun."
4. When you have gathered them, dry them a little, and but a
little, in the sun, before you lay them up.
5 You need not be so careful of keeping them so near the fire,
as the other beforementioned, because they are fuller of spirit, and
therefore not se subject to corrupt.
6. As for the timeof their duration, it is palpable they will keep
a good many years; yet, they are the best the first year, and this
I make appear by a good argument. They will grow soonest the
first year they be set, therefore thtn they are in their prime ; and
it isan easy matter to renew them yearly.
CHAP. IV. Of Roots.
1. OF roots, choose such as are neither rotten nor worm-eaten,
but proper in their taste, colour and ;nieil, such as exceed neither
in softness nor hardness.
'J. Give me leave to be a little critical against the vulgar received
opinion, which is, that the sap falls down into the roots in the
Autumn, and rises again in the Spring, as men go to bed at night,
and rise in the morning; and this idle talk of untruth is so
grounded in the heads, not only of the vulgar, but also of the
learned, that a man cannot diive it out by reason. 1 pray, let
such sap-mongers answer me this aigument : if the sap falls into
the roots in the fall of the leaf, and lies there all the winter, then
must the root grow only in the winter. But the root grows not
at all in the winter, as experience leachcth, but only in the sum
mer ; therefore if you set an apple kernel in the spring, you shall
find the root grow to a prettv bigness in the summer, and be not
a whit bigger next spring. What doth the sap do in the root all
this while t Pick straws ? 'Tis as rotten as a rotten post.
The truth is, when the sun decline from the tropic of Cancer,
the sap begins to congeal both in root and branch ; when he
352 Dire&ions for making of Syrups, Sfci
he touches the tropic of Capric 1rn, and ascends to us-ward, it be
gins to wax thin again, and. by degrees it is congealed. But to
proceed,
3. The drier time you gather the roots in, the better they are,
for they have less excrementitious moisture in them^
4. Such roots as are soft, your best way is to dry in the sun, or
else hang them in the chimney corner upon a string ; as for such
#s are hard, you may dry them any where.
5. buch roots as are great, will keep longer than such as are
small ; yet most of them will keep all the year.
6. Such roots as are soft, it is your best way to keep them always
near the fire, and take this general rule for it. If in winter time
you find any of your herbs, roots or flowers begin to be moist, as
iriany limes you shall, (for it is your best-way tolook to them once
a month) dry them by a very gentle fire, or if you can with con-
veniency keep them near the fire, you may save yourself the la
bour.
.7. It is in vain to dry roots that may commonly be had, as
Parsley, Fennel, Plantain, &c. but gather them only for present
need.
CHAP. V. Of Barks.
1. BARKS, which physicians use in medicine, are of these
sorts, i -.of fruits, of roots, of boughs.
2. The barks, of fruits are to be taken when the fruit is full
ripe, as Oranges, Lemons, &c. but because I have nothing to.de
with exotics here, I pass them without any more words.
3. The barks oftrees are best gathered in the Spring, if of oaks,
or such great trees; because then they come easier oflT and so you
isay dry them if you please ; but indeed the best way is to gather
all barks only for present use.
4. As for the bark of roots, 'tis thus to be gotten: Take the
roots of such herbs as have a pith in them, as pa sley, fennel, &c.
slit them in the middle, and when you have taken out the pith
(which you may easily do) that which remains is called (tho' im
properly so) the bark, and indeed is only to be used.
* CHAP- VI. OfJuices.
1. JUICES-are to be pressed out of herbs when they are young
and tender, out of some stalks, and teader tops of herbs and
plants, and also out of some flowers.
. 9. Having gathered the herb, you would preserve the juice of
it, when it is very dry (for otherwise the juice will not be worth
a button) bruise it well in a stone mortar with a wooden pestle,
then having put it into a canvas bag, press it hard in ajpress, then
take thejuice and clarify it.
3. The manner of clarifying it is this : Put it into a pipkin of
ikillet, oi some such thing, and set it over the lire ; and when
Directions for making of Syrups, fyc. 3ir3
the scum ariseth take it off ; let it stand over the fire till no
more scum,arise j when you have your juice clarified, cast away
the scum as a thing ofno use.
4. When you have thus clarified it, you have two ways to pre
serve it all the year.
(1.) When it is cold, put it into a glass, and put so much oil
on it as will cover it to the thickness of two fingers ; the oil will-
swim at the top, and'so keep the air from coming to putrify it :
When you intend to use it, pour it into a porringer, and if any oil
come out with it, you may easily scum it off with a spoon, and
put the iuice you use not, into the glass again, it will quickly sink
under the oil. Thisis the first way.
(2.) The second way is a little more difficult, and the juice of
fruits is usually preserved this way. When you have clarified it,
boil it over the fire, till (being cold) it be of the thickness of ho
ney : this is most commonly used for diseases of the mouth, and
is called Roba and Saba. And thus much for the first section, .
the second follows. ,.
SECT. II-
The way of making and keeping all necessary Compounds.
CHAP. I. Of'Distilled Waters' "'
HITHERTO we have spoke of medicines which consist in
their own nature, which authors vulgarly call Simples, though
something improperly ; for in truth, nothing is simple but purs
elements all things else are compounded of them. We.come
now to treatDf artificial medicines, in the form ofwhich (because
we must begin somewhere) we shall place distilled waters ; in.
which consider,
X. Waters are distilled of herbs, flowers, fruits, and roots.
2. We treat not of strong waters, but of cold, as being to act
Galen's part, and not Paracelsus's.
.-. 3. The herbs ought tp be distilled when they are in the greatest
vigour, and so ought the flowers also. .
4. The vulgar way of distinctions which people use, because
they know no better, is in a pewter still ; and although distilled
waters are the weakest of artificial medicines, and good for little,
but mixtures of other medicines, vet t. ey are weaker by many de
grees, than they would be werethey distilled in sand. If I thought
it not impossible to leach you the way of distilling in sand, ],-
would attempt it.
5. When you have distilled your water, put it into a glass, co
vered over with a paper, pricked full of hpjes, so that the excre-
mentitious and fiery vapours may exhale, which cause that settling
in distilled waters, called the Mother, which corrupt them, then,
cover it close, and keep it for your use.
|84 Directions for making of Syrups, Sfe.
6. Stopping distilled waters with a cork, makes them mustyi
and so does paper, if it but touch the water; it is best to stop
them with a bladder, being first put in water, and bouud over the
top of the glass.
Such cold waters as are distillrd in a pewter still (if well kept)
will endure a year ; such as are distilled in sand, as they are twice
as strong, so ttiey endure twice as long.
CHAP. II. Of Syrups.
1. A SYRUP is a medicine of a liquid form, composed ofin
fusion, decoction and iuice. And, I. For the more grateful taste.
2. Fcr the better keeping of it ; with a certain quantity of honey
or sugar, hereafter mentioned, boiled to the thickness of new ho
ney.
'J. You see at the first view, That this aphorism divides itself
into three branches, which deserve severally to be treated of,
viz :—
1. Svrupsmade by infusion.
2. Syrups made by decoction.
8. Syrups made by juice.
Of eachof these, (for your own instruction sake, kind country-
men and women) I speak a word or two apart.
lsts, Syrups made by infusion, are usually made of flowers,
and of such flowers as soon loose their colour and strength by
boiling, as roses, violets, peach-flowers, See. They are thus
made : Having picked your flowers clean, to every pound of them
add three pounds, or three pints, which you will (for it it all one)
of spring wi1ter, made boiling hot; first put your flowers into a
pewter pot, with a cover, and pour the water on them; then
shutting the pot, let it stand by the fire, to keep hot twelve hours,
and strain it out ; (in such syrups as purge, as damask rose,
peach-flowers, &c. the usual, and indeed the best way, is to re
peat this infusion, adding fresh flowers to the same liquor, divert
times, so that it may be the stronger) having strained it out, put
the infusion into a pewter bason, or an earthen one well glazed,
and to every pint of it add two pounds ofsugar, which being only
melted over the fire, without boiling, and scummed, will produee
you the syrup you desire.
Sdly, Syrups made by decoction are usually made of com
pounds, yet may any simple herb be thus converted into syrup:
Take the herb, root, or flowers, you would make into a syrup,
and bruise a little; then boil it in a convenient quantity of spring
water; the more water you boil it in, the weaker it will be: a
handful of the herb or root is a convenient quantity for a pint of
water ; boil it till half the water be consumed, then let it stand
Directionsfor making of Syrups, fyc. 355
till it be almost cold, and strain it through a woollen cloth, let
ting it run out at leisure, without pressing : To every pint of this
decoction add one pound of sugar, and boil it over the fire till it
come to a syrup, which you may know, if you now and then cool
a little of it with a spoon : scum itall the while it boils, and when
it is sufficiently boiled, whilst it is hot, strain it again through a
woollen cloth, but press knot. Thus you have the syrup per
feeted.
Sdly, Syrups made ofjuice, are usually made of such herbs as
are full ofjuice, and indeed they are better made into a syrup this
way than any other ; the operation is thus : Having beaten the
herb in a stone mortar, with a wooden pestle, press out the juice
and clarify it, as you are taught before in the juices ; then let the
juice boil away till about a quarter of it be consumed : to a pint
of this add a pound of sugar, and boil it to a syrup, always
scumming it, and when it is boiled enough, strain it through a
woollen cloth, as we taught you before, and keep it lor your
use.
3. If you make a syrup of roots that are any thing hard, as
Parsley, Fennel, and Grass-roots, &c. when you have bruised
them, lay them in steep some time in that water which you in
tend to boil them in, hot, so will the virtue the better come
out.
4. Keep your syrups either in glasses or stone pots, and stop
them not with cork or bladder, unless you would have the
glass break, and the syrup lost, only bind paper about the
mouth.
5. All syrups, if well made, continue a year with some advan
tage ; yet such as are made by infusion, keep shortest.
CHAP. III. Of Juleps.
JULEPS were first invented, as I suppose, in Arabia; and
my reason is, because the word Julep is an Arabic word.
1. It signifies only a pleasant potion, as is vulgarly used by
such as are sick, and want help, or such as are in health, and
want no money to quench thirst.
3 Now-a-day it is commonly used,
1. To prepare the body for purgation.
2. To open obstructions and the pores.
3. To digest tough humours.
4. To qualify hot distempers, &c.
4. Simple Juleps, (for I have nothing to say to compounds
here) are thus made : Take a pint of such distilled water, as con
duces to the cure of your distemper, which this treatise will
plentifully furnish you with, to which add two ounces of syrup,
conducing to the same effect ; I shall give you rules for it in the
next chapter) mix them together, and drink a draught of it at
356 Directionsfor making of Syrups} Sfcr
your pleasure. If you love tart things, add ten drops of oil of
vitriol to your pint, and shake it together, and it will have a fine
grateful taste.
5. All Juleps are made for present use, and therefore it is in-
vain to speak of their duration.
CHAP. IV- Of Decoctions.
I. ALL the difference between decoctions, and syrup made by
by decoction, is this : Syiups are made to keep, decoction only
for present use ; for you can hardly keep a decoction a week at
any time ; if the weather be hot, not half so long.
8. Decoctions are made of leaves, roots, flowers, seeds, fruits
or barks, conducing to the cure of the disease you make them
for; are made in the same manner as we shewed you in sy
rup.
3. Decoctions made with wine last longer than such as are
made with water;, and if you take your decoction to cleanse the
passage of the urine, or open obstructions, your best way is to
make it with white wine instead of water, because this is pene
trating. .,
. 4. Decoctions ire of most use in such diseases as fie in the
passages of the body, as the stomach, bowels, kidnies, passages
of urine and bladder, because decoctions pass quicker to those
places than any other form of Medicines.
5. If you will sweeten your,decoction with sugar, or any sy
rup fit for the occasion yon take B for/which is better, you mayr
and no harm.
6. If in a deeoction, you boil both roots, herbs, flowers, and
seed together, let the roots boil a good while first, because they
retain their virtue longest ; then the next in order by the same
rule, viz. if The Barks. 2. The herbs. 3. The seeds. 4.
The flowers. 5. The spices, if you put any in, because their
virtues come soonest out.
7. Such things as by boiling cause sliminess to a decoction, as
figs, quince-seed, linseed, &e. your be*t way is, after you have
bruised them, to tie them up in a linen-rag, as you tie up calf's
brains, and so boil them.
8. Keep all decoctions in a glass close stopped, and in the
cooler place you keep them, the longer they will last ere they be; .
sour. .....
Lastly, The usual dose to be given at one time, is usually 2,
3, 4, or 5 ounces, according to. the age and strength of the pa
tient, the season of the year, the strength of the medicine, and
the quality of the disease*
CHAP. V. Of Oils.
OIL Olire, which, is commonly known by the name of Sallad
Dirediionsfor making of Syrups, S(c. 357
Oil, I suppose, because it is usually eaten with sallads by them
that love it ; if it be pressed out of ripe olives, according to Ga
len, is temperate, and exceeds in no one quality.
2. Of oils, some are simple, and some are compound. '.
" 3. Simple oils are such as are made of fruits or seeds by ex
pression, as oil of sweet and bitter almonds, linseed and rape-
seed oil, of which see in my Dispensatory.
4. Compound oils, are made of oil of olives, and other sim
ples, imagine herbs, flowers, roots, &«.
5. The way of making them is this : having bruised the herbs
or flowers you would make your oil of, put them into an earthen
pot, and to two or three handfuls of them pour a pint of oili
cover the pot with a paper, set it in the sun about a fortnight or
so, according as the sun is in hotness ; then having warmed it
Very well by the fire, press out the herb, &c. very hard in a press,
and add as many more herbs to the same oil ; bruise the herbs (1
mean not the oilJ in like manner, set them in the sun as before j
the oftener you repeat this, the stronger your oil will be : at last
when you conceive it strong enough, boil both oil and herbs to
gether, till the juice will be consumed, which you may know by
Its leaving its bubbling, and the herbs will be crisp ; then strain
it while it is hot, and keep it in a stone or glass vessel for your
use.
6. As for chymical oils see the latter end of this book.
7- The general use of these oils is for pains in the limbs;
roughness of the skin, the itch, &c. as also for ointments and
plasters.
' 8. If you have occasion to use it for wounds or ulcers, in two
ounces of oil, dissolve half an ounce of turpentine, the heat Of
the fire will quickly do it ; for oil itself is offensive to wounds,
and the turpentine qualifies it.
CHAP. VI. OfElectuaries.
' PHYSICIANS make more a quoil than needs by half, about
electuaries. I shall prescribe but one general way of making
them up ; as for ingredients, you may vary them as you please,
and asyou find occasion, by the last chapter.
1 . That you may make electuaries when you need them, it is
requisite that you keep always herbs, roots, flowers, seeds, &c.
ready dried in your house, that so you may be in a readiness to
beat them into a powder when you need them.
2. It is better to keep' them whole than beaten; for being
beaten, they are more subject to lose their strength ; because the
air soon penetrates them.
:' 3. If they be not' dry enough to beat into powder when you
need them, dry them by a gentle fire till they are so.
358 Directionsfor making of Syrups, &c.
4. Having beaten them, silt them through a fine tiffany sierce,
that no great pieces may be found in your eleetuary.
5. To one ounce of your powder add three ounces of clarified
honey ; this quantity I hold to be sufficient. If you would
make more or less electuary, vary your proportion accordingly.
6. Mix them well together in a mortar, and take this for a
truth, you cannot mix them too much.
7. The way to clarify honey, is to set it over the fire in a con
venient vessel, till the scum rise, and when the scum is taken off,
it is clarified.
8. The usual dose of cordial electuaries, is from half a dram
to two dram. ; of purging electuaries, from half an ounce to an
ounce.
9- The manner of keeping them is in a pot.
10. The time of taking them, is either in a morning fasting,
and fasting an hour after them ; or at night going to bed, three or
four hours after supper.
CHAP. VII. OfConserves.
THE way of making conserves is twofold, one of herbs and
flowers, and the other of fruits.
S. Conserves ofherbs and flowers, are thus made ; ifyou make
your conserve of herbs, as of scurvy-grass, wormwood, rue, and
the like, take only the leaves and tender tops (for you may beat
your heart out, before you can beat the stalks small) and having
beaten them, weigh them, and to ever)- pound of them add 3
pounds of sugar, you cannot beat them too much.
3. Conserves of fruits, as of barberries, sloes and the like, are
thus made; first, scald the fruit, then rub the pulp through a
thick hair sieve made for that purpose, called a pulping sieve;
you may do it for a need with the back of a spoon ; then tak^
this pulp thus drawn, and add to it its weight of sugar, and no"
more; put it into a pewter vessel, and over a charcoal fire; stir
it up and down till the sugar be melted, and your conserve it
made.
4. Thus you have the way of making conserves; the way of
keeping them is in earthen pots.
6. The dose is usually the quantity of a nutmeg SX a time,
morning and evening, or (unless they are purging,) when you
please.
6. Of conserves, some keep many years, as conserves of roses ;
others but a year, as conserve of borage, bugloss, cowshps, and
the like.
7. Have a care of the working of some conserves presently
after they are made ; look to them once a clay, and stir them
about; conserves of borage, bugloss, and wormwood, have got an
excellent faculty at that sport.
Directionsfor making of Syrups, Sfc. 359
8. You may know when your conserves are almost spoiled by
this; you shall mid a hard crust at top with little holes in it, as
though worms had been eating there.
CHAP. VIII. Of Preserves.
OF Preserves are sundry sorts, and the operations of all being
somewhat different, we shall handle them all apart. These are
preserved with sugar :
1. Flowers. I 3. Roots.
S. Fruits. I 4. Barks.
1. Flowers are very seldom preserved ; I never saw any that I
remember, save only cowslip flowers, and that was a great fashion
in Sussex when I was a boy. It is thus done : Take a flat glass,
we call them jat-glasses ; strew in a laying of fine sugar, on that
a laying of fine flowers, on that another laying of sugar, on that
another laying of flowers, so do till your glass be full ; then tie
it over with paper, and in a little time you shall have very excellent
and pleasant conserves.
There is another way of preserving flowers : namely, with vi
negar and salt, as they pickle capers and broom buds-; but as I
have little skill in it myself, I cannot teach you.
2. Fruits, as quinces, and the like, are preserved two ways :
(It) Boil them well in water, and then pulp them through a
sieve, as we shewed you before ; then with the like quantity of
sugar, boil the water they were boiled in into a syrup, viz. a
pound of sugar to a pint of liquor ; to every pound of this syrup,
add four ounces of the pulp; then boil it with a very gentle fire
to their right consistence, which you may easily know, if you
drop a drop of it upon a trencher; if it be enough, it will
pot stick to your fingers when it is cold.
(8.) Another way to preserve fruits is this : First, Pare off the
rind; then cut them in halves, and take out the core ; then boil
them in water till they are soft ; if you know when beef is boiled
enough, you may easily know when they are, then bjil the wa
ter with its like weight of sugar into a syrup ; put the syrup into
a pot, and put the boiled fruit as whole as you left it when you
cut it into it, and let it remain till you have occasion to use it.
3. Roots are thus preserved : First, scrape them very clean,
and cleanse them from the pith, if they have any, for some roots
have not, as Eringo and the like ; boil them in water till they be
soft, as we shewed you before in the fruits : then boil the water
you boiled the root in to a syrup, as we shewed you before ; then
keep the root whole in the syrup till you use them.
4. As for barks, we have but few come to our hands to be
done, and of those the few that I can remember, are oranges, le
mons, citrons, and the outer barks of wallnuts, which grow
without side the shell, for the shells themselves would make but
360 Directions for making of Syrups, Sfe.
scurvy preserves ; these be they I can remember, if there be any
more, put them into the number. .* "*
The way of preserving these, is not all one in authors, -for
some are bitter, some are hot; such as are bitter, say authors,
must be soaked in warm water, oftentimes changing till their
bitter taste be fled : but I like not this way, and my reason is this,
because I doubt when their bitterness is gone, so is their virtue
also; I shall then prescribe one common way, namely, the same
with the former, viz. first boil them whole till they be soft, then
make a syrup with sugar and the liquor you boiled them in, and
keep the barks in the syrup. ' .
5. They are kept in glasses, or in glazed pots.
' 6. The preserved flowers will keep a year, if you can forbear
eating of them ; the root and barks much longer.
7. This art was plainly and first invented for delicacy, yet came
afterward' to be ofexcellent use in physic : for,
(1.) Hereby medicines are made pleasant for sick and squeamish
stomachs, which else would loath them.
(2.) Hereby they are preserved from decaying a long time.
CHAP. IX. O/Lohocks. .
1. THAT which the Arabians call Lohocks and the Greeks
Eclegma, the Latins called Linetus, and in plain English signifies
nothing else but a thing to be licked up.
2. Their first invention was to prevent and remedy afflictions of
the breast and lungs, to cleanse the lungs of phlegm, and make it
fit to be cast out.
-' 3. They are in body thicker than a syrup, and not so thick as
an electuary.
4. The manner of taking them is, often to take a little with
liquorice stick, and let it go down at leisure. -
i'hey are easily thus made : Make a decoction of pectoral
herbs, and the treatise will furnish you with enough, and when
you have strained it, with twice its weight of honey or sugar,
voil' it to a lohock ; if you are molestsd with much phlegm, ho
ney is better than sugar ; and if you add a little vinegar to it, you
will do well ; if not, I hold sugar to be better than honey.
6. It is kept in pots, and may be kept a year and longer.
' 7- It is excellent for roughness of the wind-pipe, inflamma
tions and ulcers of the lungs, difficulty of breathing, asthmas,
and distillations of humours.
CHAP. X. Of Ointments.
1 1. VARIOUS are the ways for making ointments, which au
thors have left to posterity, which 1 shall omit, and quote one
which is easiest to be made, and therefore most beneficial to peo
Directionsfor making of Syrups, Sfc. 361
pie that are ignorant in physic, for whose sake I write this.
It is thus done :
Bruise those herbs, flowers, or roots, you will make an oint
ment of, and to two handfuls of your bruised herbs add a pound
of hog's grease dried, or cleansed from the skins, beat them very
well together in a stone mortar with a wooden pestle, then put
it into a stone pot, cover it with a paper, and set it either in the
sun, or some other warm place, three, four, or five days, that it
may melt ; then lake it out and boil it a little, then whilst it is
hot strain it out, pressing it very hard in a press ; to this grease
add as many more herbs bruised as before, let them stand in like
manner as long, then boil them as yon did before. If you think
your ointment not strong enough, you may do it the third and
fourth time; yet this I will tell you, the fuller of juice the herbs
are, the sooner will your ointment be strong: the last time you
boil it, boil it so long till your herbs be crisp, and the juice con
sumed, then strajn it, pressing it hard in a press, and to every
pound of ointment add two ounces of turpentine, and as
much wax, because grease is offensive to wounds, as well as
oil.
2. Ointments are vulgarly known to be kept in pots, and will
last above a year, some above two years.
CHAP. XI. Of Plaislm.
1. THE Greeks made their plaisters of divers simples, and put
metals into most of them, if not all ; for, having reduced their
metals into powder, they mixed them with that fatty substance
whereof the rest of the plaister consisted, whilst it was yet hot,
continually stirring it up and down, lest it should sink to the
bottom ; so thev continually stirred it till it was stiff; then they
made it up in rolls, which when they needed for use, they could
melt by tire again.
2. The Arabians made up theirs with oil and fat, which needv
eth not so long boiling.
3. The Greeks em|ilaisters consisted of these ingredients, me
tals, stones, divers sorts of earth, faeces, juices, liquors, seeds,
loots, herbs, excrements of creatures, wax, rosin, gums. •
CHAP. XII. Of Poultices.
POULTICES are those kind of things which the Latins call
Cataplasmata, and our learned fellows, that if they can read
English, that's all, call them Cataplasms, because 'tis a crabbed
word few understand j its indeed a very fine kind of medicine to
ripen sores.
2. They are made of herbs and roots, fitted for the disease and
members afflicted, being chopped small, and boiled in water al
most to a jelly ; then adding a little barley-meal, or meal of lu»
362 Directionsfor making of Syrups, t&c.
pins, and a little oil, or rough sweet suet, which I hold to be-
better, spread upon a cloth and apply to the grieved place.
3. Their use is to ease pain, to break sores, to cool inflammations
to dissolve hardness, to ease the spleen, to concoct humours, and
dissipate swellings.
4. I beseech you take this caution along with you : Use no
poultices (if you can help it) that are of an healing nature,
before you have first cleansed the body, because they are subject
to draw the humours to them from every part of the body.
.CHAP. XIII. Of Troches.
1. THE Latins call them Placentula, or little cakes, and the
Greeks Prochikois, Kukliskoi, and Artiscoi; they are usually
little round flat cakes, or you may make them square if you
will.
2. Their first invention was, that powders being so kept,
might resist the intermission of air, and so endure pure the
longer.
8. Besides, they are easier carried in the pockets of such as
travel ; as many a man (for example) is forced to travel whose
stomach is too cool, or at least not so hot as it should be, which
is most proper, for the stomach is never cold till a man be dead ;
in such a case, it is better to carry troches of wormwood, or ga-
langal, in a paper in his pocket, than to take a gallipot along
with him.
4. They are made thus : At night when you go to bed, take
two drams of fine gum tragacunth ; put it into a g.llipot, and
put half a quarter of a pint of any distilled water fitting for the
purpose you would make your troches for, to cover it, and the
next morning you shall find it in such a jelly as the physicians
call mucilage : With this you may (with a little pains taking)
make a powder into a paste, and that paste into a cake called
troches.
5. Having made them, dry them in the shade, and keep them
in a pot foryour use.
CHAP. XIV. Of Pills.
1. THEY are called Pilulce, because they resemble little ballsj
the Greeks call them Catapotia.
2 It is the opinion of modern physicians, that this way of
making medicines, was invented only to deceive the palate,
that so, by swallowing them down whole, the bitterness of
them might not be perceived, or at least might not be insuffera
ble ; and indeed most of their pills, though not all, are very
bitter.
8. I am of a clear contrary opinion to this. I rather think
they were done up in this hard form, that so they might be the
Directions for making of Syrups, 6(c. 36J
longef digesting and my opinion is grounded upon reason too,
not upon fancy, or hearsay. The first invention of pills was
to purge the head ; now, as I told you before, such infirmitief
as lie near the passages, were best removed by decoctions, be
cause they pass to the grieved part soonest ; so here, if the infir
mity lies in the head, or any other remote part, the bes.
way is to use pills, because they are longer in digestion,
and therefore better able to call the offending humour to
them.
4. If I should tell you here a long tale of medicines working
by sympathy and antipathy, you would not understand a word
of it : They that are set to make physicians, may find it in the
treatise. All modern physicians know not what belongs to flats
and sharps in musick, but follow the vulgar road, and call it a
hidden quality, because it is hidden from the eyes of dunces,
and indeed none but astrologers can give a reasen for it ; and phy-
sick without reason, is like a pudding without fat.
5. The way to make pills is very easy, for with the help of a
pestle and mortar, and a little diligence, you may make any
powder into pills, either with syrup, or the jelly I told you
before*
CHAP. XV. The way of mixing Medicines, according to the
Cause ofthe Disease, and Part of the Body afflicted.
THIS being indeed the key of the work, I shall be somewhat
the more diligent in it. I shall deliver myself thus .
1. To the vulgar.
2. To such as study Astrology ; or such as study physick astro-
logically.
1st, To the vulgar. Kind souls, I am sorry it hath been your
hard mishap to have been so long trained in such Egyptian dark
ness, even darkness which to your sorrow may be felt : The vul
gar road of physick is not my practice, and I am therefore the
more unfit to give you advice. I have now published a book
called " The Holy Temple of Wisdom," which will fully in
struct you, not only in the knowledge of your own bodies, but
also in fit medicines to remedy each part of it when afflicted ;
in the mean season take these few rules to stay your sto
machs.
1. With the disease, regard the cause, and the part of the body
afflicted ; for example, suppose a woman be subject to miscarryt
through wind ; thus do :
(1.) Look abortion in the table of diseases, and you shall be
directed by that, how many herbs prevent miscarriage.
(2.) Look wind in the same table, and you shall see how many
of these herbs expel wind.
These are the herbs medicinal for your grief.
B2
364 Directions for making of Syrups, &c.
2. In all diseases strengthen the part of the body afflicted.
3. In mixed diseases there lies some difficulty, for sometimes
two parts of the body are afflicted with contrary humours, as
sometimes the liver is afflicted with choler and water, as when a
man hath had the dropsy and yellow jaundice; and thisis usually
mortal.
In the former, suppose the brain to be too cold and moist, and
the liver to be hot and dry; thus do :
1. Keep your head outwardly warm.
2. Accustom yourself to the smell of hot herbs.
S. Take a pill that heats the head at night going to bed.
4. In the morning take a decoction that cools the liver,
for that Tºlly passeth the stomach, and is at the liver
immediately.
You must not think, courteous people, that I can spend time
to give you examples of all diseases: These are enough to let
}*. see so much light as you without art are able to receive : If
should set you to look at the sun, I should dazzle your eyes,'
and make you blind.
2dly, To such as study astrology, (who are the only men I
know that are fit to study physick, phvsick without astrology
being like a lamp without oil) you are the men I exceedingly res
pect, and such documents as my brain can give you at present, I
shall give you an example with my astrological judgment thereon
at the end of this book.
1. Fortify the body with herbs of the nature of the Lord of
the Ascendant, 'tis no matter whether he be a Fortune or Infor
tune in the case.
2. Let your medicine be something antipathetical to the Lord
of the Sixth. -
3. Let your medicine be something of the nature of his sign
ascending.
4. If the Lord of the Tenth be strong, make use of his me
dicines.
5. If this cannot well be, make use of the medicines of the
Light of Time.
i. Be sure always to fortify the grieved part of the body by
sympathetical remedies. -
7. Regard the Heart, keep that upon the wheels, because the
Sun is the foundation of life, and therefore those universal reme
dies, Aurum Potalile, and the Philosopher's Stone, cure alldis
eases by fortifying the heart. -
A CURIOUS FIGURE OF THE HEAVEN?.
If yon look into page 364 of this book, you wif! find
tiiat I did therein promise to treat vou with an example.
Wow, as I do not like to be any worse than my word, I
shall now herein give you the following curious relation,
by informing you, that on Saturday, March 28th, 1807,
a messenger arrived at my house with a bottle of urine
from a lady who was sick; but he said that, he had
Strict orders neither to ttll me her name or place of
abode. The Messenger kept his promise, for 1 could not
get any thing out of him. 1 therefore made all my ne
cessary inquiries respecting this matter, from the follow
ing Figure of the Heavens ; and you may do the same if
you please.
AT-
8
4f
\Wiat part of tie Body is Afflicted?
What is the cause of ihe Disease?
Is the Disease intfieMmdorBody?
Will this Lady die or recover?
"What is the proper treatment »
And Medicine to he given?
fWilL She be roled or otherwise ?
FT*
A'
*
A*
CJ.V
SI ^^-13
A2l
But as they will not tell me this lady's name nor place
of abode, 1 must first ask the following question, rh.
I now wish to know by Question 1st. whether the
lady be sick or no, of whom this question is pro*
pounded?
R 3 I
366 A most Shocking Disease.
!"Answer. As we find § the ladies significator located in the
12th house, in d with 2 Lady of the 6th house, together
with the position of 2 B in the 6th house, which is the
house of sickness ; all these are quite sufficient testimonies
to convince me that this lady is very ill, and likewise in
rather a desperate situation at this time.
Question 2d. Is the disease in the mind, or body, or
both 2
Answer. The D being afflicted by a D of 3, which send
also the same malignant aspect to the ascendant, and parti
cularly as 3 is also the dispositer of the G), provesthat the
body is exceedingly afflicted. And again, as ºf lord of
the ascendant, is afflićted in the 12th house, and 6, who
is the dispositer of the G), is likewise afflicted in the
5th house by retrogradation, convinced me that this un
fortunate lady was most dreadfully afflićted both in body
and mind. - - - -
Question, 3d. What part of the body is afflićted 2
Answer. If we duly examine the figures, we shall find
Mercury, the Lord of the ascendant, in conjunction with
2, lady of the house of sickness, together with the D in
opposition to the ascendant, which together with the
planets Q and § being posited in the sign Aries, and
located in the 12th house, most fully convinced me that
this lady was quite delirious and insane—in a state of
madness, melancholy and woeful despair. She charges
her tender and affectionate husband, together with her
children, to quit her presence, supposing them to be
infernal beings, by calling them all devils. Her head and
brain was so exceedingly afflićted, that the family could
think of nothing else but the sending of this unfortunate
lady to a private mad-house without any further delay.
To see this lady just before living in splendor, ease and
comfort, now in a state of compleat madness and insanity;
to see her eyes rolling in her head, to hear her uttering the
most woeful desperate rambling, insensible lamentations,
and destructive calamities, that her deranged ideas could
possibly conceive and utter; I say this was a sight most
dreadful in the extreme for her unhappy husband an d
children to behold. Let us now enquire into the cause
of this most desperate disease. -
A most dreadful Disease. 3&7
Question 4th. What is the cause of the disease ?
Answer. By the unfortunate position of Tj , retrograde
in the 6th house, we arc informed that there was a great
obstruction in the whole nervous system, and also that her
.whole mass of blood was corrupted and rendered impure,
by an obnoxious, strong, gross, phlegmatic humour, which
spread itself over the whole body, but was principally
seated in the stomach, and from thence sent up an
obnoxious disease or vapour into the head, afflicting the
brain, exceedingly ; while the unfortunate position of
$ and (J in the 12th house, was loading and depressing
her spirits and whole mind, with all the most grievous
ideas and scenes of the most woeful tenets of deep melan
choly and black despair imaginable. This appears to be
one cause of her most desperate disease ; but if we duly
examine this figure again, we shall find another cause of
this lady's most grievous affliction: here is (J afflicting
the ascendant by a □ with a retrogra'de motion, and
whoever has read my Holy Temple of Wisdom with at
tention, (a book now extant in the world) must know,
that here the children are most grievously afflicting their
mother, and the D being lady of the 3d house in § to
the ascendant, shews that this affliction came by and
through the means of one of her said children taking a
short inland journey. We also find If., lord of the 7th
house and dispositer of the 5, located in the 10th house,
and there afflicted by a □ of Tj Tfc in the 6th house,
which inform us, that one of her said children was taken
on this said journey by a man (by being in the 10th
informs us, that he was a person in some office) and
he there receiving the □ of Jj shews that he was the
principal cause of her disease.
These premises being duly considered, they produced
the following facts : Sometime about last Christmas, the
husband of this unfortunate lady, having previously
invited a gentleman to take a few days shooting with
him at his house, which he readily accepted, and whom
the farmer entertained for some days, with the best his
house could afford : This gentleman, on his departure
from thence, (he being a married man and having a
family likewise) obtained leave of the honest farmer and
R4
368 Amost remarkable Cure.
his wife, to permit their eldest daughter, (a girl about
sixteen) to go home with him, to spend a few days, by
way of return for their kind hospitality towards hini,
adding that he would bring her home safe in a few days.
This noble generous hearted friend brought the daughter
back again, after she had spent a few weeks with him ;
but he had taken the liberty to ruin and seduce her by his
artifice, and then brought her home with all the assurance
and composure of a Villain, at which time he being again
so kindly entertained by the farmer, but drinking too
much of his strong liquor, which together with the stings
of au ungrateful heart and conscience, he, in the course
of that same evening, let some unguarded words slip,
which in part betrayed his secret; for the mother being
present, immediately caught the unsuspecied hint, and the
next morning examined her daughter, who immediately
confessed the whole matter, which accident coming
so suddenly and so unexpectedly all at once upon the
mother, was a weight greater than her tender frame was
calculated to bear; which said accident immediately
became the principal cause of the disease above mentioned.
But as bad as these things apppear, they might have been
worse, for fortunately we find & posited in the 5th house
retrograde, and in a barren sign, which prevents all
further incumbrances at this period. -
Having now duly examined the disease and the cause
of it, let us see whether it be curable or no; for it is of
no use to give medicines to a dying person. We there
fore now come to
Question 5th. Will this lady die or recover ? . -
Answer. We find § free from the 3 of either P. or 3,
or lord of death, together with a -k of the D to ll and
also a A of M to be ascendant, &c. These testimonies
duly informed me that this patient was curable, if a due
regular and proper mode of treatment was adopted, by a
regular course of medicines, &c. We now come to
Question, 6th What is the most proper treatment and
medicine to be given to this said patient 3
Answer. We have considered the cause of the discase,
and find that the body is much injured and impaired by
A most remarkable Cure, 369
the unfortunate position of the planet Saturn, who is by
nature cold and dry. Now the remedy must.be antipa
thetical to , in this case I shall make choice of my»
patient's medicines from those herbs growing under the
dominion of the © and <J, cleansing the stomach and
. liver of all phlegmatic humours and superfluities, accord
ing to the direction given by the planet]!/, which you
will find located in the 10th house, the house of medicine.
But in case I make up this said medicine, which I am now
going to send unto this said lady, will she be ruled by my
directions, and willingly take the whole and every part of
the same, or otherwise ? Which will bring us to
Question 7th. Will this said patient be ruled or
Otherwise.
Answer. When we consider the nature of the case
together with the position of 9 and the Q in the 12th
house. She was guided as well, and perhaps something
better, than we could expect. So that in a short period
our medicines by God's help and assistance restored her
most fully to enjoy her former good state of health.
Let you that are parents take warning by this one
fatal example which I have now set before you, and be
careful with whom you entrust your children, for ap
pearances are frequently found deceitful. Ruin and
distress sometimes come upon a person like a thief in
the night, even at a time when' we are the least aware
of it, and most unprepared to meet it. I need not
detain your attention any longer with my precepts
on this melancholy subject, seeing that you have so>
many examples daily occurring among you of this nature,
which are sufficient lessons of themselves to warn the wise.
I shall therefore now conclude this subject by in
forming you that I have not only given you the cure
and remedy of every disease incident to the human
body in this book, but I have likewise given you a most
effectual cure and remedy for all those evils and calamities
above mentioned ; if you think proper to duly observe
and attend to the same before your repentance comes too
late; therefore read with attention without any fiwthej
delay page 162 of this book.
B 5
TABLE No. I.
Tables and Instructions for gathering
To find the beginning and end of the
Place
of the Hours from Sun-rise to Noon.
_©
1 2 3 1 4 5 6
Sign D FJ.M. H.M. H.M. H. M. H. M. H.M. H. M.
r o 6-0 70 8-0 9-0 100 110 12-0
3 5-54 6-55 7-56 8-57 9-58 10-59 120
6 47 47 51 54 56 58
9 41 44 47 51 54 57
12 35 39 43 48 52 56
15 28 33 39 44 49 55
18 22 28 35 41 47 54
21 16 23 31 38 45 53
24 10 18 27 35 43^ 52
27 3 13 22 32 41 51
0 0 4-57 8 18 XV 39 50
3 51 3 14 26 49
6 45 5-58 10 23 48
9 40 52 7 20 47
12 34 48 3 17 46
15 28 42 6-59 14 45
18 23 39 55 12 44
21 18 35 52 9 43
24 12 30 48 6 42
27 8 27 45 4 4!
n o 2 23 42 2 41
3 3-59 19 39 0 40
6 55 16 37 7-58 39
9 51 13 34 56 39
12 48 19 32 54 38
15 45 8 30 53 38
18 43 6 29 52 37
21 41 4 27 51 37 j
24 40 3 27 50 37
27 39 2 26 50 36
30 38 1 25 49 36 (
371
Herbs and Plants in the Planetary Hour.
Planetary Hour by Day and for ever.
Hours from Noon to Sun-set.
Place
of the
O
7 8 9 10 11 12
H.M. H.M. H.M. H. M. H. M. H. M. Sign D.
1-0 2-0 3-J 4-0 5-0 6-0 irg 30
1 2 3 4 5 6 27
2 4 6 9 11 13 24
3 6 10 13 IS 19 21
4 8 13 17 21 25 18
5 11 16 21 27 31 15
6 13 19 25 32 38 12
7 15 22 29 . 37 44 9
8 17 25 33 " 42 50 6
10 19 29 38 48 57 3
11 21 32 42 53 7-3 fl)J> 0
12 23 35 46 58 9 27
13 25 "38 50 6-4 15 24
13 27 40 53 7 20 21
14 29 '. 43 57 12 26 18
15 31 46 5-1 .17 31 15
16 32 49 5 21 37 12
17 34 61 8 25 41 9
18 36 54 12 30 48 6
19 37 56 15 33 52 3
20 39 59 18 38 57 a, o
20 40 4-1 21 41 8-1 27
21 42 3 23 44 5 24
22 43 5 26 48 9 21
22 44 6 28 50 12- 18
23 ' 45 8 30 53 15 15
23 46 9 31 54 17 12
23 46 10 32 56 19 9
23 47 10 33 57 20 6
24 47 11 34 58 21 3
24 47 11 35 22 S 0
a 6
TABLE No. II.
To find the beginning and end of the
Place of
the
G
Hours from Sun-rise to Noon.
1 2 3 4 5
Sign D, H.M. H.M. H.M. H.M. H.M. H.M
£= 0 6'0 70 80 9 0 10.0 U-G
3 6 5 4 3 2 1
6 13 11 9 7 4 2
9 19 16 13 10 C 3
12 25 21 17 13 8 4
15 32 24 21 16 11 5
18 38 30 26 19 13 6
21 44 37 29 22 15 7
24 50 42 33 25 17 ' 8
27 57 48 38 29 19 9
Vi 0 7-3 53 42 32 21 10
3 9 58 46 35 23 U
6 15 83 50 38 25 12
9 20 7 53 40 27 13
12 26 12 57 43 29 14
15 32 17 9-1 46 31 15
18 37 21 5 49 32 16
21 42 25 8 51 34 17
24 48 30 12 54 36 18
27 52 33 15 56 37 19
t o 57 38 18 69 39 20
3 8-1 41 21 101 40 20
fi 5 44 23 2 41 21
9 9 48 26 4 42 22
12 12 50 28 6 44 22
15 13 53 30 8 45 23
18 17 54 31 9 45 23
21 19 £6 33 10 46 23
24 20 67- 33 10 47 23
27 21 68 34 11 47 23
3:> 22 58 35 , 11 47 24
373
Planetary Hour for ever.
Hoars from Noon to Sun-set.
7 8 1 9 10 11 12
H. M. II. M. H. M. H.M. H. M. H. M. Sign D.
10 20 3-0 4-0 5-0 6-0 X 30
59 1-59 2-57 3'56 4*55 5-54 27
58 56 54 51 49 49 24
57 54 5L 47 44 41 21
56 50 48 43 39 35 18
55 49 44 39 33 28 15
54 47 41 35 28 21 12
53 45 38 31 23 16 9
52 43 35 27 18 10 6
51 41 31 23 13 3 3
50 39 29 18 8 4-57 X o
49 37 26 14 3 51 27
48 35 23 10 3-58 45 24
47 33 20 7 53 40 21
40 31 17 3 48 34 18
45 29 14 2'59 43 28 15
44 28 12 55 S9 22 12
44 26 9 52 35 18 9
43 24 6 48 30 13 6
41 23 4 45 27 8 3
41 21 2 42 23 3 **** \ I
40 20 0 39 19 3'59 27
39 18 1-57 36 15 55 24
39 17 56 34 13 51 21
38 16 54 32 10 48 18
38 15 63 30 8 45 15
37 14 51 28 5 43 12
37 14 51 27 4 41 0
37 13 50 27 3 40 «
37 13 50 26 2 39 3
38 13 49 25 2 38 | Vf 0
Place of |
the
O
374
TABLE No. III.
To find the Planetary Hours for every D-oy in the Week,
beginning at Sun-rising.
Sunday. Monday. Tuesday. Wedncsd. Thursday Friday. (Saturday.
Planets. Planet's. Planets. Planets. Planet*. Plmieis. I Planets.
O i D 1 s 1 9 1 % 1 ? i i
? 2 h 9 10 2 2 6 2 9 2 2
? 3 V 3 ~? 3 J? S O 3 5 3 <J 3
5 4 <? 4 9 4 4 ? 4 1 0 -1
h 6 o 5 2 5 6 9 5 ^ U—L
6 ? 6 6 o 6 D 6 S 6 S 6
s 7 9 7 7 ? 7 7 ,© 7 7
0 8 D 8 <? 8 ' IT "a 8 ? 8 *? 8
? <J *? 9 o 9 D 9 6 9 9 9 9
9 10 10 ? 10 10 O 10 D 10 <? 10
D 11 11 9 11 11 ? 11 11 o 11
h VI o 12 B 12 <? 12 12 12 ? 12
V 13 ? 13 13 o 13 D 13 <? 13 9 13
14 9 14 V 14 ? 14 14 O 14 > U
0 IS 15 3 15 9 15 15 ? 15 *? 15
? 16 16 o 16 5 16 (? 16 9 16 % 16
9 17 17 ? 17 *J 17 0 17 5 17 <? 17
D 18 <? 18 9 18 V 18 ? 18 I? 18 0 18
h 19 0 19 J 19 c? 19 ?• 19 19 ? 19
V 20 ? 20 *? 20 © 20 5 20 (? 20 9 20
<? 21 s 21 21 ? 21 21 O 21 5 21
O 22 J) 22 <? 22 9 22 % 22 $ 22 22
? 23 J? 23 0. 23 I) 23 23 23 26'
9 24 24 ? 24 24 © 24 24 24
Explanation of these aforesaid Tables. 375
Mr. Culpeper in his Herbal told you to make use of
the Planetary hour, but he never told you how, nor where
to find it. I have now given you these useful tables ac
cording unto my promise in page 350 in this book, but
I must now tell you how to use them, otherwise you will
still remain in the dark. Therefore let it be observed
that Astrological hours are always regulated by the
motion of the Sun, both in Summer and Winter, and the
space of time which is contained from Sun-rise to Sun.set
is divided into twelve equal parts, whereef the one half
contains the hours before Noon, the other the hours after
noon. So also the space of time from sun-set to sun-rise
is divided into twelve parts ; these hours are unequal,
consisting of more or less than sixty minutes, as the Sun
recedes from T to £= as will be seen by example by the
foregoing table.
The seven Planets are attributed by the learned ancient
wise men to preside over the seven days of the Week,
and each of them rules over the first hour of each day,
as may be seen by the Table. The first planetary hour
of Sunday is the Sun, the second is Venus, and so on.
The first planetary hour of Monday is the Moon, the
second is Saturn ; and the same is to be observed of the
other days. The use of these tables will appear by bare
inspection, as they require no sort of calculation ; but a
person of the meanest capacity will be able to understand
them. The reason of their being placed in this manner,
in the form of tables, is, because no Herbals which speak
of the force and power of planetary influx, and the
necessity of gathering herbs for medical use under the
planet which principally governs them, have laid down
any rule whereby any herbalist may know when these
said planetary hours are, and consequently could not
know the proper and fit time to gather them. This
deficiency has not only^ occasioned much uneasiness in
the minds of maify medical gentlemen, but has also
much prevented the progress of cures, and many diseases
have been deemed incurable from not making use of the
precision which is absolutely necessary for the perfection
of the same. These tables are so calculated, as by bare
inspection to point out those beautiful times, when a
376 Explanation of the aforesaid Tables*
man who is endowed with a common understanding may
hit upon the hour not only in gathering herbs, roots, &c.
but to administer them in a time corresponding thereunio,
and thereby force from the patient the offending matter
that robs him of the most valuable blessing of health.
Example I. To find the planetary hour on Saturday,
August the 1st, 1807, at half past ten o'clock in the
morning, I examine in the Ephcmeris or Almanack what
degree the Sun is in, and I find on that day at noon he is
in eight degrees of Leo : with this degree I enter the
table No. I. and seek eight degrees of Leo: in the
first column I cannot find it, but by running over the
columns, I can find 9 degrees of Q in the 15th column in
the same page, which is the nearest I can come to it by
this table, and near enough too; which I also find to be
equal with 21 degrees of n which yon may find in the first
column of this table; and by thus running even in the
columns, in the seventh column J find 10 h. 37 m. which
~ shews me if 1 look on the top of the table that the fifth
planetary hour would finish at thirty seven minutee past
ten o'clock that morning. Now I refer to the former
. column, and find that the fifth planetary hour began at /
t, thirty-nine minutes past nine o'clock : therefore as the J*
-X time I enter was 10 h. 30 m. in the morning, and it being
between 9 h. 39ui. and 10 h. 37 m. it proved it to be the
fifth planetary hour. To know what planet ruled this
hour! enter the table No. 111. and counting, down the
planets in the last column, under the word Saturday,
find the 5 th planetary hour on that day to be °. : if it
had been on a Sunday the fifth planetary hour would
have been Saturn, and so on ; by which rule may be
found the planetary hour for any day of the week.
Example II. We will suppose that I want to find the
hour of Venus on Wednesday, January 21st 1807, I
look into my Ephcmeris or Almanack, and find the Sun at
noon on that day is in degrees 0 36 fl£5r ss. 1 enter the
table marked Mo. 111. and in the column of the planetary
hour,s under Wednesday, 1 fiud the seventh hour is under
Venus. Now as the Sun is in 0 deg. 36 m. 5f sec. ss (the
jninutes being more than 30, I shall call it the 1st deg.
©1 GS.) i enter the table No. II. ia the right hand
The Conclusion of this Booh. 877
column with Osx, (which is as near as I can in this table
Some) and in the seventh column on the left hand, I find
the planetary hour of Venus began at noon and ended at
1 h. 41 m. P.M. on that said day.
Such was the mode of pradtice when nature only wa»
consulted, and the intention really to make a cure,
without a view to gain. Then disease was but little
known, and people lived to a good old age.
Suppose your medicine ready made up, and just a going
to take it, consider what disease you take it for, whether
there be any virtue in your said medicine ; and if so who
it was that gave it the same ; and when you arc fully
convinced that your said medicine will avail nothing
except the blessing of God be joined to the same, yoa
will not forget to duly ask, that you may duly receive it,
always before and after taking the same ; and whatever
benefit and advantage you may at any time receive
through my labours, always remember to give the praise
to God alone, who hath most fully enabled me to write
these books and to do all these things for your benefit
and welfare. Therefore see that you always acknow
ledge the most bountiful Providence of God in all these
things at all times, unto whom be all praise, honour,
glory, dominion and power, for ever and ever, Amen.
I have certainly seen some Herbals, where the author
has denied all the various planetary influence and effects
of the Stars, either upon the body of man or herbs, &c.
but this error has been committed wholly through
ignorance; as in our present day, even some of our
ancient and modern astronomers suppose that the planets,
by reason of their vast distance from us, can have no
influence or effect on any subject, matter, or thing here
below. Thus they labour under a most woeful mistake,
seeing that it is not the body of the star or planet that
doth produce the least effect on any thing whatsoever,
but it is the spiritual part of the same that doth daily
perform, operate, and most fully execute, every thing
that is done and promised by them ; which said subject,
matter and thing I have most fully shewn, proved,
explained and laid open for the comprehension of the
meanest capacity in my elaborate Work, entitled, That
378 The Conclusion of this Book.
Holy Temple of Wisdom. I speak from my own common
daily experience, and if any person desire to know how I
discerned these mysteries, I answer, that I was taught it
of God, from whom I received the gift of prophecy,
1 Cor. xii. 10; and the spirit of wisdom, understanding,
counsel, judgement, knowledge, truth and prophecy,
Isaiah xi. 2. Eph. i. 17. Isaiah xxviii. 6. John xiv. 17.
Rev. xix. 10. Reader should you not like to enjoy the
same privileges, celestial blessings and spiritual gifts 2
The way is laid open, and the only method of obtaining
them is set before you in our said Holy Temple of Wisdom.
Solomon saith, “I prayed and understanding was given
me. I called upon God and the spirit of Wisdom came
to me.” Wisdom of Solomon, vii. 7. Thus we find that
the wisest man that ever lived received all his wisdom and
knowledge from God by a dream in one night, 2d Chron.
i. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12; in this school have I received the
major part of my education, and therefore let me prevail
upon you to go into this said divine teacher whom you
will ever find ready to make you wise unto salvation, and
take care that you always use your said gifts humbly,
with praise and thanksgiving, always using them to the
great praise, honour, and glory of God, and also for the
benefit of your neighbour and yourself all the remaining
days of your lives.
THE FAMILY PHYSICIAN.
taining a number of most useful known and prov
ed receipts and prescriptions which I have constantly used
in my extensive and constant practice for some years past,
for the benefit of my patients, with the greatest success.
I now make the same a present unto you, and when
either you or your family have duly received the benefits
of the same, then remember me,
Dr. PARKINS.
How to make Eye-water.
Take a quarter of a pint of Lisbon wine, and a quarter
of an ounce of lapis calaniinaris in powder, put them toge
ther and shake the bottle now and then ; make use of this to
your eyes with a bit of rag, and it will presently heal and
strengthen weak and sore eyes.
How to make Salvefor all zoounds.
Take one pound of hog's lard, three ounces of white lead,
three ounces of red lead, three ounces of bees wax, two
ounces of black rosin, and four ounces of common turpen
tine; all these ingredients must be put togi ther in a pan,
and boil three quarters of an hour ; the turpentine to be put
in just before it is done enough, and give it a gentle boil af
terwards. This is an excellent salve for burns, old sores or
ulcers, as it first draws then heals afterwards; it is excellent
for all wounds, and ought to be always kept in your
house.
The essential uses of the Oil of Caraways.
It is good against plague, poison and melancholy
causeth rest, helps difficulty of urine, jaundice, dropsy; it
breaks the stone and expels it, stops fluxes, and expeli wind;
it comforts all the inward parts; it provokes the tertlW, and
is powerful in removing all obstructions of the liver, spleen
and lungs, causing a sweet breath, taking away asthmas, help
ing ulcers of the lungs, and giveth a good appetite; it is good
in all diseases proceeding from colds, and any way afflicting
380 THE FAMILY PHTSICIAIT.
the head or nerves, as vertigos, catarrhs, megrim and head
aches ; also deafness, if one drop thereof be mixed v.ith the
oil of almonds, and put into the ear every morning. The
dose is to 6, 8, or 10 drops, in any convenient liquor ; out
wardly you may anoint with it, by mixing it with the oil of
almonds, and you may always get them at the chemist's.
Tlie oil of Juniper Berries.
If I was to tell you how these valuable oils are made, it
would be of no use to you, as you do not know the art and
work of a Chemist, it is therefore sufficient that I speak of
their virtues, and also at the same time inform you where they
•re to be had and procured. This useful oil expelleth all
wind out of the body, and also the stone and gravel, terms
Mid urir.e; it removes all levers, jaundice, dropsy, gout and
cholic ; it cures the gonorriiea and all pains in the reins, for
which it is a specific ; it opens all obstructions of the liver,
spleen, gall and lungs, and cures ulcers and tumors in those
places. It helps all diseases of the head, as vertigo, megrim,
convulsions, &c. it provokes sweat, and expels both plague
and poison. Use it both inwardly and outwardly to one
scruple as the oil of caraways.
77ie oil of Rosemary.
It hath all the virtues of the oil of cinnamon, nutmegs,
caraways and juniper berries ; besides which it is much more
powerlul than any of them, strengthening the brain and
memory, fortifying the heart, resisting poison, and curing
all sorts of agues ; it is absolutely the greatest strengthener
of the sight and restorer of it also if lost ; it makes the
heart merry, and takes away all foolish phantisms out of the
brain. It cleanseth the blood, cures the tooth-ach, easeth
all pains, and takes away the causes which hinder conception ;
it hath a very grateful taste, and hath so many virtues that I
can never express them all, or give it its due commendation.
Use it to 13 drops as you do the oil of caraways.
A remedyfor a loading and stuffing at the stomach, cau
sing a loss of appetite.
Calomel ppt. gr. xx Ext. Cathart <jp. m. ft.
pilul. No. x Capt. duas altern noct.
j If you cannot read this excellent prescription the Chemist
Can make it up for you.
ME FAMILY PHTS1C1AN. sit
.A remedyfor all cold aches and pains in the bones, limbs
find joints, caused by rheumatism, gout, or accidents.
Take friar's balsam and tincture of myrrh of each one
ounce, spirits of turpentine two ounces, and good oid strong
ale dregs three ounces; mix all of them well together, ana
baihe the afflicted part of the body with the same.
A remedy for a strain, S(C.
Take the oil of swallows, the oil of peter, and the oil of
turpentine, of each an equal quantity, mix them well toge
ther, and anoint the part afflicted with the same.
Remedy for the asthma and shortness of breath.
Take of the milk of gum ammoniac, six ounces, syrup of
squills, four ounces and a half ; mix them together.
This promotes expectoration in a very great degree, and
relieves those who are short winded. It is justly esteemed
for its serviceable properties in asthmatic cast s, by rarefying
and thinning viscid cohesions in the pulmonary vessels. A
spoonful is to be taken four or five times every day, and in
particular every morning. i
An essencefor the head-acJie.
Head-aches are sometimes caused from an obnoxious vapor
ascending out of the stomach, which in this case must be
cleansed by proper remedies ; but for common head aches
take of French brandy, or rectified spirit of wine, ope
quart.; put it into a strong bottle, and. add one ounce of
camphire cut small, a quarter of an ounce of the essence of
lemon, and two ounces of the strongest volatile spirit -of sal
ammoniac, stop the bottle qu'te close, and shake k three or
four times a day for a week.
The method of using it is to rub the hand with a little of
it, .and hold it hard upon the part afflicted until it is dry.
If the pain is not quite relieved, repeat it till it is.
Compound tincture of Sena, commonly called
Duffy's Elixir.
Take of the best sena two ounces; jalap, coriander seeds
and cream of tartar, of each one ounce ; coarse sugar three
-quarters of a pound ; of brandy three pints. Let them stand
all thus mixed together for ten or twelve da)s, then strain
olF what is fine for use.
This is an agreeable purge and nothing can be more useful
than to alwajs keep it ready made in your houses for fami
ly use.
382 THE FAMILY PHYSICIAN,
Godfrey's Cordial.
Take seven gallons of water; raspings of Sassafras and
aniseeds, of each four pounds ; powder of carraway seeds,
eight ounces; opium, six ounces; coarse sugar, fifteen
pounds; boil them all together till one half of the liquor be
evaporated; strain it through a coarse bag or cloth, and
then add three gallons of the spirit of wine rectified.
If you wish to make any less quantity you must propor
tion the same by the above-mentioned standard, and then
you may make any quantity you please.
Stoughton's Bitters.
Take gentian root two ounces, dried orange peel two
ounces and a half, cochineal, in powder, half a dram, proof
spirit or brandy two pounds; let them stand ten or twelve
days, and decant off what is clear for use.
Friar's Balsam, commonly called Turlington's Balsam
of Life, the true and best method of making it.
Take gum benjamin twelve ounces, gum storax eight
ounces, balsam of tolu (or peru) four ounces, succotrine
aloes two ounces, rectified spirits of wine five quarts and a
pint. , Let them stand to digest twelve or fourteen days;
then decant for use.
Pills for giddiness, palsy, head-ache, &c.
Take native cinnabar levigated two drachms, castor and
salt of amber, of each one drachm, oil of marjoram fifteen
drops, balsam of Peru one drachm, syrup of piony a suffi
cient quantity to make a mass; and from every drachm of it
cut off nine pills. The dose is three of them to be taken
three times each day.
Remedy for the whooping or chincough.
Take flower of benjamin, and strained opium of each two
drachms, camphire two scruples, essential oil of aniseeds
half a drachm, rectified spirit of wine one quart, four ounces
of powdered liquorice, and four ounces of honey; then di
gest and strain off the elixir. 3. - - -
Another remedy for the same disease. - -
Take of the musk julep six ounces, paregoric elixir half
an ounce, volatile tincture of valerian one drachm; mix
º, and take two spoonfuls three or four times every
ay. , - " . . . . .
TOE FAMILY PHTSICIAW. 385
'"•Take milk of gum ammoniac, and of small cinnamon
-water of each two ounces; tincture of castor two drachms,
syrup of balsam half a drachm ; mix them and administer
one spoonful presently after.
Towards the decline of the disease, a decoction of the
bark in full doses may be prescribed lo advantage. ' .. , •
These medicines may also be taken with success in any
other old dry bad obstinate cough whatsoever.
How to cure warts.
Go into the field and take a black snail, and rub them with
the same nine times one way, and then nine times another,
and then slick that said snail upon a blaik thorn and the
warts will waste. I have also known • b'ack snail cure corns,
being laid thereon as a plaisier. If you have what is called
blood or bleeding warts, then taki- a piece of raw beef that
never had any salt, and rub them with the same just in the
tame manner as you used the snail above mentioned ; aftef
this operation is performed you must bury that piece ol" beef
in the earth.
"* For the falling down ofthe almonds of the ears.
Mix a little bole armoniac in powder, with some venice
turpentine; spread it on sheeps' leather as broad as a stay,
and then apply the same under the throat from ear to ear.
. , A remedy for St. Anthonys Fire.
Take a common purge, and then anoint the part afflicted
with the marrow of mutton.
For an Ague.
Drink the decoction of camomile well . sweetened with
treacle. Take it when you are warm in bed and sweat two
hours.
A curefor an asthma or shortness of breath.
Take a quart of aqua vita:, one ounce of of aniseeds bruis
ed, one ounce of liquorice sliced, half a pound of raisins
stoned; then let them alt s^eep ten days in the aquavits,
being well covered up, after which time pour t he same off
into a bottle, then add two table spoonfuls of fine sugar to
the same, and stop it very close for use.
For a bruise or scald outwardly.
Take one quart of neatsfoot oil, half a pound of red lead,
two ounces of bees wax ; boil all these things together three
384 TOE FAMILY THTSICINA,
hours, during which time you must stir them well ; then
add to the same one ounce of the oil of elder, let it cool for
use, and bathe the part afflicted with the same.
For a bruise inwardly.
Drink a strong decoction of comfrey with bread and
butter.
A curefor piles or sores.
Eat rosemary and sage with bread and butter, and apply
wheat flour and honey by way of plaister.
For a canker in the niouih, or a sore month.
Tifke the juice of plantain and rose water mixed with the
same, and frequently wash your mouth ; and if your gums
are sore, take gun powder, roach allum, bole armoniac, and
honey, of each an equal quantity ; mix them well together,
jktid when jou rub your gums with the same let the rheum run
out of your mouth.
For the scurvy in the gums.
Make strous: sage tea and dissolve therein a little allum, dip
a cloth therein and rub your gums with the same. If you
wish to make your teeth white, mix a little burnt allum
with six spoonfuls of honey, and two spoonfuls of the
juice of celandine, and rub your teeth with the same.
" .. For the heart-burn.
The salts of tartar taken in a little water is a cure for the
heart-burn. You may mix an equal quantity of magnesia
with the same if you please.
For the black jaundice.
Take an handful of the long leaves that grow upon arti
choke stalks, bruise and put tnem into a pot with three pints
of ale ; let the pot stani in a warm place close covered up
for twelve hours, then take a small glass of this liquor, mixed
with half a glass of white wine, for nine mornings together
fasting, and let a drachm of saffron be tied up in a small bit
of cloth and put in the pot amongst the same.
How to cure the yellow jaundice without medicine, or
giving any thing to the patient whatsoever.
Take the patient's morning urine and put the sajne into a
bottle; then take a small piece of saffron, a,ud tie it. up in a
fine piece of muslin, and put the same in the bottle amongst
the said urine; and only desire the patient wholly to ab
THE TAMILY PHYSICIAN.
stain from drinking cither milk or malt liquor for one month.
Proved a great number of times.
This prescription alone is worth more money than the pric«
of this book,
How to help those whose courses -are stopped.
Take two ounces of the grains of paradise, one ounce of
long pepper, one ounce of uirmerick, and two ounces of
steel filings, all in powder; make it into an electuary with a
little honey, and take about the size of a walnut night and
morning j and two or three times in the course of the day
take a wine glass full of the decoction of garden rue, worm
wood, horebound and nettles, for some days.
How to take ai:ay little red pimplesfrom (lieface.
Take two ounces of lemon juice, two ounces of rose water,
two drachms of silver supplinienr, mix them them irrtowan
ointment and rub your face with the same at going to bed,
and when you get up in the morning rub your face with fresh
butter, and then rub the same clean off.
How to make balsam of life.
Take gum benjamin one ounce, strained slorax, balsam of
feru, balsam of tolu, myrrh, olibanum, angelica root, St,
ohn's wort flowers, each half an ounce; succotrine aloes one ,
scruple, put them all into a pint of the spirit of wine, and
let them stand for a week before the fire, stir them once a
day until all the gums are dissolved, then filter it off for use.
This is an admirable medicine for a great number of diseases,
and wonderfully strengthens the whole body, &c.
How to kill worms, or bot-worms in the body.
Tate halfa glass of brandy, and put therein as much fine
sulphur as will lay on a shilling, and mix them together;
then burn a bit of bread crust in the fire till it is black, chew
the same in your mouth for about five minutes, after which
put it out again, and then immediately take the above men
tioned medicine early in the morning fasting.
A remedy for a consumption if taken in time.
Take one handful of horehound and the same quantity of
garden rue, with two pounds of coarse sugar; put these in
gredients into two quarts of water, boil them all together
until they are reduced to one quart, then take three large
table spoonfuls otthe-saroe early in the morning fasting.
S
396 THE FAMILY PHYSICIAN.
An excellent remedy for a burn or scald.
Mix a little lapis calaminaris (which y"u get at the che
mists) in a little snow water, and shake it well together. It
doth wonderfully take the fire out of any burn, and you may
make as much in the course of the winter as will serve all
the year.
For a person that is subject to be cos/ive in his body.
Take cream of tartar mixed with honey very frequently.
Hois to make excellent eye-zeater.
Take half a pint of the best brandy, two pints of spring
water, and one ounce of the sugar of lead, mix these things
together and it is made.
How to slop bleeding of any uound, Sfc.
Take burnt leather powdered, bole in powder, dragon's
blood in povder, mix some spirits of wine with all these said
ingredients, and lay it thereon with soft fine lint.
An excellent remedy for the stone and gravel in the
reins or bladder, and the stoppage of urine.
Take one ounce of the spirits of sweet nitre, two drachms
of liquid laudanum, and half an ounce of the oil of juniper.
Takeatea spoonful in a cup of linseed tea sweetened with ho
ney. 1 havebeon the happy means of restoring to health ofbody
a great number of my fellow mortals, by this most salutary
and admirable medicine for a many years past, to my own
heartfelt satisfaction and their great comfort and relief, but
it.is our blessed divine physician alone that doth give virtue
to all and every one of our said medicines, before they can
even imbibe the least power of healing the body of man.
even hiin who healed the sick and the diseased by a word, a
touch, &c. even without the application of any medicine
whatsoever ; and hath likewise taught and almost fully ena
bled his disciples, in all the various ages of the world, to do
the same. These are called miracles, but there are some
amongst us, who through ignorance deny the power of mira
cles, since our Saviour and the apostles time; but these are
thev who deny the holy scriptures, and also the power of
those gifts of God, mentioned in the 1st Cor xii. &c. but we
find that God isjust the same yesterday, to-day, and for ever,
Heb. *iii. 8.
A PRESENT FOR THE LADIES.
I Will now retire a little from the medical department, and
make out a present for the ladies in general ; therefore after
having now healed them of their several diseases, sicknesses and
Bodily infirmities, I will herein moit fully enable them to enjoy
themselves, by teaching them
How to make currant wine. y
Take four pound of ripe currants, squeeze the jnice well out of
them, then put therein four pound; of coarse sugar and one gallon
of water. Stir this well until it is all melted, then put the same'
in your barrel, and cork it up well for two months. Ifyou make
two gallons you must keep it in the barrel four months, and so
in proportion to the quantity you make ; after which bottle it for
use. Some add a little raspberry juice or brandy,
Hoxs to make sugar cakes.
Take halfa pound of lump sugar powdered fine, half a pound
of butter melted, and six eggs beaten fine ; add thereto a little
rum; a bit of candied peel cut small, and also a few carraway
seeds, together with as much fine flour as will make a paste ;
then cut them into what form you please, and bake them on a tin*
How to make gingerbread.
Take one pound of fine flour, one pound and a half of but
ter, two pounds of sugar, four spoonfuls of rose water, ten eggs
well beaten up, and a quarter of a pound of ginger ground
very fine; then make all these things into a paste, and bake the
same in what manner and form you please.
How to make currant pudding.
Take one pound of currants, one pound of suet, five eggs,
four spoonfuls of flour, half a nutmeg grated very fine, a tea
spoonful of ginger in powder, a little powdered sugar, and a
little salt ; then boil this said pudding lor three hours.
How to make a polatoe pudding.
Mash one pound of boiled potatoes, put to them a quarter ot
»pound of butter, the yolks of four eggs and one white of an
egg, and sugar to the taste ; a 'little brandy, some nutmeg, a
quarter of a pint of cre;im, a little orange peel cut thin, a pufF
paste, and then bake it halt dn hour.
How to make egg sauce.
Melt yourbutrer thick and fine, then chop two or three haro>
boiled eggs fine, then put them into a bason, pour the butter -
ocec them, and have good gravy in the dish.
s a
388 A PriesENT foſt. Thir: LAD1 E5,
How to make bread sauce.
Put a good piece of the crumb of bread, not new, into a fulf
half pint of water, with an onion, a blade of mace, and a few
pepper corns in a bit of cloth; boil these a few minutes, then
take out the onion and spice, wash the bread very smooth and
add to the same a piece of butter and a little salt.
How to make forced meat balls.
Take an equal quantity of lean veal and beef suet beaten toge
ther; then add pepper, salt, cloves, nutmegs, parsley chopped
small, with a few crumbs of bread, and yolks of eggs, accord
ing to the quantity, then roll them into small balls.
Hote to make paste for cheesecakes. -
Take as much flour as butter, and rub them, well together
with a little fine sugar; then mix up the same with a little warm
How to make cheesecakes. *.
Put a quart of milk on the fire, then beat eight eggs well;
when the milk boils, stir them upon the fire till it comes to a
curd, then pour it out, and when cold put a little salt, rose
water, and three quarters of a pound of currants in the same,
then make your cheesecakes.
How to make rice cheesecakes.
Boil four ounces of ground rice in half a pint of new milk;
to which add four eggs, four ounces of butter, sugar, nutmeg,
and brandy to the taste.
How to make iceing for tarts. -
Beat the white of an egg, then rub it over the tarts with a
ſeather, and siſt over it lump sugar powdered.
How to make a crust for raised pies.
Put four pounds of butter into a pan of water, with three
quarters of a pound of rendered beef suet, Boil it two or three
ininutes, then pour it on twelve pounds of flour; work this
into a stiff paste; pull it into lumps to cool, and bake them in a
hot oven,
How to make minced pies without meat. - -
Take six eggs boiled hard and eut fine, a pound of raisins
stoned and cut fine, to which add a pound of currants, a large
spoonful of fine sugar, an ounce of citron, an ounce of candied
Peel, a quarter of an ounce of mace and cloves together, with a
A PRESENT FOR THE LADIES. 389
large nutmeg, a gill of brandy, and a gill of mountain wine-t
the juice of a Seville orange, and a glass of red wine ; then1
make your pies.
*
How to make cup custards.
Take one pint of cream, a bit of mace, two laurel leaves, the'
yolks of six eggs, one white of an egg, with a little sugar, stir,
it over a gentle fire till it is near boiling, then put it into cups.
How to make Shrewsbury cakes.
Beat half a pound of butter to a cream, to which add half »
pound of dried flour, one egg, six ounces of sifted sugar, and a;
few caraway seeds ; mix them well together, then, roll it out thin,
pjick them and bake them in a slack oven.
How to make a plumb cake.
Five pound of currants, half a peck of flour, one pound
sugar, twelve e?gs, three pounds of butter melted in three
pints of new milk, cloves, mace, yeast, and a glass off. -
How to pickle walnuts.
Put a hundred of Walnuts into a stone jar, take four ounces of
bfack pepper, one ounce of Jamaica pepper, two ounces of gin
ger, one ounce of cloves, one pint of mustard seed, a head or two
ef garlic, and £iur handfuls of salt. Bruise the spice and the
saustard seed and boil them in vinegar sufficient to cover the nuts.
When cold put it to them, two days after boil up the pickle, pour
it to the nuts and cover them close. Repeat this for three days.
How to pickle French beans.
Four over them a boiling hot brine, thencover them' close,
the next day drain and dry them ; pour over them a boiling hot
pickle of white- wine vinegar, Jamaica pepper, black pepper,
mace and ginger. Repeat this till they look green.
How to pickle onions.
Peel small onions into salt and water, shift or remove them
once a day for three days; then set them over the fire in milk
and water until they are ready to boil ; then dry them, pour over
thera the following pickle when boiled, viz. vinegar, mace and
salw »»
TABLE of DrSEASEs.’ “
BORTION,46,
- 248
Aconites, 218, 248
Aches 248, 264
Adders, 325
Adult choler, 114
After-birth, 10, 15, 29, 32, 54
126, 149,
83, 90, 106, 128, 135, 17t,
184, 189, 207,217, 240,24]
248,283, 329
Agues, 7, 15, 23, 29, 39, 42,
57, 59, 68, 7.2, 87, 94, 97,
125, 129, 158, 170, 173,
177, 179, 187, 193, 197,
207, 221, 238, 277, 279,
289,299, 300, 309,813, 325
Almonds in the ears, 47, 74,
1 12, 224
Andicomes, 55. - -
St. Anthony's fire, 3, 37, 87,
94, 100, 117, 159, 160, 173
| 180, 198, 256,268, 279, 307,
335
Appetite, 29, 39, 42, 80, 83,
103, 146, 185, 200, 209,
226, 300, 338 .
Apoplexy, 188,211, 329
Arteries, 28, 65
Asthma, 172,335 -
BACK, easeth pains of and
strengtheneth, 90, 270, 327
Baldness, 37, 303, 330, 348
Barrenness, 73, 127, 223
Beasts venomous, 3, 4, 25, 28,
31, 37, 45, 46, 48, 59, 66,
72, [39, 144, 146, 176, 178,
185, 225, 244, 321, 325,
338
Beauty, 99, 138, see Face and
Skin
Bees, 31, 174, 197,291
Belching, 39, 63 -
Belly-ach, 27. 69, 219, 311,
321 .
Belly binds, 175, 181, 218,
236, 245, 251, 272
Belly opens, 25, 67, 174, 175,
186, 197,218,236,251,277,
3.15 *.
Binding, 7, 41, 44, 158, 308,
30, 385
Birth, 217, 302, 318
Biting of mad dogs 3, 15, 28,
65, 72, 133, 144, 146, 175,
208,209, 250
Biting of serpents, 10, 23, 68,
120, 124, 129, 147, 169,
210, 234, 250 r
Black and blue spots, 32, 45,
* 54,68, 112, 201, 230, 232,
286, 338
Bladder, 25, 65, 97,90, 131,
153, 159, 207, 219, 247,
325, 327
Blastings by lightning, 258
Bleeding by leeches to stay, 33
Bleedings, 5, 20, 34, 39, 46,60.
63, 72, 87, 103, 120, 167,
172, 173, 182, 190, 208,213
216, 218, 224, 260, 283,
286, 288, 298,308,316,325,
333, 335 -
Blemishes, 102, 123
Blindness, 162, 191
Blisters, 37, 104, 260, 273 -
Blood congealed, 2, 90, 116,
| 32
Blood cooleth, 300, 319
Blood purgeth, 55, 103, 113
Blood spitting, 5, 39, 48, 92.
1 13, 176,226, 236, 249, 239,
269, 283,299, 309, 318,333
Bloody flux, see flux * -
Bloody urine, 92,95, 172, 249,
258, 299
Blows, 238, 241
Boils, 28, 72, 90, 193, 220,
282, 300
Bones broken, 55, 56, 95, 110,
121, 124, 127, 131, 181, 149,
175, 294
Bots, 146
Bowels, 5, 68, 74
2 Brain,
TA BLE OF DISE ASE5,
Brain, 23, 27, 28,69, 90, 100,
120, 126, 147, 173, 179, 184,
187, 188, 201, 203, 238,
248, 270, 282
Breath difficult, 15, 32, 34, 39,
54, 64,68, 123, 169,174, 195,
201, 273, 294,318,324, 325
Breath stinking, 37, 139,
210, 273, 299, 302, 338
Breast, 7, 8, 27, 95, 101, 103,
y
108, 138, 135, 137, 155,
163, 183, 198, 208, 220,
248, 262
Bruises, 2, 7, 21, 27, 38, 39,
2, 61, 82, 87, 95, 100, 108,
1 16, 127, 132, 221, 240,
241, 286, 289, 297,317
Burning, 4, 13, 21, 29, 37, 53,
121, 159, 177, 189, 239,
310, 323
CACHEXIA, 8, 11, 98, 109
Cancers, 7, 92
Cankers, 37, 47, 54, 63, 71,
72, 87, 18, 189, 182, 216,
263,283, 291,801, 309 "
Cantharides, 45, 227
Carbuncles, 294, 330
Catarrhs, 207, 263
Cattle poisoned, 166
Chilblains, 37, 133, 164, 180
Childbirth, 28, 93
Chincough, 199, 318
Choler, 3, 11, 23, 72,79, 108,
113, 1 19, 138, 140, 154,
161, 176, 200, 235, 252,
269,271,276, 300, 321, 322
327
Choleric fluxes, 255
- humours, 29, 207,
256, 268, 269, 307, 308,338
Choleric pushes, 94
Chops, 209, 252, 282, 322
Cold, 69, 203
Colic, 3, 7, 15, 27, 69, 73,
116, 127, 154, 168, 179,
210, 219, 252, 260, 272,
279, 290, 291, 293
Conception, 188,283
Consumption, 50, 65, 66, 171,
179, 189,256, 274
Convulsions, 3, 39, 54,68, 85,
99, 118,-123, 146, 155,241,
302, 314, 335
Cough, 15, 82, 89,42, 50, 54,
68, 87, 94, 101, 104, 123,
131, 133, 157, 158, 161,
169, 174, 179, 189, 193, 194,
198, 200, 216, 219, 222,
230,234, 239,256, 265,267,
274,283,290, 324
Cramps, 3, 25, 58, 54, 68, 69,
85, 99, 146, 203, 218, 241,
277, 283, 293,302, 309
Cuts, 299 -
DANDRUFF, 37, 294, 334
Dead child, 3, 4, 54, 56,
79, 135, 139, 147, 184, 203,
240, 241, 248, 283
Deafness, 9, 72, 133, 164, 200,
207, 291, 302, 380
Defluxions, 281, 283, 301,
308, 335 -
Diabetes, or those who cannot
keep water, 46,319, 348
Digestion, 67, 146, 158, 185,
193,209, 220, 272, 274, 281,
200
Difficulty of breathing, 2, 28,
94, 133, 222, 239, 279
Dimness of sight, 274, 277,
279, 291, 334
Disease sudden, 2
Dislocations, 53, 57
Dogs, 171, 175
Dreams, 159, 186, 210, 257
Dropsy, 2, 8, 11, 23, 26, 32,
39, 54, 57, 69, 78, 76, l 19,
124, 183, 135, 138, 145,
147, 158, 159, 169, 178,
180, 189, 200, 201, 203,
214, 216, 232, 240, 248,
249, 277, 289, 299, 807,
310, 313
Drowsinese,
TABLE OF DISEASESs.
Drowsiness, 273
Drunkenness, 177
Dulness of spirit, 283
Dysury, 25, 33, 3-, 37, 58, 56,
64, 65, 68, 72, 178, 310,
321, 3.4
EARS, 22, 107, 20, 125, 130,
137, 164, 171, 178, 182,
200, 201, 207, 208, 212,
226, 230, 232, 235, 239,
250, 268, 291
Ear wig, 161
Epidemical diseases, 15, 39,
46, 63, 64, 330 -
Ephialtes or the mare, 99, 243
Excoriations, 198, 249, 258
Eyes, 5, 9, 17, 25, 30, 32, 33,
39, 48, 52, 59, 66,76,79, 90,
I 04, 106, 108, 1 18, 12t),
125, 130, 134, 140, 143,
155, 159, 171, 173, 179,
191, 193, 201, 205, 207,
214, 226, 232, 241, 247,
250, 268, 269, 270, 302,
306, 310, 824, 325, .
332, 334, 338
FACE, 27, 33, 72, 85,
193, 241, 334
Fainting, 28, 184, 215,
261, 270, 322
Falls, 2, 61, 87, 132, 286.
Falling sickness, 3, 89, 54, 87,
99, 180, 133, 142, 1+8, 155,
166, 169, 179, 184, 197,
203, 21 1, 220, 231, 232,
234, 242, 248, 249, 254,
283, 827 -
Fat decreaseth, 91
Fellons, 2, 22, 90, 168, 223
Fevers, 30, 48, 50, 53, 65, C9,
87, 109, 188,299, 303
Films in the eyes, 90, 806.
Fistulas, 61, 72, 87, 1 6, 139,
154, 225, 228, 23 F, 239,
263,291, 304, 325,348
Fleas, 13, 22
Flies, 8, 22, 191
º
Flagging breasts, 183
Flax, 4, 7, 16, 27, 28, 36,
33, 37, 42, 46, 48, 49, 53,
59, 63, 83, 87, 91, 92, 95,
99, 133, 134, 138, 140,.
149, 150, 153, 161, 172,
175, 177, 181, 187, 190,
204, 212, 214, 219, 226,
227, 231, 249, 256, 260,
261, 270, 277, 281, 283,
286, 297, 299, 300, 310,
816, 319, 348
Freckles, 54, 99, 107,
239,267, 293, 825
French pox, 16, 72, 124, 141,
155, 164 170, 175, 285
Frenzy, 39, 99, 130, 235, 256,
318, 325
Fundament, 48, 107,111, 205,
209, 250, 268
GALL, 68, 135
Galled feet, 34
Gangrenes, 54, 61, 95, 109;.
166, 225, 310, 380.
Gout, 3, 9, 15, 21, 28, 39, 53,
66, 87, 107, 151, 163, 166,
180, 188, 214, 219, 225,
238, 239, 241, 244, 254,
277, 279, 822
Gnats, 8, 126, 191
Cravel, 4, 25, 34, 48, 54, 56.
71, 72, 80, 93, 97,116, 182,
144, 150, 154, 182, 198, 224,.
233,239, 262,268,281,287,
292, 302, 809, 325
Gripings, 9, 115, 149, 155,
186, 193, 216, 248, 318
Green sickness, 79
Gums, 47, 61, 71, 209, 311
HAIR to make yellow, 29
Hair to restore, 121, 175, 189,
195, 198, 221, 236, 239.
Head, 17, 23, 48,90, 133, 189,
149, 184, 195, 198, 2012
205, 209, 223, 230, 269
Head ach, 56, 117, 120 130,
148, 163, 170, 177, 214.
- - 235,
I 13,
TABLE OF DISEASES.
235, 238,268,297, 307, 316,
324, 325, 327
Hearing, see ears
Heart, 28, 63, 91, 146, 147,
156, 202, 215, 268, 274,
282, 306, 322, 327
Heat, 158, 159, 189, 239
Hemorrhoids, 175, 180, 258,
302, 309
Hemlock, 161, 200, 225,
Henbane, 164, 200,225
Hiccough, 111, 129, 157, 208,
214
High colour, 45
Hips, 318
Hoarseness, 66, 87, 137, 189,
198,222, 235,251,256, 262,
283, 327, 333
Humours, 202
Hypochondria, 109, 114
JAUNDICE black, 57, 166,
-yellow, 18, 25, 26,
32, 39, 46, 68, 69, 101, 109,
143, 161, 166, 177, 232,
234, 235, 249
Iliac passion, 291
Imposthumes, 8, 22, 30, 109,
228, 230, 239, 263, 282,
283, 288, 294, 315
Inflammations, 45, 22, 83, 50,
56,71, 87, 90, 94, 120, 159,
163, 180, 187, 190,205, 208,
231, 239, 256, 258, 277,800,
318, 321, 326, 327, 330, 348
Infeetion to preserve from, 230,
294
Indigestion, 15, 27, 28, 39, 74
Joints, 3, 34, 57, 79, 87, 95,
117, 139, 201, 248,269,279,
304, 311, 321
Itch, 3, 8, 11, 37, 48, 50, 72,
76, 106, 156, 170, 179, 200,
291, 294, 300, 319
KERNELS, 93, 110, 135,210,
217,300, 308, 32:
Kibes, 133, 164, 180
Kidnies, 100, 114, 124, 144,
153, 180, 190, 247, 288,
310, 329 v
King's evil, 21, 30, 53, 71, 78,
91, 124, 131, 142, 146, 149,
180, 192, 198, 210, 229,
263, 277, 291, 308, 309,
333
Knots in the flesh, 87, 93, 108,
110, 155, 162, 195, 211,
217, 308 -
LASKS, 111, 138, 140, 153,
157, 161, 172, 177, 182,214,
218,219, 245, 261,270, 277,
Lechery 160
Leprosy, 4, 26, 30, 55, 68,
i 19,121, 133, 166, 179, 210,
221, 225, 228, 241, 294, 333
Lethargy, 3, 17, 102, 130, 220,
225, 230, 232,235,238,283,
291, 318
Lice, 11, 28,57,164, 169,278,
309
Limbs, 178
Liver, 11, 27, 42, 61, 63, 69,
84, 97, 107, 113, 121, 138,
155, 156, 157, 170, 17 1, 180,
190,209, 234, 241,249,257,
270, 277, 296, 306, 313.
318, 319
Loathing of meat, 204, 267
Longings. 204, 326
Loose teeth, 306, 311
Loss of voice, 184, 256
Lungs, 32, 83, 129, 133, 155,
169, 189, 193, 197,200, 203,
212, 222, 224, 241,273,279,
282, 318, 319. 334
Lust provokes, 25, 45, 84, 90,
156,208,209, 221, 224, 229,
233
Lust stops, 159, 160, 186, 257,
334
MAD dogs, 250
Madness, 166
Mandrakes, 225
- Mare
TABLE OF DISEASEs.
Mare, 61, 243
Marks in the skin, 267, 286
Measles, 46,202,282, 319
Megrinus, 32, 137, 309
Melancholy, 18, 28, 50, 63,
66, 114, 128, 143, 148, 166,
207, 215, 243, 252, 304,
310, 312, 328
Members, disjointed, 137, 175,
Memory, 72, 126, 179, 187,
209, 273, 285
Milk in nurses, 50, 129, 186,
197,208,254, 302, 307, 328
Milk curdling, 208, 232
Milk in cattle, 93
Mineral vapours, 145
Miscarriage, 204, 283, 310
Morphew, 4, 54, 109, 113,
123, 170, 194, 239, 267,
279, 294, 325
Mother, 4, 18, 25, 34, 45, 54,
64, 76, 11 1, 112, 120, 123,
128, 178, 197, 203, 207,
217, 223,224, 234. 239,241,
243, 248,279,289, 291, 293
Mouth, 9, 45, 50, 61,71, 87,
93, 143,218, 241, 203,288,
289, 296, 316, 326
Mumps, 99
Mushrooms, 28, 230, 338
uscles cut, 92, 95
Nails in the flesh, 7, 211
Navels of children, 137, 258
Neck, 118, 221, 314
Nettles, 174
Nerves, 48, 93, 177, 324
Nightshade eaten, 225
Nipples, 137
Nocturnal pollutions, 156, 210
Noise in the ears, 37, 164, 169,
200, 201, 290, 302
Obstructions of the gall, 76,
79, 109, 114, 129,161, 194
Obstructions of the liver, 2, 3,
8, 9, 10, 23, 32, 37, 39, C8,
76, 79, 109, 115, 124, 129,
35, 143, 170, 17 1, 184, 194,
231, 232, 239, 247, 248,
274, 325, 329
Cbstructions of the reins, 9,
239, 325 -
Obstructions of the spleen, 2,
3. 8, 9, 10, 32, 37, 39, 54,
68, 79, 109, 124, 129, 143,
170, 171, 184, 194, 231, 232,
230, 247, 248, 325
Pains, 159, 220, 264, 279, £89
in the back and belly,
39, 99, 115, 129, 138, 241
——-bowels, 97, 179,
216, 277, 302, 309
ears, 91, 120,
200, 205, 208,210, 239,251,
254, 277, 279, 310
— head, 98, 128,
938, 250, 256, 282, 283
—— reins, 2, 221,
sides, 39, 85,
97, 138, 148, 221, 227, 279,
294, 324 . . "
Palsy, 32, 39, 54, 87, 99, 108,
!20, 130, 179, 188, 211,
248, 285,291, 329, 335
Pestilence or plague, 15, 46.
48, 63, 64, 65, 146, 229,
247, 313, 325, 333
Phlegm, 11, 25, 54, 57, 65,-
97, 03, 106, 119, 138, 158,
165, 171, 201, 207, 224, 230,
210, 241, 276 282,290,293,
296,304, 308, 318, 321
Phthisick, 42, 95, 189, 197,.
216, 238, 257, 273, 274
Piles,48, 7.8, 95, 107, 132, 137,
139, 175, 180, 219, 224, 239,
25o, 251
imples, 46, 102, 143, 279, 294
Pin and web. 160, 188, 189,
250, 321, 322, 324
Pleurisy, 15,156, 222,224, 294
Poison, 15, 27, 32, 46, 48, 52.
52, 71, 106, 112, 135, 158,
168, 171, 178, 185, 197, 261,
279, 300, 322, 328
Polypus,
TABLE OF DYSEASES.
Tolypus, 106, 118, 225, 252
Privities, 33, 48, 6.1. 108, 117,
135, 150, 155, 160, 163, 167,
168, 173, 180, 182, 189, 191.
205, 222, 226, 250, 26.0, 263
Pushes. 35 94, 143, 159, 338
Quartan agues, 20, 125, 148,
166, 249 252, 26o
Quotidian agues. 97, 125
42uinsy, 7, 48.87, 99, 169, 192.
193 231, 263. 327, 330, 338
Reins, 16, 25, 46, 124, 128
159, 182, 219, 247. 248
257, 270, 277,281, 286, 288
292 3io. 325, 327
Rheum, 1o 1, 107,
178, 203, 269
Rickets, 1 18, 314
Ringworms, 50, 54, 72, 76, 11o,
17o, 173, 190,208,226, 251,
279, 291, 294, 3oo
Riº5, 39, 44, 46, 53, 68,
87, 92, 95, 97, 104, 195,
117, 150,179, 181, 213,216,
216, 231, 266, 281, 286,
288, 311, 317, 318
Scabby heads, 48, 142, 189, 198,
224, 239
Scabs, 8, 11, 26, 37, 61, 66,
123, 143, 156, 170, 179,
200, 208, 221, 225, 227,
25o, 267, 279,292, 294, 319
Scars, 68, 321
Sciatica, 15, 21, 65, 68, 79.87.
101, 1d2, 1ob, 163, 166, 180,
217, 222, 244, 254, 279.
291, 302,309, 311, 315, 322
Scurvy, 56, 192, 179, 185, 262,
204, 21
sºure, 186, 256, 258,
Seed increaſe, -124, 239, 267,
Shingles, 87, 173, .226, 235,
Sinews, 3, 39, 48, 65, 69, 85,
117, 121, 139, 177, 189, 2012
214, 217, 294 339, 333
157, 171,
Skin, 64, 99, 120, 121, 159,
173, 192, 244, 245,267, 296
Small pox, 4, 46, 202, 282,319
Smell loss of 37
Sores, 3, 7, 21,48, 65,72, 193
142, 150, 168, 170, 171, 18.
183, 190, 216, 225, 270, 277,
... 278, 279, 283, 286, 289
Speech lost, 188, 273
Spleen, 4, 11, 20, 28, 57, 69,
102. 1 14, 126, 138, 147, 149,
157, 169. 177 178, 200, 205,
250, 252, 277, 296, 303,
3o4, 306, 310, 313, 319, 329,
Splinters, 7, 55, 9o, 110, 149,
159, 229, 246 294, 302, 324
Stitches, 26, 27, 39, 54, 57, 69,
73, 74, 123, 146, 177, 227,
234, 252,281, 283, 313, 323
Stomach, 10, 11, 27, 30, 39,
42, 59, 74, 82, 107, 1 11,
123, 133, 146, 154, 158, 17o,
179, 200, go 1, 209, 212, 231
Stranguary, 10, 25.56, 93, 132.
149, 173, 178, 182, i89,267.
235, 248, 254, 268, 281,
302, 3o4, 319, 324
Stone, 3, 25, 32, 33° 36, 43;
44, 54, 56. 59, 65. 66, 69
71,73, 89, 93.97, 192, 116.
123, 124, 129, 132, 195,
198, 203, 204, 214, 216, 217,
224, 226, 231, 232,236, 239,
265, 268, 277,281, 290, 302
Sun burning, 38, 99
Surfeits, 15, 66, 178, 338
Swelling,13, 30, 41, 56, 66, 67,
69, 84, 9o, 91, 121, 139, 149,
16o, 163, 168, 176, 195, 198,
295, 220, 222, 248, 263,
282,294, 309, 321, 327, 338
Swoonings, 28, 56, 114, 184,
215, 241, 270, 322
Teeth, 123, 131, 150,258, 269
Terms provokes, 5, 8 9, 10.
15, 17, 28, 32, 39, 45, 56,
* 64,
TABLE OF DISEASES,
147, 149, 154, 158, 170, 177,
180, 182, 184, 193,221,231,
279, 283, 287,291, 213, 209
Warts and Wens, 60, 76, 132,
133, 173, 207, 217, 219,
254, 279, 321, 324
Wasps, 8, 31, 32, 197 .
Wheals, 37, 55, 66, 85, 143,
239,254, 279, 302
Wheezings, 64, 94, 123, 133,
169, 189,222, 224, 239,252,
273, 302, 325
Whitlows, 55, 223
Whites, 5, 16, 20, 37, 49, 63,
87, 95, 185, 190, 209, 200,
269, 274, 311
Wind, 15, 32, 45, 57, 66, 73,
74, l l 1, 129, 158, 179, 231,
274, 291, 299, 309, 310 348
Witchcraft, 32, 39,168,211
Womb, 18, 54, 128, 215, 310,
325, 327 -
Women after delivery, 2
Worms, 3, 4, 8, 32, 39, 46,64,
67, 68, 98, 99, 1 12, 116, 123,
126, 138, 146,161, 165, 169,
170, 182, 185, 315, 224, 229
235, 256,267, 281,291,299,
300, 309, 318, 319, 325, 33o
Wounds, 4, 5, 9, 22, 27, 34,
39, 43, 44; 47, 48, 52, 57,
61, 63, 91, 92, 95, 97, 100,
loS, l 12, 117, 131, 131, 140,
150, 153, 155, 168, 176, 183,
192,232,213, 216, 220, 258,
263, 279, 281,285,286,288,
289, 297, 310, 317, 323, 348
|Wrinkles, loë
Yellow jaundice, 2, 4, 7, 8, 11,
50, 56, 72, 76, 87, 91, 93,
114, 124, 129, 135, 138, 144,
148, 170, 171, 190, 194, 195,
200,207,216, 222, 248,269,
274,277,278,281, 283, 289,
298, 299, 8oo, 304, 307, 3lo
3.19, 325, 338.
64,66,68, 73, 79, 85, 90,
1oz., 106, 111, 120, 124°
135, 144, 146. 155, 157, 17o’
177, 178, 182, 193, 200'
203, 217, 923, 231, 239’
24o, 283, 291, 303, 321, 329
Terms stops, 16, 37, 47, 48,
63, 87, 95, 90, 10o, 134, 190,
195, 204, 209, 212, 213,214,
218, 2252 45, 250, 265. 268,
279-291, 3co, 31 on 319; 330
Tetters, 41, 50, 54, 72, 76,
17o. 172,173, 190, 208, 250,
251, 279, 291, 294, 30.o,
Thirst, 192, 257, 300, 301, 305,
Throat, 9, 18, 5o. 71, 93, 1o7,
193, 268, 297, 316, 327
Thorns, 7, 55, 9o, 303
Tooth-ache, 3, 11, 15, 22, 28,
47, 57, 87, 133, 139, 169,
218, 221, 247, 250, 256,
266, 277, 3c.g
Vravail in women, 215
e om, 203 315
Veins broken, 52, 92, 283, 319
Venery, 187, 208, 224, 267
Vertigo, 2, 3, 37, 54, 72, 99
Vomiting, 5, 23, 42, 46, 59,
63, 68, 92, 116, 120, 176,
182, 208, 213, 214, 227,
235,241,257,260,276,301,
Ulcers, 4, 15, 17, 21, 37, 38,
30, 46, 48, 50, 52, 61, 63,
65, 72, 73, 87, 9i, 92, 98,
102, 106, 107, 109, 120,
126, 132, 136, 138, 150, 165,
166, 167, 168, 172, 177, 182,
189, 192, 216, 226, 247,
249, 260, 263,265,266, 268,
277, 281, 283, 28S, 289,
200, 294, 296, 297, 299,
303, 310,317, 323, 325, 332
Urine bloody, 7, 59, 81, 84,318
Urine to provoke, 3, 8, 9, 20,
45, 56,73, 74, 81, 86, 97,
102, 106, 107, 114, 120, 124
127, 129, 139, 143, 144, 146.
Hodsons, Print-is, Cross Street, Hatton Garden, London.
*
º
3/. Gold.wn A’od
º
sº
-
º
strº
º
ſº
º
N | -
º
-
º º
41.3%./oana ſtory
gºſ 7 **
-12. hºopu,ºf 4.3.1.ada. Juande
Published by hºvsky & Cº.July 1°idow.
33.6%uzweed
44. Ladier Bedstraw
--
--
*
---
….…
--
-
º
º
º
Deady Mäyhºad,
- - -
-
70. Janicle 69..solomonº Jeal
Published by Bºwº, 4 cºul, 1:wog.
68. Rupture Wort
-
82.7Žorough War.
2’ - º
º
***
sº
---->
º §§
º Z.4
80...'acºv -
Aublisheſ & B.º.o. by 6 c. July 1 *20.
72. Burmet Jarºmoe
74..*Heaz
76...pi/ne/
:
85.7/whil
&6. Zºzºan
104.2/uniper 102.6roundsey
Published by ſºv c cº.uly 1°1849.
#7. /*azil /00. (Weaver:”
Published by a cºvač, ć cºuſy lºway.
A&Birds Foot
