{"name":"The Prayers Of The Church Of England","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1809__southcott___the_prayers_of_the_church_of_england.pdf","mytitle":"The Prayers Of The Church Of England","mylang":"de"}
w
£.
D I V I N E A N D S FI III TU A t
• C O M M U J V lV w d TM 03¥& >
WHITTEN BV
JOANNA SOUTHCDTT;
ON. THE
^
■
1 / ■
P R A Y E R S OF T H E C H U R C H OF E N G L A N D ;
T H E C O N D U C T , OF T H E C E E R O A, •
’
A
N
D
C A L V I N , J S T I C M E T H O D I S T S ,
W I T H O T H E R P A R T I C U L A R S *
n*
■Thewind lioneth where it listeth, and thou hearest the soundthereof'^,
but const not tgll whence it cometh, mid whither it goeth : edit
every one that iPbomoJthe:Spirits Johniii. 8.
. mufDomg
jralNTED BT GALABIN AND MARCHANT, XXekAM^COVAT;
, *
■'
1809?
"'Osje ■ y .
A »
$ a£ ’.
?v- >
• ■ ' . #
* * ♦ ‘ *
t .
4
%
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION.
HGOD created man to be immortal, and made him an image of his ,
own eternity. Nevertheless through envy of the Devil, came
death into the world: and they that do hold of his side do find it.** .
W isdom ii. 23, 24.
As it may be hefcessary to mention why the pubr
lisher of the following letter, upon the Prayers of
the Church of England, and other particulars,
should employ his time to publish them to the
world: his answer is, that it being his firm belief
that the Various Communications are given ac­
cording to what is mentioned in the New Testa­
ment of the coming of the Spirit, in the 3d chkp-\
ter of St. John, 8th verse. And the reader may
see they can only proceed from the Spirit of Wis­
dom, to lead men into-the true knowledge .of the
Bible, which is now about to be fulfilled in the
establishment of Christ’s peaceable Kingdom on-
earth. It is necessary to observe, that when that
Divine Being came upon earth, and dwelt amongst
men, he was born of the Virgin Mary, of the Holy:
Ghost, without a human Father; he took on him
the likeness of man in his fallen state; and bore
the blame cast on him by man, agreeably to the
l!2th verse of the 3d chapter of Genesis, in order
for man to t>e restored to the likeness of his Cre­
ator. All this must be accomplished in the end.
The Church of England, which is called the Pro*
Digitized
tized by Google
IV INTRODUCTION.
testant Church', not only declares the miraculous
birth of a Being without a human or natural'fa­
ther being true, but it is declared in the New Tes­
tament,'and confirmed by prophecies in the Old.
It is also evident to every man’s understanding,
that God must be a God of order; and cannot
be manifested to man in his own essence, but
through some medium according to human order,
•tfhiclrwas the man Christ Jesus, born of God his
only Heavenly Father and ^o other. This is ac-.
cording to the belief of the Church of England,
and of the Scriptures. Yet for all this, human:
nature is not redeemed, agreeably to the Lord’s
Prayer, on this earth, where it is mentioned his
kingdom must come, and his will must be done;,
and which prophetic prayer was given and remains,
^until the divine work is accomplished by the second,
coming ofChrist in the Spirit; this also the Church
of England testifies. Man has continued in a -
wretched state of miserysince Christ and his Apos­
tles were upon earth, as well as before, altogether,
for near 6000 years; as is proved by both antient
and modern history, and by our daily experience.
Since no person whatever can deny this lamentable
truth, it is every man’s business to inquire into die
cause. The Bible not only points out the cause,
but the effects: that in the beginning man was
created after the image and likeness of his God—
.a created Being oflove and wisdom. He afterwards
became so changed, as to be the image and like­
ness of the Devil—full of hatred and malice.; a
murderer, and guilty of every crime^—
dead to wis-
Digitized by Google -V-v
dom, and a being of gross darkness; which is
, truly described in the 6th book of Joanna South-
cott’sProphecies, published January % 1802, which
cannot be read with too serious attention; for there
the whole is explained, and the trpth completely
established ; which none but a Gdd could know;
aud none but a God could reveal. This important
book, as well as all her other writings, proves,,
that at-the second coming of Christ, it must be
in Spirit, to bring in the whole creation to the
knowledge of wisdom.
It is the fashion of the present age to deny every
thing but outward nature: all spiritual wisdom and.
miracles are denied; but as all created things must'
have a beginning, man and woman must be created
- at first by a superior Being of divine Love, by his:
divine Wisdom ; which man in his fallen state of
nature cannot comprehend. Therefore the origin,
of man may be called a miracle, having no human
father, as he could not create himself. Any per­
sons who choose to deny this first cause, or miracle
of human creation, have nothing more todo than to
deny their own existence. Since the crimes of man
convince us that he has lost his heavenly image and
likeness; and experience proves, ashe cannotrestore •
himself, none but a Divine Power can. Therefore
it is only his Creator who can be his Redeemer ;
which may be called a second miracle; and this.
brings us to the birth of Christ, who'is called the:
second Adam, having no human father, but born of!
the Holy Ghost.—Here the axe may besaid to have:
been laid to the rootof evil, to destroy it altogether,;
But we find evil still remains; for war, murder, and
INTRODUCTION. V
Digitized by boogie
every crime fills the world like a deluge: and if any
persons choose to deny these two miracles, that is,
man’s Creation and man’s Redemption, by the di­
vine Power,of Christ, and also to deny all divine •
or supernatural revelation, they have only to say
man created himself, or deny their own existence,
if they please; for they are both equally absurd: and
may further add, this world must remain eternally
in wickedness and misery. But, as I have before
observed, man was created by a Divine Power, he
must be redeemed bythe sameDivine Power, which
formed him j for he can no more redeem himself
at last, than he could create himself at first His
redemption from the power of evil cannot take
place, but by the second coming of Christ in the
Spirit: for the axe was laid to the root when he
came in the body; but Satan is not yet cut down.
It is a spiritual operation only, that can renovate
the mind and heart of man by a new birth; for in
the end all things must become new; that is, a
new heart and an enlightened understanding. All
persons who believe the Bible to be the word of
God must believe its contents to be true; not only
the Church of England, in its Form of Prayer,
claims its authority from the Bible and the Gospel
of Christ; but all other Churches calling themselves
Christians, claim the same: therefore they must -
admit, that the firstknowledgebfevilcame through
the medium of the woman to the man; and both
fell under the powers of darkness. They being at
first created after the image, and likeness of their
Creator, they could know no evil, or falsehood of
Vi INTRODUCTION,
•
t
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION.
any kind; for it is by guilt alone that the suspicion
of guilt has its beginning. We know by natural
reason, that no person whatever can suspect athing
that he believed never existed; exactly so must it
be with the parents of the human race. If it be
believed by every Christian Church, that theknow­
ledge of evil came through the woman, who can
deny,'from the authority of the Bible, that the
knowledge of the good must not be at last convey­
ed through the same means; and for the woman_
in the end to be the help mate to man, agreeably
to divine promise at her creation; and as the whole
human race was tainted by evil, and brought into
misery, the whole human race must be redeemed
from that state by a Divine Power—which must be
the Spirit of Jesus Christ, the only true Spirit of
Prophecy. It is from this Spirit that Joanna South-
cott writes; for of all her productions, from 1792,
to this day, many have come true, and the rest are
daily fulfilling. I have read, I have reflected, I
have taken every pains to find out imposition, and
her character I have found to be without decep­
tion ; neither has she talents or abilities to deceive.
I have the natural pride of man, and have no de­
sire to be an object of ridicule; but whatever pain
or mortification the pride of character, or reputa­
tion, may produce in me, it is my superior duty
tp adhere to truth. The mockery of the world I
must endure; the pity of my friends, who would
promote every worldly advantage for my interest,
I must feel, and many, I know, are sorry for me,
believing me to be a deluded man. It is my sincere
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION.
«
•%
TUI
wish that they may throw aside their prejudices,
as I have done, and endeavour at least to prove
me in error. To my philosophical friends I will
ask this question : Have they ever blamed the ce­
lebrated Sir Isaac Newton, who was once the Pre­
sident of the Royal Society, for believing the Bible
to be the Book of Divine Wisdom ? Have they
ever pitied that distinguished character for his be­
lief in prophecies and divine revelation ? If Sir
Isaac Newton, who believed the Bible to be the
Word of God, and who wrote upon the Prophecies,
and made calculations by his learning and great
natural abilities, should now escape the censure of
mankind, why are persons at this present day to be
>condemned, who believe in the same DivineSpirit;
and that all prophecies will be fulfilled > and
MAN’S REDEMPTION TAKE PLACE, .agree­
ably to the LORD’S PRAYER, that the Lord’s
kingdom would come on earth as it is in heaven ?
I well know that the character and memory of Sir
Isaac Newton is respected by all the learned world:
not a man in the Royal Seciety'Will. lift up his
voice against theirlate President. Although SirIsaac
Newton wfote upon what human learning could
never discover; yet his intentions were upright.
He did not consider that it is the weak things of
this world, which are to confound the wisdom of
the wise or learned—and that by the weakest in­
struments will the Divine Being convey his Wis­
dom for man’s redemption from death, hell, and
sin, produced by the satanic powers of darkness,
I could mention a variety erf distinguished charac-
Digitized by Google
INTRODUCTION. ix
ters of different ages, whose memories are reflected
upon with respect; but -I have chosen this one,
for to lead the mind to serious reflection upon di­
vine Subjects, without being afraid or ashamed;
however it may seem that I am making a.compro­
mise, by bringing forth the names of distinguished
men, to recommend the foliowing'communications
to the world, asit wasnecessary, according tohuman
order,that I should thus proceed.As thelight spreads
forth-r-human learning must disappear, where it
does not’promote the love of God above all things,
and of our neighbours as ourselves.—All the hu­
man race are now invited to be brethren, and to
love one another; for every difficulty will be re­
moved.
The Communication upon the Church payers,
which is now recommended to public notice,
was written at Oldswinford in Worcestershire, at
thehouse ofthat faithful friend to the truth, theRev.
T. P. Foley, where Joanna resided for above two
months. The Communication was given in answer
to another clergyman of the established.Church.—
It is to be understood, that the Woman here men­
tioned has been writing for many years past, from a
Spirit invisible: and what that Spirit is, the world
mustjudge; however, by reading her writings, and
comparing them with the 12th chapter ofthe Reve­
lations, her characterwill therebefound, at the first
verse.—Some such character must come forth; she
has written upon various partsof the Old and New
Testament; and many of her communications have
been given in answerto questionsproposed, and also
B
. Digitized by Google
X INTRODU CTION.
to objections made by different- persons. Such an­
swers have been given, that human learning could
not produce, and will in the end prove the complete
fulfilment of the Scriptures.
The Church Prayers were composed upwards of
250 yearsago—and it is very remarkable, k is men­
tioned inseveral partsofJoafina’s writings, that the
Protestant Church is sohighly favouredon account
of the purity of the Prayers, that its ministers will
be the means of bringing forth the Divine Know­
ledge from her pen; and which will go forth to the
w hole world. But the English nation will be the
firstredeemed: it is in this country that the sealing
of the people has begun, and perhapsmay end about
the 12th of January, 1804. It is required from
Diving Authority, that every one who receives his
Seal will sign his Name, that it is the desire of his
heart for Christ’s glorious and peaceable Kingdom
to be established and come upon earth, and his will
to be done on earth as it is in heaven; and Satan’s
kingdom to be destroyed, which is the desire and
prayer ofJoanna Soutlicott, and of every one who
.signs with his hand; for a tinpe must come when
therftcan be no security, but in the divinePower of
Qhrist, whose love invites every man to claim this
privilege, which is his.birthright from his merciful
.Creator, and are now invited to stand like Gods
to claim their own, and then command the earth r
G od at first created max to be im m or­
tal, AND MADE HIM AN IMAGE OF HIS OWN
ETERNITY.
W. Sharp.
Tkhfitld Stm t, Dec. 35, UOS. .
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
CUET?7jRC^®r PJBLdtS?JEZffltS•
F r id a y , September 14, 1803, Joanna was in­
formed that a Clerymanhad said, “ weknewenough
already, and want no prophecies to teach us more,
we shall never have any more knowledge, and we
do not want it."
In answer to lps words, I wasordered to take my
Brayer Book in my hand, and to place the words as
Ishould bedirected fromthe differentprayers.—
T&te
first I was ordered topen, was from the first prayer,
Repent ye, for the kingdom ofheaventfrathand*’^
Second, the Lord’s prayer, “ Thy*kingdom cotae^
thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.”-—
The
third, “All the earth doth worshipThee, the Father
everlasting: Heaven and earth arefullofthemajesty
ofthy glory; The goodly fellowship ofthe prophets
praise thee: The holy church throughout all the
world doth acknowledge thee.—O Lord, let thy
mercies lighten upon us,—Blessedbe the Lord God
of Israel, for he hath visited and redeemed his peo­
ple*—O be joyful in the Lord, all ye lands; serve
the Lord with gladness, and come before him with
a song*— O sing unto the Lord a new song, for he
hath done marvellous things,—
Hehath remembered
his mercy and truth towards the house of Israeli
•Digitized by Google
CHURCH PRAYERS.
and all the ends of the earth have seen the salva­
tion of our God.—God shall bless us, and all the
ends of the world shall fear him.”—
“ Enlighten our darkness, we beseech |hee, Q
Lord.—That it will please thee to give to alt
nations unity, peace, and concord.—That it will
please thee to give to all thy people, increase of
grace, and to bring forth the fruits of the Spirit,
and finally to beat down Satan under our feet.—
For though we are tied and bound with the chain of
our sins, yet let the pitifulness of thy great mercy
loose us, for the honour ofJesus Christ, our Media­
tor and Advocate.—Grant us in this world the
knowledge of thy truth.—(Give us grape that we
may put away the works ofdarkness, and put titpon
tis the armour oflight, now in the time ofthis mor­
tal life.--0 Lord Jesus Christ, whoat thv First Com-
ing, didst send thy messenger to prepare thy way be-*
fore thee; grant that the ministers and stewards of
thy mysteries, may likewise so prepare and make
ready thy way, by turnjng the hearts ofthe disobedi­
ent to the wisdom of thejust; that at thy Second
Coming tojudge the world, we may befound an ac­
ceptable people in thy sight.—OLord, rise up, we
pray thee, thy power, and comeamong us.—OGod,
whose blessed Son was manifested, that He might
destroy the \yorks ofthe devil, and make us thesons.
of God, and heirs ofeternal life; grant that we, hav- '
ing this hope, may purify oprselves as he is pure—<
Allourdoings without charity arenothing worth.—;
Send the Holy Ghost, and pour it into our hearts.—
Create and make in us new and contrite hearts,—
»
v . : •. .■ . ■* • » •• •• • • •• • • 1
12
iGoogle
CHURCH PRATERS, 13
Have mercy upon all Jews, Turks, and Infidels,
and fetch them home to thy flock, that they may be
saved with the true Israel of God, and be made one
fold under one Shepherd, Jesus Christ, our Lord
God, who teaches the heart of thy faithful people,
by sending to them thy Holy Spirit: grant that by
the same spirit, we may have a right judgment in
all things.—Cleanse the thoughts of our hearts by
the inspiration oftheHoly Ghost; and these things
for our unworthiness we dare not, and for our
blindness we cannot ask, vouchsafe to give unto
u$ for the worthiness of thy Son, Jesus Christ."
After placing these passages ofthe Prayers; as I
was directed, I was answered in the following
manner by the SpiRiT .
“ Now I will answer the M>o*ster who said, ‘they
know enough alreadyBut now I ask them, what
they know ? or what they understand from the
prayers? or what they pray for? Where is the Mi­
nister who ever deeply weighed, or considered the
prayers aright? In the beginning ye say, ye have
obtained what ye pray for in the ending. Here is
the wisdom of man, that boasts oflearning! Ye say
the kingdom ofheayen is at hand, and in My Prayer
ye pray for it. Then ye follow, as though it was ac­
complished, by saying, All the earth doth worship
Thee, the father everlasting; heaven and earth are
full ofthy majesty- and glory; the goodly fellowship
pfthe prophets praise thee;the holy church through­
out all the world doth acknowledge thee. Yet ye
say again, ye are tied and bound with the chain of
your sins, and pray to be loosed! Ye say, ye havj
Digitized by Google
done the things ye ought not tohavedone, and have
left undone thethingsye ought to have done; and
there is no help in you. And yet ye say, the whole
earth is full of my majesty and great glory; and
that all th? earth doth worship the Father everlast*
ing. Now if this be true, how can ye say, ye do the
things yi ought not to do ? Ought ye not then to
Worship ME, as ye say, I have visited and redeemed
my people; and all the ends of the earth hath seen
my salvation? Then what darkness do ye want to
have enlightened; orwhat chain of yoursins do ye
want to have broken, that ye are tied and bound
with, if all the earth doth worship me, the Father
everlasting; and the wholeworld be full ofmy glory
and majesty ? You cannot pray that I will put away
from you the works of darkness, and put upon you
the armouroflight, if the armour oflight be already
put upon you. How can you say you are tied and
bound with the chain of your sins ? if I havevisited
and redeemedyou fromyoursins?How eanyeu pray
that my power mightcome upon you, to destroy all
the works of the devil, if the works ofthe devil are
already destroyed ? But if ye judge they never will
be destroyed, why do ye pray for his destruction?
that ye may be.made heirs ofGod ?Why doyou pray
for the Holy Ghost to be sent upon you and poured
into your hearts; and pray that I will create and
make in you new and contrite hearts, ifye have ob­
tained these things already? If ye have not, do ye
think they are not to be obtained ? Will you pray
for what never can be, or ever will be obtained ?
Howean yepray that the same Spirit may visitnow
14 * CHURCH PRAYRRS,
Digitized by Google
Church prayers.. 15
to warn you ofmy Second Coming, as was sent to
warn you ofmy First, if these things are not to be^
obtained? That, as I sent my prophets before my
First Comingto prepare the way before me; soat my
Second Coming, that my ministers and stewards
may be visited the same, that they may be pre­
pared to make ready the way, by turning the hearts
of the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; that
at my Second Coming to judge the World, they
may be found an acceptable people in my sight;
and that my power may come among you to destroy
all the works of the devil.
Here are the Prayers of your Church placed by
men of learning, without discerning how they
have placed them, that the first is last, and the
last i&first. Ye say, in the beginning, ye have
obtained what ye pray, for in the ending. For
ifye have obtained all these things, that ye say in
the beginning, ye deny them all in the ending, by
saying ye do the things that ye ought not to do,
and ye are tied and bound with the chain of your
sins, and pray for me to loose you, when ye say at
. first ye have seen my salvation, and I have redeemed
you. O ye wise men, that boast of wisdom, and
ye learned, that boastoflearning, doye discernwhat
ye pray for; and what you say you have obtained ?
And what you pray to obtain, that you may be
visited by the same Spirit to warn your flock ofmy
Second Coming, as you was warned by at my First
Coming ? Arid that all Jews, Turks, and infidels, ’
may be broughtinto my flock, with the true Ismef
of God ? Now, answer Me, ye men of learnings
and ye men of wisdom, what you judge of your
Digitized by Google
prayers ?or, how they are to be heard, and answered
by your wisdom? And I will answer, how they are
heard, and shall be answered by My wisdom, that
am your Father, which is.in heaven. In. my Bible I
have told you l am Alpha and Omega, the begin­
ning. and the end, the first and the last. And the
first shall be last, and the last shall be first with
man. And I will deal with men after the manner of
men. For, I have already told thee, that I will
deal with the Church according to their Prayers,
for to that standard all must come
“ The first is last, the last is first,—
And I shall now begin:
So perfect as the Prayers do stand,
The Church I fay shall end ; ,
And all the glory of the Lord
Shall in the Church appear;
And all the listening nations round
Shall their Redemption hear:
That marvellous things I have begun, .
And marvellous all shall be,
Until the ends of all the earth
M y Goodness they shall see.
For my Salvation shall abound,
I say from shore to shore,
When Englandhaih their Saviour found,
That their Redemption's near.
Then in this Land they'll see my Hand
In Blessings to abound;
And distant shores the same will hear,
/ - When-they in grief are found,
Then will begin the Heathen Lands
T o seek the Living Lord,
That in my favor they may stand,
When all is nois’d abroad.
16 CHURCH PRAYERS.
* See f>. 1st Book of Prophecies, published January, 1801.
Digitized by Google
That England’s bless’d above the rest,
In Harmony dojoin;
And marvellous things they’ll then express,
That I for them have done.
The light in Israel first must rise,
As it is spoke at first,
Before these Nations will grow wise,
And pray for it to burst
Upon their Land, I say the same:
They must your Glory see;
That I am come for to redeem;
And so I’ll set you free
From every cbaim that doth remain,
Of Satan, and of Sin;
And then my favor you will gain,
T o praise your God and King,
That I am come-for to redeem,
According to my Word:
And marvellous things you say you’ve seen,
Came from the Living Lord.
For I’ll begin to answer man
According to your Prayers;
Your darkness I’m enlightening here.
If you my voice will hear: '
And from the chain that doth remain,
Of Satan, and of Sin,
I am come to break it now in twain,
Your Prayers you now shall win.
That is, I say, as now you pray,
I’ll answer every prayer,
And Satan tread beneath your feet,
If you M y Voice will hear.
Most finally I now do say
I’ll surely tread him down; .
If my command you now obey, ,
The end for you is found; 1
As at the first, the same is burst,
The woman did appear
T o warn you of your Saviour’s birth,
And that her time drew near,
To bring a Son, not bom by man,
But of the Holy^Ghost; '
c
CHURCH PRAYERS.
Digitized by Google
And if to rim you ail had come,
And in Him put your trust,
Then,sure for all had been the call
But know, it was not so ;
But I must sure be known to all,
T o make my Bible true;
For to appear a Saviour here—
The Saviour of mankind.
As all in death are included here,
So all in life must find
A Saviour here for to appear,
And live in every hea^t.
In judgment man do greatly err,
Darkness in every part
There is in man, for now I am come
T o judge the world again,
In the same manner unto man,
As I shall now explain
here within thou dost begin
rBo ask how this can be?
That I am come the same to man
A mystery is to thee ?
Then I’ll appear to answer here—
M y Coming is the same:
Though first in Person I was born,
But few did know my Nam e;
Then now Pm come, I say, again
For to be born anew;
And in the Spirit to be bom,
And all shall find it true.
M y spirit here doth strong appear,
That every soul shall find ;
The worb of God, R shall be knows.
Is published to mankind.
So I am come again the same
Unto a Woman here;
And now Pll tell my every Name,
And make,the mystery clear.
I said, Men must be bom again.
If they would live in me ; ^
Then sure my Spirit unto Man
It must be born again—
CHURCH PRATERS.
Digitized by Google
CHURCH PRATERS*
When I bring in the Heathen Lands,
And do the World redeem.
For by the Spirit it must be-*-
M y Life they did destroy;
Then from my Body it could not be,
That I should all enjoy.
N o ! His my Word that’s on record,
My Spirit first must come,
That Earth and Hell cannot destroy,
When I am bom again.
Bom of the Woman as at first,
And of the Spirit bem;
And I shall prove it in the last,
My Spirit here is come.
That is,—M y word,—now on record,
And see my Bible clear—
That when the fullness it is come,
The Woman must appear, *
I tell you all, to free the Fall,
That is the Law of God.
His son must then the Woman call
For to avenge His Blood
On Satan’s head, as I have said,
T o free you from the Law;
That ye as men pronounced dead
Your Advocate must shew,
That in your stead He then did bleed;
And Satan must the same :
And so your spirits must be born,
If all will know my Name.
Then now to all I loudly call;
To judge the world I’m come:
And dead to knowledge I see all,
How I shall you redeem.
M y Spirit here I’ve sent before,
T o tell you all the way;
As John the Baptist did appear.—
So do these Visions lay.
As my Disciples were of old,
So are my.chosen come;
Confess the truth to them was tolc^ .
The wise-men m ist be known
C3 .
Digitized by Google
20
Who wentfrom far to see"the Star,
And now they’ve done the same— t
And it affirm both far and near,
The second Star is come— 1
As from the Seal * I fhall reveal,
You see the second Star;
And see the Woman’s name in mine,
Your Jesus to appear ;
And so the C—the same you see,
Then altogether weigh:
The Prayers so often ask’d by ye
D o now before you lay.
So I’ll go on from every one,
Till all I have made good;
!For as the Prayers are made by man,
M y Bible all hath stood.
All nations here shall now appear,
Turks, Infidels, may com e;
The Jews may see their Prophets clear,
I first must die for them.
And now their Prophet Joel see—
The Visions do appear;
And let them now behold the T r e e -
See how I’m fastened there:
The perfect man He there is seen,
N o Beauty to appear;
The Willow Tree that now is green, t
His leaves hang hovering there.
CHURCH PR A TES.-
#
Joanna’s seal, which* she was permitted by the Lord to find, as $
by accident, in sweeping; a House after a sale; and which at thaf
time she threw by as a thing of novaltie, but afterwards, when she
wanted a seal to seal her writings, she was told by the Spirit that
she had one in her box, and which was the above seal.
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
-6fi^RCft>ItATBESi SI
Just so I am oome in love to man,
T o wipe theirtears away.
If you in love to me will turn,
M y Trumpet's sound obey:
M y Shepherds here do now appear,
A shadow of the first ■ .,» '
For they in Judgment shall be clear.
Add others so shall burst.
In Judgment clear, I'll make them here,
For fast shall all come on;
For I wili answer now jour prayers,
That so are form’d by man.
I ’ll answer all, and prove the call,
’Tis perfect as you pray;
For now I will fulfil them all,
Till you can boldly say,
That all the Church doth worship M £,
Throughout this kingdom here.
Then all the Nations of the world
W ill then begin to fear;
Because the Prophet’s fellowship
In union shall agree, _
_ ,
To say I’m to visit man,
And now to set them free.—
So write thy dream, and PH explain,
I say, of Foley’s Prayer;
And then I’ll answer thee again;
Why he was so stopped there,
Not to go on (to thee is known)
In beauty for to pray;
' For so the Ministers must come—
For what can Shepherds say ?”
fcptember the 29th, 1803, Joanna dreamed,
th p in the night, she heard the Rev. T. P. Foley,
yfcryloud and powerful in prayer, using most beau­
tiful words; but all on a sudden he stopped,
though in the midst of a prayer. Joanna thought
she listened with attention, but heard him no more;
Digitized by Google
so she concluded he was out of breath, or at a
loss for words to proceed, and then she awoke.
This dream I had a short time after I was told
a clergyman had said, “ They know enough al­
ready, they wanted to know no more.”—
“ Now I will answer thee this dream. As Foley *
is a minister of the Gospel, I brought this Dream
to thee of him, concerning Prayer. For though
the Prayers of the Church are as well pleasing
in mt sight, as his words sounded in mt ears;
yet if the ministers were to read their Common
Prayer Books throughout, and weigh one prayer
with another, they would be as much at a loss to
explain them, as he was for words to go on in.
prayer. There is not a minister upon earth, can
affirm that all the Prayers are consistent one with
another, as things now stand. So here they have
formed their prayers like my Bible: one thing
contradicts another as things now stand”—
“ And man like Foley must appear,
As thou didst dream he stopp’d in Prayer ;
So all the Clergy must the same,
If they their prayers do now discern.
I say they cannot now go on
To contradict as heretofore:
They pray my Spirit to appear.
T o warn them all again the same,
• As I did warn when first I came; ‘ ^
. Th^n sure my Spieit must descend,
I say upon, some faithful Friend,
That will the tidings all declare— "
* And will they blame hty Friend that’s here?
Then now I hid than not to pray . ; -: •
T q have my Spirit come this way, * ‘
As it did come to man before;
S3 CHURCH PRATERS.
Digitized by Google
CHURCH PRAYERS.
And so I bid them to stop there,
As Foley’s voice was stopp’d to thee.
Another Prayer I bid them see—
Your darkness to enlighten here,
If they have light enough now clear,
I bid them use that Prayer no more.
But stop, as Foley thou didst hear.
For in the midst they may stop all.
For many Prayers to man I call,
That they can never pray to M E, t
If light and life in man there be
Light of my Gospel and my Word,
And live in me the Living L ord. ?
Then tied and bound you cannot be
By Satan’s chain of Sin in ye.
Therefore I need not tread him down, '
If all the world in ME is found,
With light, and life, and liberty.
But this I say-can never be,
Until the temper I have trod down,
That in all Nations strong is found.
Now if you’ll prove ’tis not so here, '
Then now I bid you stop that Prayer ;
And come to me no more with lies—
From your own words I now chastize v
Because in lies you must come aU,
If you’re not tainted by the Fall,
And have that chain of Sin remain,
Then stop your prayers; you pray in vain,
If now you’re freed from Satan’s chain.
And if you wish not to be free,
It is in vain you pray to ME.
And now I’ll bring another Prayer—
You say, like sheep you’ve erred here,
And stray’d and wander’d so from M E
As though lost sheep yourselves you see.1
But how come you like sheep are lost,
If I have paid the every cost ?
But I the cost must pay once more,
If your petition I do hear;
Or else, your prayers are all in vain,
And like lost sheep you may remain ;
Digitized by Google
M CHURCH PRATERS.
For so you're wandering now from M E,
Like sheep are lost; and lost you'll be,
Should not my Spirit come again,
T o save my flock that do remain.
To have their hearts joined with the word,
And trust in ms the Living Lord,
That I will answer all your prayers*
That daily in my Church I hear.
Therefore the Church I said I'd call;
Tor there's the standard for you all:
Unto your payers the Church shall come.
As I've begun I'll now go on, '
Because that many I do know
T hey will confess the Truth is so,
That they must now stop in their prayers,
If they no more do know and hear,
Than what they now do see and know,
In darkness they must ever go,
Bound with the chain of Satan’s Sin,
If I do not deliver them. .
Then they as well may stop their prayer,
If they this claim must ever bear;
If I will never tread him down;
„Then fruitless all your prayers are found,
So-in the midst you all may stop,
If you do pray, and you know not
What in your prayers you do pray for.
Like Foley’s voice, 1 tell you here,
. That many men may say the same;
*W e all may stop the Prayers of Men,
If they so boldly all deny—
“ W e want no knowledge from on H igh;
*
*No Holy Spirit enter here;
MN o arm of God our guilt to clear.'''
So here's the meaning of the ‘
Dream:
Let Foley hear and see it plain.
Then he will see men must stop here,
And so be lost, in all their prayers,
If I do never answer man,
As now they pray to do for them.
And if they say it do so appear,
'W e bare all knowledge; we see clear,
V
Digitized by Google
CHURCH PRAYER*
Thai ever we on earth shall gain.”
Then he may say, " we pray in vain;
“ For I no further there will go
4t To prove Pm dark, when light I know.
“ And.when Pm freed from Satan9
*chain,
“ Fll stop to 9ay it doth remain;
“ And when I know in all I’m right,
“ Pll stop to say I’ve erred quite.
“ And like lost sheep am gone astray,
“ When I am brought in the right way.
“ But till this way I plain do know,
u 'No boasted wisdom will I shew,
“ Tosay I want to know no more,
u And say my knowledge all is clear.
u N o' N o! Isay, I must stop here, .
“ And listen to my Saviour’s sound,
“ If I in Him have favour found,
“ M y darkness to enlighten here—
“ His answers I will stop to hear
And this in prayer thou hast often done—
And so let Foley still go on. ^
Mark well his prayers,—and stop to see
The things for which they all do pray,
And then I say, he may stop all,
That now reject this heavenly call;
For as this knowledge all do pray,
But like you all refuse to see.
So this by Foley may be said—
Point out the prayers that all do read;
. And tell them they must stop to pray,
If they this light do all deny,
That they do never pray to gain—
Once more, I say, they pray in vain,
If they can prove their knowledge plain;
That they in darkness cannot be,
In vain they pray for light to see,
That I may so enlighten them.
And have the Holy Ghost to come
T o cleanse their heart and every thought
If all be right, as he hath spoke,
That prayer must now be used in vain.
I tell you all, ye sons of men;
.,D
Digitized by Google
Y6u ne*er tftcfaifor what you pray;
But likfedost sfreep youke gone astray.
As you are gone from every bound*
That in iiiy Gospel now is found.
1 told yon I should come again,
And in thb state the Church should find,
In unbelief-gone far from Me;
False Prophets every where I see,
Who from your hearts do prophesy,
And give my Spirit here the lie,
That I did say should come again;
The Holy Ghost I said should come,
And alLto your remeitbrance bring.
I said I AMwith you to the end;
AncLnow the'efcdfor all is near,
And soothe Holy Gho?t is here;
For in the Spirit l am come,
And as l said, I now find man;
For want of faith, gone all from me.—
* '
I void I died the whole to free; *
Then I must come to free the whole;
M y Law and Gospel sodofali;
Andso yourprayers arepJac’d b y man •
Confess them true, or stop your tongue*
For my salvation all don’t see;
Nor can you say you worship me
In heart, or life, for to appeal*
And praiseyour great Deliverer here;
That you with soogsxan now abound,
And meet with joy in every sound..
N o! here your tongues they muststop aJJ,
When to the hearts of men Ircall;
They must confess ’tis not inraan ,
T o sing the new and joyful song*
But to your songs they shall end here;
For I’ll fulfill younevery prayer, •'
That do these promises believe, ;
That I am more ready now to give, -
Than men to ask, through jgnoraaeehere
And by your blindness! see clear.
M y Law and Gospel pone, do see,
Nor yet discernthe way yonpray;
C ik fS W l ^RAlTEtlS.
Digitized by Google
But sure your Prayers yd\i*Il turn them all, *
When strong my Spirit hererioth fall;
Then all your Prayers I know you'll turn,
When I have answer'd every one;
That is to answer and to give;
From aU your chains of Sin to live*,
And Satan beat beneath your ffeet;
Ttyen ye may own your prayers were right
That more and better I did do,
Than ever man had in his view;
And what your blindness could pot see,
} have ip mercy given ye.
Though you unworthy now appear
For to receive these blessings here,
That I am waiting to bestow,
y o u ’re ignorant of them well I know }
So now weigh deep your every prayer,
Then you must own you all do err.
Therefore the Church I first did name:
Unto that standard all must come ;
And if die Clergy all appear,
Like Foley they must stop in prayer,
And say they no further can go,
To prove that all things they do know.**
ON THE CONDUCT OF TflE CLERGY* 9 J
ON THE CONDUCT OF THE CLERGY.
T h e following letter was writen to a Clergyman o f the
Established Church, and o f a worthy character, who at
times varied in bis opinion, about Joanna. - This per*
•on had prejudices in favour o f the writings o f Emanuel
Swedenburg; believing, according to the system o f that
author, that this world was to be regenerated, without
any particular character to come forth. It is to be ob»
served that the above author wrote thirty years before
Joanna's Revelations were to be given, which could not
take place before an appointed time, sealed up in the
D 3
Digitized by G o o g l e
bosom of the Fa th er *, to prevent the Powers of
Darkness having any fore-knowledge o f the Divine Plan
of'Hum an Redemption, which in that case, the arts o f
hell would endeavour to defeat. It must therefore be clear
to the rational mind, that no spiritual writer could have
any knowledge o f what was to take place at a future pe­
riod, concerning this event.
It is to be noted, that out o f about 20,060 Clergy o f die
Established Church, only three at f;rst came forward to
enquire into these truths, who w ill be the happy instru­
ments to bring forth, in the Name o f the Protestant
Church, the glorious Kingdom of Christ. -
Copy of a Loiter to a Divine of the Church
of Englandf*.
Rev.- Sra, Paddington, 2&th October, 1MK?.
You may be surprised to receive the following
letter, indited in a manner I never thought of writ-
28 OP THE CONDUCT OF THE CLERGY.
* As in every age of the world, when the Lord began to work on
the hearts of man, to prophesy in his name, Satan began to work on
the hearts of others to prophesy by him, that the prophets of the Lord
.might not be believed ; so now, in the last days,' when thejx>rd in*
.tends to do as be spake by the prophet Joel, pouring his Spirit upon
all flesh, and upon hi9handmaids, that they shall prophesy, he well
knows Satan will do the same, therefore it is written, fdse prophets
and false Christs will arise. And that no man might be deceived in
this matter, I say, that the Gospel of Christ, and die Visions of John
in the Rerelations, (chap. xii. 19. and the last) shew who are the
prophets to be believed; but no riving man can give ah explanation.
The WordofGod isas a book that k sealed, so thatneither thelearned
nor unlearned, can read, (that is to say, understandJt,) for it ups
sealed up in the bosom of the Father, till he thought proper to break
the seals, and reveallt to a woman, as it is written in the Revelations,
Sec Preface to Joanna*$1st Bobk dfProphecies.
Digitized by C j O O ^ l ^
ing you; neither did I know it was designed for
you, when I was writing it, till I came to the end, '
Wednesday morning, 20th October, 1802,1 was
ordered to take my pen in hand, and write as I
was directed, which was in the following manner:
.. “ Hear, O heavens 1 and be astonished, O earth!
'I have nourished and brought up children,and they
have rebelled against me ; I have called and no
man answered ; I have stretched out my hand to
a disobedient and gainsaying people. Tremble, O
earth! at the presence f^ph&'Lord, and be afraid of
his judgments; for jinnee is fallen in the streets,
and equity cannot enter® amdespisetland rejected
of men: is my loving kindness despised, and my
tender mercies treated with contempt? then flow
tremble, O ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye
double-minded; for my anger shall burn with fuiy
against the shepherds of my flock; for they have
notfed my flock; but have driven them away; they
have broken my covenant, and trodden down mine »*
-altar; the meek man is despised; the humble man %
■
'.
is set at nought; but the proud man is exalted in
his pride, and the humble man is trodden down in <
*
his humility. Ye are full of your own inventions,
and walk every man in tire invaginationsof his own
heart; and eyery man’s way is clean inhisowneyes.
ButI the Lord weigheththespirits; I the Lord, that
searcheth the hearts find trieth the reins of the chil­
dren of men, whose eye is as a flame of Areround
your beds and round your paths, do I not know?
do I not consider ? I that made the eye, do I not
see ? I that formed the ear, do I not hear ? I that
made the heart, do I not understand ? Are”your
* * ^
ON THE CONDUCT OF THE CLEUGT.
Digitized by Google -
words, your ways, or actions concealed from me ?
Search m t Bible; weigh my word: is it not writ­
ten, the Spirit of Prophecy is the Spirit of Jesus ?
But how can the Spirit ofJequs be called the Spirit
of Prophecy, if no Prophecy is given from we, and
my Spirit denied by man ? But I come as a swift
witness against you: ye say false prophets and false
•Christs are risen, then know now cometh the end;
But know, I am not comrin the Spirit, as a man, to
say I am in the desert, or I am here, or 1 am there;
but many such are gone oat in the world; but I am
come in the volume of the book as it is written of
me : crying out like a travailing woman,Repentye,
for the kingdom of heaven is at hand ; whose fan
is in his hand, who will thoroughly purge his floor.
1 will gather my wheat into my garner, and burn
up the chaff with unquenchable fire. But will yon
say I did it when in the body as a man? Were not- -
my Disciples put to death; the Holy City destroy­
ed ; and my Temple, wherein I was worshipped,
trodden down for idolatry ? Did not the chaffcom- t
sume the wheat, till all the wheat was destroyed ?
¥e judged my Bible as ye judged the Harvest, I
said Iwould send a-fatal Harvestiand a fatalHarvest
ye shall find to your sorrows*. ButI said threegdod
Harvests must first follow, for the sake ofthosethat
seeked after me and searched out the truth. But
this ye never disoerned, so I give you up to believe
a lie; and so ye have believed my Bible the same,
without weighing one thing with another, how it
$ 0 ON THE CONDUCT OF THE CLERGY.
* The three good Harvests have happened, as predicted in Joanna's
Writings, in 1801, 1602* and this last iu 2803.
DigitizecTby C j O O ^ I c
was spoken, and how it must be fulfilled; for
know ye all, it was atsiY Second Coming that th |
day of vengeance was in my heart, that I would be
avenged of all my enemies: and I said, that
meek should inherit the earth; for now I will cry
out like tliis travailing Woman; and the words I
have put in her mouth shall not return till all is
fulfilled; for I the Lord of Hosts is her husband,
the Holy One of Israel is his Name. She shall not
be ashamed, nor he put to confusion; for I will
shame all that shame her, and confound aH that
confound her; but all her childrenshall be taught
of the Lord, and -great shall be the peace of her
children: for every hand that is against her I will
' destroyfor her sake; and mt Name shall be known
amongst the Heathens, and I will be known of
all the families of the earth; for when I have put
all'her enemies under my feet, than will I return as
a'diamond of beauty to the residue of my people,
and I will be known of them, and they shall be
known tffme ; for the Scriptures that are not fulfil­
led, now they shall be fulfilled. So they that hold
m e to judgments, let them look forjudgments, and
they that hold me to mercy, as I have promised
in man’s redemption, let them look to me for re­
demption* forthe end ofall things is at hand. And .
this is my strict eomtnand, thou shalt write to
Mossop.”
Now, Sir, I have given you the words perfect
as delivered, and the strict command that was
fciven me.
J oanna Sovthuot$.
ON THE CONDUCT OF THE CLERGY. 31
Digitized by Google
[ 32 1
I
ON .THE CALVIN1STIC METHODISTS.
" S .
following is an extract of a letter from Joanna, in
wer to one sent to her, o f the meaning of the Seven
Spirits, o l Stars, in the Revelations, which formed the sub­
ject o f a Sermon lately delivered by a popular preacher*
who is of the opinion of John Calvin* that a part only of
die Human Race are elected to Salvation. T h is belief
is received bya numerous sect.of people called Methodists*
and which totally destroys all charity in the human
heart, both to God and man. In their Public W orship
they praise their M aker for electing them, and them
only, to eternal life and happiness,-.and are quite in-
. sensible and indifferent to die fate o f souls, whose
numbers may be compared to die sands on the sea shore,
thus brought into being by a decree o f their Creator for
no other purpose but to suffer eternal Torments* T h e
preachers o f this horrid doctrine, some o f whom have
got themselves into the Church, are called popular
preachers. Many have spread themselves into every
part of the kingdom; they are to be found in every city
, and country village, whilst the Clergy of the Established
Church are quite regardless o f their flock, ta d suffer
, them to be carried away by these wolves in sheep’s
doathing.—-As it is by neglect of duty *in the Church
Clergy, that these people have encreased and spread
themselves every w here; therefore, if the Clergy o f the
Church do not rouse from that state o f idleness, during
this last hour, their end may prove fatal to their peace
and happiness.— These preached, called Methodists, as
they monopolize the Grace of God and Heaven to them­
selves, they o f course must make, the Bible, called the
W ord o f God, to be written for them only, entirely ex-
^ eluding all mankind from the benefit o f Salvation anft
— Redemption by Christ.— They say the Bible,' both' Q ld
and N ew Testament, with the RevelatioA of St. John*
k
Digitized by Google
' all allude to the Calvinistic Methodists.— T h e Seven
• Stars are their preachers, one and all,— and from what­
ever part they take their text, all—all, have only one
meaning— making the great Creator and Father of all^a
being of such cruelty, that no words can express, or ben
describe— instead of a Be in g whose L ove is every w n
and whose M e r c y is over allHis W orks.
©N THE CA LV IN ISTIC METHODISTS. 33
Extract of a Letterfrom J oanna Southcott.
Sir, Leeds, November 14th, 1803. ,
■“ MY answer to your letter will chiefly be the
Communication given to me in ahswer to the seven
Spirits,' or seven Stars, in the Revelations, which he
said they mean seven ministers, or seventy, or seven
hundred ministers; and meant themselves, (thatis
the Methodist Preachers). But I was answered:
The seven Spirits are the seven Spirits of God; and
if they allude them to the preachers, they must
place them to all the ministers of my Gospel, from
my Death until this day; and themartyrs to be the'
greatest amongst mankind, to have my sevenSpirits. ’
But how will they prove my seven Spirits can be'
placed in one man, when my Spirit is but one Spirit1
in man, if they serve me in spirit and in truth?
. Now I will prove they do not serve me in spirijfcand
in truth : if they served me in spirit, they would
know the ways of their visitation ; and would be
warning their flock of what was hastening*on: if
they were born of me, they must know the things
that belong to me ; for he that is born of God,
knoweth the things of G od; and spiritual things
« • E
Digitized by Google
roust be spiritually discerned. Then how,can they -
profess to have my Spirit, that cannot discern the
things that are revealed by my Spirit, when they
have no Spirit of mine to discern them ? So they
do not serve me ip spirit or in, truth: for to serve
me in truth, they must maintain; m,y .Bible- istthe
true written word of God: for I said, the Words of
God, and the prophets, should be fulfilled,befoi;e..
this generation passaway, which I meant was under
the Fall. Now if they served me in truth, they
wpuld search the, Scriptures* as.1command .them;
apd shew their flock hpw fast they were fulfilling,^
frpm signs and visions; fropf prophecies true, apd;
prophecies false; and from the truth of jut Gospel; •
.
that as &
Uthings apppareth. together,, they may ,
know the end is near, that I slip]! copie to take yenn,
geaace on all theip. that call notupon,My ;Naro&-
and those whoseppmes are not found written in,the,±
Bppk. of life, to live iq,M$, and have Mytoreigp,
over them; that they may serve me in spirit and in,
truth. For .the day incoming that shall burn as an
ovep; and all thatdespiseM y Kingdom, being esta-».
hjished on <eartl>, shall, be burnt, ,up..like stubble.
For Xtaught them to pray, that MTKingdom plight;
come^ and my Will to he done in earth* as it is in.
heaven. Now,, If they s e r v e d . i n truth, they,
would lay all these things before theirhearers, that,
they might learn to escape all tbe.evils thatare corn-*,
ing upon the earth ; if they served me m, truth,,
they would not trust to their own wisdom. But.
know the wisdom of the.wise.men must,perish,awl
the understanding of the prudent men be hid; for
34 ON THE CALV1NISTIC METH0IUSTS,,
-Digitized by
>
y
Google
the weak, foolish things of this world must con­
found the great and learned; for I said, “ I thank
thee, Father, that thduhast concealed these things,
jftdm the Wise and 'learned, And from the prudent
man, andrevealed them to babies.” For I wellkhew
,the prideofhienj’lftheir wisdom and learning could
teach thetn how to discern my Bible aright, they
Would boastthemselves therein as many men in this
iage have done; who, judging they have found out
sortie passages Of'scripture, that suit tlieir faith and
belief, &nd have drawn great multitudes after them;
theyarejiidgingthemselveshighlyfavoured ofGod,
—that theyare righteous, “
and disposing others. But
know What is said in mV GoSpei: what is of mail
Will com'e to nothing, but what is of God they can-
hot overthrow, lest they are found to fight against
G od: and against Gbd they will find they are all
fighting, forgetting the Frayer I taught them, or
they must say 1 taught themto pray in vain. As to
IIy Gospel, they have placed it in tlieir ownwisdom:
and isit not written, the wisdom ofman shall perish?
But how can it perish if men, by learning can find
Out the hidden mysteries of my Bible, and forma
rightjudgment in all things ? Then the wisdom of
the Wise men could not perish, nor the Understand--
ing of the prudent men be hid; nor the weak fool­
ish thingsofthis world confound their wisdom, that
iio flesh might glory or boast in my sight But atj
mustoWn ihatit is the Lord’s doing, and marvel­
lous in their eyes, that he hath brought to light the
•hidden mysteries, that were hid from man’s under­
standing. So if they weigh my Bible deep, they
E-2 .
'ON 'THE CAXVINfSTIC METHODISTS. 35
Digitized by Google
will see the wisdom of God, that appeareth foolish­
ness to them; to reveal hidden mysteries to a simple
woman, will make the wisdom of manfoolishness to
GOD, whojudge they canfindout My Will by their
own knowledge. Therefore I said, ifthe blind lead
the blind, .they would all fall into the ditch ; and
the ditch is near, for all men: and he that climbeth
any other way but by the sheep-fold, is a thief and
a robber; for I said, that I alone was the good
shepherd, that careth for my sheep; and they
should know my voice and follow me wheresoever
I go; and now my voice shall be known to my
sheep; and the voice of men they will not follow—
for 1 shall convince them that building on one part
of my Gospel and not on all, is like a man’s build­
ing his house on-the sandy foundation of his own
wisdom, and great they will find the fall thereof;
for all men who are building upon theirown wisdom
will soon fall down, to showthatman, who was pro­
nounced dead to the knowledge of hisGod, cannot
become alive to the knowledge of Go^d, before he
beginneth to be taught of God. Then shall they
know the Lord from the greatest to the least. But
where, in my Bible, did I say, this teaching should
come by the knowledge of men ? Do not they say
my Spirit hath ceased of prophecies, ever since the
death ofmy Disciples? Then how came the Spirit
of prophecy in them, to prophesy out of their own
hearts that have seen nothing, but placed the scrip­
tures to their own wisdom, as their forefathers pla­
ced them to their wisdom r But know, that every
good and perfect gift, cometh down from th$
* *
36 ON THE CA LVINISTIC METHODISTS.
Digitized by Google
Father of lights, and the scriptures of truth, com­
mands men not to quench the spirit, nor despise
prophecies, but prove all things, and hold'fastthat
■which is good. Now these scriptures are forgotten
and^despised by these men, that say they have the
seven Spirits of God. And seven spirits they have
made,—one spirit to contradict another: The first
spirit, to say,-my Bible shall all be fulfilled; the,
second spirit, 'to say, it shall not be fulfilled; the
third spirit, to say, they shall not quench the spirit^
nordespise prophecies; the fourth spirit, to say,they
‘must despise prophecies, and quench the spirit with
all their might; the fifth spirit, to say, the wisdom
of the wise men should perish, apd the understand­
ing of the prudent men should he hid ; the sixth
spirit, to say, they should notbe hid; but,by the wis­
dom of the wise men, and the understanding of the
prudent men, they should bring all men to the know­
ledge of the Lord, without their being taught of
God: and thus they have made it seven spirits in
themselves, by their own wisdom, one spirit to con­
tradict another, judging me such another as them­
selves. Butknow, in m e there isneithervariableness,
nor shadow of turning: but man has sought out all
these inventions, and placed M e as though having
6evendifferent spirits,one to say, and another to con­
tradict ; but I shall place the sevenSpirits in the se­
ven Men, that I sent to thee at Exeter, to g^yein their
judgment on thy Writings; and they allgaveit with
one consent, they camefrom the SPIRIT OF GOD!
without one contradicting the other, for my Spirit
was in the seven, and made them all agree in one;
ON THE CALVINI-STIC METHODISTS. 3 7
Digitized by b o o Q l e
and that every soul shall 'find my Spirit wis ih.
them that past their judgment, -end is now in
print And when the judgments do come oq,
then will they sound the silver trumpets of the
'Lord, aloud to all men.” »
Now, I have-given .you the answer Of the Spirit
to the,minister’
s sermon, which yon are at fall li­
berty to .put in print .if you think .proper, and see
i f they can answer it.
JOANHA SCHJTHCOTT*
I
T H A T the world may form a true opinion o f the Cal-
viriistic Methodists, an account has been received from
Joanna, during the printing o f this book, o f an attack
made upon her by one o f these Elected People, in the
following, manner, during her journey to Leeds, froth
' fitockton-t^poo-Tees, who t<Mher, *
*AH shfe had delated
**of the paat was entirely false: and those who had
. “ joined her, particularly the seven gentlemen who went
“ to Exeter, had some'bad motives, in givingtheir names
€t to what theyknew was false; and he gave credit to none.
u T h e books, he said, might not be printed as in the dates
“ mentioned; and she might put any date : so altogether
u he judged them to be impostors, to impose 9n the cre»
“ dulity o f the public." T h e reader will have no drffiv
culty to judge o f the principles o f men, who condemn
, motives and conduct o f others. H e never knew, rifevfet
saw, nor had even heard o f their names.—»This Calvin*
. istic Methodist even has the impudence to include the
. numberswho have constantly read the books as they were
published from the beginning of the year 1801, to this
d ay; all and every one, whether hundreds or thousands,
must be implicated in the deceit, and that what was read
two years ago, could not be printed until two years after*
vwards! These are the men that call themselves die Elect,
and claim the hefcyens as their own!
3 6 ON THE CALVINISTIC MBHODISTS.
%
Digitized by Google
t 39 3
ON THK
TEMPTATIONS OP THE SEALED NUMBER.
E X T R A C T o f a letter.from Joanna, dated D ec. 18, 1805,
containing the complaints made o f the temptations of Sa­
tan on evtfry side: by temptations within, and the world
w ithout; to this sbc.waa aniwcried by the Spirit as fol­
lows :
“ Thou knowest, I said, ,as close aa Pharoah
pursued the Children-of Israel, so close will Satan,
pursue the Sealed People, by temptations within,
and persecutions without; and aa Pharoah was de­
stroyed for pursuing the Children of Israel, so shall
Satan be destroyed for pursuing .the Sealed People;
for now, like-the Children, of Israel, they have the
RedSea before Mm,-and thedEgyptiaa host behind
them ; but let them stand still'and they shall see
my Salvation; for I know, how closeSatan is pur­
suing them; and l will be as close to pursue him.
But was it not so, he could not be chained down,
nor his days shortened for their sake: it is for their
sake! will cut short my Work-in righteousness!, and
bring deliverance to my people. And'now I will
answer Sharp’s delicacy:* •let Him not fear to put
his testimony to the book:that he is publishing,
fearing men will judge it vain glory: btot let him
saywith David, ‘is there not cause enough to fight
manfully as a good soldier, for Christ’s Kingdom -
to be established* and Satan’s destroyed ? Shall I
be ashamed to own the testimony I give, when I
• On the iQtrvdactta&to this book..
Digitized by Google
4 a ON THE TEMPTATIONS
have seen the truth of* the past ? shall I fear the
truth to come?’ So let him gird up his loins like
&man—
And answer my demands who can,
From whence the truth did all appear?
Or who my Bible made so clear,
To prove the words that first I spoke,
When I the woman did create ?
How she could be a good to man
By any way they’ve laid their plan ? -
Jf from my Birth they now appear,,
Then tell me Why the Jews did err,
That were at first my chosen race?
I say my plan do all disgrace;
’ The Jews they did it at the first,
•And now the Gentiles so do burst;
Like Adam’s seed do all appear,
Condemn the Woman every where:
That she no helpmate is to man;
Because hjs ways you all condemn:
So perfectly like Adam here—*
For so the Jews do now appear—
And now the Gentiles err the same;
For they despise the Woman’s name;
That there’s no good from her can be.
Appear vain men and answer me,
Why I the Woman did create ?
To be man’s partner and helpmate
To help him into misery ? *
, But mark the Bond wT
as made by me,
I now do tell you in the Fall—
It isthat Bond must clear the whole
For there’s the Jointure all must see,
How Satan’s doom is joined with me :
That to the Woman then was made—
And now ye men be not misled,
It is her Jointure, in my Word, '
Whereby you all must know the Lord,
That died at first the debt to free; (
And then the Woman’s bond you see
"HU,
' i
Digitized by Google
/ Like all your laws doth
After your maimer answer here# .
If you as Children now become
Would you give up your Mothers bond#
IF men your Father murder'd here
And took his life the debt to clear ?
For I now tell you all, as a Woman's jointure
stands in marriage, so doth the Woman’s jointure
stand in the beginning: and it is her jointure must
clear the whole: and know, "how both were joined
■together in the Fall. And now whoever gives up
the Woman’s jointure can never have his lands
freed; for it is by that promise that I must free
your bonds, and by it 1 shall free my lands for
Man, that now pleads the Woman’s promise—
09 THE SEALED NUMBER. 41
So# from the Fall# I tell you all,
The Jointure there was made—
*
That as I paid my Life for all#
Oh men# he not misled—•
You all must come the Woman’s bond
To plead her Jointure there;
Then Satan must let go the touch*
That { have bought so dear.
Because My Blood the victim stood#
To pay the debt for Man;
The Woman's Jointure to make good#
And so redeem my land.
Now if her Jointure you give up#
You xftay give up the whole—
-
And say in vain my Life did drop#
For to redeem you all.
Because the Bond can never stand#
That ! did make at firft#
If you give up the Woman’s hand#
* That on her so was plac’d.
V ,
Digitized by Google
ON THE TEM PTATIONS *
4 *
It is her claim, ye sons of men, ,
To have her Children free l
And if she now gives up the bond
Yoi*r poverty you’d see
Would soon come on, ye simple men
As you have seen it here,
When wives their Jointures have given up
Their husbands’ debts to clear,
When nothing’s left, as I have said,
To keep them from distress. -
And now the mysteries, I’ll make clear:
A woman’s feeling breast
May give it up, as she may hope
P er husband for to free ;
That he in prison may not drop.
H er love may set him free;
May so be done, by her weak hand.
In love to him appear;
But if his life, his foes should take,
Would you not blame her here,
To give to them her every bond,
That did her Lord destroy ?
“ No, if his life you had prolong’d
“ You might my bond enjoy,
“ To give it up for me to hope
“ My husband’s life to save;
“ But as his life you made it drop,
“ My Jointure now 1 crave'
“ To be my own ; his life is gone,
“ And him you did destroy;
“ No mercy you did shew to him,
“ And you shall ne’er enjoy;
.“ The bond that’s mine, I’ll ne’er resign/
“ My Jointure I*1
1not give :
“ As you no mercy skew'd to him,
“ His Children now shall live,
“ In the possession of the whole,
“ That he did make to me—
“ My Jointure now shall never fall
“ To men that act like He—
“ My Lord to slay,” the wife may say,
f‘ For now I’ll keep ray bond;
Digitized by Google
** But if you had mercy shewn to him, .
* “ I might give up my hand;
MBut you did not,—and now too late
<
€My Jointure you do crave;
**I never now will give it up
“ His Children it shall have.”
So, simple men, if you discern.
The mystery here,goes deep ;
For like a husband I have done, i
The Womans Jointure keep;
The debts to free, they’ye murder’d
Her Jointure both remain l
For to revenge the enemy,
Jf you can bow see plain;
It is her hand must ever stand,
I say, to claim the whole—
And prove .the Jointure’s in her hand, *
•. To make the fee to fall.
The Bond you see was given by me*
And it she now doth claim;
And all my Children must agree,
To have their Mother’s bond,
, That first was made, be not misled, .
Nor give it up to none j
Because they made her Lord to bleed/
Then claim the bond your own.’’ -
THE SEAtEJP NUMBER/ 1
This Communication has so far opened the eyes
jjf my understanding, that I would sooner give my
Jife to he burnt in the flames, as the martyrs were,
than giveup the Promise made inthe Fall, that the
Lord, in his unbounded mercies, hath now pror
inised to fulfil. I see deeply the weight of the words,
and the sense and meaning is pressed on my mind
and my heart, to see the depth of the Lord’s wis­
dom acting with, men after the manner of men,
Jn all his parables here upon earth, he. likened tbp
kingdom of heaven to the likeness of men here
ppon earth: ancl ndw the Promise made in the
Digitized by Google
44 OK THE TEMPTATIONS, &&
Fall is so clearly explained Wkh the woman’s join-*
ture in marriage, that if she gave it up; it was to
save her husband from prison, or death; but if
men put him to death first, would you not call
the woman a fool to give up her jointure after­
wards, to such'‘malicious enemies ? Here is the
parable temporally; but now let us weigh it spi­
ritually: the debt was the debt of sin, from the
transgression of the Fallfc
—Satan Worked in the
hearts of men, to have our blessed Saviour pul to
death to pay the debt for man; then now remains
the promised bond given to the Woman, to bruise
Satan’s head. Then does not justice call for the
fulfilment of the one, as the vengeance and malice
o f men and devils fulfilled the other ? For he that
shewtth no mercy, shall have judgment without
inercy; and no mercy Was shewn to our dear and
dying Saviour! And shall we fioWwish tb shew
mercy to such a Serpent, that has stung both
him and us ? If we look at our dying -Lord, love
will call us to wish to see him triumph oyer death,
hell, and the grave, and put all his enemies wider
his feetj and fulfil the Promise that he made ift
ifce Fall: for if his love was td ^ ish away out
gljlt, ought not our love to ask Satan’s destruc^
tioa for what he has spilt ? . «-
:V ,r ■ ••••■
'»
, ' . r .
CAUBIH St MERCHANT, f RINTJU , INOfciUA-Cf VRT, lb jfDbtfv
»r f
