{"name":"Critical Remarks On Infamous Publications Of John Parkins","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1819__anonymous___critical_remarks_on_infamous_publications_of_john_parkins.pdf","mytitle":"Critical Remarks On Infamous Publications Of John Parkins","mylang":"de"}
4-'6oooobooooooeooo6o^oooooooooooobooo^
0
0
0
.-0
: . - 0
0
€
0
0
•0
0
€ttt Homo i
8
0
0
v
0
€
CRITICAL
ON THE
0
8
0
0
0
0
g Sfnfamou^ JpuMkation^ of %tfyn $arMng, g
£ 0
Of Little Gonerby near Grantham, 0
better known as 8
DOCTOR PARKINS; |
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
Who Impiously and Blasphemously Myl«‘:- htmself
THE
8
0
0
0
0
0
g GRAN© ambassador of g
0 HEAVEN X 0
0
0
0
8
O
0
0
0
0
8
0
0
■0
0
0
0
0
INTERSPERSED WITH ANECDOTES.
■GRANTHAM
0 Printed for, and published by, the Author; and Sold by all
0 Booksellers.
Storr, Printer, Vine*street, Grantham.
&r c
Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2018 with funding from
Wellcome Library
ECCE -4 CRITICAL
RJ TkS Ik M r /\ VE
HOMO !
ip*
ON THE ¥
3fnfamou0 ^ubltcattons of fofm ^arfcttts.
If
Ek.
sg
OF LITTLE GONERBY, NEAR GRANTHAM;
BETTER KNOWN AS
DOCTOR PARKINS;
WHO IMPIOUSLY AND BLASPHEMOUSLY STYLES HIMSELF
The Grand Ambassador of Heaven!!!
PARTICULARLY ON HIS
Cabinet of JDealtf), Celestial iDamor, anti 23ooI« of a^tcaclca;
In which he Pretends to Command ike Angels of Heaven,to Avert the Evils of Human Life, to Work Miracles,
to Cast Out Devils, to Destroy Witches, to Foretell Future Events, fyc. fyc.
BEING an ATTEMPT to EXPOSE the FALSEHOOD of HIS PRETENSIONS,
And to prove that the only design of his Writings is to Beguile the Weak and Ignorant, and to Promote the Sale of (what he calls)
FOUNDED ON THE ABSURD PRINCIPLES OF ASTROLOGY.
INTERSPERSED WITH ANECDOTES.
T=
J=~
&
Wr
y~
'‘ZnXvipYis 7T0WT0( xa't n&crris ‘pcStoupyiag, vts Si«So\a, hy^pl Sixcuoauvric, ou ntxuarj Stxrptyov rot; oSouf Kupfou t«xg kvQetot( ;—Acts xiii. 10.
Glen. I can call Spirits from the vasty deep.
Hot. Why so can I, and so can any man,
But will they come when you do call for them ?—Shak.
Having recourse to Astrologers, Fortune-tellers, &c. to get intelligence of Lost or Stolen Goods, or to know the Future Events
of our own lives or those of Others, is highly Criminal in the sight of God. Those who have recourse to such person*, renouuce
their Baptism, and, in effect, renounce the Providence as well as the Word of God.—Dr, Adam Clarke.
GRANTHAM : printed for, and published by, the Author, and may be had of all Booksellers.
Storr, Printer, Grantham. fk.
Pl
.... ■ ■ '
TO THE
AMBASSADOR
HEAVENl
Holy Sire !
With all due Reverence,
Respect, and Admirations I presume to lay
at your feet, this, my Maiden Essay. I have
followed you, at a humble distance, through
the Celestial Fields of Abstruse Learning ;
but, as You, Sire, have carefully gathered up
the “ Flowers of Literature/’ I am com¬
pelled to be contented with the Blossomed,
Weeds that have fallen in my way.
As the object of my Researches is, like
Your’s, to promote the Cause of Truth,—to
whom can I, with so much Propriety, Dedi¬
cate it, as to Yourself ? And I earnestly
Hope and Trust, that my Endeavours to
Deprive Hypocrisy of her Mask ; to Hold
up Villany to Execration ; and to teach Cre-
dulity to distinguish him that is Good, from
him that is cannot be Censurable in
the mind of Doctor Parkins.
Believe me, Dread Commander of the
Host of Heaven ! not your Enemy—though.
I should be sorry, very sorry, to subscribe my¬
self,
In Truth and Sincerity,
Your Obedient Servant,
And fYrj/ Great Admirer,
THE AUTHOR.
--, near Grantham,
4^ August) 1819.
PREFACE.
In presenting this Pamphlet to the World,
1 feel very little of that Diffidence, which, 1
am told, is the usual attendant upon Author¬
ship. The Motive which induces me to write,
may, perhaps, be the Disperser of that Diffi¬
dence. 1 believe I have taken up arms in a
Good Cause ; and I cannot think of following
the too-common practice of Better Writers,
and Offering a Lame and Pitiful Apology.
The Long Reign Doctor Parkins has had
over minds that harbour Superstition and
Credulity, it is time were at an End. The
Press has given such a Circulation to his
Blasphemous Stories and Impious Preten¬
sions, that by the Press only they can be
Counteracted. And that there are Persons
Foolish enough to Believe in his Power, can-?
not be better testified than by the Book of
Miracles.
I declare that 1 have not exposed him from
Motives of Personal or Malicious Hostility.
by a Desire to
Place my Countrymen upon their Guard, by
showing them the Character of a Man that
makes a Trade of Imposition.
Who, or What, f am, the World in all
probability will never know. I may be sus¬
pected as the Author, amongst others : but
there is a Veil thrown over me, like that of
Junius, which few but myself can remove.
I do not conceal myself from a Fear of the
Doctor's Angry Resentment, but for Reasons
I choose Not to Publish. No Embellishment
can be given to Truth by the Printing of a
Name : it recks not whether she approach us
in the Mellow Softness of the Gloaming, or
the Mid-day Glare of the Summer Sun.
If the Public are at all Benefited by the
Cautions I have given, my Aim will be Ac¬
complished : if not, though 1 shall feel sorry
that I have spent so many Unpleasing Hours
in its Compilation in Vain ; yet neither my
Interest nor my Tranquillity will be the
least Affected.
1 have been actuated solely
P. S.—I would have it understood, that
I by no means Recognize this Mae as a
Doctor. I have made use of that title, only
because he is known by no other. If he pos¬
sess a Diploma at all, I suspect it to be one
granted him by Beelzebub l
\
CONTENTS.
Anecdotes.—Indelicate propo¬
sition of the Dr. to Miss —, of
Newark, 26.—Infamous beha¬
viour to a straw-bonnet maker,
27.—Ditto to A. T. of Grant¬
ham, 28.—Hugh Rawlinson &
the plough, 29.—Hodge, his
cow, and the dirty steps, 31,■—
The Navenby horse-whipping,
38.—Blacksmith and runagate,
57.—Death of Mrs. Howe, 60,
—The want of faith in Mr. G.
of Westby, 70.
Anther, the, No Methodist,.. 13
Attorney at Louth, rifaaldrous at¬
tack on, .... ............60
Blasphemy and Lamenism, syn¬
onymous, ......... 46
Book of Miracles, review of, 53
—May be made a canvassing
book, ....55
Cabinet of Wealth, review of, 3.
—An impious publication, 4.
—Valuable,interesting and en¬
tertaining, .............. 6
Challenge to the learned, a mod¬
est one, ........ ........ 5
Charm for employing spirits pun¬
ishable by death, ...... ,. 19
Celestial Touchstone reviewed,42
Celestial Warrior reviewed,. .45
Conclusion, .. . ............ 69
Divination by the tea-cup taught
by the Grand Ambassador of
Heaven,.. 40
Flowers of Literature, expose of
Futurity, prying into, a source of
misery,.. .36
Flock of sheep, pretended salva*
tion of, ................. ,63
Flagellation promised to the Dr.’s
confuters, 64
Grand Secret Celestial Arcanum,
.....................25, 50
— Portable Celestial Oracle, 29
Happy Man, description of, sto¬
len by the Doctor, .. .... .43
Hymn stolen from Wesley,. ..44
If, a valuable preposition, 7, 13
Judicial Astrology exposed,.. ^
James I. a bigot in the belief of
witchcraft, 18.—His Daemono-
logie the cause of the witchcraft
act, ... ............ ......19
Judge Hale’s condemnation of
witches, a........ ......67
Lamen, Holy Consecrated, what,
69.—To prevent the evils of
life, 8,—For encouragement of
lust, 11To promote matrimo¬
ny, 13.—To prevent seduction,
14.—To preserve women in
childbirth. 14 —To protect the
traveller from robbers, 15.—To
promote success in trade, 16.—
To increase family concord, 17.
—A remedy for witchcraft, 18.
—For military and naval offi*=
cers,20.—Of intercession,23.—
Obtain their power from the
Trinity, 24.
Ladles must apply in person, 25.
—For what purpose, 260-
More susceptible than men t©
believe the Doctor, 28.
Magistrates recommended to pro¬
secute the Doctor, ........20
Micah’s description of a false
prophet, ................40
Money, the mainspring of all the
Doctor’s actions, .... .passim
Miracle, what, 56—Pretty crea¬
ture and travelling bookseller,
58. —LincolnshireNorthernman
59. —At Louth, 60.—The Dr.’s
Son, 65.
Mother Goose’s Tales, a story for,
........................68
Nut to crack for the Doctor,.. 27
Nativities, no inferences to be
drawn from,............8,51
Optima Revelatio Stella,remarks
©n, ...............--.29
One hundred thousand pounds, a
comfortable independency, 48
Overseers recommended to bribe
the Doctor to feed the poor. 67 !
Parkins, Doctor, a zealous mem- i
ber of the Church of England, j
6.—Ousted from a dissenting
society, 6.—2 Thes. iii. 10, 11,
applicable to, 17.—Fined as a
conjuror,20.—His art diaboli¬
cal, 21.—Similar to that of Si¬
mon Magus and Elymas, 21.-—
Pretends to avert the evils of
war, 22.—Set at defiance by the
author, 23,—Cannot foretell
the tricks played upon himself,
29.—Warned to recant his prin¬
ciples, 32.—A prophet, 41.—
Can shew the cause of the cal¬
amities of England, 4i.—Re¬
quired to do so, 41.—Blasphe¬
mously styles himself the Grand
Ambassador of Heaven, 45.—
Punishable by military law,
48.— Could have saved thePrin-
cess Charlotte, 52.—Murderer
of Mrs. Howe, 60.
Purchasers of charms punishable,
..... .. ........ 19
Prophets and Apostles, no adepts
at brewing,..37
Parallel between the Meek Am¬
bassadors of God, and the Grand
Ambassador of Heaven,.... 46
Printer’s Devil, addendum by, 72
Rich men may save themselves by
purchase,.. .25
Riches and wealth, how to ob¬
tain, ...38
Soldier’s life the most happy un¬
der heaven, 47,—Doubted, 47,
—Courageous advice to, 48.
Texts quoted by the Doctor, have
no relation to his matter, passim
—1 Thes. v. 20, remarks on, 30.
545 in Celestial Touchstone, 43
Witches, the belief in, declines in
proportion to civilization, 1.—
The existence of, doubted, 2.
Wizard, explanation of,.......1
ECCE HOMO!
REMARKS, &c.
“ There shall not be found among you any one that useth Divin¬
ation, or an Observer of Times, er an Enchanter, or a Witch, or a
Charmer, or a Consulter with Familiar Spirits, ora Wizard, ora
Necromancer. For all that do these things are an abomination to
the Lord.”—Dent, xviii. 10, 11, 12.
“ Regard not them that have Familiar Spirits, neither seek after
Wizards, to be defiled by them ; I am the Lord your God.1”—
Levit. x\x. 31.
The doctrine of Witches has been observed to be less re¬
ceived amongst a people who have arrived at some degree of
enlightenment, than with those where refinement and civiliz¬
ation have made little or no progress. Old hags, wizards,
and magicians, on the one hand; and wise-men, exorcists,
1 it is not the intention of the Writer to enter into any controversy,
whether the Witches of Scripture were precisely such characters as
we now understand by the word Witch;—but he wrould refer the
reader to the following Annotation on the text inserted above:—
“ Neither seek after Wizards]—Yideonim, the wise or knowing
ones, from yada, to know or understand; called wizard in Scotland, wise
or cunning man in England ; and hence also, the wise woman, the white
witch. Not only all real dealers with familiar spirits, or necromantic
or magical superstitions, are here forbidden; but also all pretenders
to the knowledge of futurity, fortune-tellers, astrologers, &c. &c.—
To attempt to know what God has not thought proper to reveal, is a
sin against his wisdom, providence, and goodness. In mercy, great
mercy, God has hidden the knowledge of futurity from man, and
given him Hope, the expectation of future good, in its place.”—Dr,
Adam Clarke.
b
2 ECCE HOMO !
fortune-tellers, and astrologers, on the other—were the favour¬
ites of England in the early ages : so late, indeed, as the
16th and 17th centuries, theory of Witchcraft, and the trials
of Witches, were common. One Hopkins, who had taken to
himself the title of JVitchfnder-General, travelled through
most parts of the kingdom in search of them. Numbers of
poor wretches lost their lives through his means; and the
whole country, for a long time, was in a state of disorder.—
Since then, however, the belief of Witches has been gradually
upon the wane; charms and enchantments have lost their
wronted influence; and the very possibility of witchcraft is
now almost universally denied ; or at least received with ex¬
traordinary circumspection.
Without presuming to circumscribe the power of the Al¬
mighty, or to assert that his wisdom has not, nor may not,
sometimes permit the Enemy of Mankind to endow his emis¬
saries upon earth, with extraordinary and supernatural powers;
we may surely regret the circumstance, that, among the lower
classes of the present day, many place implicit faith in the ac¬
tual existence of such persons now amongst us. Many of our
villages, if we believe the inhabitants of them, have their
Witches and their Wizards, who, by their unholy incantations,
spoil the butter of the dairy-maid, ordeal death and destruc¬
tion among the cattle of the cottager. Some Poor, Feeble,
Elderly Woman, is generally the object pitched upon to bear
the stigma of The Witch: if she happen to keep a Black
Cat, and be attended by any Personal Deformity, the cer¬
tainty of her being such is sufficiently established; and the
poor creature too often suffers Abuse and Personal Injury, in
consequence.
While such is evidently and lamentably the case, we
cannot but view with horror and execration, the Exertions of
a Worthless Adventurer, to blow into flame the slumbering
embers of these Superstitious Notions, in the minds of those,
whose weak uncultivated intellects readily receive whatever is
calculated to astonish and disturb the imagination.—When
ECCE HOMO!
such a man is disseminating through the press, Tale upon
Tale, and Falsehood upon Falsehood, for the avowed purpose
of Filling his Purse at the expense of Public Credulity, it is
high time that some Antidote be attempted, to check the pro¬
gress of his Impious Publications. And the Writer of this,
though he makes no boast of literary attainment, nor seeks
for literary dune, conceives that he will render a service to his
Country, by an exposure of the Contemptible Bombast, and
Blasphemous Pretensions, of such a character.
Let us, however, examine some of this man’s publications,
which, I think, are sufficiently Bombastic and Blasphemous,
to merit these adjectives. In the course of this Examination,
I shall offer such Comments only, as the Context evidently
requires; and to which every one acquainted with the Doctor’s
writings, must necessarily subscribe. I have at hand so many
of his Pamphlets and Advertisements—all written in the same
Strain, and each with paragraphs copied from each—that I
foresee it will be no enviable task, to analyze and arrange such
Complicated Materials. As The Cabinet of Wealth, or the
Temple of Wisdom, however, stands the earliest in date, I
shall with that pamphlet commence my Career of Criticism.
The Title of this thing is, of itself, worth a moment’s con¬
sideration. That my Reader may lose none of the Doctor’s
Flowers of Literature, and Essence of Divinity, I present it
verbatim.—-
“ THE CABINET OF WEALTH, or The Tem¬
ple of Wisdom ; including Our Celestial Touchstone :
containing a never-failing method to obtain and acquire
Riches, Wisdom, Knowledge, Wealth, Dignities, Honour,
Health, Pleasure, Happiness, and Felicity, both in this
world and also in that which is to cornel with other matter,
equally profitable and curious ; being a complete Directory
to an Inexhaustible Treasury ; beautifully adorned with the
Flowers of Literature, and the Essence of Divinity.
With a Description of the Happy Man.—By Dit. Pjr-
kins, Author of several Valuable and Useful Publications.
~Enviest thou for my sake ? would God that all the
4 ECCE HOMO!
1 Lord’s people were prophets, and that the Lord would
‘ put his spirit upon them !’ Num. xi. 29.” &e.
Now let. any man consider—for it wants neither Educa¬
tion nor Ability to consider—how far any one Mortal can
ensure to another, “ Happiness and Felicity both in This
World, and also in that which is to come /” God
Almighty is the only being who can grant us either the one
of these blessings or the other: and I think I need scarcely
dip deeper into the Doctor’s Works, than the Title-page of the
first of them, where he arrogates to himself the power of the
Omnipotent, to establish against him the charge of Impiety, if
not of Blasphemy.
The next page of this Book contains an Advertisement,
the first paragraph of which, in the true style of Trade, says
-—“ All orders will be most gratefully received,” &c. The
next is reprobatory of those who are “ taught to despise the
Wonderful Works of God.” [i. e. Those who do not think
proper to believe in Dr. Parkins, as one commissioned from
Heaven to Work Miracles.] These, the Doctor informs us,
“ are quite ready to despise Heaven, and even God himself.”
And this sentence concludes with a tissue of Texts from Scrip¬
ture, to give a warranty to, and establish a faith in, the Doctor’s
Mission. There is also a reference to a Work called A Dis¬
sertation on Villany; a work which has never yet seen the
day ; and which, in all probability, is not intended to do ; or
very likely, of which no more than the Title has been written.
But the Texts of Scripture with which the Doctor crowds his
pages, and grounds the certainty of his Divine Appointment,
are by no means so applicable, as the reader has a right to
expect. I arfi dealing now in plain sense and plain English ;
and if the Texts to which he refers will not bear him out in his
assertions, I shall certainly not be ready to receive his doctrine
at all.—Eccles. xii. 14, is his first reference: let us transcribe
the words at length, since he has not thought them worth his
valuable paper-room :—For God shall bring every work into
ECCE HOMO! 5
judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or
whether it be evil. What I am to gather from this, in favour
the Doctor’s Art, I candidly acknowledge myself ignorant:
—perhaps I may be less in the dark in the next text: Matt,
xii. 36, 37—But I say unto you, that every idle word that men
shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judg¬
ment. For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy
words thou shalt be condemned! Here, alas ! I am as ignorant
as ever: but I think the tables may be very fairly turned;
and if the Doctor will take the trouble, he will readily find
room to apply it to the Cabinet of Wealth.
For the present, I shall pass over the remainder of the
Scripture references here, and his formal and legal caution to
Printers and Publishers, against pirating his Valuable and
Useful Publication; and proceed to page 4 of this book.—
Here I have met with an unaccountable disappointment; for
though I sought very earnestly to find a portion of the Doc¬
tor’s Flowers of Literature,—alas ! they had
--melted into air—thin air ! -
and left behind them only a Nauseating Bouquet, of the
Flowers of Egotism, and the very Quintessence of Bombas¬
tic Effrontery. “ Fair play,” however, says the old
Proverb, “ is a jeweland as I can give no adequate de¬
scription of these Flowers, the Doctor himself must display
them.
“ If there can be found any Wise and Learned Gentle¬
man, in any part of England, Scotland, or Wales, that
can either Confute, Defeat, or Prove to be False and
Erroneous, any Subject, Matter, Article, or Thing, con¬
tained in this Book—all such persons will be fully entitled
to the Silver Cup, offered in my Universal Fortune Teller,
pages 65 and 12.”
I forbear any further Remark upon this Modest and Sen¬
sible Challenge, because I would not offer such an Insult to
Common Understanding. The person who has been Educa-
b 2
ECCE HOMO!
« ,
ted sufficiently to peruse these pages, has comprehension
enough to estimate it at its True Value.
He goes on—
V,
“ No person ought to be without this most Valuable,
Interesting, and Entertaining Book, which we now present
unto them for Sixpence only; giving them at the same
time, full possession of the Cabinet of Wealth, or the Tem¬
ple of Wisdom ; leading the way to Know all things Past,
Present, and To Come; together with the blessings of
Health, Wealth, &c.”
Valuable—Interesting—and Entertaining / I must al¬
low7 the Reader, in the words of honest Dogberry, to “ write
me dowrn an ass for I am too stupid to discover either the
Value, the Interest, or the Entertainment this publication has
bestowTed upon the World.—Nay, I am really such an Igno¬
ramus, that, though I have read it very attentively, I know no
more of the Past or Present, than I should have done, had it
still been slumbering in the Doctor’s brain; much less of
the Future. It is, indeed, nothing more than a few pages of
Advertisements, couched in the style of the Puff Direct, to
put off his fanciful Lamens; and for which, if I were the
Printer, I should expect to be called upon for the Stamp-office
Duty. I shall, however, follow him through the Catalogue
of these Lamens : perhaps my Reader may have more pene¬
tration than myself, and reap a greater advantage from them
than I have done.—He says—
“ The Doctor, (who is a most zealous Member and
Defender of 4}ie Church of England,)”—
Mark this, Gentle Reader! and give praise to God, that
the Church of England is honoured with a Member so Pious
and so Holy ! But remember the Doctor’s zeal for Old Mo¬
ther Church did not show itself at all, until he was Ousted
from a Dissenting Congregation, as a Drunkard and a Hypo¬
crite.
ECCE HOMO!
—u being also the Author of several most Useful and
Valuable Publications,”—
I suppose, The Universal Fortune-teller—Useful
enough ! and Sheets of Advertisements—Valuable e-
nough!
—“ now begs leave to inform the Public, that he bath
constantly on Sale, a Valuable Set of Holy Consecrated
Philosophical Lamens, Pentacles, Papers, Writings, Amu¬
lets, Telesmes, &c. by which means every afflicted person
may have the Virtues of all their said Medicines [Qu.
What said Medicines ?] so much increased and augmented,
that the sick and the diseased will be most speedily restored
to their former good state of Health, by the same, if
curable.”
IF curable ! This word, IF, is a Valuable Preposi¬
tion in our language; particularly to the Doctor, as it may in
some cases save his credit.
Then comes an enumeration of these Holy Consecrated
Lamens, made “ by the Rules of Spiritual Astrology,2 ”
the First of which is
2 The opinion of the great Dr. Adam Clarke, than whom a more
pious and learned man perhaps never lived, as to the pretended sci¬
ence of Astrology, may be gathered from his sending the following
anecdote, from the French, to the Editor of the Arminian Magazine,
for 1797; and which I have taken the liberty to copy below. I do
not know, but I really believe, the arguments there adduced, will not
easily be,controverted, even by Dr. Parkins himself.
“ Dear Sir,—As the Science of Judicial Astrology, which pre¬
tends to foretel future Events, by the Aspects, Positions, and Influ¬
ences of the heavenly bodies, has not yet fallen into that contempt,
■with some persons, which, I think, it merits from all; permit me to
recommend to your readers the following extract from the second
book of Barclay’s Argenis. Under Catherine de Medicis,and Henry
III. and IV. of France, the predictions of Astrologers were a com¬
mon theme of court conversation. An Astrologer having undertaken
to instruct Henry III. in the event of a war threatened by the faction
of the Guises, in 1588 ; Barclay attacked him thus:—
8 ECCE HOMO !
“ calculated to prevent the common Miseries of Human
Life; showing also the best method of Preventing the Utter
Ruin and Destruction of Kingdoms and States.”
The Man who dares thus set himself up, is either One
“ ‘ You maintain that the circumstances of Life and Death de¬
pend on the place and influence of the celestial bodies, at the time when
tiie child first comes to light; and yet own that the heavens revolve
with such vast rapidity, that the situation of the stars is considerably
changed in the least point of time.—What certainty then can there
be in your art, unless you suppose the midwives constantly careful to
observe the clock, that the minute of time may be conveyed to the in¬
fant as we do his patrimony ? How often does the mother’s danger
prevent this care ? And how many are there who are not influenced
by this superstition ? But supposing them watchful to your wish ; if
the child be long in the birth, which state of the stars is to determine
for him? I say nothing of the common errors of clocks and other
time-keepers, sufficient to elude all your cares!
“ ‘ Again, why are we to regard the stars, only at his Nativity,
and not those rather which shone when the Foetus was first animated ?
And why must those others be excluded which presided while the
body remained tender and susceptible of the weakest impression, du¬
ring Gestation ?
“ * But setting this aside, and supposing the face of the heavens
accurately known: whence arises this dominion of the stars over our
bodies and minds, that they must be the arbiters of our happiness, our
manner of life and death ? Were all those who went to battle and
died together, born under the same position of the heavens ? And,
when a ship is to be cast away, shall it admit no passengers, but those
doomed by the stars to suffer shipwreck? Or, rather, do not persons
born under every planet go into battle, or on board the vessel, and
notwithstanding the disparity of their birth, perish alike ? Again, all
born under the same configuration of the stars, do not live or die in
the same manner. Are all who were born at the same time with the
King, Monarchs ? Or, are they all even alive at this day ? View M.
Villeroy here; nay, view yourself; were all who came into the world
with him, as wise and virtuous as he ; or all born under your oicn stars,
Astrologers like you ? If a man be slain by a robber, you will say,
lie was doomed to perish by a robber’s hand ; but did the same stars
which, when the traveller was born, subjected him to the robber’s
sword—did they likewise give the robber, who perhaps was born
long before, a power and inclination to kill him ? For you will allow,
ECCE HOMO ! 9
sent of God, or the most Despicable of Impostors. How
far the Doctor merits the Former of these designations, is the
object of this Inquiry. To attempt to prove himself a Man
of God, he lugs into his service such an abundance of Texts
that it is as much owing to the stars that the one kills, as that the
other is killed. And when a man is overwhelmed by the fall of a
house, did the walls become faulty, because the stars doomed him to
die thereby ; or, rather, w as not his death owing to this, that the walls
were faulty The same may be said of honours and employs ; be¬
cause the stars which shone at a man’s nativity, promised him prefer¬
ment, could those have an influence over other persons not born under
them, by whose suffrages he was to rise ? Or how do the stars at one
man’s birth annul or set aside the contrary influences of other stars,
which shone at the birth of another ?
“ c The truth is, supposing the reality of all the planetary powers
—as the Sun which visits an infinity of bodies with the same rays, has
not the same effect on all; but some things are hardened thereby, as
clay ; some are softened thereby, asa-aj;: some reeds cherished, others
destroyed : the tender herbs scorched up, the others secured by their
coarser juice: so, wrhere so many children are born together, like a
field tilled so many different ways, according to the various health,
habitude, and temperament of the parents, the same celestial influx
must operate differently. If the genius be suitable and towardly,
it must predominate therein: if contrary, it will only correct it. So
that to foretell the life and manners of a child, you are not only to
look into the heavens, but into the parents, into the fortune which at¬
tended the pregnant mother, and a thousand other circumstances, ut¬
terly inaccessible.
“ ‘ Further, does the power which portends the new-born infant
a life (for instance) of 40 years; or perhaps a violent death at 30 ;
does that power, I say, endure and reside in the heavens, waiting the
destined time, when, descending on earth, it may produce such an
effect ? Or is it infused into the infant itself ; so that being cherished,
and gradually growing up with it, it bursts forth at the appointed
time, and fulfils what the stars had given it in charge ? Persist in the
heavens it cannot; in that, depending immediately on a certain con¬
figuration of the stars, when that is changed, the effect connected with
it must cease, and a neiv, perhaps a contrary one, take place. What
repository have you then for the former power to remain in, till the
time come for its delivery ? If you say it resides in the infant, not to
operate upon him till he be grown to manhood ; the answer is more
10 ECCE HOMO !
from the Bible and Testament, that I can neither afford the
space nor the time to illustrate every one of them. To do
away, therefore, with partiality in their selection, I shall hence¬
forth quote only the first and the last of the Doctor’s referen-
preposterous than the former: for this, in the instance of a shipwreck,
you must suppose the cause why the winds rise, and the ship is leaky,
or the Pilot, through ignorance of the place, runs on a shoal or rock*
So the Fanner is the cause of the war that impoverishes him, or of the
favourable season which brings him a plenteous harvest.
“ ‘ You boast much of the event of a few predictions, which, con¬
sidering the multitude of those which your art has produced, plainly
confess its impertinence. A MILLION OF DECEPTIONS ARE
INDUSTRIOUSLY HIDDEN AND FORGOT, IN FAVOUR
OF SOME EIGHT OR TEN WHICH HAVE SUCCEEDED.
Out of so many conjectures, it must be preternatural if some did not
hit; and it is certain, considering you only as Guessers, there is no
room to boast you have been successful therein. Do you know what
fate awaits France in this War, and yet are not apprehensive what
shall befal yourself? Did you not foresee the opposition I was this
day to make to you ? If you can say whether the King shall vanquish
his enemies, find out first whether he will believe you.'
“ In the above extract this impudent science is successfully rallied ;
its vain pretensions properly exposed ; and the absurdity of its princi¬
ples sufficiently manifested. If I do not greatly err, there are argu¬
ments here, which the whole sombre conclave of Star-gazers, Astrolo-
gers, and Wizards, from Jannes and Jambres, down to Merlin,
Nostrodamus, Partridge, and Moore, have never yet satisfacto¬
rily answered, nor ever will be able to refute.
“ A science which cashiers Divine Providence from the Universe,
and pretends to govern the World, direct, counteract, and variously
influence all human actions, by Saturn, Jupiter, Mars, Venus, Mer¬
cury, and the Moon, the very Deities of Pagan Rome and Greece,
acknowledged as possessing the very same powers which quondam
heathenish idolators ascribed to them, is, in my opinion, worthy of
the EXECRATION of every person who believes there is a God,
and that that God governs the heavens and the earth. In short, the
whole system appears to me to be an artful revival of a part of the
old Pagan Theology, I am, &c.
“ London, Dec. 16, 1796.”
A. CLARKE.’
ECCE HOMO ! 11
ces appended to each Lamen, and leave it to chance to dis¬
cover, how much their meaning is perverted, to suit the
Doctor’s purposes. Here then, his first text is Hosea v. 15—
I will go and return to my place, till they acknowledge their
offence, and seek my face : in their Afflictions they will
seek me early. And does the Doctor mean to say, that they
(the People, the Kingdoms, and the States) shall seek Him in
their Afflictions, or the Almighty? If the Former, he has
fairly taken the First Step towards Blasphemy : if the Latter,
I reply, that I hope Religion is not yet at so low an ebb
amongst us, as to make it necessary to purchase a Lamen, in
order to inform or remind us, of our Dependence upon God,
and of the necessity of our coming to him in our afflictions.—
Heb. ii. 15—17—And deliver them who through fear of death
were all their life-time subject to bondage. For verily he took
not on him the nature of angels ; but he took on him the seed
of Abraham. Wherefore in all things it behoved him to be
made like unto his brethren ; that he might be a merciful and
faithful high-priest, in things pertaining unto God, to make
reconciliationfor the sins of the people.—What am I to say to
this ? I am in a Predicament as bad, or wrorse, than when I
acknowledged myself Ignorant a page or two backward.—
I must solicit the Doctor to harmonize the Text with the
Lamen.
Second Lamen.—“ Any Lady may have a Clear, Fnil,
and most Perfect Sight of the Gentleman she will Marry,
so as to perfectly know him by a Vision or Dream in the
Night.”—Joel ii. 28—And it shall come to pass afterward,
that I will pour out rny Spirit upon all flesh ; and your sons
and your daughters shall prophecy, your old men shall
dream dreams, your young men shall see visions.
And what have the Old Men’s Dreams, and the Young
Men’s Visions, to do with Dr. Parkins’s “ Gentleman she
will marry V7 Sensual Enjoyment, and Amorous Desires,
were, then, one would infer, the circumstances of which Joel
12 ECCE HOMO!
prophecied ! Can it be, that the God of Abraham, of Isaac,
and of Jacob—that God who is the Sum and the Essence of
Perfection and Purity-should thus become the Subject and
the Object of Lustful Dreams and Charms? submit himself
to the controul and caprices of a Worm of Dust—a Wretch,
in whose mouth a line of Satan’s Soliloquy in Milton would
be more appropriate—
“ EVIL \ BE THOU MY GOOD ! ”
This is, indeed making the Scriptures the source of Some¬
thing, or of Nothing—of Excellency, or of Profligacy-—of
Holiness, or Impiety.
But to proceed—The next Text is from Acts ii. 17, 18;
and the words are an entire repetition of Joel’s. As it will be
useless to transcribe the whole of the Second Chapter of Acts,
(and without the Context the Quoted Verses have no separate
signification,) I would refer my Reader to his New Testament.
The Remarks here necessary will there be amply supplied
but if he have the opportunity, let him consult Dr. Clarke’s
Reflection on Genesis xl. where he takes occasion to condemn
the too-familiar practice of injudiciously Allegorizing many
parts of Scripture. But while he so strongly declaims against
that which the Candour or Supineness of some would look
over, or at least attribute to no Evil Intention—what would
he say to the Dreadful Perversions of Dr. Parkins ?—For
the sake of those who do not happen to have Dr. Clarke to
refer to, I shall take the liberty to give a short Extract.
“ We should beware,” says he, “ how we attribute De¬
signs to God that he never had; and employ the Holy Spirit
in forming Trifling and Unimportant Similitudes. Of Plain,
Direct Truth, we shall find as much in the Sacred Writings as
we can receive and comprehend : let us not, therefore, hew
out unto ourselves Broken Cisterns, that can hold no Water.
Interpretations of this kind only tend to render the Sacred
Writings uncertain, to expose to ridicule all the solemn types
ECCE HOMO! 13
and figures which it really contains, and to furnish pretexts to
Infidels and Irreligious People to scoff at all Spirituality, and
lead them to reject the Word of God entirely, as incapable of
being interpreted on any Fixed or Rational Plan. The Mis¬
chief done by this system is really Incalculable.”3
Third Lamen.—“ By the use of the same, a Lady
may Marry the Gentleman she Loves, if agreeable to the
Will of God, and fully enjoy Happiness and Felicity after
Marriage.”
IF, again ! well done, Doctor ! But I surmise, that any
Marriage agreeable to the Will of Heaven is as likely to be
solemnized without the Doctor’s Lamen, as with it. Audi
maintain, that Happiness and Felicity are More Plausibly to
be expected as the concomitants of a Marriage where a Sym¬
pathy of Soul operates as the attractive, rather than a transit¬
ory lustful passion, the gratification of which is to be purcha¬
sed through the medium of Familiar Spirits. Let us not,
however, pass over the Doctor’s sentences of Scripture.
2 Cor. vi. 14—18—Be ye not unequally yoked together
with unbelievers : for what fellowship hath righteousness
with unrighteousness ? and what communion hath light with
darkness ? And what concord hath Christ with Belial ? or
ivhat part hath he that believeth with an infidel ? And what
agreement hath the temple of God with idols ? for ye are the
temple of the living God ; as God hath said, I will dwell in
them and walk in them ; and I will be their God, and they
shall be my people. Wherefore come out from among
them, and be ye separate, saith the Lord, and touch not the
unclean thing ; and I will receive you, and will be a Father
unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the
Lord Almighty.
3 It may not be amiss by the way to acknowledge that the Writer
of these Remarks is NO METHODIST; though he owns himself
much indebted to Dr. Clarke for some of his Observations. And the
Writer dares further say, that of all men else, Dr. Clarke is the one
whose Doctrines he would most wish to imbibe, and whose Conduct
he would most wish to imitate.
14 ECCE HOMO 1
Let those who are inclined to Marry bear in mind this
precept, and there will be no necessity to give the Doctor a
Guinea for his Lamen.
Fourth Lamen.—“ They will most powerfully pro¬
tect and defend any Lady against all the various Powers of
Seduction, Insult, &c. and also from the malignant Grasp
of the most atrocious and abandoned Libertine, at all times
and places whatsoever.”
“IF ” the Lady from Newark had possessed one of these
Fourth Lamens; and “IF” the Doctor had been a “Serv¬
ant of God I should not have had communications from that
quarter so derogatory to the Doctor’s Holiness. [Qu. Does
this recal any thing to his recollection?]1,
Mai. iii. 5—And I will come near to you to judgment,
and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, and
against the adulterers, &c.
Rev. ii. 21—23—And I gave her space to repent of her
fornication, and she repented not. Behold I will cast her
into a bed, and them that commit adultery with her into
great tribulation, unless they repent of their deeds.
Denunciations against Fornicators and Adulterers.—Let
the most forward of the Doctor’s Partizans declare, how far
his high-boasted Lamens will operate as Preventives to these
sins. IF he can prevent them, I will acknowledge him ca¬
pable of controuling the Strongest of all Human Passions.
But that mysterious “ IF if that word were erased from
the English Dictionary, I might rest more satisfied, and be
more inclined to become a Disciple of the Doctor’s.
/
Fifth Lamen.—(For the Preservation of Females in
Childbirth.)
Too Nonsensical for quotation. Yet, says the Doctor,
4 See Remark on the Grand Secret Celestial Arcanum, p. 26.
ECCE HOMO! 15
“ Who would be without this Divine Assistance, and
the Protection of Heaven ?”
Those, I am sure, who neglect the only and proper means
of obtaining the Protection of God,—Prayer, united to Faith
and Hope,—and apply to this False Prophet, go the
ready way to Incur the Divine Displeasure, and to Forfeit all
Claim to the Protection of Heaven.
John xvi. 21—A woman when she is in travail, hath
sorrow, because her hour is come ; but as soon as she is de¬
livered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish
forjoy that a man is born into the ivorld.
A Metaphor used by Our Lord, in reference to the Sor¬
row of his Disciples on account of the approaching Crucifix¬
ion, accompanied with the Promise of their being visited by
the Holy Ghost, the Comforter. How much it has to do
with the Preservation of Women in Travail by Lamenism,
may, I think, safely be left to the Judgment of the Reader.
Psalm 127.—.
Does the Doctor mean Psalm cxxvii. passim, or the 127th
verse of any, and what, particular Psalm ?
Sixth Lamen.—“ They will also most powerfully
Protect and Defend the Traveller from the Rapacious
Hands of Thieves and Robbers, and also from the Power
and Malice of his Enemies. What Tradesman or Travel¬
ler would ever be without these Celestial Treasures
Patience herself grows tired! Let the Doctor produce
One Solitary Instance of his having Done this, and I will then
candidly subscribe to All his assertions. I may, I hope, be
pardoned, if I anticipate the Doctor’s Reply. “ Though I
show you Signs and Wonders, ye will not believe.” But I
have yet seen neither Sign nor Wonder of the Doctor’s; when
I do, then will I be the First to exclaim—Thou art from
16 ECCE HOMO !
God! But his Pretended Miracles, which we shall shortly
come to, and which He calls Wonders, are so very Preposter¬
ous—so Directly Opposed to all that is Holy—that I am at
present more ready to exclaim—Thou art from Beelze¬
bub !
Job. v. 5—Whose harvest the hungry eatetli up, and
takethit even out of the thorns, and the robber swdlloweth up
their substance.
Robbers certainly will Rob; but how far does the Text
substantiate the Power of Doctor Parkins to Prevent them ?
2 Kings vi. 15—17—And when the servant of the man
of God was risen early, and gone forth, behold, an host
compassed the city both with horses and chariots : and his
servant said unto him, Alas, my Master ! how shall we do ?
And he answered, Fear not : for they that be with us are
more than they that be with them. And Elisha prayed, and
said, Lord, I pray thee, open his eyes, that he may see. And
the Lord opened the eyes of the young man ; and he saw :
and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of
fire round about Elisha.
Whether Elisha bequeathed the Mantle of Elijah to Doc¬
tor Parkins, and dubbed him thereby, a Prophet and a Holy
Man of God all at once, I shall not stop to inquire : but cer¬
tain it is, that he Professes to furnish all his “ Kind Cus¬
tomers” with the same Angelic Invisible Guard that protected
Elisha, by the Power of his Lamen. Really, one’s Faith
must be of very Pliable Stuff to stretch so mightily !
Seventh Lamen.—“ They will also increase and pro¬
mote Success and Prosperity in Journies, and also in all
Trades, Professions, &c.”
Does the Doctor’s Success in Trade arise from the use of
this Lamen, or from the too great Prevalence of Ignorance
and Credulity, in conjunction with the Supineness of the
neighbouring Magistrates ?
ECCE HOMO ! 17
Josh. 1—8—..........
What is meant by this ? There is no Chaptei given to
refer to. Bat perhaps it may be a Typographical Enor foi
Josh. i. 8, and I shall take that verse at a venture : premising,
however, that, as there is a Doubt, I will not be too harsh
with the Doctor, if it have no more relation than his othei
Texts, to the Lamen.
—■This book of the law shall not depart out of thy
mouth ; but thou shall meditate therein day and night, that
thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written
therein : for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and
then thou shalt have good success.
There really is no references
2 Tiiess. iii. 10, 11—For even when we were with
you, this we commanded you, that if any would not work,
neither should he eat. For we hear that there are some which
walk among you Disorderly, Working not at all,
but are Busy Bodies.
Verily, one might suppose the Doctor to have been a resi¬
dent at Thessalonica at the time the Apostle wrote, the Por¬
trait is so remarkably accurate.
“ To Work too Lazy—yet beside his plate r-
Place a Sir-loin—and, bless us, how he’ll EAT!”
Eighth Lamen.—“ They will also most powerfully
increase Peace, Harmony, and Concord, in all those Fam¬
ilies where these Blessings are most wanted.”
I wonder if the Doctor’s Domestic Happiness arises from
the use of this Lamen, or from being the husband of a virtu-
5 The Author is right in his conjecture as to the Error, as I per¬
ceive it corrected in the Errata at the end of the Touchstone.
COMPOSITOR,
c 2
t
IS ECCE HOMO!
ous and respectable wife ? (And I believe Mrs. Parkins to
be, in every sense of the word, Respectable.) If his were
a Solitary Instance of Concord, one might think it caused
the Rules of his Art; but I trust there are Millions as
Happy in the Married State as himself, who never heard
either of him or his Lamen. The ordinary means of the
Gospel, when properly attended to, are sufficient to Prevent
Discord in every line of life; and if a Lamen will 'do as much
without the Gospel, it might as well be laid aside altogether.
2 Cor. vi. 14—18—.
The same Text is appended to the Third Lamen, page 13,
where the Reader will find the passage extracted. Here, how¬
ever, the Doctor would have it bear a Different Signification.
When parties are Unequally Yoked, (and All have not the
Wisdom to apply to Dr. Parkins preparatory to Matrimony,)
of what avail is it Then to say, Re not Unequally Yoked ?—
It is very like shouting to a Drowning Man, Do not Fall into
the Water.
John xiii. 4—If I then, your Lord and Master, have
washed your feet, ye ought also to wash one another1sfeet.
No way connected with'the Lamen; but given as a
Lesson of Humility to the followers of Christ.
Ninth Lamen.—“ They are also a Certain Remedy
for all those persons who have any reason to suppose
themselves afflicted with any kind of Witchcraft or En¬
chantment whatsoever.
“ Note. If there were no such things, as some sup¬
pose, there need not have been an Act of Parliament made
against it.”
This Act of Parliament, it should be remembered, was
passed in the Reign of James I. a Prince of good natural
parts, but remarkably bigotted in the Belief of Witches. In
J
ECCE HOMO ! 19
the 23rd year of his age he had the examination of Agnes
Sympson, commonly called The Wise Wife of Keith, and
several others, accused of Witchcraft. Two or three years
after, the King published his D^monologia ; that is, (as ap¬
pears by the Name and the Book together,) The Doctrine of
Devils and Witchcraft : and coming to the English Crown
some few years after, and the Act referred to by Doctor Par¬
kins being passed in the very first Parliament he held in Eng¬
land, I cannot forbear thinking, that it was the King’s Book
and Judgment, more than the real existence of Witches, that
influenced the Parliament to Pass the Superstitious Statute.
Be that as it may, however; the Act is Equally Applica¬
ble to the Doctor, as to any of the Poor Wretches who have
ever suffered under it: for it includes ALL who Make or
Devise any Charm or Enchantment for Any Purpose whatso¬
ever, WITHOUT ANY PARTIALITY OR EXCEPTION ; and it also
Expressly Forbids ALL USE AND EXERCISE OF
ANY CHARM FOR EMPLOYING SPIRITS ; and
Punishes the Guilty Person with DEATH, if they do
harm to Man or Beast, and with IMPRISONMENT
and PILLORY, though their Charms have no ef¬
fect.—Hence we perceive, that the Doctor, as the Preparer
of the Charm, and the Foolish Purchaser who Uses it, are
Equally Culpable, and Equally Punishable.
The case of the person at Louth,6 who, by the Doctor’s
account, was reduced from Health to Sickness, from Sickness
to the Grave, is a Direct Avowal of His having Used Charms
for Employing Spirits ; and that these Spirits, by virtue of his
Art, caused Death ; and he Triumphantly Exults in having
Deprived a Fellow-creature of Life, without any Proof of
Guilt, and Free even from Suspicion.
6 See Book of Miracles, pp. 36 et scq. A particular Relation of
this Pretended Miracle will be given in our Review of that work.
20 ECCE HOMO !
Ridiculous, however, as is the Belief of such being the
Fact, (yet there are those who do believe it,) I should conceive
the Civil Power laudably engaged, in Prosecuting the Doctor
under this Act; and though I should be loth to pass upon him
a Sentence of Death, I would certainly inflict upon him the
punishment of Imprisonment and Pillory, and Prohibit him
from further Misleading the Ignorant.
That the Art he practises to protect others, is incapable to
preserve himself from Trouble, was exemplified in 1810:
when a venerable Reverend Gentleman, now no more, exhib¬
ited charges against him as a Conjuror and Fortune-teller, at
the Grantham General Sessions. His Angelic Ministers then
scurvily Forsook him ; and it was only by the Payment of a •
Heavy Fine, that the Commander of the Host of Heaven '
saved his bacon !
To return.-—His Note, here, supplies the place of Scrip¬
ture Texts : yet I should have fancied, he might have found
some as well suited for this, as for his other Lamens.
Tenth Lamen.—“ For Military and Naval Offi¬
cers. The Art of War, Shewing the Best Method of
Protecting, Preserving, and Defending all Ships, &c. at
Sea, together with the Lives of their Crews; and the same
of his Majesty’s Forces by Land.”
I wonder if the Duke of Wellington has provided him¬
self with one of these: the Success that has attended His
Grace wotild incline me, were I a Disciple of the Doc¬
tor’s, to half suppose so. Exod. xv. 3, xxxii. 26, and Rom.
viii. 31, stand as his Authorities at the Head of this Para¬
graph, besides Seven and Thirty others in the Body of it.
The three above however will serve my purpose.
Exod. xv. 3—The Lord is a Man of War : the Lard
‘is ame.
ECCE HOMO ! 21
The Doctor I presume would indicate that He can Bind
the Holy One into the Service of Any Cause, however Wick¬
ed and Unholy, whose Advocates will Pay Him for it. Blas¬
phemous Insinuation! What would be the Result if two
Inveterate Enemies should Each apply to the Doctor; and
Each Engage the Army of Heaven into their Service ? Can
he Himself Solve this ?
Exod. xxxii. 26—Then Moses stood in the gate of the
camp, and said, Who is on the Lord’s side ? let him come
unto me. Arid the sons of Levi gathered themselves to¬
gether unto him.
The above remark may apply to this also.
Rom. viii. 31—What shall we then say to these things ?
if God he for us, who can he against us !
It is not the Doctor’s Lamens can Procure us the Favour
and Guardianship of God; but True and Faithful Reliance
on Jesus Christ; and it is to those who have Such a Reliance
the Apostle is addressing himself.—If, by the Doctor’s Art,
these Lamens possess any Supernatural Power in favour of
those who Purchase them, as he asserts they do; I feel no hesi¬
tation in my own mind to Ascribe that Power to the Angels
of the Infernal Regions, in Opposition to all his Boasting
Pretensions of Heavenly Angelic Agency; and this I do with¬
out judging myself liable to commit The Sin against the
Holy Ghost. Admitting then the Doctor to possess this
Diabolical Control, being similar to that of Simon Magus and
Elymas the Sorcerer ; for the Satisfaction of those whose
entire Dependence is upon the Lord, they have as Little Oc¬
casion to Fear his Power, as to Require his Aid ; for “ Surely
there is NO Enchantment Against Jacob, neither is*there
ANY Divination Against Israel.” Numb, xxxiii. 3^.
—“ This is the Only Method of Insuring Prosperity
and Success in all Future Expeditions, &c. And If Any
22 ECCE HOMO !
Person in the World should Attempt to Prove that this is
not the True, Right, and Proper Art of War, the Doctor
will be much obliged to him to do so if he can.”
A Piece of Bombast, worthy of Him who penned it!
What a Besotted People we must be ; and how very Thought¬
less and Wicked are our Governors, to Waste so,Much Trea¬
sure and Human Blood in War, when One Single Guinea,
Dropped into the Pocket of this Servant of God, would
Accomplish all the Purposes for which thy are Undertaken !
O Tempora ! O Mores !,
Eleventh Lamen.—They will not only promote, aug¬
ment, and increase Happiness and Felicity between Ladies
and Gentlemen after Marriage, but will also daily Lead
them in the Way where they may Obtain Health, Happi¬
ness, Virtue, Wisdom, Prosperity, Long Life, Pleasure,
and Felicity, both in This World, and also in That which
is To Come.”
In the first Text, this ntx<rr\s Sixmojvvyi?, this ^ S<agoAs,
makes himself Equal with Christ; and Transfers that Divine
Being’s Authority to Himself.
John xvi. 23, 24—And in that day ye shall ask me
nothing. Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whatsoever ye
shall ask the Father in my Name, he will give it you. Hith¬
erto have ye asked nothing in my Name : ask, and ye shall
receive, that your joy may he full.
His Name is to be a Passport to Virtue, Wisdom, Pros¬
perity, Long Life, and Felicity ; not only in This World,
but “ also in That which is To Come ! ” Christ need not
have Died to Save us; for Doctor Parkins will Insure us
Eternal Happiness for the Paltry Price of a Guinea !
Isaiah xlvi. 2—They stoop, they bow down together,
they could not deliver the burden, but themselves are gone
into captivity.
ECCE HOMO ! 23
Nothing to do with Matrimony, hut a Prophecy of the
Downfall of the Idols of Babylon.
Lamens of Intercession—“ Are daily Worn by the
Friends of the Sick and Diseased, for their Benefit and on
their Behalf: they are also Made, Consecrated, and Pre¬
pared, on any other Lawful Subject, Matter, or Thing,
whatsoever.”
A Summary of all the Absurdities contained in the pre¬
ceding Eleven.
I have now gone through these Lamens; and with no
small degree of unpleasantness. The Grossness of their Pre¬
tensions, and the Presumptuousness of the Language, are by
no means calculated to afford any thing like gratification.—
But the task I have undertaken, however disagreeable, must
be persevered in, till a full Exposure of his Horrid Publica¬
tions be completed.'—I owe him no Personal Animosity; to
me he has done no injury. But we have a two-fold duty to
perform—to Ourselves and to Society: and it is in the exercise
of the Latter that I have taken up arms against him. I am
Careless of the Consequences of his Angry Resentment;—I
Defy his Vengeance, as heartily as I Despise HisAVorks, and
Deny his Power! Let him enter in his Celestial Court an
Action, “ The Army of Heaven versus The Writer of
these Remarks [I presume it will not be necessary to tell
him my Name ;] if he prevail and Crush Me, then, like
the Thief upon the Cross, I shall acknowledge the Sin I have
committed, and solicit the Forgiveness of God and Doctor
Parkins.
Before I proceed to the next passage of this “ Cabinet,”
it may not be amiss to inform the reader what these Lamens
are, and by what Authority they act, as far as I can learn from
the Doctor’s account of them.—In a very notable Nota Bene,
we are desired to
24 ECCE HOMO!
—“ observe that these Holy Consecrated Lamens,
&c. are not composed of any Diabolical Charms, &c. but
on the contrary, they are Spiritual and Celestial To -ures,
wherein is contained the Great Power, Strength, Force,
and Virtue of the ever- blessed TRINITY,-FATHER,
SON, and HOLY GHOST; by whose Power and Au¬
thority alone, they daily act and perform all their Sp ritual
and Wonderful Operations and Works herein mentioned.
If any person shall inquire How they receive their said
Virtues, &c. ? let me also ask them. Who gives Virtue to
the Grass and Herbs of the Field ? All things are Possi¬
ble with God by and in whose Power and Authority alone
these Lamens, &c. daily perforin all their most Wonderful
Works and Operations, &c.—The Intent and Meaning of
these said Holy Lamens &c. is, that they bind them to their
duty to God, fully engage the Army of Heaven into their
service, and confer upon them a Celestial, Angelic. Invisible
Guard, to attend the Bearer thereof, in order to Defend them
in the Time of Danger, and also to do all such things as is
therein mentioned, which may be agreeable and consistent
with the Will of God.”
And the same passage is copied in pages 10 and 11 of
his Book of Miracles.—His corroborative Texts, however, as
usual, corroborate nothing to the purpose.
Matt. xix. 26—But Jesus beheld them, and said unto
them, With men this is impossible ; but with God all things
are possible.
That all things are possible with God, we need not be
told by this man ; but the probability that God should transfer
the Obedience of the Angelic Host from Himself to Doctor
Parkins; and constitute Him his Grand Ambassador upon
Earth, is as Doubtful as that he should Unite with Beelzebub
to Destroy the World he has Created, and to Ruin the Souls
of those whom Jesus died to Save.
Luke xvi. 22—And it caine to pass, that the beggar
died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom ;
the rich man also died, and was buried.
ECCE HOMO! 25
This I presume is a Hint to Rich Men, to save them¬
selves from Perdition by Purchase.—Revel in Luxury, ye
Rich ! Turn Charity out of Doors ! Deny to the Beggar tiie
Crumbs that ye let fall! Give the Rein to your Passions ! Live
Jollily and Thoughtlessly! only remembering to Tip Doctor
Parkins the Yellow-boy ; and his Celestial Lamens shall
Waft you, in Seraphic Ecstacy, pure and unspotted, to the
Throne of Him who liveihfor ever and ever.
To return.—The next Article for Sale is offered to the
Ladies only, on their Own Terms, at not Less than One
Guinea. It bears the Bewitching Title of
“ Doctor Parkins’s GRAND SECRET CELESTI¬
AL ARCANUM !7 which Prevents and Mitigates the evil
Accidents and Dangers in their Nativities, and Gives them
Whatsoever they may Hope, Wish for, and Desire, agree¬
able to the Will of Heaven ;—
Would it not be adviseable for those who are intent upon
having their Wishes Realised, by means of this Celestial Ar¬
canum, to be Certain that those Wishes are agreeable to
the Will of Heaven, before they pay the Doctor his One
Guinea Fee ? as the Mind of God on the subject is a matter
of no Previous Disputation between him and his Applicants,
the Only Requisite being THE MONEY: thus the Vilest
Prostitute, and the Greatest Saint, obtain alike the same en¬
couragement. And in case of Failure, (which is no Solitary
Thing,) he has this Subterfuge,—it is not ‘‘Agreeable to the
Will of Heaven.”
—“ together with the Blessings of Health, Prosperity,
Pleasure, Happiness, and Felicity, both in This World and
also in That which is To Come. Each Lady must come
and apply Herself in Person, in order to receive all the
Great Benefits of the same, when they may always depend
upon the Greatest Secresy. Let Charity induce you to in*
7 I thought an Arcanum implied a Secret.
D
26 ECCE HOMO!
form all your Female Friends and Acquaintances where
they may duly receive all these Great Benefits, and Heaven
will reward this your Labour of Love.”
The following sentence I particularly wish to have noticed,
for
—i( thereby hangs a tale.”
“ Each Lady must come and apply Herself in Per¬
son, in order to receive all the Great Benefits of the same,
■when they may always depend upon the Greatest Secresy.”
“ Why in Person ?” at first I asked, myself, “ when his
general advertisements solicit Literal as well as Personal Appli¬
cation.” But the Difficulty will be Overcome by the Reader
of the succeeding Facts. I do not use the word Facts, as a
word of Course; but because I know them to be so.
A Lady of Newark, a few years ago, had a Correspond¬
ence with Parkins, on Business, the exact tenor of which,
from motives of Delicacy, I am Unwilling to Communicate.
It appears that an Acquaintance arose between them, and the
Lady was strongly importuned to become an Inmate at the
Temple of Wisdom. An Apartment was to be Fitted-up
for her Reception and Accommodation, to be called Miss
>s R00m ; but the Doctor’s Plan not altogether suit¬
ing her Convenience, it was Abandoned. Some Letters were
then written to her by the Doctor, couched in Terms, and
making Proposals, too Indelicate—too Disgusting—too Hor¬
rid, to bear Repetition! such as no Female could Peruse
without Shuddering; nor no Man, particularly a Married
one, Pert, who had not imbibed Principles Subversive of every
Religious and Moral Duty ; and which could only be whis¬
pered in his ear by Belial himself. The Lady had too much
Virtue to give ear to his Offers; and too much Contempt for
him not to Expose them. This I am Prepared to Prove—
Let him pronounce me LIBELLER if he Dare !
The Doctor, with a great deal of Self-exultation, intro-
ECCE HOMO! 27
duces his notable Challenge to the Learned as A Nut to
Crack, if it does not break their teeth !—In the same language,
(though not the most Elegant I admit,) I beg of him to
Crack This:—If he can digest the Kernel pretty Readily,
let him : if it prove Troublesome, here is another—•
An Interesting Young Woman, a Straw Bonnet Maker,
not One Hundred Miles from Grantham, had been Courted
some time by a Young Man in the neighbourhood, who had
made some progress in her Affections. It happened, unfor¬
tunately, that Another Female became Pregnant by him. The
First Object of his Attachment, deluded by the Advertise¬
ments and Pretensions of Doctor Parkins, applied to him for
Information as to the Consequences, and for Celestial Advice.
—The first time she called at the Temple of Wisdom, she
was accompanied by a Female Friend : but nothing could be
done unless she came alone. Next evening she Went Alone
—paid the Doctor his demanded Fee—and was Ushered into
a Private Room, the Door of which was Locked upon their
Entrance. Then, like Moore’s Veiled Prophet,—
“ With ready Wile,
Th’ IMPOSTOR turned to greet her-Thou whose smile
Hath Inspiration in its Rosy Beam,
Beyond th’ Enthusiast’s Hope, or Prophet’s Dream !
* * * * * * »
And learn the Terms, Fair Ladies, on which this Celes¬
tial Assistance is to be Obtained. There were Par¬
ticular Significant Marks upon Her Person, which
it would be Necessary for him to Examine before her
Questions could be Replied to.—SHE MUST DIVEST
HERSELF OF HER DRESS, AND APPEAR BE¬
FORE HIM IN A STATE OF NUDITY!—SHE
MUST PERMIT HIM TO USE EVERY FREE¬
DOM OF A HUSBAND ! ! !-God of my Fathers!
is This the Ambassador Thou hast Chosen, to lead men in the
paths of Virtue, Holiness, and Truth l Shall He be per**
28 ECCE HOMO !
mitted to Outrage Thy Divine Laws, and Trample Underfoot
the Principles of Modesty and Decency ? Abominable Sup-
position!—It were but Justice to the poor Girl to add, that
she Rejected his Revolting Proposition with Ineffable Scorn;
and left the Holy Temple in an almost indescribable Agita¬
tion. A short time afterwards, the Sum he had received from
her was called for ; and the Commander of the Angelic
Host,—like the Wretch Mokanna,
-“not abash’d—AFRAID—”
Refunded. This was in the Autumn of 1818J
I have been particular in giving these Two Anecdotes ;
because I consider them very Substantiatory Proofs of the
Imposture and Hypocrisy of the Doctor. For it is written
“ A Good Tree cannot bring forth Evil Fruitand, “ Every
Tree is known by his Own Fruit.” Matt. vii. 18 ; Luke
vi. 44.
The Softer Sex are more susceptible to Belief in the
Marvellous than the other : hence may arise the Doctor’s
particular Address to them. As the Weaker Vessel, they
have the greater Claim to Protection and to Caution; and I
am the more anxious to expose the man to Them, than to
those whose Stronger Intellect ought to operate as Caution
sufficient: but it is Deplorable, that to some of the Latter,
8 While revising these sheets for the press, 1 have been informed,
from Indisputable Authority, of his Behaviour to another Young Fe¬
male, of Grantham ; the Particulars of which, from a Regard to
Decency, I am obliged to Suppress. Thus much, however, I may-
state :—She applied to him for Physical Advice ; but his Language
w as so Gross, his Actions so Voluptuous, and his Interrogatories so
Obscene, that she was happy to Escape from the Twinkling of his
Angular Eyes.—The same Female had previously taken Advice of
Gentlemen of the Faculty, and was of course Prepared to meet their
Professional Queries; but she was Not Prepared for the Fulsome
Converse of Doctor Parkins.—Can he Decypher the Initials,
A. T. ?
ECCE HOMO! 29
also, the Expose’ is too necessary. I forbear to notice his
Texts further than—they Relate as Much to the Subject, and
Substantiate as Much, as Tom Paine’s Common Sense does
Tycho Brahe’s System of Astronomy.
In the same page (11) of this Cabinet of Wealth, we
have the “ The GRAND PORTABLE CELESTIAL
ORACLE,” at the very moderate rate of “ from Ten to
Thirty Guineas each, suited to the conveniency of Purcha¬
sers.”—To this article he has printed a Scrap of Latin as a
Head or Motto : who befriended him with this precious
morceau, I know not; but this I do know—that He is as
Conversant with the Latin Language as I am with that of the
Arctic Highlanders. “ Optima Revelatio Stella ! ” The
most Literal Translation of which is,—“ A Star is the
BEST Revelation.” There may be something here to
Comment upon. But let us see first how far his Texts bear
him out.
John iv. 29—Come see a man which told me all things
that ever I did : is not this the Christ ?
Ah ! This, indeed, “ must give us pause.” I am astound¬
ed, and mustre-refer to the Text, to be certain I am not mis¬
taken. Come see a man which told me All Things that Ever
I Did. Reader! Doctor Parkins is not this Man ! None
yet have said of him,—-He told me One Single Action of my
Life9—He described to me One Circumstance that has ever
9 So little able is he to tell others either what Has befallen or
Shall befall them, that he cannot even Fore-guess the Tricks played
off upon himself. There are Instances enow of His being made the
Laughing-stock of his Neighbours, and the Subject of Mischievous
Pranks. One or Two, out of as many hundred that might he collect¬
ed, are given belo-w. They completely Prove his Talk about Past,
Present, and To Come, to be what I have all along represented it—
Bombast.
HUGH RAWLINSON, a well-known Character about here,
once lived within a few yards of Parkins. Hugh is a fellow very
so ECCE HOMO !
happened to me. I call upon him to Prove that he Has or
Can do so.-—Is not this the Christ ? Common Charity would
induce me to think this man a Madman ; had I not too much
certainty of his Sanity—at least in the Common Transactions
of Life. HE the Christ!—Doctor Parkins comparing
himself to Christ !—He whose Name is not Worthy to
Stand in the Same Page—is Blasphemy Unparalleled!
1 Thess. v. 20—Despise not Prophesying.
By his reference to this Passage, I presume he would have
us believe him a Prophet; possessing a supernatural gift to
reveal the Hidden Mysteries of Futurity, by the contigura-
fond of Mirth and Mischief, and withal, aright Bacchanalian. In
one of his Nocturnal Vagaries, accompanied by another or two of
his Funny Companions, he mounted the Roof of the Sanctum Sancto¬
rum of Wisdom, and fixed a PLOUGH, handles heavenward, in the
Holy Chimney. Next Day the Unambitious Smoke, instead of mak¬
ing its usual Exit through the Funnel,—
“ In Mazy Curls Paraded round the Room,”
till the Ambassador’s Eyes were Red with its Intrusion, and his ,
Cheeks as Red with Rage. He Stormed, he Raved, he Swore;* but
Mr. Smoke was obstinate, and Haunted him most Mercilessly, At
last, after a Minute Investigation, the Obstruction was perceived, and
Old Hugh, little suspected as the Scoundrel who fixed it, was summoned
to the “ Celestial” Presence, and bargained with, for a Shilling, to
remove it. Again the Summit of Minerva’s Temple was trod by Un¬
hallowed Feet; and the high-exalted Implement of Husbandry hum¬
bled to its more congenial Sphere. Hugh received his Shilling ; and
as he turned it over in his hand, drily observed—Why, Doctor, yow
mun surely he a d-d Fool ! I put the Plough up there for Nowte,
and yow ha’ gin me This to fetch it down agean. A Pretty Conjuror.
for sartain ! How much the Doctor was Mortified, is better imagined
than told.
* Let it not he thought Incredible that the Doctor should sometimes
he guilty of FouL'Movthings : upon Occasion, he is no Sparer of a
few Oaths. It is true, the SON of God forbade the practice ; but tlitre
is a Difference between the SON and the AMBASSADOR.
ECCE HOMO! SI
tion of the Heavenly Bodies,—“ A Star,” in His Estimation,
being the Best Revelation so that whatever he may be in¬
clined to palm upon mankind about his “ past, present, and
to come at their Peril they Despise it. But how sadly has
the Doctor Perverted this verse of the Apostle’s ! I assert, it
will not bear the Construction he wishes to put upon it;
and I am surprised he is not alarmed for his own Personal
Safety, and not afraid of the Judgments of God falling upon
him, for the Unwarrantable and Licentious Misconstructions
he so profusely puts upon his Most Holy Word.—I cannot
but express my Suspicions, that he is hereby exposing himself
to the Dreadful Curses denounced in the second chapter of
the second General Epistle of Saint Peter ; there appearing
such a Striking Comparison between Him and the Characters
there pourtrayed, against the Subtlety of whose Doctrines
At the time the Doctor’s Fame ran so high at Louth, a poor fellow
in that neighbourhood lost his Cow, and was advised to apply to the
Doctor (o find her. Poor Ilodge travelled over, and arrived at
Little Gonerby towards Evening: the Doctor not being at home, he
got a pint of good Nutbrown, and walked about near the Residence5
till
“ Sable Night her dusky curtain drew,”
cogitating, no doubt, upon his dear lost Colin. At last he bethought
him to put the Great Man’s Knowledge to the Proof, ere he Hazarded
his Guinea; and being much in Need, sacrilegiously Befouled the
Temple S'eps. Soon after, with Long and Pompous Strides, arrived
the High and Mighty Magus ; and, owing to the Nastiness and Slip¬
periness of the place, Sprawled his “ Fine Form” upon the Filthy
Spot. Words of Dire Import, Curses both Loud and Deep, and
Threatenings Terrible,
“ Enough to bid the heart’s best Blood run Chill,"
he Breathed upon the Author of his Foul Mishap—IF hut he Could
Discover him ! Hodge overheard all; and coming up, with Rustic
Drawl inquired, Who did it? Who? says the Doctor, how the
jD-1 should I know ! 77ien, replied Hodge, an’’ yow caerCt tell
who- Yar Step, yow caen't tell what's got My Cow ! ^ • t
32 ECCE HOMO !
the Apostle Cautions the Church of Christ.—The serious
reader would do well to consult that chapter.
Does not the Monitor Conscience, if a Conscience the
Doctor possess, warn him to Recant his Principles—to Sup¬
press his Publications—and to Desist from any Further Pre¬
tensions ? Or is his state that awful one, wherein, having so
long Resisted the Principle of Truth, God has sent him
Strong Delusion that he may Believe a Lie ?—If he be a
Prophet, or an Ambassador; why not act as the Prophets and
Ambassadors of God in Scripture ; who prophesied not for
the sake of Filthy Lucre ; neither preached Themselves, but
Christ Jesus the Lord, and Themselves the Servants of
All? “ We seek not Your’s,” say they, “ but You.” But
there is appended at every* verse end of this Pretender’s Pro¬
phecies, the Signature of Balaam’s God—Money. O how
unlike to one commissioned of the Most High !
What the Apostle means by Despise not Prophesying, is
simply in reference to Preaching or Expounding the Scrip¬
tures ; and not the Abstruse and Sophisticated Construction
Doctor Parkins puts upon the words.—Preaching the Gospel
is the Ordinary Channel through which it has pleased God to
communicate Divine Instruction to the Mind of Man ; and
to Despise this Ordinance, is, in effect, to Pour Contempt
upon the Authority of the Almighty, and Reject the Essen¬
tial Benefits of Religion. “ It hath pleased God,” says Saint
Paul, “ by the foolishness of Preaching, to save them that
believe.” Not foolishness essentially so, but looked upon as
such by the wisdom of this world ; and those who do not
discern the spirituality of the Scriptures—“ The natural man.
receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God : for they are
foolishness unto him : neither can he know them, because
they are spiritually discerned.”—But Doctor Parkins is
labouring to “darken counsel by words without knowledge,”
and to make it appear that the Almighty has sent him on an
ECCE HOMO! 33
Extraordinary Embassy, to communicate to mankind in these
lower regions, from Stary Aspects and Angelic Agency, some¬
thing essential to be known, which his Omnisciency overlook¬
ed when the Books of the Prophecies were sealed;—thus
beguiling “ the ignorant and unstable,” and leading them
“ from the Simplicity of the Gospel, to Trust in Lying Van¬
ities.”—It is true, he is very desirous it should be understood
that he is a Lover of the Bible, and that his Peculiar Art is
Founded on the Basis of Scripture Revelation: but it is very
observable, that he is equally desirous for it to be understood
that the Bible will Avail but Little without the Appendage of
his Fulsome Lamens ; which, like the Traditions of the Jews,
and the Bulls of the Popes, render the Word of God of None
Effect.—I would not have the Christian world imagine, that
the abundant Scripture References made by the Doctor, is a
sufficient reason for them to give credence to his asserted
power, and proclaim him a man Sent of God, or something
More than Mortal: No; Satan can quote Scripture when it
serves his purpose, and thus transform himself into an Angel
of Light. No marvel therefore that his Emisaries follow
his Example. But I trust it will be unnecessary to give any
further Caution here against the Deceptions of this False
Prophet, as I think the “ the Mark of the Beast in his Fore¬
head,” has been sufficiently delineated, to discover to the
discriminating mind, his Perfidious Intentions.
As it respects Extraordinary and Supernatural Revelation,
expressive of the Mind of God to Man, these have wholly
subsided with the Revelation of Saint John, who Concludes
the Volume of Truth with these Awful Words of Jesus
Christ ;—“ If Any Man shall ADD unto these things, God
shall Add Unto Him the Plagues that are Written in this
Book: and if Any Man shall TAKE AWAY from the
Y/ords of the Book of this Prophecy, God shall Take Away
His Part out of the Book of Life, and out of the Holy
City, and from the Things which are V/ritten in this Book,
34 ECCE HOMO!
He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly :
Amen.”—From this concluding passage of Scripture, we may
gather the Dreadful Condition of That Man who Pretends to
"Wisdom Beyond what is Written—to Deal Out the Word of
God Deceitfully—or Add To, or Take From, the Holy
Scriptures;—Anathema Maran-atiia—the Curse of God
is Upon Him.—Those, also, whose inclinations lead them to
pry into the Secrets of their Own Lives, and the Mysteries of
Futurity, are justly reprehensible in the sight of their Maker,
and in the estimation of every Good Man. “ Secret things
belong unto the Lord our God : but those things which are
revealed belong unto us, and to our children for ever.”—All
which the Almighty has thought proper for us to know, is
contained in his Word ; wherein is sufficient to instruct us
in the Faith and Practice of Christianity ; and it becomes our
Duty, as wrell as our Privilege, to attend to those Means
which he has so wisely and benevolently instituted in his
Church, for the Application of his Promises to our Hearts ;
which is the Sum and Substance of Gospel Prophecy. “ The
Gospel of Christ,” says the Apostle, “ is the Power of God
unto Salvation, to every one that Believeth.” And, “ Our
Gospel came not unto you in Word only, but also in Power,
and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance.”
Perhaps I may be considered here, as Over Prolix; and
by some as verging too much on Cant and Methodism ;]0 but
in extenuation I would observe, that, as this Text is one of
the Doctor’s Strong Holds, I wish to assail him on all sides,
so as to Divest him of every Subterfuge and Covering, and
leave him no way by which he may Retreat; that his Hy¬
pocrisy may be Unmasked, and Truth Exhibited in her proper
10 The Writer of these pages is Totally Unconnected with Every
Denomination of Dissenting Christians; nor is he at all a Prominent
Character on the Stage of Life. Like the Wild Flower, to Blossom
and Wither in Obscurity is his Wish, and will, in all probability, be
his Lot.
ECCE HOMO ! 35
Colours. And as 1 anticipate this Work falling into the hands
of persons of different Religious Opinions, I am anxious to
serve the Interests of All, by rendering the Doctor’s Publica¬
tions Odious in Every Point of View. Besides, as I think
there is no Sentiment promulged here contrary to the Princi¬
ples of Christian Liberality, my Remark upon this Text can¬
not, I submit, be set down as the Offspring of a Sectarist.—
The Prolixity observable here, too, will tend to Brevity in my
Future Observations.
To proceed.—“ Optima Revelatio Stella /”—This System
of Spiritual Astrology might have gained Credence, and have
raised Admiration among the Ancient Romans ; for it would
not have been inconsistent with their Belief of Augurers and
Soothsayers : but to affirm a Star to be the Best Revelation to
those who believe the New Testament, is Ridiculous. The
Doctrine of Starry, or Planetary Influence, is as Absurd as it
is Contemptible ; and the Inferences deduced from the Cal¬
culations of Nativities, are as Mystical and Ambiguous as the
Answers Delivered by the Oracle of Delphos.—I have
already clearly intimated my Opinion of the Fallacy of this
Science, in giving insertion to the Letter of Dr. A. Clarke.—
But I would add, nevertheless, my Full Conviction, that
there neither Is nor Can be any Better Revelation than that
which God has been pleased to make in his Word. We
have enough there to teach us to “ bear those ills we have”
with resignation ; and to guard us against those “ we know
not ofand these the Doctor’s Astrology cannot Foretell,
nor his Lamens Avert.
Allowing, for the Sake of Argument, the Science of As¬
trology to be genuine, and admitting the possibility of its pro¬
fessors to Foretell Future Contingencies; I am more than
doubtful that it can any way Benefit Mankind. I am well
assured that Prognostications, whether of Good or Evil Im¬
port, are Equally Destructive of Happiness. If we have any
36 ECCE HOMO !
thing Beneficial in Anticipation, we are Miserable till the
time arrive that we may receive it—every intervening day ap¬
pears an Age ; and it is more than likely that we neglect the
very means that would contribute to our Present, and perhaps
our Future Welfare, in the Visionary Hope of the Realization
of the Astrologer’s Prediction.—If we are to look for Evil}
“ How Comfortless Passes the Day !”-
the Days that would otherwise have been pregnant with
Health, Prosperity, and Felicity, pass away Without Enjoy¬
ment : the Mind becomes Despondent and Uneasy, as it
contemplates the Approach of the Dreaded, Anticipated
Hour.—-We fancy we Perceive Sorrow; but we cannot
Avert it. The Doctor, I know, will say, Come and Hasten
unto Me—Produce me One Guinea before-hand—
(“ Put the Money on the Plate,
Or I, your” Doctor, “ cannot eat,”)
and you shall receive the Great Benefit of our Holy Conse¬
crated Lamen, which will ensure you the Service of the
Angels of Heaven, and Prevent all the Accidents and Dangers
in your Nativities, &c. Thus he Gets One Guinea to Foretell
Evils by Astrology, and Another to Avert them by Lamenism !
Fattening upon the Weakness and Credulity of Folly !
The Threat held out to those who shall “join, unite, or
weigh the most Wonderful Works of God in the same balance
with Witchcraft and the Works of the Devil,” is thrown away
upon me. I acknowledge myself one of those “ Diabolical
Characters,” who believe the Doctor less an Agent of the Al¬
mighty’s than of Satan’s : and if I have nothing more to dread
on the Day of Judgment, than the Resentment of this man, I
shall not be Afraid to meet the Decision of God as to my
Everlasting Fate.
“ I shall be glad to know where the Gentleman lives
that can Confute me.”
ECCE HOMO! 37
Good. I presume this Immaculate Professor of Infalli¬
bility seldom or never looks on the Outside of his Study :—
because, if he ever see an Individual at all, that Individual
must be little removed from Idiotcy, if he cannot Confute
him. As to Myself, who make an Attempt at Confutation,
I am not a very Distant Neighbour of his ; and though I
have thought proper to Withhold my Name, the Doctor will
no doubt be told it by some of his Ministering Spirits. When
he has Found out this, I in my turn Invite him to Pay me a
Visit, and Falsify a Single Paragraph I have written.
We now come to what, I presume, the Doctor considers
the Essence of this Cabinet. “ A Never-failing Method to
Obtain Riches and Wealth.” Let us see this Never-failing
Method
“ The Doctor will also engage to Teach any Person
how to make One Single Grain or Corn of Wheat produce
more than Half a Bushel of the same Grain in One Year,
(proved,) so that the Poor Man who has a Garden, may get
as much Bread from the same, as will Support his Family ;
the Tradesman may also thus Accumulate as much Money
as will enable him to Pay his Debts ; while the Farmer
may also obtain Riches by the same. Terms, One Guinea.
Where also may be had, The Art of Brewing, she wing
how to keep the Best Ale in the Town ; together with the
Art of making Fourteen Gallons of Good Ale from One
Bushel of Malt, (proved.) Terms, One Guinea. Any
Person may also at the same time be presented with the
Best Method of Restoring Sour Ale to its former state of
Perfection, (proved.) Terms, One Guinea.”
To attempt to Remark here would be Insulting to the Dull¬
est Understanding. I am amazed, however, that none of the
poor Prophets or Apostles are brought in, neck and heels, to
ratify this Interesting Clause. Perhaps none of them pos¬
sessed the Creative Power of Doctor Parkins, or were Adepts
in the Art of Brewing good Stingo.
E
38 ECCE HOMO l
In the next Paragraph, (aNota Bene,) he invites
—“ all those Persons who are Desirous of Supporting
themselves and their Respective Families, to Obtain Wealth
and Riches, and also of Receiving these Great Benefits and
Pecuniary Advantages arising from the Office of becoming
Our Agents in the various Counties in England, Ireland,
Scotland, and Wales”—
to apply to him. What a pity that men should be so stub¬
born, and should have so much disbelief in the Doctor, not
to run more eagerly after this Lucrative Agency.
I am sorry to be obliged to tire my Reader with a subject
so Unpleasing, and with so many Repetitions : but I wish to
act with Liberality and Fairness to the Doctor : I am willing
to give him full liberty of Speech • but I am also anxious to
Counteract his Unholy Efforts.
“ Now may Parents give unto their Children the Best
Present in the World ; for here Ladies and Gentlemen
may be regularly Taught to Read the Book of Life, which
is Written in the Heavens by the Finger of God, with as
much Ease and Facility as they now Read their Bibles.—
And the Doctor will further Teach them to Know all things
Past, Present, and To Come, both by Personal and Literal
Application.”11
11 Take Another Sample of the Doctor’s Knowledge of Futurity,
and learn how well he is Capable of Teaching others: the circum¬
stance occurred while the Doctor lived at Navenby.
An Inhabitant of that place, having Lost some Property, pur¬
chased one of his Non-descript Charms to Recover it, which, as
might well be supposed, was of no greater Service than rendering
him some Shillings the Poorer. Finding this out, and conceiving
the Doctor’s Way of Getting Money closely bordering upon Fraud,
and himself to have been Duped by Artifice, he sent for him to an
Alehouse to consult with him on Business of Importance. The
Ambassador
“ Sped on the Wings of the Wind,”
ECCE HOMO! 39
For my own part, I am so Heartily Sick of his Past,
Present, and To Come, that I really feel myself incompetent
to say more on that subject than I have said.—The Past, he
only knows from Human Information ; the Present, he can
tell no more of than what comes within the Ordinary Means
of Intelligence ; and the Future, like the rest of Mankind,
with any kind of certainty, he cannot even Guess.
Anxious to display the whole Store of his Flowers of
Literature, the Doctor now treats us with the Fruits of an
Excursion into the Blooming Fields of Parnassus. As such
a Rare Variety of the Poetical Species is not to be met with
above Once a Century, (except it be at Catnach’s,) I cannot
resist the Inclination to give it all the Publicity in my power :
“ Wisdom shall live, and Learning still shall shine,
While Folly dies, and Ignorance doth pine.”
Awrake, Pope, from the tomb, and learn the Harmony of
Versification! Goldsmith, arise; let thy Enchanting Muse
gather Instruction from the Inspiring Deity of Minerva’s
(whether Riding Astride a Broomstick or not, 1 cannot precisely
say,) and was Courteously Welcomed. But when the Two Men of
Business retired, (as the Doctor thought, to take the Gentleman’s
“ Kind Order,” and his—Money,) behold, a well-thonged HORSE¬
WHIP was produced, and Applied, Secundem Artem, to the Great
Man’s Shoulders, to the tune of the Epithets, Swindler, Scoundrel, Ln-
postor, Villain, and twenty others equally Significant,—
“ While the” Ambassador “ at every Thwack,
Bellowed right lustily—•* MY BACK ! MY BACK !’ ”
Can any thing be more Plainly Demonstrative of the Futility of
the Doctor’s Boastings of Fore-knowledge? It is a Proof, at any
rate, that his Art, whatever it may be, is neither Derived from God
nor Good Angels. If it were, he would no doubt have been placed
upon his Guard, and have avoided this Castigation. Most likely his
Old Friend Beelzebub, in one of his Merry Moods, for lack of a
Better Subject, pitched upon the Doctor’s Shoulders for his Amuse'
meat.
40 ECCE HOMO !
Temple ! Where art thou, Wordsworth ? Shakspeare,
Milton, Chatterton, Otway, Gray, Watts, Wesley, Burns,
Bloomfield, Scott, Southey, Byron, Moore,
“AWAKE! ARISE!—OR BE FOR EVER FALL’N I”
Dreadfully derogatory, alas ! is our next paragraph.—
u The Doctor will most fully engage to teach and in¬
struct any Lady or Gentleman, by regular distinct Lessons,
all that most Beautiful. Amusing, and Entertaining Science,
even the Art of Divination by the Tea-cup ; which is
also a kind of Geomantic Lot, being founded on the same
principles as Geomancy and Divination by Cards.”
The Self-called “ Grand Ambassador of Heaven,” this
Prophet that Divineth for Money,12 will stoop to any shift to
obtain it. Had the Queen of the Gipsies, or any of her
High-learned Subjects, published such an announcement,
none could have been surprised; for it is founded upon what
they profess—the principles of Geomancy and Divination by
Cards. And the Terms for this less than fanciful Science are
One Guinea ! Oh ! for the Scriptures to Aid us.—
Numb. xi. 29—And Moses said unto him, Enviest thou
for my sake? would God that all the Lord's people were
prophets, and that the Lord would put his Spirit upon them !
Enviest Thou for MY Sake?—for Dr. Parkins’s Sake?
—Laughable !
1 Cor. xiv. 1, 3,4, 5, 31, 32, 39—[Poor St. Paul, I fear
thou wilt have something here to answer for]—Follow after
charity, and desire spiritual gifts, but rather that ye may
prophesy. But he that prophesieth speaketh unto men to
edification, and exhortation, and comfort, tie that speak-
13 Micah (Hi. 11) speaking of False Prophets, calls those such
who “divine for money.” Consult Doctor Parkins’s Works passim.
ECCE HOMO! 41
etk in an unknown tongue edifieth himself; but he that
prophesieth edifieth the cliurch. I would that ye all spake
with tongues, but rather that ye prophesied: for greater is
he that prophesieth than he that speakeih with longues, ex¬
cept he interpret, that the church may receive edifying. For
ye may all prophesy one by one, that all may learn, and all
may be comforted. And the spirits of the prophets are
subject to the prophets. Wherefore, brethren, covet to
prophesy, and forbid not to speak with tongues.
From all this I can really gather no more than what the
Doctor has told us before in plain English, that he is, or would
be thought, a Prophet. Whether the great Apostle, or any
of his Predecessors, either under the Christian or Jewish dis¬
pensation, were Professors of the Science of Divination by
the Tea-cup, or even by Cards, I am not readily prepared
to answer: but I have my Opinion; and, I dare say, my
Readers have their’s.
“ The Doctor is also most Fully Enabled to shew the
True Cause of all the Internal and External Calamities by
which this Kingdom is Sore Afflicted, whenever he may
be required so to do.”
I require him then publicly so to do. Let him answer
my requisition as publicly as I demand his answer; let him
Remove that Cause, and I shall think, as I have never thought
before, that he is a Patriot, and may be a Honest Man.—■
FIFTY-ONE TEXTS and two et-ceteras. I shall take
however, as usual, the first and last.
1 Cor. xv. 56—The sting of death is sin ; and the
strength of sin is the law.
How exquisitely appropriate!
1 John v. 21—Little children, keep yourselvesfrom idols.
Allow me to parody this text. “ Doctor Parkins, keep
yourself from idolizing money.”—Patience! more Poetry i
TT O
X-J MJ
42 ECCE HOMO!
; “ By iniquity and sin.
Afflictions enter in.”
Truth; but not very Exquisite: a fit counterpart to the
preceding couplet. Will not this remind us of the Sailor’s
Beautiful Effusion—-
i . “In the Bay of Bengal,
I lost my All ?”
I have but one more paragraph in the Cabinet of Wealth
to review, ere my labours with it be at a close. Fortunately,
however, for my Own Time, and for the Patience of my
Reader, the Conclusion is almost verbatim with the Begin¬
ning. It is an—“ all orders for our Holy Consecrated La-
mens,” and enumerates a List of his Four Praise-worthy
Agents; one of them his Brother, a Blacksmith, at Marston,
near Grantham; and the latter lines contain a repetition of
his “ Universal Challenge.”
I have now done with this “ Cabinet of Wealth but
there is something more, ere his Pamphlet be concluded.—
« The CELESTIAL TOUCHSTONE, or a Com¬
panion to the Temple of Wisdom and Our Celestial
Warrior.—Isaiah lviii. 1—Cry aloud, spare not ; lift up
thy voice like a trumpet, and shew my people their trans¬
gression, and the house of Jacob their sins. 2 Thes. i. 11,
12—Wherefore also ice pray always for you, that our God
would count you worthy of this calling, and fulfil all the
good pleasure of his goodness, and the work of faith with
power: That the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be
glorified in you, and ye in him, according to the grace of
our God, and the Lord Jesus Christ.”
These Texts imply nothing to assist the Doctor in his
pretentions. Taken abstractedly, they are sentences excel¬
lently good; but they lend no aid, pro or con, in this Re¬
view.— With regard to the Touchstone itself; the Language
and the Matter, in most passages, are Admirable: but not
ECCE HOMO ! 43
Half of either is this Man's Composition.—To pass over the
former part of this Touchstone, and his FIVE HUNDRED
and FORTY-FIVE interlarded Texts, he gives us an Alle¬
gory, which has been used for Samples of Needlework, long
before the Doctor knew the name of the first letter of the al¬
phabet, and which I have heard my good Old Grandmother
repeat when I was but an Infant. To put no baulk, however,
upon those who are solicitous for the cause of Truth, and are
anxious for its Application, I here reprint it;—
“ Thus should I daily rejoice to find yon that truly
Happy Man, who was born in the City of Regeneration,
in the Parish of Repentance ; who was educated in the
School of Obedience ; who now lives in Perseverance,
and works at the Trade of Diligence ; notwithstanding he
has a large Estate in the County of Christian Contentment;
who often climbs the Mountain of Spiritual Mindedness,
and wears the plain Garb of Humility, but has a better t©
put on when he goes to Court, called the Robe of Christ’s
Righteousness ; who walks in the Valley of Self-abase¬
ment, and does Jobs of Self-denial; who Breakfasts upon
Spiritual Prayers, and Sups on the same; who has also
Meat to eat which the World knows nothing of; whose
Drink is the sincere Milk of the Word. Thus Happy he
Lives and Happy he Dies. Happy is he who has Gospel-
submission in his Will—due Order in his Affections—
sound Peace in his Conscience—Grace in his Soul—real
Divinity in his Breast—true Humility in his Heart—the
Redeemer’s Yoke on his Neck—a vain World under his
Feet—and a Crown of Glory on his Head. To attain this,
pray fervently—believe firmly—wait patiently—work a-
bundantly—live holy-—die daily—watch your Heart-
guide your Actions—redeem Time—love Christ— and lonr
for Glory!”
Amongst all the Plagiarisms I have met with in the Ce¬
lestial Touchstone, (and than the Touchstone, I am sure no
Work can contain a greater Number,) I find none more evi¬
dent than his concluding Hymn ; which may be found in
Wesley’s Collection, page 19, beginning with
44 ECCE HOMO!
“ Happy the Man that finds the grace,
The blessings of God’s chosen race,” &c.IS
There is something so Barefaced here, that one scarcely
knows how to account for it; Impudence upon Impudence
is so highly piled, that we cannot reach the Summit. Aided
by Truth, our only Effort must be to Strike the Sandy Fabric
at its Base—Truth is as Immutable as Heaven itself; it is In¬
vincible, and Must Prevail.—-This Self-created Shadow roust
Dissolve,—
“ And, like the Baseless Fabric of a Vision,
Leave not a Wreck behind !”
To comment upon the thing before us any further, in par¬
ticular, is, I conceive, unnecessary. At the End of this
Work I shall give a few General Remarks; though perhaps
they may be pretty easily anticipated from the preceding pages.
Permit me now to open his next Delectable Production—
The Celestial Warrior.
At the Outset, the Doctor, as is usual with him, turns his
own trumpetter, or rather the trumpetter of his chiefly-pilfered
bantling. He tells us, (aud I am well assured, that if he had
not told its excellency, the World would not have discovered
the Secret,) that it is
“ Avery Necessary Companion for every Family in this
Kingdom ; and also lor every Soldier &c. in His Majesty’s
Service.” v .
In one particular, I believe it may be Necessary, or at
least Useful, both for Families and Soldiers ; but that partic¬
ular, be it remembered, must be a Necessary one !
18 A Gentleman not altogether aware of the Doctor’s Itch for
Literary Pilfering, once paid him a very high Compliment as the
Writer of this Hymn. He had not, however, Honesty enough to de¬
clare the Real Author, but modestly took the Credit of it to himself.
ECCE HOMO! 45
s'
Let the Reader take the rest of this exquisite Title-page:
“ THE CELESTIAL WARRIOR; or The Art
of War: containing the Art of Defending every Person
against their Enemies, with the most necessary and essen¬
tial Duties required from every Soldier now engaged in
His Majesty’s Service. Showing them not only the Best
and Only Method how the British Army and Navy may
always obtain a most complete Victory overall (heir Ene¬
mies, both Foreign and Domestic; but also, How they
may easily Conquer the whole World, as well as effectually
Prevent all that great Loss of Human Blood and Treasure
caused by Unsuccessful Expeditions, &c. Together with
the only Method of Engaging the Army of Heaven into
their Service, both by Sea and Land, at all times and places
whatsoever; so that they need fear no Foe. Showing also
how One shall chase a Thousand, and Two put Ten Thou¬
sand to Flight. The whole founded on the pure Word of
God, which cannot be defeated by any Man in Existence ;
and Proving also, that several Thousands of Pounds, as
well as many Thousands of the most precious Lives of our
Brave Countrymen Annually, may be thus completely
Saved ; the whole made Plain and Easy to be Understood
by the Meanest Capacity.— By Dr. Parkins, the Grand
Ambassador of HeavenN of Little Gonerby, near
Grantham, Lincolnshire ; Author of The Cabinet of
Wealth ; Key to the Wise Mans Crown ; Young Man's
Best Companion ; Complete Herbid and Family Physi¬
cian; Book of Miracles ; and several other Valuable and
Useful Publications.— How should one chase a thousand,
or two put ten thousand to flight, except their Rock had sold
them, and the Lord had shut them up ? Deut. xxxii. 30 ;
2 Kings vii. 6, 7, 15 ; Dan. iv. 35.”
This is, I think, the First Publication in which he has ta¬
ken to himself the title of the Grand Ambassador of Hea¬
ven : an Addition only applicable to Jesus Christ, and the
Holy Men immediately Authorized by God Almighty to
i* »i i_111_11 t
eg*
46 ECCE HOMO!
Declare his Will; and Fitted and Prepared for their Office by
the immediate Perceptible Inspiration of God himself: and
these, though they announce themselves Ambassadors, have
never dignified themselves with the Magnificent Adjective
this man Audaciously presumes to use. They were Meek,
and Humble, and Lowly—neither Divining for Money, nor
pretending to Bind the Army of Heaven into the Service of
the Wicked. They sought not Pecuniary Reward—they
were anxious to do Good, and looked not for Payment;—
they encouraged not Lust—attempted not to “ make Ladies
Beautiful and Lovely in the Sight of Man,” but to make all
Beautiful and Lovely in the Sight of God.—They sought not
to Overcome Adversaries by Lawsuits, but to Vanquish them
by Holiness. What a Contrast is here between the Meek
Ambassadors of God, and the Grand Ambassador of Hea¬
ven !
I have carefully read over the Pages that follow this
“ Celestial ” Title-page.—To Analyze their Contents would
be an impossibility. The whole Work is a barbarous com¬
pound of Lamenism, (if I may use the wordA) Sentences
Stolen from Theologists, Despicable Absurdities, Nonsensical
Nothingness, Burlesque Allegory, and Bombastic Trifling-
ism. Young, Thomson, Wesley, and other Admirable Poets,
furnish him with Quotations, as the Scriptures do with Texts,
—and both are much alike in their Applicability to Lamen¬
ism.
A few passages, however, it may not be amiss to tran¬
scribe for “ the Great Benefit” of those who may not have
had the Happiness to peruse the “ Celestial” production it¬
self : my observations will be very concise: indeed, the Mat¬
ter itself will scarcely require any.
16 It includes Blasphemy, tor they are so closely interw oven, that
theTotmer cannot exist without the latter.
ECCE HOMO ! 47
Preface, page iii—'“ Gentlemen Soldiers, I now present
unto you this most Valuable Treasure, entitled the Celestial
Warrior, which will not only teach you how to Defeat,
Vanquish, and also Obtain a most Complete Victory over
all your Enemies, both Foreign and Domestic; but will
also most Fully Enable you to Conquer the Whole
World.”
“ How ?” the Soldier may ask. Reply—Give Doctor
Parkins that, the Love of which is “ the Root of All Evil,”
and he will'supply you with a Lamen !—If (the Doctor’s
accommodating monosyllable)—If it should fail,—it is not
“ agreeable to the Will of Heaven” that you should Conquer.
Nota Bene—A Mouse Hole is Convenient when a Mouse
is in Danger!
Ibid—“ A Soldier’s Life is now become the most
Happy, Glorious, and most Desirable Situation under
Heaven;” [I rather doubt it!] “ where not only your
Present Happiness, Pleasure, and Delight, are much in¬
creased therein, but also your Future Happiness and Feli¬
city are now herein Certain't/ insured, both in This World
and also in that which is To Come.”
Presumptuous Assertion ! If Present Happiness could
be Purchased for a Guinea, who would be miserable? If
Felicity in the World to come be added to the purchase, who
would not save themselves from Everlasting Anguish?
Ibid, page iv—“ If you should receive any Benefit by
these my Labours, remember that you give unto God all
the great Praise, Honour, and Glory of the same.”
He forgot to add—But to me the Money !
Page 6—“ I myself cannot place confidence in the vain
Opinions of Men,7 any further than what is found to be
consistent with Plain, Known, and Solid Truths.”
Can he then wonder that I and others place no Confi-
48 ECCE HOMO ! -
dence in His vain Opinions ?—Opinions which have neither
Plain, Known, nor Solid Truths to substantiate them.
Page 8—“Abstain from all impure, vain, obscene, and
unprofitable Conversation, at all times.’,
“ Do as I Sjf, not as I Do/”
Page 16-—“ Gentlemen Soldiers, let me now entreat
you, for your Own Sakes, to’well examine yourselves, be¬
fore you go into the Field of Battle, and see whether you
are on the Lord's side or otherwise ; and you have a Mon¬
itor within you, that will give each of you a proper Answer
to this most Important Question. If you are not on the
.Lord’s Side, you may justly expect to be delivered up as a
prey into the hands of your Enemies; that is to say, in
such a case, you need not expect any other, than either to
Fall in the Battle, or at the best, to be taken Prisoner and
Defeated.”
I rather think, that in the Field of Battle, if those Sol¬
diers who fancied themselves riot “ on the Lord’s side,” were
to Refuse to Fight, they wo# stand as great, or a greater
chance of falling by the Hand of the Executioner, than by
the Ball of an Enemy. And I am very doubtful whether
this Persuasion to the Contempt of Orders, is not very Oppo¬
site to the Articles of War; and whether the Doctor is not
Punishable, by Military Law, for his Courageous Advice.
The “ System herein laid down” is, that every Soldier
should wear and use a Holy Consecrated Lamen, for which
the Doctor must be paid One Guinea each ; and allowing him
his wishes, in every British Soldier purchasing a Lamen, it
would bring to him, at a moderate calculation, the sum of
50100,000 ! a pretty Comfortable Independency.—But what
an Unfeeling Being he must be, to suffer the Fell Sword to
Drench in Britisu Blood, and the Tremendous Bolts of
War to Mowr Down Thousands of his Brave Countrymen,
when He, by a Word, could have Commanded his Celestial
ECCE HOMO! 49
Agents to Desist from their Work of Death, and Turn their
Annihilating Weapons on His Country’s Foes !
Witness the Signing and Delivery:
“ This Work Corrected, Revised, Signed, and Deliver-
td, at Our Public Office, Temple of Wisdom, Little Gon¬
erby, near Grantham, Lincolnshire, on Friday, January
1st, 1819, by
The Grand Ambassador of Heaven /”
His appended Texts stand in the place of what the Law¬
yers term the Attestation. The formality of Labelling and
Sealing, it seems, was not considered necessary.
2 Cor. v. 20—Now then we are Ambassadors for
Christ, as though God did beseech you by us; we pray you
in Christ1s stead, be ye reconciled to God.
Zach. iii. 7—Thus saith the Lord of Hosts : If thou
wilt walk in my ways, and if thou wilt keep my charge, then
thou shalt also judge my house, and shalt also keep my courts,
and I will give thee places to walk among these that stand
by.
Rev. ii. 17—He that hath an ear, let him hear what the
Spirit saith unto the Churches : To him that overcometh
will I give to eat of the hidden manna, and will give him a
white stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no
man knoweth, saving he that receiveth it.
How substantiatory of the Doctor’s Heavenly Power!—
Query—Could not he procure a slip of paper to be printed,
and appended to the Testament thus: “ Erratum—Rev. ii.
17—For4 To him that overcometh,’ &c. read, ‘ To him that
hath Money, I will sell a Holy Lamen, and in the Lamen
shall be written, DOCTOR PARKINS; and the Lamen
shall Work Miracles, and shall cause the Wearer to See my
Face, and to Enter into my Joy V ”—This would be a mas¬
terstroke of Policy, and afford Evidence Incontrovertible.
F
50 ECCE HOMO !
Perhaps the Reader will be quite satisfied witli the selec¬
tions above given. One thing more however must be noticed,
before I close this “ Celestial Treasury”—-never, I hope, to
re-open it.
It is an Advertisement Leaf attached to, and forming a
part of, “ The Warrior,”—a puff direct of “ Our Grand
Holy Consecrated Celestial Arcanum, with our Ambro¬
sian Nectar, composed from the Primum Mobile of the
Celestial Regions, for the great Benefit of all those LADIES
who are above the Age of Eighteen Years; price One Guinea
each.”—The Weaker Vessel are again the objects of his at¬
tempts. The difficulty of persuading Men, that “ these most
fatal Occult Diseases, caused by the Possession of Evil
Spirits,” are so “ very common and frequent to be found
amongst us, almost in every House and Family in every
Town in the Kingdom,” were too great not to be foreseen by
this A rch-hypocrite; and he, no doubt pre-instructed by the
success of his great Predecessor,16 chose, like him, to practice
upon the Weaker Sex. They are more susceptible in general,
when the Mind is depressed, or the Body in pain, to be mis¬
led by the Doctor’s Insinuation that they are possessed by Evil
Spirits ; and more likely, if that idea once take root, to give
him a kind Order for “ Our Grand Holy Consecrated Celes¬
tial Arcanum, and Ambrosian Nectar.”—If it be allowable
for a Writer to recommend his Own; I would earnestly re¬
commend those who may have formed any wish to “ make
one fair and impartial trial,” to re-peruse these pages: and I
am sure that those who know any thing of the Doctor, know
too much to entertain such a wish for a moment.
He argues again too upon Astrological Influence:—
“ The Powers of Darkness are always ready to Ruin
1(5 The Devil.
ECCE HOMO ! 53
and Destroy every Female, on whom they have gained any
power from their Unfortunate Nativities, 17 which
hath brought so many of them to the Commission of the
Worst of Deeds, which have taken them from thence to a
loathsome Prison, and from thence to the Gallows ; while
others have been thus driven thereby to complete Despair,
Insanity, and Madness ; so that they could not exist, but
have put an end to their most grievous sufferings in this
world by an untimely death, as the common Newspapers
doth prove and testify.”
I Deny, positively Deny, that Nativities can give Author¬
ity to the Powers of Darkness !—Nativities Cannot Influence
the Welfare of Mankind. They are no more the Harbingers
of Bliss or Misery, than Doctor Parkins is of the Millenium
of Christ; else what becomes of the Justice of the Almighty,
and where is the Free Will he has implanted in Man ? Yet
it is upon this Foundation, and to prevent the Evils and Mis¬
eries occasioned by “ Unfortunate Nativities,” that the Doctor
has mixed up his Ambrosian Nectar.—There is something to
induce one to believe him a Disciple of the Pagan Philoso¬
phers, and a Crediter of the Heathen Mythology. Jove, and
Apollo, and Minerva, and the rest of their Grecian and Ro¬
man Godships, were partial to Ambrosia and Nectar: and
the Doctor’s Angelic Tribe must be equally so, for it would
be useless else to Daub a Person over with his Stuff to allure
them, and bind them in Servitude, unless that Stuff were to
them a Luxury. But the Ladies may really believe me when
I assert, that this Ambrosian Nectar will allure the Angels to
17 The chief of what is sanctioned in the Scriptures, on the sub¬
ject of Nativities, is this, that by nature “ all are born under sin.”
and continuing to “ live after the flesh ye shall die.” To avert which,
the unsophisticated Remedy is annexed—“ But if ye through the
Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live.” See Rom.
viii. throughout.—And the aid of this Prognosticating Doctor is as*
little required to point out what those “ deeds of the body” arc, to
which all are naturally subject, as his Lamens, or Ambrosian Nec¬
tar, possess power and virtue to destroy them, or avert their conse¬
quences.
52 ECCE HOMO !
their Sendee, as much as, and no more than, the Scent of a
Tortoise-shell Tabby will draw around her an Assemblage of
fine plump Mice.
He does not conclude this Advertisement without afford¬
ing Another Proof of the Patriotism and Disinterestedness of
the Grand Ambassador of Heaven.—Read his own words :—
“ If our beloved and much-lamented Illustrious Prin¬
cess Charlotte had but timely received the benefit of all
these great Celestial Treasures, together with Our Grand
Celestial Life Preserver, which is mentioned in my Book
of Miracles aforesaid; she would now have been still liv¬
ing amongst us at this day.”
What an Abominable, Cold-blooded, Unfeeling Rascal!
The Life of that Amiable Princess he declares he COULD
HAVE SAVED ;—COULD, BUT WOULD NOT !—
Her, Beloved in Reality—Her, whom the Nation looked to
as its Future Queen; and anticipated in her a Guardian
Angel in Earthly Shape—Her he Could have Saved, but
Would Not!—Reader! an Innocent and Illustrious Victim
—an Afflicted People—a Nation’s Hope—the Tears of Mil¬
lions, were incapable of Penetrating the Obdurate Bosom of
the Ambassador of an All-merciful God, because unac¬
companied by that Sordid Remuneration which alone can
Satiate his Avarice, and Induce him to Dispense those Boun¬
ties our Blessed Saviour taught us were to be purchased
without money and without price.— How striking the Contrast
between the Ambassador and the Son !—“ Come unto me,”
says one, “ all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will
give you rest.” “ Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to
the waters, and he that hath no money; come ye, buy, and
eat; yea, come, buy wine and milk without money and
without price.” And “ Ask, and receive, that your joy
may be full.”—“ Come not unto me,” says the other, “ unless
your Pockets Chink with Guineas, and your Credulity
ECCE HOMO! 53
prompt you to dispense them ; for GOLD is the Idol I Wor¬
ship ; and unless you will Sacrifice, and that largely too, at
the Shrine of my Idolatry, I will laugh at your calamity, and
mock when your fear cometh
If it were possible to Believe the Doctor capable of
Preserving the Life of this Illustrious Princess, as he
Pretends he was, I should consider the Punishment of
Damien as Mercy inflicted upon him. 1
The Reader is doubtless by this time convinced what kind
of man Doctor Parkins is, and how far consonant his Publi¬
cations are with Truth ; yet it would be a pity to lose the
Beauties of the one I have now before me: a Book, in the
Doctor’s Estimation, “ most profitable and curious if utili¬
ty and curiosity are terms synonymous with Effrontery, I do
him the honour to believe him.
“ The BOOK OF MIRACLES, or Celestial Mu¬
seum : being an Entertaining and Instructive Treatise15 on
Love, Law, Trade, and Physic. With The Bank of Hea¬
ven : containing a Never-failing Method for Ladies to ob¬
tain Good Husbands, and Gentlemen Good Wives, with
Happiness after Marriage :19 showing how to prevent all
Disappointments in Love ; and also all Unhappy Mar¬
riages ; how a Lady may become Amiable, Beautiful,
Lovely, and Handsome in the Sight of ANY Man, by
the Rules of Art;20 and how to Protect and Defend all
18 Yes, it is Entertaining to those who can be entertained with
Gross Lies and Insipid Absurdity; and it is equally Instructive to
those who Desire to Secede from their Reliance on the Providence
of God.
19 The Doctor was most probably not a Proficient in this Art
prior to the Marriage of his Brother at Marston ; or we should not
have been favoured with the Entertaining Story of the Blacksmith
and his Runagate.—See p. 57 of this work.
20 And this is the Province of an Ambassador of the Almigh¬
ty’s !! !
54 ECCE HOMO I
Injured Females ; Apprehend all Thieves and Robbers ;
Punish the Guilty, and Defend the Innocent; and also how
to Overcome your Adversary in any Lawsuit, (if in a just
cause21) ; Prevent Poverty, Want, Bankruptcy, &c.; how
to Preserve and Obtain Success and Prosperity with all
your Cattle, both great and small; and also, in Whatever
you may Hope, Wish For, and Desire, agreeable to the
will of Heaven ; to Heal the Sick and the Diseased, in the
most Dangerous Cases, when, and where the best Medi¬
cines in the World, being given alone, would fail : the
whole containing Greater Miracles, performed in all
these various departments, than were ever known to be
done before in this Kingdom, within the Memory of the
oldest Man living, all of which is well proved and sub¬
stantiated, as herein-after mentioned, from several curious
Examples, Cases, and Facts, delivered from the Evidence
of several remarkable Post Letters inserted herein, which
are also now in possession of the Author ;22 forming the
Greatest and most Useful Curiosity now extant in the
World ; being the most Valuable Treasury that can ever
be introduced into any Family, at any time whatsoever \
made Plain and Easy, for the Meanest Capacity.”
Upon the evidence produced in this Work, the whole of
the Doctor’s Claim to the Power of Working Miracles, must
Stand or Fall. The Whole Fabric has its Foundation here:
if this give way—■
“ Farewell, a Long Farewell to all his Greatness !!>
Let us then look over this “ Entertaining and Instructive
Treatise on Love, Law, Trade, and Physic and see how
far any of them, particularly the first two, are connected with
the Calling of the Vicegerent of an Almighty, Immaculate,
and Holy Being.—But it is impossible to shew this connec¬
tion without copious extracts from the Doctor’s writings ; and
21 A very Saving Proviso!
22 There is every reason to Suspect, that the Doctor has, in many
instances, been his Own Correspondent.
ECCE HOMO ! 55
I shall neither apologize to him nor the public for these quo¬
tations, for it is only justice both to the one and the other.
Preface—“ By daily presenting this most Useful and
Valuable Book to the View and Constant Perusal of your
Friends and Acquaintances, See. you may thus become a
Blessing unto all about you ; and if you are also inclined
to use the same as a Canvassing Book, and daily Collect
Orders for the same; then, in that case, you shall receive
One Shilling from me, for every single Order you may
thus procure, obtain, bring, or may at any time send here
unto this our Office, out of the same, which doth or may
amount to the sum of One Guinea. (But you will also
remember, that no order will ever be received or execiited at
any time whatsoever, while the same is duly paid for.)
Remembgy Micah’s description of a False Prophet—“ He
Divineth for Money!”
Ibid—“You can also thus 'profitably exercise all this
your Benevolence, Humanity, and Charity, unto any person
you may ever meet with wherever you may go into any
Town or City in any part of England, Ireland, Scotland,
or Wales; for if you can only collect for yourself about
Seven or Eight Shillings per Day, it will enable you to
Maintain and Support Yourself and your Family, and will
give you Plenty of Money in the Worst of Times.”
“ Benevolence, Humanity, and Charity,” then, consist in
collecting for One’s-self, “ Seven or Eight Shillings per Day.”
Saint Paul does not give such a Definition ; but he was only
an Apostle—the Doctor a Grand Ambassador !
Ibid—“ Permit me to Exhort you daily to glorify God,
from whom all blessings flow, broth spiritual and temporal,
and see that you also duly answer the great end of your
creation in your several stations and situations in life, and
do good to yourselves; First, by making a proper use of
all these great Benefits and Advantages ; and then, Second¬
ly, by making the same known unto all your Friends and
Acquaintances.”
56 ECCE HOMO!
This, Reader, is the Selfish Wretch’s Method of Glori¬
fying God, and Answering the End of Man’s Creation !!!
“ [We shall first proceed to shew what is to be under¬
stood by Miracles, which is a supernatural operation per¬
formed by the power of God. Our Saviour confirmed the
doctrine which he taught by a train of incontestible Mir¬
acles, which were so great in their natures, so real and solid
in their proofs, so divine in their manner of performing
them by the power of his will, and so holy in their end, as
to fully confirm the doctrine he taught, so becoming the
wisdom and other glorious Attributes cf God, so that they
set forth his great Glory. Real Miracles, which far exceed
all the power of Nature, can only be produced by a Cre¬
ating Power, and are wrought to give credit to those alone
who are sent of God ;] yet some Ignorant Preachers, and
Others, have publicly declared, that the Pow2$of Miracles
have wholly ceased since the days of our Saviour and his
Apostles, which said declaration I positively deny”
The words inclosed in Brackets are no more the Doctor’s
♦
Writing than they are Mine. He has read, I dare say, on
Theological Subjects, a good deal; he is, (to give the Devil
his due,) in some respects, a Shrewd Man ; but so inveterately
addicted to Literary Thieving, that were it not for the pecu¬
liar Stiffness, and Law-like Formality of his style, a Casual
Reader would not easily discover how much of the Doctor’s
Writings are really his Own. By incorporating, this way,
passages of our best Authors with his own, the Simple, who
know him only by his Pretensions, and are not withal so very
Learned as himself, are the more readily imposed upon.
I agree with him, that by Miracle we are to understand a
Supernatural Operation, performed by the Power of God.
And, (granting him Possession of his Stolen Paragraph,) that
Our Saviour proclaimed his Divinity by a Train of Incontest¬
ible Miracles. But what Synonyma there is between the
iN-conteslible Miracles of Jesus Christ, and the very con-
ECCE HOMO! 57
testible ones of Doctor Parkins, I have yet to discover.—
Perhaps I may emerge from this Maze of Darkness as I pro¬
ceed.
The First Miracle wrought by the Power of Lamenism,
was, to Compel an Eloped Wife to return to the arms of her
Dearly Beloved—a Tradesman of the Parish of Marston.—
This Runagate was no other than the Wife of the Doctor’s
Own Brother—the Blacksmith. Now it appears Remark¬
ably Strange, that as the Doctor knew there was an Opposi¬
tion of Saturn and the Moon, who are the Prime Signifcators
in his Nativity, which would Cause this Evil; and he knew
also, that the Malignancy of it might easily have been Pre¬
vented, Moved, and Eradicated, long before that time j—it
appears Remarkably Strange, I say, that he did not Prevent
such a Misfortune from befalling an only Brother. This argues
either his complete Pre-ignorance of the affair, in spite of ail
his Foreknowledge, and Overthrows his Doctrine of Nativi¬
ties—or it implies a Total Want of Fraternal Affection, and
a Selfish Hankering after that Money, which is the God of his
Idolatry, and without which he will do Nothing. I believe,
indeed, that all these circumstances were combined, to allow
the Evil to take its course : for, as Nativities are altogether
Fallacious, they can Produce no Effect; and it is Impossible
to know any thing from a Science which in itself is Nothing.
—His Lack of Brotherly Feeling, and his Hankering after
Money, are sufficiently Evident, from his Avowal of having
charged the Poor Man a Guinea for his Lamen to restore her.
These Circumstances, I think, are of themselves sufficient to
Overturn the whole of his Pretensions to Miracle in this case;
and to Tumble into Ruins the False Fabric of his Darling
Lamenism. But there are others, which Prove, beyond doubt,
the Total Absence of Miracle.
To constitute a Miracle, it is necessary that Natural
Means be not at all employed; but that the object in view be
58 ECCE HOMO !
Accomplished Solely by a Supernatural and Immediate In-
terposition of Omnipotent Power ; such as—Moses’s Dividing
the Red Sea—the Rock Pouring out Water—Feeding the
Israelites with Manna in the Wilderness—The Restoration of
the Widow’s Son—Christ’s Feeding the Multitude with Five
Barley Loaves and Two Small Fishes—The Raising up of
Lazarus—The Conversion of Saul—The Striking Blind of
the Sorceror—the Universal Darkness at the Crucifixion, &c.
These were Miracles neither Assisted, nor to be Accounted
for, by Natural Means of any kind : they were evidently and
incontestibly the Sole Work of an Omnipotent Creator; and
the Method by which they were Performed, Totally Incom¬
prehensible to the Human Mind. But in the Doctor’s Case
of Elopement, Common, Intelligible, Natural Methods were
Publicly Resorted to—Advertisements were even Print¬
ed in the Newspapers ; and this, too, by the Special Ad¬
vice of the very Man, who now solemnly declares her Return
to have been caused by his Lamen! One may very fairly
Infer, that the Doctor had, at that time, the same Opinion of
the Power of his Lamen, that I have always had, or he would
not have Advised his Brother to be at such Unnecessary
Expenses.
Let the Second Miracle be read in the Doctor’s own Ac¬
count of it:
“ Another Man came to me out of the Country, and
told me that his Wife had gone away, and had Eloped
with a Travelling Bookseller; he said, “ he wished to have
her again, because she was such a very Pretty Creature
about Twenty Years Younger than him ; so I ^also Sold
him one of these Articles, with a charge not to Destroy the
same, by which means she was also soon Obliged to Re¬
turn Home again ; but when he found this Lamen had done
its Work, he Destroyed the same, and the Consequence
was, she soon Left him again, and I suppose his Friends
advised him to give himself no more trouble about her.”
ECCE HOMO! 59
It strikes me, that that there is nothing more Miraculous
here, than in the Restoration of his Brother’s Wife. That a
Woman should Return to her Husband after having once
Eloped, is nothing of the Marvellous, because such Instances
often occur: and it is no more Wonderful that the Circum¬
stances which induced her to Leave Home at First, should
again exist, and produce the Same Effect.
The Third Miracle was on behalf of a Weak-headed
Lincolnshire Swain, who “ fell desperately in Love with a
Farmer’s Daughter ;” and after asking the “ Plain Question,”
received as Plain a Denial.—Post haste comes a Letter and a
Guinea to the Doctor, who in return transmits him a Lamen.
This Lamen effects a Wonderful Change in the Sentiments of
the Fair One, and she actually at his next visit, received him
with Open Arms ! So far, so good; but oh, dire mishap !
the Brain-turned Lover made Sure of his Prize, and Destroyed
the Cabalistic Treasure! The Army of Heaven Forsake
him—the Lady again Rejects him—he is “ now Reduced to
the most Miserable and Unhappy State and Conditionhe
writes again to the Doctor, (not forgetting the Guinea,) and
obtains another Lamen : the Lady’s Affections Revive—be¬
hold, they are Married ! Such is the Doctor’s Tale; which
in the Recital, occupies nearly Four closely-printed Pages.—
Yet I can see nothing in it substantiatory of his Miraculous
Power; though he exultingly asks in Italics, “ Don't you call
this a Miracle ?” The Story, even as he tells it, evinces no¬
thing more than the Flirting Coquetry of a Silly Young
Country Girl, and the Paucity of Intellect of a Lincolnshire
Northernman.
We now come to the Miracle on which he appears to lay
the Greatest Stress; not only in his Writings, but in his Pri¬
vate Conversations. At Louth and its Neighbourhood, his
Tale I believe is partially, if not generally Credited : and the
Doctor is there looked upon as an object of Dread, by some;
60 ECCE HOMO!
and of Wonder and Admiration, by others. He takes the
Credit, or the Infamy, of Murdering a Female, not even Sus¬
pected of Crime; and upon whom, even if found Guilty by
a Jury, the Laws of England would have Paused, ere they
had Inflicted the Punishment of Death.—Let him, however,
Tell the Story his Own Way; then he shall have it Mine.—
“ A certain Tradesman who lives about Fifty Miles
from my Residence, came to my House some time since,
and informed me that he had been Robbed of a Black Bill
Case, containing Bank of England and Provincial Notes,
to the amount of £48 or £50, and produced a Hand-bill
offering 10 Guineas Reward, for the regainment of his
Property, or for the Discovery of the Thief.—This said
Tradesman then desired to have some of my Holy Conse¬
crated Lamens, in order to Prosecute this Offender in Our
Celestial Court of Justice ; for which purpose, I Made him
the same, and he took these Articles with him, which, I
suppose, was used by some of his Family, according to
Directions ; for sometimes the Thief or Offenders will
come forward at First, as soon as they find any thing the
matter with them, while at another time, they will be Ob¬
stinate and Stand it Out to the Last Extremity, and so it
was in the Present C^se, for we never could have had a
more Obstinate Offender than this was, at any time whatso¬
ever ; she seemed more inclined to give up the Ghost rather
than Confess : but this was more than she was able to do,
for I believe she would have lived while now, if she had
not caused me to receive some satisfaction in regard to this
matter, for the Thief can Never die while the Angelic Min¬
isters of Heaven, who do all my work, are Perfectly Satis¬
fied ; but it was so long before she would give the least hint
of this nature, that the Plaintiff grew Impatient, and sent
me a Most Infamous Letter, written, I suppose, by some
Wiseacre, who was much better versed in the Art of Scur-
ility than he was in Law ; and who may think himself For¬
tunate that he came off with a Whole Skin and escaped
Flogging; to which I returned an immediate answer by
return of Post, which so far Cured him the First Time
Dressing, that I have not been Favoured with any more of
ECCE HOMO! 61
his Ignorant Epistles ever since that period, (as it seems he
Preferred Life rather than to Suffer Death by MY Superior
Law,) which was such a Reflection upon the Attorney,
and such a Complete Disgrace to his Profession, that I shall
not give it any place in this Book.”
I would have the Language of the Latter part of this pas-
h^e particularly taken notice of. A Gentleman of the Pro¬
fession of the Law, and I may add, too, an Ornament to the
Profession, is the Subject of the Doctor’s Ribaldry. I with-
old his Name from Motives which have Great Weight with
iud, and can be of no moment to the Public. If that Gen¬
tleman has seen this Beautiful Paragraph, I can only account
■for his Non-prosecution of the Doctor as a Libeller, or his
Forbearance to bring him to Justice for the Threat upon his
Life, on the ground, that he considers him too Contemptible,
or too Crazy-brained, to interfere with.
—“ I had, of course, given up all the thoughts of ever
hearing from them again, until I received the following
Letter by the post, last February.
\Extract.~\—* * * * * u This person, (who is very
near to me,) is troubled in a manner that she can neither eat,
drink, nor sleep, nor get any rest by day or night. What
can be the consequence of this, God only knows. We are
greatly apprehensive she is jGuilty of the Lost Property I
sustained, which I made known to you when I was at your
house. Should her Affliction be occasioned from your
Exertions for the Recovery of the same, we should be very
glad to know, as you certainly are the only person to whom
we can apply for this Information. * * * * The suf¬
ferings which she at this present time labours under, is
inexpressible. Should this be the case, and could be re¬
moved by any means of your’s, we certainly should feel
uncommonly desirous ; for to see her in such a Suffering
State on that account, is most Shocking. Do have the
goodness to write me word whether it be the reason or not,
as we are out of all patience to know. * * * *
Here the Doctor can complain of no unfairness; for I
G
62 ECCE HOMO!
have given him full liberty of speech : all the foregoing Ex¬
tracts are made from his own publications ; and nothing is left
out but the verbose repetitions he so profusely makes use of.—
The “ Plain Unvarnished Tale” is this:—Mr. Howe, a re¬
spectable Tradesman, of Louth, shortly after his second mar¬
riage, missed the sum of money in question out of his pocket.
Being rather a Weak Man, and having no clue to discover
the Thief, he applied to an Astrologer at Louth, for informa¬
tion. The Rules of Simple Astrology, however, were not
sufficient to give the desired intelligence; and the Doctor was
applied to, to Enter an Action in his Celestial Court, and to
Punish the Unknown Offender. Now it is no very Remark¬
able Coincidence, that the Wife of Mr. Howe should at that
time be confined to her chamber, giving birth to her First
Child, nor that she should, in consequence, be reduced to the
State spoken of in the letter: nor is it more extraordinary that
She should die in Childbirth, than that the Princess Charlotte
and Ten Thousand other Females have done before her.—
At that period, Women are Particularly Susceptible to the
Effects of Imagination: Mrs. Howe, for aught any one can
tell, might have taken the Money : she must have been well
informed of the steps her husband had taken : and might not
the Simple Idea, working upon her already-depressed Spirits,
of the Probability of her being Detected, lead to the very
event so much boasted of by the Doctor—her Death. And
it is no despicable negative evidence, that nothing like Confes¬
sion of the Crime was ever made, or perhaps thought of, by
Mrs. H. At any rate, there is nothing at all in this case to
warrant the belief of Miracle. The coincidence of Mrs.
H.’s decease with the time of purchasing the Lamen, affords
not the least Proof. But as the Poor Lady is no more, the
Doctor conceives he has sufficient room to establish the Pow¬
erful Authority he possesses over the Ministers of Heaven,
and to Boast, as he does, in conversation,—“Ikilled her! ”
Before I have done with this Miracle, I feel it incumbent
ECCE HOMO! 63
upon me to offer my opinion more fully, and to make such
further observations as appear to be Warrantable, and even Ne¬
cessary.
The Doctor is particularly Fond of mentioning this Mir¬
acle in his Common, Every-day Talk, and feels himself Much
Offended if his hearer will not believe “ HE killed her ! ”—
I should not have noticed his Merely Talking of this, but as
he has Published it, and lays a great deal of Stress upon it,
I think I have every right to make My observations. Allow
him then the Credit, in its utmost latitude, of being the Cause
of Mrs. Howe’s Death—allow him to have the Power of
afflicting others c‘ by the Rules of Art I come to this con¬
clusion :—
Mrs. Howe was, in the eye of the Law, and for ought
any one can disprove, Perfectly Innocent:—if Suspicion
attached, the Law was Open; and by that Law only she
should have been tried ; and when Found Guilty, punished.
But as it is, the Doctor has acted as Judge, Jury, and
Executioner. According to his account, it was through
His Charms she died; and if I am to Believe His Tale,
I Insist and Maintain, that this Woman's Blood is on his
Head ; that he is to all Intents and Purposes, a Murderer !
and he ought, as such, to be arraigned, tried, convicted, a,nd
executed !—I repeat it—if his Own Account is to be credited,
he is, bona fide, Mrs. Howe’s Murderer! It is plain he
employed “ Charms and Enchantments” to effect it, and the
Punishment for this is—DEATH !
But as I totally Disbelieve his being the Cause of her Dis¬
solution, I should not like to see him thus Arraigned. Let
his own Conscience, if he have one, be his Punishment.
The next Miracle on the List, is Saving a Flock of Sheep
in Northamptonshire, from “ Diseases and Unnatural Death, by
the Rules of Art.”—Because the Proprietor was Fool enough
to Buy a Lamen, and his Sheep were no more afflicted than
64 ECCE HOMO!
his Neighbours’, the Doctor takes the Liberty to say, “ I savt
them”/ and “ Don't you call this a Miracle ? ”—If these Shee
had all Died, and the Doctor had Restored them to Life,
should have readily acknowledged it Miraculous: but th>
Tale, as it now stands, is Idle and Contemptible.
Then he prates a great deal about Ploughshares, and
Coulters, and Swaytrees, and Gears being Stolen, and after¬
wards Recovered by “ the Rules of Art.”—Aye, and mcm
than that, he u made an Old Cow Dance a Hornpipe !”—
Heye dyddelle dyddell,
Ye katte and ye fythelle.
Ye Kowe ivmpt ouer ye moune ;
Ye lyttell dogge laught
Toe se syche craffte,
And ye dyshe runne avvaie vvythe ye spoone.
Ancient Nursery Ballad.
PrettyAmusement surely for an Ambassador of Heaven!
But—
“ The Sports of Children Satisfy the Child!”
In page 40, we have a repetition of his “ Universal Chal¬
lenge to the Learned,”23 but with this addition, that whoever
shall “Confute, Defeat, or prove to be False and Erroneous,
any Article, Subject, Matter, or Thing in this Book,” shall
not only receive “ the Silver Cup,” but “ a Good and Bene¬
ficial Flagellation into the Bargain, without Respect to
Persons, Dignities, Rank, or Titles, whatsoever !”—Oh dear,
oh dear—Englishmen take Care of your Bums l
“ God save the King and defend this Nation.”
Why so say I: but I believe the Doctor would as rea¬
dily Execrate both King and Nation if he could sell a Lamen
by it.
<ff
33 See page 5 of this Work
ECCE HOMO ! 65
There are two or three other “ Miracles,” as he calls them,
afterwards enumerated, so nearly allied to those T have given
account of, that it is quite supererogatory to dwell upon them.
One is a second edition of the Cattle-saving Story ; another
the Recovery of a Sick Man by the united powers of Physic
and Magic ; the third regards his Own Son ;—but by the bye
let us look at this last more particularly.
“ Some time since, my Son lived with a Surgeon at Na-
venby, which is about seventeen miles distant from me, who
had the misfortune to be thrown from a Horse, on June 7,
1813, who then pitched on his Head, which bled inwardly;
the consequence of which, was this, that he was most griev¬
ously afflicted by strong and violent Fits, which commenced
with one Fit in two or three days, and then afterwards in¬
creased to one and often two in a day, when he required
three stout men to hold him for about two hours at each
time. This most grievous and most dreadful intelligence
was brought to me by the following Letter” written by
my Son.
[Extract.^—* * * * * “ Having rode down the
street a little way, I felt very low in my spirits, and also
very dizzy, that I fell from the horse ; after which, I got
up again, and felt myself something better, and after having
mounted again, the horse took fright, and gallopped a-
way as fast as his legs could carry him; I having nothing
but a snaffle bridle on, I could not stop him, the faster I
tried to hold him, the faster he went. I rode very well
while I came to Wellingore mill, where the horse threw
me off, but whereabouts I cannot tell; I pitched upon my
head, having no hat on, which made me quite insensible.
* * * * A neighbour came to meet me, but I did not
know him ; he asked me some questions, but I answered
him in a state of insensibility; he took me to my master’s,
wTho told him to take me to my uncle’s house, and he would
come to me there himself; he accordingly came, and took
Another sample of his Knowledge of All Things Past, Pres*,
ent, and To Come !
G 2
66 ECCE HOMO !
THREE PARTS OF A BASIN OF BLOOD AWAY FROM ME. This
happened about two o’clock in the afternoon. * * * *
I remain your dutiful Son,
J. PARKINS.”
The words printed in Capitals are rather emphatical: in¬
asmuch as they completely overturn the idea of Miracle. The
three parts of a basin of blood being taken away, was, as the
Lad’s Master was aware of, the Ground of his Recovery.
And the Tale of the Power of the Lamen is nothing better
than the Tale of a Tub.
A few more words may not be altogether superfluous.
He “ knows,” he Says, “ AIL Things Past, Present, and To
Come.” Of course, then, he Must have been Acquainted
with this accident Antecedently.—And he can “ Remove and
Prevent All the Accidents and Miseries of this lifewhy
then, I ask, did he allow his Only Child to be thus “ most
Grievously Afflicted,” and Himself, on that account, to
“ Dread the return of every day ?” What can speak Plainer
than this the Fallacy of the Doctor’s Pretentions.—Verily
u out of thine Own Mouth will I Condemn thee!”
-—“ I suppose this to be as Great a Miracle as ever I
Performed.”
Why I suppose so too : but I remember that in 1817,
when many of the Working Classes were reduced to a state
of Starvation, that he was recommended by a Friend of mine,
(to whom he was Largely Expatiating upon the Greatness of
his Power,) to Turn the Cross, in Grantham Market Place,
into Bread-loaves, and distribute them to the Poor.—This
would have been a greater Miracle than the one he considers
his Chef d'CEuvre: at all events it would have established,
beyond a doubt, that he was no Impostor; and would have
brought upon his head the Prayers and the Blessings of Man¬
kind.—But as my Friend happened to be as Poor in Pocket
ECCE HOMO ! 67
as in Faith, and could neither afford to pay him a Guinea for
his trouble, nor compel himself to think the Doctor “ a Holy
Man of God,” the Doctor would not take the Hint, and the
Cross still remains in its old situation ; the Stones of which it
is composed are as Hard and as Unfit for Food as ever.
Query—If the Overseers of the Poor were to Bribe him
to Feed the Paupers, as Christ did the Multitude with five
barley loaves and two small fishes, daily, would it not tend
very much to Diminish the Poor-rates ? This surely would
be no very Hard Task to an Ambassador of Heaven, who has
the Power to set Old Cows a-Dancing.
“We also read, and are informed by the Holy Scrip¬
tures, that there are diseases caused by the possession of
Evil or Unclean Spirits; Matt. xii. 43, 45 ; from whence
eometh also, diseases by Witchcraft, which have often ter¬
minated in Death.”
I do not recollect to have ever read in Scripture, or any
where else, except the Damonologie of King James, and Bax¬
ter’s Certainty of the World of Spirits, that Witchcraft has
ever caused diseases which terminated in Death. Indeed I
am rather inclined to doubt with the more enlightened part of
mankind, the Existence of Witches and Witchcraft at all,—
at least in the sense the Doctor represents it.
But the testimony of the Bible, as to the Witch of Endor,
is certainly conclusive evidence that there have been such ;—
and perhaps there may be now—I cannot tell: such instances
are very, very rare; and in all the cases I have heard of, the
circumstances, when candidly and liberally looked into, have
always ended in a conviction, that no such charge was genuine.
It may be objected, that the Great, the Virtuous, the Pious
Judge Hale condemned some poor Wretches to the Gallows
for this Crime. I admit it. But it should be remembered,
that he Himself was not altogether convinced that the Prison-
68 ECCE HOMO !
ers were Guilty, or that they could be Guilty.—His Lordship
was so much affected, he could not even sum up the Evidence,
but left it, as he emphatically said, “ to God and to the Jury.”
Supposing, however, he had been well convinced that the
Prisoners were Witches and Wizards ;—still—he was only
Human : susceptible as other men to Error : and who can say
that this great man might not for Once be Wrong? When
He expressed his Doubts, Who is to Decide?
I have no objection, however, to Concede all my Stoicism,
and to allow, for once, the Whole Truth of the Doctrine of
Witches and their Craft: but against the Power of Doctor
Parkins to Thwart or Exterminate them, I Solemnly Protest.
God Almighty declares the Love of Money to be the Root of
all Evil; and I think it very Unlikely He should endow a
Man like This with Supernatural Ability, for the purpose of
enabling him to Gratify his Voracious Appetite for Gold.—
As to his compelling Witches and Wizards to appear, in Pro¬
pria Persona, at the Temple of Wisdom, and Fighting him,
“ Power against Power—Art against Art—and Life against
Life”—the Story might not be a bad one for Mother Goose’s
Tales, or it will do very well to Frighten Superannuated Old
Women and Four-year-old Children ; but it will hardly pass
current in a Country that Boasts of its Enlightenment in the
Nineteenth Century.
I have now given plenty of Samples of the Wisdom, Ho¬
liness, and Cleverness of this Self-dubbed Doctor.—To the
Liberal and Enlightened, I think they are quite Sufficient;—
and to others—let them Head his Publications as Attentively
as I have done, and Believe him if they Choose.
CONCLUSION.
In taking a retrospective glance over the contents of these
pages, before I finally consign them to the Printer,—I feel a
gratification in declaring, that I have found no passage I wish
to Expunge, no Sentiment to Suppress, nor no Epithet I do
ijot think Deservedly Applied. The Language, in some
places, may perhaps be considered rather too Severe: but it is
a subject which calls for Severity. While, however, I totally
disavow the intention to Libel, I conceive it cannot be Li¬
bellous to Reprimand him who is every day Libelling his
Makef.
The first step Parkins made towards his present height
of Blasphemy and Imposture, was, to Dignify himself with
the Title of DOCTOR, and to commence Watercaster, As¬
trologer, and Fortuneteller ; but he was then consulted only
by Silly Servant Girls, who wanted Sweethearts, and Brain¬
sick Lovers, pining after Maids. A temporary Suspension
being given to his practice in 1810, at the Grantham Sessions,
he invented the System of Lamenism, or Spiritual Astrology,
in the hope of evading further interruption from the Law ;
and by one Bold Stroke after another, arrived at his present
pitch of Worthless Popularity.
But, What are these Lamens? They are really Non-4©-
scriptive. A piece of Old Rag, sewed together at the ends
and sides, is the Charm. This is the Lamen ; and this he
avers is Consecrated by the Rules of his pretended A rt, and
operates upon the Angelic Host, as a Powerful Talisman,
binding them into the Service of the Wearer, in like manner
70 ECCE HOMO !
as the Lamp of Alladin, in the Arabian Nights, did the Ge¬
nii. This Charm is accompanied by an Imprecatory Prayer,
to be read every hour; and without which it would be of no
effect. During the time the Wearer is Using his Lamen, he
must Believe Fervently in its power, and that the object
for which it was Consecrated will be Accomplished. Faith
in its power is so Essential, that its Influence without it is en¬
tirely Lost.23 Swearing, Lying, and every other sin, even in
Thought, is to be avoided. The Least Deviation from these
Directions is Fatal: the Lamen becomes Impotent, and the
Doctor has his Mousehole to creep out of.
As a Writer, the Doctor ranks the Lowrest of all Doggrell
Scribblers. The Stiff Formality of a Lawyer compasses the
whole variety of his Flowers of Literature. He is pretty
well versed, nevertheless, in the Art of Book-making. He
has said himself, that he could make a thick octavo volume to
elucidate the History of an Old Willow Tree, as well as one
that required Depth of Thought and Understanding-and
I believe him.
I have observed before, that he is, of all others, the Gross-
25 A Mr. G-, of Westby, having Lost his Pocket-book, with
several Pounds in it, applied to the Doctor—paid a Guinea—and
received for it one of these bits of Old Rag and a Prayer. This
Mr. G. it should be known, is an ardent Admirer of Sir John Barley-
corn. When he get home, for once in his life he summoned his whole
Family around him, and down went the Old Boyr on his Marrowr-
bones—one Eye fixed upon the Paper, and the other sklenting at the
Door, expecting, no doubt, to see his Pocket-book and Pounds walk
in. The Neighbours were Paralyzed with Amazement at the Phe¬
nomenon, and fancied he had suddenly turned Methodist. This was
repeated till he grew weary of its repetition : and at last he went to
Remonstrate with the Doctor on its Ill Success. Why, says the Am¬
bassador, I see you haven’t FAITH !— Faith ! says G. what’s that ?
Oh, replies Parkins, be off! he that has not Faith, need not expect to
be served by the Army of Heaven !—Thus it is with all his Lamens —
They All Fail, for WANT OF FAITH ! !!
ECCE HOMO! 71
est of Plagiarists. Any thing, whether Prose or Poetry,
that He fancies will chime in with his doctrine, and swell out
his Pamphlets, he Impudently quotes as his Own ! conscious
that as his Books are only adapted for the Lower Classes of
Readers, his Pilferies are not very likely to be discovered.
Finally, I again Repeat, I have written these Remarks
solely as a Caution to the Public. I am well enough aware
they might have come from a much Better Pen : if any other
Man had written on this subject, I should still have remained
in Obscurity. But I have done to the best of my Ability: I
have made no Misquotations : I have wilfully Misrepresented
nothing. I conclude with the Hope, that Some may be ben-
efitted by my Labours ; and with the Assurance, that I am
no more anxious to Expose the Doctor as an Impostor, than
to Warn him to Turn from his Wickedness and Live.
FINIS.
}
ADDENDUM.
BY THE PRINTER'S DEVIL.
While conning over the Book of Miracles, to Read the
Extracts to the Corrector of the Press, my Wandering Eye
caught the following Beautiful Lines, which I think must have
been Overlooked by the Writer of the foregoing Sheets:—
“ THE AUTHOR'S SONG.
“ After I was first Created, and Lord of the Universe Crown’d,
I gave my Address to the Public, and took no less than a Pound :
Its Love, Law, Trade, and Physic, that’s all my whole Delight,
I’ll always attend to their Commands, both by Day and Night.”
How Exquisite in Idea!—how Sublime in Sentiment!!
—how Grand in Imagery!!!—
■■ “ Take it all in all,
We ne’er shall look upon the like again 1”
DIABOLUS.
Storr, Printer, Grantham.
