{"name":"On The Sentient Faculty","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1819__corbaux___on_the_sentient_faculty.pdf","mytitle":"On The Sentient Faculty","mylang":"de"}
ON THE
SENTIENT FACULTY,
AND PRINCIPLES OF
HUMAN MAGNETISM;
TRANSLATED FROM THE FRENCH OF COUNT DE REDERN,
AND ELUCIDATED WITH
0 O t
By FRANCIS CORBAUX, E s q .
OF WINCHELSEA.
1
J
u He t h a t an sw ere th a h a t t e r b efo re h e h r a r e th it , i t is f o lly and
shame UNTO HIM." Proverbs, Chap, xviii. ver. 13.
Lonftotu
PRINTED FOR SHERWOOD, NEELY, AND JONES,
PATERNOSTER-ROW.
/ 1819.
V
/
CONTENTS
PAGE
Preface ..................................... 7
Oil the Sentient Faculty: an Enquiry into the modi­
fications of Perception, under various determinable con­
ditions of our Existence..................................................... 17
State of Waking........................................... ..................... 32
----------- Sleeping........... ................................ 96
— ........Noctambuli6M ........................................ 42
Delirium, Insanity, and other States of Disease....... . 45
Comparative Review.......................... 51
Human Magnetism, and Somnambulism...................... 60
1
Conclusion •••••....................... 107
Notes ................... HO
i0
4
PREFACE.
T h i s work e m b r a c e s ,mthin a small compass,
objects o f the first m
a
g
n
i
t
u
d
e
. I t points at ele­
vated truths, upon which we are solicited to
meditate; and is a compendium o f momentous
considerations, each o f which might be the text
o f a whole volume.
The author is a Swedish nobleman o f science
and erudition, residing in France. He is mem­
ber o f a society instituted at Paris, under the
presidency o f the Marquis de PuysSgur, fo r
the purposes o f improving the knowledge o f H u­
man Magnetism, encouraging its practice, and
diffusing information concerning that doctrine,
purified from intermixed etrors. With these
♦
viii
views he published, under the title o f “ Des
M odes a c c id e n t e l s d e nos P e r c e p ­
t io n s ” the tract now translated, and o f
which the original has gone through several
editions.
9
H is object has been, chiefly, to demonstrate
that our five senses bear upon a common point
analogy, indicative o f a primary and general
form o f perception, modified by each sense in a
specific manner. H e defines and compares our
perceptions, sensations, and other faculties, un­
der the influence o f diffetent states or conditions
o f human existence; and what he advances, with
reference to the complication those states, the
developement and exercise o f that primary and
latent form o fperception, the suspension of
memory, and as it were the separate modes o f
existence in one and the same person, abounds
in new and profound conceptions.
To avoid trespassing upon the province of
critics more enlightened, I abstain from any
IX
f urther analization o f Count de Redem’s book:
nor could myozmjudgment o f its peculiar
i n d e e d ,
be receivedmthoutthe imputation o fpar­
tiality. It shall merely be in
• that various matters selected by ancient philoso­
phers as worthy o f particular yet treated
in later days with inconsiderate are
placed by him in such a clear and novel point of
view, as to claim our most serious attention.
The conciseness o f the work, and ( if I may
say thus much) its rather elliptic forms, con­
sidering the abstract nature o f the subject, could
•
not admit a translation by mere metaphrase,
mthout degenerating into obscurity ; therefore 1
have presumed sometimes to enlarge on the
text, attentive to preserve the strict original sense,
as fa r as local considerations have permitted.
I have allowed myself the further latitude
supplying a series o f No t e s ; either as necessary
explanations, or fo r the purpose o f adducing re­
markablefacts, illustrative o f the author's state­
ments and o f my own opinions.
X
Hozvever desirous o f contributing to the object
contemplated by the magnetic society o f which
I am also a m e m b e r ,
it is not without hesita
that I venture on this undertaking. The present
time is scarcely propitious to the promulgation
o f certaint r u t h s ,
which the publicmind can­
not view without prejudice and con­
sequence o f unfavourable impressions attending
their first in
tro
d
u
c
tio
n
a
sso
c
ia
te
d with false
theories and unwarrantable pretensions;
a doctrine once discarded is thenceforth de­
prived o f the privileges o f novelty. There was
to be waved the further consideration o f my own
deficiencies, towards the accomplishment o f a
task to which literary talents, i f open possessed,
would still be inadequate; unless the translator
were familiarised, like myself, with facts o f a
peculiar description, from a long and daily habit'
o f observing them. B ut I trust an indulgent
and discriminating public m il allow fo r my
motives; and many intelligent persons having
lately travelled on the continent, where Human
Magnetism is not only patronised, but is also
XI
practised by all classes o f not except­
ing medical men, this book may possess some
attraction.
Should my efforts meet the approbation o f a
small number o f persons o f candid and compre­
hensive minds, having influence over the public
opinion; and should they be induced to take up,
in the spirit o f truly impartial inquiry, the most
interesting parts o f the subject here they
m il ultimately be marked as benefactors o f man­
kind, and the author's utmost no less than
my ossm, m ilbe realized.
Experience has shewn, that the more exalted a
new doctrine, and the more transcendant those
truths which it proclaims, the more opposition
also it excites; and the greater lapse o f time is
requisite,,fo r overcoming the phalanx o f adver­
saries arrayed against evidence, however *
which they, pertinaciously reject to their own dis­
advantage, from a misconceived interest sup­
porting popular errors. That this short prodiic-
xii
iion,t h e r e f o r e ,will be assailed with every shaft o f
criticism is easily foreseen.
To critics o f a liberal who forbear pas­
sing judgment upon men, without hearing, or
upon things without knowingthem, it is submit
with due deference. B ut a silent appeal, to
the future progress o f general information, is
all that can be offered to those who indiscri­
minately abet all prejudices propagated in suf­
ficient extent to have become fashionable; and
who sustain borrowed opinions, upon any question,
with greater intolerence and violence, in propor­
tion as they have taken less pains to form a
judgment properly their own.
To persons who, adhering to the doctrine
I am understood to uphold, have nevertheless
taken a different view o f it, a few words only
need be addressed. I do not entertain any
rivalship; and, in the pursuit o f truth, am
equally exempt from conflicting interest and per­
sonal pretensions. Neither am I wedded, nor
•••
XH1
hostile,to any determinate school o f Magnetists
but appreciate the real merits o f aware
that if their opinions differ in some they
are reconcileable in the main. Justice and L i­
berality, towards all, is the course upon which
I mean to proceed.
The medical men o f this country, who de­
servedly hold a high rank in the estimation o f
Europe,fo r erudition, science and skill, may now
without apprehension investigate and enter­
tain the doctrine o f Human Magnetism; since
several continental sovereigns have publicly
acknowledged its validity, and among the rest
• the king o f Prussia, by a solemn decree. To
prevent abuses, he has limited its practice, (as a
profession) to the members o f the he
has appointed a professor o f it (Hr. Wofa r t) in
- the Royal Academy o f Berlin, and has founded
an hospital, fo r the cure o f diseases by the mag­
netic practice. Besides, the custom in Germany,
as well as in France, is to combine this with
medical remedies; by which means, cures have
XIV
often been accomplished with greater promptitude
and certainty.
As a caution to all classes o f , it may
be sufficient to recal to their minds an ,
from one o f our much admired , though
not always uherrring or orthodox:—
“ An Embassador was sent, by the Dutch,
to the king of Siam. Attentive to every means
of forwarding his views, he omitted not to in­
sinuate himself into favour, by entertaining
this Indian king with accounts of remark­
able events, and things of which the latter
was ignorant. The embassador once ven­
tured so far as to say, that in his own
country, at a particular season of the year,
water became so hard that loaded waggons
crossed rivers and lakes, with no more diffi­
culty than on the high road. To which
the king replied: I hitherto considered
you as an honest man, but now I am
convinced you are an impostor:—Go from
XV
my presence: I will hold no further inter­
course with you, nor with those who sent
you hither.”
T h e T r a n s l a t o r .
•4
/
ON THE
SENTIENT FACULTY:
AN JSNQUIRY INTO
THE MODIFICATIONS OF PERCEPTION,
UNDER VARIOUS DETERMINABLE
CONDITIONS OF OUR EXISTENCE.
T h e development of all human faculties
spontaneously results from the perception of
our Being, and of external objects. Every
perception is referable to some previous im­
pression. Sensation is produced by the mode
of our being affected, in consequence of
the perceptions and impressions received.
Perception involves a consciousness of our
individuality, and of the existence and pro­
perties of the object to. which it applies.
Sensation also involves, in one common view,
B
18
that consciousness of self, and of the manner
in which we are affected. Understanding con­
siders and classes the perceptions, and the
sensations; it frames , according to
certain laws peculiar to its own essence: but
an adequate degree of attention must indis-
pensiblj co-operate, without which act of the
will, both perception and sensation would
remain destitute of effect (1).
From these positions it is to be inferred,
that however different their natures, sensations
and ideas originate in one and the same cause.
Yet it is a difficult matter to ascertain, with
strict accuracy, what really belongs to the
object perceived, contradistinguished from
what belongs, solely, to the'mode of percep­
tion with which we are gifted.
Space and Time-general conditions to
which all our perceptions are subordinate—
may, perhaps, be not any thing more than
sensible modes of our understanding. They
embrace, from the grossest sensation, to the
19
most abstract idea; and the boldest flight of
thought would vainly attempt to withdraw,
from their vortex, the smallest part of our
existence. It has been impossible, hitherto,
to account for that characteristic necessity
with which is stamped every notion derived
from them; otherwise than under the hypo­
thesis just stated, and which is the more pro­
bable, as it clears up difficulties left without
any solution in other known systems.
/
Our senses establish a relation between us
and every surrounding object; they convey
the perception of a multitude of beings, no
less diversified in their essence, than varied
in the modes of their existence; and by which
we are affected, either agreeably or disagree­
ably, even before we can account for the sen­
sations they have produced. Our ideas, our
feelings, our passions, are simultaneously un­
folded and combined into thousands of dif­
ferent forms.
(We shall remark by the way, that the true
20
secret of education, with regard both to in­
dividuals and to nations, consists in establish­
ing a proper connexion' between Ideas and
Feielings; which is the most important point
of consideration, for those whose object might
be to act upon the mind, and to give any par­
ticular direction to general opinions.)
Man, from native curiosity, is induced
to enquire about those objects which strike
his attention. At the commencement, all
things assume the semblance of reality; but
we incline more and more to detect them as
mere appearances, when proceeding to con­
sider, as one collective object, that immen­
sity of things held up to our view, and which
we audaciously call the , without ad­
verting to the narrow limits of our intellect,
which preclude our encompassing more than
a very insignificant portion of it.
The operation of those senses with which
we are endowed establishes, between self and
the objects of perception, fiveprincipal modes
■
JU
T
21
of relation, which appear to be so many dis­
tinct means of discovering the properties of
those objects (2). Of that number, some do
not seemingly require the assistance of any
medium, or intermediate agent, to inform
us of the presence of those objects which exist
distinctly from ourselves; but. they act only
when in contact with such objects. The other
senses, on the contrary, operate at great dis­
tances; whilst their functions are performed
through the instrumentality of specific me­
diums.
Atmospheric air, or possibly some other
subtile fluid intermixed with it, is necessary
for transmitting, to our sense of hearing, the
vibrations which take place in sonorous bodies,
and are even propagated unto considerable
distances. A delicate ear is still impressed,
very distinctly, with sounds, no longer per­
ceptible by a grosser organ. But how hap­
pens it, that such vibrations assume the form,
sometimes of a rending sound, sometimes of
a tremendous noise, and at other times of a
22
delightful melody ?—What is the relation sub­
sisting between that real property, which
determinates any particular description of
vibration in the sonorous body, and the
sensation which arises from it?—Is it not
the manner of our being affected, which
we discover, rather than the nature of the
object?
The sense of sight enjoys a peculiar privi­
lege ; that of establishing a relation between
us and the infinite. It embraces, from the
vermicule creeping at our feet, and the ephe­
meral 'insect fluttering around us on a fine
summer's day, unto the celestial bodies which,
revolving in their immense orbits, bid as it
were defiance to eternity itself; but still it re­
quires the interposition of a special medium.
A fluid so eminently subtile, that thought
alone can overtake its rapid course, seems to
supply both forms and colours. Space is
filled with the substance of light, whose agency
however is effectually paralyzed by the inter­
position of any opaque body; and we are
33
environed with darkness, wherever that sub
stance is unable to penetrate.
The character of our perceptions, by sight,
is liable to influence from any particular con­
dition of the appropriate organ: whenever
this receives a material accession of sensibi­
lity, in consequence of disease, the objects
become perceptible notwithstanding the cir­
cumstance of local obscurity (3); but some­
times appear destitute of their proper, colours.
What then constitutes, in bodies, that pro­
perty to which we are indebted for the per­
ception of colour?—We know it not (4); but
again, our judgment refers to the mode ac­
cording to which we are affected, rather than
to the nature of its presumed object.
The eye, investigated in its detail, exhibits
a very beautiful instrument, of which the
camera obscura is only an imperfect imitation.
The remotest part of that organ is formed by
one extremity of the optic nerve, so expand­
ing, as to receive without any confusion, and
u
upon a field extremely small, the perfect
image of an immensity of objects, composing
the most extensive landscape.
The ear is an acoustic instrument, the ad­
mirable structure of which is so calculated,
as to collect the vibrations of sonorous bodies,
and transmit them to a set of nerves directed
through the internal parts of the head.
The olfactory sense, from its seemingly
distant operation, is in some measure inter­
mediate between those of feeling and taste,
considered on the one part, and those of sight
and hearing, considered on the other: it
brings into contact such particles Us emanate
from bodies, rather than it -informs us of
' m
any of their positive properties. Indeed, we
scarcely know whether there be any such
things as bodies essentially odorous; but cer­
tainly we could not, otherwise than from
contact, perceive in them any quality of this
description, were there to exist no odoriferous
emanations. Smelling has some affinity with
25
Taste; the exhalation, from alimentary sub*
stances, being no less pleasurable to us than
their sapidness.
Taste is, of all our senses, the one which in
various respects approaches nearest to that
of Feeling. It is a description of tact, ap­
plied by a Specific organ to a property very
diversified in its effects upon us, yet common
to a vast number of substances, and to which
we have- given the appellation of sapidity.
In this instance also, we obviously form our
judgment of the sensation received, much
more than of any property belonging to the
bodies producing it; the cause of which re­
mains entirely unknown. Taste, any more
than Tact, is not susceptible of operating
at a distance from the object to which it
applies (5).
Tact, or Feeling, causes us to perceive the
differences of temperature, the solid or liquid
state, and the hardness or softness of bodies.
It is a sense common to all those distinct parts
26
of our organization, which participate in the
operation of the nervous system. Although
it seems directly to inform us of the shapes of
objects, yet is this information conveyed in a
very indirect manner. All sensations ori­
ginating from tactare dependent upon th
description of the surfaces: these are found to
be smooth—even—rough—asperous, &c.; but
the notions of which we thus assume a con-'
ception, do not really consist in any thing
more than a consecution of inferences, drawn
by our understanding, from a comparison of
sensations, and from repeated experiments.
It is observable, that one of the senses,
which operates at distances even indefinite,
and another sense, whose action would meet
an insuperable obstacle from the smallest dis­
tance imaginable, equally convey to us a
perception of the shapes of objects (6).
Our different senses have a common centre
of analogy; and this appears to point out the
existence of some principal form o f per-
27
c e p t io n , of which they were only particular
modifications.
Sight touches the light; the vibra­
tions of that fluid which has received those
arisen in sonorous bodies; smelling also touches
substantial emanations; taste and feeling, the
very substances to which these senses are
applied. All convey perceptions to us, and
become causes of sensation, from some move­
ment, some sort of modification in a part of
our nervous system. At the same time, the
diversity of perceptions thus transmitted, and
the varied manner in which we are affected
by them, constitute essential differences be­
tween each of those senses and every other;
but the cause, probably very complicated
in its description, is entirely removed from
our knowledge.
Therefore it would seem, that the various
points of information acquired through the
means of our perceptions, and concerning the
nature and properties of external objects, are
i,
»
)
\
V
28
i
reducible to a single one, which alone can
with any sort of reality be attributed to them;
it is, anotion o f their , which itself is
not any thing more than a limitation of the
three dimensions of space—one o f the sensible
forms o f our understanding; that all the rest
depend entirely on the particular mode of our
perception; and that s
e,or the manner
in which we are affected by any perception,
belongs exclusively to ourselves.
The action exerted by the objects with
which our senses are impressed, together with
the'effect produced upon the latter, are re­
solved into a propagation of nervous concus­
sion, or excitement, even to the remotest
ramifications discoverable in those nerves
which belong to the interior of the head; and
the product of this is sensation and perception.
The former affects us, either agreeably or dis­
agreeably : the latter calls upon us to notice
the existence and properties of objects, or
(to speak more accurately) the species of re­
lation established between them and our
29
\
organization and understanding respectively.
Sensations and Perceptions are classed by
our understanding, according to laws de­
rived from its proper nature; and our ideas
are gradually unfolded, as those operations of
the mind successively take place. What con­
nexion does there exist, between operations
of such description, and, either the inter­
weaving of fibres and of vessels, or the pro­
perties of elastic fluids and of solid substances,
all which form the component parts of or­
ganized bodies ?
The instantaneous transmission of percep­
tions and sensations; the sudden operation
of human m il, upon the moveable faculties of
our body, have long called forth the attention
of philosophers and physiologists. Since ana­
tomy has supplied more accurate information
respecting the nervous system, an explanation
of these phenomena has been sought in the
supposed existence of a very subtile fluid, to
which it is generally conceived the nerves
30
serve as vehicles, and which becomes an agent
of volition.
But under such an hypothesis, it is neces­
sary to admit that this fluid, usually deno­
minated nervous f
l
u
i
d
, has also to perform the
functions of a medium, or agent interposed
between the understanding and external ob­
jects, the perception of which is conveyed
through its instrumentality. This, however,
serves but to remove somewhat further the
difficulty; and the main question does not the
less remain as before:—
How are we to account for the relation
subsisting between any movement of nervous
fibres, or between the operation of any fluid
however described, and our perceptions,
ideas, understanding, and volition ?
This question has given rise to various hy­
potheses. The least comprehensible of them
all, is the one in which our different faculties
31
have been considered as the mere product of
human organization; originating with it, and
ultimately involved in its destruction.
For the present, we shall wave this im­
portant subject of discussion, and limit our­
selves to investigating those modes according
to which the exercise of the sentient faculty
is manifested, under different conditions of
human existence.
32
STATE OF WAKING.
The waking state is better understood than
any other. It is that of which the appropriate
phenomena maintain the most constant cha­
racter; unless disease, or violent passions,
should occasionally produce an alteration in
the regular uniformity of their features.
The gift of speech establishes a relation
between each of us and our fellow-creatures:
it opens a free communication amongst all
mankind.
The human body is a submissive instru­
ment; the use of which, according to the
degrees of strength and agility it has attained,
meets with no difficulty.
The senses freely perform their respective
functions, without impediment or interruption.
S3
Through their instrumentality, the perception
of external objects is conveyed to us with a
sufficient degree of intenseness, to prevent
confusion from ever taking place, between
them and the remembrances recalled by me­
mory, or either the combinations or varied
fictions of the most vivid imagination.
The general forms of Time and Spaced to­
gether with every notion of determinate pe­
riods and localities, are maintained in an
invariable order.
t
Sensations and ideas are classed with regu­
larity, recorded in the memory, and revived
by each^ther, according to some sort of rule,
in which Volition does' not seemingly co­
operate. This generally occurs in the same
order, whether simultaneous or successive, in
which they originated; otherwise it results
from analogy: the two former apparently
depending on some mechanism of organiza­
tion, and the latter on some operation of the
mind.
34
V
olition, however, exerts no inconsiderable
power over our ideas. We command, or we
repel them; we settle our attention upon, or
remove it from them, at pleasure; we compare
and we reflect; judgment and reason discrimi­
nate between truth' and error, semblance and
absurdity, mprality and immorality of actions
or of thoughts.
When absorbed by predominant ideas, our
attention is withdrawn from external objects;
and we fall into a particular mood, commonly
called absence o f mind. Often, allowing the
imagination to rove at a venture, we lapse into
a species of reverie, in which reason and vo­
lition are no longer concerned. Our secret
inclinations are then called into imaginary
action; and the best method of acquiring a
thorough knowledge of ourselves might be, to
study what passes within us, at those times
when, losing sight of the world of realities,
we give the rein to fanciful images of our
own creation (7).
35
A remarkable psychological phenomenon
not unfrequently occurs, during absence of
mind: we cease to be inwardly sensible of the
existence of external objects, without how­
ever an absolute discontinuance in our percep­
tion of them. This is still subsisting, but for a
whjle we remain without any consciousness
of it; and it is only afterwards, that an object,
the presence of which we had not noticed at
the time being, is recalled to our mind (8).
The interval is but small, which separates
this particular state from that of sleeping;
the phenomena belonging to which require
the more attentive investigation, as they do
not exhibit the same characteristic evidence
as those which accompany the waking state.
36
STATE OF SLEEPING.
In this, we are divested of the locomotive
faculty; and our limbs but imperfectly exe­
cute a few semi-motions, which are merely
the involuntary results of sensation (9).
Our senses become incapable of conveying
any perception of external objects.
The body, so obedient to our call when in
the waking state, now refuses its co-operation.
There passes within us a sort of curious
scene, of which most frequently we are rather
spectators than performers; and yet, almost
always deeply affected by it. Sometimes, it
may be compared to a magic-lanthorn: a
variety of images file off in succession, with­
out order or connexion; they are pleasant or
37
unpleasant to us, and occasionally appear so
hideous as to produce grief and terror: in­
visible interlocutors speak, whom we only
hear, without seeing. At other times, it is a
complete event: animals, human beings, fan­
tastical ones, appear to act in our presence;
we converse with them, and feel as somehow
participating in the imaginary occurrence.
But this is much less any positive action, ori­
ginating with ourselves, than a condition.in
which we experience very diversified sen­
sations; and any attempt at real action is,
almost invariably, accompanied with a sense
of unconquerable difficulty in the execution.
The common notions, which in the waking
state are referable to time and space, subsist
only in a vague manner during sleep, when
there scarcely remains any further idea of
them, than the image of some particular place,
together with the forms of objects. Persons
of all centuries, and of all countries, are then
reunited: every thing is referred to the pre-
38
sent; and all idea, whether of past or future,
is entirely out of consideration.
Sometimes the objects are confused, and
appear as it were through a mist, but still
retain a seeming reality; the sensation always
remaining sufficiently lively to produce this
effect, because it then meets no point of com-
. parison, from any actual perception ofexternal
objects.
We are liable, during sleep, to a variety of
intense affections; such as pleasure, allure­
ment, grief, or horror. Sometimes, we feel
ourselves in a condition peculiarly wretched;
but are sensible, neither of the verisimilitude
or absurdity of events, nor of the morality or
immorality of discourses or actions. Memory,
Imagination, Inclinations, the Passions, are
all active; but the mind affords only a passive
attention. Neither Judgment, Reason, or Vo-
lition, take any concern in the occurrences of
that fantastical world (10).
39
It is not a little remarkable, with reference
to this state, that our most noble faculties, and
the coarse envelope which serves us as an in­
strument, should equally be subjected to such
a condition of absolute supineness; whilst
every other part of ourselves preserves its full
action. And it is no less so, that we should
/
daily recommence attributing a similar reality
to the same chimeras, of which (happily for
us) the far greater part are usually forgotten,
the moment we awake.
It has often been assumed, that, during pro­
found sleep, all our faculties are reduced to
absolute inactivity ; yet we ought to be inti­
mately convinced* that there is not one single
moment of our whole existence, in which we
are destitute altogether of perception, sensa­
tion, and idea. Children, generally of a more
moveable disposition than adults, exhibit
symptoms of inward and almost constant
occupation, during their sleep. A well known
method, of learning with greater ease any
lesson by heart, is to repeat it near the time of
going to sleep ; and by so doing, it is alw ays
best remembered the next morning. A striking
concatenation is frequently to be remarked,
between the first ideas occurring to us in th e
morning, and those which occupied the mind
previously to falling asleep. Upon observing
one’s self at the instant of being awoke, even
in the most abrupt manner, it will invariably
be found that some idea was, immediately
before this, preponderating in the mind: it is
however a transient recollection only; which,
unless seized with the greatest care, will not
afterwards leave the smallest trace. How could
these operations be accounted for, under the
supposition of our faculties having remained
entirely inert; and the non-existence of inter­
mediate series of perceptions, sensations, or
ideas, throughout the course of the night.
Several phenomena, of a specific descrip­
tion, are often manifested during sleep. They
have sometimes been considered as a mere
modification of that state, and at other times
41
as constituting a disease; but probably are
neither the one nor the other. They belong
to the condition of Somnambulism; and this
has lately been called in order
to discriminate from Magnetic ,
which has exclusively retained tjie first deno­
mination.
/
42
*
*
*
A
STATE OF NOCTAMBULISM.
«
This has a greater affinity with the waking,
than with the sleeping state.
The Noctambulist exerts his locomotive
faculties ; has the free use of his limbs, with
that of speech, of understanding, of volition,
and (according to outward appearance) even
of his five senses; but with a very remarkable
alteration, as to that of sight.
He possesses greaterdexterity,withmore agi­
lity,and displays superior intellectualcapacity,
than when awake. He treads, without appre­
hension or accident, the most perilous paths;
upon the roofs of houses, or any where else,
with certainty of attaining the end which he
has proposed to himself. He reads, writes,
and composes; revises what he has performed
in the waking state, as a master would correct
the exercise of his pupil.
4 3
He sees, although not with his eyes; which,
very often, are open and reversed, so that the
whites alone are perceptible; or else the
pupils are paralyzed. The interposition of
any opaque body, between his eyes and the
paper upon which he is writing, would not
compel him to discontinue; neither would he
be aware of any intended obstacle, nor indeed
would it in the least operate as an impediment.
Sudden noise is attended with a sort of un­
easiness ; yet has he only a very vague sense
of hearing (11).
The presence of spectators is' unnoticed;
nevertheless, he speaks, and often returns
answers (12).
If a traveller, he occasionally feeds his horse;
and even might sometimes become a dan­
gerous companion, to those sleeping in the
same apartment.
Noctambulism is a particular modification
of the waking state; but, in this instance, the
whole action hinges upon a series of internal
ideas (13). The Noctambulist does not main­
tain any relation with external objects, ex­
cepting such as are referable to that series;
with which however his sensations correspond,
as if founded in reality. If he conceives it to
be winter, he will shiver even at midsummer.
As soon as the action terminates, he relapses
into natural sleep; and when awake, has not
the smallest recollection of what occurred;
yet often remembers the whole, on the next
recurrence of Noctambulism.
45
D E L IR IU M , IN S A N IT Y ,
And other States o f Disease.
The alterations caused by violent passions,
or by disease, in our perceptions and other
- faculties, might with much propriety have
been adduced in the exposition of the waking
state; but we have conceived it best to ofnit
them in that paragraph, because they exhibit
a mixture of phenomena, referable to states
very different in their respective descriptions.
We shall only make the general remark, that
such complications are often met with in
human nature; and that the utmost care and
attention are requisite, for accurately discrimi­
nating the component elements.
Delirium and Insanity of mind, in all their
degrees, and considering the latter as a perma­
nent condition, approach much more our or­
dinary state than is commonly believed.
46
They principally consist in a deficiency of
due proportion, between the functions per­
formed by the memory or the imagination,
and the degree of vivacity with which we are
impressed by the perception of external ob­
jects, and by the sensations thence proceed­
ing. When the functions of Memory are dis­
proportionate, present objects are blended
with absent ones; and when the disproportion
applies to the functions*of Imagination, we
then confound fanciful objects with realities.
The different species of Insanity have
already been defined and classed, in va­
rious medical works; hence it would be a
useless task to recal them. The discriminative
shades of such diseases are innumerable, ac­
cording to the degrees of activity and aberra­
tion of our intellectual faculties; the state of
which, sometimes, has rather a curious analogy
with the employment of our mind during sleep.
Were a person asleep to be supplied with
the command of his senses, and with the usual
t
47
forms pf his understanding and imagina­
tion; were all his remembrances, his ideas,
and the sensations connected with them,' to
be, at different moments, raised to various
standards of vivacity,—such as would be,
one while, in equilibrium with that of his
perceptions of external objects, and another
while transcend this ratio; and were the use
of his bodily faculties, under such circum­
stances, to be freely restored, so that his
appetites and passions might have the full
range of uncontrolled action, the condition
ofsuch person would then completelyresemble
madness. He would blend the present with
the past; confound both persons and things,
under die most incoherent combinations; and
blindly surrender to those violent inclinations
and brutal passions, which in the waking state
. are submitted, by reason and judgment, to the
considerations ofpropriety and moral law (14).
Females of unquestionable virtue have been
known, during such aberrations of the mind,
wholly to abdicate their native character of
48
modesty; and the very best, the meekest o f
men, to slaughter, in cool barbarity, th e ir
nearest relatives or most intimate friends.
Sometimes every idea seems extinct, and
superseded by perfect stupidity. At other
times, the active faculties are urged to their
utmost standard; but the mind, and the imagi­
nation, exert those faculties upon fantastical
materials.
When insanity is not otherwise characte­
rized, than by the excessive predominancy of
any particular passion, the exaggerated ideas
which apply to it acquire such a degree of
vivacity, as to assume the illusion of absolute
reality; in which case the person thus affected
is very rational, so far as other matters may
be concerned, but he cherishes the favourite
fancies; and any attempt, to thwart him in
their indulgence, might possibly excite a vio­
lent rage, even in one naturally of the mildest
temper.
. 49
A remembrance, almost foreign to the real
Cause of this calamitous disorder, may some­
times absorb all the faculties, and become a
settled idea. One very striking instance of it
has been noticed:—A Hussar, mounted on a
white horse, suddenly brought to an officer's
wife the intelligence of her husband’s having
been slain in battle; upon which she fell into
complete idiotism, entirely lost her memory,
and ever after had constantly before her
eyes the representation of a hussar upon a
white horse, although she retained no recol­
lection even of her having been married.
Diseases of various descriptions modify the
human faculties in a very remarkable manner.
They seem to stimulate some particular facul­
ties, at the expence of all the rest; raising them
to an unusual standard, or else stamping them
with some peculiar features. On other occa­
sions, they either subvert, or entirely arrest
the exercise of certain faculties. Those of
which we are speaking belong, mostly, to that
genus which has been described under the
D
50
head ofNervous Diseases; because the nervous
system, then, is either symptomatically or
principally affected.
A very curious circumstance accompanies
the specific case called Catalepsis, and belong­
ing to that cathegory of diseases. The body
no longer urged by the impulse of volition,
to perform those movements of which it is
capable, becomes apparently insensible; and,
as if a jointed statue, maintains any position
into which it is placed. But whether this
be with the co-operation of such afflicted
person's will, or without it, is still a question
to be solved (15).
The phenomena, which attend diseases of
.such descriptions, are often complicated with
those belonging to Magnetic Somnambulism; a
further condition of human nature, which we
purpose investigating, after having indulged
in a short comparative review of the points
hitherto considered.
51
COMPARATIVE REVIEW.
W a k i n g .— We have the use of our senses,
and of the organ of speech. The body is obe-
dient to our will. We maintain an intercourse
with our fellow-creatures; and with all ex­
ternal objects the perception of which is con­
veyed to us, without impediment, through the
medium of the senses. A due proportion is
preserved, between the vivacity of such sen­
sations as perception has produced, and re­
membrances, together with ideas; by which is
precluded any confusion of present with ab­
sent, or of real with imaginary objects. Me­
mory, Imagination, Judgment and Mind,
exert the respective degrees of action to which
they are impelled by volition, according to
our natural dispositions, and to the stage
of developement which from previous cultiva­
tion those faculties have attained. Ideas are
recalled, as well as combined, with order and
52
regularity; and we possess adequate command
over them, to confine our attention to those
selected as proper objects of consideration.
The exercise of all our faculties is under the
controul of reason; which, in its warfare with
the passions, restrains the inordinate course
of our ideas, and constitutes Man a moral
Being. Reason, when carefully improved,
ultimately becomes, even without effort; the
guide of our actions; and far firom being
dreaded, as a troublesome monitor, is then
hailed as a faithful comforter and constant
support.
It is almost useless to say, that our various
faculties are not here pointed out as Beings
distinct from ourselves; but it is somewhat
difficult to describe and class them, without
adopting some sort of personification.
By the Principles o f Good and o f Evil (16),
—our two natures (
Y
J
)
,
— Topaz and Ebon (18),
we ought not to understand any thing more
than that perpetual warfare, maintained be-
53
tween reason and the passions ; of which the
mind is in some measure a spectator. Thus
is man subdivided, as it were, into three dis­
tinct persons: one constantly impelling him
towards a precipice; the second withholding
him from it; the third contemplating the
scene, and always diposed to join the stronger
party. There might almost be discriminated
a fourth:* it is the body, performing every
function requisite for its preservation, without
our interference, or our otherwise noticing its
operations, than from occasional derange­
ments of harmony to which it is subject.
S l e e p i n g .—The perception of objects is
not supplied by the senses. The body denies
its service. We no longer enjoy the faculty
of speech; whilst all intercourse is interrupted
between us and other human beings, or out­
ward objects. Memory and Imagination are
propelled into action by a mover unknown.
We take no active part in what is performed,
and are merely spectators of what is exhibited.
Remembrances of all tinges spontaneously re-
54
ciir, without order or connexion. Combinations
are formed, which dissimilitude and eccentri­
city strangely characterize; notwithstanding
which, every thing assumes the aspect o f
present reality, whether this arises from ac­
tual increase in the absolute intensity of our
sensations, or from their being no longer out­
weighed by those more vivid sensations, which
the perception of external objects produces
during the waking state. Inclinations and pas­
sions are revived; we no longer preserve any
command overthem; by which,on the contrary,
we are completely subdued. Ideas follow in
succession, without rule or order; and forcibly
arrest our attention, without leaving us the
power of withdrawing it from them. To
those ideas, the mind applies only a passive
consideration; without framing any combi­
nations. We are altogether divested of
Reason, Judgment, and Volition: accord­
ing to our conception, nothing is deemed bad,
or absurd: we yield, with equal impotency,
to pleasure, grief, pain, or death.
55
. Although the memory is constantly active
during sleep, it retains but very imperfectly
the occurrences of that fantastical world. The
recollection of dreams, in general, is not last­
ing ; and for the most part, no trace of them
remains.
When sleep becomes very light, it parti­
cipates of the waking state; and then the
attendant phenomena assume a mixed cha­
racter (19)-
N o c t a m b u l j s m .— The noctambplist con­
verts into action a series of internal ideas.
He acquires the perception of external objects
in a different way; and such perception is
less comprehensive than in the waking state.
He makes use of his bodily faculties. The
mind forms combinations according to its
accustomed mode. Memory, imagination,
and attention, are subordinate to the will; but
the exercise of every faculty, in the noctam-
bulist, is exclusively referable to that series
of ideas with which his mind is employed.
*56
As soon as the action has terminated, lie re­
lapses into natural sleep; and upon a w a k in g ,
every occurrence of his preceding s ta te is
entirely forgotten (20).
D e l i r i u m and I n s a n i t y .— Delirium
does not constitute a distinct condition, but
shares in all the phenomena attendant on in­
sanity ; with this difference however, that they
bear only a transitory and symptomatic
character.
Delirium never presents itself unaccom­
panied with disease. We are induced to
consider it as proceeding from too great
an affluence of blood to the head, com­
bined with some affection of the nervous
system.
Insanity is rather a peculiar evil, than any
determinate malady; persons under mental
derangement very often enjoying perfect
health, in every other respect (21).
57
However different the various descrip­
tions of insanity, the principal phenomenon
remains always the same. It consists in a
disproportion, between.the standard of vi­
vacity with which are received the percep­
tion of external objects, and the sensations
they produce, and the fictions of imagi­
nation, or the remembrances recalled by me­
mory; whether it be, that strong passions
supply a sufficient degree of vivacity, in the
chimerical ideas entertained, for causing them
to assume the aspect of reality, or that it
proceeds from a general deficiency of equi­
librium in the individual.
N ekvous D i s e a s e s : C a t a l e p s i s .—In
order to warrant their discrimination, as if
belonging to any specific condition of human
nature, it would be necessary that (they more
constantly produced a material alteration in
ttye standard, of potency of our various facul­
ties, or in the relations existing between
the senses, or the understanding, and external
objects.
58
Hie remarkable phenomena which some­
times occur, in those cases, do not p ro­
bably belong to the disease itself; but they
rather proceed from a complication of spon­
taneous S
o
m
n
a
m
b
u
l
i
s
m
, perfectly analogous
to a peculiar state of the same denomina­
tion, and known as being produced by the '
exercise of human magnetic power. The
characteristic features are similar in both, and
are reproduced with sufficient uniformity to
discriminate this state from any other. Its
investigation is intimately connected with the
matter under consideration; nor could it pos­
sibly be excluded from the present compa­
rative exposition (22).
Insulated facts and diversified opinions, re­
lative to the Somnambulic state, have been
recorded from time to time in numerous pub­
lications; but neither an adequate and satisfac­
tory theory, nor even sufficient materials upon
which it could be established, have hitherto
been offered. The connexion which probably
subsists, between what has been observed of
V
I
59
this extraordinary state, and other branches
of settled knowledge more universally dif­
fused, has not been duly attended to ; hence
many persons are still disposed to question
its very existence. Such scepticism is justi­
fiable; for common sense refuses credit to
reported prodigies.
We believe that this state is entitled to
ain attentive enquiry; and shall attempt it,
however uncertain our prospect of success.
Those already conversant with Somnam­
bulism will readily conceive the difficulty of
such investigation, in the present limited
state of information upop the subject; and
this is so closely interwoven with the doc­
trine of Animal M
a
g
n
e
*, that we must
previously indulge in a few general consi­
derations upon the latter.
* For this denomination, the translator substitutes the
more consonant one,—
- HumanM agnetism.
60
H U M A N M A G N E T IS M ,
AND
SOMNAMBULISM.
✓
All the information hitherto obtained, •con­
cerning Human Magnetism and Somnam­
bulism, considered as matters of enquiry and
observation, has originated within the last
forty years; but the magnetic practice, guided
by routine only (2S), and a few indeter­
minate notions of Somnambulism under the
vague attribute of something wonderful, have
probably existed from the remotest antiquity.
We meet with traces of them, in ancient
authors as well as modern, and in the popular
traditions of every country. The Oracles,
the Pythoness, the Possessed, the Visions,
the Sybils, the Predictions, the Magicians,
the Fairies, Witchcraft, Spells and Charms,
supply indications in that respect, which
61
are sufficiently obvious to any person exempt
from prepossession, and of enlightened mind.
In former ages, and before the discovery of
printing had diffused science throughout man­
kind, as a common treasure of which every
one could partake with an equal right; when
distant communications existed through the
means only of long and perilous voyages,
and when the priests of each nation were
the sole and mysterious depositaries of all
acquired knowledge, which they imparted to
none but their initiated, every fact of an
extraordinary description assumed a super­
natural character, in the opinion of the vulgar
and ignorant; who could not otherwise ac­
count for it, than by admitting, either some
especial interposition of divine power, or the
influence of infernal spirits.
Such has not, in our days, been the fate
of Magnetism and Somnambulism. And we
must observe, by the way, that these denomi­
nations were rather injudiciously selected; the
62
first having no common relation with th e
Magnet (24), and the etymological signifi­
cation of the other referring but very im per­
fectly to the object itself. j
In the first instance, they were extolled
with a degree of enthusiasm, bordering upon j
fanaticism. Next, they were persecuted by !
the Parliament of Paris, and by the Faculty of 1
Physic, with that party spirit which too univer­
sally characterizes corporate bodies. After­
wards, they were stigmatized as objects of
ridicule; and ultimately, the occurrences of
the French Revolution nearly sunk them into
oblivion (25). Since that time, the public 1
attention has again been revived upon those
subjects; but though motives of mere curiosity
may at first have had a greater share in it,
there has lately been noticed a general desire
of substantial information.
As to the few, who conceived that the
exhibition of somnambulists might convey
substantial information to the public, upon
these matters, they have not only been dis­
appointed, but have drawn merited.oppro­
brium upon themselves (26)..
The progress of knowledge now requires
that an investigation should take place, with
that impartial disposition which ought ever
to be our guide, in scientific discussions; that
the mysterious irradiance, with which Mag­
netism and Somnambulism are still encircled,
should be cast off; and that these should be
rallied under the banners of Physiology and
Psychology, from which they ought never to
have strayed.
Many writers have sufficiently enlarged
upon these topics, to warrant our referring,
to them, such readers as might be desirous of
more minute information $ and we more par­
ticularly recommend a perusal of M r. Deleuzes
excellent work (27), which, if written with
somewhat less scrupulouscaution,woulddoubt­
less have been more completely instructive.
64
Our immediate province shall be limited t o
pointing out, in a brief manner, the notorious
facts of which any one can easily convince
himself; with the addition of the leading-
opinions, by which it has been endeavoured
to account for them. >
F i r s t p a c t .—Every human Being is
gifted with the power of exerting upon his
fellow-creatures, and especially when they
are under the influence of disease, an action
which is altogether tonic^l and curative. This
is done by means of a very simple process;
and has, amongst other effects, that of emi­
nently stimulating and increasing, even in a
very prompt and sensible manner, the func­
tions of circulation and perspiration. Such
action is denominated H u m a n M a g n e t is m *
S e c o n d f a c t .—The magnetic action is less
conspicuous at the commencement, than after
repeated contact, which is effected chiefly
by the imposition of hands, and would ap-
65
pear requisite for the speedy attainment of
any remarkable degree of efficacy. This part
o f the process is said to establish an affinity
between the parties.
T h i r d p a c t .—The action, ofwhich we are
speaking, has sometimes the further effect of
casting the individual upon whom it is exerted
into a peculiar state, in which the usual
mode of his perceptions, referable to waking,
-undergoes a very important alteration; such
as raising certain faculties, among the rest, to
a higher standard, whilst on the contrary it
contracts others within a narrower circle. And
this state has been called Somnambulism.
The antagonists of this doctrine Have detiied
the reality of such Magnetic action, and re­
ferred all the effects, alleged as proofs of
its existence, to the sole imagination of the
parties magnetised.
On the other hand, Magnetists have ac­
counted for this action, by admitting that
E
66
some eminently subtile fluid is urged in to
movement by the magnetic process; arid
that human Volition, operating under cer­
tain stated conditions, has the power both o f
directing and increasing its influence.
Among the number has arisen a sect of
Spiritualists, who have contended that the
process alluded to, and called Manipulation,
has no further efficacy than to sustain the at­
tention of the magnetist; that the potency of
Volition, solely operating on the fluid, is com­
petent to direct its action unto very consider­
able distances, without any possibility of inter-
ruption from physical obstacles. Some others
have lately denied the very existence of
magnetic fluid, and maintained that volition
alone operates on the persons magnetised,
without any intermediate agency.
But the limits of the present tract do not
admit our following up a regular discussion
of those hypotheses; therefore we return to
the subject of Somnambulism. <
.
67
A predisposition to this state probably de­
pends on some circumstances of primitive
organization: the Condition of disease, how­
ever, is generally propitious to the production
of somnambulism, which ultimately is brought
to a crisis by the process of magnetising. Such
predisposition is greater, in some individuals,
than in others; nor can all magnetists pro­
duce somnambulism with equal facility: some
relation of analogy seemingly contributes to­
wards it, independently of differences in pre­
disposition on the one side, and of power on
the other. Any slight indisposition, such as
Coryza, or a Dejiuxion, will sometimes be a
sufficient cause to determine this state; while,
at other times, it may not take place even
in case of a most serious disease. It further
appears to be not altogether incompatible
with perfect health; particularly in subjects
of an age approximating puberty (28).
There are numerous instances in which the
somnambulic state has spontaneously occurred,
without the co-operation of magnetic ac-
68
tion (29); and there are other instances o f
r
self-willing somnambulism, or of persons w ho
have been cast into that state by their ow n
immediate action (30).
We are of opinion that such predisposition
does not solely depend upon nervous irritabi­
lity, which circumstance can exist without
any tendency to a crisis of this description ;
but that it rather depends on some peculiar
susceptiveness, in the nervous system, of the
influence of magnetic fluid, the existence of
which can scarcely be called in question.
The magnetic action is apt to produce, in
many subjects, a sort of slumber which is
not unresembling common sleep, yet ought
not to be mistaken for somnambulism. To
this however it is often conducive, and al­
most always precedes it; sometimes indeed
during a few moments only.
*
We have attempted to direct the observa­
tions of a somnambulist, towards another in-
69
dividual susceptible of a.similar state, at the
very moment of the latter being cast into it;
and have then been informed, that all the
nerves were observed to stiffen, or in some
manner to bristle up, and that the blood
was uncommonly affluent to the heart. Such
observations are not very easily accomplished;
owing to the increased irritability of subjects
in the somnambulic state, and their mutual
aversion. The instant of entrance into som­
nambulism is usually marked by a slight
movement, which practice enables one to dis­
criminate.
The commencement of this state constitutes
a sort of infancy, requiring real education.
Somnambulists appear more or less struck
with the novelty of their condition: some,
however, not particularly so; but others ex­
press a degree of surprise, and even alarm
on that occasion. A certain length of. time
may elapse, before they manifest the employ­
ment of their mind; and then we ought care­
fully to avoid urging them to speak.
70
They are not altogether unaddicted to c h i­
merical ideas, which possibly may degenerate
into visions (31). Each somnambulist is, in
some respects, a subject to be discriminated ;
as exhibiting moral features different from an y
other in a similar condition, and hence re­
quiring to be attentively observed.
Hie proper management of somnambulists
requires, from the very first moment, that the
Magnetist should exert in the utmost degree
his rational powers, judgment, and sagacity :
it is a sad case, for a somnambulist, to have
fallen into the hands of an extravagant prac­
titioner of Magnetism!
One who isjudicious will follow the Socratic
Method; carefully avoiding so to direct his
questions, as would suggest the answers, and
still more of insinuating his own conceptions
on the matter agitated (32).
The somnambulist, from a peculiarity of
his condition, is very tender to all physical
71
and moral influences. A trifling and appa­
rently unimportant circumstance may, at cer­
tain times, be sufficient to disorganize his
intuitive faculties; by which is meant that
he would lose, wholly or in part, and possibly
beyond all hope of restoration, the appropriate
form of perception which solely constitutes his
clearsightedness.
The magnetist has a prodigious ascendancy
over the ideas of his somnambulist; hence he
ought to consider it an essential part of his
duty, to preserve the latter from every preju­
dicial influence, and to exert his own in such
manner as to be productive only of salutary
effects. He ought diligently to scrutinise the
specific qualifications of the somnambulist;
and endeavour to trace the direction to which
they incline with most power and radiance of
intellect, the better to cultivate their deve-
lopement. He should train him, habitually,
todiscriminate the reminiscences of his waking
state, from what exclusively belongs to som­
nambulism; and always contain him within
n
the bounds of just and sound reasoning.
Should the somnambulist be capricious, ir r a ­
tional, or addicted to any species ofjuggling;
should he tamper with veracity, or m anifest
any vicious inclinations, any malevolent p as­
sions, it then becomes the magnetises im pe­
rious province immediately to recal him within
the vortex of truth and moral notions (33).
A relationship of this peculiar description,
cemented on the one part with confidence and
dependance in a very eminent degree, neces­
sarily imposes on the magnetist a variety of
duties; all of which must be strictly and
faithfully discharged. The condition of a
somnambulist is such, that it cannot bear to
be trifled with, in any respect.
From what has already been said upon this
subject, it will easily be conceived that such
state is incompatible with the unwary publicity
to which it has, for some time past, been sub­
jected, Should there be any desire of trying
experiments, it is necessary to understand
73
that somnambulists, from their extreme sus­
ceptiveness of influences both physical and
moral, are instruments of such delicate nature,
as not to admit of those experiments being
attempted in the presence of any other than
persons fully to be relied on, for prudence
and judgment. Should the object be to con­
sult a somnambulist respecting the concerns
of his own health, or for the benefit of any
other person's, nothing ought then to disturb
his indispensible tranquillity; and a careful
selection should be made, even in the number
of his most intimate friends, before they are
admitted on such occasions. Collections of
curious people give, to a very serious matter
(admitting of course its reality), all the out­
ward appearance of a pitiful quackery (34);
and they always expose the somnambulist to
imminent danger of disorganization, thus
wantonly marring him, in the last resource
which nature held in reserve for the recovery of
his health (35).
We shall endeavour to present, in an aggre-
74.
gate point of view, the circumstances w h ich
appear essentially to characterise somnambu­
lism ; yet this must not be understood to co n ­
stitute a common type, indiscriminately appli­
cable to all somnambulists. The varieties,
observable amongst human Beings in that
state, are no less considerable than the differ­
ences existing between them when awake.
The primitive disposition; the manner oftrain­
ing somnambulists, during the progressive
developement of their faculties, with various
accidental causes, have their respective shares
of influence, both upon the features and
standard of those faculties in each individual;
and besides, somnambulism is further liable
to many complications, which may depend
upon the description of disease whence it
originated (36).
The body has greater dexterity than in the
waking state. There is a remarkable accele­
ration of the pulse, and increased irritability
of the nervous system. The senses of Feeling,
Taste and Smelling, are more acute; and the
75
perceptions through that of Hearing are limited
to those objects with which the somnambulist
is either directly or indirectly in affinity, by
a communication of magnetic fluid; whether
produced by his touch, or by that of the
xnagnetist.
The eyes then are closed, and no longer
perform their usual office; but the somnam­
bulist possesses a sort of internal sight, through
which means he perceives his own interior
organization, that of his magnetist, and of any
other person with whom the latter has made
him to communicate. He notices the diffe­
rent parts of such organizations; but only
successively, and according as his attention is
directed to each: he discriminates their struc­
tures, forms and colours. He sometimes pos­
sesses the faculty of perceiving external objects
by a peculiar sight, impossible to describe;
and then they appear to him more luminous
and radiant, than when he is awake (57).
He experiences a painful reaction of the
76
bodily afflictions of those persons with w hom
he is in magnetic affinity. He perceives th e ir
various diseases; anticipates, with certainty,
the paroxysms which such persons are to
experience; has a sensation of the m ost
suitable remedies, and not unfrequently also,
of the medical properties of substances offered
to his notice. There exists, amongst animals
of the brute creation and certain diseased per­
sons, an analogous sensation referable to their
own diseases: the vague expression of Instinct
' has been resorted to for explaining this,*but
we had better have confessed our entire igno­
rance upon the subject (38).
The somnambulist is competent, not only
to direct his own treatment, but also to prac­
tise magnetism upon others; and he better
understands its application, than the most ex­
perienced magnetist does when awake.
He prescribes the days and hours, which
are most proper for his being made to resume
the somnambulic state.
77
His intuitive faculties are liable to increase
with the intensity of disease, as also gradu­
ally to decline with the progressive improve­
ment of his health; and the most imperfect
somnambulists usually possess them in a suffi-
x cient degree, for discovering' the remedies
applicable to their own cases, whilst such as
they prescribe are always harmless and gene­
rally of a simple'description (39).
■
■ Memory is very active in the somnambu­
list. Ideas which could not be recalled to his
mind, when awake, now easily recur to him ;
even the nightly dreams, of which the most
imperfect traces only had been preserved at
the first moment of emerging from sleep.
His imagination is rather inclined to exal­
tation. He is susceptible of Jealousy; not
quite exempt from vanity and self-conceit,
which sometimes may induce him to practise
little deceptions, calculated to enhance his
ownValue; and then, if under the government
78
of an unsteady magnetist, may prove u n c o m ­
monly capricious (40).
He does not attach the same importance, a s
in the state of waking, to those notions b y
which we are usually governed in social inter­
course, concerning matters of personal de­
meanour (41.)
His will, although not inactive, is easily
subdued by the influence of volition, even
mentally exercised by the magnetist.
Very striking oppositions may be noticed,
between his present opinions and those which
prevail in him when awake. He will condemn
his own actions; and speak, regarding him­
self, as he would of a third person, an utter
stranger.
His intellect is more comprehensive;, his
elocution superior, and his faculties of combi­
nation more extensive. He possesses greater
79
powers ofratiocination ; his notions of morality
are more distinct and correct, than in the
waking state, of which all the ideas and recol­
lections are still present to his mind (42.)
The aptitude to Somnambulism, in any sub­
ject, is usually limited to the duration of his
disease; it may sometimes be retained after
health is restored, but in that case is almost
always an imperfect state, of which the spe­
cific faculties are scarcely entitled to any
confidence. The particular duration of each
somnambulic crisis is variable and undeter­
mined ; it may be only a few minutes, it may
be several hours, or even whole days, accord­
ing to circumstances.
At the very moment of being awoke, the
somnambulist entirely forgets every thing
which he has heard or said, indeed generally
every occurrence of his preceding state; and
the most prudent line of conduct is to abstain
from conveying to his mind any information
upon those subjects. A perfect remembrance
80
of the whole, however, takes place at t h e next
and every succeeding crisis of som nam bu-
lism; though even a considerable period o f time j
may have elapsed (43.) Memory is thus com- I
pletely suspended, but nevertheless preserves
its wonted fidelity. This phenomenon is one
of the most remarkable among many others
elicited by the state alluded to; and it sup- \
plies almost invaluable indications, under a J
psychological point of view, contributing to
. overrule a principal objection urged by Ma­
terialists in support of their doctrine(44.) Still
a reminiscence of what has taken place during (
somnambulism may sometimes, and by a sin- ,
gular transition, occur in the waking state: '
the events may again represent themselves to
our mind, whilst in natural sleep, and be re­
membered after waking, as in the case of i
common dreams.
There is further a mixed state, which (al­
though not with perfect consistency) has been
called Semi-crisis; a denomination originating
at the period when magnetism v^as first intro-
81
<duced by Mcsmer into France. Somnambu­
lists were then called Crisiacs; and the state
o f somnambulism consequently a Crisis, from
the nervous paroxysms which sometimes were
its concomitants; particularly when that state
was produced by the instrumentality .of a
certain machine, termed Baquet (45). Patients
who have become somnambulists are not dis-"
inclined, during their convalescency, and
even after a radical cure, to this sort of semi­
crises or imperfect somnambulism. It is then
complicated with a medley of dreams; and
more or less accurate recollection of what
occurred during its continuance, is often re­
tained after the subjects are awoke. We ought
carefully to avoid exciting this imperfect state;
because if unwarily suffered to become habi­
tual, it might possibly degenerate into a sort
of mental derangement (46).
i
We have noticed, in the foregoing p art,,
that the features of somnambulism varied ex­
tremely in the different subjects; and that
state might indeed be so delineated, in ge-
F
82
neral terms, without scarcely deviating from
v.
the truth, as to appear contradictory in almost
every respect.
Thus we may occasionally meet with som­
nambulists, whose eyes remain open; with
some who hear every kind of noise, or else
are taciturn, concentrated and immoveable like
statues; -with others who dance, and perform
upon musical instruments; also with those who
speak at a venture, do not notice any thing,
neither form combinations of ideas, nor are
able to discover remedies even for their
own complaints. But all this proves only
the wide difference which may subsist be­
tween one individual and another, and the
sagacity with which the state here described
ought to be investigated, in each particular
instance, before we place any reliance in its
general and characteristic advantages (47).
Glaring light is annoying to somnambu­
lists : it is proper therefore to place them in
a somewhat dark station (48).
83
They observe an irradiancy to issue from,
the fingers of the magnetist, and sometimes
from his hair. Magnetised substances also
appear radiant to them, and as it were in a
blaze; especially when such are considerably
impregnated with magnetic fluid, admitting its
real existence (49). They ,have a perception .
of that fluid in the ambient air; not unlike the
sun beams, when penetrating through a closed
lattice window, and enlightening atoms of
dust. They inform us that the magnetic fluid
is inhaled with atmospheric air; that it is con­
veyed from the lungs, into the mass of the
blood, and from thence into the whole neryous
system; that it ultimately transpires through
the surface of the body, and chiefly escapes at
the extremities of the fingers and hair; thus
accomplishing a sort of regular circula­
tion (50).
They recognize particular persons from a
sensation of the magnetic fluid, which exhaled s
from the latter affects them in an agreeable
84
or disagreeable manner, according t o the
modification it has then undergone.
The magnetist ought always to interpose
himself between the somnambulist and any
third person, whenever it is conceived neces­
sary to bring them into communication by
contact; in order to deaden the effect, always
disagreeable, of such first approach.
Somnambulists make use of the magnetic
fluid, as one would of a lighted taper: when
touching a diseased person, they apply their
hand to that part which is the immediate
object of attention; so as to impregnate it
with fluid, and become better enabled to in­
vestigate the same. With regard to them this,
fluid would appear to perform a function
similar to that of the various mediums which,
in our waking state, transmit to us the per­
ception of external objects (51).
Independently of the testimony of somuam-
85
bulists, concerning the question of magnetic
fluid, the opinion of its existence appears
to be further supported by direct experiments.
W e may, at some future time, enlarge upon
the present matter of discussion; and then
shall relate those experiments with the most
scrupulous accuracy (52).
Viewing this question as a mere hypothesis,
abstracted from either assertion or experiment,
such an opinion does not involve any ab­
surdity: it might even be easily reconciled
with any general theory, applicable to elastic
fluids of all descriptions. .
Yet some warrantable objections appear
difficult to solve upon a first inspection:—
According to what mode of operation can
the magnetic fluid serve as a medium, in our
perception of external objects?—
How does perception take place under such
operation) even at considerable distances, not-
86
withstanding the interposition of physical ob­
stacles ?—
By what further operation can hum an
volition direct, and also increase the action
of magnetic fluid P
Let us enquire, in the first place, whether
the solution of those questions could not be
aided by satisfactory inductions, drawn from
uncontroverted facts, referable to other fluids
the existence of which is considered as suffi­
ciently ascertained.
In our ordinary state, the perception of ex­
ternal objects is unquestionably conveyed
through the instrumentality of elastic fluids,
operating tts specific mediums.
Light equally transmits to our perception
the objects most approximate, and those
most remote from us. We see the fixed
stars; and still Sirius, the nearest to us of
the whole number, is presumed to be at
87
a distance from the earth not less than three
millions of millions of miles (53). Light is
considered as a fluid eminently elastic, and
yet nothing proves it to expand in a lateral
direction: its progress is always rectili­
near (54). We know not whether the beams
of heat and those of light, both which the
sun apparently sends to us, move with the
same rapidity; nor whence proceeds the
impulsion which urges light with such prodi­
gious speed. It is unable to penetrate opaque
bodies; but with regard to all those described
as transparent, it penetrates them without im­
pediment, whatever be their densities, pro­
vided the rays fall not upon them in a line
deviating too much fromjhe perpendicular.
A medium of some other description con­
veys to us the vibrations arising in sonorous
bodies. Sound is propagated with only ,a
moderate proportion of velocity; a variety of
obstacles are liable to deaden its intensity, yet
it reaches us in every direction, and vacuum
I
• 88
alone appears an invincible obstacle to its
progress.
Caloric, less rapid in its course, penetrates
all bodies indiscriminately, and none can
resist its action, which they ultimately trans­
mit. This substance cannot be otherwise
than tonic; life, both animal and vegetable,
being sustained by its operation.
The Galvanic fluid, which can scarcely be
considered as identical with electricity, seems
to be diffused throughout the whole animal
kingdom, in which it probably performs a
very active and important part.
The Electric fluid is transmitted with ex­
treme promptitude, but requires the assis­
tance of conductors. In general, the mani­
festation of its luminous appearance depends
on its migrating from one body into another,
and being in a condensed state. It also be­
comes luminous in a ratified state, if made
to traverse vacuum in the receiver of an air-
j
89
p u m p : some portion of atmospheric air
would however seem to be requisite, for the
accomplishment of this phenomenon, as the
electric fluid discontinues to be luminous in
absolute void. Might not this proceed from „
some chemical combination, in which the
escape of any one of the component elements
is effected, equally by compression or by dila­
tation of the particles combined ?
Certain descriptions of fish possess a quan­
tum of fluid, whether electric or galvanic,
which as an offensive weapon they cast
upon their prey, or otherwise use for some
purpose of self-defence. Can any one deny
that this is impressing an elastic fluid, with a
very powerful action, and directing it to­
wards an outward object ?
The existence of nervous fluid is generally
admitted, although our information concerning
it is limited to the promptitude of its action.
This fluid is understood to be directed, within
us, by volition; and at the same time, with
90
a ratio of potency exactly corresponding to
the effort required. In that case, why m ig h t
not the same faculty extend to the d irectio n
of any analogous fluid upon external ob­
je c ts ? ^ ).
An enquiry into the nature of such fluids is
very difficult, from their not being coercible,
with the exception only of atmospheric air.
We are better informed of their effects, than
of their respective natures; but it will not
be contested, that there is great analogy
between their acknowledged properties, to­
gether with the functions they perform, and
those which are even attributed to the
magnetic fluid.
The following assumptions have been va­
riously made:—That this fluid is transmissible
at great distances, and with very consider­
able velocity, whence is drawn the inference
of its being elastic;—That it attains unto
every place, notwithstanding physical ob­
stacles, all which it penetrates without impe-I
I
91
dim ent;—That it is capable of receiving any
direction, and intensity of action, impressed
by the human will;—That its operation upon
the animal economy is salutary;—And finally,
that it possesses the property of conveying
the perception of external objects to human
Beings under a particular modification of
their existence, denominated Somnambulism.
In addition, somnambulists have affirmed it
to be luminous; not only during its transmission
from one body to another, but also as dif­
fused throughout the ambient air.
And whynot so,when such assertions equally
apply to the properties of other elastic fluids, of
which the existence is universally acknowledg­
ed? Why should the assumption be deemed
absurd, that under a particular condition of hu­
man nature, the perception of external objects
isnot otherwisetransmissible to the understand­
ing, than through the means of an appropriate
fluid, or some modification of other elastic
fluids hitherto known? ■Where is the ab-
92
surdity of conceding, to the agency of h u m a n
volition, an efficacy equal to that a d m itte d
as unquestionable, with reference to th e im ­
pulsion of a brute, such as the gymnotus, or
the torpedo?
Prudence doubtless requires that opinions
should remain in suspense, upon such ques­
tions, until their solution be assisted with
fully decisive experiments; but we do con­
ceive the probabilities already to be of
sufficient weight, for warranting an opinion
favourable to the existence of magnetic
fluid (56).
There is however this circumstance worthy
of remark:—the magnetic fluid does not,
in the least degree, fall under the percep­
tion of somnambulists governed by magne-
tists of that school by which its existence
is denied. But this may proceed from the
very subordinate character of somnamhulism
itself; and.from a limitation of the sentient
faculty, in persons under that peculiar con-
93
dition, which faculty then applies to such
objects, only, towards which their attention is
solicited (57).
Men of great candour, of sound judgment,
and free from exaltation of mind, have in­
variably maintained that somnambulists are
often competent to perceive the past, and
distinctly to anticipate future events; that
there are some who have an intuitive percep­
tion of the very thoughts of the magnetist;
and some also who perceive other persons
although absent, when in magnetic affinity
with them, and ,who actually see such per­
sons and whoever else happens to be with
them at the same time, together with local
circumstances: all this without impediment,
either from distances or interposition of phy-
, sical obstacles.
It would certainly be wrong, wholly to
reject, without previous investigation, facts
which are affirmed by numerous credible
witnesses; yet, when of so extraordinary a
\
94
description, they ought not to be admitted,
as part of any doctrine, until accurately veri­
fied ; and no one ought to credit them, nor
even could do so, unless personally ascer­
tained, or at least confirmed by the most un­
exceptionable testimonies (58).
There are such facts, probably in great
number, which the mere concatenation of
causes and effects might sufficiently ac­
count for; considering the mind, under
the influence of a peculiarly exalted state,
to possess faculties adequate to seize and
combine them, with a degree of sagacity
and penetration unattainable to man in his
ordinary condition. According to every ap­
pearance, somnambulists are solely indebted
to this power of combination, highly favoured
by their internal sight, for the foreknowledge
of their different crises, or paroxysms of
disease.
It has been attempted to class somnam­
bulists, according to certain special faculties,
95
supposed to be discovered in them in more
eminent degree, than any other; and thus
we have heard of such, who were qualified for
consultation regarding the cure of diseases;
of others, who could convey information
concerning celestial matters, future events,
absent persons, distant places, and hidden
treasures. But such classifications, referable
only to the various uses to which magnetists
have presumed to apply their respective som­
nambulists, are not to imply any positive dif­
ferences worthy of notice, in the general des­
cription of somnambulism (59).
I
A more certain advantage, one upon which
greater reliance can be placed, consists in the
reallyuseful application ofthis state for obtain­
ing the cure of diseases; not only those of the
somnambulists themselves, but also of other
patients brought into immediate communi-
4
cation with them. All enquiries had better
be confined to this very important object, in­
stead of suffering the mind to wander in chi­
merical regions: yet we need not entirely
96
neglect other branches of useful information,
which may be attainable by that means.
For instance, a very interesting experiment
would be to .cast into somnambulism blind
born subjects, and others deaf born. Thus
might more accurate notions be acquired, re­
specting this singular state, which without
sufficient cause has been considered as one of
perfection, or peculiar purity; although not
otherwise to-be discriminated from the waking
state, than as introducing a new mode of per­
ception, which, operates, whether in contact
or at any distance, through some specific me­
dium, and is urged into action by die usual
human faculties, with some difference only
♦
in their actual extension.
Probably, such mode is the manifestation
or the further developement of some Primitive
and General Form of Perception, inherent to
the essence of human nature, and of which our
v
five senses are merely particular modifications.
The magnetic fluid would then be a neces-
97
1
sary medium, through whose agency percep­
tions of every description are acquired, and
which may,' perhaps, be not'less indispen­
sably to the’communication of thought; if
this can truly take place without the assist­
ance o f speech, or (to express our idea under
a moire general acceptation) independently
of all* conventional signs. This communi­
cation seems ho less difficult to under­
stand;- than either the retrospect of -srtch
past events as are entirely foreign to our
knowledge when awake, ;or the foreknow­
ledge of Such future events as are not linked
with;any matter of previous information; un­
der the common relation of cause aind effect.
Useless attempts., have been made-to account,
in any satisfactory maimer, for this {singular
phenomenon of anticipated knowledge (60).
As to past events; their perception might
admit of being explained, in a manner not
altogether destitute of verisimilitude. <
Supposing that there actually existed, in
G
98
human nature* a primary and latent, form of
perception,, variously modified by the five
senses* and which the state of somnambulism
effectually unveiled* nothing yet would prove
that it remained entirely inert, jn the waking
and other states of which.mankind is sus­
ceptible. Possibly it may, without discon*
tinuation* exert its action to.ihe fullest extent;
and yet* under ainy but the somnambulic
condition, not be accompanied with a con­
sciousness of Self, nor with that of the per­
ceptions actually received as it were in trust,
through such primitive form*.and in some
manner analogous to a particular phenomenon
remarked in the foregoing part, with reference
to the state called absence,ofmmd. We as­
sume that, when somnambulism takes (dace,
the primitive form of perception is mani­
fested ; although never perhaps in the ut­
most extent, its developement being impeded
by the imperfect condition of mankind; it
nevertheless attains, sometimes* a sufficient
standard to reunite with a consciousness of
Self the whole* or' a part only, of those per-
99
ceptions of which the individual until then
has been the mere depositary. The somnam­
bulist connects all the perceptions of his
waking state with those more extensively
supplied by that primitive form, which has
resumed its operation; and thus involves
within one single remembrance, and in the
same person, two memories and two Beings
between which there had appeared to exist a
distibct line of separation. During (he waking
state, no remembrance is retained of what has
been perceived in that of somnambulism: in
the latter, on the contrary, every thing is re­
collected that took place during the pre­
ceding somnambulic crises; also every
thing which has been perceived when awake,
through the appropriate organs, and every
thing that these were incompetent to trans­
mit to the understanding, but of which the
primitive form of perception was the silent
witness and faithful trustee.
This idea is further susceptible of a deve-
lopement not unimportant, as it applies to the
100
connexion between the present and future
conditions of mankind, and to objections
which the materialists have inferred from
those accidents to which memory is liable.
Further observations will, sooner or later,
confirm or disprove facts and conjectures
which, require the support of numerous and
authentic testimonies* to establish the public
opinion in their favour. Until such canhave
been collected, it is proper to remain in sus­
pense, to observe and verify the facts, and
endeavour: to discover whetherthey be not any
thing more -than illusions, or whether the
existence of a primitive form of perception,
capable of manifesting itself in such extent,
ought ultimately to be acknowledged.
It is consistent in some degree, that miracles
or witchcraft should have been referred to,
for explaining various effects of.Human Mag­
netism and Somnambulism. Every thing
which transcends the common train of phe­
nomena appertaining to human life, and with
101
which habit has familiarised, us from infancy,
spikes us..with astonishment. The states of
Waking, of Sleeping, of Noctambulism; In­
sanity of mind,, together with many nervous
diseases, exhibit effects no less surprising than
those of magnetic somnambulism; :We are
surrounded on all sides with wonders, .which
tve admit without contradiction, and assume
that we understand, merely because they
have always been seen.
Let us, but for one moment, indulge in
supposing a world peopled with inhabitants
of whom somnambulism constituted the na­
tural and uniform condition; in such manner,
that this were equally habitual to them, as
the state of waking is to ourselves. Would, it
not be a.matter of great surprise for. them, to
notice one man aam&e$ He, certainly could
not appear, to thern^a Being less.extraordinary
than somnambulists do now to us. The sense
of sight, which affords him so easy a percep­
tion of external objects, even those stars of
which astronomy has not yet been able to as*
Ol.Hl I'MiSi iiTliV
102
certain the immense distances; the free c o m ­
munication which he enjoys, through the sense
of hearing and other faculties, with his fellow -
creatures and the rest of the world; his in d e­
pendence of the various influences by which
somnambulists are annoyed and subdued;
the energetic volition which he is capable of
exerting, uncontrolled by any other; in short
a thousand striking differences, between the
states of waking and of somnambulism, would,
in the estimation of some of the Beings just
supposed, appear as a series of privileges, con­
stituting Man a Being of supernatural order,
and by some others would be considered as
matters of fabulous report, neither con­
ceivable nor deserving any credit. Amidst
the general clamour, of Miracles on one side,
and of Imposture on the other, a long period
of time would elapse before the propriety were
suggested of submitting facts to a calm and
impartial inquiry; and before the very simple
idea occurred, that all these might be only
the natural consequences of a peculiar con­
dition, to which mankind were disposed,
103
a n d which introduced various modes of per­
ception, different from that mode which parti­
cularly belonged to somnambulists.
The human states or conditions, hitherto
described are often blended with each other.
Somnambulism has only a false resem-
~ blance with sleep; but it has with Noc-
tambulism a double analogy, consisting in
the substitution of a peculiar mode of percep-.
tion, to the sense of sight, .and in the.limi­
tation of our relations with outward objects.
A further analogy might be foqnd in the par­
ticular disposition of the memory,; but it
would be necessary, in the first place, to as­
certain whether such disposition belongs to
the state of Noctambulism singly, or to some
cpmpbcatiqn with that of somnambulism (61).
The noctambulist perceives such objects,
only, as ^reconnected withthe series of in­
ternal ideas, which he introduces into action ;
the somnambulist, of such paly with which
he is placed in affinity, by communication
' 106
means of wresting a dangerous instrum ent
from the hands of the ignorant, of en th u ­
siasts, and all others who misuse it w ithout
being fully aware of the extent of their
guilt (64).
\
107
CONCLUSION.
The first steps of mankind, in the path of
Science, have almost invariably been marked
by Mystery and Abuse. Insulated facts ap­
pear inexplicable, or miraculous: self-im­
portance, and interested motives, instantly
seize upon them as an exclusive inheritance, •
which they apply to the purpose of rendering
human credulity subservient to their own ad­
vantage. The introduction of natural philo­
sophy gave birth to Magic; that of Chemistry,
to Alchymy—of Geometry, to Geomancy,—
of Astronomy, to Astrology. In proportion
as the facts became multifarious, and the
knowledge of them more extensively dissemi­
nated, it has been endeavoured to draw them
within the pale of known principles, or else
to infer new principles >froin their observa­
tion. Systems and doctrinal courses were
then formed, which general instruction' has
108
converted into objects of public attainm ent,
and the notoriousness of facts caused m y s ­
tery and abuses to disappear.
Accession of knowledge is attractive to
persons who- already possess it in some ex ­
tent ; but its difficulties are discouraging to
those who, yet uninstructed, have outgone that
period of life at which native curiosity is
raised, by .well directed education, to a dig-
• nified and constant thirst after information,
knowledge introduces,:between each of our­
selves and the whole world, an indefinite range
of multiplied relations. In the eye of a man
extensively informed, nature is stamped with
specific .and characteristic features: he finds
himself as-it were at home, in any part of the
world, and every thing which he meets
seems to present a face of previous acquaint­
ance. Were jit possible for any one to be,
in an- absolute sense,, destitute of all know­
ledge or information, his condition would be
perfectly .insulated ; the universe, in his con-
109
ception, would degenerate into non-existence,
and himself remain in the most awful
solitude.
. Let us not, however, presume too. much
upon our acquired knowledge; Its different
branches, possibly,1 may riot constitute, any.
thing more than a few transitory relations, of
our senses, and modelof understanding, with
external objects. -; Pedhaps we grasp at mere
appearances. Let man be gifted with some '
new mode of-perception, new properties will
be; discovered, and every thing wijl assume
a different aspect.
Of what use, then, the fruits; of so.many
years spent in laborious pursuits; .and all that
experience collected in the course of a life so
often teeming with agitation *and sorrow?—Is
allthat wehave learnt, with such painful efforts,
to vanish like the shades of night,, before the
first beams' of a rising sun ?
<
■
—
What shall.we
retain of the whole; after that phenomenon
called D e a t h ; which makes every living
110
creature, urged by a preserving instinct, sh rin k
with terror, and to which education has a n ­
nexed so many formidable ideas ?
Whatever the employment of man’s life, a
further developement of his wonted faculties
and accession to them, will doubtless be the
necessaryconsequencesofhis present existence.
But shall all the wealth seemingly treasured
up for such unbounded futurity, towards
which our mind by some internal impulsion
is incessantly cast, remain behind; like those
perishable advantages, so ardently pursued by
mortals, yet leaving, at the close of life, little
else than a sorrowful remembrance of that
culpable inconsideration with which they have
been misused P
V
Is there not, amongst our various faculties,
a single one to which we may be indebted
for instruction, independently of transitory
and ’variable relations; some faculty appli­
cable to every period, and to all the phases
of our existence?
I l l
Yes, there is One !—It is Reason ; so
litjtle cultivated, and still less attended to, but
which always holds out to us a helping hand.
Reason enables, us, from one link of the
chain to another, to ascend to the source of
every truth; it connects heaven with the earth;
it regulates the mutual relations ofall sensitive
and intelligent Beings, by immutable laws, no
less comprehensible to the man of inferior
intellect and of limited instruction, than to
another of superior genius, possessing even
the knowledge of all ages.
■ • . *
The strict observance of those laws consti­
tutes Morality. They may be often silenced
by the passions; lie dormant in the inner­
most recesses of the heart; but, sooner or
later, they will awake!
\ Man occasionally feels weary of the im­
portant or frivolous occupations, which con­
sume or fill up this life, so often consi­
dered as an insoluble enigma. When his
112
thoughts are raised towards a more elevated
sphere* two great questions press upon his
mind.—
One of them refers to the cradle of in fan cy :
What have we been?) •>
\\ . t . • * , .
The other hovers, as it were a tutelar ge­
nius, around the tomb indosing the •cold
remains of a beloved object, lately, torn1
from
our presence :-~*What shall we become?
The first of these questions has scarcely
any other motive, than simple curiosity. The
second is closely interwoven with those moral
truths which direct and regulate the employ­
ment of life,—with all the elevated senti­
ments which assist us in repelling evil and
bearing with misfortune.
I
j
Man, from his very essence, is religiously
inclined. He is constantly warned, by an
internal feeling, that another existence awaits
him after this life.; and that a superior power
A
113
presides over the ordinance of that univer­
sality of things by which his attention is at­
tracted. Of this position, the history of every
country, from the remotest antiquity, supplies
sufficient proof. In consequence of accurate
observation, which has rectified the misap­
prehensions of navigators in the earlier
periods of their discoveries, a conviction has
been established, that there existed unanimity
of belief upon those two important points;
from the nations in the greatest advancement
of civilization, even down to the most uncul­
tivated savages. The Fetisch, or paradise of
an African negro, may appear to have but
little connection with the idea formed of ano­
ther life by an enlightened European, but in
the essentials it is still the same; both con­
templating an infinite power and endless
happiness, which every one endeavours to
comprehend, according to the degree of deve-
lopement or the standard of his own intellect.
v , / «
» t
We have a propensity to apply certain forms
of reasoning, to truths which an internal
H
114
though somewhat vague sentiment has suffi­
ciently brought home to our understandings.
Philosophical sects have formed themselves
by slow gradation, and in progress of time.
They have unremittingly been employed with
questions of this important description; they
have endeavoured to improve vulgar persua­
sions, and to demonstrate, by a series of argu­
ments, the reality of what until then had been
only surmised, and slightly delineated.
Men have rashly submitted to the test of a
species of reasoning, merely derived from the
modes of their perceptions and the forms of
their understanding, matters even unconnected
with the sensible world. The pretension of
dogmatizing, in Metaphysics, has generated
scepticism. Some have undertaken to prove
beyond what was requisite: they have af­
firmed too much; and others, then, bare -
questioned what should never be considered
as uncertain. The warfare of both parties
was urged upon the same grounds, and
115
c a rrie d on with similar weapons; without
enquiry, by the one or the other, whether
such could warrantably be used.
Reason however allows us to indulge in
hypothetical conceptions; provided theydo not
involve absurdity or immorality. It forbids,
only, our assigning to them any higher degree
of probability than they actually possess; it
prescribes us to concede the entire liberty of
calling them in question, and always to
withhold trespassing on the principles of tole­
ration, by which men ought mutually to be
governed, concerning matters of opinion.
With reference to a future state, assunip-
tions have often been made, which, however
chimerical, are never destitute of interest
to persons who do not confine to the pre­
sent life every idea of their own existence.
Some have doomed human Beings to travel
through the several planets, and others have
assigned to us a different employment: but
almost all have taken their departure from a
116
vague and confused notion, of accession to o u r
present faculties and acquired knowledge.
By Astronomy, we are informed of the dis­
tances, dimensions and densities of the celes­
tial bodies composing our solar system; also
of the forms and altitudes of their mountains.
They appear not very unresembling the
planet which we inhabit; and it is not irra­
tional to believe, that the fixed stars are
Suns environed by their respective planetary
systems. Why then should we utterly re­
ject the idea, both consistent and probable,
that those innumerable worlds have the si­
milar destination of supplying an adequate
sphere of activity and developement of facul­
ties,to sensitive and intelligent Beings,between
whom reason with its unalterable maxims
establishes a law common to all, and prepares
more extensive relations.for every period of
their existence.
A primary form of perception, modified
according to those successive phases, might
117
answer the several purposes of multiplying
o u r relations, extending the sphere of our
activity, and increasing the influences both
received and exerted.
, The memory of the past would, in a thou­
sand ways, have disturbed present existence '*
therefore it is denied us. Possibly, this may
be only a transitory suspension.
But we shall every where be followed by
the consequences of our actions.
One’of those consequences, not sufficiently
attended to, is that benificent actions improve
our nature, and shield us against evil; whilst
malevolent ones cause us to degenerate, and
ultimately render us incapable of good. Thus
do we create for ourselves a Paradise, or Hell,
even upon this Earth.
This consideration opens a spacious field
for serious meditation, to persons whose per­
spicacity qualifies them for penetrating the
118
deceitful appearances by which our e y e s are
dazzled, amidst the tumultuous passions and
illusions of the world.
How elevated and consolatory the ideas
which now are unfolded!
From the moment we admit them, evils dis­
appear, calm supersedes the storm, our hearts
fill with dauntless courage; the misfortunes of
life are only a source of salutary experiments,
and death the commencement of renovated
existence.
When the present work falls into the hands
of a reader of reflection, he may judge it to
contain but few novel ideas. Perhaps he will
even say: “ I had already thought all this.”
We might be permitted to reply: Think
o f it again ; incessantly keep it in view.
•NOTES.
\
THE
TRANSLATORS n o tes.
m '
(1.) Page 18 r Attention— an act q f w*U.
Reflection upon the perceptions and sensations received* which
necessarily precedes the formation of any idea* or effect pro-
duced by them upon the mind* is a faculty entirely subordinate
to volition; and attention is constituted by reflection combined
with duration.
(2.) Page 21: Senses—the means o f discovering properties in
outward objects.
That is to say* such properties* only* by which any of those
senses are liable to be affected. For if we conceive that a primary
and general form of perception were manifested under five
hundred different modifications* or specific conditions of relation
between outward objects and ourselves* instead of being limited
tofive, we should then recognize in those objects an immensity
of other properties hitherto unknown* yet constituting but a
122
%
;
partial knowledge of them; and to render such k n o w le d g e
complete, it would require the exercise of that primary f a c u lty
under all its possible modifications: these, doubtless, b e in g in ­
finite in number, the perfect.knowledge of any thing can b e a n
attribute of no other than the Deity itself. It is in a h ig h d e­
gree probable, that there are other existing nfodificattons o f th e
faculty alluded to ; through which, although at most times u n ­
consciously, we acquire the perception of external objects,
whether present or absent, and are impressed by them in various
ways. It is no less probable that there are also particular mo­
difications of it unknown to us, yet possessed by different
branches of the creation, the organization of which has any
sort of analogy with our own: but of such we can never ac­
quire any accurate nor positive notion. Many apparent pro­
digies require only the use of some sixth sense, or unusual
modification of the primary form of perception, completely to
explain them.
(3.) Page 33: Objectsperceptible in darkness.
Darkness, or obscurity, which are only relative terms, pro­
bably exist not any where in an absolute sense.
The faculty of perceiving objects through the instrumentality
of a fluid universally diffused, which we call light; aod our
reference to the quantum of such fluid, considered as adequate
to that effect, entirely depends upon the disposition of the
organ which, in the individual of any species, is qualified for
receiving its influence. Thus we know of animals, in whom
123
sig h t is sufficiently assisted by such quantum of light* only* as
applied to our own eyes would still be deemed darkness; we
are familiar with the effect produced by a transition from'sun­
shine, to other situations where objects do not become discern-
able until the pupils of our eyes have proportionately dilated;
and many persons have heard of instances in which an in­
flammation of the eye, produced by some accident, has enabled
the sufferer distinctly to perceive, through that eye only, objects
which to the other appeared still involved in profound obscurity.
(4.) Page 23: We know not what is that property, o f bodies,
from which the perception o f colour results.
It is generally understood, that bodies become visible to us
from the reflection of all, or some part only, of the light directed
upon them ; that transparent ones are such as admit a free
passage to the undivided beams of light; that those termed
opaque are such as, denying this free passage, reflect upon the
eye, either the whole of those undivided beams, in which case
perception of white is obtained, or that part only of the divided
beams which the bodies have not absorbed at their immediate
surface, in which case a perception is acquired of the reflected
colour, or combination of colours not thus absorbed; and that
the perception of black proceeds from the entire absence of any
reflected "colour, or subdivision of light beam, upon that organ.
Therefore, if in some instances, alluded to in the preceding
note* objects appear destitute of their usual colours, this may
rationally be attributed to a second absorption by some part of
the organ itself, then in an inflamed and consequently dilated
124
condition, of the quantity and species of colour w h ic h t h e ob­
jects had still been able to reflect It may however h a p p e n in
another way: admitting the rarity of local light to h e such,
after a partial absorption by the object, that the re m a in in g ’ p a rt
reflected were divested of intensity adequate to re n d e rin g the
colour discernable, yet the perception of that object m i g h t not
be entirely precluded.
(5.) Page 25: Neither Taste, nor Tact, operate at any d ista n ce
from their object*
This, I presume, is not to be understood without restriction.
The sense of smelling much resembles a modification of that
of Taste: and if Tact is to be conceived as the impression made
by externa] objects, upon the extremities of those nervous fibres
which appear to terminate at the surface of our visible form,
we should not be warrantable in affirming that such apparent
extremities are destitute of respective prolongations, in the
shape of atmospheric nerves, through which means they can
receive direct impressions from distant objects, whether such
impressions be immediately accounted for or not, as referable
to Self; and that there does not emanate from the objects a
fluid of great exhility, whatever may otherwise be its descrip­
tion, capable of conveying impressions to the human form, eveti
admitted to exist under the limitation afore-mentioned.
125
(6.) Page 26: Sight and Tact equally convey the perception q f
Shapes•
From this analogy alone we might infer sight to be only a
modified T act; or in other words, that every visible part of the
surface of any object, however distant, impresses the eye through
the medium of a fluid called Light, with intensity proportioned to
the sensitiveness of that organ, conceived to exceed the sensitive­
ness of other nervous extremities, and in an inverse ratio of the
distance.
But Tact not only impresses the shapes of objects; it further
informs us, in a direct and tolerably accurate manner, of their
specific weights; which constitute an inherent quality, quite
independent of the description of their surfaces. Thus, be^
sides the consideration of all other acknowledged senses being
in most respects reducible to Tact, the latter would exhibit a
faculty which has no comparative among all the rest
It is particularly remarkable, that Tact should survive every
other sense; and indeed be the only one without which animal
life can no longer be maintained.
(7.) P a g e 34 : State of Revery.
It is rather difficult to ascertain, whether or not the faculty
of volition is quite unconcerned in the operations of our mind.
126
during the state here described. Whatever may be of th is d is ­
criminative circumstance, it is further observable, that a s r e ­
membrance follows in the succeeding state of pure waking, th e
former one ought not to be confounded with absence o f m ind,
the characteristics of which are very different.
(8.) Page 35: Absence o f mind.
The particular phenomenon here alluded to may, in a great
measure, be accounted for by inferences drawn from note 5th,
and by what the author sets forth in a subsequent part, regard­
ing Somnambulism and its divers complications.
Absence of mind constitutes a complicated state, liable to
various degrees of intensity. Its most prominent feature is an
involuntary concentration of the intellectual faculties; and some
erroneous but prevalent opinion, of its being more or less volun­
tary, may have precluded the attendant phenomena from being
enquired into.
It has fallen under my personal observation, in instances where
such state was protracted beyond a very few minutes, not only
that it was frequently accompanied with singular action of the
body and mobility of the physiognomy, something resembling
what takes place in Noctambulism and denoting intense occu­
pation of the mind; but also that, after resumption of the
waking state, the remembrance of such occupation (according
to the intenseness of the condition alluded to) was not more dis­
tinct than what it is usually at the moment of emerging from
127
com m on sleep. I have further ascertained, to the best of my belief
a n d by direct experiments, that the person thus intensely absent
in mind does not, any more than the Noctambulist, acquire per­
ceptions by the organ of sight; but that he then possesses soirie
supplementary faculty, not distinctly known to U9.
For example: I am conscious of having on many occasions,
and when deeply absorbed in thought, gone over an extent of
ground not inconsiderable; cleared my way, through all obstacles
met with in the windings of populous streets, and thus at­
tained the place of my destination; when, after recovering
my recollection, I remained entirely incapable of retracing the
road pursued as it were mechanically, or calling to mind any
of the intervening circumstances. From all which I infer
an almost complete similarity, between the person absent in
mind and the noctambulist; differing only in the mode, of
transition, which is from and to the waking state, in the first
case, as well as from and to that of sleep, in the second.
(9.) P4.GE 36: The Locomotive Faculty.
We are involved in no less complete ignorance, with regard
to the principle of Motion, than concerning all incoercible sub­
stances. We are accustomed to consider it as one of the general
properties of matter; and informed of its being susceptible of
transmission, from one body to another, by an action subor­
dinate to certain invariable laws: the latter attribute, at least,
would seem to constitute it a distinct substance, or some sort
128
of emanation from material substances already im p reg n ated
with it.
If I project a body whatsoever in any determinate direction,
it continues, after being released from my grasp, to travel in
that direction over a space more or less considerable; a n d such
space is exactly proportioned to the effort I have m ade, suf­
ficiency attested by the expenditure of a corresponding pro*
- portion of that faculty in myself, the whole of which, obviously,
would soon be exhausted by an unremitted consecution of |
similar efforts. From being extremely familiar with such
operations, we are perhaps the less induced to consider of the
difficulty it presents. This admits not any satisfactory ex­
planation ; otherwise thah by conceiving that, in the act of
projecting such body, I have incorporated with it a something,
a real substance, with which I was previously supplied, but bare
actually parted with by transmission: under any other hypo*
thesis, it becomes impossible to understand how such body could
*
■
have proceeded one single inch beyond the grasp of my band, and
not have exclusively obeyed the law of gravitation. Nor is
such an hypothesis overruled, as might appear on a super* I
fieial view, by opposing to the operation just stated the effect {
of an explosion of gunpowder upon a cannon ball, or that
of a cross-bow upon the arrow; for we have further to consider,
that in bodies, whether organized or not, motion is susceptible
of accumulation in more or less quantity, and probably also of
compression, through various natural operations, and according
to the respective descriptions and dispositions of such bodies.
Considering therefore in a merely physical point of view the
129
h u m a n species, equally with every other individual of the
A n im al kingdom, as compounded of visible matter and of
m otion, there is this analogy between the one and the other,—
th a t both are Consumed by the functions of animal life, and
need periodic reparation. Daily nutrition repairs the more
m aterial losses; and what quantity of motion has been ex­
pended, by successive efforts, is restored by accumulation, dur­
ing the time of sleep, or repose. ^
The question now is, of the means by which such accumu­
lation takes place; and if there be.only one probable conjecture,
to which we can resort for an explanation of'this phenomenon)
it acquires some degree of weight from the above-mentioned
analogy.
It is conceivable that the faculty of voluntary motion, in every
living creature, may be generated by the rotation of the Earth
upon its axis; that by an immediate communication with the
body opposing a resistance, more particularly when in a resting
state, a part of the earth’s rotatory motion may be accumulated
in such quantum as the organization of that body admits; and
that this quantum of motion may be transformed into a faculty
appropriate to the individual, who can at pleasure dispose of it,
until entirely consumed. It is not at all improbable, that if
this rotatory motion were discontinued, no living creature upon
the surface of the Earth could, from that moment, retain any
locomotive power, or motory faculty whatever.
Another conjecture, not divested of strong probability, is
that every faculty of this description resides in some organic
130
fluid, perhaps Identical with others variously denominated, a l l
of which would differ only in their respective modifications.
Nor are such hypotheses hazardously set forth, without de­
riving some support from actual experiment. By a process the
nature of which will meet a sufficient explanation in its proper
place, I have been able, within forty minutes, to restore the full
standard of moto'ry faculties in a man who, by excessive and
long continued exertion, had exhausted them in such de­
gree that it is not likely they could have been recovered by any
other means, ivithin the same number of hours; and this
experiment can at all times be repeated, without the smallest
difficulty.
Does it not also appear very likely, that what we understand
by universal gravitation, together with its diverse effects, con­
stitutes only one part of an immense circulation of such organic
fluid, divided and subdivided ad infinitum; and that, by con­
stant tendency of this fluid to an equilibrium between every
part of the creation, the rotatory motion of the celestial bodies
is maintained, and gravitation is incessantly repairing the losses
of centrifugal force ? For the necessary developement of these
ideas, I may perhaps avail myself of some occasion more appro­
priate than the present notes.
(10.) Page 38: Faculties active during sleep.
i
To the remark made in this part of the text, respecting the
activity of our inclinations and passions during sleep, without
131
th e ir being subordinate to reason, judgment, or volition, it
m a y be added that, in this state, our natural inclinations and
personal affections are manifested without disguise. In his
dream s, the man of fortitude will resist, and the pusillanimous
always fly. In every parP of such imaginary scenes, each
person will act consistently with bis characteristic disposition,
whether virtuous or vicious, whether kind or hateful; and
never in opposition to it, as he often may do in the waking state,
from motives founded in various ways of reasoning.
(11.) Page 43: Noise is irksome to the Noctambulist.
This state is obviously accompanied with an increase of
nervous irritability; whence it is more probable that noctam*
bulists are generally affected, from a concussion on their nerves,
produced by the vibration of sounds, than that their sense of
hearing should be directly acted upon. The same effect has
sometimes been noticed in deaf-born subjects.
If the sense of hearing be suddenly recalled, a transition to
the waking state will instantaneously take place; as I'have been
informed by one who, in that of noctambulism, suggested the
experiment. I called out his name, with a loud voice, and close
to his ear; upon which being done, he immediately awoke;
and after exhibiting symptoms of surprise and alarm, at the
situation in which he found himself, he soon relapsed into his
preceding condition, but not without transition through that
of common sleep.
t
132
(12.) Page 43: Spectators are unnoticed by him.
Spectators, indeed, remain unnoticed whilst they abstain from
touching the noctambulist, and from interfering with the actual
train of his ideas.
A strong concussion would certainly be produced, in the
whole of his nervous system, by the slightest touch from any
person or animal whatsoever; although a similar consequence
would not attend his wilfully touching, or any way acting upon
such person, or other living Being. Therefore, the means often
employed to awaken noctambulists are the more dangerous and
improper, as the latter are not exposed to any serious accident
from their spontaneous actions,—but only from the ignorance
and imprudence of other persons.
It is seldom an enterprise of very difficult accomplishment,
to establish a free communication with the noctambulist; and
this requires, in the first place, to discover the train of ideas
which occupy his mind at the time being. If any correspond­
ing question be then addressed to him, he will probably answer it
immediately; but should it happen otherwise, repeat the question
somewhat louder, when his attention will almost certainly be
called forth to the interlocutor. This is not contradictory with
what has been stated in the preceding note, as the noctambulist
does not precisely hear, any more than he can in that casedis­
pose of the organ of sight; but those faculties are both super­
seded by another of which we can form no conception, and
133
th e slight concussion produced upon him by the vibration of
th e voice has withdrawn his attention from his own ideas,
and solicited the same towards the object whence such vibration
originated.
• These remarks are the simple result of my personal and re­
peated observations. By such means, I have maintained con­
versation with noctambulists, even during whole hours; as
freely, and with the same variety, as could have been accom­
plished with persons awake. I have availed myself of those
opportunities, to divert their attention from the series of their
own ideas, and to direct it upon other matter^; I have thus
obtained more accurate notions respecting their actual state,
than could possibly have been acquired by any other method,
and thereby convinced myself, that noctambulists are susceptible
of mental powers incomparably superior to those which belong
to human nature in the waking state.
(13.) Page 44: Noctambulizm— a modification o f tcaking*
In as much as the locomotive faculty would seem an exclusive
attribute of ihe waking stale, this inference may naturally be
deduced; but I find myself warranted, by personal and atten­
tive observation, in dissenting from the author’s opinion.
The transition is always from common sleep to noctambulism,
and invariably from this to the former state; whenever nature
is left to its own operations. It may forcibly take place, from
134
noctambulism to waking; but in that case, it is always a cco m ­
panied with perturbation of the nerves, and consequent p ain .
From which I infer noctambulism to be a modified §leep, o r 2
complication of this, essentially, with another state which shall
be described hereafter.
(14.) Page 47: Sleep, under certain conditions, would resemble
madness,
Our nightly dreams may be considered as slight and transitory
maladies of the brain, peculiar to the sleeping state. Delirium,
and Insanity of mind, may also be considered as waking dreams,
accompanied however with personal action, and protracted in
their duration. The one and the other equally appear to depend
on some obstacle to the regular exercise of our organic functions,
and the necessary consequence of which is an aberration of
certain faculties.
(15.) P age 50: Cataleptics are moveable like a painter's
mannikin, with or without volition in them.
If it were clearly ascertained, that the insensibility alluded to
really existed, the faculty of volition must in such case be
considered as probably suspended; as it is not conceivable that
this faculty could be urged into action, independently of any
previous sensation. But experiments have proved, that the sense
of hearing is often retained in Cataleptics, although it is theu
transferred to the Plexus Solaris, or pit of the stomach; and
135
answ ers have been obtained, when the patients were addressed
in th at particular part, even at a distance, and through a
m etallic conductor of any length.
N ot only this: but a translation of the senses of sight and of
smelling, to the epigastric regions, has also been' ascertained by
the same experiments; and these stand the further removed from
suspicion, as when they were first made by Doctor Petetin of
Lyons, about the year 1785, he was at that time a strenuous
oppqser of Human Magnetism and of Magnetic Somnam­
bulism, with which these matters of observation are inti­
mately connected. The instances of different senses being trans­
ferred, from their proper organs, to other parts of the human
body, occur not unfrequently; but the observations, as com­
monly made In such cases, seem rather surrendered to the
influence and guidance of exclusive systems, or of settled pre­
judices, than directed with the reserve which characterizes
enquiring and impartial minds.
(16). Page 52: The Principles o f Good, and o f Evil.
. A notion of two Genii, or personified Principles, supposed
coeternally to exist; and, in absolute independance of each other,
to preside over all our actions, ha9 prevailed among human
legislators from the highest antiquity.
We find this doctrine established in India, as far back as
history can be traced; and to have been, among the Greeks,
successively maintained by Pythagoras, Plato, and Plutarch*
i
136
Such were its attractions, that the wisest, as well as the most
ignorant of men, had adopted it with equal eagerness; and
scarcely, indeed, has there ever been held out any mystical
doctrine, of which the confutation, through the single illumi­
native powers of human reason, involved greater difficulty.
The Egyptians had also adopted those Principles of Good and
of Evil, as divinities, denominated Osiro and Typhon. The same
were acknowledged by Zoroaster; and after him, by the Magii
of Persia and Chaldea, under the appellations of Orosmades and
Arimanes. The latter, or the Evil Principle, was by the Arabs
called Sathan ; whence we find the name of Satan employed in
the Book of Job, who himself was an Arabian. The same
doctrine has subsequently been associated with Christianity, by
various sectaries; amongst whom the most conspicuous were the
Manichces, originating with Manes, in the third century; he
being a Persian had received it traditionally, and afterwards
was confirmed in his opinion from the writings of Pythagoras,
as we are informed by some of the fathers of the primitive
church.
(17). Page 52: Our two Natures.
Excluding personification from the doctrine above mentioned,
what remains of it will exactly coincide with tl*e sense involved
under this expression, the two natures o f Man, and leave but
little room for objection. Any attempt at a new explanation
would fall short of what has already been set forth, in admirable
wofds, by those two most profound moral philosophers, Epic­
tetus and Marcus Aurelius; therefore, it may not be deemed
1ST
irrelevant to the subject if a translation of them be here
introduced:—
“ Man is compounded ot two natures, altogether opposed;
of a body, possessed in common with the brutes, and of in­
tellect which assimilates him to the Gods. Most men direct
their affections towards the first of those substances, doomed
to adversity and dissolution; and the rest, in number far in­
ferior, settle their attachment upon the second, the destiny
of which is ultimately to enjoy immortal life, and to partake
of unalterable happiness.” (Epictetus, lib. 1, cap. xiv.)
“ One Supreme Being governs all that we call Good and
Evil. Every thing which befals each of us is useful to the
whole; and this is sufficient to be known. HE says to Man:
Reverence that excellent part of thyself, which is of the same
nature with thy God : bend thy soul to its commands, that it
may be always ready to act as thy Genius shall point out; for
such Genius is not any thing more than Reason and Under­
standing.^ (Marcus Aurelius).
(18). Page 52: Topaz and Ebon.
Two fanciful personages of a well-known moral tale, by
Voltaire.
138
(19). Page 55: The Sleeping State, generally.
We are to bear in mind, that sleep is depicted here in its u n ­
mixed state. Therefore, when the faculty of speech, or aoy
other not usually belonging to it, continues in exercise, such
anomalies ought to be referred to a commencement of com­
plication, which in its further progress may attain the standard
of Noctambulism.
#
Sleeping is a necessary function which appears susceptible
of compensation, by greater intensity, for the limitation of time
allotted to its performance. Light sleepers, slothful persons,
nervous ones, are the greatest dreamers; and to such are nearly
circumscribed the instances of anomalous circumstances most
commonly observed, as applying to that state, whilst hard
labouring people, who can devote only a few hours to that
indispensible refreshment, sleep soundly and dream very little,
if in good health,— but repair no less their exhausted
excitements.
Independently of the phenomena hitherto noticed, some
others are occasionally exhibited as concomitants of the most
intense sleep. Respecting them, nothing shall fee gratuitously
assumed : the facts are here correctly stated, from my personal,
- attentive and repeated observation.
The mixed state to which I allude seems to difler, from that
of the Noctambulist, in one point only; which is, that in-
\
139
ste a d of exerting any locomotive faculty, the person so affected#
a n d not less profoundly asleep than in the latter case, remains
perfectly motionless, whilst he communicates distinctly and
w ith audible voice, yet in a very laconic style, his ideas and his
feelings. These do not, as in dreams, proceed from delusion,
or from wandering of the imagination; but they are obviously
the result of important perceptions, acquired by some other than
the accustomed modes. The communications made by indi­
viduals in that mixed state are not addressed to any particular
person, for they do not indeed manifest any consciousness of
being attended to, and this happens not less when auditors are
out of the way, than it does in the contrary case; but as far
as my observations have extended, such communications are
chiefly—and perhaps exclusively—referable to the concerns
and demands of the individuals' own healths. They will
announce, without mistaking, the approach of unexpected
paroxysms of disease; occasionally point out, not only the
character of such paroxysms, but also the precise moment of
invasion, together with their duration, and explicitly indicate
the proper and fittest remedies. After the person is awoke, his
memory does not retain any of those circumstances: his ig­
norance then is complete, upon the subject agitated in his
sleep. Such extraordinary phenomena can meet no satisfactory
explanation, unless from a reference to the state of Magnetic
Somnambulism^ hereafter defined, and with which the sleeping
state is (according to all appearances) complicated in cases of
the present description.
To the remarks stated in note 10th is further to be added
that, during sleep, not only the family resemblances are more
t
%
« 140
distinctly visible than in any other state, but the physiognomy*
ig genera], being no longer composed, and resum ing as far a*
possible its genuine stamp, lays more open to observation*
Should you suspect having a secret enemy, or doubt a supposed
friend, examine bis features when he is asleep.^
(30). P age 56: N octam bulim .
I incline to consider this state, so frequent among young
subjects and principally those of a nervous complexion, as a
critical symptom, or one of the secret resources of nature
(more kind to us than is commonly acknowledged) towards the
restoration of equilibrium and harmony in the human organi­
zation, and by which various morbid causes are intended
gradually to be spent; provided always that such crises be not,
with unwary cruelty, submitted to undue interruption. I am
even disposed to concur with the opinion of some, who consider
the paroxysms of frenetics and of maniacs as efforts of the vital
powers, towards a similar effect; but in which those powers
may not, by their single operation, be adequate to the perfect
accomplishment of a salutary crisis; and persona] observation
has supplied sufficient reasons to convince me, that there does
not exist any such thing as essential disorganization of the
mental faculties.
The noctambulist is instinctively warned of his approaching
transition to the state of unmixed sleep; and accordingly, he
regulates, to a moment, all his enterprises: nor does it in any
way depend upon himself, either to accelerate or retard the
/
141
transition of which we are speaking. If noctatnbulism be inter­
cepted, it will be resumed a few minutes after the person has
again fallen asleep, until the entire accomplishment of nature’s
intentions for the present time.
I am indebted to my communications with noctambulists,
for those various points of information, and for other interest­
ing details, which from the necessary limits of these notes
could not conveniently find a place in them. To conclude
however, with what regards the present matter, there is still to
remark that memory, in the noctambulist, exceeds the common
bounds of this faculty; and that he often possesses an instinctive
and unerring sensation, not only of his internal organization,
but also of whatever can benefit his physical condition.I
I have attentively followed up comparative observations upon
one, with reference to four distinct states of which he was
susceptible: the subject had been afflicted with a mental de­
rangement, and was then in great progress of recovery, after­
wards completed by the single power of Human Magnetism,
without any medical interference. In the lucid intervals of his
waking state, memory extended no further than to the common
occurrences which that single state involved, exclusively of
every thing referable to the paroxysms of disease. During
these, it embraced the occurrences of both states; but with
perversion ofjudgment, notwithstanding a considerable enlarge­
ment, not only of the sentient, but also ofsome part of the mental
faculties. In the condition of a noctambulist, he not only
possessed a clearer and more comprehensive memory of every
tiding connected with his two former conditions, but also of
142
tbe circumstances attending his preceding crisesofnoctambulism:
these were always accompanied with sound judgment, and with
remarkable accession to the sentient faculty and usual powers of
ratiocination; yet without the smallest recollection of any thing
relative to a fourth state, which shall be described hereafter.
And in this last, his memory fully encompassed every occur­
rence of the four different conditions, independently of a still
further enlargement of certain other faculties; but, as to some,
with the same limitation which took place during noctambulism.
In support of some assertions, which however candid on my
part may possibly stagger the belief of uninformed readers,
I must be permitted to adduce a curious fact which occurred
on the occasion of that fourth state, and refers to the ex­
tension already mentioned of the sentient and mental powers;
notwithstanding my being aware of standing now, as doubtless
I shall also on many other occasions, in the same predicament
as the Dutch embassador did in regard to the Indian king. Let
this be as it m ay:—
I was informed by the person alluded to, and not then awake,
that the noctambulic crises originated from his being suffered
sometimes to retire, at the^usual hour of rest, during continuance
of such paroxysms of his principal disease as were too slight
for falling under common observation; and the means of
ascertaining them being pointed out, I was enabled, by due
attention, to prevent any further recurrencex>f noctambulism.
He also instructed me, respecting a very simple method, by
which I could always intercept any of the paroxysms to which
he was subject; but warned me, at the same time, against
dsm
143
4
n\.
u.
oi*
idtV
it-::
be..>
v^wc
ter ca
vutaar
C
t lht
refer*
Ud ID
:
; now
,*
: »arat p
t I n d ite
the consequences of using it indiscriminately, from the con­
sideration that those very paroxysms were necessary operations,
conducive to the radical cure of his disease and removal of its
cause, and therefore that they ought not to be>habitually inter­
rupted. Whenever they became particularly troublesome,
from the concurrence of other circumstances, I had only
to seize both wrists of the insane person, fixing my eyes sted-
fastly upon him, and mentally exerting an energetic volition
towards the desired efiect; when he never failed, within a very
i
few seconds of time, to start into the pure state of waking, in
which he remained perfectly unconscious of what had hap­
pened, manifesting great surprise however at the extraordinary
action in which I was then detected. Yet it should be un­
derstood, that no such power could probably have existed,
had my general influence not been pre-established by magnetic
affinity; and it is worthy of special remark, that all such
influence was wholly suspended during the state of noctam-
bulism, when I possessed no magnetic power whatsoever upon
that individual, exclusively surrendered to the course of nature’s
spontaneous operations.
andn
ot*
m his W (21). Page 66: Insane personsfrequently enjoy strong bodily
>»durin?(* health.
* as w
er*1
and th
e* p ursuant to the idea suggested in the first paragraph of the
was preceding note, and observing indeed that persons thus afflicted
nee of n^are often remarkable for vigour of bodily health, it would seem
y sinipfe ^not impossible that they are indebted for it, in some measure,
e paroxy^W the very misfortune of their intellectual condition,
te sam
e ^
*•
144
This hypothesis may rest upon less vague grounds, when due
attention shall have been paid to what is hereafter exposed on
the subject of magnetic somnambulism, as well as concerning the
peculiar faculties attending that critical state, its frequently
spontaneous occurrence, and its complication with other human
conditions. Such complication not only appears solely to con­
stitute noctambulism, but is often observable in the condition of
insane persons; and perhaps it may form a part of nature’s
secret means, which would sufficiently account for the original
remark. Somnambulism, even in this inordinate shape, may
not be divested of real advantages; and the paroxysms of a
frenetic, however hideous occasionally their character, may
sometimes be, under the direction of a sagacious observer, con­
vertible into curative means.
(92). Page 58: Nervous Diseases.
The condition of spontaneous and then more or less inordinate
Somnambulism, under its different complications, and attended
with characteristic faculties, is not so rarely met with as may
commonly be supposed; to say nothing on the particular subject
of its manifestation in patients upon their death-beds, where
various causes almost always combine with the prepossessions of
ignorance, to preclude attentive and useful observation.
The degrees are very numerous, in which the scale of such
complications might be divided.
The alteration, from the usual standard and exercise of human
145
faculties is often imperceptible; not only to persons entirety
divested of information upon the matter, but also to others who,
sufficiently informed and not deficient in attention to the
general circumstances of any particular case, might relax one
single moment from the most sedulous observation; whilst, on
the contrary, such alteration sometimes attains the extreme of
possible extent. Yet in all the degrees of deviation, from the
usual standard of the individual's actions, powers of elocution,
inclinations and propensities, as also from the usual bend of
his thoughts, there are almost invariably the two following
circumstances observed to accompany the specific condition
of which we are speaking:—First, a modification, at the time
being, in some of the usual forms of perception; and secondly,
an entire forgetfulness of every thing which occurred from
the commencement of such paroxysms, however slight or in*
tense, until the pure state of waking iB restored by a spontaneous
transition. Without descending to minute particulars, let it
merely be observed that individuals, under those circumstances,
often unite uncommon perspicacity with no less extraordinary
dexterity in the exercise of bodily faculties; especially, if im*
pelled by motives tending to the accomplishment of any purpose
deemed reprehensible, under our settled notions of propriety*
justice, or morality, and when they conceive any danger of
encountering obstacles or opposition.
It will sometimes happen in complications of inordinate som*
nambulism, even when imperceptible to any other than a very
attentive observer, that the moral notions, regarding some par­
ticular point, are diametrically opposite to what they are in
the pure waking state, yet without any difference in other
K
146
respects; and that inevitable actions are consequential to such
aberrations. To illustrate this position, important facts might be
related; but similar ones have probably been observed, in cases
where persons are said to Hallucinate.
It is not always easy to discriminate a commencement of In­
sanity ; nor is it necessary for ascertaining its existence at any
particular period, or single moment, that it should have been fol­
lowed by a consecution of corresponding acts or circumstances;
and I am not disinclined to question the competence of the far
greater number, among those called upon in a professional or
other capacity, to give their decision on such delicate points,
under the guidance of systematic rules. How deplorable, then,
the human condition; considering, under this point of view,
the mistakes liable to be committed in applying the forms of
criminal law! Doubtless, many unfortunate persons have
suffered for actions proved indeed against them, but who, in
subsequent lucid moments, were perfectly unconscious of
having performed them in a mixed state, which neither the
forms of justice, nor capacity of understanding in its ministers,
could afford sufficient means of discriminating.
Following my author, through his description of the various
states incident to human nature, I cannot sufficiently account
for his entire omission to notice that of Intoxication. This is
susceptible of being produced in various ways; and would in-^
duce a belief that Man is often impelled, by some sort of
necessity, to seek even by degrading means, in default of any
other within the scale of his capability, a temporary accession
to the usual standard of his intellectual enjoyments. Intoxication
147
probably falls within the general description of complicated
states.
There is reason to consider those different conditions of human
nature, under which the mental faculties are subject to modi­
fication, as reducible to three principal ones, the waking, the
sleeping, and the somnambulic; all which constitute modes of
existence wholly distinct from each other, yet in one and the
same person. And all intermediate conditions are further to be
considered as concocted by complications of those three, or any
two of them, and of their appropriate faculties, in innumerable
shades and degrees, corresponding with the generating Causes
capable of acting upon human organization.
We may not be susceptible, during life, ofeither of these modes
absolutely unmixed. Sleep, abstracted from any operation of the
mind, or without somnambulic complication, would be vegetable
existence. Waking, equally abstracted, would constitute the life
of brutes; whilst pure Somnambulism is a mode scarcely con­
ceivable, except in a superior order of Beings. Our privilege, of
participating in the three modes, indicates that that part of us
unattainable by dissolution will, at a future phasis of its general
existence, be confined to that single mode which man can now
but very imperfectly enjoy. Without indulging any further in
these speculations, we merely observe, that to discriminate the
sentient substance animating the body, from the Mind or intel­
lectual substance, essentially thinking independent of organic
medium, might render the explication of human nature less
difficult, than unjler the incomprehensible idea of a human Soul,
involving altogether ihe sentient aiid intellectual faculties.
148
(23.) Page 60: Human Magnetism, practised by routine.
The distribution of magnetic power is very unequal among
mankind. Some unconsciously possess it in an eminent degree,
and chance fails not always to supply occasions for its
manifestation.
T he contact of one person accidentally proves beneficial to
another, afflicted with any particular disease, and notice taken
of that circumstance induces a repetition of the experiment;
hence an increase of intensity in the effects, and disease gradu­
ally vanishes under such salutary influence. This is Human
Magnetism; only without a name. But the person gifted with
such uncommon degree of power does not stop there: he
selects similar cases, and often is successful in applying the
a
same remedy; indeed the more so, as habitual exercise soon
transforms a simple intention into energetic volition, whilst
ignorant of the principle of his action, and of the extent of bis
own sphere of activity, he neglects the application of magnetic
power to diseases of a different description. His abilities never­
theless grow into repute; but they are confined to one parti­
cular object, and to a very limited circle, beyond which the
most simple and authentic facts are controverted by some, and
considered as doubtful at least by every one else. This, again, is
nothing more than what has happened from time to time, in
almost every part of the world.
Human Magnetism, obviously practised by our forefathers.
149
is even at the present age in use among uncivilized nations;
witness the relation of Captain Wallis's voyage to Otabeity,
(12th July 1767), and other accounts of travellers to distant
regions. I pass over the details relative to Gassner in Germany;
Lctoucheur in France, the Saludadores in Spain, and many
other persons equally known to have performed cures by mag­
netic power, under whatever time-serving or superstitious ap­
pellations it may have been disguised; and shall confine myself
to recal a series of facts, perfectly authentic, and originating
in this country.
They are stated at full length, in a book in my possession
and entitled “ A brief account q f M r, Valentine Greatrak’s, and
divers q f the strange cures by him lately performed ; written by
himseff, in a letter addressed to the Honourable Robert Boyle,
Whereunto are annexed the testimonials o f scvcygl eminent and
worthy persons, • o f the chief matters q f fact therein related:
London 1666." The facts alluded to, and which occurred
during that and the three preceding years, wear a specific and
interesting character. They are narrated in that ingenuous and
unassuming style which disarms suspicion, and are corroborated
by the unequivocal testimony of persons most respectable in
these kingdoms; such as the Honourable Robert Boyle, president
of the Royal Society; the Bishop q f Dromore; the Rector q f
St. PauVs (Covent-Garden); Doctors Denton, Faireclough, Faber9
Wilkins, Whichcot, Cudworth, Evans and Astel, all members
of the Faculty; besides others in considerable number, and
of no less unquestionable credibility, the names of whom are
here omitted. The book I thus particularise, presuming it now
scarce and of difficult attainment, has in front a portraiture of
150
r r r w w . j l 1 v
the principal personage, represented in the act of magnetising
a youth apparently afflicted with a disease in the eye; and the
following inscription is below: “ V. Greatrakcs, Esq, o f Affane,
in the county o f Waterford in Ireland, famous fo r curing several
distempers by the stroke o f his hand only ”
Those numerous cures refer to a variety of diseases, mostly
of serious description; and excepting a few, they do not seem
to have required long attendance, or action frequently repeated.
Greatrakes relates the instances in which he failed to cure, or
even to procure relief, with the same candid simplicity em­
ployed to record his almost miraculous achievements: equally
exempt from pride and from feelings of vain glory, as he is from
all other interested motives, and guided by a sentiment of
universal benevolence, he considers himself only an humble
instrument iq» the hands of the Almzghtv; referring the
merit of his actions to that Author o f all Good. It is a difficult
matter to comprehend upon what ground the reality of facts, ,
so perfectly established, could be called in question; but it is
not the less true, that Jealousy, with other base passions, have
sedulously employed themselves against one of the best prac­
tical Christians which ever existed, and that the charitable Great­
rakes could escape, neither the shafts of malicious detractors,
nor the snares of an impotent spirit of persecution.
*
It may, without departing from the truth, be objected that he
was an Enthusiast; that he confessed supernatural visions, and
his having heard unknown voices, which informed him of his
apostolate, and commanded him to exert his Extraordinary
faculties for the benefit of his fellow-men. I do not controvert
151
f
{
I
j
| th e ch arg e of superstition, certainly intermixed with all this; nor
is it w o rth while, now, to enquire into the cause of such probable
illu sio n . But far from this objection applying even in the
sm allest degree to the principal matter of feet, it will be de­
m onstrated to readers of information and reflection, that in
all analogous instances which have occurred, more particularly
w ith in the last eighteen centuries, the parties have derived
considerable accession of magnetic power from such association,
w ith its natural exercise, of elevated ideas and mystical notions;
w hether founded in truth, or only the suggestions of an ardent
imagination. Multifarious facts, traced back to very remote
periods, or standing upon more modern record, are not wanting
to illustrate this position; and perhaps we may, on some future
occasion, present them as a matter for regular discussion.
Meanwhile, we may safely assume that nothing short of de­
cided enthusiasm, originating in sources of that kind, could
possibly sustain, during a series of years, the spirit of devoted­
ness and energy of action constantly requisite for accomplishing
such deeds, the tradition of which has been handed down to
us at different periods of time.
The examples just now set forth must always be considered
as exceptions, to the common standard of magnetic power in
human beings. Although this description of power is possessed
by every one in more or less degree, and does not in the least
depend upon previous instruction; and although the most ig­
norant, equally with well informed persons, need only to
w ill it, for calling the same into abundant exercise, yet its
spontaneous manifestation can but rarely occur; as it is the
attribute of a small comparative number of people, only, to be
gifted in such extraordinary measure, and it is further necessary
152
that chance should supply the first opportunities for developing
the faculty of which we are speaking.
It is too well known, that we possess the baneful faculty of
communicating, to our fellow-creatures, a great variety of
diseases; not only by immediate contact, but also by a less
near approach, through the miasms exhaled from us; nay
even of conveying such diseases to the inhabitants of distant
regions, by the intermediate agency of substances impregnated
with our morbid emanations. Why, therefore, should it be
considered absurd to admit the faculty, in healthy persons,
of exerting a salutary influence upon the physical condition
of others, by a natural mode of action; particularly when pro­
moted with all the energies of Intention, Attention, and Volition,
whilst these are sustained by Faitf%, Hope, and Charity T
(24). Page 62: Human Magnetism—not relative to the magnet.
Relations of analogy arc not wanting to legitimate the first of
these denominations, which however has the inconvenience of
producing frequent equivocations, when the adjective isomitted.
I shall allow myself to state a few of those analogies, confining
myself to such as are less exposed to controversy; and must
premise, that Mesmer was led to bis discovery by a series of
inferences, drawn from the properties of the magnet, which,
in course of medical practice, he applied to the human body
in various cases of disease.
—The magnetic properties are conveyed to an iron bar, or
needle, by an operation subordinate to rules also recommended
153
in th e first part of the process, for magnetising human Beings,
and which further seem founded in direct analogy. The mag-
netist is instructed always to act in the direction of the prin­
c ip a l nerves, following as much as possible their different rami­
fications, from the origin to the extremities; and carefully to
avoid intervening that direction.
_ — The magnetic effects of both descriptions are attributed,
from considerations of equal weight, to the agency of an in­
visible fluids impelled in one constant direction.
—Certain sympathies and antipathies obviously result, in
both cases, from the respective modes of action.
— As the effects produced by the magnet are chiefly mani­
fested in the shape of attraction and repulsion, according to
given directions, so are those of Human Magnetism manifested
by a remarkable influence of the magnetist upon the party
magnetised, which influence extends both to body and mind;
and with regard to third persons, not in harmony with the
magnetist, it is often manifested by an instinctive and no less
remarkable antipathy, in the other party, towards such third
persons.
—A strong concussion, operating nearly at right angles with
the direction of the magnetic current established in an iron bar,
is liable instantly to annihilate in this all the magnetic pro­
perties: so is even moral concussion, produced upon a magnetised
person in the condition of a somnambulist, capable of awaking
him by sudden and painful transition.
154
(95). Paob 63: Uutory q f Human Magnetism. ]
This doctrine was first proclaimed at Paris, where M umer,
discoverer of the human faculty implied under the above deno­
mination, and who was a regular physician at Vienna, had
resorted for shelter against persecution. After having fought
its way through an interested and violent opposition, exhibited
in every imaginable shape during a series of years, it has ulti­
mately been established in France, with the co-operation of
many medical men, and the tacit approbation of a far greater
number, some of whom stand at the head of their profession.
Its progress has been no less rapid in other parts of the
continent; but more particularly in Germany, where the taste
for philosophical speculation, the disposition to perseverance in
action, as well as to attentive and patient observation, are equally
adapted to the practical application of Human Magnetism and
the improvement of its theory. At this present period, there
are in Germany more medical characters, professing to exert
the faculty of which we are speaking, than in any other part of
the world. They have supplied instructive and satisfactory pub­
lications upon the subject, and have created, under the patronage
of the sovereigns of th&t country, public institutions for the mag­
netic treatment of diseased persons; of which transactions some
particulars were published in Tilloch’s Philosophical Magazine,
May 1818.
At the same time, the ignorance of all classes of persons
'inois
tim
»
155
throughout the British Empire, respecting this matter, and
their unwillingness to be informed, exist even at the present
day in a degree that would be difficult to account for, or to
excuse, were it not from the following considerations, which 1
conceive myself bound to expose. #
The awful character of political events in France had, from
the year 1789, withdrawn the public attention from Human
Magnetism, and dispersed a great number of respectable per­
sons, who, from the purest motives, were arduously employed in
improving the knowledge then possessed upon this important
subject. What intelligence concerning it had reached this
country, was confined to a series of facts, wearing an extraor­
dinary but apparently dubious character; and the strongest
impression left upon people’s minds resulted from a supposed
investigation, by commissioners expressly appointed by the king
of France and the Faculty of Physic in 1784, and from their
subsequent condemnation of that doctrine, henceforth branded
with ridicule, whilst its courageous retainers were visited with
persecution and obloquy. It would be equally tedious and
unseasonable, here, to enter into details respecting the polemic
writings and warfare which .ensued* nor is it worth while to
dwell upon the circumstance of one of the commissioners (Mon­
sieur Jussieu) having seceded from the rest, and invariably
refused to subscribe their report; therefore I shall only -state
that this report, however ably penned, was ultimately proved
false in its conclusions, drawn from facts inaccurately observed
by men warped with unconquerable prejudices, and urged by
professional and party feelings. I am prepared to justify
these assertions, whenever the .substantial and convincing proofs
f
156
can be submitted to an impartial British public; but for the
present, I shall further observe, only, that the singular state
called Somnambulism was discovered, by the Marquis de Puy-
s6gur, after the decision of the commissioners had been pro­
nounced ; which circumstance, casting a new and unexpected
light upon the magnetic doctrine, could not fail to sink their ✓
report into absolute insignificance. Yet their names were
sufficiently imposing to excite, during some time, a strong sen­
sation in the public; who could scarcely be blameable for a de­
reliction of its own judgment, and surrender of its own opinions,
to such authorities as were held indisputable.
To point out the celebrated Doctor Benjamin Franklin, whose
name stands at the head bf the list, might be deemed an invi­
dious remark; were it not that, in a work lately published by bis
grandson, the decision alluded to is recalled with too little con­
sideration, and reflections are there introduced, which betray, in
the author, a deficiency of accurate information about the matter.
As I hold his personal character in esteem; at the same time as
few entertain greater veneration than myself for the memory of
his illustrious grandfather, to whose scientific labours the world
is much indebted, I regret that Mr. William Temple Franklin
should not have chosen to observe a prudential silence on the
subject he has somewhat incautiously agitated. Dr. Franklin,
known as a particular friend of Dr. Ingenhouz of Vienna, who
signalised himself as the violent persecutor of Mesmer from
the very infancy of the latter's discovery, had thus but a
questionable right to expect implicit credence from an impartial
public, in his capacity of ajudge upon this delicate aflair. Under
the circumstances of his climacteric infirmities and diplomatic
157
callings, he was further disqualified for personally prosecuting
a diligent enquiry into the innumerable details of those facts
which required a minute investigation; nor indeed has he ever
made the attempt. Therefore, he would have honoured himself
by declining an appointment which, of its nature, could only be
considered a nominal one; and it is rather unfortunate for his me­
mory, that we should find his name mingled in such a business.
Nearly thirty years ago, a medical character, after having
received his instruction from an associate in Mesmer’s practice,
read lectures, in London, respecting the matter now under
consideration. Our present object being only to induce its
impartial investigation by persons of enlightened and liberal
mind, all animadversion upon the course then pursued would
gladly have been avoided; but the imperious duty of shewing
that the rejection of the magnetic doctrine, at that period, is im­
putable to the mode in which it was presented before the public,
and not to any demerit of that doctrine in itself, renders
necessary to revert to some circumstances which occurred ;
and should any part of this statement prove to be incorrect, we
trust it will be put to the account of misinformation.
Independent of the difficulty of recalling the public attention to
a subject almost universally cried down, in consequence of the re­
port of the French commissioners, a grievous disadvantage fur­
ther resulted from the spirit of interested speculation with which
was coupled its introduction into this country; whence the
doctrine itself, considered as a money-getting thing, the occasion
ofscandalous discussions, ofscurrilous debates and disgraceful re-
vilings, seemingly lost all claims to bejudged on its own grounds.
* 158
Dr. Demainauduc, conceiving that an ingenuous exposition of
Human Magnetism might not be sufficiently favourable to per­
sonal views, constituted himself tbe bead of a new school; the
principles of which, however, are to be found in French publi­
cations of the year 1784. He deprecated the authority of his
instructors, in presence of an auditory of very heterogeneous
composition, and set up exclusive pretensions.* A simple faculty,
belonging to every human Being, and the useful exercise of
which scarcely requires half an hour's instruction, was exalted
into a Science of difficult attainment; and a complete know­
ledge of anatomy (although we do not dispute its superior ad­
vantage) was improperly suggested to bean indispensiUe requi­
site for exercising -the magnetic power* He not only laid a
daim to extraordinary gifts of nature, a line of conduct rather
calculated to excite suspicion; but he exclusively addressed tbe
opulent. His lessons were incomprehensible to almost any of
bis auditory, excepting a small number of professional men,
who afterwards became his rivals in practice and self-importance.
He wrapt himself up in unnecessary mystery; exacted pledges
of secrecy from his initiated, very few of whom retained any
distinct'idea of bis theory, the product of imagination and of
a capacious memory. With no less injustice than ostentation, he
revolted at every idea of associating Human Magnetism with
other medical methods, which are fully sanctioned by the ex­
perience of ages. He published a book, where the forms
' of logical reasoning are discarded, and superseded by a series
of assumptions, delivered in dogmatic style; a method which
could never satisfy philosophic minds. A few words only are
there mentioned, on the interesting subject of somnambulism
or magnetic sleep, described as a merely comatic state, and
159
carefully removing from it the reader's attention; whether from
ignorance in the professor (which is not likely), or because he
conceived that the revelations incident to such state might over*
throw his laborious superstructure.
Yet we are far from controverting the principal matters of
fact alleged in that work, or the useful application of its theory
in the way directed. We fully admit them, as an aggregate,
without cavilling on the ground of some possible exceptions.
Nor is it denied that bodily snflerings have often been relieved,
and remarkable cures accomplished, by the professor and others
of bis school; both because the general faculty is premised, and
because such main facts are corroborated by unexceptionable
witnesses. Justice further requires us to say, that the methods
of practice, among magnetists of that school, would appear to
involve some advantages rarely met with amongst those of the
French or German schools.
We only contend, that Dr. Demainauduc's theory does not,
any more than many other theories equally applicable to the
same subject, rest upon the solid ground of experience and
observation, but partly consists in gratuitous assumptions; that
his successful practice, with that of other persons, is wholly in­
dependant of the truth or fallacy of such specific theory; and
that the course which was pursued, very far from tending to
diffuse substantial information respecting the faculty of Human
Magnetism, could not fail to be viewed with a suspicious eye,
to revolt thinking minds, and to remove every disposition, in
the greater part of candid and well-meaning persons, to prosecute
further enquiries.
160
There is reason to lament that a good cause should thus have
been injured, by the employment of unwarrantable means in its
support; being well understood, that mystery can never favour
the advancement of science or useful knowledge, and that mer­
cenary views, in those who uphold a doctrine otherwise beset
with radical difficulties, can scarcely afford it any recommends-
tion to general acceptance* It is not the less true, however,
that the persecution of which Dr. Demainauduc became the
object, at the period alluded to, sprung chiefly from jealousy,
combined with other malignant and illiberal impulses; that his
good intentions entitled him to abetter reception, than that with
which he met from the public at large; and that many allow­
ances ought to have been made, in favour of a man of superior
abilities, and whose failings were only of a common description.
No sooner was the right assumed, of overwhelming with ridi­
cule and obloquy the personal pretensions of Magnetists, than
the doctrine itself, together with its application in any shape,
were (as a matter of course) equally anathematised: it had been
fashionable to attend Dr. Demainauduc’s lectures, and it soon
became so to treat the subject of them with derision and
affected contempt From a foolish conceit, the magnetic prac­
tice, deemed incompatible with respectable pursuits, was consi­
dered the exclusive province of sordid empirics; and however
easy the process, no person durst or could with impunity ven­
ture its application, to relieve a head-ache or slight rheumatic
pains, within the circle even of his own family and*most inti­
mate friends. Medical men, apprehensive of being involved in
such ridicule, and of endangering their consequence and the
respect which they are justly entitled to meet with in private
161
families, have hitherto chosen to follow the stream of prevailing
opinion; without sufficient inducement to devote the smallest
part of their time, to a candid enquiry into the merits of the
subject agitated. Even at the present day, every notion of Mag­
netism is, by the almost universality of Englishmen, considered
as inseparable from Dr. Demainauduc’s mysterious theory; and
objections are still, asthey were thirty-five years ago,deduced from
the report and conclusions of the French commissioners.
When interested motives take the lead, they are pliant enough
to save the credit of ignorance; and thus has the magnetic
practice sometimes been introduced in disguise, as in the case of
Perkinitm. The writer of these notes had not occasion to
notice the Metallic Tractors, till within the last four years; when,
upon trial, he found them to possess the property originally an­
nounced, on condition, however, of being employed as'magnetic
conductors; but if used in a merely mechanical manner,
without the co-operation of sustained attention and energetic
volition, they then produce no effect whatsoever. The inventor
appears to have taken great pains to conceal the determinating
cause of action in those instruments, and to induce a belief
that it originates in some metallic virtue. An -honourable
pursuit should not descend to time-serving artifices.
Partly from exaggerated pretensions in the early magnetists,
and partly from some mistaken notion of iqjury to the medical
interest, the body of medical men have long resisted the
invitation to Jake the magnetic practice into their own hands;
which would unquestionably have been the better course.
They now labour under the unconquerable difficulty, of openly
L
162
retracting an opinion once inconsiderately maintained. The
far greater number are still destitute of information upon
the subject, but not the less reluctant to confess igno­
rance. Among the most eminent of that profession, many
chuse to remain silent, though now convinced of the reality
of the magnetic aclioti and of its sanitary properties; whilst
many others conceive themselves too old, either to learn or
(what is yet more repugnant) to unlearn; and some, more
liberally disposed, are prevented by apathy only from venturing
beyond the pale of classical systems, awaiting some new and
extraneous impulsion. It is therefore too late, to expect that
the important benefits of Human Magnetism will be proclaimed
through the instrumentality of a class of men, by whom Harvey
and Jenner have been persecuted and reviled: it is through
the medium of the P u b lic , only, that conviction can now be
brought home to them, and the spirit of intolerence be put
to shame.
How far such unconcern, whether real or apparent, can
any longer be justifiable in a whole body of scientific men, is
submitted to their serious consideration ! Human Magnetism,
indeed, is no insignificant thing: it is, on the contraiy, a very
powerful mode of action, the full extent of which is yet un­
known. The error would be gross, to suppose that the power
we have described is doomed to sink, gradually, into disuse
and oblivion; its knowledge is already too extensively diffused,
it is of too easy an exercise, and possesses attractions \po irre­
sistible, to admit of this result. Therefore, the best and strongest
motives unite, to render it highly desirable that such exercise
be ultimately (not confined U>, which is neither possible
163
nor advisable, but) superintended by the Faculty of Physic,
when its members shall have qualified themselves for being
vested with such controul.
We seem not to know any thing of what passes abroad,
relatively to this subject; excepting the public exhibitions,
equally extravagant and scandalous, of one or two wretched
men, whose best excuse is that of the apothecary in Shakespeare;
and such can have no other effect than to remove belief and
solid information, at a greater distance than before, as also to
disgust persoos of understanding, reflection, and benevolent
disposition, from prosecuting the proper means of becoming
really informed.
(26.) Page 63: Ridicule attending the exhibition c f Sotn-
nambuliste.
The author alludes to such magnetists who, however well
intentioned and disinterested, have been known to make an
injudicious parade of their operations, and indiscriminately to
grant an easy access to persons guided by no other motive than
a vague and indiscreet curiosity.
Even in our metropolis, some are reported to have lately
exhibited Somnambulists. The motives to which such exhibi­
tions are readily attributed would almost preclude any beneficial
result. But admitting the parties to have been guided by the
very best intentions, why not then conduct silently such
operations, without giving occasion to impertinent reflections
164
of newspapers Upon the subject ? To act otherwise, is obviously
injuring the doctrine itself in the opinion of the public, who
will always be disposed to consider those exhibitions as the best
specimens of Human Magnetism, and a criterion from which
all its results are to be judged.
(97). Page 63: Monsieur Dcleutt^s work.
“ Histoire critique du M agnetime Animal, par /. P. F .
Deleuze. 2 vols. 8vo.—Paris, 1813 j” in which the author has
exposed this doctrine in .its true and most simple point of view.
Attentive to discard, from the series of facts ascertained, all $uch
as appeared to wear a character of less credibility, in the eye of
readers not assisted by some preliminary acquaintance with the
general matter, he has not been fortunate enough to escape the
censure of those, among his fellow-magnetists, who entertained
rather less regard for prudential considerations. Although that
author’s reserve was judicious and commendable, particularly at
the period of his publication, and would perhaps be equally
advisable in the present more advanced stage of information.
Count de Redern’s remark is not the less correct.
(98). Page 67: Subjects approaching the age q f puberty more
easily become Somnambulists.
* Pursuant to a preceding remark, that any interruption of
ofganic harmony is favourable to the.developement of somnam*
bulismy what the author further observes in this place is ac-
' 165
counted for, in consequence of nature’s exertions at such period
of life, towards the accomplishment of her ultimate intentions.
There is less tendency to that state during infancy; perhaps from
the greater extent of nature’s demands, and the more abundant
absorption of the magnetic or organic fluid, than at other
periods. Persons of very advanced years also experience great
difficulty in attaining a complete somnamhullt crisis; but this
is ascribahle to other causes, and tiiay proceed from a deficiency
of general flexibility in the nervous system, and consequent
obstacle to the requisite freedom of communication of the fluid
(whatever he its description) between the brain and the Plexus
Solaris, considered as principal nervous centres; to the latter
of which all internal functions of animal life are supposed to be
referable, as all its external functions would he to the former.
Somnambulists, however, have been seen of every age; from
that of three years, to that of seventy-five.
(29.) Page 68: Spontaneous Somnambulism.
We have already seen (note 22) that instances of spontaneous
Somnambulism are not unfrequent; that it is mostly the con­
comitant of disease, and generally assumes an irregular
character; also that, when no very striking incident happens to
fall under observation, and the individual in other respects
maintains his accustomed habits, persons not familiarized with
this phenomenon are apt to let it escape unnoticed. Yet 1 ha\e
sometimes witnessed that the somuambulic faculties, even thus
inordinately ^exerted, are capable of manifestation in sufficient
extent to claim serious attention, as affording the most certain
166
indications which could be obtained, for repairing the disorder*
of health in the subjects thus affected. When the crises are of
short' duration, and the person remains silent, though appa­
rently concentrated in thought, they are likely to be noticed
only as slight absences of mind. But this is not the worst
mistake. It may often have happened that, inferring a vague
notion' of insanity from circumstances not rightly understood,
an injudicious conduct towards the suffering party has violently
interrupted such crises, thwarted nature’s intentions, which
had a salutary tendency, and produced concussions in the
nervous system which have actually determined a mental
derangement, afterwards more or less difficult to rectify. Upon
which I shall observe, by tbe way, that the cure of mental
diseases is within the pale of human magnetic power, provided
they have not attained a permanent character; but of the latter
case, I know not any instance in which its application has been
decidedly successful, and even question whether the medical
means commonly employed have ever proved efficacious, for the
radical cure of confirmed and permanent insanity of mind.
The existence of a peculiar faculty called Second Sight is too
notorious, as applicable to inhabitants of certain districts of
Scotland, to require entering here into details respecting it.
The reader will find that subject treated of in mauy publica­
tions; such as Samuel Johnson'k relation of a Journey to the
Western Islands, James Boswell's Journal of a Tour to the
Hebrides with Samuel Johnson in the year 1773, the second
volume of Pennant's works, and M artin's description of those
islands. The principal fact is fully admitted by all diligent
observers, and controverted by'no other than persons warped
167
by habitual prejudices. The faculty we are speaking; of, by
which the imagery of scenes occurring in distant places sud­
denly becomes present to persons affected in this singular
manner, is not one from which any .advantage is derived to
them; and far from valuing themselves upon such a privilege,
they always consider it an annoyance. This is doubtless the
accompaniment of some sort of nevrose, to which the parties
are predisposed from local circumstances, and which falls within
the description of complicated states already mentioned.
Narratives are occasionally handed to us from different parts
of the world, concerning certain individuals, and even children,
who exhibit extraordinary mental powers applied to the rapid
combination of ideas; such as solving mathematical questions,
with seemingly wonderful sagacity. In many of those cases,
perhaps, there may not be the least degree of sagacity em­
ployed ; and if memory does not betray me, I think to have
read, in one of those narratives, that upon a scientific person’s
examining a boy of that description, and putting the direct
question to him—by what means he obtained the result an­
nounced, the boy had answered that he saw it as it were
written before him. It is rather surprising that, whilst the
reality of the faculty alluded to has been ascertained on various
occasions, no reference to the somnambulic state, or any other
analogous to it, should have been made with a view to explain
phenomena so remarkable, and which remain unaccountable
under any other hypothesis: but prepossessions have a strong
hold upon systematic minds.
Before dismissing the subject of spontaneous Somnambulism,
16*8
it might not be unseasonable to introduce a few considerations
respecting tbe familiar-Daemon of Socrates, much commented
upon by different authors, as it clearly belongs to the same
cathegory of unexplained facts; but this,'perhaps, bad better
be reserved for discussion on some other occasion, when the
question concerning apparitions in general may also be in­
vestigated.
(30.) P age 68; Self-willing Somnambulism.
This phenomenon less frequently occurs, than that of Som­
nambulism produced by nature's spontaneous operation. It
also appears to have been a faculty exercised by Anchorites,
in the first ages of Christianity, and successively by other
personages more or less known, who from various causes were
singularly disposed to exaltation of mind.
In none of those cases could an implicit reliance safely be
placed on tbe specific faculties, understood as belonging to the
somnambulic state, which then ought to be considered as not
existing in sufficient purity, with the exception perhaps of
a very few instances; because the imaginative power then ope­
rates without the needful cohtroul, and because regularity, as to
intervals of time and intensity of magnetic action, seems to be
requisite in a certain degree for the improvement of that state.
Of Self-willing Somnambulism, three instances only have
fallen within my immediate observation. In each, the parties
were females, who recently or on preceding occasions had been
169
submitted to magnetic action; therefore a predisposition ought
to be inferred, which in some measure m?y serve to explain the
main fact. *All were of robust constitutions, habitually en­
joying vigorous health, and two in that number usually produced
very powerful effects, when acting magnetically upon other
persons; of these two, one possessed a strong native intellect,
with comprehensive and active mind, faculties which in the
other were of a standard much inferior. 1 mention these cir­
cumstances, as they may afford assistance to future observers;
but the third instance is such as to justify my introducing
some of the details, which are very curious.
The subject was a female child, about twelve years of age,
and whom I had had for some time under magnetic treatment.
About one month before the principal occurrence I have
to relate, an indisposition of my own required the discon­
tinuance of our operations; being informed by that child, then
in the somnambulic state, altogether of my personal condition
and of the danger to which she might be exposed, from the
influence of that indisposition. I was somewhat surprised, when
she added that nature was competent to supply the deficiency,
and that she would from that moment cast herself into somnam­
bulism at my command, or even at any other person’s, whenever
it became useful: she further gave notice that her lucidity
ought not to be depended upon, under those new circumstances,
with regard to any matter foreign to the concerns of her health,
my own, or that of other persons in whom either of us took a
particular interest; alleging the motives of this restriction, some
of which have already been mentioned; and from that time,
170
invariably, she resumed somnambulism in less than one minute,
whenever desired to apply her hand to her forehead with such
intention. In this condition, she continued occasionally to
give very good medical consultations; descending into descrip­
tive particulars, which far exceeded the bounds of her informa­
tion or intellectual capacity at other times. Of those occur­
rences, not the smallest recollection was preserved in .the waking
state. When hearing Magoetism spoken of, she then had only a
vague conception of its meaning, at least in the earlier stages of
our proceedings; and was unconscious of having, during
somnambulism, exercised that faculty herself with dexterity
and efficacy, thereby relieving her mother and sometimes other
persons from considerable paiti, in course of a few minutes.
But now, to the principal fact:—
One day, that child being with her sister aged about two
years and a half, and no other person present nor within hear­
ing, the latter was in imminent danger of her life, in conse­
quence of having swallowed a shoe-clasp, which jammed in the
infant's throat soon left it weltering in blood, and in con­
vulsive agonies, threatening almost instant destruction. The
elder sister had then the extraordinary presence of mind to cast
herself into somnambulism, by the usual process; in which
state she extracted the clasp, with all the dexterity of an able
surgeon, and performed every other requisite of the case. What
perhaps is still more admirable, she immediately committed to
paper, for the necessary information of her friends, the summary
detail of what had happened; after which, spontaneously awak­
ing, she found herself with that paper in hand, but incapable of
accounting in any distinct manner for its existence.
171
With reference to self-willing Somnambulism, in the in­
stance last mentioned, I remark that the mental faculties
characterising that state seemed gradually to decline, from
the first to the last crises of this description; that these were
originally no less lucid tban%
the somnambulic crises produced
by the magnetic action; but that after a certain time, the in­
dividual to which I allude, whilst surrendered to her personal
government, degenerated into a common crisiac, ultimately
uttering a great deal of nonsense, and having only delirious
visions.
(31.) Page 70: The Commencements o f Magnetic Somnambulism.
This paragraph is intended, more as a caution to unex­
perienced magnetists, than for the immediate instruction of
persons not yet conversant with the subject of Human Mag­
netism. Readers who desire more complete information, must
consult the publications of Deleuze, Puyibgur, Klugge, W olfart,
and some other authors. The two last named are mem­
bers of the Faculty of Physic;» Dr. Wolfart in particular,
appointed Professor of Magnetism in the Royal Academy of
Berlin, is at the head of an hospital especially instituted for
curing poor persons by the magnetic process, and where different
sovereigns have, within a few late years, sent physicians of their
household to attend his clinical lectures, and to receive instruc­
tion upon the subject of which is here treated. *
It *
1
9fit that our medical gentlemen should now, however late,
be informed of such circumstances. If they continue prepos-
172
sessed with an idea, that Human Magnetism is a matter too
insignificant to claim the attention of scientific or professional
men, it will be of real service to let them farther know that the
Royal Academy above mentioned has decreed a boon of three
hundred ducats, to the author of the best and most instructive
work which shall be published on that subject within a given
period.
(32.) Page 70: The Socratic Method.
This again requires preparatory instruction, for comprehend­
ing in what manner such method applies to the case in point.
Socrates bad adopted, for instructing his pupils, the same
method which be pursued to detect and expose sophistry. From
one question to another, and by leading them through insensible
paths from the known to the unknown, he would draw from
the pupils themselves, and to their especial gratification, those
conclusive truths which his object was to inculcate; and, from
the Grecian sophists, he would with equal dexterity extort a
confession of their own absurdity in argument.
(33.) Page 7 2 : Management q f Somnambulists.
The author's instructions, contained in this paragraph, are of
the* highest importance, and ought to be diligently meditated
upon, by whoever attempts the magnetic practice. As to those
deficiencies which he signalizes, and the anomalous dispositions
173 t
/
noticed in certain somnambulist*, it must be understood that they
almost always originate in the roagnetist himself, who, in such
instances, is destitute either of steadiness, temper, judgment, or
morality. These irregularities seldom occur with any other
than young subjects, and frequently because, through levity or
inattention, their crises have not been rendered complete.
When such things happen, let the magnetist if possible be
superseded by some other, and then Somnambulism will pro­
bably assume its regular and ]i£cid character.
(34.) Page 73: The exhibition q f Somnambulists hasan outward
appearance q f Quackery.
Such exhibitions, indeed) seldom afford the smallest chance
of converting any one to a belief in the reality of the magnetic
effects; and as far as my observations could extend, those exhi­
bitions more commonly produce a contrary result.
There are tw(o classes of unbelievers:
The one is composed of persons whose judgment forbids them
to admit, upon mere report, facts of an extraordinary nature
and transcending their immediate conception; but having
been given to understand, that the faculty of Human. Mag­
netism is of easy exercise, and productive of beneficial results,
they candidly wish to ascertain the reality of its alleged effects.
They feel no reluctance in confessing ignorance upon the
subject, and are sensible of the absurdity which would attend an
anticipated opinion, respecting matters hitherto foreign to their
174
knowledge. They are not biassed by contrary interest, nor have
they, at a prece4ing period, pledged themselves to the public,
or’to any particular body of men, indiscriminately to oppose all
innovations: seldom indeed are they incorporated with such
bodies. To satisfy the enquiries of persons of this class, and to
seize every opportunity of supplying them with the desired
instruction, will always be doing good; it is even the duty of
every magnetist, when assured that the enquiries are suggested
by laudable motives. Yet the instruction should, as much as
possible, be conveyed in a gradual manner; familiarizing the
pupils, in the first place, with the minor effects, and accustom­
ing them to produce the same with facility: until that is done,
an introduction to immediate acquaintance with the more ex­
traordinary phenomena would not only be useless, but also
expose them to misconception, as being sufficiently compre­
hensible to such only whose personal action has already pro­
duced similar ones. It is scarcely necessary to add, that who­
ever undertakes to enlighten the uninformed ought to be divested
of enthusiasm upon the subject, and equally so of personal and
exclusive pretensions, which always supply a just ground for
suspicion. But then 'the pupil should clearly understand, that
it is for his own benefit, and from contemplating the good use
to which he is presumed capable of applying the instruction
received, that you are desirous to gratify his wishes.
A different conduct is to be observed towards the other class.
This is made up of men, who, averse to any confession of igno­
rance, come forward with opinions ready framed upon the
matter; opinions which, probably, they have admitted upon trust
175
Perhaps they are professional characters, who on former occa­
sions hare manifested prejudices against the doctrine you
maintain, or openly opposed it from some party motives, and
would now be ashamed to retract. They are so far candid,
however, as truly to disbelieve (which is a common effect of
habitual bias of the understanding) the reality of the magnetic
action; and consequently, their object is not an impartial en­
quiry, but only to detect if possible some delusion or imposture,
which they are persuaded must exist. They will unceasingly
dwell upon the known and strange effects of Imagination, upon
those of sympathetic Imitation ; find, triumphant in self-compla­
cency, they will repeat that the doctrine you uphold was carefully
investigated thirty-five years ago, by a commission composed of
scientific and impartial men, who have demonstrated its ab­
surdity, and proved its alleged effects to be only chimerical.
It is useless to attempt converting persons of this class, as
indeed they would feel greatly mortified at having conviction
forced upon them. Ingenuously supposing that some good
might arise from their being undeceived, you would soon dis­
cover, by their sneers, that they think to confer an unmerited
favour by granting you even a momentary attention; and you
could never succeed in persuading them, that in troubling your­
self about their belief, you are without any other motive than
that of promoting universal good. It would be in vain to tell
them, that there are many persons of rank, fortune and merit,
in high estimation in their respective countries, and who,
during the last twenty-five or thirty years, have renounced the
greater part of those enjoyments to which they were solicited by
176
an elevated situation in life, for chiefly devoting themselves to
relieve the sufferings of their fellow creatures; and you might
vainly urge the utter impossibility that such men could, dur­
ing so long a time, have been the dupes of one constant de­
lusion. Should you be so weak as to insist—offering the sub­
stantial proofs, various snares will be laid in your way; the
main fact, the most important to be ascertained, will scarcely
be noticed; but the class of people to whom we allude will
cavil at the most indifferent circumstances, dispute the clearest
points, attribute the visible effects to every imaginable cause,
excepting the real one, and excite your indignation by the most
injurious and unwarrantable suspicions. The imprudence of
magnetising in the presence of such persons would be great;
for your attention must then be withdrawn from what you are
about, by the pre-occupation arising from their presence and
their authorized expectations; your action, thus paralyzed, could
produce no other than insignificant and dubious effects, serving
only to conflrm disbelief, and to render yourself an object of
ridicule. Therefore, leave those of this class where you find
them; and in general, it will be no difficult matter to discri­
minate the motives of persons applying to you for information,
relatively to the exercise of Human Magnetism.
With regard to both classes of unbelievers, never attempt
magnetising any of them personally, as a proffered proof of the
facts alleged; unless you positively know sucfi persons to be
afflicted with bodily disease. Healthy persons seldom feel any
sensible effect from magnetism; besides which, you cannot
magnetise with the requisite attention one who is curiously
177
observing you, whilst he ought passively to surrender .to-.your
action. (See .M r. Deleuze>s more particular indications, lor
receiving useful instructionrespecting theexercise of Magnetism.)
(35.) Page 73 : Somnambulists disorganised.
This isa technical expression, sufficiently explained in different
parts of the text.
(36.) Page 74: Somnambulism assumes a part o f its character
from the disease with which it is complicated.
It is a fundamental principle, in the doctrine here treaited of,
that somnambulism is a crisis which incorporates with the
malady; that it terminates with the same, and is the last symp-
tom to disappear.
(37.) P a g e 75 : Particular disposition q f the five senses, during
Somnambulism.
In a preceding part of the text, we have remarked that the
sense of taste has a great affinity with that of feeling, from the
former being only a kind of tact, exerted by a specific organ
upon a certain, property of substances; and that the sense of
smelling has the strongest affinity with both, differing only from
them by touching the effluvia, instead of the substances them­
selves. Here, it is further remarked, that the three senses thus
M
178
assimilated are precisely those which preserve their full action,
indeed with increased intensity, during Somnambulism; whilst
that of hearing is retained only under subordinate conditions,
and sight is wholly superseded by a different mode of perception,
not unlikely also to Operate in lieu of the preceding sense, re*
specting the supposed action of which we might remain under
some mistake. These remarks furnish a strong argument in
favour of the probability, already very great, of there existing
some sort of magnetic, organic, or other elementary and uni­
versal fluid, having the property of uniting under different
modes of relation every part of the sensible world; as the two
senses of sight and hearing, the only which have in reality any
distant operation, are to be supplied in the state alluded to;
whilst the other three, which in fact operate not otherwise than
in contact, retain the same action as during the waking state,
an action indeed increased with the general nervous irritability
of the somnambulist.
If permitted to hazard my own conjectures upon this delicate
question/* I conceive that the perceptions, both of light and
sounds, are brought to us by a fluid of such description as to
pervade all bodies indiscriminately; that in our waking state,
those perceptions are intercepted by the optic and auditory
nerves, appropriated for that purpose, and which carry them to
the sensorium by a subsequent operation; whilst in the state of
somnambulism, when the nerves have acquired the utmost
tension of which they are susceptible, those perceptions, to*
gether with such sensations as they induce, are directly con.
veyed to the sensorium, without interception by any particular
organ, owing to the accelerated movement of such organic or
179
universal fluid,- immediately upon entering the human form.
It is then easily conceivable, that the senses of feeling, taste and
smelling, which operate in contact only, perform functions
similar to those of the eye and ear, in conveying to the sen*
sorium a prolongation of those perceptions which they have
respectively received.
(38). P a g e 76; Instinct o f Animals.
No satisfactory explanation has yet been given, of what, with
reference to the brute creation, is called Instinct.
Every species of quadruped, bird, fish, reptile, or insect,
for the purposes of preserving themselves and their progeny,
of providing nutriment, and promotiag the multiplication
of individuals, according to each distinct species, without any
confusion, is endowed either with an extension .of some
especial faculty, above the usual standard of those common
to the rest of the animal kingdom; or else, with some extraor­
dinary degree of apparent intelligence or industry, by which
they accomplish, without any previous instruction, wdrks of
such delicacy and perfection in their kind, as not to be equalled
by the art or science of man. Thus we admire the unparalleled
%
industry of the Beaver, the Spider, the Bee, and the Ant; which
is very imperfectly accounted for, by a supposition of their
being guided by general types, primitively impressed upon tlpe
sensorium of each animal, then acting only from a sort of
mechanical impulsion: an hypothesis which, however, I am
far from rejecting. We likewise admire, in dogs and other
s
180
assimilated species, wbat we think to be an extraordinary ex­
tension of the olfactory sense; and, perhaps erroneously, we
conceive that such faculty is sufficiently accounted for by
analogy, without need of any further investigation. But
it does not appear that successful attempts have yet been
made, to explain the sort of enchantment exercised by setting-
dogs, or by certain reptiles, upon animal* of other species
destined chiefly to become their prey: there are even some
anomalous circumstances in this respect, for 1 once saw a rabbit
stopped by a cock, in the same manner as might have been by
that species of dog called Pointer.
It is not unlikely that all such kind of enchantments, or fasci­
nations, may meet a satisfactory explanation, when the universal
magnetic action shall be better understood and defined; and
possibly, the cause of that extraordinary extension which we
observe in certain faculties of animals, apparently through
organs common to them all, may then be proved to have a
direct analogy with that of the extension of similar faculties,
under the somnambulic condition of Man.
Such cause, or Instinct in general, may really constitute a
sixth sense, the explanation of which could only be deduced from
its specific modes of operating. Admitting for a moment the
existence o f this sixth sense, it is utterly, improbable that it
should be a privilege confined to the brute creation; and, ob­
viously, we find that things are not so ordained. In regard to
the brutes. Instinct extends merely to physical relations; bat if
we attentively meditate upon what passes within ourselves, we
shall not fail to discover also a moral instinct, exerting itself in
181
various ways, whether in the waking or other human states,
T
and susceptible of various standards, as also of improvement and
degeneration: for what else is implied, by that faculty which we
term C o n scien ce ?
A thorough investigation of these positions would carry us
beyond the limits prescribed; and our object, for the present,
is only to suggest a few ideas which may be developed on some
future occasion.
After having premised, that among those nations only, who
are farthest removed from civilization, men are still to be
found who can unerringly trace the footsteps of other Beings,
whether of their own or of a different species, and easily
distinguish between plants and between other substances, such
as are fit for their own use, from such as are detrimental;
that, at different periods, instances have been ascertained of
real foreknowledge, and of true visions of distant occur­
rences; and that certain diseased persons possess, in com­
mon with the brutes, such indicative sensations of sympathy
or antipathy, relative to external substances, as become the
safest guide for the treatment of those diseased persons, there
will remain to enquire, how it happens that the present human
race should only accidentally possess those'instinctive faculties,
which are permanent in all animals ?—Why (for example) we
usually have no other means of discriminating, but by experi­
ments often dangerous, the wholesome from the deleterious pro­
perties of an infinity pf substances ?—and why again, under
many particular circumstances, we even are left in doubt
whether any purposed measure be right or wrong; whether
182
such or such determinate act be meritorious or criminal. This
doubtless arises, principally, from physical as well as moral
degeneracy; and next, from disuse of our original faculties.
What we call civilization has new-moulded us,'without our
clearly having become gainers by the change: education has
confined us to an artificial mode of existence, in which we no
longer understand the simple dictates of nature, nor the silent but
salutary admonitions of intellectual self; and thus are most
human beings reduced to resources of art, for reorganizing
the primitive Instinct, both physical and moral,
(39.) Page 77: Remediesprescribed by Somnambulists,
The affinities of natural substances with the human organic
Nation, and the influences of which they are respectively sus*
ceptiWe upon each somnambulist, under the actual circum-
stances of his health, are clearly perceptible to him j hence the
remedies prescribed are generally simple, and innocent. Yet I
have known somnambulists to order for themselves such doses
of certain substances, as medical men would scarcely have
ventured to apply, but which, notwithstanding, did not fail to
produce the desired effect. The somnambulist does not form
his judgment in the same way as the physician; the first dis*
tinctly perceives his internal condition, and precisely knows
what will be the effect of any determinate application}
which the Matter only conjectures, 6r at most infers from
precedents.
V
183
(40). P a g e 78: Somnambulists are capricious.
This seldom happens with any other than young subjects
(See note 33d); but it is further observable, that there is always
more or less analogy between the temper, as well as the various
propensities of the same individual, in both states. Any mag-
netist unsteady, inattentive to what he is about, or the slave
of his own passions, is exposed to lose all command over his
somnambulist, who then may spontaneously start into waking;
and the loss of power is sometimes the inevitable consequence
of its abuse.
(41). P a g e 78; Somnambulists disregard the common rules o f
personal demeanour.
9
This proceeds from their materially differing, in that state,
from the artificial Being, such as we are become by education
and social habits. Yet, with regard to every essential notion
of morality, the somnambulist (as elsewhere remarked) is
superior to the same person awake.
(42). P a g e 79: Somnambulists have ike making ideas preseiit
to their mind.
This remark, solely referable to the extension of memory, will
be further developed hereafter. All which the somnambulist
184
has ever seen, heard, read, imagined, or otherwise perceived
even in the slightest degree, returns then present to him ; and
the assistance which his understanding receives, from this pro-
digious though only temporary increase of an ordinary faculty,
may alone be sufficient to account for many others observable
in that state, and which appear wonderful, only from being
considered in a comparative point of view.
Somnambulism, although often termed Magnetic Sleep, is a
mode of human existence quite different from either sleeping or
waking; it is, in fact, an enlarged existence. This specific
condition is directly alluded to in records of almost every
age; and to exemplify the position from profane history alone,
there is the following account, written at a period preceding
the expedition of Alexander-the-Great into India, in a book
treating of the rites, ceremonies and mysteries in use among
the Bramins. It is there stated, that by a common practice, de­
nominated Matricha-Machom, they obtain a new sort of life;
that considering the epigastric region as the usual seat of the
human soul, they direct the hand from thence to the bead,
and press upon some particular nerves supposed to connect
those different parts; that by so doing, they convey the soul
into the brain; and that, as soon as this last point is sufficiently
ascertained, the Bramin declares his soul and body to be reunited
with the Godhead, and himself to have become a part of it
Doubtless, this mode of explaining a process not commonly
understood is very imperfect; notwithstanding which, it has
a very remarkable analogy with the method now used to pro­
duce somnambulism. We may chuse to pronounce all this very
185
absurd* without considering that the Bramins certainly pass the
same judgment on many of our decided opinions; but we find
similar things standing upon record* in the history of the
Egyptians* the Greeks* the Romans* and the Jews* independently
of multifarious facts of the same kind* sufficiently authentic
and of more modern date. The testimony of Tacitus appears
not to have had sufficient weight with our celebrated Hume*
to convince him of the reality of two magnetic cures performed
by the Emperor Vespasian* at Alexandria* in presence of his
physicians and the whole court; although the particulars are
minutely detailed by that Roman historian. Philosophers and
scientific men are subject to a peculiar kind of superstition:
when embarrassed how to explain facts which they cannot
immediately comprehend* it might be enough for them can­
didly to confess ignorance; but* like our Hume* they prefer to
this rational course a flat denial* in the face of the best historical -
evidence; and self-conceit always supplies some argument.
(43). Page 80: Somnambulists, after a considerable time, re•
member the circumstances o f their former crises.
The succession of ideas* referable to this mode of existence*
is then retained and connected with the ideas which belong to
the state of waking. But it might become dangerous for the
somnambulist* particularly if a young subject* to be entertained*
awake* with the circumstances of another state} as such con­
fusion of ideas* relating to existences very distinct from each
other* would submit his strength of intellect to a hazardous
test.
186
(44), Page 80: The objection urged by Materialists.
It Is conceived by them, that the mind could not retain, in a
mode of existence succeeding to human life, the memory of the
past; which indeed is necessary for preserving a consciousness
of our individuality. But the phenomenon here observed effectu­
ally rectifies such a mistaken notion, as that the faculty of me­
mory would solely depend upon bodily organization.
There are a few bigotied or superstitious persons, who have
pretended to deduce from the tenets of our Christian religion
objections to the practice of Human Magnetism, and to the
right of interrogating somnambulists. Nothing can be more
extravagant and absurd, than the arguments which have been
used in support of that opinion ; therefore we shall not dwell
upon that particular subject. Yet, as weak and timid minds
might be misled by arguments of the same kind, it is proper
to remind them, that any act exclusively tending to good
and charitable ends can receive the support of that power
only whence all good emanates, and that the enemy of our
salvation can never become a partner in it: they may safely
be assured, that, if the exercise of the natural power now an­
nounced to them be at any time preceded by prayer to the
Almighty, the purity of their intentions, in following that precept
which eminently distinguishes Christianity amongst all other
religions, shall be rewarded with threefold power, towards the
acoomplishment of their benevolent purposes. The revelations
and other circumstances of somnambulism not only supply new
187
arguments, but also the strongest existing, in favour of the
immortality of that intellectual part of ourselves which is im-
. plied under the common and vague denomination of the Soul; *
and the practice of Human Magnetism, in the way prescribed, not
only isattractive to every Christian mind,but nothing can bebetter
calculated to keep constantly alive the best feelings of our nature.
(45). Page 81: The Baquet.
Certain substances, such as Glass or Water, are found, by
experience, more particularly to possess the property of accu­
mulating and retaining the magnetic fluid. Consequently,
reservatories of various descriptions, all involved under this
denomination, have been in use when a certain number of
patients were collected. The effects of the Baquet, however,
are subject to irregularity, from the same quantum of action
being meted out indiscriminately to all, through its instru­
mentality ; but no material inconvenience is to be apprehended
from its use, which occasionally saves much fatigue to the mag-
netist. There are also other means of conveying the magnetic
action, the detail of which would be rather misplaced here, but
may be found in Klugge, Wolfart, Deleuze, and other authors.
(46). P a g e 81: Semi-crises o f Somnambulism, dangerous
to excite.I
I -apprehend that the danger pointed out is somewhat mag­
nified. Be this as it m ay: such could arise, only, from the manner
in which the magnetist chose to give employment to the
crisiac, who had better be left quietly and uninterruptedly to
enjoy the benefit' of his actual condition. I have sometimes
found great advantage to result from this method of treatment;
and there are persons upon whom I have continued to act in
such a way, from time to time and during several years, for the
sole purpose of invigorating an injured constitution; but then
I abstain from speaking to them in that state, being aware that
it might prove even worse than useless.
(47). Page 89; The characteristic features o f somnambulism
are variable.
Somnambulists not only differ much from each other, but,
according to circumstances, they are apt to differ no less from
themselves. I have bad occasion to observe one, successively
governed by three different magnetists. Under the first, he
displayed extensive faculties; he would make a pastime of enter­
taining the magnetist, and other persons, with interesting con­
versations upon moral or metaphysical subjects, and not feel
reluctant at having his attention called towards very distant
objects. Under the second, he was particularly averse to be sent
''upon such travels; complaining that the contention of mind which
they required was fatiguing to his nerves, an.effect sufficiently
evinced indeed by his countenance. Under the last magnetist,
he was uncommonly sluggish; and it was only with difficulty,
and whilst manifesting great unwillingness, that he could be
made to speak.
189
(48.) Page 89: Light is annoying to Somnambulists.
I have made it a point to ascertain the reality of this, which is
stated as an absolute fact; and particularly enquired, respect*
ing it, of a person then in somnambulism. He contended, that
the case was such, under no other circumstance than that
of the crisis being incomplete, and suggested the experiment
of presenting two lighted tapers close to his eyes; which
being done, he assured me of his not perceiving the light,
V
nor feeling the smallest inconvenience from it. It frequently
happens that magnetists are too hasty, in inferring a complete
crisisirom a few outward appearances, or from some particular
circumstance; hence erroneous deductions may sometimes
be erected into general principles, and the specific faculties of
somnambulists remain without a full developement, for want of
sufficient attention. One single commanding look, or gesture,
often is enough, for casting into that state a subject upon
whom the magnetic influence has once been established; yet I
' would never think of entering upon serious matter with any
Somnambulist, before having bestowed the necessary, attention
to consolidate his erisis.
(49). P a g e 83: Apparent doubt o f Magnetic Fluid*s existence.
The doubt seemingly implied by the author’s expressions, in
this paragraph, evinces only his unwillingness to dogmatize.
He sufficiently establishes, throughout his work, the grounds
190
of his persuasion that a fluid exists of this description ; and the
only question that can remain with him, is—whether it be
specific and distinct from any other, or whether it be only the
modification of an universal fluid: nor could the latter sup­
position invalidate any of the stated facts.
(
(50.) Page 83: Assertion q f certain matters o f fact, by
Somnambulists.
In order to understand this paragraph, it is necessary to
observe, that jnagnetists are indebted to their somnambulists,
for a great part of the information upon which is established
the theory of Human Magnetism, according to the German and
French schools.
(51). P agb 84: Somnambulists use the magneticfluid as a
lighted taper.
One of them, to whom several circumstances already men-
sioned in these Notes are referable, has exhibited a remarkable
instance of the property thus typified. I had occasion for a
consultation; but wishing previously to ascertain, beyond any
doubt, that qualification in her which is technically called
lucidity, the test was offered and accepted,—that she should
endeavour to discover, exactly, the number of pins which I would
have secretly inclosed in a box, afterwards placed within reach
of her hand. She merely touched the box with one finger,
during a few seconds, and then accurately announced the
191
quantity of those pins, without hesitation. Upon attempting a
second experiment of the same kind, at a period when* her
cure was further advanced, I was not equally successful.
(53). P a g e 65: Quertion of the existence of Magnetic Fluid.
The author has sufficiently evinced, throughout the whole
wojrk, his personal conviction o f the existence of such a fluid;
and the scrupulous caution which he observes, against affirming
what is not completely demonstrated, is certainly a strong re­
commendation to confidence, in what he thinks himself war­
ranted positively to attest. It is much to be regretted, that it
T *
should not have coincided with his plan to detail, on the pre­
sent occasion, those experiments to which he alludes; as there
is every reason to suppose that they would have been found
highly interesting, if not absolutely decisive. I shall allow
myself to relate a few; observing, only, that I was chiefly in­
debted to chance for the first two of them.
The first refers to the earlier period of my magnetic prac­
tice. I had a young somnambulist, who in that condition
was perfectly sensible of my inexperience, and occasionally dis­
posed to take advantage of it in a playful manner; which not
only was quite harmless, but sometimes answered purposes of
instruction. One day, when I was about to awake him, by the
usual and. simple process of passing my fingers two or three
times gently across his eyes, he took both my hands within his
. own, declaring that he had withdrawn from me, at least for the
time being, the power of accomplishing such intention; and
192
accordingly, I vainly tried, during some minutes, every mean*
which I could devise. After I had given up the point, he said
that he would shew me how he could awake himself; and by a
rapid affriction of his hands upon his knees, which act, if it had
any meaning, cotuld be intended only for dispersing the mag­
netic fluid, in the course of a few seconds of time he started
awake. The objection, that I might have been deceived by
the person, under a supposition of his having been awake
during all that time, and not really a somnambulist, could only
be suggested by those who have no acquaintance, with these
m atters; as nothing is easier than to discriminate the. condition
alluded to, and the effect of such sudden transitions is too
strongly marked in the individual's demeanour, language and
ideas, to leave room for any possible mistake. As to m y loss of
power, pretended by the somnambulist, it is now easier for me to
account for it, than I could do at that tim e: I was certainly cheated
by a very insignificant act of his ow n; but it had the moral
effect, indeed quite sufficient, of paralyzing my usual energy
of volition. The process employed by the somnambulist, to
awake himself, is however what I more particularly point at,,
as referring to the principal question.
Ofthis, the affirmative is strongly supported by the two remain*
ing experiments, which I have to relate as personal to myself.
A flower bad been magnetised for the use of a determinate
person, and carelessly left by him in a conspicuous part of the
bouse, where another visited, who was at that time under my
magnetic treatment, and in the habit of being cast into somnam­
bulism ; the latter took up and smelt at that flower, unmeaningly
and without any knowledge of the above-mentioned circum­
stance, upon which he instantly lapsed into that state, neither
myself nor any other magnetist then being present. No Inten­
tion, or Volition, could possibly have co-operated; as the person,
time, and place, to which this occurrence relates, were equally
removed from the contemplation of the magnetist with whom it
originated. Therefore, how could this happen, unless some real
substance had been supplied, adequate to the production of such
an extraordinary effect ? This experiment wears a character suf­
ficiently strong to appear, upon a first glance, decisive of the
question agitated; but I consider that there had been, at some
preceding time, a magnetic affinity between myself and the mag­
netist alluded to, and this might in a certain degree warrant an
objection to the only conclusion which otherwise must be drawn:
as to any, grounded in the incontestable predisposition *of the
subject acted upon, it could scarcely have any weight.
It is now a Tew months since Tmagnetised a lady, for the pur­
pose only of removing a violent head-ache, which I had observed
her to suffer during the greatest part of the day. She is a
person of much sense, who had never heard any thing, nor read
a single line, upon the subject of Magnetism; neither had she any
conception of what I was about, and in fact my apparent action
seemed too insignificant in its description, to require explana­
tion, amongst intimate friends. The susceptibilty of that
lady proved such, that in about five or six minutes, and without
my expecting this result, she was cast into somnambulism; when
bhe further complained of great pain in the chest, and expressed
the cause of it. While she continued in that state, I proceeded,
to magnetise a glass of water, intended to relieve the pain last
\
194
mentioned. The station I had selected could not have admitted
her perceiving me, had she been awake, with her eyes open; and
attentive to leave her imagination unconcerned in my opera­
tions, I asked: What have I in my hand f Answer: A glass o f
water:— What does it look like f Answer: A glasp o f water ex­
posed to the sun.
Xu addition to those, another very important experiment,
tending to the same conclusion, has lately been related to me by
a traveller from Germany: I understand that it was there made
by a regular physician, who like many others in that country
associate Human magnetism with the usual methods of treating
diseases. It would appear that a Baquet, or magnetic reservoir,
of some kind, was constructed, but without any part of it being
magnetised, and that this was exposed to the air and sun during
some time, not precisely mentioned; when the Baquet, at length,
proved to be magnetically charged, without any human interfe­
rence to such effect, and by the single operation ofthe middle rod
disposed in the same manner as lightning conductors commonly
are, and which in that case must have gradually attracted the
supposed fluid from the ambient air. The repetition of this last
experiment ought certainly not to be neglected; and every pos­
sible precaution should then be observed, for ascertaining with
the utmost accuracy the effects, as discriminative from those of
electricity.
Although a diligent enquiry has led me, with other observers,
implicitly to admit the theory of a magnetic or organic fluid, on
the ground of multifarious inductions, I nevertheless conceive the
possibility of%
Magnetism acting upon the. principle of life, in a
mode equally occult with that of attraction upon matter in general.
But then, again, in what can that principle consist, or otherwise
the constituting principle of motion, if it be not a fluid ? It is
with Human magnetism a9 with the common magnet, Electricity,
and Galvanism; in the latter of which, the phenomenon of
Volta’s pile would seem to elicit a commencement of organization,
even in substances of the mineral kingdom. The existence of
one or different fluids, the action of which may be manifested
in such natural effects, i9 not any thing more than an hypothesis
upon which we chuse to rest, in order to be enabled in drawing
within the vortex of general laws a great variety of phenomena
observed: the supposed principle of motion, to which they are all
referable, may not be precisely known, yet the laws deduced
from its modes of operating are not the leas incontrovertible.
As we have adverted to the particular subject of Galvanism, it
may not be thought irrelevant to that of which is here treated, if
a few reflections are introduced respecting a late remarkable Gal­
vanic experiment. Various public prints, of the month of
February of the present year, coincide in giving us the following
account of it:—
“ On the 4tb November last, varioqsgalvanic experiments were
made on the body of the murderer Clydesdale, by Dr. Ure of
Glasgow, with a voltaic battery of 270 pairs of four inch plates.
The results were truly appalling. On moving the rod from the
hip to the heel, the knee being previously bent, the leg was
thrown out with such violence as nearly to overturn one of the
assistants, who in vain attempted to prevent its extension! In
the second experiment, the rod was applied to the phrenic nerve
196
in the neck, when laborious breathing instantly commenced J the
chest heaved and fell; the belly was protruded and collapsed
with the relaxing and retiring diaphragm; and it is thought, that
but from the complete evacuation of the blood, pulsation might
have occurred! In the third experiment, the supra-orbital nerve
was touched, when every muscle in the murderer’s face was
thrown into fearful action. The scene was hideous—several of
the spectators left the room, and. one gentleman actually fainted
from terror or sickness. In the fourth experiment, the transmit­
ting of the electrical power from the spinal marrow to the ulnar
nerve at the elbow, the fingers were instantly put in motion, and
the agitation of the arm was so^reat, that the corpse seemed to
point to the different spectators, some of whom thought it had
come to life ! Dr. Ure appears to be of opinion, that had not in­
cisions been made in the blood-vessels of the neck, and the spinal
marrow been lacerated, the criminal might have been restored
to life !”
There is perhaps not any rational person disposed to ques­
tion either the main fact, or the veracity of those by whom
it is thus related, with the accessory circumstances. The
public belief, in the accuracy of the statement, chiefly rests
however on a preparation, resulting from previous acquaintance
with minor effects arisen from a cause which, although not pre­
cisely known, is justly presumed to be the same; and yet this
relation obtains full credit, without any hesitation, from an im­
mense number of persons disinclined to admit the reality of any
magnetic action, notwithstanding that this last matter of fact is
supported by evidence of witnesses a thousand times more nume­
rous, and the individual testimonies of whom have an equal title
!
I
197
to belief, with those who attest the above. I beg leave to ask>
wbat credence Dr. Ure would probably have obtained from the
public, had he ventured to submit his statement of facts, together
with the opinions attributed to him, divested of support from
precedents of a similar nature ? But it depends upon any one
to ascertain, without much trouble, first the minor effects alledged
as being produced by Human magnetism; when a full conviction,
relatively to all that has further been exposed upon this subject,
will be acquired without any effort of credulity; and I may
venture to add, with no small share of personal gratification.
(53.) Page 87: Distance o f thefixed stars.
In the translation, I have rectified an error which can only be im­
puted to the printer of the original work. The distance of Syrius*
from our planet, is there said to be not less than twelvehundred mil­
lionso f leagues, which are about three thousand millions of English
miles : whereas the minimum of such distance, as ascertained by
Huygens more than a century ago, was about 2,000,000,000,000
miles, and since the further improvement of Astronomical in­
struments, it has been found no less than three millions qf millions
of Miles.
(54.) Page 87 : Light is not proved to expand in a lateral
direction.
This would require some explanation. A whole apartment is
enlightened, in every direction, by the intromission of sun-beams
through an aperture even very small.
198
(55.) Pace 90: We know little more o f Nervous fluid, than
the name.
We certainly have no better information, concerning nervous
fluid, than what is possessed relatively to that fluid termed
magnetic, or organic, throughout the present tract* Probably
they are all one and the same, which sometimes has been deno­
minated Animal spirits, or Vital powers. The more we enquire,
the more simple we find to be Nature’s means. The Electric,
Galvanic, Minero-magnetic, Human-magnetic, or Organic, con­
sist perhaps of one and the same elementary fluid, only variously
modified.
(56.) Page 92: Many indications confirm the opinion of Magnetic
fluid*s existence.
According to every appearance, we are indebted to the pre­
sence of some fluid of this description, acting in certain deter­
minate directions, and in certain spheres more or less extended,
for a great variety of occult sympathies. In the number of these,
is more particularly to be noticed that which maintains an in­
variable distinction between the different; species, either of the
animal or vegetable kingdom; and without which the respective
races could not fail to be speedily annihilated, as the inevitable
consequence of promiscuous intercoi)rse.
199
(57.) Page 93: One strong objection to the Magnetic fluid.
This objection, though exposed in its full force by the author,
is effectually overruled by the remark which terminates the para*
graph. It is easier, in general, for an object actually existing to
remain unperceived by any person, than it is for such person to
be deceived by the false appearance of an object only imaginary;
and the greater probability must always be in favour of the affir­
mative, in such a state of the question; even independently of the
support it derives from positive facts, such as those stated in
note 52d.
(58.) Page 94: Extraordinary faculties of somnambulists.
It is surmised, of course, that our author does not question the
existence of those faculties which he describes, as attributed to
Somnambulists. The extent of his experience does not admit a
supposition that such phenomena, become daily familiar to hun­
dreds of other magnetists, should have escaped his own observa­
tion ; but be knows that the number of readers, sufficiently
informed/ must be comparatively few; and that those entirely
uninformed upon the subject are unprepared to meet a direct
assertion of facts which, however true, depend upon an order of
things entirely distinct from what they have hitherto been ac­
customed to consider. As the useful exercise of the magnetic
power does not, in the least, depend on any belief in such parti-
200
cular facts, he judiciously recommends that every one should
hold his own opinion in suspense, respecting the question of their
reality, until this be ascertained by personal experience; and
indeed it does not require a long practice, to acquire sufficient
information for removing every doubt. At the same time, it is
just and proper, that such persons who possess judgment capable
of detecting falsehood or delusion where it may exist, and who
nevertheless have witnessed facts of this description, should not
hesitate in asserting them when called upon;, particularly
when, free from any exaltation of mind, their object is only
to diffuse wholesome information. In such cases. Candour
and Honesty need never blush, at being found in company
with Truth.
(59.) Page 95: Classification o f Somnambulists.
Notwithstanding the author’s remark, I cannot give unqua­
lified assent to the implied impropriety of such distinctions.
It is always observable, that the greater extension of intellectual
or other faculties has some determinate direction, in each Som­
nambulist ; and this indeed is corroborated by the author’s own
words, translated as follows, in page 71:— The magnetist ought
diligently to scrutinise the special qualifications qf the Somnambu-
list, and endeavour to trace the direction to which they incline with
most power and radiance q f intellect, the better to cultivate their
developement.” It is with Somnambulists, as with persons in the
state of waking; some, among the latter, are remarkable for
quickness of sight, others for acuteness of hearing, others again
for some particular extension in the powers of different organs.
201
(60.) Page 97: Whether Somnambulists are capable, or not, q f
Foreknowledge.
The wisest men of antiquity, not so hasty perhaps as ourselves
in settling their opinions, have expressly recognized many ex­
amples of human foreknowledge, and recorded a considerable
number of circumstances clearly referable to Somnambulism.
This state, obviously known to them, is mentioned in their writ­
ings, under the general heads of Sleep and Dreams; but in the
translations, we have used these words without discrimination, for
want of a clue enabling us fully to comprehend the originals.
One could not, without great presumption, impute what they have
related to any supposed weakness of mind on their own part;
and if their authority is to have any weight, abundant quota­
tions might be adduced, in support of the affirmative upon the
question agitated : but these will find some place more convenient
than the present Notes.
(61.) Page 103: Disposition qf the memory, in Noctambulists,
attributed to a complication with Somnambulism,
By referring to Notes 11th, 12th, and 20th, the reader will be
better enabled to form a correct opinion of the analogies alluded to.
r
204
long series of volumes, a great number ought to be discarded;
the narrators not being always competent, accurately to observe
the facts, to state and class them distinctly, to discriminate real
causes, or the essentials from indifferent circumstances, and to
avoid even gross mistakes. It shall further be conceded, that
many of those facts are tainted with exaggeration; principally,
from the delusive tendency of enthusiasm, against which it is
difficult to guard in the commencements of Magnetic practice,
the inexperienced observer being then bewildered by the ap­
parent wonders daily unfolded to his view : at the same time, it
is probable that few only, of such exaggerations, could withjustice
be imputed to insincerity. But when a scrupulous selection
shall have been made,—when the line ofdistinction shall have been
strictly drawn, it will certainly be found that the remaining facts,
wearing an indisputable character, (from their resting upon mul­
tifarious and unexceptionable testimonies, of respectable and well
informed persons of different countries, who had no intercourse
with each other, and yet have witnessed, at different periods, and
carefully observed substantial facts of the same order,) are still a
greatdeal more than isstrictly necessary, forjustifying every thing
asserted in this book concerning them, and to call forth the serious
attention of every impartial person, not absolutely indifferent to
the improvement of general knowledge, and to the well being of
mankind.
Human Magnetism, it is true, does not always cure the dis­
eases to which it is indiscriminately applied, by all descriptions
of persons. It is conceived to be of little or no service, in cases
where the vital powers require re&uctiop: an organ actually
destroyed, a constitution originally defective, are not susceptible
205
of restoration. In chronic diseases, approaching a fatal termi­
nation, this is perhaps not to be averted, and magnetim may
procure only temporary relief. It will even fail, sometimes,
to relieve in any degree, from a variety of internal or external
causes impeding the magnetic action; but on the other band,
it has often been observed, in desperate cases which had defeated
all medical art, to re-establish perfect health, by its single instru­
mentality. It has more prompt and decided efficacy, in acute,
than in chronical disorders; and we assume, as the cause of this
difference, that the vital powers, still existing in their plenitude,
are more easily urged into action at the first period of invasion,
than at any future time. In cases of Contusion or other sudden
accidents, it almost always supersedes the necessity of bleeding;
because this last operation is not intended for evacuating any
excess in the absolute quantity of blood, but only to remove the
danger arising from its unequal distribution, and unnatural
affluence to that part which is immediately affected. Indeed
such Magnetic action is peculiarly powerful in re-establishing,
generally, the natural course of the blood and humours, and in
rectifying their aberrations. It will seldom fail to relieve the
numberless complaints proceeding from Atony ; yet in compli­
cated cases, and in chronic diseases of long standing, there is
need for patience, persevering fortitude, and self-denying de­
votedness, sometimes in a degree rarely to be met with, unless
those requisites are strongly solicited by the bonds of relationship
and mutual affection. It has a direct tendency to fortify the
latter; and hence should be essentially considered a domestic
remedy. Decided antipathy, or even temporary dislike between
the parties, creates an almost insuperable obstacle to the mag­
netic action, which then is either paralyzed or repulsed.
206
In no case is Magnetism more important, than to women in
Child labour. Its application, then, is eminently beneficial, will
sensibly diminish the pain, and highly facilitatethe delivery. This
circumstance itselfis sufficient to recommend it to our admiration;
not only as to its efficacy at the birth, but as to the comfortable
confidence previously filling the mind of the patient, during an
anxious tim e; because the tonical property of Magnetism, which*
invigorates the whole frame acted upon, and enables all the
functions of life to be performed with greater ease, also extends
the same operation to the mental faculties.
Magnetism has the special effect of accelerating the progress
of diseases towards a termination, rapidly developing tbe criti­
cal symptoms; and also that of determinating the invasion of
such diseases as, having only a latent existence, would not other­
wise have developed themselves until some future period. This,
if rightly understood, will be found a real advantage; but it
naturally suggests a caution, against unwary attempts at magne­
tising for the gratification of curiosity, and against commencing
any treatment without previously ascertaining that impediments
or interruption are not likely to happen, whether from causes
originating with the magnetist himself, the diseased person, or
any other upon whom they might depend, under all existing
circumstances.
It is not unworthy of remark, that the practice we recom­
mend has hitherto laboured under a peculiar disadvantage,
with regard to tbe general opinion of its efficacy. Medical
assistance, in its usual forms, is called for on the slightest ap-
207
pearance of indisposition, or, at least, immediately on the invasion
of more serious disease; whilst Human Magnetism is but seldom
thought of, until all other means have already failed, and the
favourable chances therefore are much reduced: it would
seem as if nothing short of absolute miracles could entitle such
practice to the smallest confidence.
Although the exercise of the magnetic faculty be not divested
of personal gratification, je t this is but too frequently counter­
balanced by strong motives of disgust, which fortitude of mind,
and great command of temper, can alone overcome. Should
fervent zeal induce you to step beyond the precincts of your
own family, you must not only renounce the common pleasures
of social life, but also prepare to encounter mortification in
various shapes. You may have to attend one same patient for
many months, at his own hours, or those pointed out by the
circumstances of the case, and be reconciled to a thousand
caprices. You must persevere, without being discouraged, and
calmly proceed amidst every distressing disappointment; some­
times meeting a total and unexpected change in the character
of the disease, or other incidents which will baffle all your
sagacity, place you under the greatest embarrassment, and to
bear with x
which may require the utmost degree of human
fortitude. Often will you sorrowfully contemplate, after a
long course of laborious attendance, your best prospects re­
versed, from the patient’s own fault, or the inconsiderate con­
duct of those about him ; nor ought you to be surprised at the
indifference and ingratitude with which your self-denying efforts
will be met, or at the consequences of other people’s folly being
imputed to yourself. *
208
Nothing more need be said, respecting the strenuous and
protracted opposition against which the doctrine of Human
Magnetism hashad to struggle, before its present establishment on
the continent, apparently on grounds no longer to be shaken.
The censorious reflections, expressed in some of these notes, is
directed against those persons, only, whose condemnation of
that doctrine, and manifestation of disbelief in the magnetic
effects, can justly be imputed to deficiency of candour or con­
ceited pertinacity; and they ought not to offend liberal mind­
ed persons, of whatever opinion, who of course are not in­
volved in those reflections. Systematic opposition, further per­
sisted in, could however but little retard the progress of Mag­
netism, if this did not meet greater obstacles from the Apathy
and cold selfishness which commonly overrule better senti­
ments. Affected sensibility is a very current coin; yet, when
called into immediate action, we too often find that Ease will not
bear to be disturbed, nor Pleasures suffer interruption.
But has not the noble sentiment of Pity been implanted in
our hearts ?—Does it not impel us to approach a suffering fellow-
creature, to support him in our arms, and eagerly to seek the
means of his prompt relief?—Know then, that this very senti­
ment becomes active and efficient Magnetism, whenever accom­
panied with Intention, and supported by energetic Volition,
towards the desired effect.
Human Magnetism, or in other words a communication of
the vital principle from one person to another, is (and this point
cannot too much be insisted on) a faculty of simple and in­
stinctive exercise, depending almost entirely upon three con*
209
dttions—Attention, Intention, and Volition: the latter chiefly
derives its energies from an implicit confidence in one’s own
power, and is sustained by a combination of the best feelings
of human nature. As that faculty belongs to all, its useful
exercise becomes, in some measure, a duty imposed on every
one. Freely give, and freely receive; for it should always be
understood, that the act of magnetising is scarcely fitted for
a mercenary occupation; although a few exceptions, at most,
may be tolerated. Neither is it calculated to become an
amusement for curious people; nor could the magnetic practice,
accompanied with exclusive pretensions, maintain a due re.
spectability. It is essentially a domestic concern; and cannot
be better characterised, than by these few words of my friend
Mr. Deieuze, “ C'est un Instrument de CkariteJ*
Although that practice requires very little instruction, for
proving efficacious in the greater number of cases, its com­
mencements would occasionally derive great benefit from the
advice of an experienced magnetist, regarding -the proper
management of somnambulists. Yet a person of judgment and
sagacity could even dispense with such advice, by proper
attention to what has already been mentioned.
And lastly, it may not be misplaced to observe that any one,
entering a. course of magnetic practice, would probably be
deficient in more than one important requisite, if he failed to
keep in view this maxim of Epictetus: “ When you do any
thing from a clear judgment that it ought to be done, never
ahun the being seen to do it, even though the world should
make a wrong supposition about it. For if you do not act
O
210
right, shun the action itself; but, if you do, why are you afraid
of those who censure you wrongly}”
From motives sufficiently expressed, I profess to consider the
co-operation of medical men a great desideratum; not as imme­
diate actors, which the diversity of their employments seldom
permits, but as guiding the inexperience of fathers, mothers,
husbands, wives, and other relatives or friends, judiciously
selected as occasions may require. This, however, is subor-
dinate to a previous determination, on their part, to take up the
matter in its genuine light, to discard former prepossessions, to
relinquish certain settled systems, and perhaps to the necessity
of unlearning certain things. They would remain in a great
error, if they conceived the establishment of this doctrine
to be injurious to their interests well understood. But, it
would certainly contribute to correct many abuses in the me­
dical practice, and to remove a swarm of venders of useless or
pernicious drugs, from which are generated numberless in­
firmities and broken constitutions; more particularly in this
country, where a sort of morbid longing, after such deleterious
substances, has actually risen, especially amongst the females,
to a disease no less real and fatal in its effects than any other.
To the clergy, of the Church of England, the habitual exercise
of Human Magnetism ought especially to be recommended.
No class of men can be better qualified. It aided, long ago, to
the purpose of apostlesbip—Et dixit cis: Bunta in mundton
univermm predicate Evangelium orrmi creatura. . . . Super agrot
manus impotent, et bene habebunt. Several respectable priests
abroad could be named, who, for a series of late years, have not
211
discontinued magnetising in the circle of their poor parishioners.
The clergy's example would, have great influence, both as a
check upon every possible abuse, and to prevent the indiscri­
minate surrender of confidence. Probably, this appeal will meet
them very unexpectedly; but its motives are obvious. Their
attending to it, or not, is perhaps a matter less indifferent
than will at first be supposed; and if to endeavour sweep­
ing away a baneful prejudice, thereby making room for much
practical good, be any way meritorious, I ask; Who should first
step forward; braving a few contemptible obstacles, which are
likely to vanish before to-morrow?— Who are so effectually
protected as themselves, by public respect, from the sneer of
folly, the slander of malice, and the danger of misinterpretation ?
We have omitted entering into any detail, of the various
processes commonly employed for magnetising. The works of
De Puysegur, of Deleuze, published in France; those of Kluge,
of Wolfart and others, in Germany; also the Magnetic Annal,
of Paris, of Strasburgh, &c., abundantly supply their readers
with every thing requisite to be known on the subject. Dr.
Demainauduc’s publication in England may, with regard to
process, supersede many of the rest, provided the reader's
sagacity enables him to enter into the spirit of that book. A very
short practical instruction however, from any experienced mag-
netist, will fully answer the purpose; whilst indeed it is con­
ceived, by the writer of these Notes, that none ought to—nor
would—refuse it, when satisfied that the'applicant’s motives are
correct.
212
A paramount reason, for omitting such particular descrip*
tions, is that we do not wish to urge the doctrines of any one
school preferably to those of any other, but would rather let
every person make his own selection; persuaded as we are, that
either of them can be reduced to beneficial practice.
Should a favourable reception of the present Essay encourage
us to treat the subject of Human Magnetism upon a more ex­
tended plan, it will then become our province carefully to com­
pare the different doctrines, distinctly to specify the respective
processes, faithfully to relate such authentic experiments as may
be decisive of the different questions relative to the phenomena
depending upon the exercise of that faculty; and, as for as in
our power, to discriminate the point of truth from the numerous
errors and misapprehensions too often mingled with it, and from
the mystical notions and vain systems with which it has been
associated. Nor shall we, then, omit to notice the important
instructions abundantly supplied by the Holy Scriptures, for
best regulating the magnetic practice.
But we can safely assert, that it has been ascertained beyond
a doubt, especially within the last seven years, both in France
and Germany, by persons of undoubted respectability, ranking
high in science and learning, that, upon whatever theory or prin­
ciple it be pursued. Magnetism has been successful in the alle­
viation and cure of disease. It is manifest to be the prerogative
of Spirit, in Mao, by the combined influence of his energetic
Volition, his abstracted Attentjpn, and benevolent Intention, to
perform such cures, ih most cases, by the single influence of
those mental powers, without even the aid of medicine* With
313
unqualified belief in our power, confidence in the exercise of it,
and concentrating the whole'soul on the object, it would appear,
that, by the process of magnetising, nature is assisted in re­
establishing, according to her own laws, the action, re-action,
and circulation of any part of the human organization. It would
also appear, that some operators, by the power of Mind alone,
are capable of producing salutary effects; but generally, the
practice is to employ also the hands, which can be done even
without touching the patient, when an affinity has once been .
established, whence it is believed healthful emanations ofmagnetic
fluid are imparted, for the restoration of the equilibrium; and
they are also employed for the purpose of keeping up the
operator’s undivided attention, abstractedly from all other con­
siderations. Material discoveries are, however, making in the
actual process of magnetism, and in the means of producing the
most prompt and beneficial effects. A great many of the Faculty,
in Paris, Vienna, Berlin, &c. have in some cases combined the
process of magnetism with the medical practice, towards pro­
ducing more prompt relief; and many valuable lives have been
saved, by this combination of mental and physical power.
Convinced of the beneficial effects of Human Magnetism, in
the alleviation and cure of diseases, if we now contemplate its
moral consequences, we shall be further delighted with the beau­
ties of its theory. The magnetic practice necessarily encourages
N
the cultivation of every excellent disposition. To produce
efficacious results, one must needs be benevolent; and being cha­
ritable and benevolent, as well as solicitous to relieve our fellow-
creatures, it follows that we must deserve, and shall enjoy, their
solicitude in return. . Thence emanates this beneficial effect, re-
214
acting towards one’s self; that upon the principles of Magnetism,
which we have endeavoured to develop, the practitioner in turn
becomes the object beneficially acted upon, for the promotion of
his own health. Thus,independently ofthose satisfactory rewards,
which the consciousness of doing Good never fails to bestow, a
new field of advantages is opened to us, of the utmost importance*
This new light also confirms the doctrine of Philosophers, as to *
the influence of good and moral dispositions, in every person,
upon the circulation of .fluids, towards the due performance of
every salutary function of human organization j as well as of the
irritating passions, towards producing obstructions. It proves,
that all the cheerful and agreeable dispositions enlarge the volume
of the human frame, and produce corresponding conformations ;
that, on the contrary, all the painful and depressing passions
contract the volume of the frame, and produce disagreeable
conformations; and that the first tend to health, life, and hap­
piness, whilst the latter constantly tend to misery and dissolu­
tion. Hence are unfolded to us new motives for the attainment
of excellence, in the dispositions of the human mind; the better
to qualify us for acts of beneficence towards our fellow-creatures,
and the more abundantly to entitle us to 'their regard and
solicitude.
One more important circumstance must be added, which will
enlarge the religious mind to a still higher sense of the excellence
and munificence of Divine Providence—namely, the power
which Volition possesses over one’s own internal circulation.
Any person, once convinced of the immense resources which the
magnetic action embraces, can even apply the volitive faculty
215
to the relief of pain within himself; and the experience of practi­
tioners proves that beneficial effects have even been so produced.
It must be admitted however, that such extended act of volition
requires an undaunted mind, full of confidence in its powers;
a state of mind which conscious rectitude alone can enjoy. And
here again we perceive the wisdom of Providence:—That
Vice involves its own punishment—
‘Virtue its own reward.
A ppenoix to Note (99).
After the 90th line qfpage 146, read the following, as the ter­
mination of that paragragh :—
On the very recent occurrence of a man delivered into the
hands of justice, for having inflicted upon his wife five wounds,
all of which in different parts of her body, it is stated that he
was afterwards surprised on hearing that he had inflicted more
than a single one, of which indeed he appears to have preserved
the recollection. Now, this remark is a very important one in
the case. And as regards the question of Premeditation, I
observe that they must be little acquainted with human
nature, who could suppose that to meditate, and to prepare the
execution of any reprehensible act, were inconsistent with an
actual state of Insanity, at the time being: I could adduce facts
accurately observed, to prove the consistency of the one with
the other.
216*
A ppendix to N ote (29).
*After the sixth line of page 168, read what follows, as the
termination of that note:—
We shall however introduce one remark, concerning that
personage, the Archetype of real philosophers. They must
have strangely mistaken his character, who supposed that be
falsely pretended to hear the warning voice. As a pious fraud,
such as that justly imputed to Numa Pompilius, it would have
been useless, from the immense disproportion of civilization
between the Athenians and the Romans, at those respective
periods; and the ascribing his pretension to any vain motives
would be inconsistent with what is known of his general conduct,
that in particular which he held in presence of the Areopagus,
and with the information given us by Plato, in his dialogues
entitled Crito and Phedon:—“ Vitam impendere v e r o But it
it is further known of Socrates, that although he professed to
disbelieve all those who related their supposed visions, he never*
theless was particularly attentive to others who confessed having
heard unknown voices. He therefore was no impostor, in any
sense of the word. Yet he seems to have been wholly unable to
account for the illusion produced by his extraordinary mode of
perception; and the same error subsisted with Greatrakes, the
latter forming, however, his judgment of the {natter according
to the superstitious notions prevailing in bis time.
Here, again, I have direct experiments in support of my own
217
opinion, regarding what is termed the 'Familiar Daemon of
Socrates:—
%
On several occasions, I have attempted to obtain, from per­
sons in the condition of somnambulists, some accurate notion
of the mode in which they then received their information;
and have always been careful to interrogate them, on that point,
in the'most abrupt and unexpected manner. To one, who was
only a menial servant of the utmost ignorance, and who had
just detailed with great sagacity a complicated disease, I put the
question : “ How do you know all this The answer, accom­
panied with a start of surprise, was : " I think I hear somebody
telling me of it:*
*
—To another, who on the contrary was a
person of sense and education, I put the same question on a
similar occasion; and the answer, delivered this time with the
composure and deliberation of one really anxious to satisfy my
enquiry, was: “ It seems as i f 1 saw it,— or heard it; it is
neither the one nor the other, but it is more like hearing, than like
seeing: there are no words for explaining this perception.”
I
I
ERRATA,
Page 21st, line 6th, instead o f 4
4the presence of those objects
which exist distinctly from ourselves,” read 4
4the presence
of Beings which have a distinct existence from our own.”
Page 21st, line 8th, instead of 4
4objects,” read 4
4Beings,”
Page 29th, line 7th, instead qf 4
4 between operations of such
description,” read 4
4between the operations just described.”
Page 29th, line 14th, substitute a comtna to the semicolon, wafA-
out which the sense remains obscure.
Page 29th, line 15th, instead q f 4
4moveable,” read 4
4motory.”
Page 31st, line 6th, instead q f 4
4 those modes according to
which,” read 4
4the modes in which.”
Page 42d, line 5th, instead qf 4
4has,” read 4
4he has.”
Page 42d, line 10th, instead q f 4
4with more agility, and dis­
plays,” read 4
4more agility, and he displays.”
Page 42d, line 17th, instead o f 4
4 and composes; revises,”
read 4
4composes, and revises.”
Page 50th, the last paragraph, instead q f 4
4such descriptions,”
read 4
4this description/1 and suppress thefirst two commas.
Page 54th, line 5th, instead of 4
4from actual,” read 4
4 from
an actual/1
Page 54th, line 8th, instead q f 4
4those more vivid sensations
which,” read 4i those, more vivid, which.”
Page 54th, line 14th, instead of 4
4and forcibly,” read 4
4and
they forcibly.”
Page 57, line 1st, instead of 4
4However different the various
descriptions,” read 4
4However various the descriptions.”
Page 57th, line 5th, a comma after the word 4
4vivacity,” and
suppress that in the next line.
Page 59th, line 13th, instead of 4
4such investigation,” read
4
4such an investigation.”
Page 60th, second line of the 2d paragraph, instead q f 4
4in the
popular,” read 4
4in popular.”
220
Page 62d, the last paragraph, instead q f " As to the few, who
conceived that the exhibitions of somnambulists might convey
substantial information to the public,” read " As to the few
who conceived that, by exhibiting somnambulists to the
public view, any substantial information might be conveyed.”
Page 63d, line 4th, instead o f" The progress of kndwledge now
requires,” read " The improved state of general knowledge
requires.”
Page 63d, line 5th, instead of " should take,” read " should
now take.”
Page 63d, line 6th, instead o f " ever to be our guide,” read
€t always to guide us.”
Page 63d, line 12th, instead o f" from which,” read " whence.”
Page 66th, line 16th, instead o f " magnetic fluid,” read " the
magnetic fluid.”
Page 66th, the last paragraph, instead o f " But the limits of
the present tract do not admit our following up,” read “ But
our limits do not admit.” •
Page 67th, line 6th, instead of " Such,” read " That.”
Page 67th, line 15th, instead o f " this state,” read " the som­
nambulic state.”
Page 67th, line 22d, instead of " the somnambulic state has,”
read " it has.”
Page 68tb, lines 2nd and 3d, suppress the words " who have
been.”
Page 68th, line 5th, instead q f " such predisposition,” read
" the predisposition to it/*
Page 69th, line 3, suppress the word " all/*
Page 71st, line 14th, instead c f “ manner as to be,” read " a
manner as that it be/*
Page 71st, line 16th, instead o f " specific,** read " special."
Page 71st, the last line, instead of " and always,** read " and
should always/’
Page 72d, 2d line of the last paragraph, instead o f " such
state,** read " somnambulism/*
Page 73d, line 14, instead o f" on such occasions,** read " to his
presence.**
221
Page 74th, line 16th, instead o f “ to many complications, which
may depend,” read " to complications, which often depend.”
Page 75th, line 4th, instead of " a communication of magnetic
fluid,” read “ communication of the magnetic fluid.”
Page 75th, line 7th, instead of “ The eyes then,” read “ The
somnambulist’s eyes.”
Page 75th, line 8th, instead o f" the somnambulist,” read " he/*
Page 75th, line 11lb, instead o f " his,” read " the.”
Page 79, line 9th, instead of “ specific/’ read " special.”
Page 80th, line 12th, suppress the word " still,” and commmence
a new paragraph with the line following—" A reminis­
cence, & c”
Page 80th, line 17tb, instead o f " our mind/’ read " the mind
of the somnambulist.”
Page 80th, line 18th, instead of " after waking,” read " by
him, after awaking.”
Page 84th, line 15, the comma, after the word “ this,” should
precede that word.
Page 94th, the last line, suppress the word " special.”
Page 96th, the first line of the last paragraph, instead o f " such
mode,” read " that new mode.”
Page 103d, line 21st, suppress the word " of.”
Page 105th, line 2d, instead of " other," read " the other.*
Page 105th, line 5th, suppress the word " happen.”
Page 110th, line 5tb, place a comma after the word " faculties.”
Page 110th, line 6tb, instead o f “ and,” read " even an.”
Page 123d, line 23d, instead of “ reflected colour, or subdivision
of light beam, upon the organ,” read " colour, or subdivision
of light beam, reflected upon that organ.”
Page 126th, 2d line of the last paragraph, instead q f " such
state was,” read " this state has been ”
Page 126th, the last line, instead o f " is usually,” read
“ usually is.”
Page 128, line 10th, instead of “ such operations,” read " this
operation.”
Page 128th, line 17th, instead qf “ such/’ read " that.”
Page 140th, line 17th, instead o f " towards a similar effect; but
I
J a n u a r y n t , I 8 t ( .
M o n th ly P asts,* price 7s, muh, handsomely printed in Quarto,
m f m wove Paper, and hot-pressed, '
A
NEW AND COMPREHENSIVE SYSTEM
M ODERN G E O G R A PH Y ,
JKatfrnuiiuI, V$£«Ua
1, ^Political, ant &omnwrrfal;
BBlilC
A P E R SP IC U O U S D E L IN E A T IO N
o r THE
PRESENT STATE OF THE GLOBE
WITH ITS
Snfmbftmttt aiffl $rotraftf0ti0;
Preceded bp the History of the 8cieoce j interspersed with Statistical and Synoptical
Tablet ; and accompanied with a Series of correct coloured Maps, a great
variety of appropriate Views, and numerous other Engravings, illus­
trating the Manners, Customs, and Costumes of Nations
BY THOMAS MYERS, A.M.
OF THE ROYAL MILITARY ACADKMY, WOOLWICH.
There has never, perhaps, been a period in the modern"history of Europe, when it
eonld be less necessary than at the present moment, to enforce reasons for publishing
a new System of -Geograpliy. Thr political events of the last six years have,' in fact,
«o entirely changed the ttrriioiial relations of the different'Continental States, that
all existing Geographical Works, are, in a measure, obsolete. There is scarcely a
single Country in Europe which, within the above period, has not experienced eifuet
an increase or a diminution of its possessions. W t do not mean simply a contiguous
increase or diminution j but such accessions or losses as have materially •altered their
relative characters.
The varions Acts and. Treaties by which these mutations have been effected, are
not ertly difficult of access, but cumbrous memorials for common use. The man of
science, the statesman, the merchant, the student, and the truvelkr, would each gladly
avail himself of a more convenient exposition of the actual state of Europe. B at
where will*be find sneli a one? We know not. There are, indeed, detached works,
relating to detached Countries; but, from their very multiplicity, they tend rather to
perplex than facilitate inquiry. It is the object ofthe present undertaking to aopply
this deficiency in our literature; and, if we perform it in a manner eqnal to our c o n ­
ception of what it should be, we may rely securely upon its success.
We place, in the very front of our motives for producing this New System o f Geo­
graphy, these peculiar circumstances; and we do so, because they supersede all those
customary persuasives, by which the patronage of the Public is usually solicited
towards such enterprises. Every man who takes the slightestintercst in public affairs,
every one who feels a natural anxiety to know what Europe is, at the present moment,
after the terrible convulsions it has undergone, and who wishes to understand the
political connexion of the different States ; is conscious that his means of doing so.
are extremely imperfect. Our. task will be, to remove that imperfection; and, by an
accurate development of the final arrangements made at the Congress of Vienna,
founded upon official and authentic Documents, to exhibit an exact Delineation o’f the
present condition of the civilized World.
/
( 2 )
T bit it our primary purpose; but this is not all. With the-restoration o f the
liberties of Europe, arose ano the recovered freedom of scientific research and K t*
rary inquiry. During the last four or five years, large accessions have been made to
( our general stock of geographical Knowledge. Enterprising travellers have spread
*themselves in every direction, and communicated to the World the result o f their
observations. Many doubtful points of science have thus been established; many
unexpected facts have been verified; the moral aspect of nations has been vividly
portrayed; the changes in manners and customs, and in political influence, have
been ascertained ; venerable errors have been corrected; important trnths elucidated,
abd, in short, the energies of nnimpeded intellect have been applied to the survey of
the World in such a way, as spreads an ample share of novelty before the industrious
Compiler of a geographical System. These, we need hardly add, shall not be neg­
lected. While, therefore, the reader will find all that is unquestionable in preceding
Works, he may expect to receive, in addition, the concentrated information which
subsequent researches have supplied.
There is a constant flux in the affairs of civilized Man. Wherever his influence
extends, a change is visible. What nitty he called the permanent features of Nature
even are not protected from this influence. It is true, mountains and rivers do not
remove ; b at the hand of man clothes the one with verdure, and covers the other
with traffic. Where forests stood, cities are reared; where the stagnant morass
exhaled its baleful effluvia, plaiiis smile with cultivation; where pathless tracts spread
themselves around, roads are formed, bridges constructed, and villages spring up.
These ceaseless mutations present a boundless variety to the geographical H w oriaa;
and they mark, at the same time, the progressive advances or States and Empires in
the path of civilization.
We trust we have said enough to prove, that the prevent period is one peculiarly
fit for the execution of a Work like this. We have shown that the entire face o f
Europe has undergone a. political revolution since the year 1814; and that a N ew
System of Geography, which should distinctly define all the effects of that (evolu­
tion, particularly as affecting territorial boundaries and dominion, wdnld be a valuable
' accession to our Notional l iterature. .We have also shown, that the facilities of
international coinmnnicaiion, naturally arising from a general peace, have been
employed by infc'ligent individuals in accumulating valuable stores of Informa­
tion with respect to the natural, the moral, and the political condition of different
Conntrie*. These, then, are the sources whence we propose to deriye our claims to
public patronage.' If we make a skilful use of them, there can be little doubt as to
that patronage being bestowed ; and the probability that we shall make such a use,
is at least increased by the fact, that wejtnow and appreciate them. . Men do not
commonly fail in their object, when they clearly discern the means of attaining i t : it
is only when they have to seek for the latter, that tbe former sometimes escapes.—
/We subjoin a brief
Plan of the Sfflortt.
It is preceded by a copious Introduction, commencing with the Uictory of Geo­
graphy ) which is followed by a familiar explanation of its Scientific Principle*, with
their application .to finding the positions, bearings, and distances of places, and tbe
construction of Maps and Charts. A general delineation of the grand natural fen-
tures and tbe principal physical phenomena of the Globe, with their influence on its
Inhabitants and Productions, are then given. Tbe dements of Political Geography,
also, are briefly illustrated ; and, to render all reference to other Works unnecessary,
a full explanation of Scientific Terms, with a variety of appropriate Tables, are added.
The different.Sections or the Work itself, are necessarily devoted to subjects of a
less general nature. They contain clear and comprehensive views of the local cir­
cumstances and peculiar productions of each Country ; its works of Art and objects
of Curiosity; its Political State and Foreign Connexions; with the Knowledge,
Manners, and Customs of its Inhabitants. To these are added, such Statistical and
Synoptical Tables us exhibit the natural resources,military strength, and commercial
'importance of each State.
ConM
ttcms.
I. Thi* Work will be handsomely print­
e d in Quarto, with a bold and elegant
Type, and on tine wove Paper.I
I
.
II. If will be published in Monthly
Paits, (Twenty-two of which may be had,)
Price 7s. each, and completed in Twenty-
four Parted forming tw o v e r y la r g e
AND SPLENDID VOLUMES.
IfL The Work will be accompanied
with a valuable and correct Set of eo-
toured Maps, including the latest Arrange­
ments and Discoveries.
- IV. It will be illustrated with a great
variety of appropriate Views, and nume­
rous other Engravings, representing the
Maimers, Customs, and Costrancs of dif­
ferent Nations.
The Approbation which has been generally bestowed on Mr. M y ers’s
G eograph y, Has.afforded the Publishers very considerable gratification ; bat
they feel more peculiarly flattered by many T estim on ies in its favour, from
Gentlemen distinguished for Ciassical Learning and Scientific Attainments,
among which are the followings
I.
v
From the late M r. B o n n y c a s tle , Professor o f Mathematics atthk R o y a l
M ilit a r y A cad em y, Woolwich*
Having looked carfu lly over the several parts o f Mr. Myers's
" New System of Geography" already published, I have no hesitation in
saying, that I think it a very meritorious and useful performance* In the
unsettled stale in which Geography has beenfo r a number o fyears, a Work
o f this kind was much wanted; and, from the specimen M r. Myers has
given, there is every reason to believe that the performance w ill be con-,
ducted in such a manner, as to qfford both pleasure and information to those
who are desirous o f obtaining a ju st and comprehensive knowledge o f the
subject. To a correct and perspicuous^style, he unites a considerable stock
o f mathematical knowledge : this is a necessary and material branch o f the
Science he Has undertaken to elucidate, and possessed but byfew Writers on
the subject. It w ill enable him to connect the scientific branch o f this
department o f knowledge with its historical and geographical details, in a
manner that cannotfa il to render his Work highly instructive, and worthy
the approbation o f the Public; to which the numerous and welUexeeuied
Maps and Views must also greatly contribute.
Feb. 20th, 1821.
II.
From the Rev. W. B. C o lly b r , D.D. LL.D. F.A.S. &c. Camberwell.
I have read Mr. Myers's “ New and Comprehensive System o f
Modern Geographyso fa r as the Work has proceeded,*with unqualified
pleasure; and although my feeble testimony may be qf little value to so
distinguished a Publication, I cannot withhold it, such as it is,from a pro­
duction which promises to be no less advantageous. to thi World, than
honourable to.the amiable and able Author. It appears to me, to combine
every excellence that can be associated with that branch o f Sciente to which
it relates. . • •
March 1Ath^ 1821j '
( 4 )
I II.
From D r . O lin th u s G r e g o r y , Professor o f Mathematics at the E ornv
M ilit a r y A cad em y, Woolwich.
A System o f " Modern Geography" from the pen o f my worthy
Colleague, M r! Myers, can never stand in, need o f my recommendation.
Being requested, however, to express my opinion o f it, 1 have no hesitation
in saying, that I regard it as a very valuable Treatise, on a subject o f
Universal Interest. The delineations o f thepeculiarities o f the several parts
o fthe Terraqueous Globe which comeunderreview, areperspicuous, graphical,
and correct / the Remarks upon the characteristics o f the Inhabitants, their
Habits, Pursuits, and Governments, are candid and philosophical} the
Commercial and Statistical Information is well exhibited, and is generally
drawnfrom Authentic and indubitable sources ; and ike express Articles q f
the Treaties o f Cohorrss, and. other social compacts relating to different
Countries, are appropriately introduced. The coloured Maps are very
neatly, and I believe, accurately executed} and the other Engravings,
referring principally to interesting points o f Scenery andfJostume, are real
*embellishments to the several “ Partsn as they issue successivelyfrom the
press. The “ General Introduction," which is indeed n copious" and is
partly historical, partly philosophical, partly mathematical, partly moral
andpolitical, is m itselfo f high utility ; and, viewed in Connexion with the
system at large, will* be found extremely'judicious, comprehensive, and-
instructive.— June 12M, 1821.
~ w . ~
From D r . K e l l y , Finsbury Square, London.
I have perused the first Sixteen Parts q f M r. Myers's " New
System o f Geography," and have particularly examined those Articles on
which I fe lt most competent to give an opinion. So fa r, the Work appear*
tome a performance qf great and uncommon m erit; pfaqnedwithjudgment,
and executed with due attention to utility, ornament, interesting research,
and scientific accuracy. The Introduction alone, affords an ample specimen
o f the Author's qualification*fo r the undertaking; and the Body o f the
Workfu lly corresponds, iri every department. The Historical Illustrations
, display an extensile knowledge ofAntiquity; and the Topographical Descrip­
tions, an intimate acquaintance with Modern Tottrs, Travels, and Voyages
o f Discovery, and also with Natural History, Political Economy, and the
progress qf the Arts. The Tabular Contents are copious, well arranged,
and replete with new arid important matter. The Statistical Columns appear
to comprehend all recerit changes o f Territory ; and the Commercial, a more
fu ll and authentic account o f Exports and Imports, and' o f the Monetary
Systems and Metrology o f Nations, than any yet published in a Work q f
the kind. The Mathematical Elucidations and1
Diagrams, are obviouslyfr om
the hand q f a Master; the same may be observed q f the Mbps, Viems,
Costumes, and other Graphic Embellishments, which, on accountq f their
number, and the superior manner in which they are executed, greatly on*
hance the value o f the Work*—July 4th, 1821.
( * )
V.
From the Rby. D r. Gboicbib, Greenwich.
A variety o f Political Changes, and o f Geological as well as
Topographical Discoveries, hewing rendered a new Wbrh on “ Geography?
, highly desirable, I was induced to become a Subscriter to M r. Myers's
Publication, soon after it was announced* M y hopes and wishes have not
been disappointed. The Introduction, occupying two hundred and twenty*
four pages, in which he details the History and Progress q f Geography,'9
explaining a t ike scone time the Mathematical atof AstronowsUel Principles
o f the Science, I have read with peculiar pleasure. The malter is good, and
the diction neat. In the Third Chapter, in which he delineates the natural
features o f the Globe, and which I have perused o ftenet than once, he has
been eminently successful. On the various subjects q f Bohr Heat, Wood*
Atmosphere, Evaporation, Mountains9 Seas, and Rivers, as affecting
Temperature and Climate, I find much curious and valuable Irformation,
communicated in dear and appropriate language* The plan and the execu­
tion q f the great body o f the Work, asfa r as it has yet proceeded, while they
evince the talents and industry o f the Author, cannotfa il to recommend it
to Public Patronage. It comprisesl much novel and important matter,
collected with judgment, and arranged with perspicuity.— Aug, 8, 1821#
V I.
From D r . A n d r e w , Prqfessor q fMathematics and Resident Head Classical
Master, aft She (m m M uhtar* Swantejtsrf, AM seom te, near
Croydon.
I have much pleasure in stating, that, in my opinion, M r. Myers's %
4t New and Comprehensive System q f Modem Geographyso fa r as it has
been published (proposed to be completed in Twentyfo u r Parts, o fwhich I
I have seen Twenty)., is an excellent and a masterly performance, andjustly
merits a large shareq fpublicfavour and pcOronagO—HonACB says o f the
sageand experienced U lysses, " Mores multorum hominum vidit et urbes."
Iji this Work, without encountering the dangere and difficulties o fforeign
travel, may be seen the Manners and Customs, the Policy and Resources,
the Trade' and Natural Ptbduelfbn* q f every Country; object* o f [feat
importance to the Merchant and Soldier, as well as to the Statesman and
general Reader. Travellers w illfind it advantageous to consult such a Work,
before they leave! their own Country, that they: may be prefaredfor making
proper inquiries in Foreign Parts, andfo r seeing verified what they have
read, Thefulness o f Information and Detail here conveyed, is produced by
the superior learning and research o f modem times, aided by general peace.
The style o f writing, like that o f G o ld s m ith , is natural, easy, and enter*
tam ing; and the various quotations from different Authors, in their own
words, add a richness and novepy throughout, that tend very much to beep
alive the interest and attention o f the Reader.— Novi 13th, 1821.
London ^K nitted for Starwood,, Steely,,and Jones, Tateraoster Row.
Just eemplsied9ia 1\ f large Folaaws, |Wijw« IL I k w Jwr*,
$ AN O RIG IN A L WORK, E N T ITL ED ,
THE
FA M ILY C Y C L O PE D IA ;
• SEIKO
A M A N U A L O f
ttlffttl anti Jltotfarg iinotoltbge.
Alphabetically arranged ;
R E C E N T IN V E N T IO N S , D IS C O V E R IE S , AND IM P R O V E M E N T S ,
IV
Domestic Oconoms, Agriculture, fcSbtmfettg;
The m ost approved, Methods o f C uring D iseases,
WITH
THE MODE OF TREATMENT IN CASES OF DROWNING,
O T H E R A C C ID E N T S , AND P O I8 0 N S ;
<
2M
i£fn
rb
attfon
£fonBtet anti ftigtmot;
A COMPREHENSIVE ACCOUNT OF THE
MOST STRIKING OBJECTS IN NATURAL HISTORY,
Animate and Inanim ate;
AND A DITAIL OP VARIOUS PROCESSIS IN
®
|>e an# iKamifactum;
ALSO,
A CONCISE VIE W OF
THE HUMAN MIND AND THE PAS8IONS,
W ith their particular Application to our Improvement
Sit tf&tuatfottatffl Eforafo
i
By JA M E S JE N N IN G S .
The Family CycLopadia contains plain and familiar Directions for curing every
Disease incident to the Human Body, with the mode of treating Accidents generally;
and; as it is of importance to know when the attendance of a Medical Prac­
titioner is absolutely necessary, in the Author’s remarks *on every Disease, tliis is
invariably pointed' ont. An jrcconnt of every nsefhl Medicine and Drug is also
given, and their Doses,—with the manner of preparing those most common and
useful: to which is added, the Composition of almost every Quack .Medicine, (that
its utility or inutility may be known,) from peculiar sources of information.
i
i
On the subjects of Diet and Regimen, he flatters himself, his observations w tt
be found explicit ahd important, and biphfy deserving the attention of all who' desire
either to obtain, or to retain, good health, that most valuable of blessings. He
hopes what he has stated under the articles D igestion, Dinner, Exercise, &c. will not
be found less deserving of attention.
Considering the various Accidents to which Persons are continually exposed, he
has devoted much care and attention to the treatment of such' as hare taken Poisons^
.or who have been bitten by a Mad Dog, Viper,' & c.; also to Recovering Persons
apparently Dead from Drowning; the mode of Escape from Houses on Fire, and
Shipwreck j and the treatment of Persons accidentally Frozen. On these beads
he has been very minute; but, he trusts, not more so than the importance of the dif­
ferent subjects w arrant and demand.
t
He has not deemed it necessary to treat of Anatomy a t large; but has.
in a compendium under that article, and under the articles Abdomen, Blood,
H eart, dec. given a succinct account of every principal part of the human body ;
without some knowledge of which, no one can be competent to judge of Disease, or
of the exhibition of Medicines for its cure. In doing this, he has avoided, as much
as possible, the use of teckmaal term s; or, if be has used them, they will be fbund ex­
plained in other parts of the Work j so that it fonns, as much as possible, a Sdjf-
Interpreting Book.
The Science o f Chemistry, that science which has done so much for our conve­
nience and our wants, has not been neglected. Tbe-Antbor has endeavoured to embody,
in the different articles, all that is essential in this important brunch of knowledge;
combining both instruction and amusement. This science is intimately connected with
Domestic Economy, and the Arts of Life ; and, nnder the articles Bread, Brewing,
H alt, fVinee, dec. he has given such directions, founded' on scientific principles, as
cannot fail, he presumes, greatly to remove the obscurity and ignoranc£ under which
the different processes are at present conducted.
The Arts of A griculture and Gardening, including the culture of Flowers ,
Trees, Shrubs, dec. have obtained hiscareful attention, and will be found to combine,
the most-practical, economical, and the latest Improvements,—with an account of the
various processes and implements necessary to these important branches of Domestic
Economy.
On the Arts, generally, will also be found a variety of practical Instructions. On
Colour-making, D yeing, Leather, Paper, Scowering, Tanning, dec. he has endeavoured,
to collect all that is practicable and usefhl.
The subjects of Education, Morals, the Passions, and the Human Mind, are
intimately connected. A Family Cyclopaedia demanded their Introduction; and,
whilst he has explored many of the* causes of human cjror, he has, he hopes, demon-
• strated its medicable nature, and that Virtue is the only certain road to happiness.
The principal Diseases to which Horses and Cattle are liable, are also described;
with Directions for their mode of Cure, according to the most approved modern
practice.
* To the subjects of Natural History, vis. Botany, M ineralogy, and Zoology,
including, under this last head, an account of Quadrupeds, Birds, Fishes, Serpents,
and Insects, he has paid -ronsiderable attention; and, therefore, can confidently
recommend iiis Work, as containing an epitome of all that is known of importance
or interest, in these departments.
In a Work so multifarious, the Author considered it his doty to seek out, and apply,
to. the best sources of Information that the present improved state of Knowledge
alrords p and as he has no wish whatever, to arrogate to himself sentiments or facts
which belong to, or have been staled l*y> others; in Isis Preface, which, with tra
I ntroductory Essay, accompanies the last Part of the W ork, he hat mentioned
/h is principal Authorities. Bat while be states this, he may, without vanity, state also,
that more originality upon the subjects of Disease, Diet, Regimen, Education,
Mind, and Morals, will be found in hie Work, than is commonly met.with in works
of a similar nature.
He may add, iodeed, that *carcely\m Article will be found in this Work, which
has'not received some addition or improvement; be veutnres, therefore, to hope,
that the Family Cyclopedia exhibits such a complete Code of Ustfnl Know­
ledge, as to prove one of the most valuable Volumes that have ever issued from the
Press.
( 8 )
Tmtimoxir. w Favour of Mr. Jtoxiwcw’s Cyclop am i;
** From the ton* in which the greater part of the F am ily C vw oM D iA fe w ritten
and from the nniformity of character apparent throughout, it will be obvion to
•very one; that this is an entirely original Work, and completely exempt from the
censure justly beotowed on most Introduction* to Domestic Economy. The science,
taste, and good sense of the Antlior, are visible in every page of this laborious pro­
duction ; and his benevolent attempts to meliorate the condition of bis fellow-
creatare*,' by improvement in morals and education, demand our warmest praise.
This excellent manual of knowledge has already, we understand, been very fevoae-
alily received in Families, pi a book of daily reference in the common concerns o f
fifes to such persons also at reside at a distance from great towns and from medical
'M ^n-ormbo aittinhabstants of the British Colonics, (pertiooiariy to ail settlers in new
countries,^—the Family Cyclopaedia is really invaluable; as it fbrms a portable L ibrary
of psefhl kppwledge, of rosy reference, and. contains a great variety of information,
not to be found m other works o f similar pretensions, or of greater magnitude.
Notwithstanding t!»e various subjects treated in these comprehensive ffsla m u
the Author's style is generally neat and perspicuous; and, while he studionsly avoids
coarse add vtdgtr exprestfioiie, bo k never technical or obscure* The readers o f
ourjournals mill find m ath practicable and useful information on the subject o f the
A rtrin this work, which Mr. Jennings seems to have obtained from the best and moot
andmnticsoprocSf .es well as having added much original m atter of his own.*—la n ds*
sfacmul$ f A rt* pad &wum*.
** The Fam ily Cyclopaedia, by Jambs Jbhuihos, contains a large mass of infor­
mation, on sohjeots connected with the domestic economy of fife* In matter* o f
seiepco and art, She anther has made bis selections from sotiKoeeofthe host authority.
Who original materials supplied by himself are creditable to his observation, good
sense, and benevolence. Almost every topic of general interest will be found in
, this comprehensive andjudicious compilation, treated in a clear and familiar man­
ner. As a book of daily reference in the oommon concerns of life, it will be found
to afford important assistance, and its great practical utility will, no doubt, ensure it
a ready introduction* and a favourable reception, in every intelligent fondly. In
addition to the great heads of domestic economy, agriculture, and chemistry, this
work points'ont the best modes of curing diseases, and obviating the effects of sud­
den accidents ; and presents also an outline of the mind and passions, with a view
to the improvement o f morals and education."— Monthly Magazine.
“ T he uftility and variety of the subjects Mr. Jennings's Cyclopaedia embraces, and
their connexion with the intimate, important, ned daily concerns of life, excite an
irresistible and laudable curiosity towards them. That a considerable portieo o f
talent has been bestowed on this very useful undertaking, will be perceived by the most
hasty glance at its pages. The Alphabetical Arrangement renders it peculiarly conve­
nient for reference. Under the beads A ppetite, Exercipe, Education, Pood, Benevo­
lence, Ague, Chem istry, Ac., and indeed in every department. Will be found more or
let* originality. It is not, however, the ability which is displayed in the Work, eminent
US it unquestionably i*, but its obvious utility, that will secure for it a popular adop*
Hon. There is no subject aUied to the pleasures or the pains of domestic life, but has
its appropriate development in Mr. Jennings's W ork; and many of the articles
ara treated with a diffutepess and originality, which entitle it to unqualified com­
mendation.”—-Taunton Courier
LONDON P rin ted fo r SHERWOOD. NEELY, and JONES,
PA TERN O STER ROW.
• O. Sidmbt, Printer, NorthambcrUnd 8tr e t.
