{"name":"Treatise On Magic","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1810__quitman___treatise_on_magic.pdf","mytitle":"Treatise On Magic","mylang":"de"}
/
A
TREATISE
ON
MAGIC,
OR, ON THE
INTERCOURSE
BETWEEN
SPIRITS AND MEN:
WITH
ANNOTATIONS.
,
BY FREDERICK HENRY QUITMAN,
PROFESSOR OF DIVINITY, PRESIDENT OF THE LUTHERAN
CLERGY IN THE STATE OF NEW-YORK, AND MINISTER
OF THE GOSPEL IN RHI N EBECTC, &C.
Every plant, which my heavenly father has not planted, shall
be rooted up. Jesus Christ.
BALANCE PRESS—ALBANY.
1810.
A6
PREFACE.
Ai
^LTHOUGH it is one of the chief ends of the
religion of Christ, to deliver the world from the bon-
dage of superstition, and to raise men to the glorious
liberty of the children of God ; still we perceive that
the King of Truth, has not yet attained that general
victory, over the powers of darkness, for which eve-
ry true friend of the gospel, looks with anxiety.
—
Great numbers still continue to refuse the acceptance
of that blessed privilege, and even to many professed
Christians, the words of the gospel may be applied :
They love darkness more than light. Stooping their
necks willingly, like the Galatians of old, to the yoke
of bondage, and bewitched with folly, they will not obey
the voice of truth, but follow blindly the vain course
marked out by their fathers, believing in absurd tra-
ditions and fables of old women. As I consider it to
be the sacred duty of those, who are appointed guar-
dians and teachers of the people, to assist them in
breaking all kind of fetters, which degrade the dig-
nity of man, it has been my incessant endeavour, in
the sphere wherein Divine Providence has placed me,
to deliver those that were entrusted to my care, from
the shameful yoke of superstition, and to help them
to the enjoyment of rational liberty. But although I
flatter myself that my labours have not been altogeth-
er in vain, yet, I have often occasion to make the de-
jecting observation, that still some old leaven re-
mains to be purged out, some noxious plant to be
#
IV
rooted up. A recent occurrence in my neighbour-
hood has convinced me at once, of the difficulty of
curing that fatal malady of the human kind, and of
the vanity of those, who are continually boasting, of
the general diffusion of rational knowledge, in our
present age. In the month of October of the year
1808, the house of a respectable farmer, of that dis-
trict of the town of Rhinebeck which is called Wer-
temberg, was believed to be haunted by evil spirits.
Stones were continually thrown in it, in every direc-
tion, and part of the winter store was either destroyed
or carried away. As the original course of the stones
could not always be traced, while they continued to
fly, even when the doors and windows were secured,
the mischief was ascribed, by the inhabitants, to some
supernatural cause. One particular circumstance,
viz. that stones were perceived to fall in the apart-
ments only, that were daily frequented and open to ac-
cess, should have induced the people, to suspect
some members of the family, and to watch their mo-
tions ; but rather than to harbour this tedious suspi-
cion 5
and to enter upon a careful examination, they
took the shortest and easiest way, and attributed it
to witchcraft. In this persuasion, they sent to a fa-
mous conjuror from the wesfside of the river; but
the demons equally superstitious, and fearing the ma-
gical staff of the conjuror, departed before his arri-
val. When I was informed of these ridiculous trans-*
actions, I endeavoured to convince the people of the
absurdity of their notions, requesting them at the
same time, to give me notice, in case the spirits
should take it again in their heads, to disturb the
tranquillity of the house. About the same time of
last year, while the master of the family and his wife
were gone to New-York, the demons thought proper
to resume their mischievous operations. Having
been informed by the son of the family, who is a mar-
ried man, of his distressed situation, I went there,
accompanied by a well informed eider of my church
in Rhinebeck. But the rumours of my expected ar-
rival having been spread abroad, the house was so
much crowded with people, that I could not proceed
in the investigation of the matter, in the manner I
had wished. However, I addressed the incarnate de-
mons, and declared to them my suspicions of their
wickedness, which at least put a stop to their pro-
ceedings, whilst I was there. I am sorry that the
delicacy of my situation, would not permit me to bring
the offenders to confession, and to deliver them up to
well deserved punishment. Others, in whose pre-
sence the spirits were less cautious, were more suc-
cessful in discovering the hands by which the stones
were thrown. But in spite of the solemn declarations
of several credible persons, who have surprised the
suspected offenders, in the act of throwing, the infat-
uation is so great, that many, and even members of
the injured family, persist in the belief of its being
practised by infernal influence. As it is said in the
gospel, that the unclean spirit, when driven out, ta-
keth to him seven other spirits more wicked than
himself, so it was the case in the present instance.
—
Scarcely had the rumour about the forementioned
witchcraft a little subsided, when we heard the re-
port of the appearance of apparitions in several quar-
ters of the town. And it is really to be feared, that
during this dull winter, all the corners of Rhinebeck,
A 2
VI
for want of other employment, will be infested with
demons. This circumstance has induced me to com-
pose the following treatise, chiefly for the better infor-
mation of my congregations, and as a memento of the
instructions, which I have often imparted to them.-
—
The chief materials are taken, beside from the au-
thors mentioned in the work itself, from Professor
Peter Eberhard's book on the same subject, and
from Professor Tiedeman's inquiry into the rise and
progress of magic, originally written in Latin, and
rewarded with the golden medal, by the Royal Socie-
ty in Gottengen. As I have not written this essay,
as a specimen of my proficiency in the English lan-
guage, I am indifferent about alphabet critics. Re-
garding the doctrines maintained in it, I am well a-
ware, that they will not meet with general approba-
tion. But as freedom of inquiry, is in my opinion,
the birth-right of the Protestant Church, and as I am
vailing to allow this privilege to others, I wish, on no
consideration, to be restrained in its enjoyment. For
those, who are determined to adhere to pagan super-
stition, or who follow the maxim of the church of
Rome, I believe, because it is impossible, I have not
written.
THE AUTHOR,
Rhinebeck, January \0tfi, 1810;
TREATISE ON MAGIC.
IVJlAGIC, is the art of producing supernatural ef-
fects, by the agency of spirits. If, for that purpose,
a good spirit is employed, it is called Theurgy ; if
an evil spirit is put to work, it is Sorcery.
The performers of such operations are generally
styled Magicians. From this definition it appears,
that the interposition of supernatural beings is abso-
lutely required to magical practices : Consequent-
ly, exhibitions that are founded *on mere natural cau-
ses, however surprising they may appear, are not to
be ranked among magical arts. To that class belong
ail tricks of sleight of hand, practised by jugglers ;
all performances that require a certain apparatus,
e. g. the restoration of written instruments burnt to
ashes ; all exhibitions that depend upon physical or
mathematical experiments, and finally all effects pro-
duced by chymical operations, for instance, the pal-
ingenesis of plants. Even astrology, when consider-
ed merely as a science of foretelling future, events
from the position of the stars, and grounded on a sup-
position that they possess a natural foreboding pow-
er, ought not to be called magic : but it comes un-
der that name, when, by it, is understood the art of
discovering secrets, of predicting future accidents,
of changing metals, or of curing distempers by the
influence of certain spirits ruling over the celestial
bodies, The practice of auguring, so common among
the ancients, was therefore no effect of magic, be-
cause they believed some foreboding power to be in-
herent in the very signs which they had observed,
without the concurrence of supernatural beings.
The origin of magic loses itself in the dark ages
of remote antiquity, and it has always been its fate,
to be believed by the ignorant, to be supported by de-
signing ambition or avarice, and to be despised by
the wise. In every age and among all nations there
have been impostors, who have duped the ignorant
by mysterious practices, and boasted of a familiar in-
tercourse with, and influence over superior spirits.
The Samojedes as well as the Chinese, the Lapland-
ers as well as the civilized Europeans, have their
magicians and enchanters. The cause of this gen-
eral delusion is easily to be traced in the history of
human understanding.
Ignorant and barbarous nations believe all nature
to be animated. Every where they suppose spirits
and demons, as the authors of the natural phenome-
na. Wherever they perceive motion, they suspect a
moving soul. This general belief proceeds from a
too extensive idea of analogy. We live and have
sensation. The reason of our motion often proceeds
from within ourselves, and the manner of our acting
depends greatly upon our own determination.
Whether other things are also animated, we have
first to learn from long and repeated experiments ;
when, therefore, man in a natural state perceives in
other objects such motions, or effects produced by
them, as proceed within himself from sense and re-
flection, he thinks that, with equal right, he must
assign to those objects, sense and a moving soul
:
for as it is natural to man to explain unknown things,
-from others wherewith he is acquainted ; so the sav-
age, as long as he is ignorant of the nature of things,
will endeavor to form an idea of them, from his own
sensations. Hence the visible form assigned to the
soul, to spirits, and even to God himself. Hence the
sensual ideas of the future state and happiness.
Hence the revenge against inanimate but noxious
objects, the plaintive addresses of poets and lovers
to rocks, rivers and groves, and the conversation we
often unknowingly hold with inanimated things. No
wonder, therefore, that untutored reason considers
all nature as animated. But since the effects and
impressions of natural things are either pleasant or
hurtful, or neither of them, the spirits who are be-
lieved to possess them, are either good or bad or of
a middling class. Even the evil spirits are worship-
ped to prevent them from doing mischief. And as
the ideas which ignorant men form of these spirits,
are borrowed from their own nature, and perceiving,
that mere addresses to those spirits are sometimes
without success, they contrive all kind of ceremonies
to render their prayers and imprecations more pow-
erful ; and if by chance their wishes are accomplish-
ed, during the performance cf those ceremonies, or
immediately after them, they are looked upon as in-
fallible charms. Where this superstition has once
taken possession of the human mind, there it is not
difficult for self-interest and fraud to support and to
encourage it. Hence, among savage nations, the
many enchanters, who pretend to cure diseases by
4
charms, to foretell future events, to expel evil spir-
its, to enjoy a familiar intercourse with supernatural
beings, and to possess the power to make them ap-
pear at their own pleasure. For the practice of con-
juring ghosts and dead persons, we may account in
the following manner.
Men are possessed of a natural instinct of prying
into futurity. This inclination is the stronger, the
less they are acquainted with the connexion and con-
sequences of things, and the more they are compel*
led by their present wants to think of the future.
Barbarous nations are endowed with a strong imagina-
tion, and are incapable of distinguishing the sports of
fancy from real sensations. This is the reason, that
they consider dreams and the paroxysms of fevers, as
real perceptions of the senses, and that they look up-
on lunatics, as being divinely inspired. Thus con-
stituted, they mistake imaginary ideas of future
events, for true representations, and are induced to
believe that by these means supernatural beings re-
veal to them the secrets of futurity. And since this
state of mind, or a lively imagination, is excited by
narcotic vapours, by heavy exercise of the body, by
drums and by other stupifying noise, they think that
in this manner the spirits are forced to appear. Self-
interest or enthusiasm are soon prompted to a pre-
tended skill in this art. Deceit moulds it into a sci-
entific system, and in order to render it more vener-
able and lucrative, conceals it carefully from the
eye of the vulgar and attaches to the initiation into
it the most difficult and terrifying ceremonies. Thus
magic receives a mysterious appearance.
The general prevalence of this practice among"
savage nations is, alone, a sufficient proof against the
opinion of those who assert that the art of magic is
of divine origin, and revealed by God himself to our
first parents.
Concerning the magic of the Chaldeans, we have
but few ancient and certain accounts ; for the tradi-
tions respecting it, mentioned by some authors, who
wrote in the fourth and fifth century of the christian
era, are subject to doubt. However, from what we
are able to collect, it appears, that they believed,
that the gods had frequent intercourse with men ;
that they admitted of good and evil spirits, and final-
ly, that they ascribed to certain herbs a power of pro-
ducing magical effects. For this purpose they also
employed talismans or theraphims. The Chalde-
ans worshipped the celestial bodies as principal dei-
ties ; and as all nations had the custom to accommo-
date magic to their religion and theology, we may,
with some degree of certainty conclude, that among
the Chaldeans, the stars were chiefly employed in
magical practices.
The ancient Persians were particularly renowned
for their skill in magic. From them it derives its
name ; but this is no proof that they were the first in-
ventors of this practice ; for, as we have already men-
tioned, it is common to all barbarous nations. It is
however highly probable that Zoroaster, the reform-
er of their religion, was also the first who gave to the
art of magic a scientific form. The Persians did not
blend so much of astrology with magic as the Chal-
deans ; but like these, they believed in various kinds
&f demons, in apparitions of deities and ghosts, in in-
spirations, prophetic extasies and portensions. They
ascribed to certain forms of prayer, to certain sacri-
fices and drugs, an enchanting power. The adepts
distinguished themselves by a peculiar and a severe
diet. They abstained from wine, from animal food
and from matrimonial commerce. This they did ei-
ther to acquire an higher eclat of sanctity, or because
they were persuaded that such a manner of living
was required, to be admitted to an intercourse with
superior beings, and best suited to their rapturous
profession.
What Philostratus, in his biography of Apollonius,
relates respecting the magical practices of the Bra-
mins, is certainly exaggerated. From what we know
of their religious opinions, it is evident that in point
of magic they little differ from the above mentioned
nations. Like the Chaldeans and Persians, they pre-
dict future events by inspiration, cure the sick by the
influence of spirits, and make use of charms.
Moses is the most ancient writer, who makes men-
tion of Egyptian magic. He tells us that the magi-
cians of Egypt transformed a rod into a serpent, the
water of the Nile into blood, and that they produced
a mighty host of frogs. From this narration it is ev-
ident that the Egyptian enchanters pretended to trans-
mute natural things and to produce living creatures
by the power of magic. This circumstance is a proof
of the great antiquity of Egyptian magic ; for to such
prodigies of enchantment a nation does not proceed
at once. It is a resource to recover authority, wher
the art of curing the sick and of foretelling future e-
vents, has sunk into discredit.
The Egyptians believed in good and evil spirits, and
considered the latter as the authors of all kind oi dis-
eases, against which they employed talismans and
amulets.
They combined astrological calculations with the
study of astronomy : The Egyptians, says Herodot,
anxiously inquire, which day is sacred to particular
deities ? what will be the lot of a man that is born on
a certain day ? of what sickness he is to die ? &c.
Having observed that the celestial bodies have a ma-
terial influence on the seasons and atmosphere, they
extended their power over the whole creation, and in
particular over the vicissitudes of human life.
Some of the laws of Moses are expressedly intend-
ed to counteract this Egyptian superstition ; for the
Israelites were too prone to imbibe the religious no-
tions of their masters. From them they derived
witches, enchanters and necromancers. Moses for-
bids to inquire of the dead, and to observe times
which relate to the astrological notion, that some un-
dertakings meet with better success on particular
days, and that they could learn from the stars which
days promised most favorable. They assigned also
a supernatural power to certain numbers and geo-
metrical figures. Seeing that many things, after a
certain number of years, months or days, came to an
end, that diseases arrived to a crisis at a certain
time, and that at certain periods many things were
renewed, they were induced to believe that in these
very numbers exists a magical power. An error,
which is still prevailing in our days among the com-
mon people.
B
8
Respecting the magic of the Greeks, some mention
is made in the works of Homer. His heroes visit
the most reputed oracles, in order to consult the
manes of their departed friends and ancestors. And
even Orpheus, long before him, had consulted such
an oracle of the dead, concerning his wife Euridice.
According to the mythology of Homer, certain im-
precations possessed the virtue to stop the blood, and
what is still more astonishing, the form of men was
changed into that of brutes, by the power of certain
poisonous herbs and the touch of the magical wand.
Circe and Medea are condemned to eternal infamy
by the ancient writers, for their crimes and enchant-
ments. And even Orpheus, Amphion, Museus and
Zalmoxis, are renowned in ancient history, as power-
ful enchanters.
The ancient Greeks, like all other uncivilized na-
tions, derived every disaster and disease immediate-
ly from the gods. To their immediate influence
they attributed every power of superior genius. The
gods* in their opinion, had not only introduced a-
mong them, different arts and sciences, but they had
even condescended to be their instructors. Every
noble and sublime thought was therefore considered
by them as an infusion by some divine being. Thus,
it'is no wonder that the Grecians contrived early
means, to procure the favour and assistance of their
deities. During the Persian wars, the name of ma-
gic became distinguished in Greece. Pythagorus
and his disciples, were great magicians, who aimed
at a familiar intercourse with the gods, cured dis-
eases by enchantment, conversed with ghosts, and
ascribed to certain numbers and geometrical figures
9
a secret supernatural virtue. Osthanes, a Persian,
made the Greeks acquainted with the whole magical
system of his nation, on which he had written an ex-
tensive work. In this book he speaks repeatedly of
sympathy and antipathy, chimeras, which are natu-
rally cherished by people who are unacquainted with
the true nature of things.
Democritus has by many authors been ranked a-
mong magicians, but without foundation. He was
rather averse to that futile art, altho' he maintained
certain secret powers in natural phenomena, the
cause of which he was not yet able to perceive.
With more right is Epidocles deserving of that name,
as being the first among the Greeks, who brought
the spirits under two classes, dividing them in good
and evil spirits. The mysteries were not only a
great support to magic, but they also gave to it a
new and more shining appearance. Altho' the origin
of these sacred institutions is uncertain, yet they are
unquestionably of a very ancient date, for Triptolo-
irieus and Orpheus are said to have been initiated
in them. Some Writers have even considered the
latter as the author of these secret rites, but it is
more probable that they existed already before his
time, and that they merely were reformed by himaPn
In the early ages of the Grecian nation, these reli-
gious establishments seem to have been of little re-
nown, but afterwards they became more famous, in
particular in the time of Pythagorus and his followers.
It was the chief object of these institutions to enter
into a familiar communication with superior beings
and to perform magical operations by their assist-
ance j for it was generally believed, that spirits and
10
ghosts and even the gods immediately appeared at
the summons of the adept. In the higher mysteries,
every initiated received his peculiar genius who at-
tended and assisted him in all his undertakings.
However trifling and absurd the ceremonies and rules
of these institutions originally might have been, with
the rise of philosophy they received a more rational
form. Now it became the chief duty of the initiated
to lead a pure and holy life, and gradually to raise the
mind above the influence of the body, or with other
words, to become visionaries. This gave rise to
mystic philosophy among the Greeks and to the dis-
tinction between popular and philosophic magic.
This latter kind became very famous immediately
before the time of Alexander. Socrates spoke with
delight of his genius, and his disciple, Plato, gave to
philosophy a form altogether favorable to enthusiasm
and visionary notions. In order to render the belief
in genii more plausible, he asserted, that the gods
were too far exalted above men, to admit of any
communication between them. Hence he draws the
inference, that there must be spirits of a middling
kind, who convey the prayers and sacrifices of* men
bgfcre the gods, and vice -versa the commands and
promises of the gods to men. By their ministry, he
says, all vaticinations are pronounced, all sacrifices
hallowed, and all consecrations and enchantments ef-
fected. Thus Plato adhered to the popular creed,
dressing it merely in a more philosophic garb. Even
to certain numbers, he assigned great and supernat-
ural virtue, and it was his opinion that a certain defi-
nite number of citizens greatly contributed to the
11
welfare of empires. In the reign of Alexander, a-
nother Osthanes arrived, who fascinated the Greeks
still more with Persian magic, while Berosus instruct-
ed them in astrology and the use of the horoscope.
The latter established a school on the Isle of Cos,
and the Athenians erected a statue in his honor,
which shews how greatly his magical talents were
admired.
Under these circumstances, sound reason had to
struggle with many and obstinate difficulties, and all
Greece would have been lost in a maze of supersti-
tion, if this growing evil had not been checked by
the rational efforts of their eminent philosophers.
Aristotle admitted of no other spiritual beings of in-
ferior rank but the moving principles of the celesti-
al bodies. All other spirits he denied, and conse-
quently the possibility of magical operations. Epi-
curus disbelieved all divine concerns in human af-
fairs, and of course every thing relating to magic.
During the reign of Ptolomy Philadelphus, the
art of magic arrived to the highest pitch. The situ-
ation of Alexandria, so favorable to commerce, and
the desolations of a destructive war, had invited a
great number of people, from all nations and reli-
gions, to settle in that city, where they amalgamated
their superstitious notions in one stupendous mass :
at the same time the caballa originated in Egypt, or
it was rather reduced into a more scientific form.
The Jews, forever fond of signs and wonders, and
encouraged by the example of their prophets, who
maintained a familiar intercourse with the Supreme
Being, grasped with eagerness after every suitable
B 2
12
ingredient for the aggrandizement of their magical
system. From their own magical forms and cere-
monies, from the magic of Egypt and Greece, and
from the philosophy of Pythagorus and Plato, they
formed a monstrcus system, exceeding that of all
other nations, and including ail the chimeras of as-
trology, the dreams of the Pythagoreans and Platon-
ics, and the enchanting forms and ceremonies which
were in vogue among the common people. Thus
the practice of magic became gradually more gener-
al. But it was not this popular kind alone that ex-
tended itself. The study of its higher branch, or of
mystic and philosophical magic, was pursued with
the same ardour. It was the sole object of the for-
mer to procure the assistance of superior beings, for
certain purposes, while it was the aim of the latter to
rise by degrees to the sight of God and superior spir-
its, and to the intrinsic knowledge of natural things ;
on which account Plato met with general applause.
This kind of mystic theology was, and is still no
where to be found in an higher degree, than in In-
dostan. In a country where the imagination of the
inhabitants is exceeding powerful, where the wants
of nature are easily supplied, and where an oppres-
sive heat inclines the body to rest and ease, there the
soul is gradually abstracted from the senses and ab-
sorbed in itself. There the mind takes delight in
undisturbed rest, sinks into quietism, and considers
the contemplation of naught, and corporeal and men-
tal inactivity, as its highest good. In this situation,
prolific fancy is incessantly employed to create strong
illusions, which are mistaken by the passive mind
13
for real facts. In this ecstatic state, the soul fancies
to be elevated to the presence of God and the com-
pany of supernatural beings. This mystical philos-
ophy, known by the name of theosophy, when intro-
duced into the Jewish and Christian religious sys-
tems, became a source of many absurd and fatal no-
tions.
From the ancient history of the Romans, it appears^
that they practised magic from the very beginning of
their existence as a nation. Numa Pompilius con-
sulted the oracles of the gods, and one of the laws
of the twelve tables forbids conjuring the fruits of
the field, and another prohibits the singing of en-
chanting hymns. The Romans probably derived this
magical practice from the Sabine s and Etruscans, in
particular from the latter, who were a very supersti-
tious people, of which they gave an evident proof, by
writing the words arse verse, on the doors of their
houses, to avert the danger of fire.
As it was the custom of the Romans to adopt the
gods of the conquered nations, so it was natural to
them to imitate their magical practices; for magic is
every where founded on the national religion from
which it originated. Ennius inveighs against astrol-
ogers and Egyptian fortune-tellers, but notwithstand-
ing his remonstrances, the Romans adhered to their
superstition, and no sooner were they freed by his
death, from his reproachful remarks, than they in-
troduced the Thessalian enchanters. For this rea-
son it was thought necessary to enact laws against
this practice, among which the law of Sulla, de vene-
14
Jicis et Stearns, is particularly notorious. However
this did not stop the progress of this infatuation, for
it had found a sanctuary in the palaces of the rich and
the nobles, so that magic met with more friends in
Rome than even in Greece. The religion of the
Romans was more inclined to superstition, the secret
books of their priests containing various methods
and rules for compelling the gods to make their ap-
pearance, and in their ancient history are related
many miracles performed by their priests and augurs.
The Romans were also more tenacious, than the
Greeks, of the religious ceremonies of their ances-
tors ; and finally, philosophy found not so ready ac-
cess in Rome, as in Greece^ and was fostered only
by a few individuals.
Some of the first emperors published severe laws
against magic, but others again encouraged this
practice by their own example. Thus it was impos-
sible to put a stop to this popular frenzy, and even
the punishments which were sometimes publicly in-
flicted on professed offenders, seem rather to have
had a tendency to spread it more at large. Pliny, in
his natural history, complains often of the common
folly of his age, and takes particular notice of many
"magical practices prevailing in his time.
Simon Magus and Apollonius of Tyana, are brand-
ed in christian church history as notorious magi-
cians. However the latter did not belong to the com-
mon class ; despising the appearance of mercenary
views, he applied to the study of mystical magic.
The Basilidians?
Carpocratians, the Gnostics and
15
Ophites, cherished magical notions. And even the
fathers of the primitive christian church, did not de-
ny the power of magic, although they opposed it, as
an infernal practice.
The New-Platonics promoted the study of magic
in an astonishing manner, from the beginning of the
third century to the time of Constant'ne the great.
At that time they began to reduce mystical magic in-
to a regular system, in which they were assisted by
christian doctors. So much were they taken with
their whim, that they forged some books under the
name of ancient Sages, e. g. Oracula Caldaica, Ciavi-
cula Salomonis, Sec.
Plotin pretended to be an adept in magic. At a
time when a necklace was stolen from a lady, he
pointed out the thief from among the present domes-
tic servants, who immediately confessed his guilt.-—
He had a genius with whom he conversed in a famil-
iar style, and pretended to have demons at his com-
mand. Four times, says his biographer Porphyrius,
he was admitted to the immediate presence and vis-
ion of God. This is at present the last and highest
aim of magic. In the beginning, when men believed
in many divinities and demons, without rank or sub-
ordination, the conjurer contented himself with the
assistance and favor of any of these deities or spirits,
but after they were classed in different ranks, he
courted the friendship of the most powerful, and fi-
nally, when the inferior spirits were subordinated to
one Supreme Being, it became tiie last and absolute
end of magic, to enter into a close communion with
16
God himself, in order to operate wonders by his im-
mediate influence.
The followers of Plotin brought the system of their
master still to higher perfection. Porphyr, in order
to make the distinction between popular and mystic-
al magic more apparent, maintained that some mag-
ical operations were performed by the assistance of
good spirits, but others by the aid of evil spirits. To s
the former he gave the honorable name of Theurgy,
but the latter he called Geoty. From both sorts he
distinguished Theosophy, by which he understood a
the highest felicity and purest knowledge of things,
produced by an immediate tuition of God, to which
man arrived only by purity of heart and an entire ab-
straction of the mind from all other ideas.
Constantine and Constans published severe laws a-
gainst geoty, condemning all to the stake who were
found guilty of this crime ; but they indulged the-
urgy. Herein they were followed by the council.
However, this precaution had not the designed effect
of exterminating this detestable superstition. It re-
ceived new vigor during the reign of Julian the a-
postate, who was infected with this delirium in the
school of the New-Platonics. This prince was so
great an admirer of that art, that he wandered from
place to place in search of old temples, where, with
{ear and trembling, he witnessed the awful scene of
compelling gods and ghosts to make their appear-
ance. Iamblious, a disciple of Porphyr, concerning
whom many strange stories are told by his followers,
was also a zealous defender of this science. There
exists a book under his name, treating of the Egyp- 1
17
tian mysteries, which gives the most correct account
o£ the doctrine of the New-Platonic school, respect-
ing magic and theurgy. After his time, theurgy and
theosophy, or a familiar intercourse with God him-
self, and consequently, the art of foretelling future e-
vents and of performing wonders, was considered as
the chief design of all Platonic philosophy. Philos-
ophy being thus corrupted by magic, the contagion
easily spread to other sciences.
The art of physic, in particular, became contami-
nated with this fatal poison. Although Galen had
employed all reasonable means to free his noble pro-
fession from magical practices, still his endeavours
were of little avail against the obstinacy of ignorance,
and the pliancy of credulity. Marcellus, Empirieus,
Actius, Alexander, and a numerous host of quacks,
prescribed the most absurd cures, and overpowered
by their gasconades the voice of sound reason,
!
which dictated a method of healing, founded on max-
ims derived from the nature, as well of the diseases
as of the medicines to be employed for their cure.
Nothing was more common in those times than to
kill men, with a view to practice magical operations
with their intestines. It was then, that they began
to speak of covenants with the devil, and of noctur-
nal assemblies of witches at certain appointed places.
However the Jewish tradition of carnal commerce
between spirits or angels, and females of the human
species, is of an earlier date. The same age gave
rise to what is properly called, mystical theology, and
which is distinguished merely in name from theur-
gy. The fact is this : There were many who, tho*
they professed Christianity, were still zealous adher-
18
enis of the philosophy of Plato, and who, from a pre-
deliction for their old system, endeavoured to model
the doctrines of the christian religion, in a form cor-
responding with the principles of Plato. Such weak
and enthusiastic persons, were often induced by fear,
in troublesome times, to resort to desert places.—
Here they aimed at a particular degree of holiness,
and waited for the accomplishment of the promises
which, in sacred writ, are given to those who do not
conform to the world, but sequestrate themselves
from it. They believed to obtain this sanctity by
fasting, mortifications and a rigorous discipline.
Thus with a corrupted imagination, they contrived a
method, to draw nigh to God, to be admitted to his
intuitive presence and the communion of angels.
It was the opinion of the theurgists, that by certain
forms of prayer, ceremonies, sacrifices and a holy
life, they could compel the Supreme Being, as well as
the demons, to illuminate them with superior light,
while christian mystics, more modestly left it to di-
vine option, to whom he would condescend and grat-
ify with his vision. Thus, both agreed, that a certain
method is to be observed to arrive to the communion
with God and angels, and the precepts prescribed for
that purpose by both parties, are almost of the same
stamp. They require abstinence^ fasting, a severe
diet, solitude, prayers, vigils and divine contempla-
tion. Finally, the aim of both is the same, namely, to
be transported to a vision of God's majestic glory,
and of angels in their shining robes.
Dionysius Areopagita, in the fifth century of the
christian era, brought this kind of mystic into a regu
lar system.
19
The noted conformity in the maxims and rules o£
magicians, theurgists and mystics arises from the
same natural cause. They all agree that no spirits
can be seen by means of the external senses, or at
least that in such a case, the communication between
the natural and spiritual world cannot be lasting. To
arrive to a continual intercourse with superior spirits,
is, in their opinion, a different way prescribed, devi-
ating from the common course of life. Something
must be unhinged in the organic system, which only
can be effected by an uncommon manner of living.-—
They have therefore recourse either to powerful nar-
cotic medicines, or to a rigorous diet and a peculiar
dress.
Those who make use of the former means, fancy,
during their intoxication, fury or stupor, to see won-
derful things, and to be transported to the society of
the spirits ; but they, who follow the latter method,
corrupt forever the faculty of imagination, by an ex-
travagant diet. The debilitated body and enervated
senses become a receptacle of all kinds of strange
forms and ideas, and at last the infatuated mortal be-
lieves really to perceive, what he wishes to see.
From this it plainly appears, what is the reason, that
by all kind of magic that ever has prevailed among
mankind, either of these means have been employed ;
the former chiefly among barbarous nations, but the
latter among men in a more civilized state. This is
also the reason, why all barbarous nations, and even
the Greeks and Romans, attributed the art of vatici-
nation to a kind of fury, and that in ancient maeic,
drugs and herbs were made use of, as means to sum-
mon the gods, to change the form of men, and to
C
20
make them fiy through the air. This is finally the
cause, why in Liter times, lasting, a monastic life,
abstinence and vigils are recommended as the prop-
er method of obtaining* supernatural visions.
From the general tendency of human nature to su-
perstitious notions, we are inclined to suppose, that
the inhabitants of western Europe, have been ac-
quainted with the practice of magic, long before they
had any communication with the Romans. This con-
jecture is confirmed by the testimony of the most cel-
ebrated historians of that age. Pliny asserts that the
ancient Britons were much addicted to magic, and
Strabo, as well as Tacitus, give us some account of
the enchantments prevailing among the Germans.
It is also certified by the same authority, that the
Druids of the Gauls ascribed to some herbs a super-
natural power which, in their opinion, was increased
by the influence of the moon. From the time of the
forementioned authors to the eighth century, we find
little on record, concerning the state of magic among
those nations. This silence in history, may be attri-
buted, either to the prevailing ignorance of those a-
ges, or to the presumption of the monks, the only
writers of those times, who either supposed excom-
munication a sufficient barrier against that supersti-
tion, or who thought it improper to defile themselves
with that infernal wickedness. However we find a-
gain some traces of this practice in the fourth cen-
tury, when the Franks, the Westrogoths and Ostro.
goths published laws against it. In the sixth cen-
tury two women accused of witchcraft were publicly
burnt. The Saracens, who conquered Spain in the
eighth century, introduced the art of magic, with
21
other sciences in that country. They had borrowed
their philosophy from the Greeks, and although they
proposed Aristotle to be their master ; still they ex-
plained his system, according to New-Platonic prin-
ciples. In this manner Spain became acquainted
with a mixture of theosophical philosophy and popu-
lar magic, in which they were chiefly supported by
the authority of Avicenna. And even at Salamanca
and Toledo, were public lessons given in the art of
magic, in caverns appropriated for that purpose.
Humanity shudders at the horrid scenes, exhibited
during the reign of Charlemagne, when a great num-
ber of pretended witches were condemned to the pile
by superstitious fury. Since the introduction of A-
rabic literature all western Europe seemed to be en-
chanted. Britons, Franks and Germans read with
avidity Arabic authors and imbibed from them, the
chimerical notions of theurgic or mystical and popu-
lar magic. Even learned divines applied to the stu-
dy of the former with great eagerness, after the works
of Dionysius Areopagita had been translated into the
Latin language, by John Scotus Engena. This branch
of magic obtained particular high ?oithorky in the
thirteenth century. It was in the same age that first
mention is made of certain contracts, entered into
with the prince of darkness, and signed with human
blood, by which one party bound himself to renounce
the christian religion, under condition to procure
from the other party infernal assistance. At the
same time, an he goat was placed in the chair instead
of an old woman, to preside in the assembly of witch-
es. Amulets, philacteria and enchanting ceremonies
22
received another form. In the place of the rites bor-
rowed from pagan superstition, others were substi-
tuted, more corresponding with the christian religion.
Since that time, magic branched out in three different
branches. The first was founded on a contract with
Satan. The second on astrological notions, on sym-
pathy and antipathy, and on the power of some words
and ceremonies derived from them, and finally, the
third on a certain purification of the soul, by which
they believed to be rendered capable of seeing and
summoning good spirits and even God himself. In-
nocent instituted a secret inquisition against heretics
with a view to keep the church clear from all error
and schismatics. The inquisitors of that time did
not yet take notice of witches, leaving their punish-
ment to the magistrates ; but about the middle of the
fourteenth century, they placed witchcraft in the cat-
alogue of heresies and began to burn witches, but the
more they were persecuted, the more they increased,
so that magic became a common- subject of discus-
sion and was so often defended in public writings and
disputes, that the academy of Paris, was induced to
put a stop to it by prohibiting all books written on
i hat subject.
At the end of the fifteenth century appeared the
fatal book, called, Nalleus Maleficorum—in which
the inquisitors endeavour to prove from many instan-
ces, the existence of infernal magic, mentioning at
the same time, the manner in which they intended to
proceed against this wickedness. But in the begin-
ning of the sixteenth century there arose two learned
men. John Wierus and Regenaldus Scotus, who de-
23
fended with courage, the unhappy women that were
accused of witchcraft, and showed the impropriety of
the proceedings of the inquisitors, though they did
not entirely deny the power of magic. It was not
before the reform of philosophy that the absurdity of
magic was exposed. However the light of reason
advanced but slowly, and Wierus and Scotus were si-
lenced by the ignorant multitude/ The Cautio Cri-
menalis of Frederic Spe was more successful, for it
effected that in many places the procedures against
witches were discarded. England is greatly indebt-
ed to Webster for his opposition to this superstition*
wherein he was soon supported by the noble and
learned efforts of John Hutchinson. In Holland it
was attacked in a valiant manner by the keen reason-
ings of Balthasar Beckker in his Enchanted Worlds
for which temerity he had to resign his place as min-
ister in Amsterdam. But it received the severest
blow from the pen of Christian Thomasius, a native
of Leipsic, who, to save himself from the intrigues
of bigotry was obliged to leave his country. How-
ever he found an asylum in the neighbouring domin-
ions of the elector of Brandenburgh and became one
of the first founders of the celebrated university at
Halle, where he was invested with the professorship
of philosophy and jurisprudence.
The fate of these two patriotic philosophers shows
at once, the dangers attached to such an enterprise and
the difficulty in destroying that three -headed monster.
D. Bekker mentions many cases of pretender! witch-
craft happening in his time, not only in popish but
even in protestant countries. Among the latter, the
C %
24
instance of an old woman in the west of England, de-
serves particular notice, as being certified by the
rector of the parish, a non-conformist minister, two
church officers and two constables. Even the dra-
matic muse of Shakespeare, so fond of witches and
apparitions of ghosts, bears witness of the spirit that
prevailed in his time, although she proves nothing
against the sound principles of the bard. The same
spirit seems to have accompanied the emigrants from
Europe to this western country. The fatal infatua-
tion, which about that time raged with unrelenting
fury in some parts of New-England, is known to ev-
ery reader of American history.
The seventeenth century seems to have been ex-
ceedingly favourable to magical pursuits, and in par-
ticular to its higher branches, theurgy and theosophy.
It was in the beginning of this age that the famous
Rosicrucian order was established, consisting chiefly
of members of the medical profession, who are said
to have been skilled in alchymy and in possession of
the philosopher's stone. About the same time the
Aurora of Jacob Bochme was published. So well
was this jargon received by the public, that it was
soon translated in most all modern languages and
followed by a number of similar effusions from that
enthusiastic fountain. From the mystical works of
that man, it is presumed, that George Fox and Rob-
ert Barclay, have drawn the leading principles of
their new sect. The same visionary shades were
pursued by John Labadie, Anna Maria Schurman,
Antoinette Bourignon and others, who disturbed
France, Flanders, the Netherlands and Germany with
their turbulent notions »
25
The eighteenth century is by some styled the age
of reason. And indeed, the light prepared by the il-
lustrious genius of Locke, Sir Isaac Newton, Leib-
nitz and Wolff burst forth, at the dawn of this age,
with uncommon splendor. But modern history and
our own experience afford us sufficient proof, that
all the efforts of those champions for sound reason-
ing, supported by the labours of Euler, Semler,
Kant, and others, have not been so successful, as could
be expected, in dispelling the superstitious gloom,
which hung, and is still hovering over the human
mind. Emanuel Swcdenborg, a Swedish nobleman,
believing to have enjoyed a personal appearance of
the Lord, became in the beginning of this age, the
founder of a sect of visionaries, which has branched
out to this side of the Atlantic. The notions of John
Labadie, are said to have still strenuous advocates in
Holland, England, Scotland and America. That this
is fact, with respect to the last mentioned country is
liable to little doubt ; for as liberty of conscience
proves the excellency of our constitution, so it has
eventually shown, to what extravagancies human
reason may proceed, in the instance of Jemima
Wilkenson and a number of enthusiasts, whose wild
flights we daily witness.
The theurgists of the eighteenth century often
condescended to the practice of magic of the popu-
lar kind. Cagleostro was at the same time an al-
chymist and necromancer, and Schroepher and Pater .
Gassner were of the same stamp. The last mention-
ed Ex-Jesuit had even the address to impose upon
the learned and pious author of the famous essay on
26
physiognomy, and Lavater undertook to defend Gass- J
ner and his miracles in a work written for that pur-
pose under the title of An Essay on Miraculous
Faith.
As the present century is deemed to surpass all
former ages in philosophical knowledge, so the in-
habitants of the United States of America are often
styled in public print, the most enlightened nation f
o.n earth. Although the latter assertion may be
granted, with regard to the knowledge of their
political rights and of matters relating to them, still f
in many other respects experience forbids us to give
it our general assent. What must we think, when
we see, that many thousands suffer themselves to be
led away and bewildered by visionary and extrava-
gant notions, contrary to the dictates of sound rea-
son and revealed truth I What must we say to the
accounts industriously circulated of transports, vis-
ions and apparitions of good and evil spirits ? What
must we feel, when we are informed that in other
accounts respectable people, resort to the closet of a
fortune-teller to have a secret discovered or their
fortune told? What must we say, to the miraculous,
cures performed by wonder-doctors, to the fees paid
to conjurers and to the charms employed in the most
fatal distempers of man and beast I Even magic of
the coarsest kind has not entirely discontinued among
us. The power of Satan and of demons is generally
believed to be as efficacious as in time of old, and
witches are suspected in many cases and places.
Even while I am writing this, we are amused with a
tale of witchcraft in our neighbourhood, against which
>
27
nil contradiction is in vain. The people will have it
that stones are thrown in the enchanted house by an
invisible hand, and that the wanting sausages are
pilfered by marauding fiends. Well may we say
with the ancients : The history of man, is the history
of human follies.
From the preceding account, it appears as clear
as the light cf day, that ail belief in communications
between spirits and men, and in supernatural opera-
tions performed by spiritual assistance ; all stories of
visions, of apparitions of ghosts and witchcraft, all
pretensions to a prescience of future accidents, and
to a knowledge of real secrets ; all accounts of suc-
cessful experiments in alchymy ; of enchantments
and conjurations, and of cures effected by charms or
sympathy are founded in ignorance, and supported
by deceit. Notwithstanding this evident fact, these
superstitious notions have found friends and advo-
cates in every age and among ail nations, not only a-
mong the vulgar, but also among the higher ranks of
society, and even among the learned by profession.
And as with the regard to the latter class, we may
reasonably suppose, that their opinions should be
founded on more plausible grounds, than on mere
tradition ; we will examine into the validity of their
arguments, in favor of supernatural magic or witch-
craft, stating at the same time what may be reasona-
bly advanced against them. The controversy on this
subject, may be reduced under the following three
questions :
1 . Is it possible that supernatural beings can affect
men, or enable them to perform supenmtural op-
erations ? And allowing this to be practicable,
28
2. Is there any probability of such an intercourse be- ,
tween the spiritual and natural world ?
3. Arc there any undeniable proofs of the real exis-
tence of witchcraft, and other magical practices ?
Although it is common in philosophy to begin all
researches with an inquiry in the possibility of the
subject under discussion ; still in the case before us
we forego this question, as unessential and of no im-
portance. For all disputes on the absolute possibili-
ty of magic, the proofs on both sides are of equal
weight. And to ascertain its relative possibility, our
knowledge of the spiritual and corporeal world, of
the dark windings of pneumatology and the natural
elements is not adequate. Besides, this question is
altogether immaterial to our purpose. We may ad-
mit the possibility of any thing, which is neither prob-
able nor real. All the figures and data of geometers
are possible magnitudes ; but we all know, that they
never can really exist. We may grant, therefore,
the possibility of witchcraft, and still maintain, that
witches never have existed. This maxim we follow
in common life, for we act not upon possibilities ;
but upon probability and fact. According to the
principles of some metaphysics, the soul of the fa-
mous Emanuel Swedenborg could be in Sirius, while
his body was walking in the streets of Stockholm ;
but it is not at all likely that this visionary should
have wandered through the heavenly spheres. From
the writings of this man, and in particular from the.
book that bears the title, De Conjugio Coeli, it is plain
that all his visions, were sports of his deranged fan-
cy. And still we find that the proofs, which are com-
monly used in support of witchcraft, chiefly depend
29
on its possibility. The advocates for witchcraft rea*
son nearly in the following curious manner : It is
possible, that there exist spirits of a superior nature,
than that of the human soul ; among these spirits
there may be some of an evil disposition, who per-
haps are capable of acting upon matter. It may be
that these spirits surpass man on natural knowledge,
and possess the power of forming the image of a dead
man from air, and to make it appear at the command
of the magician. Who knows whether it is not in
their power to produce distempers among men and
brutes, and even thunder, lightning and hailstorms ?
Could not an evil spirit of high rank be able to form
a wax figure, and to provide it with the sympathetic
quality, by which the blows that are given to it, are
felt by the man whom it is designed to represent ?
But it is too tedious to repeat all the may bes and
fierha/ises) wherewith the brain of credulity is stored.
On the same principles we may prove, that there are
Euclids, Lockes and Newtons, among the Hottentots,
Eskemaux and Newzealanders, or that the mermaids
who are supposed to be good singers, form a concert
at the bottom of the ocean. But superstition does
not stop even here. The annals of magic give us
many serious accounts of wonderful operations, dia-
metrically opposed to the dictates of sound reason,
and the established laws of nature. Here we are in-
formed that the devil is possessed of the power of
changing a man into a wolf, without changing their
respective nature, although the wounds inflicted on
the animal are perceived on the same part of the hu-
man body ; which is as impossible, as that a triangle
30
should be at the same a circle. Here we are told
that magicians have penetrated through closed doors,
that they have made themselves invisible, and other
fine stories of the same caliber. The cause of all this
nonsense is no other than ignorance and a total want
of knowledge of natural philosophy.
We proceed to the second question : Is there any
reason to suppose that supernatural operations can
be produced by the agency of spirits ? This question
resolves itself again into three others.
1. Is it probable that spirits, who are not endowed
with an organic body, can immediately act upon
matter ; and, e. g. form a human body from air or
produce a storm ?
2. Is it probable that such spirits can immediately af-
fect the soul, and produce in it such perceptions,
as otherwise are produced in it by the instrumen-
tality of the senses only ?
3. Is it credible that pretended powerful spirits, e. g.
a Beelzebub or an Adsamelech, or any inferior de-
mon, should be ready at the command of an old
woman or a mean fellow, or that they should be
compelled by some insignificant "words or ceremo-
nies, to certain desired operations ?
Whatever idea may be formed of magic or witch-
craft, it always presupposes, either that spirits act
upon matter, and really produce, when commanded
by the magician, the changes which are perceived
or that they immediately affect the soul and create in
it such sensations, as are mistaken for real percep-
tions of the senses.
As to the first question, we utterly deny, that there
exists any probability that spirits without an organic
31
body, should be able to act upon matter, for 1st, God
in his infinite wisdom and goodness, and for the ben-
efit of his living creatures, has subjected all changes
in the universe to certain established and invariable
laws. By these laws the seasons are ruled, and all
changes in the atmosphere and phenomena in the na-
tural world are regulated, on which the support of
animal life and the vegetation of plants depends. If,
therefore, evil spirits had the power of acting imme-
diately upon matter, they would be able to prevent
the laws of nature, to change the seasons and the at-
mosphere at their own pleasure, and to raise disorder
and confusion in the visible world, and thus to coun-
teract all good and benevolent designs of the creator.
Who will undertake to reconcile such ideas with the
wisdom and goodness of the Supreme Being ? Let it
not be said, that although evil spirits have the power
to disturb the natural order of things, yet they are
prevented from doing it by the superior power of
God ; for there is not the least probability that God
should have allowed them to change his own estab-
lished laws and to oppose his good and benevolent in-
tentions. And suppose that God had granted them
such a power, would he in that case not be obliged to
arrest it, by a continued series of miracles ? for, if ic
is a miracle, when God, by his immediate interposition^
hinders the natural powers in their operations, then k
is still a greater miracle, immediately to restrain the
efforts of spiritual powers. And is there the lease
ground to suppose, that the Governor of the Universe
should have placed himself under the degrading ne-
D
32
Cessity to perform continual miracles, in order to pre-
serve order and to accomplish his ends in the world ?
2d. If spirits could act upon matter, we should see ma-
ny strange phenomena in the natural world, deviating
from the known and established laws of nature. But
this is not the case. The seasons and changes in the
atmosphere, storms, rain, hail, snow and wind, pro-
ceed from natural causes, and continue to obey the
laws that are prescribed to them ; consequently, it
is not probable that spirits are possessed of the power
to interfere in the course of the natural world. 3d.
In astronomy, we perceive no alterations in the
established laws and fixed motions of the stars. If
the devil had it in his power to change an old woman
into a wolf, he might with the same ease, transform
our earth, which is a spheroid, into a cube ; but this
has never entered his head. 4th. If spirits could
act immediately upon matter, we should have un-
questionable and certain proofs of their power. If
Satan is capable of raising the ghost of a dead man,
it would be an easy matter for him to stop the ball
of a cannon in its course ; but place an enchanter
before the mouth of a cannon, and allow him to con-
jure all the demons to protect him against its force,
I am convinced that he will humbly confess, that his
art does not extend so far. It is true there are some
braggarts, who would fain make us believe, that they
are able to parry a ball from a gun with their sword.
They also suffer themselves to be fired at; but in
this trick Satan has no concern, for it is practised in
a very natural manner.
Secondly, is it probable that spirits can affect our
soul, and produce in it designed sensations ? It was
the fashion in former ages, to explain witchcraft,
from an immediate operation of spirits on matter.
It was then believed that the devil, at the humble re-
quest of an old woman, changed her into a wolf, and
that he actually carried the witches on an he goat or
a broomstick, through the air. At the conjuration
of a ghost, he formed really a body from air, similar
to the deceased, or brought the corpse from the grave
and bestowed on it temporary animation. This was
the easiest way of philosophizing, as it required no
serious efforts of the mind. The modern friends and
patrons of witchcraft, scorning that spindle philoso-
phy, endeavor to explain it in a more subtile way.
For this purpose they maintain a kind of illusion, in
the process of which, however, they do not agree.
Some assert, that the devil acts upon our organs so
as to raise in the soul, sensations of optional objects.
It is known, they say, that the rays of light represent
the image of the visible objects on the retina, which
images are perceived by the soul. When, therefore,
the devil designs to change an old woman into a wolf,
he does not take the trouble to give to the hag a new
shape, but he only forms on the membrane of the
spectator's eye the image of a wolf, instead of that of
the witch. But does this illusion not presuppose an
action of the evil spirit on matter ? Are our organs
no parts of our bodies ? and is not the devil obliged
to act upon the retina, when he wishes to form an
image at the bottom of the eye ? And is not the
membraneous part of the eye a body ? Thus we see
that the pretended philosophical explanation, is sub-
ject to the same difficulties, as the forenientioned
spindle philosophy. Superstition believes, that Satan
acts immediately on the witch, whom he intends to
transform into a wolf; but the philosopher maintains
that the evil spirit merely affects the organs of the
spectators, in order to produce the designed delu-
sion. The opinion of both is plainly founded on the
hypothesis that evil spirits have the power to act up-
on matter, which, as already demonstrated, is very
unlikely.
Other philosophers, convinced of the absurdity of
this supposition, have attempted to elucidate this il-
lusion by an immediate action of the spirits on the
human soul. All sensations are conceptions produ-
ced in the soul by the organs or rather by the com-
mon sensorium. If it therefore were in the power of
a demon, designing to change a man into a wolf or to
raise a ghost, immediately to produce in the soul
such ideas, as commonly arise from perceptions of
sense, then we would readily admit that there exist
some plausible grounds for the belief in magic and
witchcraft ; but it is not verisimilar that spirits are
possessed of this power, or that demons can act upon
the human soul, so as to produce in it, ideas and sen-
sations of external objects. This will plainly appear
from the following demonstrations.
1 . It has pleased the wise Creator, in order to ex-
rite sensations in the soul both of animals and men,
to provide them with proper organs, planned after
the nicest rules of geometry. If it had been pos-
sible in the construction of the natural world, to re-
ceive sensation by the immediate and mutual ac*
tion of spirits upon one another, to what use were
then the artificial structure of the eye, the ear, and
the other organs ? Besides
2. The actions of men and animals require a cer-
tainty of sense (certitudo sensuum.) When I see an
apple, and its touch, taste and smell correspond with
this perception, then I conclude with certainty that
it is an apple, and nothing else. This certainty of
sensation would certainly be lost, if it were possi-
ble that spirits could produce illusive perceptions,
immediately in the soul. A fiend could make us
believe that we were eating sugar, while we were
actually swallowing poison. Suppose a robber,
sword in hand, attacks a traveller, with an inten-
tion to murder him, but he is prevented from the
perpetration of that horrid crime, and taken pris-
oner. Suppose the thief, when arrainged in a court
of justice, pleads not guilty, giving for reason that
both the traveller and witnesses have been deluded
by the devil : will any judge in our present age
admit of such an excuse ? Will he not rather re-
ject it as deserving no credit ?
3. If it is true, as we have already demonstrated,
that spirits cannot act upon matter, then we have the
same reasons to believe that it is not in their pow-
er to affect the soul immediately. Bodies consist
of simple elements. If therefore spirits cannot act
upon bodies, it follows, that they cannot act upon
elements. Our souls are likewise mundane ele-
ments, although their internal design raises them
above the corporeal elements. If therefore spirits
D 2
are not r.ble to act upon the elements of the body,
then it is not likely that they can affect the interior
of the soul.
4. It is known that the forms of the ideas produced
in the soul by exterior objects, depend upon the
organism of the eye and the other senses. If
therefore the devil could produce sensations im-
mediately in the soul, then it would be possible to
the blind, when assisted by the devil, to see, and to
the deaf to hear ; but this has never been the case :
and therefore it is not at all probable that strange
spirits should have such a power over our soul.
These arguments against the immediate influence
of spirits on the human frame, have appeared so pow-
erful to some friends of magic and witchcraft, that
they were obliged to have recourse to another expe-
dient not less philosophical than the former. In or-
der to enable the spirits to act upon our organs, and
to appear to their devotees under any optical form,
they provided them with subtile aerial bodies. Doc-
ior Pordage asserts in his divine metaphysics that all
spirits have bodies, that the bodies of angels are corn-
nosed of light, but the bodies of devils of black ether.
Like men, they have heads, hands, feet, and five sen-
ses. The stomach is placed in the breast, but they
have no intestines. The bodies are not composed of
earth, air, water or fire, but they are the quintessence
of the four elements ; they are not heavy, and al-
though they are penetrable, they are not subject to
solubility. The demons can give to their body what
form they please. They can raise themselves into
giants or reduce themselves to dwarfs. So that, ac-
cording to the opinion of this philosopher, the devil
acts properly on his own body and in this way on our
organs. However, this doctrine is liable to the two
following chief objections.
1. He that advances a position that contradicts
evident physical and mathematical principles, propo-
ses a false doctrine. He that would maintain, that
a circle can have three angles, contradicts himseif
and is insane. Now it is a fundamental principle
of natural philosophy, that impenetrability and sep-
arability are essential qualities of a body ; he there*
fore who asserts that the devil has a body, which
js penetrable and at the same time indissoluble,
maintains that this body is no body, or, which a-
mounts to the same, that the devil has no body at
all.
2. If you attempt to prove that the devil has a body,
you must do it either by demonstration (a priori)
or from experience (apostericri.) It would be in
vain to demonstrate a priori, that the devil is provi-
ded with a body ; for all our knowledge of what
really exists, must be derived from experience.—
It is true some metaphysics have seriously endea-
voured to prove, that all spirits must be united to
a body ; but it is also known to what difficulties and
objections their reasonings are subject. Thus the
only proof that remains for this opinion must be
drawn from experience. But here we are quite
at a loss, unless we give full credit to all the sto-
ries related in the assemblies of the spinning room-
Pordage, indeed, telis us that Satan had honoured
him with a procession of his whole host, through
38
his study room. He even gives us a detailed de-
scription of this demonical review. They entered,
says he, through the windows, without breaking a
single glass, and went out again through the wall.
Some were oh foot, but others in carriages. But
he confesses, that he perceived all this by his inte-
rior senses only, whilst even with closed eyes, he
could plainly see these legions of devils. He de-
clares that he could make such experiments only,
when the sense of the dark principle was open to
him ; for man, according to his opinion, has three
different kind of senses. The sense of the princi-
ple of the terrestrial world, by which he sees the
bodies and the senses of the world of light and the
world of darkness. By the former he sees the an-
gels, and by the latter the devils. But his relations
resemble so much the dreams of heated imagina-
tion, that we cannot give more credit to them,
than to the visions of Swedenborg.
The third question remains yet to be answered,
namely : Is it probable that powerful spirits should
readily obey the summons of a conjurer and execute
the commands imposed on them. Superstitious peo-
ple have a very strange idea of the devil. They
think that the powerful prince of darkness, is able to
produce lightning, thunder, storms and earthquakes ;
that it is in his power to lift up and carry men thro'
the air, and to change a rod into a serpent ; and yet
they believe that this powerful spirit is deterred by a
circle from hurting the conjurer, whom it circum-
scribes. They suppose that the power of Satan can
be arrested, by unmeaning words, magic characters.
39
fish-bone and other trifling things. Thus the devil
is represented, on one hand as a very powerful and
crafty being, and on the other hand, as a weak, mis-
erable and stupid foal. When we take notice of the
persons, who commonly pretend to conjure evil spir-
its, and reflect on the means which they generally
employ to that purpose ; we shall easily be convin-
ced that all their pretended authority over the spir-
its, is nothing but a daring imposition. Who are
the persons that commonly pretend to conjure and to
command the devil ? Laplanders, who have scarcely
as much sense as the raindeer that draws their sled ;
toothless old women, that rather vegitate than breathe
gypsies, strollers, jugglers, quacks and ragamuffins.
These are the noble cavaliers, that enter the lists
with Satan, and fancy themselves to be able to compel
him, by an enchanted drum, or by hocus pocus, to re-
veal future events, to change the wind at their plea?--
sure, to raise them in the air, to produce distempers,
plague and earthquakes, to assist them in the cure cf
convulsions, cramps and other diseases ; although
they cannot force him to furnish them with means to
satisfy their hunger and to cover their nakedness.
And what are the means that are employed, to fright-
en the devil into obedience ? A circle marked with
chalk, a human skull, forms written in corrupt he-
brew or other foreign languages, and other instru-
ments which are not qualified to manage even a dog
or cat. Is there the least probability that the devil,
who is supposed to be such a powerful being, should
suffer himself to be terrified, by such despicable per-
sons vj\d trifling means, which are more calculated,
•
40
to excite his laughter than his fear ? If that powerful I
spirit is capable of raising the dead from the grave, I
and of changing the shape of men, why then does he
not show his skill unless compelled to it, by those
miserable manoeuvers ?
Thus far we have shown, that the practice of ma-
gic is highly improbable, or that there is not the least
ground to suppose, that supernatural operations,
should be performed by the agency of spirits. But
all the preceding demonstrations would avail us noth-
ing, if the existence of witchcraft could be proven by
unquestionable facts. A single instance of the kind,
sufficiently ascertained, would overthrow all our for-
mer theory. But I defy all patrons of witchcraft, to
produce a single fact, wherein spirits have been con-
cerned. If all stories of witchcraft were duly exam-
ined and impartially investigated, it would be found j
that the wonderful operations, which superstition at-
tributes to the influence of spirits, either proceed
from natural causes, or that they are a mere cheat
of designing impostors, or finally that the very stories
are forged for the amusement of the credulous. To
prove this to be fact, I shall first make some prepara-
tory remarks to the history of conjurers, and then pass
the chief magicians and enchanters in proper review.
First, it appears from the history of mankind, that
the more ignorant people are, and the darker the age
in which they live, the more they are inclined to be-
lieve in witchcraft, and to deal in fables and marvel-
lous stories of enchantments and visions. At the
time of Montezuma, all America was filled with con-
jurers. Among the Laplanders, Malays, Hottentots.
.
41
\ and the common people in China, witchcraft is a
common traffic. This was the very case in Europe
before the time of the reformation. Even in the six-
teenth and seventeenth century, witches were burnt
in great numbers. But as soon as the rays of philos-
lophy began to spread light, the dark gloom of su-
iperstition disappeared, and all procedures against
;
witchcraft were dismissed in the enlightened parts of
Europe. At present, it is scarcely any where pub-
I Hcly countenanced, unless among the lowest class of
j the people, and in some Popish countries. In Eng-
land, France, and the greater part of Germany, and
even in Italy, it has entirely ceased. Is this not a
plain proof of the folly of witchcraft ? With the pro-
gress of knowledge and rational inquiry, truth ap-
pears gradually in a more glowing light. The doc-
trine of the circulation of the blood, of the gravity of
the air and the electricity of the clouds, is establish-
ed beyond the reach of doubt, in spite of all contra-
diction, and by no other force, than by the power of
rational experiment. Why then should the present
philosophers not have been able to penetrate to the
bottom of witchcraft if it had any ground ? but on the
contrary, after due examination, they have found it
to be a castle built in the air without foundation, and
which must gradually disappear, with the progress
of the light of reason. Besides many zealous advo-
cates for witchcraft, like Henry Cornelius Agrippa,
have at last been convinced of the vanity of this prac-
tice, and have denounced it to the world.
Secondly, the method in which conjurers general-
ly proceed, bespeaks many traces of deceit. Night,
.•
M
the fertile parent of dreams and visions, is common^
ly the time appointed for their magical exhibitions.
The ghosts appear by the light of candles or lamps,
in order to conceal with more ease the springs of the
engines under the shade, which thereby is naturally
occasioned. The scene of action is designedly pre-
pared to terrify the spectators. The walls are lined
with black, human skulls and bones are displayed on
the table, and all that are present, are forbidden,
under forfeiture of life, to utter a single word.
There arises a horrible noise ; the spectator is more
dead than alive, and his strained imagination is pre-
pared to receive every impression, which the conju-
rer wishes to imprint. Some have even the address?
in order to derange the spectators still more, to make
them drink some spirituous liquor, in imitation of
the Egyptian magicians, who presented to the ini-
tiated an enchanting draught, before they made the
ghosts appear. Are not these proceedings stamped
with visible marks of imposition ? for truth is only
discoverable to a sober and undisturbed mind. It
ought to be further observed, that magicians gener-
ally dec) hie to perform, in the presence of men of
learning, who are able to discover their tricks. They
prefer the company of young and ignorant people,
upon whom they may impose with more ease. Why
do they not display their art before a literary society,
in open day, and without any contrived apparatus ?
Are the demons too modest to make their appearance
in such respectable company ? Or can they, like owls
and bats, not bear the light of day ? Or are they too
proud to appear without the ceremonial and etiquette
of an Hebrew Caldean invitation ? What would we
43
say to a physician or a naturalist, who, to prove a
new discovery, would make his experiments only by
candle light, or for ignorant people, after having
frightened them out of their wits. Would we put
any confidence in him ? And yet we are persuaded to
give credit to an enchanter, who, under the same cir-
cumstances, claims the assistance of supernatural be-
ings, to perform incredible things.
Thirdly, men seem to be naturally fond of hearing
and telling strange stories. The child is all atten*
tion, when it listens to the tales related by its nurse.
Youth forgets sleep and hunger, when reading the
Arabian Night tales, or the Mysteries of Udolpho ;
and travellers know how to impose upon the credu-
lity of their readers, or of a gaping audience. Cu-
riosity alone is not the source of this propensity.
It is fostered and stiffened by misguided ambition.
Let the most marvellous and incredible story be told>
with a serious air to an ignorant rustic, he will swal-
low it like honey, and hasten to repeat it to his fel-
lows. Try to convince him of his credulity and of
the falsehood of his account, and you will make him.
angry, because you deprive him of the pleasure and
privilege to appear big in company by telling such a
monstrous story ; remonstrate against him, and you
offend his clownish pride. He will turn his back up-
on you, for letting him know that you think yourself
wiser than other people.
But it is time to review the chief Magicians and
Sorcerers ; to examine their character and authority,
and to canvass their claims to supernatural opera-
tions. To take every one of them under considera=
E
44
tion, would be as tedious as needless. We will,
therefore, only take notice of those who have been
most famous and renowned. And first of all, our at-
tention is directed to the magicians of Egypt, who
opposed Moses, the divine legislator of the Jews.
These sorcerers are said, in the second book of Mo-
ses, in the seventh and following chapter, to have
changed their rods into serpents, the water of the
Nile into blood, and to have produced abundance of
frogs. But who sees not the mark of IMPOSTOR
branded on the forehead of these magicians ? Pha-
raoh undoubtedly believed in witchcraft ; why else
should he have maintained a number of sorcerers at
his court ? It was therefore easy to impose upon this
superstitious king. For witchcraft can never take
root unless it be supported by credulity. The Egyp-
tian magicians belonged to the first order of that na-
tion. They were priests in the exclusive possession
of the then known arts and sciences, who designedly
kept the people in the grossest darkness and igno-
rance. For such men it was no difficult task to
make all others believe what they pleased. Pharaoh,
although a king, and a powerful and arbitrary king
too,, was no member of that order. And as a speci-
men of his want of knowledge, it seems purposely to
be recorded, chap. 1, 8, that he was unacquainted
with the annals of his kingdom. Before this prince
the magicians were to perform. As men of the first
rank, it must be supposed that they had free access
to the royal palace, and were acquainted with the
situation of all its apartments. And being not in
want of means, it was not difficult for them, to pro-
45
cure, even in the royal house, accomplices to assist
them in their cheat. Thus circumstanced, they found
iig difficulty to make it appear by sleight of hand, as
if their rods were changed into serpents, to give to
the muddy water of the Nile a reddish color, and sli-
ly to introduce some hidden frogs, into the royal a-
partment. But when they were bidden to act on a
broader scale, and to enter, after the example of Mo-
ses, the open tracts of nature, they humbly confessed
that their power had forsaken them.
The famous witch of En-dor, whose authority is of
so great consequence to the friends of witchcraft,
deserves next to be introduced. It is recorded in the
28th chap, of the book that goes under the name of
Samuel, that this woman had a familiar spirit, and
that she raised up the ghost of Samuel at the request
of Saul. Although the historian gives the story as
it was reported, without any remarks of his own, still
from the series of his narrative, it is plain that at that
time, belief in witchcraft generally prevailed among
the Israelites, and that great numbers attempted to
take advantage from this common infatuation of their
fellow-citizens. The practice of magic had so much
increased among the Jews, during the tumults of
their republic, and had become so embarrassing to
the state, that Saul at the beginning of his reign, had
been compelled to cut off the wizards and those that
had familiar spirits. However, this royal act we
must not ascribe to a conviction in his own mind of
the futility of this practice, he being rather induced
to it by the advice of Samuel, who reminded him of
its unlawfulness. Saul adhered certainly to the last
46
to the popular belief of his nation, of which his visit
to En-dor is an unquestionable proof. Considering
this, and the distressing situation wherein he was
placed, as well as the gloomy disposition of his mind,
we are obliged to allow, that the mind of this unhap-
py prince was wide open for deceit. His friend and
counsellor, Samuel, had left him ; he was even for-
saken by God ; his subjects flocked in great numbers
to the standard of David ; his powerful enemies pres-
sed him in every quarter, and threatened his despond-
ing forces with a total defeat. Thus situated arrives
the king with a trembling heart and under the cover
of night at En-dor, in the house of the sorceress, who
had given already a proof of her cunning, by escap-
ing the vigilance of the royal officers, that were
commissioned to put his law against witches into ex-
ecution. Although the account of her proceedings
in bringing up the ghost of the prophet, is but short
and defective, still the traces of imposition are every
where visible. After having performed the myste*
rious ceremonies which usually precede conjurations
of that kind, she causes a cloud of narcotic vapors to
rise from the earth, at the sight of which she cries
with a loud voice, to increase the fear of the specta-
tors. The terrified king asks her, whom seest thou ?
for it ought to be well observed, that the bystanders
saw nothing but smoke, and were obliged to give
credit to the answer, which the hag thought proper
to give to this question. Her answer was first pretty
ambiguous, as is generally the case with oracular
responses. And even when desired by Saul to give
a more explicit description of the ghost she pretend^
47
ed to see, she resorted to her usual trick, giving him
a form that could be applied to every aged prophet,
which however was sufficient to satisfy the credulity
of Saul. These few remarks must convince every
unprepossessed reader, that the famous witch of En-
dor was nothing else but an infamous impostor, who
had acquired great proficiency in her art ; and that
she well knew how to turn this trade to her interest
of this the fine repast which she served up before
her royal guest and his servants, is a sufficient proof.
But, it may be said, how came this woman to know
that one of her visitors was the king ? and how could
she give even that superficial description of the
prophet I Is it then so strange that subjects of a very
small kingdom, should have personal knowledge of
their sovereign, who was besides notorious by his
exceeding high stature ? Should the cunning witch
not have perceived from the deep respect, which
was undoubtedly shewn to Saul by his attendants?
that she had to deal with some high personage, al-
though he was disguised ? Her serious remonstrance
to the first address of the strangers, leaves no doubt,
but that at first sight she harbored some suspicion of
that kind. And herein she was confirmed by the
eagerness of Saul to see Samuel, and by his subse-
quent conversation. Her personal knowledge of the
prophet is still less subject to doubt. Samuel had
been from his youth to his old age at the head of the
Jewish republic, and administered justice among
them, going from year to year in circuit to Bethel
and Gilgal and Mispeh. It was therefore almost im-
possible that any Israelite could remain ignorant of
E 2:
48
his person and character. But it may be further
asked ; from whence did the voice proceed that an-
swered the questions of Saul, and the correctness in
these answers in predicting the fate of the unhappy
monarch ? As persons who set up for magicians are
seldom without assistance, the answer might have
been given by some hidden accomplice. But I am
rather inclined to believe that the woman was a ven-
triloquist, who could speak in a manner unobserved
by the spectators. The correctness in her answer is
not at all surprising, as the issue of the battle between
Saul and his enemies could easily be foreseen. Saul
had pitched his camp not far from En-dor and in the
face of his enemies. And could an old woman be
ignorant of what passes in her neighborhood, in par-
ticular respecting matters of so public a nature as
war and the strength of the conflicting armies ? But
with all her foresight and craft, she could not avoid
committing a great blunder. To-morrow, she said
in the name of the ghost, thou and thy sons shall be
with us, namely in the regions of the dead, which
however* as the event shows, happened not until some
days after.
Simon Magus is the first sorcerer mentioned in
the annals of the gospel : It is said of him, Acts 8>
9, that he gave himself out to be some great one.
But he that gives himself out, or pretends to be some-
thing great, is an impostor. Which character agrees
very well with the description that Luke gives
him in the sequel of the history. The legends con-
cerning this man, recorded by the fathers, are enti-
tled to no credit, being founded merely on tradition.
49
Apollonius of Thyana, who lived in the first cen-
tury of the christian era, is more celebrated for his
marvellous deeds. Philostratus, who flourished in
the reign of emperor Severus, and thus about a hun~
dred years after Apollonius, has written the history
of his life ; but as this work is evidently composed
with a view to oppose the gospel history of our Sa-
viour, it may easily be conceived how little credit is
due to that author. The accounts he gives of the
miraculous achievements of his hero, are almost too
ridiculous to be believed by the vulgar. He relates,
for instance, that Apollonius arriving at Ephesus, at
a time when the plague was raging in that city, and
finding an old beggar sitting near the temple of Her-
cules, commanded that he immediately should be
stoned, as an enemy of the gods, in which he was
obeyed by the mob. And when at his command the
heap of stones was afterwards removed, a dog was
found instead of the old man. He says also, that
when Apollonius was called to account by the em-
peror Domitian, he had disappeared at once from the
court room : but this he may have effected in a nat-
ural way. It is known that JElian, the commander
of the emperor's body guard, was a friend and old
acquaintance of Apollonius, who could easily remove
him from among the crowd, and make the supersti-
tious emperor believe that he had vanished. It is
further told of him, that, in the midst of a speech de-
livered by him at Ephesus, he should have cried out
at this moment the tyrant Domitian is murdered,
which was afterwards proved to be true ; but it is
also known that he instigated Nerva and others to
50
rebel against Domitian, and although he could see
from Ephesus to Rome, he could not divine that the
plot would be discovered. In the subsequent ages
no famous magician appeared, the practice of that
art being wholly engrossed by old women. Howev-
er, Albertus Magnus, the illustrious bishop of Ratis-
bon, who lived in the thirteenth century, was again
accounted a great adept in magic. Many ridiculous
stories are told of him, which originated in his great
knowledge of nature and mechanics, which the igno-
rance of that age ascribed to supernatural influence.
Bombast de Hogenheim Paracelsus would fain have
persuaded his cotemporaries, that he was a great con-
juror, but it would not succeed according to his
wishes. He had too little knowledge of mathemat-
ics, to give to his conjurations the appearance of
truth ; and his explanations of the natural phenonena
are ridiculous in the highest degree. In his work
De Meteoris, he asserts that the mock suns are of
brass, produced by spirits, whom he calls penates ;
that the shooting stars are real excrements of the
celestial bodies, and that the colour of the rainbow is
composed of salt of fire ; and other eccentric notions-
Doctor Faust was more successful, being better ver-
sed in mathematical magic ; but his conjurations
raised so much disturbance in Erfurt, that he was
advised by the regents of the university, to withdraw.
The biography that goes under his name, is a mere
romance. As late as the year 1750, a certain dis-
charged hussar by the name of Schroepfer, deceived
many people and even men of learning, in the city of
Leipsicj although his conjurations were not without
51
visible marks of deception. Like his predecessors,
he frightened the spectators by an horrible apparatus
and mysterious ceremonies. He conjured first the
genii, who, although they did not openly appear, per-
formed a concert on wine-glasses. The ghosts of
the dead made not their appearance in their natural
form, but under the shape of a vapor, and imitated
their voice. But the wise laughed at his operations,
and the impostor, burdened with debts, shot himself.
In the year 1753, a child which was said to be pos-
sessed of seven devils, was shown at Acken on the
Elbe ; but when the affair was properly examined
into and when two practitioners were ordered by high
authority to watch the child, the spirits thought prop-
er to make their escape without any further progress.
In the year 1759, a certain woman of Kemberg, in
Saxony, named A. F. Lohman, pretended to be pos-
sessed of demons, and imposed upon the first minis-
ter of that place, who published a serious account of
the demoniac. He was however refuted by the cel-
ebrated Dr. Semler, of Halle, in his Dispatch of Mod-
ern Spirits and Old Errors, in the affair of A. F. Loh-
man ; whereupon the possession took a very ridicu-
lous end. These few instances are sufficient to con-
vince us, that all magical operations, all stories of
witchcraft and visions, originate either in delusion, or
that they proceed from designing imposition.
But what can w^ oppose to the confessions of
witches in courts of justice ? Have they not avowed
their commerce with the devil ? Have they not ac-
knowledged that they could produce storms and dis-
52
tempers by the assistance of evil spirits ? And have
they not been sentenced, on this account, to suffer a
painful death ? However incredible it may first ap-
pear, that all these declarations of witches should be
false and unfounded, still we are convinced by expe-
rience and a proper examination of the character and
conduct of the judges, that no essential proof in fa-
vor of witchcraft, can be derived from these confes-
sions. Those unhappy victims of ignorance may be
brought under four classes. Some were entirely in-
nocent. Summoned before the bar by malice or av-
arice, they were forced by the most exquisite tortures
to avow the absurd inquiries of the judges. Others
of these wretches believed themselves to be witches.
Being either ideots or childish, and having repeat-
edly heard stories of witchcraft and of intercourse *
with demons, their fancy was deranged, so that they
at last really believed they saw the devil. By the use
of narcotic salves they were thrown into a deep sleep,
and dreamt that they were flying through the air on
a broomstick, and danced with Satan in the assembly
of witches. Considering the power of imagination
and the effects of melancholy, we have great reason
to suspect the confessions of those unhappy women
for it is not seldom that persons endowed with a live-
ly imagination, when they repeatedly represent to
themselves the same thing, at last really believe that
they perceive it. This is often the case with chil-
dren ; when they are continually entertained with
stories of apparitions, their fancy will take fire, and
they at last will believe they see ghosts. This is the
reason why nobody sees apparitions, that does not
53
believe in them. When children are permitted to
hear and to read tales concerning witches, they will
at last believe that they see the devil, and that they
have intercourse with evil spirits. Many deluded
children of that kind, from seven to fourteen years,
were executed in Wurtzburg, in the seventeenth cen-
tury, after having voluntarily confessed intercourse
with Satan. It is related in the biography of An-
toinette Bourignon, that, when several nuns belong-
ing to a monastery in the Netherlands, and suspect-
ed of witchcraft, were examined by the inquisitors,
almost all the young pensioners of said cloister, ac-
cused themselves of the same crime. We cannot
read without pity the ridiculous confessions of these
girls. Every one of them had a little devil, who
slept and played with them and carried them through
the air in the assembly of witches. But it is to be
lamented that men of learning, who presided as judg-
es, could give credit to those absurd declarations,
and condemn the poor children to corporeal punish-
ment and even to death. Further, children and all
childish persons are inclined to imitate others, which
propensity, when misguided by a deranged fancy,
leads them to commit the greatest extravagancies.
A remarkable instance of that kind, happened in Si-
lesia, in the beginning of the last century. The
children of a fortified town, seeing the Swedish forces
performing their daily devotions in the open field,
were suddenly attacked with a religious enthusiasm.
They assembled in crowds in the field to keep pray-
er meetings, disregarding all threatenings and chas-
tisements that were inflicted to cure them of their
m
religious frenzy. Even a company of soldiers, who
were commanded to frighten them into obedience,
could not disperse them, although they fired at them
with powder. But at last the infatuation ceased of
itself. It is therefore no wonder that children, in
particular, that are educated in monasteries, where
their imagination is heated with all kind of absurdi-
ties, when they hear an old nun day by day regale
them with stories of witchcraft, or when she even
endeavors to persuade them that she has intercourse
with demons, and to that end performs mysterious
ceremonies in their presence, should at last fall into
a magical enthusiasm and really believe that they are
witches, and have intercourse with evil spirits, ad-
hering to it to the last. Old women resemble chil-
dren in this respect. Their minds are weak and their
imagination lively. Can the confession of such per-
sons be entitled to any credit ? Besides, experience
teaches us that melancholy persons often fancy them-
selves to have committed the greatest crimes, de-
nouncing themselves as great criminals. I myself
have known an instance of that description. A re-
spectable planter in the West Indies, who was a
member of the protestant church, and a man of un-
impeachable character and undisguised piety, having
been deprived of his eye-sight by a film, fell into a
deep melancholy, which was unquestionably occa-
sioned by the same cause that had produced the film.
He accused himself of the blackest crimes, and en-
treated his relations to deliver him up to punishment.
At the request of his friends, I visited him and con-
scientiously endeavored to convince him of his delu-
55
sion; but although I possessed his confidence, all
my attempts to that purpose were in vain. He per-
sisted in his declarations until he recovered from his
sickness, into which he however soon relapsed, and
expired. How many of the forementioned unhappy
old women may have been in the same circumstances,
and ought therefore to have been sent to the hospital
or bedlam, to cure them of their madness, instead of
having been condemned to the pile. Thirdly, many
had been accounted witches, who labored under epi-
leptic or convulsive fits. The symptoms of the cata-
lepsis, may still easier be mistaken for supernatural
effects, as persons afflicted with that strange sickness
i
lose all sensibility and become callous to every bodi-
ly injury. At the close of the paroxysm, they make
all kind of strange motions, as laughing, dancing, &c.
Having recovered themselves, they commonly relate
that they have been in heaven or in hell or in some
distant place, and that they have conversed with ab-
sent or dead persons, Sec. The visions of the par-
oxysm generally correspond with the usual impres-
sions of their imagination. When, therefore, an old
woman, whose head is full of witchcraft, sorcery and
bugbears, is so unhappy as to be attacked by this
sickness, then she will believe that she has been in
the assembly of witches, or changed into a wolf, and
that she has injured men and beasts. This impres-
sion will be so powerful on her mind, that she will
declare herself to be a witch in spite of death. Many
other nervous diseases are apt to raise suspicion of
witchcraft, in particular when they are attended with
irregular and violent motions of the body. In the
F
56
same manner, many night-walkers, who performed
extraordinary things while asleep, have been consid-
ered as influenced by evil spirits, and condemned as
night-hags. But there is a kind of pretended sor-
cerers who ought to be exterminated whenever they
can be traced. I mean those poisoners who learn
the art of preparing venomous remedies with the
sole view to satisfy their wicked propensities. From
the above quoted work of Pliny, it plainly appears
that the greater part of pretended sorcerers in Rome,
were more guilty of this infernal practice than of
witchcraft. There are some narcotic poisons which,
when administered in small doses, do not effectually
deprive man of life, but produce convulsions, con-
tractions of the limbs, and other extraordinary ner-
vous distempers. If wicked people are acquainted
with these medicines, they may abuse them so as to
produce effects which ignorance ascribes to witch-
craft. And even the persons who apply these medi-
cines, may attribute their powerful operations to in-
fernal influence, which to procure, they, in their
opinion, are obliged to resort to mysterious ceremo-
nies. But Satan is certainly not concerned in this
mischief, those fatal symptoms being produced only
by the power of the medicines and their destructive
preparation, and applied by the contriver of all evil
the human heart. It is common with friends of
witchcraft, of visions and of apparitions, to appeal to
the highest authority, to the the sacred volume. It
is recorded in sacred history, they say, that sorcer-
ers have existed in Egypt, that the witch of En-dor
las raised up the ghost of Samuel, and many instan-
res of vision's, apparitions and demoniacal influence,
are mentioned by the inspired writers. Thus forti-
fied, they think themselves safe against every attack
of antagonists. But I would advise these well-mean-
ing Christians, in this and similar cases, to apply the
authority of the Bible with more precaution and mod-
eration. This sacred book is no encyclopaedia, or
source from whence the knowledge of all the arts
and sciences must be drawn. Its authors wrote in a
simple and uncultivated style, accommodated to the
unpolished genius of remote antiquity ; so that from
the forementioned accounts we can infer nothing
more than that those notions prevailed in their time.
In this regard, therefore, we ought to follow the ad-
vice of the fathers of the primitive church, who laid
it down as a maxim : that in dubious scriptural pas-
sages, we must first enquire, what reason dictates
and what daily experience teaches, and explain such
passages accordingly ; and since the an of magic or
supernatural operations, performed by the agency of
spirits, cannot be proved by reason or ascertained by
experience, it foiiows that the scriptures cannot be
applied to this case. Moses relates the magical per-
formances before Pharaoh, in the popular language
of his age. From this circumstance we have no more
right to conclude that even Moses himself believed
in witchcraft, than to say that every person who
makes use of the expression," the sun rises,'' is op-
posed to the Copernican system. The laws against
witchcraft, published by him, are merely intended to
guard the Jews against superstitious practices, where
by they could be seduced into idolatry. The posses-
sed or demoniacs, of whom mention is made in the
gospel, arc often classed among the sick, whom Je-
sus healed. And Doctor Richard Mead, in his ex-
cellent work, Demorbis Biblicis, or on the diseases
mentioned in the bible, has evidently shown that all
diseases of those times, the nature of which was un-
known, and that had extraordinary effects on the hu-
man frame, e. g. lunacy, epilepsis and convulsive fits,
were ascribed to the influence of demons, not only
among* the Jews, but also among the Greeks. Hence
he was supported by the learned Hugh Farmer, disciple
of the pious Dr. Doddridge in his dissertations on
the worship of human spirits among the heathen na-
tions ; on Christ's temptation, and on the demoniacs.
What has been advanced is sufficient, I believe, to
convince every unprejudiced reader, that belief in
witchcraft, or in the influence of demons on the na-
tural world, and all notions connected with it, are
without the least foundation, having ignorance £m
their parent, and deception for their foster-mother.
If it were an innocent error, like the visions of
Swedenborg, then we would pity the poor mortal,
who suffers himself to be deluded so far from the
path of reason. But aa every corrupt tree brings
forth evil fruit, so this noxious plant is productive of
the greatest evils, by corroding even the vitals of
human happiness. It either relaxes the cheering
confidence in Divine Providence, or gives to fanciful
hope an unwarranted stimulus. It sheds the seeds
of suspicion at large, pregnant with envy, discord,
hatred, malice and revenge. It deprives man of his
natural energy, sinks him into the Ian of indolence
59
and sloth, and entangles the way to mental improve-
ment. Most of these baneful effects may be applied
even to theosophy. We know of no instance that an
'enthusiast should have enriched the republic of let-
ters with a single new discovery. It seems rather to
be their aim to perplex the human mind by fantastic-
al notions, and a barbarous and unintelligible dialect.
And although they boast the exclusive possession of
the art, to render ma*i deaf against the voice of pas-
sion, and to raise him to godlike perfection ; still
their interior light seems to lead them to ignorance
and indolence. Arts and sciences have always been
promoted by mental exertion, while theosophical il-
lumination has impeded their progress.
I will only add, that belief in witchcraft, in' vir-
ions and apparitions, and the interference of spirits
in human affairs, is diametrically opposed to the most
essential doctrines of the gospel. It is
1. A fundamental doctrine of the christian relio-ion-,
that there is but ONE GOD—John 17, 3. If we
therefore, ascribe to Satan or his host such opera-
lions, as presuppose qualities, that belong to the true
God only, e. g. omniscience,, omnipresence and crea-
ting power, then we place another divine being by
the side of the true God, and fall into the error which
is justly condemned in the Manicheans of old.
2. It is a fundamental article of the christian faith,
that man is a particular object of divine care, and
that without the will of his Father in Heaven, no hair
can fall from his head—Luke 21, 18.. If we there-
fore admit that evil, spirits, or men by their assistance,
j
can injure us, we deny that comforting doctrine, sup-
F 2
60
posing that God is not sufficiently powerful or not
willing to protect us.
3. It is declared in the gospel, that death decides
the fate of man ; that the blessed cannot be disturb-
ed in the enjoyment of rest and felicity—Rev. 14,
i3. Nor the wicked abandon the place of his doom
—Luke 16, 26, 31. If we, therefore, believe in ap-
paritions of ghosts of good or bad men, we over-
throw this gospel.
4. We are assured that it was one of the chief ends
©f the mission of Christ, to destroy the power of Sa-
tan—Heh. 2, 14. If, we, therefore, allow that the-
devil has any more power in the world, we rob the
King of Truth of the brightest jewel in his crown, and
discredit the words, which he spoke with his dying
mouth : It is finished,
ANNOTATIONS,
PAGE I.
Art.—Magic is called an art, because it requires
preparation and skill, whereas the power of perform-
ing true miracles, is neither methodically acquired,
nor dependent on contrivance, but proceeds imme-
diately from God.
page 1.
Magicians—Ought to be distinguished from mag-
ic, which was the title given by the ancient inhabi-
tants of the east, to their wise men and philosophers.
The word magus is of Persian origin. Hoge signi-
fies in the Hebrew language, of which the Persian
is a dialect, to observe ; hence Mage, an observer
however in later times, the word magus was also ap-
plied to conjurers and enchanters, and to all who
pretended to an intercourse with spirits, and to su-
pernatural operations.
page 1.
Burnt to ashes.—This and a great number of cu-
rious performances, as the palengenesis or restora-
tion of plants, are described in a work published at
Berlin, in eight volumes, by the famous chymist, Joh,
Ch. Wiegleb.
PAGE 3.
God himself.—It is asserted on good authority^
that men are inclined to make gods to themselves
after their own heart. The form and character which
they ascribe to their god, generally corresponds with
62
their own ideas of perfection, and the darling* pas-
sions of their heart. Thus Odin, the god of the an-
cient inhabitants of Northern Europe, and Fitzleputzle
of the ancient Mexicans, were cruel monsters. The
gods of the Greeks were generally liars, deceivers
and intriguers. And still we may, with some degree
of certainty, form an opinion of any man's character,
from his peculiar conceptions of the deity.
page 3.
Future state.—As it is with thje human concep-
tions of the deity, so it is with their opinion con-
cerning the future state. What is here their greatest
delight, that they wish to enjoy in the future world,
The carnal Jews differed hut very little from Ma-
homet in the description of the paradise. The Tal-
mud says, that the Jews will sit at golden tables*, cov-
ered with golden dishes, containing meat of the Le-
viathan, a fish more than three miles long, and of the
bird Juchna, the eggs of which cover three acres of
land, and of fat roasted geese, and corned beef ; they
will drink the most delicious sack, from golden cups
holding 221 measures each ; their wives will bring
forth children everyday; the trees will be continual-
ly laden with fruit, and the stores will be filled with
ready made silk clothing. These sensual notions,
after having undergone some refinement, were in-
troduced into the christian church by Montanus the
founder of the millenium, and are still among the
leading features of enthusiasm.
page 3.
Inanimate things.—We perceive that insane, stu-
pid and intoxicated persons; are continually mutter
63
ing to themselves. They address every object that
is in their way, and fight the post of a fence, with the
same bravery as Don Quixote the windmills.
page 3.
Evil sfiirits worshi/i/ied.—The sailors of China of-
fer sacrifices to Satan, under the name of Joost, giv-
ing him of the best sort of tea, (gun-powder) which
on that account is called in the Dutch language,
Joostjes tea.
page 4.
Lunatics—Are generally considered in the east as
favorites of Divine Providence. The reverence which
the Mahometans show to santos, or lunatics, falls lit-
tle short of divine adoration. From Acts 16, 16, it
appears that the same opinion prevailed among the
Greeks.
page 5.
Revealed by God.—Were magic of divine origin,
and handed down by our first parents to their poster-
ity, then all nations would follow the same method m
procuring supernatural aid. But history teaches that
different nations have not only employed different
means, but that even the same nations, have tried to
obtain by new means, what the old ones could not ef-
fect. It is true, the Jews boast that they once have
been in possession of an infallible magical remedy,
which they call Schemhamphoros, signifying, a def-
inite or explicit divine name, excelling that of Jeho-
vah, and implying not only, the eternal immutability
of God, but also his almighty power, omniscience,
truth, justice, benevolence and mercy. The TaK
mudists say, that David found this name in the btmg-?.
64
hole of the earth, when he was digging for the foun-
dation of the temple, and that by its power the pious
are able to create a world. But although they assert
that Moses and even our Saviour should have per-
formed the miracles, by the power of this Schem-
hamphoros, they can give no further account of it,
than that it was kept, to prevent abuse in the Holy of
Holies of the temple, and that it afterwards was de-
stroyed when Jerusalem was taken by Titus Vespa-
sian. A Jew may believe this.
PAGE 5.
Talismans—-Are properly the learned among the
Mahometans ; then it signifies certain figures or
characters engraven in stone, or written on paper,
which the superstitious hang to their body', to pre-
serve them against evil accidents or to foresee future
events. What power has been ascribed and is still
attributed by superstitious christians, to the sign of
the cross, is sumcientlv known from church historv
- - - - •
* *
....-___- #
and from the ritual of the Roman Catholic Church.
PAGE 6.
Enchanting fiower.—It is abominable that even
christians will not abandon the sacrilegious practice,
to make use of the name of God and of scripture
passages to superstitious purposes. They should
remember the tremendous words, " I will not hold
him guiltless, that takes my name in vain."
page 7.
Amulets—Are certain things which superstitious
people hang about the neck, as certain herbs or pa-
pers with scripture passages, to prevent or to cure
disease.
65
PAGE 7.
On particular days.—This absurd notion is more
destructive to the husbandman, than the locusts of
Egypt. It is time, he says, to sow, to plant, but the
day is not lucky and the signs unfavorable ; the busi-
ness, however pressing, must be postponed, until the
aspect will be more promising ; but when the pro-
pitious time arrives, the weather is against him, or
the work has so much crowded on his hands, that he
can do it only by halves, or that he must omit what
is most necessary. If the experiment could be made,
and I believe that I have read somewhere, that it has
been actually made in Europe, that seven or eight
farmers, were each allowed a spot of ground of the
same value, and that they were instructed to manure,
to sow and to plant on different days and at different
changes of the moon, and if this experiment were re-
peated for seven or eight succeeding years, it would
be found at the end, that the most industrious had
been the most successful.
page 8.
Certain numbers.—The number three, like the
number seven, has always been in favor with ignorant
people. When a horse has received a wound, three
little sticks of a certain growth, and mysteriously cut
must be applied to it in a certain direction, and the
bark of them preserved in a very dry place. That a
little stick put into a wound, will contribute to its
cure, by giving vent to the purulent matter, is found-
ed in reason : but why will not one stick do as well ?
The reason is obvious : three is the sacred number.
Why the mysterious application ? Because a simple
66
remedy would lose all its charm, and deprive the
doctor of his importance.
page S.
Noble and sublime thoughts.—Even wicked thoughts
and criminal notions that require some cunning and
contrivance, are ascribed to supernatural influence,
by people in the lowest stage of civilization. When
the negroes in the West Indies have succeeded in
pilfering a stranger, they commonly introduce the ac-
count they give of it to their friends with the words :
God has blessed me. This opinion seems still to pre-
vail among the lower class of more civilized nations.
Let a loquacious woman tell the story of her quar-
rels, and in what manner she has defended herself,
she will commonly conclude her harangue with the
observation : \ spoke, I did not know how ; it seem-
ed as if the words were given into my mouth. Al-
though this expression may be in some measure cor-
rect, still the idea commonly attached to it is erro-
neous.
page 9.
Sympathy.—It is strange that this word is. often
used by people who do not understand its meaning.
But the more mysterious the word the safer the lure.
Sympathetic doctors have assured me that the pain
which they feel in the hand applied to the disorder-
ed limb, is greater than that of the patient himself.
If the sufferer be provided with an equal share of
imagination, it may give him some relief. But it is
commonly the case that the evil, unless remedied by
the healing hand of nature, returns with redoubled
force and afterwards baffles all the efforts of the phv-
67
sician, whose timely aid would perhaps have effected
a radical cure.
page 10.
Pofiular magic.—Even magic of the coarsest kind
was in vogue among the Greeks. Pericles, when
sick, wore an amulet hung to his body by a woman.
And Plato de Legg XII makes mention of the tying
of a knot as a magic means. Hecate was commonly
invoked during magical operations.
page 10.
Pofiular creed—Herein he followed the principles
of his master. To conform with the national reli-
gion and ouclen eidenai, or to know nothing, were
two chief maxims of Socrates, to which we must as-
cribe the order he gave to his disciples, immediate-
ly before his death, to offer a cock to Esculapius.
page 10.
Number of citizens.—As Plato believed a certain
number of citizens propitious to a state, so some peo-
ple believe a certain number placed at a table to be
fatal. Many superstitious people have been scared
almost to death by counting thirteen persons at the
same banquet. But since the stomach was con-
cerned in this notion, the arguments of which are
often more powerful than those of reason, it has hap-
pily become unfashionable.
page 1L
Efiicurus.—Superstition and unbelief are closely
allied. Often they go hand in hand, or take occa-
sionally one another's place. Small is the number of
the wise, who are able to steer clear from these fa-
tal extremities. When the leaders of the French
G
68
revolution attempted to free their fellow-citizens*
from the shackles of superstition, they plunged head-
long into infidelity. However, this madness, like all
other extremes, came soon to an end. Incredulity-
can never become general, or be of long continuation,
because it is incongruous with the nature of man,
who is imturally a religious being. And on this ac-
count superstition is more dangerous than infidelity,
as being more congenial.to the human mind, and thus
easier supported and propagated by external power.
page 1 1.
Caballa—Signifies properly, reception, a term com-
monly used among the Jews to denote any kind of in-
struction. When a Jew advances a position which is
not authorised in his sacred writings, he says, I have
it from the caballa, or by tradition, which is of higher
authority with them than even the written law.
page 12.
Inactivity.—With this idea their notion of the Dei-
ty completely agrees, representing Him as enjoying
the most perfect and unconcerned ease.
page 12.
i^arcct/—employed.—Mountaineers on the contrary-
are inclined to visions of a more terrific kind. The
wild romantic prospects wherewith they are surround-
ed, the hovering clouds continually changing in form,
the fogs which incessantly envelope them, the toil-
some and dangerous manner of living to which they
are exposed, bewilder their imagination and fill the
mind with gloomy ideas. The second sights of the
Highlanders in Scotland) are an evincing proof of
this remark.
69
PAGE 13.
Fatal notions.—The history of the Jewish and the
Christian church gives many dismal accounts of the
enormities committed by enthusiasm, when wrought
up into fanaticism. The ferocious atrocity that at-
tended the siege of Jerusalem on the part of the
Jews, the destructive war which the Anabaptists stir-
red up in Germany, are facts too notorious to be
mentioned. Most of the modern leaders of enthusi-
asm resembled in some respect the Bramins in their
manner of living ; for although they indulged not in
idleness, still their occupation required but little ex-
ercise of the body. Jacob Boehme was a shoema-
ker ; George Fox was of the. same profession. Ma-
ny of the founders of anabaptism were tailors. All
followed a sedentary life, by which the abdomen is
pressed into an unnatural position, impeding the ne-
cessary operations of the intestines, which often oc-
casions a spleen, the parent of fantastical notions.
page 14.
Own example.
—The emperors Aurelius, Pvfaxen-
tius, and in particular Nero, were great patrons of
magic. Pliny says, Nero would even command the
gods, and to this end he sent for the most famous
magicians and squandered vast sums of money upon
them. He even suffered himself to be initiated into
their order, and offered not only animal but even hu-
man sacrifices. But he was too crafty to be deceived
by them, and therefore discharged them as impostors
and would have nothing more to do with them.
page 15.
Fathers of the primitive church.—Many of these
well-meaning men were credulous in the highest de-
70
gree. Every page in the works of Tertullian and of
Epiphanius bears witness to this truth. And even
Ireneus and Eusehius were not free from that fault.
page 15.
Pointed out the thief.—This he might easily do by
observing the countenance of the poor fellow, which
bore undoubtedly the mark of conscious guilt, in the
presence of so great a magician.
page 17.
Jewish tradition.—According to the Talmud, the
demons were originally good spirits or angels, crea-
ted on the sixth day ; but two of them, namely, Scham-
husai and Usael having manifested a malevolent jeal-
ousy at the creation ofman, were expelledfrom heaven.
Having settled among men, they intermarried with
their daughters, and begot a great number of mongrel
demons. This opinion they formed on a misconstruc-
tion of Genesis 6,2,mistaking the words, beneiElohim,
or the sons of God, for angels. It is asserted on the
same authority that the first wife ofAdam, who was cre-
ated at the same time with him from dust, and named
Lilith, first turned witch and afterwards became a pro-
lific mother of demons, wherefore God created another
wife for Adam from one of his ribs. Lilith, it is said,
is still in existence, with three other female devil s>
namely, Naema, Magalath, and Igareth, who contin-
ually colonise the earth with evil spirits. Not to
mention other fables of the same stamp.
page 18.
Desert places.—Paulus was the first hermit ; living
ninety years in the deserts of Egypt. The number
of those that were animated by his example, increas-
71
ed so fast that they were soon obliged to associate
into communities, submitting to certain rules and laws-
The places of residence of these several communities
were called monasteries, and the' members, monks,
signifying solitaries. Egypt has always been the hot
bed of fantastical notions, and many exotic plants from
that impure soil, have corrupted the genuine fruits
of the christian spirit.
page 19.
A kind of fury.—The Pythea or priestess who
pronounced the oracles at Delphos, was so sensible
of her disagreeable situation that she often refused to
mount the sacred tripod in order to receive the pro-
phetic steam, by which she was thrown into a convul-
sive frenzy.
page 24.
West of England.—Dr. Beckker, in the quoted
work, has shown to a demonstration, that the charge
against that unhappy woman was founded in malice,
while he at the same time exposes the^ credulity of
the omcial witnesses.
FAGE 24.
Rosicrusian order.—-Robert Fludd, a physician of
London and a member of that society, has published
many works on the wonders of alchymies and the
mysticism of the Rosicrusians ; but they are pro-
foundly obscure.
page 24.
Jacob Boe/ime—Wa.& a shoemaker of Goerlitz, in
Saxony, which has given birth to many visionaries.
Honest Jacob applied for some years closely to his
business^ and to a devout attention to religious exer-
"
-
G 2
cises. At last he was rewarded, according to his
own account, with some supernatural illuminations,
which broke upon his mind and Aoverpowered him
with ecstacy. These spiritual enjoyments, when not
longer able to keep to himself, he sent into the world
under the title of Aurora, or the rising of the sun.
Having been advised by the magistrates to mind his
calling and to leave off writing in future, he obeyed
their injunction for seven years, and from that time
poured forth a great number of books, which, in the
estimation of the enlightened, are more precious than
gold. Mr. William Law has published a pompous
edition of them in English, which found so ready a
market that another edition was soon wanted.
page 25.
Still hovering over the human mind,—In the regis-
ter of a small city in Upper Germany, called Hech-
ingen, is recorded a proclamation by order of the
reigning prince, and dated Feb. 18th, 1725, promis-
ing five guilders to every one who shall take an elf,
goblin, or any other spectre, and deliver it either dead
or alive to the first huntsman of the prince. [See
Anselm's Rabiosus travels through Upper Germany.]
page 25.
This side of the Atlantic.—The enthusiastic works
of Swedenborg are translated into English. In his
life time he had few adherents ; but after his death,
which happened in 1772, his notions were better rel-
ished. His followers in England and in the United
States, style themselves the new Jerusalem church.
page 25.
Cagliostro.—Count Alexander, whose true name
was Joseph Balsamo, came to England by tjie way of
73
France, after having visited all the parts of the Le*
vant. Here he imposed upon the credulity of the
great and opulent, b r
~ his pretensions to supernatural
knowledge and alchymy. On his return to Italy he
was seized and committed to the castle of St. Angelo*
where he died in 1794.
page 26.
Charms.—I happened to obtain a charm that was
given for the bite of a mad dog. It was a piece of
written paper. How great was my surprise when I
saw it contained the important words : eram, eras,
erat, eramus, eratis, erant. Words that may vex a
lazy school boy and put the arm of his master in mo-
tion, but which were never intended to prevent mad-
ness. Government ought to stop such fatal practi-
ces, whereby the lives of many are put in jeopardy.
page 29.
Wax-figures.—-According to Theodor de Niem,
the daughters of Tamerlane made such wax figures
and directed them towards the countries which their
father intended to conquer, and thereby promoted his
victories. [See Bsyie's Diet. art. Rugger.
page 29.
Into a wolf.—That this opinion prevailed in the
time of Augustus, we learn from Virgil, Eclogue
VIII, 97, where Alphibeesus addresses Damon in the
following manner
His ego ssepe lupum fieri, et secendere sylvis,
Moerin, saepe animas imis exire sepulchris,
L
Atque satas alio vidi traducere Hiesses,
74
By the power of these herbs, I have often seen Marls transform
himself into a wolf and hide in the woods.
Often have I seen the ghosts rise from the subterraneous tombs
And by their power the laden sheaves removed.
But the learned men in Rome, like Petronius and
Pliny, laughed at this folly.
page 32.
To be fired at,—The balls used for that purpose
are made of quicksilver, covered with a thin coat of
glass. Thus they exactly resemble in colour and
weight the common leaden balls ; but being put into
the barrel of a gun and rammed, they naturally break
into small pieces, which, at the discharge, are dissi-
pated in the air. The juggler stands at the distance,
as a mark, brandishing his sword, while at the mo-
ment the gun is fired he drops slily two equal pieces
of a leaden ball, pretending that they are of the same
ball that was shot at him, being cut to pieces by his
sword.
page 43.
Mysteries of Udolfiho.—Novels, in particular of
the marvellous kind, are the bane of youth. They
engross the time that could be employed for nobler
purposes ; they inflame the passions ; store the ima-
gination with fantastical notions, and, what is worse
than all, they corrupt the heart. Many young per-
sons by indulging an unpardonable passion for novels,
have not only rendered themselves unfit for the use-
ful stages of life, but have paved the way for their
destruction. The unhappy fate of the author of the
forementioned tale, should be a warning to all lovers
of romances.
75
PAGE 48.
Ventriloquists.—There are people who have ao
quired a skill to speak with the mouth closed, in such
a manner as that the sound seems to issue from the
belly or from a distant quarter. The words that arc
used in the quoted passage, as well in the original
Hebrew, as in the Greek translation of the Old Tes-
tament, plainly show that the witch of En-dor belong-
ed to that sort.
page 48.
To-morrow.—To apologize for the veracity of the
father of lies, it has been asserted by the friends of
witchcraft, that, by to-morrow, is understood in the
Hebrew dialect, every future period. Although this
may be granted when some other word is added to
it, e. g. yesterday and to-morrow, to-morrow and after
to-morrow, still where the word is singly used, there
it has a definite signification, denoting the day that
succeeds the present.
page 52.
Assembly of witches.~Many places in Europe are
renowned as rendezvous of witches. In Suabia they
assemble on the Heuberg, in Hungary, at Carpen, and
in Lower Saxony, on the Blocksberg.
page 54.
Committed great crimes.—Sufferers under hyster-
ical complaints are subject to the same gloomy ima-
ginations. They sink often so deep into melancholy
as to border on despair. This gloom of the mind is
sometimes mistaken for a religious struggle, requir-
ing ministerial assistance only. But this devil cannot
be driven out, unless by fasting and prayer. Fasting*
76
a prudent diet, and medical aid, must precede, or at
least accompany religious instruction and rational
devotion, whereas clerical assistance alone, in partic-
ular when administered without precaution, often
tends to increase the evil.
page 56.
Poisoners.—Whole plots of these incarnate devils,
and among them members of noble families, were
executed in France at the beginning of the last cen-
tury,
THE END.
