{"name":"A Word In Season To A Sinking Kingdom","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1810__southcott___a_word_in_season_to_a_sinking_kingdom.pdf","mytitle":"A Word In Season To A Sinking Kingdom","mylang":"de"}
The Continuation o f the Prophecies o f
Joanna Soufhcott.
A WORD IN SEASON
i i- " . • * ’ ■ •
.TO A
Sinking Kingdom. ‘ ;
;
GNCE piore Xam ordered to address the public;.
The day of the Lord is at hand, and he hath
warned qy his Spirit,,and by visions, as he promised 1
by the prophet Joel, ii..cA. 28w. that; in the,latto%
flays, when “ He cqmetb to pour out his Spjrit upop
aiTflesh, that your sons and your daughters ahajl
,prophesy; yqgjr pldmen shall dream dreams, your
young n>en.$haUsee.visions.” Nqw.call to your re-
.jnembrance words of qur dear. Redeemer—
■
“ Think not thatXani come to,destroy the Law',qf
. M i or the Prophets; I come not to destroy therq,
•blit tofulfil them ; and this generation shall, not
pass away till all is fulfilled”—that mcaneth, the
generation under thefail—but when the Lord corn-
eth to pour out his Spirit upon allflesh, he must des­
troy the works of darkness, and put upon us the ar­
mour of light, that we may be made chijdren.ofthe
light. He gave us a parable from the fig-tree put­
ting forthJts green.leaves,, knowing that summer
was nigh at hand. So when you see thefulfil­
lment ofthe Prophets and the Gospel together, know,
[that your redemption drarveth nigh. But as this
:Book will, treat mostly cf the explanations of VI-
. sipns, 1 shall beg my readers to weigh deeply'-the
, Sthchaptcr of Joel,' and'eompare it with the present
. times. .The visions, which I shall now treat of,
• i f " . . . f ‘
A ' "
The third Edition, printed in August, 1810, by. Galibin and Marchant. Ingram*
Court, London;the second Edition, printed in June, 1807 ; and me f rst Edi­
tion, pnuted in June, 1803. * .
j^‘ D
ig
itizedb
yVj OO^IC
s
•re those o f Joseph Prescott, o f -Bermondsey, who
hath been in the habit of seeing visions from 1795
to. the present day; but unknown tome, and I to
him, till February S8, 1803, after my Writings
had been proved in Januair, by fifty-eight persons
then present, and who au signed their names of
approbation. Soon after, the above youth wasta­
ken into the house o f a friend, where the visions
were shewn to Imn, in the manner, and according
to the dates, which will be hereafter mentioned.
.. The visions were brought to me, and explained as
you will see in this book. Now, judge for your­
selves, my brethren, that ye be not judged of the
LqkI; and trace his footsteps backward: for no
man living can trace them forward, as the wisdom
o f the Lord is bid in the great deep, and his paths
past man’s finding out. Here I might enter into a
field large enough for a volume; was I to explain
the strange dealings o f the Lord with Joseph in
Egypt, Moses, and Pharaoh; with Noah, Daniel,
ana with Job in all his afflictions. )Tone could trace
the wisdom o f the Lord till they saw the end; and
so it is.at this moment; none can trace the wisdom
o f God forward, in all his directions to me, till they
see the end.
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
High.H<mse, Paddington.
May 4, 180S.
As I am ordered to put in printJoseph Prescott’s
visions, that were shmvn to him since the begin­
ning o f March, 1803, which confirm the Bible and
mv nronhecies. I nfust call my readers to mark the
Digitized by b o o g i e
powersof darkness from the face o f the earth. But
manmust raise my hand;which you wilt see in a let­
tersentto a dignitary, in my sixth book, and which
is now fulfilled. Now I must observe, that I was
ordered to publish in 1801; and, at the end of that
year,three ministers came from different parts ofthe
kingdom, with four other gentlemen, to search out
thetruthofmy writings. The ministerswaited upon
thebishopof Exeter, and I wrotehitp a letter, which
wasdelivered tohim, offering to give up to hisjudg-
ment, or any other ministers he should appoint, if
they would only examine my writings, and prove .
• they were not from the Lord; but I said, ifthey de­
clined this offer, I should resign to thejudgment of
those gentlemen who came to search out the truth. •
The bishop declined, as did all the other ministers,
inand near Exeter, to whom I had written. 1was
thenordered to give my writings, sealed up, into the
hands of the gentlemen whom the Lord had Chosen
tosearch out the truth, and to have them proved in
London, asthe ministersin Exeter had refused to ex­
aminethem. SoI delivered my writings, sealed up, to
thegentlemen, on Tuesday morning, the 5th o f Ja­
nuary, 1802. The May following I was ordered to
go to London, and was told I should never return
till mywritings wereproved. The latterend ofjuly,
I was informed by tne Spirit, .that Satan had com­
plained against my sealing tlie people that wished
for his destruction, and that the Lord would give
himliberty to come to me, and I should contendwith
Ana* (but he was not permitted to appear visible)
and if I stood out with strong faith in Christ, and
overcamehim with arguments, and didnotsufferhim
tospeak without my answer, I should overcome the
devil at last, as he did the woman at first; and that
the Lord, in his rich mercy, would cast the wo­
man’s guilt on Satan's bead, and he should fall by
* See the BookofDisputes with the Powers of Darkness.
A 2
3
Digitized by Google
the power of Christ, who would now fulfil the pro­
misehe mademe. lobeyed, as I was ordered,know­
ing, if the promise was irom the Lord, he would pro­
tect m e; it not, I had rather die than live, to bede­
ceiving, and being deceived. So I ran thehazard of
my life to contend with the powers ofdarkness; but
the Lord protected me according to his promise,and
then gave me an answer to Satan’s words, which
may beseen in alate publication, entitled “TAeLord's
Answer to the Powers ofDarkness”In November I
was ordered to advertise in the different newspapers,
that my sealed writings would be brought forward, % ,
and proved, on the 12th o f January, 1803. The
Clergy were invited thus publicly, and also many
o f them privately by letters, to attend and investi­
gate the truth; butevery invitation wasdisregarded.
During the seven days of the trial, there was open
house for any to come and pass his judgment; and
none who applied at th e house were refused ad­
mittance. On the lastday therewerefifty-eightpeo­
ple present, whojoined with mefor Satan’sdestruc- 1
tion, believing the calling to be of G od; and who, 1
with one heart and mind, joined with me in the fol­
lowing declaration and petition.
“ I, Joanna Southcott, am clearly convinced that
my calling is ofGod, and my writings are indited by
his Spirit: as it is impossible for any spirit butanal-
wise God, that is wondrous in workiug, wondrous
in wisdom, wondrous in power, and wondrous in
truth, could have brought round such mysteries so .
full o f truth, as is in my writings; so I am clear in
whom 1 have believed, that all my writings came
fiom the Spirit of the most high God.
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
“After I had written my own faith, as I was order­
ed, I was asked by the Spirit, what was my claim ?
or what was my petition to the Lord ?—O my God,
4
l
Digitized by Google
thouknowest—To cut offallthe powerofSatanfrom
thefaceofthe earth, as the head ofJohn the Baptist
wascatoff, and bury him down, as John was buried
down.” This 1 rear! to the fifty-eight persons who
were present, and they signed their names with me
infaithandprayer, for the fulfilment of the above
S
etition. After the trial was finished, on the 18th of
anuaiy, in the evening, these words ofthe xviiith
Psalm were sung by the company—it having been
explained in my sealed writings.
“ The Lord descended from above,
• And bow’d the heavens most high,
And underneath his feet he cast
The darkness of the sky:
On cherubs and on cherubims
' Full royally he rode,
And on the wings ofmighty winds
Came flying all abroad, &c. &c. &c.”
Then was suns by the company the civ.thPsalm,
afew verses of which I shallgive.
" O Lord our great God, how dost thou appear!
So passing in glory, that great is thy feme,
Honour and majesty in thee shine most clear*
Thou makest thy spirits as heralds to go,
And lightnings to serve we see also prest;
Thy will to accomplish they run to and fro,
Tosave or consume things, as seemeth thee best, 8cc»”
Thus ended the seventh day o f proving my wri­
tings, and the casting o f Satan. On the fourth o f
March, I had the following vision o f Joseph Pres­
cott read to me, by a friend who that day had re­
ceived an account of it, from the gentleman with
whom the youth now lives; and on the sixth I bad
a communication concerning the vision o f the
crowns, now given to the public; butI must inform «
my readers, before I proceed, that in July, 1809, I
was at the house of the gentleman, near London,
wherel sawafurnace perfectly like one thatI saw in
my dream, in 1794; wherel saw apig castahveinto
the furnace; which I was told was a type of the '
5
Digitized by Google
devil, because he enteted into the herd of swine,
and they ran violently down the steep and were
choaked; and so shall the devil. The latter end of
February, 1803, the same gentleman took into his
house this youth, who had been in the habit of
seeing visions from 1793 to the presentday, andhad
drawn many hundreds of them, and had sent some
to ministers, who judged his visions came from the
devil. Some ministers prayed in his father’s house,
that the Spirit might leave him. Their prayersdid
not prevail; for the visions still followed him. On
htarch the 4th the youth had the following vision,
at the house where he now lives. #
J oseph P rescott’s V isio n , March 1803.
An Angel appeared, in size like a grown person,
in a loose blue robe, with a star on her head,
like a cap, a square box under her arm, about
a foot each way, apparently of gold. Slid opened
the box, in which was a crown. To look at it
all together, it looked like a star of diamonds.
Four large arches came from the ball in the cen­
tre, at the top. Between each of the four arches
there was a small crown like the large one. Un­
derneath the ball was another small crown, hang­
ing to the ball. At the top of the ball was ano­
ther crown. The angel said, the four arches sig­
nified the four quarters of the world, and the
Crowns between the four arches, C rowns of W is-
port, that the peopleofthe world are to becrowned
with, and the crown under the ball, the Crown
o f L ig h t, that was to be in the hearts of the
people. The Bale was die World—the crown
at tne top, the C rown of G lory and Ha p p i­
ness. sriven them at their ffoimr out of the world.
6
Digitized by b o o g i e
believer in God, desired a picture, it should ap­
pear again; but not without. The reason the an­
gel appeared in blue, was, because he came with
“ T ruth.” The vision lasted about two or three
minutes; and was seen soon after two o'clock this
afternoon.
7
A VISION seen at Medina, in Arabia, on September
SOth, 1620, from Knowles's History o f the Turks.
Mr. Knowles, in his Turkish History, relates^ that
in 1620, there was astrange apparition, or vision,
aeen.by the Turks at Medina, where their prophet
lies buried, which continued three weeks, and terri­
fied the whole country. For on September 20,
1630, was agreattempestabout midnight, attended
with dreadful thunder: but when the clouds were
dispersed, and the sky clear, the people might read,
in Arabic characters, these words in the firmament,
“ O why w il l y e BELIEVE in lies ?” And be­
tween two and three in the morniog appeared a wo­
man in white, encompassed with the sun, of a cheer-
ful countenance, and a book in her hand* Over
against herwerearmiesofTurks, Persians, Arabians,
and other Mahometans, in battle array, ready to fight
with her; but she keeping her station, only opened
the book; at the sight whereofthe armies fled, and
presently all the lamps about Mahomet’s tomb were
put out: for when tne vision vanished, which was
commonly an hour before sun-rising, a murmuring
wind washeard, unto which they imputedtheextin­
guishing o f the lamps. The ancient pilgrims of
Mahomet’s race (who after they visit this place ne­
ver cut their hair) were much amazed to conceive
the meaning o f this vision; only one o fthe dervises,
or priests (which is a strict order among the Turks,
like the capuchins among the papists, mid live in
contemplation) stepped up boldly, and made the
following speech to the company:
Digitized by Google
‘That the world never had but’three true reft-
stone, ’ every one of-which had a prophet Firsts
God chose the Jews, and did-wonders for them in
Egypt, ' and' brought them forth' by their prophet
Mdses,■irbo prescribed them alaw,-wherein he would
have maintained them, if they had not been obsti-
nate and rebellious, and fallen to idolatry; where­
upon he gave them oyer, and scattered-them upon
the face of the earth; Then presently after, God
raised a new prophet, who taught the Christian
religion. -Thisgood Man the Jews condemned, and
chicified for a seducer* of the people, being not
moved.with the piety-of -his lift, his great miracles,
nbr his doctrines; yet, after his death,' the preach­
ing of a few fishermen did so move the hetfrts of
men, that the great monarchsofthe world bowedto
hit "very title, and yielded to the commandso f his
ministers, fiat it seems, they in process oftime grew
ascorrtiptasthe Jews: their church being disjointed
with the title of Eastern and Western, committing
idolatry again, by setting np images, with many
otherid leceremonies, besides the corruption oftheir
lives. ; so that God was weary of them too, and not
only sfebt divisions among them, but forsook them
pnd dispossessed them o f their chiefest cities, Jeru­
salemandConstantinople. Yet, God is still governor
of the world, and to himsetf hath raised up another
prophetand people, even ourgreat Mahomet, giving
him to our nation, sp as no doubt-we shall be nappy
$oy ever, if we can serve this God aright, and take
Warning by the fallbf-‘others. 'But, alasi I tremble
to speak It, we have erred in every point, and wil-
' fully broke ourfirst institutions; so that God hath
manifested' his wrfcth by evident signs and tokens,
keeping our prophet from us, who'prefixed a time
6
Digitized by G o o g l e
ingof the book in the woman’s hand, dotlfforetel
ourfalling off from the first intent of our laws,
whereat these armed men depart, as confounded
with guilt of their consciences; or else it signifies
someotherbook, wherein we have not yet read, and
againstwhich no power shall prevail:so that, I fear,
ourreligion will be proved corrupt, and our prophet
animpostor, and thentkisChrist,whom they talk of;
shall sliine like the sun, and set up his name ever­
lastingly.”
Hithertothecompany was silent, but hearinghim
speaksoboldly, they weremuch incensed* charging •
himwithblasphemy, which theirlawmakesa capital
crime;sothey condemned him, and havingobtained
the beglerbeg's warrant, put him to death. This
• relationwas confirmed by Isuf Chaons, a converted
Turk, whocame to London, in lfi50: which vision,
hesaid, did much affect him, butheadded, that the
grand seignior commanded none should speak of it
upon pain of death.
9
Afarther Explanation of the Vision of the Seven
Crowns,given March 23,1803, Continuedfrom
page 120, oftheFirst Book qf Sealed Prophecies.
“ As my eye appears in the vision, so is my eye
every where present, beholding the evil and the
good. Thishas been from age to age; butmark now
what is under my eye—the glory of my kingdom,
which I created man for—
rand now man shall en­
joy that kingdom in -peace and happiness.
As in that vision it doth aA
l appear;
Mark well the vision, for no cross is there.
I said, the crosses I would turn from m an;
And every cross shall now a crown become. v
And from the top, the crown 1
*
1
1now begin;
For as my eye is fixed o'er the crown,
With sparkling jewels I will make them up, *
And crown with wisdom man hath never got;
llecausc from man it ever' was conceal’d, ,< v j-
jSatan woutd rob them if l bad reveal’d , ' *
Digitized by Google
My nihd and will what I’d laid up in store,
I say, for man—1 need to say no more;
Because the thief is always at the door*
Where treasure’s great, if he can go and steal:
Therefore in wisdom men do all conceal
Their choicest treasures, fearing of a foe;
And Satan’s like a thief, I well do know.
When the first treasure I to man reveal’d,
You all do know, the thief went there to steal;
Therefore the other I did all conceal—
The knowledge of the good did not reveal.
But now I am come to purchase every land.
I'll shew my crowns; my jewels may command.
The first is Wisdom, I have said before;
And Solomon he did great wisdom share;
But Satan robb’d him at that very time;
Then I conceal’d that wisdom from mankind.
But now the bolt is strong upon the door,
I ’ll catch the thief, if he should enter there,
To break the bolts that I have made for man;
You little know how >trong your seals do stand
Against the tempter, if he breaks the door,
To rob the heart, when I have seal’d it here.
For here’sthe hand that you do give to mb,
And here is mine, as I said offered free,
That I shall place to man the second crown;
For here’s the union—now it shall be found,
I died the world for to reconcile;
And where’s the man will dare my wisdom foil ?
I died the fall of man for to redeem;
And where’s the man shall dare to put a seam >
Because my coat was interwoven through.
Without a seam—so now no seam shall do ;
But perfect as the picture doth appear,
I tell you all, my kingdom’s coming here.
As for my kingdom I did bid you pray,
That earth like heaven should my will obey;
And now on earth my will shall sure be done.
Tliey may cast • Lots to whom it shall now come—
They who believe according to the call,
Or unto them that don’t believe at all;
Because my kingdom you cannot divide.
And mark the clouds, how they’re encircled here,
With pointed branches, pointing like a spear.
As though the thorns were with the crown come down,
As man and f alike receiv’d a wound;
• Alluding to the lots which the Jew*cast for our blessed Lord's vesture after
bis cructtUkm: so docs ibis allude to the casting of lots for Christ's fcingdou.
The one according to the promises in the scriptures; the other according to
asm'# wild— end ty4*iirpretati<m of the scriptures.
10
Digitized by Google
So on both stems the pointed darts you see,
And now I'll dart them to the enemy;
For ah these darts, 1 say, shall run through all
That do reject Mr, now I loudly call.
By dreams and visions I have called you here,
And now my kingdom lhave shewn you clear.
That all my jewels they may enter in.
The pointed tops foretel the sons of men
That 1 shall guard my jewels with ray care;
But all my toes shall feel my pointed spear.
For here’s the crown of thorns held out to all,
To shew the way that I for man did fall;
But here’s the jewels, sparkling all within,
And so my kingdom you with joy may win $
Because you see my eye fix’d o’er the crown,
Wherein man’s happiness you see is found,
Without a cross for to destroy your bliss,
To those that for my kingdom now do thirst.
Because, 1 say, I did die once for all,
And now’s the time that it to man shall fid).
I died for Satan, and 1 died for m an;
But here’s a mystery thou dost not understand,
How for the devil f myself did die;
It waii for him to share the cross that way.
And now Pll tell thee how I died for man—
To bear foe blame that Satan cast by him.
But as the love of man then died for me,
wt is by men I’ve fix’d my just decrees.
That to their sentence Satan now shall fall;
And fodt’sthe way 111 bring foe Crowns for all.
I said, thefirst wot wisdom m to know ;
The pearl now of great price to you I show;
And all your wisdom you must now weigh deep,
To gain the prize, and find foe pearl is great;
Ana then I sayyouH see foe starry crown,
That now to man on earth is coming down.
Thesecond mutt an union now he found
Between your Maker and I say the man;
Or else the starry crown can never come.
Butnow I say, 111come unto the third:
In the beginning you know *twas my word,
That man and woman they mast both appear :
I’ve made an helpmate, and I’ll crown it here.
That in foe end I’ll make your bliss complete;
For now my Father’s will I’ll finish it,
As in thy writings I did say before;
Therefore I made these visions to appear.
To prove the truth of all (hat thou bast penn’d*
And now thefifth crown shews you of foe end^
11
Digitized
That all believer* I g^all crown them here
With every promise that in thy books appear
And all my Bible as it there is plac’d.
1 tell thee*now 1
*
1
1crown the imman race
With ray*ofglory, and withjewels bright.
That now do stand like princes in the fight;
For all my armour you must now put on.
And to thesiith crown 1 do bid thee come;
For there’s the crown that now shall crown the whole.
And bring the seventh crown in peace to all,
When men with u e have fought the fightoffaith,
Believe my gospel, as the scripture saith,
That I shall reconcile the world to God,
Fulfil the prayer I taught them to be said,
Whep to my Father they should ever pray;
And*will men answer 1 did mock that way.
To pray for what they never should obtain ?
Then my command to man was all in vain;
As by your wisdom you do place your God,
I must mock man,, or now fulfil my word.
But now, I say, my word I will fulfil;
For. like my eye, my heart is fixed still
To bring a glorious kingdom down below,
Without a cross, that every soul shall know;
Satan shall know it, when he’s chained down ;
And every sinner that doth mock the sound,
They then will know these visions all are true:
When Satan’s chain’d the truth they all will know^*
And saints above will see the heavenly sight,
And saints below, with them I shall delight;
For then I’ll crown them with humility;
A heavenly love in every heart shall b e;
A heavenly union then with God and man.—
And now I’ll tell you how I’l| crown your land,
With^>eace and plenty, and with every stare.
As in thy writings I Have named before;
Because these visions I to thee did send,
I View’d the youth that all might know the end;
For perfect as these pictures do appear.
Thouknow’st I told thee my kingdom it was near;
For when the flowers did appear on earth,
I told thee, then they’d know their Saviour’*birth;
And now my birth I’ll make it to appear:
When | was born the star was then seen clear
Unto the shepherds, who were in the field ;
To follow it the wise men they did yield ;
Gifts, gold and myrrh and frankincense, they brought,
And here's a mystery deep beyond your thought;*
12
\
Digitized by Google
_ j
For now the angel doth to you appear,
To shew the jewels they did present to her.
In heavenly odour they were sealed up,
Within a box, which no man ever thought
How all pen's conduct is enroll'd in heaven ;
(That in the end to man it might be given :)
And all to your remembrance I shall bring.
And now these visions they do shew you plain
How every thing is bid before your view—
You judged my mother, and your judgment’s true j
Because the wise men they do now appear
To search the truth, as did the shepherds there;
And from the wise men I will not conceal;
What’s right for them to know, I will reveal.
No bloody Herods they have now to fear—<
*
* • • **
Within are jewels, ana without’s the
And so my foes shall feel the deadly spediy • ; o\*
If they begin in anger to appear.
No more in Bethlehem doth the infant lay? ‘ *
I said in heaven my wonders I’d display ; 1’ . r
And from these visions I have shefrn thee hete * *
The heavenly visions do to all appear;
Read back thy writings, and the truth see clear* ♦'
When that these visions landed on the carth> •- • •
The horses fought (mark what the Spirit saith)
And now the horses must begin to fight, 1
And then, I say, I’ll make them men of might; • '
For I’m the rider, every soul shall see,
Aftd strong my Spirit now in man shall be,
That now will fight my kingdom to obtain ;
It is the Spirit’s sword that must it gain.
Conquering, to conquer I shall now go on ;
And now from Paul this vision must be known—
T is hard for man to kick against these pricks ;
For every soul shall know my eye is fix’d, #
To bring my glorious kingdom down to man,
Without a cross ; for there no seam shall come;
N o seam of sorrow, and no seam of sin,
But interwoven through, I’ll now begin
To make my kingdom as it doth appear.
And from the dead I now will answer here,
That as the vision to the youth was seen.
So the departed spirit now is gone,
Guarded Dy angels, all hisjourney through ;
It was with joy he hid the world adieu;
And in the mansions of eternal bliss
His soul is now arriv’d in happiness,
Where Satan’s malice never can molest.
And with his Saviour he’s in glory blest;
• St* Strange Effects of Rutb, page 8$.
13
Digitized by L , o o Q L e
Bat know, his son, that doth remain below,
A different labour he hath now to do—
The one, in heaven, praising of my name,
With rapturous joys, that do his tongue inflame.
And to my praises he does sing above,
In happiness that time can never move.
And in like manner all my saints are gone:
I skew'd the vision of this single mm,
To let you know how all the saints depart,
And how they are guarded from the tempter's dart.
That I have said is hovering in the way ;
Therefore my angels must his soul convey.
In the like manner all do leave this earth
Who die in mb, with upright hearts and faith.
And so I've skew'd you how the worlds unite,
And how the angels always take their flight,
To guard my jewels to their heavenly bliss.
Then now I ask you how they e'er shall miss
To bring my glorious kingdom down to man,
When I have told you that the time's at hand
That my true kingdom must come down below ?
How shall they miss these visions for to show,
Which all my prophets warn'd you of before }
Ezekiel's visions must to all appear;
Because the dry bone3 must begin to live—
I’ll raise the dead, and will my Spirit give,
With heavenly music sounding in the ear.
More sweet tlian any music thou dost hear.
And so in harmony shall all unite—
I've skew’d the visions of the every sight,
And how my kingdom shall come down to a ll:
For as the spikes you place upon the wall,
To prick a thief, if he should enter in ;
I say, to rob you should he dare to come,
You place the spike to tear his every hand ;
And now I tell you mine is plac'd tne same;
If you begin to rob me of my fame,
Then every spike shall run your hands all through i
Deep is the vision, but you'll find it true.
I ’ll save myjewels that within appear,
And these that kick against, shall feel my spear ;
Therefore 'tis hard to kick against these pricks—
The vision now of Paul for all is fix'd;
And he that will not now like Paul become.
He’ll feel the spear go through his every hand:
Because my jewels now I'll make them up,
And like tne wise men now one heart did drop,
Who from the East did go the truth to know :
And here’s the jewels I’ll preserve below.
14
Digitized by Google
\
And ns (be fishermen did then appear.
These are my jewels, that prove fishers here.
To fish for men, I say, on the right side;
' For there the net must now bv aline laid.
Or else your labour will be all in vain j
You aP*may toil, but von no fish will gain ;
Because, I tell you, all the fish are gone,
And nought butitching ears appear in men.
Withdifferent doctrine in their every mind;
But to the Law and Gospel none do bind;
And soyour Bibles you put out ofdoors.
Byyour inventions you destroy my store.
And soyour houses nuild upon the sand—
Thennow awake, thou dark benighted land ;
Discern my Gospel, see the end's at hand;
Or elsethe storms and tempests last will rise.
And great you’ll seethe foil before your eyes.
Yourlabour's lost, and all your fish are gone.
Unless your nets on th* other side you turn;
And then, I say, your nets will soon be full;
For then your wounded nation I shall heal:
And so my fishermen must now appear;
And these arejewels I shall make up here.
And next unto the prophets I shall come:
They were myjewels, that were faithful men,
Ami did with patience bear with mb the cross:
These are my jewels, and they are not lost.
And now these jewels shall agpin appear.
With the same spirit I shall m^ke them here;
Because that now I’ve plac'd them in the land.
Like myfifot coming doth the second stand:
* The Virgin warn'd oefore I did appear,
And now the Virgin's come to warn you here.
That in the Spirit I am come again:
And now, proud Herods, it is all m vain
. To slay her children; for not one MU fall—
It is the Spirit's sword must conouer all:
And now the Spirit's sword they'll find is come,
To bring the day of vengeance nut on men.
That now arise to nail mb to the tree.
I've fix’d my spear, that every soul shall see:
And mark my eye, and now behold the spear.
And weigh the vision deep that's placed there;
And how the crowns within they all do stand—
And every Peter may these crowns command;
And so I say of persecuting Saul:
Fear ye the pricks, and 111 preserve you all.
For so my jewels now I'll make them u p ;
And as my eye is fix’d the globe shall drop
15
Digitized by Google
With heavenly beauties I design’d at first;
And now’s the time my kingdom so shall burst.
For it’ my kingdom I ne’er Bring to ye,
I ask of men, what judge tfyey e’er could be,
What Paradise they lost by Adam’s fall ?
Or of the tree ofknowledge * tell me all,
What good fruit on it man hath ever gain’d ?
The best of men have liv’d in grief and pain,
Oppress’d with sorrow, and oppress’d with sin ;
If one be good, another does condemn :
So that the good fruit man could never taste,
To spend his days in happiness and peace.
But know, at first I did pronounce all good,
And now's the time I will fulfil my word;
That all the nations of the earth may see,
How I created man to live with me,
In heavenly union I have plac’d below:
The justice ofmy sentence now I’ll show,
Why I confin’d the rebel down below,
With all his angels, and the fallen host,
That did rebel—I’ll rid them offthe coast,
And let them see the sad effects of sin;
I ’ll conquer death, and hell, and every sting,
I say, of poison I will take away;
And man with me shall see a glorious day. *
For as the vision * Young did bring thee here—
It was my mother, hovering in the air,
To show them plainly that ner Son should come.
And be the Prophet r they must worship Him ;
Or all that City f it shall surely fall:
The books are open now, 1 tell you all;
And fast the ruin on the Turks will come,
If they don’t worship now my only Son.
But those that worship, as the books are here,
I say, their city and their land shall share;
For I’ll not stop until I’ve made all good;
For now my eye is fix’d to crown my word.
So now your Bibles with these visions weigh:
I ask what man of sense will dare to say
That from the devil did this likeness come ?
Then your Creatoryou must all condemn
For want of wisdom—Satan here must shine,
I say, in wisdom, and in words divine.
Or will you say, these two } were so agreed,
From the invention oftheir simple heads.
The one to draw, the other to explain*
Such wisdom bright, beyond the heads of men }
• Alluding to the vision ont of Knowles’s History of the Turks,
t Medina. $ Joanna and Joneph.
.16
Digitized by Google
By words and visions make my Bible trUe,
And Bring these wondrous visions to your view ?
Isay, ’tis more than e’er was done by man.*
You don’t discern the way you lay your plan,
To turn my Bible by your judgmenthere,
Till there’s no man can prove my Bibledear s
And so you wrest i*, till to nought it comes.
Therefore my Bible 1 have took in hand.
And now my Bible I will make it true ;
But that is more than any man can do,
By all thejudgment you from it do draw ;
You are but men, I tell you, plac’d below,
Who eat of knowledge I pronounced dead.
And perfect so is all your knowledge fled.
And ’tis byfaith you knowledge must obtain,
And by charity you must perfection gain ;
Faith to believe, my Bible I’ll fulfil,
And charity in your Creator’s skill,
That he hath wisdom all for to perform,
In his own likeness God and man tojoin.
As in my likeness I have made them here;
And/or their sakes Satan must disappear;
Because his sentence is already cast.
But here’sa wondrous mystery in the fast:
The world has stood nearly 6000 years,
And never was an age that past before,
That e’er a woman did the promise claim,
That Satan’s curse it must be worse than man’s.
And plead my promise for to bruise his head;
And on the serpent she the fault hath laid,
And pleads the promise now for to redeem,
That I will come and conquer hell and sin,
And conquer Satan, as she hath begun :
1 ask you when such things were done before ?
No, •all must own that something new appears;
Yet on the earth, yeu say, there’s nothing new :
' The words you must affirm them false, or true;
For on the earth there’s something new appears*
Since earth’s foundation plac’d I tell you here,
Such wondrous woman never was below,
(Bring all before you, and the truth you’ll know)
To seal the people in her Maker’s name,
To prove my Bible true and it explain;
T o speak of dangers, and saythey are near;
And then the truth to make forto appear;
And with the Tempter then for to dispute,
Till by her arguments she made him mute j
B
17
Digitized by
And then by chance a vision * one did see,
That came from heaven, and was shewn to be
The power of Satan breaking off from man,
And m her wiitings she had laid her plan.
Now ifyoujudge this alia woman’s wit,
I ask you how the mystery came so great,
That-she was forc’d to leave her native home
Before these visions to her could be shewn ?
And how the visions did not soappear,
Tillmen had sign'd tofree the woman here,
And in her stead to have the serpent cast,
And then such wondrous visions for to burst,
To shew them plain their words I would fulfil,
And their desire the serpent’s power should chill;
That is, his power I would so tread down;
And all sfiall know I listen’d to their sound.
Now on this earth you must confess it new;
But know, in heaven these wonders John did shew
And now t6 earth they all are coming down:
Therefore, ye husbands, tremble at the sound;
Your wives in bondage you do make to be,
The masters of them, you’ll not let them free,
To have a power o’er their every will:
The marfied woman doth your power feel;
Then know the single woman is to me
Asmuch in bondage, every soul shall see,
By my command, forto obey my word;
And like a husband now I’ll draw my sword,
If man, like Satan, dare for to assume
To threaten her, now I have shewn so plain,
From types and shadows, and from visions here,
And from my Bible every line is cleatr.
And from the prophecies how all do stand;
And now, I say, if you deny herhand,
I tell you plain you must deny your God,
And then, I tell you, you shall feel my rod ;
For such a chance did never come below,
Without my Spirit, every soul shall know.
Think how this woman left her native home,
And in what manner did these visions come.
The way they came must all in print appear,
And tell the time the visions were brought here,
And in what manner all did sign their names
To free the woman and the serpent blame.
Now then appear, ye learned sons of men,
And tell what chance made all these things 90 plain,
That are beyond the learned to confound ?
When they begin they all mustjudge the sound.
• Joseph Prescott’s Vision.
18
Digitized by L - o o Q l e
Another V i s i o n of J o s e p h P r e s c o t t , seen
March 7th 1803.
“The part ofthe mill at the Neckinger, Bermond­
sey, where his eye was directed to, iust about ten
o’clock, all at once was obscured, anu exhibited the
appearanceofa darknightwith the sky full ofstars;
the moon appeared very low; the principal parts of
a dark red colour, interspersed with some marbled
E
art Of light, •like itsnatural colour; on the right
and ofthe moon, and higher up from the horizon,
•was the sun, which appeared ofadark, grey, gloomy
colour, about half as large again as the moon, with
somefaint raysoflight around it. Abovethe moon
and sun wererolling light clouds, in form of a semi­
circle, or rainbow reversed; the underneath parts
dark, the upper parts light, from the glpry that was
over it. Above those clouds, and on some fainter
clouds, that seemed at a further distance, was alarge
grey horse, exceeding in size all he had ever seen.
On it was a Person, whom he believes, from wljat
followed, to be the Lord, dressed in a large loose
flowing robe, of a red colour; underneath which he
had a close garment, of bright purple, abroad sash
over the right shoulder, and under the left arm, of
the same colour. Upon his head was a crown of
twelvestars, and fourarcheswith a star between each
arch, and one on the top of each arch, and four
stars in a cluster, on the top of the ball; and in his
right hand asword, large and broad, which he held
perpendicularly; with the other hand he appeared
to guide the horse. The light extended itselfabove
in asemi-circle, or arch,which with thecloudsbelow
formed a complete circle. In the circle, above and
on each side tne horse, were an immense number of
angelic faces, of various sizes, at various distances,
and apparently of different ages. All as with one
voice shouted, “Glory to thee, O Lord. Rideforth,
“
nighty God, conquering and to conquer.”
b 2
19
Digitized by Google
“From a voice behind him it was said, ifa repre­
sentation, or drawing, was coveted by any onethat
wasa Believerinthesethings, it shouldagain appear;
but there was no command for drawing it.”
20
The A n s w e r to the V i s i o n *from the S p i r i t .
The sword of the Spirit is drawn by m e . I am
the Captain of their salvation, that am now going
on conquering and to conquer.. .The horse repre­
sents men that my Spirit restetli on : and as the
bridle isin myhand, sowill I hold, guide, and direct
'them who now trust in.m e , and rely on the words
given to thee for direction and for protection. And
as one leg is broken and turned round under my
heel, that was bruised by the powers of darknesa
working in the hearts of men to bruise it, when they
nailed me to the tree! so shall my heel tread down
that power, to break his legs, and all his footinghere.
Satan hath butone power—I have three powers, viz.
I have jower to give life, and power to takeit away;
I have power to send blessings on the earth, or to
withho d them. Satan hath but one power, and
that is to tempt men to sin, and now that pow'er
shall be taken away, and God shall be all in all.
For the one power, I say, shall fall.
Just as that leg is now turn’d round,
Just so his power shall now be found
To twist and turn beneath my heel;
And true believers now I’ll fill
With power I made them for at first
And now’s the time that power shall burst.
For know that horse resembles man,
That I am holding in i»y hand :
By the piercing eye that doth appear,
They all shall know my Spirit’s here,
With such a quick discerning eye—
I know, my jewels where they lie ;
And they the mystery shall discern,
And all their hearts with love Til warm,
Digitized by Google
That every foe they shall pierce through,
I have the sword, they all shall know,
And now to conquer PU go on ;
And they shall trust in me alone;
For Satan’s power is broke foe man,
That gives the reins into my hand,
To be directed now by mb;
.That piercing eye let mortals see:
It is the eye of faith so bright;
And they <hall see the every sight.
Which in the picture doth appear;
Thou know’st, before I told thee there,
Your pictures did some likeness bring.
And now Pve show’d the likeness plain,
That from the vision doth appear,
And a true picture now is here.
The angels that surrounded me,
(My sealed people) all shall see,
Are those wdio sign to see my crown.
And have my kingdom to come down.
And have the power of Satan broke;
For they in triumph, man knows not,
Shall come with me then in the air.
When Pve fulfill’d this vision here.
Whoe'er do die before the time.
If for my kingdom they do sign,
My kingdom then they shall enjoy.
And Satan’s power PU destroy.
And break it off from every man
That wish my kingdom for to come.
So if they die, they are seal’d above,
And they shall taste my perfect love;
And they that live are seal’d below, •
And strong my Spirit here shall go
On those that wish to see my reign;
And now my Bible all see plain,
How ye are seal’d in heaven and earth,
So perfect as the Scripture saith.
The eleventh hour doth appear,
And now my vineyard I shall clear.
That every one may enter in,
And all your wages you may gain,
That now are workers here with me—•
One single hour makesyonfree:
Because the kingdom is my own— ’
The righteous labourers may complain,
That man’s desires sh»>uld heaven gain,
If thepr do wish to conquer sin,
21
Digitized by Google
Apd have my glorious kingdc
But now to man I’ll this impa
You all must wish it from you
For me to reign, and Satan fa
Or else, I now do tell you all,
Your signing then is of no use
And can no merit here produ<
Because the angels will destr<
Your every bliss and every joj
Unless you wish for to be free
From Satan’s power, and liv
And if in me you wish to live
And soyour names you freely
Then all your names I’ll seal
And you shall taste my perfe
When I in triumph do appeal
To conquer hell, I tell you he
That as the angels here you s
You all shall tnpmph then wi
Because your names shall eve
Upon the palms of both my 1
For when the sun doth dark ;
And comes like night, none c
The things that are before the
And now I tell you, so I’ll d
I will not see your sins below
But from your names yourjo]
For when the moon is turn’d
I’ll cast your sins on Satan’s 1
If he does tempt you then to
When you do wish him to be
To live in me and sin no mo
But know your hearts must si
To wish that I in you may re
And so my kingdom you mu
I tell you all, in heaven or ea
Remember what the Scriptur
My judgment never was like
’Tis from the heart my judgne
And from the heart I’ll now j
That wish for Satan now to i
And wish my kingdom to ap
For I’m the judge, and at tin
Of every heart that here dot!
So now I’ve told you all my
And to the other picture com*
The stars from heaven shall
Though they are fallen from 1
And they shall taste a heavei
23
But then ther will come downbelow,
These wondrous visions they will shew,
That I am coming to fulfil;
Or else your hearts I knowH would chill,
shake,
When I the powers of darkness break,
I say to come and chain him down,
None but believers will be found,
I say, to live and bear the sight j
For men u ill perish in the flight,
That do not know these things before—
The other picture must appear."
The Third V isio n of J o s e p h P r e s c o t t , of the
Crowns and Cfosses.—Bermondsey■
, March 9, 1803^
About halfpast seven o’clock, Joseph was sitting
in the kitchenvat 'the Neckinger, in company with f
•*••**' hj3 eye8 fixec[ on the ceiling. From seeing
some Tays of light from thence, he saw a crimson
velvet cushion, four square, with gold tassels and
fringe, letters formed with dimonds on it, and the
word “ C h r i s t .”—Above that were ribbons o f
blueand white, plaited together in form ofa basket.
In it, and about it, werered rosesandhearts-ease,
and upon the cushion, by the basket, was “ a star*
and a cross in the middle. Two sceptres across each
other like the letter X were laid on the flowers,
and a crown of diamonds on the sceptres. On the,
basketwaswritten, in diamonds, the word“ S p i r i t .”
On the crown was written “ G o d ,” with diamonds.
‘The crown had seven arches, and a cross, with red
diamonds, on the top ofthe ball; and ov.erthat was
a representation of glory. In that glory were two
stars, three points toeach, one in another) and over
that, inprintingcharacters, thesewords; “ $EH O i.n
THE G x
.ORV OF THE T R IN IT Y .”
Digitized by Google
, At eight o’clock it made its second apppearance,
exactly in the same manner, only with the addition
of an angel in the middle of the room; who utter­
ed distinctly these words:
“ Speak not of this till these be gone—And that
the star of glory, which was on the cushion, was a
temporal representation of the spiritual glory to be
inherited hereafter, through the merits of the cross
of Christ. The stars are a representation of the
Trinity; Three-in-One and One-in-Three. A fur-
thea explanation of whichshall be given hereafter;
antFif a drawing is wished, it shall appear again.’
A drawing was coveted, and it is executed.
24-
March 16, 1803.—The following explanatipn of
. the above Vision was given by the Spirit, toJoanna
* Southcott.
* „
“ I am the root and offspring of David, the
bright and morning Star, that am now coming in
all my Father’s glory—
To triumph o'er the cross men nail’d me to,
And every arch I’ll bring before thy view;
For in the globe the crown is fasten’d there,
And every bow that’s round it I shall clear*;
For on one stem thou seest that both do stand:
The cross and globe were drawn by my command ;
And underneath the stem the cushion stands,
With the two crosses that do now appear,
And in the middle now the cross see clear;
And under that you may behold the crown,
Wherein’s the name o f God, that now is found
To have a power all for to fulfil;
And by each arch you see the cross stand still*
But yet their turning it doth not appear;
You cannot say these crosses now stand fair;
No, no, I tell thee they are bowing down, '
And by the arch they both are circled round ;
Digitized by Google
.And interwoven these two arches be.
Andjoined to the globe you plain do see.
But now come to the crosses that do stand :
They every one are conquering crowns for mao •
Because the crosses you received at first;
And in the end your every crown shall burst;
And then your crosses they will all fall down.
And now i'll tell how every cross was found •
The first cross came when I created man ;
For Satan hasty brought the cross on them.
And then my cross it instant was decreed ;
Therefore these crosses were so curious laid;
For on the globe there's one that doth appear, f
And underneath the other you see clear ; *
Soboth together did these crosses come;
Mine was decreed when it was brought on mao*
But as the other two they so are found :
The cross went through when I the world did drown ;
But when the fire did from heaven fall,
You cannot say that cross then went through all;
Because all nations 1 did not destroy—
A little city Lot did then enjoy;
Because my heavy hand was not stretch’d out.
To feel that awful cross; and so ’tis shut;
Because that cross it did not then gothrough,
As did the deluge, every one doth know.
But still mankind dp feel the general cross;
As by the faQ their happiness was lost.
But as to th’other two, the crosses turn,
And on the top they both go through the stem ;
And on the globe the outside stem appears;
Within the other 'til encircl’d there;
That is the second stem appeared to be ;
And now the roysiery I’ll reveal to thee;
The outside stpm it must resemble man;
And they without, that now bow to my hand, '
And will submit to bow to mb below,
And judge my outstretch’d arm will guide than through,
I say, my outstretch’d arm they all shall see:
I’ll surely bow to man that bows tp mb.
And as the stems are interwoven there;
So man and I are interwoven here;
Because they bow to come within the veil:
They’ll find the second branch can never fail
To gain the victory for the sons of men ;
They’ll find my arm go through as there’tis aeont
For I’ll go through, and now encircle all
I'hat to my Spiritnow will bow and fall.
&5
Digitized by
y
Google
For as that second branch comes out to man,
I tell you, in the end the globe must stand,
Under the shadow ofmy wings appear—
The mystery’s plain if man can see it clear;
For with my Bible it doth all agree:
This heavenly vision, every soul shall see,
Is like my Bible, you may see it plain.
I said the heavens should shew you ofthe signs ;
And so the signs and visions do appear,
And the two standing bows that now are clear,
It shews you all how every one will stand,
When on the globe Pve conquered all for man.
For as the bows did to you all appear,
Just so my kingdom’s interwoven here:
Man must come in—My arm it must come out;
And then you’ll find the crossfrom man to drop;
Because my hand for man shall interfere,
And join together as the bows appear;
And then you all will see the reign of God.
The rose of Sharon now is in the word,
And there are three, now open’d to your view;
It is my shepherds, you shall find it true,
Whose eyes are open’d, and they more shall see,
And every bud in blossom soon shall be.
But as they’re seven, and thou seest no more,
Thou judg’st eleven should in all appear;
Because thou seest that they are but ten;
And thou hast plac’d them to my chosen men ;
And to my chosen men they surely be;
But one is wanting now is said by thee ;
But as another flower doth appear,
I tell thee plain, they are not wanting there;
Because the two will make the twelve complete ;
Though they are fainter, thou discern’st them not j
And they themselves so clearly don’t discern,
Nor in what manner I to thee do warn,
As do the roses which in buds appear;
I tell thee plainly they will see more clear.
And as the violet gives a fragrant smell,
Join’d with the roses, or the hearts-ease well,
Thou well dost know, that they do bear both names
Just so I tell thee, when men’s hearts inflam'd,
I say with anger, and do violent burn,
You’ll find it hearts-ease unto every one
That doth this calling now believe atfirst:
1 know that violent passions now will burst
On those that see their wisdom all betray’d ;
Yet they must own that sweet the words are laid
26
Digitized by Google
Unto believers, to enjoy their G od:
The flowers shew how all hearts will be led*
Then now lilcome to answer of the pole—
The crown and sceptre are held out to all
That now will come my kingdom to embrace:
Mark every stem and flower how they are placed ;
For in my crown you see the rose appear,
And four different staffs are joined there.
On one are join’d the sceptre and the crown ;
On th’other side, the signror man is found,
With four different branches on the pole ;
And much like wings within the three do falL
Put yet you see, the other it doth join,
Though it doth differ—now Fll come to man:
I said before, the glorious tr in it y
Agreed to join with man in u nity ;
But yet inferior 1 had placed man;
And now 1tell thee mark the every hand.
It is the wings that make it differ here;
And now from wings Fll make the power moreclear;
A bird hath power to mountup and fly,
And shun his foes, when he does see them nigh ;
From place to place a bird hath wings to go;
You may confine all beasts, you well do know,
But where’s your buildings can confine a bird?
And so their wings Fll liken to my word:
For no man living can my word confine—
~
But well 1know what’s in thy heart and mind ;
That cage and houses may confine them here.
And take the power from the floating air,
Where they in no ways can mount up and fly.
And so their wings can be confined tnat way.
But this thou say’st can never be in G od;
For there’s no man that can confine my word.
To this 1 answer; here is thy mistake,
When you confine a bird you trouble take,
To have your cages and your house prepar’d,
Or else you know you can’t confine them there ;
Because the open walls, though e’er sohigh,
You know the birds will soon mount up and fly
Out ofyour power; you can no more command ;
And perfect like the birds my word doth stand.
You may confine m s by your every prayer,
For to prevent the judgments that are near,
As Nineveh at first confined mb so :
• They made their hearts like cages:all did go
For to confine me by their every prayer;
| could not fly frpm them when they came near.
27
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
In dust and ashes bow’d before my throne/
Mercy confin’d me all their prayers to own.
That I the judgments to them did not send,
Although my word was gone—-mark what is penned r
It was by prayer they then confined my word.
That I should act with mercy like a God ;
And so with mercy I did then appear,
While every heart to me a cage was there.
But when their cages they were all broke down.
And open houses unto me were found,
Then like the birds from them I flew away,
And brought the ruin I before did say.
And so to EH I did prove the same:
He made a cage for to confine myname;
I say, in honour he did it confine,
Broke down tKe altar perfect with my mind,
And then my promise I did make to he,
That, like the birds, I in his house would be;
But mark how soon this cage was instant broke,
When all my honour he had quite forgot;
Then sure from Eli I did fly away,
And brought his fatal ruin in one day.
And all my Bible you will see the same;
And like the birds you’ll find my every name;
So like the birds, with hovering wings, I’m come,
I say, in love, to ipake my cage with man;
And so my Spirityou may ail confine,
And to your hearts I will my Spirit bind:
If now you’ll act according to my will,
Firm as the heavenly pillars, I’ll fulfil
The every promise I have made toman—
The budding roses shew the time’s at hand ;
Because ’tis said the flowers shall appear.
When in the land the turtle’s voice you hear ;
And all shall find the turtle’s voice is come,
To bring the news ofpeace to every land;
That like the flowers they will now appear;
And mark the roses, how they are placed there ;
So that the stem, or staff, they do go through;
And here’s a mystery deep before your view.
For so, I tell thee, many will begin
To claim my promise, and my kingdom win ;
Therefore the staff*that doth to thee appear,
Join’d to my crown, that is so placed tnere,
tell thee plain, it is my outstretch’d arm,
To keep believers now from every harm,
That shoot their branches interwoven with me—
Thou know’st I told thee my delight should be
28
"V
Digitized by Go'oQle
Now plac’d with men, when I come down below.
And do the glories ofmy kingdom show;
And as the flowers and tne leaves plac’d there.
So men with me they now'must interfere,
For to affirm the words that I have spoke;
And in such beauty God and man shall drop,
.As do the flowers on the bank appear.
Now mark the compass how ’tis placed there;
And at the bottom thou dost see the ball.
And to each side the tassels hang for all.
To shew the compass I have made for man,
And at the top the rainbow now does stand:
And mark the rainbow, what I said before ;
I said the rainbow all your grief should dear;
Because I said, that I myselfwould reign,
And, in this vision, I have skew’d thee plain
The glory of the t r in it y is there 5
And on the top thou seest the second star.
But in thy heart thou say’st the top is first;
And now’s the time that star shall surely burst,
With every power in the bows appear,
And I am the rainbow, and I will reign here.
For as the tassels under these are found,
I tell thee plain that men will now putt down
My every power on them as feG od;
Some will, byJury, now pull down my word.
With every stripe that in it now appears—
But mark the roses interwoven there:
Sothey’ll prevent thestroke*on them to fall,
And share the glory ofmy kingdom alL
For as the other side it doth appear, *
And man with mb is interwoven there,
As I did tell thee from my cross shouldbe,
And like my coat, I said, for man and mb.
And like my coat, is interwoven through,
A Mystery deep; but all shall find it true.
For every vision they have brought thee here,
Fulfils thy prophecies that they are near ; "
And every vision I shall now fulfil,
And all shall know the Spirit did thee tell
The very things that I snail do belbw:
From God and Christ the Spirit it doth go,
To come to thee, and tell thee all roy mind ;
And now 1 tell thee, man must sure be blind,
When all together they do but compare,
If they can’t see, and know my Spirit’s bene.
And yet thou marvell’st how thou art so dead,
That like a pleating dream the words are laid.
39
Digitized by Google
Thou say'st before thee; but thy heart should bum
If thou didst know and feel the days are come.
And this I know would be thy every mind,
If I had not thy senses strong confin'd,
And put a seal upon thy very heart.
Too well I know, the words I do impart
Would kindle flames, soon rising in thy breast/
And like a fountain would thy eyes now burst;
And au my labour thou could'st not go through,
If thou didst seeand feel, and alldidst know,
What lies before thee, even at the door;
I've shew'd my reason, and I'll say no more,
Why I have put a bolt so strong on thee,
That, like thy eyes, thou dost but partly see,
And many things thou dost not see at all;
For like the shadow does the substance fall.
And to the starry*cross I bid thee come ;
For there's the star that now is come to man,
To shew my hands and feet were nailed there:
Thou know'st I told thee I should so appear ;
And like my words I tell thee all is plac'd.
I've shew'd this vision to the human race,
That all together they might clearly see,
And be assur'd these things came all from mb ;
For Jah Jehovah is my every name;
The Lord of lords, and King of kings I am.
And now my kingdom it shall surely come,
As the six spots foretel you who I am;
And the six spots you now may see them clear;
But in the seventh there's no spot appears;
And I’ll go on till there's no spot in man,
But like the standard every soul shall come,
And man shall own there isno spot in me—
A heavenly union now in both shall be;
Though man hath often spotted here my name,
And by your judgment you your Maker blame ;
For perfect as the spots do there appear,
Just so you always spot your Maker here;
Because I tell you, you do spot my name,
And much like Adam, men, I say, do blame
The Lord of Glory, by their different thoughts,
And men’s disputes in spots are often wrought;
That as thejudgment they do draw of Qod,
They spot my name, but don't regard ray word#
So this, I say, hath been throughout the six>
But in the seventh, there no spot is fix’d ;
And I'll go on till every spot i’ll clear,
And like the standard all shall now appear;
50
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
For no more spots will I now bear for man.
And now I'll tell thee how they spot my name :
One spot by Adam it was cast at first;
He blam’d the woman that my hand had plac’d ;
But now that spot shall sure be done away*
And bring the knowledge ofthe glorious day,
That like a jewel shall that spot appear.
And now the second spot, 1tell you here,
It came from Noah cursing of his son,
And instantly it broughta spot on man;
And on his Maker it did bring the same,
To shew my chosen man what folly came,
Whom 1 before pronounced to be good,
And would not let him perish in the flood.
But Oh! that goodness it did hasty turn.
When he in anger did so curse his son,
Because his nakedness he soon did see;
But now this spot a jewel is to me,
If that the Jews will all behold the same,
And see their fathers, as t’was seen by him ;
That they were naked, drunken witn the wine/
And did not know the Saviour of mankind,
When I came down a vine to them below,
And, drunk with anger, did in fury go
To bring a curse, I say, on every son,
They slew their brethren; and they still go on,
1 tell you, backward, to this very day;
But now these spots from them m take away.
If, like the former, they will now begin
To see their fathers’ folly, and will turn
To me, I say, that spot shall now appear.
To be a jewel—so I’ll make them here:
Because the spot of sin I’ll take away,
And place them jewels as the crown doth lay.
But now the third spot must from man appear.
It was in David when he murdered there,
I say, Uriah, for to have his wife;
Ana so that spot went through hislife;
And on his Maker it is cast the same;
Because you know I highly spoke of him,
And said he was a man of my own heart;
But now the truth I’ll to you all impart.
If you like David will but now appear.
To save the woman, put her tempter there
Into the battle, that betrayed at first-*- -
But here thou marvell’st how that can be plac’d,
Tomake the husband ever to agree,
A type of Satan, now is said by thee.
To this I answer, it is )>y her hand
31
Digitized by Google
32 (
That first the tempted did J?yarts command ?
But in the husband thou dost say were norte,
When he in love possess’d her every hand.
N o ; here I own the likeness don’t agree:
It is the shadow I have said to thee,
And all the shadow it is from the hand,
That he in different manner did command.
So now in different manner I’ll appear,
For I’m the David, and the whole will clear.
The hand from Satan now, 1 say, I’ll take,
And strong the battle I for man will make ;
And in the front the tempter shall be slain,
And now, like David, I’ll the woman gain $
And so the spot shall all tojewels turn:
I ’ll slay the rebel, but I’ll save the man.
For here, like David, I cannot agree '
To slay the innocent—no; them I’ll free;
It is the shadow only from the hand;
Satan did gain it, and by arts command;
And so that hand from him I’il take away.
You all must spot my name, if you do say
There was no mystery laid in David’sreign,
To like myself to one that you complain
The worst of crimes was in his murder there,
When Satan’s arts so powerful did appear,
To tempt to murder for adultery.
And now on Satan shall that ruin be;
For I’ll avenge on him Uriah’s blood:
Now I’m the David, and I’ll make it good,
That every spot on Satan now shall fall;
When I do come, like man, to conquer all,
Then every spot I’ll turn the other way:
Invisible these mysteries all do lay;
And when on Satan every one I turn,
I will make up my jewels then in man.
Because that David did so sore repent;
And now, I tell you all, my mind is bent /
To act like David, as he did appeac ;
I ’ll slay the serpent, that her hand did share:
To take it from him David shall appear,
And like Uriah’s, Satan’s doom is near;
Because he tempted David to that sin;
And his repentance I’ll like David’s bring;
For now the sword from him shall not depart,
As both were guilty, both shall feel my dart.
David already hath the sword receiv’d ;
And Absalom’s death did make him sorely grieve.
So here’s a spot was deeply cast on man ;
But now to ajewel I that spot will turn ;
Digitized by Google
Because a jewel always sparkles bright;
And now to man I’ve thought the truth to light,
Why I did letthe tempter to go on
To work his wilt Upon a righteous man;
Because in him the truth it must all appear.
It was the devil did his heart ensnare.
So now of David you may all weigh deep.
And now the fourth spot 1 will speak ofit t
It was Isaiah, every soul shall see;
They spotted my name, as ’twas foretold by he.
For Satan always finds an artful way
To work in men, their judgment to betray;
And so my jewels they were spotted there,
As wrong the judgment did in man appear;
Because that Satan works an artful way-*
From his disputes, see how his footsteps lay:
I tell you all his footsteps do appear,
As in thy book to thee he spoke them there;
And out his footsteps man could never find*
Had I not let him come and tell his mindi
What arguments with mankind he bath us’d ;
And so he work’d upon the stubborn Jews,
Thai from his judgment they would never turn:
The arguments seem’d right he us’d with them $
Because his influence o’er their minds appear’d,
More strong in man than in his words spoke there.
And now, I tell thee, it was thy dispute
That broke his legs, and turn’d beneath my foot;
Because I said, if thou in faith stood stout.
To trust in me, thou nothing hadst to doubt;
For I would conquer, and for thee appear ;
And so the vision I have shew’d thee here,
As by my answer I did say to thee*
And so tne vision does in all agree.
So if the learned men can this confound,
I tell thee plain, from hell must come the sound ;
And Satan strong in man must now appear,
If they the vision and the words will clear;
For no such judgment can e’er be in men,
Unless the devil strong in them does come.
For when the whole together we compare,
A Peter’s vision never was so clear 5
Nor yet by man so clearly understood,
And plain my Bible doth the whole make good >
And all these things I’ve shew’d them to a child,
That all mankind might know they are not foil’d ;
And different gifts do to these boys appear,
That every soul might know my kingdom’s near;
C
33
Digitized by Google
And all tbfjf spqt* now to jewels turn;
For now like $q|an’s wopdt to roaq I'll come—
Thatall my Bible you SjH pt fuJfe, *
Unless I bfiog the yitkmoy mjtfvtel,
1tell you ell* tq breed his power down.
The mighty counsellor ) cannot be found.
The prince of glory, nor the prince of peace.
Unless I make yourjarring passions cease.
By Satan’s reasoning you cannot agree;
Because he work’d in man, you all may set.
T o stir up anger, and to stir up strife.
But nqw i’ll m ar from Ahasuerus’wife,
As his command the queen she disobey’d,
And spotted his honour, at his nobles said.
She in his presence should not e’er come more;
But still his love for women did appear;
And so the virgins unto him wore brought
And Esther gam’d his favour as ’ti* wrote.
Who sqy’dher people, and destroy'd her foes:
But now the spot in one you all dokoow:
She spotted her honour and her husband’s fame,
When she refus’d at his command to come;
And so the woman brought the spot at first.
But now from Esther shall the mystery burst:
She gain’d his favour, which theother lost;
She sav’d her people, and her foes she cast
So now let Esthers banquet to appear,
Apd my demand let it be answer’d hefe.
From thy disputes, Ohs of tub T wo must fell;
And now an answer i demand of all;
What shall be done to one Whodid blaspheme?
As in tby printed boohthou may’st see plain:
And from thy foes they must the sentence pass.
And then the mysteries unto all shall hurst
Because thy friends have passed their judgment here.
And now thyfoe* I bid them to appear,
And ajl their answers I do bid them bring,
W hat shall be done to,one that did blaspheme?
As blasphemy from one there must appear,
It is thyfact that mustthe mystery clear ;
Andso thmr judgment I do bid them pass,
T is from thyfou the mysteries oBmast burst;
And from that bookthe causemust now be tried,
A ndlet the sentence from thy foes be laid ; ’
And so in public let these words appear,
And then the Jtoyai Sceptreyou’ll see dear;
!
?
-
»
*
• I f ii^a ■ anA^ ,1*
a4
-aknll 4
m a «
Digitized by Google
And to the fifth spot thou hast ended here.
Andnow the shtthlH to appear:
It was toy mnthcfr,*! sbaujgjtc? fita e a r;
Became their dld^rih spoiroy mother’s name.
To say that I from her a bastard came;
And so that spot it instant fell on me,
When 1affirmed thd words.Were spoke by she;
And so that spot then at that time went deepj
Bat now’s the time When evfery spot shall break,
I say, with fury, and within shall • tar/r—
Invisible shall all turn back again;
For with the world invisible it shall b e;
And every spot in man, they rtoW shall see
That I will act like all the sorts of men.
And now I say I will come to the fall—
Hie Mood of Abel—now I say to all,
That Fm the Abel, Satan is the Cain,
And my avenging Blood he now shall find;
And next to Noah, I will so go on)
I’ll build the ark, and so I’ll save the man;
But has he curs’d the son that laughed at he.
So Satan now shall feel that curse from Me.
And now like David I will so appear,
And place the serpent like Uriah there $
And to Isaiah now I say I’ll come:
I’ll saw in sunder Satan’s power from m an;
And so like Ahasuerus I’ll appear,
And Satan now the gallows he shell share:
Because like Herod I’ll my oath fulfil,
And turn the spots by my avenging heel.”
35
The F o u r t h V i s i o n o f J o s e p h , which hi saw of
the Flags, Trumpets, 8$c. at the High House,
. Paddington, March 23, 1803.
Sitting on one side of the fire! place, and Mrs. D.
ontheother, hebeard a voicedistinctly say, “Joseph,
speak not of this till you arrive ait home,—nientiob
not a word to any one.” Turning his eyes to the
spot whefe the voice appeared to come from, he saw
four flags, with a regular space between each, all
nearly of a size. The first was red and white stripes,
* Back upon the invisible world.
C 2
Digitized by k n O O Q l e
with a square of blue in one corner, with thirteen
stars brilliant, as if of » The next was a
white flag with a broaa oladh$ face on it. The
third wasa whiteflagwith halfmoons, swords, stars,
and snakes, or serpents, all in variegated colours.
Thefourth wasa blueflag, with whiteand redstripes,
or crosses, somewhat like the English colours. To
the flags were four persons; one standing by each.
One of the persons was a black, by the flag which
had a black’s face on it; by the flag with variegated
colours was a man neither fair nor black, but about
a copper colour; by the flag with a square of blue
and stars was a dark person, like one of us, with
whiskers ; and by the other flag, like English co­
lours, was a fair man. In the hand of the man with
whiskers was a harp; in the hand of the fair man
was another instrument of music, like a lyre; the
othertwo had trumpets—all playing on their instru­
ments. There appeared at a distance, beyond them,
millions ofpeople to each of them, of the same kind
as they were. In the middle of them was a person
that looked like our Saviour, with a great number
of stars surrounding his head, and his body orna­
mented with diamonds in all parts,’withhis arms ex­
tended, as if ready to embrace, who said in a power­
ful voice, “ I will be known in all hearts, throughout
the wholeworld,from the emperoronthethrone,to the
meanest subject, on the earth,”and then disappeared.
The following was given toJoanna by the Spirit,
March 28th, 1803, being an explanation of this vi­
sion ; and also an explanation of an angel’s writing
down Mr. Carpenter’s words, that he was reading
and speaking, to a few friends, at Little Zoar, near
Neckinger, on Sunday morning, March 27, 1803 ;*
and also an explanation of the heforementioned vi­
sion, that he had at the High House, in Padding-
* See account of the vision. "
36
Digitized by Google
37
ton, on Wednesda 23d, and which was
brought to Joanna jjwnwav. March 27th.
" Now fromthe visions MI appear,
The youth did see, but did not draw;
Because he said, the truth * was so—
% 1 That it already was fulfill'd:
% The hovering angels, round you still,
Do in this lower world appear:
Thou know'st1 told thee so before,
That now the angels were come down.
And hell alarm'd to hear the sound.
As when 1 first created man,
They were alarm'd, and hasty came
To see the man that 1had made,
And soon their happiness betray'd.
By arts they worked in every wheel.
The happiness of man to foil;
And now again he'd work the same.
If he did know my every plan ;
Therefore my plan 1 do conceal,
The arts of Satan for to foil—
As did f tiie letter then appear,
That Shaip did read; 1tell you hdre,
He saw his foe was in the way,
Lurking in ambush to betray;
And then be took a different road;
And perfect soare the ways of God.
He seesthe devil how he stands
Waiting in ambush strong for men,
Their every virtue to betray ;
Therefore I’ve taken a different way,
That Satan's arts could ne'er find out:
Such wisdom there's no man could doubt—
If all the mysteries they weigh deep,
They must confess the Lord doth speak,
Jn wondrous wisdom to appear,
To shew his kingdom now is near;
Because my Bible is made plain
For all the learned sons of men.
The books are open'd, as it doth appear,
And in remembrance all is written there,
The angels penn’d, and all’s enroll’d in heaven
Of what was read, and what advice was given:
t A letter retd by Mr. Sharp, of a boy a* America, whose spiritual sight
wasopened, and be taw his tommyway-lay him, and went another road.
^ It being a reality.
Digitized by Google
And so I teti thee, alUt bq^>re the throne,
And no^y ipyjewels, it j»u$t tpSfbe known,
Are those that do together so dMWse,
To bring my kingdom; they can never miss
Of all these blessings in my Bible penn’d,
And in thy writings I have shew’d the end.
These are thejewels I shall now make up :
For as the vision tQ the youth did drop,
To shew thent plain * the book was written there,
When that my friend in love he did appear,
To read my mind and will, and tell them there,
That I was doming, perfect like my word,
I shew’d the vision, as my prophet said,
And as before { shcyvMthee, in thy dream,
The angel of the Lord was throwing down
The sheets of paper then upon the com,
Which I allude to man, must be known ;
And as thou didst dream that it was like thy hand,
I tell thee, so the end for all shall stand;
Because to rob \he Lord they have hegun,
And the whole nation robs me ofmy fame
And ofmy honour: they do not discern,
To say, that from the devil itj does come:
And perfect so the Jew's did say before,
That from the devil all my wonders were':
And now the Gentiles they do say the same.
Therefore the devil I will now destroy.
And man in innocence I will enjoy,
That don’t my wonders to the devil place,
And by theiruisdom don’t their Lord disgrace,
To say m.y wayfc are folly from the devil:
T plainly tell you that your hearts are evil;
Because that sin you oft do cast on me,
And say that I ordain’d it so to b e;
But when I warn in any thing that’s good,
Unto the devil you do all allude.
So now, 1bid you answer vain men,
If like the devil you’ve notlajd your plan ?
But like the devil you sh^H lay no more
After my harvest ends, that now is near;
Because that all I’ll rid them offthe coast—
No more of Satan’s wisdom men shall boast, (
Nor of his power—all I’ll take away;
As to his power you do wonders lay,
And to his wisdom you do all confine ;
But where there’s evil, you do. call it mine ;
And say that I these things do all ordain;
But now your folfy F shall shew it plain;
• Mr. Carpenter read Joanna’s prophecies to a few friends.
$8
A k .
Digitized by L , o o Q L e
As from this picture + itdq(h now appear:
With outstretch**arm$^ou%
see a likeness there,
More likeaTurkkfc Emperor than a God,
With f eyes sodim that scarce can see a word ;
Because that dim the eyes do both appear,
And all around the head there’s placed hair ;
And yet you see it’s drawn in royal state,
With outstretch’d arms and sparkling diamondsbright
In such a picture no one can discern
What it doth represent, nor judge the form,
Whether a man or woman doth appear;
And mark the clothing how ’tis placed there ;
And mark the rider on the horse you see,
I tell you plain these pictures don\ agree.
Then here theu’rt puzzled, can this be a God
For to resemble, as the youth then said ?
To this I answer, as I said before,
I shew’d the vision for to make it clear,
That in the manneryou havejudg’d your God,
There’s no man living that canjudge his word ;
Because that vision mifst them all confound,
To say the Lord like that can e’er bo crown’d.
Array’d in glory and hi majesty,
In heavenly splendour, rfnd no eyes to see,
As in that vision doth to thee appear;
4 But that’s the likeness men have drawn me here;
1tell you plain they’ve drawn me in such form,
That noman living can a God discern;
Because that darkly some have drawn my eye,
Andjudge that notning I below espy;
And others draw me as they judge a God,
Most like a Turkish Emperor now is spread,
With arms of cruelty held out to all—
You don’t discern this vision how’t does fall}
Nor in what manner it does now appear.
I shew’d the vision, as the men came here
For to dispute, and so to place their God,
As no man living can discern his word, 1
By all the differentjudgments they do draw %
Just like thls vision, every soul snall know, *
That iii this manner men nave judg’d their God, ,
Wherein no meaning in it can be draw’d.
For some are Arians, and they do deny
The perfect union of the Trinity, *
Then, now I ask them what ofit they make?
They cannot say a mandied for their sakes ;
• The%p«ethat m i drawnfortheLord appeared iunmh a coufaed formsad
ittm, tintyou could not tellwhat k was dewgood (br.
39
t AlmostMind*
i
Digitized by
Or that a man could e’er for man atone ;
Or an impostor, or the greatest bqpi,
That in the world ever came beloyv—
My mother lie ? and I affirm it too !
Then both together you do give the lie;
I ask you, where’s the knowledge from on high,
If an impostor 1let thus proceed,
For men to worship, as it is decreed,
The Father, Son, and Holy Ghost? These Three,
You know, is worship’d in the Trinity :
And by the Gospel you have plac’d it so>
And now the meaning I demand to know,
What kind of figure I must now appear ?
I tell you plain my likeness it is here,
That I am likened to by the sons of men,
A God that cannot see, and now become
A Jew, a Turk, or Infidel, to be,
No shape, or form, that any man can see,
Now by that picture I am liken'd here;
For so the judgment in mankind appears,
And in such manner they have likened G od;
And now I'll prove it by their every word:
You say that Satan guides this woman’s hand;
Then where's your God, I do ofall demand,
Whose flaming eye doth o'er the world appear,
Surveys the hearts and thoughts ? I tell you here,
Before they spring, they all are known to me ;
And from my knowledge none conceal'd can be ;
Then if by knowledge I know aHbefore,
I ask mankind how ttiis did all appear,
That every vision is brought to your view ?
I shew'd a perfect man you all do know,
Plac'd bn the horse, with such discerning eye*
And broke the leg that differ'd from the three;
And by my heel I'll tread that power down,
That man and Ialike may now be found.
So here you may behold a perfect roan;
For in his likeness is the picture drawn ;
And sothe horse inlikeness doth appear
So perfect to fhe words were spoken there,
That Satan's power I said that I would break:
I shew’d the likeness, and the likeness great*
But well I know what folly will appear;
These wondrous visions men will turn them here,
As though invention by some curious head,
And by some curious arts the whole was laid;
Therefore the mystery I said I would clear,
And shew thee plainer when the youth came here.
For in • this house the vision it was seen;
And like the vision do the sons of men
* HighHouse, Paddington,
40
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
Draw all such likeness of divinity;
But when you weigh tfie whole, you all will see,
You do not draw your judgment for aGod
Who is in mercy, and whose arms are spread—
With outstretched arms still to the utmost saves
All who return to him, and now believe.
Then now unto the black 1bid thee come,
And mark the trumpet that is in his hand ;
And as the other has the trumpet too—
A mystery deep; but all skill find it true.
For the last trumpet must to all appear:
I've shew’d the trumpets, and I’ll make them dear.
For now the trumpets shall be blown to all,
And every nation now shall know their call.
And from the blacks the trumpets shall begin—
Thou know’st “the bhuk” that 1 did put on Cain ;
And now the Cains 1 bid them all appear,
And blow the trumpet now in every ear;
For like their brothers every soul shall fly,
If you don’t sound the trumpet now this way,
To say your grief is more than you can bear,
If I avenge your Abel’s blood now here,
1tell you all, upon your guilty heads;
Swiftly repent, or you must fly with speed.
So now the trumpet it must sound for all,
That Satan now may be the Cain, and fall
Into the snare that he did lay for Cain.—
Blow up this trumpet, if you’ll mercy find ;
Then by this trumpet, ye shall find my arm,
I say, in mercy, as to you I warn.
And mark the serpent how he's twisted there
Over the head, much like a moon appears;
Because, i tell you all, the moon is round,
And perfect so the serpent there is found ;
And on the head thou seest there’s fix’d the pole,
And through the other doth the trumpet hold,
Where a bright figure doth to thee appear,
Much like a man in royal robes he appears,
For to be covered, when his gown is on,
And in his hand the music may be shewn,
And well thou know’s! it easy may be seen.
And now to reason 1 will strong begin :
For on the other side the robes are blue,
With different music there, you all do know;
And different music must to all appear:
Thou know’s! the music sounded in thy ear, .
When that the pig confin’d to thee was brought;
41
Digitized by Google
And to thy prayer remember what was wrote,
For John the baptist how thy payer did fell J
He lost his head ; aod now, I tell you aU,
That there's a black, whose head appears the same.
There’snot e vision brought, but I shall name
It is to prove thy writings came from mi ;
And by these visiones very soul shall see
That I’ll fulfil thy every fervent prayer ;
Apd thy petition I have skew’d thee hare,
That Satan’s head shall like the black’s come of,
As John the baptist’s did— I’ve said enough.
For in bis hand the blood does now appear.
To shew the murder he committed there,
When he in malice did his brother kill;
And now I tell you, Cain that blood shall fed,
If he don’t cast die whole on Satan’s head,
And at the throne of grace for mercy plead,
To have the devil now to flee like Cain,
And blow the trumpet, he may mercy find.
And the Redeemer, to avenge the blood,.
And cast the vengeance on the serpent’s head;
For deep’s the vision, that is shew’d thee here,
And deep they’ll see the xehoie, when I shall dear
The every mystery in the vision here.
And with the heavenly music I’ll begin :
Thou know’s! thismorning how thou befedfcfet m g
The Pslams of David, as it doth,appear.
And now I tell thee Davids harp is here;
.For every music it will so come round:
A heavenly joy will in each heart be found,
That doth believe, as tbou’stbeliev’d this day:
You all will sing as doth the music play;
Upon the harp of music you will sing;
And from the lyre now behold the string:
Thou seest but five; for six do not appear;
Then sure the liar must be vanquish’d bare,
Before the six do e’er appear to man,
And then in triumph sing that he is gone.
J o r now theliar, must to all be known,
It is the Devil, that I now shall lay ;
And mad shall sing it to eternity;
And through eternity he sure shall sing,
That Satan’s lies no more are cast on men,
For them to suffer fer the lias he spoke,
When he with arts dots always fill diem u p :
And so with arts he on men’s minds does breads,
4*
Digitized by v ^ o o Q i e
“ It was a vision that bejm fcd there?*
But ittcA afamcy never came before;
•Weigh $dl together, and ycu’U see more clear.
How every vision, that is drawn by be,
Doth with thy former visions all agree.
And with the promise I to thee did make.
And how the cause of man I’d undertake,
And how my kingdom I would now bring ins
For every vision there does shew you plain,
That in one likeness this doth all agree*
Then now appear, vain mas, and answer ms,
How both together did these things invent.
Or e’er imagine how my mind was bent.
To make these visions perfect so agree,
For to fulfil these words I spoke by thee ?
For when these visions they do au appear,
They’re in such chain, that there’s no man can clear;
For in one likeness they do all agree;
Then now appear, vain man, and answer m i.
If to all, knowledge you must not be dead ?
As from imagination all you’ve laid;
Then your imagination moat be here,
To make theretooas earthly gods appear.
Array’d in wisdom, to imagine bright,
First speak these words, aim then produce the sight,
That as ’twas spoke before it dqth appear:
For every vision doth tby writings dear
For as the words were spoke the vision’s here*
I said in heaven my wonders I’d display;
And so my angels I’ve sent down this way,
To shew the heavenly visions doappesr,
That aa I said, my chariot wheels are near.
And that my hand was now held oat to all;
That bastard nations they might hear their calk
That I was ready all men to receive.
Whoe’er would turn to ms and right believe;
And now all nations you see to appear,
With different colours, as the nations are:
And so you see my hand stretch’d out to ail,
And like the Bible doth the vision fall;
And yet you call it fancy of a child,
Whom Satan’s arts have in this manner foil’d ;
The first tofm efi and. the next to lie,
For ta affirm these visions came from mb ;
And in that manner youjudge all appear,
As he hath drawn them, and hath plac’d them here;
Then tryyourfancy, and your see.
If such a vision will appear to you;
And in like manner you the visions draw,
And then explain them plain, the truth to shew,
*3
Digitized by L , o o Q L e
That your invention all was right before:
The world with you in judgment right appear*,
Whose wild inventions do your Bibles turn,
And make the God of truth to be a form
That all the learned world can never clear
By man’s invention, now I tell you here:
But by invention of these single txvo,
As from their fancy now is said by you
That theirimagination doth appear,
They’ve so imagined for to make all clear.
If by imagination this is done,
Without a God to bring a regular form;
Then every soul must give their God Jhe lie,
And say to knowledge man did never die ;
Because some wondrous knowledge doth appear.
To prophesy and shew the mystery clear,
With different gifts, than unto them are given ;
And will you say these gifts ne’er came from heaven ?
Then sure like Satan you must all appear,
And give your God the lie, I tell you here,
That unto knowledge man did never die,
When the forbidden fruit was eat that day ;
Because of knowledge you say you can boast,
With wisdom brighter than the Lord of hosts,
And knowledge greater, for to make all good,
I say my Bible, and fulfil their word.
If by their own invention this is done,
I tell you plain, you shame both God and man,
By the invention of your foolish heads:
And now to knowledge I’ll pronounce you dead*
*Ti$ your invention doth from Satan come;
What be suggests, you in your minds do form,
That it is real, as it comes from he:
Once more I tell you, you eat ofthe tree
That was of knowledge I pronounced dead ;
And so^by Satan’s arts ycur knowledge fled,
Abel knew not his brother would him kill,
And Cain knew not the daggers he should feel;
Some wild imagination fill’d his brain,
That he should be at peace when he had Abel slain j
So he imagin’d and his scheme went on.
Imagination doth from Satan come,
When you imagine what will never do
To make you happy ; bring before your view
All the imaginations that did appear
When Noah built the ark; I tell you here,
They all imagin’d Noah was afool;
And Satan’s arts possess’d their every soul.
44
Digitized by
Until the deluge wash'd them all away*
Then where must their7
imagination lie
But in the knowledge I pronounced dead,
And so the watery graves fill'd every bed ?
And here of knowledge I say they had none.
And their imagination all was gone,
To be but folly, as I said before.
Imagination never can be good :
1tell you, all must perish in the flood,
When 1do come to sweep the whole away—
You may imagine l shall longer stay;
But your imagination all will fall,
As did the deluge, now 1 tell you all,
And so you know I told you of the end :
You may imagine I shall ne'er descend,
As on the city of Gomorrah fell,
Or Sodom's lot; you may imagine all
Will never come, if you do mock my word,
Andjudge like them 'tis fools believe, and flee,
As Lot aid flee when I did warn him there:
He had the knowledge did from me appear;
But they imagin'd every thing was vain—
Imagination ne'er did knowledge gain :
Pharaoh imagin'd ; Haman did the same;
And both despis'd the knowledge of my name.
But see imagination where it did end ;
I tell you all, it never prov'd a friend ;
Because imagination comes from hell,
To mock the warnings that from heaven folk
And so the Jews imagin'd all the same,
That Satan gave me power to become
The Son ofGod, ana be exalted high—
A Prince and Saviour is your every cry,
Whom you do worhip in the Trinity.
The Jews imagined hell exalted me ;
And now the Gentiles—thousands are the same:
They do imagine hell exalts my name
Witn arts, and lies, and wonders, that were wrought,
And all my Father's words they were forgot,
ThaJ he affirm'd be had one only Son,
Who all the nations of the world should claim.
And now I say I'm come to claim them all,
And your imagination down shall fall:
Becausfe I said the Gentiles they would rise
In rage and tumult, and madly would devise
Against the Lord, and his anointed Son ;■
And now 1 see your lolly's going on;
45
Digitized by C j O O Q i e
Because against mb you do madly rage j
Against my Spirit you do so engage*
By your imagination that is here a
Much like the Jews ofold you now appear ;
And like the Jews ofold will be your lot,
If you imagine things which you know not.
Can you invent by your weak foolish heads
The wondrous visions now before you laid ?
Or can you answer, and these things explain.
How all together came in a straight line?
Or how the likeness should in all agree ?
The four pillars are the poles, you see,
Which these two Indians they have got in hand ;
For like wild Indians do the colours stand,
As partly naked they do both appear;
But mark the covering how it iscast there.
So now to cover I shall sure begin :
They have the pole; the trumpet plain is seen ;
Ana now the trumpet I shall dIow to all,
And every nation now shall know their call.
For there I tell thee stands the Gospel pole,
And free salvation’snow held out to all,
And every land shall see my arms appear:
As they are lilted, so I’ll liltthem up:
If they’ll return to me, they all may hope.
For as the bloody hand does now appear,
To shew the blood ofCain, the murderer there.
And by such hands they nail’d mb to the tree.
But mark the hand ana now the mystery see:
Two spots of red do on the hand appear;
With blue and white ’tis all encircl’d there.
That hand is fallen now without the pole ;
The other’s lifted up, the trumpet holds;
So now I tell thee they will bow to mb,
Throw down the hand that nail’d mb to the tree ;
That is, rebellion they will all throw down ;
Lift up their hands to hear the gospel sound,
And gladly, gladly will these nations come
To sound the trumpet when they hear your land.
That ye are called by the heavenly sound.
Over all nations will this call resound;
From shore to shore, from east to west ’twill fly,
And every star foretelsthe time is nigh ;
Or else the spots that there do now appear;
And by the stripes the nations healed are ;
Because my outstretch’d arm is joined there ;
Beneath my feet the beast doth now appear :
Black is his colour, but thou can’st not form
What is the shape; it is to thee unknown;
46
Digitized by L , o o Q L e
4 ?
But ’tit a beast thou dost not understand:
And mark he’s trodden down, and see my hand
Is now in mercy open’d wide to all;
And see the angel, underneath the whole,
With the two trumpets, now plac’d on both sides*
Mark ye the vision; for the field is wide;
As on the right* and left', the trumpets stand*
And on the top you may behold my hand*
To call my sons and daughters from afar,
And save the remnant leaved in the war;
And as the colour in the hand appears,
I’ll change the skin when I have ended here;
' And every nation shall in triumph sing:
The harp of David to you all I’ll bring;
And every lyre he shall now confound,
With heavenly music in their every sound.
For as the buds are fixed pn the poles*
The bud isbudding out I saydir all;
And as they’re parted, so will every land;
Some will oelieve, and stedfast they will stand;
ppear,
„ join.
Here stands the globe that I shall make allmine;
Butas the brightest figures do appear,
That have the music, and encircled here*
Within the poles thou sees!the music stand ;
Sonow, O England, thou enlighten’d land*
That hath been guarded by the Gospel pole*
You may rejoice and sing while others tall;
Because the trumpet you’ll hear firstfor war ;
That foreign nations they will fast appear,.
I say for battle; you will hear the sound;
A dreadful war will in all lands abound,
While you may standwithin the Gospel’s pole**—
And let this music now awaken all.
You need not follow to the trumpet there;
For new I tell thee, it is first for war ;
And fatal wars will soon be o’er the lands;
The Revelation tellsyou how it stands*
That first apower totne beast is given:
And o’er the head thou seestthe serpent plac’d ;
And on the other side thou seesta face,
Or elsethehead, isfiromthe body plac’d ;
So will the heads of all thesenations fall:
And then their leader, Ido tell you all,
T hatl shall tread himdown beneath my feet—
Great isthe mystery, and you’ll findit deep:
And deep you’ll find that all is hastening on.M
Digitized by k j O O Q i e
48
Wednesday, April 6th, 1803.
Joseph Prescott was sitting alone at work in the
mill, and saw the appearance of a grove presented to
his view. On the one side of the grove was a person
kneeling down, in robes, his left hand on his breast,
and the appearance of firekindling on or in his breast.
Over his hand, atadistancebeforehim, was an angel
with a cup in his left hand, pointingupwards with his
right hand. Over the angel’s head was the sun, with
the figure of a man’s head; one large ray of light
from which passed through the glass, held by the an­
gel, to the breastof the man, which appeared to kin­
dle on or in his breast. A voice uttered these words,
“ Come, sinner, get thy pencil; mingle thy richest
colours; paint thy whore with all her decorations.
On the other side I will draw a grove, and a sinner
kneeling down, who is ready to resolve with the pub­
lican in the Gospel— ‘Godbemerciful tomeasinnerP
On the other side a view of Heaven, and Grace and
Mercy descending down, in the form of an angel.”
Two days after, when Joseph was drawing the
above vision, a dove, with an olive-branch in its
mouth, appeared as if flying to the kneeling sinner.
May 23, 1803, the following communication was
given to Joanna, concerning her having been in
London one year and one day.
The Answer of the Spirit.
“One year and one day thou hast left thy home,
to give light to a dark benighted world; and where
there is a large body of people; but they have re­
fused the light, and darkness is come upon them.
For, now is coming, as 1 told thee, the end ofevery
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
vision; andhappy, thrice happy, shall thesemenbe,
who have begun, and will go on, till eVery curtain is
drawn back. Man asman meaneth metr,where it is
spoken in these things. One man can donothing of
himself; so where I speak of man, I mean men—
andthis hath hastened on; and these whoobeyedthe
callcameunto thee: for now I tell thee, andall man­
kind, now is coming the end of every vision: and as
I keptnothing fromAbraham, sowillI keep nothing
from thee, that I will do upon the earth.
49
The sword is drawn and shall go on;
The shadow doth appear:
And here’s a fatal May for men,
Who now do mock thee hero.
I said in Spring it would begin,
And it you’d see in May;
And now land back your every thought,
And all together weigh.
Becausejudgments are notspeedily executed, the
hearts of the sons of men are set to do evil.
So evil here in man appears,
Which did not hasty come;
But now 1 bid them all take care.
This is a May for man,
Wherein they’ll see such destiny
Will from this May appear;
And let the newspapers be kept,
And all may now see clear
What hath been done since May began,
And what is to the end,
Until the eleventh day of June,
And then behold your friend,
Wboeame to warn before the storm,
If they would warning take;
If they witt not, now see their lot,
They all wiU see too late.
For now I’m come to shew them plain
My Bible all isclear:
The woman’s promise you must claim,
Or all must perish here*
* J>
Digitized by Google
50
I will not stop; the time is up#
My Bible to fulfil:
The day ofjudgment now must drop,
And my avenging heel
. Must now tread down the powers of man,
That nail’d me to the tree,
Unless 'tis cast on Satan’s head.
To have it fall on he.
If they will not, I’ll tell their lot;
In justice they must fell, •
And they shall find the fatal cup
Is now held out to all.
The cup, you see, was given to mb;
And know ’twas mingled there
With vinegar and gall, for m k ;
Then now let all take care;
For I shall mingle it again,.
• I tell you aU, the same,
And point you to the prophet’s head,
And tell you all my name.
I now am come the second time,
In Spirit to appear;
And as my miracles were wrought,
So are the visions here;
To shew you plain, from every sign,
The prophet’s words are come;
And now I’ll tell you all my mind—
I’ll make a final end.
The root of Jesse doth appear;
And now the branches see:
The top you know is parted there,
And so the end will be.
Out of the stem the branches come;
And there the stem is two:
The man and woman now must join,
My labour for to do.
Then you shall see your destiny;
Because the cup I’ll turn:
And true salvation you shall see,
Is now held out to man.
Behold the dove, then judge my love.
The waters to abate,
That will be high, you all will see—
The deluge now will break
O’er every land, you may command;
The sword will hasten fast;
And as the deluge did appear,
Just so will men now burst#
Digitized by Google
1tell you all, now judge your call,
x Ana see the tree of life:
Ifyou stand there you need not fear; .
The dove will end the strife.
The news shall come from heaven's high Aronc,
I say, to warn you all;
And if you flee in faith to mf
.,
You need not fear the fall,
That will come on in every land;
For there the cup stands deep—
It is salvation now to man,
That doth my Gospel keep,
And looks to me redeem’d to be,
As 1did promise first;
And ntiw your heads you may liftu p ;
For now it so shall burst,
I say, on men that now begin
To see my promise clear;
A paradise they now shall win;
The tree oflife is there:
I say, for men the tree does stand,
And Abels it shall gain:
The cup is fury now to men,
If they will act like Cain,
For to go on as he began;
The fatal sword they’ll see:
The Spirit’s sword it is my word,
And it is drawn by mb.
And men began, their swords were drawn,
I say, against my word;
Then down the other sword must come,
And perish in the flood.
For now 1 say to thee this day,
Ydur war is not begun,
That in the heavens was seen by thee,
But now is hastening on.
The sword of war shallnow appear;
My anger fast will smoke,
Now I have shew’d you all so dear.
If men do longer mock
The calling here that doth appear—
Ye blind, begin to see,
And with your Bibles all compare;
For all these things must be.
For marvellous things I said I'd bring.
And you may mary|l all,
To see the likeness so agree,
And man refuse his call,
51
Digitized by Google
To cast his guilt on Satan’s head,
That he did cast on roan :
The promises you will not plead;
Then now behold the hand— .
♦The cup of trembling roust appear ;
So drink which way you will:
I tell you that ray kingdom’s near;
My friends shall drink their fill,
Isay in peace, when wars do cease,
And all ray foes are gone:
J tell you plain, ye sons of men,
The cup for all is come.
But PH end here, and say no more:
The vision there is plain;
But as the cup to thee appear’d,
Pll answer now of wine :
You all may fill which way you will,
And drink as there it stands.
If you do fiHit up with wine,
Then wine you may command ;
But if you say another way,
Let vinegar appear,
To fill for man it so must stand;
Then you may drink it here.
So as you fill, judge as you will,
I tell you, all must drink;
Because tb man the cup is come,
And aH stands on the brink.
I tdl you plain, ye sons of men,
I’ve offered mercy free,
And told you how I’d you redeem
From sin and misery,
From Adam’s fall, I’ve told you all,
If you obey my word,
To plead the promise in the fall,
To come on Satan’s head.
But mockers here must now take care,
It is not on your own:^ '
The lukewarm spirits I’ll not clear;
For now their hearts I’ll warm
With jealousy or misery,
For all I’ll now awake:
The sword is dr*wn by tny command,
My fury fast will break.
A fatal war shall now appear,
Since men’s hearts are so cold,
That for my love they do not care—
The mysteries I’ll unfold,
52
Digitized by Google
T o ahew them plain from every sign,
An<d how my Bible stands—
The woman’s promise you must claim,
And paradise command.
If you will not, now see your lot,
The flaming sword is neqr ;
The tree of life must end the strife—
*
My friends have nought to fear:
The Spirit’s sword by them is drawn.
And thqy shall conquer all;
Because they’ll see the power’s in n s,
To make my foes to falL
So now blame none, whate’er doth came,
I do you all invite.
To bring the serpent’s ruin on.
And make you sons of light.
But if you refuse, my love abuse.
And judge my friends unwise ;
Another year you will see clear,
That darkness blinds your eyes;
Then wise you’ll find my friends to be,
This calling to embrace;
And you too late will see your fete.
That do my friends disgrace:
Who doappear to see all dear,'
And gladly'hear the sound,
They shall possess the promis’d rest,
When Satan’s chained down."
55
A DREAM .
Monday, May 23, 1803, Joanna dreamt that she
was carried through *the air, and sawa dark cloud,
like the shadow of trees. When she came near it,
she saw two grey horses,that sprang out with fury,
and ran with swiftness through the air.
Die Answer o fthe Spirit.
“ Now I will answer thee concerning the mean­
ing of the two horses. Grey horses denote death,
. that is hastening on fast. The horses that ran with
swiftness, and started as though frightened, are two
Digitized by Google
great monarche, whowill start out on a sudden, with
great fury, to the battle ; and they will cause much
death. 1 will not tell thee who they are; but try
your own judgment; and know they were in the
shade, and started on a sudden.
So will two great monarchs start out.
And wars will fast abound ;
For all my bible I'll make good,
That men may judge the sound ;
And all thy writings F
’ll make true,
And fast will all come on;
Because my Spirit, all shall know,
Is surely to thee come.
Fil make it plain to every man,
That I have visited here.
And they shall know the end is come,
My kingdom must appear;
For Satan’s come to call his own,
And I shall now call mine ;
The sealed number, it must be known,
Foretels you all the sign.
For now to men I bold will come,
And let them answer here,
If such a thing was ever done,
To make my Gospel clear;
And how I am come to make it true,
And all shall know the end,
It now is come to every land,
And fast it shall appear.
But now if England will awake,
I’ll make the foes to yield:
Sennacherib here fhall not appear,
With all his boasted pride:
If England will awaken here—
You know what name’s applied,
That I compare, I tell you here,
With alt Sennacherib’s host;
But now ifEngland will take care,
I’ll rid him from this coast.
But to take care thou ask’st me here,
What care itis I mean ?
I’ve told thee, that he is" THE BEAST"—
’Tis Buonaparte I mean :
And if his death you will bring forth,
You must take care, and see,
That you do sign for Satan’s death,
Whose power isgiven to he.
54
Digitized by Google
t tell you plain, ye 90ns of men.
The mystery there goes deep ;
And ifyou wish him for lo reign.
And have his power to break
Upon your land, asnow it stands.
He will destroy you all,
That now do wish for Satan’s reign ;
But I m y own shall call,
For to get ffee, if misery
Doth in this land abound;
My s ea l e d people, all shsdl see,
Who listen to my sound,
I’ll surely call, I tell you all,
When dangers do appear;
And they shall make the foe to fall.
If e’er he ventures there,
Where they are call’d ; I tell you all
My sealed now I’ll free:
But I must know them by their namesp
Or this could never be.
Fornow I tell thee, there isa mystery inthesealed,
number, and the sealed people, that no man know-
eth. But what thou knowest not now, thou wilt
know hereafter. So take with thee every list, f o r
e n d s thou wiltknow hereafter, No more than thou
knewestthe mannerthe people would besealed,when
I told thee to seal up the king, and half the nation,
in 1794, no moredostthou know the mystery oftheir
being sealed, and of their names being given unto
thee. Neither do ye know what is hastening on:
But thou shalt be warned when dangers are near;
and all thesealedpeopleshall.be warned. But this I
shall explain more fully another time.”
Here I am come to the end of this book, being
one part of Joseph Prescott’s Visions. The other
visions and explanations will be continued in ano­
ther book, and some remarkble prophecies taken
out of my sealed writings, opened January 12th,
1803. Ana now I must entreat my readers to weigh
deeply the past and thepresent, and remember what
was said ot May; for let it lie known unto all men,
thaU//*.f xcarbrokeout in M ay; perfectly as I said it
55
Digitized byGoogle
would last May, when they signed the'ratSfication of
the articles ofpeace on the S9th of April^at Amiens.
I was then informed it was what would bring on a
war. For, as the ld02, was like the 1792 ; so would
the 1803 be like the 1793. Now, tell me, ye worldly-
wise-men, which of my writings have your unbelief,
or self-confidence prevented?, Imus t a.nswer you,
not o n e . Then as I see you err in judgment, and
stumble in,visions, and all yoiirjudgtnent is wrong;
. but the Spirit of God is t r u e , whom then will men
persuade me to rely on, God or man ? J udge ye.
When every truth's before your eyes,
O simple people, and unwise,
To stumble at the noon-day sun;
For so my writings now are come,
So perfect as the sun appears,
- And will you longer stumble here, ; >
When every truth is now soplain ?
1 ; you'\*e tried to baffle, but in vain, - ~ *r
_ • , To pfove my calling’s not from heaven,
1When every truth to me isgiven :
• * * *And so the truth doth all appear; ; • ►
; : / Andjiow’tis time to stand infcar, \
« If unbelief doth still abound; T
- Then liHetbe Jews you must he found,
1 I here was sent to vvarn you all;
•':* ' • JSutyou’ve refus’d the heavenly call; -
;\ ftopf youiselves you may takecare, * .
i Jf y n b d ie f can banish-fear ' . • , . ,
As/«ft/*lHnh banish’d fear^n # ‘
• “ 1 • JViyrock ahd anchpr strong I sec.' ....... * • 1
; ■ ‘ ; * JOANNA SOUTHCOTT,
Hlgh-HOusb, Haddington, Jane 2, 1803. S ’
, . ' ( L O N D O N :
Printed by Gsriabin &JMarchant, Ingram-Court; and sold bv M ..Jones, No. 5*
1‘Newgate Street; W. Tuzkr, Cliapei Place, Duke Street, lit, George’s Fields';
\ Also'by.W, Stj40NDs»Gandy Lane; and the Mu»s Evsilsighs, St.&dMfcll'lb
, JExetcr ^Samvel H irst, Leeds ;J. M ipdleton, York; and J ames Ljgh^
/ Coventry Street, Stourbridge, Worcestershire. *
- • . . . " n
i •' :• •; . (.Brice One Skilling.) . .. . \
Digitized by k j O O Q l e
