{"name":"Fair And Fatal Warnings","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1811__anonymous___fair_and_fatal_warnings.pdf","mytitle":"Fair And Fatal Warnings","mylang":"de"}
/
AND
FA,-fAL WARNINGS,
OR,
Visits _fr_om the World of Spirits;
BEING
CONCISE RELATIONS
OF THE
MOST CURIOUS AND REMARKABLE
apparttiOJtS,·
GHOSTS, SPECTRES,,AND VISIONS,
That kav• beers credibly attested by A.utlcors, and the
111est respectable '1Yit7v.88ts.
-
-
TOGETHER WITH
So,me remarkable Dream:o;, Impulses, and other omino~s
Circumstances,
WHICH IIJ.VE LED TG Til£ MOST ll·EMAJLX.\liL£
.DISCOVERIES.
The whole selected, and applied to prove the Reality ~f
,Spiritual Communication, and to -promote the
-~uaeof Morality in Society. .. '
LONDON-:
PRINTED FORT. & R. HUGHES, ,'J5, J.uoG.\TE·S·rRf:r."J,
'Bg LewislJl1d JiaMb!i?, l'utcnw,)·fer•Rrrm.
i . ... i . .'{'
...
I
. I
I .._
L" . -~ ·
o,, ''""a b,Google
f- 7 J
Fair and Fatal Warnings,
OR
VlSITS FROM THE WORLD OF SPIRITS, &c.
~Sl,at.
A.N at·quaintanee or the complier of these narrative11,
r&turning home late one night from a friend's house, near
Seal, in Kent; and coming through a narrow lane, hedged
on each side, was greatly surprised to meet a man upon all.
fours, that is npon.his handa and knees, creeping across the
path, and going into the hedge hard by; and his alarm was
much increased when he could hear no noise or rustling ift
the hedge. Though a man, on other occasions, very bot<l
and hardy, yet, he confessed to me, he was excet:!dingty
affi·ighted, Relating this afterwards in the neighbourhood,
he found many had seen the same, in that place, befotehim~
Anrtbuptist Minister's Surpriu.
AsouT the year 1789, when Mr: Wesley was first preach-
ing methodism in the country, and some .t)nabaptist minis.;
·• ters bting in the same plac~, which was in Wales-, one ol
his ·hearers, a very grave old gentlemaA, came t() him with
BZ
FATAL WARNINGS.
the folfowing relation: "That, being in his own bt:d-toom
and near lyiRg down to rest, he was surprised, uy hearin....
a voice, as it were behind him, say, "Baptism is binding
for. SaLvation;" upon which he said he replied '' No, it
is ohly in Christ's blood," and heard no more. Thus tha
devil, or his ag~nts, were pressing Anabapti~m upon the
people,
Steclcwell-Scene in Wales, in Ii 59.
TJtE disturb~nces at Stockwt:ll, near London, at Mrs.
(1old ing's house, were not without _preced,t:Qt: In the month
uf .May 171
59, at the house of l\lr. Robet'ts, a farmer in the
Jlat·ish Qf Langynllo, Radnorshire, happened as strange
things, as much mischief ensued therefrom, insomuch that
not the neighbourhood alone was alarmed, bUt all the coun-
try round flocked both to ~ee and hear, even from Knighton
;:til~ Carmarthen; from which latter place, one of Mr. \Vest-
ley's preach~rs came, coufidept ~f restoring quietnes:~ aoo
order; but bas attempts were kuatless. for, ~ftcr try1::~g to
ffatl the devil out, the book was thrown from his hand, and
afterwards found above stairs. During his abode tb~re.
many stones were cast about, but none were hurt, though.
often hit by them. This fatality lasted 29 days.
A 'Welch Clergyman disturbed in Study.
TaE Reverend .John Perryn, vicar of Aberystwith in
Monroouthshire, resident at Caermarthcn in • 17:39, be-
ing in his chamber alone reading Cave's Lives of the Fathers,
having occasion to rise, left his book upon the taqle, from
which it was forcibly thrown down, as if with violence;
l_>ut the Doctor, not thinking of any superaatural agcn4:y.
placed i.t immediately. when' it was again more forcibly
~hrqwn after him as he retired to the fire-place, opening
just in the middle. This caused the good man to muse a
little before he picked it up again, ofteQ repeating "De-
part Satan, in the h~ly .name of God.". To QOiJvince_h~m­
self it was not an acctdent, he replaced tt once more, stttlng
by it for some minutes. but as ~oon as he rose and retired
as before to the tire-place, it was hurled after him again,'
and lie heard three distinct blows given against the waiusr.ot
near where he stood. These circ?mstances, though they
FATAL WARNINGS.
dicl not alarm him then, as he said caused him immediatley
to· make some inquiry of the people that lived in the
house, wh9 told him that they had often been alar111ed in.
the' night, by the knockings and the rustling of somebody•
like with silk-garments, going up and down stairs; adding.
that these tokens were generally more disturbing near tbe
death of any in the family; and that the unusual terror a,od
tuieasiness this had ·caused, had occasi()ned the house to lay
empty several years together, before they came to it.
The- uncommon disturbances in Cromwell's house, in
Clerkenwell, was the cause of its <desertion muy yeau
before it fell to the ground, which la11ppened in the ye<K
1702.
Tlv. following l;act r·ecently appeared on t!te Evidence, 'upon
Oat/1, of a Youth at the Session of the Old Bail~y.
THE y01111g man being serva11t to a silk-mercer in New.
street, Covent-Garden-, was, O[)e Sunday entl'U&ted with
the sole care of the house. In the evening, having, as he
thought, properly secured the place; he ventured out to. an
evening lecture in the city; where he had not been lorig
present, ·when, by·a sudden and unaccountable emotion in
his mind, he imagined that all was not safe at home. At
first he paid but little regard to the intimation; but the
idea of a robbery continuing to operate upon his i'an£y, he
was prevailed upon to retire1 and_ immediately returned ,
home. On his arrival at the corner of New-street. he dis:.
covered the shop-door unbarred, and halt~open. On rush-
ing into the shop, two men ran past him with t.Ae utmost
precipitation; he followed fast, vying S~op thief! and they
were taken and conveyed to the watch-house. All the most
valuable goods in the shop, to the amount of several hundred
Jllpounds, were packed up, anti several implements of home-
breaking we_re foun~ on the t~ieves and in the shop. '.rhey
were committed, tr1ed, conVIcted, and executed ; Jostice
having been first moved by an invisible agent, who, like th•
vapour in the brain of King Abasuerus, the Persian, would
not suffer her that night to rest, till twa old offenders ' were-
f~t in her hands, the goods of the mercer happily saved,
and the integrity of the shopman vindicated.
D 3
JO, FATAL WARNINGS•.
Spirits in Mii1cs.
Tn£ instances of spirits in coal-mines are so numerous,
and as well-known as attested, ~hat one relation will suffice
here, as well as many. Jn the year 1771, Mr. William
Edmunds of Sunderland, an cild man, a very resp...ctable
freeholder, having occasion to travel late at night passing
b.y the mouth of a coal· pit, was not a little surprised to find
the people, as he then thought, at work; but on a nearer
investigation he found it was nothing but the usual appear-
ances which are seen in aQd near coal-mines'; all the work
which is carried on in these places, seems to be going on
very briskly in the night. Mr. Edmunds plainly saw some
filling the wheel-barrows, others carrying it in bags, raising
it on horses' backs, and the empty carriages going back
again to .be filled : but as the day-light broke upotl them,
they all disappeared, when' nothing remained, nor seemed
to have been touched at all. The pc:oJ)Ie in col\1-countries
esteem these signs as infallible marks of~he success of the
coal-mines.
Deut/1 in the Pot.
ON the·firstSunday, in the yrar 1749, 1\Ir. Thomas Lilly,
the son of a farmer in the parish of Kelso, in Roxburgshirc,
a promisi-11g young matt-, intended for the church of Scotland,
and who then had studied a considerable time at school,
bapptming to be at home keeping the house, with only a
shepherd's boy, all the rest of the family, (excepting a
maid-servant) being at se;mon; tl•e young student and the
boy being seated by the fire, wi!ilst the girl was gone to the
well for some water; a venerable old gentleman, clad in an
antique garb, presented himself,' and after some little ce-
remony, desired the student to open th,e bible which Jay
upon the table before him, and turn over to a certain chap-
ter and verse in tht' second book of Kings. The student did
so, and read, (( There is Death i11 the Pot!''
- On tlris the old man, with much apparent agitation,
pointed to the great family pot boiling on the fire, declaring,
that.the ma!~:had .t!lllst· a great q11antity of arsenic into jt,
with inlent to'Pi:ii'son· the whole family; to the end she might
rob the house of the hundred guineas which she knew lrer'· •
master had la•ely taken for sheep and grain, which he had
sold. Just a~ he waa so saying, the maid came to the door,
•,
FAT.A,L WARNINGg. 11.
announcing her aproach by the noise of the nails in her
shoe-heels.-The old gentleman said to the student, • Re-
member my warning, and save ~he lives of th~: family!"-
and that instant ilisappeared;
The maid entered witli a· smiling countenance, emptied
her. pail, and returned to the well for a fresh supply.
l\1-ean while, young Lilly put aome oatmeal into a wooden
dish, skimmed the pot of the fat, and mixed it for what is
called brose or croudy ; and when the maid returned, he,
with the boy,appeared busilyemployed in eating the mixture.
Come, Peggy, said the student, here is enough lett for you ;
are not you fond of croudy? She smiled, took up the dish,
and reaching a horn spoon, withdrew to the back-room.
The shepherd's dog followed her, unseen by the boy; and
the poor animal, on the croudy being put down by the
maid, fell a victim to his voracious appetite; for, before
the return of the family from church, it was enormously
swelled, and expired in great agony.
The student enjoined the boy to remain <juite passive for
the present; mean while he attempted to shew his ingenuity
in rdolving the cause of the canine catastrophe into insa-
nity, in order to keep the girl in countenance, till a fit
.epportunity of discovering the plot should preseht itself.
::>oon after, his father, mother, brothl'r~, and sisters, with
the other servants, returned from church, all hungering
after the word, and eager to sit down round the rustic board.
The table was instantly replenished with wooden. bowls
and trenchers, while a heap of barley bannocks graced the
-~: top. Tbe kail or broth, infused with leeks or winter cab-
bages, was poured forth in plenty; and Peggy, with a
prodigal tiand, filled all the disht:s with the homely dainties
of Tiviotdale. The master began grac'e, and all hats and
bonnets were instantly ofl'? "0 Lord," prayed the farmer,
•• we have been hearing thy wE>rd, f~om the mouth ot thy
aged servant, Mr. Hamsey ; we have bl'cn alarmed by. the
awful famine in Samaria, and of death being in the pot!''
Here the young scholar·interruptcd his father, by exclaim-
ing-:-Yes, Sir, there is death in the pot n0w here, a6 there
was once in- Israel !-Touch not! taste not! see the do,.,.
dead by the poisoned pot ! 0
· " What!,. cried the father, "have you boen raisina the
devil by your conjuration? Is this the etlect of your .sfudy,
Sir?" "No, father," said the student, "I pretend to no such
o;9,,,e, byGoogIe.
FATAL WARNINGS.
arts ofmagic, or necromancy; but this day, a~ the boy can
testify, I had a solemn warning from one whom I take to
be no demon, but a good angel. To him we all owe our
lives. As to Peggy, according to his intimation, she has
put poison into the pot, for the purpose of destroying the
~·bole family root and branch !-Here the girl fell into a
fit, froiDtwhich being with so_me trouble rucovered, she con-
fessed the wlwle of her deadly design, and was liuffcred to
withdraw from the family and her uati~e country. She waa
.&!On after exP.cuted at Newcastle upon Tyne, for the murder
of her bastard child, again making ample confession oi tile
aboye diabolical design.
Mr>Jwcph Glcw's Apparition before Death.
THis was a respectable old ge.ntleman, who had been a
~ord-hillmaker, and lived with his wife, and one woman-
lodger, named Mrs. Cooke, in the house over the arch-way.
in the passage that leads to Bear-yard, in Lincoln's-lnn.
Fields; and for the sake of company, the old man's nephew
abode with him. In this comfortable way, th.e nephew and
uncle were in the beginning of January, 1739-40, spend-
ing· their earnings together; at the conclusion of w.lJicb,
they generally read some good book or other, before they
retired to re~t. On the evening in q11estio!l1 the )"Ouug
man bad been readin~ out. of Dr. Coney's Meditation of a
Devout Soul, and had retired to rest before ten o'clock.
A little before the clock struck twelve, he was awakened
by the drawing of the curtain, and starting up. saw, by
the light of the moon, the perfect. resemblance of his uncle.
in his night-gown and cap, as he had 011 that evening he
parted with him to go to bed. The phantom had a pkasant
look, and seemed expressive of much sensible meaning,
but said nothing. At this instant Mrs. Cooke, the lodger,
came out of her apartment to light down stairs the widow
Spiller, an aged acquaintance of her's, whose husband, as
well a~ herself, had formerly belonged to the company of
comedmns under l\h. kich's management. Me now heard
the clock strike twelv<', which was in his uncle's room, and
also made an cflort to call out to the two women as they
_passed by his d~or, _bu~ _had lost all power of utterauce.-
fb~ ghost kept 1ts pos1t10n, and the nephew his eyes fixed
on It, and heard when the two \vomen opened the street-
door, that they called to tae watchll.lanl as he came by
FATAL WARNINGS'.
~rying- the hour of twelve, and agreed to give some pence
to light Mrs. Spiller to her lodging, which was but at a lit-
tle distance. ,On which she W.)nt away, anJ l\Irs. Cooke,.
having again fastened the door, Vl"ll~ coming up the stairs,
when the nephew supp<>se he swooned away; for, on com-
ing again to the use of his reason, he found himself qalf eut
of bed, and immersed into a cold and sickly sweat. The
first thing he heard, after he had reco,·ered from his fright,
was the clock striking one. He now '\ ··apped himself up
in his bed-clothes, but dosed his eyes rio h10rc the whole
night. About eight in the morning, as soon as he,beard his
aunt open the door of her apartment, he jumped out of bed,
and putting on his apparel with what expedition he could,
llurried down to her I'OOill, and, having asked how he did)
-hear_d he was pretty well. On this he to!U his aunt what he
ltad seen, with the time and circumstancea; but she, look-
iag~n it as fabulous, they ·called for Mrs. Cooke, who was
just got \1f', and she -confirmed every thing 'he had said c-on-
<eer-
Aiag Mt's. SpiJ.let' arid the watchman, a positi,·epr.oof he
was oaw.a&e auG! :ill ~is senses. The aunt now desir.ed he
- ...U Mit~ iilt 111111 •JU; 1111!1111CIIoe_. -a·IL!aclla hre p~ die
,.,.... Mit_. W w.ittW ..ad ~.. he aGid llnft' IDiilft lie ia
t&at .dtamh-1-, an:d: w-e-e.tt eat aoo.t: Pti$ basirieH.. 1'1!tf! SliiiMt
day, before one o'clock, the nephew received' a: messag&
from his aunt, where he was at work in Fleet-street, desiring
him to come immedi:ltely to her: he accordingly went to
her house, where he found his uncle dead, and was told that
he fell down in crossing his rMm, and. died suddenly about
three minutes before l.welve o'clock; .exactly twelve hours.
from his ghost's.appearance ttl his nephew. .
This circumstapce induced th-e young man to think his
unclE might want to reveal something to him, and therefore
desired to sit up with his corpse the night preceding hi.s in-
terment, which the aunt agreeing to, he fortified his mind~
and prepared a devotional book for his companion, with-
which he shut himself up in the room with the body, about
six in the evening, in hopes he might see the spirit of his uncle,
if he had any thing to say or open to him ; but as nothi'ng
occurred, during fourteen hours he was alone with the
corpse, the following evening he attended his funerat to the
north part of the church-yard of St. Giles's in the Fie!ds,
where his body was interred, J.eav~g behind him the cha-
racter of a good Christian, a tcuder husband, and a sincere
friend. · ·
....
FATAL WARNINGS~
.Assassination plot, contrived in a band-box, prt!'Dented by •
- · Strange Visitor.
A little before the dea·h of Admiral Sir Henry Kille-
grew, which happened at !lis seat near St. Albans, in No-.
.-ember 1712, the following remarkable presage happened
there.-A lame labourer well known about that quarter,
being very often seen watt:hing about the admiral's house
";a-s asked by the servant, what he meant by such close
attendance, or if any person bad promised him any thing
out? " Nothing," he replied, "but he wanted to speak to
the admiral, on something that very much regarded the
interest of his friend, the Lord Treasurer.. This was re..:..
ported to the admiral, who was then laid up with the gout.
He was accordingly ordered to the bedside, when he re- ·
• Jated that he had been visited twice by an old man, in a
g1·ey silk gown, with a cap like aScotcb honnet, adm<>nish~
ing him to go to the admiral, and desire him to write to th~
Lord Treasu'l"er. to take care of himself, and to cause all
parcel's leftat his boose to ~ c:autiou3ly.examined, as.dnth ·•
would inevitably be c:OnTeyed in ooe; and without great -
caution, much mischief must ensue. Thia warning djd
not give the admiral uneasiness, as notlting relatiag to him-
self and the pain be was constantly in, prevented his con-
!idering much the circumstances. Two days afier. ns. the
-old admiral was sitting up in his chair, happening to tum
round towards the door he saw it open ! and the ·ti>rm ex-
actly described by the labourer present itself, and come
forward towards the fire-place. The admiral .th?ugh not
-dismayed, yet had not resolution to speak first~ when the
phantom in a very faint ~·oice addressed him as follows:-
" You will be surprised to hear from the dead; bwt those
~·ho are departed, are not always denied communication
with those they have left in life. Calm yourself. and make
vourself easy; 1 am only come to caution by your help a-
\vorthy friend of mine, at:cording to my. promise." Here
the old gentleman would haYe called somebody, but found
l•i.s utterance and attempt stepped i·ri an extraordinary mao-
ncr; however his recollection was good, and his fear very .
much subsided, when the ghost went on u \Ve who are on
_the other side the grave, see much farth~r than yotl; and·
Provideuc~ to speak your language, sometimes permits us
to be- useful in our information.~, and·we may be b_elieHcl
FATAL WARNINGS. J5
because we speak the truth in awful moments, iti an unpre-
;udiced ma~~er." . . .
This famrhar address, though dehvered m such a srngular
way, and in a tone nothing like the accents of a living per-
son, yet emboldened the old gentleman to put some ques.
tions,.noneofwhich however we~e answered but in an enig•
matical and doubtful manner, and seemed angry at being
distut"bed on this strange errand, the drift of which the
gouty patient had yet to diacover.
" It is natur.al for us to have regard for those who are in
that state in which ourselves were once placed." said the
phantom; " and it is most natural that we should admonish.
our friends, and those who were most like what we were our•
selves-while liviag; to whom then can it be so natural for
me to bring a warning to as to yourself, who was once your
· father ; but the present caution is not for yon, it is for ano··
ther, and that. your own friend the l,ord Treasurer. [ am.
.:ommissioned to go to him in two days at the farthest, for
on the third before II o'clock in the motning death will enter·
his apartment in an unsuspected and conc.:lealed form. A
box containing the fatal composition of his enemies will be
then introduced; but caution will disappoint the effect~ ami
any body else may open it withOt\t any danger. Tomor-
row you will be easier, and do not delay my message, other-
wise I shall visit you again, so farewell." Upon this the
~ore withdrew, leaving the admiral in a indescribable si.
tuation. After he had a little recovered, he rang for liis
servants, all of whom he called up, but none had let in or
seen .any one come in, yet some heard like a person talking
.ia a low voice in their master's room. Being satisfied he
was awake all the time, he dispatched a fetter by a special
inesse11ger, and the next day being wonderfully delivered
from the go1,1t, he went himself in his carriage, when to his
.great surprise he found the purport of his visit anticipated.
for the same apparition was seen about the time it departed
.from St. Alban's, and delivered a like message.
This happened on the second of September: on the foul'th.
,all attention was paid to every parcel which should be
brought by JlDY stranger, when nothing arrived at the door
but a very small band.box directed to the Lord Treasurer.
A gentleman wbowaited the:re for the purpose took it from
the porter, who declared the post-man brought it, when, on
~pening it with great circu.!ll~pection, by cutting with a
pen-~uife the pack..thru.d. that fastened the lid, the tint
16 ·FATAL W.A'R.NINGS.
thing that appeared was the stock and lock of a pocket-pis•.
tol, tying across the middle of the band-box, and fasten!'d
at each end with two nails; on each side of the fire-lock
were laid the middle pieces of two large ink-horns charged
with powder and ball, and touch-holes bored at the but
ends of them, to which were fastened two linen bags of
gonpowder, and at the other end of the bags wete two
quills filled with wild-fire. These two artificial barrels
were placed with the muzzels contrary ways, afld the quill
of one of them directed to the pan of the pistol, as the other·
probably was, though disordered ey the carriage. The
gentlewan, who opened the-box, apprehending what mis-· •
chief was intended, would not touch the pistol-stock, tiH he
ltad removed all the other machines; then gently widening
the box, the nails which fastened the stock at either end
gave way. · • ·
He found the firelock primed and cocked, and a piece of
. thread fastened to the trigger, which he cooceived he had
cut in the opening. ·The srnallnails which fastened the stock
at either end were so contrived, that uy taking it up at the
first view, a~ it was natural to do with all the implements ·
about it, the cock would have gone down, and fired the whole
train, which would have.ir~Jmediately &ischarged both. bar-
rels diffeJ:ent ways; this could not have been avoided, had ·
tlre pistol-stock bee!J pulled out with any force, befo~ the
nails were loosened, and the thread cut which was tied ·to
the trigger. .
Who could tbis benevolent. visitor be, that took such
pains to prevent mortal mischief? no doubt can be ma~e.
but Providence permits, on certain occasions; good spirits to
appear. v.isible, for the adv.antage of .human life, .as well as
bad spmts to pursue the w1cked to the end of therr course j
as almost every body must have before observ'ed.
Joll1'1k!J of a Coffin.
M. DE PAGEs, on a voyage up the Mediteranean, on draw~_
in.g near the coast of Sicily, opposite the burning mountaia
on \hat islapd, observes: " We perceived something float-
ing along the sea, and moving up anrl down in its course-:
we ima~;;ined it to be the buoy that, had belonged to a ship;
but, o1i its nearer approach, it appeared to be a very haad-
aome coffin. It passed alongside our ship, and narrowly
watching it~ we saw that it made to the ahore,. whert it
.PATAL WARNINGS.
landed~ and then (as it conducted by an invisibl• pow.
er) steered direcdy up to the summit of the burninr
mountain, and iAstantly darted down into the. volcano. · .,
d Singular Dream. .
/
A LADY, of Bristol, dreamed the following singular
account: A M-
r. W. whea on a •oyage to the coast of
Africa, appeared to her at the bed·side. drew the cur.
tains, and !~ked steadfastly at her; she, k•owing bim,
.asked, with !Surprise, what busines.~ b·e had th~re? He
answered, " Don't be frightened, my dear, I iun only
come to bespeak a suit of clothes for Capt. S.'• and the~~
disapjleared. Th.e lady wrote dowa the time \Vhen 11ha
received the information; and Mr. W. on his return home,
acquainted her that it_
was then ~e was thrown overboard.
Th~ Demon .that 'attend~d the late Mr. Jolm WNley.
THE late reverend Mr. Badcock observes, in an ac-
count of the family of the Wesleys, that there were
,. some strange pbrenomena" ·perceived at the parsonage
of:Epworth, the place of Mr. Wesley's birth, in Lin-
colnshire. Some uncommon noises, he observes, were
heard there from tiwe to time, which Mr. J. Wesley
was very curious and circumstantial in examining into,
an1l very particular in• relating. " I have no doubt,".
continues he, " out that he considered himself as the
chief . object of this wonderful visitation." -lndeelj
Samuel :wesley's crc·dulity was in some ~,egl'ee affected
by it; since he collected all the evidences that tend to
confirm the s~ory, arranged them with. scr~puloua exact..
ness in a MS. conaistiog of several sheets, and which
ia still in being.' " I know not,.'' iaid Mr. · Badcock,
~· what became of the ghost of Epworth; unless c<msi-
dered as the prelude to Mle noise Mr. J. W estey made
on amore ample stage: for it ceased. to be heard when
he began to act.''
Spirit of a poor · man just decetued, appearing, is tile .
means qf a Gentleman's preservation•
. MR. Weston, of Old Swinford, in Worcestershire,
,was waJking, ODe evening in the summer of 1759, iu
the park of Lord l.yttleton at Hagley, and being over-
. . c
...
IS FATAL W ARNlNGS;
&aken by a sudden shower,. ran. int& a grotto, and stood
1p1der a spreading oak, under whose shade several cattle
were standing. He had not been above ten minutes io
that situation, before he saw the form of a man pass over
the brook alm08t close to the shade. Supposing it to
be a ~oor peasant who had long worked for him, he c;al-
led hua by name; but received no answer, and the ap-
parition quickly disappearing, he found his miml much
agitated. Regardl-ess ~f the storm, Mr. Weston with-
drew from the place where he had sought an asylum,
and ran round a rising hill, in order to discover the form
w:hioh bad pre11e11ted itself to him. That howevet' had
aot the effect desired-but one abundantly more salutary
it certainly had: ·for just as he had gained the summit
of the hill, on his· return to .the grotto, a tremendous
iaskof.lightning darted its forked fury on the veoera~le
oak, shivered it to piec~ ~· killed two of the cattle
wnder ita.b()u(J.hs.
On Mr. W e~ton's .return to Swinford, he found that
tae death of the iabourer .was jo$t announced in the
neigbbourbood. He told the story to his friend!!, who,
.a the credit of his known veracity, cvuld not well re-
fuae it credit. He saw the body, at his own expeace,
decently interred, and afterwards contributed to the
support of the widow, not only by remittit:g a year's
ent for her cottage and piece of ground, but also by
- lettling a small annuity upon her till she should W:arry.
We have told this tale simply as it was related by_
Mr. Weston; and leave the reader to make his own rt:-
Aectioni on eo marvellous an interpositi.on of divine
Providence, without deciding in this, or any other case.
whether the foi'ID· that appeared was the soul of .the
deceased, exerting its philanthropy in ita flight to th~
unknown country, or the guardian angel of that.soul re.
turning to gi~e up his charge, aad produce his account
at the bar ofthe Supreme. Whe~ Pe~er ,.as redee~ed.
from death, and freed from prison by a miraculous power.
he visited the assembled company of Christ.inns, who at
Arst could hardly believe thetr «"yes that it Wl\S the apos-
tle, but said, " It is ll.ia an&ell" Thia proves thaHhtt
notion of ministering spirits preyailed in the ea·rliest age
of christ!ariity, a notion which not only accords w,.ith many
pwa&ea of the Old:, but also of the :New Teata~at. ~
o'9''"• byGoogle' ..
·-.. . .,• ·-. __,..
:FATAL WARNINGS.
Rem«rlcable 1'assage1'in the Life ofan 1rtraordinary M•gic
Youth, while at Scl,ool, in a small Countr;y Village, •i~
tun.ted about four Miles to the southward of the Ri'Cer
Forth, near Edinburg!;; in a Letter from a respectabl~
young Man, to hi1 Father in Lon4on~ and in11erted in a
;Mi,rning-Paper in October, 1792.
Tu:& cruef propensities, says the letter-writer, to which
this young lad was addicted, and his odd and out of
character tricks, made him the terror, not only of the
school and his master, but also of the whole village; and
befote he arrived at the age of fifteen, the whole cGun;.
try was thrown into co~fusio!l by his deceptioua male-
volence. -
Sometime~ he used to fall down and lay motionless;
at other times, resembling epileptic fits, only at those
times his body appeared to be so stifi" that no -human
~orce could bend him, till he revivetl, tbl)ugh it were in
the church; if any one did but to11ch, thougi1 ever 8G
sently, either of his great toea, on the outside of his
stocking, he would start •P• and immediately fall baek
again. ·
From the time this youth bt:c~me subject to this seelll•
ing disorder, till his departure from his father'• bouae.
(as will be hereafter mentioned) be was often terrified
with _dreadful apparitiens. Sometimes calrea or dogs,
·without ·heads, appeared to their deluded fancies, to
walk through tae house: and thunder-storms were fre•
CJiient at that time. During one of those unusual tem-
pe~ts, the boy foretold that part of his father's hou14
would suddenly be thrown down, and .the event soon
justified the prediction.
This nobleman's house i ·as seated on an eminence; and
the apartment in which tAe younger part of the family
used to amuse themseh•es after dinner was at a great
distance from a parlour in which his lordship's company
were entertained; yet this youns gentleman ulied oftel\·:
to infono his playmates of the substance of the eoDver•
sation held in the parlour, where they were conversing;
at other times foretold, how they should be alarmed, jq
a short space, by his arts, which always happened as he
prof.nosticated. , •
1 ile perplexity into which the old gentleman waa
brou8"ht, by his son's mischievous practices, is not to be
describe4 • and ill llopes of obtaiaillC some advice, wbidL
c 2 . . .
20 FATAL \VARNINGS.
might alleviate his. ilneasineu, he resolved to send for
a parson, no:ed for wisdom, whe lived on the other side
of ·the Forth, carefully conce;1ling his intention, even
from the servant, till the very moment he set out for the
jour~tey, which was early in the morning. He also ob-
~<erved his servant':~ motions from a window, till he was
out of sight. ln the evening of the same day, his amaz-
ing son described the reception of the messenger at'the
priest's, and boasted that one of his invisible acquaint-
ance had spilt a bottle of fine oil, which the parson's
wife had brought out of the cellar. At the same~ime
he affirmed .that the vessel in which the parson was to
cross the water, would be terribly toss~d: all which
proved true.
Many persons were taken into custody, as supposed
accomplices, in these practices; an~ many of the great.
est abtlities were consulted on this occasion; yet no de-
tection could be made by what means this lad attained
this art, which so alarmed the same nei~hbourhood.
- At last the unhappy father was advised, by some of
his relations, residing in London, to send his enchanted
son to the East Inclie_s. This ad1·ice was complied with,
.and according~y he was sent in one of the company's
ships to Asia; where, by the interest of his relations;
he soon became captain ef one of their.country ships.
However, his death was as l't!markable as the actions
of hi·s life; for the vessel which he commanded, in fine
weather, sudde-nly sunk, and the 'whole company tterished
with him. There were four ships in company with our
enchanted captain at the time he sunk, whose officers
all agree in this account of hi~ exit•
.Mr. CIJarles Chale udmonu!&ed qfhis Father's Death, hy.~~on
Apparition. ,
On Saturday night lately, (1807) :Mr. Chase being
early retired to rest, at his lodging in Dean-street, West-
minster, left the room-door open, and a light burning in
tbe room, expecting his wife home from 111arket; when
happening to turn round, he plainly perceived a man
sitting by the fire, with his head reclined on one hand,
and his elbow on the table. Surprised at this sight, and
not intagining in the least what it was, be accosted it very
J'OQghly, as being some unwelcome intruder, or some_on•
sent up by toe landlord to be put in possessi011, which he
FATAL WARNiNGS.
swore should not be, as he did not owe more than op"
montb•s rent. Not yet intimidated, and getting no apo.
~er from this stranger, he jum~ect out of bed to turn
the "sulky fellow,, as he called him, out of doors~
when·the figure rose up, and with suefa an appearance •
terrified him to that degree, that he declates. he never
felt himself in such a fright ; for to! before him stood
tbe figure of his'father, whom he knew to be above thirtt
miles ott: The apparition, after seeming to .strike the
t-able &hree times in great anger, .stalked ot[ Just at this
juncture his wife arrived loaded with provision, and
finding her husband so much affected, tried to pertuade
bim it was his disturbed imagination, heated with drink,
had produced this warning; but he persists in the per-'
feet reality of wha't he·saw; and that it ~a~ the ghost of
his father, who died exactly one month after. Mr.
Chase it an artificer at Woolwich.
. Remarkable Drem;, qf an Italian J't!usician.
TAilTINt, a celebrated musician, who was born at.
Pisano, in Istria, being much inclined to the study of
music in his early youth, dreamed one night that he bali
made a compact with the devil, who promised to be at
his service on all occasions; and during this vision every
thing succeeded according to his mind; his wishes were
prevented. ana his desires always surpassed b)l the as-
llistance of his new set"vant. At last, be imagined that
.lle presented the devil with his violin, in order to dis-
cover what kind of musician be was.; when, to his .great
aetonisbment1 he heard him play a solo 10 singularly
beautiful, and w~ich he executed with such superior
taste and precision, that it surp&Sied all the music which ,
he h~ ever heard'or conceived in his life. So great was
his surprise, and so exquisite was his delight upon this
o<.:casion, that it deprived him of the power of breathiag.
He awoke with the violence of his sensation, and in-
stantly aeized his fiddle in hopes of expressing what he
had just heard, but in vain: he, however,. then contposed
a piece, which is perhaps the best of all his works; he
called it TUB DBVIL's SO:IATA, but it was so far inferior to
whnt his sleep bad produced, that he declared he w&uld
ltave broken his instrument, and abandoned music for
ever, if he coald have found any other means of sub-
sistellt'e.
c 3
22 FATAL WARNINGS.
]lfiss Pringle's Appearance at· two Places at tl1e same Time.
' .1\la&. Jane Lowe, house~keeper to Mr~ Pringle, in
Clifton-Park, in the south of Scotland, one morning in
the summer of 174-S, beheld the apparition of a lady
·walking in the avenue, on a margin of a rivulet, which
runs into Kale-water. The form exactly rt-sembJed a
daugh~er of her muter, who had long been absent from
the family, at the distaace of above an hundred miles
aoutb of Paris, As Mrs. Lowe walked down the avenue
and app1·oached the rivulet, she grew more :and more
certain of the similitude of the phantQm to the idea in
· .her mind of Miss Pringle; and seeing her master in
an inclosure adjoining, she communicated to him what
she had just seen. Mr. Fringle laughed, and said,
.'' You simple woman, tha~ lady is Miss Cbattow of
of Mooi':battle." Ho~ever, Mrs Lo~e prevailed upon
llim to accompany her to the. pla~e; which they had
nearly reached, .when the apparition sprung into the
water, and disappeared.
Mr. Pringle and Mr11. Lowe, .on returning to the hall,
apprised the family of the vision, and for their paint
were laughed ·at. The Rev. Mr. Turnbull, minister of
Linton, happened to breakfast that morning with Mr.
Pringle, his lady, and two young daughter~, :who joined
In the ridicule. About three months after, the same
~~everend gentleman honoured the family with his com-
:"'vany; when standing at a window in the low room, he
observed a poor, ragged, ·lame, lean man, slowly ap-
proaching the house. "Here comes another apparition!"
~ried Mr. Turnbull, with a ki·nd of contemptuous smile.
'fhis drew the immediate attention of all present, and
l\lr. Pringle quickly recognized the person to be his
second son, whom he had uot seen before for above ten
years.
On his arrival, he soon convinced them. be was no
apparition, declaring that he had uarrowly escaped '"ith
his Jife from Tunis, in the vicinity of which be bad been
a slave to the Algerines for seven years, but bad hap-
pilv been ransomed at the critical moment when he was
orJercd t~ be vut to death tor mutiny. He added, thal
on his return home through France, he called at the
place where he bad heard his sister resided, an<i to his
\lospeakable grief found that she died oo the 25th of
May, the same summer, about-five o'clock in the morn.
./
/FATAL WARNINGS.
ing, which he recollected to have been the precise time
that be was saved from the jaws of death; and when he
thought he beheld his sist~r. ~rs. Lowe,.::.:wbo was
present in the room, on heanng b1s decl;lratJQn, b1·oke
forth into an acclamatwn, afi.lrming, that the day alluded
to, was that on which she had shewD Mr. Pringle the
appariti_on; and this was _
confinned b¥ the .reveren~
divine lA whose stody t.h1s story was fwud after h1s
death.
A Murder duco'Dered.
A MAN was once taken up on suspiciot\ of murder, but -
when brought to the .bar, the evidence appeared not
strong enough to convict him. He behaved with great
apparent boldness, for he knew there were no· witnesses
to the fact; and he had also fakeR all necessary precau.
tion to preve11t a discovery. Bu' the judge obs~rved in
the man's countenance, a terror and confusion, which his
pretended boldness could not hide, and t~erefore kept
tlis eye steadily fixed on him the whole time. As soon
as t.he last witness was dismissed, the man asked if they
llad any more evidence against him, when the judge
k>oking sternly at him, asked him if he did not himself
know of one-more that could appear against him, whose
presence would put the' matter out of dCo~ubt? On which
the man started, and cried out, " My lord, he is not a
legal witnes~! no man can apeak in his own cause; nor
was the wound I gave him half so large as what he shews
against me !" The judge presently perceived' by the
man's starting, and the o\'ildness and terror of his look,
that he eith~r saw the ghost of the lliiUrdered man, or
that his imagination bad, from his guilty conscience,
for-!lHld such an appearance; and therefore making the
proper answers from such a supposition, he soon brought
the mnrderer to confess the fact, for which he was con-
demned and hanged in chains, at the place where he
declared the murder was committt:d. · At his death he
averred, t-hat the ghost of the murdered person had ap-
peared before his eyes at the trial. ·
Lord Mohun's Appearance to his ~Mistress, on t!Je Morning ·
l1e wa.s nwt·dered.'
LoaD MoHt!N was a fashionable youni gentleman, ia.
the days of .king Charles the F'irst. According to the
FATAL WARNINGS.
custolrl of that tinte, his sense of honour led hitn to resent;.
in a· serious manner, an affront, whicb. had produced a.
quarrel between him and a person of the fir• quality,
though a foreigner in this kingdom. By appointmen&
tbey met in Cht'lsea-fields, nea•· a place called Ebery-
farm, and wller~ Lord .Mobun was killed, bot not with-
out suspicions of foal play.
At the same ti~, Lord Mohun kept eompany with a
certain lady, whom he entertained in genteel lodgings.
in Jame11-street, Covent-garden; Lord Mohon was mur-
dered about ten o'clock in the morning; ~nd at the very
time, llis mistress being in bed, saw him. come to her
bedside, draw the curtains, look upon her, and go away :
aha called after him, bat received no aos~er; she theo
rung for her inaid, and asked her for Lord Mohon ;
but the woman replied, she did not see him, and had
t ..e key of the cbamber-door in her pocket. This ac-
count wa.s attested, by the lady and her maid, to Mr.
Aubrey, who relates it in his Miscellanies.
About the same time, Mr. Brown, brother-in-law to
.l-ord Conningsby, discovered bis being murdered te
,Several of his friends. And Mr. Glanville relates. that
hi,s ~pparition was,seen by his sister and .her master tb~
dwelling in Fleet-street, at the very hour and miaute 1\e
WM killed in Herefordshire, which happened in 16!1:.1.
This circumstance was much ~Iked of at that time.. .
.A Murderer that could not e1cape.
A cnli.AT criminal, one John Potterdale, a ·publican
in Vine-street, Westminster, who was hanged in Oc•.
tober, 1727, for the murder of his wife. Whea in
Newgate, ahd after trial, being asked why he .did not
endeavour to make his escape after he hd committed the
ftlct, instead of continuing in the room with his mur.
dered wife?_he replied .that he intendell, to go away, but
as often as he attempted tg withdfaW, be ckarly and
distinctly heard his wife's voice, saying.: " John, John,
iU>p, and see what you have done! You shan't and can·
"l
gor" and from that instant he had no power to stir.
Remarkable Disc~Wery of a Ml.trder.
A GBNTLEMAN, in good circumstances, about the year
1640, murdered his friend~ a man in business,- near ll\1\T'"
FATAL WARNINGS. 2!i
church, in Cheapsirle, anti with ·
such circumstances of
malice, revenge, and cruelty, as made it impos;:ible fur
him to expect.any ·mercy. He therefore made his e~cape
into France, where he li\·ed for some years. But ft'Orn
the horrors of his guilty conscience, which almost every
night presented before his eyes, whether sleeping or
waking, his murdered friend, he fdt ten-fold the pu-
nishment, which, by flight, h~ vainly hoped to escape.
After twenty years rdidence, or rather wandering
abroad, through most part of Europe, he .resolved to
Yenture back into England. He changed hiR name; and
when timt>, and the .change of climattJs had altered his I
person, he doubted not but he might, in some retired
part of his own country, wear out the remainder of his
days, and perhaps recover that pP.acc of mind which he
had there left behind him. But public justice, thou~h
slow, at last overtook him; for the very evening that he
landed in ·a wherry at Queeohithe-slairs, walking up t&
Cbeapside, in order to get ihto a coach, justin the dusl.:,
,..- and by the very door of his murdered friend~ he heard a
voice cry out, "Stop him, stop him! there he is!" On
this' he ran as fast as he was able~ and soon found himself
followed by a large mob. He was quickly overtaken and
seized, on which he cried out, " [ confess the fact, I
am the man that did· it." The rnoh ~aiq, that as he had
confessed•the crime, they would proceed to execution ;
and after making him refu.nd the stolen goods, would
give him the discipline of pumping, kenneling,. and the
lllke; on which he said he had stolen nQthitag, for though
he bad murdered Mr. L---, vet he had no inten-
tion of robbing his house~ By this. answer, the mob
found themsetves mistaken•. for they wer.e pursuing a
pick·pocket, and Feeing t-his man run hard, believed
him to be the culprit; but uo\V were for letting him g()
-es a l'f'r~on distracted, that knew not what he said. One.
man, however. who lived ir. that neighbourhood, and'
had heard ofthe murder o(Mr. L----, de~ired that
this gentleman might ·be examined before a magistrate;.
and he was accordingly carried before the Lord-mayor..,
who took his confession of the tact, tor which he was
soon after han~ed : and he declared at tbe gallows, that
the day of his execution was the happiest he had known
since he had committed that ho~rid, treacherous, inhuma!\
act, the ·murder of a friend.. to whom he lay un(lt:r. the
highest obligations.
FATAL WARNINGS.
A Mu1dcr di~cot·ered in a Prayer-book.. a~Netttl fron¥
~11oreton, and Dr. H. More.
IN the north of England, the minister ef a country.
parish-t'hurch, before he began to read the prayers, saw
a paper lying in his book, which he supposed to be the
bans of mar•·iage. He opened it, and saw written, ia
a fair and distinct hand, w01·us to the following purport~
,., That John P. and James D. had murdered a travelling
man, had robbed him of his effects,. and buried him in
such an orchat·d." The minister was ex!;J'emely startled.
and asked his clerk hastily, if ht: had pJaced any paper-
in the prayer- book. The clerk declared he had not;
but the niinister prudently concealed the contents of the·
paper, for the two names therein contained were those- ·
of the clerk and the sext<m of the church.
The mtnister then went directly to 11 magistrate, to)~
him what had happened, and took the paper out of hi•
pocket to read tt; when to his great surprise, no'tbing.
appeared thereon, but it wa~ a plain piece uf white
paper ! The justice, on this, accused the R1inister of
whim and faiH'y, and~ald that his head must certainly
.have been distempered, when he imagined such strange-
contents upofl.a blank pi-ece of paper-. The good· Clergy-
••an plainly saw the hand of God in this matter, and by
· earnest entreaties prevailed on the justiee to {,{rant his
· 'varraQt against the clerk anti sexton; who we1·e takeD.
up an suspicion, and separately confined and examined J
when so many contradictions appeared in their examina-
tion-for the sexton. who kept an aleholls~, owned the
having lodged such a man at his hot1se, and the clerk said
he was that evenin~ at the sexton's, but no such man-
was there-that it was tb~mght propel' to search their·
houses, in which were found several pieces of ~old, and
goods belonging to men that travel the country:. yet the)t
gave so tolerable an account of these, that no positive
proof coutd be made out, till the clergyman,. recollecting
that the paper mentioned the dead body to be buried in.
sueb an orchard, a circumstance which had before slipped
his Qlemory~ th& place was searched. and the body was
found: on hearing- which the sex.ton confessed the fact..
accusing. the clerk as his accoa1pli::e ~ aud they wcra
both accordingly executed•.
~AT"L WARNINGS.
Judge Halu, anfll Witchcraft.
WliEN Mr. Hale was studeat at Oxford, he and SOlrle
-other young gentlemen, his friends, being out on a
ahootiog-party, became much fatigued, and wanted sorne
refreahment; and meeting with a public house, they
agreed to go in and get suck as it produced: but upon
enquiry among one another, it appeued that none of
.the party bad any money ! Invention, therefore, was
ueceuary; and Mr llale seeing a miserable old-trotting
femate sitting ;n the chimney-corner, he en_
quired the
cause of aer condition.--she had been sorely aftlicted,
she saitl, for more than a whole year, with the ague, .
w.bich baftJed all the skill of the dOc:t..rs. Mr• Hale iat..
mediately declared be would remcwe her complaint- ia
ten days time, and accordingly got a pair of aciasan, and
cllttini out a circular piece of paper, wrete a line in
Vir~ril in the margin thereof, and hid her wear it about
ber neck, The old woman had faith ; and the stodents-
,could not prevail on her to take wbtlt. they olfili'ed; ltut
what they bad not to 'giv.e, When Mr. Hale became
Lord Chief Justice, a woman was brought before him
for trial, charged with being guilty of witchcraft, &c.
Iii• Lordship was very unwilling to try> and ._ach more
to condemn, a poor innucent wornaa (for he was too good·
a {»hilosopher not to sa~pect the weakn~• of. the poor
-cr~re ;) be therefor•-ask_
ed in what instance the pri-
soner seemed particularly criminal. ller accusers said,
among other things, that she. had a charm whe~by she
c.ured agues, which· never returned. TIHI judge called•
upoD the old woman to answer to the charge, and she
booeatly owQed that it was true, but ab110lutely denied
that abe possessed any supernatural power,- but did it
merely by means- of a' bit of parchment, or paper, on·
which was written 110mething which she did not Uftder-
.ataod, and which -paper had c:qred her mother of a most
obstinate ague, and wu given to ber by her mother as
a rare and valuable legacy, which she had received from
a young gentleman of Oxford. The Chief Justice re-
~~Uirtld the womaD to produce thtt charm, and was con-
finned in his suspicion ; for be·found it to be the very
charm witb which be btad sobdaed- bis own aDd his com-
pa..ion8' hungry appetite~ !-It is aliiiOit needleas to add,
that the Witch eteaped tbcf-. tryin&-pool, and the judge
found a -pleuiag opportanity t4 tliacbarge the prisoner_,
aad &o compeasate for his youthful frolic.
o'9'''Z< byGoogle _
21 FATAL WARNINGS.
. T/1e Farmer's Dream.'
. AT a little Tillage about.fifty miles from lAndon, li,·cd
an honest, but very poor farmer; be, with much ado,
k~pt his wife and three children from a;tarving; thus
con.ent, and even happy in poverty, they lived ; till
the cruel avarice of their hard· hearted landlord was
going to tll'l'n tbe!D out of their little cof for a quarteT'i
rent, though he well knew the season had been very un.
favour;ible for the industrious husbandman.
During this perplexity, he dreamed, if he would go
to a cutain place in London, he should hear of sometbiag
to his advantage. · He told his wife this, but she lookerl
on it as the effect of an uneasy mind, and persuaded him
from it; till having dreamed it twice again, he deter-
mined to go, notwithstanding all the remonstrances of,
his wife: having, therefore, gathered as much money a\
he could, to support the farnily in his absence, ·he, one
nne alorniog, set ou~ on his long journey. .
The lerigth of the way was beguilftd by tile surprising
success he should meet with on bis arrival in the great .
l)'letropolis; and though clothed in rags, and only twelve
s.hillings in his pocket, cheerfully prosecuted his march
for two «<ays; at the expiration of which time he found
}Jimself on London-bridge.
He then enquired for the street that was to make his
foJ!tune for ever, and easily found it. Now was he greatly
surprised to think, in so narrow a place, ami so mean
inhabitants, that it .wo•lld be possible for him to attain
bis wished-for ends. However, be contill'lled his walk
backwards and forwards, for the space of two days and
a half, resolving, if possible, not to go back without his•
errand, nor quit the spot he had so often visit~ in his
sleep•
. About the close of the second. day, a young fellow
from ~ . little bardware--shop, ·asked him if he wanted any
body in that neighbourhood, for be had .observed him
walking a.bout a coo,siderable time; be loog hesitated,
but at .lillit he told. him .it was in consequence of a dream,
tpat he should, on that sppt, hear of.something to his ad··
nntage: the mao listened very attentively. and' at length
smiling assured him, there was notbi11g worth mindiag in
~rea~; for, continued be~ ' i£ I had not known ·better, I
might. by this time have been digging. in farmer Dent's
1roupd at a little viUage ill Buck•, for !l coosillerablcs aum
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
J
•
FATAL WARNlNGS. ~~:
ot~ n;on.eythat lies undtJr a pear-tree in the middle of the.
garden. This, my friend, says he, I have dreamt three ,
times over; but as I have .no faith in dreams, I shall
never trouble myself to go in search of it. ·
Scarcely able to co11tain hisj~y at hearing his O'_VI\
name andjlace of jbode ruent1oned, he thanked htm
kindly, an promise 'to set·k no longer the vain pursuits ·
of an idle dream, but would hasten to his anxious family,
whom he supposed, by tbis time, missed bia daily labour:s.
Fully possessed that this was the grand advantage ~e
was to meet with, you may readily imagin.e he ~~~~ no
time to gain1his littl~,cot; bl!t so great was his pruaenc.e,
that when he arrived tht>r~, he did not, as. many poor .
people would dp, directly divulge ihe :>e,cret. but see!V~:1l
quite composed and easy, rather tired than otherwise, as
may be imagined after so long a walk.
HoweYer, the children were no sooaer in bed. than he
told his wife the ~uccess of his journey, and his uetermi.
nation to try whdher it "·a~ so or no. ·
, Accordingly they sallied forth with pickaxe and spatltl,. "
in search of this inestimable treasure; long time they dug,
till the spade seemed to be stopped in it progress by some·
thing hard; this..present-ly l'evived their ·almost dyiug
hop!is, aad they, '!Vith difficulty, rais~:d .a larie !PO~
with a copper plate oYer i't, aud·an insqip,tion in Liltin,~ ;,
which they did not un~er,sta11d i however, they. preljf:rved
it for the inspection of some scholar.11, )<Vho fre~i!Mly. ··
came there to taste the farr11er'' gooc;l aJe. ,A.secorid PP~ · :1
of t ..e same.kind fin ished their !learch; and now rejoicing .
in their riches, they both agreea inere was something in
dreams that should be obsehedr ·.· '
, I
Figurative Vision.
The mother of Wiliiam the Cooq1.leror dreamed, \\'hen ,
she wa ~ big with child of him, t\lN~ h!'r bowels were ex..
tended all over Normandy and Eoglan~. This dream 1
was fulfilled in a manner the most remarkable, wh._\l.j )
after defeatin~ ,IlaroJd, at a place called Battle, near
Hastings, in Sussex, hi\ subdued the whol~ kin~om, )!
and en~laved the greatest part of the natiy~s 9f ,Eng! nl!, 1 J
) ' I ' I
Another. .
;J I • '
THB night betore l>olicrates, king of Samos, went dowQ
D
o'9''"• byGoogle'
39. FATAL WARNINCS.
to go to Orestes,· the ·Jieuteaant ·of Cyrus, Sardis, his
4bughter, dreamed that she saw her father lifted up· in
the air, where Jupiter:wlU!hed him, and the sea anointed
him. ·This dream was awfuily fulfilled; for as soon as
t~e king was in the power ~f the licutenan~, h~ caused
hun to be hanged upon a grbbet, where h1s body was
washed by the rain, .and ~is fat meltet by the sun.
Solution of. a» ertraoidinary Dream.
'TuLLY relates, that a certain !pan dreamed that there
was an egg laid under. his bed. He applied to an 4n~
terpreter tor a solutio.ri, who a.~sured him, that there
was treasure actually deposited in the place where he '
dreall!ed the egg was.; he caused the place to be dug,
and discovered'a quantity ofgold. He then waited upon
the !IOOthsayer, and presented him, as a reward,·with a
few ·small pie~esofsilver, which he had found also amidst
the rubbish. The ciisappointed interpreter then said-
•• You h~ve given me a little. of the white ofthe egg,
and wilt you not giv:e me .some ofthe yolk a!sol"
,.. Sir Franci6. Bacon'i Drt:af!t. ,
Snt<
FrtANCJS BACON inft1rms us,- that beirig'at Paris, be .
dreaml!d that his father's house was all over daubed with '
bla«!k mortar. 'this he told to several English gentlemen,
who lau~cd a.t liis cl-edolity; ·however, in two or thtee
day..hfter, his father died1lt London.
: f . L .· ' ' •·
, _(;, . '· ..:·. 1. .... . ..
Two remarku,bk Dreams.
WJLLJAM the Second, calllild..R.u.Ws, one night dreamed
that the veins of his arq~.s.,wer~ h.r.o,kctt, and the blood
iasuedin abundaqce. Nexf morniug, w/l.il~t meditating
oo this' vision, one llobert Fitzmamr.nqn told the king
that-'~ ·monk,.the pa·ecedj:ng ntg~t, had a stran9.e dream. ··-;
Hettaad; that he· beheld the 'k1ng gnaw the Jmage· ·of· .
Christ~ (!rucified, and that· when he·',.;as .f.aooQt to bile · 1
away'tbe iegs' of the s.ante il)iage, ,Ch'rist wi~ti .his feet ·
kicltetl~.down to the'ga;Qttnd, arnrtillr'as helay upon···.
&he-4!a.tt..;•lhl!'hH:ame ottt of his m·rtuthc'li'· Aame~'3f'· fir-e,- •
whh \lD abundance of smoke •" i'ao !" said the king,
in a jesting Jllanner, H the JlWA\l(".,VOUid fain haVe SOme~ .
thing fQr tbia dream; .llo, uiy'e 'him ~ hnndr.:.ed ¥~Uin~rs.- .
:-,·~l;;b "ii 'Y·I' ,,~.'sr . ~ f'f.. "2f~A t<;:J !l.'1 ·Jsk:-cr~·tu1 ·JiJ .Jf,d l/t ~H J
' < ., ( l
FATAL WARNINGS.
but bid him look that he dreams more auspicious dreams
i11 future." However slightly the king affected to treat
these warnings, he staid in his house all the morning:
but going to hunt in the New Forest in the evening, an
arrow, aimed at a deer by qne of his riol1les, who aloqe
attended his sovereign, glanced upon a tr~te~ rebounded
on the king, and killed him on the spot.
Lady Seymour's Dream,
LADY S.~>ntoun, when a maiden, dreamed that she had
found a net with 11ine finches in it. And it is very re..
markable, that it actually happened afterwards, she mar-
ried the Earl of Winchelsell, whose mim.c was Finch.
-
Galen's Drell!lt,
G.\I.EN., the ph~losopher, being much troubled with
an inflammation .about the diaphragm1 dreamed, that by
opening a vein betwee}l his thumb and fore-finger, he
lihould recover his health;. whicl111e ditl, and succc:eded
accordingly.
.A Tl·ue Propl1ecy.
THE celebrated Dr. Dodd, a few years before his tre-
mendous fall, passing by Norwood, on horsebac!;, was
accosted by t\vO gofp3eys, who ofteret..l to tell his fortune
for a small piece (I{ rno1wy. The Doctor jocosely in-
formed them that they certainly were not conjurors, else ·
they woult..l have known that he had no smrdl money in
his pocket. On which. he rode on faster, but was not
out of fiearing when one of the augJ,esses cneLI aloud,-
" I can tell you, that you will come to be l\augcd!
That's aii."-Alas! how truly verified.
Ominous Sensations.
A GENTLEMAN who resided at Bethnal Green, near
London, some few ye;~r.s since, was one evening writi1tg
in his study, and that he might not be interrupted, had
locked the door. 'Vh1le he was writing, he fancied he
beard some person walking in the room. He turned
round, but saw nothing. In a few minutes he thought
D2
'2 FATAL WAR.!"iiNGS.
'be felt him~elfpulled by the flap of hi• coat. He w.a.!l
now very 111uch alarmed; ·but being a mao of stro.ng
nerves and constitution, he soon recovered. In a sl11irt
time afterwards, he had a similar s~nsation, that almost
'dragged him offhis chair. He then was much frighten~;d
indeed, left the room, and went into another, where he
had some relations. They observed he looked ext~et~dy
pale, and asked him if he was ill. He then inforllled
tliem what had oc<.urred to him in his study. They did
all in their power to persuade him he must be mistaken,
and told him the impossibility of what he imagined, as
·the ltoor was locked. However, he was next day sei·zed
with a fit, while at the Royal Exchange, was conveyed
home, went to bed, and died in the space ~f three days.
.A. re111arkable Vision at Sea.
CAPTAIN Thomas Rogers, commander of a ship called
The Security, was bound on a voyage from Londotl to
VirgiRia, about th~ year 16g4, · -.. ·
.The ship was b~red in London, and b'eing sent l.igbt, as
}hey. call it, to Virginia :for a loading of Tobaqcc, h~d
no more goods outward-bound than about two .or three
hundred ton; whicll was not counted a loading, or indeed
ltalf her loading, the ship being very large, above fh·e
hundt·ed tons burden. ·
They had a· pretty good passage, and the day before
observation, whereupon the mates and proper officers
ltad brought· their books> and cast ~p their reckonings
·-with the C<lptain, to see how near they were to the coasts
of America ; they all agreed that they were, at least,
ubout an hundred leagues distance from the capes of
Virginia. Upori these customary reckonings, and withal
heaving the lead, and finding no ground at an hundred .
Jiuhom, they aet the watch, and the captain turned in
{as thev call it at sea) 1hat is, went to bed~
The"weather was good, a_moderate gale of wind, and
blowing fair for the coast; so that the ship might ha\'e
run about twelve or fifteen leagues in the night, after
'tht' captain was in his cabin. · .
He fell asleep, and slept very soundly for abopt three
hours, when he waked again, and lay till he heard his
s~cond mate turn out and relieve· the watch ; anti theu
he c~lled his chief mate, as be was going ofl from 'the
watch, ·a1•d asked .him hew all tbi'}>gs Jared ; •who an~
8\\;ered, that all wu well, and the cal• freshene~ and
o'9''"' byGoogle
t
FATAL WARNINGS.
.they run at a great rate; but it wa$ a fair wind, aud a
~ne clear night: so the .captain weut to aleep again.
About an hour after, he. dreamed that a man pulled
him, or waked him, and be accordi~gly awoke. I au1
'not sure, but I 'think h~ said, the phantom that waked
him bade him get up, that is, turq OQI, and.look abroad.
But whe.ther it was so or not, he .lay still, aud com-
posed hi:rself to sleep, and was suddenly awakened
again, and thus several times : and though he knew net
what was the rea.~on, yet he found it wa~ impossible for
him to go to sleep: for he continually ,hea.rd the. ,.j~iun
say, or thought he heard it say, turn out aud look
abroad.
He lay in fh.i.s uneasiness near two hou!s; at hut it in-
creased so upon him, that he could lit; no.longer, but
got up, put on, his watch gown. and came out upon thP.
quarter-deck, Here he found his aecond mate walking
about, and the boatswain upon the fore~astle, the night
fine and clear, a fair wind; and all well as before.
The mate wooc.iering to see him, at .fi.rst did not kno~
hiru; but calling, \Vho's there? the captain answered.
and the mate returned, Wlilo? the captain! What's the
matter, Sir? ·
To this he replied I don't know: but I have been very
~neasy these two, hou r,;, mul somebody, or my own
fa11cy, bade me turn out, and look abroad, though I
know not what can be tile mtlaning of it. _, .
Tht;re can be nothing in .it, but some dream, iiays the
n1ate. The captain rcplicu, how does.the ship cape ~
South \\'est by south, says the mate, fair for the coa.'lt,
and the wind East by North.
That'sall very good, rejoined lhe captain: and so, after
some other usual quest.ions, .he turned about to go back
into .his cabin; when, as if it had been somebody that
stood by him had .spoke,, it c~e into his mind like a
voice, Heave the Lead t Heave the Lead !
· Upon this, he turned again to his second mate: Mate.
said the captain, when.did y.ou heave the lead? What
water had.you ? . . .
. About an hour ago, answered the mate, sixty fathom.
Heave again, replied the captain. There is no manner
of occasion, Sir, said the mate;, but i.fyou please it shall
be done.
I don't know, rt-joined the captain; 'tis needless in,.
dct:d, I think; and was g!>ing away again; but was, u
5-to • .FATAL WARNINGS.
it w~re, found i~ turn back as before, when he said again/
to the mate I know not what ails me, but I cannot be
easy: come call a hand aft, and heave the lead.
Accordingly a hand was called, and the lead being
cast; or hl'avtd, a~ they call it, they had ground at
eleven fathom. This surprised them all, but much more
. whe'n at the next cast it came up to seven fathom;
Upon this the captain, in a fright, bade them put the
helm a lee, and a\lout ship, all hands being ordered to
back the sails, as is usual in such cases.
The proper orders being obeyed, the ship stay'd pre- · j
sently, and came about, and when SM was about, before
the sails filled, she had but four fathoms and a half
water under Jaer stern; as soon as she filled and stood off,
they had seven fathom again, and·at the next cast eleven,
and so on to twenty fathom: so he stood off to seaward
all- the rest of the watch, to get into deep ·water, till
day-break; when being a clear morning, there were ·1
'Visible the capes of Virginia, and all the coast of Ame-
rica in fair view under their stern, and but a very few
leagues distance: had· they stood on but one cable's
length farther, as they were going, they bad been bump
ashore, (as the sailors call it) and had certainly lost the
ship, if not their iives. ·
Now had the captain alept as usual, the crew must
have been "'It lost: the shore being ftat and at a great
distance, and the tide low, the ship must inevitably have
been a-ground in an in~tant, and tile sea which ran high;
-would have broke over her, and ~oon have dashed her to
pieces. ThP.se evi.l!l'were, howev~r, providentiaUy averted
by the captain'• remarkable dream.
Apparition of a Fatier.
A CJTI~EN of Milan being charged with a debt, as
owing from his dead father, and when he was in trouble
about it, the image of his father appeared to him in his
tleep, assuring him that the mom~y wa~ already actually
paid, a1atl telling him, that in a certain place, which he
mentioned, he would see thP. receipt of·his creditor.-
Awaking from his dream, he immfdiately looked into
the place, and discovered the acquittance, which the
creditor could not deny to be· his own hand_
. writing,!._
. This receipt St. Augustine saw with his own eyes, as he
·p01iitivcly declares. · -
.,
• W·,tl,
• I
FATAL :W-ARNING~. S5
Lord Stanley's Drtum.
WHEN Richard, Dqke of Gloucester ..was carrying ort
hi~ design of moQnting the throne, Lord Stanley o'e
night dreamed, that he and Lord Hastings were wounded
by a boar, so that the blood ran abupt both their ears.
The next 010rning his Lord:;hip sent fu.r Lord Has~inill,
interpre'tiilg the drea1u as portending mischief to 1>ne of
them; observing also, that the duke wore the white boar
on his crest. Hastings made light of the dream, saying
s11ch augur• were uncertai-n.
Next day, the lords were sumqtoned to meet the tyrant
in the Tower. The council being met, thll duke, .who
presided at the board, began·a ri'diculous tare relative to -
the sorcery of the queen and Jane Shore; Lord Hastings, _
rising to reply, was suddenly arrested by a gu«;lrd, whidl
the duke called ·in, ·and that very hour lost his head on
alog in tl)e tower; owning that he had unhappily sligl)tfld
·the_warning which he had received from h~aven, throuih
the dream of Lord Stanley. ·
Calipltumis's D J'eam.
CALIPIIUli!Is, the wife of Julius Cresar, saw her hus-
band, in a dreadful drt!am, lying dead with many wounds,
in her arms. Next day, the earnestly pnl:;sed him to
remain at home, and not attend the senate. Regardless
of the \Yarning of his wife, he resolutely went,· where
he was stabbed by the compirators.
A Robber!! anticipated.
~ GENTLEWOMAN, of Red Lion-square, in the y~ar
1792, was warned in a dream that the house was in
danger of being robbed that night by cer~l\in thieves,
who were waiting in a public house in the neighbourhood.
This dream had such an efrect upon her mind, that she
apprised the family, and actually had the gang appre-
hended by the police-officers before their intended at.
tempt; when they were found to be men of the most
infamous character, and 11cxt day sent to Clerkenwell
Bridewell, by the m;~gistrates of that diitrict,
•
.4 1trange Impulse.
THE late Rev. Mr. Harrison, the famous, orator, ~ing
in his study, i'n Sto1·e-streei soirie years, contiguous to the.
Long-fields, felt a strong inCii'nation tG take. a walli:. He
went out in con~equence of that secret .impulse, and
·passing a pond · saw a boy bathing~ who had got out of
'1tis depth. He instantly ran iflto the water, regardless
of his clothes, and happi'ly saved' .the 'boy froin being_
drown~. ·
Bishop Jc'Wef.
B1snor Jewt'l being 'in ·Germany,. 'in Queen Mary."s.
reign, dreamed one night that two of ,,.is teeth f.ell.out
·of his moutli. This he interpreted to the 'loss of sonie
dear friend!!, and therefore set down 'tbe E::xact time whfln
he dreamed. Not many days after, he rtceived new.5'
by a letter from England, inti'matihg the burning of
Ridle'y and fl~oper, two bi~hOf?s, wqo sufiered olartyt-
dom tor adhertng to the protestant faith •
.4 'Clt!T!!!J111an~
Ma. Lofant, a protestaut clergyman of HoHand·,.
dreamed, ~bout the beginning of the summer, ·ia the
year 1711, that he was ordered to preach. He excused
hi.mself, saying, that he was not prepared, ancl· knew
. not what ~ubject to pitch upon. He was. told to preach
· from these words, ln. th.e thirty-eighth chapter of Isaiah,
and the first verse, " Set tl!,iru: house 'in Drder, fo1· tlwu·
thalt clie."' He imparted bts dream to some of his friends•.
but concealed it. from· his wife; t6r fear of making her
uneasy. 'Tis not known. wbethtn· this dream made.aoy
· irllpre~-1on upon his ioihd: he was neither credultlus n9r
'·superstitious; 'but it is eertaih, that from tha:t tihle he
.Wlade all possible haste to finish his work, (wtiich the
Council ofConstance printed in quarto), and died on the
•evffith Gf August, ih the same year.
A Robbeiy;·
· A PuBLiCAN by the side of Fleet-market, atew -f.ears
ago, bad adream, iii vi hich he beheld a large pier-glass
FATAL WARNINGS. 37
broke to pieces. The tln·am wa~ repeated a second and
a third time, which induc~d him to s~e that the glass
wpich hung between the windows of his parlour was
safe. It appeared to him to be so, ,and therefore he
thought ao more of the dream, till one morning very
early he heard. the glass fall on the floor aud dash into a
thousand piece!!. Instantly runnin" down stairs from
his, charu~)er,. he pcrceiv~d the lwuse broke open: but
happily the thieves, being alarmed by the glass, retired
precipitately, without: effecting their purpose. From
that dty. the landlm·d, who was backward enough to be-
Jj~,·e \D visions, became a convert .to the doctrine of
dreamS.. and sometimes entertains his custOJRers with. the
·,story of the mirror.
MuterniJl Yision.
A Pooa but honest .old ~oman, who ~teJy lived i 1
G~eenwich, had a very U!lptomising sou. llallit:d Huwd.
wlio got connected with a set of despe,ra.does, aud in con..
sequence of his nefario\ls practices, was .several times
imprisoned in Clerkenwetf Bride~ell, 1\liddlese:c. The
magistrat~s 1>f-that county, in order to reclaim him, sent
him tollea,Jls.a marine: from which situation he found
mt-ans to escape in 1779; when, returning to London·,
be committed a burglary in Bishopsgate-:-street, and waa
-
sent to the Poultry Compter for trial at the next sessions;
toget~er with -a young woman whom he kept, and in
:whose custod·y part of tl)e gooda was ~und, which led to
a discpvery of the fdony. '
.On I he same night his mother at Greenwich dreamed•
.thllt ah~ aaw her son· in prison, and il·oned : she beheld
him ai&Q arraigned at the bar with the woman, found
guilty, ~nd. C(ln.demnt'd to die, whilst the woman was
acquitted. This calamitous dream was carried-still foaro.
ther. She saw her son. goi~g iq a cart to Tyburn, and
there executed with four other otlenders. The catastrophe
of this scene so operated upon her mind, that she awoke
ja tne utmost· agony, arid .reaoh•ed, without communi-
iiatirig Aer. dtsign to any of her neighbours, immediately
1•:t~:atla Loaclon, to try whether aile could bear any thing
~f her son.
· , On iDquiry, .she was informed, lhat John, which was
tlie. name pf the young mao. was in the Compter: to
;"'bi'ta~ptace she. instantly repaitcd, .arid was admitted.
38 FATAL \VARlUKC
·On h~r entrance into the yaru, she beheld her son ex-
' actly as she had seen him in her dream: declaring that
the place all ·around 'was just as she had viewed it the
preceding night. To shorten the story, she told the
story to the turnkey, but concealed it from th·e prisoner:.
who soon after, viz. in December 1771>, was tried, con-
·victed, aad sentenced to be executed. and accordingly,
was hanged at Tyburn the 19th of January, 1780.
A.ppeur.ance o/ a y.oung Won~n while ali'oe.
A vouNG woman wholiveo on the north side of Lonl'
:Uland, ia the estate of New-York, with a· lllagistrate,
weot on a visit about eighteen miles t'o _
the.. south of th-e -
island; and while she. was absent, &he appearetl to bel! .
master and mistress, as they were in lJed. .The magis-
trate spoke to her, ·aked her if she go~ saf~ home, and
she vadished iMmediately. She returned home fioou.
.afterwards, and was taken 'ill of a- fe'fer, of which ib-e
·died in a. few days. ·
. A ezergyman in Amef'i~a 8tel Aia Own ~aritiMJ.
A CLERGYMAN who lived in the Masslld\usetts, and
had enteJtained an. optnioll.- for more than fifty years,
·\hat the stories of apparitioni.were only· the vapout'S of
a distempered and weak ·brain, was convinced of their
reality at last, in the following mannep :-Being in his
garden,· he saw hi·s own likenes.~, or apparitio'o, dressed
as J•e then was, pass by him, and look him ful~ in th~
.hc'e. He ran into the house in a great !mrprise, told 'his
family whjit he had seen, .that he · was uoovtnef·d· of"h~il
'former error, and that he-feared he should lit.e bot 'a.
fiew days. His words proved· &rue) for be <~.fed. a short :
time Bite~:.
' .
. Suicide f<wetold•
. IN the night of S.undo.y, 18th March,. 1'188. the fore...
·10an of Mr. Philip G--; a master-builder, in Little
.Minories, owaa terribly ala.rmcd by a dream whicla he bN
concerl1ing his master's family. On Monda.y mor.nlniJ~
11bont five o'clock, 1M went to his master's ho)lS8 about
,bis· business as usual, and .being let in by yotdlg Mr.
G~, ·he e11quimi how all the family weral .Hannc.
F ~AL , wARNINGS. 31J I
~n told. they were .all very well, .the.. (or_ell).&n replie<J.- ..
be was very glad of it, for he hadbeen in ~,rri.ble agoni~
all$he.'' night .with ~reams; at whi<;h. his young ~as.~ ;
laughed. He then asked, .if ~is old ~st~r wa,s well.? ·
and was answered in the affir\Uativ~ Here!J,pon .tl¥1.}(,
went up; as usual, to· c~ll him, ~nd mis~i.JJg 4irn from .
his chamber, they se-arched about the '!u;~u~e~ ~nd ,at .last, ,
to their very great surprise, fC!~I).d, hun ll~ngi!lg ,in qi:~ .
cellar, with a piecll of jac~-line, . Jle ."'as .cut dowo, .
immediatdy, :ind a sur~ep~ let him blood, l;Ult tQ ~o
purpose. On Thursday /o,llowing, the cqro~te~:s.J~qlle~t
sat_?ii.jthe b~UJ.? il.
lld ~~O~&h~ i,[l tfl~ir verdict,, luna,w,.
··~' , , ., PJ!ovfdtmtial ·Jnt4;j~Jr8n_ce. .
Da'\_H.lttVEY, who was afterw'ar<hl fellow o( the col.
~ge of:physicians in Lou.don,. wiHle a young man upon
'his tra-fels, came to Dov~, 1with ~Q\De ot~ers, and there
~~~ his pass, to. the g~~er.\l,or., aa the .rest 4id; but
Te governor told ·htm 1te 111ust nQt go, for he had a
comnlission to shjp him!· The doctor wai surprised,_a1,1d
desired to know'-what he had done that he should detain .
bini. The go'Verttof replied, if was his ~ill to.have it so, ..
and the reason ~e'shoutd know hereafter, The pack()~
boathoisted saH in the imming, and set off, it being then ·
very fair, with a_U tbe ~·l}c~o~s 1comi>anions in it~ ~~t ·
ere long a snddcn storm iirose, the packet-boat oYerset,
! ,.. . ' , ;
and a.ll ·the passengers were d~owned. . This sad news
harlngbeen brought to·Do~er tht~ l)extday,.the govei:nor
then told the doctor the rras~n ofliis ~toppiflg hjm~ tho'ugh ·•
he had no re'al knowledge of hitti, only byitame ;, but that
tho night before he came there he was apprized in a dream
of bls coming to pass over 'to Calais; and warned to stop ..
him from proceeding. This the 4oternor affirmed 'tp
the doctor; and he blessed.bis good angel ff>r his' ~are
of bini. Dector Haney often ~elated thia st.ory to
·many Of hia friends itt J_;oridon. ·.·· · ·
Dream of a Lottery Ticket.
MR. BELISARJO, the celebratekl jew, so well known
for his great knowled1e of Hebrew, Arabic, and other
languages, and formerly a notary public, died on the 14th
•gf December 171Jl2 in the eightieth l'e&r of hjs ~e. A
.co. J'ATAt wAitN'IN-tis:···i
few moments ~rior to his dl~soiutio~t/ht rttng.fhe :~~'j~
at the head ofbt~ bet!, and dcstred tha't all hts fam1ly ~1ght
brimediatdy attend him; for although he was app~rendy :
in· good health, yethe was certai-
n he lihoLld no,t live a~..·
hour longer. He then lamented that 'he ha(l not beeri ~:
able to make- the leJlst provision for his chifdreh; but ·;
told thctn, that if they' could procu~e tbe Jtion't:)'J~,lnir~· ;
cba8e a·ticket in tbe vres£'nt Irish I~Mtery, {tlu; nu'~ber
wllereof be mentioned, observing that he had either ~ream. '
ed•if, or it wu so impressed on his mind) he was sa,tisfied,' ~
it wt>uid afford them a trifliogl fortune. His so!ls. tr:-ate(r ·
the ·matter' lightly.~He d~M within the tilne ''stated'.:;..;.··
Some of his friends afterwlttlk pmcbased tbe ticket, and
presented it to his .fat which was dra\vn a prize
. I
j
. O~!f t:bq~aad po•nds.· · ~~..
~/l<:;
~ ~
urarning of a ~furder, ~
A YtWNG gentleman of the city o'rDub~in dre~ed o
-night that his sister (who was lately married, apd lived at
sotmnnnall distance) had been murdered; and waking, it
gave b~ some uneasiness ; but at length dis'regaruing it
as~ dream, he went to sleep again, and the same idea Wa;'J·
sootl repeak'<f.. He tben got up, put on his nigjlt.gow~, ,
went'.t!) the apartn1ent of an old lady; and told . 11e~ hia ·..
'Yisions; witll. great agitation of .mind. She smiled, · a~Jd.. .
wdndering that a gentleman·of his understanding &houl4
. be:so troubled. abou't a dream, desirt.'d him ~so to heel.
'again : he did sci, fell asleep, a.nll dreamed th~ third ·time
that his sister was mudered. He then arose an4 4~11sst:4 .
himself with.all speed, ·hastened to his sister's hq~, ~l!Mtt ;1
he fountl her Out and mangled in._a _b;ubarou• manner, l>,y . ,
laet m~st cr.ud husb~nd, .a yapist., I~ stieD?ell th~y ,ba~ ,,,
b~rt d1spuhng :\Qout reltg~~ll.· . She JUft l1v~d: to sp~!l~ 1it
a few wor'dsl:o ht;r brot'her, a.nd thcne~piredof 4~~ wo~~~~~. 'lo
Th~· baie villain 'was q\Uckly apprehended, tri~, ~ptlj:u. .r
(nted. · · • ·
~ I • •. , i ,
l'tNJS.
I . . ·. , , ' : .{
,; '
I 0 • • • .., • • ' : •• ' ~ · , . , I ' . ,,:; J ; i ' : ~ : 1 '1
Lewill·uriHa.mblia. Prillten,_PatenMtcr--row.
Digitize byGO
. T .:· 11:
.: .r ;· v.irl ; ;,[
·.. •' ,! 11:.1
........J_u 1u•
gle
