{"name":"A Complete Dictionary Of Astrology","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1819__wilson___a_complete_dictionary_of_astrology.pdf","mytitle":"A Complete Dictionary Of Astrology","mylang":"de"}
COMPLETE
#Dittionary of 38tr GIC q12,
IN WHICH
EveRY TECHNICAL AND ABSTRUSE TERM
BELoNGING To THE scIENCE Is MiNUTELY AND CORRECTLY EXPLAIN EDs
AND THE
WARIOUS SYSTEMS AND OPINIONS
Of
THE MOST APPROVED AUTHORS
CAREFULLY CoI.LECTED AND ACCURATELY DEFINED.
COMPRISING
The only rational Method of calcu-|The Judgment of Revolutions,
lating NATIVITIES, according| PRogREssroNs, INGREsses, TRAN
to the Placidian System. sITs, and LUNATIoNs Embolismic
The whole Art of bringing up or Quadrate.
DIRECTIONS, both Primary|The Doctrine of HORARY QUES
and Secondary. TIONS complete.
DIVESTED of THEIR ExTRAvAGANCE, contRADICTIONs,
AND ABSURDITIES.
Tif|E WHOLE ILLUSTRATED AND EXPLAIN ED
BY FAMILIAR EXAMPLES AND DIAGRAMS.
BY JAMES WILSON, Esq. Philomath.
| -
3.0mlion :
PRINTED Fort WILLIAM HUGHES, ISLINGToN GREEN, AND sold BY
SHERWooD, NEELY, AND JoNES, PATERNoSTER-Row, AND
BY ALL OTHFR BookSELLERS.-1819.
P/.47E / .
| 24.9. 2.5 -
*
-
|
%2, l -
×3, N
- • -
9 ‘. A. C- * \
s' ***. #3 2. t
A'. CŞ''<''> \\ -
$ % (s rx \ >|:
- - ~ / - - Sc.
s O-C 34%%22 myH 732 A, s
* 2, 2%. 2% §
s - z - 2, 2% S.,
* • Born 7" of Jan. 1796.
22 24 2./*-xA/. Ab
\ Died 6*Nov. 1817. \
24 .30"A A/. -
2^2,
* 3- 2. <> **- |
| "S *: --> q9 &
S
|
* = \
|- - 6.9. 2.6
*wn
*s. becLis. s
– W O. -/ø LV <-T .9. 22 AV -
- A Z. ZZ * - A9 . .6/ LW. ->
> #2/ O. 4Z cy - Z7. 46 .9 -
4. Z. Z3 AV A3 . // .5'
() - 22. 34 .5'
\£- Z. 33 & 20. O .9
| 7 # Z. 3.5 y \ 2-2. 37 y \
D 2. 50 y
MVSEVM
|BRITAN
*NICYM
Printed by Thomas Chaplin, 1, Crane Court, Fleet Street.
PREFACE.
IF I had any motive more prominent than the rest
(beyond promoting the cause of truth, which, I trust, will
always be the principal) for publishing this work, it was a
desire to injure those harpies who gather together scarce
books of science, and hide them from the perusal of man
kind, merely for the sake ofgain, which, after all, can be
but trifling. Men like these are the enemies of knowledge,
and ought to be severely punished in every civilized nation.
This treatise will render most oftheir hoards comparatively
useless, for I have been careful to insert the substance of
all they contain, whether true or false (adding occasionally
some remarks of my own to distinguish the latter as far as
I am able), that every student may be enabled to found his
own conviction on his own experience. -
The System of Directions, both Primary and Secondary,
I flatter myself, will be found peculiarly useful, for they
are plain, and may be comprehended in a moment. They
comprize the entire system of Placidus, not only as to
Directions, but of Progressions, Transits, Ingresses, and
Lunations.
In this work no system has been wholly rejected on ac
count of its evident falsehood and absurdity, but all are in
cluded, investigated, and explained.
The most prominent parts are selected from the worksof
Ptolemy and Placidus, the first being the founder of most
or all the systems at present known, and the latter is
universally admitted to have been the most scientific and
rational of all Ptolemy’s successors. I have therefore been
careful to include all his opinions, which may be done
without great difficulty in a small compass, as he was a
very circumlocutive author, who often took a page to de
scribe what might have been compressed into half a dozen
lines. His works, however, on the whole, are valuable,
particularly his directions both primary and secondary,
iv PREFACE.
which I have here presented to the reader divested of their
obscurity, and difficulty.
The intention of this work is to render every point in
astrology as plain and familiar as possible, that the science
may be open to examination £experience, both in its
genethliacal and horary departments, and that numbers
may have an opportunity of applying themselves to the study
of it, which is the only means of demonstrating the truth it
contains.
As to the ridiculous idea, that it is sinful and presump
tuous, none but a very ignorant person will entertain it for
a moment. If astral observations were sinful, it would be
criminal to foretel an eclipse, a change of weather, the
time of high water, or even the time of day by a sun-dial.
It is, on the contrary, sinful not to study this and every
other thing the almighty has allotted for instruction, and
the ignorance of those who neglect to do this is their only
excuse, -
There is one great difficulty peculiar to astrological
studies, which has hitherto retarded their progress con
siderably, and I fear will continue to do so for ages,
namely, the want of proper materials. In all other sciences
every thing necessary for practice or experiment can in
general be readily procured, whereas proper nativities of
ersons born with any remarkable defect are seldom to
e obtained. A chemist can make a thousand combinations
at will, and a thousand experiments on each, whereas an
astrologer might pass the period of his life without being
able to make a single experiment in the way he could wish,
and he might think himself extremely fortunate if he ever .
acquired six remarkable nativities, that were correctly taken,
and the lives of the persons annexed to them. The time of
a birth is seldom known beyond the hour, and if it be taken
to minutes, the minute is almost sure to be incorrect. If
a remarkable character be discovered, the birth of such
a person is nearly as difficult to be obtained as the philoso
pher’s stone. The time of conception cannot be expected,
nor the time when the embryo quickened, and yet, doubt
less, on these depend many, and perhaps most of those
events, the causes whereof are sought in the radix. Instead,
therefore, of wondering why so little is known relative to
genethliacal astrology, we may well be surprized that any
thing is known. It is not impossible, that the nature and
PREFACE. v
fate of an animal are fixed long before it breathes the vital
air, and although its separation must occasion considerable
alteration, the birth is in all probability only a sympathetic
event, depending on other antecedent circumstances, and
particularly on the position and distance of the luminaries
at the time of conception.
In horary questions I have laid down the plain funda
mental rules from which an artist should judge, but his own
practice will enable him by an adherence to these, to do
this in a way peculiar to himself; for although these rules
cannot with safety or propriety be altered, they are capable
of many trifling improvements, which the student's practice
will suggest to him, and which no one but himself can either
feel or describe. He should never employ his art but for
his own benefit, or that of his most confidential friends.
In this case, he will have some additional assistance in his
knowledge of their affairs, but in applying this he must be
very cautious, and never quit his figure for a moment: if
he abandon his science, it will abandon him. The know
ledge of leading circumstances is only useful to enable him .
to judge of some abstruse parts of his scheme which other
wise would be unintelligible, but if he prefers his know
ledge to his figure he is an impostor, and will soon feel the
effects of his knavery and folly: for foresight will often err,
but his figure never; and however prosperous the affairs of
the querent may appear in his judgment, if the figure denote
evil, that evil will surely arrive, to his disgrace and con
fusion. In other respects he may be apt to err through a .
weakness common to human nature, that of believing what
we wish, and not seeing what we dread. He must guard.
against this as much as possible, and give every testimony
its full force. It is useless to blink the evil, for if the figure
declare it, it will certainly occur, and the more he or his
friends are prepared against it the better. Where mischief
cannot be avoided, or where the knowledge of impending
evil would greatly alarm the party, he should conceal his
knowledge, and, if any good can be done, rather strengthen
them by advice, than terrify them by predictions. Indeed, ,
those are the wisest artists who keep their knowledge to
themselves as much as possible : for they may serve their
friends more effectually by concealing the source of their
information. -
A table of declinations for the present ecliptical obliquity
of 23. 28' has long been wanted, and therefore I have made
vi PREFACE.
one to that obliquity, which will be found in the tables be
longing to this work. I have also, under the article “Tri
gonometrical Calculations,” enabled every student to find by
trigonometry, his right and oblique ascensions, declinations,
longitudes, latitudes, &c., without the help of tables, pro
vided the requisite number of terms be given to find the rest.
The tables belonging to this work will appear as soon as
possible, and at all events they will not be later than Ja
nuary next.
'I have here to apologize for sometimes using the terms
“attraction” and “gravitation,” as the reader will soon
discover that I believe in neither: but they are terms
generally understood, as when we say, the Sun rises or sets,
although we know that he only appears and disappears
by the Earth's motion, and under these circumstances we
consider such expressions as innocent and convenient ab
surdities. -
All that now remains, is to caution the reader against
those shallow characters, who think by rule and judge by
hearsay. Before he attempts to answer any of their objec
tions, let him give them a date, and tell them to erect a
figure to it, and bring up a direction or two. When he
finds they know nothing of the matter, as he soon will, his
best way will be to adopt the Pythagorean method of cure,
and enjoin them silence until they do, and if they comply
with this request, it will probably silence them for ever.
Should he, however, be of a more mercurial turn, and fond.
of amusing himself with the absurdities of others, I know
not where he could find better game, for, like Yorick, with
all their sail, he’ll not find them carry an ounce of ballast.
The most ignorant among them will be the most consist
ent, and consequently the most respectable; for, those who
have acquired a tolerable share of learning will be found to
have acquired self-sufficiency in an equal ratio, and they
will be always ready to expose themselves if he hold up
his finger. A number of these wiseacres, some of whom,
to the disgrace of literature, were permitted to write for an
encyclopedia, once took it in their heads, probably at the
instigation of some wag, to settle at once the long disputed
point, of whether the Moon had any influence on the wea
ther or not : they had heard somewhere that the lunar in
fluence was most conspicuous at the change or full, and it
PREFACE. vii
happening then to be near the change (which may in some
degree account for their folly) they sallied forth with an
almanack in one hand and a weather-glass in the other, to
see what impression would be made in the latter, at the
moment of conjunction. No doubt, they had predetermined
to sell their prejudices as dear as possible, and to be con
vinced at no ' price than some of those tremendous con
vulsions of nature which took place at the demolition of
Friar Bacon's brazen head. Alas, and a welladay for as
trology, the mercury remained stationary, not the smallest
difference whatever could be perceived, the Moon was non
suited, and the jury returned in triumph, singing “Io Pean,
Evoe Bacche?” - -
I would engage for all I am worth, that any man should
pitch upon the first rustic he met in the street, and upon
explaining the case to him, if he made any experiment at
all, it should be a more rational one than this. It would
be useless to guess at what ideas such men could have of the
manner in which the luminaries act upon the weather, be
cause it is plain they had no ideas at all. Neither at the
moment of the conjunction, nor for hours, nor even a day
or two before, can the luminaries affect the atmosphere in
any particular manner relating to such conjunction, and
should a material change of weather happen, it must be
owing to other causes. The luminaries operate on the
weather two different ways: either by crossing or joining
their influences. At the square they cross or impede each
other at right angles, and this is the strongest opposi
tion. As the angle becomes more acute, viz. as the Moon
approaches the Sun, this opposition declines, and when they
form an angle of45 degrees, wholly ceases. A little before
this time the change commences. The powers of the lumi
naries from being opposed to each other assume an oppo
site condition and become more conjunct. This will matu
rally cause a great shock in the atmosphere about the third
day after the Moon has passed her second dichotome, when
she forms her last sextile with the Sun and approaches the
semiquadrate, and a manifest change in consequence will
be clearly perceptible. After this, the Moon still approaches
the Sun, and their conjunctive power increases, but it in
creases gradually, and as its operation is almost uniform
until the third day after the conjunction, the atmosphere
can receive no shock, nor feel any convulsion, except from
some different cause, no way relating to the conjunction.
As to the opposition, it very seldom produces any remark:
viii PREFACE.
able effect on the atmosphere, which is the more strange,
as its effect on the tides is the same. Until, however, the
operation of the luminaries on the water can be removed,
no man, however shallow, or however assuming, will ever
be wholly able to sap the foundation of astrology. It will
maintain its ground in defiance of their puny efforts, and in
some future period, when reason becomes more the order
of the day, it will acquire more popularity than ever.
I cannot conclude this preface without directing the
reader's attention to the announcement of this work in the
Monthly Magazine for May, 1819, which is accompanied by
the following remark.
“We intreat the authors to reflect, that on the doctrine
of chimeras any other key will foretel as accurately as the
stars, and that on the mere chance, that any prognosticated
event may happen, depends the entire mystery of every
science of prediction.”
I own I am not quite au fait in the art of decyphering
this incongruous mass of ill joined words and sentences: I
have heard of chimerical doctrines, but never of a general
doctrine of chimeras, and the broken metaphor of the key
in addition to its being a very bad one, is wholly misap
plied, for I never heard of a key that foretold any thing,
whatever it might enable its possessor to foretel. Whoever
wrote the article, probably intended it should convey a
meaning something similar to the following. “We intreat
, the authors to reflect, that astrology is a perfect chimera,
that any other key will open to us the secrets of futurity as
readily as the stars, and that the mere doctrine of chances is
the sole basis of every science of prediction.”
If this be its true meaning, I would first ask the learned
editor (admitting he wrote the article, which I suspect from
its incoherence he did not) whether he ever studied as
trology sufficiently to know from experience that it is a
chimera,—ne damnent quae non intelligunt. . This I must
leave to his own candour, but in the mean time I cannot
avoid having an opinion of my own, which is this, that he
never could bring up a direction in his life, nor solve a single
£in the science, merely for this plain reason, because
e never attempted it. When a boy at school, he had
heard the old, trite, common place observation, that as
trology was all a chimera, and finding this opinion was
PREFACE. ix
general (although not one who heldit couldgive '' other
reason but that, “it was so because it wasso.” and “every
body said the same") he chose, for want of a little industry,
to remain a boy on this subject as long as he lived. If th
opinion be not an additional chimera, I shall leave himself
to determine how far he can be qualified to dogmatize on a
subject he so little understands. Just as far as a craal of
Hottentots would be qualified to decide on themerits of the
Monthly Magazine,—they wouldclap it to their ears, and,
not hearing it speak, would “intreat the editor (if he were
there) to reflect, that on the doctrine ofchimeras any other
ey would give as accurate information as booksand letters,
and that on the mere chance of a man's finding outan:
# '' their assistance, depends the entire mystery -
O al. t - - - - -
e knowledge they are said to contain.'
But the most striking feature in this remark is its univer
sality: surely no man would have the assurance todecide
in such a positive manner on the merits or demerits of any
set of opinions, however absurd they may appear to him,
without having some-proof of their falsehood, and I know
of but one that can be depended on, which is experience.
Has he really studied “every science of prediction ?” if
he has, it cannot be his fault that he is not a conjuror; and
if he has not, he displays not only a narrow and illiberal
mind, but also an unusual degree of vanity and folly, to
suppose himself capable of deciding in his easy chair, by
intuition alone, on the truth or falsehood of any science he
has never tried. -
s
In no case is prejudice respectable, and it is only pardon
able when known to be the result of mental imbecility;
, but when it springs from that conceited ignorance which
neglects and despises every effort to enlighten its own dark
ness, it is equally reprehensible both on the score of indo
lence and presumption. It is difficult to credit, what never
theless is a fact, that a person in this predicament should
be one of the first to perceive and arraign the prejudices of
others in favour of the Newtonian System, which he terms
“The Hocus Pocus Philosophy of Gravitation,” because
it is contrary to his own new “Rotatory System of the Uni
verse.” That the Doctrine of Gravitation is false, requires
little demonstration to prove, and that the Rotatory Doc
trine is equally so, and contrary to many of the known laws
of nature, is also evident: the trundling of a mop is a com
plete refutation of the whole hypothesis, and the retro
b
--
-
X. PREFACE.
gradation of the satellites of Ouranos, the great dissimila
rity in the orbits of comets, and the angle of the Earth's
annual and diurnal motion, must be equally fatal to it, even
upon the principles of the inventor's own theory.
The advocates of gravitation, although undoubtedly mis
taken, are more respectable with all their errors than those
who, forgetting that ridicule is not the test of truth, en
deavour to laugh them out of their creed, and to gain a
point by ''which they know not how to gain by proof
or argument. The former have at least made a search after
truth, and if they have been misled by others, the fault is
not theirs: they have done their best. Should the inven
tor of the new system of the universe ever take it in his
head to study astrology as long as they have studied philo
sophy (and surely he has no right to censure it until he
does) we shall hear no more of his dogmatical decisions on
that subject at least, and if he will but be silent until he
can invalidate Capel Loft's well founded objections, we
shall hear no more ofhis System.
*
INTRODUCTION.
THAT the stars have an effect upon the Earth and its inhabitants is
as self-evident a truth as that they have an existence: the ebbing and
flowing of the tides prove this, as well as the periodical returns of heat
and cold, light and darkness. These are the most prominent parts of
Judicial Astrology, for in these planetary influence is universally felt and
admitted, and its periods are accurately known. Thus far, at least, all
men are astrologers, though most of them have not sense sufficient to
discover it. Changes of weather, and all the various conditions of the
atmosphere proceed from the same causes, namely, the various positions
and configurations of the stars, although the manner in which they effect
those changes is not wholly known, but an attentive observer will per
ceive them, more particularly at the lunar dichotomes and sextiles, and
not unfrequently at the semisextiles and semiquadrates. Every sublu
nary event has its origin in planetary influx, and, as Locke justly ob
serves, “the change or removal of any orb, although incomprehensibly
distant, would cause things to put on a very different appearance.” The
dispositions, habits, and fortunes of not only men but of every organised
being that does or can exist, are derived from the same source, and the
infinite variety of action and counteraction arise from the infinite vari
ety of causes operating against each other, in which the less is of course
overcome by the greater.
The more immediate of these causes are the planets, owing to their
proximity, rapid motion, and frequent combinations with each other as
well as with the fixed stars, which enable them to produce and convey
a variety of different influences. Of these the luminaries are the greatest
in power: the Moon by reason of her proximity, and the Sun from his
immense magnitude and peculiar conformation. But to give the reader
a clearer idea of the nature and power of the planets, it is necessary here
to subjoin a short description of them.
The SUN is a globe, apparently of fire, though there is great reason
to suppose it to be a body of opake, cool matter, like our own, sur
rounded by a luminous substance, which, whether it be an atmosphere,
as Herschel supposes it to be, or not, is a point not easily decided. Per
haps the sensations of light and heat derived from it are only the natural
consequences of its vivifying power operating on our senses, and possi
bly the inhabitants (if any) of the Moon may experience similar sensa
*tions from our Earth, round which they revolve in the same manner as
we do round the Sun. Certain it is, that apparently no heat proceeds
from the Sun, as is evident from the accumulation of snow on the tops
of high mountains, in climates where the sands of the valley would scorch
the naked feet like burning embers. Caloric, therefore, must be pro
duced from the Earth, and drawn to its surface by the solar influence.
Hence deep springs are warm in winter, when the Sun has not power
to draw the heat from them, and cold in summer. Neither does the air
imbibe any warmth from the solar rays, which is a proof they contain
none, for the hot surface of the Earth or any ignited substance will
Warm it in an instant. -
The Sun is about 1,392,500 times larger than the Earth, its diameter
being estimated at 890,000 English miles. It is 1100 times larger than
xii INTRODUCTION.
Jupiter, and 2360 times larger than Saturn. Its distance from the Earth is
95,200,000 miles, though some state it at 98,000,000, and others at
100,000,000. Its rotation on its axis from west to east is completed in
25d. 14h. 8m. Its shape, like that of the Earth, is an oblate spheroid.
Its mean apparent diameter is 82' 14". . . Its heat and light, according to
Newton, is 7 times greater at the planet Mercury than with ns, and
therefore that orb must be in many parts red hot, and its water continu
ally boiling. This is a very absurd supposition: there is little reason, as
was observed before, to suppose that the Sun emits caloric, it only ope
rates upon it where it is folind, and there can be very little doubt but that
the calorific power of Mercury is suited to the Sun's proximity. The
mean daily solar motion is 59'8". The body of the Sun is covered with a
variety of shades of light, and appears very rough and uneven. Vari
ous spots are seen on it, called maeulae, supposed by Herschel to be de
#:in the luminous atmosphere, and by others, with more proba
ility, to be bodies of opake matter, which in time acquire a degree of
ignition, or rather they begin to be decomposed, and become luminous
like the surrounding matter. These luminous spots are called facula.
Herschel couceives the whole to be a collection of luminous or phosphoric
elouds, some of which are brighter than others, and that their distance
from the body of the Sun cannot be less than 1848, or more than 2765
miles. The inclination of its axis to its orbit is 82° 44'.
SATURN was formerly considered the most distant planet in the solar
system. His mean distance from the Sun is 908,000,000 miles, his mean
diameter, 78,000 miles, he revolves round his axis in 10h. 16m., and
round the Sun in 29y. 167d. 5h. His annual motion is 20,800 miles an
hour, he is 750 times as large as the Earth, and half as large as Jupiter.
He has seven satellites, or moons, and two rings, one of which is consi
derably larger than the other:- the two together are about $9000 miles
broad, and about 39000 miles distant from Saturn's body. They revolve
in the same time as Saturn himself, namely, 10h. 16m. The power of the .
Sun to Saturn is said to be only one ninetieth of what it is to the Earth.
The form of Saturn is the same as that of all other revolving bodies, that
of an oblate spheroid. His ascending node is in 22 degrees of Cancer,
his mean apparent diameter 18", and the inclination of his axis to his
orbit is almost nothing, so that he has no change of seasons: others state
it at 60°.
JUPITER isthelargest of all the planets belonging to our system, ex
cept the Sun, from which he is distant 495,000,000 of miles; his period
is 11y, 314d. 12h. and he moves at the rate of 30,000 miles an hour. He
is 1500 times as large as the Earth, and his diameter is 94,000 miles. He
revolves on his axis from west to east in 9h. 56m. His figure is that of
an oblate spheroid; his diameter at the equator being to his axis as 13
to 12. The plane of his equator is only 1 degree, 19 minutes different
from that of his ecliptic, of course he has no change of seasons. His rota
tory motion is very rapid, being 30,940 miles, which is quicker thai that
in his orbit. The Sun has, they suppose, but one forty-eighth part of
the power at Jupiter that he has with us, but the quick succession of
his day and night, they add, may in some degree make up the deficiency.
He has four satellites, and several appearances like belts, which fre
quently appear and disappear, and are supposed to be vast masses of
clouds caused by periodical winds or monsoons. His ascending node is in
8 degrees and a half of Cancer, and, of course, his descending node is in
8 degrees and a half of Capricorn. Some of his satellites are nearly as
large as our Earth. The nearest of them is distant from the body of
Jupiter about 266,000 miles, and thefourth is distant 1,189,000 miles. His
mean apparent diameter is 39".
*
INTRODUCTION. xiii
MARS is less than the Earth, his diameter being 5150 miles, whereas
ours is 7953 miles. His distance from the Sun is 145,100,000 miles; he
revolves on his own axis in 24h. 40m., and moves round the Sun in 686d.
22h. 18m., or at the rate of 54000 miles an hour. He is said to have
about half the quantity of our light and heat. It was generally supposed,
that his ecliptic had nearly the same obliquity to the plane of his equa
tor as ours, others estimate the difference of the axis and orbit to be 59°
22, but later observers assertthat there isno obliquity, and consequently
no change of seasons. His light is not so bright asthat of Venus, although
sometimes he appears as large, but he shines with a dull fiery redness,
caused, as some suppose, by a thick cloudy atmosphere: though the co
jours of the planets are probably owing to the nature of theirsubstances,
which causes them to reflect the solar light differently. He is observed
to have a bright part at the south pole, like a polar zone, and something
of the kind at the north pole. Maraldi observed the former with no
alteration for 60 years, and one half of it is brighter than the other.
There are spots on his surface, and belts appearing and disappearing oc
casionally. He is, like the rest, an oblate spheroid, and his diameter at
the equator is to his polar diameter as 16 to 15. Dr. Maskelyne, how
ever, could observe no difference in his diameters. His ascending node
is in 18° ofTaurus, and his mean apparent diameter 27". The Sun ap
ears to him only half as large as to us.
VENUS is next to the Earth, within its orbit, and has generally been
considered about the size of our globe, but according to later observation,
she is supposed to be a third larger, her diameter being 8648 miles; she
revolves round her axis from west to east in 23h. 21m. at the rate of
12,000 miles an hour, and goes round the Sun in 224d. 7h., at the rate of
80,000 miles an hour. Her distance from the Sun is 68,800,000 miles.
She seldom transits the Sun's disk above twice in a century. Her two
last transists were on the 5th of June 1761, and 3d of June, 1769. The
next two will happen December 18th, 1874, and December 6th, 1882.
When viewed through a telescope, she presents all the various phases of
the Moon. She is never seen above 47° or 48° distant from the Sun,
and when seen to the west of him she is passing to her superior con
junction, but when to the east of him she is coming to her inferior con
junction between the Sun and the Earth. Casini and others have seen
what was undoubtedly a satellite of Venus, exhibiting the same phases,
and about a fourth of her diameter, but it can be seldom seen, because
its dark side is towards us when she is in her inferior conjunction, and
it only presents its bright side when she comes near to her superior con
junction. She is generally allowed to have an atmosphere like to ours,
and Schroeter of Bremen says her mountains are 5 or 6 times as high as
ours. Herschel, however, could not see those mountains, nor was he
very certain as to the time in which she revolved round her axis. The
place of her ascending node is 15° of Gemini. Her mean apparent dia
meter is 58". It is thought the obliquity of her ecliptic is much the same
as that of our own.
MERCURY is the last planet perceptible between us and the Sun,
though doubtless there may be many others. He is seldom seen, being
hid by the solar rays, but he emits a very bright white lustre. He is
best seen in a right sphere, or near the equinox, for those who live in
an oblique sphere, more towards the poles, can hardly perceive him.
His distance from the Sun is above 37,000,000 of miles; his diameter is,
according to some, about 2600 miles, or, as others assert, 3224 miles;
and he passes round the Sun in 87d. 23h., at the rate of 110,000 miles an
hour. His light and heat are said to be seven times greater than ours,
and he is therefore supposed either to be calcined or vitrified, if his sub
f
kiv INTRODUCTION.
stance be not more dense than any with which we are acquainted. This
is a very ridiculous notion, and no way warranted on the general prin
ciples of nature.
The period in which Mercury revolves round his axis has been but
lately known, it is now stated at 24h.5m. 28s. His ascending node is in
16° of Taurus. He never appears above 28° distant from the Sun, and
in the different parts of his orbit he displays all the different phases of
the Moon. His inean apparent diameter is 10". The Sun appears 7
times as large to him as to us.
The MOON is the Earth's only satellite: her mean distance is 240,000
‘miles, though she is sometimes one fourteenth part nearer in her perigee.
Her diameter is 2180 miles, and she is one forty-ninth part as large as
the Earth. She only reflects one thirteenth part of the quantity of light
on the Earth which the Earth reflects on her. The force of gravity on
her surface is supposed to be a third of that of the Earth. Her motion
ou her axis coincides with her periodical revolution round the Earth, so
that the same side of her is always next to us. Her periodical revolu
tion in making the complete circle of the globe is 27d. 7h. 43m.5s, and
lier synodical revolution from the Sun to the Sun again is 29d. 12h. 44m.
8s. 11t. She flies at the rate of 2290 miles an hour, and her day and
night are as long as our lunar month. Her position, however, is not so
steady, for she turns sometimes a small part of her face from us on one
side or the other, which is called her libration, and sometimes she prer
sents a part of one pole or the other.
The surface of the Moon exhibits a number of hills, mountains, caverns,
craters, volcanoes, &c. Some have disputed the existence of a lunar at
mosphere, but the ingenious Schroeter, having discovered a twilight in
Venus, discovered one shortly after in the Moon, on the 24th of February,
1792, which of course is a proof that she has an atmosphere. Her axis
inclines to her orbit 88° 17', and her mean apparent diameter is 31' 8".
The planet OURANOS was discovered by Herschel, March 13th, 1781.
His distance from the Sun is 1,827,000,000 of miles, his mean diameter
35,000 miles, and his period 83/. 150d. 18h. He has six satellites mov
ing round him in a retrograde direction, or from east to west, contrary to
all others. The existence of this planet was partly anticipated before its
discovery by Drs. Halley, Bradley, and others, who observed that Saturn
was disturbed in his motion by some force which they concluded must
originate beyond his orbit, as they could not account for it on the knowu
principles of gravitation. The planet Ouranos shines with a fine bluish
white light, between that of Venus and the Moon, and appears the size
of a star of the 8th magnitude. His mean apparent diameter is 3.54".
CERES was discovered January 1st, 1801, by Piazzi, an Italian. Her
mean distance from the Sun is about 260,000,000 of miles, and her revor
lution round him is performed in 1681d. 12h.9m, her diameter according
to Herschel is 163 miles, but Schroeter supposes it to be ten times as
much Her mean apparent diameter is 1". -
PALLAS was discovered by Dr. Olbers of Bremen, March 26th, 1802.
Her mean distance from the Sun is 265,000,000 of miles, and her period
1703d. 16h. 48m. Herschel estimates her diameter at 80 miles, and Schro
eter (a very good astronomer) at 2099. Her mean apparent diameter is 1",
JUNO was discovered by Harding, a German, in December, 1804,
Her solar distance is 252,000,000 miles, and her period 4). 129d. 5h. Her
diameter is estimated at 1425 miles, and her mean apparent diameter is3".
ESTA was also discovered by Olbers in 1807. Her solar distance is
225,000,000 miles, and her period 3y. 60d. 4h. Her diameter is estimated
at 238 miles. Her mean apparent diameter is only half a second.
INTRODUCTION. xy
The EARTH we inhabit is distant from the Sun, some say 96, others
98, and others 100 millions of miles, its period is 365d. 5h. 48m. 48s.
and it moves at the rate of 68,856 miles an hour. Its rotation on its
axis from west to east, is completed in about 24h. Hence the inha
bitants of London are moved by the diurnal motion 580 miles, and
those of the equator 1042 miles an hour. The difference between the
planes of its ecliptic and equator is 23°28' nearly. Its mean diameter
is 7953 miles, but its equatorial diameter is 17 miles more, and its polar
17 less. -
COMETS are generally considered as opake bodies, of the same sub
stance as the planets, and only differing from them in the eccentricity of
their orbits. They are called comets from Coma, hair, or beams of light,
because their rays in many cases look as if they were hairy or bearded,
but this arises from the appearance of the tail in different positions. It
is remarkablethat their tails always flow in an opposite direction from the
Sun, the cause of which has never been properly explained, although it
has been the subject of many conjectures among the learned, who have
been equally unfortunate respecting the parabolic curve of their orbits.
to solve which that contradictory doctrine of two forces, the centripetal
and centrifugal (neither of which is founded either on experience or rea
son) is called in to their assistance. I know of no one who has exposed
this unmeaning paradox with more acuteness than Mr. Brydone, in his
Tour to Sicily and Malta, which I would advise the advocates of this
system to peruse with attention. However mortifying it may be to hu
man pride to be told that what they are pleased to term “inert matter”
is not more inert or less animated than themselves, such nevertheless is the
fact, and it is time they became acquainted with it. There is no such
thing as inert matter; every particle is endowed with life, intelligence,
and volition; and its motions, whether circular or parabolic, are the re
sult of choice, and not of blind necessity. Every orb is an animal, mov
ing round its primary, for reasons which however impenetrable they may
be to fis, are well known to itself, and turning on its axis as a man would
turn on his heel before a fire to warm himself on all sides. Nothing
demonstrates the force of prejudice more than the doctrine that matter
has always a tendency to be at rest. The very reverse is the truth: for if
matter possess any quality more prominent than another, it is that of the
singular and almost incredible volocity with which it continually moves.
There is not an atom on this our globe but moves at the astonishing rate
of about 69,900 miles an hour, besides its diurnal mation round its axis,
and even this velocity may be almost actual rest compared to its real mo
tion, if, as some have with good reason supposed, the system itselfrevolves
round some other center. * -
In ancient times men, deceived by appearances, believed the Earth to
be stationary, and that the heavens alone moved; that the Sun and other
stars proceeded to the westward by day, and were brought back in the
night in some way or other, but by what means they did not know, just
as an infant placed in a boat on a river would suppose the land moved,
and that the boat was fixed. On this optical delusion only was founded
the silly notion that matter is inanimate and motionless, and such is the
prevalence ofhabit, that it actually separates knowledge from knowledge,
and causes a man to believe that a thing can, and can not, exist at the same
moment of time. Hence astronomers believe, becaue they see and know,
that matter and motion are inseparable, and that no particle of it ever
was or can be at rest; while, at the same time, they believe that it is
perfectly inert, dead, averse to motion, and always at rest. Such is the
strength of prejudice and the weakness of humanity.
#vi INTRODUCTION.
The number of opinions respecting Comets are too mufflerotis to be
inserted. Those of Newton seem to confirm the truth of the Shandean
opinion, that “it is worth something to have a name.” Hevelius and
epler supposed them to proceed from some gross exhalations of the
Sun, and some very lately have considered them the embryos of future
planets. They are certainly different from planets, although doubtless
they are masses of matter reflecting the solar light. Their bodies are
changeable, both in magnitude and appearance, and no way resembling
stars of any description. Their colours are sometimes red, sometimes
yellow, generally dusky, divided into parts, and sometimes the nnçleus
wholly disappears and seems converted into a thin cloudy matter. They
appear to be substances positively and highly electrified, and the opinion
of Halley and Dr. Hamilton, that their tails are composed ofelectric fluid,
is very probable. This seems fully confirmed by the flashing or shooting
of their tails. Whatever warmth they may derive from the abundance
of their fluid added to the heat they acquire from the action of the Sun.
(which probably after all is not much) is all the heat they experience,
and this the reader may rest assured is not quite two thousand times
greater than the heat of red hot iron. It is lamentable that men who
have genius should guide it with so loose a rein. The vagaries of Mr.
Whiston, too, have been a source of alarm to many, whom I would advise
to get rid of their fears as soon as possible. Comets and planets both,
know better than to run foul of each other; nor do comets, appear
to possess those powers assigned to them by astronomers. One of them
passed between some of the satellites of Jupiter without altering their
positions or orbits in any perceptible degree. In other respects, however,
they seem sufficiently injurious. They doubtless have a sympathetic
power of action, Iike all other bodies of matter, and cannot fail to dis
turb the economy of aglobe not used to their influence. See the article
“Comets.” -
The nature and substance of the FIXED STARS has hitherto set eveh
conjecture at defiance, for although the general supposition is, that they
are suns of as many systems, there is but little in their appearance to justify
such an opinion. About seven hundred of them are double, in which
respect they differ from the only Sun we are acquainted with, and they
exhibit various colours, chiefly white, though some are red, blue, and
even greenish, and others are dusky, whereas our Sun is a compound of
all those colours, and consequently they must differ from it in this par
ticular, except we suppose their rays to pass through certain mediums
which transmit only a ray of a particular colour and absorb the rest.
Planets they cannot be, revolving like us round a common center, else we
should see still more prominently the suns that light them. All we know
of them is, that they must be bodies of some kind of matter, and as such
possessing each of them a separate influence, but there is much reason
to suspect the natures of their influences are nearly or wholly unknown.
The only method laid down by Ptolemy is to class them according to
their colours, and judge of their effects according to the nature of such
planets as they most resenble; thus, the red are considered martial; the
pale, saturnine, &c. but this is a very erroneous method, because many
of them resemble no planet in colour, nor is it certain that planets operate
by means of their light, for the power of the Moon is as great when her
dark side is turned towards us as when she is at full.
The term fixed is very inapplicable to many ofthe stars, and probably
to them all. Several new stars have appeared, several old ones have dis
appeared, and a still greater number change their places. One in Cas
siopeia, in 1572, appeared as large as Venus at her brightest perigee, and
was actually seen in day-light. It continued so for sixteen months, and
INTRODUCTION. xvii
then gradually disappeared without changing its place. Some think
it returns periodically in about 319 years. There is a star in the Whale's
Neck that appears and disappears seven times in six years. Another
near the right heel of Serpentarius appeared in 1604, as large as Venus,
and totally disappeared in 1605. One star in the Swan's Neck appeared
and disappeared several times, at very unequal periods, and in 1715 it
settled as a star of the 6th magnitude and so remains. Another star near
the Swan's Head appeared and disappeared several times, and is now
wholly last. X in the Swan has a period of about 405 days, but not
quite regular. A number of other stars have disappeared, and many
change their magnitudes. Several new stars have appeared in Cassiopeia,
and some of them have again been lost. One in her Knee disappeared,
and two more appeared to the north of its place. Caput Algol is a varia
ble star, and its period is 2d. 21h. It remains for 2d. 14h. as a star of the
2d magnitnde, in about three hours and a half it declines to a star of the
4th magnitude, and in three hours and a half more it resumes its 2d mag
nitude, which it retains for 2d. 14h. as before. (3 in Lyra, likewise, has
a period of 12d. 19.h., during which time it appears ofseveral magnitudes,
from the 3d to the 5th. min Antinous has a period of7d. 4h. 38.m. and 3
in Cepheus of 5d. 8h. 37m. No doubt all these changes have a manifest
effect on the Earth, and produce some of those strange vicissitudes, for
which we are at a loss to account, and which baffle all the skill of the
astrologer.
The fixed stars differ in their longitudinal positions about fifty seconds
and one third in a year, according to the order of the signs, or from west
to east, owing to the receding of the equinoctial pointsfrom east to west.
It was generally supposed by the ancients, that the stars never changed
their latitude, but the moderns have discovered this to be an error. Hal
ley found Sirius, Aldebaran and Arcturus about half a degree more south,
and Betelguese near a whole degree, but whether this arises from the
proper motion of the star, or from our solar system changing its place, is
uncertain.
The immense distance of the fixed stars may be conceived from their
having no sensible parallax; and their apparent magnitude not being
increased but on the contrary diminished by the power of a telescope.
That they are not lighted by the Sun is supposed to be evident, on ac
count of their distance, though there does not appear any sufficient
proof that light, as such, proceeds from the Sun at all, but rather that
it is, like heat, created or produced by the Sun's influence on any body
of opake matter opposed to it, and that its quantity is more or less ac
cording to the capability of such substance to produce it. Were light
a luminous emanation from the Sun's body, we should see it not only
by day but also by night in its progress through the immensity of space,
enclosing the Earth on all sides, whereas, even a sunbeam cannot be
perceived but from the surfaces of opake atoms that reflect it. We can
not know the boundary of the solar influence, nor is it probable that the
light or heat of bodies opposed to it is wholly regulated by their distance,
but rather by their fitness to receive and propagate them. We see that
Mars is not so bright as Jupiter, although nearer to the Sun, nor is it
probable that Jupiter or Saturn are colder than Venus or Mercury. The
belts of Jupiter and Saturn give us great reason to suppose they have
each an atmosphere with clouds floating in it, and we are certain no
thing of the kind could exist on our globe with only one ninetieth of the
Sun's present heat. It is probable, therefore, that the powersof generat
ing light and heat are in all bodies proportional to their distance from
the Sun, and this supposition is equally applicable to the fixed stars as
to the planets. A much better reason why the flxed stars shine by their
xviii INTRODUCTION:
own light, or by light derived from other sources than our Sun, is their
infinity, (which can hardly be doubted) and the little probability that
such an atom could operate through boundless immensity,
Many very ingenious attempts have been made to ascertain the dis
tance of the nearest of the fixed stars, but, after all, the whole is conjec
tural. Dr. Bradley thought the nearest would be about 40,000 times as
far off as the breadth of the Earth's orbit, or 7,600,000,000,000 of miles.
Later astronomers have supposed them much nearer; and, really, when
we reflect on the short periods in which they alter their magnitudes, as
before stated, (even in the course of a few hours) their velocity must be
beyond human conception, if they are at such distances. Hence some
have imagined that in their rotatory motion they present various phases,
which is the cause of such apparent difference in magnitude.
Those stars that appear to us the largest are supposed to be the near
est, but this is uncertain, as no doubt they differ in magnitude. That
they seem to change their position by some means is evident, but
whether this appearance is the result of their own proper motion or that
of our system, is not quite certain. Most of the phenomena may be
accounted for from the latter but not the whole, Some think the stars
never change their relative positions with each other, as double stars
never separate. Motion, however, is inseparable from matter, and there
can be little doubt, that every system is in motion as well as our own,
and whether the fixed stars are or are not suns and centers of other
systems, they probably move with great rapidity through interminable
space. - -
Astrology is generally supposed to have been invented by the Chal
deans, but this conjecture is only founded on their early astronomical
Knowledge, which they probably derived from Hindostan. Its origin
was assuredly in the east, where it is now universally practised and be
lieved. The Arabs are generally supposed to have procured it from
Egypt, but there can be no doubt they had a system of their own in
common with other oriental nations, long before that period, though
be this as it may, neither are of much value. What we know of it is
, chiefly gathered from the books of Arabian authors, and whatever as
trology was originally, the whole appears to have been £ al
mere system of divination, so as to be unfit for any genethliacal pu pose.
The quadripartile of Ptolemy, however, gives us reason to suppose that
in Egypt, at least, it had once been on a more respectable footing ;
though the absurdities contained in that work, mixed up with some in
portant truths, shew that it had been long neglected, and its original
meaning almost forgotten. This may have been owing to the mean
selfish policy of the Egyptians, who, to keep every one in the dark but
themselves, converted all their knowledge into hieroglyphics, or tran
scribed it in the sacred letters as they were called, which were an
alphabet used by the priesthood only, the key of which being once lost,
all their learning was lost with it. -
This work of Ptolemy is the only standard we possess, and has served
as a foundation for every other. Some speak of it with much venera
tion, though very few comprehend its meaning, and it is evident from the
tenor of many parts, that the author did not comprehend it himself. It
is, however, preferable to the works of the Arabians, which are the
most superstitious mass of symbolical and allegorical trash that can be
conceived. Many authors have written on the subject in all nations,
but they chiefly adhere to the Ptolemaic doctrines of essential dignities,
lunar nodes, and horoscope; which can have no effect in nativities, and by
misquoting some of his theories, the greater part of them have contrived
to render the science truly ridiculous; but this ought not to deter others
INTRODUCTION. - xix
from studying it, for any reflecting person must perceive, that effects in
general being so very disproportionate to their supposed causes, must
proceed from something very different, and this can be no other than
astral influence; for on what else does the whole fabric of the universe
depend for its support and the laws by which it is governed. To as
cribe the whole to the will of providence is merely an equivocation: that
all events depend on the will of providence cannot be doubted, but we
are alluding to secondary causes under providence, which always en
forces its will by natural means, for we see it uses no other. Providence
would be more highly honoured, if mankind would take the trouble to
investigate the ingenious laws and machinery by which it governs the
universe, than when they sit down and idly exclaim. “Oh, it is the will
of providence” and think no more about it. - -
We know the change of season wholly depends on planetary influence,
and doubtless the changes in the weather do the same, or at least on
celestial causes of some kind. They are the result of variations in the
atmosphere, and although these depend on the condition of the Earth,
the latter depends on the state of the heavenly bodies by which it is
surrounded and affected. Brutes and insects are early sensible of these
vicissitudes; and nervous, sickly or elderly people are the same; doors
and shutters will swell or shrink, metals will contract or expand,
watches will lose or gain time, stones and other substances impregnated
with saline particles will sweat, and the entire face of nature becomes
altered.
Those alterations are frequently experienced when the Moon arrives
at her quadratures, and particularly when she forms her last sextile with
the Sun. Her conjunction with Mars is frequently productive of wet,
especially when their latitudes agree. But the atmosphere often is liable
to unusual and very lasting impressions. Some seasons are remarkable
for dryness, wet, cold, heat; some are sickly; others healthy; and by
these overwhelming causes even the lunar aspects are neutralized. They
do indeed produce certain changes, but such as are weak and of short
duration. When particular diseases abound, they are usually ascribed
to heat, cold, wet, &c. but a little reflection would shew the incorrect
ness of such opinions; for at other times, when heat, cold, &c. are
much more prevalent, such diseases are unknown. The observation of
certain persons, that they catch cold they know not how, is extremely
just; for although colds are often caused by carelessness, they are more
frequently the result of an altered state of the atmosphere from sideral
causes, against which no precaution is available, and many who en
counter cold and wet without sustaining any injury, will catch cold in
a room without being exposed to either. - -
Nothing can be a stronger proof of sideral influence than the strange
succession of fortunate and unfortunate events experienced by many
individuals. The whole lives of some are a succession of disasters, and
all their exertions terminate in disappointment. Injudicious conduct no
doubt will produce misfortunes, but many to whom no blame can be
attached are injured and ruined by a strange coincidence of circum
stances, which no human prudence could foresee or prevent. Certain
times are peculiarly disasterous to certain people, and in families numbers
die nearly together. This is probably owing to some resemblance in
their horoscopes, a thing very common among relatives.
Many of the more durable changes in the atmosphere may arise from
the proximity of comets, a greater number of which approach the Earth
than is geneally supposed, although they are hidden by the blaze of the
Sun. They mostly cause heat and dryness, particularly in that hemis
phere where they are posited, and as opposite changes usually succeed
XX. INTRODUCTION.
each other, they may ultimately cause cold and wet. The lumimaries,
however, are the more immediate causes of sublunary vicissitudes in their
mutual configurations with each other, and with the angles, particularly
when posited in the midheaven. There is something remarkable in this
angle, even when no planets are in or near it, for all vegetables will
point to it by nature, and will dwindle and waste if any substance inter.
vene between them and the zenith. This is the reason why grass wil
not grow beneath trees; animals decline from the same cause; and those
who are confined in houses, or mines, or who live in woods, are pale,
cadaverous, and unhealthy, however freely theair may be admitted No
portion of matter affects the Earth so much as the Moon, for besides
that she by means of her proximity conveys the influencesofthe celestial
ies to us by her various configurations with them, much depends on
#:excentricity or anomaly. Nothing demonstrates the power of the
oon more than the period of gestation being 9 or 7 months, at which
times she forms the trine or square with her radical place at conception.
Children born at the end of thoseperiods may live, whereas it is affirmed,
that no infant produced in eight months ever survived.
The medium through which distant portions of matter operate on
, each other may probably be a very fine fluid, emanating from each
hrough infinite space, and wholly imperceptible except by its effects.
his may be denominated sympathy, and to it may be traced whatever
is deemed supernatural or miraculous, or, to speak more properly, what
ever cannot be accounted for from the known properties, or rather the
acknowledged properties ofmatter, for many of its properties are küown,
that are not acknowledged. Locomotion, and volition, for instance, by
which the planets revolve round their axes, and move through their
orbits, and by which every particle gravitates toward the center of the
mass to which it belongs: these are general sympathies common to all
matter with which we are acquainted. But the more particular or oc
cult sympathies are those not common to matter, and apparently con
trary to its general laws: such is the polarity and attraction of the
magnet, with numberless other unusual sympathies subsisting between
certain bodies, for which we cannot account in the usual way. Those
marks and accidents eommunicable to the foetus in the womb, and the
riodical alteration of such impressions according to the season of the
ruit, flowers, or other substances from whence they originate, are two
of the most common and striking proofs of occult sympathy that can be
produced. Second sight, which, however it may be ridiculed, is too
well authenticated to be disproved; ominous dreams, and those unac
countable forebodings and depressiens of the mind, very common in
persons of a nervous, weak, or irritable frame, prior to unforeseen
calamities, with a number of other instances superfluous to mention, are
all incontestible proofs that every thing in nature operates upon the
rest, and is operated on by them more or less according to its nature and
texture, in a way of which we can form no conception. This occult
sympathy was and is the source of every species of divination, which,
notwithstanding the silly common place gibes of imitative witlings, and
the frauds of its knavish professors, is really founded in nature and
truth. The mind, when anxiously and steadily fixed on knowing the
result of an undertaking has, from the triped to the teacup, always been
gratified, if a proper intelligent system were adhered to. Cicero ridiculed
the augurs, probably with reason (for there were many, knaves among
them) and perhaps without, for he might after all be more of an orator
than a diviner, although like the Cobler of Apelles, he could not be
ersuaded to stick to his last. At all events, the Roman general would
ave shewn more solid judgment in following the line marked out to
INTRODUCTION. xxi
|
him hy the chickens, than he did wit in throwing them into the sea
saying, “If they would not eat they should drink," for he paid the
full price of his folly.
Upon these sympathies of nature is founded"the entire Science of
Astrology, both Genethliacal and Horary. Genethliacal Astrology rests
on the more common and obvious effects of matter on matter; for the
stars cannot affect the globe without inserting their power into every
separate portion of matter that it contains.
Horary Astrology depends on that uncertain species of sympathy,
which, although equally a property of matter with the other, is seen in
certain modifications only. Those whose minds are ardent, whose feel
ings are acute, and whose irritability of frame and consequent anxiety is
excessive, are more subject to its operation than others, when their sen
sibility is excited by any object or event of importance. Thus husbands
sympathize with their wives; mothers with their children; and indivi
duals of every description with those who are peculiarly dear to them,
whether they are united or not by the ties of custom or consanguinity.
Those whose nerves are more indurated, and whose sensations are less
acute, although their attachments are equally firm, are strangers to this
kind of sympathy, through nervous insensibility, and it is very natural
for them to deny the existence of what they never experience, although
placed in the same relative situations with those who do; hence many
disputes originate concerning the truth of those unusual perceptions;
but there is nothing untrue, or preternatural in them, for it is quite ac
cording to the course of nature that animals of a peculiar conformation
should have the peculiar perceptions, sensations and powers adapted to
such conformation. This is the great secret of all divination, which was
so denominated from the supposition that it was of divine origin, and
proceeded from the gods; but it is neither divine nor diabolical, but
the natural result of matter operating on matter, as one planet disturbs
another in its orbit, as the Moon disturbs the ocean, as the magnet
draws iron, or glass excited by rubbing draws wax, &c.
There is no part of judicial astrology so easily and so perfectly attain
able as the power of solving horary questions, where nature, if proper
attention be paid to her impulses, will be found to accommodate herself
to every emergency, whereas in nativities the qualities and fate of an
animal being regulated by the same fixed, uniform, unerring laws as the
other phenomena ofnature, the causes are too numerous, too complicated,
and too remote, ever to be wholly comprehended by any stretch of hu
man intellect. Some of these are from their nature imperative, others
subordinate, and the greater must always overcome the less. Thus, as
Ptolemy justly observes, the same act that with a man would produce a
man, would with a horse produce a horse, although the positions of the
stars may be exactly the same, and both the man and horse would be in
any climate, or under a particular discipline, very different from what
they would have been if produced at the same instant in any other
climate, or under any other mode of tuition. Men born with indications
of a violent death, would in countries where wars and violence are un
known, die like others; whereas, in countries and times where wars
predominate, a very slight direction would cause an untimely end. In
the former case, however, the dissolute lives, hair-breadth escapes, and
numerous accidents common to such ill fated and depraved characters,
clearly demonstrate, that from their birth a train was laid for their de
struction, which only awaited the concurrence of some other cause, as,
for a match to fire it: and should confusion become the order of the day,
they would be the first to rush into danger and to perish in the conflict.
Indeed, thisis a fact generally known (although the true cause is not sus
xxii INTRODUCTION,
pected), that the most worthless and desperate characters are the most
anxious to engage in violent and hazardous enterprizes. The effect, there
fore, is traced to its cause, which cause is itself only an effect of planetary
influence, as every one's reason, were it attended to, must acknowledge;
for did no such thing as planetary interposition exist, men's minds and
bodies would be perfectly alike, for what could cause them to differ?
The answer will be, “the will of providence.” I grant it: and these .
are the natural means used by providence to carry its will into effect.
Rames of the Characters used in this Work.
. . . PLANETS.
b Saturn. Q Venus. 4 Pallas.
2/ Jupiter. t; Mercury. Q Ceres.
& Mars. (The Moon. * Juno.
O The Sun. H Ouranos. # Vesta.
SIGNS OF THE ZODIAC.
Y Aries. go Cancer. = Libra. V5 Capricorn.
8 Taurus. | Q. Leo. ml. Scorpio. 3: Aquarius.
II Gemini. ng Virgo. 1 Sagittarius. 36 Pisces.
- # >|< Sextile. | & opposition.
Trine. d; Conjunction.
& The Dragon's Head. 25 The Dragon's Tail.
© The Part of Fortune.
MARKs of DISTANCE.
s. Signs. | * Degrees. 'Minutes. | "Seconds. "Thirds.
OF TIME.
y. Years. h. Hours. | s. Seconds.
d. Days. m. Minutes, t. Thirds.
s
A/.47 / 2
"A. F72.
&% º.
0° S. yA 5
«Q º .
33%
": 9%
| B.I.H. Born 3%
º | s
s 3.55. Al 13
* | »adeo ez 1 %
òe
Se. ( * -
e: *
5 -
á) u
84 N
252.33
% /, V
3. º O º y. |
" *S S»
uz urz lº
gº Live orº de X
&
F2.5.
5 -
0 A 3. y.
x- N gº S> S
º
Question on a 3.
removal of Business 9. zo
só | — |m73
8 5° Dec.7. DL53
o M n
2 º 32 Ar º
S 2.e
4% e -
-
-
-
•
-
w
A COMPLETE
#Dictionary of 38trology.
A LM
Abscission, Frustration.
ACRONYCAL RISING, when a star rises exactly as
the Sun sets.
ACRONYCAL SETTING, when a star sets with
the Sun.
ACTINOBOLIA, the rays of the Hyleg when it is on
the east of the Mid-heaven. r
ACTIVE VIRTUES, heat and cold. -
ACTIVE STARS, those which operate as Promittors,
viz. b, 24, 3, 2, and #, and also the Q and D, when they
operate as Promittors. -
AFFLICTION. When a planet is in Conjunction
or Evil Aspect with an Infortune; or having the same
parallel, zodical or mundane; or being besieged by both
the Infortunes. -
AIRY SIGNS, II, A-, and 2.
AIRY TRIPLICITY, that Triplicity composed of the
above three Airy Signs.
ALCOHODEN, an Arabic name for the Hyleg.
ALDEBARAN, the Bull's Eye, a violent fixed star in
Gemini, ofthe nature of 3, wheh when in d with 2 or 3, or
with either of the luminaries, particularly in the ascendant,
is said to threaten a violent death. -
ALMUTEN, the strongest planet in a figure, in essen
tial or accidental dignities.
2 A N A
ALTITUDE. The distance of any star above the Earth
from the Horizon. Meridian AD TITUDE is when a star is
on the cusp of the Medium Caeli.
ANABIBAZON, the Dragon’s Head.
ANARETA, the planet that destroys life. |
ANARETIC POINT, or PLACE, the Place of the
Anareta at the Nativity. The Anaretic Planets are b and
3; but as the O, ), and 3, are variable from the nature of
the planet with which they have familiarity, they also become
Anaretas when in aspect with either Saturn or Mars, except
one of the Benefics give testimony. The Q likewise is said
to be Anaretic when the D is Hyleg, although he be not
vitiated by the Infortunes. The west angle also is said to
be Anaretic, because when the Hyleg sets, death ensues.
The Hyleg, directed to the 3, n.,, or 8 of 2 or 3, whether
zodical or mundane; or to a parallel of their declination,
whether of the same kind, or opposite; or to their mundane
parallel when they are at equal distance from any angle; is
said to destroy life, if any secondary direction or revolu
tion coincide; or if any fatal ingress or transit happen at
the time: but, it is said, one evil direction seldom kills.
The sesquiquadrate is also an evil aspect, although in an
inferior degree, and Ptolemy affirms, that either a ‘k or A
of an Infortune will kill, if the sextile be from a sign of
long ascension, or the A from a sign of short ascension, be
cause it then becomes the same as a square. Placidus,
however, affirms, that signs of long or short ascensions are
the same in point of effect, except so far as they may make
a different aspect in the world, and his opinion appears the
most rational. It is probable that no aspect of an Infor
tune is good, as it impregnates the Hyleg with its malignant
nature, which is always inimical to life and health. The sex
tile and trine of an Infortune is said to kill when it comes
from signs obedient or beholding, but this must mean the zo
diacal parallel, which must always proceed from such signs.
When there are two Anaretas, that will kill of which the
£ is strongest in the figure. A planet under the @
eams, it is said, cannot kill, but it disposes that luminary so
as to kill in its stead. If the Native be young, or naturally
vigorous and healthy, one evil direction seldom kills: it
requires a train of malevolent directions to destroy, aided
by secondary causes; but if old, infirm, and of a broken
constitution, a slight direction will generally prove fatal.
The manner and quality of death is taken by Ptolemy
from that planet '. follows the Anareta, either by con
junction or aspect, to the place of the Hyleg; but if none
------------ --- - - - - -------- " -- - - -->
ANARETIC POINT, 3
follow, it is taken from that which last preceded: thus
Benefics, although they do not cause death, are as liable to
shew the nature of it as any other. A Benefic also as
pecting the place at the same time, but too weak to save,
will shew the nature of the death. It is also said by Pto
lemy, that a planet, whether good or bad, being in the
Anaretic place, will shew the quality of death; or a planet
having dignities therein will do the same; but if there be
neither, then the planet which by body or aspect comes first
to the place must be taken for that purpose: his meaning,
however, is quite uncertain, as there is no sign but what is
the house of some planet, which consequently has dignity
therein.
"2 causes death by cold chronic diseases, such as ague,
dropsy, flux, consumption, illiac passion, melancholy, fear,
epilepsy, hysterics, &c.
24 by inflamations, swelling, cancers, tumours, quinsey
foul stomach, jaundice, and other diseases denoting foči
blood and a decayed system.
3 by fevers, eresipelas, bruises, falls, stabs, mortification,
fire, violent hemorrhage, and all hot diseases.
? by diseases arising from putrefaction and rotten
ness; as flux, poison, syphilis, gleets, tabes dorsalis, atro
phy, typhus fever, putrid sore throat, pestilence, and all
epidemic diseases, and such as proceed from too much
moisture.
# by all diseases of the brain, stomach, and nerves: as
madness, melancholy, grief, despair, phrenitis, epilepsy,
and all diseases proceeding from a dry habit; but, as # is
convertible to the nature of those planets by which he is
aspected, he often produces diseases according as he is
situated.
Violent deaths are caused when both the Malefics have
dignities in the Anaretic place, or when in D or 8 to the
luminaries at the time of birth. If '2 square or oppose the
Q from a fixed sign, being at the same time oriental, he
causes death by suffication, hanging, or being trodden to
death in a tumult; and if when he is occidental and in fixed
signs he d or oppose the D in like manner, he produces the
same effects. -
. . If £2 aspect the luminaries in the above manner from
brutal signs, it denotes death by beasts; and if 2 give tes
timony, it often happens by female treachery, or poison. If
the aspect be from a watery sign, or from mg, it threatens
death by drowning; and if from some part near the con
stellation Argo, by shipwreck. -
\
4. ANARETIC POINT.
IfSaturn bejoined or in 8 to the Q from cardinal signs, it
threatens death by falls. If Mars be joined to him, or aspect
the place, it makes the effect more violent and certain.
IfMars be oriental and in D or 8 to the Q from fixed signs,
it threatens the native with murder or suicide, and the same
if occidental and so aspecting the D . If Q be with him,
it will be caused by women; and if 8, by thieves. If in
mutilated signs, or with Caput Medusa, it threatens the
native with beheading. If in mt or 8, it causes death by
fire, or by some surgical operation. If from the 10th, or
4th house, or near Cepheus and Andromeda, it denotes
hanging. If from the west angle, it threatens death by
fire, except he be in a fourfooted sign, when it will be by
falls or broken bones. If 21 be in configuration with them,
and evilly affected so as to be unable to save, it will be by
sentence of a judge. If both the Malefics join their influ
ence, the consequences will be more dreadful, and the death
more terrible.
If either of the Fortunes, according to Ptolemy, cast a
ray of any kind to the very Anaretic point, it will save life;
but Placidus, although he never contradicts Ptolemy, gives
several examples where the Benefics, even with a friendly
ray, could not save. His opinion is, that if a Benefic be in
the term of a Malefic, it renders it vicious and less able
to do good; or if the place of the Anareta be in the term
of a £ it is the same. They are also said to be viti
ated by being either in the house, exaltation, or triplicity
of a Malefic; but of all the dignities the term appears to
be the most powerful. On the contrary, if a Malefic be in
the term of a Benefic, it greatly lessens its malignity; and
if the Anaretic point be in the term of a Benefic, it contri
butes to save £ - - -
If a Fortune be alone and not well dignified and strong,
either in the zodiac or in the world, it cannot, according
to Placidus, effect any permanent good, when the native is
threatened by two Infortunes. It may lengthen life a
little, but the Malefics, being more in number and greater
In W' will ultimately prevail.
- hen the Hyleg and Anareta in a 3 differ much in point
of latitude, life is often saved. In the zodiac, when the
latitude is more than the orb of the planet, though thelongi
tude be the same to a minute, there is little or no effect
either good or evil; and if it be somewhat more than half
the orb, the effect will be much diminished. In the world,
a small portion of latitude will have a great effect in con
junctions, and life has been saved only by the Signifi:
* ANARETIC POINT. \ 5
cator passing the Promittor at one £ distance when
the Anaretic point lay in the term of a Benefic. A severe
indisposition, however, attended with the utmost danger,
is sure to be the consequence, and it is only owing to a good
constitution, and the utmost caution, thatthe patient escapes
with life. If 24 or 2, it is said, are but posited within orbs
of the Anaretic Point, in an evil direction, 2 within 12",
and 2 within 8', they invariably save life; but as we before
observed, Placidus is quite of a different opinion.
After all, it is necessary to observe, that some of these
rules should be received with caution: we must have bet
ter authority than that of Ptolemy or Placidus, either to
convince us that because a certain constellation has been
fancifully called Medusa's Head, or the Ship Argo, they
should cause beheading and shipwreck, or that watery signs
(which for any rational cause we know of might have been
with equal propriety called fiery, or earthly signs) should
cause drowning. . In Horary questions, where they operatt,
as symbols, they may probably signify such calamities; but
that they can cause them by their position at a Nativity is
wholly repugnant to reason. Neither does it appear rea
sonable, that the term of any planet can produce the effect
ascribed to it, and there can be no doubt, that an attention
to such silly whims, while the more important parts of the
science were neglected, has contributed to bring that dis
grace on Astrology under which it now labours: neither is
it rational to suppose, that any other places, where the
planets are said to possess dignities, can have the effects as
cribed to them when the planet is not there. They may,
like other fixed stars, have a certain influence, but no
thing more. *
Argol, who contrary to the rules of Ptolemy, generally
considered the Horoscope as Hyleg, when he found him
self in a strait, would direct his Hyleg to a D or 8 of either
of the Benefics as Anaretas: nothing can be more absurd
than this, as, if there be any truth in Astrology, the stars
operate by their natures, not their aspects; for as no as
pect of the Infortunes can save life, neither can any aspect
of a Fortune destroy it. -
It has now become a favourite system amongst modern
Astrologers, to consider the 8th House and its Lord as
Anaretas, and the Ascendant and its Lord as Hyleg : they
therefore direct the Lord of the Ascendant to the Lord of
the 8th, or to the cusp of the 8th, as to the Anaretic Point;
or the Lord of the 8th to the cusp of the Ascendant. A
little reflection would demonstrate to them the absurdity
6 A NT
of such a system: there is much reason to doubt the effects
of Houses, Exaltations, Triplicities, &c. even when the
owners are in them; and it is certain, the planet cannot
influence the House, nor the House the planet, when they
are asunder. In Horary questions, where the stars are
consulted as signs, not as causes of events, the Houses
and their Lords must he considered as Significators; but in
Genethliacal Astrology none but the Horoscope and the
Mid-heaven can be considered as of any importance; nor
even then in a zodiacal, but merely in a mundame point of
view, when planets are either posited in them or directed
to them.
Fixed Stars are also considered as Anaretic when ioined
with the luminaries, or the Hyleg: but for this I shall refer
the reader to the article, Fixed Stars. Some have been so
silly as to direct the Hyleg to the Dragon's Tail as Ana
retic, which is only a character in an almanac, and neither
emits any rays nor possesses any substance whatever.
ANGLES, the four Cardinal Points: the first is the
East Angle, or the point of the heavens ascending at the
time of a nativity, horary question, or any thing which
requires a figure to be erected: it is called the 1st House,
Horoscope, or Ascendant. The second is the South Angle,
and is that point that culminates in any figure: it is called
the Medium Coeli, or Mid-heaven. The third is the West
Angle, or that point of the heavens setting at the time of
a figure being erected: it is called the Descendant, or 7th
House. The fourth is the North Angle, or lowest point
of depression in the heavens at the erection of a figure,
being directly opposite the Mid-heaven: it is called the
Imum Caeli, or Lowest Heaven.
Most authors give the preference to the east angle,
as being strongest in the figure; or in other words, that a
lanet there is more powerful than in any other place, but
tolemy gives the preference to the south angle, and with
reason, for the stars are more powerful in their meridian
altitude than when rising. The next angle in power is
the west, and the north angle is the weakest of the four.
For the properties of the Angles, see “Houses.”
ANIMODER. See Rectification.
ANTIPATHIES, are those unaccountable aversions
people are said to feel towards each other when their nati
vities do not sympathise from some particular cause. The
principal of these causes may be traced to the luminaries:
first, when they are dissociate, being one or five signs dis
tant; as for example, the D of one being in my, and that of
APHETA. 7
the other in A- or Y, they would be injunct, having no as
pect to each other; and if this was the case with the Sun
also, so as to cause a total want of agreement among the
luminaries on both sides, the natives would dislike and
shun each other, though probably without being able to
assign a sufficient reason. If the luminaries were in evil
aspect to each other, a mutual dislike and hatred would
be the consequence; and if the ascendants were in oppo
site signs, as on for the one and a for the other; or one or
both of the Infortunes of one nativity in 3 or evil aspect
with the places of the lights in the other, or in square or
opposition, or sesquiquadrate to their own places, or to the
'' of each other, or from opposite cardinal houses, it
would cause the most furious disputes between the parties,
in proportion to the number of testimonies, and those
whose planets were more angular, oriental, or better for
tified, would ultimately prevail.
ANTISCIONS. See Parallels. -
APHETA, HYLEG, or PROROGATOR; the place
, or planet that carries with it the life of the native, until it
comes to the place or evil aspect of the anareta, when
death ensues. See Anareta. -
According to Ptolemy, the Aphetic Places are five, viz.
the whole space of the 1st, 7th, 9th, 10th, and H1th, Houses,
taken from 5° above the cusp to 25° below it, £by
3.
oblique ascension : from 5 degrees, therefore, above the
cusp of the 9th, to 5 degrees above that of the 12th, must
be Aphetic; but Placidus thinks a planet, when it has
passed beyond the 5 degrees above the cusp of the Horo
scope, ought to be one half of his semidiurnal arc above the
cusp of the Horoscope, viz. in the middle ofthe 11th House,
before he can be Apheta. The reason why the 8th and
12th are not Aphetic, is because they have no aspect to the
Horoscope, and the other Houses are not Aphetic, because
they are under the Earth. If by day the Sun be in an Aphetic
lace, he becomes Hyleg in preference to all others, but
if he be not found in any such place, and the situation of
the D will admit of it, she becomes Hyleg. If the be
not in an Aphetic place, that planet must be taken as Hy
leg which has most dignities by Triplicity, House, Exalta
tion, Term, or Configuration, in the place where the Sun
was at the time of the preceding New Moon; or in the
Ascendant; but it must have three dignities in one of them
at least, and be in an aphetical place. If there be no such
planet, the Horoscope becomes Hyleg.
8 APHETA.
... By night the ) is Apheta if in an aphetical place, buf
if not, the Sun, if in such place, will be Apheta. If neither
of the lights be so situated, that planet will be Hyleg
which has most dignities in the place of the last Full Moon,
or in the place of the Part of Fortune, provided it be in
an aphetical place; but it must be dignified three ways
at least. If there be no such planet, and a New Moon
preceded the birth, take the Horoscope, but if a Full Moon
preceded, take the 69, if it be aphetically situated.
When both the luminaries, or a number of planets, are
so situated thatit seems doubtful which is the K'. that
mustbe taken which is found in the strongest aphetical place.
The 10th is the principal, the Horoscope next, the 11th
ranks next the Horoscope, the 7th is next in power, and
the 9th is the weakest of all.
It was a favourite opinion with Argol, and a number of
others, that the Horoscope was generally Hyleg; and so
anxious were they to support this absurd hypothesis, that
they not only altered the time of nativities to suit their
directions, but actually directed their Hyleg to evil aspects
of the Fortunes as Anaretas: on the other hand, Placidus,
in his unbounded veneration for Ptolemy, which was often
ill placed, would, on certain occasions, hint that the time
of birth might be incorrect, when he could not suit the
Hyleg to the direction. An example of this we have in
the Nativity of Cardinal Peretti, where he sadly wants a
uarter of an hour more, to send the Sun into the 12th
ouse, that the might be Hyleg. It is but justice to
Placidus to say, he was the most rational of all those who
have hitherto written on Astrology, and one who would
not sit down, quietly and propagate an error, merely be
cause others had done it before him : he would try a num
ber of experiments, and search every where for what he
thought ample proof, before he committed anything finally
to paper. Had every other author been equally industri
ous, Astrology would not have been so little understood as
it is; but the genius of Placidus was not of the first rate,
his mind was active, but not profound; and although he
would not blindly adopt an opinion, even of Ptolemy, yet
he had a strong bias in favour of that obscure and credulous
author, that often misled him. There is likewise a degree
of inaccuracy in his works not easily accounted for, as they
do not appear to be errors of the translator. In the Na
tivity in question, the Pole of the Country is 42 degrees;
Oblique Ascension of the Horoscope 285 deg. 40 min. :
Sun in 18 degrees, 23 minutes, £, which gives his Oblique
APHETA. 9
Astension 279 degrees, 51 minutes, which subtracted from
that of the horoscope, gives the Sun's distance from the
horoscope, 5 degrees, 49 minutes, the quarter of an hour
could be therefore of no use to him, as according to the
precept of Ptolemy the Aphetical Place only extends 5
degrees above the cusp of the angle, and as the Sun was
5 £ 49 minutes distant, he was in the 12th house
alreadv.
#otion that planets which have dignities in the places
ofthe new and full Moon, Ascendant, and Part of Fortune,
are Aphetas, seems wholly irrational : Placidus never gives
a single example of it, but passes the whole over in silence,
£ was generally his way when he could not compre
hend any of Ptolemy’s dogmas, for he made it a point never
to censure him. The zodiacal dignities of the planets sa
vour very strongly of human invention, as we have shewn
under the article Dignities; but allowing them really to
exist, it seems extremely absurd to suppose the dignity of
a planet can have any effect upon such planet when it
is out of it. As to the Horoscope, we have one instance
in Placidus where it is Hyleg, which in the absence of the
luminaries may be the case. We know, however, that in
all other cases the aspects of the Sun and Moon are con
sidered as equally powerful whether above or below the
Earth, and it does not clearly appear why they should be
more unfit for this purpose than for any other: indeed the
office of Hyleg appears to require more investigation than
it has hitherto received, unbiassed by the opinion of Pto
lemy, Placidus, or any one else, and regulated solely by
the dictates of reason and experience. The Part of For
tune seems equally a human invention with the rest, and
founded on no rational principle. It would be difficult to
explain why the Sun should sympathize with the ascending
Part of Heaven more than any other planet, and it would
not be easy to demonstrate what connexion any of them
have with it at all. The Horoscope is wholly a mundane
not a zodiacal position: it respects the Earth and not the
Sun, and no aspect but what is mundane can affect it: the
Part of Fortune, therefore, if it must be taken at all, should
be taken in the World not in the Zodiac. Placidus has
given also one solitary instance wherein the Part of For
tune was Prorogator, but “one Swallow,” says the pro
verb “does not make Summer,” nor does one instance
establish a System. I would here be understood, as only
denying the operation of the Part of Fortune in nativities
as a cause, and not in horary questions as a symbol.
I0 A SC
APOGEE, that part in the orbit of a planet where it is
at the greatest distance from the Earth.
APORHCEA, a term given to the Moon when she
separates from one planet and applies to another.
APPLICATION, is of three kinds, in all of which it
means one planet applying to any familiarity with another.
1st, Direct APPLICATION, when two planets are direct,
and one applies to another, of which the motion is slower
than its own, and overtakes it. -
2d, Retrograde APPLICATION, when two planets are re
trograde, and one overtakes the other in a similar manner.
3d, Mixed APPLICATION, is when one being direct and
the other retrograde they mutually apply to each other.
In horary questions, only the first is deemed good, and
the two latter are deemed evil Applications, as the thing
sought after will be injurious or of little value when it
comes to pass. In all cases Application is stronger than
Separation, either for good or evil. Ptolemy mentions
none of these kinds of Applications, but merely says, that
planets preceding apply to those that follow ; and planets
that follow separate from those that precede: by this it
appears that he considered a dexter aspect an Application,
(whether the planet was applying or separating) and a si
nister aspect Separation.
AQUARIES. See Signs.
ARC or ARCH, the distance between any two places in
the heavens: for as the zodiac forms a circle equal to 360
degrees, every distance, whether zodiacal or mundane, must
be an Arch, viz. a portion or segment of that circle.
ARC OF DIRECTION, the distance between certain
places in a Nativity found by direction. See Direction.
ARIES. See Signs.
ASCENDANT, the Horoscope. See Houses. Some
authors call that part of heaven from the Imum Caeli east
ward to the Medium Caeli, the Ascendant, because it is always
ascending, but the term is seldom so applied at present.
ASCENDING SIGNS, *, 8, 11, A, m, £, so called,
because when the Sun is in them his declination is
increasing.
ASCENDING PART OF HEAVEN, from the 4th
House eastward to the Mid-heaven.
ASCEND TO, to the Sun, is being oriental and matu
tine to the Sun: to the Moon, being occidental and vesper
time to the Moon: this is what Ptolemy calls the Luminaries
being guarded.
#0NS, arcs or parts of the equator, which
B E H 11
rise with any planet or part of the ecliptic. See Right
and Oblique Ascension.
ASCENSIONAL DIFFERENCE, the difference be
tween the right and oblique ascension of any star or part
of the ecliptic. It is found by taking the declination of the
star, or £ of the ecliptic, and entering the table of
Ascensional Difference under the proper pole of the planet,
or the country, as occasion may require; and in the com
mon angle of meeting will be found the Ascensional Dif
ference. Example,—
If a star, or any part of the ecliptic, has 19 degrees of
declination in the latitude of 51 degrees, what will be its
Ascensional Difference 2 look in the first column for 19 de
grees, and in the next column (on the top of which is the
pole's elevation, 51 degrees,) will be found 25 degrees, 10
minutes, for the Ascensional Difference.
If there be fractional parts, as there generally are, a
proportional sum must be taken for each. Example,—
If a star have 19 degrees, 20 minutes declination in the
latitude of London 51 degrees, 32 minutes, what will be the
Ascensional Difference In the common angle for 19 de
grees and 51 degrees we find as before 25 degrees, 10 mi
nutes, and for the remaining 20 minutes of declination
say, “if 60 minutes give 1 degree, 33 minutes (the difference
between the declination for 19 degrees and 20 degrees) what
will 20 minutes give? it will give 31 minutes, which add
to the 25 degrees, 10 minutes, and it makes 25 deg. 41 min.
There yet remains the 32 min. difference in the pole to be
accounted for. We therefore say, if 60 min. give 59 min.
(the difference between the poles 51 deg. and 52 deg.) what
will 32 min. give it will give 32 min. which added to the
25 deg. 41 min. makes the Ascensional Difference com
plete 26 deg. 13 min.
ASPECTS, any degree of familiarity between planets,
except the Conjunction. See Familiarities.
ATHAZER, a term given to the Moon when she is in
conjunction with the Sun, or at distances from him of 12°,
45°, 90°, 150°, 1689, 180°, 1929, 215°, 270°, or 348°.
AUSTRAL, or Southern Signs, n-,m, 4,15,2,36.
AZIMENE, or Weak and Lame Degrees, are those
parts of signs which, when thy ascend at a birth, render
the Native lame, blind, &c. See the Table of Degrees.
BARREN SIGNS, II, Q and mg. See Children. -
BENEFICS, the two benevolent planets 24 and 2.
BEASTIAL SIGNS, am, 8, &l, ?, and k?. -
BEHOLDING SIGNS, signs having the same declina
12 B R E
tion, being at equal distance from the tropics, as Y and
11, 8 and Q, II and g3, A and X, m and ::, 4 and k”.
BESEIGED, a planet inclosed between two others.
If between Jupiter and Venus it is good, but if between
Saturn and Mars extremely evil. * *
BICORPORAL SIGNS, II, 1, and 36, because each
contains two different animals. Some call these double bo
died Signs, distinguishing them from the Bicorporal, though
the word means the same. They say that the Bicorporal
are the four common signs, II, ' 1, and 96, because,
lying between a fixed and tropical sign, they partake of
both natures: such folly merits no observation.
BIQUINTILE, an aspect invented by Kepler, in the
Zodiac it contains 144 degrees, and in the World it is ; of
the whole diurnal arc of any planet or point in the Heavens,
it is reckoned benevolent, but not so powerful as the sex
tile, and is admitted to be such by Placidus.
BITTER SIGNS, are Y, Q, and t, because they are
said to be hot, fiery, and bitter. -
BOREAL SIGNS, the six northern signs, Y, 8, II,
ga, # and T9. -
BRETHREN, the places in a Nativity signifying
Brothers and Sisters are, according to Ptolemy, the sign
on the Midheaven, and that which follows it; and the
Significator of Brethren is Venus by day and the Moon by
night. If these signs and planets be configurated by
Benefics, they give increase of Brethren in proportion to
the number of planets by which they are so aspected; and
if these planets are in double-bodied signs, they double
the number. If the Sun be surrounded by good stars
(within 30 degrees of him according to some, #according
Placidus, in some kind of aspect with him, though I think
it means besieged,) it signifies the same. -
If the Malefics are configurated to those places, or sur.
round the Sun, and overcome the Benefics in number and
strength, there will be few, and those of little value.
If the Fortunes so aspecting be oriental or angular, or,
if an inferior planet, occidental, swift, director increasing
in motion, the Brethren will be great and renowned, but
if they are occidental, or, if inferior, oriental, slow, retro
grade, cadent or decreasing in motion, they will be pro
portionally mean. If both Benefics and Malefics aspect
the places, and the Malefics are stronger or more in number
than the Benefics, they will be sickly and short lived. It
is said, that the Nativity of one brother may be made from
that of another, by placing that planet which hath rule in
CHA - 13
the place of Brethren on the Cusp of the Ascendant, and
regulating the other Houses accordingly: but this seems
quite absurd. In modern Astrology, the 3d House and
its Lord are considered Significators of Brethren; and,
when any question is proposed concerning them, they
make the 3d House the Ascendant: this may do in horary
questions, but it is wholly useless in Nativities. If those
stars denoting brethren, that is, the Moon by might, or
Venus by day, be in good configuration with the stars,
having dignities in their places, they will love each other;
but, if in evil familiarity, or in signs inconjunct, they will
injure and hate each other.
BROKEN SIGNS, Al, m, and 36, they are also called
mutilated, or imperfect, because those born under them
with bad aspects are deformed in some way or other.
BRUTISH SIGNS, are & and the last part of £, and
those born under them are said to be savage and coarse in
their manners, brutish, intractable, and inhuman.
CACODEMON, the 12th House, because of its evil
qualities. -
CADENT, falling from an angle, thus the 3d, 6th, 9th,
and 12th Houses are Cadent, because the stars pass from
the angles into them. Cadent stars are extremely weak in
Nativities, and render what is signified by them almost in
effectual. In horary questions, a Cadent planet seldom
brings any event to pass of which it is Significator, and if
at all, it will be when all hopes are vanished, and when
obtained, it is either evil or useless.
CANCER. See Signs.
CAPRICORN. See Signs.
CAPUT DRACONIS, the Dragon's Head.
CARDINAL HOUSES, the 10th, 1st, 7th, and 4th.
CARDINAL SIGNS, am, g5, A-, and k?.
CAUDA DRACONIS, the Dragon’s Tail.
CAZIMI, in modern Astrology, is when a planet is in
what is called the Heart of the Sun, or within 17 of his
body. It is said to fortify the planet as much as combustion
debilitates it. This I conceive to be a silly unmeaning dis
tinction : for a planet so situated is undoubtedly in the
worst state of combustion.
CHANGEABLE SIGNS, are II, 8, Q, tig, *, and k",
because they are said to change their nature according to
their position; thusII in the east is hot and dry, and in the
west cold and moist; 8 in the east is rather hot, and in the
west cold; Q in the east hot and dry, and in the west hot
and moist; g in the east is hottish, and in the west cold and
14 CHILDREN.
moist; $ in the east is cold and moist, and in the west hot
and dry; k? in the east is cold and dry, and in the west cold
and moist: these appear to be very foolish distinctions.
CHILDREN. The 10th and 11th Houses, according
to Ptolemy, signify Children, if planets are in them or con
figurated to them; but if none be there, or in aspect, those
must be taken that are in the 4th and 5th Houses. The
Moon, Jupiter, or Venus, are givers of Children, but Saturn
or Mars cause barrenness. Mercury operates according to
the stars to which he is *:; he is, however, said
to give Children when oriental, and to cause barrenness
when occidental. If the Moon, Jupiter, or Venus, be in
one of those Houses by themselves in a watery sign, they
are said to give two or three children at a birth; if in
double bodied or feminine signs, twins; but in any other,
only one child. If they are in masculine signs, or configu
rated to the Sun orientally they give males; but if in femi
nine signs, or configurated with the Sun occidentally, fe
males. If in barren signs, or if the Malefies be more power
ful by number or strength, they will give Children, but
such as are weakly and short lived.
If a Malefic be in either of those Houses in a masculine
or barren sign, the native will be always barren; particu
larly if the Sun be with it. If it be in a feminine or fruit
ful sign, or if a Benefic cast a ray to the place, there will
be Children, but such as are sickly and short lived, or with
blemishes. If the Benefics aspect the place from fruitful
signs, and are more numerous, or oriental, or angular, or
succeedent, than the Malefics, the Children will be stronger
and more numerous. If the Lords of those signs be orien
tal, or angular, the Children will be enterprising and for
tunate, but if occidental or cadent, more obscure and mean.
If they # in good aspect with the Horoscope and 69,
there will be harmony between the Parents and Children,
but if in bad aspect or inconjunct, they will hate each other,
and such Children frequently ruin their Parents, or get
themselves disinherited. Ifthey are well configurated among
each other, the Children will agree among themselves, an
live together in harmony; but if they are in evil aspect
and inconjunct, there will be hatred and separation. If
there be planets in the 10th, 11th, 4th, or 5th, House, the
place of such planet, it is said, may be made the cusp of
the Ascendant, and the rest of the Houses regulated ac
cordingly, and it will serve for such Child's Nativity. . I
have already given an opinion on this method under the
article Brethren, and it is therefore useless to repeat it; I
C L I - 15
have also stated the improbability, that the Lords of Signs
can have any efficacy as such, when out of their signs;
nor do I conceive it less an absurdity because it has been
taught by Ptolemy and believed by Placidus. -
In modern Astrology the Significators of Children are
the 5th House and its Lord, but this is only proper for
horary questions. -
CHRONOCRATER, Ruler of Time. It is generally
considered as the light of time, viz. the Q by day and the
P by night. Others divide the life of man into seven parts,
and assign the care of the first four years to the , from
thence to fourteen to 8, from fourteen to twenty-two to
2, &c. and these are called Chronocraters: it would be
useless to dwell longer on such an absurdity. . .
CIRCLE, the whole Circumference of the Zodiac, con
taining 360 degrees of 60 minutes each, or, when reduced
to time, 12 hours.
CIRCLES OF POSITION, Circles passing through
the common intersections of the horizon and meridian, and
passing through any part of the ecliptic in their way, or
through the centre of any star so as to shew the position of
such star or place. These, however, are not the Circles of
Position used by Ptolemy or Placidus, who measure the
place and distance of every star by its semi-arc.
CLIMACTERICAL YEARS, every 7th or 9th year in
a man's life, answering to the days of the D., because she
comes to the D of her own place in the radix about every
7th day, and in A to it about every 9th day: thus the 7th,
9th, 14th, 18th, 21st, 27th, 28th, 35th, 36th, 42d, 45th, 49th,
54th,56th, and 63d, years, are all Climacterical, and are rec
koned, and perhaps truly, to be productive of remarkable
events. The most dangerous of them are the 49th and 63d,
because they are doubly Climacterical, being 7 X 7 and 7 X
9, and, when evil directions occur, are reckoned generally
fatal : the 63d year is called the Grand Climacteric, and a
careful observer will find that more people die in their 63d
year than in any other year from 50 to 80. Many are of
opinion, that the 7th Climacterical year is always caused
by 2, because he comes every 7th year or thereabouts to
the D1, 8 or d, of his place in the radix: this may be the
case, but I should rather attribute it to the D, whose effects,
in all things we know of, are more prominent than those
of 2. In some cases it may be the joint effect of 2 and
the , as their septennial periods nearly agree : one reason,
however, against the probable operations of 2 in the sep
tennial year is, that his period is not strictly septennial,
16 C O L
but nearly seven years and a half, and his 2d Climacteric
would be fifteen years, whereas the periodical lunation is
twenty-seven days, seven hours, 44 minutes, dividing nearly
seven for her a to her place in the radix: besides, as 2.
is larger and nearer than b, and his period twelve years
within fifty-one days, we should have a more powerful
Climateric every fourth year, which is not the case: 3, too,
is reckoned every way as powerful as '2, and therefore we
should have four more Climacterics in every two years:
all these considerations almost amount to a demonstration,
that every Climacterical Period is Lunar and regulated
not by a Synodical but by a Periodical Lunation. -
CLIMATE, a portion of heaven contained between two
parallel circles, whose diurnal arcs are half an hour differ
ent from each other. The Globe is divided into 48 Cli
mates,—24 northern, and 24 southern. The First Climate
begins at the equator, where the diurnal arc is 12 hours,
and extends to the next Climate, where the diurnal arc is
11h. 30m. and so on to the polar elevation, where, at a cer
tain season, the Sun sets not during the 24 hours.
COLLECTION OF LIGHT, is when a planet re
ceives the rays of two others less ponderous than itself,
and which are inconjunct with each other: this, in horary
questions, signifies, that the business will be completed by
the interference of a third person, without whose aid it
could not have taken place. It is said, however, that if
they do not both receive him in some of their essential dig
nities, he will feel no interest in the affair, nor will it be
rosperous.
COLOURS. Colours, according to Astrologers, are
symptoms of the nature of stars; the fixed stars, there
fore, of the colour of Jupiter are of the nature of Jupiter;
those of Mars, of the nature of Mars; &c. Placidus says,
that the yellow or golden colour of the Sun has an active
£ and is the sign of radical heat; the white of the
oon has a passive power, and is the sign of radical mois
ture. Lead colour, such as Saturn’s, is a sign of intem
perate cold and dryness; the fiery red of Mars is the re
sult ofintemperate heat and dryness; the mixture of blue
and yellow found in Jupiter and Venus are signs of heat
and moisture united; the blue of Jupiter, he says, shews,
that in him heat is predominant; and the yellow of Venus
shews excess of moisture: this seems a mistake, for, what
ever blue may be the sign of Venus has more of it than
Jupiter.
£ie the colours of the planets, there are others which
*
C O M 17
they are said to signify : thus b signifies black; 2/,
red mixed with green; 6, fiery red; Q, yellow, or in
clined to purple; Q, white and purple; # light blue or
azure; and (, white, or white spotted, or a light mixed
colour. The Signs of the Zodiac have also colours as
signed to them : Y, white and red; 8, red mixed with
citron; II, red and white mixed; gr., green or russet;
SR, red or green; p, black spotted with blue; ~, black,
or dark crimson, or swarthy; m, dark brown; 1, light
green, or olive; V5, black, or dark brown; :, sky-blue;
%, pure white, or glistening : these colours are said to
shew the complexion of any native, signified by such
signs, though it would be difficult to find a native who was
green or blue: it may, however, in horary questions, sig
nify their dress. If two cocks were to fight, or two horses
to race, &c. a figure, it is said, may be erected, and that
sign or planet, signifying their colour, which is strongest
or posited in the best house of the two, shews which will
be victorious. -
COMBUSTION. A planet is combust when within 8"
30 of the body of the Sun : its influence is then said to be
burnt up, or destroyed. It is said by Ptolemy, that a pla
met when combust can neither save nor destroy, but it im
pregnates the Sun with its power, whether good or evil.
To be under the Sun-beams is a degree of combustion,
and as the Sun's orb extends 17°, all planets are under its
beams within that distance.
Mercury, it is said, does not suffer like other planets
from being under the G) beams: but this must relate only to
horary questions, when those signified by Mercury would
be generally in that state signified by combustion, as he is
always near the Sun. In nativities there seems a manifest
difference in the genius and propensities of natives accord
ing to the distance of their # from the Sun. Those who
have him in a state of combustion, evince but a moderate.
'': have little wit or solid judgment, though they
will persevere in business, and frequently with good suc
cess. A good '' with the Moon, if she be angular,
and increasing in light, will in a great degree remedy this
defect, and render them active, judicious, and penetrating.
In horary questions, when a planet is combust it signifies
the person to be in great fear and danger from some supe
rior person, who, if there be application to Combustion,
will finally overpower or greatly injure him,
COMETS. Comets have ever been considered as effect
ing great changes in the #", the atmosphere, and the
*
18 COMETS.
affairs of men: to deny this would be as absurd as to deny
the effects of any other celestial body, by which we are
surrrounded, not excepting even the Sun and Moon. The
have always been considered as productive of evil, whic
is certainly probable, as their presence cannot fail to de
range the system for a time. The ancients, who, though
not so learned as the moderns, were more acute in their
observations, considered them as the cause of every ca
lamity that could afflict mankind, and modern observations
confirm this opinion. The great comet in 1680, followed
by another in 1682, was probably the main spring of all
those disastrous events that ended in the revolution in 1688.
To that in 1807, which appeared towards the south in
September, just after it had passed its perihelium, may be
ascribed the troubles in Spain, the dethroning ofits king,
and the subsequent usurpation of his son Ferdinand, , ,
The comet in 1811, near the constellation of Ursa
Major, was doubtless the precursor of all the troubles in
Russia, and the war with America. From its northern
position it was also the cause of that subsequent convulsion
that separated some of those vast continents of ice near the
pole, which had subsisted for ages: some idea of their
duration may be formed from the observations of Kotzebue,
who commanded the Russian northern expedition in 1715,
and who on his return three years after had found Ice-bergs
covered with land, vegetables, and even trees, and one of
them contained the body of a mammoth in a state of putre
faction: it had, no doubt, been preserved by the frost for
ages, and on its progress, after separation, towards a
warmer climate the process of putrefaction began.
From these events, some idea may be formed of the dura
tion of the effect of a Comet, which remains long after the
cause has been removed. No doubt but Nature is thrown
into great convulsions, which, like all agitations of bodies
of large magnitude, require a long time before they can
finally subside. Their operations are probably most con
spicuous in the quarter where they appear, north or south,
like those of all other celestial bodies, which are most
powerful in those places where they approach the zenith.
And they most likely have an effect on certain persons
when, like eclipses, they happen near the ecliptic, and on
the principal places of the radix: but of this I cannot
speak from my own observation. Ptolemy says, they cause
wars and hot seasons, and countries governed by the sign
they are in when they first appear are those that suffer,
''those suffer most towards which its tail points,
CONCEPTION. 19"
COMMANDING SIGNS, Y, 8, II, g3, Q, W, be
cause they are more powerful from being nearer to our
zenith : and stars having parallels of north declination are
said to command those that have south declination. There
is also a silly notion, that those born under the six northern
signs are more fitted to command than those born under
the others, and are generally more successful.
COMMON s's are II, W, T, and 36, because they
are not in extremes, but in a medium between fixed and
moveable. They are said to produce twins, monsters,
hermaphrodites, &c. -
CONCEPTION. Ptolemy says, that the sex, as well
as the incidents relating to a child, prior to its birth, may
be known by the position of the planets at the time of con
ception. If the luminaries, or the ascendant, or the stars
in aspect with them, or with the ascendant, be in feminine
signs; or if they are feminine by being occidental, the
child conceived will be a female. If oriental, or in mascu
line signs a male. If the lights, or ascendant, or planet
aspecting them, be in bicorporal signs, there will be twins
or more, and the same if both the lights are in the south
angle. If b, 2/, and 3, behold the horoscope or lumi
naries from bicorporal signs, there will be three males,
but if Q, #, and ), behold them in like manner, three
females. If one feminine and two male planets, there will
be two males and a female; but if one male and two
feminine planets, two females and a male. If all the con
figurations are imperfect, the children will be imperfect
also; but if some be perfect and others imperfect, the
children will be the same. When the Malefics are angular,
and the luminaries in the 12th or 6th, monsters are gene
rated, and the same if the place of the last full Moon and
its Lord, and the disposer of the luminaries, have no as
pect to the horoscope. w
If the luminaries, being so posited, are in fourfooted
signs, with the Malefics angular, the embryo will be of a
beastly form; but if a Benefic give testimony, it will be of
human shape, but of a savage disposition. If t be in
good familiarity with the ), the faculties will be improved,
although the body be ill formed; and if the luminaries be:
in human signs, the shape will be much better. If a
Malefic be with the luminaries, the child will be foolish;
but if a Fortune be also with them, the Child’s intellect
will be saved, but it will be an hermaphrodite. If # be
with them, it will be dumb, though of good abilities. If
one of the luminaries be in an aphetic place, joined to a
20 C OS
Malefic, or in D, or 3 to it, there will be an abortion,
and the same if it have a parallel of the Malefic's declina
ition : it will either die in the womb, or shortly after birth.
If the two Malefics, or only one of them, afflict either
Q or ) by a partile aspect there will be an abortion, and
the same if the luminaries are in 5 to P and 6 from
angles in partile or platic aspect. If the conditionary lumi
nary isseparating from a Benefic, and applying to a Malefic,
the child wil be born alive, but will live only such a num
ber of months, days, or hours, as there are degrees,
minutes, and seconds between the luminary who is apheta,
and the nearest Malefic. If on the contrary the luminary
separates from the Malefic in any way, and applies to a
Benefic, the child will be sickly, but will recover and do
well: these things, however, must be difficult to ascertain,
and it is probable that Ptolemy wrote this more from fancy
than experience.
CONDITIONARY ARC, the diurnal arc by day, and
the nocturnal by night.
CONDITIONARY LUMINARY, the Q by day and
the D by night.
CONFIGURATIONS, See Familiarities.
... CONJUGATIONS, the planets are said to have four
Conjugations, according to where they are situated; the
Ist is when they are near the Earth and increasing in
light; 2d, when they are near and decreasing in light;
3d, when distant and in their decrease; and 4th, when
distant and in their increase.
CONJUNCTION, is when two planets are within half
of their orbs of each other with respect either to longitude
or latitude. If a planet be within the distance of its own
orb to a fixed star it is the same. This configuration is
good with good stars and bad with evil ones.
COSIGNIFICATORS are planets and signs that have
a kind of rotatory signification: thus Aries is a cosignifi
cator of all ascendants, because though it be not the sign
ascending, it is the first sign in the zodiac, as the ascendant
is the first house in the world. P is also a cosignificator
of the ascendant because he is the first planet in the system,
and therefore those who hold this doctrine, say, that if ly
be in the ascendant at a Nativity well dignified and as
pected, he promises a sober disposition and long life, though
the very reverse is the fact; thus the 12 signs are cosigni
ficators of the 12 mundane houses in rotation, but as there
are not so many planets as houses, some of them are com
pelled to do £ duty. Thus b is cosignificator of
C. R. O. 21
both the 1st and 8th houses, 2 ofthe2d and 9th, d of the
3d and 10th, &c. : these are silly refinements in astrology
and only fit to render the science ridiculous. ,
In horary questions the D is always Cosignificator with
the lord of the ascendant, and must be directed as such to
any Promittor. In questions relative to marriage the Y
and Q are the Cosignificators of a man, but the Q and 6.
are Cosignificators if the querent be a woman. A planet
also in d or aspect with the Significator of anything is
called a Cosignificator, because it influences the matter in
question. - , - .
CONTRA ANTISCIONS. See Parallels. . . . .
CONVERSEMOTION, when the Significatoris moved
from east to west by the diurnal motion of the Earth. See
Directions in the World. -
COSMICAL, Mundane.
£ical RISING, when a star rises exactly with
the Sun. * -
COSMICAL SETTING, when a star sets exactly as
the Sun rises. *
CREPUSCLE, Twilight. When the O is in the Cre
puscle he must be directed differently from any other planet,
and when he is under the Earth in what is called the Ob
scure Arc beyond the utmost parallel of twilight, the cre
pusculine arc must be subtracted from his seminoeturnal
arc before he can be directed. See Zodiacal and Mundane
irections.
Crepusculine Tables are published by the author, and
the method of using them will be found under the article
* Directions.” -
CRITICAL DAYS, those days on which any accident
is calculated by direction to happen. Climacterical days
are also called Critical, and those in fevers and other
diseases on which a change is likely to happen, owing to
the Moon's position with her radical place when the disease
commenced. The 7th and 8th days are the most Critical,
because on them she comes to a D of the place she was in
when the patient was taken ill. The 4th and 5th days are
also Critical, when she comes to her own >|<, on the 9th
or 10th she comes to her A, and on the 14th, to her & ,
on all which days a change may be expected.
CROOKED SIGNS are 8, Vy and X, and if the as
cendant or Moon be in one of these, and afflicted by the Ma
lefics, the Native, it is said, will he crooked, or imperfect.
Placidus gives an instance of this in the nativity of Doctor
Massari, who was born with his feet inverted, owing to
22 D EC
the ) being in the west angle in 8, and in D of 6 in the
world, : was posited #. #sign of £#and in
mundane & to 12, who was posited in 1, the sign of the
thighs. I own, however, I should require more proof of
the truth of this doctrine than this solitary instance can
afford, although backed by the opinion of Placidus; nor
do I see any rational cause why 9% should govern the feet,
merely because men have thought proper to make it the
last sign or foot of the Zodiac, 'fbegin their right as
cension at the first point of Y".
CULMINATE, to arrive at the cusp of the mid-heaven.
CULMEN COELI, the 10th house.
CUSP, the beginning or edge of a house.
CYCLE OF THE MOON, 19 years, at the end of
which she returns to her position with the Sun. -
CYCLE OF THE SUN, 28 years.
DAY. HOUSE, those houses in which the planets are
said to be stronger by; day than by night. : is the day
house of b,; 1 of 2/ ; ‘p of d ; = of Q ; and II of #.
The G) and ( have but one house each, which serves them
both by day and night.
DAY T #1Es, those triplicities in which a
planet is stronger by day than night. b is stronger by
day in the airy triplicity; Q in the fiery triplicity; d. in
the watery triplicity, and Q in the earthy.
p' ES. See Dignities.
DECANT, or DECANATE, the Face; thus, every
sign has three Decanates. -
DECATOM, a Dichotome.
DECILE, the Semiquintile, a distance of 36°.
DECLINATION, the distance of any planet or place
from the equator, whether north or south. Thus, every
art of the ecliptic, except the beginning of Aries or Libra,
£ declination, because the plane of the ecliptic is not pa
rallel with that of the equator.
To find the Declination of any star or place:
Enter the table with the longitude as it stands in the
column on the left hand, and under the latitude in the com--
mon angle of meeting is the declination.
Suppose a planet in 22° 0' of Q with 7° north latitude,
what will be its Declination? Enter the column on the left
at No. 22, and in the common angle of meeting under No.
7, at the top, will be found 20° 50', which is the Declina
tion. • If the longitude and latitude consist of fractional
parts, find the nearest whole number as before : then, by
the Rule of Three find the proportional value of the frac
DECLINATION. 23
tions, and add or subtract them as occasion may require.
Example,- -
What is the declination of a star in 22° 10' of Leo with
4° 15' north latitude 2 -
Opposite the 22 of longitude under the column No. 4,
n: latitude, will be found 18° 0'; for the odd 15' take
the difference between the columns 4 and 5 ; it amounts to
57; Thus, say, if 1 degree of latitude gives 57 min. what
will 15 min. give 2 it gives 14. min. ; which added to the
18' 0" makes 18° 14'; for the odd 10' of longitude find the
difference between 22 and 23 degrees of longitude : it is
20 less, because the declination decreases. If I deg. of lon
gitude gives 20 min. what will 10 min. give answer, 3 m.
which, as it is less, must be subtracted from the 18 deg.
14 min., and the remainder is the true declination re
quired: 18 deg. 11. min. This mode of finding the value
of the fractions by the Golden Rule is greatly preferable
to using Tables of Logarithms. The Rule of Three may
at first seem difficult to the unpractised student, but it soon
becomes familiar and like an old beaten tract which will
never mislead him: in two or three days it will perform
every operation in half the time in which it can be selected
from the tables, with much less confusion, and with infi
nitely more accuracy. Care must be taken not to confuse
the latitudes by taking the table of south for north lati
tude and vice versa, as is common among young begin
ners, and if this mistake be avoided there is hardly any
other can happen. Each table serves for two signs, one of
which begins the longitude at the top, and the other at the
bottom, but the common angles of meeting for the latitudes
are the same. The junction of the different declinations
where the north ends and the south begins is marked N &
S, and should the fractional parts so fall as to be one part
north and the other south declination, they must both be
added: the sum of these is called the difference, from
which find the proportional parts for the minutes, and if
they are less than the first angle's declination, subtract
them from it. Example,—-
What is the declination of a star in 9 deg. 10 min. of
Libra, with 40 deg. N. latitude : in the common angle of
meeting opposite 9° is 0° 6' N. declination, and opposite
10° is 0° 18' S. declination: these added make 24', which
is called the difference. ... If I deg. of longitude gives the
difference 24 min, what will the odd 10 min give? answer,
4 min., which being less than the first angle's declimation
6 min. subtract it from it, and the remainder is the true
24 D E G
declination of 0° 2' north. Had the number found been
£ than the first angle's declination the latter must
ave been subtracted from it: the remainder will be the
true declination south. Example,—
Suppose the longitude to be 9 deg. 40 min. of Libra with
4 deg. north latitude, what will be its declination?
Proceeding as before described, the fourth term found .
for the odd 40 min. would be 16 min., which being greater
than the 6 min. found in the common angle, the latter must
be subtracted from it, and the remainder will be the decli
nation : 0° 10' south.
From these tables the longitude of a planet may be dis
covered (though not the sign), by taking the declination
and latitude in the common angle, and finding the longi
tude opposite: thus, 10° 0' of north declination, arising
from 4 north latitude, answers either to 14 0 of mg, or
16' 0" of op. A complete set of Tables may be had with
this work.
DECREASING IN LIGHT, all planets decrease in
light when they approach the Sun, after having passed the
opposition. Q and # decrease in light as they go nearer
to the Q, after having reached their greatest elongation.
It is a sign of weakness in the thing or office described by
such planet.
DECUMBITURE, a horary question or figure, erected
for a sick person. It should be made to the time when the
patient first perceives his disease; but if this ' unob
served, it may be erected like the figure of any other horary
question at the option of the patient.
DEFERENT, an imaginary circle or orb, supposed by
Ptolemy (who was ignorant of the Earth's motion) to carry
a planet about with it.
DEGREE, the 30th part of a sign, or 360th part of a
circle: every degree is divided into 60 minutes.
DEGREES, certain degrees or parts of the Zodiac,
supposed to possess certain qualities wholly imaginary:
but to render this Dictionary complete, I shall insert the
Table of them, which is as follows:
Gó
'SGGIHSCICI
-
-
s:
la
*|o
08
||
8%
sz
og
I.
OT
GI
9
:
G
=
|*||
9
|si
o
|z:
at
0:
£ot}
-
|-|
0%;
l.
I
81
%
to
38
cz
#
£1.
08
08
||
43
-
|
OT
||
||
6
||
!
I
(
II
|
"
'
"
.
Iā
6
ea
gi
Iz
g_
Oz;
t
I
|
6%,
8%
|6%
#8
cz
c
08
||
6
||
Og
£I
&L
|
13
98
|&
!
I
l
*
|
*|
|zz
of
OL
£
&
6L
8L
|08
la
Vö
08
#&
og
I.
of
81
||
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
0
|*
|
*|
||6
||
6
||
3
|z|
<
||
Oø
83
1683
08
tz
08
Gö
QC
09:
8L
1.
6I
&
OL
6
|
f
|
|
|
|
|
8
8
#I
l1
+
1%
08:
0%
1&
Lö
lö
og
-
C
I
&
"
||
||
"
'
"
of
st's
Gi
of
5
0%
G2:
I
G
1.
I
08:
9
L
0%
Og
#I
£
9
of
£8
||
0
|
*
|
c.
8
8
ZT
*
6L
|8%
Sö
86
&G
|
c.
-
83
||
08
ht 1
&
2
to
sI
||
|
|
|
0
|
*
|
0
||
9"
Og
Ś
|g|
3
||
QL
i
I
-
GI
tº
91
&I
08:
0%
*
oz
#1
8%
13
|08
88
g.
8
&
1
II
of
6
&
11
g1|
8
||
|"
Z.
I-
|
(;
L
S
OI
&
08:
93
Og
£3
G%
08
||
9a
||
|| II
9
|t|
<|
3
||
9
||
0
|
|
|
|z|
f
|zz
g
of
II
1&
OL
6
C
&
#7%
9
||
0
09:
8%
#2,
08
g
Q
I
g
8
||
0
||
2:
Ig
Z,
I
8
||
9
||
|
|
|
|
9
||
L:
II."
-
6%,
8%
08
0L
63
G3
08
6I
"
or
it
9
#|
0
||
8
|oz's
5
|ol's
|.
~
S.
S
-
Lo
- $$$
£|
SS:
|S$$$$
##|
#|
###
$
$$
$
$
$
S
S
S
|####|
S
S
##|
$$
$$
#
§
3
;
$
$
$
$$$.
$|:
'
'
'
'
|
*
:
$
$
§§
#
*
S
>
*
S.
S.
$
c
3
||
3:
3.
o
S:
3
S:
3
Qe
s
~
s
$
“ov
Iqo'Z
all
fo
NorS
popo
ut
Sag
Hoaq
31,
fo
SNo1.Lvol.IINo1S
pup
sRo1LoGil
V
2/1
5ut!!?!/rg
(ITQIWL
W
26 D E C
against Y are found 8.15. and 30 in the masculine column
and 9. and 22 in the feminine column :-this shews the
first 8 degrees of Y to be masculine, the 9th feminine,
from thence to the 15th masculine, from the 15th to the
22d feminine, and from thence to the 30th masculine : in
like manner the 3 first are dark degrees, from thence to
the 8th light degrees, from thence to the 16th dark, and
from thence to the 20th light. The 29th is also a light
degree, the rest are indifferent. There are no smoky
degrees in Y. The 24th and 30th are void degrees, the
6th, 11th, 16th, 23d, and 29th, are pitted or deep £"
There are no azimene degrees, and the 19th degree is
fortunate. -
If the ascendant or its lord be in any of these degrees in
a nativity it is said to denote something in the native's
fortune or appearance corresponding: thus, if in a mascu
line degree he or she will be more masculine : if in a
feminine, more feminine. If in a light or dark degree,
more fair or dark, and if in a smoky £ more dun and
swarthy, with dull intellect. Void degrees render the
native empty and void of knowledge. Deep pitted degrees
subject the native to deep marks of the £or scars,
&c. or, according to other sapient gentlemen, they cause an
impediment in speech, troubles and disputes in which they
are sunk as in a deep pit. The azimene degrees make
them crooked, lame or d'm: according to the nature
of the sign and the part signified by it, and this they say is
an invariable rule. The fortunate degrees, if on the cusp
of the 2d house, or if the lord of the 2d be in such a degree,
or if 2/ be in a fortunate degree, the native will acquire
great riches and honour: such nonsense as this deserves
no comment. -
DEPRESSION of a star, is its distance from the
horizon when under the Earth.
DESCENDANT, the west angle, or 7th house.
DETRIMENT. A planet has its detriment in the sign
opposite its house. Planets in detriment are reckoned
unfortunate and weak, and it is a symbol of poverty, dis
tress, loss, and subjugation.
DEXTER ASPECTS are those contrary to the order
of the signs: thus, a planet in Y casts a dexter >k to :,
and a dexter A to 1. # are said to be of greater force
than sinister aspects, but this must be merely fancy.
DICHOTOME (cut in two, ) a term given to the 1st
and 3d quarters of the D, because she is then acquiring
DIGNITIES. 27.
the shape of a half moon, or, as if she were cut in two. In
these dichotomes she is oriental.
DIGNITIES are certain situations where a planet is
said to acquire strength, either to do evil or good, accord
ing to its nature. We say, to do evil, because, although
a malefic is supposed to be better disposed when in its
dignities than when peregrine or out of them, yet in the
event of a contest between two planets, b and 2 for in
stance in a natal position, or a subsequent direction to the
hyleg, or any other significator, if b were dignified above
2/, the evil threatened by the malefic would, it is said,
predominate. -
Planetery DIGNITIES are said to be of two kinds,
Essential and Accidental. Essential Dignities are only
five, viz. House, Exaltation, Triplicity, Term, and Face,
all of which will be found under their respective heads,
but the accidental dignities are very numerous.
The modern system of applying dignities is to assign a
specific value to each, which are as follows:
Essential Dignities.
A planet in its house, or in mutual reception
by house, has 5
In Exaltation or mutual reception by Exaltation 4.
In Triplicity - - - - - - - 3
In its Term, * *- - *- *- * - 2
In Face, - - - - - - - - I
Accidental Dignities.
In the ascendant or midheaven
Free from combustion,
In Cazimi, - * *
£ by 2/ and Q,
n partile Ó of 21 or Q,
'' of o: £ Q -
In C3 of Spica, • •- *
In the 4th, 7th, or 11th, houses,
Direct, - • * •- *
Partile 6 of Caput Draconis,
Partile A of 2/ or Q, -
Partile >|< of 2/ or Q, -
In the 2d or 5th house,
In the 9th house, - " -
Swift in motion, - •
Increasing in light, * -
b, 2/, or Ó, when oriental, have
9
28 DIGNITIES.
Accidental Dignities continued.
Q, #, or ), occidental, have
In the 3d house, - -
In Hayze, - - -
In the term of 2/ or Q, -
There are also a corresponding number of debilities
both essential and accidental, as follows:
Essential Debilities.
.
|
:
In Detriment, * - * - - - -
In Fall, - - - - - - - -
Peregrine, - - - - - - - -
Accidental Debilities.
Beseiged b and 6, - - * - - •- - 6
In partile £ of b or 6, - - - •- 5
In conjunction with Caput Algol (it threatens
beheading ifjoined to the hyleg,) - - - 6
Combust, - - •- - - :- - - 5
Retrograde, - - - - - - - - 5
In partile conjunction of b or 6, - - - - 5
In the 12th house, •- •- - - *- •- 5
Under the Sunbeams (from 8°, 30' to 17°, distant
from him), - •- - - - - *- - 4
In the 6th or 8th house, w - - •- •- - 4.
Partile conjunction of the Dragon's Tail, - - 4
In partile opposition of b or Ó, - - •- - 4.
In partile D of P or 6, - - - •- *- 3
Decreasing in light, - - - - - - 2
Decreasing in motion or slow, - - - - 2
b, 2/, or 6, occidental, - - - - - 2
, #, or ), oriental, - " - - - - - 2
In the term of b or d, - - - •- - - I
The Part of Fortune, although in some situations it is
dignified or debilitated like the planets, has also certain
dignities and debilities peculiar to itself.
Dignities of the Part of Fortune.
In conjunction of Cor Leonis, -
In the ascendant or midheaven,
In partile conjunction of 2/ or Q,
In conjunction of Spica,
Not combust, -
In Taurus or Pisces,
Beseiged by 2/ or Q,
in gG, S1, =, or 1, -: |
DIGNITIES. 29
Dignities of the Part of Fortune continued.
In the 7th, 4th, or 11th, houses,
In partile A of 2/ or Q, •
In partile 6 of £2, -
In Gemini, - - -
In the 2d or 5th house, -
In partile >|< of 2/ or Q,
In Virgo, - - -
In the 9th house, - -
In the 3d house, - -
In the term of 2/ or Q, -
Debilities of the Part of Fortune.
In conjunction with Caput Algol,
Beseiged by P and 6, - -
In the 12th house, -
In in, V3, or :, - -
Combust, - - -
In partile d of B or 6,
In the 6th or 8th house,
In 9 of b or 6, - -
In #d £ ?S -
In Aries, |- - •
In partile D of P or 6,
In the term of b or d, .
A fixed star is in C; when not above 5’ distant from
planet.
The state of every planet is to be considered according
to this table, and its dignities and debilities collected to
gether: the one is to be subtracted from the other, and the
remainder is the criterion whereby the strength or weakness
of a planet is ascertained. Many objections may be made
to this rule : doubtless planets are stronger or weaker ac
cording to their positions, but I have no opinion of dignities
conferred by house, exaltation, or triplicity, or of debilites
caused by detriment, fall, or peregrination. Placidus partly
believed in their efficacy, and had particular confidence in
the nature of the term where a planet was situated, more
than probably it merited. It would not be easy to demon
strate, why the motion of a planet, whether swift or slow,
direct or retrograde, should alter its influence, which must
wholly proceed from attraction; nor is it rational to sup
pose any planet was ever affected by the 6 with the lunar
nodes, which can have no relation to anything but the )
to whom they belong. The power of any star is probably
*-*.
6
6
5
5
5
5
4.
4.
4.
3
3
I
a.
3{} DIRECTIONS.
inereased by being angular, or in perigee, or when it is far
advanced in our hemisphere and its rays become more ver
tical; and proportionally diminished in those situations
where its rays are more oblique.
If I comprehend Ptolemy rightly, he considered those
zodiacal dignities of house, exaltation, triplicity and term,
not as strengthening its power, but only as disposing it to
create certain propensities in the mind of the native, whom
it was supposed to govern : he says''are strong in the
world when they are oriental, swift in motion, direct, and
increasing in light; and strong in respect of the £
when angular or succeedent, and particularly in the south
or east angles. There is nothing here said about the
strength of essential dignities.
DIRECT is when a planet moves on according to the
order of the signs: as from Y to 8, &c. It is the reverse
of retrograde.
DIRECT MOTION, in mundane directions, is when
the significator (or rather its place) being immoveable in
the horary circle, the promittor by converse motion forms
a conjunction or aspect with it. Example:—
If the G) be posited on the cusp of the 10th, and a pro
mittor comes by direction to the cusp of the 8th, it will #.
a mundane >k with the G) by what is called direct motion,
though for what reason I am not aware, for the significator
remains immoveable, and the promittorismoved conversely.
DIRECTIONSare of two kinds, primary and secondary,
for the last of which see Secondary Direction.
Primary directions are arithmetical calculations of the
time of events caused by the significator forming conjunc
tions, or aspects, with the places of promittors, and they are
of two kinds : zodiacal and mundane. Zodiacal directions
are founded upon the familiarities of the stars among each
other in the zodiac, subsequent to the time of nativity, and
consist of a series of rules, or problems, for calculating the
distance of the place of a significator in a nativity from the
place he must arrive at before he can form the aspect, which
distance is called the arc of direction. H must here be
observed, that in directions the place of a planet in a
nativity is called the planet itself, as they are supposed to
impress their natures on the places where they are found
at the moment of birth as strongly as if they were continually
present in that spot, although they may be no longer there
when the significator arrives: thus, if we direct the @ to
the d of 2/, we mean to the radical situation of 21, which
always possesses his efficacy.
DIRECTIONS. 31
When the arc of direction is found, the Sun's right as
cension must be added to it, and the sum will be the right
ascension (without latitude) of that place in the zodiac, at
which, when the G) arrives, the direction is complete. For
every day of the Q’s approach to this point, a year must
be added, and so on in proportion, viz. for every 2 hours
a month, &c., thus the time when the event is likely to
happen is pointed out; but those primary directions are
seldom supposed to produce any event of importance, un
less some secondary direction,revolution, transit, &c. agree:
but where a nativity is weak, or the constitution broken by
age, disease, &c. the primary direction alone will kill, if it
be inimical to the hyleg; and misfortune will happen if the
positions of the planets at the hour of birth are unforta
nate, without the coincidence of any secondary direction.
Before an attempt be made to calculate any direction, a
complete speculum should be formed, the nature of which
will be seen under the article Speculum. This will save
the operator infinite trouble and confusion, as everything
will be ready to his hand, and he may bring up the whole
directions of a nativity with ease in two or three hours.
ZoDIACAL DIRECTIONs.
Problem Ist.—To direct the Sun when not more than 2°
distant from the cusp of the mid-heaven to any conjunction
or aspect: -
| Subtract the right ascension of the Sun from the right
ascension without latitude, of the place of the conjunction
or aspect, the remainder will be the arc of direction. -
Example:—Suppose the G) posited near the cusp of the
10th, with Q in the 12th house, (as in plate 2d, figure 1st):
I would direct the G) to the d of Q.
Right Ascension of Q without latitude, - - 262° 6.
Right Ascension of the G), - - - - - - 215 58
Arc of Birection, 46 8
Note, if the latitude of the promittor be greater than the
orb, the direction will have little or no effect.
Problem 2d.—To direct the Q, when not more than 3°
distant from the cusp of the 1st or 7th house, to any con
junction or aspect.
32 DIRECTIONS.
-
If the G) be in the ascendant, subtract his oblique ascen
sion, taken under the pole of the country, from the oblique
ascension of the place of the conjunction or aspect, taken
under the same pole, but without latitude as before: the
remainder will be the arc of direction. If the Sun be in
the 7th house, his oblique descension must be taken in like
manner from that of the place required. It may also be
done by subtracting the oblique ascension of the Q's op
posite place from that of the ascendant, which was a fa
vourite system with Placidus, instead of using the descen
sions, though it is difficult to tell for why.
Example:—Suppose the G) in the latitude of London,
posited near the cusp of the ascendant, and 2 in 26 of
(as in plate 2d, fig. 2d.) I would direct the Q to the sk
of 2 : it falls in 26 of W}.
Oblique Ascensions of 26 of W5, under the
pole of London, 326° 56'
Oblique Ascension of the G) under the same pole, 309 32
Arc of direction, 17 24
The latitude of the promittor in this as in the former
problem should be less than its orb.
Problem 3d.—To direct the G), when above the Earth,
and more than 3 degrees distant from the cusp of a cardinal
house, to any conjunction or aspect.
1st. Find both their right distances from the mid-heaven,
and call that of the aspect, the primary distance. -
2d. Say, “as the Q's semidiurnal arc is to his right dis
tance from the mid-heaven, so is the promittor’s semidiurnal
arc to the secondary distance of the aspect.”
3d. If the primary and secondary distances of the place of
the aspect be on the ascending or descending part of heaven,
subtract the less from the greater, the remainder will be
the arc of direction; but if one be in the ascending and
the other in the descending part of heaven, add them, and
their sum will be the arc of direction.
Note, the ascending part of heaven is from the 4th east
ward, to the 10th, and the descending part, from the 10th
westward to the 4th. -
Example:—Suppose the cusp of the 10th to have 24°6'
of 2:, the Q in the 11th house in 0° 9 of Y, and 2 in
1° 41' of go, I would direct the G) to the quintile of 2/ in
the zodiac (see plate 2d, fig. 3d.): it falls in 19° 41' of Y.
DIRECTIONS. 33
O’s Right Ascension, 0° 8'
Add for subtraction, 360 0
360 8
Right Ascension of the Mid-heaven, 326 26
O's Right Distance from the Mid-heaven, 33 42
Right Ascension of the As
pect, 19° 41' of Y, 18, 9.
Add for subtraction, 360 0
378 9
Right Ascension ofthe Mid
heaven, 326 26
Right Distance ofthe Aspect, 51 43 Primary Distance.
As the O’s semidiurnal are, 6h. 0m, is to the O’s right
distance, 33° 42, so is the semidiurnal arc of the aspect
(viz. 19° 41' 'Y) 6h. 30m. to the secondary distance, 36°30'.
Both these distances being in the ascending part of
heaven, subtract the less from the greater. -
Primary Distance, 519 43'
Secondary Distance, 36 30
Arc of Direction, 15 13
Problem 4th. To direct the G), when under the Earth
in the space of the crepuscle or twilight, to any conjunc
tion or aspect: *
1st, Subtract the oblique ascension of the G) from that of
the aspect, the remainder would be the arc of direction,
but as the G) is in the crepuscle, it is a false arc.
2d, Find the Q’s primary distance from the horoscope,
taken in the pole of the horoscope (viz. the latitude of the
country), £ with it enter the table of twilight for that
latitude, as near as possible to the degree the Q is in, and
in the left hand column marked Pa (parallel), will be found
the degree or parallel of the Q’s depression.
Note, the highest number of these degrees is 18, so that
ifthe Sun's primary distance leads to a higher number than
18 he is not in the crepuscle, but is in the obscure arc, and
must be directed as in proble:5th.
*
34 DIRECTIONS.
3d, Opposite this parallel of the @'s depression, take
the place of the aspect's sign and degree, and this will be
the secondary distance. -
4th, Subtract from this the primary distance, obtained in
the same way, the remainder is the ortive difference, which
subtract from the false arc, and it will give the true arc of
direction. If the primary distance be greater than the
secondary, the ortive difference must be added to the
false arc.
Example:—Suppose the cusp of the horoscope to be 11°
of 36 ; & in 0° 0' of Y, and G) in 15° 46 of Y, (see plate
2d, fig. 4th): I would direct the G) to the D of 6: it falls
of course in 0° 0' of CS. -
Oblique Ascension of the Aspect 0° 0' of go,
taken in the Horoscope, 65° 10'
G)'s Oblique Ascension in the Pole of the
Horoscope, 8 28
-
False Arc of Direction, 56 42
Oblique Ascension of the Sun taken in the
oroscope, 89 28'
Add for subtraction, the circle 360 0
- - 368 28
Oblique Ascension of the Horoscope, 349 45
The Sun's primary distance, * 1S 43
The pole of the horoscope is 44°, I enter therefore the
table of twilight for the latitude of 44° with this primary
distance, supposing the Sun's place in Aries to be 16°, for
the sake of whole numbers, which is near enough : under
the column 10 of Aries I look for 18° 43', and the nearest
I find to it is 18°32', which I set down : there yet remains
6° of Aries to be accounted for. The column 20 of Aries
is 19° 1', making a difference from the column of 10 of
Aries, 29. This difference is for 10 degrees, and the pro
portion of it for the 6 degrees not yet accounted for, is 17
minutes, which I add to the 18° 32', and it makes 18° 49',
which must be taken for the primary distance in the room
of 18° 43'. Opposite to these numbers, in the column of
parallels on the left hand, is No. 13, which is the parallel
of twilight where the Sun is : called the Sun's depression.
Opposite this parallel of the Sun's depression, 13 deg.
under 0 deg. of Cancer, I find 24 deg. 45 min. for the D of
Mars: this is the secondary distance. - - *
DIRECTIONs. 35
Subtract from this the primary distance.
Secondary distance, 24° 45'
Primary distance, 18 49.
Ortive difference, 5 56
This ortive difference must be subtracted from the false
arc, because the secondary distance is the greater; but
had this primary been the greater it must have been added.
False arc of direction, 56° 49'
Ortive difference, 5 56
True arc ofdirection 50 46
Should the Sun be in the evening instead of the morning
crepuscle, he must be directed to the aspect by oblique
descension, or by the oblique ascension of their opposite
places. The only remaining difference will be reversing
the distances. If the secondary difference be the greater
the ortive difference must be added; and vice versa. . t
The Crepusculine Tables are published with the others,
and may be had with this Work.
Problem 5th. To direct the Sun when found in the
space of the obscure arc to any conjunction or aspect.
When the Sun's distance from the horoscope is so great
as to be below the 18th parallel of twilight as marked in
the table, he is then in the obscure arc.
1st, Subtract the whole crepusculine arc of the Sun from
his seminocturnal arc: the remainder is his obscure arc.
Note. The whole crepusculine arc is the highest num
ber found opposite to the parallel 18° in the table, under
the sign and degree the Sun is in, taken proportionally as
before, which may be turned into hours and minutes should
the seminocturnal arc be the same. -
2d, Subtract the whole crepusculine arc of the Sun which
he will have in the place of the aspect (taken as before)
from the seminocturnal arc of the said place, the remainder
will be his obscure arc in that place.
3d, Find the distance of the place of the aspect from the
4th house, and call it the primary distance,
4th, Find the secondary distance by the Rule of Three:
thus, As the Sun’s obscure are is to his distance from
the 4th, so is the aspect's obseure arc to the secondary
distance.
36 - DIRECTIONS.
5th, If both these distances are in the ascending or de
scending hemisphere, subtract one from the other : but if
one be in the ascending and the other in the descending
part, add them, and the result will be the true arc of
direction.
Example: Suppose in the latitude of 43 deg., 4° 2' of
Capricorn on the cusp of the 4th, the Sun in 11 deg. 45 m.
of Aquarius, Jupiter in 10 deg. 34 min. of Aries: I would
direct the Sun to a parallel of Jupiter's declination: as
Jupiter has 1' 20 south latitude, his declination is 2 57’
north (see plate 2d, fig. 5.)
The nearest table of twilight is to the latitude of 44°,
where 11° 45' of Aquarius taken proportionally would give.
about 26° 10' opposite to the # parallel; but under the
pole of43 it would be about 25° 45', or 1h. 43m.
O's seminocturnal arc 7h. 7m.
O's whole crepusculine arc, I 43
O's obscure arc, 5 24
When the Sun comes to 22° 35' of Pisces, he will ac
quire a declination of 2°57' south, the same as Jupiter has
north, which is coming to his parallel.
Seminocturnal arc of 22° 35' of Pisces, 6h. 1.1m.
Whole crepusculine arc ofthe O in that place, 1 39
-
Q's obscure arc in 22° 35' of Pisces, 4
Right ascension of 22' 35" of
Pisces, 353 12'
Right ascension of the 4th
house, 274 2
Distance of the aspect from •
the 4th, 79 10 Primary Distance.
Right ascension of the Q, 314° 13'
Right ascension of the 4th house, 274 2
Q's distance from the 4th house, 40 11
As the Sun's obscure arc, 5h. 24m, is to his distance
from the 4th house, 40' 11", so is the aspect's obscure arc,
4h. 32m, to the secondary distance, 33° 44'.
DIRECTIONS. 37
... Both these distances being in one hemisphere, namely,
the descending hemisphere, subtract the one from the other.
Primary distance, 79° 10'
Secondary distance, 33 44
Arc ofdirection, 45 26
Problem 6th. To direct the Sun, wherever he may be,
to the parallels in the zodiac.
If the planet has latitude, the Sun will meet his parallel
in a different part of the zodiac, because the Sun has never
any latitude : the point, therefore, must be sought in the
table where the Sun meets the proposed declination.
Subtract the Sun's oblique ascension taken under his
pole, from the oblique ascension of the point where he
meets the parallel, taken under the same pole, the re
mainder will be the arc of direction.
Example:—Suppose 29' 49 of Leo on the cusp of the
10th, 2°0' of Libra on that of the 11th, the Sun 29 19 in
Virgo intercepted in the 10th, and the Moon in 23° 38' of
Aquarius with 16° 35' south declination: I would direct
the Sun to a parallel of the Moon's declination (see pl. 2.
fig. 6.)
*r'. point where the Sun has this declination is in 15° 40'
Scorpio.
The pole of the Sun is 16° 0'.
Oblique ascension of 15° 40' of Scorpio
under the Sun's pole of 16°, 228° 4'
Oblique ascension of the Sun under his
own pole, 179 18
Arc of direction, 48 46
It must be here noted, that accidents arising from direc
tions to parallels always happen before the time a little,
owing, as Placidus thinks, to the magnitude of the lumi
naries, whereby their bodies are affected before their center
can arrive at the point of direction: whatever be the cause,
this very inaccuracy in point of time is a proof of the truth
of parallel directions in the zodiac.
Problem 7th. To direct a significator with latitude to
any conjunction or aspect.
The point must be found where the significator will form
the aspect, according to the latitude it will have in that
38 DIRECTIONS.
place: the latitude ofthe promittor must be wholly omitted,
except it be greater than its orb, as before stated.
Find the right ascension of the significator, or its oblique
ascension or descension with latitude, under its pole, ac
cording to its position, and subtract it from the same as
cension or descension of the place of the aspect, the re
mainder will be the arc of direction.
Example:—Suppose 26°9′ of Aries on the cusp of the
7th, the Moon in 25° 35 of Aries, Saturn in 11° 1' of Pisces:
I would direct the Moon to the Square of Saturn (See
plate 2. Fig. 7.) -
The square of Saturn falls of course in 11° 1' of Gemini.
The pole of the Moon is 46° 0'.
Oblique descension of the aspect 11° 1' of
Gemini taken under the Moon's pole, with !90° 37'
3° 21' S. latitude, which she will have there,
Oblique descension of the Moon under her
pole, with 5° south latitude, and 5° 16' north {
declination, -
30 59
Arc of direction, 59 38
This is the way in which I should perform the operation,
as it is the easiest and most natural to work by oblique
descension, when the planets happen to be so situated, but
the method adopted by Placidus is as follows:
Oblique ascension of the opposite place of the
aspect, viz. 11° 1' of Sagittary taken under the {270° 37'
Moen's pole, with opposite latitude of3°21' north,
Oblique ascension of the Moon's oppo
site place under her pole, with opposite 210 59
latitude, - *
Arc of direction, 59 38
For whatreason he could prefer taking an opposite place
in preference to the place itself, and working with opposite
latitude (which may confuse a young artist, and cannot
benefit an old one) is difficult to imagine, except it was for
the sublime gratification of working by ascension instead
of descension.
Should any one, however, be disposed to imitate him,
they may save themselves the trouble of working by con
trary latitude, as when they have found the descension,
# may get the ascension of the opposite place by adding
180° to it. -
DIRECTIONS. 39 .
Problem 8th. To direct a significator with latitude to
arallels of declination.
The point must be found where the significator acquires
the declination of the promittor, according to the latitude
the former will have in that place. - -
Subtract its oblique ascension or descension, with lati
tude under its pole, from the oblique ascension or descen
sion of the place where it will meet the aspect taken under
the same pole, the remainder will be the arc of direction.
Example:—Suppose 7°11' of Virgo on the cusp of the
10th, 1° 0' of Leo on the cusp of the 9th, the Moon in 24°
10 of Leo, Saturn in the 4th house in 14° 26' of Pisces,
with 7° 47' south declination (see plate 2. fig. 8): I would
direct the Moon to the zodiacal parallel of Saturn.
She will acquire this declination at 21° of Virgo, where
she will have 4° 23' north latitude. (The readiest way of
finding the declination required ofany planet with latitude
is by inspecting an Ephemeris for the year.)
The poie of the Moon is 5°.
Oblique descension of21° of Virgo taken *
under the Moon's pole, with 4° 23' north & 174° 9'
latitude, which she will have there,
Oblique descension of the Moon under
her pole with 2° 51 north latitude, : 148 56
16° 12 north declination, -
Arc of direction, 25 13
Placidus works this question as usual by opposite as
CenSIOInS. -
It should here be observed, that parallels of declination
in the zodiac are oftwo kinds: northern and commanding,
or southern and obeying : So that if two planets have the
same declination as to degrees and minutes, but one north
and the other south, that which is north will be stronger
than the other; but where a significator is concerned,
whether its declination be north or south, it is equally fatal
if the promittor be an infortune, particularly if the signifi
cator be hyleg. -
In finding parallels of declination it should be observed,
that if the significator is leaving either of the tropics, its
declination decreases, and it will of course fall upon the
parallels of stars of which the declinations are less than its
own; but when separating from equinoctial signs its decli
nation increases, and it will fall in such parallels as have
declinations greater than its own. -
40 DIRECTIONS.
Problem 9th. To direct any significator to its own rays
in the zodiac.
Subtract the right or oblique ascension or descension of
the significator, with latitude, if it have any, taken under
its pole, from the ascension or descension of the aspect,
with the latitude (if any) the significator will have when it
arrives there, taken under the same pole; the remainder is
the arc of direction.
Example: Suppose the Moon ascending in 6 deg 45 m.
of Capricorn, under the pole of 52 deg, with 2 deg 4 m.
of south latitude, and 25°24' south declination, I would
direct her to her own square in the zodiac.
The place of the aspect is of course 6 deg 45 min. of
Aries, where, on her arrival, she will acquire 4 deg. 32 m.
south latitude (see plate 2, fig. 9.).
Oblique ascension of 6 deg. 45 min of Aries,
under the C’s pole of 52 deg., with 4 deg.
32 min. south latitude, - - - - - - 9° 52'
Add for subtraction, - - - - - - - - 360 0
- 369 52
Oblique ascension of the (under her pole
with latitude, - - - - - - - - - 314 52
Arc of direction, - - - - 55 0
As the Q never has any latitude, nothing more is re
quired than to subtract his ascension or descension under
his pole from that of the aspect taken under the same pole,
the remainder will be the arc of direction. -
MUNDANE DIRECTIONs.
Mundame directions differ from zodiacal in this, that
they are wholly independent of the zodiac, as much as if
such a circle had never existed, and only operate in respect
of the world: for instance, The Sun in Sagittary, on the
cusp of the 11th house, would be in mundane sextile to
Capricorn, on the cusp of the ascendant: whereas, in re
spect to the zodiac he would have no aspect to that point
at all. In this, therefore, they differ: the zodiacal aspects
are measured by the signs and degrees of the zodiac, and
the mundane aspects are wholly measured by the arcs or
semi-arcs ofthe planets; hence it is necessary, in calculating
DIRECTIONS. - 41
mundane aspects, that the latitude of both significator and
promittor should be taken, that their true distance may be
ascertained. -
Placidus was the inventor of them, and so bigotted was
he to this system, that he once, as he says, rejected the doc
trine of zodiacal aspects in toto, but, it appears, he soon
discovered his error; as he makes abundant use of them in
his Thirty Nativities. How far the doctrine of mundane
directions is consistent with truth, experience alone can
determine. No doubt the planets operate on the Earth
according to their mundane position; this every day’s ob
servation will confirm, but that they have equal efficacy in
directions is an hypothesis that rests upon little more than
the assertion of Placidus himself, for his examples are not
(in my opinion at least) satisfactory; indeed, the doctrine
of directions altogether seems to want correcting, there is
something not quite agreeable to reason in the idea of the
influence of a planet being transferred to his place in the
radix, although it certainly seems true in parallels of
declination. As to mundame parallels, those who consult
the Nativities of Placidus will not find them quite in
fallible.
There are three ways of directing in the world: first, by
what is called direct motion, when the promittor by moving
conversely forms any conjunction or aspect with the place
of the significator. Secondly, when the significator, by
converse motion forms any similar configuration with the
place of the promittor. Thirdly, when both are carried
away by the motion of the Primum Mobile, (as Placidus
calls it, in imitation of Ptolemy, who was ignorant of the
Earth’s diurnal motion on its own axis) this is called rapt
motion, but it forms no aspect, but parallels from angles.
* Problem 1st.
To direct the mid-heaven to the conjunction of a star.
Subtract the right ascension of the mid-heaven from the
star’s right ascension with latitude, the remainder will be
the arc of direction.
Ea'ample —Suppose b in 23° 30' of V5, with 0' 6' north
latitude, and 14° 30' of 1 , on the cusp of the mid-heaven,
(see plate 2. fig. 10.) I would direct the planet b to the
cusp of the mid-heaven,
Right ascension of b with 0' 6' north latitude, 295 23
Right ascension of the mid-heaven, - 253 9
Arc of direction, 42 14
G -
42 DIRECTIONS.
Problem 2d.
To direct the mid-heaven to the sextile of a star,
1st, If the sextile be from the cusp of the 8th, add 3 of
the star's semidiurnal arc to its right ascension with lati
tude; but if from the cusp of the 12th, subtract it.
2d, From the sum or remainder subtract the right as
cension of the mid-heaven, the remainder will be the arc
of direction. -
Example:—Suppose the G) in 1° 0' of V}, with 12' 0" of
on the cusp of the mid-heaven (see plate 2. fig. 11.), I
would direct the mid-heaven to the Sextile of the Sun.
Q's right ascension (he has no latitude), 271° 5'
Being from the 12th ; subtract ; of his
semidiurnal arc, 42 48
228 17
Right ascension of the mid-heaven, 219 33
Arc of direction, 844
Problem 3d.
To direct the mid-heaven to the square of a star.
1st, If the square be from the cusp of the 7th, add the
star's semidiurnal arc to its right ascension with latitude;
but if from the cusp of the ascendant, subtract it.
2d, Subtract from this sum or remainder the right as
cension of the mid-heaven, the remainder will be the arc
of direction. -
Example:—Suppose 13° 30' of ml, on the cusp of the
10th, the Q in 1:45 of Y, in the latitude of London,
51° 32'. I would direct the G) to the D of the mid-heaven
(see plate 2, fig. 12.). - - -
Q's right ascension (he has no latitude), 1° 6'
Add for subtraction, 360 0
361 6
Subtract the Q's semidiurnal arc, 90 53
270 13
Subtract the right ascension of the
mid-heaven, 221 2
Arc of direction, 49 11
DIRECTIONs. 43
It may also be done by bringing it by oblique ascension
to the '' of the ascendant, from whence it casts the
square to the mid-heaven.
Problem 4th.
To direct the mid-heaven to the trine of a star.
Hst, If the trine be from the cusp of the 6th, subtract 4 of
the star's seminocturnal arc from its right ascension with
latitude; but if from the cusp of the 2d, add it.
2d, From the sum or remainder subtract the right as
cension of the Imum Caeli, the remainder will be the arc of
direction.
Example:—Suppose 13° 30' of8 on the cusp ofthe4th,
the G) in Y 1° 45', latitude of London 51° 32' : I would
direct the G) to the trine of the mid-heaven (see plate 2,
fig. 13.)
Q's right ascension, 1° 36'
Add + of the G)'s seminocturnal arc, 59 25
* 6] 1
Subtract the right ascension of the 4th, 41 2
Arc of direction, 19 59
This is the sextile to the 4th house, which is the trine
to the mid-heaven.
Problem 5th.
To direct the mid-heaven to the opposition of a star.
(This is done by bringing it to the cusp of the 4th.)
Subtract the right ascension of the Imum Coeli from that
of the star with latitude (if it has any), the remainder will
be the arc of direction.
Example: Suppose 14° 0' of 1, on the cusp of the lower
heaven, 21 in 3° 21' of V}, with 0° 24 north latitude: I
would direct the midheaven to the 9 of 2/ (see plate 2,
fig. 14). - *
Right ascension of 2/ with 0°24' north latitude, 273° 39'
Right ascension of the Imum Coeli, 252 38
Arc of direction. 21 |
Problem 6th.
To direct the midheaven to the quintile of a star.
1st, If the quintile be in the descending part of heaven,
44 DIRECTIONS.
viz. in the 8th house, add + of the star's semidiurnal arc to
its right ascension, with latitude, but if in the ascending
part, viz. the 12th, subtract it.
2d, Subtract the right ascension from the sum or remain
der, and it will give the arc of direction.
Example: Suppose the G) and midheaven situated as in
problem 2d: I would direct the midheaven to the quintile
of the G) (see plate 2, fig. 11.).
Q’s right ascension 971° 5'
Being in the ascending part of heaven, subtract
# of the O's semidiurnal arc, 51 22
219 43
Subtract the right ascension of the midheaven, 219 33
Arc of direction, 0 10
Problem 7th.
To direct the midheaven to the sesquiquadrate of a star:
1st, If the sesquiquadrate be in the £ part of
heaven, viz. the 5th house, subtract # the seminocturnal arc
of the star from its right ascension, with latitude, if it
has any: but if in the ascending part, viz. the 2d house,
add them.
2d, From the sum or remainder, subtract the right ascen
sion of the 4th house: it will give the arc of direction.
Example: Suppose the Q and cusp of the 4th, as in
problem 4th, I would direct the midheaven to the sesqui
quadrate of the Q (see plate 2, fig. 13.). -
Q’s right ascension, 1° 6'
As the Q is ascending in the 3d house, add his
seminocturnal arc, 44 5
45 11
Subtract the right ascension of the 4th house, 4] 2
Arc of direction, 4 9
Problem 8th.
To direct the midheaven to the biquintile of a star:
1st, If the biquintile be in the descending part of heaven,
viz. in the 5th house, subtract # of the seminoctuadal arc
of the star from its right ascension, with latitude, if it has
' ; but if it be in the ascending part, the 2d house, add
them. -
DIRECTIONS. 45
... 2d, From the sum or remainder subtract the right ascen
sion of the 4th, and it will give the arc of direction.
Example: Suppose 14° 0' of 1, on the cusp of the 4th,
with 6 in 10° 16' of m, with 1° 49' north latitude; I would
direct the midheaven to the biquintile of G.
Right ascension of 6 with 1° 49' north latitude, 218°26'
# ofhisseminocturnalarcadded,ashe isascending, 42 51
261 17
Right ascension of the lower heaven, 252 38
Arc of direction, 8 39
N. B. I have not added problems for the semiquadrate,
semisertile, &c. because Placidus denies their efficacy : but
those who choose to direct to them, may do it in the same way
by adding or subtracting theproportional part of their semiarcs
to or from their right ascension with latitude.
Problem 9th.
To direct the horoscope to the conjunction of a star.
The manner of doing this by right ascension has been
shewn in problem 3d of mundane directions; it now re
mains to shew, how it may be done by oblique ascension.
Subtract the oblique ascension of the horoscope from the
oblique ascension of the star, with latitude, taken in the
pole of the horoscope, the remainder is the arc of direction.
Example: From the diagram of problem 3d (plate 2,
fig. 12.) I would direct the G) to the cusp of the horoscope.
Oblique ascension of the G) under the pole of the
horoscope, 0° 13'
Add for subtraction, 360 0
360 13
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, under its pole 311 2
Arc of direction, 49 }}
Problem 10th.
To direct the horoscope to the sextile of a star.
1st, If the sextile be from the 11th house, add 3 of the
star's semidurnal arc to its oblique ascension, with latitude,
taken under the pole of the horoscope: if it be from the
3d house, subtract # of the star's seminocturnal arc from
its oblique ascension.
46 DIRECTIONS,
2d, From the sum or remainder subtract the oblique as
cension of the horoscope, the remainder will be the arc
of direction. -
Example: From the diagram in problem 3d, I would
direct the horoscope to the k of d.
Oblique ascension of G with 0° 25' north latitude
taken in the pole of the horoscope, 51° 32', 18° 12'
Add for subtraction, 360 0
- 378 12
# of the seminocturnal arc of d, being from the
3d house, 46 12
- - 332 0
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, 311 2
Arc of direction, 20 58
Problem 11th.
To direct the horoscope to the square of a star.
Bring it by right ascension to the cusp of the 10th, or 4th
house, according to its position above or below the Earth,
as directed in problems 1st and 5th.
Problem 12th.
To direct the horoscope to the trine of a star.
1st, If the trime be from the 9th house, add 4 of the star's
semidiurnal arc to its oblique ascension with latitude, but
if from the 5th house subtract 4 of its seminocturnal arc.
2d, From the sum or remainder subtract the oblique as
cension of the horoscope, the remainder will be the arc of
direction.
Example: Suppose / posited near the cusp of the 7th,
in 10° 55' of go, as in problem 10th (plate 2, fig. 12.): I
would direct / to the A of the horoscope.
Oblique ascension of 2/ with 0° 19 north latitude,
taken in the pole of the horoscope, 70° 0.
Add for subtraction, - 360 0
- 430 0
Being directed to the cusp of the 5th, subtract 4 of
his seminocturnal arc, 76 0
354 0
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, . 311 .2
Arc of direction, 42 58
DIRECTIONS, 47
Problem 13th.
To direct the horoscope to the quintile of a star,
1st, If the place of the quintile be above the Earth, add
# of the star's semidiurnal arc to its oblique ascension with
latitude taken in the horoscope; but ifthe place ofthe quin
tile be under the Earth subtract 4 of its seminocturnal arc.
2d, From the sum or remainder subtract the oblique as
cension of the horoscope, the remainder will be the arc of
direction.
Example: From the diagram in problem 3d I would
direct d to the quintile of the horoscope (plate 2, fig. 12.).
Oblique ascension of Ó with 0° 25' north latitude,
taken in the pole of the horoscope, 18°12'
Add for subtraction 360 0
- 378 12
Being under the Earth subtract # of his seminoc
turnal arc, - 55 26
322 46
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, - 311 2
Arc of direction, 11 44
Problem 14th.
To direct the horoscope to the sesquiquadrate of a star.
1st, If the place of the sesquiquadrate be above the
Earth, add # of the star's whole diurnal arc to its oblique
ascension; or if under the Earth, subtract # of its whole
nocturnal arc.
2d, From the sum or remainder subtract the oblique
ascension of the horoscope, the remainder will be the arc
of direction. -
Example:—From the diagram in problem 3d I would
direct 2/ to the sesquiquadrate of d' (see plate
2, fig. 12.).
Oblique ascension of 21 with latitude as before, 70° 0.
Add for subtraction, 360 0
430 0
The 'being under the Earth, subtract # of
- its whole nocturnal arc, 85 30
- 344 30
Oblique ascension ofthe horoscope, * 2
Arc of direction, 33 28
48 , DIRECTIONS.
Problem 15th.
. To direct the ascendant to the biquintile of a star.
1st, If the place of the biquintile be above the Earth, add
# of the star's whole diurnal arc to its oblique ascension;
but if under the earth, subtract: of its whole nocturnal arc,
2d, From the sum or remainder subtract the oblique as:
cension of the horoscope, the remainder will be the arc of
direction. . . . -
... Example :-From the diagram of the last problem (see
£ 2, fig. 19.) I would direct the horoscope to the
biquintile of 2/.
Oblique ascension of 21, - 70° 0.
| Add for subtraction, 360 0.
- • 430 0
The aspect-being under the Earth, subtract # of -
2/’s whole nocturnal arc, 91 0
- 399 ()
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, 3II 2
Arc of direction, 27 58
Problem 16th.
To direct the horoscope to the £ of a star,
Bring it to the square of the mid-heaven by right ascen
sion, as directed in problem 3. -
Problem 17th.
To bring a star to the cusp of any house by right or
oblique ascension. -
If by right ascension, and the star is to be brought to the
cusp of the ascendant, subtract its semidiurnal arc from its
right ascension. If to the cusp of the 12th, subtract # of
its semidiurnal arc: if to the cusp of the 11th subtract #;
if to the cusp of the 10th, neither add nor subtract; if to
the cusp of the 9th, add , of the said semi-arc ; if to the
8th, add #; if to the 7th, add the whole semidiurnal arc.
Subtract from this sum or remainder the right ascension .
of the mid-heaven, the remainder will be the arc of direc
tion to the cusp required.
If the star '. below the Earth, and is to be brought to
the cusp of the sixth, subtract # of its seminocturnal arc
from its right ascension: if to the 5th, subtract , ; if to
the 4th, neither add mor subtract; if to the 3d, add + of
the seminocturnal arc; and if to the 2d, add #. -
DIRECTIONS. 49
Subtract from this sum or remainder the right ascension
of the Imum Coeli, the remainder will be the arc of direc
tion to the cusp required.)
If by oblique ascension, and the star is to be brought to
the cusp of the 4th, subtract the seminocturnal arc of the
star from its oblique ascension; if to the cusp of the 3d,
subtract #; if to the 2d, 4; if to the horoscope, neither
add nor subtract; if to the 12th, add + of its semidiurnal
arc; if to the cusp of the 11th, add #; and if to the mid
heaven, add the whole semidiurnal arc.
| Subtract from the sum or remainder the oblique ascension
of the horoscope, the remainder will be the arc of direction
to the cusp required.
From the midheaven to the Imum Coeli the distance from
any cusp may be wrought by oblique descension: thus, if
the star is to be brought to the cusp of the 9th, subtract +
of its semidurnal arc from its oblique descension; if to the
cusp of the 8th, ; ; if to the descendant, neither add nor
subtract; if to the 6th, add # of its seminocturnal arc; if to
the 5th, add #; and if to the 4th, add the whole of its semi
nocturnal arc.
Subtract from this sum or remainder the oblique descen
sion of the 7th, the remainder will be the arc of direction
to the cusp required.
Example: I would direct the midheaven to the A of the
G) by oblique ascension instead of right ascension, as per
formed by problem 4th : this is done by bringing it to the
cusp of the 2d, which is the trine to the midheaven.
Oblique ascension of the Q, 0° 13'
Add for subtraction, 360 0
- 360 13
One third of the Q's seminocturnal arc subtract
ed, as the trine is from the cusp of the 2d
house, - 29 42
330 31
Subtract the oblique ascension of the horoscope, 311 2
-
Arc of direction, 19 29.
Again : I would direct the horoscope to the trine of Ju
piter by right ascension instead of oblique ascension, as
performed by problem 11th : this is done by bringing it to
the cusp of the 5th house, whence it casts the trine to the
horoscope. - - -
H
50 DIRECTIONS.
Oblique descension of Y, 136° 0'
Being from the 5th, add two-thirds of 2/’s semi
nocturnal arc, 38 0.
174 (),
Oblique descension of the descendant, I31 2
Arc of direction, 42 58
Thus right and oblique ascensions operate mutually as
proofs of each other; and I would recommend to the artist
to bring up a direction both ways, that he '' be sure his
calculations are correct. The student will also perceive,
that the rule for subtracting the semi-arc or its parts, is
when the star by converse motion approaches the angle
from whence the direction is taken : thus, when a star is
passing from the 4th towards the 10th, and the direction is
calculated from the 10th by right ascension, the arc or its
parts must be subtracted from the right ascension of the
star; because it approaches the 10th, but when it recedes
from the 10th towards the 4th, the arc or its parts must be
added. The rule is the same in the ascendant, or any
other angle. Subtraction of the arc or its parts must be
made from its oblique ascension or descension as it ap
proaches the angle from whence the direction is taken;
and when it recedes, they must be added.
Problem 18th.
To find any arc of direction from another given arc.
This is done by adding or subtracting the proportional
art of an arc or semi-arc to or from the given arc: thus,
if the arc of direction to the square be given, the arc of
direction to the sextile will be found by subtracting of
the planet's semi-arc, or to the trine by adding 3 of its
semi-arc, and thus one arc of direction of a planet in the
world may be made to produce all the rest of that kind,
whether direct or converse, by means of addition or sub
traction.
Example:—Suppose the arc of direction to the D of
the mid-heaven was 47° 0', and the semidiurnal arc of the
star 66° 0' : subtract of the semidiurnal arc, which is
-*
22° 0' from the 47° 0', it will give the arc of direction to .
the sextile, 25° 0'. The trine is under the Earth, and of
course # of the seminocturnal arc must be added, and it
will make the arc of direction to the trine 8.5° 0'. in all
directions, care must be taken not to confound the two
DIRECTIONS. 51
arcs by taking the diurnal for the nocturnal, and vice versa,
as in all cases the diurnal must be used when a planet is
above the Earth, and the nocturnal when below it.
\
Problem 19th.
To direct a significator, when within 32 of the cusp of
the mid-heaven, to the conjunction of a promittor, by
direct, or converse motion.
This is called directing the significator, but it will also
answer for directing the promittor: for when the significator
is directed to a conjunction with a promittor, or, to speak
more properly, to the place of the promittor, the latter
must be to the west of the mid-heaven; and this is called
converse motion, because the significator moves by its
diurnal motion conversely, while the place of the promittor
must remain fixed. When the promittor is eastward of
the mid-heaven, it is called direct motion (a term not very
intelligible, as neither of them moves direct, because only
the promittor moves conversely, while the place of the
significator remains fixed.)
If by direct motion, subtract the right ascension of the
significator, with latitude, from that of the promittor, with
latitude, the remainder is the arc of direction.
Example:—Direct the G) to the conjunction of Q, direct
motion. See Zodiacal Directions, problem Ist. (plate 2.
fig. 1.) Supposing the latitude of Q to be 3° 36' south.
Right ascension of # with 3° 36' south latitude, 261° 52'
Right ascension of the G) (he has no latitude), 215 58
•- w
Arc of direction, 45 54
By converse motion : Suppose 14° 0' of II on the cusp
of the mid-heaven, the C in 14° 12 of II, E) in 14° 42 of
8; I would direct the C to the 6 of b, converse motion.
(see plate 2. fig. 16.) C's latitude 4° 52' south, b’s latitude
2 3' south. - -
Subtract the right ascension of the promittor from that
of the significator (both with latitude), the remainder is
the arc of direction.
Right ascension of the C, with 4° 52' south latitude, 73° 26'
Right ascension of b, with 2'3 south latitude, 42 5i
Arc of direction, 30 35
NotE, In all mundane directions the ascensions or descen
sions must be taken with latitude, if either the significator or
promittor has any.
52 DIRECTIONS.
Problem 20th.
To direct a planet within 3 of the cusp of the mid-heaven
to the mundane opposition of a star, direct or converse.
If direct, subtract the right ascension of the significator
from that of the opposite place of the promittor (both with
latitude), the remainder will be the arc of direction.
Example:—Suppose 14° 0' of II on the cusp of the 10th,
the ( in 14° 12 of II, 21 in the 4th house in 3° 21' of W};
I would direct the C to the 9 of 2/ in the world, direct
motion (see plate 2. fig. 17.).
NoTE, The opposite place of 2/ is obtained by adding 180°
0 to his right ascension with latitude.
’s right ascension with latitude, 27.9° 30'
Add for the opposite place, 180 0
453 39
Being more than the circle, subtract 360 0
93 39
C’s right ascension with latitude, 73 26
Arc of direction, 20 13
If by converse motion, subtract the right ascension of
the opposite place of the promittor from that of the signi
ficator (both with latitude), the remainder will be the arc
of direction.
Example:—Suppose from the figure of the above opera
tion that d be found in m, 10° 16'; I would direct the
( to his opposition by converse motion. (see the same
figure.) -
Right ascension of the G with latitude, 73° 26'
Right ascension of 6, 218°26', add 180°, {
it makes 398° 26'
Subtract the circle, it gives 38°26',
Arc of direction, 35 0
38 26
This is the method laid down by Placidus, but it would
not be correct, except the planet was on the very cusp of
the mid-heaven. . If it be not so situated, the most regular
way is to proceed as directed in the following problem.
Problem 21st.
To direct a significator or '' wherever it be, to
any mundane >k, D, or A, direct or converse.
DIRECTIONS. 53
NoTE, The planet that forms the aspect by moving conversely
must be directed, whether it be significtor or promittor.
1st, Observe the star to whose place or aspect the direc
tion is to be made and take its distance from the cusp either
of the preceding or succeeding house : find also the dis
tance of the star to be directed, from the cusp of that house
that forms the required configuration with the cusp of the
other house from whence the 1st distance was taken, and
call this last the primary distance.
2d, Say, as the horary time of the planet to whose con
figuration the other is to be directed is to its distance from
the cusp of the house from whence its distance is taken, so
is the horary time of the planet to be directed to its secon
dary distance. If this secondary distance be on the same
side of the cusp from whence the primary distance was
taken, subtract the one from the other, and the remainder
will be the arc of direction; but if the primary and secon
dary distance be on opposite sides, add them, and their
sum will be the arc required.
Example: Suppose 4° 2 of g5 on the cusp of the 10th,
0° 0' of II on the cusp of the 9th, 8° 0' of tip on the cusp
of the 12th, 3° 24 of m on the cusp of the 7th, 8° 0' of Be
on the cusp of the 6th; the ( in 24° 10' of II with 0° 31'
N. Lat., b. in 4° 56' of up with 1° 54 N. Lat., 21 in 10°
34’ of m with 1° 20' S. Lat., and Q in 6° 44' of 96 with
- 1° 16' S. Lat: ; pole of the country 45° (see plate 2, fig.
18.) : I would direct the Moon to the sextile of Saturn,
square of Jupiter, and trine of Venus, in the world. -
Right ascension of the 10th, 94° 2'
Right ascension of the Moon with 0' 31" N. Lat. 83 38 . .
Distance of the Moon from the midheaven, 10, 24
To direct the Moon to the Sextile of Saturn.
Here Saturn must move conversely to form the sextile,
as he is more than that distance from the Moon, and of
course must be directed; but had it been to the square,
the Moon must have been directed. The distance of Sa
turn must be taken from the 12th house, because it forms
the sextile with the 10th, from which the distance of the
Moon was taken. -
Oblique ascension of the 12th house found by adding 60'
to the right ascension of the midheaven, 154° 2'
Oblique ascension of Saturn with latitude taken -
under the pole of the 12th house, 32°, 150 10
*-*-*
Saturn's primary distance from the 12th house, 3 52
54 DIRECTIONS.
We must now find out what his distance should be from
the 12th house to make the aspect exact, and this when
found will be the secondary or true distance.
As the ('s diurnal horary time, 19° 5', is to her distance
from the midheaven, 10° 24, so is Saturn's diurnal horary
time, 16° 50', to his secondary distance, 9° 10'.
This is the distance he should be from the 12th house
when the aspect is formed, but as we find he is already
by his primary distance, 7°29' distant from it, this must be
subtracted from the secondary distance, and the remainder
will be the arc of direction which he has to perform.
Secondary distance, 9° 10'
Primary distance, 3 52
Arc of direction, 5 18
To direct the Moon to the Square of Jupiter:
Here 2 must also move conversely before he can come to
the D, and is therefore the proper planet to be directed.
As the C’s distance is taken from the 10th, the distance of
must be taken from the 7th, because the 7th forms the
with the 10th.
Oblique descension of M with his latitude 1° 20'
south taken in the pole of the horoscope, 13° f"
Oblique descension of the descendant under the
same pole, 14, 2
Primary distance of 21 from the west angle, 8 59
As the D’s diurnal horary time 19° 5' is to her distance
from the midheaven 10° 24', so is 2/’s nocturnal horary
time, 14° 32', to his secondary distance from the west
angle, 7° 55'.
This is the distance he must have from the cusp of the
west angle before he can arrive at the square of the D’s
place; and as his primary distance was 8° 59' short of the
west angle, and of course on the opposite side of the se
condary distance, both distances must be added together and
their sum will be the arc of direction.
Primary distance, S” 50'
Secondary distance, 755
-
Arc of direction, 16 54
DIRECTIONS. 55
To direct the Moon to the Trine of Venus:
This is done in the same way as the preceding direction:
Q moves conversely to form the trine. Her primary dis
tance from the 6th, which forms the trine to the 10th, is
1° 34'; as the Moon's diurnal horary time, 19° 5 is to her
distance from the 10th, 10 24', so is the nocturnal horary
time of Q, 16° 37', to her secondary distance from the 6th,
9 3' : both distances are on the same side of the 6th; and
therefore the primary must be subtracted from the secon
dary, leaving the arc of direction, 7° 29
All these directions are by direct motion, because the
promittor is directed to the significator; it may therefore
be as well to direct the Moon to the square of Venus, to
give a specimen of converse direction: there the signifi
cator is directed to the aspect of the promittor, for the
Moon must move conversely before she can come to the
square of Venus, but the method is the same in directing
the significator to the promittor as in directing the promit
tor to the significator, except that the secondary £
of the significator must be found instead of that of the
promittor.
To direct the Moon to the Square of Venus:
Oblique descension of the 6th house, by adding 60 de
grees to the right ascension ofthe 4th house, 334° 2'
Oblique descension of Venus under the pole of
the 6th house, 32°, with 1° 16' S. Lat., 332 28
Distance of Venus from the cusp of the 6th house, 1 34
Oblique descension of the Moon under the pole of the
9th house, 18°, with 0' 31" north latitude, 91° 55'
Oblique descension of the 9th house, obtained by
subtracting 30° from the right ascension of
the midheaven, 64 2
Primary distance of the Moon from the cusp of
the 9th house, 97 53
As the nocturnal horary time of Venus, 16° 37', is to
her distance from the cusp of the 6th house, 1° 34', so is
the Moon's diurnal horary time, 19° 5', to her secondary
distance from the cusp of the 9th house, 1° 48.
This is where the Moon must arrive beyond the cusp of
the 9th house, before the aspect is completed: and as the
primary distance is on the one side of '. cusp of the 9th,
56 IDIRECTIONS.
and the secondary on the other side, both must be added
together, which will give the arc of direction.
Primary distance, 27o 53'
Secondary distance, I 48
-
Arc of direction to the square of Venus, 29 41
Problem 22d.
To find the arcs of direction to the inferior aspects; as
the quintile, sesquiquadrate, and biquintile ; from any
other given arc ''direction.
The ruies laid down by Placidus in his 33d canon for
this, are extremely loose and unsatisfactory; he seems
eager to rid himself of a task which he was unable to per
form as it should be, and to avoid an explanation on a sub
ject the fundamental principles of which he appears not to
have properly understood. .
In forming any configuration of two stars from any other
configuration, the aspect of the star so directed should be
distinguished according as it is dexter or sinister.
A dexter aspect is that which is formed towards the right
of the star directed, contrary to the order of the signs, and
here the longest aspects are first formed ; as for instance,
from the opposition, the biquintile is first formed, then the
sesquiquadrate, the trine, the square, the quintile, the sex
tile, and last of all the conjunction; it is therefore evident,
that in forming a short aspect from a long one, the arc of
direction will increase as the aspect becomes shorter, and
therefore the difference must be added; as supposing the
semi-arc of the star directed be 90', 36° must be added to
the opposition before it can be brought to the biquintile, 9.
more, to bring it to the sesquiquadrate, 15° more to bring
it to the trine, &c. Such star, therefore, directed to ano
ther with a deater aspect, supposing its arc of direction to
the trime to be 16° 12, would have an arc of direction to
the square of 46°12', because the square would be formed
after the trine, and 30° distant from it: but if the trine
were to be found from the square the 30° must be subtracted
from the arc of direction to the square, 46° 12", and the trine
would be 16° 12". *
A star directed and casting a sinister aspect towards the
left, or according to the order of the signs, forms the shortest
configurations: first by passing from the conjunction, to the
>|<, quintile, square, trine, sesquiquadrate, biduintile, and
lastly, to the opposition. In forming, therefore, the longer
-
DiRECTIONS, 57
configuration, the arc of direction will be increased as the
aspects lengthen, and consequently if the semi-arc of the
star directed be 90°, and the arc of direction to the D be
16° 12, that to the A would be 46° 12'.
In dexter aspects, therefore, the directions to the shorter
aspects from the longer must be found by addition, and
vice versa ; and in sinister aspects, by subtraction, and vice
tersa.
Example in a Sinister Aspect.
From the arc of direction in problem 20th of the A of
Q to the (, I would direct her to the sesquiquadrate.
The difference of the sesquiquadrate from the A is # of
the A, or # of a semi-arc, viz. the planet's horary time.
Nocturnal horary time of Q(being under the Earth) 16' 37"
Arc of direction to the A, 7 29
Arc of direction to the sesquiquadrate, 24 6
The difference is here added, because the aspect is
sinister, and the planet is directed to a longer aspect; but
had the arc of direction to the £been known,
and the arc to the A been required, the difference must
have been subtracted, as being from a longer to a shorter
aspect, as follows:
Arc of direction to the sesquiquadrate, 24° 6'
Subtract the # of her seminocturnal are for the
difference of the A, 16, 37
Arc of direction to the A, 7 29.
Example in a Deater Aspect:
From the are of direction in problem 20th of the D of
the C to Q, I would direct her to the quintile.
The difference of the quintile from the square is ; ofthe
'' or semi-arc, and as the ('s semidiurnal arc is
114° 30', 3 amounts to 22°54'.
Arc of direction to the D of Q, 29° 41'
ofthe C's semidiurnal arc (being above the Earth), 22 54
Arc of direction to the quintile of Q, 52 35
The difference is here added, because the aspect is devler,
and the planet directed to a shorter aspect; but had the
arc of direction to the quintile been known, and the are to
|
58 DIRECTIONS.
the D. £ the difference must have been subtracted,
as being from a shorter to a longer aspect, as follows:
Arc of direction to the quintile 52° 35'
Subtract of the C's semidiurnal arc, 22 54
Arc of direction to the square, 29 41
The inferior or new configurations may be all taken in
the same way from the superior or original configurations,
by being careful not to confound the diurnal with the
nocturnal arcs, or the dexter with the sinister aspects.
The distances from one aspect to another must be all
measured by the arc or semi-arc of the star directed accord
ing as it is posited.
he quintile may be found from the k or from the
square, as it is # of the k more than the k either way,
and # of the D less than the Gl, either way. Thus, if the
be 60° the quintile will be 72°, which is ; more; and if
the D be 90° the quintile will be 72°, which is ; less.
The sesquiquadrate may be taken either from the A or
from the 3, because it is # of a semi-arc more than the A,
and 4 of a semi-arc less than the 9. Thus, if the semi-arc
where the planet to be directed is posited, be 90°, the
sesquiquadrate will be 15° beyond the A, because 15° is
# of 90°: again, if the semi-arc be 90 the sesquiquadrate
will be 45° less than the 9, because 45° is 4 of 90°.
The biquintile may be found likewise from the A or the
& : it is # of the k of that semi-arc where the planet is po
sited more than the A, and # of the same k less than the
& . Thus, if the semi-arc be 90°, the difference of the bi
quintile beyond the A any '' will be 24°, which is # of
60°, the k of 90°, and it will also be 36 less than the 9,
which is # of the same k of 60°.
If the planet have to pass over part of two different
semi-arcs to form any of these aspects, take the original
£ beyond it, and bring it from that to the aspect re
ulted.
q Example :—Having found, in problem 20th, the arc of
direction of 2/’s square to the C, I would find his arc of
direction to her quintile. The aspect is sinister, and as
the direction is made to a shorter configuration, the differ
ence should be subtracted; but as this would pass over
art of two different semi-arcs, as 2/’s secondary distance
is in one, and his primary in the other, I must bring him
to the Sk on the other side, and find the quintile from the
>k. To do this, I take his distance from the G and by
DIRECTIONS. 59
subtracting it from 3 of his semidiurnal arc, the remainder
will be the arc of direction to his sk.
# >k, or ; of his semidiurnal arc, is 61° 52'.
he distance of 21 from the ( is found by subtracting
his oblique descension from that of the C, both taken
under her pole, which is 4°.
Qblique descension ofthe (, taken under her pole, 85° 25'
Oblique descension of 24, taken under the same pole, 10 26
Distance of 2 from the C, 74 59
This cannot be subtracted from 2/’s Sk, 61° 52, which
shews that he had already passed the k before the time of
birth. We must now add # of this ‘k to form the quintile.
2/’s sextile, 61° 55'
Add + for the quintile, 12 22
Distance of 2/’s quintile 74 14
We cannot take 74° 59' from 74° 14', which shews
likewise that he had just passed the quintile before birth ;
had it, however, been otherwise, and a remainder left,
that remainder would have been the arc of direction to the
quintile of 2/. -
These are the only aspects approved ofby Placidus, but
those who wish to calculate # arcs of direction to the
other aspects, may find them all in the same manner by
using the proportional part as before. These are as
follow :
The Vigintile, which is # of a semi-arc,
The Quindecile is # of a Sextile.
The Semisextile is of a semi-arc.
The Semiquintile, called by some the Decile, is 4 ofa sextile.
The Semiquadrate is # of a semi-arc.
The Sesquiquintile is a semi-arc and a vigintile.
The Quadrasextile is a semi-arc and a sextile.
Problem 23d.
To direct a star when above 3° from the mid-heaven to
the conjunction or opposition.
Subtract the oblique ascension or descension of the point
of direction, from that of the star directed, both taken
under the pole of the former, the remainder will be the
arc of direction, -
Example:—Suppose 5° 44' of V3 on the cusp of the as
cendant, the C in 6° 45' of Wy; 12° 27' of 8 on the cusp
\
60 DIRECTIONS.
of the 4th, b in 17° 37' of 8 : I would direct the C to
£" & of b, converse motion. (see plate 2, fig,
b's lat. 2°0' south. Pole of b 6' 0". C's lat. 2°4 south.
I find the oblique descension of b under his pole of 6°
0' to be 47° 21', to which I add 180’ for the half circle or
opposition, which makes the oblique ascension of his op
position 2279 21%
Oblique ascension of the C (taken under the
pole of b, 6' 0') with 2° 4' south latitude, 280° 19
Qblique ascension of b's opposition under his pole, 227 21
Arc of direction, 52 58
It is the same with the conjunction; for had the point
to which we have just been directing been the place of b's
body, instead of his opposition, the arc of direction would
have been the same, * - - - -
Problem 24th.
To direct the luminaries to their own rays.
This is done by making the proportional part of their
semi-arcs the arc of direction; as # for the Sk, ; for the
quintile, and the whole semi-arc for the square.
Example:—Suppose the Sun's semi-arc to be 109° 27',
I would direct him to his own sk.
# of this semi-arc is 72° 58', which will be the arc ofdirec
tion, - -
The only care required, is to be sure there is room for
the direction under the present arc of the luminary, so that
it does not include a part of two arcs, as we have already
seen in other directions, and the way to discover this,
when it is doubtful, is to find the star's distance from the
horizon by oblique ascension or descension, Thus, in the
£ instance, suppose the Q’s oblique descension to
e 147° 1', and that of the west angle 71° 5', the distance
would be #5.56', near 3° more than the aspect.
When the direction falls within two different semi-arcs
by including a part of two hemispheres, the diurnal and
nocturnal, it must be performed by the Rule of Three as
in other aspects. -
Example:—I would direct the Sun, so situated, to his
own mundane D. - - -
O’s distance from the 10th house, 33° 31'.
Primary distance from the 7th house, 75° 56',
As the O's semidiurnal arc, 109° 27', is to his distance
DIRECTIONS. 61
from the mid-heaven, 33° 31', so is his seminoeturnal arc,
70° 33', to his secondary distance from the 7th house (which
is the D to the mid-heaven), 19° 4'. - -
As the primary and secondary distances are on different
sides of the cusp of the 7th, add them.
Primary distance, 75° 56'
Secondary distance. 19 4
*
Areofdirectionof thee to his ownD. 95 0
Of Mundane Parallels.
These are of three kinds, viz., direct, converse, and
rapt. Direct and converse parallels are directed to like
other direct and convere aspects.
Problem 25th.
To direct a significator to any mundane parallel, direct
of ConVerSe.
1st, Find the distance of both significator and promittor
from the cusp of the angle on which the parallel is formed,
and call that distance of the star to be directed to the others
parallel, the primary distance.
2d, As the semi-arc of the star to whose parallel the other
is to be directed is to its distance from the said angle, so
is the semi-arc of the star to be directed to its secondary
distance. -
3d, If the primary and secondary distances are on different
sides of the angle add them; if on the same side, subtract
one from the other, for the arc of direction.
Example: Suppose 15° 0' of II on the cusp of the 8th,
d in 6° 1' of II, 15 43 of 8 on the cusp of the 7th, O in
21° 34 of 8 (see plate 2, fig. 19.), I would direct the Q
to a parallel of 6', direct motion. (Here 6 moves con
'' until he forms a parallel with the Sun's place on
the west angle.)
Oblique descension of the Q under the pole of
the horoscope, 66° 58'
Oblique descension of the west angle, 59 24.
O's distance from the west angle, 7 34
Oblique descension of d under the pole of the
horoscope, 85° 34'
Oblique descension of the west angle, 59 24
Primary distance of 3 (the star to be directed) -
from the west, " , 26 10
62 DIRECTIONS.
As the O’s semidiurnal arc, 7h. 12m., is to his distance
from the west angle, 7° 34', so is the seminocturnal arc of
3, 4h.34m., to his secondary distance from the west angle,
4° 47'.
... As the primary and secondary distances are on opposite
sides of the west angle, add them for the arc of direction.
Primary distance, 26° 10'
Secondary distance, 4 47
Arc of direction, 30 57
Again, I would direct the Sun to the parallel ofMars,
converse motion. (Here the Sun passes conversely until
he forms a parallel with the place of Mars on the west
angle.)
e have already got the distance of both from the west
angle, and that of the G) becomes now the primary distance.
As the semidiurnal arc of Mars, 7h. 26m., is to his dis
tance from the west, 26° 10', so is the Q's seminocturnal
arc, 4h. 48m., to his secondary distance from the west,
16° 54'.
. The primary and secondary distances being on different
sides of the angle, add them for the arc of direction,
Q’ primary distance, 7° 34'
Secondary distance, 16 54
Arc of direction, 24 28
Rapt parallels are always formed by right ascension
from the midheaven or lower heaven, let them belong to
whatsoever angle they will. If they belong to either of
those two angles, the angle is a true one; but if they be
long either to the ascendant or descendant, the angle on
which they are formed may be called a false one, merely
for the sake of a term; for two stars in a parallel from any
# are really in a parallel with every angle in the
gure. -
Parallels are called rapt when two stars by moving con
versely together (or, as Placidus calls it, being rapt or
carried away by the motion of the Primum Mobile,) form
parallels from angles without having any respect to their
radical places in the figure.
Problem 26th.
To direct two stars moving together conversely to rapt
parallels. *
DIRECTIONS. 63
1st, Add their semi-arcs together, which semi-arcs will
be diurnal or nocturnal, according asthe parallel is formed
above or below the Earth.
2d, Find the difference between their right ascensions.
3d, Find thedistance of the star that applies to the angle
(when the parallel is formed) from the said angle, and call
it the primary distance.
4th, As the sum of their semi-arcs is to the semi-arc of
the planet applying to the angle, so is the difference of
# right ascensions to the secondary distance of the said
planet. - - -
If both distances are on the same side of the angle, sub
tract one from the other, but if on different sides, add them.
Example: Suppose 26° 9 of Aries on-the cusp of the
7th, the Moon in 25° 35' of Aries, 7' 0" of Pisces on the -
cusp of the 5th, Saturn in 11° 1' of Pisces, right ascension .
of the Imum Coeli, 305° 40': I would direct the Moon to
the rapt parallel of Saturn. -
The parallel will be formed on the Imum Coeli, to which,
when the parallel is formed, the Moon will apply (see pl.
2, fig. 21.) - -
As the parallel is formed below the Earth, the seminoc
turnal arcs must be used.
Seminocturnal arc of the Moon, 5h. 37m.
Seminocturnal arc of Saturn, 6 41
*
Sum of their arcs, 12 18
Right ascension of the Moon, with 5° 0' south
£ . 25° 33'
Add for subtraction, 360 O
385 33
Right ascension of Saturn, with 1° 55' S. lat. 343 14
*-s -
Difference of their right ascensions, 42 19
Right ascension of the Moon, with the circle
added as before, 38.5° 33'
Right ascension of the lower heaven, 305 40
*
Primary distance of the Moon, 79 53
As the sum of their seminoeturnal arcs, 12h. 18m., is to
the Moon's seminocturnal arc, 5h. 37m., (because she will
apply to the Imum Coeli when the parallel is formed,) so is .
their difference in right ascension, 42° 19, to the Moon's
secondary distance from the 4th, 19° 19.
t
64 DIRECTIONS.
As both distances are on the same side of the Haum
Coeli, subtract the secondary for the arc of direction.
The Moon's primary distance, 79° 53'
Secondary distance, 19 19 .
Arc of direction, 60 34
Observe, had Saturn been in the Moon's place, and the
Moon in his, Saturn would have been the appl 'planet
when the aspect was formed, and £ is semi
nocturnal arc would have been used as the second term in
stead of that of the Moon. -
When a parallel is to be formed on the east angle, take
the opposite place of the succeeding star, and work with it
as if it were there and approaching to form a parallel on
the south angle, which in this case may be called the false
angle. When its opposite place forms a parallel with the
other star on the south angle, then will the real parallel
be formed at equal distances from the horoscope.
Example £ 5° 44' of V3 on the horoscope, the
C in 6’ 45 of W5, 12° 27' of 8 on the Imum Caeli, with d.
in 20° 40' of Taurus (see plate 2, fig. 22.), I would direct
the C to the rapt £ 6, which he will form with
her from the ascendant. Here 6 is the succeeding planet,
for he follows the Moon, I therefore take him as if he was
in his opposite place, and direct him to a parallel of the
Moon from the south angle. As the parallel is formed on
the mid-heaven, the semidiurnal arcs must be used ; and
although Mars is the planet that applies to the true angle
when the parallel is formed, yet, considered in his opposite
place, he is the receding planet from the false angle, and
the Moon applies so that her semidiurnal arc must be used
for the second term.
Semidiurnal arc of the opposite place of d, 62° 27'
Semidiurnal arc of the G 52 33
Sum of their arcs, 115 0
Right ascension of the P., with latitude, 277°28'
Right ascension of d, with opposite latitude, 232 3
Difference between their right ascensions, 45 25
Right ascension of the Moon, 277°28'
Right ascension of the mid-heaven, 220 0
C’s primary distance, 77 28
DIRECTIONS. 65.
As the sum of the semidiurnal arcs, 115° 0', is to the
semidiurnal arc of the ), 52' 33'; (the applying planet to
the midheaven), so is the difference between the right as
cension, 45° 25', to the D’s secondary distance from the
midheaven, 20° 45'.
As both the primary and secondary distances are on the
same side of the midheaven, subtract the secondary.
Primary distance, 57°28'
Secondary distance, 20 45
Arc of direction, 36 43 .
I shall give one more example from the positions in
problem 25th, of a rapt parallel formed on the west angle.
We here take the opposite place of the succeeding star,
which is d, and make the Imum Caeli the false angle.
Seminocturnal arc of the opposition of G, 7h. 26m.
Seminocturnal arc of the Sun, 4 48
Sum of their arcs, 12 14
Right ascension of the O with the circle added, 409° 7'
Right ascension of d’s opposition with latitude, 244 7
Difference in right ascension, 165, 0
Right ascension of the G) with the circle added, 409° 7'
Right ascension of the lower heaven, 329 24.
O’s primary distance from the north angle, 79 43
As the sum of the seminocturnal arcs, 12h. 14m, is to
the seminocturnal arc of the G), 4h. 48m. (because he ap
plies to the false angle), so is the difference in right as
cension, 165° 0', to the Q's secondary distance from the
false angle, 64° 44'.
As they are both on the same side of the angle, subtract
the secondary from the primary.
Primary distance, 79° 43'
Secondary distance, 64 44
e
Arc of direction, 14 59
Before I close the subject of parallels, it may not be
amiss to give an example of a converse parallel from op
posite angles, as a star equidistant from opposite angles
66 DIRECTIONS.
has the same effect as when equidistant from the same
angle : this is called a contra parallel, and is the same in
the world as the contra antiscion is in the zodiac.
Suppose 6° 0' of 96 on the cusp of the 10th, b in 10°2.
of 36, the Q in the 4th house in 28° 39' of my : I would
direct him to a contra parallel of b, by converse motion
(see plate 2, fig. 23.).
The operation is the same as if b had been in 10° 2' of
WQ, with opposite latitude.
Right ascension of P with 2° 10' south latitude, 342° 44'
Right ascension of the midheaven, 337 48
Distance of b from the midheaven, 4 56
Right ascension of the G), 178° 46'
Right ascension of the Imum Caeli, - 157 48
Primary distance of the G) from the lower heaven, 20 58
As the semidiurnal arc of b, .5h. 16m, is to his distance
from the midheaven, 4° 56', so is the seminocturnal arc of
the G) to his secondary distance from the lowest heaven,
5° 35'.
... As the primary and secondary distances are on opposite
sides of the lowest heaven, add them.
G)'s Primary distance, 20° 58'
Secondary distance, 5 : 35
Arc of direction, 26 33
Problem 27th.
To direct the G), when under the Earth in the space of
the crepuscle, to any mundane aspect.
1st, Find the common arc of direction, according to the
rules laid down in former problems, and call it the false
arc of direction.
2d, Add this false arc to the oblique ascension of the
Sun taken under his own pole.
3d, In the table of crepuscles for the pole of the country
find the Q’s crepusculine circle for that degree of the zodiac
in which he is posited, and this will be obtained by taking
the number opposite to his primary distance. This number
when found, is the degree of the Q's depression.
4th, Opposite this crepusculine degree of the Q's depres
sion the secondary distance will be found under that degree
DIRECTIONS. 67
of the zodiac which answers to the sum of the false arc and
the Q’s oblique ascension added together.
5th, As the Q's horary time is to his secondary distance,
so is the horary time of the promittor to his secondary dis
tance. Add or subtract this according to the rules hitherto
laid down, and it will give the arc of direction.
Example:—Suppose 7° 50' of 1 on the cusp of the
horoscope, the Q in 25° 14' of 1, 19° 0 of 8 on the cusp
of the 6th, and 2 in 28° 18' of 8 : I would direct the @
# the mundane A of 2/, direct motion (see plate 2,
g. 24.).
"ifirst find the common are of direction as follows:
Oblique, ascension of the G) taken in the pole of
the horoscope, 289° 32'
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, 268 35
Primary distance of the G) from the horoscope, 20 57
Oblique ascension of 2/’s opposition with opposite
latitude (his real latitude is 1° 18' south) taken
under the pole of the 11th house, which is 18' 0, 242° 38'
Oblique ascension of the 11th house under its
pole 18° 0, 208 35
Primary distance of 2/ from the 5th house, 34 3
(I have followed the whim of Placidus in taking 2/'s
opposite place, but his primary distance may more easily
be found in his own place by oblique descension.)
As the nocturnal horary time of the G), 19° 7', is to his
primary distance from the horoscope, 20° 57", so is the
nocturnal horary time of 2/, 11° 5'1', to his secondary dis
tance from the 5th, 12° 59'.
As both 2/'s distances are on the same side of the cusp
ofthe 5th, subtract, and it gives the arc of direction (which,
as I before observed, is the false arc), 21° 4'.
Oblique ascension of the Q under his own pole
of 38° 0', 284° 35'
Add the false arc, 21 4
It gives, 305 39
which is the oblique ascension of 15°20' of W3.
I now look in the Crepusculine Table for the circle be
longing to the O's distance from the horoscope, 20 57',
under 25° of 1, which is the Sun's place in the zodiac, as
68 DIRECTIONS.
the minutes are not regarded. The latitude of the country
is 44 : so I take the table for that latitude, and look for
25° of 1, but there is no such thing; I therefore take the
nearest number, which is the column of 20° of Sagittary.
Neither is there such a number as the Sun's distance, 20°
57, but the nearest I can find to it in the column of20°
of Sagittary is 20° 12; opposite to this, on the left, is the
crepusculine parallel, 13°. I have now to find for the re
maining 5" of Sagittary, which will be half the difference
between the columns, 20° and 30° of Sagittary; this
difference is 5, the half of which is 2', which added to the
20 12 gives 20° 14' out of the 20°57', leaving 43 yet to
be be accounted for : to do this, we must take the pro
portional part of the difference between the circles 13 and
14: 20° 12' taken from 21° 41 gives a difference of 1° 29.
so that, if 1°29' be equal to 1° of crepusculine parallel, 43'
will be equal to 28, which shews the true crepusculine
circle or parallel to be 13° 28'.
Opposite this crepusculine circle of 13° 28′ I look for
15 of V5 (to which the false arc added to the Q's oblique
ascension answered): the nearest column is 10° of W9, in
which, opposite 13° of crepusculine circle, will be found
20° 12. I have now to find for the remaining 5 of Wy:
the difference between the columns 10° and 20° of V5 is
16' less, the half of which is 8, which subtracted from
20° 12' leaves 20° 4'. The remaining 28 of the crepuscu
line circle will be found by the rule of proportion to give
42 more, which added to the 20° 4 we already possess,
makes the G)'s secondary distance 20° 46'.
As the Q's horary time nocturnal, 19° 7', is to his
secondary distance from the horoscope, 20° 46', so is the
nocturnal horary time of 21, 11° 51’, to 2/’s secondary
distance from the 5th house, 12° 52'.
Both distances are on the same side of the cusp of the
5th, and therefore subtraction must be made.
2/’s primary distance, 34° 3'
Secondary distance, 12 52
True arc of direction, 21 11
Problem 28th,
To direct the Sun when under the Earth in the obscure
arc to any mundane aspect. -
1st, Find the false arc of direction, in the same manner
as in the last problem. - -
DIRECTIONS. 69
2d, Add the false arc to his oblique ascension taken
under his pole, as before, and mark the degree of the
zodiac to which it answers.
3d, Subtract the whole crepusculine arc from his semi
nocturnal arc, and the remainder will be his obscure arc.
4th, Subtract the whole crepusculine arc of the part of
the zodiac to which the false arc added to the Sun's oblique
ascension answers, from its seminocturnal arc, and the re
mainder will be its obscure arc.
5th, Find the Sun's right distance from the 4th house,
and call it the primary distance.
6th, As the Q’s obscure arc is to his primary distance
from the 4th, house, so is the obscure arc ofthat place to
which his oblique ascension and false arc answers, to his
secondary distance from the 4th house.
7th, As the Q’s horary time is to his secondary distance,
so is the horary time of the promittor to its secondary dis
tance from its given house, which must be added to or sub
tracted from the primary distance as usual.
Example: Suppose 26° 0' of 96 on the cusp of the 5th,
g in 20° 24 of 96, 22° 0' of Y on the cusp of the 6th
house, the G) in 8° 42 of Y (see pl. 2, fig. 25.) : I would
direct the G) to the mundane >k of #, direct motion.
Oblique descension of the G) under the pole of
the 5th, 18°, - go 7.
Add for subtraction, 360 0
l
\ 369 7
Oblique descension ofthe 5th under its pole of 18, 355 22
Distance of the Sun from the cusp of the 5th, 13 45
Oblique ascension of # under the pole of the
3d, 18, * 354° 13'
Oblique ascension of the 3d house under its
pole, 18°, 295 - 22
Primary distance of # from the cusp of the 3d, 58 51
As the Sun's nocturnal horary time, 14° 26, is to his dis
tance from the 5th, 13° 45', so is #’s nocturnal horary
time, 16° 0, to his secondary distance from the 3d, 15° 15'.
Both distances being on the same side of the 3d house,
subtract for the arc of direction.
70 * DIRECTIONS.
Primary distance, 58° 51’
Secondary distance, 15 15
False arc of direction, 43 36
Oblique descension of the Sun under his own
pole of25°, 9° 35'
Add the false arc of direction, 43 36
- Their sum, 53 II
which answers in oblique ascension to, 17° 30' of Taurus.
I now look for the whole crepusculine arc of those two
places, viz. 8° 42 of Aries, where the Sun is, and 17° 30'
of Taurus. The whole crepusculine arc is always that
which is opposite the 18th parallel, at the bottom of the
left-hand column.
The nearest to 8° 42 of Aries is the column 10 of Aries,
in that table of which the pole is 44 : here, opposite the
circle 18 at the bottom, I find 26° 3', which, when brought
into hours and minutes (to suit the Sun's seminocturnal
arc, which is also in hours and minutes), makes 1h. 44m.
It is true,' the Sun's place is only 8° 42 of Aries, and we
have calculated it for 10° of Aries; but in dividing by 15
to bring it to time, we have left a remainder of 3, which
will make up for the difference.
Seminocturnal arc of the G), 5h. 46m.
Whole crepusculine arc of the Q, I 44
Obscure arc of the G), 4 2
I now find the whole crepusculine arc for 17° 30' of 8,
as follows: . -
Under 10 degrees of Taurus, in the same table, oppo
site the last parallel of 18, I find 29° 38'; the difference
between the columns 10° and 20° of Taurus is 1° 52' more:
so that, if 10° give 1° 52', 7° 30' will give 1° 17', which
added to the 29° 58' already obtained, makes 30° 55', or,
when turned into time, 2h. 4m.
Seminocturnal arc of 17° 30' of Taurus, 4h. 50m,
Its whole crepusculine arc, 2 4
Its obscure arc, 2 46
I now seek for the Sun's primary distance from the 4th.
IDIRECTIONS. 71
Right ascension of the Sun, 8° 0'
Add the circle for subtraction, 360 0
-----
368 0
Right ascension of the 4th, 325 22
G)'s primary distance from the 4th, 42 - 38
As the Sun's obscure arc, 4h. 2m., is to his primary dis
tance from the 4th house, 42 deg. 38 min., so is the obscure
arc of 17 deg. 3 min. of Taurus, 2h.46m., to his secondary
distance from the 4th, 29 deg. 15 min. This is more than
a house distant from the 4th, for the Sun's double noctur
nal horary time (the space of his house) is 28 deg. 52 min.,
which subtracted from 29 deg. 15 min., makes his secondary -
distance 0 deg. 23 min. beyond the cusp of the 5th : this,
owing to the subtraction of the crepusculine arc, is his real
position, where alone he can receive the k of #, we must,
therefore, find to what point the secondary distance of #
should extend for that purpose.
As the Sun's horary time, 14 deg. 26 min., is to his se
condary distance from the 5th, 0 deg. 23 min., so is the ho
rary time of #, 16 deg. 0 min., to his secondary distance
from the 3d, 0 deg. 26 min.
Both the distances being on the same side of the cusp of
the 3d, subtract for the arc of direction.
Primary distance of § from the 5th, 58° 51’
Secondary distance, 0 26
*-*.
True arc of direction, 58 25
Problem 29th.
To direct a significator to the west. (Ptolemy enter
tained an opinion (which, if rightly understood, was very
erroneous), that if no malignant direction destroyed life
before the hyleg arrived by direction at the western hori
zon, life must certainly terminate when that period arrived.
The time, however, was either diminished or protracted,
according to the aspects of other planets, which reached
the angle before it. Argol denied the truth of this system
in toto, but Placidus affirms it to be true, and had he accom
anied this declaration by an example in point, it might
' merited some attention; but every example he quotes
only serves to confirm the opinion of Argol, that it is vain
and uscless. The direction to the west in Cardinal Gym
72 DIRECTIONs.
nasius's Nativity agrees with the time of death, but the @,
who was apheta, came at the same time to a parallel of b's
declination, a direction sufficiently malignant to destroy a
man above 87 years old. In Pope Urban’s Nativity, which
Placidus quotes as another instance in his Celestial Philo
sophy, the hyleg met with the square of Mars; and the
Duchess of Sfortia died from the effect of a parallel of the
declination of Mars; the direction to the west, therefore,
could not have any visible effect in either of those nativi
ties, and I know not that he mentions any other.)
1st, Find the hyleg's arc of direction to the west.
2d, Find the arc of direction of every fortune that forms
a good configuration with the west angle, and of eve
infortune that forms an evil configuration with it.
3d, Add the arcs of the fortunes together and divide
them by 12, and do the same by the arcs of their infortunes.
4th, Add the quotient of the fortunes to the arc of direc
tion of the hyleg, and subtract the quotient of the infor
tunes from it, the remainder will be the true arc of
direction. -
Example :-From the radix in plate 2, fig. 26, I would
direct the G), who is hyleg, to the west.
Oblique descension of the G) in the pole of the
horoscope, 147° 1,
Oblique descension of the west angle, 71 5
O's arc of direction to the west, 75 56
I now find, on inspection, that 2 will arrive at the west
before the Q, and as the d is a good configuration, I find
his arc of direction.
Oblique descension of 2/ in the pole of the horo
scope (he had no latitude), 132° 35'
Oblique descension of the west angle, 71 5
2/’s arc of direction to the west, 61 30
I likewise find that Q comes both to a quintile and a sk
to the west before the G) reaches it.
Right ascension of Q with 1° 49' north lat. 160° 46'
Right ascension of the midheaven, 161 5
e---
Distance of Q from the midheaven, 1 0 19
Her double horary time, or space of her house, is
33 deg. 16 min, from which subtract the 19 min, she differs
DIRECTIONS. 73
from the 10th, and her arc of direction to the k will be
32 deg. 57". Her sextile, or space of two houses, is 66 deg.
32 min., of which subtracted from her arc of direction to
the k will give her are of direction to the quintile as
follows:
Arc of direction to the Sk, 32°57'
3 of her >k, 13 18
Arc of direction to her quintile 1939
d interposes the square.
Right ascension of 6, with 0 deg. 17 mill. north lat, 168° 59'
Right ascension ofthe midheaven, whence he casts * -
the D, 161 5
-
Arc of direction to the square, 7 54.
He also forms the quintile and sextile, but these have
no effect either way, being good aspects of an evil planet.
b also interposes the sesquiquadrate.
Right ascension of the Imum Coeli, - 341° 5'
Right ascension of b with 1 deg. 14 min. south lat. 322 51
---
Distance of P from the 4th, 18 14
This subtracted from his double horary time or space of
his house, 35 deg. 22 min., leaves a remainder, 17 deg.
8 min., which is what he wants to complete the trine. The
£ is his horary time, or half a house farther,
viz. 17 deg. 41 min, which added to the 17 deg. 8 min.
' his arc of direction to the sesquiquadrate, 34 deg.
9 min.
Placidus, who is not remarkable for brevity in any of his
operations, finds all these parts by the Rule of Proportion,
viz. as the whole arc, whether diurnal or nocturnal, is to
the horary time of the planet, so is its arc of direction to
the number required. This is a very circumlocutive
method, for the proportion of a whole arc to its horary
time is as 12 to 1; or in other words, to divide the arc
of direction by 12: the shortest method, therefore, is to
add all the arcs of the infortunes together, divide them by
12, and subtract the quotient from the hyleg's arc of direc
tion to the west; then add together the arcs of the fortunes
in like manner, divide them by 12, and add the quotient
to the remainder of the arc of direction. This will give
the ultimate arc of direction more complete than can be
L
74 DIRECTIONS.
done by the bungling method of Placidus, who would often
lose a degree of his arc in fractions.
C of 2/, 61° 30'
k of 22 32 57
Quintile of Q, 19 39
12)114 6(9° 30', fortunate.
D of d, 7o 54'
Sesquiquadrate of b 34 49
-
12)42 43(3° 34', unfortunate.
Hyleg's arc of direction to the west, 75° 56.
Subtract the unfortunate, 3 34
Remainder, 72 22
Add the fortunate, 9 30
True arc of direction, 81 52
It would have been difficult for Placidus to assign a
reason why the ) should here have been excluded, she is
evidently an infortune, from her 6 with b, and should
have been directed to the sesquiquadrate as well as b him
self. If the X can operate as anareta when in evil aspect
with the infortunes, surely her rays to the west must be
£anaretic. In the Nativity of Pope Urban, Placidus
allows that # would possess an influence were he not of a
mixed nature, and as the luminaries are supposed to be
equally convertible with # to the nature of such planets
as they are familiar with, and as they are £!by all
parties to be equal to fortunes or infortunes, according to
their condition, their can be no doubt, that their arcs are
equally efficacious and admissible.
Those who are doubtful of the efficacy of planetary con
figurations, according to the space of time measured by
arcs of direction, would do well to peruse the Primum
Mobile of Placidus, which presents such a mass of evidence
as, H think, cannot easily ' invalidated. It is true, that
events do not always follow their apparent causes, but this
is owing to the influence of certain stars, with whose effects
we are not acquainted, some ofwhich have been discovered
since the time of Placidus, and others, which will probably
never be known. The lately discovered planet Ouranos
no doubt has some kind of influence hitherto undiscovered,
and if there be any truth in the doctrine of colours, its in
fluence must be evil and somewhat resembling that of b.
Pallas, Ceres, Vesta, &c. must all have an influence of
DIRECTIONS. 75
some kind, and the only objection that can be made to this
theory is, their small magnitude and vast distance: this,
however, has not been considered as having any weight in
the case ofthe rest. B, although above twice the distance of
2 from the Earth, and much smaller, is always supposed
to have had as powerful an effect upon it; whereas, if
magnitude or proximity could make any difference, / must
greatly preponderate. As to 6, he is but a speck in the
heavens compared to 2/, yet his power is held to be
equally great: this doctrine, no doubt, may appear ab
surd, that magnitude and distance are of small considera
tion in planetary influence, but experience shews it in cer
tain cases to be true. Of this we have daily proof: the
Moon raises the tides about three times as high as the Sun,
this, astronomers say, is the result of her proximity. The
Sun operates on the aggregate of the globe infinitely more
powerfully than the Moon, for the globe revolves round it,
and this they attribute to his magnitude, which involves a
contradiction. The Sun gives heat, light, and life to all
existence : the Moon gives no heat whatever, and no light
but what is caused by reflection. That every planet
operates in a similar way, according to its own nature,
may be fairly concluded from analogy, nor is it any proof
of the non-existence of such a power, to say it is not so
perceptible as that of the Sun or Moon. If magnitude
were the source of influence, the Sun alone would raise
the tides; and were proximity to the Earth its source, the
Earth would revolve round the Moon. It is evident,
therefore, that all heavenly bodies possess qualities pe
culiarly their own: the Moon has an effect on moisture, the
Sun on the whole substance of the globe, and every other
planet operates in a similar way according to its nature,
although, probably, its properties are not yet understood.
As to the new aspects invented by Kepler, I own, I have
not so much confidence in their efficacy as that astronomer
had, but experience alone can decide this question. Placi
dus only approved of the quintile, biquintile, and sesqui
quadrate, I have more opinion of the efficacy of the Sk
than of the A, because the greatest changes happen when
the X forms her last >k to the Sun, previous to the con
junction. The effect of the square is evident, as the tides
are always lowest when the $ is in D to the O : for this
reason, I conceive a D of 5 and 6 to each other in a
figure as a good position, because they must lessen each
others influence. } likewise suspect the D of 2 to be an
evil aspect, as thereby his influence is lessened, for it is
evident, from the effect of the G) and D on each other,
76 DIRECTIONS.
that planets oppose each others power most at right angles.
I suspect the opposition of a friendly planet to be a good
configuration and equal to a conjunction, as we find the
luminaries operate together the same at an 8 as at the
conjunction. Of all configurations, I have most confidence
in a zodiacal parallel; but I do not think so highly of a
mundane parallel, nor of any mundane ' All these
opinions, however, require the sanction of experience.
It was a doctrine of Ptolemy, that no converse direction
can kill, but that of the hyleg to the west. Here, how
ever, Placidus must differ from him, for he mentions
several converse directions that kill; and what is the direc
tion of the horoscope (when it is hyleg) to the anareta but
a fatal converse direction.
Another doctrine of Ptolemy, and to which Placidus
adheres, is, that the angles can only be directed in mundo
and not in the zodiac: this, if not founded in error, seems
at least not founded in reason.—If the horoscope be hyleg,
why should not a zodiacal aspect have the same effect 9n
that as on any other hyleg. I remember reading an instance
in the Nativity of an Artist in the Science, wherein he says,
0° 27' of 19 were on the cusp of his ascendant, and b was
in 2° 10' of Il, when the horoscope came to 2° 10' of up,
the zodiacal D of 12, he broke his leg at the age of two
years and eight months: this might or might not be the
cause of the accident, but I would sooner rely on such a
circumstance than on all the wild theories of Ptolemy.
As to the foolish system of directing the lord of the as
cendant to the anareta, or the lord of the 8th to the hyleg,
nothing can be more ridiculous. The planets operate as
substances, not as symbols.
I shall here add another problem for directing the as
cendant or midheaven to the zodiacal aspect of a star, for
although both Placidus and Ptolemy deny the efficacy of
zodiacal directions to the angles, I have much more con
fidence in them than in any mundane direction, and would
advise the student to give them a fair trial.
Problem 30th.
To direct the ascendant and midheaven to any zodiacal
aspect of a star.
' the angle to the place of the aspect by ascension
or descension. *
Example:—Suppose, according to the circumstance just
quoted, 0° 27' of g on the cusp of the ascendant, with b
in 2° 10' of II: I would direct the horoscope to the zodia
DISEASES. 77
cal D of B, this, of course, falls in 2° 10' of Q ; I there
fore direct this to the cusp of the horoscope. e will sup
pose the pole of the horoscope, that of London, 51° 32'.
Oblique ascension of 2° 10' of my under the pole
of the horoscope, 140° 21'
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, 137 54
Arc of direction, - \ 2 27
If the direction be made to the 10th it must be made by
right ascension.
If the conjunction of either house, it must be brought to
its cusp without latitude, because, as we have before seen
in the zodiacal directions, the latitude of a promittor is
never taken in the zodiac, and the angle being significator
has no latitude. For the trine of the ascendant, when un
der the Earth, bring it to the sk of the 7th by oblique de
scension, or if above the Earth, bring its trine to the cus
of the horoscope; and if to the trine of the 10th, bring it
by right ascension to the sk of the Imum Coeli.
DISEASES. Diseases and blemishes are said by Pto
lemy to belong to the 7th house, the 6th, and the ascendant.
A malefic, either in the east or west angle, or in D to them,
will produce a blemish or disease in that part signified by
the sign in which it is posited. If either of the lights are in
one of those angles, or in the 6th, in C# or evil aspect with
a malefic, there will, it is said, be a disease or blemish in
the part signified by the sign where the malefic is posited.
Placidus gives an instance of this in the Nativity of Doctor
Massari, whose ) was in the west angle in D to 6, and
& to b; 6 was in 36, the sign of the feet; and 5 in 1,
the sign of the thighs; the consequence of which was, that
he was born with his feet inverted: such examples, I
think, should be received with caution. It was also an
opinion of Placidus, that the lord or lady of the ascendant .
in the 1st, 7th, or 6th, in evil aspect of the infortunes, would
have a similar effect. Of this he gives an instance in the
Nativity of the Duchess of Sfortia, whose lady of the as
cendant, Q, was posited in the 6th, in a parallel of b’s
declination, who was posited in the sign -- in the horo
scope, which governs the kidneys: she died of a retention
of urine. He also adds, that Q was in mundane D to the
D, who was then an infortune, being under the parallel of
d's declination : either the mundane square was of no ef
fect, or the Moon did not operate as an infortune, for she
was in the sign II, but her disease did not affect her arms
and shoulders. -
78 DISEASES.
t; in a nativity in a parallel of the declination of an in
fortune, or in square to the Moon from the east or west
angles, causes the head to be very much diseased, and if
both malefics concur, is apt to cause apoplexy. The D be
ing in a parallel of an infortune's declination will cause a
disease or humour in the head; and if : likewise be af
flicted by an infortune, the disease will be very severe.
The D in exact 6, 9, or D, to the G), when she is in
the east or west angle, or if she be angular in 6 of B, or
d, or with any nebulous cluster of stars, it is said to cause
the loss of an eye. -
If both the malefics are in 6 or 9 to both the luminaries,
and especially if those that afflict the G) be oriental, and
those £ afflict the D occidental, it will cause total blind
ness. Ó will cause blindness by fire, wounds, bruises,
lightning, small-pox, &c. and if with Q, it will happen at
play or some amusement, or by some vile artifice or private
injury. B causes blindness by colds, cataracts, specks,
gutta serena, &c. If # be with him, it will proceed from
reading, study, or mental exertion.
When malefics are oriental, and in evil configuration
with the luminaries, they cause blemishes; but if they are
occidental they produce diseases.
Planets being retrograde have a general tendency to
cause diseases.
If one or both the luminaries are in an angle, particu
Iarly the east or west angles, or in the 6th house in con
junction with b, d, and Q, the native will have no child
ren, and if a female, will be liable to abortion.
If the X be in the east angle, with B, and #, particu
larly if G gives testimony, the native will be an hermaphro
dite, or perhaps have but one passage.
If the Q be joined to #, and applying to conjunction,
opposition, or declination of both the infortunes, and an
£ particularly in Y, Sl, m, V}, or ~, the native will
e wholly unfit for generation.
If the Q and ( are configurated together, and both in
masculine signs, both of them having configuration with 3,
and Q in any way, males then born will have excessive
virile members, and women will be quite or nearly herma
phrodites. If d and Q be also in masculine signs, men
will have a mixture of sex, and females will be violently
libidinous. If Q only be in a masculine sign, they will
be more discreet and conceal their desires. •
If the luminaries are configurated together in feminine
signs, with 6 and Q, females will be ofa masculine turn,
and very salacious, but the men effeminate. If Q be in a
• *
BISEASES. - 79
feminine sign, the native, if a male will be nearly im
potent, but if a female, very lustful. If d be feminine,
and Q masculine, males will have more strength and vigour.
6 and Q being so configurated, when oriental and diurnal,
make men more robust, but if occidental and vespertine,
they are more debilitated. If B be configurated with them
all, they are more prone to violent and unnatural desires:
§ adds to their lust, and makes them fond of variety of
contrivances; but if / be configurated also, he moderates
their desires, and renders them more circumspect. .
If the Q be in the east or west angles, in G with b and
# and particularly in the west in evil aspect with the ),
the native will have an impediment in his speech, par
ticularly if # be in one of the mute signs, CB, ' or 3%.
If g and the D are in conjunction either with themselves
or with the horoscope, and in bad configuration with b or
# from angles, particularly with b by day and 6 by might,
they will # liable to fits; but if with 6 by day or b by
night, particularly if in mute signs, they are apt to be
melancholy or frantic. -
If 6-be in evil configuration of the D at the full, or B.
at the change, in * or 96, it causes lunacy.
If the benefics are oriental or angular, and have any
configuration to the ), those diseases will be curable. If
M, these will be cured by medicine, but if Q, they will
cure themselves.
If the benefics be cadent or occidental, and the malefics
oriental, they will be wholly incurable.
If the malefics are angular, in C# or 9 of the luminaries,
and the D in her node, in what are called hurtful signs,
viz. Aries, Taurus, Cancer, Scorpio, or Capricorn, the
native will be lame or distorted. If the malefics are joined
to the lights, the defect will be from the birth; but if in 9
to them, or if they have a D to them from the 10th, it will
be by blows, falls, stabs, &c.
The Moon, it is said, gives blemishes when she is in
tropical or equinoctial signs.
When the Moon is in any of the three vernal signs, she
causes eruptions in the face; in summer signs, she causes
ring-worms, tetters, shingles, &c.; in autumnal signs, she
causes scurvy; and in winter signs, she gives boils and
pimples.
When the malefics are oriental to the Sun, or occidental
to the Moon, they cause diseases; and Mercury with thern
increases the evil.
If the malefics are angular and occidental to the Moon,
or oriental to the Sun, and in Cancer, Capricorn or Pisces,
80 DISEASES.
they cause scurvy or scrophula. If in II or 1, they do in
jury by falls, or the falling sickness. If they are in the last
degree of these signs, they cause gout, cramp, and rheuma
tism. If the benefics are with the malefics, or oriental or
angular, and cast any ray to the luminaries, they will be
cured: the rapidity and certainty of the cure will be pro
portionate to their strength. If the benefics do not assist,
or are very weak, they will be incurable. The more an
gular or oriental a planet is, the more powerful will its
effects be, whether benefic or malefic. This is the doctrine
of Ptolemy respecting diseases, and I would advise the
student to receive it with the utmost caution, until its truth
becomes obvious by repeated experience: where so many
conflicting testimonies are to be duly weighed, it is diffi
cult for the soundest judgment in many cases to arrive at
the truth, as nothing but incessant practice and experience
can enable any one to judge with correctness. He must
not blindly subscribe to any authority, however respect
able, until he acquires conviction by repeated proofs, and
this will be obtained by exertion. Many of these dog
mas of Ptolemy and Placidus are very absurd and ridicu
lous, but they contain in the aggregate some truth. Those
who are afflicted from the birth by strange and incurable
complaints, as blindness, deformity, and a continual flow
of humours from the head, generally evince a strangeness
of disposition sufficient to remove any doubt that the whole
is the result of malefic influence. I have generally observed
that those who have a copious flow of humours from the
head, are remarkable for dishonesty and shallowness of
intellect; and others who have scars in or near the eyes,
or who lose an eye, are extremely vicious and irascible.
The cause why the ascendant operates upon the human
constitution is unknown, but experience proves it has some
effect. It does not so clearly appear, that the west angle
has any such influence, and still less, that the 6th house can
be the place from whence we can judge of diseases. It
was easy for Ptolemy, or any one, to ascribe the effect of
the horoscope to the 7th house, as all evil aspects are com
mon to both, but the reason why he prognosticates diseases
from the 6th, is because it is inconjunct with the ascendant.
If that were the cause, the 2d, 8th, and 12th, would also
be houses of disease, for they are all inconjunct. The lord
of the ascendant can have no effect whatever when out of
the ascendant, and therefore the notion of Placidus, that
# lady of the ascendant, being afflicted in the 6th, was
the cause of the death of the Duchess of Sfortia, is ex
tremely ridiculous. The position of Saturn in the ascend
DIURNAL. 81
ant, and the Moon, who is hyleg, having the declination of
6, is quite sufficient to account for it, and had it not been
for the zodiacal and cosmical A of 2/ concurring with both
places, the native would not have lived to the age of 64
years. See Life and Health.
DISSOCIATE SIGNS, those that by being 1 or 5
signs distant, have no aspect to each other : thus, Y is
dissociate with 96, 8, 19, and m.
DISPOSE. A planet disposes of any other which is in
its house: thus, if b were in 1 he would be disposed of
by 2/. In horary questions, it is a sign that the thing or
person signified by the planet so disposed of, is in the
power or interest of the planet (or those whom it signifies)
that disposes of it. If several planets dispose in succession,
the event is generally governed by the last that disposes,
if it be one of the significators: thus, if Ó be disposed of
by b, and b by Q, and Q by 21, who is lord of the as
cendant, it is a favourable symptom. Planets also dispose
by exaltation and term; the former is seldom attended to,
but Placidus has great faith in the term, supposing it
alters the nature of any planet nearly to that of the term
wherein it is posited.
DISPOSITOR, that planet which disposes of another.
DISPOSITION. See Mind.
DISTANCE. The distance of any place is found by
subtracting the ascension of the preceding part, or its
descension from that of the succeeding part. If subtraction
cannot be made, which will sometimes happen, the circle,
or 360°, must be added. Example: if 18° of x, whose
right ascension is 320° 30', were to be taken from 15° of
Y, whose right ascension is 13° 48', it cannot be done
until 360° be added, when its distance will be found, 53°
18'. See Right and Oblique Distances, &c.
DIURNAL, by day. Planets also are called diurnal that
contain more active than passive qualities: those, on the
contrary, which contain more passive than active qualities
are called nocturnal. Thus, 2 being more hot than moist,
B more cold than dry, and the G) more hot than dry, they
are called diurnal, because heat and cold are the active
qualities; but 6 being more dry than hot, Q more moist
than hot, and the D more moist than cold, they are called
nocturnal, because dryness and moisture are passive
qualities. # is diurnal when oriental, and nocturnal when
occidental; this is said by some to be contrived with a view
to moderate the effects of the malefics. B being made
diurnal that the heat of the day may moderate his coldness;
and d nocturnal, that the moisture ofnight might moderate
M
82 - DIURNAL.
his dryness: theirmeaning is,that they are not somalignant
at these times. A planet is also called diurnal, when in
the same hemisphere with the Sun, viz. above the Earth by
day, and under it at night, and vice versa Thus, by the
whims of those wiseacres, a planet may be both diurnal
and nocturnal at the same time. Signs also are divided
into diurnal and nocturnal: those of the fiery and airy
triplicities are diurnal, and those of the earthy and watery
triplicities, nocturnal. Here they are again involved in a
contradiction, by adding heat to £and cold to cold. It
cannot be on account ofthe predominance of their active
qualities, for in all signs the active and passive qualities
are equally mixed; it, therefore, originates in another
foolish whim, that every thing masculine must be diurnal,
and that those being masculine signs must be diurnal
signs likewise. A sign is said to be diurnal when by its
warmth it resembles the day, and nocturnal, when by its
cold it resembles the night. Here the active qualities, orone
of them at least, are applied in a different sense from that
in the case of the planets, and shew the whole is nothing
but a mass of contradiction not worth attending to. That
the day may have some small effect in moderating the cold
of b, and the nightin moderating the heat of 6, is possible,
but it certainly does not deprive them of their anaretic
qualities, '. are equally destructive to life whether the
infortune be diurnal or noeturnal.
DIURNAL ARC, the arc or distance which a star
passes over from its rising to its setting.
DIURNAL HOUSES. Every planet but the Q and
} have two houses assigned them, one for the day and the
other for the might. The day house of b is x, of 21, 1 ;
of 3, Y, of Q, =; and of #, II; because those signs are
called diurnal. The night house of b is W5; of 21, 34,
of d, in ; of Q, 8 ; and of # ; because these signs
are considered nocturnal. hey are supposed to be
stronger in a day house by day, and in a might house by
night, but the opinion is absurd and unworthy of further
notice.
DIURNAL TRIPLICITIES. The fiery triplicity is
diurnal for the Q and nocturnal for 2/; the earthy trip
licity is diurnal for Q and nocturnal for the D; the airy
triplicity is diurnal for b and nocturnal for #; and the
watery triplicity is both diurnal and nocturnal for 6. By
some a planet by day in its nocturnal triplicity, or by night
in its diurnal, would if it had no other dignity, be con
sidered peregrine; but others would allow them their tri
DRAGON'S HEAD. 83
plicity, although they consider them much weaker: the
whole is absurd and imaginary.
DOG. The little dog Procyon is a star of the first
£ in the 23d degree of ga, of the Nature of 6.
and #, and of course violent. It denotes activity and
sudden preferment by exertion, but generally causes evil
in the end. For the great dog see Sirius.
h DOMAL DIGNITY, when a planet is in its own
OUISe.
DOMICILIATED, a planet is so called when in its
own house.
DOUBLE BODIED SIGNS, II, X, 1, because they
are formed of two distinct animals.
DRAGON'S HEAD, the D’s north node or point where
she crosses the ecliptic to the northward. . The Dragon’s
Tail is her south node, where she crosses it to the south
ward. They were so called from a motion common '
eastern nations, that a great dragon, an enemy of mankind,
was continually watching an opportunity to devour the
$un and Moon; by dint of threats or entreaties he was
eventually prevented from swallowing them, but they were
always eclipsed while he had them in his mouth. As the
Moon in those points has no latitude, and the Q never has
any, they are the only places where eclipses can happen.
The place of the Dragon’s Head is considered of great
efficacy both by Ptolemy and Placidus, from the latter of
whom one would at least expect something more rational.
When the D travels out of the ecliptic, owing to her
latitude, there is a certain point where she must again re
turn, as her latitude diminishes, and recross it: for this
reason an account is kept in the ephemeris of herI'
marked by the character Q, which is called the Dragon’s
Head, and is carried on retrograde at the rate of about 3"
£ day, and when it exactly corresponds in longitude with
er longitude, or with the longitude of her '' she
is at that instant crossing the ecliptic; yet this character,
which is only used as an astronomical mark, is supposed
(by those who, professing to be guided by reason, ought
to have known better,) to possess the same power as the
lanets themselves. The Dragon’s Head, S2, is said to
e equal to 2 or Q in benefic influence, while the tail,
?S, resembles # or Ö in malignity. The S2 is also sup
posed to strengthen any planet it is joined with to do good
or evil according to its nature, and the QS weaker in pro
portion, both benefics and malefics : that they must have
such an effect on the X herself is evident, because, as she
passes through the Dragon's Head to the northward, her
84 EC L
strength must evidently increase as her rays become more
direct; and it decreases of course in the same proportion,
and from the opposite cause, as she passes to the south by
the Dragon's '' but nothing can be more ridiculous
than to suppose it can have any such effect on another
lanet no way connected with it, and which may accord
ing to its own peculiar latitude be actually passing to the
southward through the D's north node, or vice versa.
Every other planet, except the G), has its nodes in the
same way as the ), where it crosses and recrosses the
ecliptic, and where no doubt it is equally increased or
diminished in power according as its rays become more
direct or diagonal. Nothing, however, in these observa
tions can apply to '' questions, because the nature of
them is not operative but purely symbolical, and con
sequently, every symbol has its established meaning.
£o's TAIL, the reverse of the Dragon's Head
in every thing. Some are simple enough to direct it to
the horoscope as anareta, and Gadbury says, he knew
three instances where it destroyed life: a moment's reflec
tion would have convinced him, that it could do nothing
of the kind, being a mere non entity.
DUMB SIGNS, CS, In, and 36 : they are sometimes
called mute signs, and it is said, if one of them ascend,
and # be afflicted, or if # be afflicted by a malefic posited
in one of them, the native will be dumb, or have a great
impediment in his speech.
YSIS, the west angle.
EAGLE, some call it the Vulture, but the bright star
in it is called Attair : it is of the 2d magnitude, of the
nature of b and #, in 29° of W5, and its effects are said
to be evil, causing disgrace, ruin, and great affliction.
EARTHY SIGNS, those that form the earthy trip
licity. - -
£rhy TRIPLICITY, 8, my, and W5 : it is cold
and dry.
ECCENTRIC, one of the imaginary circles invented by
Ptolemy to account for the apparent motion of a planet in
its orbit. *
ECLIPTIC, the Sun's orbit or path round the Globe,
or rather the Earth's orbit round the Sun; it is also called
Via Solis, or the Sun's Way, because the Sun never
moves out of it. All the rest of the planets, by reason of
their latitude, move out of it, except when they cross it in
their modes. It forms an angle of 23° 28' with the plane
of the equator, but at the time when the astronomical cal
culations of Placidus were made, it was supposed to form
E L E 85
€. angle of 23° 32'. It is called the Ecliptic because all
Eclipses happen therein.
ECLIPSES, the duration of the effects of an eclipse is
said to be a year for every hour the Sun is eclipsed, and a
month for every hour the C is eclipsed: the nature of the
events are calculated by erecting a figure to the moment the
eclipse commences, and those countries represented by the
sign ascending, and by those signs containing the planets,
will be situated exactly according to the state of those pla
nets, whether strong or weak. The houses, too, are also
considered, and such accidents are said to happen as the
nature of such houses must produce : the whole of this
doctrineis childish and visionary, as every year's experience
manifests. -
Doubtless eclipses have an effect, ..' those of
the Sun, and countries where the shadow is greatest feel it
the most : what those effects are, can be but little known
in the present infant state of astrology, though we may na
turally conclude them to be productive of vast changes in
the Earth, and atmosphere.
Eclipses are said to have powerful influence on those
individuals in whose radix they occupy the places of the
ascendant, or luminaries, or the square, or opposition. If
they occupy the places of the malefics, they renew and in
crease their original influence, whether it relate to trouble,
sickness, or death; and some say, they are the cause of
good, when they fall on the places of benefics, or in good
aspect to the luminaries; but it is not likely an eclipse,
happen when it will, can be productive of much good,
though the evil effects ascribed to them are very probable.
ELECTIONS. See Radical Elections.
ELEVATED. There are several opinions concerning
the meaning of one planet being elevated above another, as
laid down in the doctrine of Ptolemy: in his time, it was
no doubt a technical term, and well understood; but we
have at present no perfect clue to guide us to a certainty of
its real signification. Some suppose it to be when a planet
is nearer the cusp of the 10th, it being then more elevated
than another at a greater distance. Others conceive it to
mean, being in its apogee, or nearer to it than another pla
net, in which case it would be as it were higher above the
Earth, and so more elevated. Others think it relates to
its essential dignities, or accidental dignities, and some add
the whole of these advantages together, and recommend
them to be collected and compared, and that planet which
had most testimonies in its favour would be elevated above
the other. The opinion of Placidus, which seems the most
86 ELEVATION.
rational, is, that it merely relates to their strength in ()
geniture or figure: thus, a planet succeedent will be ele
wated above another that is cadent, and a planet angular
will be elevated above another that is succeedent; a planet
in the 10th will be elevated above all the rest; one in the
1st, above every other except those in the 10th; and one
in the 7th, above another in the 4th, &c. Elevation in one
planet depresses or destroys the effect of the other above
which it is elevated; an infortune elevated above the lumi
naries, denotes misfortunes, sickness, and death; and where
it is anareta, it causes a violent death; if it be elevated
above a benefic, that benefic cannot save; but if the benefic
be elevated above the malefic, it will moderate or destroy
its anaretic tendency; if the luminaries be elevated above
the malefics, it greatly lessens the injurious effects.
ELEVATION OF THE POLE, this term in its com
mon acceptation signifies the latitude of the country, be
cause as we advance from the equator north or south, those
poles ' elevated; and were we to reach the pole of
the Earth, the celestial pole would be elevated to our
zenith. The elevation of the pole at London is 51° 32'
north.
The poles of the celestial houses increase as they recede
from the mid and lowest heaven, which have no pole, unto
the horizon, the pole of which is always the latitude of the
country: thus, in our latitude of London, which is 51°
32', the pole of the 3d, 5th, 9th, and 11th, is 23° 27', be
cause they are all equidistant from the midheaven and
Imum Coeli, which have no pole. The 2d, 6th, 8th, and
12th, have likewise equal distance from the same angles,
and their pole is 40° 48'. The ascendant and descendant
are likewise at equal distances from the said angles, and
on the verge of the horizon; their pole is therefore that
of the country, 51° 32' : thus, all houses opposite to each
other, or that are equidistant from the north and south
angles, have the same pole, under which pole their oblique
ascension must be taken, and the oblique ascension or
descension of every planet, which is directed to the cusp
or opposition of any house, or of which the distance is re
quired from the cusp of any house, must be taken under
the pole of that house. To the 10th or 4th houses, which
have no pole, they are directed by right ascension. See
the Table:
ELEVATION. 83
Q CIRCLEs of PosITroNs of the 11th, 3d, 12th, and 2d
Houses, from 31° to 60° of Latitude.
|Ascend- || 11th & 3d #" Ascend- | 11th & 3d 1.T. & Ed
ant. Houses. | Houses. || ant. Houses. Houses.
| Degrees.|Deg, Min. Deg. Min. Degrees. Deg. Min. Deg. Min.
31 , || 11 25 || 21 58 46 19 28 35 9
32 | 11 52 22 47 || 47 20 7 || 36 8
33 || 12 19 || 23 35 48 20 49 37 8
34 12 48 24 24 49 21 33 || 38 IO
35 13 17 | 25 13 50 22 17 | 39 11
36 13 48 || 26 4 51 23 4 || 40 16
37 14 17 | 26 55 || 52 23 51 41 20
38 14 49 ##| 53 24 40 42 26
# 39 || 15 20 28 38 54 25 34 || 43 32
40 || 15 52 29 32 || 55 26 29 || 44 41
41 16 25 30 25 || 56 27 25 45 51
42 | 16 59 || 31 22 || 57 28 24 || 47 o
43 || 17 36 32 #| 58 29 26 || 48 13
44 || 18 13 33 13 || 59 || 30 30 49 26 :
45 18.50 || 34 11 || 60 ! 31 39 50 42
The pole of the 7th is of course the same as the 1st,
namely, the latitude of the place ofbirth. -
The pole of a planet or star to which another is directed,
must £ be ascertained; and the oblique ascension or
descension of every planet, directed to its body or opposi
tion, must be taken under the pole of the planet or star to
which it is directed. |--
The pole of a star is found as follows:
1st, Find its distance from either ofthe cusps between
which it is posited, by right or oblique ascension or de
sCenSIon. -
2d, Find the difference between the poles of the cusps
between which it is posited.
3d, As its double horary time is to the difference of the
two poles, so is its distance from the said cusp to the dif
ference between its pole and that of the said cusp.
Example: Suppose the latitude of the country to be 48,
right ascension of the midheaven 337° 48'; the ) in the 9th
house, with 2° 30' of N. lat.; her right ascension 328° 50';
the polar elevation of the cusp of the 9th, 21°; her double
horary time 26° 14'.
Right ascension of the midheaven, 337° 48'
Right ascension of the ) with 2° 30' N. lat., 328 50
The D’s distance from the cusp of the 10th, 8 58.
88 ELEVATION.
Pole of the cusp of the 9th (between which and the cusp of
the 10th the ) is posited), 21° 0'
Pole of the midheaven, 0 0
Difference between them, 21 0
As the Moon's double horary time, 26° 14', is to the dif
ference between the poles of the 9th and 10th, 21°; so is
her distance from the 10th, 8° 58', to her pole, 7°.
It will here be observed, that the pole of a house or
planet is generally taken in whole numbers, as the odd
minutes are of little consequence, and it renders the opera
tion of working with it more easy. Those, however, who
are inclined to be more exact, may include the odd minutes;
though I think it will be quite sufficient to work to the
half degree, by adding a .5 decimally: this would be nearer
than the method adopted by Placidus, who works with no
thing less than a degree, adding a degree if the fractional
minutes be more than 30, and rejecting them if less.
If the ) had been in the 8th house, her distance must
have been found from the cusp of the 9th, in like manner
by subtracting her oblique descension under the 'of the
9th, from the oblique descension of the 9th. Then, in the
same manner as before, as her double horary time, 26°
14, would have been to the difference of the poles of the
8th and 9th, so would her distance from the 9th have been
to her polar distance from the 9th, which, if we suppose
it, for example's sake, to have been 4°, would have been
4° more than the pole of the 9th, 21°, and, therefore,
when added to it, would have made the pole of the (25°.
Or it might have been done by taking the oblique de
scension of the Moon under the pole of the 8th house, and
subtracting the oblique descension of the 8th house from
it, which would have given the C’s distance from the 8th.
Then, as the Moon's double horary time would have
been to the difference of the poles of the 8th and 9th, so
would her distance from the 8th house have been to her
polar distance from the 8th; this subtracted from the pole
of the 8th would have made her pole the same 25°.
I shall give an example of the latter, as follows: Sup
ose in the same latitude 48°, the oblique descension of the
th house to be 35° 40', oblique descension of the Moon
with latitude taken under the pole of the horoscope (she
being in the 7th house, which has the same pole) 31° 25'.,
(or we may take the round-about way of Placidus, and
take the oblique ascension of the horoscope, 215° 40', and
the oblique ascension of the Moon with latitude under the
2
E M BO 89
pole of the horoscope, 211° 25', it comes all to the same
thing), the difference between the two will be 4° 15'.,
which is the X's distance from the cusp of the 7th. Sap
£ her double horary time to be 28° 0', and the difference
etween the poles of the 6th and 7th, 11°.
As the D's double horary time, 28°, is to the difference
of the poles of the 6th and 7th, 11°, so is her distance from
the 7th, 4° 15', to her polar distance from the 7th, 2°:
thus she has less pole by 2° than the 7th house, which is
that of the country, 48°; and therefore her difference of
pole, 2’, subtracted from 48° gives her true pole, 46°.
The polar distances, however, are not proportionate to
the houses, as will be seen by inspecting the table; for the
pole of the 11th is greater in progression than that of the
12th, which in its turn is greater in its progress than that
ofthe horoscope; in different latitudes it alters accordingly,
but in ours the pole of the 11th is 23° 27', and that of the
12th 40° 48', so that a star in its progress from the 10th to
the 9th would gain a pole of 23° 27', whereas in its further
progress to the cusp of the 8th, an equal distance in oblique
descension, it would gain but 17°21', amounting to 40°
48'; and in its further progress to the horizon it would gain
but 10° 44', making in all the pole of the country, 51°32'.
It is clear, therefore, the nearer we come to the horizon
the less does the polar distance increase; so that a star in
the midst of a house will have a greater polar elevation
than the half of the pole of such house; as, for instance,
the half of the pole of the 9th, 23° 27', would be 11° 43';
but the star would have gained above 12", by having passed
over that half of the house where the pole increases more
rapidly. It will be more correct, therefore, when a star
is near the middle of a house, to add nearly a degree to
that pole which is found for it, by the Rule of Proportion,
but if near the cusp, the difference will be but trifling.
ELONGATION, the greatest distance a planet can
appear to have from the Sun. It is a term chiefly applied
to Q and #, because when : acquires a distance of 28, and
Q of48 degrees, we perceive them return; so that they
never appearat any great distance from the Q, and these are
called their greatest elongation. Some authors, however,
among whom is the learned Mr. Sibly, give them (as Com
modore Trunnion would call it) a greater length of cable,
and talk as freely about the effects of their squares, trines,
and oppositions to the Q, as if they were superior planets;
although neither of them yet ever attained to a zodiacal sk.
EMBOLISMIC, intercalatory. In every year there
are 12 moons of 29 days and a half each, and 11 days over,
N -
90. - ENEMIES. -
*
and when these odd days amount to 30, they make an ad
ditional or Embolismic Lunation. Placidus calls every
lunation of 29 days and a half, an Embolismic Lunation;
for he says “the ) finisheth 12 Embolismic Lunations in
11 days less than a year.” From these Lunations the
progression or process is formed, as every lunation answers
to a year of the native’s life. See Progression.
EMERSION, a planet coming from under the Sun
beams so as to be seen. It is a term chiefly used in eclipses,
and occultations.
ENEMIES. We must here class enmity and friend
ship together, because they, according to Ptolemy, proceed
from the same places. These places of friendship and
enmity are the ascendant, with the places of the Sun, Moon,
and Part of Fortune; ifthese are all together, it is a token
of long and sincere friendship, provided none of them are
above 17° distant.
If they are in # or inconjunct with each other, it is a
proof of bitter und lasting enmity.
If in >|< or A, it shews a slight friendship.
If in D to each other, it causes slight enmities.
When the malefics transit any of these configurations,
friendships will cease for a time; and when they are past,
the friendships will be renewed.
When the benefics transit an evil configuration, the
enmity ceases; but when the transit is over, it will be
renewed. -
If the luminaries only are in good configuration with
each other, the natives’ attachment will be natural and in
voluntary, without any particular motive, except good
will, and as such they will be lasting. -
If the configuration be evil, the hatred will be equally
involuntary, and from natural aversion. The former class ,
are what we call agreeable characters, the latter, naturally
ill-conditioned and forbidding.
If the GB join either of these configurations, the at
tachment or aversion will originate in motives of gain.
If the luminaries are in good aspect with the ascendant,
friendship will arise from the mirth and good temper of the
native; but if the configuration be evil, he will have ene
mies through his own morose temper. -
All trivial and slight friendships and enmities arise from
the mutual position of these significators in two different
nativities when the natives meet, and these also produce
lasting friends and enemies. When they come to the same
points in each others genitures, friendship will take place,
ENEMIES. 91
w
but will last no longer than until they separate, and the
same of enmities.
B and / coming to each others places, in different na
tivites, cause an intimacy, by meeting in company, agri
cultural pursuits, or joint inheritance. •
b and 6 cause quarrels, fraud, and villainy. •
and Q cause friendship through the medium of kind
red, but it will not be lasting. •
B and # cause intimacy by conversation, partnership
in trade, scientific associations, &c.
2/ and 6 produce political enmity, quarrels arising
from honours ill bestowed, government enemies, &c.
2/ and Q cause intimacy with females, churchmen,
teachers, &c.
2 and # form attachments by means of literary or
scientific associations.
6 and Q cause those intimacies that arise from lust, in
temperance, debauchery, and all kind of dissipation.
d and # produce enmity by interests clashing together,
fraud, overeaching, rivalship in trade, science, &c.
Q and # cause friendship by learning, epistolary cor
"' &c. and sometimes enmity by female jealousy.
hen significators of good or evil apply to the lumi
naries from angles, the friendship or enmity will be more
open and increase; but if the significators are cadent, both
friendship and enmity will be more slight and secret.
The friendship or enmity ofservants, and its consequence,
is taken from the 12th house, its lord and the stars posited
there, or that have configuration with it, according as
they aspect the places of the luminaries, Part of Fortune,
or the ascendant.
According to others, the 7th house is the place of open
enemies, and the 12th house of secret enemies; and from
those a judgment must be formed.
Planets in the 7th, or in 9 to the luminaries from angles
or succeedents, are all open enemies.
Planets in the 12th, or in 9 to the lights from cadent
houses, are secret enemies.
Planets also in 9 to the lord of the ascendant are con
sidered to represent enemies. - - -
If the lord of the ascendant be in the 7th or 12th, or
either of their lords in the ascendant, there are many
enemieS. -
If the lord of the ascendant disposes of the significators
of enmity, or if he be more strong or angular than they,
he will overcome his enemies; but if they are stronger
92 EP I
than he, they will ruin him. This doctrine of lords of
houses is only fit for horary questions, and cannot imply
any such thing in nativities.
If stars, signifying enemies, are ardent, peregrine,
retrograde or combust, they are mean, rascally characters;
but if they are angular and well dignified, they are people
of some importance.
Infortunes in the 12th, or angular, shew many enemies,
Many planets in mutual reception shew many friends.
The luminaries, or the fortunes in the 11th, well fortified,
shew good friends, particularly when in A, k, or 6 with
the lord of the ascendant. The QS in the 3d, or 11th, false
friends. Fortunes in the 1st, 7th, 5th, 9th and 11th houses,
give many friends. |
If the lord of the 11th be stronger than the lord of the
7th, friends will be more powerful than enemies. The
lord of the ascendant, or 3d, in good aspect or reception,
shews the friendship of neighbours and kindred, and vice
versa. P or 6 peregrine in the 3d, or the £5 there, de
notes continual disputes with them.
All this may have its proper signification in horary ques
tions, but every thing relating to lords of houses, or the
11th or 3d houses, or 25, can have nothing to do with na
tivities: they are merely symbolical.
Much of the doctrine of Ptolemy on this head, if not
false, is very suspicious, and should not be received with
out being well confirmed by experience. No doubt, there
is a great similarity in nativities, and much friendship and
enmity is produced by the positions of the luminaries in
each, so far as they regard each other: hut I have no opi
nion of the conjunctions of the other planets with each
other being productive of the effects ascribed to them.
Whatever may be their influence in this way, repeated ex
perience will not fail to discover: but this arrangement
seems too methodical to be true.
ENNEATICAL, the ninth. Every ninth year of a per
son’s life, which being climacterical, is thought to bring
with it a change of fortune. It also signifies the ninth day
of a disease, when a change may be expected.
EPHEMERIS, a kind of almanac, containing the places
of the planets. White's is the best, as it shews the position
of every planet for every day at noon, with their respec
tive latitudes and declinations for every 7th day: it is in
dispensibly necessary in erecting a figure, to those who
cannot work by tables, and much easier to those who can.
EPICYCLE, a little circle (according to Ptolemy, who
Knew nothing about the Earth’s motion), in the centre of
E R. R. 93
which the deferent of a planet was said to be fixed and
carried about with its motion, and yet with its own motion
it carried the planet fixed to it round its own centre: all
but the G) had one of these, for as he was never retrograde,
he had no occasion for an epicycle to account for it.
EQUAL POWER. Beholding signs are signs of equal
power, because they have equal distances from tropical
signs, or equal declination.
EQUATION OF TIME. After any arc of direction
is found, it must be equated to time by adding the Sun's
right ascension to the arc.: their sum will be the right as
cension of that part of the zodiac which when the Sun
reaches (which will be seen on inspecting the ephemeris
for the year of birth) the direction is formed, and the time
must be equated, by allowing a year for every day he takes
in coming to that place; a month for every two hours, &c.
Example: Suppose the arc of direction of the zodiacal
A of 2/ to the ascendant be 40° 55'; the Q's right ascen
sion 1° 36'.
Arc of direction, . . . 40° 55'
Right ascension of the G), 1 36
Their sum is . . . 42 31, which is the right as
cension of 15° 0' of 8. -
On inspecting the ephemeris for the year of birth, which
was 1765, I find the Sun arrives at 15° 0' of Taurus in 44
days, 5 hours, and 20 minutes, from the time of birth, viz.
the 21st of March, 14h. 40m. p.m.: this is equal to 44 years
and 3 months nearly, wanting about 9 or 10 days : so that
the event would happen about the 11th or 12th of June, 1809.
Authors have various ways of equating directions: some
divide the are by the Sun’s mean motion for a year; others
by the motion he had at the time of birth; and some mea
sure it by degrees of the equator : but the most rational
way is that of Placidus, for when the Sun arrives at the
end of the arc, the direction must be finished, and the true
time he takes in doing this is the time required. See Mea
sure of Time. -
EQUATOR, an imaginary circle dividing the globe into
two equal parts north and south.
EQUATORIAL, of the equator.
EQUINOX, equal night, that time, or place in the
ecliptic where the days and nights are equal, which hap
ens twice a year: when the Sun enters Y and =.
EQUINOCTIAL SIGNS, op and a.
ERRATICS, or ERRATIC STARS, the wandering
94 EXALTATION.
stars, viz. the planets, so called in contradistinction to the
fixed stars, because the erratics are always wandering or
changing places.
ESSENTIAL DIGNITIES. See Dignities.
EUDEMON, the good demon, the 11th house, so called
because it is the source of as many good things as the
12th house is of evil.
EXALTATION, an essential dignity of 4 degrees.
The G) has his exaltation in Y, the D in 3, 5 in -a-, 2/
in gG, G in Vy, Q in 96, and # in 9.
Whence this supposed dignity had its origin is uncertain,
but it seems a part of the Arabian system. Almansor in
his aphorisms says, that b and the G) have their exalta
tions opposite, because one loves light and the other dark
ness; 2/ and 6 are opposite, because one is a lover of
justice and the other of misrule; and # and Q have op
posite places, because one loves learning and science, and
the other sensual pleasures, which are mutual enemies to
each other; this is silly enough, and the reasons assigned
by Ptolemy are equally so. The G), he says, is exalted in
TO, because he is then proceeding to the northward, the
days lengthen, and his heating power increases; but this
is equally true when he is in W5, 3:, X, &c. It may be
said, he has more power and north declination in Y, but
by the same rule he has still more in 8 and II, yet neither
of them is his exaltation : on the contrary he is peregrine
in both. The only reason why b has his exaltation in =
is because the Q has his in Aries, that they may be opposite
in dignity as in nature, and because Ptolemy made the
wonderful discovery that “where heat is increased cold is
"diminished, and where cold is increased heat is diminished.”
The X, he says, is exalted in 8, because when she forms
a 6 with the G) in Aries, she first appears in her increase
in 8, a sign of her triplicity: but where should her exalta
tion be when the 6 is not in Aries? 2/, he says, is the
cause of northern and fruitful winds, and therefore is
exalted in GE, because it is the most northern point of the
zodiac. Northern winds may be fruitful in Egypt, where
they cause the Nile to overflow; but had Ptolemy been an
European instead of an African, he would have found no
thing less fruitful than a north wind. 6, he says, is most
heating in W9, and therefore he has his exaltation in that
sign. The Egyptians dreaded the hot south winds, and
therefore gave Ó his exaltation in Capricorn, as being the
centre of mischief Q had hers in 96, because her nature
was moist; and in Pisces, says Ptolmey, the beginning of
ExALTATION. 95
a moist air is perceived: in England he would have found
the beginning of a very moist air in 1, which the Q enters
in November. #, being rather dry has his exaltation in
my, where, Ptolemy says, dryness first appears when
autumn commences: he seems to have thought the planets
created for the use of mone but the Egyptians.
The original meaning of the planets’ exaltations seems
to have been unknown in the time of Ptolemy, who in his
usual stile of dogmatical allegoric mystery, endeavoured to
account for them in his own way. Conjectures are almost
useless in such cases, but if I were to hazard one, it would
be this: that the G) was considered as commencing his
exaltation when he arrived at the equator in his progress
northward, and that this exaltation continued, increasing
and afterwards diminishing until he arrived again at the
ecliptic at the autumnal equinox, where he was considered
in his fall, which increased and diminished in the same
proportion until he again reached the vernal equinox.
The X was exalted in Taurus upon the same principle.
2 was exalted in CB, because there the rays of all the
planets are more direct and powerful in northern latitudes;
and as 2/ is the greater fortune, he was there enabled to
be more beneficial. As, no doubt, the term exaltation
implied some position that increased the power of good
planets and diminished that of evil ones, B was exalted
in 5-, because as he passed to the south his power of doing
evil was abated by his rays becoming more oblique, and
having less force; and 6, for the same reason, was exalted
in Capricorn, where his heat was diminished by his dis
tance. Having thus disposed of the superior and more
powerful planets, 3 was exalted in 19, because it is in A
to Taurus, the exaltation of the ), from whence # derives
his power chiefly, and although the 9 might not be there,
it was a very common notion, that the dignity of a planet
retained its nature although the owner was absent. Q,
being of the same nature as 24, was placed in Pisces, in
trine to CB, his exaltation, that she might be strengthened
by his assistance.
However this may have been, it is certain, that if power
may be deemed exaltation, all planets must be exalted
when they arrive at their northern nodes, and advance to
wards our zenith. The G) and } , therefore, and the two
fortunes, must be rendered more beneficial by such a posi
tion, and the infortunes more malignant.
The opinion of Ptolemy concerning exaltation, or house,
was not that a planet acquired strength from it, for he men
tions but two kinds of strength; that in the geniture and
96 FACE.
that in the world,—such as being oriental, angular, &c.
The effects arising from the essential dignities were con
sidered by him as merely productive of certain qualities of
the mind, which were evil when a planet was ill dignified,
and good when well dignified. A planet in its detriment,
fall, or peregrine, was thought to be equally powerful to do
evil, as when exalted or domiciliated, and infinitely more
injurious.
The Dragon's Head and Tail, too, have their exaltations
assigned them, the former in II, the latter in 1. Modern
astronomers have limited the exaltations of the planets to
certain degrees, and do not consider the G) in his exalta
tion until he arrives at 19° of Y; the D is exalted in 3° of
8; b in 21° of ~ ; / in 15° of G.; g in 28° of V}, Q.
in 27° of 36 ; # in 15 of ": and the Dragon’s Head and
Tail in 3° of II and 1. Ptolemy, however, assigns no
exaltations for the Moon's nodes, nor does he limit the
planets to any particular number of degrees.
In horary questions a planet in its exaltation denotes
success and prosperity to the person or thing of which it is
significator; the person whom it represents is in great es
teem, possessing influence, and will not easily be overcome;
and, particularly if it be angular, it denotes a person of
consequence and some property, very proud and assuming,
and one who thinks himself greater than he really is.
FACE, a planet is in its face when it is at the same dis
tance from the G) or ) as its house is from their houses, and
in the same succession of signs: thus, #, when one sign to
the west of the G), or one sign to the east of the ), is in his
face; because 9, his house, is one sign to the west of Q,
the house of the G); and II, his other house, one sign to
the east of go, the house of the Moon. So Q is in her
face two signs west of the G), and too signs east of the D;
Mars, three signs west of the Sun, or east of the Moon;
four signs, and b five signs: this is the doctrine of
tolemy, and apparently without any foundation; but mo
dern astrologers have improved upon this absurdity, and
invented a new set of faces, which they have inserted in
their tables of essential dignities. Every sign is divided
into three faces of 10° each, commencing at Y, and pro
ceeding thence in the order of the signs and planets.
The 1st face is the face of 6, and denotes, courage,
strength, and magnanimity.
The2d, to 20 of Y, is that of the G), denoting,grandeur,
£, fame, candour, generosity and true greatness of
$OUll.
FACE. - 97
The 3d, to 30° of Y, is the face of Q, signifying, effemi
nacy, mirth, wantonness and delight. -
he 4th, to 10 of 8, is that of #, the face of arts,
sciences, wit, oratory, mechanics, agriculture, and every
species of learning and knowledge.
The 5th face, to 20° of 8, belongs to the ), and denotes
ambition, authority, violence, and arbitrary sway.
The 6th, that of b,to 30° of 8, is the face of cruelty,
oppression, slavery, poverty, and wretchedness.
The 7th, that of 21, to 10° of II, is the face of arithmetic,
algebra, sculpture, cyphers, and hieroglyphies.
The 8th, to 20 of II, is that of 6, and denotes deep study,
labour, and perseverance, rewarded with grief, trouble, and
anxiety. -
The 9th, to 30° of II, is the face of the Q, and denotes,
boldness, contempt, insolence, brutality, idleness, forget
fulness, and ill-breeding.
The 10th, that of Q, to 10° of go, shews good sense, wit,
mirth, kindness, love, and cheerfulness.
The 11th, that of #, to 20 of ga, denotes wealth, honour,
preferment, fruitfulness, and great success in business.
The 12th is that of the ), and extends to 30° of ga, it
denotes success in law, arms, and travelling; much exer
tion, strength and power to overcome all opposition. -
The 13th is the face of b, to 10 of St., and denotes
violence, rage, cruelty, lust, tyranny, and wickedness.
The 14th, the face of 2/, extends to 20 of Q, and signi
fies esteem, friendship, public spirit, and conquest.
The 15th, that of 6', to 30° of St., denotes contention,
enmity, violence, murder, battle, and destruction. -
The 16th, that of the G), to 10° of mg, denotes wealth,
industry, and prosperity.
The 17th, extending to 20° of 19, the face of Q, shews
avarice, covetousness, and parsimony.
The 18th is that of #, and extends to 30° of my, it de
notes old age, infirmity, weakness, decay, and dissolution.
The 19th, that of the D, extending to 10° of ~~, denotes
justice, mercy, truth, kindness, and liberality.
The 20th, that of b, extends to 20° of ~, and signifies
gain, advantage, and success, with labour, vigilance, and
cunning. - •
The 21st, the face of M, to 30° of-a-, signifies lascivious
ness, luxury, licentiousness, dissipation, drunkenness, and
depravity.
he 22d, that of 6, to 10° of ml, denotes strife, violence,
robbery, and murder. O
98 - FACE.
The 23d, that of the G), to 20 of ml, denotes envy, deceit,
malice, discord, and detraction.
The 24th, that of Q, to 30 of ml, denotes adultery, for
nication, lewdness of every kind, flattery, and deceit.
The 25th, that of #, to 10° of 1, denotes intrepidity and
strength, openness, mirth, and festivity.
The 26th, that of the D, to 20° of 1, shews sorrow and
affliction, great distress of mind, suspicion, mistrust, and
WOe.
The 27th, the face of b, to 30° of 1, denotes obduracy,
tyranny, obstinacy, cruelty, and wickedness.
The 28th, the face of 21, to 10° of Vy, is that of benevo
lence, honesty, mirth, hospitality, and '
The 29th, that of 6, to 20 of V}, shews intemperate
lust, unbridled passions, disappointment, discontent, and
peevishness.
The 30th, that of the Q, to 30° of V}, denotes wisdom,
sound intellect, honour, sobriety, and integrity. -
The 31st, that of Q, to 10° of 3:, gives covetousness,
labour and vigilance, loss and disappointment.
The 32d, that of #, to 20° of 2:, denotes good nature,
mildness, modesty, and complacency.
The 33d, that of the ), to 30° of :, denotes discontent,
envy, anxiety, jealousy, and ingratitude.
The 34th, that of b, to 10° of # denotes temperance,
reflection, attention, reputation, and success in trade.
The 35th, that of 21, to 20° of 36, denotes austerity,
haughtiness, ambition, and vain glory.
The 36th, that of G, to 30° of X, denotes lust, profligacy,
and every kind of lewdness.
It is said, that in a nativity, the native's disposition will
strongly partake of the quality of that face which is upon
the cusp of the ascendant, subject, however, to the nature
of other aspects. It will also partake of the quality of
such faces as the lord of the ascendant, the D, or planets
aspecting the ascendant are in : this, so for as respects na
tivities, is extremely vain and ridiculous, but it might be
useful in horary qusetions to distinguish the dispositions of
the querent and quesited, were it reduced to any thing like
method; but when there are so many significators, all,
perhaps, in different and opposite faces, beside the different
signification of the signs, the planets in them, their various
aspects and strength, that the whole is become a complete
mass of confusion; every artist, therefore, should select
such £of it as may best suit his ownjudgment or fancy,
and be guided by no other; for as the science of horary
questions is purely symbolical, every one may use what
F. A M 90
symbols he thinks most proper and convenient, so as he
adheres to them uniformly, to avoid confusion and intricacy.
The faces here laid down are, I think, not the most pro
per on many accounts: they do not seem quite agreeable
to the nature of the signs and planets, and are too much in
extremes to suit the general bent of human nature.
The faces, as laid down by Ptolemy, are merely a species
of accidental dignity, but wholly as groundless as the others,
because they depend on the domal dignities of the planets,
which certainly do not exist.
A planet in its face, having no other dignity, denotes a
person of whom it is the significator (in a horary question)
to be but indifferently situated, and in danger, distress, and
anxiety; or, as Moxon says, like a man ready to be turned
out of doors, and who has much difficulty in supporting his
sinking credit: it can hardly be called a dignity, as it is the
next state to peregrine, or beggary and meanness. The
person so signified has much to do to live, and in genealo
gies it denotes a family quite decayed, and scarcely able to
support itself.
., FALL. A planet has its fall in the opposite sign to
that where he has his exaltation: thus, the G) has his fall
in =, the ) in m, b in Y, 2/ in V3, d. in gG, Q in mp, and
# in 96 ; the S2, to complete the absurdity, has its fall in
1, and the 93 in II: it is a debility of 4°.
In horary questions, a planet in its fall denotes a per
son unfortunate, despised, and degraded; mean, insolvent,
or helpless; and the thing signified by it is in a hopeless
state, except some good aspect by application, or some tran
lation of light, happen, which will retrieve it quite unex
pectedly.
FALSE ANGLE. See Directions.
FALSE ARC. See Directions.
FAMILIARITIES, called also Configurations, or as
pects, were but six in number, according to Ptolemy, viz.
the conjunction, marked 6 ; the sextile, marked sk; the
quintile or square, marked D ; the trine marked A: the
opposition, marked & ; and the antiscion or zodiacal
arallel : to these Kepler added eleven more, viz. the
igintile, marked Vig. ; the quindecile, marked Qdle.; the
semisextile, marked Ss.; the decile, or semiquintile, marked
Dec. ; the semiquadrate, octile, or sesquadrate, marked
Sq.; the quintile, marked Q.: the tredecile, or sesquiquintile,
marked Ta.; the sesquiquadrate, marked Sqq.; the biquin
tile, marked B. ; and the quincunx, or quadrasextile,
marked Qx.; of these Placidus only admits the quintile,
*
300 FAMILIARITIES.
sesquiquadrate, and biquintile; but he invented a method
of calculating them in the world as well as in the zodiac,
by which means they are supposed to operate at different
distances from each other from what they do in the zodiac,
being wholly measured by their semi-arcs, instead of
ecliptical degrees. ... If we add to these, his mundane
parallel, or equal distance from angles, which is certainly
wholly different from a zodiacal antiscion, the aspects ad
mitted by Placidus are ten in all. Many authors, however,
deny the conjunction to be an aspect, because the stars do
not behold each other, but their influence is on the Earth,
which they behold with a conjunct aspect. -
The d is when two or more planets are in the same sign
and degree.
The Sk, when in the same degree, but two signs distant.
The D, when three signs distant.
The A, when four signs distant.
The 9, when in the same degree of an opposite sign :
thus, the 4th degree of Aries is in >k to the 4th degree of
: and II, in [-] to the 4th of V3 and go, in A to the 4th
of 4 and Q, and in 9 to the 4th degree of ~~.
The antiscion or zodiacal parallel is when two stars
have the same or opposite declination: thus, a star in 4
degrees of Aries, without latitude, will have the same de
clination as a star in 26° of Pisces, without latitude, and
the same opposite declination as another in 26° of up ; but
when a star has latitude, its declination is proportionally
increased or diminished. (See Parallels). These are the
only aspects mentioned by Ptolemy; it is evident, there
fore, that the distance of the k is 60°, the D 90°, the A
120°, and the & 180°. -
Their distances in the world are wholly independent of
the measure in the zodiac, and depend on the length of
the semi-arcs of each planet. If the semi-arc be 90°, their
distance will be the same as in the zodiac, viz. 60° for the
>k, 90° for the D, &c.; but if the semi-arc be but 60°, the
>k will be but 40°, the D 60°, and the A 80°. The
mundane parallel is when two stars have equal distances
from any angle, no matter how great or how little.
The new aspects invented by Kepler are mostly produced
by subdividing the others.
The Vigintile is a zodiacal distance of 18°, the circle
being divided by 20.
i The Quindecile, a distance of 24°, is the circle divided
by 15. - - - - ,
FAMILHARITIES. 101
The Semisextile is a distance of 30°, or the k divided
by 2.
'rie Decile, a distance of 86°, is the circle divided by 10.
The Semiquadrate, of 45°, is the D divided by 2.
The Quintile, of 72°, is the circle divided by 5.
The Tredecile, of 108°, is a quintile and is or three
deciles.
The Sesquiquadrate, of 135°, is a square and half.
The Biquintile is two quintiles, or I44°.
The Quincunx, of 150°, is 5 signs distant.
Those arising from a division of the square were thought
by Kepler to be evil, and those arising from a division of
the A or >k by 5, were good; thus, the vigintile, being the
# of a quintile, is good; the quindecile, being # of the Z\, is
good; the semisextile, or half sextile, is good; the decile,
being half a quintile, is good; the quintile, being formed of
a sextile and # of a sextile, is good; the tredecile, being a
quintile and a half, is good; and the biquintile, or double
quintile, is good. Those, on the contrary, produced by a
subdivision of the D, were evil; but of these there are
but two, the semiquadrate or half square, and the sesqui
quadrate or a square and half, both of which were evil.
As Kepler entertained a very high opinion of the number
5, he supposes the quincunx or distance of 5 signs to be a
good aspect, because it is a A and # ofa >|<; but the ancient
opinion was, that a planet, being five signs distant from an
moderator or significator, was inconjunct, and had no effect
on it whatever : in many cases, therefore, this position is
deemed evil, as, when the luminaries are inconjunct with
21, or with the horoscope, &c. The semisextile was like
wise considered as an inconjunct position. How far their
effects correspond with the opinion of Kepler, repeated
trials and long practice alone can determine, but my opinion
of Kepler is, that he relied more upon the imaginary charm
of numbers, than upon the conviction arising from experi
ment. The square operates by its own position £,
through the planetary influences crossing each other at
right angles, and its effect is manifest in the state of the
tides when the luminaries are in this position; but that the
semiquadrate, or sesquiquadrate, should have any such
effect, merely because they contain parts of an aspect,
which at that time does not exist between them, and when
they form angles more resembling the trine or sextile than
the square, seems very unreasonable, and requires more
practical confirmation than, I believe, it has hitherto
102 FAMILIARITIES.
received. It seems strange, that Placidus should reject the
semiquadrate, when he acknowledged the sesquiquadrate, as
they are both equally distant from an inconjunct |'':
he thinks a luminary cannot operate as hyleg until it is the
semiquadrate or half the semidiurnal arc distant from the
horoscope, and this opinion seems highly rational, as its
rays become more direct than oblique; but the same objec
tion will apply to the place of the sesquiquadrate, for ifthe
hylegiacal influence commence in the middle of the 11th
house, it must cease in the middle of the 9th.
Familiarities are, as I have before observed, taken two
ways: 1st, in the zodiac; and 2d, in the world.
Zodiacal aspects are such as we have been just describ
ing, with their distance measured in the zodiac by signs
and degrees. -
Mundane, or worldly aspects, are formed from the dis
tance between the angles, and are longer or shorter as the
quarters are more or less unequally divided. Thus, if 8°
of Capricorn be on the cusp of the horoscope, and 14° of
on the cusp of the Imum Coeli, in this case, if / were on
the cusp of the Imum Coeli, he would be in mundane square
to the horoscope, although in a zodiacal trine. Again, if
the cusp of the 3d house were 17° of Y, and B there, he
would be in mundane sextile to the horoscope, although in
a zodiacal square. -
There are two kinds of approximation in familiarities:
partile and platic.
Partile, is when the familiarity falls in the same degree
and minute; as, if b were in 6° 4' of Y. he would be in
partile trine to 2/ in 6° 4' of 1.
Platic, is when the familiarity is within half the distance
of the orbs of both planets added together: thus, b in 16°
of Vy would be in platic A of Q in 25° of 8, because the
orb of b is 12°, and that of Q 8°, which added together
make 20°, the half of which is 10°, and they are only 9°
distant from a partile A. - - .."
Aspects are either dexter, or sinister, as they lie to the
right or left hand in the order of the signs: thus, Saturn
in Capricorn would cast a dexter square to Jupiter in Li- .
bra, who on his part would cast a sinister square to Saturn.
In this case the dexter aspect, or that which is contrary to
the order of the signs, operates with the greater force.
Conjunctions are good with good planets, and bad with
evil. A conjunction of Saturn and Mars is particularly
evil, and threatens the most serious consequences. A con
junction of Jupiter and Venus is equally good, and denotes
FIGURE. - 105
the most perfect and durable happiness. The conjunction
of Saturn and Jupiter, although the latter be a fortune, is
generally evil: it causes sickness and bad weather, and in
nativities is generally the sign of some great disaster. In
horary questions, where every planet is distinguished as a
significator, it is different: the person signified by 2 would
be much injured by b, and it would denote his disposition
to be cowardly, mean and suspicious, and himself very un
fortunate. But if p were significator, the presence of 2/
would denote good, and the disposition, though grave and
austere, would be noble-minded, just and respectable, and
the native tolerably fortunate. The 6 of Q is not so good:
she denotes treachery, and along train ofconsequent evils,
and if with 6, lewdness and infamy.
Antiscions, or parallels, are like conjunctions: good
with good planets, and evil with evil ones.
Trines are reckoned good, and sextiles the same, but in
an inferior degree.
Oppositions are considered evil, and squares the same,
but in an inferior degree. For the more particular effects
of the familiarities, see Horary Questions.
FEMININE. See Masculine.
FEMININE SIGNS, 3, g3, ng, m, W5, 36 ; they are
supposed to be weak and feminine on account of their ac
tive and passive qualities, coldness and moisture, and are
supposed to render those they govern the same.
ERAL, brutish, like a wild beast; such is said to be
the dispositions of those whose ascendant is Q, or the last
half of 1 ; or if the luminaries be in either of them and
the malefics in angles, it renders them fierce, cruel, and
brutish, the ) is also said to be feral, when she is void of
course, having separated from a planet, and applying to no
other while she is in that sign. There does not appear
to be any ground for such an opinion, but this will be best
decided by experience.
FIERY SIGNS, Y, Q, and 1.
FIERY TRIPLICITY, the triplicity formed by the
three fiery signs. w
FIGURE, a draught or scheme of the heavens at any
'' time, such as the time of a nativity, disease, revo
ution, ingress, horary question, &c. &c.
The circle of the heavens must be divided into 12 parts,
called houses, but authors differ much in opinion concerning
the method of dividing it. Ptolemy is understood by some
to have divided it by circles of position, drawn at equal dis
tances through the poles of the ecliptic, 30° from £ other,
which, if so, would place the 12 signs exactly in the twelve
104. FIGURE.
houses, with the same degree and minute on the cusp
of each, but I believe very few understand Ptolemy in
this way.
Alcabitius recommended those circles of position to be
drawn through the poles of the world, so as to intersect
the equator in the same manner as the others did the eclip
tic, at equal distances of 30° each, so that the ecliptical de
gree answering to every 30° of the equator (as the circle
passes through both) shall be on the cusp of each house.
Campanus divided the prime vertical circle into 12 parts
of 30° each, by the circles of position, and placed that de
gree of the ecliptic on the cusp of each house that the circle
of position passed through in the same manner.
Regiomontanus, in what is called the rational way, di
vided the ecliptic by the circles of position passing through
the equator, and dividing the ecliptic in that manner by every
30° of the equator; this, though far from deserving the
name of rational, comes nearer the truth than the others.
The true method of dividing the heavens is by oblique
ascension, and this was evidently the method recommended
by Ptolemy, and observed by Placidus: thus, supposing the
lobe so fixed as to have 0° 29 of go on the cusp of the
oroscope, in our latitude, 25' 0" of 2: will be found to
culminate, and of course must occupy the cusp of the mid
heaven, the right ascension of which is 327° 18'; add to
this, 30° 0', it will give the oblique ascension of the cusp
of the 11th, 357° 18', or about 26° of Pisces; again, add
30° more and it will give the oblique ascension of the 12th,
27° 18', or about 14 of Taurus; again, add 30°, and it
will give the oblique ascension of the horoscope, 57° 18'
or 0°29' of Cancer: this is the real method of Ptolemy,
whose aim was to mark the mundane distances of the stars
from the angles so as to distinguish which were angular,
succeedent, or cadent.
The first of these systems, falsely ascribed to Ptolemy,
is merely an equal division of the zodiac into 12 parts, and
cannot in any way relate to a figure of the heavens, as may
be decided by the globe in a minute, where, if 0°29' of
Cancer be brought to the eastern horizon, the sign Aqua
ries will be found in the midheaven; whereas, the pre
tended Ptolemaic division would place the cusps of the
houses as follows:
Cusp of the ascendant, 0°29' go, of the 10th, 0°29' Y,
of the 2d, 0 29 Q, 11th, 0 29 8,
3d, 0 29 mg, 12th, 0 29 II.
FIGURE. 105
The cusp of the 10th could not be the cusp of the mid
heaven, nor does the scheme appear calculated to answer
any purpose whatever.
The plan of Alcabitius is equally ridiculous, and would
stand as follows:
Cusp of the ascendant, 0°29' go, of the 10th, 0.29' Y,
2d, 28, 29 ga, 11th, 229 8,
3d, 28, 29 Q, 12th, 229 H.
Here the same objection holds good as before, that the
cusp of the 10th is not that of the midheaven.
The method of Campanus comes much nearer to the
truth, as the positions of the angles at least are correct.
-
*
Cusp of the ascendant, 0°29' go, of the 10th, 25° 0' x,
- - 2d, 28 0 go, I1th, 120 ×,
3d, 12 0 Q, 12th, 220 Y.
The modus rationalis of Regiomontanus is still more cor
rect, but with the exception of the angles, his houses will
seldom answer to the oblique ascension under their respec
tive poles.
Cusp of the ascendant, 0° 29 g, ofthe 10th, 25° 0' x,
- 2d, 21 25 ga, IIth, 2557 ×,
3d, 7 5 S\, 12th, 2022 8,
This system, although evidently erroneous, except in
its angles, is still adhered to by most artists; if, however,
they are correct in their oblique ascensions, the exactness
of the figure itself is but of little consequence.
By the Placidian method, which was undoubtedly that
of Ptolemy, the cusps will be as follows:
Cusp of the ascendant, 0°29' go, of the 10th, 25 0' x,
* 2d, 16 0 CE, 11th, 26 0 96,
3d, 4 0 SO, 12th, 14 0 8.
This is taken in whole numbers, which is quite near
enough for any purpose whatever, and will save the artist
much trouble in correcting the cusps of the houses to a
minute by oblique ascension : only the cusp of the 10th
need be perfectly correct, because when its right ascension
is known, the ascension or decension of every cusp in the
figure will, as before observed, be found by adding 30%
for each house, according to its distance.
106 FIGURE.
The most demonstrative way, is to erect the figure by a
globe: but for those who do not understand its use, the
usual method is to erect it by a table of houses.
(It would have been improper for me to have enhanced
the price of this work by adding a table of this kind to it,
'. some might possess already, and others not think
proper to use, # have, therefore, added it to the rest of
the tables in a separate volume. It is calculated for the
latitude of London, not according to the system of£
montanus, but by oblique ascension, according to the doc
trines of Ptolemy and Placidus.)
The first thing to be done, is to find the Sun's place at
noon on that day for which the figure is erected, which
may be found in an Ephemeris for the year (the best of
which is White’s). Thus, supposing a native to be born,
or a horary question to be a'on the 4th of April, 1794,
* 5 a w”" at 3 hours, 35 minutes, in the afternoon: I find, on in
-, * £the Ephemeris for that year, that the G) was on
that day at noon in 14° 55' 40" of Y, which may be called
15° of Aries, as it is nearer 15° than 14°. Enter that
table of houses which is marked over the top, ‘Sun in
Aries, and opposite 15 (in the column headed, 19), will
be found on the left, 0h. 55m. 14s, this was the Sun's right
ascension in time on that day at noon; add to this, the
time he had passed since noon when the birth took place,
namely, 3h. 55m., and it makes 4h. 50m. 14s., which is the
right ascension in time ofthe midheaven at the time ofbirth,
if the given time be exact. This must be sought for in the
table of houses (in the column headed, ‘time from noon’):
the nearest number to it, namely, 4h. 50m. 32s, will be
found opposite 14 of II, which must be placed accordingly
on the cusp of the 10th house. On the right hand will be
found (in the column headed, #. 21, which is 21° of Can
cer, and must be put on the cusp of the 11th house. To
the right of this, again, will be found (in the column
marked, #), 22, which is 22 of Leo, and must be placed
on the cusp of the 12th house. On the right of this willbe
found, in the same manner, 17° 46' of my, for the cusp of
the ascendant; 10° of >, for the cusp of the 2d, (for
although the column is marked 2 , yet, in looking down
it, = will be found to have succeeded ny), and 9° of ml,
for the cusp of the 3d; the cusps of these six houses being
found, the cusps of the other six follow of course, being
FIGURE. 107
the same degrees of the £ signs. Thus, the cusp
of the 4th is 14 of 1 ; of the 5th, 21° of Wy; the 6th, 229
of ~, the 7th, 17° 46' of 3%; the 8th, 10° of Y, and the
9th, 90° of 8. The 4h. 50m, 32s, should then be multi
plied by 15, which will give 72° 38' for the right ascen
sion of the midheaven in distance, and this should be writ
ten over the angle, as the data from whence the oblique
ascensions are to be taken. The oblique ascension of the
ascendant, 162° 38', formed by adding 90 to the right as
cension of the midheaven; the right ascension of the 4th,
252' 38, found by adding 180° to the said right ascension;
and the oblique descension of the 7th, found by addin
180° to the ob ' ascension of the horoscope, should al
be placed in like manner, over their respective angles,
when the figure will stand thus:
72° 38'
4th of April,
1794,
: :
3% .
3 hours, 55 minutes,
252° 38'
The cusp of these houses, with the exception of the an
gles, are not exactly the same as in the true figure, because
J there reduced them to exact minutes, to coincide with
108 FIGURE.
/4.
their obliquc ascensions, but this is all mere formality, and
wholly superfluous and useless. -
It is here necessary to observe, that although this is the
usual mode of erecting a figure, the right ascension of the
midheaven is not quite correct: it should be recollected,
that the Sun's place at noon on that day, was only in 149
55' 40” of Y, although we called it 15°, which makes an
error of4' 20", or about 16s. in the time of the right ascen
sion more than it really is. Again, the right ascension in
time of the midheaven was 4h.50m. 14s., whereas the nearest
sum we could find to it was 4h. 50m. 32s., making a second
error in time of 18s., or 4' 30" in distance, more: so that
the two errors make the right ascension of the south angle
about 8 or 9 more than it should be, which would, in a
direction to any of the angles, make a difference of about
two months in the time of the event.
I merely make this remark, to shew how correct every
operation ought to be, to be true; but, after all, this error
is too trifling to deserve notice, though where it is much
greater, it ought to be attended to. The whole is not much
above half a minute in time, and it is very probable, the
given time of birth may be wrong many minutes: few
watches, or even clocks, are right to 5 minutes, and it is
customary with most people to count their time by 5 mi
nutes, so that, if it had been from 53 to 57 minutes past
three, the time would have been called probably 55 minutes;
the clock, too, on this day, was nearly three minutes faster
than the Sun, which I have not taken into the account, so
that, allowing directions to angles to have an effect, the time
of their events must be very uncertain. The zodiacal as
£cannot be materially altered by such a mistake: it can
have no effect on any planet but the Moon, which moves
only at the rate of about a minute in two minutes of time,
whereas the ascendant in a sign of short ascension would
gain above a degree in the same space of time.
We must next consider the method of placing the planets
in the figure, and this ought to be done with the greatest
exactness. In the Ephemeris their places are calculated for
every day at noon, and to this the proportional distance they
have gone since that period must be added: thus, I find b
at noon in 41° 41' of 8, and on the next day at noon in
14° 48' of 8, which indicates his motion to be 7' in 24
hours. The birth was nearly 4 hours after noon, which is
one sixth of 24, and I therefore add one sixth of his course,
which is 1’, and place him in 14° 42 of 8. 2 only moves
half a minute in the time, which of course makes no dif:
FIGURE. 109
ference in his position, which is 3° 21' of go. The places
of the rest are found in the same way, and therefore it is
superfluous to calculate them here. Except the ), which
being the most difficult to place, on account of the rapidity
of her motion, I shall here calculate her position as an
example:
At noon, on the 4th, she is in 12° 0' of II, and at noon
on the 5th, in 25°28' of II, which shews her motion to have
been 13° 28 in 24 hours. I therefore say, by the Rule of
Three, “If 24h. give 808 minutes, what will one hour
give ’’’ it gives nearly 34, and therefore 4 hours will give
2° 16'; but the time of birth was only 3 hours, 55 minutes,
after noon, and therefore her course for 5 minutes must be
deducted from the 4 hours : if therefore, she moves 34 in
an hour, she will in 5 minutes move 3"; subtract this from
the 2° 16', and the remainder will be 2° 13', or rather 29
12, when we allow for casual fractions; add this to her
place at noon, 12° 0' of II, and her true place, at the esti
mate-time of birth will be in 14° 12 of DI. -
The next points are those of the Dragon’s Head and
Tail, in the top of the right hand page of the Ephemeris,
next to Saturn’s latitude, is the place of the Moon's node:
this is her north node, or what is called the Dragon’s Head,
and it is there calculated for every six days, which is quite
often enough, considering its value. On the Ist of April,
I find the Dragon’s Head at noon in 24° 28 of Sl; and on
the 7th, it is in 24° 9', for it always moves retrograde: in
6 days, therefore, it has changed its place 19', or about 3.
a day, and as the day of birth was 3 days after the 1st of
April, I deduct 9 for those 3 days, and its place will bein
24° 19 of Leo. The Tail is always opposite to the Head,
and of course in 24° 19 of :. -
We have yet the Part of Fortune to fix, which, accord
ing to the usual way, is done as follows: Add the ascend
ant to the Moon's place, and from their sum subtract the
Sun's place, the remainder is the place of€9.
Example :
The ascendant is in 17° 46' of p, or 5 signs, 17° 46'
The Moon's place in 14° 12 of II, or 2 14 12
Their sum S 158
The Sun's place is in 15° 5' of Y, or 0 15 5
Place of the Part of Fortune, 7 16 53,
which signifies 7 signs, 16° 53', or in 16° 53 of Ill; When
subtraction cannot be made, 12 signs must be added.
110 FIGURE.
Those who wish to place the Part of Fortune by the
method of Negusantius, will find ample directions under
the article, Part of Fortune.
The last operation is that of placing the Fixed Stars.
This can only be necessary when they are joined to the
luminaries, or to planets aspecting the ascendant or mid
heaven; or where they are within a few degrees of the
cusps of those angles. Most artists, however, insert them
when they are within 5° of the cusp ofany house, but this
is useless, for the houses in themselves have no effect, ex
cept in horary questions as symbols. I think, if they have
any real power (which some have disputed), they must ope
rate in a zodiacal parallel, and therefore their declination
ought to be attended to, when it agrees with those of the
luminaries. - --
In looking over the longitudes of the fixed stars, I find
Deneb about 18° of my, and accordingly place it near
the cusp of the horoscope, by writing, “ b£” Rigel.
is about 14° of II, culminating with the C, and there
fore I write the name close to her; Bellatrix must also be
inserted, as it is not 5 degrees from the Moon, being in
18° of Gemini; the GB is between the two Scales; b is
near Menkar, a star of his own nature; Markab is near
the cusp of the 7th, &c.; when all this is done, the figure is
complete in itself, but the latitudes and declinations of the
planets should be inserted at the bottom, for the purpose
of calculation. It is also customary to collect the princi
pal aspects in the centre of the figure, as for instance:
( ad k (), #, and Q, signifying that the C is applying
to the sk of the G), #, and Q. It is also usual to in
sert the planetary hour, but this is wholly useless and
unmeaning. -
A figure may be erected by ascensions, without having
recourse to a table of houses. Thus, if the Sun's place be
found, as before, in 15° of Aries, look at the table of the
Sun's right ascension in the Ephemeris, opposite 15° of Y,
where will be found 0h. 55m. 14s. ; to this must be added
the time from noon, Sh. 55m., making, as before, 4h. 50m.
I4s., for the right ascension of the midheaven, which,
in the same table of the Q's right ascension, will be found
nearly to agree with 14° of II, whose right ascension in
the Ephemeris is, 4h. 50m. 34s., which, by the bye, is more
correct by 2s. than that in the table of houses. Place,
therefore, f4° of Geminion the cusp of the midheaven, and
find its right ascension in degrees, which will be the same
as before, 72° 38', as the 2s, make only half a minute dif
ference. Add 30° to this right ascension and it will give
FIGURE. 1I]
the oblique ascension of the 11th house under its pole of
23° (for the poles of houses are generally taken in round
numbers, to save trouble), namely, 102° 38' : now, the
right ascension of 21° of Cancer is 112° 43', and its ascen
sional difference under the pole of 23° is 9°53, which,
subtracted from the right ascension (as its declination is
north), leaves the oblique ascension, 102° 50', which is near
enough, and consequently 21° of Cancer must be put on
the cusp of the 11th. Add 30° more, for the oblique as
cension of the 12th house, which will be 132° 38', and under
the pole of the 12th house, which is 41°, working as before,
it will be found to answer nearly to 22° of Leo. Add 30°
more for the oblique ascension of the ascendant, it will
give 162° 38', which in the tables of oblique ascension for
the latitude of London will answer to 17° 46' 9, for the
minutes of an angle should always be taken. Add 30°
more for the oblique ascension of the 2d house, which has
the same pole as the 12th, and under this pole it will be
found to agree with 10° of Libra, and 30° more being
added for the oblique ascension of the 3d house, which has
the same pole as the 11th, it will answer to 9° of m.
By this means a figure may be erected to any latitude b
ascensions, as for instance, had this birth been in the lati
tude of 32°, with the same longitude, the midheaven would
have been the same, and the right and oblique ascensions
the same; but the poles of the houses would have been
different: that of the 11th and 3d would have been 12°,
and that of the 12th and 2d, 23°, of course the oblique as
cension of 102° 38', when found by the pole of 12° instead
of 23°, would have placed 16° of Cancer on the cusp of
the 11th, and the oblique ascension of the 12th, 132° 38',
would, under the pole of 23°, place 17° of Leo on the cus
of the 12th, and the rest of the houses would bave been
altered in a similar proportion. When, in consequence of
those numerous additions of 30°, the ascensions should ex
ceed 360°, that sum must be subtracted, and the remainder
will be the oblique ascension.
Having finished the figure (see plate 3, fig. 1.), suppos
ing it to be a Nativity, we next proceed to Judgment,
# ascending, gives a tall, spare body, but compact and
well made, with darkish hair, a round face, rather ruddy,
and a small shrill voice; an ingenious active mind, inclined
to cunning, and well calculated for business of any kind,
The C is particularly fortunate, having no aspect what
ever either to b or Ó (both of whom are also cadent,) and
posited in the south angle almost on the cusp, in >k to G),
Q, and #, and joined to Rigel and Bellatrix, two eminent
112 FIGURE.
fixed stars. There can scarcely be a more fortunate posi
tion than this, except she had received also the A or k of
2/, but to him also she has no aspeet. Her condition de
notes the greatest good fortune, and immense riches, suc
cess in almost every undertaking, and a commanding influ
ence wherever he goes during life. She, however, ap
proaches within 3° of b's declination, which renders the
native rather nervous, fearful and peevish, and gives dis
orders in the head and stomach. Her k to #, endows
the native with tolerably good abilities, which would be
excellent, were it not for the condition of #, who is com
bust, and fills the native with a propensity to visionary
speculations and pursuits, and no great inclination for
learning, although it wonderfully qualifies him for busi
ness. It also renders him active, diligent, and enterpris
ing. As she has no aspect to 6, the native will be defi
cient in that kind of acute sharpness, which fits a man for
the world, and also in courage, more particularly as she
has at the same time an approach to the declination of b.
This declination, however, renders him more sedate, cau
tious, careful, and domestic. Her application to three
£ gives, it is said, a plurality of wives, and causes
im to form a number of attachments, several of which are
of little value, as both # and Q are combust, and the
former is retrograde.
The Q is in his exaltation, but of this I think nothing,
and also succeedent, of which I think as little. Ptolemy
says, when the satellites of the Q are angular (by which,
according to Placidus, he means those he aspects), it gives
great dignities, but here the C is the only planet with
whom he has any aspect, for I hardly think that the D of
2/, being so far from partile, is of any importance: the C
cannot well be more powerfully situated. The midheaven
contains a vast number of eminent fixed stars which are
certainly very propitious to a native, and the Lion’s Tail,
Deneb, occupies the cusp of the ascendant: all of these are
signs of fortune, friends, and riches, and serve in a great
degree to nullify the ill effects of #’s combustion. Indeed,
the ( angular with Rigel, is one of the most fortunate,
favourable, and commanding positions, that can be, and in
my opinion more favourable than even the 6 of Arista, as
there are more eminent fixed stars near it. -
B and 6 are both cadent. Some think it more propi
tious for all the planets to be angular, whether infortunes
or fortunes, but I should not choose an infortune to be an
gular: if they give advantages, they are more than over
balanced by their evil effects. -
FIGURE. 113
6 and # are both retrograde, which, according to
Placidus, is a mark of sickness. • *- -
2 and the D are both angular, although M is in his
fall : this weakens 2 considerably; not because of his
fall, but because of his extreme south declination render
ing his rays so oblique as scarcely to produce any effect,
except one of the luminaries had acquired a similar decli
nation. As to the power of b, I own, I cannot consider
it in the least diminished, although cadent. Constant ex
perience demonstrates, that the effects of both the lumi
naries are more evident when they are posited in the 9th
than when in the south angles, and £ not why that of
B should not be the same. Most of the aspects of the
superior planets are good: 2/ is in >k to 3 and in A to
There is, indeed, an evil 9 of 3 and b, which in
clines the native to quarrels, and subjects him to disap
£ but as they are not angular, those evils cannot
e very severe, or of long duration. , b is joined to the
Wale’s Jaw, Menkar, but it is said to be a star of his own
nature, and, as such, of little importance.
The 69 with 6 retrograde and cadent, would be supposed
by many, with Ptolemy and Placidus at their head, to be
a most direful omen of loss by thieves and swindlers, and,
in short, eventual ruin, and the most ' poverty,
especially as it has the 9 of b, but the whole of this doc
trine is absurdity and nonsense.
The D being angular, and the luminaries nearly free
from affliction, denotes a strength of constitution, and a
power in the D to resist an evil direction, and shews the
native to be tolerably healthy, with the trifling exceptions
above mentioned. * ,
We come now to calculate the directions for the good
and evil of the life of the native, and the time of accidents
according to the rules already laid down. (See the article
“Directions.”)
The first thing to be done is to rectify the figure according
to the rules laid down (see Rectification). This may easily
be done by bringing the X to the cusp of the 10th (as she is
but 12' distant, which makes not the difference of a minute
in time), and regulating the other cusps accordingly: the
horoscope would be then, 17° 54 of p. A speculum
must be likewise made, containing the declinations, lati
tudes, right and oblique ascensions, semi-arcs, poles,
ascensional differences, or any thing belonging to the
planets that the student thinks he may frequently have oc
casion to refer to (see “Speculum”), after which he will
have nothing to do but to calculate the directions.
Q w
114 FIGURE.
The first direction in this figure, supposing it to be taken
as it stands, without rectifying, would be the D to the cus
of the midheaven, but as this is but a few minutes, £
would happen before the infant was a year old, it is of no
importance.
The next direction is the O to the 6 of #, viz. when
the Q comes to 18°29' of Y".
Right ascension ofthe midheaven, 72°38'
Right ascension of 18° 29 of Y, 17 2
Right ascension ofthe aspect from
the midheaven, 55 36 Primary distance.
Right ascension of the midheaven, 72° 38'
Right ascension of the O, 13 53
*
Right distance of the G) from the midheaven, 58 45
As the Sun's semidiurnal arc, 97° 32', is to his right dis
tance from the midheaven, 58° 45', so is the semidiurnal
arc of the 6 (viz. 18° 29 of Aries), 99° 23, to the
secondary distance of the C, 59° 52'
Primary distance of the aspect, 55 36
Arc of direction, 4 16
To equate it to time, add the Q's right ascension, 13 53
It gives 18 9,
which look for in the tables of right ascension, and it will
be found to answer to 19° 41' of Aries, at which the Sun
will be found in the ephemeris to arrive in 4 days and about
16 hours, equal to 4 years, 8 months, about December, 1798.
The Q to the d of Q, it falls in 19° 12 of Y.
Right ascension ofthe midheaven, 72° 38'
Right ascension of 19° 12 of Y, 17 42
Right distance of 19°12' of Y, 54 56 Primary distance.
Right ascension ofthe midheaven 7238 .
Right ascension of the G), 13 53
Q's right ascension 5845
FIGURE. 115
As the S. D. A. of the Sun, 97° 32', is to his right dis
tance,58° 45', so is the S. D. A. of the 6,99° 46', to the
secondary, distance 609 6'
Subtract the primary distance, 54 56
Arc of direction, 5 10,
amounting, when equated, to about 5 years, 5 months, or
to September, 1799.
Auriga's left shoulder, Capella, to the midheaven.
Right ascension of Capella, 75° 18'
Right ascension of the midheaven, 72 38
Arc of direction, 2 40
. Orion's Foot, Rigel, to the midheaven.
Right ascension of Rigel, 76o 7
Right ascension of the midheaven, 72 38
Arc of direction, 3 29
Orion's right shoulder, Betelguese, to the midheaven.
Right ascension of Betelguese, 82° 36'
Right ascension of the midheaven, 72 38
Arc of direction, 9 58,
equal to about 11 years, all but a month, March, 1805.
All those directions happen during the youth of the na
tive, when their effects are said to be transferred to the
parents or guardians, who have the care of the native, pro
vided the fortune of the latter be affected by any change in
their circumstances. I have no opinion of the effects of
these stars being directed to the cusp of the midheaven:
in the present figure, they are in the midheaven already,
and their approach to its cusp is gradual, and cannot well
be productive of any sudden change in the life or affairs
of the native, though they may probably operate, as they
culminate by slow and almost indistinct progression. The
>k of the G) to the cusp of the 10th, gives only 6° 16' for an
arc of direction, so that the native could not be above 7
years old at the time.
The first aspect of importance is the k of Q to the
midheaven, which Placidus thinks is an aspect of much
consequence in improving the native's condition. It is
taken as follows: - -
116 FIGURE.
Right ascension of Q, 18° - 6'
Add # of the semidiurnal arc, 65 29
83 35
Subtract the right ascension ofthe midheaven, 72 36
Arc ofdirection, 10 50
This direction coincides with 12 years exactly, April,
1806.
Mundane >|< of £ to the midheaven.
Right ascension of #, 16° 0'
Add # of his S. D. A. 68 14
s: 14
Subtract the R. A. of the midheaven, 72 38
Arc of direction, 11 36,
answering to 12 years, and nearly 8 months, end of Decem
ber, 1806. - -
This direction could be of little benefit, as # is combust
and retrograde. -
The D to the zodiacal quintile of the G): it falls in 27°
5' of Gemini, where the Moon will have 4° 22' south lat.
Oblique ascension of 27° 5' of Gemini, under the Moon's
pole of 0° 29', with 4° 22' south lat. which she
will have there, 87° 6'
O. A. of the D under her pole, with her ori
ginal latitude, 73 17
Arc of direction, 13 49
Add the Q's right ascension for equation, 13 53
It gives the right ascension of 27 42,
which answers to 29° 48' of Y, at which the G) arrives in
5 days, and about an hour, equal to 15 years and about
a fortnight, in April, 1809.
The ) to the zodiacal quintile of #3 it falls in 0° 30'
of ga, where she will have 4° 12' south latitude.
O. A. of 0° 30' of Cancer, under the Moon's
pole, with 4° 12 south lat. - - 90° 43'
O. A. of the D as before, - 73 17
- Arc of direction, 17 26,
which when equated as before, answers to 3° 33' of 8, at
FIGURE. 117
which the G) arrives in 18 days, 21 hours, equal to 18years,
and nearly 11 months, about the end of February, 1813.
The) to the zodiacal quintile of Q: it falls in 1° 12 of
Cancer, where she will have 4 8' south latitude.
O. A. of 1° 12" of ga, with 4 8' south lat. 91°274
O. A. of the D as before, 73 17
- Arc of direction, 18 10,
answering to 19 years, 8 months, December, 1813.
These three quintiles are very different in their effects :
the first, of the G), is the most beneficial, as he is wholly
free from affliction, and it causes some remarkable change
in the affairs of the native, and generally raises him to dig
nity and happiness. The quintile of # is of little value,
as he is combust and retrograde, if the latter quality be an
evil, of which I often doubt. Q is also combust, and con
sequently cannot be of much service. -
The G) to the quintile of the midheaven.
To direct the Q to the £ we may as well first di
rect it to the # mentioned before.
Right ascension of the G), 13°53'
Add + of his semidiurnal arc, 65 I
78 54
Subtract the R. A. of the midheaven, 72 38
Arc of direction to the Sk, 6 I6
Add + of the Sun’s Sk for the quintile, 13 0
Arc of direction to the quintile, 19 16, answer
ing to 20 years, and nearly 11 months, about the end of
February, 1815. -
This is supposed by Placidus to be a very fortunate di
rection both for honours and riches.
The to the 3 ofy in the zodiac; it falls in 3° 21 of
Cancer, where she has 4° 2' south lat.
O. A. of the aspect under the X's pole, with her
latitude there, 93°24'
O. A. of the ) with her own latitude taken under
her pole, 73 17
Arc of direction, 20 7,
answering, when equated, to 21 years, 9 months, January,
1816.
118 i FIGURE.
It is generally supposed, that evil aspects with good
planets, or good aspects of evil planets, have no effect, as
the aspect and the planet, being of opposite tendency, com
pletely neutralise each other: this £ cannot be ra
tional, for when a planet receives the influence ofanother,
some effect must be produced, the nature of which is at pre
sent unknown, for want of proper investigation. I have
little doubt the 9 of 2/ is productive of slight evil of some
kind, though not so tremendous in its effects as if it pro
ceeded from B or 6.
The D to the mundane & of 2/.
R. A. of 2/ with latitude, 273° 39'
Add for the opposition, 180 0
453 39
Being more than the circle, subtract 360 0
- 93 39
Right ascension of the ), with latitude, 73 26
Arc of direction, 20 13,
equal to 21 years, 10 months, February, 1816.
The horoscope to the mundane D of M.
Oblique ascension of 2/ with latitude, 306° 5'
Seminocturnal arc of 2/, 122 26
183 39
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, 162 38
Arc of Direction, 2I I
We may as well, while we are at it, find his mundane
quintile and k to the horoscope, as follows:
Arc of direction to the D, 21° 1'
Add 3 of the seminocturnal arc of 2/, 40 38
Arc of direction to the Sk, 61 39
Subtract ; of the sextile, 16 19
Arc of direction to the quintile, 45 20
This is making short work of them, and serves as an ex
ample how easily one mundane aspect may be taken from
another. The D answers to 22 years, 8 months; the quin
tile to 47 years, 8 months; and the k to 63 years, 8 months:
the two last are said to be good, but I have not the same
FIGURE. 119
opinion of them as Placidus had. They answer to the
same month, December, in the years, 1816, 1841, and 1857.
The three following aspects are more likely to be de
pended on, though I cannot be certain as to their effects.
The horoscope to the zodiacal D of 2/.
Oblique ascension of 3° 21' of -a-, 184°45'
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, 162 38
Arc of direction, 22 7,
equal to 23 years, 10 months, February, 1818.
The horoscope to the zodiacal quintile of 2 : it falls of
course (by adding 18°, the difference between the D and
quintile), in 21° 21' of -a-.
Oblique ascension of 21° 21' of-a-, 210o 22'
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, I62 38
Arc of direction, 47 44,
equal to 50 years, and a few days, April, 1844.
The horoscope to the k of 2/.
Oblique ascension of 3° 21' of ml, 227o 33°
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, 162 38
Arc of direction, 64. 55,
equal to 66 years, 10 months, February, 1860.
These two last directions, if they operate, will be fa
Vourable.
It will be superfluous to direct the other planets to the
mundane aspects to the midheaven, as they may be easily
calulated. The following is an example:
The midheaven to the mundane >k of Q.
Right ascension of Q, 18° 6'.
Add + of her semidiurnal arc, 65 29
83 35
Right ascension of the midheaven, 72 38
Arc of direction, 10 57
Add + of her sextile, 13 6
Arc of direction to her quintile, 24 3
Add + of her semidiurnal arc to make the D, 1939
Arc of direction to the D, 43 42
120 FIGURE.
The mundane directions to the horoscope are made in
the same way, using oblique instead of right ascension:
The ( to the mundane parallel of 21, converse motion.
- R. A. of the (, 73° 26'
R. A. of the midheaven, 72 38
Distance of the (from the midheaven, 0 48, primary dis
tance. -
R. A. of 2/, 273° 39'
R. A. ofthe Imum Coeli, 252 38
Distance of 2 from the Imum Coeli, 21 1
As the seminocturnal arc of 2/, 122° 26', is to his dis
tance from the Imum Coeli, 21° 1', so is the semidiurnal
arc of the Moon, 113° 35', to her secondary distance from
the midheaven, 19°28'.
As one is from the ascending and the other from the de
scending side of the midheaven, add their primary and
secondary distances together.
Primary distance of the Moon from the midheaven, 0 48'
Secondary dist. of the Moon from the midheaven, 1928
Arc of direction, 20 16,
answering to 21 years, 11 months, March, 1816.
This is one of Placidus's good directions, but there is
little reason to suppose it has any efficacy.
The Moon to a parallel of the declination of 2/.
When the Moon comes to 8° 28 ofgä, she acquires 19°
26 of north declination, but this she never exceeds on this
occasion, owing to her great south latitude, which is 3° 46';
of course her declination falls short of that of 21 by 3° 36'.
O. A. of8° 28 ofgF, taken under the pole
of the D, with 3° 46, south latitude, 98° 49'
O. A. of the X under her pole, 73 17.
- Arc of direction, 25 32,
answering to 27 years, 6 months, October, 1821.
This, had it been complete, would have been an eminent
direction for health and prosperity, but it is weak in pro
portion to its deficiency. It helps to relieve the malignant
effects of the radical declination of b. Its good effects
FIGURE. 121
will endure until the native is turned of 40 years, after
which it manifestly declines until the D again falls back
upon the declination of b. ,
The D to the zodiacal A of 6 : it falls of course in
10° 16' of go, where she has 3° 48' south latitude.
O. A. of 10° 16' ofgä, under the D’s pole, -
with 3° 48' south latitude, 100° 40'
O. A. of the ), with her own latitude, 73 17
Arc of direction, 27 23,
equal to 29 years, and above 4 months, August, 1823.
This is said to cause military honours and preferment,
but, like all aspects of evil planets, it £leads to
£ and difficulties. As we are upon this subject, I
shall insert the A of 6 to the midheaven, which is said to
be a sure presage of military preferment and victory. But
d, being retrograde and cadent, would threaten defeat,
or, they say, damp the native's courage. -
Right ascension of 6, 218° 26'
# of his S. N. A. 71 25
289 51
Right ascension of the Imum Coeli, 252 38
Arc of direction, 37 13
This gives the k to the 4th house, which is the A to the
midheaven. It answers to 39 years, 6 months, Oct. 1833.
I have not much faith in this direction. -
The (to the mundane C of P, conversemotion.
Right ascension of the C with latitude, 73° 26'
Right ascension of b with latitude, 42 5]
- Arc of direction, 30 35,
equal to 32 years, and above 8 months, December, 1826.
This, according to Placidus, would be a fatal direction,
as the ( is hyleg: but I should in point of time first have
directed the Q to the Ó of b in mundo.
The O to the mundane C of B, direct motion. -
Oblique descension of b, under the pole of the Q, with
latitude, - 45° 52'
Oblique descension of the Q, under his own
pole, 18 13
Arc of direction, 27 39
It answers to 29 years, and8 months, December, 1823.
R.
122 FIGURE,
This direction would, according to Placidus, cause great
sickness or disgrace, though as the O is not hyleg, it would
not affectlife, unless united with some other fatal direction:
however, it is but a mundame direction.
The Q to the zodiacal 9 of d : it falls in 10° 16' of 8.
R. A. of the midheaven, 72° 38'
R. A. of the 8 of d, with contrary latitude, 38 26
Primary distance of 6 from the midheaven, 34 12
R. A. of the midheaven, 72 38
R.A. of the O, 13 53
Distance of the Q from the midheaven, 58 45
As the Sun's semidiurnal arc, 6h. 30m. is to his right
distance, 58° 45', so is the S. D. A. of the opposition of d,
7h.9m., to his secondary distance, 64o 37’
Primary distance, 34 12
Arc of direction, 30 252
answering to 32 years, 7 months, November, 1826.
This would be a dangerous time to the native through
sickness or some accident which would probably have a
lasting effect, as it is followed by the d of b. ery for
tunately it is not the (, or the consequence might be fatal.
Mars, however, has some north latitude, which would re
lieve the evil considerably, and, if the lunation that pre
cedes it be not evil, the danger is considerably lessened.
- The Q to the zodiacal d of b.
Right ascension of the midheaven, 72°38'
Right ascension of P, - 42 5]
Primary distance of b from the midheaven, 29 47
Right ascension of the midheaven, 72 38
Right ascension of the G), 13 53
Distance of the G) from the midheaven, 58 45
As the @'s semidiurnal arc, 97° 32', is to his right dis
tance, 58° 45', so is the semidiurnal arc of b, 108° 43', to
his secondary distance, 64° 23'
Primary distance, * 29 47
Arc of direction, 34 40,
amounting to 37 years, 9months, nearly, January, 1831.
FIGURE. 123
This is also an evil direction, and would be dangerous
were the G) hyleg. It threatens disease, loss, trouble, and
dissappointment, but the great south latitude of b will do
away much of the evil, though much depends, as before, on
the preceding lunation.
The D to the zodiacal D of the Q: it falls of course in
15° 6 of Cancer, where she shall will have 3° 20' south
latitude. -
Oblique ascension of 15° 6 of Cancer, under the D’s
pole, with her latitude there, 105° 49'
Oblique ascension of the ), under her pole,
with original latitude, 73 17
Arc of direction, 32 32
aswering to 34 years, and nearly 9 months, December, 1838.
This is a very evil and perilous direction, threatening
sickness and much danger; also loss of property or dis.
grace. The (, however, approaches the declination of
2/, which is some assistance, and being originally strong,
and the native young, it is not likely to be fatal : much,
however, depends on the preceding lunation.
The D to the zodiacal D of #: in 18° 29 of go, where
she has 3° 5', south latitude.
O. A. of 18° 29' of Cancer, under the Moon's
pole, as before, 109° 23'
O. A. of the Moon, 73 17
Arc of direction, 36 6,
equal to 38 years, and about 5 months, September, 1832.
* This also is an evil direction, and threatens much dis
order in the head and stomach. She still, however, hovers
near the declination of 2/, which affords some assistance,
but the native about this time would be very sickly and
unfortunate. -
The D of Q follows in about a year after, which, al
though not dangerous to health, in some degree prolongs
the troubles of the native.
The ( to the zodiacal A of the horoscope.
O. A. of 14° 12" of -, the A of the Moon, 200. 9
O. A. of the horoscope, 162 38
- Arc of direction, 37 31,
equal to 39 years, 10 months, February, 1834,
124. FIGURE.
The Moon to the mundane trine of the horoscope.
O. A. of the Moon under the pole of the horoscope with
latitude, 49' 51"
# of the Moon's semidiurnal arc, 15I 27
201 18
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, 162 38
Arc of direction, 38 40,
equal to 41 years, April, 1835.
These directions, if they take place, are good ones. Of
the mundaneAI have less opinion; the zodiacal A is more
likely to be depended on; but I am uncertain of the efficacy
of any direction of the horoscope, except to conjunctions.
These trines are said to denote good health and prosperity.
The Moon to the biquintile of 2/ in the zodiac: it falls in
9° 21' of Q, where she will have 1° 27' south latitude.
O. A. of 9° 21' of Sl (with latitude,) under the Moon's
pole, 131° 16'
O. A. of the Moon under her pole, with origi
nal latitude. 73 17
Arc of direction, 57 59,
equal to 60 years, 2 months, June, 1854.
This is a good direction, denoting recovery from sickness,
or good health and fortune. r
The Moon to the zodical DJ of g : in 10° 16 ofLeo,
where she will have 1° 22' south latitude. - -
O. A. of 10° 16' of Leo, under the Moon's pole, with
latitude, 132 12'
O. A. of the Moon, - 73 17
Arc of direction, 58 55,
equal to 57 years, April, 1851. -
This is a dangerous direction, as the Moon has no assist
ance from the benefics except the separating biquintile of
2/, and should it be preceded by an evil lunation, the con
sequences would be fatal. , - . . . . . " -
The Moon to the square of b in the zodiac: in 14°42'
of Leo, where she will have 12'3' south latitude.
O. A. of 14° 42 of Leo, 136° 44'
O.A. of the Moon, 73 17
Arc of Direction, 63 27,
equal to 61 years, 5 months, September, 1855.
FIGURE. 125
This is a more dangerous direction than the last, as the
Moon is hastening fast to the declimation of P. She is, in
deed, hastening to a A of the Q, which happens about 5
months after, but I am not certain, that the opinions of
those are correct, who assert, that the G) will operate as a
benefic from being joined to Q.
The D to the declination of b.
She meets the parallel of b's declination in 20°24' of
Leo, where she will have 0° 27', south latitude, and 14°
17’ north declination.
O. A. of 20 24 of Leo, under the )'s pole, 142° 34'
O. A. of the ), 73 17
Arc of direction, 73 18,
answering to 23° 43' of II, at which the Q arrives in 71
days, 1 hour, equal to about 71 years, viz. in April, 1865.
This is the terminus vitae, as the parallel of the declination
off immediately follows.
Those who choose to direct the Part of Fortune, must
# place it according to the rule of Negusantius, as
OIIoWS :
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, 162° 38'
O. A. of the Q, in the pole of the horoscope, 6 21
- 156. It
Right ascension of the ), 73 26
Right ascension of the ét, 229 43
Ascensional difference, 23 35
Oblique ascension, 206 8
The 69 to the mundane & of 6, direct motion.
As the horary time of the 69, 11° 4', is to its distance
from the imam coeli, 22°55', so is the horary time of d to his
secondary distance, 36° 58'. Subtract his primary dis
tance, 34 12min. from this, and it leaves the arc of direc
tion, 2deg. 46min.
The @ to the mundane 9 of b, direct motion.
As the horary time of the 69, 11deg. 4min., is to its dis
tance from the imum coeli, 22deg. 55min, so is the horary
time of b, 18deg. 7 min, to his secondary distance from
the midheaven, 35deg. Omin. Subtract from this his
primary distance, 29deg. 47min, it leaves the arc of direc
tion, 5deg. 13min. \ ... •
These are very evil directions to those who believe in
the efficacy of the 69, and as they happen in the youth of
126 FIGURE.
native they are supposed to injure him through the medium
of his parents, by destroying their property and reputation,
According to Negusantius, the Part of Fortune always
remains fixed in its horary circle, waiting for the coming
of the aspects, and, therefore, he thinks it cannot be di.
rected conversely: neither can it be directed zodiacally,
because it has nothing to do with the zodiac.
These are most of the principal directions, and from
these the student will easily perceive the method ofcalculat
ing the rest. One principal direction, however, I have
omitted, which is the ) to the zodiacal sesquiquadrate of .
G. : it falls in 25deg. 16min. of II, where the $ has 4deg.
28min, south latitude. -
O. A. of 25deg. 16min. of II, under the )’s pole, 84 49'
O. A. ofthe ), 73 17
Arc of direction, 11 32,
equal to 12 years, 6 months, Nov. 1806. It denotes some
accident by a blow, cut, stab, or fever, that may endanger
life.
The body of 3 to the horoscope may be calculated
zodiacally, as follows:
O. A. of d in the pole of the horoscope, 235° 34'
O. A. of the horoscope, 162 38
Arc of direction, 72 56,
which answers, within a few months, to the terminus vita,
and renders that event still more certain,
I have repeatedly reminded the reader, that the result
of these directions depends greatly on the nature of the
preceding quadrate lunations, and that their effects may
be considerably accelerated or retarded by a long succession
of these lunations, as the ) happens to be in 6, D, or 3,
to the Q, in the good or ''parts of the figure. It is
likewise probable, that the power of these lunations will
be greater or less in proportion to the proximity of the
Moon to her nodes, not from any power in the modes them
selves, but because the Moon in those places receives the
rays of the G) more powerfully. This is the foundation of
Ptolemy's doctrine of Eclipses, which he considered as hav
ing such eminent influence in the affairs of men and £in
alf places where they were seen, because at those places
the 6 and & is most partile, whereas in those parts of the
globe where the eclipse did not take place, the increased
latitude diminished the effects of the lunation. It should,
however, be observed, that Ptolemy is not sufficiently
explicit in this doctrine, for whether the eclipse be visible
FIGURE. 127
or not, its effects will be the same to those who live under
the same horary circle in which it is visible, for the inter
position of the # does not hinder the effect of the lumi
naries, as is evident in the flux and reflux of the tide,
which are as great when the luminaries are in their nadir
as when they are in their zenith. -
I am, however, fully persuaded, that the doctrine of
primary directions has many defects, which will require
much application and deep research to eradicate. I have
found them often fail; and as to mundane directions,
except to the angles, they can have no foundation in nature.
What Placidus could be about when he rejected the
zodiacal aspects in favour of the mundane I cannot imagine:
he soon found out his error, for he uses them abundantly
in his Primum Mobile. The parallel of declination is, in
my opinion, an unobjectionable aspect: I have always
found its effects coincide, and I would advise every student,
not to reject it without the clearest proof of its inefficacy.
The error relating to that unmeaning point, the 69, was, I
£i chiefly founded on the known and obvious effects
of the lunar declination, at least, this was the ground
: work of the doctrine of Negusantius, which Placidus
adopted. Those who peruse the Thirty Nativities of
Placidus, will not fail to perceive a strange and remarkable
coincidence in their fatal periods with the times of the de
clination of the luminaries. To these I shall add a more
modern example, of an event which must, in my opinion
at least, be wholly owing to an anaretic power operating
upon a lunar parallel of declination.
NATIVITY or HER Boy AL HIGHNEss THE PRINCEss
CHARLoTTE of WALEs AND SAXE CoBoURG.
(See the Frontispiece.)
The position of 21 in :, near the cusp of the horoscope,
and nearly conjoined with Q, is indicative of the best dis
position, and the purest mind; for with the exception of ~~,
there is no sign gives more perfection of body and mind
than 3:. The sk of # with 3, gives spirit and acute
ness, but as the aspect is good, the temper, though probably
hasty, is neither malignant nor irascible. The zodiacal,
parallel of the ( with D, denotes great irritability of
nerve, with a strong disposition to disease, and as the (
is hyleg, it also denotes the disease to have a tendency
towards premature dissolution : so close a parallel as this,
wanting only 8 minutes of a partile aspect, must have de
stroyed life shortly after the birth, had it not been for the
zodiacal parallel of Q concurring within 9 with that of b,
* * *
128 FIGURE.
but the position of the latter was northern and command
ing, which, from his nearer £ to our zenith,
rendered him more powerful than 2, she had, however,
weakened his power in every respect, for although the ra
dical ( was within orb of b's 8, she had the 3% of Q at
the same time, and also the additional 3% of 2/, who was
more angular than b, and only inferior from his southern
position. The native's life was therefore preserved for a
time, but there was no aspect sufficiently powerful to coun
teract the declination of b, whose malignity was wonder
fullyincreased by the presence of Aldebaran, nor indeed isit
£ that so close a parallel can ever be wholly neutra
£ : its effects are extreme nervous debility, affecting oc
casionally the whole frame, but mostly perceptible in the
head and stomach, and its diseases are grief, agitation,
lowness of spirits, a propensity to retirement and solitude,
and a system so reduced as to be unequal to support any
shock it may receive from asubsequent malevolent direction.
The ( is hyleg both according to Ptolemy and to rea
son (a distinction that should always be made), and, being
in the chief angle, becomes a very powerful significator of
life. In 21 years and about 10 months she comes nearly
to a parallel of the Q's declination in 6° 45' of Vy, where
she has 1° 5' of north latitude, and acquires about 22° 13'
of south declination : this is not the full declination of the
O, which is 22° 24', but owing to her north latitude, she
does not acquire more than 22° 13' or 14, before her de
clination begins to diminish. The calculation is as follows:
The semidiurnal arc of the ( is 638 12", which gives
21° 4 for the space of her house, or double horary time.
The polar elevation of the 11th house, for the latitude
of London, is 23° 27'.
R. A. of the Moon, 254o 22'
R. A. of the midheaven, 249 25
Distance of the Moon from the midheaven, 4 57
As the Moon's double horary time, 21° 43 is to the polar
difference of the 10th and 11th houses, 23° 27°, so is the
Moon's distance from the 10th, 4°57', to her pole, 6°.
The oblique ascension of 6 45' of Vy, under
the pole of6°, with 1°5' ofnorth latitude,
which the Moon has there, is 279° 46'
O. A. of the Moon under her pole of 6°, with her
radical latitude of 2° 50' north, is 256 34.
Arc of direction, 23 12
Add the Sun's right ascension, 288 22
31I 34
FIGURE. 129
This is the right ascension of 9°7' of:, at which the O
arrives in about 21 days, 20 hours, equal to 21 years, 10
months, the exact time of the native's death. This time is
too exact to be correct, for the luminaries always operate
in zodiacal parallel before the direction is complete, owing,
as ‘Placidus thinks, to the magnitude of their bodies, which
produces the effect before their centers have time to arrive
at the true point of declination, and of this he gives several
instances : but I have already observed, that the Moon in
this geniture never acquires the full declination of the O
within 9 or 10 minutes, which was near enough to produce
the fatal catastrophe, and had she kept on declining to the
southward, the native would have died at the same time
before the completion of the aspect.
The secondary direction is as follows:
Had the native lived 22 years, 22 days must have been
added to the nativity, but as it was only 21 years, 10
months, 4 hours must be deducted for the odd 2 months,
which will bring the time of the secondary direction to the
29th of January, 1796, at 5h. 26m. A. M. (for I have al
lowed 2 minutes for the few odd hours) when the places of
the planets were as follows:
2
| # "g b II | ?! ~ | 3 ml | Q & ! 3 × | 8 ~ | X =
| * , * , o , o , o a o a o / O a
Lon. | 7 12R 648R | 17 10 || 20 54 9 8 || 4 21 18 21 | 9 16
Lat . S. S. N. | S. S. AW.
(lt. 0 48 || 1 41 || 0 42 || 1 7 | | 1 30 || 1 55 || 5 7
|decin. N. S. S. AW. S. S. S. AV.
" | 9 36 i 1947 i 16 4 i 1543 1751 i il 25 i 1729 4
On the 6th of November, the time of death, the places of
the planets were as follows:
| # £ b : 24 f | 3 II | @ m | 3 = }_3 = | X =
'Lon o A. s * o **. e d o p o d o * o *
| Lon. 13 33 29 22 || 13 25 25 54 || 13 21 | 13 10 | 29 8 || 1 46
Lat M. S. N. N. N. M. AV.
ul. 0 1 || 1 45 O 23 || 0 54 1 42 || 1 45 || 3 49
Decl S. S. S. . . . N. S. S. S. N.
*" | 22 27 | 13 21 22 4 24 18 15 52 || 3 38 || 0 22 || 2 48
In the secondary direction there appears to be little
cause for the dire catastrophe which followed. The Moon,
indeed, was applying to the radical Square of Mercury,
and afterwards of the Sun, but she also applied to the
A of 2/, and was separating from the A of 9, within
S
130 FIGURE.
orb: this therefore could have no material effect, neither
does there appear on the day of death any fatal transit or
ingress, so '' we must refer to the lunations that more
immediately preceded it. The first of these was a full
moon on the 23d of October, in 1° 19 of Gemini, where she
had 21° 32' of N. declination, by which means she partook
of the radical declinations both of the O and B, for she
lay between them. . The Q also at the same time had the
radical declination both of b and the C, so that there was
a mutualand fatal interchange of declination between them.
The C formed her last quadrature with the Q, four days
before the day of death, when the Q was in 9° 39' of m,
very near the radical place of 6, and consequently a most
malignant position, and, what is particularly deserving of
attention, the Chad at that instant the same declination
exactly as she had at the full, viz.21° 30' north,still moving
between the radical declination ofthe G) and B, and being
at the same time within 12 13 of the radical D of 6, she
being in 9° 39' of S\,; and the Sun having at that moment
nearly the declination of 6 in the radix, viz. 14° 40'
south, and the declination of b on the day of death.
I have not an Ephemeris handy to calculate the Moon's
process, nor would it be worth the trouble, after such a
singular chain of circumstances as these, sufficiently pow
erful in themselves to render any £ive position, whe
ther good or bad, entirely unavailing:
The absurdity and fallacy of the doctrine of terms, may
be fully seen in this instance; for the Q and B in the ra
dix were both in the terms of # a cireumstance that would
have had much weight with Placidus; though it is of no
importance in the operations of nature.
t is worth observing, that both in the secondary direc
tion and the time ofdeath, the C was in = applying to a
of the anaretic place as well as of # and the O in the
radix; but I do not mention this as having had any parti
cular effect, but wherever there is anything like a striking
coincidence, it should always be noticed, as we thereby
are often enabled to make discoveries.
The hour of death was probably regulated wholly by
the mundane position of the Q, who generally causes an
important crisis when he is elongated # of his semi-arc
either beyond the north or south angles, namely, about 2.
in the morning or afternoon.
Why the G) should in the primary direction operate as
anareta by his parallel is not, perhaps, so easily explained,
and I confess I at one time suspected the Q not to be
anaretic, though Placidius is of a different opinion, and
FIGURE. 131
this nativity seems to confirm it. He, however, would lay
great stress upon the sign the Sun was in being the house
of b and exaltation of d, and that it in a great measure
derived its anareticqualityfrom these circumstances. These
retended causes have no foundation in nature, and if ever
the Sun operated as anareta, it was likely to do so in this
nativity, for with the exception of the declination of Q,
it had no kind of connexion with the fortunes in any way;
and even this was fully balanced by the zodiacal parallel
of b to the C, if what is observed by authors in general
be true, that the lights acquire the nature of those planets
they are in aspect with, theSun must have partaken wholly
of the nature of b and 6, for he was within orbs of the
zodiacal D of d and sesquiquadrate of b : but the Sun
£ operates upon the ( more by his own proper in
uence than from any secondary cause, and it is very pro
bable that his dry and heating nature may have a similar
effect to that of 6, when the C is principally hyleg, as she
undoubtedly is, when posited in the midheaven.
The marriage of Her Royal Highness took place on the
direction of 21 to the k of the midheaven.
Right ascension of 2/, 314° 52'
Subtract from this # of his semidiurnal arc, 44 8
-----> *
* 270 44
Right ascension of the midheaven, 249 25
t Arc of direction, 21 19
Add the Sun's right ascension, 288 22
309 41,
which is equal to the right ascension of 7° 16' of :, at
which the Sun arrives in 20 days from the time of birth,
answering to 20 years of the native’s life, viz. January,
1816. The marriage took place on the 2d of May, that
year, and had the given time of birth been given for only
a minute sooner, which is a very small difference, it would
have brought the time of direction 3 months later, which
shews how correctly the time of birth was taken, as a mi
nute of time either way may be lost or gained in the course
of calculation.
The sk of Q to the midheaven preceded that of 2/ about
2 years and a half, at which time probably she may have
had an offer of marriage, but the k of Q was too imper
fect in many respects to effect any thing; she had already
passsed the zodiacal # of the midheaven, and had separat
ed above her whole orb from the k of the (, so that she
I32 F I X
was deprived of the lunar testimony (which is of the ut
£ consequence in all cases) and she was more cadent
than )/.
2/ ' the contrary was in zodiacal Sk to the very cusp
almost of the midheaven, and had only separated from that
of the ( about 3 degrees, a very material circumstance,
for it is always observed, that promittors having a lunar
testimony, are always strong in directions (particularly if
the C be angular), whether good or evil.
Of all directions, I have been most divided in opinion
respecting those of the angles, because they are seldom
verified by their events. I, however, suspect this to be
owing to the incorrectness of time, for when we consider
that the midheaven will by a mistake of only 4 minutes dif:
fer a whole year in a direction, we need not wonder, con
sidering how inaccurately times of births are taken, that
directions to angles are so seldom correct to time. Those
of the horoscope differ still more widely, but where the
time, as in the present instance, is very correct, there can
be little doubt of their effect, it also shews that a promittor
should not be blindly depended upon, merely as such, but
its strength and fitness to cause events should be well
weighed and considered, and particularly its connexion with
the (. In cases of marriage, the youth of the party ought
to be considered, for in the foregoing directions, that of Q,
had she been stronger, was less likely to produce such an
event than that of M, because the native was not arrived
at such a degree of maturity. But she disposed the na
tive to agree with the k of M, so that the second direction
was in all respects the most fit to be depended on. The
exactness of the directions in this nativity shew the neces
sity of taking the most illustrious births as examples, when
they can be procured. Those who are in attendance on
those occasions are in no want of the means of being cor
rect as to the time, and this is every thing.
FIRST MOVER, the Primum Mobile, or Firmament.
FIXED SIGNS, Taurus, Leo, Scorpio, and Aquaries,
because the seasons, according to some, and the weather,
according to others, become more fixed when the Sun
enters those signs. The temper of those born under them
is said to be more fixed, and anything over which they
preside has more stability: thus, a tree planted, a house
built, or a city founded, when a fixed sign ascends, and the
luminaries are in fixed signs, will be more durable. Signifi
cators of events in fixed signs forward events more slowly
than when in a tropical or common sign, but render their
---
FIXED STARS. 133
effects more lasting: their effects, however, relate chiefly
to horary questions. -
FIXED STARS. All stars, except the planets, are
called fixed, because they appear to remain stationary, and
have no annual revolution round the Sun. They are said,
in astrology, to cast no rays: the meaning of which is, that
they do not operate on the planets by >k, D, A, or any
other way, except when in conjunction. In this position
they increase, diminish, or alter their influence, according
to their nature. Stars of the first magnitude are said to
have great power, those of the second magnitude less, and
they seldom operate beyond the fourth magnitude, except
when in a nebulous cluster, as the Pleiades, Praespe, &c.
They are more powerful in angles, and, like the planets,
very weak when cadent. They are also most powerful
with north latitude and declination, and very weak when
much to the southward. They are said not to be so inju
rious with a planet of their own nature, but will be produc
tive of good although the star and planet be evil, as if Ó
be with Aldebaran, a star of his own nature, he will cause
great good fortune to the native: this seems rather absurd.
When they are within 5° of the cusp of a cardinal house,
or body of a planet, their names should be inserted in
every figure, whether of a nativity or horary question, and,
to enable the student to find their places, I here subjoin a
table of the longitude and latitude of those that are most
remarkable among them, calculated to the year 1820. Their
laces, although they may not be exact to a minute, will
e fully sufficient for every astrological purpose.
- * I LoN- Mag.
NAMEs. #| GI- #: #| NA
#|rope. * * ***.
o / o /
South end of the Whale, 'Y' O 58|20 46 S. | 2 | B
Andromeda's Head, "Y|11 54|25.40 N. 2 2/Q
Whale’s Belly, T 15 31 ||25 0 S. 4 b
Andromeda's Girdle, Mirach Y|27 55 ||25 57 N. 2 Q
Ram’s following Horn, 8| 5 8 957 N. 2 P 6
Andromeda's left Foot, Al
mach, . . . . . . |8||1140|27 41 N. | 2 | Q
Whale’s Jaw, Menkar, 8||1147|1235 S. || 2 | B
Medusa's Head, Caput Algol 8|23 40 |22 24 N. 2 b2/
The Pleiades, 8|26 42 431 N. 5 || 6 (
Brightest of the Seven Stars, 8, 27 37| 4 2 N. 3 | d (
Bull's North Eye, Occulus
Taurus, . . . . II 5 58' 2.36 S. 3 Q
134 FIXED STARS.
a. LoN- Ma -
NAMEs. 3| gi- : #|NA
5|TUDE. . • |tude. TURE.
o / C /
Bull'sSouth Eye,Aldebaran, II 7 18, 529S. || 1 || 6
Orion's left Foot, Rigel, |I||14 18|31 7 S. || 1 || 2 b
Orion's left Shoulder, Bel
latrix, . . . . . . [II] 1826|1651 S. || 2 | d #
Auriga's left Shoulder, Ca
pella, . . . . . . . [II 19 20|2251 N. | 1 || #
Bull's North Horn, II 20 4 522 N. 2 #
1st in Orion's Belt, II 2144|2333 S. || 2 || 2/5
Highest in Orion's Head, II 21 20||1326 S. || 4 || 2/5
& in the Bull's Horn, II 22 17| 2 14 S. | 3 || 6
2d in Orion's Belt, II 22 48|24.38 S. || 2 || 2/5
Orion's Right Shoulder, Be- *
telguese, . . . . [II 26 14|16 3.S. || 1 | d #
Propus, - II 28 24 || 0 13 S. 4 6.
Auriga's Right Shoulder, II 28 54 |21 27 N. | 2 | d
|Bright Foot of Gemini, ga| 6 33 648 S. || 2 | # #
Sirius, gE 11 35|40 13 S. | 1 || 2/6
Castor, gE 1733|10 4 N. 1 & 2 b
Pollua, gö 20 46 640 N. 2 | 6
Little Dog, Procyon, gE 22 54|16 1S. || 1 || #d
The Crab's Claw, Praespe, SR 448 || 1 14 N. Neb & (
North Assellus, SR 432, 310 N. 4 || 3 G
South Assellus, Q 6 13 004 N. || 4 || 3 G)
Hydra's Heart, Alphard, Sl. 1930. 732 S. || 2 | b Q
Lion's Heart, Regulus, SR 27 20 027 N. | 1 || @ |
Windemiatrir. my 7 25|1015 S. || 3 ||b Q #
Lion's Back, up 8 43|1420 N. || 2 || b Q
Lion's Tail, Deneb, my|19 4|1221 N. || 2 ||b Q #
Crater, the Cup, my|21 of 330 S. || 4 | Q #
Arcturus in Boötes, =|21 43|3053 N. || 1 || 2/6
Virgin’s Spica, Arista, = 21 20 2 2S. | 1 || Q &
South Scale, m||12 35 022 N. | 2 || b Q
North Scale, ml. 1647 | 846 N. | 2 || 2/3
Left Hand of Ophiucus, ml|29 48|1719 N. | 3 || 3 b
Frons Scorpio, 1 o 41 || 1 2 N. || 2 || b Q
Left Knee of Ophiucus, 1 6 42||1130 N. || 3 || @ 2/
Scorpion's Heart, Antares, |1 || 7 16| 432 S. || 1 || #
Right Knee of Ophiucus, |1|15 28 7 18 N. 3 #3
Eagle, or Vulture, Attair, V$|29 14|1721 N. 2 || B :
Capricorn's Tail, 3:21 2. 233 S. | 3 || B
South Fish, Fomahaut, %| 1 19|21 6 S. || 1 | Q g
Wing of Pegasus, Markab, Bé|20 58|1924 N. 2 | d #
Scheat Pegasi, %|26 16| 1 7 N. 2 b
FIXED STARs. 135
From these longitudes and latitudes, their ascensions,
descensions, and declinations, may be found in the tables,
like those of the planets. The only difference between
them is, that the £, of the fixed stars are greater,
and beyond the reach of a table which only extends to 9°
of latitude north or south: but their proportions are the
same, and therefore the common difference of a degree of
latitude may be multiplied to any extent the latitude of the
star requires. Thus, the latitude of Caput Algol is 22°
24', north; longitude, 23° 40', of 8 : in the table of de
clination, north latitude, I find 23° 40' of 8 gives 18° 45'
north declination without latitude; I likewise find, that
every degree of north latitude gives about 58 more decli
nation; I therefore multiply 58' by 22, the number of its
degrees in north latitude ; it gives 21° 16', and the odd
24 of latitude gives 23 more, making, in all, 21° 39' of
declination, which, when added to the 18° 45', already
obtained, gives, on the whole, 40° 25' for the star's decli
nation north, which will be found correct within about 10
minutes, and sufficiently so to answer every purpose re
uired. -
q The right ascension and declination of most of these
stars are to be found in the Ephemeris with the annual
difference to each, which annual difference will regulate
their places for any number of years.
The latitude of a fixed star never differs much, but the
longitude increases at about 50" every year, so that their
longitude being once known, their places may be found for
any number of years, by allowing at the rate 504" increase,
for each. Some would insert a table for this purpose, but
it is so plain that it requires none. Those who wish to
find the longitude, latitude, or declination, more correctly,
may refer to the article, “Trigonometrical Calculations.”
Fixed stars are said to operate by position when they
are joined to a planet, or near the cusp of a house; and
by direction, when a planet or house comes to their places
by direction: in both cases their effects are the same. .
The Sun joined with Caput Algol, Aldebaran, Hercules,
Bellatrix, Regulus, Antares, or any eminent star of the
nature of Mars, threatens a violent death, or extreme
sickness. They are also said so endow the native with
riches, honour, and preferment, chiefly military, but the
whole will end in disgrace, poverty, and ruin. Caput
Algol, according to Ptolemy, when joined to the hyleg in
an angle, threatens beheading, and Placidus, in endeavour
ing to support this superstitious error, has made himself
somewhat ridiculous. Cardan was beheaded, and in his
136 FIXED STARS.
nativity he places Medusa's Head with the Moon on the
cusp of the seventh, which is 14° 39' of Gemini, whereas
it was not in his time arrived even at 23° of Taurus, and
there is 26° of Taurus on the cusp of the 6th, so that to
use his own words to Argol, “I know not how this could
be taken.” This was one of the silly whims of Ptolemy,
who supposed, that because Medusa had been beheaded
by Perseus, nobody's head could be safe whose prorogator
was near her: but to proceed. -
The Sun, joined to the Pleiades, Hyades, Castor
Pollux, Praespe, or the Asselli, is indicative of an evi
disposition, and danger of being a murderer, or of being
murdered, particularly when the Sun is with Praespe.
They threaten death by blows, stabs, shooting, beheading,
or shipwreck. Being near Argo, also, is said to denote
shipwreck: this is another foolish whim, because Argo
was a ship that carried the Argonauts. The Asseli denote
death by fire, fevers, hanging, beheading, or some violent
catastrophe, and frequently disgrace and utter ruin.
eneb gives riches, and honours, but they are but of short
duration and end in trouble and disgrace. The stars in
the Lion's Neck, Back and Wing, the south Scale, the
Knee and Right Leg of Ophiucus, the Goat's Back, and
the Left Shoulder and Right Arm ofAquaries, are all pro
ductive of trouble and disgrace. The Jaw of the Whale,
the Knee of Castor and Pollux, and the Little Bear, Cy
nosura, cause much sickness, trouble, loss of fortune, dis
grace, and great affliction. The Right Leg of Aquaries,
Orion's Belt, North Scale, Armpit of Sagittary, and the
Goat's South Horn, cause good fortune and lasting hap
piness. Arista gives the most eminent and permanent good
fortune, and ifshe culminate, unbounded honourand riches.
Rigel is nearly the same.
All eminent fixed stars, with the O in an angle, give
good fortune and success, but those of the nature of 6,
cause a violent death, or ultimate ruin, by the pride, folly,
or rashness of the native, and generally £ the good
they produce, and those of the nature of Saturn bring dis
grace, ruin, and great calamity. Caput Algol isreckoned the
worst of the whole, and if in an angle, or with the hyleg,
or if Ó be there, or elevated above the luminaries, when
Caput Algol is angular, it is said to denote a murderer who
will come to an untimely end. The bright star in the
Eagle, or Fomahaut, or the last star in Capricorn’s Back,
with the Q or d, are said to cause the native to be bitten
by venemous animals, but this, appears ridiculous. The
FIXED STARS. 137
Pleiades, or Praespe, with the Q, give bad eyes, and if in
an angle, blindness.
The ( with Caput Algol, Aldebaran, Pollux, or Bel
latrix, denotesa violent death. With thePleiades, Praespe,
Antares, or Deneb, blindness or injuries to the eyes. With
Orion’s Belt, blindness of one eye at least. When joined
to the Pleiades, and Saturn or d be joined to Regulus, it
generally causes total blindness, especially ifthe (, be com
bust. With Antares in 9 to Saturn with Aldebaran, a
violent death, generally by hanging. If d be with Alde
baran, the native will die by a stab, blow, or fall, particu
larly if the 9 be from angles. If with Hercules, or Arc
turus, with Mars, it threatens death by suffocation. With
Cor, Hydra, in 6, D, or 9 of 6, or b, death by drown
ing or poison, particularly if Mars be angular. With Si
rius and Saturn, or with Markab and Mars, death by wild
beasts or soldiers. With Orion's Belt and Saturn, or with
Caput Hercules, or Antares, danger of drowning or assas
sination. With Aldebaran or Antares in the first or 10th,
gives honour and preferment, with many dangers and
calamities. . -
If Aldebaran, Regulus, Hercules, Arista, Antares, or
the North Scale, culminate, they give great honour and
preferment. It is said to be nearly the same when they
ascend. Fomahaut, or Rigel, ascending or culminating,
give great and lasting honours. Orion’s Shoulder does
the same.
Those stars of the nature of 6, Q, #, or (, are said to
give great glory and renown when ascending or culminat
ing. Those of the nature of 21 and Venus, give much
honour and riches. Those of the nature of Saturn are
always evil. All fixed stars in angles are said to give ho
nours and preferment, if they be of the first magnitude, but
if they are of the nature of Mars it will be lost again, or
held with much danger and trouble, and ifof the nature of
Saturn, it will end in dreadful disgrace and ruin. Stars of
the 1st magnitude near the cusp of the 7th give, it is said,
a good rich wife. It may signify this in a horary question
of marriage, but no where else. If Mars be with the Plei
ades, and Saturn with Regulus, it denotes a violent death.
Eminent fixed stars, near the ecliptic, have great power
when the planets are with them.
It is common to consider the second house, or its lord, or
the GB and its lord, according to the stars they are with,
as significators of riches; , but this is wholly absurb and
unmeaning, at least in nativities, but in horary questions
1 should certainly conside,whether any fixed star of
138 FIXED STARS.
importance was near the cusp of the house to which the
question belonged, or to its lord, and judge accordingly.
In directions, the qualities of the fixed stars are sup
posed to operate in a similar way, according to their respec
tive natures.
The ascendant is supposed to operate on the body, the
10th on the fortune ''the native, and the luminaries on
both, according to the nature of the stars to which they
are directed.
The Pleiades, Hyades, Praespe, Castor, Pollux, and the
Asselli, are remarkable, when directed to the ascendant
or luminaries, for causing blindness or bad eyes, hurts in
the face, sickness, wounds, stabs, disgrace, imprisonment,
and every evil that can befal humanity. The Asselli cause
violent fevers. -
Aldebaran, Regulus, Frons Scorpio, Antares, both the
Shoulders of Orion and Deneb, give riches and preferment,
but attended with danger, violence, trouble and siekness;
and the benefits they confer are seldom lasting.
The Whale's Jaw, Cynosura, and the Twins, give
sometimes, it is said, legacies and inheritances, but such
as are attended with much evil.
The stars in the Lion, the Right Side of Aquaries, the
last in Capricorn's Back, Deneb, and the Left Arm and
Shoulder of Aquaries, are all reckoned unfortunate.
Arista, Rigel, and the North Scale, are very fortunate,
and give lasting honours, riches and happiness. Some
think Rigel unfortunate, because Ptolemy says he is of the
nature of b and 2/, but others affirm him to be of the
nature of 2/ and 6.
The midheaven to the Nebulous Stars, Praespe, the
Pleiades, Shoulders of Orion, the Hyades, and the Twins,
is said to be the cause of disgrace and ruin, and often a
violent death; and the Asselli, Caput Hercules, Markab,
Auriga's Right Shoulder, and Medusa's Head, are the
Same.
. The Sun directed to Praespe, threatens the native with
murder; to the Pleiades, death by pestilential disease;
and to all the nebulous clusters, &: and Pollux,
threatens blindness, dreadful diseases, quarrels, murders,
rapes, &c. both committed by, and on the native, violent
fevers, decapitation, banishment and wretchedness. To the
Asselli, threatens the native with burning alive, violent
fevers, hanging, beheading, &c. To Aldebaran, Regulus,
Deneb, Antares, Betelguese, Bellatrix, and Frons Scorpio,
honours and preferment, which will end in ultimate ruin;
disease, putrid fevers, and all hot distempers. To Arista,
FIXED STARS. 139
reat and lasting preferment, especially if they culminate
in the radix. Also Rigel, Orion’s Belt, the North Scale,
Goat's South Horn, and Armpit of Sagittary, give great
good fortune. To the Jaw of the Whale, Cynosura, and
the Twins, much evil. The stars in the Lion, the South
Scale, Knee and Right Leg of Ophiucus, Goat's Back,
Left Shoulder and Right Arm of Aquaries, cause sickness,
disgrace, ruin, and every evil. To Capella, martial
honours and wealth. To Markab, Occulus Taurus, and
the Right Foot of Gemini, great martial honour, but
danger of losing them again.
he ( directed to the Pleiades, Hyades, Praespe, or the
Twins, brings disgrace, sickness, troubles, blindness, or
hurts in the eyes. To the Asselli, inflammatory fevers,
pains in the head, and blindness. To Markab, Bull's Nort
Eye, or the Right Foot of Gemini, good health, honour,and
riches. To Orion’s Belt, North Scale, Sagittary’s Armpit,
Goat's South Horn, and Right Leg of Aquaries, great and
new friends, love of respectable women, and valuable
ifts. To Aldebaran, Regulus, Frons Scorpio, Antares,
ellatrix or Betelguese, great power, honour, and wealth.
To Deneb, honour among the vulgar, but ultimate dis
grace and ruin. To the Whale’s Jaw, Knees of Castor
and Pollux, Belly of the Twins, or Cynosura, causes hatred
of the vulgar, ill will of some women, danger by thieves,
and many evils. To the Back, Neck, or Wing of the Lion,
South Scale, Right Leg of Ophiucus, Deneb, Goat's
Back, or the Left Shoulder and Right Arm of Aquaries,
ruin and disgrace, and diseases in the parts of the body sig
nified by the signs in which those stars are posited. A
direction to Capella is reckoned good for preferment,
but the native generally ruins himself by his vices and con
nections with infamous women; and is also in danger of
losing his life by blows or stabs.
For further particulars respecting the Fixed Stars, see
the article “Promittor.” .
When any planet comes to a fixed star of its own na
ture, however evil both may be, it generally denotes some
present good, and if to a star of an opposite quality, the
reverse; though this is an opinion that should be received
with great caution, as indeed should all the foregoing doc
trine of the fixed stars. For my own part, I can see no
reason why they should not operate by aspect like the
planets, if the planets really do operate by certain aspects,
for with the exception of the luminaries, I have often
doubted the effects of some of them to the extent generally
imagined: indeed, the zodiacal parallel seems the chief
140 FORM OF THE BODY.
aspect that can be relied on, and the d or & apparentl
derive their greatest force from the parallel of the star's
declination, from which, at such times, they cannot be very
far distant. I would, therefore, advise that the zodiacal pa
rallel of all the fixed stars be taken both in nativities and
directions of nativities, and would recommend the student
to pay strict attention to them. In horary questions they
may doubtless be made equally symbolical with the planets,
but this is entirely at the option of the professor, who
should always have a clear and distinct notion of what he
is about, and suffer nothing to interfere in one part of his
system, that may cause confusion in another.
I have only to repeat, thatwhatever is said here respecting
fixed stars should be received with great caution, as it con
tains some absurdity mixed up with much truth, which can
only be elicited by practice and observation.
FOMAHAUT, a star of the 1st magnitude, in the Mouth
ofthe South Fish, in the 2d degree of 96, ofthe nature of Q
and #. Some say it is moderately beneficial, but others
say it threatens bites of venemous creatures when joined to
6 : this is ridiculous, for it is too far south to be joined to
any planet, or to do much evil or good in our hemisphere.
FORM OF THE BODY, this, according to Ptolemy,
proceeds from the ascendant, its lord, the £ posited
there, the Sun and Moon, and the Moon's aspects. I have,
however, no opinion of any judgment taken from the lord
of the ascendant in nativities.
If the sign ascending, or those where the luminaries are
posited, belong to the spring quarter, viz. Aries, Taurus,
Gemini, the native will be of a sanguine complexion and
good stature, abounding with heat and moisture. If those
signs belong to the summer quarter, viz. Cancer, Leo,
Virgo, they make the body strong, vigorous, healthy, and
welf proportioned, but indifferent complexion, and a con
stitution abounding with heat and dryness. If the signs
be autumnal, viz. fibra, Scorpio, Sagittary, the constitu
tion is inclined to be cold and dry, weak and sickly, and
the body slender and lean. Winter signs, viz. Capricorn,
Aquaries, Pisces, give a cold moist constitution, dark
complexion, moderate stature but square and strong make,
and tolerably healthy.
There certainly is a contradiction between this and other
doctrines of Ptolemy, where every sign is supposed to
communicate its own nature, whether hot and dry, cold and
moist, &c. : neither is it agreeable to reason, that signs
can have a wintry effect in summer, merely because they
contain the Sun in winter,
FORM OF THE BODY. 141
I have no doubt, in my own mind, that every sign has a
distinct influence of its own, which it impresses both on the
body and mind, at all times, when it ascends in a nativity.
(See “Signs.”) No doubt, the position of the luminaries,
their aspects, and the planets that possess, or aspect the
the ascendant, are productive ofsensible changes, but upon
the whole, the sign ascending will mark the disposition.
For the blemishes and diseases of the body, see “Diseases”
and “Life and Health.” -
The (, also, is said to make the constitution more moist,
from the change to her first dichotome; from thence to the
full, she makes it hot, from the full to her second dicho
tome she causes dryness, and from thence to the conjunc
tion, cold.
There is also an opinion (whether correct or not re
peated trial alone can determine), that planets aspecting
the ascendant, impress certain qualities upon the body and
mind according to the nature of the signs in which they
are posited. The rule is, to take that planet which is
strongest and in most partile aspect to the horoscope, and
judge from it as follows:
The Effects of Saturn.
b in Y, gives a ruddy complexion, large bones, but
square body, full face, little beard, dark hair, and deep
voice; a boasting, conceited, empty character, very quarrel
some and ill-natured.
in 8, causes a dark complexiom and hair, rough skin,
a middle stature; very uncomely person, awkward, dull
and heavy; of a rugged, uneven, vicious, sordid disposi
tion; one who is very mean and unfortunate.
in II, makes the complexion dark, though sanguine;
the body tall and well proportioned; the face oval and the
hair dark brown or black; the mind ingenious, but crafty
and perverse and selfish, and mostly unfortunate.
in gG, makes the body weak, infirm and crooked, or
ill made; a thin pale face, sad brown hair, languid eyes,
that seem dull and heavy; a morose disposition, envious,
jealous and vicious. • •
B in Q, produces a moderately large size, with broad
round shoulders, wide chest, large bones and muscles,
rather lean; bending forward, hollow eyed, light brown
hair, and surly aspect; tolerably good in disposition, not
very courageous, apparently of a noble, generous temper,
but prone to anger and revenge. -
142 FORM OF THE BODY.
b in 19, the native is tall and thin; swarthy, with dark
brown or black hair, and much of it; long face, grave
countenance; inclined to melancholy, and to retain malice;
very studious, reserved and subtle; often engaged in use
less speculations, very indirect in his dealings, and often
given to pilfering.
b in -e-, tall and rather handsome, but not beautiful;
brown hair, oval face with a tolerably clear complexion,
large forehead and nose; fond of expence and prodigality,
and entertaining notions above his sphere in life; inclined
to controversy, and tolerably well qualified for argument.
b in 'i middling stature, square, short and thick,
strong, well set body, broad shoulders, with black or dark
hair; very evil disposed, quarrelsome, violent, and devoted
to mischief.
: in 1, good size, well proportioned, brown hair,
with a tolerably good complexion; honest and upright; a
good friend and merciful enemy; very obliging though not
courteous; rather choleric but not vicious; profuse in
promises through excess of good nature. -
b in W9, rather short than otherwise, lean and raw
boned; sallow complexion, long face and little eyes,
£ of a middle stature every way, dark brown or
lack hair and rough coarse skin; very bad gait, melan
choly, peevish, covetous, and discontented with every
thing; very fearful, grave, silent, and apt to bear malice;
fond of the Earth and all its productions.
b in :, large stature, big head and face, corpulent;
clear complexion, dark brown hair; sober and grave in
deportment, affable, graceful, and courteous; possessing
much ingenuity and research, and often becomes a good
proficient in arts and sciences. |
b in 36, middle stature, pale, with dark hair, large
head and eyes, and ill-placed or rotten teeth, and generally.
very ugly; one who is full of contention, malice and deceit,
and always active to do evil; not loquacious, but rather
deliberative, fickle minded and treacherous, though often
with a good outside. It is said the disposition mends as
the native grows older. Saturn always gives bad teeth.
The Effects of Jupiter.
2 in Y, givesa middle sized body, but lean; light brown
or flaxen hair, ruddy complexion, quick piercing eyes,
oval face, high nose, and often pimples in the face; of a
free, generous, obliging disposition, with becoming pride,
but courteous and polite.
FoRM of THE Body. 143
*
7/ in Taurus, middle stature, well set, stout, but not
handsome, strong and compact; swarthy complexion, with
brown rugged hair, inclined to curl or rather frizzle; of a
tolerably good disposition and sound judgment; well be
haved in general, good natured and humane, but very fond
of women. -
Jupiter in Gemini, a decent made compact body, rather
tall, sanguine, but dusky complexion, brown hair, full
handsome eyes; very affable, gentle, mild, and obliging;
one who is learned, but often addicted to women : but if
Tl be near some of the violent fixed stars in Gemini, the
native will be rash, unstable, and very disagreeable.
Jupiter in gå, gives middle stature, fleshy body but dis
proportioned, with a pale, unwholesome, sickly complex
ion, dark brown hair, and oval face; a busy, loquacious,
conceited character; fond of women; much attached to
the water, and very fortunate thereon. The native will
have but very little courage, except & cast a good aspect
to Jupiter, - -
Jupiter in Sl, makes the native strong, tall, and well
made, with light brown or yellowish curling hair, full eyes,
ruddy countenance, and rather comely; a noble minded
courageous person, ambitious, warlike, and very enter
prizing. -
2 in Virgo, gives a full sized person, well made and
handsome, with brown or blackish hair, ruddy but not fair;
of a choleric and ambitious turn, and given to boasting;
obstinate and rash, yet covetous, and often studious.
2 in -e-, makes the native tall and handsome, slender
and upright, with an oval face, light brown hair, full eye
and fair complexion, but sometimes pimpled; the temper
is mild and winning, extremely obliging, and much re
spected ; they are generally fond of amusement.
2 in Scorpio, makes the body compact and stout, middle
sized and fleshy, full face, dull complexion and dark hair;
a lofty, ambitious, resolute character, eager to grasp at
power, subtle, ill-matured, covetous, and selfish.
Jupiter in 1, gives a fine, tall, upright, well made body,
ruddy countenance, fine eye, oval face, chesnut hair, and
thick beard; of a courteous, affable disposition, graceful,
just, humane, and highly accomplished; they are said to
e fond of horses. -
in V}, gives a mean stature, small and weakly, little
head and thin beard, which is generally lighter than the
hair, brown hair and pale countenance; they are generally
harmless, peevish, helpless, indolent, weak and poor, and
mostly unfortunate.
144 FORM OF THE BODY."
Jupiter in :, gives a middle stature, but compact and
corpulent, fair complexion, and brown hair; of a cheer
ful, affable temper, very obliging and kind, humane and
attentive; laborious and not extravagant.
2/ in 36, causes a middling stature, full fleshy body, ,
dark complexion, but light brown hair; one who is studi
ous, and possesses abilities; friendly, kind and inoffensive;
they are said to be fortunate on water, if the ( be not in
Oi Y.
E;*gives good teeth, but it is said, that in a watery
sign in D or 9 of #, the native will have an impediment
in his speech.
The Effects of Mars.
d in Y, causes a middle stature, well set body, large
bones, swarthy complexion, with light or red curling hair.
If d be occidental, the native will be more ruddy and
smooth, but if oriental, tall and less swarthy, and more
manly and courageous; in either case, he is bold, cholerie,
proud and confident; ambitious, warlike, and often gains
preferment. -
6 in Taurus, makes the native rather short, but corpu
lent and compact, brown or black rugged hair, broad face,
wide mouth, sometimes ruddy butnever fair, and frequently
there is a mark in the face; of a vicious, profligate dispo
sition, debauched, ill-natured, and unfortunate; a game
ster, drunkard, and whoremaster. If d be posited near
the Pleiades, it is extremely unfortunate.
d; in Gemini, gives a tall person, well made, sanguine
complexion, black or dark brown hair, but if Ó be in the
beginning of the sign, it will be light brown; of a very un
settled, restless disposition, ingenious but unfortunate, and
one who generally lives by his wits in a mean dishonestway.
in gG, gives a short, ill made and generally crooked
body, with thick brown hair; the disposition is dull, sot
tish, mean, servile, and unfortunate.
6 in Leo, gives a large, tall, strong body, stout limbs,
great eyes, a sunburnt complexion; the hair is generally
flaxen; the temper is choleric and violent, but the mind
is generous and free, and the native is much attached to all
violent pursuits, as war, riding, hunting, shooting, &c.
6 in my, makes a middle sized well proportioned body,
with dark brown or black hair, and swarthy complexion,
and generally, it is said, with a scar or blemish in the face;
the temper is angry and spiteful, revengeful and impla
FORM OF THE BODY. 145
*
eable; one who is pleased with nothing, very conceited, and
unfortunate.
Mars in E, gives a well proportioned, tall body, oval
face, sanguine complexion, and light brown hair; the dis
position is brisk and cheerful, but fond of boasting, and
very conceited; one who is fond of dress, and much at
tached to women, by whom he is equally beloved, and
often ruined.
Mars in m, gives a well set middling stature, but cor
pulent, with a broad face, swarthy complexion, and black
curled hair; the temperisunsociable, quarrelsome, revenge
ful, ungrateful, and wholly wicked, yet the genius is good,
and generally capable of what he undertakes.
Mars in 1 , gives a tall, compact, well made body, oval
face, brown hair, and sanguine complexion, with a very
quick eye; the disposition is jovial, chearful, and active,
yet high-minded, choleric and hasty, very courageous, fond
of talking, and ambitious of praise, but by no means a bad
character.
Mars in W9, gives a small, thin stature, lean body, thin
face, little head, black lank hair, and bad complexion, but
one who is witty, penetrating, and successful in most un
dertakings.
Mars in 3:, makes a body well set, and rather tall and
corpulent, (though others say, it is but middle sized), fair
complexion, and sandy hair; the disposition is turbulent,
and fond of controversy, and the native seldom fortunate.
Mars in 36, gives a mean, short, fleshy body, with a bad
complexion, and generally ugly; the mind is dull and
stupid, (though others say, sly and artful), deceitful, idle,
and worthless, sottish, debauched, and much addicted to
lustful depravities.
Mars is the giver of courage and resolution, which if he
be weak is always defective. If he be in D, &, or 6, of
b, the disposition is extremely evil, especially if in an
angle, and some say he is rendered more evil by being with
the 28. In airy signs the disposition is best, in watery
signs more dull and stupid, in earthy signs more sullen and
evil conditioned, and in fiery signs more choleric, and in
these the native is observed to havea falling in of the cheeks.
The Effects of the Sun.
Q in Y, givesa good stature, strong and well made, with
a good, but not fair complexion; the hair is yellow, or
flaxen, the native is very courageous, and famous for
victory. |
U
I 16 FORM OF THE BODY.
Q in 8, makes the native short and well set, but rather
ugly, dark complexion, wide mouth, broad face, and large
nose; one who is strong, bold, proud, fond of opposition,
and often victorious.
G) in Gemini, gives a well proportioned, tall body, san
guine complexion and brown hair; of a good, affable,
kind disposition, but not very fortunate, being too meek
to resist the imposition of others. -
Q in Cancer, gives a mean, ill made body, with an un
healthy countenance, and deformed face; the disposition
is harmless and cheerful, but indolent, and much addicted
to women, dancing, and other amusements.
Q in SR, gives a strong, well made body, light brown
or yellow hair, sanguine '' with large eyes, a
full face, and sometimes a mark or scar in it; very honour
able and upright in all their dealings, but ambitious and
fond of dissipation.
Q in Virgo, makes the body tall and slender, but well
proportioned, with much brown hair, and a good com
plexion ; the mind is ingenious, chearful and agreeable,
but too fond of recreations and conviviality.
Sun in Libra, gives a straight, tall, upright body, full
eyes, light hair, and pimples in the face; the disposition is
good, but the native is unfortunate, especially in war, and
in all ambitious pursuits. -
Sun in mL, gives a square, fleshy body, broad face, cloudy,
sunburnt complexion and brown hair; the native is inge
nious, but ambitious and overbearing, of a rugged temper,
and very disagreeable; they are said to be fortunate as
sailors or surgeons.
Sun in Sagittary, gives a tall, well proportioned body,
a comely person, oval face, sanguine complexion, light
brown hair; disposition lofty, proud and austere, bold and
calculated for great undertakings.
Sun in Capricorn, gives a mean stature, and not
well made, eval face, pale, sickly complexion, and lank
brown hair; the native is just and upright in principle,
and generally good natured, though sometimes hasty, and
too fond of women.
Sun in Aquaries, gives a middle stature, corpulent but
well made, round full face, light brown hair, and fair com
plexion. The native is proud, vain and ambitious, but
with these exceptions, tolerably good, and wholly free from
malice or treachery.
Q in Pisces, gives a short fleshy body, round face, and
good complexion, with light brown or flaxen hair; one
w
FORM OF THE BODY. 147
who isharmlessto others, butruininghimself bygaming, in
temperance, and debauchery, prodigality and extravagance.
The Effects of Venus.
Q in Y, gives a middle stature, but slender, light hair,
good complexion, with a mark, or scar in the face; one
who is pensive, and unfortunate, both to himselfand others.
in 8, gives a comely person, though the stature is
mean, the body is fleshy, but well made, a ruddy but not
clear complexion, and brown hair; the temper is mild,
kind and humane; the native is much respected and
generally fortunate.
in II, gives a tall, slender, well made person, rather
fair, with brown hair; one who is loving, affectionate,
just, humane, and charitable.
Q in gG, gives a short, thick body, round face, sickly
complexion, and light hair; one who is slothful, fond of
low pleasure, and very fickle minded.
Q in SR, gives a body tall and well made, clear com
plexion, round face, full eye, light flaxen or red hair, and
freckled face; soon angry and soon pleased, but sociable
and good tempered, with much decent pride, generosity and
kindness; one who is often indisposed, but not seriously.
Q in Q, gives a tall, well proportioned body, dark
complexion, with sad brown or dark hair, and oval face;
one who is eloquent, ingenious, active and subtle, but
generally unfortunate.
in =, gives a tall, upright, elegant person, oval face,
and rather beautiful, sanguine complexion, often freckled,
brown hair, and beautiful dimples; one who is kind,
affectionate, and generally beloved.
in m, gives a stout, corpulent, well set body, broad
face, sad brown hair, and dusky complexion; an envious,
contentious and debauched character.
Q in 1, rather tall and well made, fair, sanguine com
plexion, oval face and brown hair; one who is rather
proud, and passionate, but generous and noble, kind, and
for the most part inoffensive; generally fortunate.
Q in W5, gives a mean, short stature, pale, thin, sickly
visage, dark or black hair; the disposition is not very good,
too much addicted to pleasure and fond of women; the
native is generally unfortunate, apt to meet with sudden
and strange catastrophes in his affairs, and often change
his station in life.
in :, gives a person handsome, rather corpulent but
well made, fair, with light brown or flaxen hair; the
148 FORM OF THE BODY.
temper excellent, kind, affable, quiet, humane and courteous
to all; fortunate and much admired.
- # in 36, gives a middle size, but rather plump and
fleshy; moderate good complexion, round face, brown
hair, sometimes flaxen, with a dimple in the chin; one
who is good humoured, just and kind, mild and peaceable,
though rather changeable, and pretty fortunate.
The Effects of Mercury.
t; in Y, # a thin, mean stature, oval face, light
brown curley hair, and no clear complexion; an ill-disposed
person, addicted to theft, and other kinds of villainy.
t; in 8, gives a middle stature, corpulent, but well set;
swarthy sunburnt complexion, short, thick brown hair; a
£, idle glutton, and one who ruins himself by women.
# in II, gives a person tall, upright, and well made,
with brown hair and good complexion; an ingenious person,
and frequently an orator, lawyer, or bookseller; one who
is always awake to his own interest, and generally an over
match for the most cunning knave.
# in gG, gives a short squab figure, bad complexion, sad
brown hair, thin face, sharp nose, and small eyes; a
dishonest, ill-natured, deceitful wretch, and one who is
generally given to drinking.
g in Q, gives a large body, swarthy complexion, light
brown hair, round face, full eye, and high nose; one who
is hasty and proud, a boasting, ambitious, troublesome
character.
# in Q, makes the body tall, slender and well pro
ortioned; bad complexion, dark brown or black hair,
£ face, and austere look; one who is witty, ingenious
and profound, and, if # be free from affliction, capable of
any undertaking that ''' capacity.
# in G, £ a tall handsome person, but not thin;
smooth light brown hair, sanguine complexion; a just and
virtuous character, addicted to learning, and every way
accomplished.
# in m, gives a mean stature, but well set and broad
shouldered, swarthy ' brown curling hair, and
ill made; one who is subtle and careful of his own interest,
fond of company and women, but not on the whole dis
agreeable.
t; in 1, tall and well shaped, but rather spare and
large boned; large nose, brown hair, oval face and ruddy;
hasty tempered, but soon reeonciled; rash, yet well dis
posed, but not very fortunate. * * * * * *
FORM OF THE BODY. 149
$ in V}, £ a mean figure, bow legged, thin face,
often crooked; dusky complexion and brown hair; one
who is helpless, sickly, and dejected, peevish and un
fortunate.
# in c, gives a middling size, rather fleshy, full face,
clear complexion, and brown hair; an ingenious, witty,
kind, humane character, possessing great invention.
# in 36, gives a short squab figure, though others say,
rather thin ; pale, sickly face, but hairy body; alvays
repining and peevish, yet addicted to women and drinking,
and very foppish and effeminate.
The Effects of the Moon.
( in Aries, gives a middle stature, but rather plump;
round face, light brown or flaxen hair, tolerably good com
plexion; the mind rash, changeable, ambitious, and seldom
fortunate.
( in 8, gives a strong, corpulent, well set person, of
the middle size, or rather short; bad complexion, brown
or black hair; one who is gentle in manners, sober and
kind, generally respectable and fortunate.
( in Gemini, makes the native tall and well formed,
very comely and upright; brown hair and good complexion;
one who is subtle, crafty and ingenious, not very well dis
posed, and generally unfortunate.
( in Cancer, gives a middle sized, well proportioned,
fleshy body; round full face, brown hair, pale dusky com
plexion; of a pleasant, merry, easy disposition; very
harmless, and free from passion; one who is fortunate and
much respected, but very unstable in mind and fond ofchange. ,
C in Leo, makes the native strong, large boned, and
rather tall; large eyes, full face, sanguine complexion,
and light brown hair; high-minded, very ambitious, and
above servitude or dependence, and generally unfortunate.
(in my, gives a tall person, rather ruddy, oval face, dark
brown or black hair; an ingenious, reserved, covetous,
melancholy person, seldom well disposed, and generally
unfortunate. -
Moon in ~, gives a tall, well made person; with smooth
light brown hair, fine red and white complexion, and hand
some face; one who is pleasant and merry, and very fond
of amusement. They are generally much beloved; but if
the native be a woman, she is said to be unfortunate, ex
cept the dispositor of Q be strong and free from affliction.
Moon in £, gives an ill made, short, thick, fleshy
body; dark brown or black hair, and dark complexion;
150 FORM OF THE BODY.
one who is ill-disposed, treacherous, malicious, brutish, and
sottish. If a woman, she is generally infamous.
Moon in Sagittary, gives a handsome person, oval face,
sanguine complexion and bright brown hair; disposition
open and generous, rather hasty and ambitious, but honest
and kind, one who is fortunate and much respected.
Moon in Capricorn, gives a mean, small, weak figure,
thin body and face; the native is never strong, and parti
cularly weak in the knees; bad complexion, brown or
black hair; one who is imbecile, idle, dull and mean, and
generally a very debauched character.
Moon in :, gives a middle sized, corpulent person, but
well formed ; £ hair, clear sanguine complexion;
ingenious, affable, kind, and inoffensive; one who poe
sesses an active fancy and good genius.
Moon in Pisces, gives a short mean stature, but plump,
or fat; pale countenance, and bright brown hair; one who
is idle and dull, evil disposed, and unfortunate.
Those positions seem more fit for horary questions (to de
termine £ qualities and appearance of those denoted by
certain significators) than for nativities. If every aspect
were supposed to convey the qualities of the sign from
whence it proceeded in any eminent degree, there would
be no end to the confusion it would create in most nativi
ties, where all the planets aspect the horoscope in one way
or other, from signs of opposite or very different qualities,
with various degrees of strength, dignity, orientality, &c.
No doubt they have all their effects according to their
nature and strength in the world and the geniture, but the
signs they are in, can have little or no effect, except they
occupy the cusp of the horoscope. The effects of the signs
alone are said to be as follows.
Aries gives a spare, dry, moderate-sized, strong body,
with red or sandy hair, and swarthy or sallow complexion,
and a piercing eye.
8 gives a short, or middle-sized, thick, strong body,
thick lips, broad forehead, with dark curled hair.
Gemini makes the native fair, tall and straight, of a dark
sanguine complexion, long arms and legs, but short fleshy
hands and feet; though others say, the fingers are long,
which seems nearer the truth; dark hazel eyes, dark brown
hair, quick sight, with a look that denotes smartness and
activity.
Cancer gives a short stature, the lower part of the body
small, but the upper part rounder, pale round face, brown
hair, gray eyes, weak voice, and dull effeminate constitu
tion. If the native be a woman she is generally prolific.
FORM OF THE BODY. 151
Ieo gives a large, strong body, broad shoulders, great
bones, large eyes, and ruddy countenance, light or yellow
hair, and a masculine rough voice.
Virgo gives a well made body, tall and slender, but well
proportioned and compact, dark ruddy complexion, dark
brown or black hair, roundish face, and small shrill voice.
Libra gives a form tall and elegant, beautiful round face,
blue eyes, light yellow or flaxen hair, and ruddy complexion
in youth, but inclined to pimples when old.
in gives a strong corpulent body, of a middle size, but
very robust, dark complexion, brown curling hair, hairy
body, and thick short neck and legs.
Sagittary gives a well formed tall body, ruddy and hand
some, chesnut coloured hair, but liable to fall off, oval
face, fine clear eyes, and stout athletic frame.
Capricorn gives a small body, rather slender, long neck,
narrow chin and breast, weak knees and inclined to be
ricketty or crooked, long thin face, little beard, and dark hair.
Aquaries makes the native well set, robust, strong and
healthy, sometimes corpulent, long face, delicate clear
complexion, though some say, rather pale, with sandy or
fair £ and hazel eyes. -
Pisces makes the native pale, sickly, short, fleshy,
crooked or stooping, round shouldered, with brown hair
and dull appearance.
It is a general opinion, that those signs containing the
luminaries are to be considered equally with that on the
cusp of the ascendant, but there is no good reason why it
should be so. No doubt, the horoscope is affected by all
the planets, according to their various strengths and posi
tions, which accounts for the variety of forms and features
of different persons, no two of whom are exactly alike;
beside which there is generally a sympathetic resemblance
between parents and their offspring, all of which causes,
and no doubt many more with which we are totally un
acquainted, must render this part of the science wholly
unattainable (to a degree of correctness) by any exertion
of the human intellect. That the position of the heavens
has such an effect is abundantly manifest, from the resem
blance of children born nearly together, whereas the off
spring of the same parents, born at a distant period under
a different constitution of the heavens, are essentially and
sometimes wholly unlike both in body and mind. Now, if
either climate or parentage were the sole cause of the form
ation of the body, or if education and example could
entirely form the disposition, all children born of the same
parents in the same place would be alike in appearance,
152 FORM OF THE BODY.
and if subjected to the same tuition their sentiments and
propensities would be the same. This, therefore, is an
incontrovertible proof, that however accidental circum
stances may operate in effecting a change, the leading
features both of body and mind are constitutional, and that
this constitution is the result of the constitution of heaven
at the moment of birth, so true is the observation of Locke,
whose opinion, even if it stood alone, \ unsupported by
proof, must ever be paramount to the silly notions of
superficial minds, who are ready to deny what they have
neither industry nor capacity to examine, who repeat like
children the common place sayings oftheir companions, and
who would have been strenuous advocates for the most
absurd system of astrology, had every one about them been
the same.
“We are wrong to think,” says Locke, “that things
contain those qualities that appear in them to us. Did we
understand them right, we ought, perhaps, to look for
them beyond the fixed stars. We see certain motions and
operations in things about us, but know not whence the
streams come that cause them; perhaps things would with
us put on a different face did some great star or body in
comprehensibly remote from us alter or cease to be.”
According to Ptolemy, that planet which has the greatest
power in forming the body is the lord of the ascendant and
next to him the Moon. The ascending fixed stars, also,
he supposes have a considerable effect. If the lord of the
ascendant be Saturn and oriental, viz. between the 1st and
midheaven, or between the 7th and Imum Coeli; he causes
a swarthy complexion, black hair, curled head, broad
breast, great eyes, middle stature, cold and moist; if
occidental, they are small, thin, and of a dark complexion,
little or no hair on the body, black eyes, and good shape,
cold and dry.
Jupiter ruling and oriental, gives a white fair complexion,
good colour, great eyes, and fine stature, hot and moist;
if occidental, fair but not like the other, long hair, bald,
middle stature, and moist constitution.
Mars oriental, makes the native ruddy, well made, good
habit and size, hairy, hot and dry; occidental, a red com
plexion, middle stature, small eyes, no hair on the body,
yellow lank hair, and dry constitution.
Venus gives the same appearance as Jupiter, but more
delicate, soft, and sweet, with fine blue eyes, and very
beautiful. -
Mercury oriental, gives a swarthy complexion, good
stature and make, small eyes, and hot constitution ; if
FORM OF THE BODY. * 153
bccidental, fair complexion, but not good colour, long
black hair, lean, thin, squinting, and reddish colour, with
a dry constitution.
When the Sun is configurated with the lord of the as
cendant, the person is more comely and the habit better.
The Moon has different effects in her different quarters.
but he does not particularly describe them. Again, oriental
planets in their first orientality, cause large stout bodies;
in their 2d, smaller and weaker; when occidental, the
native is cowardly and mean spirited, but when oriental,
more apt to resent an injury. -
Modern astrologers make a sad confusion in describing
the form of any person, and although their rules can evi
dently extend no farther than horary questions, with which
doctrine they have confounded that of nativities, yet even
in that symbolical way their doctrines are too intricate to
admit of clear definition, and too contradictory to be easily
reconciled. The sign on the cusp of the horoscope, and the
sign intercepted, if there be one, their lords, the planets,
in the horoscope, or any way aspecting it, the fixed stars
near the cusp, and to these some add the luminaries and
the stars that aspect them; all these are significators of the
form of the body as well as the mind. This may be so in
horary questions, and with the exception of the lords ofthe
ascendant in nativities also, but I am certain no human
intellect, however acute, can form a correct judgment of
any one’s appearance from so many conflicting testimonies.
"Y, 8, =, and m, describe a body moderate in stature,
but rather long.
S., 9, and 1, rather tall.
gö, V5, and 9%, rather short.
II, indifferent. -
:, moderately proportioned.
This doctrine cannot be correct, for no two signs are
more different than ml, and -ce, the former being thick,
fleshy, broad shouldered, strong and heavy; whereas =
#an elegant proportion, almost the reverse of theformer.
d '', also gives a body not greatly unlike what is pro
£ signs, and also 1. '# are said to give a
good colour; and winter signs, and those signs that are
houses of b or 6, a bad colour. Now, Y is the house of
g, and also a northern sign, so that its colour must be
both good and bad; and Pisces, which is said to give a
good colour, gives also a bad one from its being a winter sign.
These distinctions must therefore be laid aside; there is no
difference between northern and southern signs, merely
uced by III. -
X ~
154. FORM OF THE BODY.
as such, nor have the zodiacal constellations any more
effect in forming the body than any other constellation.
When we say Libra gives a certain form, and Seorpio
another, we mean the effect arising from the whole ambi
ent that ascends with these points of the ecliptic; nor can
any one know whether it most depends upon the as
cending or culminating stars, but the probability is, that
the whole have a joint influence, varying according to the
varied position of the ambient. -
The quarters of the year are also said to have consider
able effect in a nativity and with truth; for assuredly child
ren born in March particularly, and in the spring gene
rally, are stronger in constitution, and longer lived, on an
average, than those born in winter. -
8, gB, m, V5, 3%, and the last part of SR and Y, are said
to cause deformity.
6, and QS, ascending, shew a mark or blemish in the
face, though the latter can have no effect in a nativity, un
less the Moon be there. -
The Q and (, ascending and not afflicted, make the
native fair, but the Sun never causes beauty, though he
may give a good complexion.
2/ and Q give handsome faces.
The G) and Moon ascending, impedited of b or Ó, give
blindness, bad eyes, or marks or scars in them. If they
are both impedited in any parts of the figure, it hurts them.
b and 6, joined any where, but particularly if angular,
cause deformity, scrophula, lameness, &c. especially if in
their own nodes, and others say, in the lunar nodes.
b, 2/, or 6, in fall or detriment, and retrograde, denote
Father a short stature, but if they are not retrograde, their
fall or detriment cause no alteration. |
Q or #, domiciliated or exalted, and aspecting the ho
roscope, cause tallness, but ifin detriment or fall, shortness.
If no planet aspect the lord of the ascendant with a par
tile configuration, he must alone be considered independent
of the sign he is in, if he be direct. If he be in his fall
and retrograde, judge not from him but from the sign
which he is in.
# ascending, gives a stature according to the nature of
the lord of the ascendant. The lights ascending, judge
wholly from the quality of the sign they are in.
"Y, 8, or Q, the first part makes the body more fat, the
latter parts more lean.
II or ml, the first parts cause thinness, the latter parts
fatness. -
F R US 155
Cancer and Capricorn, the first parts more fleshy than
the latter parts.
1, the first part of this sign makes a spare body, the
last part fleshy.
": =, c, and 9%, give a moderate proportion, but
the latter part of Aquaries causes the body to be rather
spare and thin.
FORTITUDE, strength. See Dignities.
FORTUNES, ), and Q. The Sun also when in good
aspect, with one or both of these, and without affliction, is
considered equal to one of the fortunes. The Moon and
Mercury are likewise esteemed as fortunes when well as
pected by 2/ and Q, and free from affliction.
FORTUNATESIGNS, Y, II, Q, --, 1, 22. When
either of these ascend in a nativity, the native is supposed
more likely to be fortunate in his undertakings.
FOURFOOTED SIGNS, Y, 8, Q, 1,w}. Thoseborn
when they ascend are said to have the qualities of such ani
mals : as being bold as the lion, lustful as the goat, &c.
FRIENDS. See Enemies.
FRIENDLY PLANETS. There are different opinions
on this subject: as some affirm, that those who have house,
exaltation, or triplicity in each others signs, are friendly,
and this seems to be the opinion of Ptolemy. Others,
however, arrange them as follows: b is only friendly with
theSun, Jupiter, and Mercury. Jupiter with all but Mars.
Mars is only friendly with Venus. TheSun isfriendly with
allbut Saturn. Venusis friendly toallbut Saturn. Mercury
is friendly to all but Mars. The Moon is at enmity with
and Mars only. Some say Mars is friendly to all but the (.
The whole is nonsense, so far as relates to nativities, and
the confusion and contradiction will prevent it being useful
even in horary questions. -
FRUITFUL SIGNS. Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces.
In horary questions, theascendant, the Moon, or lord ofthe
ascendant in one of these signs, and strong, are symbols
of children. Some consider this to be the case in nativi
ties, and that the 5th, or its lord, being in a fruitful sign, is
a symbol of children.
FRUSTRATION, a term solely applicable to horary
questions. It is when one planet is applying to, and within
orbs of, an aspect with another planet; but before the
aspect is complete, another, either swifter or nearer, forms
an aspect with the latter, which is supposed to destroy or
frustrate that which was promised by the first aspect. See
Horary Questions. Thus, if 2 were in 8° of Gemini,
and Mercury in 6° of Aries, applying to his Sextile, and
156 H E L I
and the Moon in 3° of Aries, applying also to the Sextile,
the Moon would form her Sextile before Mercury, and of
course frustrate that intended by the aspect of Mercury.
GEMINATED, double. Thus, geminated horary time,
is double horary time.
GEMINI. See signs. Castor and Pollux, two violent
stars of the 2d magnitude, in the 18th and 21st degrees of
Cancer. Castor is of the nature of Mars, Venus, and Sa
turn, and Pollux of Mars. They are reckoned extremely
evil, denoting disgrace, ruin, death, and every calamity.
The stars in their feet,knees, &c. are all considered equally
Injurious.
GENESIS. See Geniture.
GENETHLIACAL, belonging to the Geniture, or the
doctrine of nativities.
GENITURE, the Birth, the radical figure, the plan of
a nativity. -
GEOCENTRIC, having the earth for its center, or the
same center as the earth. All astrological positions are
geocentric, because they relate wholly to the earth.
GIVER OF LIFE, the hyleg.
HAYZ. When a masculine diurnal plant is above the
Earth in the day, or when a feminine nocturnal planet is
under it in the night, it is a kind of dignity of one degree,
and is reckoned fortunate in horary questions. The
Arabians did not conceive it a perfect Hayz, except when
the masculine planet was in a masculine sign, or the femi
nine planet was in a feminine sign. When a masculine
planet was in a masculine sign, but under the Earth by
day, he was said to be in his light only. The person
denoted by it in a horary question is in a state of content
ment.
HEALTH. See Life and Health.
HEART OF THE SUN, in Cazimi. -
HEART OF THE HYDRA, Alphard or Cor Hydra,
a fixed star of the 2d magnitude in the 5th degree of Q, of
the nature of b and Q. It is said to cause drowning
or death by poison when joined to d and in evil as
ect with the luminaries.
HELIACAL RISING, is when a star that was hidden
by the Sun’s rays becomes visible to the east of him, by
etting clear of his rays.
HELIACAL SETTING, is when a star that before
was visible is overtaken by the Sun and lost in his rays.
The Moon is said to rise or set heliacally when 17 distant
from the Sun, but other stars when a whole sign distant,
HELIOCENTRIC, having the Sun for a center.
HONOURS. 157
HEMISPHERE, *half the sphere or circle. The visible
hemisphere is that which is always in our view, the obscure
hemisphere is that beneath us, which is hidden. The orien
tal or eastern hemisphere is that part of the circle ascend
ing from the cusp of the Imum Coeli to the midheaven; the
western hemisphere, called the occidental, is that descend
ing or going down from the cusp of the midheaven, to that
of the Imum Coeli. -
HERMAPHRODITES. See Form of the Body.
HEXAGON, the Sextile.
HIRCUS, the Goat, called Capella, an eminent fixed
star of the first magnitude, in the 20th degree of Gemini.
It is of the nature of Mars and Mercury, and is said to
give great martial honours and riches when culminating, for
it is too far north to be with the lights, or to rise or set.
HOARSE SIGNS, Aries, Taurus, Leo, and Capri
corn. Those born under them are said to have a kind of
roughness, or hoarseness in the voice, and those under V3
are weak and feminine, and speak with a kind of whistling
sound. -
HONOURS. According to Ptolemy, if the luminaries
are angular, in masculine signs, and attended by the other
five planets, all of them being oriental to the G), and oc
cidental to the ), the native's power and riches will be
unbounded. -
If the planets be angular, or configurated above the
Earth to the ascendant or midheaven, the Q being in a
masculine, or the D in a feminine sign, and particularly
if the configuration to the angles be by dexter aspects, the
native will be eminently rich and powerful. * .
If the lights be thus situated, although none of the
planets be angular, or in testimony to the amgles, the
native will be rich and honourable, but not in the extreme.
If the five planets be angular, or configurated to the
angles, above the Earth, although the lights be not angular,
it will be nearly the same.
If neither of the lights be angular, nor posited in a
masculine sign, nor in aspect with the angles, nor any of
the five planets angular, or configurated to angles, nor the
luminaries having friendly aspect with the fortunes, the
whole life of the native will be a succession of contempt,
poverty, and misery: thus far Ptolemy.
Others take the midheaven and its lord, with the lords
of the ascendant and of the signs containing the luminaries,
as significators of honour. I should never consider the
the lords of any houses or signs as significators in nativities,
158 HONOURS.
but the midheaven may certainly be taken as the angle
honours and happiness, when planets are posited ther
These significators of honour are said to confer ric
and dignity, when they are in their houses, exaltatic
mutual reception, or 6 with each other.
The Q, ), 2/, or Q in the midheaven, essentia
dignified, are said to have the same effect.
The G) and ), in their exaltations, are said to be si
of great preferment.
The light of time, culminating and in >k or A with
other luminary, or with 2/ or Q, confers great dignity
The lord of the ascendant, or the dispositors of
luminaries, angular and essentially fortified, cause
native, it is said, to acquire great honour...
The Q culminating in a fiery sign; the lights in mut
reception, #: A; the light of time in conjunction w
Aldebaran, Regulus, Arista, Antares, Rigel, the Pleia.
Hircus, Cor Hydra, Arcturus, Fomahaut, or Mark
articularly when culminating, are all said to be sign
onour. Such honours, however, would soon prove
#" calamities, except those derived from Arista
igel.
The G) in A or reception with 6, is said to prod
great military honours, if they are both in fiery signs.
The G), ), and 21, in A to each other; or the D
partile /\, or # particularly from angles; 21 and
joined in any angle with the Dragon’s Head, particularl
the midheaven, are all said to be signs ofeminent preferm
2 and the G) joined in gG, with the X in in ; or if 2,
in A to them both from 36 ; the D ascending in the he
scope near the full; or with 2/ or Q there, or in g.
aspect with them or the G); or joined with fixed star
their nature; either of the lights with Regulus or Ari
or in A to 2/, G or Q ; the lords of the ascendant
midheaven with the Dragon’s Head, each essenti.
dignified and applying to each other by good aspect :
oriental, are all said to be signs of honour and preferm
The lord of the ascendant in >|< or A with the Q,
the lord of the midheaven, will, it is said, give the na
favour with the great, if the lord of the ascendant
oriental.
The lord of the ascendant in his own dignities, if he
ply to a planet in an angle that is exalted, is said to g
the native honour by his own exertions. If to b, it
be by inheritance or legacies. If to 2/, by virtue, learni
religion, justice, or wealth. If to 6, by physic, surg,
chemistry or war. If to Q, by courtship, cheerfulness, g.
nature, or women. If to #, by wit, oratory, genius, 1
H O R. 159
arts, &c. but in this, they say, the nature of the house where
the promittor is must be considered, as the means or source
from whence the honour is to be derived.
If no planet aspect the luminaries, they direct us to con
sider the planet in the midheaven, and if many be there,
the strongest is to be taken. If none be there, the lord of
the 10th, the planet that disposes of the light of time, and
the strongest luminary, is to be taken, if it be above the
Earth. If all these significators are strong, and free from
affliction, the native's honours, they say, will be lasting.
If the malefics cast an evil ray to, or are in 6 with either
of the significators of honour, it will not be lasting. 6 in
detriment in 9 to the horoscope, shews disgrace and mis
fortune. If he be in the 10th, it shews scandal and infamy,
and b in the 10th, brings sudden disgrace and irretriev
able ruin.
A fiery sign ascending, and the lord of the ascendant in
the 10th, shew, they say, the native to be aiming at things
beyond his birth, fortune, or attainment.
Honours caused by inferior planets, are said to be but
of short duration.
Amidst this vast heap of incongruities, I would advise
the student to confine himself chiefly to the rules laid down
by Ptolemy, which are by far the most rational.
The lords of houses in nativities can have no power as
significators. Their dignities and receptions are nothing.
The Dragon's Head is of no more value than his Tail.
And the dispositors can dispose of nothing but themselves.
The midheaven however ought to be considered, when
any planets are there: it is the principal position from
whence the strongest rays proceed, and consequently a star
so situated must have great power in sublunary matters.
The position of Saturn there deranged all the plans of the
late Premier, Mr. Pitt, and brought him eventually to dis
grace and ruin.
HORARY CIRCLES, the arcs or circles in which the
stars move round the Earth. They are either diurnal or
nocturnal.
HORARY TIME, is the T', of the diurnal or nocturnal
arc of a star, or # of its semidiurnal or seminocturnal arc.
It is called the horary time, because the star passes over it
in the T's part of the day, or night, or in the space of an as
tronomical or planetary hour, which is longer or shorter as
the day or night is longer or shorter. Thus, if the day be
16 hours long, the night will be 8 hours. The diurnal
horary time, or hours, will be 80 minutes or 20°, and the
nocturnal horary time will be 40 minutes or 10°. It is
160 H O R.
therefore half the space of a house, and of course,
* , , , double horary time is the space of a whole house, or ;
semi-arc.
The horary time, when the days and nights are ever
60 minutes, or 15°, both diurnal and nocturnal. T
may always be obtained by dividing the semi-arc, whe
t diurnal or nocturnal, by 6.
Example —Suppose the Q's semidiurnal arc to be
| 45, what is his horary time :
- 6) 104° 45' (17° 27' 30".
They may also be found by multiplying the semiarc w
'it is in hours and minutes by 24.
Example iT' ose the semidiurnal arc of 2 to be
9m., what will be his horary time in degrees?
7h. 9m.
: 2 +
14 18
The half, 3 34
-
17° 52'
If one horary time be known, the other may be four
subtracting that which is known from 30°, if in dista
or from 2h. if in time. Thus, if the horary time dit
be 20°, subtract this from 30°, it gives the nocturnal ho
time 10°; or if it be 1h. 20m. it being subtracted from
leaves the nocturnal time, 40m.
HORARY QUESTIONS, questions asked at a ce
hour: when a person feels his mind seriously agitated
cerning the result of any undertaking or impending e
he, if he be not an artist himself, may apply to one
is, and request an answer to such question or questio
he may propose. . A figure is then erected for the m
in which the question was asked, and if the artist be sk
and the querent sincere, and really anxious respectin
result, there is little reason to doubt but the answei
in general be true and satisfactory, not in those m
particulars which some pretend to discover, but i
real and essential circumstances which ought alone
the end and design of such a question : namely, the
conclusion of the business and its ultimate conseque
The figure for a horary question is erected in £
manner as for a nativity, at the same instant of tim
cause, as they say, the question is the birth of the
r
; ; ; ; # * ,
- -
*
- * ,
f : …
*-
- *
... ". . . *** * * *
"f fift
* : * > *
** *
- # * *
s' * *
|
- -
- # * *
s - * …
… *…
… *
|
-
**
-
* * * it. -
####
|
#. .
- - - at:
*
|
s
HORARY QUESTIONS. - 161
*
as the nativity is the birth of the body: these are words
without meaning, for the mind always exists: the whole is
the effect of that sympathy which pervades all nature, and
which is the fundamental principle of all divination under
whatever form practised, where the querent and the
artist are sincere. There is nothing in it either celestial or
diabolical, meritorious or criminal, good or evil: a person
is equally justifiable in making an inquiry into one thing as
another, and to propose a horary question is an act as indif
ferent in itself as to ask what it is o’clock: it contains nothing
supernatural, for it is nature itself, operating in its usual
way. It is the same kind of sympathy which causes the
magnet and iron to approach each other; a detached por
tion of earth to return towards the common center; the
water to approach the luminaries: the child to approach.
the nipple: the planets to revolve round the Sun: the
needle to point to the pole: the husband to suffer the pain
of gestation alternately with his wife, and to have milk in
his breasts at the time of parturition: the mother to feel
the draught flow into her breasts some seconds before the
child awakes: the marks imprinted on a child in the womb
by the mother's wants or fears: the increasing or diminish
ing colour of a fruit-mark as the fruit it represents is in or
out of season: the turbulence of wine at vintage time: the
responsive sound of one musical instrument untouched to
another that is struck, and a thousand more instances,
superfluous to mention. All instinct is sympathy, and the
same common affinity between various parts of matter,
which induces rats to forsake a falling house; ants to quit
their nests carrying their young with them before an inun
dation; and dogs to foretel disasters, will enable a human
being to propose a horary question at the instant of time
when the heavens are favourably disposed to give a
solution. Only one rational objection can be made to this,
namely, why this kind of divination is not more correct, or,
in fact, why it is not infallible : for this many reasons may
be given. Much depends on the artist : for in this science,
the most extensive practice must be united with sound
judgment, quick penetration, and a strong memory : he
must be a person of cool habits, no ambition, unlimited
patience, and one who will rigidly adhere only to the truth:
few possess those qualities. The object too often is gain
or vanity, which prompts them to have recourse to indirect
methods, such as urging a person to partly tell their own
story, that they may be able to guess the remainder, or
predicting a number of the common events in life, most of
162 . HORARY QUESTIONS.
which probably will happen, or at least a sufficient
to preserve their credit.
n some cases, also, where the artist is sincere, t
may lie in the querent. If any one come out of c
or from very superficial motives, no prediction can b
because the mind, having no impulse, no sympathy
excited. The only person likely to receive an an
one in deep distress, or great anxiety of mind, or
strongly bent upon knowing the final consequence
affair of importance. It may, however, happen, th
in this case the question may not be what is called
or one from which any thing can be predicted.
person certainly does not contain an equal ''
sympathy, as may be evidently seen in all the
instances above mentioned. Even animals differ
way '' and among dogs the greatest
them are entirely without any singular degree of :
beyond what is necessary to their preservation, a
here and there one can be found possessing an
degree of sympathy, or, as naturalists term it, i
If human beings differ in a similar way, those figu
be most £ whose owners are most sympathe
this, however, little can be known, as the scienc
in its infancy. On account of the world’s “dread
few venture to profess it, and of these few the
part are either ignorant pretenders, or gross im,
who practise for gain, and are so far from unders
astrology, that they do not believe in it themselves
As to the common place objections against
questions (which every witling who has acquired as
stock of them from others is proud of retailing
his sagacity,) they are too superficial to be worth a m
attention, much less to deter an active mind from p
its researches. A small degree of penetration in a
will soon enable him to perceive that his adversa
men of little knowledge, or great prejudice, wi
limited capacities, and almost incapable of re
without any original thoughts, or indeed any tho
all but what they have borrowed, and such as hav
few observations of their own respecting themselve
universe in general. Men that are either absorbed
speculations than those of nature, or who think
permission; that would believe the legend, and d
existence of the antipodes if others about them did th
With them the voa populi is truly the vox Dei;
argument capable of convincing them is a great
hands, and any absurd hypothesis, having the majo
HORARY QUESTIONS. - 163
the world on its side (a thing not very uncommon), would
soon add them to the number of its disciples. I know that
in answer to this, the opinions of learned men may be
quoted; but learning is not always united with discern
ment nor real knowledge, any more than the words of a
talking bird are united with ideas. Learning is a mechani
cal acquirement, and may be possessed by a very silly
person, and of this we have numberless instances. With
such men reason is useless : they would oppose custom to
reason, and authorities to facts. I had once an argument
with one of these, a person of extensive learning and
uniform dullness, except when relieved at intervals by a
most unaccountable persevering obstinacy. We were
speaking of the Moon, which he denied had any influence
on the weather. I pointed out to him and even predicted
several instances wherein a change of weather would take
place, which were most or all of them verified, and I won
some trifling wagers from him on this score: but though
still vanquished, as Goldsmith says, he would still argue,
and with as much obstimacy as if he had never been proved
to be in the wrong. I then began to appeal to his reason,
and asked him, if the Moon could move a fluid of such
gravity as water, why it might not more easily affect the
atmosphere, which was more light and elastic? He denied
that I could prove that it did affect the water. Surely,
said I, the tides prove that: this, too, he denied. He ad
mitted, that it was a strange coincidence of periods, but
contended that the tides might have been as they are, had
the Moon never existed. I had some inclination to make
him affirm (which I easily could have done) that day and
night might have been as they are, had the Sun never ex
isted, but I was weary of his folly.
Many disputes have arisen about the proper time for the
figure of a horary question to be erected to. Some think,
the moment when the querent is first seen by the artist,
others when he salutes him, others when he enquires for
him, &c. : the true time is the moment when a question is
asked; or, if the artist cast his own figure, it should be the
moment when he determined on doing it, whether he did it
at that time or not, because it might not be done for want
of convenience. Bonatus thought no artist could judge
from his own figure, because he must judge partially, but
of this he must he careful, and certainly no one ought to
be so good a judge of his own feelings and the proper sym
pathetic sensation requisite to constitute a true figure as an
artist. Some affirm, that the moment in which the querent.
164 HORARY QUESTIONS.
experiences such a sensation is the time for erectii
figure, but if the querent be not aware of this the tim
not be directly known, and therefore the moment
£ the question is the true moment, howevel
he may have been in the journey : for nature and sym
will amply provide for all this, and adapt the time to th
cumstances. Thus, in case of a letter to such an effe
ing received by an artist, however long it may hav
mained in his hands unopened, the moment in which he
prehends its contents is the moment to which the
must be erected. Should, however, any querent be :
of these things, and direct a figure to be made to an
ticular time, to that time must the figure be erected.
Reception in a horary question is generally allowed
essential dignities, house, exaltation, triplicity, ten
face. That by house is of course the strongest, and th
face the weakest, yet still it is a degree of reception
this case the triplicities must be attended to, as 2 can
no triplicity by day, nor the G) by night, &c.
It is always a good symbol, when a sign ascends i
horary question or part of a sign that contained 2/
in the radix, and unfortunate if any part ascend tha.
tained b or 6. The signs also that contained the
naries, if they were not afflicted, are fortunate; o
parts that receive their >k or A. The same horosco
it be not afflicted, is also good, but otherwise it is ev
When a thing is denoted by any approaching aspec
proper day to undertake the business is on the day
the aspect is formed, which may be found in the Ephei
The general opinion is, that no figure should be er
when the radix can be had and referred to, but this is
culous; for although the radix may point out the le
events of a person's life, there are many subordinat
cumstances to which it can only have a general and
particular reference. Those, however, who use the r
figure, draw it out into a speculum, bring up the seco
directions, with the process, the revolution for the
the ingress and the transits, which, allowing it to a
the intended purpose, as I believe it does not, must
ten times the trouble required in a horary question.
When the time of birth is not known, or the qu
would prefer a figure for the present time, it shot
erected to the minute when the question is asked.
sign ascending and its lords are significators of the qu
and to these the Moon is added as a consignificator :
be considered equally with the lord of the ascendant
HORARY QUESTIONS. I65
house to which the thing properly belongs that is enquired
after and its lord are significators of that thing or person,
and every other house and its lord are to be considered ac
cording to their respective significations, as such and such
houses, so as to point out the means and persons by which
events are accelerated or retarded, &c. A kind of speculum
should also be drawn, not like those in nativities, but
merely shewing the good and evil aspects, applications,
separations, translations of light, and, in short, of all the
leading particulars. The declination should also be had, for
it must be recollected, that declination is an aspect, though
it is seldom considered in horary questions. -
The Time of Events.
This is regulated by signs and angles. The significator
of the event, whether good or evil, in a moveable sign and
an angle, will bring it to pass in the same number of '
as there are degrees between the significator's aspect and the
star to which it is directed, if the aspect be by application,
for if it be by separation the thing will not happen at all.
Thus, if the lord of the ascendant be in 22° of ~ in the
ascendant, and the question be concerning money, the lord
of the 2d is its significator, who being posited in the 10th
in 17° of ga, the querent would receive it in about five days,
but with much trouble, as the application is to a square.
If it be a common sign, in an angle, every degree will be a .
week. If in a fixed sign, a degree is a month.
In a succeedent house, moveable signs give months; com
mon signs, years; and fixed signs bring about the event
when all hopes of it are past.
Significators in cadent houses seldom do any thing, and
should they bring about an event, it is when every hope is
past, and attended with much trouble and vexation.
... Degrees and minutes of latitude, if it be south, should,
it is said, be added to the time, but if north, subtracted from
it: as north latitude shortens the time of an event, and
south latitude lengthens it, but I have not much opinion
of this.
- The Cause of Events.
The house of which the assisting or impeding planet is
lord, is the relation which the person or thing has to the
querent. The house in which he is posited is the matter in
question, and the house where the translation, frustration,
or prohibition happens, is the cause or reason.
*
166 - HORARY QUESTIONS.
.#
*
*
Of the Sincerity of the Querent, &c.
Questions improperly put, or incorrectly stated, or 1
posed by an impostor with a view to disgrace the profes
are said to be known as follows:
1st, If the very beginning or extreme end of a sign
cend, the querent is a knave, and the question not fit to
answered.
2d, If the question be not radical: by radical is me
agreeing with the radical figure, for it is supposed,
when the birth be not known, the horary figure will
present it, and the querent will have the same marks on
body as the heavens represent at the time of the quest
The sign ascending shews a mark on the part signi
by that sign. - -
The sign on the cusp of the house where the lord of
ascendant is posited, will give another.
The sign on the cusp of the 6th will do the same.
The sign in which the lord of the 6th is posited will ;
another, and there will also be a mark according to
sign in which the Moon is posited. -
If b give the mark, it will be black or dark. If
purple or bluish. If d, red; but if he be in a fiery
it will be a scar or dent. If the G), it will be olive or c
nut coloured. If Q, the mark will be yellow. If
pale lead colour. If it proceed from the ), it will
whitish, or partly of the colour of the planet she aspec
The infortunes also mark according to their positions
one be in the ascendant a mole or scar will be in the f:
if in the 2d, in the neck or throat; if in the 3d, the arr
shoulder, &c.
If the Moon be exactly at the new or full, and in evi
pect with 6, there will be a blemish in or near the eye
If the sign and planet be masculine, the mark will b
the right side or member, but if feminine, on the left.
If the sign or planet be above the Earth, the mark
be before, but if under the Earth, behind.
If the first part of a sign ascend or descend, or if
planets be posited in the first degrees of a sign, the n
will be on the upper part of the member or part. If
last degrees be on the cusp of the 1st or 6th, or if pla
be so posited, the mark will be in the lower part. 1f
middle degrees, it will be in the middle.
3d, If the Moon be in square or opposition to the
of the 7th ;
4th, If the Moon be void of course, or combust;
5th, Ifthe lord ofthe ascendent be combust, or retrogr
HORARY QUESTIONS. 167
6th, If b be in the ascendant, impedited or afflicted; and
7th, If the sign ascending and planet in it do not in a
great degree describe the querent's person; in all these
cases, it shews the question to be put for some knavish
£ or, at all events, it is improper and not fit to be
meddled with. For my own part, having never made a
trade of astrology, I can say nothing to all this, but must
leave it to the student's experience. For further par
ticulars, see Radical.
Of the Signification and Qualities of the Houses.
The first, or ascendant, has its extent to 5° above the
cusp or the horizon, and 25° below it; though others say,
in signs of short ascension it extends to 5° above and 50°
below the cusp, and in signs of long ascension it only ex
tends to 24° above the cusp, and 13° below it.
It signifies the nature, life, and health, of the native,
either in nativities or horary questions, and in the latter
it relates to all questions of life, health, and appearance;
namely, stature, colour, shape and size, and also sickness .
and accidents. It is also said to shew what part of life
will be most prosperous, by aspects directed to it. By
being made the ascendant of any other person, it will shew
the same to them as if the figure had been erected at their
own request. It also shews the events ofjourneys, voyages,
&c. £ respect to the life and health of the querent
while engaged in them, and in all cases where life and
health are to be considered it becomes the significator. In
state questions, comets, eclipses, great conjunctions, and
annual ingresses into Y, it signifies the health and pro
sperity of the kingdom where it is erected, namely, the
common people, or general mass of the inhabitants.
P and Y are said to be its consignificators, but this is
all nonsense. It is also said, that P being there, and well
dignified and fortified by good aspects, gives a sober
constitution and long life, but I should not choose an in
fortune in my ascendant however well dignified. # ascend
ing, well dignified and aspected, shews a great orator; and
in horary questions it signifies the same, if he be lord of
the ascendant and well dignified. It is a masculine house,
and is a significator of the head and face.
Signs of short life are when one or both malefics ascend,
or the light of time be eclipsed or afflicted, or the birth
be exactly at the new or full moon.
The D in G or evil aspect of an infortune in the 4th,
6th, 8th, or 12th house, or besieged by B and 6.
168 HORARY QUESTIONS.
The lord of the ascendant being combust, retrogra
peregrine. The cause will be shewn by the house th
afflicting planet is lord of, and in which he is posited
Signs of long life are when the ascendant, its lord
the planets there, be well dignified, free from affli
well posited, and increasing in light and motion.
colouris white. P here gives melancholy and much so
and if near the cusp, short life; / gives long lif
happiness; 6, short life, quarrels, wounds and sc
the head and face, small pox, measles, &c.; the G), he
riches and long life; Q, health, but lust, and inju
women; #, great abilities, according to his conc
learning, oratory, &c.; the D, travels, fortune, p
and favour of the great; the Q gives honesty; t
knavery; the 69, riches, and the native makes his
fortune. The meaning of the colour is, that a
signified by it will have a white dress, and if the signif
of any native be there, it is said to denote the same.
planet denoting white be there, the person, signif
such planet will be very pale, and the significator of
being found there, denotes the colour to be light.
The 2d house: it signifies the fortune and pro
of the querent, denotes loss and gain, moveable
personal property, loans, speculations, business,
and poverty, friends and assistants in law-suits, an
duel the querent's second. In state questions it de
the prosperity or adversity of a nation. At the
ingress, it denotes warlike officers, allies, and pect
resources. 2/ and 8 are its consignificators. 2/
there, signifies a rapid fortune; 3 and the G), shew
and ruin. The cusp being free from affliction, has
benefic or its good aspect there; the 6+ in the secon
the lord of the second in the second, or in any other
house, strong and free from affliction, or in 6 or
aspect of the fortunes, or with good fixed stars of th
magnitude, are all symptoms of great wealth, and t
verse ofpoverty and ruin. Its colour is green. B bein
causes loss and ruin; 2/, great gain; 6, povert
great distress; the G), continual riches and continual
9, riches or poverty by women, according to her d
or debility; #, gain or loss by learning, books, &
cording to his strength or weakness; the P, an uns
fortune; the Q, a good estate; the 99, great los
poverty; the 6t), great riches. It is a feminine
and signifies the neck and back part of it down
shoulders.
tionARY QUESTIONs. 169
"The 3d house is that of brethren, sisters, cousins,
fieighbours, short inland journeys, letters, messages,
rumours, messengers, and removal of trade and manu
factories. Its consignificators are d and II, which they
foolishly say is the cause why 6 is not so bad here as else
where, like b in the ascendant. The D here shews an
unsettled life and perpetual restlessness. If the ) have
good aspect to the cusp and its lord, it shews pleasant
fortunate journeys. If the lord of the 3d be in evil aspect
with the X, or in the 7th or 8th house, it denotes robbery,
and perhaps murder in travelling. Its colour is yellow,
red, or sorrel. b being here, gives hatred of brethren
and neighbours, and danger in journeys; 2/, quite the
reverse; 6, spiteful brethren and neighbours, want of
religion, evil journeys and robbery; the Q, good brethren
and journeys, and shews the native busy about religion;
9, good journeys, brethren, and pious neighbours; 3
gives crafty brethren and neighbours, swift journeys, and
success, as he is dignified; the ), incessant travelling,
with good or ill success, according to her condition; the
82, the same as 2/.; the 7S, the same as Ó ; the GB, great
gain by journeys, brethren, or neighbours. It is a mascu
: house, and denotes the shoulders, arms, hands, and
IncrerS.
The 4th house is the weakest of the angles, and shews
the end of all things, and of the native among the rest,
his fall decay, and death. . His end will be according to
the planets therein, and the sign denotes the part of the
body where the complaint lies. In horary questions it
denotes the querent's father, and all his affairs relative to
lands, houses, estates, towns, castles, cities and entrench
ments, hidden treasures, and all things belonging to or
under the Earth, old houses, gardens, fields, orchards,
vineyards, cornfields, &c. The G) and go are called its
consignificators, and if the Q be there, it shews the father,
it is said, to be great, noble and generous.
Good planets or aspects there shew an inheritance, but
if they are evil, there either is none, or it will be lost. It
is a feminine house and denotes the breast and lungs. Its
colour is red. P being here, destroys the parents before
the native, and ruins the inheritance; 2/ gives inheritance
and lands, a happy life and a good end; 6 gives a short
life to the father, quarrels between him and the native,
and destroys the inheritance; the Q gives a good inheri
tance and honour in old age; Q gives the same; # gains
an inheritance by learning, or cunning; the D gives land
by travelling; the 82 gives a good estate; the £5 ruins the
'4'
170 HORARY QUESTIONS.
*,
*#
estate; the GB improves the estate, and makes it pr
In seiges, the sign denotes the town, and its 1
governor.
The 5th house is the house of children and wome
in particular that are pregnant; also of pleasure,
ment, and gaming; taverns, alehouses, playhous
quets, and merrymaking. It denotes the father's p
real or personal; children’s health and welfare, w
they be. In states it denotes ambassadors or mes
or the strength or weakness of any hesieged place.
Śl are called its cosignificators. Q or 3 bei
denote evil children. £ and its lord, bein;
or in fruitful signs, or if many planets, especially
be there, or in translation or reception with its lo
the lord of the ascendant be there, or the S2, all gi
children. B, 6, the G), or the $3 being there
barren sign be on its cusp and the ) be in a bari
or if the lord of the 1st and 5th be in evil aspec
other, or with B or 6, all cause barrenness. I
is mixed black and white, or sanguine. B, bei
gives few or no children, and such as are sickly
obedient; 2/ gives many virtuous children; 6,
wicked, sickly, short lived children, ifany, but he g
causes barrenness; the G), few children, but th
minded and virtuous; Q, many children, hands
virtuous; #, ingenious children; the D, many
well or ill disposed, according to her aspects;
happy, virtuous, long lived children; the QS,
malicious, children; the 69, causes the native to ga
children. It is a masculine house, and denotes the
liver, heart, sides, and back.
The 6th house is that of servants and dependant
and aunts, and all kindred by the father's side; sma
rabbits, hares, sheep, goats and hogs; tenants, s
farmers, '' and also sickness. Its consign
are : an e and 2/, or Q being here, in
a good £ #£ £ and #
each others houses, or afflicting each other; or if
of the 1st be disposed of by the lord of the 6th, or
or & of b or 3, or be combust in the 6th, 7th,
the native will be sickly, and his servants dishon
colour is dark or black. B being in the 6th, g
honest servants, sickness, and loss by cattle; 2/,
reverse; 6, fevers, knavish servants, and destructio
cattle; the Q causes mental diseases, and proud,
servants; 2, venereal complaints, but goods servi
gain by cattle; #, knavish servants, disorderedbrain
HORARY QUESTIONS. 171
breath; the ), diseases of the head, good servants, and
gain by small cattle, but this is according to her condition;
the Dragon's Head, the same as 2/; the Dragon's Tail,
the same as b; the GP, faithful servants and gain by cattle.
It is a feminine house, and denotes the lower belly, in
testines and rectum.
The 7th house is that of marriage, love questions, con
tracts, or speculations in business, war, or travelling about
business; of dealings with friends, strangers and women,
and their honesty or knavery; encounters with thieves and
their success; law-suits, public enemies, and all kinds of
litigation. It is also the ascendant of thieves, and describes
their persons; in astrology it denotes the artist; in an in
gress it shews if there will be peace or war, or in a battle
who will gain the victory; it denotes outlaws and runaways,
and the place to which any one will remove when he changes
his residence or situation. Its consignificators are the D
and =. HP or Ó being here shew great misery in marriage.
If there be translation, reception, or good aspect between
the lords of the 1st and 7th, from fruitful signs, the querent
will marry. Many planets being in the 7th, and in good
aspect with Q or lie ), or the lord of the 1st or 7th, the
native will marry more than once. If the lord of the 1st
be stronger or less afflicted than the lord of the 7th, the
querent will overcome his enemies, but if the lord of the
7th be strongest, they will overpower him. Good aspects,
translation, reception, &c. between them, shew harmony
between man and wife. Its colour is blue, brown, or
black. It is a masculine house, and rules the naval and
haunches. ... b being here gives a bad wife, many enemies,
and short life; 2/, an excellent wife; 3, quarrels, law
suits, public enemies, a bad wife, whoredom, and sickness;
the Q, sickness, but a good wife and honourable enemies;
Q, a good wife, and few enemies; #, a good wife, but a
great propensity to quarrels, law-suits, and litigation;
the D, an honourable marriage; the Q, a good wife;
the 7S, an evil wife, and a prostitute; the 69, great gain
by marriage, and fortunate law-suits.
The 8th house is the house of death, denoting the manner
and time of it. It relates also to wills, legacies, portions,
and dowers. In a duel it is the adversary’s second. In
law-suits it is his friends, means, and success. It also
denotes the property and security of the querent's partner,
and the strength of public enemies.
The lord of the 1st in good aspect with, or stronger than
the lord of the 8th, or planets therein; or if the fortunes
be lords of the 8th, or posited there; or if there be transla
tion by good aspect, the native will die a natural death:
172 HORARY QUESTIONS.
but ‘fit be a violent sign, or the luminaries or lord
8th be in one, or if the lord of the 8th, or planets
be strong, or in evil aspect to the ascendant or it
from violent signs, or to the luminaries, there is dar
a violent £ Fixed stars of the 1st or 2d magi
or the fortunes, or luminaries, or if the 88, or the
there, or the lord of the 8th strong and well aspecte
a good dower with the wife, but if the reverse, t
nothing. Its colours are grave and black. Its consig
tors are b and ml. He being here destroys the wife's
or property, and renders legacies unprofitable, thre:
violent death, but also denotes the poverty of en
# gives legacies, a rich wife, long life, and a 1
eath; 6 gives a violent death, poverty and ruin;
gives a rich wife, but danger of a violent death; Q,
lower with a wife, and a natural death; #, est:
legacy, death by consumption; the D, long life but
of drowning; the Dragon’s Head the same as 2/; th
gon's Tail the same as b; the 69, great profit by a w
legacies. It is a feminine house, and denotes the ge
The 9th house is the house of religion, learning,
and science, voyages and travels abroad, and all
£ clergymen of all degrees, dreams, visio
tindred on the wife's side, (or on the husband's side
wife be the querent). 2/ being there shews a £
character; # 6, or the Dragon’s Tail being there
an atheist. The consignificators are 21 and 1. It is
culine house, and denotes the fundament, hips and
The lords of the 1st and 9th, being in good agre
make the native a great traveller, merchant and sc
and if 21, 2, #, the D or the SA be there, or i
aspect with the lord of the 9th, the native will b
religious and fortunate; if HP, 6, the QS or the lor
evil house be there, the native will be reproba
atheistical, evil and unfortunate; and if the lord
9th be weak, retrograde or combust, it denotes gre
The colours are green and white. B makes an athie
causes loss by sea; 2/ gives good voyages, piety and
referment; 6, atheism or apostacy, loss at sea by I
- lightning, &c.; the G), fortunate voyages, true re
and church preferment; Q, the same as 21, but h
dition must be good, the native generally marries
travels; # gives great science, invention, and it
makes the native an adept at occult sciences, he ge.
travels as an artist or scientific man, and is fortul
otherwise, as # is strong or weak; the Q, the s
2/ ; the 83, the same as b : the @ gives riches by v
* - " -
HORARY QUESTIONS. 173
or the church; the D causes many voyages, and great in
constancy in religion.
The 10th house is the house of honour, authority, pre
ferment, trade, situation and profession, and also of dis
grace. It denotes the native's mother, kings, mobility,
laces, pensions, sinecures, and in state questions, empires,
£ provinces, &c.; 2 or the Q being there, give
the greatest honours, but b or the 83, is disgrace and ruin
to great men, and great distress in trade and employment
to the lower orders. The consignificators are d and Vy.
It is a feminine house, and denotes the knees and hams.
When the lords of the 1st and 10th are strong, and in
reception, translation, good application or position, or
with the fortunes or the 52, or in good aspect with an
planet but the two infortunes, or with the GP in the i.
or 11th house, all these are signs of honours and prosperty.
If the significators be ill disposed, or if there be evil planets
in the 10th, it denotes disgrace, and often a violent death.
The colours are read and white. B being here gives a
sudden fall and inevitable ruin to great men, and either
disgrace, imprisonment, ignominious death, or infamy,
with loss of trade to all; / is the reverse of b,; 6 gives
great trouble from magistrates, with martial honours,
which will end in misery, it also causes sickness and short
life to the mother and much evil; the Q gives glory and
power beyond the native's birth, from great persons; Q
gives honour and preferment by great women; # gives
referment, and the native is honoured by learning, and
is often secretary to some embassy; the D gives profit and
honour by sea, trade, or great women; the Dragon’s Head
renders honours durable; the Dragon's Tail destroys them;
the GP ensures riches by trade, and preferment.
The 11th house is that of friends, connexions, counsel
lors, advisers, favourites, minions and flatterers, and de
notes all our wishes, expectations, attachments and earnest
desires. The G) and : are its consignificators. The lord
of the 11th being there shews many powerful friends; and
the usual harmonies between the lords of the lst and 11th
shew good and valuable friends. If the lord of the 12th
be there, they are pretended friends and private enemies.
Its colours are saffron or deep yellow. P being here gives
false friends, despair, and death of children; 2/, true
friends, riches and happiness; 6, false friends, ruin, and
wicked children; the G), great and noble friends, and
great happpiness; Q, honourable faithful friends, par
ticularly women; #, inconstant friends, but much depends
on his condition; the D, the friendship of great women,
174 HORARY QUESTIONS.
but her condition is every thing; the Dragon’s Head
the same as / ; the Dragon's Tail is the same as 6; the
gives great riches by friendship. It denotes the legs, a
is a significator in state questions of the king's riches, tr.
sure, ammunition and soldiery. It is a masculine hous
The 12th house is that of affliction, misery, and sufferi
distress of every kind, grief, persecution, malice, secret
mity, anxiety, envy, imprisonment, treason, sedition, ass
sination and suicide. It is also the house of great cat
and kindred by the mother's side. Its consignificators :
Q and 36. It is said to be the joy of b, because he is
parent of malignity. It is a feminine house and deno
the feet.
If no planet be there, and its lord have no aspect w
the ascendant or its lord, there will be few private enemi
If the lord of the ascendant have a good aspect with
lord of the 12th from bad houses, his enemies will inj
him under false pretences. If the aspects be evil, especia
if the rays of infortunes concur, he will have many enem
much trouble and imprisonment. If the lord of the 1st
in the 12th, or the lord of the 12th in the 1st, it deno
imprisonment and much anguish. The colour is gre
Saturn being here gives every evil, except death, that
afflict mankind; 21 gives few enemies or troubles, and
tory over them all; d. is the same as B, but the enen
will be more courageous and daring; the G) makes enem
powerful; Q gives profit by great cattle, and few priv.
enemies, and those weak, but her condition must be c
sidered; # gives very knavish enemies, but this will be
cording to his condition, which will make much differen
the ), it is said, makes the lower order of people enem
her condition must be particularly observed; the Drago
Head is the same as 21, and the Dragon's Tail the same
Saturn, some say the Dragon's Head strengthens priv
enemies, and that the Dragon’s Tail weakens them; the
shews great loss and ruin by repeated disasters, enmity,
Lilly says, that the 12th is the house of witchcraft, and
enquirers concerning witches.
The description of the 12 houses, as here laid down,
lately been adopted in nativities as well as in horary qu
tions, but I have no opinion of it in nativities whatev
although I have seen several instances in which it has b
; verified : reason is against it, and the effects of the hou
except the 1st and 10th can only be admitted in hor
£ They seem to have their influence assigned th
through a misconception of the system of Ptolemy, w
certainly did not mean any thing of the kind; yet £
HORARY QUESTIONS. 175
talks with much confidence of evil aspects from the 8th
house, as the house of death, which he says “is terrible.”
It might be so to him, but I should think it of very little
consequence. I have, however, copied the system correctly,
and the artist may put it to what use he pleases, but I would
advise him to have nothing to do with lords of houses,
Dragon's Head or Tail, or Pars Fortuna, in nativities: they
are merely symbols, and only calculated for horary ques
tions.
The lords of the different houses are also supposed to
have a certain effect in their dominative capacity, as follows:
The Lord of the 1st.
In the 1st, Denotes a fortunate life and power over enemies.
2d, Riches by the native's own industry.
3d, Many voluntary journeys.
4th, Lands and inheritance. -
5th, Propensity to pleasure, and many children.
6th, Much sickness.
7th, Many public enemies, and he may add himself
to the number. -
8th, Legacies, or riches by a wife, suicide.
9th, He is religious, learned, and a traveller.
10th, Great honour, and preferment by real merit.
11th, Friends, and he is his own friend.
12th, Danger of imprisonment, and much unhappiness.
The Lord of the 2d.
In the 1st, The native is born to riches, and a good fortune.
2d, Much wealth.
3d, Wealth by brethren, neighbours, and travelling.
4th, Wealth by the father. . .
5th, Wealth by gaming, or by children.
6th, By dealing in cattle. -
7th, By women and marriage.
8th, By legacies or by marriage.
9th, By religion, learning, or foreign journies.
10th, By preferment, trade and merchandise.
11th, Byfriends. -
12th, By great cattle, also loss of wealth.
The Lord of the 3d.
In the 1st, Pleasure and profit in travelling.
2d, Riches by travelling.
3d, Good brethren and journeys.
4th, Travelling to take possession of an estate.
5th, Travelling for pleasure.
176 HORARY QUESTIONS.
In the 6th, Sickness injourneys.
7th, The native gets a wife, or meets with thieves
his journeys. -
8th, He dies on a journey. -
9th, Missionaryjourneys, or as an itinerant preach
| s 10th, Journeys for trade or preferment.
- 11th, Travelling for improvement.
* 12th, Imprisonmentandgreat misfortunes injourne
The Lord of the 4th.
In the 1st, A good inheritance.
2d, An estate by purchase.
3d, Inheritance by brethren.
4th, A healthy long lived father, or good estate.
5th, The estate will pass to his children.
- 6th, An estate gained by physic, or wasted by si
. neSS.
7th, Estates by a wife.
8th, Estates by wives, legacies or gifts.
9th, By voyages, religion or science.
10th, By some office or dignity.
I 11th, Byfriendship. -
12th, By dealing in black cattle, or loss by treache
- • The Lord of the 5th.
In the 1st, Affectionate dutiful children.
2d, The riches increased or diminished by childr
3d, Journeys on account of children.
4th, Estates divided among children, orgiven to th
by their grandfather.
5th, Children prudent, healthy, fortunate and hap
6th, Disagreement with children, causing sickn
. . . and affliction.
7th, Open enmity between the native and his childr
8th, Many evils from children, so as to shorten l
9th, Children that will assist their father in learni
and travelling.
10th, Great honour or disgrace by children.
11th, Great attachment between the native and
children,
12th, His children are his private enemies, and
sources of much uneasiness, and often ruin.
In considering the affairs and fortunes of the nativ
children, the 5th house must be considered as an ascenda
and the lords be directed for it as for a separate nativi
#ORARY QUESTIONS. 17?
The Lord of the 6th.
In the 1st, Causes much sickness bythe native'sirregularity.
In the 1st, Gives a very good saving wife, or lossby enemies.
2d, Waste of property by sickness, or by servants.
3d, Sickness by journeys.
4th, Sickness from vexation at losses of inheritance.
5th, From bad children and a profligate love of
easure.
6th, Good servants, but severe sickness. .
7th, Sickness by quarrels, fighting, and women.
8th, Dangerous sickness, and danger of some un
timely death. - -
9th, Sickness abroad or at sea.
10th, Sickness from shame and disgrace.
11th, Sickness on account of friends or ill treatment.
12th, Sickness by imprisonment and deep vexation.
The Lord of the 7th.
2d, Riches or poverty by marriage.
3d, Quarrels with brethren or neighbours.
4th, Inheritance or lands by marriage.
5th, A pleasing wife and many children, also enmity
with children. -
6th, An ill disposed wife, the cause of sickness and
affliction. -
7th, A very creditable wife, with £:
8th, A rich or poor wife, as he is well or ill dignified.
9th, One who will be separated from her husband
by the sea. -
10th, Great honour and profit, or disgrace and loss,
by wives or enemies. -
11th, Afriendly loving wife, or enemies among friends.
12th, Great misery by marriage, quarrels, law-suits,
&c.
- The Lord of the 8th.
In the 1st, Death byirregularity or suicide.
2d, Much riches by legacies. -
3d, Dangers from short journeys of being murdered.
4th, Death through vexation and loss of £
5th, Death] by drinking and debauchery, or by bad
children.
6th, Incurable sickness.
7th, Death by suicide, quarrels, thieves, or violent
SS101m.
8th, A rich wife and a natural death.
9th, Death by ":
2
1 HORARY QUESTIONS.
*
8
f
*
In the 10th, Death by sentence of a judge.
11th, Legacies by friends.
12th, Death in prison.
The Lord of the 9th.
In the 1st, Shews piety, learning, and a great travell
2d, Riches by the sea, the church, or by learr
3d, The native will be a sectarian or dissente
4th, Church inheritances and lands.
5th, A free liver and little piety.
6th, Church preferment, but ill health in f
countries.
7th, Enemies in the church and at sea.
8th, Death or persecution for religion, or abr
9th, A traveller, churchman, or a great schola
10th, Church preferment, or great honours abr
11th, Many friends and fortunate voyages.
12th, Great vexation and persecution in relig
travelling. -
The Lord of the 10th.
In the 1st, Gives honour and prosperity.
. In the 1st, Gives a real friend.
2d, Purchased honours, riches by trade.
3d, The native is fortunate and much respect
4th, Lands and inheritances.
5th, Honourable pursuits and creditable child
6th, Sickness by aiming at greatness.
7th, An honourable wife, and increase of tri
property.
8th, Gain by a wife, sometimes a violent deat
9th, Honour in the church, and by learni
her voyages. •
10th, Great success and renown.
11th, Noble friends. -
12th, Disgrace, ruin, and imprisonment.
The Lord of the 11th.
2d, Riches by friends.
3d, Friendship among kindred, fortunate jou
4th, Love of the father, good inheritance.
5th, Loving children, and an honourable life
6th, Faithful servants, little sickness.
7th, A loving wife, and few enemies, &c.
8th, An easy death. -
9th, Great fortune in voyages, learning, &e.
| HORARY QUESTIONS. 179
In the 10th, Great honour, and preferment by the great."
11th, Valuable friends, and great happiness.
12th, Deceitful friends, and much suffering.
The Lord of the 12th.
In the 1st, Gives disgrace and ruin, folly, and consequent
misery. - -
2d, Poverty and ruin.
3d, False kindred, and great disappointment.
4th, An envious father, loss of estates.
5th, Infamous children, and the native is very pro
fligate.
6th, Vile servants, diseases among cattle, much sick
IneSS.
7th, Vile enemies, law-suits, an ill wife, and much
injury from enemies of every description.
8th, A miserable death, after great misfortunes,
9th, Shipwreck, imprisonment, loss, ignorance, and
fulln. -
10th, Sad disgrace and ruin by envy, an untimely end.
11th, Deceitful friends, and great disappointments.
12th, Powerful enemies, who overcome in the end.
These positions require some explanation: they have
little or no meaning as they stand, and when compared with
the description of the houses, involve a great contradiction.
Because & might be lord of the 2d, which being in the
first would denote riches and good fortune, whereas, in re
ality, being a malefic he would denote sudden death, or
great sickness and danger. B might be the lord of the 2d,
which in the 10th denotes great wealth and success in trade,
whereas he would denote inevitable disgrace and ultimate
ruin. The whole, therefore, is decided by the nature of
the question, as, if it related to riches and how they were
likely to be obtained, the lord of the 2d posited in the 1st,
would denote that the native must £ them by his own
Ul
industry, and that by exertion he could not fail. Again, if
the question related to the circumstance of a clergyman
being promoted to a benefice, if B were the lord of the
9th, and posited in the 10th, he would be sure to have it.
I do not, however, think that an infortune, being significa
tor of a thing desired, is much in its favour, although artists
in general make no distinction, but this must be left to every
one’s experience: my only aim is caution, to guard the
student against carelessness and too much deference to old
opinions, many of which I can affirm, ofmy own knowledge,
are very erroneous. Care must likewise be taken not to
180 HORARY QUESTIONS.
receive any thing here laid down in an unlimited se
The lord of the Ist in the 2d is said to cause riches by
native's own industry, but nothing could be more ab
than this doctrine in certain cases, If the ), for insta
were lady of the ascendant and posited in the 2d in sq
or opposition to 6 and Q or the Q, it would denote
querent to be a profligate character, who instead of re.
ing a fortune by his own industry would shortly work
own ruin by his extravagance, with the assistance o
dissolute connexions and his own unsettled disposi
which would prevent him from adhering to any thing
ong enough to be serviceable. If posited in the 10th he
he would work his own downfal in the same manner;
if 3 were at that time in opposition to the luminaries
end would be violent and untimely; and if either of
were posited in the 10th, or in evil aspect to it or its
or to 2/, he would probably be publicly executed. '
the artist will see, that it is not by a blind adherence to
rules here laid down that correct judgments can be form
in fact, they are from their present imperfect state w
than useless, for they lead many astray, and should
have been inserted, could the work have been perfect w
out them. Nevertheless, they have their uses, bec
they will teach the student, after a few failures, to rel
His own experience and observation, and not on tho
others. . -
The familiarities of planets have a powerful effect
in nativities and in horary questions. In horary ques
every planet is deemed a significator of something,
therefore the aspect he receives must be considere
cordingly; but in nativities there can be rationally no
£ but the moderators, of which Ptolemy
P acidus reckon 5, viz. the horoscope, the midheaven
Sun, the Moon, and the Part of Fortune, and this
the lunar horoscope, I shrewdly suspect to hav
influence whatever, nor do I think any moderator ca
relied on but the luminaries. To these may be adde
in common with the }, as the significator of intellect
disposition. - -
he following are said to be the effects of the familial
The 6 of b and 21, if B be significator, gives the n.
possessions and inheritances, and profits arising from
culture, particularly from corn, as 2 is said to rul
fruits ofthe Earth. The disposition will be grave, st
honest, slow, and laborious, if 2/ be well dignified, 1
not, he will be dull, vain, superstitious, obstinate
unfortunate.
HORARY QUESTIONS. ISI
If 2/ be significator and b well dignified, the native
will be cowardly and suspicious, grave, austere and un
sociable, inclined to covetousness, and by this and persever
ance often make a fortune. The most prosperous under
taking he can embark in, is any thing connected with
mines and quarries, or in digging and cultivating the
Earth. If b be ill dignified, the native is treacherous and
base, dull, but sly, full of low cunning, and hypocrisy, a
religious bigot, superstitious and selfish, generally hated
and despised, and of course very unfortunate.
The conjunction of b with d, if B be significator and
& well dignified, makes the native rash, and unruly,
quarrelsome, obdurate and cruel. He may gain prefer
thent in a warlike capacity, but by some means, probably
by cowardice or caution, and sometimes by ill timed rash
ness, or austerity, he will be rendered unfit for it, and be
cashiered, or disgraced. If G be ill dignified, he will be
treacherous, malignant, a murderer and an assassin,
probably a footpad, and always a thief when he has an
opportunity.
If 6 be significator, and b well dignified, the native
will be cowardly, yet seemingly rash and daring, cruel,
hardened and obdurate, and incapable of forgiving. He
generally succeeds to his father's estate, and may gain
property by labour, knavery, or rapacity, but it is accom
panied with cares, vexation and anxiety, and generally
chequered with repeated losses, arising chiefly from at
tempts to over-reach others. If B be ill dignified, the native
will be a malignant, cowardly assassin, hypocritical, trea
cherous and desperately wicked; always in trouble and dif
ficulty, frequently in prison, incessantly in danger, forward
in every species of outrage and wickedness, yet often escape
by betraying his companions, and generally finish his ca
reer by a violent or miserable death.
The Ó of b with the G), if b be significator and the G).
be well dignified, denotes much evil. It is said, it causes
great loss from fire, except good aspects of the fortunés in
tervene. The native is proud, lofty, and very unfortunate,
and has his pride often mortified by his superiors. His
condition is often mean, servile, and disagreeable, liable to
oppression and insult, and extremely apt to deserve it. He
isdull, bewildered, knavish, and base, and always unhappy.
If the Q be ill dignified, the disposition and fortune are of
the same character, but much worse, his disasters more
frequent, he lives unhappy and dies miserably, and often
comes to an untimely end. If the Q be significator, and
b be well dignified, he is proud, mean, treacherous, waste
|||
|
182 HORARY QUESTIONS.
:i.
.
|
.
ful, and careless, loses his inheritance or destroys it b
£; except a good benefic ray intervene, and c
reaks his limbs, or loses his life by falls. If b be ill
nified, his disposition is base and infamous, his fortune
and his life extremely miserable, he is a mixture of pi
meanness, covetousness, prodigality, cowardice and r
ness, poverty and beggarly pride. He has often a mar
blemish in his face, some of his limbs broken or disto
by falls, or other accidents, sometimes blind or with
eyes, and often dies a violent death.
The Ó of B with Q, if b be significator, and well
nified, makes the native libidinous, and much attache
women, by whom, nevertheless, he may make his fort
His disposition, though grave, is mild and quiet, yet n
addicted to pleasure. He is tolerably fortunate, and g
mostly by dealing in finery, female dresses, toys, &c.
a musician or teacher of dancing. If Q be ill dignifie
is mean, effeminate, selfish and treacherous, and either 1
himself by infamous women or marries one who is poo
of bad character, or of a different disposition from his
which renders him permanently miserable.
If Q be significator and b well dignified, the native
be cowardly, but wise and careful, always unfortuna
his undertakings, but often retrieves or avoids loss by s
rior caution and prudence; moderate in his desires, gr
steady but austere, slow, and one of few words. If |
ill dignified, the native is savage and beastly, malig
and cruel, full of cowardice, dissimulation and treach
ignorant, stubborn and envious, his fortune is bad, an
life an entire series of misconduct and its consequent t
of anxiety and sufferings.
The conjunction of b with #, if B be significator,
# well dignified, makes the native subtle and crafty,
with sound judgment, deep learning and good elocu
one ready to acquire knowledge and-able to retain it
any profession connected with literature he is usually
cessful, his manners are not always the most amiable, a
is inclined to be supercilious and pedantic. -
If # be ill dignified, the native is weak minded,
ceited, idle, talkative and ignorant; and, if in bad as
with the D, has generally an impediment in speech,
extremely dishonest, artful, treacherous and base,
quently a sly thief or swindler, and always unfortu
mean, and infamous.
If t be significator, and b well dignified, the nati
fearful, suspicious, grave,and reserved, of some knowle
but slow parts, cool, secret, cautious, calculating, and
*
HoRARY QUESTIONS. 183
covetous, and frequently makes a fortune thereby; fond of
scheming, which he often turns to good account, but selfish,
unsociable, and worthless. -
If b be ill dignified, he is treacherous, base, and malig
nant, without abilities, and envious of those possessed by
others; of shallow judgment, cowardly and suspicious,
base and dishonest, and deeply revengeful; always igno
rant, obstinate and intractable, often wholly stupid, and
if the D be in C#, D, or 9, to the place, frequently dumb
or silly, and always unfortunate.
The G of b with the ), if b be significator and the) well
dignified, makes the native tolerably acute, and of sound
judgment, provided # be free from affliction, but often un
fortunate, except in his dealings with women, or the com
mon or lower order of mankind: very unsettled, restless,
and fond of change, which frequently deranges his circum
stances, although he in general profits by it in the end. If
the D be ill dignified, it denotes great misfortunes and
losses, and reduces the native to beggary, by his own folly,
instability, and fondness of low company and the dregs of
mankind; he is always poor, obscure, mean, and infamous,
wretched and shameless; the dupe of infamous women, and
an associate of the vilest prostitutes, and if : cast a square
oropposite ray to the conjunction, and the Q be ill dignified,
or in his fall, he will, however high-born, be a beggar and
thief by nature, and quit his lofty station to mingle with
wretches and vagabonds; and if Ó give an evil aspect,
he will come to an untimely end.
If the D be significator, and b well dignified, the native
will be timerous, and suspicious, austere, morose and
reserved, covetous and fond of gain, and careful of what
he acquires; of slow parts, but sound judgment, laborious.
and not very aspiring, coarse in manners, and generally
makes a fortune by his own exertions.
If P be ill dignified, he is cruel, malicious, brutish and
gross in his ideas, without natural affection, suspicious,
and deeply malignant, fond of secret revenge, cowardly
and implacable, very avaricious, yet changeable, and often
wasting his means without end or design, generally hated
and avoided, and extremely unfortunate.
It must here be observed, that these effects are only
when the conjunction operates independently of any aspects
from other planets. If 2/ irradiate the conjunction in any
way, it will mitigate its evil effects; for an opposition of
Jupiter is held to be better than astrine of P or G. If d
irradiate the place of the conjunction, even by >|< or A, it
seldom mends the disposition, but by rendering it more
-
-
184 HoRARY QUESTIONs.
bold, active, and enterprising, generally renders i
mischievous, especially if he be ill dignified. If the
be a D., &, or d, it renders the native more cru
ferocious, makes him prone to robbery and murd
creases his danger and £ dissolution by blows:
and fire. If the G) cast a good aspect, it denotes rich
your from the great, and always mends the native's fa
if he be well dignified; but, if not, it will be of shor
tion and end in nothing. If he be in close conjuncti
adds to the evil by threatening blindness, burning al.
loss by fire, and violent death, often by the senten
judge, besides continual oppression and misery. If
in square or opposition, he threatens great misery,
violent or ignominious death. If Q irradiate the pl
a good aspect, and be well dignified, her effects are
to those of Jupiter, but if ill dignified, or cadent, th
she gives is but trifling and of short duration. If sh
diate the place by an evil aspect, her effects diffe
those of Jupiter, for she rather increases than mi
the evil. She adds treachery to cowardice, threate
eases, ruin and death, by means of bad woman; i
the native’s fortune by inclining him to lust and d
tion, and destroys his wealth and reputation. Ho:
her D or & will often save life, if the G be hyle
afflicted by B or 6. # partakes of the nature of
with whom he has familiarity. So that if he be we
nified and aspected himself, and cast a good aspect
point ofthe d, he is equal to one of the fortunes; bi
C, or D, or 9, he increases the evil in the manner
planets by whom he is aspected. The @ is like
cording to the nature of the planets by which she
pected. , Her k or A is good, particularly ifshe b
dignified and free from affliction, but her conju
where there is an infortune is evil.
The conjunction of 2/ with 6, if / he significat
G well dignified, makes the native bold, choleric,
lofty, magnanimous and daring, very fortunate in w
a good chemist, surgeon, or physician, and tolerab
tunate, but generally irrascible, and fond of fightin
duelling. If d be ill-dignified, his ill humour is :
rable, and if cadent, he is generally a coward, and
cases an ill-conditioned, idle, unprincipled, dissipat
low, fond of broils and strife, with mean abilitie
liable to accidents, wounds, and death, the conseque
his folly.
If 6 be significator, and 2/-well dignified, the na
noble, just, and beneficent, a man of piety, and ofte
HORARY QUESTIONS. 185
€hurch preferment, or rises to eminence in the law, and is
fortunate in most of his undertakings. If 2/ be ill-dignified,
he possesses the same qualities in a very moderate degree,
is weak and credulous in matters of religion, and becomes
an easy dupe to a hypocrite.
The conjunction of 21 with the Q, if the Sun be well
dignified, and Jupiter significator, is at best but an evil
familiarity. It denotes sickness, oppression and ruin by
men in power, or bad parents, but if the native survive
until 2/ free himself from the Sunbeams he will recover.
If the @ be ill dignified, he will be a vain, silly character,
and extremely unfortunate, generally sickly in his youth,
liable to melancholy; religious despair and madness,
"' if : or the D be afflicted.
f the Q be significator, whether 2/ be well or ill
dignified, he is, they say, so debilitated by the Sunbeams,
that the native is but little affected by him, except being
rather more religious.
The conjunction of and Q is the most happy
familiarity that can possibly be, and promises every good
to the native that can fall to the lot of humanity. The
better they are dignified the more amiable and happy they
will be, and if Q be significator the native will be super
latively beautiful. If any thing can add to their felicity, it
is when the conjunction happens in 96, the house of 2/, and
exaltation of Q ; but, wherever it happens, it denotes virtue,
honour, piety, and tranquillity, riches and love. If Q,
however, be ill dignified, the native will be subject to loose
desires, but never infamous.
The 6 of 2/ and #, if / be significator, and # well
dignified and free from affliction, makes the native virtuous,
pious and of good capacity and extensive information, very
eloquent and an excellent scholar and divine. In short, if
they are angular, there are no bounds to his capacity. He
is generally handsome and elegantly formed, very fortu
nate, and seems endowed with a kind of magic power,
which defeats or overawes all opponents, and obviates every
difficulty.
If # be ill dignified, or afflicted, it makes a striking differ
ence. Ifill dignified, he is weak, superficial, conceited, very
forward in youth, and seemingly sharp, buthis mind does not
improve progressively, but rather seems to decline as he
arrives at manhood. The strength or weakness of the D,
however, and her aspect to the place of conjunction, makes
a very sensible difference in the abilities of the native. If
# be afflicted, he will communicate the disposition of those
planets that afflicted him; if by b, the native will be
- 2 A.
+
|--|
--|
|
186 HORARY QUESTIONS.
| cowardly and base; if by 6', desperate, passiona
. dishonest; and if combust of the Q, ignorant, me
- stupid.
f : be significator, and 2/ well dignified, prov
be not combust, the native is mild, gentle, and an
a man of abilities and feeling, and a friend to all m
His knowledge will always procure him respect, and
him riches, honours, good fortune, patronage and
tion, according to his station in life. If 2/ be ill di
the disposition is equally good, but the native i
credulous and more easily imposed on; nor will he
that sound judgment and depth of research, as if
stronger. He will be moderately fortunate, and
admired, generally beloved, although his patrons or
are not so powerful.
The G of 2 with the D, if 2 be significator,
. ) well dignified, is the aspect of harmless good
yet of acuteness sufficient to answer all the purp
self-preservation. The native will be changeable,
and fond oftravelling, and might always berich, pros
and happy, provided he could settle. If the D bei
ing in light, his good fortune will be unbounded,
will probably be united to a lady much above his ow
dition; but if decreasing, he will meet with some r
of fortune, though nothing that will injure him mat
If at the new or full, he will suffer occasionally b
men. His greatest fortune will be on the water and
ladies of respectability; and his travels will be beyo
If the D £ ill dignified, he will be good natur
unsteady in temper, rather pettish, but soon reconci
tremely changeable, and never satisfied any whe
angular, it is better; but if in a cadent house, he
generally unfortunate, and suffer much by means
company, to which he will be too much addicted, ex
Sun behold the conjunction with good aspect, and pi
may ruin himself by some infamous women, if Ó as;
place of the conjunction.
If the D be significator and 2/ well dignified, the
will be highly honoured and respected, and extrem
tunate, and likely to gain considerably by ecclesiastic
ple or concerns. The disposition is noble, magnar
and generous, kind, humane, and hospitable.
If 2/ be ill dignified, the native will £ al
properties in a moderate £ though his unsus
ood nature may occasionally make him the prey
ypocritical and designing, especially in religious n
|
f
*
-
||
s
s
f
HORARY QUESTIONS. 187
The conjunction of d with the Q, whether well or ill
dignified, generally cuts life short by fevers, phrenzy, fire,
or lightning. If the native escape until 6 clear himself
from combustion, he will be more healthy, but never fortu
nate. Ifthe conjunction be not near enough for d to be com
bust, the native will be proud, lofty, arrogant and empty;
a daring, boasting, £fellow, always in broils and
aying continually the penalty of some outrageous folly.
e may gain martial honours, and riches, but they will be
held with difficulty amid strife and violence, and finally come
to nothing.
If the @ be significator, and 6 well dignified and not
near enough to be combust, the native will be violent, head
strong and rash, high in command, and generally victori
ous; but almost uniformly end his days in battle, or in a
duel or dreadful quarrel, or come off terribly wounded.
If d be ill dignified, the native is treacherous, rash and
bloody minded, probably a soldier, housebreaker, or foot
£ and murderer; always in danger, and generally ends
is days by a violent and, probably, ignominious death.
The G of 3 with Q, if Ó be significator, and Q well
dignified, makes the native of a hasty temper, but on the
whole goodnatured, very forgiving, much addicted to women,
but maintains his respectability; is generally fortunate, ad
mired and respected. If Q be ill dignified, the pursuits of
the native will be low and dishonourable, and seldom at
tended with success except to accomplish his ruin. His
chief companions are prostitutes, which seldom fail to ren
der him prodigal, dissipated and diseased.
If Q be significator, and d well dignified, the native will
be proud, quarrelsome, and very lustful, and although brave
£fortunate in war, generally end his days by some quar
rel; he will often, however, make a good surgeon or che-
mist, and generally meet with success in his undertakings,
and, when his passions are out of the question, evince con
siderable abilities and ingenuity. If d be ill dignified, it
renders the native wholly debauched and deeply wicked, a
companion ofprostitutes, proud, empty, quarrelsome, hard
ened, cruel and sottish, a thief or thieftaker, the bully of a
brothel, or midnight assassin, particularly if # be with
them, or in evil aspect.
The 6 of 6 with #, if Ó be significator, and # well dig
nified and free from affliction, gives the native great learn
ing and acuteness, and, when his passions are not con
cerned, of tolerably sound judgment, one that will excel in
any thing that requires presence of mind, ready-wit, bril
liant imagination, or quick penetration, a good lawyer,
188 HORARY QUESTIONS.
orator or politician, ambassador, messenger, or spy u
casion, and if the 6 be in an angle, a man of never,
resources, wonderfully successful, and almost invinci
§ be ill dignified, or afflicted, he will be a chatteri
natured, pragmatical pedant, with little learning, a
honesty, frequently a pettifogging attorney, an ig
pedagogue, a thief, traitor, spy, or common inform
sembling chiefly in disposition those planets by whi
most powerfully aspected or afflicted.
If # be significator, and 6 well dignified, he m
great, acute, and powerful commander; and if the G
are angular and in good aspect, may rise to the
honour in the army or navy, owing to his great pres
mind, acute perception, and invincible courage.
If & be ill dignified, the native is treacherous, fel.
and blood-thirsty; and if the configuration be in an
will possess the power of doing an immense deal
chief Idle, dissipated and drunken; capable of a
gree of infamy, a thief, housebreaker, footpad, or a
a traitor, rebel, informer, impostor, and renegade.
tyfogging lawyer, gambler, or swindler.
The conjunction of 6 with the ), if G be signi
and the ) well dignified, makes the native very chan,
but bold and enterprising, not easily disconcerted,
nerally marries some lady much above his own sp
life; one much addicted to women, yet seldom sul
them.
If the D be ill dignified, the native is naturally
base and mean, be his birth and connexions what the
one who delights to associate with the meanest of mi
vulgar, despicable, and contemptible ; in disp
changeable and silly, of shallow abilities; always po
unfortunate, drunken and dissipated; often a wa
beggar, and frequently a thief; and if a woman, ge
a prostitute; they generally through distress or bani
end their days abroad.'
If the ) be significator, and Ó well dignified, the
is bold, rash, and unruly; of no great abilities, b
sessing much courage and enterprize; well calcula
a warrior, surgeon, chemist, physician; is fond oftra
and exploring unknown countries, where he genera
a prey to assassins, or dies of some hot, moist, put
temper, though generally fortunate in other respe
e; be ill dignified, the native will be of a violent,
temper; malignant, treacherous and cruel; an ince
murderer, robber, rebel, and traitor, who seldom liv
especially if the ) be hyleg, and generally comes
HORARY QUESTIONS. 189
untimely end. Those persons are generally marked with
a scar in the eye or face.
The G of the G) with Q, if the G) be significator, and
Q well dignified, makes the native soft and effeminate, yet
above any thing mean; some say he is ambitious and fond
of glory, but his chief glory will be found to consist in his
victories over the fair sex, and his greatest ambition is to
be seen in their company. If Q be near enough to be
combust, much of her power will be destroyed, though
enough will be left to give the native a turn for extrava
gance, and an attachment for persons whose affairs are
always in a deranged or ruinous state, and his property
will be continually wasted in retrieving them. If Q be ill
dignified, he will keep company with none but low and
infamous women, who will speedily bring him to ruin.
If Q be significatrix, the native will be proud, and
prodigal; and if the Q be ill dignified, extremely mean
and poor withal, generally short lived, liable to consump
tion, and hectic fever; and full of crosses and vexations.
If, however, the native live until she separate from the
Sun, they will be more healthy, but seldom fortunate.
The C of the G) and #, if the G) be significator, and
# well dignified, is said to give great wit, learning and
ingenuity. It is the general opinion, that § does not
suffer like the other planets by combustion, but is rather
strengthened by it: experience, however, does not warrant
this conclusion. The native will seldom have much pro
pensity to learning, although he may have no inconsiderable
proportion of low cunning. One of this description may
probably turn out pettifogger, thief-taker, bailiff, or some
other worthless character. If # be significator, the effects
will be nearly the same, as # imbibes the nature of the
planet he is joined with. He will be addicted to boasting
and lying through want of common sense, very deceitful,
and always endeavouring to appear what he is not. If the
() be well dignified, it is said he will acquire either riches,
£ or favour with the great; however this may be,
he is generally sickly in youth, liable to fevers, burns or
scalds, and latent diseases not easily cured. If in good
aspect with 21, he will be more healthy, and if the ) be
in good aspect with him, his intellects will be much im
proved, though he will seldom be remarkable for learning.
. The 6 of the G) with the D, if the Q be significator,
and the D well dignified, is said to give profit by travel.
iing. No doubt the D, from her proximity, is stronger
under the Sun-beams than any other planet, though her
influence must suffer a material change. If the D be ill
*I'
190 HORARY QUESTIONS.
dignified, the native will be very unsteady, fond of tra
ling, and never very rich or respectable, and will prob
be very sickly in youth, though if he live until the n
et from under the Sun-beams, he may do well. I
be significator, it denotes blindness or very bad eyes,
if the condition of 6 be such as to indicate a love of le
ing, he may probably blind himself, or acquire the My
or near-sightedness, by reading. If the D be in close
junction, the native will be very short lived, or if appl
to close conjunction, the same. If coming from undel
Sun-beams, and the native survive, he may be
healthy after a while, but something will ail his eyes,
he will probably have a scar in one of them or in the
He ''' proud, aiming at high things, but will sel
attain them; unstable in his resolves, and encount
great variety of new situations.
The # of Q with #, if Q be significator and #
dignified and free affliction, makes the native handsome
well shaped, ingenious, witty and eloquent; well disp
and kind to every one. Such a one generally acquir
fortune by some literary undertaking, and is always fo
nate. If # be weak, or combust, it shews the native t
mean and artful, arising from oppression, and a br
spirit.
If # be significator, and Q well dignified, it is
aspect of elegance and beauty, sound wisdom and good
of heart, love, beneficence, tenderness, delicacy, com
sion, meekness, modesty, truth, and innocence. If G
ill dignified, the native, although eminently beautiful,
be artful and too much given to the company of the oppo
sex, which will ultimately prove his ruin. They
generally good proficients in music.
The G. of Q and the D, if Q be significator, and
> well dignified, makes the native unstable, but alw
fortunate, very good natured and of an easy temper,
fully conscious of his own dignity and importance,
generally admired by the multitude. If the D be
dignified, he will be unstable and foolish, very talkat
boasting, and full of promises, without either a wis
ability to fulfil them; always changing place, and li:
to many disappointments. -
If the ) be significator, and Q well dignified, the na
will be effeminate but pleasing, very handsome and of g
understanding; a great proficient in the fine arts, of eleg
manners, fond of company, always presenting to him
the best side of things, and seldom laying any thin
heart, indeed, he has little reason so to do, for h
HORARY QUESTIONS. 191
generally admired and respected. , If Q be ill dignified,
it makes the native £ thoughtless and abandoned,
profligate, foolish and careless, but this depends much on
the other aspects of the ). -
The g of £ and the ), if # be significator, and the
) well dignified and both ofthem free from affliction, makes
the native of sound understanding; and if : be at good
distance from the Q, fond of learning, endowed with great
abilities, and much admired by the lower orders. He will
be changeable and unsteady, fond of travelling, and very
judicious and aspiring in his acquaintance and connexions.
One who is much favoured by women of a higher order, and
generally prosperous in all undertakings.
If the ) be significator, and # well dignified, their
effects are nearly the same, except that the native has more
abilities and less instability; is generally slight made and
handsome, learned, ingenious and profound, and one who
often produces some new invention, but the disposition in
both those cases depends on the nature of the various
planets configurated with the ) and #.
Of the Sextile and Trine. -
The k or A of 2/, if b be significator, makes the native
wise, sober, discreet, grave and pious; gives him favour
among the great, and sometimes church preferment, or
riches by agriculture.
The k or A of d adds a degree of courage to the na
tural timidity of the native, and is a sign of military pre
ferment; it renders him generous though choleric, more
bold, active and enterprising, open and confident.
The k or A of the O makes the native more noble, and
high-minded, but, it is said, with but little courage, espe
cially if the O be weak or ill dignified. He is generous,
but very revengeful and austere. He is large-boned, round
shouldered and stooping, not very prepossessing in appear
ance, but if the Q be strong, he will acquire riches, and
be tolerably fortunate and honourable.
The # or A of Q gives the native a comely appearance,
brown hair and grey eyes; fondness of women, and every
degree of extravagance connected with them. If Q. be
strong, he may marry to advantage, and rather gain than
lose by women; but, if weak, they will generally lead him
to dissipation and ruin. - -
The Sk or A of £3 makes the native ingenious, but with
out sterling merit or sound judgment, except # be strong
and well aspected. He is very curious, artful, fond of new
|
192 HORARY QUESTIONS.
whims that seldom amount to any thing, and very :
subtle and reserved.
The k or A of the ( makes him very changeable
ful and suspicious; but if the ( be well dignified, h
be tolerably fortunate, much admired by the vulgăr
generally gain considerably by the favour of, or by mal
with, some lady of consequence.
If 2/ be significator, the k or A of b makes hir
tious, fearful, melancholy or very grave; fond of ag
tural pursuits, and embarking in concerns relative to
quarries, or anything that relates to digging in the
by which he may gain considerably, if b be well dig
He is rather above the middle stature, inclining to
ness; and if P be weak, is very covetous, and not a
fortunate, though he often gains by purchasing li
houses, and frequently by legacies or by his father,
the favour of old men.
The k or A of d makes the native bold, but nob
generous, somewhat choleric and very ambitious;
fortunate in war, ingenious in chemistry, and skil
surgery. If d be weak, he will be more subtle, and t
: may acquire martial preferment, it may not be gri
asting.
The >|< or A of the @ makes the native ofgood st
well made and ruddy; very lofty and courageous, e
ally if the Q be strong; always fortunate, and high
spected by the great and men in power. If the G) be
he will possess the same qualities and fortune, thoug
more moderate degree, but if Mars afflict the G), h
die a violent death, or meet with some dreadful inju
The k or A of Q makes the native superlatively b
ful, tall and elegant, fine blue eyes and brown hair,
loving, and every way amiable; always beloved a
course fortunate, rich and honourable. If Q, how
be weak, the native will be imprudent, and too f
pleasure. - -
The Sk or A of $3 makes the native good and viri
and gives him refined wit and solid judgment. It is t
pect of ingenuity, eloquence, sound learning, and
abilities. It bestows kindness and affability, yet wit
ficient acuteness, and uninterupted good fortune, exc
be much afflicted. If he be weak, the endowment
fortune of the native will be in some small degree
nished. -
The k or A ofthe D makes the native very mutab
easily persuaded to change his situation, attachment o
fession; and he may be a traveller by sea if the Mo
HORARY QUESTIONS. 193
posited in a watery sign, in which case he will be ex
tremely fortunate, if the X be free from affliction. He is
generally a great favourite with women, and beloved by
the lower orders of mankind, and if belonging to the higher
class, is generally a favourite with the queen, or some great
lady of quality, and mostly marries to advantage. If the
) be weak, he will be loquacious and conceited, and if
there be no good familiarity between # and the D, his
fortune will be greater than his abilities.
If 6 be significator, the k or A of b makes the native
grave and far from headstrong; for b always gives caution
approaching to cowardice. He, however, if G be strong,
may be tolerably obstinate, and probably a bigot, if he be
religious. If b be strong, he may gain by legacies, or by
insinuating himself into the good graces of some elderly
person, who will most likely suffer by him; but if b be
weak, or afflicted, it will occasion some trouble, and
probably not be lasting.
The Sk or A of 2/ makes the native bold, high minded,
and rather ambitious, but truly honourable and respectable.
He is enterprizing, but strictly just, and above a mean
action. If it be weak, he will be conceited, and perhaps
a little enthusiastic in religion, yet tolerably fortunate.
The k or A of the Q gives the native great preferment
and favour, and, if the G) be strong, he will rise almost from
obscurity to great eminence by favour of great and power
ful men. People of this description rise rapidly in the
army, navy, or at court, or in any employ where they have
dealings with the great; or if connected with money matters
and such as have the handling of gold, they are sure to get
rich. At all times they are sure of being fortunaté and
honourable, except b be joined with the G), or posited in
the south angle, which is sure to destroy all.
The 2k or A of Q is, according to modern astrologers,
a very bad aspect; but this is an opinion not founded in
truth, or justified by experience. The native will, doubt
less, be a libertine in love matters, and, if Q be ill dignified,
a person of loose character; but if Q be strong, he will
generally be respectable in his connexions, rather wild than
wicked, and by no means of an evil disposition, but kind,
generous, and tractable, except where women or pleasures
intervene; not so prudent as might be wished, but active,
acute, insinuating, handsome, elegant, and one of very
prepossessing manners and appearance; bright penetrating
eyes, and tolerably fortunate, though he seldom makes the
most of it; much admired and courted by women, whose .
rank and condition of life may be known by the dignity of
2 C
194 HORARY QUESTIONS.
debility of Venus, and by observing whether she be
or cadent.
The k or A of # gives the native good abilitie
him ingenious, eloquent and learned; unites his
with prudence, and renders him acute and pen
particularly if # be well dignified, in good aspect
), and free from affliction. If he be weak, com
cadent, the native will be more dull and superficia
defects he will endeavour to remedy by craft and :
boasting and, perhaps, lying, swindling, or gami
fortune will be proportionate to the strength or w
of 6. -
#. >k or A of the D makes the native very t
and changeable, a restless, unsettled traveller,
who by subtlety gains by the lower classes. He v
likely be in some military or naval capacity, prob
latter, if the ) be in a watery sign; often angry,
pleased, and if the ) be well dignified, tolerably f
and respectable; but if she be weak, he will gain
his travels, and probably be much injured by his
with low women. If & himself be strong, he w
vate every woman he comes near.
If the Q be significator, the Sk or A of b will 1
native covetous, fearful and inclined to meanness,
to boasting, and very conceited and obstinate,
except B be very ill dignified, he is not maliciou
be weak, he will be weak minded and prodigal, an
fortunate. It, however, shews a good understa
exist between the native and his father, and tha
ultimately inherit what the latter possesses. -
The k or A of 21, if they are both strong, is th
of honour, glory, and riches. The native is high
noble, just, generous, and strictly honourabe an
in all his undertakings. It is, however, said,
generosity amounts to prodigality, and that from
bounded spirit ofliberality, histreasures, although i
are frequently exhausted.
The k or A of d is the aspect of valour and
unbounded honour, and rapid preferment. The
of a hot, dry constitution, strong and vigorous, no
possessing exalted notions of his own pre-eminent
ambitious, fortunate, powerful, and of an overw
mind, that nothing can resist; great and magnan
true friend, and a generous enemy. If d, howeve
dignified, it lessens those qualities in a very ren
degree, and if the G) be weak also, the native's c
although the same in appearance, will be merely sui
HORARY QUESTIONS. 195
and his fortune be neither great nor lasting. If b aspect
d in any way, it greatly lessens the native's courage.
The k or A of Q and of £ to the Q may be found in
some systems of astrology, and also their squares and
oppositions, but as no such aspects can ever be formed, it
must be a difficult task to describe their effects. Ptolemy,
indeed, mentions the sextile of Q, but by this he must
mean a mundane sextile, for Q is never above 48° distant
from the Sun, and of course can form no aspect in the
zodiac beyond the square. -
The k or A of the ) makes the native famous and
fortunate, especially among the lower orders of mankind,
and if both the luminaries be well dignified, among the
great likewise. The native is kind and cheerful, fond of
variety, and much addicted to travelling or rambling about,
but if the ) be afflicted, it hurts the native’s fortune.
If Q be significator, the k or A of b makes the native
comely, rather pale, affable and quiet, yet somewhat artful,
and not very courageous; not fond of debate or strife, but
more grave and retired; very shy and modest, and if B
be well dignified, is very liable to gain by legacies, and by
old people, who generally take a fancy to the native. It
is said, they never marry until 30 years old. If b be weak,
or ill dignified, they seldom gain much by this aspect, un
less other good aspects assist it.
The k or A of 2/ makes the native eminently beautiful,
noble, virtuous, just, generous and honourable. If M be
strong, it gives great fortune, preferment, and felicity,
#' in agricultural and ecclesiastical professions.
f / be weak or ill dignified, the native is more credulous
and unguarded, but in all cases it is an excellent aspect.
The # or A of 6 makes the native handsome and fresh
coloured, but proud and artful, and very libidinous, much
inclined to anger and rashness, and fond of embarking in
hazardous adventures, in which if Ó be well dignified £
often succeed, but if weak, they generally suffer by their
folly. If 6 and Q are both ill dignified, they are very
lewd and unprincipled.
The k of g (for they never form a trine) makes the
native well shaped and elegant, and if well dignified, very .
handsome, except # be too near the G). £ often gain
much by arts or sciences, and are generally learned and
polite, but there is no aspect more uncertain than this, as
it wholly depends on those planets, with whom # is con
figurated. - -
The k or A of the D gives great honour and fortune
in proportion as the D is dignified and free from affliction.
196 HORARY QUESTIONS.
The native is always extremely popular, though uns
and excentric, and often gains much by women; the
enerally meat, comely, and prepossessing, If the
ill dignified, they are seldom capable of any great a
but fond of novelty and unprofitable speculations.
If # be significator, the k or A of b makes the n
very studious, subtle and reserved, and if well dign
ives him a cold calculating judgment tolerably cor
ut he is mean and insinuating, selfish, and one who
rally gets into the good graces of old men, and often
considerably by them, if their horoscopes correspond
his own. If B be ill dignified, these advantages se
remain with him for any length of time, he is full of coi
and plans that are vain and futile.
The k or A of 21 makes the native a just, uprigh
virtuous character, with great wit and solid sense;
jestic, noble, ingenious, learned and eloquent; very
nate and universally respected. If Mercury, howeve
debilitated or combust, or in evil aspect of the D, it gr
impairs the native's understanding, and consequentl
good fortunate.
The Sk or A of 6 gives great ability and confid
subtlety, ingenuity and learning, but the native is extre
roud and conceited, and not too remarkable for hono
integrity. If d be, well dignified, and # free from
bustion, he generally gains a fortune either by the
surgery, medicine, chemistry, or the fabrication of iro
working at the fire. If d be ill dignified, it make
native rash, fond of gaming, or any indirect way of ga
money, and too much addicted to company, drinking
other unprofitable pursuits.
The k of Q depends much on her dignity: if s.
well dignified, the native is a pattern of elegance, be
body and mind; gentle, kind, soft and pleasing, an
male, highly favoured by the ladies. If she be ill digm
the form of the native will be equally elegant, but the
less pure; too much addicted to bad company, loose de
and prodigality. There is no planet, however, so
vertible as #, and any bad aspect of an infortune
wholly counteract the good effects of 21 or Q, or r
them to a nullity, by making the native a strange mi
of good and evil, wisdom and folly, and inconsistenc.
The k or A of the D is the aspect of sound abi
as nothing strengthens the mind so much as good a
ment between £, and the ), especially if she be ang
and well dignified, the native will be ingenious and
yet strong in judgment and quick in penetration, a
HORARY QUESTIONS. 197
t; and the ) be free from combustion and affliction) capable
of any undertaking. If the ) be weak, they will be very
changeable, fond of novelty, often busy in unprofitable
speculations, and not very sincere in their professions or
attachments. The disposition, however, in all cases, may
chiefly be known by the nature of those planets in con
figuration with both # and the ).
Of the Square and Opposition.
THE D or 9 of 21, if b be significator, causes great
troubles and sufferings to the native, persecution by the
clergy, and much injury arising from the native’s own
baseness, selfishness or folly.
The D or 9 of 3 is the aspect of cruelty and murder.
The native is treacherous, proud, angry, base, ungrateful,
and deeply wicked. *
The D or 9 of the O is the aspect of infamy and con
tempt. The native is proud, prodigal, ambitious, revenge
ful, and insolent, yet not courageous, always unfortunate
and disappointed, and frequently meets a violent death, by
falls, suicide, or a public execution.
The D or 9 of Q shews lust, vice, and infamy. The
native is base, vicious, sometimes mean and sometimes
prodigal, Connected with the most infamous strumpets, and
in the high road to eventual ruin.
The D or 9 of # makes the native a thief, cheat, or
swindler, with just abilities sufficient to enable him to be
a villain, yet of more cunning than resolution. The native
is frequently dumb, or with great impediment in his speech,
ignorant, dull, and averse to learning.
The D or 9 of the ) makes the native a wanderer and
vagabond, often crooked, and always badly made and
ugly; frequently lame, or with one leg shorter than the
other. The disposition is mean, base, sordid and vulgar,
which makes him despised and detested by all; destitute
of any qualifications but for wickedness, often in danger of
a violent death by mobs, riots, falls, hanging, drowning, &c.
If 2/ be significator, the D or 9 of b is the aspect of
unceasing misery and suffering, disgrace and ruin. The
native is always unfortunate and afflicted, and this naturally
renders him dull, peevish, too often idle, wretched and
beggarly.
The D or 9 of Ó makes the native very angry and
furious, ill-natured, subtle, ungrateful, very ambitious,
bold, fond of war and quarreling, and he often meets a
violent death by wounds, blows, or resistance to robbers.
*
, t
*J||
198 HORARY QUESTIONS.
The D or 9 of the G) makes the native excessively
proud and arrogant, vain-glorious, prodigal, and wholly
wasteful of his substance; addicted to riot, intemperance,
drinking, gaming, or any species of folly to look great in
the eyes of others. Unfortunate, despised, and finally
ruined.
The square or opposition of Q makes the native prone
to intemperate lust of all kinds, particularly if / be dis
posed of by Q. His company is generally devoted to
strumpets, high or low, according as Q is dignified, and
these connexions inevitably bring him to ruin. In other
respects, his disposition is not radically bad, if we ex
cept a total want of principle arising from gaiety, thought
lessness, distress, and dissipation. Generally handsome,
but with a countenance indicative of intemperance and
debauchery.
The square or opposition of # makes the native prone
to strife and contention, and torments him with law-suits,
frauds, and numerous vexations from people of high or
low condition, according to the dignity or debility of #.
The native is generally but of weak understanding, whim
sical, unstable, rash, and foolish; for, it is said, his mind is
filled with wrong impressions, arising from the bad aspect
of #. There can be no doubt, however, that the under
standing of every one depends much on the strength and
distance of $3 from the G), his being to the west of that
luminary, increasing in light and motion, and above all,
his good aspect with the ).
... The D or 9 of the ( makes the native silly, loquacious,
changeable and irresolute, and he is, it is said, generally
injured or ruined by the common people, and hated by
powerful women.
If 6 be significator, the D or 9 of b makes the native
deeply malicious or wicked; a treacherous lurking assassin.
The natural consequence of such propensities is continual
danger and suffering, especially if b be stronger than 3.
He generally meets death or severe injuries from falls,
blows, poison, or by suicide, if either of them be in the as
Cendant, or, if b be in the midheaven, by coming to an un
timely end.
The DJ or 9 of 21, it is said, makes the native an atheist
Or infidel, impudent, proud, daring, and obstinate; a scof
fer at all piety, common decency, and moral honesty; a
companion of the wicked, the terror of the good, and the
ruin of himself. If 2/ be stronger than 3, the native will
mot be so infamous but very unfortunate, and always at
enmity with estlesiastical or other great men.
HORARY QUESTIONS. 109
The D or 9 of the Q threatens death by fever, phrenzy,
fire, or the sentence of a judge. The native is furious,
roud, rash, prodigal, wicked and desperate, and, it is said,
if the O be lord of the 7th, he will #. murdered by ene
mies or robbers, and if of the 10th, he will be executed.
The D or & of Q makes the native lustful, abominable,
and every way depraved, a gamester, glutton, and drunk
ard, malignant, treacherous, and if a female, a prostitute,
or if a male, married to one, or becomes a bully to, or
keeper of a brothel.
The D or 8 of # makes the native a thief, swindler,
in short, one who continually lives by the most infamous
practices. He is daringly wicked, yet artful, knowing, and
deeply versed in every species of infamy. His affairs are
always in an unsettled and desperate state, and he is desti
tute of every just and moral principle; a sly atheist or in
fidel, slanderer, felon, footpad, turnkey to a prison, bully
in a brothel, hangman, pettifogger, street-keeper, low
police-officer, in short, he is always injuring and cheating
mankind. -
The D or 9 of the ( makes the native a low, vulgar,
unprincipled, despicable wretch, and one who, were he
born a prince, would delight in being a beggar and a thief;
a bitter-tongued, abusive vagabond; wretched, filthy, en
vious, stupid, servile, base, despised, insulted, and wholly
unfortunate.
If the Q be significator, the D or 9 of D makes the
native cowardly, treacherous, spiteful and malicious to
every one, and wholly insensible to friendship or kindness.
He is proud, boasting,covetous and prodigal by turns; very
impudent, ignorant, obstinate and brutish; in great danger
of violent death by falls, blows, or hanging, particularly if
either of them be in the 10th. If in the ascendant, he will
be diseased and short-lived, except an aspect of 2/ inter
vene, which may save after a severe illness, if / be angular.
The D or 9 of 2/ makes the native proud, lofty, and
dissipated; a scornful arrogant man; careless of his pro
perty, at enmity with religion, and its professors, and one
who eventually ruins himself by waste, pride, and prodi
ality.
8. £ D or 9 of d makes the native mad and furious,
rash, prodigal, noisy, and desperate. It threatens fevers,
phrenzy, loss ofan eye, and a violent death.
The square or opposition of the ( makes the native
proud, vain, changeable and mean, and if the C be ill dig
nified, very vulgar; one who is only calculated for low
company, and lives as a sailor, soldier, or beggarly wan
200 HORARY QUESTIONS.
dering vagabond, at enmity with the common order of
people, and much injured by low women, careless, igno
rant, and unsteady... If the opposition be close, and the (
hyleg, the native will be short lived, if not, he will be dis
eased, and perhaps blind, or liable to lose an eye.
The square or opposition of b, if Q be significator,
makes the native deformed in body and mind; base, poor,
cowardly, sordid, beastly, unnatural, and despicable, fortu
nate in nothing, and he ultimately comes to ruin.
The square or opposition of 2/ makes the native proud,
superficial; a stranger to piety and decency; prodigal,
lustful, and intemperate.
The square or opposition of 6 makes the native ex
tremely base, felonious, and deeply wicked; given up to
every species of lust and intemperance; fond of brothels,
prostitution, inebriety, quarrels, midnight broils, and every
species of infamy.
The square or opposition of the ( makes the native
vulgar, brawling and contentious; ill conditioned, idle,
mean, and beggarly; silly, unstable, conceited, ignorant,
and stupid; and if the Q be strong, they will always be a
prey to their enemies. If the native be a male, he will be
extremely unfortunate in marriage.
If # be significator, the square or opposition of b makes
the native dull, poor, cowardly, ignorant, covetous, envi
ous and malicious; dejected, spiteful, slanderous, often a
secret thief or murderer, and fit for nothing good.
The square or opposition of 2/ disposes the native to
strife, contention, lawsuits, disgrace and vexation, the con
sequence of his own imprudence; makes him foolish, ab
surd, always prone to do wrong, and then fretting and re
penting of his folly.
The square or opposition of 6 is the aspect of felony
and murder, highway or footpad robbery, housebreaking,
and every species of the deepest villainy. The native is
bold, furious, and desperate; cruel, malignant, blood
thirsty, hardened, obdurate and inexorable, and if Q be
with either of them he will probably murder his wife or
sweetheart, if either of the luminaries be in bad aspect, or
C, or if b or 6 or # be in the 10th, he will be led to public
execution, or if the square or opposition be in the ascend
ant, he will probably die by his own hand to prevent it.
The D or 9 of the ( makes the native foolish, idle,
unsteady, vulgar, slow of speech, stupid, stammering,
proud, ignorant, and fit for nothing. They are generally
poor and disagreeable in their ways, obnoxious to decent
- HORARY QUESTIONS. 201
women, and always unsettled, roving, low minded, un
principled vagabonds.
If the ) be significator, the D or 8 of b makes the ma
tive vulgar, groveling and beastly; crooked in body and
mind; cowardly, artful, covetous, envious, malicious,jealous,
treacherous, debauched, sly, and deeply wicked. Always
in trouble and affliction, dejected and melancholy, secret
and concealed in all his ways, pinched by poverty, bad
health, and extreme misery. He frequently meets with a
violent death, and, it is said, generally hastens the death of
his mother by his evil ways. -
The D or 9 of 2 causes many afflictions and sufferings,
unstable fortune, false friends, and powerful, unfeeling ene
mies. The native is often persecuted for religious opinions,
to which he generally adheres with a degree of pride and
obstinacy that often accelerates his ruin.
The D or 9 of Ó makes the native proud, desperate,
mischievous and cruel, furious, bitter, treacherous, and
blood-thirsty; often a felon or murderer; very prodigal,
and extremely wretched in every one's eyes but his own.
He seldom escapes a violent death, either at the gallows or
by blows or stabbing, often in the field of battle, or by
such characters as himself. Ifthe ) be hyleg, he is sure to
be short lived.
The square or opposition of the G) makes the native
proud and prodigal, very anbitious, but always mortified
and disappointed, wasting his substance in pursuit of foolish
phantoms, which he will never attain, and which, if he did,
would be vain and useless. If there be a close opposition,
the native will not attain the age of maturity, and the same
if the D be near and hastening to the opposition; but if it
be past, he may live, but will generally be sickly, marked
in the face, and generally blind or diseased in the eyes.
There is also danger of the native being burnt or scalded,
or losing his life by fire, or some malignant fever, especi
ally if Ó aspect the Q in any way.
The D or 9 of Q makes the native lustful, lewd, and
infamous, and if Q be ill dignified, a mean, selfish, vulgar,
deceitful, debauched vagabond; prostituted, unfortunate
and despicable.
The D or 9 of gives the native a defect in speech,
renders him destitute of ability, except that species of low
cunning which alone serves the purpose of dishonesty.
The peculiar turn of the disposition is better known by
observing how # is aspected by the other planets, which
Inakes a material difference.
2D
202 HORARY QUESTIONS.
A good planet, strong, and casting a friendly ray to the
place of a C# or to any significator, however badly aspected,
would materially alter the disposition and fortune for the
better, in a manner peculiar to its own nature. If?/ were
strong and in A to # when in 9 to d, the native would,
in a great degree, resemble Socrates, who, although (as
he affirmed himself to be) extremely wicked, was enabled
to conquer his vicious inclinations by the divine aid of
philosophy. The native would feel violent, strong com
punction within him when about to plunge into guilt or
danger, which would often arrest him in his progress, and
erhaps he might repent, or amend from religious motives.
If the D cast a good aspect to # being herself in good
configuration with the fortunes, he might extricate himself
by means of sound judgment, fortitude and discernment:
or if Q were strong and in A to Mercury he might be united
to Some £female, who might wholly reclaim him.
If, on the contrary, P cast a £ ray to the C of
Venus and 2/, the native would be sly, covetous, treacher
ous, and mean, without any apparent reason or necessity
for being so. If #, afflicted by Ó, were in 9, the native
although surrounded by affluence, would be a thief, and
steal every thing he could get at. And if Ó were in D or
9 he would be fond of war, quarrels, and contention,
until he brought himself to an untimely end, or got so
miserably maimed as to render him wretched for life.
It is necessary here to observe, that neither B, 2/, 6,
Q, or g, can be significators as lords of the ascendant,
except in horary questions. In nativites only the luminaries
and the horoseope can govern the disposition, except in
what relates to the strength or weakness of the intellects,
which are governed by £ and the D. We must likewise
be cautious in nativities of entering into the more minute
particulars of these aspects: they are chiefly calculated for
horary questions, when any one's disposition and situation
are required to be known. In that case the ascendant and
its l' or the house relative to the thing and its lord, are
always taken as significators, andjudgment formed as above.
To judge properly of the various effects of these aspects
is the most difficult thing either in horary questions or
nativities. It requires acute genius, uncommon penetra
tion, sound judgment and almost unbounded experience;
and it is only owing to a want of these that predictions
have so often failed. When we consider the various
qualities of stars aspecting the same place, their strength
or weakness, and take into the account the influence of
HORARY QUESTIONS. 203
climate, habit, disposition, education, mode of living,
strength or weakness of constitution, &c. all of which have
the power of increasing the effects of some stars and
diminishing or neutralizing those of others; it is almost
presumption to expect a correct judgment in many cases;
none but an impudent or ignorant impostor would pretend
to give it. To this we may add, what I suspect is the case,
that the effect of some of the aspects are misunderstood.
I have more opinion of the k than the A, and I suspect
the D to be stronger than the 9. The D generally pro
duces remarkable changes of weather in her >k with the
Q, either way; whereas, such effects are seldom the result
of a A. Her 9 and Ó are mostly alike in their effects;
whereas, her D is manifestly different from either It is
chiefly from the effects ofthe luminaries on each other, that
a knowledge of the nature of aspects can be derived, be
cause their influence is more powerful than that of the
other planets, and comes more within the reach of our
observation.
That planets operate in nativities according to the nature
of the signs they are in, as, feral, bicorporal, human,
watery, fiery, &c.; or, that in particular signs they govern
£ parts of the body, seems rather improbable,
ut this must be left to the test of experience.
Some allowance ought to be made for the platic distance
of aspects, both in longitude and latitude. Those most
partile are most powerful, and I conceive that their in
fluence gradually diminishes as they are distant from that
partile position, and not (as the general opinion is) that
they remain in force the extent of their orb, and not a
degree beyond it. Neither do I think any good reason can
be given why planets may not have a platic familiarity,
although their signs do not correspond. Thus I should
conceive / in the 28th degree of 36 to be in platic G with
b in the 1st degree of Y, although in different signs; nor
do I think the ) being void of course, a matter of any im
portance in nativities, although I would always allow the
usual system in horary questions.
When a question is asked, the artist must take it for
granted, that no more is meant than is asked, and not
frame questions and answers of his own. This would not
agree or sympathize with the mind of the querent, and
would consequently be a false prediction. Every thing,
however, that is required, may be answered by the same
figure. In other respects the artist is more at liberty, and
may form his own system, according to his own experience. ,
204 HORARY QUESTIONS.
He ought also to consider himself as much influenced by
sympathy as the querent. The latter has wholly the task
of producing the question, and the former the choice of
which method he pleases to '' in resolving it. He
should nevertheless be steady in his system, when he has
once adopted a method on a full conviction of its propriety,
that is right to him, however wrong it might be to others.
I would strenuously recommend to every student, to
have nothing to do with the questions of strangers. They
are generally the result of knavery or folly, and seldom
answer any end but to render him ridiculous. Neither
should he meddle with any thing even of his own, that
springs from curiosity alone, or from a desire to try ex
eriments,
Hitherto it has been customary only to predict by zodiacal
aspects, but he may adopt the mundane, if he think proper
and feel himself convinced of their efficacy; for the whole
is symbolical, and he may use what symbols he please. In
doing this, however, he must avoid all contradictions, and
all rules which are difficult to reconcile to each other; for
a system that contradicts itself cannot be productive of
truth, and he will find difficulties enough in the plainest
system, without creating any additional of his own. I need
not add, that he should always be perfectly sober, and if
his drink be wholly water it will enhance his reputation.
Above all things, let him be careful of entering too
minutely into particulars: the science will hot admit of it,
and the artist is sure to be disgraced. Those who lay down
such examples are generally impostors, and, at all events,
gross enthusiasts. When an artist has calculated a number
of events, he generally acquires some after knowledge of
their issue; this he ought carefully to collect, and compare
each with its figure, which will shew him how far he ought
to go in future; but this cannot be relied on until by a
considerable number of instances, without a single failure,
the fact be fully established. . It must, however, be ad
mitted, that some artists can judge with greater correctness
and more minutely than others, which can alone be ac
counted for from sympathy, and in my opinion (though I
cannot speak from experience) there may be cases where
an antipathy may subsist between the querent and the
quesited, owing to the figures of their genitures not being
in unison, which may in many cases contribute to render a
question not radical, or so confused by opposite testimonies,
that no positive answer can be given. It would be much
better, could every one solve their own questions, and the
HORARY QUESTIONS. 205
design of this book is to enable them to do it. They would
have the great advantage of knowing their own affairs, and
thereby perceiving the drift of many things at once, all of
which an artist has carefully to pick out of the figure at the
hazard of his reputation. One evil, however, would often
arise in the querent being biassed by his own wishes, which,
without great care, would often mislead him.
QUESTIoN 1st.—Of the Length or Shortness of Life.
TIIIs judgment is formed from the ascendant, its lord,
the Q, and ). If they, or the greatest part of them, be
strong and free from affliction, and near no violent fixed
stars, neither combust, nor retrograde, nor impeded by the
lords of the 4th, 6th, 8th, or 12th, or in either of those
houses, or besieged by the malefics, or possessing their
declination, or if the question be not asked exactly at a
new or full moon; all these are signs of long life. The
Light of Time, it is said, should always be taken in prefer
ence to the other luminary; but I should always prefer the
). If the lord of the 1st or the X be in the term of 2/ or
Q, it is said to denote long life.
If all or most of these are reversed, it denotes short life,
or great danger. -
Signs of short Life.
THE Light of Time besieged by HP and 6, cadent, af
flicted by the lords of the 8th or 6th, or fixed stars of their
nature.
The X exactly at the change, or full, except she have
great latitude.
The malefics ascending.
b causes death by cold chronic diseases, phthisis, flux,
agues, dropsies, melancholy, and many others.
G causes hot diseases, particularly small pox and
measles, scarlet fever, erysipelas, typhus fever, &c.
d; afflicting the luminaries from angles, particularly the
Light of Time, denotes a violent death.
he Light of Time near violent fixed stars, or having
their declination, if afflicted at the same time by 5 or d,
causes violent death, or great danger, if the fortunes do
not interfere. -
The G) or ( joined with 6 cause the same diseases as
if he were in the ascendant.
206 HORARY QUESTIONS.
The C. hyleg and in evil aspect with b or 6 and #,
threatens madness and death.
Many planets retrograde, and the luminaries afflicted,
denote severe sickness that will end in death.
b, d, or the 28, in the 1st or 7th, peregrine, or retro
grade, or violent fixed stars in either of these angles, or
the lord of the ascendant going to a 6 of the lord of the4th.
If there be signs of a £ death in the figure, and
one of the malefics be posited in the 10th, squaring or op
posing the luminaries, it denotes ignominious death.
B squaring the ascendant from the midheaven, if the
Light of Time be afflicted, threatens death by falls or
blows.
# in a similar situation, causes death by stabbing, blows,
or bruises.
The lord of the ascendant in ill aspect with the infor
tunes, or in opposition to the G), or in 6, D, or 9, to the
lord of the 8th, or in the 8th, or combust, or retrograde,
threatens death, especially if the luminaries be afflicted,
for in horary questions the lord of the ascendant signifies
the native. -
The ascendant receiving the evil aspects of the malefics,
or having violent fixed stars near its cusp, threatens death,
because the evil aspects must assail it from angles, and all
angular aspects are extremely dangerous. The danger
will be greater the nearer the aspect is to its cusp. In all
cases, however, the luminaries being afflicted increases the
danger, and particularly the Light of Time and the hyleg.
Some are of opinion, and with reason, that the ascendant
and both luminaries are at all times significators of life,
and that even if the hyleg be free from affliction, yet if the
other two are afflicted it denotes short life, both in nati
vities and horary questions.
In all these cases the benefics must be considered'; for
if they cast a ray of any kind, whether evil or good, to the
anaretic point life will be saved, if they are not out-num
bered by the malefics; but if two malefics be opposed to
one benefic, there is little hope, except the latter be very
strong in an angle, and both malefics cadent. The G) is
reckoned a fortune, if he have aspect with the fortunes,
and none with the malefics; but in whatever condition he
may be, his Ó always increases the evil. When he is in
any kind of aspect with the malefics, he acquires their na
ture, and many say this is the case when he occupies their
houses or terms. Both Ptolemy and Placidus were of this
HORARY QUESTIONS. 207
opinion. In this condition he operates every way as a ma
lefic, and must be considered as such.
The terms of the planets are said to have great influ
ence : for if the anaretic point fall in the term of a malefic,
it greatly adds to the danger; but if in the term of a be
nefic, almost any aspect of a benefic will save life. There
has been much dispute about the real situation of those
terms; some preferring the Egyptian and others those of
Ptolemy: for my own part, I never had any great opinion
of the Egyptian astrology, and should, therefore, with Pla
cidus prefer the latter, were I once quite convinced that
either could be relied on ; but I have no confidence in es
sential dignities of any kind, so far as relates to nativities.
In horary questions they are equally symbolical with the
rest. - -
When planets are combust, they are said to lose their
power, which, whether good or evil, is then transferred to
the Q, to whom in that case the direction for time should
be made, and his aspect in all respects taken instead of the
aspect of that planet which he covers. This may alter the
effect materially; for if 6, for instance, were within 10°
of the Q, it would alter the anaretic point 10°. In this
case, if the Sun were nearest, it would cause death, although
6 were beyond the reach of the aspect; and in other cases
where 6 really would cause death by his position, yet be
ing deprived of his influence by the Q, he could do no
evil, and the Q being 10° further, would have no aspect
to the place. It is the same with the benefics. If 2/ were
combust, the Q alone could save life, and he would operate
like any other star, according to his distance. This, I think,
wants confirming by practice.
The C and # are likewise considered as fortunes when
similarly situated; but I should not consider them as hav
ing power equal to 2/ or Q as benefics; they govern the
faculties, and in this case operate as they are affected; they
may also aid a benefic or a malefic in their operations, but
I should never consider them as capable alone either to
save or destroy, though I know Placidus and most others
were of a different opinion. Neither have I that confi
dence in the Q’s operation in this way to the extent gene
rally imagined, but this can only be decided by extensive
practice. > -
In horary questions, the S2 and RS are said to have great
efficacy: the SA will save life by 6, and the QS will de
stroy. Others affirm that their effect is merely to strengthen
or weaken planets, and that the 82 will strengthen a ma
208 | HORARY QUESTIONS.
lefic to destroy as readily as a benefic to save, and that the
99 will weaken both parties in a similar degree by being
joined to them. I wish these silly points had never been
£ of: they have no other effect, in my opinion, but to
cause contradiction and mistake, even Placidus himself
appears to have been ashamed of them, though he disliked
to own it, and for my own part, I deem them too unmean
ing even to be used as symbols.
When symptoms of death are perceived in a figure, the
time may be ascertained by taking the intervening degrees
between the two significators and equating them by the
method laid down in the beginning of this article. In na
tivities this is done by direction (see Directions); but in
horary questions, where the whole is symbolical, the time
is pointed out by a degree for a day, month, year, accord
ing to the '' of the sign where the anareta is posited.
It should always be carefully represented to the querent
or native, that notwithstanding the threatening aspects
either in radical figures or horary questions, life may be
generally preserved by their own care and exertion, ex
cept in certain cases of disease. This was the opinion
both of Ptolemy and Placidus, and is strictly true. It is,
however, truly astonishing to observe the strong propensity
of people at those periods to do wrong and involve them
selves in destruction, and how firmly they will refuse to
take the most simple and easy methods and medicines to
promote their recovery.
QUESTION 2d.—Of Sickness and Health.
The same significators are used in this question as in the
last, but the 6th house and its lord are added, being the
natural significators of sickness, and some add the 12th
house and its lord, as being the significators of all kinds of
anguish and suffering, among which of course sickness is
included. To these others add the lord of the 4th house,
but I cannot see in what way he can denote sickness,
although he certainly signifies death, as the 4th denotes
the grave, and the end of all things.
It is usual to erect a figure, called a Decumbiture, for
the hour when any person is seized with a distemper, but
there are few instances wherein any one can tell the hour
when a disease commences. When, however, a decumbi
ture can be erected, it should be compared with the radical
figure and the revolution, and considered as to the transits
and ingresses: this is seldom done, and when a decumbi
HORARY QUESTIONS. 209
ture is erected it is generally considered in the light of a
horary question, which is quite absurd. . If any particular
position of the planets bccasion disease, it must be in those
where the geniture is affected by such position, and it
will be proper to compare them together, if the radix can
be had; if it cannot, the question is horary, and may be
asked at any time, whether the disease commenced at that
time or not. -
When the question is horary, the 1st and 6th houses,
# luminaries and dispositors of the luminaries are to be
taken.
An infortune or the 88 in the ascendant denotes the
disease to be in the head, and in that part of the body
signified by the sign ascending. -
If an infortune afflict the lord of the ascendant or the ),
the body is alone afflicted, and the part is that which is
ruled by that sign of which the afflicting planet is lord,
when the question is asked, viz. by day or night.
If the ascendant, its lord, and either of the luminaries
be afflicted, both body and mind are diseased.
If b afflict the ascendant, the D and dispositors of the
luminaries, the disease is chiefly in the mind (for the 1st
house and the dispositors of the G) and D signify the mind),
and it is said to denote the cause to be about some loss in
business or estate, and the same if the D square or oppose
the lord of the 1st. -
If 2/ afflict, which he may do when he is lord of an evil
house, the disease is caused by religion.
If Q afflict in a similar way, it springs from love.
If 3 or ; are the afflicting planets, it is said to arise
from too intense an application to those things they re
present.
I have no opinion of those causes: whatever the cause
may be, the disease exists, and the part where it is located
is but too well known to the patient, or them about him,
already. Horary questions are not intended to discover
what is known, but what is unknown, and what the querent
is anxious to discover. -
Of the Duration of the Disease.
SIGN's of long chronic distempers are fixed signs on the
cusp of the 6th, or in the D’s place. It is said to be the
same if the lord of the 6th be an infortune, and in the 6th.
If the lord of the ascendant, or 6th, or the Moon, be in
G, D, or 9 of 5 or G, the disease will be lasting.
* 2 E -
*
210 HORARY QUESTIONS.
The D in a common sign, or a common sign on the cusp
of the 6th, or the lord of the 6th, being a fortune and in
the 6th; or if the lord of the ascendant or 6th or the ) be
in 6, Sk, or A with a benefic, or with the lord of the 10th,
it will not be of long duration, and the same if the last
degree of a sign be on the cusp of the 6th.
The D, or the cusp of the 6th, in a moveable sign,
terminates the disease very quick, either in recovery or
death.
The lord of the 6th stronger than the lord of the 1st,
the disease will increase, and vice versá. B lord of the 6th,
shews a long disease. A moveable sign, or 36 on the cusp
of the 6th, denotes it to be short. If the D square or op
pose the lord of the 1st, the disease is increasing: but
much of this depends on application or separation. The
D in the 6th, in ill aspect with Q, the patient is disorderly,
and the cause of the £ and if Q be in m, it denotes
siphilis, fluor albus, or menses. The lord of the 6th, ap
plying to the D or 9 of the lord of the 1st, the distemper
will increase, and the same if the lord of the 6th be in the
8th, or 12th. An infortune removing from the 6th, the
disease will shortly alter, in so many days, weeks, or
months, according to the nature of the sign. The lord of
the 6th, retrograde, combust, in 6, D, or 9 with b, or
6, or the lord of the 4th, or 8th, there will be much sick
ness and great danger. The lord of the 6th in the 8th, or
lord of the 8th in the 6th, beholding each other by >k, or
A, denotes recovery. The lord of the 1st in an azimene
degree, afflicted by the lord of the 6th, the disease is in
curable. The lord of the 1st in the 6th, and of the 6th in
the 1st, the disease will continue till one of them quits the
sign he is in, and then if he meet the D or 6 of b, d, or
the lords of the 4th or 8th, it is a symbol of death. The
lord of the 1st in the 4th or 8th, is not according to some
a mark of death if he be not afflicted. All the significators
in fixed signs make the disease long and, vice versá. It is
the same if they are slow in motion. in ascending, shews
the disease arose from the querent's own folly, anger, &c.
The ) separating from the 9 of the G), the next planet
she '' to decides the event of the disease. The ) in
a fixed sign, denotes a long disease, and in a moveable
sign, a short one. -
Of the Termination of the Disease.
SIGN's of recovery are, when the ) separates from the
infortunes and applies to benefics, without frustration, or
HORARY QUESTIONS. 211
prohibition. The lord of the ascendant or of the 6th in
good aspect, or reception, with the luminaries, or with
one of them, or if wholly free from affliction. The ) in
creasing in light, in a good house, and applying to a good
aspect with the lord of the ascendant, and in this case his
being a malefic makes no difference. If the ) be well
dignified, or in the ascendant, or in >k or A to it; or if
the ) apply to the fortunes by good aspect, or to the G).
Signs of death are the lord of the ascendant, or the )
combust, though, it is said, there are great hopes of re
covering if in this case the ) or lord of the ascendant dis
pose of the G). I cannot speak as to this; but, in my
opinion, much depends on the position of the significator.
If they separate from the Sun, it certainly affords great
hope of recovery, particularly if they are 2 or 3 degrees
distant; but if they apply, I fear there can be little hope
of recovery, except they apply at the same time to good
aspect of a strong benefic, and even then the danger will
be imminent. If the lord of the ascendant or the ) be in
6 with the lord of the 8th. If the lord of the 8th be in an
angle, and the lord of the 1st cadent or afflicted. If the
lord of the ascendant or the ) apply by evil aspect to the
lord of the 8th, and if the latter be an infortune, they con
sider death to be certain. Antares or Caput Algol ascend
ing is fatal. It is said, the lord of the 1st in the 8th, or
the lord of the 8th in the 1st, renders death inevitable.
An infortune in the 6th ; the lord of the 8th in the 10th,
or the lord of the 1st in the 4th, 6th, or 7th ; the lord of
the ascendant or the ), with violent fixed stars, give little
hope of recovery, or the lord of the 8th angular and the
lord of the 1st cadent. I should not, however, in the most
desperate positions with the lord of the 8th, reject applica
tion to good aspects as symptoms of recovery, though
certainly an evil application to the lord of the 8th is a most
fatal symptom. -
Declinations are seldom regarded in horary questions,
and, perhaps, it is as well; for as every thing here is
symbolical, too many testimonies only serve to increase
difficulties and create confusion. Those, however, who
choose to admit ofparallelsofdeclination in theirjudgments,
will find them answer, provided the practice be uniform,
so as not to use them at one time and reject them at another.
According to some, & lord of the 6th, and in the 6th,
shews a good physician; others say, that any benefic in
the 6th shews the same. This is of little consequence
either way. * -
~.
212 HORARY QUESTIONS,
The nature of diseases are said to be known from the
signs containing the lords of the 1st and 6th, and the D.
If fiery signs, they arise from choler; causing fever, in
flamation, &c. If in airy signs, from corrupt blood; as
gout, leprosy, &c. Earthy signs cause melancholy diseases;
as agues, consumption, &c., and all chronic diseases.
Watery signs cause phlegm ; as colds, catarrhs, hydroce
halus, dropsy, &c. All this seems very absurd and use
£ as the duration and end of a disease are the chief
objects of enquiry. - -
- '. Sun is, in my opinion, a powerful anareta, and
when in # or & to the ) by application, certainly denotes
death. If the anareta be in the 4th, death is certain, and
I believe the lords of the 4th and 6th in reception, or the
lords of the 8th and 6th the same, denotes death. Neither
of the fortunes will save life if lords of the 8th or 6th, and
in evil aspect; and # joined to the anareta causes great
anguish and delirium. The lord of the 1st and 8th being
the same planet, I think, denotes death, and that the
patient has been by intemperance, or some other means,
the cause of it himself. There will, however, be generally
a number of these fatal testimonies, when the disease is to
terminate fatally. ... * * * * * * * -
Question 3d.—of the Good or Evil of the Querent's Life.
THIs is taken from the figure in general. When the
benefics or luminaries possess, the principal places of the
figure, and the malefics the secondary places; when there
are no evil aspects and none of the planets are combust or
retrograde, and when no violent fixed stars occupy the
cusps or are joined with the luminaries; these are all
symptoms of a fortunate and happy life, and vice verst. In
short, where a nativity cannot be had, a horary question
of this description will answer all its purposes, and if
asked in a proper way, with strong anxiety to know the
result, a figure may be erected, which may be considered
as the querent's nativity. It may be judged by the same
rules as a nativity, and its directions calculated in the
usual way. " ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' - *- - -
- Question 4th.—What part of Life will be most Fortunate?
THIs is discovered from the position of the fortunes, by
allowing if the hyleg be weak, 5 years for every sign's dis
tance between the east angle and the fortunes. If the
HoRARY QUESTIONs. 213
* *
significator of life be moderately strong, allow 6 years for
a sign; and if very strong, 7 years. Thus, if a fortune
be in the 1st, 12th, or 11th houses, it will be in the youth
of the querent, from the 1st year to the 15th, 18th, or 21st,
If between the cusps of the 11th and 8th, to the 30th, 36th,
or 42d year. If in the 7th, 6th, or 5th, to the 45th, 54th,
or 63d year; and from thence to the 60th, 72d, or 84th
year. A due proportion upon this scale must be allowed
for every portion of a sign, and if the fortune be strong
the effects will be more prominent; but if weak, of little
effect. The places of the malefics are also to be taken in
the same way for the evil of life, and this doctrine, it is
said, will also hold good in nativities, where the place of
a planet will, when calculated in this way, answer every
purpose of a direction. The most general way is to average
6 years for each house. Some allow only that period of
life to be happy where the fortunes are found, as if one be
found in the 10th, the period of life from the 10th to the
15th year will be happy, and they begin at the 12th house
instead of the ascendant. The evil or good also that had
preceded, is denoted by the planets from which the lord
of the ascendant and the D separate; their next applica
tion denotes what will happen first; and the timeis measured
according to the rule already laid down.
QUESTIoN 5th.—At what Time is a Change in the Querent's
Fortune to be expected?
ERECT a figure, and direct the significators to promittors
as in a nativity, if in a matter of great consequence. In
ordinary cases the number of degrees between the signifi
cators and promittors will point out the time sufficiently
correct by taking a degree for a year. If violent fixed
stars occupy the cusp of the 1st, 10th, or place of the (,
some sudden mischief is near ; but if their nature be good,
it denotes some sudden benefit.
Many answer this question as directed in the last, be
cause, if there be a period of good or ill fortune in, a
person’s life, that is the time when a change may be
expected.
QUESTIoN 6th.–In what Part of the World will the Querent
- be most Fortunate 2
WHEN this question is asked in a general sense, it is
proper to direct them to that part ofthe world where 2/,
$214 HORARY QUESTIONS.
Q, the (, or the GB are posited; or, if they be not together,
where the greatest nnmber of them are collected, but they
must be strong and free from affliction, or nothing can be
done that is good. It is better, therefore, to take the direc
tion of that which is most dignified and fortified, than of
two or three that are weak.
Ifany particular purpose or pursuit be stated, they should
follow the significator of such purpose: as, for instance, if
health be the object, they must follow the lord of the
ascendant and the C ; if they want riches, they must fol.
low the lord ofthe 2d and the GP; ifthey seek for honour, let
them go in the direction ofthe lord of the 10th and the G);
and the same in all other cases. If they lie in different places,
that must be followed which is strongest and best dignified.
If neither of them be in good condition, or the malefics in
any way afflict them, the pursuit must be abandoned, for it
will come to nothing. If violent fixed stars be near them,
the querent will probably lose his life in the pursuit; or if
a malefic be there, or the G) or C afflicted, he will have
such diseases as they signify; and if Ó oppose either of
the luminaries, he will probably come to an untimely end.
The places where the malefics are found are always to be
avoided, both in horary questions and nativities. The
places of direction are as follow :
The horoscope, full east; 12th, east by south ; 11th,
south by east; 10th, south; 9th, south by west; 8th, west
by south ; 7th, west; 6th, west by north; 5th, north by
west; 4th, north; 3d, north by east; 2d, east by north.
: A proportional difference should be made, if it can be done,
for the part of the quadrant the significator is in ; as if he
be in the midst of the quadrant, for instance, say, the mid
dle of the 11th, the querent should go exactly south east,
if possible, and the same with the rest. . Some use a dif
ferent method, by taking the sign the significator is in as
one direction, and the"Rarter of heaven where it is posited
as the other. Thus, if the lord of the āscendant were po
sited in Y, in the 9th house and fortunate, the querent
would do well to travel south east; for Y is an eastern
sign, and the 9th house is in the southern part of the figure,
The journey should be made to those countries subject to
T, and in the south east parts of those countries. The
signs containing those planets to which the ( applies are
taken in a similar way.
HORARY QUESTIONS. 1215
QUESTION 7th.—Of Riches or Gain.
THE significators of riches are the 2d house, its lord, the
' therein, the Part of Fortune, and its dispositor.
he native will be rich as these are strong, dignified, free
from affliction, well aspected by the fortunes, or in recep
tion with them. The house containing the QS is always the
cause of loss and poverty, whether much or little.
Signs of riches are the lords of the 1st and 2d, in recep
tion or good aspect, or the lord of the 1st in the 2d, or the
lord of the 2d in the 1st, or strong in their own houses.
The D in the 2d house, or in 6 with its lord, or if the two
lords be in 6 with each other, or if any translation of light
be between them. # Q, or the SA, strong and free from
affliction, and posited in the 2d, or if in good aspect with it
or its lord, or strong, well dignified, and free from evil as
pect with the infortunes, or with each other. The 6t) an
gular and free from affliction, particularly in the 1st or 10th,
is a good symptom; or if it be succeedent and in good as
ect with the fortunes, particularly in the 2d, or with the
ord of the first, or with 2/, #. or the S2. The dispositor of
the 69, strong, well aspected and free from affliction, are
signs of riches, and if translation of light happen between
any of the significators, it is a favourable symbol. Where
the significators of riches are small, light planets, or swift
in motion, wealth will come quickly; ' if they are
ponderous planets, or slow in motion, wealth will come but
slowly. If few or none of those symptoms appear, the na
tive will be poor all his life; and if b, d, or the 2S, be in
the 2d, or with its lord, or with the @, or in evil aspect to
them, or in evil aspect to 2/, or Q, poverty and distress is
approaching. The G) in the 2d, or with its lord, or the 69,
is not good, except he be very strong and well dignified, as
he generally denotes poverty occasioned by dissipation and
extravagance. His good aspects, however, are equal to
those of the fortunes, except he be afflicted.
Many predict the sources whence riches or poverty will
arise according to the houses where the significators of
riches are posited. In this case there should be but one
significator, else the whole will become a mass of confusion.
For my own part, I always avoid such minute predictions;
but every artist ought to be the best judge of his own quali
fications and sympathies, though I am well convinced that
where artists descend to particulars, they are on the verge
of error, and disgrace, and must be very careful, and for
tunate, if they escape them.
216 HORARY QUESTIONs.
If the GP be in the 1st holise, the querent will generally
acquire property by his own exertion, or by saving it when
he gets it. If in the 10th, he will gain it in trade, and if in
the 11th by friends and a constant sticcession of good for
tune, provided its condition be good; but, if evil, he will
lose it by extravagance, idleness, or carelessness, by trade,
or by a continued succession of ill fortune. -
When the significators of substance apply to each other
by DJ or 3, if they are in mutual reception, the querent
will acquire riches, but with great difficulty. The time is
known # the distance in degrees between the lord of the
1st, or the ), and the significators of substance to whom
they apply according to the sign the latter is in, whether
moveable, common, or fixed.
The best sign of great and durable riches is the lords of
the ist and 2d and #, joined together in the 2d, 1st, 10th,
7th, 4th, or 11th. The next best testimony is their applica
tion to k or A, with reception. Reception in this ques
tion is one of the best symbols; for if they apply to […] or
9, if they have reception, it denotes riches, though at
tended by much labour and difficulty. . Infortunes, being
lords of good houses, or in them, and in good aspect, are
equal to the fortunes; and 2/ or Q, if they be lords of
evil houses, or afflicted, denote obstruction as much as in
fortunes, because the whole is symbolical. The house
containing the $3 generally shews the cause ofthe querent's
poverty or his losses. If it be in the 1st, it arises from his
own folly; if in the 2d, he cannot turn himself for want of
money; if in the 3d, by beggarly or worthless relations, or
bad neighbours; &c., The Q will give a probable cause
whence riches will arise in a similar way. . All the planets
angular, or succeedent and swift in motion, isagood symbol.
All of them direct, in good houses, and each having some
essential dignity, is good.
The means by which riches will be obtained, if the lord
of the 2d have a good application of the D, the house she
governs, and the house she is in, both promise riches. The
fords of the 1st and 2d, in good aspect, the querent will
make his own fortune by industry; or if a poor man he
will thrive by labour, or by some invention. The lords
of the 2d and 3d in good aspect, he will benefit either by
relations, neighbours, or short journeys. The lord of the
4th gives wealth by the father, or by lands or houses pur
chased, or by money lent by his kindred. The lord of the
5th gives gain by gaming or amusement, carrying letters
or messages, keeping ale-houses, or places of recreation,
HORARY QUESTIONS. 217
match-making, &c. The lord of the 6th, by goodservants,
if the sign be human, by faithful stewards, active bailiffs,
agents, &c.; dealing in small cattle, turning physician if
he be capable, &c. The lord of the 7th by women, wives,
bargains, law-suits, war or commerce. If the lord of the
8th cast the aspect, it will come by a legacy, wife's portion,
or by travelling to some country where he will settle and
become rich unexpectedly. The lord of the 9th gives
riches by voyages, wife's relations, or some neighbour
where she lived when he married her, or by religious pro
fession, or learning. If a watery sign be on its cusp, the
querent will gain by voyages, but ifan earthy sign be there,
he should remove to those countries denoted by that sign,
and by dealing in the commodities of such country, he will
probably realize a fortune. The lord of the 10th gives
riches by those trades denoted by the sign on the cusp of
that house, and by its lord, by offices, by being in the ser
vice ofkings or great men, or by any mechanical profession.
The lord of the 11th brings riches by recommendation of
friends, great men, and unexpected good fortune. The
lord of the 12th increases the querent's substance by horses,
great cattle; by keeping prisons, sponging houses; or by
thief-taking, if the sign be human; if earthy, by cattle,
except up, which denotes corn ; and if the sign be Y, by
grazing sheep. The manner, in which these £ are
denoted is by the lords of these several houses, or planets
therein, casting a good aspect to the lords of the 1st or
2d, or the cusps of these houses, the 6+) or the D.
If the figure deny riches, the evil arises from that planet
or planets obstructing the cusps of the 1st and 2d, their
lords, the @ or the ), or the dispositor ofthe 69. If the
lord of the 1st do this, the querent is his own ruin; if the
lord of the 2d, he is poor and cannot help himself; if the
lord of the 3d, he will be kept poor by rascally relations,
or by some neighbour injuring or under-selling him, &c.
In all questions concerning loans, the lord of the 1st and
the D denote the querent, the 2d and its lord his property,
the 7th and its lord the borrower, or lender, and the 8th,
his property, except it be wages or money for offices of
state, which are denoted by the 10th and its lord.
QUESTIoN 8th–Of Marriage.
THE lord of the first is the querent's significator, whether
man or woman; and if a man, the D and Q are his con
significators, but if a woman the Q and C#.
2 F
218 HORARY QUESTIONS.
If £ querent to be a male) the ) or lord of
the ascendant be in good aspect with the G) or one of the
fortunes, he is likely to marry. -
If the lord of the 1st, the ) or Q be in the 7th, and the
lord of the 7th in the 1st, or in k or A to its lord, the
Moon or Q, he is sure to marry.
The major part of the significators in fruitful signs, or
in good agreement with each other, or with the significators
of the opposite sex, viz. the G) and d, are very likely to
Inari"W.
#here be translation of light, or frustration of aspect,
the planet causing it is the person who promotes or prevents
the match, and the house and sign they are in shews who
they are.
If all the significators are in barren signs, or in D or 9
to the 7th, or its lord, the party has an aversion to marriage.
... When the question is general, the time is judged by the
significators of the querent, applying as before, and being
posited in the 1st, 12th, 11th, or 10th, house, which shews
the querent will be married suddenly. If they are between
the cusps of the 10th and 7th, some time will elapse, and
if between the cusps of the 7th and 4th, it will be very late in
life. Between the 4th and the 1st the native will probably
never marry, or when very old, and when all hope is past.
All the significators above the Earth, and swift in motion,
hasten marriage considerably, and retard it in the same
proportion if they are under the Earth and slow.
hen a treaty of marriage is going forward, and the
£ time is required, the difference in degrees must
e taken between the lords of the ascendant and the 7th,
or between the aspects of either of the cosignificators and
those of the other party, that apply to each other by aspect,
as before directed, viz. for moveable signs, weeks, or days;
for common signs, weeks or months; and fixed signs,
months or years, according to the : being angular or
succeedent; or as others say, accordingly as the significator
applying is quick or slow in motion. If the respective
significators are inconjunct, the quesited likes some one
better than the querent. If the lord of the 7th be in the
7th they have no desire to marry.
If a D or $ happen between the significators or con
significators of each party, without reception, the match,'
however near being concluded, will be broken off.
If an infortune interpose an evil ray, or according to
others, if any planet oppose an evil aspect before the signi
ficators form theirs, it will frustrate the intention of the
--- -------------------
HORARY QUESTIONS. 219
party, and the match will be prevented by the person signi
fied by that planet that frustrates. If there be good transla
tion of light, without aspect, the person denoted by the
planet that translates will bring the parties together.
The person whom the querent will marry is said to be
described by the planet which the lord of the ascendant or
the D (or the G) if it be a woman) is nearest in aspect with,
and the sign such planet is in; and they will be noble or
mean as the planet is well or ill-dignified. For my own
part, I should prefer the ) or the G) to the lord of the
ascendant in this case, and I have every reason to believe
that the aspect should be made by application. No one
will marry that person from whom all their significators
separate. But if the aspect be evil, or good, provided
there be application, the parties may marry. The happiness
or misery of the parties may be denoted by the aspects of
the significators or cosignificators of each party. If the
application be friendly, the parties will agree; but if evil,
to a D or 9, there will be contention and unhappiness;
and the same if b, d, or the 28, be along with any signifi
cator, or in the 1st or 7th house. If in the 1st, the querent
is of an evil temper; and if in the 7th, the person they in
tend to marry will be the same. In questions relative to
conjugal happiness, there can be no better symbol than
mutual reception.
. If the querent's significators are in double bodied signs,
they will marry more than once; and the same if they are
joined with, or apply to, many planets, particularly from
the 5th, 7th, or 11th houses. Many planets in the 7th, or
in good aspect with the lord of the 1st, or the luminaries,
are all signs of repeated marriage.
If the significators are in fixed signs, or in aspect to only
one planet, the querent will only marry once. In this case,
H should always prefer the ) for a man, or the G) for a
woman, to the lord of the ascendant, and I fully believe,
ifthe luminary have no application, or but one, the querent
will never marry, or but once, let the lord of the 1st be
situated how he will. *
If the lord of the 8th be in good condition and free from
affliction, the querent will marry a person of some property,
and it is a good sign if M, Q, or the 88, be in £
A fortune, lord of the 8th, and disposing of the 69 in the
8th; the lords of the 8th and 2d, in each others houses,
or in friendly aspect with reception, are all signs of ac
quiring property by the marriage.
220 HORARY QUESTIONS.
If the lords of the 8th and 2d be in E} or 9, or if the
lord of the 8th be combust or retrograde, or if P, 6, or
the $S be there, it is a sign of poverty and future distress,
and if it be a man he will either marry a beggar, or be
'cheated out of her property.
Refranation is the most certain symptom of a breach be
tween the parties, and if all the significators are in separat
ing aspects, it is nearly the same.
Retrograde application is an evil symbol, and the party
so applying is worthless. -
Question 9th.—Shall the Querent have Children?
IF the lord ofthe 5th be in the 1st, or the lord of the 1st
or the Moon be in the 5th, if the lords of the 1st and 5th be
in C; ; a fruitful sign on the cusp of the 5th, or Ist, or their
lords, or the Moon, be in a fruitful sign; or if a fortune be
in the 1st, 3d, 5th, 11th, or 9th house; all these are signs of
children. It is said, that Q being lady ofthe 1st, and in the
5th, in a fruitful sign, gives three children; and if this sign
be 36, she will give six children; should the Moon be with
her, there will be nine children; others say eighteen child
ren, it being a double bodied sign : this is, indeed, counting
with a vengeance. A fortune in A to a good configuration,
will give in addition three children, or if in >k, two. I
would advise the artist to let numbers alone, and merely
confine himself to the question whether the querent will
have children or not, all who go beyond this are knaves or
fools. Translation of light between the lords of the 1st
and 5th, particularly if made by the Moon, is a good symp
tom. The Q in the 5th, causes barrenness, except it be a
watery sign, and even then it is doubtful.
If the 1st and 5th are occupied by barren signs, without
theirsignificators being in reception, good aspect or transla
tion, the party will not conceive. If the testimonies be
favourable, and the evil ray of a malefic fall on the place,
there will be children, but such as are short lived, or sickly;
B or the QS in the 5th, or 5 or d in evil aspect to the 5th,
or its lord; or if the significators are all in barren signs,
or the fortunes in barren signs, there will probably be no
ckildren, or if any they will not live.
There are various ways of reckoning the time of concep
tion, should the rest prove favourable. Some say, if the
lord of the 5th be in the 1st, it will be in the first year; in
the 2d, the second year; in the 10th, the third year; in
the 7th, the fourth year; in the 4th, the fifth year; and so
| HORARY QUESTIONS. #221
on, according to the pre-eminence of the houses. Others,
with more propriety, measure the time by the application
of the lord of the ascendant or the (to the lord of the 5th,
# or Q, reckoning by degrees, according to the nature of
the sign the applying planet is in, as before. The lord of
the 1st, angular, with reception, denotes children. The C,
very unfortunate, is a very evil sign, as is also Y, or more
particularly Q, being afflicted. -
It is possible the querent may be with child at the mo- .
ment of enquiry, of which the following are said to be the
symbols. If translation of '' have passed between the
lords of the 1st and 5th, or if the ) bejust separating from
the latter in a fruitful sign, or in the 5th, 11th, or 7th houses;
or the lords of the 1st and 5th, or the D in reception with
a planet that is angular; or if the ) and the lord of that
triplicity she is in be both in fruitful signs; or if 2 and 9
be both angular and free from affliction.
# If at the time any of these symptoms appear, 21 be cadent
or afflicted, or if b, d, or the S be present at the place of
the aspect, or on the cusp of the 5th, there is either no con
ception or there will be an abortion. It is the same if they
afflict the ), Q, or the lord of the 1st or 5th.
To know how long the querent has conceived, it is usual
to take the. ), the lord of the ascendant, and the lord of
the hour. That one of the three which is nearest to the
separating aspect of any planet is said to shew the time.
If it be from a C# she has conceived a month; if a >k, 2 or
6 months; if a C, 4 months; if a A, 3 or 5 months; and
iif from an 9, 7 months. This, I think, so far as relates to
round numbers, will be found tolerably correct.
If the 1st or 5th, their lords, the ) and planet to which
she applies, be all or most of them in masculine signs, or
in aspect with masculine planets, or with stars of a mascu
line nature, the child will be a male, and vice versá. § is
masculine or feminine as he is aspected; he is also mascu
line when oriental of the G), and feminine when occidental.
If the 1st or 5th, or their lords, be in bicorporal signs, or
the most of them, she will have twins.
2/, Q, or the Q in a fruitful sign, on the cusp of the 1st
or 5th, she may have three, if the ) have good aspect.
If the G), ), and cusps of the 1st and 5th, be in fixed or
moveable signs, there will be but one.
When a person who is pregnant wishes to know the time
of birth, it is usual to direct the lord of the ascendant or
the Moon to the cusp of the 5th by oblique ascension, ac
cording to which of the two is nearest, and to allow a day
222 HoRARY QUESTIONs.
for every degree in the arc of direction. Another way is
to observe on what day the planets # or Q, will transit the
cusp of the 5th, and prognosticate the birth to happen that
day. I would advise the artist to study all these things
minutely, but have nothing to do with them in the way of
predictions if he value his own character: . No hora
question can tell to a day or a week when a birth will hap
pen, nor when conception will or has taken place : there is
no sympathy in nature to account for such things, because
the mind of the querent can never be wound up to such a
pitch of anxiety on those matters as will produce a radical
figure. Predictions like these are the tricks of impostors,
who acquire such information by indirect means, and palm
it on the querent as the inevitable result of science.
Perhaps the sex of the child may be discovered, because
this is a point on which some people feel much anxiety;
but no prediction ought to be hazarded, unless all the testi
monies, or nearly all of them, agree. Where there are a
number of testimonies on both sides of any question, al
though one side may predominate, the question, owing to
some cause or other, can never be radical, and no artist
should hazard his credit upon it. There is either some
thing concealed or improperly stated, or the querent is
actuated by some foolish or knavish impulse, or is nearly
indifferent about the result, or in fear and confusion, or
prompted by curiosity alone. In any of these cases, the
figure will appear as unmeaning as the question, and ought
not to be meddled with.
It is said, that if the dispositor of the ), and the lord of
the hour, be angular, or d in the 7th, the party has just
conceived. If B be in the 7th, she has quickened. 2 in
the 7th, shews a male. 1 or % in the 7th, shews a female:
but these are not strong testimonies in themselves, but just
serve to turn the scale when it is nearly even. According
to Lilly, a planet is always angular in its own house, suc
ceedent in the next to it, and cadent in the next to that,
let it be in what place of the figure it will : but this I
believe to be nonsense, and only fit to cause confusion. The
$$ in the 5th denotes abortion, and in the 1st (if the woman
ask the question) great danger of it. A fortune in cazimi
is a sign of pregnancy; and an infortune, of abortion. The
last aplication of the ), before she leaves the sign she is
in, denotes the state of the mother. The lord of the 5th,
meregrine, in the 8th, denotes the child's death. A child
£ at the instant of a full moon, dies, it is said, at the
next new moon.
HORARY QUESTIONS. 223
QUESTION 10th.—Of the Welfare of an Absent Person.
IF the person be a relation, it is usual to erect the figure
as for the querent, and take the house belonging to such
relation for their ascendant, and judge of it as an horar
question erected for such relation. Thus, the 3d house
would be the ascendant of a brother, the 4th for a father,
the 5th for a child, &c. If the party be no relation, the
figure should be erected as if the party inquired after were
the querent, and judged accordingly. -
This may also be done, if it be a relation, and, in my
opinion, is most proper to prevent confusion. Whichever
way it be, the lord either of the assumed or real ascendant,
and the ) are significators of the absent party. If he be
''' to the G, or evil aspect of the lord of his 8th, or
in his 8th, he is near death, and if no good aspects interfere
there is no hope of his recovery. If the aspect be past
without the assistance of any benefic ray that could save,
he has ceased to exist for so many days, months, &c. as
there are degrees between the significators. Others say,
no evil aspect of the lord of the 8th denotes death, except
it be from the 6th or 12th house, but only great danger.
... If the lord of the ascendant be in the 4th, and the ) in
square to him, it denotes death or excessive danger. An
infortune translating the light of the lord of the 8th to him,
is a symbol of death. The D or lord of the 1st in 6 with
the lord of the 8th in the 8th or 4th, he is dead, or if in the
6th, he will die. The lord of the 1st, or the D in the 8th,
combust, or in the 4th, the party is dead. If in their fall,
he is at the point of death, and the same if retrograde. If
the lord of the 1st or the ) separate from the lord of the
6th, he has been in great danger, and if to no aspect of the
fortune, he will long remain so; but if to a good aspect of
the fortune, he will soon recover. It is the same if he
separate from the lord of the 8th, if the planet casting the
aspect were stronger than the latter, and the aspect were
nearly partile. If he be separating from the lord of the
12th, he has been in prison, or in great trouble. In all
other respects, his past, present, or future situation, may
be known by considering the figure according to the rules
laid down for every other department of horary questions.
Combustion or retrogradation, in conjunction of a male
fic, is certain death. If he be in his 9th, he is either travel
ling or gone to a more distant country. If in his 10th, he
is situated according to the aspects he has with fortunes or
infortunes. If in his 2d, he is doing very well. And if in
the 11th, he is with some friends.
224 HORARY QUESTIONS.
QUESTION 11th.–Concerning a Ship at Sea.
THE ascendant and the ( are significators of the ship
and cargo, the lord of the ascendant signifies the crew, and
her stores are denoted by # and the 69.
The lord of the 8th in the Ist, or the lord of the Ist in
the 8th, in evil aspect with its lord, or the lord of the Ist
in the 4th, in evil aspect with its lord, or with the lord of
the 8th, if the aspect be by separation, the ship is probably
lost; and if the C also be evilly affected, ' cargo has
shared the same fate. If it be by application her destruc
tion is at hand. And if the lords of the 4th are infortunes,
the danger is still more imminent. Good planets, aspect
ing the place, give great hope that the danger may be
escaped. If the lord of the ascendant or the C be com
bust, she is either lost or desperately situated; or if they
are in the 6th or 12th house, and in evil aspect with their
lords, it denotes sickness or great calamities. If the as
cendant and the ( be fortunate, and the lord of the ascend
ant unfortunate, the ship is safe, but the crew sickly, and,
if he be in the 12th, they are probably made prisoners. If
they are in the 7th house, they £by an enemy, and
particularly if the lord of the 7th be stronger or more an
gular or succeedent than the lord of the 1st. If the C be
besieged in the 8th house, or 7th, by the infortunes, or
£to the lord of the 7th, it is the same. If the lord of
the 7th be strong and disposing of £, the (, the €, and
the lord of the 1st, they are all in the enemy's power; or
if the ( and the @ are in the 8th house, or disposed of by
the lord of the 8th : if in this state of things the ( and
lord of the 1st are in fiery signs, it denotes an engagement
having taken place, and the same if the Q or ( have sepa
rated from an 9 of Ó in a fiery sign.
. In all questions relating to shipping, the angles chiefly
are considered, and if the significators and 2 and Q be
more angular or succeedent than the lords ofevil houses, or
D and 6, it denotes her prosperity and safety. If the ma
lefics are either of them angular or succeedent, she will, it
is said, meet with some accident in that part which such a
sign denotes, and which, according to Haly, are as follows:
T, her breast. =, the parts above the breast.
8, the part under her ml, the sailors' habitation.
breast, next the water. 1 , the seamen.
II, her helm. - V5, both her ends.
QF, her bottom. :, the captain.
Q, her sides above water. }(, her oars.
"p, her belly.
HORARY QUESTIONS. 225
I think these are silly distinctions, and are too particular
to contain much truth.
B afflicting the ascendant and the C, it is said, causeth
shipwreck; and 6 denotes they will be captured,if no good
aspects of the fortunes intervene. If the lord of the 1st, in
this case, be free from affliction and strong, the crew will
escape. If the lords of the angles be free from affliction,
and the lord of the ascendant and the dispositor of the
Moon, the most part of the cargo and crew will be saved.
If the lords of the angles and dispositor of the Moon be
afflicted by 6, they are said to be in danger of pirates, or
enemies. If the infortunes are in m, 1 , or :, it is said to
denote mutiny (but this is quite ridiculous), and if G be
the infortune, it denotes murder, but if b, there will be no
bloodshed. , 6 in a fiery sign on the cusp of the 10th, near
violent fixed stars, threatens burning by lightning, but if
in a human sign, it will be by some person, probably an
enemy, and the fire will begin in that place denoted by the
sign. If P be in the 10th, it denotes shipwreck, and the
stronger the afflicting planet is the greater will be the
accident.
The lord of the ascendant only in the 8th, or in evil
aspect with its lord, shews the death of some principal
officer.
A malefic in the 2d, or with its lord, or with the Part of
Fortune, or its lord, denotes loss in disposing of the cargo,
and, vice versit, much gain.
The lord of the ascendant and dispositor of the Moon,
slow in motion, the voyage will be tedious; but if quick,
the reverse. An earthy sign on the cusp of the ascendant
shews the ship to be a dull sailer.
The lord of the 1st, and the dispositor of the ), in evil
aspect with each other, without reception, shews discord
in the ship; and if the dispositor of the ) be the stronger of
the two, the captain will get the better, but if the lord of
the ascendant be the stronger, the crew will succeed.
The lord of the 2d, peregrine, and having no aspect
with the D, and the lord of the @ being inconjunct with
with it, and peregrine, or cadent, or in evil aspect with it,
shews want of provisions; and if these lords are in watery
signs, it denotes want of fresh water.
I would advise the student to confine himself, in such a
maritime question, to general observations, until he be
well assured by practice how far he can proceed consistently
with truth, and not to hazard a prediction on such precari
ous evidences as the major part of these appear to be. For
2 G
226 HORARY QUESTIONS.
Amy own part I should merely take the ascendant, its lord,
and the ' as significators, with the 2d, its lord, and the
for the gain or loss which might happen, and judge of
it as of the health and property of any individual. If the
lord of the ascendant be under the Earth, it is an evil
symptom, and if in the 4th, it generally denotes the ship
to have sunk.
QUESTIoN 12th.—Of the Recovery of Debts.
THE 1st, its lord, and the ), signify the querent; the
7th and its lord, the debtor; and the 8th, which is the
debtor's 2d and its lord, his means of paying it.
If the lord of the ascendant or the D be in G or good
aspect with the lord of the 8th, or with a planet in the
£ the debt will be paid, except the two latter be in
fortunes, in which case there is great doubt of payment,
unless there be reception as well as good aspect. If the
lord of the 8th be a fortune, and in the Ist or 2d house, in
ood aspect by application to the lord of the 1st, or the ),
it will be paid; but if the lord of the 8th be a malefic, and
in no reception of the lord of the 1st or 2d, it is a sure sign
that the money will be lost, and the same if the lord of the
7th be there without reception. A fortune having dignity
by house or exaltation in the 1st, and joined to the lord of
the 1st or the ), is a good symptom, but if he be a malefic,
it is an evil sign, unless there ' reception. The lord of
the 1st, or the D, joined to a fortune in an angle, especially
by application, is a good sign. The lord of the 7th or 8th,
retrograde, combust, cadent, or peregrine, with no good
familiarity with the fortunes, shews the debtor to be a cheat,
or a miserable wretch, from whom little good can be ex
pected, particularly if he be 6 or # ill dignified. If he
apply by evil aspect to the lord of the 2d, or the eB, or its
dispositor, his design is to defraud; and if the evil applica
tion be to the lord of the 1st or the ), he owes the creditor
ill will, and is determined if possible not to pay him. The
best criterion to judge from is the application of the D, or
lord of the 1st, to benefics by good aspect; for if the bene
fics are strong, the debt will be paid; but if the application
be to malefics and by evil aspect, the money will certainly
be lost. It is said, a malefic interposing an evil ray, shews
the cause or person from whom the impediment arises, by
the house such planet is lord of by day or night, according
to the time of the question. - -
HORARY QUESTIONS. 227
For the recovery of wages or pensions the same rule is
to be observed, only the 10th and 11th houses are taken as
significators, instead of the 7th and 8th.
QUESTION 13th.-Of Agreement between Brethren or
Neighbours.
WHEN a person has some difference with his neighbour
or kindred, and wishes to enquire into the state of their
minds, and to discover the true state and cause of the quar
rel, and how it will terminate, take the ascendant, its lord,
and the ), for the querent, and the 3d house and its lord
for the quesited.
If a fortune be in the 1st, or the lord of the 1st be a for
tune and applying to the 3d, or its lord by good aspect, the
querent is desirous of a reconciliation, but if b, d, or the
$3 be there, or lord of the ascendant, and apply by evil
aspect, he is the cause of the dissention.
# is the same with the quesited; for whichever of the
two significators applies to the other by good or evil aspect,
the good or ill intention lies there.
shews an obstinate, covetous person, cool and malig
nant, and 6 shews insolence, treachery and desperate re
venge, and the worse either of them are dignified the more
they denote evil.
If the D or lord of the 1st be (a fortune and) in the 3d,
or with a fortune there, or in good aspect to its lord, or
with reception, or the lord of the 3d be a fortune, and in
the 1st, or apply by good aspect to it, or its lord, there will
soon be a reconciliation. If there be translation of light,
the planet which gives it will be the peacemaker; or if it
frustrates, that person will be at the bottom of the evil,
whose house it governs by day or night, according to the
time of the question. If good aspects are separating it is
no good sign; for application alone denotes reconciliation.
If either of the significators apply by evil aspect to an in
fortune, it will cause that party much evil, and if the lord
of the 2d be afflicted, the querent will suffer loss by it; but
if the 4th, or its lord, be afflicted, the adversary will suffer
in pocket, and the affair will terminate very badly for the
querent : for the 4th house is the end of all things. If the
$ be opposed by 6, from angles, and near violent fixed
stars, it may end in the querent being murdered, except the
aspect be separating, and if b be in the querent's 10th, he
will be brought by it to disgrace and ruin, though in this
as in all other cases, good aspects mitigate much of the evil.
228 HORARY QUESTIONS.
If the ) apply by ill aspect to the lord of the 12th, the
querent will suffer great anxiety and misery, or probably
et into prison before the dispute be ended, and the same
if the lord of the 1st be in the 12th, or the lord of the 12th
in the 1st, particularly if he be an infortune. If the lord
of the 1st be in the 6th, or the lord of the 6th in the 1st, be
ing a malefic, it will occasion the querent much sickness,
and if the lord of the 1st be in the 8th, and the D in evil
aspect to the lord of the 8th, by application without recep
tion, he most likely will die of a broken heart, and the same
if the lord of the 8th be an infortune and in the 1st.
If the quarrel or dispute be with a stranger, or one who
is neither relation nor neighbour, the 7th house and its lord
must be taken instead of the 3d, but the judgment, with this
exception, will be the same. If the dispute be with a son
or daughter, take the 5th, or with a master, commander, or
any superior, take the 10th.
QUESTION 14th.—Of inland and short Journeys.
THE lord of the 1st and the Moon signify the querent;
the 3d and its lord the journey. If these significators are
in good familiarity or reception ; if the lord of the 1st, the
Moon, or the lord of the 3d be in the 3d, or if the latter be
a fortune in the 1st, or if the lord of the 1st, or the Moon,
apply by good aspect to a planet in the 3d, or the for
tunes, or if 2/, Q, or the S2, be in the 3d, the journey
will be prosperous. , Q being in the 3d, or lady of it, in
good aspect, makes it very pleasant if she be well dignified.
The reverse of all these denotes evil. If B be in the 3d,
it shews great melancholy and disappointment; if Ó be
there, or the 2S, it denotes that he will be robbed, and if in
a fiery sign he will be hurt. If the lord of the ascendant be
retrograde, he will return before he reach the place. If
the lord of the 6th afflict him, he will fall sick, and if the
lord of the 12th afflict him, he will meet with much trouble.
If the lord of the ascendant and the ( be afflicted by the
infortunes from angles, or going into combustion or evil
aspect with the lord of the 8th, especially if the latter be
an infortune, it denotes death or extreme danger.
QUESTION 15th.—Of Reports, whether True or False?
THE ( is significator of a report, and if she be strong,
angular, or succeedent, in a fixed sign, and well '
by the fortunes, it is true. If she be every way, or chiefly,
HORARY QUESTIONS. 229
unfortunate, it is not true. If she be afflicted by '' or 6,
although she be strong otherwise, it is not true. If the an
gles be in fixed signs and the ( not unfortunate, it is true,
If the (be in a fixed sign in the 10th or 4th, in reception with
her dispositor, it is true. # is in some degree also a signi
ficator, and if he be retrograde, combust, or afflicted, or if
he or the ( apply to a planet that is afflicted, it is not true.
If # or the ( be under the Sun-beams, the truth will be
difficult to discover, being kept secret by men in power. If
the Moon be void of course, or in evil aspect to #, and
neither in k or A to the 1st, it is false. * \
QUESTIoN 16th.—Of Advice, whether Good or Evil 9
THE 10th house is the significator of advice, and if a
fortune be found there, or if it be in good aspect of the
fortunes, or if a fixed star of the nature of 2/ be near its
cusp, the advice is good. If an infortune be there, or cast
ing an evil aspect to it, or a violent fixed star near its cusp,
or the lord of the 12th there, the advice is evil, and either
given through ignorance or malice. If nothing striking
appear in the figure relative to the 10th house, the advice
is indifferent, and of little consequence. As advice is
generally a matter of opinion, of which every one ought to
be competent to judge without having recourse to a £
question, the advice here alluded to must be of a mor
serious nature, and partly connected with a certain degree
of information, which the querent is desirous of acting
upon, and if it is productive of much anxiety it will admit
of horary prediction. The 10th house alone is given as a
significator, but I should be very unwilling to adopt such
advice, if either the lord of the 10th or the } were much
afflicted or ill conditioned.
QUESTION 17th.—Purchase of Houses or Estates.
THE ascendant and its lord and the X signify the querent,
the 4th and its lord the estate; though others take for the
querent that planet from which the X has last separated,
instead of the ), and take the ) with the 7th and its lord
for the other party, and the 4th house for the thing pur
chased; but where the ) is not given to the querent, it
generally is cosignificator with the 4th house. The 10th
house is the price, and if the 10th and its lord be stronger
than the 4th and its lord, the price is too much ; but if the
4th and its lord be strongest, the estate is worth more than
the money. If the lord of the 7th apply to the lord of the
230 HORARY QUESTIONS.
1st, the "seller is more anxious than the buyer, and vice
versá.
A fortune in the 4th, dignified or not, or the Q there,
or the fortunes casting good aspect to the cusp, or the lord
of the 4th in an angle or a good house, or in good aspect
or reception with the lord of the 2d, it will be profitable.
If B or Ó be in the 4th, dignified or not, or if the lord
of the 4th be combust, retrograde, or cadent, or in the
12th house, it is a bad bargain ; and if an infortune be in
the 4th, combust, or retrograde, it should be abandoned
directly, as it will certainly lead to ruin.
The quality of the land is said to be ascertained by the
signs on the cusp of the 4th. If it be a fiery sign, the estate
will be hilly, hard, and dry; if earthy, it is good; if airy,
but of middling quality; and if watery, it is wet or marshy.
Those who assign the ) to the querent, consider her in
every respect the same as the lord of the ascendant; and
those who assign her to the quesited, consider her the same
as the lord of the 7th. If she be assigned to the purchase,
she is the same as the lord of the 4th.
The best method is to render every operation as simple
and free from confusion as possible. The planet from which
the ) separates has nothing to do in the business, nor is
the 10th ' connected with it in any way. The ) un
doubtedly belongs to the querent, whose question it is, and
who ought to have the usual significators. The lord of the
7th is quite sufficient for the quesited. The nature of the
land, in my opinion, cannot easily be ascertained, because
there is no necessity for it: every one may and ought to
know the nature of land before he purchases it, and can
therefore feel no anxiety about the matter. Trifles like
these are matters of idle curiosity and beneath the dignity
of horary questions. Every one, however, is at liberty to
form his own system, but I would caution him against being
too particular. It is extreme folly for any one to purchase
Hand who does not understand it either himself, or by a proxy
on whom he can rely. Should any one, however, deter
mine to speculate, and being conscious of his own ignorance,
wish for information, he may no doubt have it by a horary
question.
A figure should then be erected as follows: the ascend
ant and its lord are the tenants or occupiers, and if evil
planets be there, or its lord evilly posited, they will be
worthless. The 10th signifies the trees or timber, and if
good planets be there, or the lord well posited, it is good
and plentiful; if a fortune be there, retrograde, there are
HORARY QUESTIONS. 231
-
- - - - - -
- - -
*~ * * *- :
---------- - - -
many trees but little timber; if an infortune be there,
there is little of either; if the the lord of the 10th be in
conjunct with the 10th, it is the same. The angle of the
west shews the state of the herbage, grass, corn, &c. The
4th and its lord denote the nature of the ground: fiery
signs shew it to be hilly, hard and dry; earthy signs, plain,
good ground; airy signs, a mixture of good and bad;
watery signs, plenty of water, but if an infortune be there,
it is marshy, boggy, and liable to be overflowed. P there, in
a fiery sign, it is naturally barren; and in an earthy sign,
it is good, but neglected; the lord of the 10th strong, it
is too dear; but if weak, or afflicted, it is very cheap.
Questios 18th.—Of Removals.
THE 1st, and its lord signifiy the querent, the 4th and its
lord the place where he is, and the 7th and its lord the place
to which he is going. That place of the two which with
its lord is the strongest and best aspected every way, is the
fittest for the querent to be in. If it be the 4th, let him
remain where he is; but if it be the 7th, let him remove.
Unless there be a great advantage on the side of the 7th
house, he had better remain, and the preference should be
rather given to that which agrees with the lord of the as
cendant by house, exaltation, and triplicity. Much depends
on the ); if she separates from a fortune, the querent
should remain, for he is leaving what is good; if she apply,
let him remove ; and with the infortunes, the reverse. If
the lord of the 4th be with good planets, or strong, or the
lord of the 7th be with infortunes, or weak, it is best to re
main, and vice versá. Good planets in the 4th or 1st, it is
good to remain; but if in the 7th, or strong in the 8th, it
is better to remove. The lord of the 1st, peregrine in the
second, or afflicted, he will always be poor where he is, and
the same if the lord of the 2d be afflicted. The GB in the
12th, 8th, or 6th, he had better remove.
QUESTION 19th.—Of Succeeding to Property.
The 1st, its lord, and the D, signify the querent; the house
belonging to the person leaving the property and its lord,
must be chosen as their significator: as the 4th for a father,
the 10th for a mother, the lith for a friend, &c. The houses
succeeding them, denote the property, because they are
their seconds, as the 5th for a father, the 11th for a mother,
the 12th for a friend, &c. If the lords of the querent's and
232 HORARY QUESTIONS.
quesited's seconds be in each other's places, or in reception,
or applying by good aspect, the querent will inherit the
expected property. If the lord of both the seconds be the
same planet, or the lord of the quesited's second dispose
of the querent's Part of Fortune in the 1st or 2d.; or if the
lords of the querent's 1st or 2d dispose of the quesited's
lord of the 2d, or the quesited's Part of Fortune, which
may be calculated for that purpose; or if a benefic be in
the 2d of the quesited, in good aspect of the lord of the
ascendant, or the ), or the querent's 2d, or its lord,
or if there be translation of light between the lord of
the querent's 1st or 2d and the quesited's respective lords,
and proceeding from the latter to the former, all these are
signs that the querent will inherit, and vice versá.
If the lord of the querent's 2d be combust, or retrograde,
it will do him little good; and if the lord of the quesited's
2d be so, there is not much property, if any. If they ap
ply by evil aspect, provided there are other good testimo
nies, they may inherit, but it will be with difficulty. If
they are separating from good aspects, it is to be feared
the legacy will be left elsewhere, or that the querent's
hopes are ill-founded.
t is said, if the lord of the hour be in evil aspect with
an infortune, or with the quesited's lord, the person will
part with nothing during his life; but if the lords of both
the seconds apply to 6, k, or A by one being retrograde,
the person '' something before death.
QUESTION 20th.—Of dealing in Cattle.
THIs question is said to belong to the 6th house, if the
animals dealt in are not above the size of a sheep or a hog.
If they are above that size, as cows or horses, they belong
to the 12th house.
The querent's significators are the 1st, its lord and the
Moon; the quesited's, the 6th, (or as I before observed,
the 12th, which is judged exactly in the same way) and
its lord.
The lord of the 6th in good aspect, position, or reception,
with the querent's 1st or 2d, or their lords, or with the (
or the @, or being a fortune and in the querent's 2d, or
joined to any fortune which is in good aspect to the que
rent's significators, particularly the lord of the 2d or the 69,
he will be a great gainer, and the same if there be transla
tion of light from the lord of the 6th, or planet in the 6th,
to the lord of the 1st, 2d, or the Part of Fortune. It is
--------- *- - ---" " --------- - - - -
-
- - - - - - - - -
HORARY QUESTIONS. 233
much better for the lord of the 6th to be a fortune, than an
infortune, for although the Sk, ZA, reception, or translation,
by good aspect, be the same, the d, or position, in the
querent's 2d or 1st, renders the issue of the undertaking
very doubtful. Indeed, in all cases, the presence of an in
fortune is to be suspected, let him be lord of what house he
will; and I should, for my own part, directly abandon any
undertaking where such a symbol occurred. If the lord of
the ascendant be an infortune, it is nothing in the querent's
favour; it shews him to be of an untoward disposition, and
people may be injured by themselves as well as others.
If the lord of the 6th be afflicted, or in evil aspect with
the lord of the 1st, 2d, the 69 or its dispositor, or the ),
or retrograde, cadent, peregrine, or combust, all this de
notes the querent to be a loser by the speculation.
If b be the afflicting planet, they will die of disease; and
if d or #, he will be robbed, or cheated, or lose them by
his own carelessness aud stupidity.
The $3 in d with the lord of the 6th, or in the 6th, is a
very bad symptom. -
QUESTION 21st.—Of Partnership.
THE 1st, its lord, and the Moon, signify the querent; the
7th and its lord the partner.
If the lords of the 1st and 7th are friendly by nature
(see Friendly Planets) it is said to be a good omen; but on
this I should place no reliance. Others say, if the lord of
the 1st be the most weighty planet, he will be the greatest
gainer of the two, and vice versá ; but this is equally frivo
lous. Others say, that Ó or #, being lord of the 2d, and
afflicting the lord of the 8th, the querent will defraud his
£ and vice versá. Of this every artist must judge for
imself; but it is certain, that if there be any advantage,
those whose significators are strongest and best dignified,
will have it,
If the significators are friendly, or applying by good as
pect to each other, or the lord of the 7th apply by A to
the ascendant, or 2d, or the69, or if both lords are in recep
tion, or if light be translated by good aspect from the lord
of the 7th to the lord of the first (except it be by 6, which
denotes enmity and '' it is good. Translation by
# is evil, if he be very ill dignified, or only in aspect with
d. Retrograde application is very evil if the retrogade
planet be lord of the 7th : his affairs are desperate, and he
wishes to retreive them. H
2
234 HORARY QUESTIONS,
If the lord of the 7th be retrograde, or combust, have
nothing to do with him. It is an ill sign, if he be peregrine,
or in the 6th, except there be application between him and
. Q, well situated, will also do much in his favour; but
if she be ill conditioned, it is evil, except 2/ assist. If an
infortune or the QS be in the 8th, he is either £ or impro
vident; and if either of them be in the 7th, he is an ill dis
osed character. If the lord of the 7th be an infortune, it
is not a favourable omen, and if such infortune be in the
1st or 2d, 7th or 8th, or joined to the lord of the 1st, the
Moon, or the Part of Fortune, or to the lord of the 2d, the
result cannot be good; but if he be a fortune, it is a good
symbol,
QUESTION 22d.-Law-Suits.
THE 1st, its lord and the Moon, signify the querent; the
7th and its lord, the adversary; the 10th, the judge.
Those which are most angular and best dignified, will
have the best chance of success, and those that have the
best and strongest aspect of the fortunes.
Justice is seldom obtained without money, and therefore
the longest purse will probably carry the day; and the
adversary's means may be known from the situation of the
8th house, its lord, and the adversary’s Part of Fortune
(which may be calculated for that purpose by considering
the 7th house as the ascendant). If these are stronger than
the querent's the adversary will probably get the better,
and vice versć.
He whose lord is most afflicted, will generally be in the
end the greatest loser; and if both are afflicted, it will be
a bad undertaking to both.
If there be application by friendly aspect between the
lord of the 1st and 7th, he who makes it is the person most
desirous of reconciliation; and if there be retrograde ap
plication, the planet which is retrograde, is compelled by
distress to offer terms. -
He to whom # is best affected, has the most honest at
torney, and if he be either in the querent's or adversary's
1st or 2d, he will injure and rob that party. If there be
translation of light between the two lords, some person is
endeavouring to reconcile them, and those who do not
embrace this opportunity will be their own enemies. If
there be frustration, the person whose house the planet
frustrating belongs to, will prevent a reconciliation. If
there be a refranation, that party refraining has changed
HORARY QUESTIONS. 4235
his mind, and if he has been retrograde and become direct,
and the application was good, he has found some fresh
reason or means to continue the law-suit.
The best symbol for either party is their significators
having application to good aspect with the fortunes, and
if the other have separation from them at the same time,
or application to the malefics, it will most likely terminate
in their ruin.
QUESTION 23d.—Of Warlike Expeditions. .
THE 1st, its lord, and the ), are significators of the
querent; the 7th and its lord, of the enemy. If the figure
be erected for a relation, the house of such relative may
be taken as before directed for the ascendant and the oppo
site house, which is his 7th, for the enemy; or it may be
erected at the will of the querent, for a relation as for any
other person, by giving them the real ascendant,
If d be weak in the figure, the querent will be fearful
and probably be disgraced, and the same if b be in the
ascendant or 10th. The 93 in the 1st or 10th is said to
have a similar effect.
The lord of the 1st combust, retrograde, peregrine, or
cadent, are all disastrous tokens.
b in 6 with the lord of the ascendant shews fear and
great misfortune.
The D or opposition of infortunes denote much evil;
B shews defeat, and 6 wounds, and if he oppose either of
the luminaries there is danger of a violent death, and if it
be by application and nearly partile, he will be killed on
the spot.
' the ascendant, particularly if ill dignified, shews
he will be dangerously wounded, and if he be in D or &
to the ), it is certain death.
The lord of the 7th stronger than the lord of the 1st,
and in & to him or the ) shews defeat, and if he be an
infortune, denotes great danger.
The lord of the ascendant or the ), separating from the
infortune and applying to the fortunes, is an undoubted
sign of victory and safety.
6 well dignified in the 10th, or in A to the lord of the
ascendant, or the ), denotes victory; but if he square or
oppose the Sun or ), there is great danger.
The #" of the 1st joined to the Sè, denotes courage and
strength. -
-----------------------~-v-----
2* HORARY QUESTIONS.
In all aspects between the lord of the 7th and 1st, that
which is the strongest will be most victorious.
If the lord of the 1st and the ) be wholly free from
affliction, the querent will return safe.
QUESTION 24th.—Of Besieged Places.
WHEN it is required to be known whether a place be
sieged will be compelled to surrender, the 4th house must
be the significator of the place besieged; the lord of the
4th is the governor, and the 5th house its means of defence
in every respect.
If the lord of the 1st be stronger than the lord of the
4th and joined with him in the Hst or 10th, or in reception
with the ), or in his own house and disposing of the lord
of the 4th, he will take the fortress; and the same if the
lord of the 4th be combust, retrograde, or in no aspect to
the 4th, except he be well dignified in the 5th.
The lord of the 4th in reception with the lord of the 1st,
the governor is treacherous and will surrender it.
If the lord of the 4th be stronger than the lord of the
1st, free from the malefics, &c. supported by benefics,
angular, in good aspect with 6 or the Q well dignified,
or if the lord of the ascendant be unfortunate, afflicted,
combust, retrograde, in the 4th house, or cadent and pere
grine, it will not be taken.
b in the 1st or 10th will defeat and disgrace the besiegers,
and if in D or 9 to either of the luminaries, or to the lord
of the Ist, the commander of the expedition, or the querent,
if he be one of the besiegers, will be killed or desperately
wounded. -
QUESTIoN 25th.—Of Stray Cattle or Fugitives.
THERE seems much confusion in this question as it is
usually arranged. The 7th and its lord are said by some
to be alone the significators of stray cattle, but others join
to them the ) and #2 as being the natural significators of
strays and fugitives. In horary questions it is best to have
as few significators as possible, to prevent confusion, and
although # be the significator of fugitives, he generally
signifies runaways, or deserters, and not cattle. # is a
critically situated planet, and for my own part, I should
never take him for a significator, either of man or beast,
except he be lord of the 7th; but if that which is lost be a
human being, who has deserted or absconded, he may be
---,-,-4--------- ~~ --- - --
HORARY QUESTIONS. * 237
made a consignificator. As to the ), she belongs alone
to the querent as his consignificator.
If the lord of the 7th be retrograde, the person or beast
will return before it goes far. If the lord of the 7th or the
) apply by good aspect to the lord of the 1st, it is the
same; but if the lord of the 1st apply in like manner to the
) or lord of the 7th, it may be found by enquiry.
If they apply by evil aspect either way, or if the lord of
the 7th be in the 7th, it will never be recovered.
If the D translate light from the lord of the 7th to the
lord of the 1st, it will return, and some say, it will return
if she translate the light of 3. A fortune in the ascendant,
or in good aspect with it or its lord, or receiving the appli
cation of the ), or, others say, #, it is the same; and the
lord of the 7th or 6th, in the 2d, 5th, or 11th, in good aspect
with the Q, 2/, or Q, equally denote its recovery.
The lord of the 7th, or ; combust, or in the 12th, it is
pounded, or imprisoned; and the same if the lord of the .
6th or 12th is in his own house or in the 9th or 12th.
If a planet separate from the lord of the 2d, it is sold.
If the ) or lord of the 7th be in the 8th, or apply to its
lord by evil aspect, or to an evil aspect of an infortune in
the 4th, or if the )’s dispositor be in the 8th, it is dead.
If the ) or the lord of the 7th be in the 1st, or in a fiery
sign, they are gone eastward; if in the 10th, or in an
earthy sign, southward; if in the 4th, or a watery sign,
northward; and if in the 7th, or an airy sign, west
ward. If the ) be not above a sign distant from the lord
of the 1st, they are not far off; but if three signs distant,
they are a great way off. To this some add, that if the D
be only one degree from the fugitive's significator and in a
moveable sign, they are about two miles off; if in a com
mon sign, one mile off; and in a fixed sign, somewhere
close by.
I have never seen a question of this kind, but the chief
part of it seems very ridiculous. The 7th house can have
no connexion with cattle or strays either, except they be
stolen, and the question properly belongs to the 6th house;
or, if it be any thing larger than a sheep or hog, to the 12th
house. A servant of any description belongs also to the
6th house, including clerks and apprentices who may ab
scond; though if the party be very young, he may very
properly have # for his significator. A son or daughter
belongs to the 5th, and a wife or partner to the 7th. A
deserter will be signified by 6, if he be peregrine, but if
not, by the planet that last separated from d, or if there be
238 HORARY QUESTIONS.
none such, by the Moon. The place and distance cannot
... be known, nor any of those minute particulars described by
knavish pretenders or their dupes; though if it be of any
service to the querent, he may probably tell the direction
it has taken by the quarter where the significator is posited.
The chief point of information is, whether it will ultimately
be recovered or not; and if it be a human being, some
opinion may be formed of its future conduct and duration
from its condition and application.
If it apply by good aspect to the querent's significator,
or there be translation of light between them, or if the )
agree, it will probably be recovered; but if the Moon agree
more with the significator of the fugitive than with that of
the querent, it will not be recovered. Every artist, how
ever, will best be able to judge from his own observations,
but he must not be too hasty in his conclusions, nor too
much inclined to descend to particulars, at least until he
have weighed them well.
QUESTION 26th.—Of Things Lost or Mislaid.
THIS is a question that can seldom occur; for horary
questions cannot be resorted to on every trivial occasion
with any prospect of success. A person losing a thimble
must not think to find it by erecting a figure, nor expect
to receive any information relative to it whatever, though
Lilly, not much to credit, has asserted that he often found
a. 'W'. or book by erecting a figure purely out of sport.
hen, however, the loss is of that magnitude to create
serious uneasiness and real anxiety to know the result, the
question may be asked with propriety. It cannot be found
by this means, whatever some may take upon them to assert,
but the final conclusion of the business, namely, whether
it shall ever be recovered or not, may be assuredly
asscertained. -
The lord of the 1st or 2d house in good aspect with
the fortunes; the dispositor of the GB in the 2d.; a fortune
ascending having dignity in the 2d.; the Moon in the 2d in
good aspect to the lord of the 1st, or in the 10th in A to a
planet in the 2d, or in the2d and in A to its lord or to the lord
of the 1st; the lord of the 1st in the 2d ; the luminaries in
A to each other, or to the cusp of the 2d.; the lord of the
2d in the 11th, or 4th; the lord of the 8th in the 1st, or
joined to its lord; 21, Q, or the S2, in the 11th or 2d.; the
ord of the 4th in good aspect with the lord of the 1st or
2d, or in the 4th well dignified, or a fortune there, or the
- - - -, ---I - – -----------------------------
HORARY QUESTIONS. 239
luminaries, or 2/, or Q, in good aspect to the cusp of the
4th; are all signs that it will be recovered. .
If the lord of the 7th, or # , or d, peregrine, separate
from the GB, it has been stolen; and if the Moon have
familiarity by good aspect with either of them, it will not
be recovered. If # or 6 be peregrine in the 2d, or in an
angle, there is a thief concerned in the business, who will
steal more, and is probably unsuspected.
The (, the 6t), or the lord of the 2d, in the 8th; 5, 6,
or #, peregrine in the 2d, or the 93 there; the lord ofthe
2d combust, or in evil aspect with the lord of the 8th or
4th, or peregrine in the 4th, or inconjunct with the 4th or
its lord; or the lords of the 7th and 8th in 6 with each
other; or the lord of the 2d inconjunct with the 1st or its
lord; or the luminaries inconjunct with each other or the
(#): there is reason to suppose the thing irrecoverably lost.
The luminaries under the Earth, even in good aspect,
will make it long before it be recovered; and it will be the
same if the lord of the 2d, although in a good position, be
afflicted. Much depends on the 4th house when other tes
timonies are doubtful, because that and its lord signify the
end of all things.
The parts of a house or country where the things stolen
or strayed, may be found, are said to be denoted by the
signs, as follows:
"Y, east; 8, south by east; II, west by south; go,
north; Sl, east by north; my, south by west; +, west;
in, north by east; f, east by south; V5, south; :, west
by north; and 9%, north by west. Airy signs, high above
ground, or hanging upon a line or tree; fiery, near a wall,
fire-place, or partition; earthy, on or under the ground;
watery, near a moist place in the room, or in a dairy or
wash-house, or somewhere near water. If the significator
be going out of a sign, the thing is behind something; or
fallen down between two rooms or places, or at the join
ing of two rooms. The lord of the 2d angular, it is not
out of the house; if in the 1st, it is where he has put it in
some place he most frequents; if in the 10th, it is in his
shop, hall, or dining room, or the room he makes most use
of; if in the 7th, it is in his wife's or maid-servant's room,
or where they usually are; and if in the 4th, it is where
his father, or some old man, did, or does, most frequent.
The significators are the 1st and its lord, the 2d and its
lord, the 4th and its lord; the signs these lords, the (, and
the 69, are most in, must be considered, and the greatest
number of testimonies taken. Some judge wholly by the
240 | HORARY QUESTIONS.
lord of the hour and the quadrant he is in, but this is not
generally the practice.
QUESTION 27th.—Of Theft.
The lord of the 7th is the proper significator of a thief,
but if a planet be found peregrine in an angle, it generally
is supposed to denote the thief, because being peregrine, it
shews him to be wretched and despicable, and only strong
to do mischief. If there be no such planet, it is usual to
take the lord of the hour instead of the lord of the 7th, but
I should prefer the latter, and should even add him to the
peregrine angular planet.
The usual method of describing their sex, is to consider
the planets, whether they be masculine or femine Thus,
b, 21, Ó, and the Q, denote the thief to be a male; Q,
or the (, a female; and # accordingly as he is most in
familiarity with male or female planets. Some consider
Mercury male or female as he is in a masculine or femi
nine sign. The personal appearance of the thief is taken
from the planet which is its significator, and the sign it is
in, according to the rules laid down in the article “Form
of the Body.”
An artist, however, ought to be careful how he excites
suspicion of any person upon no better authority than this,
which I am certain is not to be relied on. Some descend
to very minute particulars: as, whether they are relations,
acquaintances, inmates, or strangers; young or old; the
colour of the dress; their profession, &c. : much of this is
imposition. I have no doubt that horary questions are
calculated to answer every reasonable and necessary pur
pose, to which end a knowledge of some of these circum
stances is particularly essential, but it is painful to observe
the frauds practised by impostors, and the consequent dis
grace which the art has sustained. Men pretending to a
knowledge of Prognostic Astronomy (who were at the
same time so grossly ignorant as to suppose # and Q were
often in opposition to the Sun) and erecting figures with
pretended judgments attached to them where stolen goods
might be traced even to a certain stone they were hidden
under near the sea-side. Such pretenders are only calcu
lated to mislead the unwary, and bring them and their
prognostications to inevitable disgrace. The principal end
of a horary question respecting theft, is to satisfy the que
rent whether he shall recover what is lost or not, and this
may undoubtedly be known. To discover and punish the
HORARY QUESTIONS, 241
criminal is no doubt equally necessary, but owing to the
knavery of these pretended artists, the whole system has
been thrown into confusion, and I fear the minuter parts
are very imperfectly known. Nothing can restore them
but the joint operations of a number ofjudicious artists,
who have penetration sufficient to perceive thetruetendency
of the various aspects, and caution enough to compare the
result of their discoveries, until by repeated observation
they can found a system on the basis of experience that
may be depended upon. -
When the significator is once fixed upon, whether it be
the lord of the hour, or of the 7th, or a peregrine angular
planet (for it must not be both, as some foolishly assert),
or a planet in D or 9 to the 2d, or to the lord of the 2d,
or to the @ or its dispositor, it is usual to discover, if
possible, the sex and age of the thief.
If P be significator, it is a man, and very old, except
he be quite at the beginning of a sign, which shews him to
be about 40. If 2/, 6, or the G), it is a man about the
age of 30; and if Q or #, the thief is very young. Others
judge their age by that of the D. It is said, that if the
planet be masculine and in a masculine sign, it is a man;
but if feminine and in a feminine sign, a woman; but these
wiseacres have not informed us what it is when masculine
and in a feminine sign, or feminine in a masculine sign
perhaps of the epicene gender ! This is the way they create
confusion. The above distinction can only apply to #,
who is male or female according to the number ofhis aspects
with male or female planets and the sign he is in, or as he
is oriental or occidental, as the number of testimonies pre
dominate. B, 2/3.6, and the G), shew males, let them be
posited as they will, and Q and the D, females. If the )
be in the 1st quarter and significator, she is very young;
if in the 2d quarter, between 20 and 30; if after the full,
between 30 and 45; and if she have past her last quadra
ture, between 45 and 60. If many planets afflict the 2d,
its lord, the 69, or its dispositor, there are more than one.
If the significator of the thief be in Sk, A, or 6, with other
planets, there are more than one, although only one afflict
the significators of property.
If the angles of the figure are in fixed signs, or the
significator of the thief in a fixed sign, in no aspect with
any planet, except the significators of property, only one
is concerned. - -
If the luminaries aspect the ascendant or its lord; if the
lords of the ascendant and '"joined in the 1st; if the
2 -
242 HORARY QUESTIONS.
luminaries are in their own houses, or disposed of by the
lord of the 1st, or in his triplicity, the thief is well known
by the loser.
If the significator of the thief be strong in the ascendant,
he is said to be a brother or kinsman, and of this there need
be little doubt, should he be lord of the 3d. He might,
however, in the latter case, I think, be a very intimate
neighbour. .
f the lord of the 7th be in the 7th, he is said to be one
of the family.
. The lord of the ascendant in the 3d or 4th, shews him,
it is said, to be a servant in the family: but I should like
to know why.
Ifthe significator of the thief be in his own house (except
it be the 7th), or in the 3d or 9th, or if the lord of the Ist
and he be not of the same triplicity, he is a stranger.
If either d or # be significator, he is a common thief,
except they are lords of the house of some relation, in
£ case they point out who it is.
When the thief is discovered to belong to the family
connexion, it is usual to distinguish the party as follows:
The G) denotes it to be a father or master.
The ), a mother or mistress.
12, a servant or person coming by chance.
6, a son, brother, or kinsman.
2/, a chaplain, tutor, toad-eater, or some superior
servant. -
Q, a wife, housekeeper, or waiting-woman.
#, a youth, familiar, or friend.
Signs of recovery are when the lord of the 2d is in the
the ascendant, or the dispositor of the Part of Fortune;
the luminaries, both in aspect to the ascendant; the lord
of the 1st or 2d, or the dispositor of the # increasing in
light and motion, angular, or well dignified, applying by
good aspect to the fortunes or to each other, or in 6 with
a fortune; a fortune in the 1st or 2d, having good aspect
with either of the luminaries; the significator of the thief
applying by good aspect to either of the significators; the
lords of the 1st or 2d, strong and disposing of the signifi
cator of the thief, if the be in mutual reception, the
matter will be £; and if there be signs of violent
death in the figure, and the significator of the thief be im
plicated in it, he will probably be executed. If the sig
nificator of the thief be in the 6th, which is his 12th,
he will be transported or imprisoned.
The luminaries afflicted, the lord of the 1st, 2d, or the (
HORARY QUESTIONS. 243
combust, or either of the two former retrograde, or pere
rine and cadent; the significator of the thief stronger than
the lord of the 2d or 1st, or in evil aspect to the ), or in
evil aspect to the 1st or 2d, or their lords, or the 69 or its
dispositor, or the lords of the 1st in C, D, or 8, to a male
fic, the property will never be recoverd.
Some say, the G) is the significator of gold, and if any of
of that metal be lost,he is to be alone considered significator
of the property: but this is a very unmeaning distinction.
The lord of the term the D is in is the significator of the
thing stolen, the 4th and its lord the place where it is laid.
Others say, the 2d and its lord and the D denote the thing
stolen; but every one may form his own system as he
pleases.
The following are the moststriking aphorisms laid down
for knowing a thief:
If the Q and D be both in house, or in opposition to the
horoscope, or the lord of the 7th in the 1st, the thief is one
of the family. If the G) or ) behold the horoscope, he
is one well known, very intimate and not suspected. If the
O be in the 7th, or the lord of the 7th in # or A to the
horoscope, he is an opposite neighbour. If the lights be
both in the lord of the ascendant's triplicity, he is a neigh
£ in his term, a very familiar acquaintance. If both
the lights aspect the lord of the 1st, but not the 1st, the
owner knows him well. The Q and D in 9, he is a kins
• man; lord of the 1st, in the 3d or 4th, it is said to be a
Servant.
The lord of the 7th in the 1st, it is one of the family, and
where there is cause to suspect the owner himself, it is him.
In the 2d, it is his wife, sweetheart, or maid-servant. In
the 3d, a brother, sister, cousin, companion, or favourite
servant. In the 4th, his father or some old man, or a father's
relation, lodger, or inmate, or an agricultural servant of
the querent, or labourer in agriculture, mines, or buildings.
In the 5th, a child of him or of his cousin or nephew, his
kept mistress or companion. In the 6th, some servant or
labourer, uncle or aunt by the father's side, or some sickly
or melancholy person. In the 7th, some enemy who owes
him a spite, or some vile prostitute. In the 8th, some per
son in the habit of coming to the house occasionally to
labour, kill cattle, nurse, char, &c. In the 9th, somevagrant,
or one pretending to religion, some needy author, sailor, or
man of learning reduced to distress. In the 10th, some
great person of consequence, who is not necessitated to
turn thief. In the 11th, some friend, or person in trust, or
244 HORARY QUESTIONS.
one that has done the querent a service. In the 12th, some
rascally vagabond, beggar, or miserable wretch, some en
vious person, or one who lives by theft.
The thief in the end of a sign, or separating from com
bustion, or applying to a planet in the 9th or 3d, he is
making off with the property; and the same if the ) and
lord of the 1st be in different quadrants.
If the thief be in a fixed sign, take three miles for every
house he is distant from the lord of the 1st. If in a com
mon sign, one mile; if in a moveable sign, he is so many
doors distant.
If the Moon be angular, he is at home; if succeedant,
about home; cadent, a good way off. The lord of the 7th
in the 1st, the thief will be at his house before him. The
lord of the 1st with the significator of the thief, denotes
they are together. The lord of the 7th in the 7th, he is
hid at home,
In a fiery sign, he is eastward; in a watery, northward;
in an airy sign, west; and in an earthy, southward.
Some take the quadrant for the place of the thief; others
the place of the D, if she be angular, or if she be not, they
take the place of her dispositor.
The thief’s door is said to be described by the ): as, if
she be in a fixed sign, there is but one door; in a moveable
sign, the door-stand raised above the ground; if b aspect
the place, it is a very old door; if Ó aspect it, it carries
'' of fire; if b and d aspect it, the door is iron, or
very strong; if the Moon have but little light, it is a back
door; if the Moon be afflicted, it is a broken door; in com
mon signs, there is more than one door.
The nature of the place where the stolen property is, is
denoted by those places governed by the sign of the 4th.
The significator in fruitful or bicorporal signs, or many
peregrine planets angular, denote many thieves; fixed signs
on the angles or the significators in barren signs, there is
but one. -
The person is strong, if oriental and in SR, mi, or 1 ; but
weak, if occidental and in gG, or 96.
b denotes one of a pale, swarthy, dark complexion, hard
rough skin, hairy body, small eyes, jaundiced look, lean,
crooked, beetle browed, thin beard, thick lips like a black,
bow legged, one who strikes his knees or legs against each
other, down looking, seldom free from a cough, and often
has bad breath. Crafty, revengeful and malicious, dirty,
a great eater, covetous, and seldom rich.
2/ denotes a full face, white and red mixed, full eyes,
good make, light beard, though this is according to the sign
HoRARY QUESTIONS. 215
he is in; thick hair, good teeth, but some imperfection in
the two front teeth, moderate curling hair; fat, if in a moist
sign; strong, in an airy sign; and large, in an earthy sign,
and one of a good moral character. -
6 denotes a full face red or sunburnt, fierce countenance
sharp, ferocious eyes rather yellow, hair and beard reddish,
5ut this is according to the sign, except he be with fixed
stars of his own nature; in watery signs, more light and
flaxen; in earthy, sad brown. A mark or scar in his face,
strong, broad shouldered, proud, scornful, drunken and
debauched.
The Q denotes a sanguine complexion, round full face,
short chin, curling hair, fair, comely, sometimes swarthy;
bold, ambitious, vain, slow of speech, outwardly decent,
but secretly lascivious and vicious.
Q denotes a fair round face, full or large eyes, red lips,
the lower thicker or larger than the upper, black eyelids,
soft smooth brown hair, well shaped, rather short than tall.
g, middling complexion, sad brown or dark hair, long
face, high forehead, black or gray eyes, thin beard, often
none at all, slender small legs, quick in walking, and full
of business and talk. -
The (, a round face, more white than red; in watery
signs, freckled, not handsome, and generally vulgar and
dull.
The colours of the cloaths are said to be according to
the mixture of the planets, and the signs and the terms they
are in, as follows :
P, black, 2 and G), very deep shining
21, green, spotted, or ash red.
coloured. - 2/ and Q, greenish gray.
G, red. 2/ and #, spotted green.
G), saffron or sandy colour. 2/ and ), bright fine green.
Q, white or bluish. CŞ. and G), deep shining red.
#3, gray or dove colour. d and Q, light red or crim
}, white, cream coloured, SOIm. -
or pale green. d; and #, red tawney.
}) and 21, dark black green. 6 and ), light red.
b and & , dark brown. Q) and Q, olive colour.
b & G), dark yellow, bronze G) and #, light gray.
colour. G) and }, light yellow or
P and Q, whitish gray. green.
5 and #, dark gray, orblue. Q and #, purple or light
}) and ), deep gray, or mixture.
ruSSett. - Q and ), light blue orbluish
21 and d, tawney, with light white.
spots. # & ), buff or fawn colour.
246 HORARY QUESTIONS.
The meaning of this is, that when a planet is in the
house of another planet you are to ' of him as mixed
with that planet; thus, b in Q, the house of the G), would
denote the dress of the thief to be either dark yellow or
bronze colour. The term is by some taken instead of the
house, and others take it with the house and mix all three
together. If there are two or more significators of theft,
the mixture is generally taken from the lord of the tri
plicity, but for what reason, I cannot say. Every artist
may form his system as he think best, and, where the
sympathy is very strong, no doubt, some information may
be obtained respecting the colour of the dress, if the artist
thoroughly understand his own system : but in general this
does not happen.
Some lay down rules to discover the name of the thief,
as follows:
Whatever planet be taken as significator of the thief, see
if he be in any kind of aspect with another planet, if he be
not, that planet whose £ he is in, is the planet that
forms the name.
Significator. Aspect or House. Name. -
b with George, Elizabeth, or Julia,
William.
Joan.
Thomas.
Rachel.
John or Richard.
Robert or Peter.
alone Anthony.
with Catherine.
alone Roger, Philip, James, Ste
phen, or Ann.
Lawrence, or Lucy,
Andrew.
Alice, Maud, or Matilda.
Benjamin, Margaret, or
Editha.
Isabella,
Agnes.
Mathew.
Christiana.
Clement.
Nicholas.
Mary.
Ellen.
Eleanor.
Simon.
) Q
alone
with
with
O
. O)
alone
HORARY QUESTIONS. 247
If these are not the right names, they are said to con
tain the same number of letters as the true name. 2/, the
G) and 6 denote short names if they are angular, and if
near the midheaven, the name begins with A, or E. B or
Q give longer names, and some say, if the querent's name
be short, the thief's name will be short likewise: this is
very ridiculous, and requires no comment.
QUESTIoN 28th.—Of Voyages and Travels abroad.
WHEN a querent wishes to know the result of a voyage
or journey to some foreign land, the lord of the 1st, the
(, and the ascendant, are his significators, and the 9th
and its lord are the significators of the voyage.
The lords of the 1st and 9th in each others houses, or in
reception, or applying to good aspect with each other, or
with the C, or with translation by good aspect, or either
of them or the luminaries in the 11th, or in good aspect
with the fortunes, or the fortunes angular, or strong in the
1st or 9th, or the S2 in the 9th : all are signs of a pros
perous voyage.
If the lords of the 1st and 9th, or the C be oriental in
respect of the Sun, or swift, or in moveable signs, the
voyage will be quick, but slower if occidental, slow, or in
fixed signs.
If the lord of the 1st be retrograde, or if the Moon apply
to a retrograde planet, no good will come of the undertak
ing, and the querent will most probably turn back before
he reaches the place.
If the lord of the 1st or the Moon be in the 6th, 8th, or
12th, the querent will suffer much sickness or distress, and
the same if combust, peregrine, or in Ó or evil aspect of a
malefic.
If the luminaries, or either of them, be afflicted, and the
Moon or lord of the 1st be near violent fixed stars, or a
malefic, or violent stars ascending, he will be in danger of
an untimely death.
If P afflict the significators, it denotes sickness and loss,
but if the afflicting planet be d, it denotes battles, mutiny,
irates, fire, lightning, or massacre.
If the lords of the 1st, 9th, or the Moon, are inconjunct
with each other, or with the ascendant, or in evil aspect
either with each other or with the malefics, without either
reception or translation, the voyage will be wholly inau
spicious.
The 9th house, its lord, or either of the luminaries, being
afflicted, denotes sickness and disasters.
* *- ------ - -- --------> ----------
- - - - -
- ***- -- - - - -*------------ - - - - -
248 HORARY QUESTIONS.
QUESTION 29th.—Of Trade or Profession.
WHEN a querent is desirous of knowing what trade is
best to be chosen either for himself or another, the lords of
the ascendant and the C are the proper significators of the
person, and the lord of the 10th, d, or Q, of the trade.
If these, or the greatest part of them, be in watery signs,
they are said to do best as brewers, distillers, publicans, or
any trade that makes or deals in liquids.
If in fiery signs, he will do best as a chemist, £
surgeon, physician, smith, cutler, glassblower, or any trade
that works by fire. In airy signs, a lawyer, accomptant,
surveyor, clerk, astronomer, painter, milliner, draper,
printer, bookseller, or any light, clean, airy business, not
too sedentary, and chiefly in a retail way. In earthy signs,
an agriculturist, gardener, grazier, coachmaker, carpenter,
bricklayer, or any one who deals with the earth, or sub
stances produced from it.
If the trade be fixed upon, observe the lords of the 1st,
10th, and the (, for if they agree well among themselves,
and with the luminaries and fortunes, the querent will
prosper, and be an adept in what he has undertaken; but
if the opposite testimonies occur, he will be dull, unpro
mising, and unfortunate.
If the question relate to arts and sciences, rather than
common professions, the lord of the 9th, #, and the (
must be taken instead of the lord of the 10th.
If these and the lord of the 1st be in 6 or in good aspect
from angles or succeedents, or in good aspect of the for
tunes, or fortunes in the 1st or 9th, or the lord of the 1st
or 9th in the 11th, or with reception, and above all if :
be joined to, or in good aspect with the C, and free from
affliction or combustion, the person will make great pro
gress in anything abstruse or scientific.
If they disagree among themselves, but above all things
if : and the (, be inconjunct, or afflicted, or combust, or
retrograde, it is an evil symptom, and the pursuit should
be abandoned.
The 25 in the 1st or 9th, or the lord of the 9th being an
infortune, are both bad omens.
If the Q be inconjunct with these significators, or if they
are all cadent, it '' greatly lessen their profit and fame.
.#IORARY QUESTIONS. 249
OuestroN 30th.—Of Ecclesiastical Preferment.
THE 1st, its lord, and the Moon, denote the querent;
the 9th house and 2/, the living.
The lords of the 1st and 9th in each others houses, or in
good aspect with each other by application, or with the (
or M, there is no doubt that it will be obtained, and that
with the utmost ease, if there be reception likewise. -
If they apply by T), or 9, with reception, it will be ob
tained, but with difficulty. The lord of the 9th being an
infortune, is no good symbol, as it certainly detracts from
its value. Good aspects in this case will do much, but if
it be by evil aspect, it will be attained with much difficulty,
and when obtained prove the source of much vexation.
When there is translation between the lords of the 1st
and the 9th, it will be procured by the agency ofsome per
son whom the translating planet represents.
The lord of the 1st retrograde or combust, or he or the )
in evil aspect with the infortunes, it will come to nothing.
If cadent or in evil familiarity with the lord of the 9th,
there is little room for hope, unless some aspect of a
benefic make up for the deficiency.
If an infortune be in the 9th, or its lord be combust or
retrograde, it will be a source of continual uneasiness.
Malefics in the 1st or 9th, afflicting the lords of these
places or the ), denote much trouble, which will end in
disappointment.
It is said, the cause of his rejection may be known from
the house of the afflicting planet at the time the figure is
erected, whether by day or night. If he be lord of the
3d, it is through a neighbour or kinsman. If of the 11th,
a pretended friend. Of the 12th, some secret enemy. He
of the 10th his patron dislikes him. If of the 9th, his
interest is not strong enough, or the parishioners, or the
bishop dislikes him on account of some articles of his creed.
If of the 7th or 5th, he is thought contentious, immoral,
or some way improper. If of the 2d, he either wants ge
nerosity or the means. If of the 6th, he will lose it through
ill health, want ofactivity, or some unforeseen misfortune.
QUESTION 31st.—Of Secular Offices or Dignities.
THE significators of the querent are the 1st, its lord,
and the ); of the office, the 10th, its lord, and the Q.
- 2 K.
- ****-**** -- - ------------
250 HORARY QUESTIONS.
---------------- ---------
If they are well situated with each other, either in
familiarity, reception, or translation, or posited in each
others places and well dignified, the situation will be ob
tained, and be both honourable and profitable.
If an infortune be lord of the 1st, it is not good; for if
joined to the G), or in the midheaven, he denotes evil.
£ lord of the 10th being a malefic, is very unpromising;
for if he be posited either in the 10th or 1st (which, were
he a benefic, would be good), it would denote much trouble
and disgrace; and whatever honours Ó confers, will be
ultimately destroyed. As to b, he is wholly the significator
of disgrace and ruin.
QUESTION 32d.—Of Expected Disgrace.
WHEN a person holds an office or preferment of any kind,
which he expects will shortly be taken from him, let him
observe the positions of the lords of the 1st and 10th, and
the ). (If it be ecclesiastical, the lord of the 9th must be
taken in place of the lord of the 10th.) -
In this question application has great weight, for if the
lords of the 1st and 10th apply to each other by good aspect,
he is secure. Mutual reception between the two signifi
cators is equally good, and will preserve the situation even
if the aspect be evil. If the lord of the first be in the 10th,
or that of the 10th be in the first, it is a good symbol.
Translation by good aspect is favourable, and shews he
has a friend who interests himself in his behalf.
Separation in this question is, perhaps, the worst of all
symbols; for if either of the lords separate from each other,
or the ) separate from the lord of the 10th, and apply to
no benefic, he will either lose the place or be suspended.
If they also apply to the malefics, the place is certainly
gone, and the same if the lord of the 1st be combust, or
retrograde. The ) combust by application, is fatal.
.The lord of the 1st or the ) in D or & to the lord of
the 10th or the G), shews the situation to be in great danger,
and if they at the same time separate from good planets and
' to bad ones without reception or translation, the
place is certainly lost.
The lord of the 1st or the ) having evil aspect with the
lord of the 10th, or none at all, and applying to evil aspect
with other planets who are in 6, *: or A with the lord
ofthe 10th, shews such people as the houses ofthese planets
represent, by day or night, according to when the figure
is erected, are conspiring to effect his ruin, and will do it.
HORARY QUESTIONS. 251
QUESTIoN 33d.-Of the Sincerity of Friends.
WHEN persons would ascertain the true disposition of
their friends towards them, they must consider the 11th
and its lord.
Where the lords of the 1st and 11th are in good aspect
or reception, or if there be translation between them by
good aspect, or if there be the same between the lord of
the 1st and the dispositor of the lord of the 11th, their
friends are sincere. If they occupy each others places, or
if both are in good aspect of the fortunes, it is a mark of
reciprocal sincere affection If, however, either be an in
fortune, the connexion will be less agreeable.
An infortune in the 11th shews much reliance is not to
be placed in them, and if the $3 be there or with its lord,
or the lord of the 11th be joined to an infortune, or near
violent fixed stars, they are both perfidious, disagreeable
and dangerous.
If they square or oppose each other from angles or fixed
signs, they will never be good for any thing.
If the lord of the 11th, its dispositor, or the benefics, be
in the 1st or in good aspect to it, they are faithful; but if
in evil aspect to it, their friendship is all pretence and
delusion.
The 2S in the 11th is a great mark of deceit, as the S&
there, is a proof of sincerity.
Fortunes and infortunes make much difference in a ques
tion of this kind: malefics always cause that which is dis
agreeable, however well posited; and benefics, however
ill disposed, never denote a very great degree of malignity.
Application signifies reconciliation, if the aspect be good,
or a renewing of enmity if evil. Separation shews a
falling off in attachment, if the aspect was good; or if it
had been evil, it shews contempt and indifference, and if
no good aspect follow with a benefic, the connexion will
be dissolved for ever. -
QUESTION 34th.—Of Private Enemies.
WHEN persons know, or suspect, they have private
enemies, and fear the effects of their malice, they must
consult the 12th house and its lord.
If the lord of the 12th be a superior planet, or any way
dignified, they are more powerful, and consequently
dangerous. -
252 HORARY QUESTIONS.
If, however, the 1st house, its lord, or the D, be well
posited in the figure, with no evil rays of the malefics, and
ood ones of the benefics, he has no private enemies, and
£ suspicions are ill founded; but if the lords of the 1st
and 12th, or the X, are in evil aspect, or if the lord of any
other house have evil aspect with the lord of the 1st, or
the ), from the 12th, 6th, 8th, or 4th house, he has many
rivate enemies. -
If the lord of the 12th afflict the lord of the 1st, or the
), from the 3d, they are kinsmen or neighbours, especially
if the lord of the 3d afflict likewise. If from the 4th, it is
his father; if in the 5th, his children, or some visitor or
companion; in the 6th, his servants, or perhaps an uncle;
in the 7th, his wife or patron, &c. He may likewise expect
evil from that quarter where the QS is posited, especially
if its dispositor be in evil aspect with either the lord of the
first or the X.
If the lord of the 1st be more angular or better dignified,
or better supported by the benefics than the lord of the
12th, he will overcome his enemies, and vice versá.
If the lord of the 12th be lord of the 1st also, and in evil
aspect with the Moon, he is chiefly the cause of the evil by
his own indiscretion; and if an evil planet be in the 12th,
he has formed an ill connexion, and will reap discontent
as the fruit of his own folly.
QUESTION 35th.—Of Imprisonment.
THE lord of the 1st and the D signify the querent.
If the lord of the 1st, or the D be swift in motion, and
not applying to any evil aspect; or if they are in reception
or good aspect with the lord of the 3d or 9th, or planets
there; or if the lord of the 1st or the D are stronger than
the lord of the 12th ; or if they separate from any evil
aspect with him or his dispositor and apply to good aspect
with the fortunes, particularly in moveable signs; if the
lord of the ascendant or the D separate from the lord of the
4th and apply to a fortune; if moveable or common signs
ascend; or if the lord of the hour, when he was taken be
a fortune: all these are signs ofshort imprisonment.
A fixed sign ascending, and the lord of the 12th a supe
rior planet and angular; or if the lord of the 1st be slow
in motion, or the ) be so; or if the ) be in in or ~, and
the lord of the 1st cadent; or the lord of the hour when
he was taken being an infortune and angular: all these are
signs of long imprisonment. -
~~~~~~---------- ------------- - - ---
HORARY QUESTIONS. • 253
If the lord of the 1st be in the 4th, 6th, 8th, or 12th, or
combust, or retrograde, the imprisonment will be long and
dreadful.
If the lord of the 1st or the ) apply to evil aspects of
b or 6, particularly if the infortune be lord of the 8th, or
going into combustion without any good aspect of a benefic,
or if Ó or B be in & to the luminaries, or the ) or lord
of the 1st be near any violent fixed stars, particularly Ca
put Algol, it denotes that the whole will end in a violent
death, or at least that he will die in prison.
The lord of the 1st being lord of the 12th, likewise is
a symbol of severe and lasting misfortunes, and an evil life.
Ifthe lords of the 1stand 12th apply to a 6 with each other,
and the latter be the stronger and an infortune, it denotes
lasting and fatal imprisonment.
The time of release, it is said, may be known by the de
grees between the querent's significator and the benefic
lanet to which it applies, according to the sign it is im, as
£described, whether it be common, fixed, or moveable.
QUESTION 36th—Of Hidden Treasures.
THIs seems a very silly question, and one that will never
do the artist any credit. When treasure is suspected to be
hidden any where, the best way is to look for it, for this
must be done after all. Instead of doing this, we are di
rected to cast a figure of the heavens, and take the 4th
and its lord for the treasure and the place where it is hid
den. If the lords of the 1st and 4th have good application,
reception or translation, or if joined in an angle, or in a
fixed sign, or in any good place of the figure; if a lumi
nary be in the 1st, or in good aspect with it; or the 69 in
the 1st, aspected by the benefics; or if a fortune be lord of
the 4th or in it: there is, they say, treasure, and it will
be found.
If any planet be dignified in the 4th, or the major part
of the planets in the figure be in their own essential digni
ties in any house, and free from affliction, it is said to be a
proof that there is treasure hidden somewhere.
If an infortune be ill dignified in the 4th, or either of the
luminaries there be weak, there has either been none, or it
has been removed. If the lord of the 1st or the ) sepa-.
rate from good aspects, it has been taken away.
The lord of the 1st or the ), having no good aspect with
the 4th or its lord, or being inconjunct, and having no re
ception or translation, or being cadent or peregrine, or re
254 HORARY QUESTIONS.
trograde, or combust, and above all, the luminaries being
weak or afflicted, or the lord of the hour an infortune, shews
there is no treasure.
QUESTIon 37th.—Of the Time of the Querent's Death.
THIs is a very improper question and ought never to be
answered by an artist. It is true, he might often gain cre
dit by it, for however wrong he might be, the terror con
sequent on such a prediction would sometimes realize it.
Were a querent to # to me on such a subject, I should
always predict long life, whatever might be the planetary
position, for the blood of no person should rest on my head.
The most proper way of discovering the time of death
is by directing the hyleg to the anareta (see Directions),
and this can only be done where the true time of birth is
known. Some, indeed, affirm, that where not the smallest
chance remains of discovering the true time of birth, a
figure may be erected, at the strong desire of the querent,
to any time, which will answer every purpose of a geneth
liacal figure. In neither of those cases, however, ought an
artist to predict the death of any one, except for his own
rivate use and practice. Some querents, in great anxiety
or their friends, frequently apply to know if they are in
danger, with fervent promises not to divulge the prediction;
but, beside the possibility that the artist may be in an error,
it would only increase the suffering of the querent, and if
it should by any means reach the ear of the patient, which
is more than probable, the consequence might be fatal.
Those artists who cannot calculate a drrection (and there
are many such) have recourse to the following method:
they consider the lord of the 1st and the D as hylegs, and
the 8th house with its lord and the planets therein as ana
retas, and judge according to the number of the testimonies.
The 93 and both the malefics are all considered anaretic.
If the lord of the 1st, and the C, therefore, are no way
afflicted, and no infortune, nor the lord of the 8th, nor the
$$ in the ascendant, it is considered as a mark of long life;
and the same if either of those two significators are in 3
or good aspect of a fortune, or a fortune in the ascendant.
In this case, they take the number of degrees between the
lords of the 1st and 8th, and allow the same number of
years for the length of the querent's life. The body, how
ever, of the G) is considered anaretic, and, therefore, if the
lord of the 1st become combust before he reach the lord
of the 8th, they reckon according to the degrees between
him and the Sun. ”
HORARY QUESTIONS. 255
When the significators are afflicted by infortunes or by
the lords of the 12th, 8th, 6th, or 4th, or joined to the 93,
it denotes short life, according to the degrees of afflic
tion. The degrees between the significator and the chief
afflicting planet, are said to denote the weeks, months, or
years, of the querent’s life, as the promittor may be in
moveable, common, or fixed signs.
I have never tried this last method, and can say little
about it; but I very much doubt its correctness. I have
no opinion of directing, even symbolically, to a benefic as
anareta, merely because he is lord of the 8th.
The manner of death is said to be known from the na
ture of the planet causing it. If it be a benefic the disso
lution will £ gentle, and with little suffering, if the ana
reta be not near violent fixed stars. P denotes death by
agues, dropsies, consumptions, &c., 3, by fevers, or some
hot or epidemic disease, wounds, falls, &c. The Q, by
leurisy, or some obstruction in the viscera. #, by phthisis,
ethargy, frenzy, &c. And the (, by cold, moist diseases,
or drowning. Fixed stars of the nature of d, denote sud
den fevers, accidents, murders, &c. If of the nature of b,
falls, palsies, agues, and cold diseases. Of #, consump
tions, madness, melancholy. If of the nature of the @,
blindness, fevers, &c. Of the (, cold watery diseases,
cholic, drowning, &c. Of Q, siphilis, injury by women.
And if fixed stars of the nature of 2/ be joined to the ana
reta, it denotes the injury to arise from some one in power,
or from religion. There is, however, little room to sus
£ that fixed stars of the nature of 2/ or Q, except they
e mixed with that of P or 6, can do much evil. -
The time is not easy to calculate, nor would I venture it
except the testimonies were nearly all for death and re
markably strong. Nor have I any idea of calculating
time from a square aspect, because there must be a mixture
of signs, and often of houses, which must cause confusion.
Neither do I think a square aspect positively denotes death.
Where the evil proceeds from a C or 9, the signs and
houses, both of the significator and anareta, are then alike,
and it is usual to allow years for fixed signs, months for
common, and weeks for moveable: but here the most cor
rect way is to observe the positions of the angles, and allow
days for angles and moveable signs, weeks for common,
and months for fixed ; weeks for moveable succeedents,
months for common, and years for fixed; and months for
moveable cadents, years for common, and an indefinite
time for fixed, as the event may possibly never happen as
256
*
HORARY QUESTIONS.
translation of light
predicted. If it be to a significator, the distance between
that and the anareta must be taken : if in the 1st or 7th,
the degrees must be taken between the anareta and the
cusp, if it apply, but if it separate, there are hopes of reco
very. The worst position may not be desperate, if a good
aspect of 2/ or Q be cast to the very point, before the
fatal G or opposition take place, even if it be application
to combustion.
QUESTION 38th.—Of the Success of a Message.
: THIs question is extremely different in different cases,
many of which are attended with circumstances and ex
£ quite foreign to others, and therefore the rules
ere laid down will be, in most situations, partly inap
plicable.
The 1st and its lord denote the sender ; the lord of the
5th, the messenger; the C is the message; and the 7th
and its lord, the place and person to whom it is sent.
In domestic journeys, a fortune in the 3d denotes safe
travelling, and an infortune the reverse. In foreign jour
neys, a fortune or infortune in the 9th, denotes the same.
B causes great sufferings, privations, and calamities. 6
denotes wounds, blows, falls, fevers, robbery, murder, &c.
The QS has more the effect of 6 than of b. The lumi
naries operate as they are afflicted or otherwise. Where
there is reason to apprehend danger, the lord of the 5th
being in opposition to an infortune and near violent fixed
stars or either of the luminaries in the same situation, are
very bad symbols.
The lord of the 5th, being a fortune, or in reception or
good aspect with the lord of the 1st or the ), or well con
figurated with the ascendant, or free from the rays of the
malefics, and having some familiarity with a benefic, or
£n him and the 1st or its lord,
the messenger is honest, and may be depended upon; but
if combust, retrograde, or in evil aspect or inconjunct,
with the lord of the 1st and the ), without reception or
translation, there is much reason to suspect either his in
tegrity or ability: at all events, they are very evil symbols.
If he separate from the lord of the 7th and apply to the
lord of the 1st, he has done his business and is returning;
and if the separation be from the lord of the 8th, it is said,
he brings money. If he apply to an infortune by evil as
pect before he separate from the lord of the 7th, he has
been much impeded by those to whom he was sent, but if
*** - - - - - - -
*----------~ --- - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - -
HORARY QUESTIONS. 257
he apply to such infortune after separation, he will meet
with some accident on his return. - - .
If he separate from good planets, his tidings are good,
and if from evil ones, he has met with calamities or per
formed his task but badly." s *
If the ) alone be afflicted, the message will meet with
a bad reception, and if it be by application, will wholly
fail. If she be slow in motion, there will be great delay.
If she apply to a benefic or be strong and free from afflic
tion, the message will meet with a good reception, and .
ultimate success. - -
If there be good aspect between the lords of the 5th and
7th, or reception, the messenger will be well received;
and if the lord of the 5th or : translate the light of the
lord of the 7th to the lord of the 1st, it denotes a happy
termination of the business. - -
QUESTION 30th.—Of Servants.
THERE is seldom any occasion for this question, as per
sons must be very careless and inattentive to their own
affairs, or of very shallow understanding, who cannot form
some tolerable idea of the qualities of their servants, and
ifsuch a question be asked upon mere impertinent suspicious
curiosity, it would receive no proper answer, for it would
not be radical. Should, however, any weighty occasion
occur, it may be judged as follows:
If the lord of the 6th be in good aspect with the lord of
the 1st or the ), or in reception, or if his light be trans
ferred to the lord of the 1st by the X, or in good aspect to
the ascendant; or if the S3 be in the 6th or good planets
there; or the lord of the 6th joined to or in aspect with
good planets, or disposed of by the lord of the 1st or by
benefics, or if he be a benefic himself and with the Q or
free from affliction, or if he be well dignified and free from
evil aspects: it is a mark of the servant's honesty.
The G) in the 6th, ill dignified, is a mark of waste and
profligacy; and it is said, if the lord of the 6th be in the
2d, in zodiacal square to the D in the 6th, the servant is
a great pilferer. - -
If there be neither good aspect, reception, nor transla
tion, between the lord of the 1st and 6th, or if the latter
be posited in the 8th or 12th, and inconjunct with the lord
of the 1st, or joined to an infortune, or in D, or 9, to the
ascendant or its lord, or to '. ), or with the £5, or com
O
258 HORARY QUESTIONS.
bust, or retrograde, none of these testimonies are much in
his favour.
g is said to be a natural significator of servants, and if
he be in the dignities of an infortune, or in evil aspect to
the 1st or 2d, or their lords, or with an infortune, or the $3,
it is a bad symbol. If # be inconjunct with the ) or com
bust, or retrograde, the servant'sintellects are shallow, and
his principles not good.
QUESTION 40th.—Shall a Man or his Wife die first 3
The best way to answer this question is by a reference
to their respective nativities; but it is impossible, even
in this way, to give judgment with any certainty, owing to
the number of considerations it involves. The age, consti
tution, and habit of the natives render them more or less
able to resist the power of fatal directions; beside which,
revolutions, transits, &c. have great power in accelerating
or averting the evil. An artist, who is unacquainted with
the stamina of the querent, would be very silly in attempt
ing to answer such a question: at all events, should he
erect a figure and find any violent directions, it is his duty
to conceal them, and do no harm if he can do no good.
Those who have recourse to a horary question sometimes
decide by the strength and position of the different signifi
cators, taking the lord of the 1st and the D for the man,
and the lord of the 7th and the G) for the woman; others
measure the distance in degrees between the lord of the
7th and Ist, and the lord of the 8th, and predict that the
person whose significator is nearest, will die first. This is
a very uncertain method, to say the best of it, and as to
the question itself, it is generally ridiculous, and either
originates in idle curiosity or some worse motive. It can
£ be propounded with seriousness and anxiety, and
of course, can seldom be radical. -
QUESTION 41st.-Of Secret Wishes.
WHEN persons apply to an artist to know if a certain
wish or desire they have (the nature of which they are un
willing to explain) shall be fulfilled, it belongs to the
11th house, which is the general significator of all desires
and their success. - -
... The lord of the 1st and the ) having good aspect with
. . the lord of the 11th, or being posited there, or in recep
tion, or with translation of light from the lord of the 11th
HORARY QUESTIONS. 259
to the lord of the 1st, or the lord of the 11th in the 1st, or
in A or >k to the 1st, or in the 11th, or with benefics, or
applying in good aspect to benefics, or with the Sè, or the
lord of the Ist with benefics, or applying to them by good
aspect, or benefics in the 1st or 11th are all signs that the
wish will be obtained.
If the reception happen in angles, or in fixed signs, it
will be complete; but if in common signs, not so perfect;
and in moveable signs, it will be but trifling.
If the reverse of all these positions happen, or the lord
of the 1st or 11th be combust, or retrograde, or the ) be
new or at the full, it either will not happen or will be pro
ductive of much evil, particularly when the significators
are combust, retrograde, or with violent fixed stars, or in
8 to b or d.
If the significator of the thing be a fortune and apply to
the lord #the 1st by evil aspect, it will be obtained, but
with much difficulty; and if the significator be an infor
tune, the wish whenever obtained will have something in
it disagreeable.
QUESTIoN 42d.—Of finding a Person at Home.
If the person be not related he is the lord of the 7th,
but if he or she be a relation, they are signified by the lord
of the house that signifies such relation.
If this said lord be in an angle, the person is at home; if
succeedent, not far off, and easy to be found; and if cadent,
they will not be found.
If the lord of the 1st have friendly aspect with him, or if
there be translation of light between them, he may be met
with or heard of by accident; the planet transferring such
light will denote by its sex the person from whom the in
formation will be received, whether a male or female.
I know a person, who declared he never found this to
fail; but, for my own part, I think it too trivial for a horary
uestion, and therefore never tried it. It may, however,
ave its use to some who feel much anxiety on slight occa
sions. If more than one person be wanted, that person will
be found who lives in the direction of the sign containing
the lord of the 7th and the quadrant, where that sign is
posited. If the application be to the lords of the exaltation
and house both, two of them will be found; if also to the
lord of the triplicity, three of them will be found, &c.
These are the fundamental principles of the doctrine of
horary questions as laid down by the most approved au
260 HORARY QUESTIONS.
thors, and although they contain some apparent absurdities,
even those merit the attention of an artist before they are
finally rejected. To enable the student to do this with
more ease, I have uniformly studied to avoid confusion,
and where that could not well be done (a circumstance
which has not frequently occurred), I have pointed out the
contradiction, and shewn how it may be avoided. Nothing
now remains to be done but that the reader should collect
as many as possible of those questions about which the que
rents are really anxious and sincere, and judge of them by
the rules laid down. As the events occur, let him set down
every minute particular of each under its respective figure,
and compare them together at his leisure. He will soon
find it a pleasing and instructive amusement, and, whatever.
fools may say about superstition and weakness, or impiety
and presumption, he will be more innocently and usefully
employed in doing this than in wasting his time in an ale
house, tavern, or any other place of dissipation and intem
perance, Moreover, although it will not enable him to
raise the devil, as some blockheads foolishly imagine, he
will thereby raise his own character and reputation, and
be enabled to read the heavens with more correctness, per
haps, than the major part of those who may attempt to
ridicule him can read their primer. * ,
If a figure, on inspection, does not appear interesting, or
if it be much confused with either weak or contradictory
testimonies, he may be sure the question is not radical, but
has probably been asked out of idle curiosity, or without
any very energetic feeling as to the result, or merely to
pass away time. It is superfluous, I hope, to advise him to
avoid all strangers, and, above all things, not to do any
thing of the kind for gain. I cannot speak with certainty,
but there is much cause to suspect, that those who do such
things for profit, lose their divining faculty, and can fore
tel nothing. The cord of sympathy is very fine and may
be easily broken when the mind is attentive to a different
object. Perhaps this is one reason why they so often meet
with the punishment they deserve: at all events, it is a
proof they are somehow or other miserably deficient. No
respectable artist need set a price upon his services, for, if
-really useful, he would find more difficulty in avoiding
favours than in acquiring them, and instead of publishing
his name to the world, he would perceive the necessity of
- concealing it as much as possible. Next to disinterested
ness, modesty is the most valuable £ in an artist; for
a man who is diffident, cautious, and mistrustful of himself
HORARY QUESTIONS. 261
and the science, must ultimately succeed: while the hasty,
credulous professor, who is eager to believe, and ambitious
to display his powers, will constantly commit himself, and
be continually entangled in his own absurdities.
Before we entirely quit the subject of horary questions,
it will be necessary to give some examples, though I am
compelled to own, that few are worse qualified than my
self for such a task, as, from a culpable negligence, I have,
after having satisfied myself as to the result, seldom pre
served the figure of any horary question. I am therefore
only able to present two or three, which will just serve to
give the reader some idea of the mode of forming a judg
ment of this nature. Probably some illiberal critics will
remark, that the smallness of the number is a proof how
seldom such predictions are verified, and that I have only
chosen from a great variety the few that best suited my
purpose: I can, however, assure them, my wish is to dis
cover, not to conceal the truth, and a moment's reflectiou
will convince them, that I could easily erect figures and in
vent questions to suit them, in imitation ofa late pretended
artist, were I so inclined.
The first example is a question which I erected in great
anxiety of mind, on the decumbiture of a much respected
friend, who was taken extremely ill with shortness ofbreath
and a considerable tendency to fever. He had been subject
to the same complaint during many successive winters, but
perfectly recovered his health on the return of spring, and
I had no doubt whatever that the complaint was asthmatic,
and that no danger was to be apprehended. The physi
cians, however, £ him in the utmost danger, and
affirmed the cause of the distemper to be an approaching
dropsy in the chest. I had no confidence whatever in this
opinion, but upon finding they persevered in it, a sudden
and deep anxiety seized me, and I perceived that this was
the moment to know the result. I accordingly erected the
figure which will be found in plate 3d, figure 2d : a more
fatal one I have never seen, and my sensations at that mo
ment may more easily be imagined than described.
: The D is hyleg, as possessing the south angle, (but she
is always hyleg in a decumbiture in common with the lord
of the ascendant) and is hastening to an 8 of the G) from
angles and cardinal signs: this is a most fatal direction.
The Q is here the anareta, and being posited in the 4th
house, denoting the grave and the e".d of all things, too
plainly demonstrated the sad catastrophe that ensued.
262 HORARY QUESTIONS.
2! is lord of the 6th, and of course significator of the
disease and its result, and, being joined to the Q, who is
-anareta, fully denotes the disease will end in death, the
more so, as the G is in the 4th house, denoting the grave.
It is also remarkable that the Q had exactly the declina
tion of 2/.
b, lord of the fatal 4th denoting the grave, is posited
near the cusp of the 6th, another testimony that the sick
ness will lead to the grave; and b and 2/, the lords of
the disease and the end of all things, are in mutual recep
tion, a strong and fatal testimony, signifying on one hand,
that the disease will terminate existence, and on the other,
that death will be the result of the disease.
Q, lady of the ascendant, is also lady of the 8th, another
evil symbol, and what many artists consider as a proof that
the deceased has contributed to his own injury by some in
temperance in the early part of life; but this, whether true
or not, is of little moment, as it cannot be remedied, and
is unconnected with the question entirely. The lady of the
ascendent is also retrograde, another fatal symbol.
The ) is almost in partile 9 of #, a sign that the head
is deeply affected, and the QS in the ascendant is said to
denote the same. This was amply verified; for the patient
was almost constantly delirious. This 9 of # was of it
self sufficient to cause death, and therefore he could not
fail to add greatly to the malignity of the G). It is also
worthy of remark, that § was lord of the 12th, an evil
house, and in the term of 2/, lord of the 6th ; the G) is in
the term of Q, lady of the 8th; and 2 is in the term of
b, lord of the 4th : all terms belonging to the lordships
of fatal houses. I always use the Egyptian terms because
they are less confused than those of #olemy.
The D posited in gö, a watery sign, and a watery sign
on the cusp of the 6th, denote a watery disease; and
being in gå, the sign of the breast and stomach, shews
the disease to lie there, and that it is a dropsy of the chest,
which proved in fact to be the distemper. #. dispositors,
alse, of the luminaries in watery signs, denote the same;
for b, who disposes of the Q, is in 96, and the ), who
disposes of herself, is in gG.
The last thing to be considered is the time of the event,
and as the fatal direction is the C to the 9 of the Q, we
take their distance which is 5° 16', answering to 5 days
and a quarter, because the (is in a moveable sign and an
gular, which gives a day for a degree. She, however, has
near 5° north latitude, for which, according to the common
* HORARY QUESTIONS. 263
rule, there should be subtracted at the rate of a degree for a
day, though I know not for what reason, for it makes but a
small difference in the right ascension. For my own part,
I never allow above a degree for latitude, however great
it may be; nor do I allow even that, if it do not amount to
two-thirds of a degree: I therefore subtracted a day from
the five, and there remained 4 days and a quarter. The
figure was east between ll and 12 o'clock on Sunday
evening, and the time of the event answered to Friday
morning. -
No insur can express my astonisment and regret at
this unexpected discovery, and had not the testimonies been
so strong, numerous, and unequivocal, I should have
doubted the radicality of the figure: so unwilling are we
to believe what we dread. My most difficult task was to
£ a countenance before his relatives, as it was use
ess to give them unnecessary pain. I told them a material
change would, I had reason to suppose, take place on the
following Friday. Upon being questioned as to the na
ture of that change, I added, that there was every reason
to hope for the best; for I always evade a direct reply on
these occasions. However, my countenance, perhaps, too
clearly expressed the real truth, for his niece, an affec
tionate young lady, wished to heaven, on the Thursday
evening, that Friday might never arrive. He expired on
Friday morning, exactly at 5 o'clock, being within halfan
hour of the time the figure had predicted.
*
REMARKs.
I have seldom seen a horary question so perfectly une
quivocal as this, nor could it well be otherwise, in conse
£of the eagerness and anxiety of mind under which
erected it. None of the testimonies could be miscon
strued: they all denoted a fatal termination. Only one
good aspect could be found in the figure, which was the
A of band the (, but the A of b or 3 is never of much
value when lord of an evil house, though, as b was lord
of the 4th, or the end, it might denote an easy departure,
for he expired almost without a struggle.
I would not, however, recommend generally so close an
adherence to the figure as I have shewn in the present ex
ample : it was made under a strong sympathetic impulse,
as I before observed, and was therefore more likely to be
radical in all its parts, but there are many particulars in
264 HORARY QUESTIONS.,
this figure that would not merit depending on in every
case where the impulse is neither so strong nor sudden.
First, the disease cannot always be ascertained, nor is it
in most cases necessary, as it is generally but too well
known. Here, however, the nature of the disease really
formed part of my question, and, indeed, I may say, the
substance of it; for had I known what the disease was, I
should have been fully aware of the result: it was, there
fore, clearly demonstrated. -
I always, when I seek to know this, which is seldom the
case, take the sign in which the ( is, for the nature and
place of the disease. Next follows the sign on the cusp of
the 6th, and next to it the signs containing the dispositors
ofthe luminaries: when all or nearly all ofthem agree, there
can he no doubt of the nature of the disease; but where
they all disagree, it is a proof that the querent has no par
ticular anxiety about that part of the question, and there
fore it should be abandoned. This only respects the na
ture of the disease, but the seat of it can alone be taken
from the sign the ( is in, at least, this is my opinion.
As to the mutual position of 12 and 21, and their recep
tion, it would be in other cases but a slight testimony not
to be wholly relied upon, except corroborated by other
strong testimonies, and where this is the case it is very
powerful. - - -
The lord of the 4th is not a strong testimony, except
when, as in this case, he becomes a leading significator by
disposing of the anareta, or being posited near the cusp of
the 6th, and even these symbols should be corroborated by
other strong testimonies.
With respect to time, I would always advise the artist
to be cautious. It is generally foretold through vanity,
which is no very praiseworthy motive, and can seldom be
beneficial either way, but if there be any particular and
useful reason why it should be known, and the querent feel
an interest sufficiently deep to excite a strong sympathy,
he will seldom be deceived. When the result is fatal, both
that and the time ought to be carefully concealed, as in all
probability it cannot be of much, if any, service, and may
do incalculable mischief. In the present instance, I had
no doubt as to the time, all the testimonies being so strong
and decided, and instead of the truth I told a gross false
hood, with the exception of the day, which I mentioned
that they might be duly prepared for a change ofsome kind
or other, the nature of which, by the bye, was somewhat
too fully explained by the physician.
HORARY QUESTIONS. 265
The next question is one relative to marriage, and is by
no means so radical as the foregoing : the querent had for
some time paid his addresses to a lady, and I believe the
time was fixed for their nuptials, so that this formed no
part of the question, which was one rather of curiosity than
of deep anxiety, although it was accompanied with a cone
siderable degree of eagerness to know the result, and the
disposition of the person in particular. I therefore erected
the figure (plate 3d, figure 3d).
The querent's significator is #, who is lord both of his
first : 2d houses, and also of the 10th. Some artists
would have made a wonderful story out of this, which, ac
cording to them, would have denoted his being a booke.
seller, (which in fact he was) and, being lord of the 2d
and 10th also, that his gains and profession were both
clearly signified to belong to letters and books, but I never
could placé any confidence in this doctrine, because it
could be of no service to signify such particulars to those
who knew them already.
g, the querent's significator, being almost on the
cusp of the 7th, denoted the wedding to be close at
hand, and it happened in less than a month after. Q, the
consignificator of the man, is also applying to a partile
conjunction with the Q, the lady's consignificator, which
is a strong symbol of marriage.
Q in the 7th house; a fruitful sign on the cusp of the
7th, Q, the Q, and the lord of the ascendant in a fruitful
sign; the X in k with #2, Q and the Q, and translatin
the light of #' to Q and the G) by k, and having no evi
aspect with any planet in the figure, are all sure signs of
marriage. • •
2/, lord of the 7th, posited in the 5th, the house of
pleasure and illicit love, or (to speak more plainly) of a
mistress; and B, the lord of the said 5th, in the 7th, in
mutual reception with the ) separating from both, viz.
from the A of M and >k of b, after having translated that
light from # to b which she was now translating to 9;
intimated that some intimacy not of the most platonic kind
had subsisted between the querent and some other lady
under hopes of marriage, and was then dissolving rapidly
and making room for the approaching union denoted by the
sk of the X to Q in the 7th house : this was the fact. The
) being lady of the 11th, and translating the light of #,
lord of the 1st, to Q, posited in the 7th, denoted the at
tachment to be transferred to another by means of some
friend, and the ) being #" of by Q, signified that
- 2
&
266 HORARY QUESTIONS. --
the connexion would not be dissolved, but that the querent
would certainly marry the quesited. : Q disposing of the
GB, denoted that the querent would get money by the
Harriage, but the @ being in a cadent house was a symbol
that it would not be so much as he might expect, Q, being
exalted in both the 7th and 8th houses, also denoted the
lady to have some property, and her being angular, signified
the same. The lord of the ascendant and 2d, being in his
fall, denoted a want of money, which would be in some
degree supplied by the lady in question, as he was just
entering her exaltation and approaching her G. Q being
combust, was a testimony that she was much oppressed,
robably by sickness, because the G) was lord of the 12th
£ of the figure, which when reckoned from the 7th
becomes its 6th. The D being near the SA, and both being
in the dignities of Q, who was lady of the 10th house, the
house of trade and credit, was a symbol that both would be
improved by the marriage, though the ) being cadent in
the 9th, rather diminished the strength of this testimony.
The D of d from the 10th house denoted, that the querent
would very shortly be robbed of some article in trade, as
the square fell near the cusp of the '' 2d, and,
being disposed of by the querent's significator, was a sign
that he knew the thief. This actually happened about a
fortnight after, for he lost some goods from #. door, which
were stolen, as he afterwards discovered, by a person he
knew, and exactly answered the description of a person
described by d in II., d. being peregrine in an angle
always denotes a thief. - It also was a symbol that the
bride's expected dower would fall short of what was ex
pected, and that some dispute 'this circumstance
would arise through 8, who was lord of the 4th, which
is the 10th or maternal place of the 7th. It would be im
proper to explain the particulars. -
he disposition is taken from Q in 36, to whom the )
applies; for if the ) be not void of course, the planet to
whom she applies should always be the symbol of the tem
per and qualities of the quesited. I knew the lady, and
can affirm that no description could be more exact so far
: as related to the mind; but the personal appearance
differed in this particular, that the face was long instead of
round. It is usual to take in those cases the planet with
whom the ) is nearest in aspect, whether she apply or
separate, but a separating aspect, however near, should
never be £ to an application, provided she form
the aspect before she quit the signs.
HoRARY QUESTIONs. 267
|
- REMARKs. - -
I must here again observe, that only the strength of the
testimonies can justify those critical judgments. I have
been more minute than I would recommend any other artist
to be, until he is certain of his own system. Many positions
relate to events of which the artist is not aware, and he
consequently attributes them to others which never take
place. The quitting an old connexion for a new one, sig
nified by the separation of the ) from the aspect of b and
2/3 was a very hazardous prediction; but the testimonies
were numerous and strong, and I could not tell to what else
they could possibly apply. I at last, however, gave it only
as a slight opinion, it happened to be true : but, after all, it
might be the effect of chance, and have no connexion with
the question, or if it had, the allusion might be very dif
ferent. Many querents cannot, and others will not, explain
the whole oftheir wishes, yet theirsympathies are the same,
and therefore the artist often perceives testimonies for the
tendency of which he cannot account. This might be the
case with d, in the south angle. Ó so posited and pere
grine, always denotes a thief, yet I do not see how this
could be connected with a question of marriage, and al
though there were some subsequent family disagreements,
they could hardly amount to the testimony of so strong a
position. The certainty of this marriage, and the disposi
tion of the bride, I firmly predicted, but I mentioned the
others with great diffidence, as things only which might be.
They were realized: nevertheless," should again predict
with uncertainty, if a similar case occurred.
The next was erected at the request of a gentleman, who
had reason to suppose his wife was pregnant. He had
acquainted me with some of the symptoms, all of which,
except one, had the decided marks of pregnancy. I told him,
there could be little doubt that she was so, and that it did
not require a figure to be erected; though he might as well,
I thought, inquire of her mother concerning the symptoms,
for as they had been but lately married, she could not judge
for herself. He said that had been done, and that she had
also had the opinion of a lady in the house, the mother of
five children, and both of them were fully of opinion that
she was pregnant, and that the symptom alluded to, was
merely the effect of weakness. I replied, that was all he
could well require. He however expressed much anxiety
to have a figure erected, as it was her ardent wish to have
*
268 HORARY QUESTIONS.
a child, and she was very anxious to know the result. I
accordingly erected the figure, plate 3d, figure 4, and I
never saw one wherein the testimonies were more decided,
or less equivocal. -
The barren sign, II, ascending, denotes the querent's
constitution and habit to be inclined to barrenness; the
barren sign my occupies the cusp of the 5th; the significator
of children, and the house to which the question belongs.
Both these symbols denote that there is at present no hopes
of her being pregnant. The barren sign, Q, occupies the
4th house, which signifies the end of all things, and denotes
that there is little reason to hope she ever will have child
ren. The cold barren planet, b, occupies the 11th house,
the house of wishes and expectation, a sign that she will
be disappointed in her desire; the ) has separated from
his D and is void of course, which is another testimony, if
another had been requisite, that the quesited was neither
pregnant nor '' to be so. b being lord of the 8th, de.
noted that her life had been lately in danger on this account,
and in fact she had but a short time before miscarried.
When I saw the person on the following day, I owned I
had been deceived by the symptom, for I had found by the
figure that she neither was pregnant nor likely to be so.
e smiled, and said all was right enough. She had been
to an old lady, who was reputed for her great experience
in those matters, and she told her there was not the least
doubt of her pregnancy, that she was about two months
gone, and the little irregularity of which she complained
was only the result of weakness, I told him that my figure
was of that positive nature, that nothing could shake my
confidence in it. The disease I suspected, was rather the
effect of nervous irritability, which had greatly disordered
the stomach, and that three or four cups of a strong infus
sion of Ginseng taken every day, for a week, would soon
remove most of her complaints. This I persuaded him to
give her, and in a few days the whole of the symptoms
disappeared.
i REMARKs.
THE peculiarity of this figure, on such an occasion, is as
tonishing. There are but three barren signs in the zodiac,
and they £ the cusps of the three houses that had
the chief signification of the question. There is but one
barren planet, and he occupied the 11th house, the seat of
the querent's wishes. The D, the chief significator of
HORARY QUESTIONS. 269
children, had just separated from his baleful D, and was
void of course. Numerous and strong testimonies like
these prove the radicality of the question and admit of no
dispute.
£ O had just entered by one minute the fruitful sign
%; a strange phoenomenon in a figure of this kind, and
certainly denoted something which I have not the acuteness
to penetrate, but the G) is not the significator of pregnancy,
except when he agrees with the D in a particular manner.
The D, being in the 7th house, in a double bodied sign, is
a small testimony, and the only one in the figure, that is
favourable; but f is not a fruitful sign, and the C of b,
and the ) being void of course, renders it wholly nuga
tory and unavailing.
, I can find no more of these examples, but I shall add a
figure, which was not erected by me, but only sent for my
opinion, (see plate 3, figure 5,), I give it exactly as I had
it. The querent was desirous of removing his business to
another house, and wished to know the result. -
The querent's significator, d, being almost peregrine in
the 2d, denoted that his circumstances were none of the
best, which was farther demonstrated by the @being in the
12th, the house of difficulties and vexation. He is, how
ever, just entering his term, which shews he is not without
resources. The 69 disposed of by 6', denotes that all the
£ property has been acquired by his own exertions.
e is also lord of the 7th, which is the place he is goin
to, and disposes of the lady of the 7th, Q, and the ), whic
is an excellent symbol. The ) is passing to a 6 with
in the 7th house, where they are both angular and in their
triplicity, a sign that he will be eminently successful, though
not without encountering great difficulties, as the QS is near
Q, and must be passed by the D. The Q, however, is in the
1st, which gives him power to overcome them. d, the que
rent's significator, is passing to an 9 of M, lord of the 12th,
an evil symbol, denoting extreme disappointment and
anxiety, and at the same time #, lord ' querent's se
cond house, or property, is going to his opposition, and to
the C of 21, his enemy, and both of these are combust.
The O, also, follows to the 9, and both of them are dis
posed of by 2/. The Q is lord of the 5th, which is the 2d,
or property of the 4th, the place where the querent is be
fore his removal, and denotes some dispute about the pro
erty of that house. This dispute was likely to be durable
in its effects, as d is void of course after passing the 8
of 2/.
270 HoRARY QUESTIONS:
The whole of the prediction was amply realized. The
uerent removed, '' rospered well in his new situation,
though he had many difficulties to surmount, for his very
friends, alarmed at the magnitude of his undertaking, re
fused to lend him any assistance, though after he had
struggled through every difficulty by his own exertion and
industry, they were profuse enough of their offers, when
their assistance was no longer wanted. At the time of
removal, a dispute occurred between him and the original
landlord, respecting some fixtures, which the young man
was compelled in the first instance to purchase of an under
landlord, and which the other contended he had no right
to sell or remove. This he would and could have disputed,
had not want of money compelled him to relinquish his
claim to what was undoubtedly his right, and to let the
house to any one that would take it, and the future tenant
afterwards injured him much in his business, by setting up
in the same line, and carrying away a part of his con
nexion. - - … . . . . **
I would particularly recommend querents not to erect
three or four figures for a question where one may serve.
Nothing is more common than for many who can erect their
own figures, to be often dissatisfied with them. If they
do not understand the first or approve of its prediction,
they will erect a 2d, 3d, and so on, until it come right, as
they call it, that is, until it coincide with their expectations
or wishes. This is very irrational and absurd, and can
only end in self-delusion. It would be quite as correct,
and much easier, to wait for a favourable £ and call
that their figure. No question should be cast a second
time, for the first is the answer, whether it be good or bad.
If, indeed, the principal testimonies are so confused or
equal, that nothing can be drawn from it, a second figure
may be erected at some future time, but this must be the
querent's fault for not waiting until an impulse is felt suf
ficiently strong to render the question radical, or for ask
ing '' from light frivolous motives, arising more
from busy curiosity than anxiety. The first figure is alone
the true one, or it ought to be so, and if it cannot be
easily understood, it must still be adhered to, and con
sidered until it is. One mean of rendering questions
radical, is to answer questions for no one but themselves,
or for others whose welfare they feel an interest in, and
whose affairs are in some degree their own. This would
prevent the idle silly curiosity of fools, who, even allowing
them to be sincere, often ask questions without any par
H O U R S. 271
ticular impulse, but merely to have something to amuse an
idle moment, and furnish a theme to talk ofand laugh at.
- I need not add, that nothing so produced can be symbolical
or radical. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . -
HORIMEA, the rays of the hyleg when it has passed
the midheaven, . . " *
HORIZON, the circle which separates the visible hemi
spere from the invisible. It is distinguished into the sen
sible and the rational horizon. The sensible horizon is
that which terminates our view, and where the Sun and
stars appear and disappear. The rational is parallel to
the Earth’s center, and is represented by the wooden ho
rizon on the artificial globe.
* HORIZONTAL ASPECTS, mundane aspects.
HOROSCOPE, the ascendant or east angle. It also is
used sometimes to signify a figure or scheme of the heavens.
HOURS, in astronomy are of two kinds, natural and ar
tificial. A natural hour is the 24th part of the time the
£ takes in revolving upon its axis, an artificial hour is
e 12th part of the time from the Sun's rising to his set
ting; or from his setting to his rising, and, except at the
equinoxes, they are either shorter or longer by day than
by night. Thus, at the equinox, when the Sun's duration
above the Earth is exactly 12 hours, they are of the same
length as a natural hour, which is 60 minutes; but if the
Sun's duration above the horizon be but 10 hours, the di
urnal hour would be only 50 minutes, and the nocturnal
70, and so in proportion. .
The chief reason why they are called planetary hours,
is because there is a very silly but very old and generally
received notion, that the seven planets rule them in rota
tion. The absurdity of such an opinion must be manifest
(even to those who will neither hear hor understand any
other reason) from the late discovery of an eighth planet
(allowing the four small ones to be excluded), which, by
having a rule in common with the rest, shews the rotation
and of course the system to be entirely erroneous. Its dis
tance cannot be an argument for its exclusion in favour of
the rest, any more than the distance of B has hitherto ex
cluded him in respect to others which are much nearer.
But the planets operate not by rotation, but by position,
and the consequent attraction inseparable from s-ch posi
tion; and this may be seen from the action of the lumina
ries, which will neither dispense light nor heat, nor ope
rate on fluids, according to horary succession, but accord
ing to position alone.
272 H O U S E S.
The method of finding the true length of a planetary
hour, is to divide the time from Sun-rising to noon by 6,
the quotient is the length of a planetary hour by day.
Thus, if the Sun rise at 14 minutes before 5 o'clock in the
morning, his time till noon will be 7 hours, 14 minutes,
thisdivided by 6 will give 1 hour, 12minutes, and 20seconds,
for his planetary hour by day. The planetary hour by
night is found by subtracting the diurnal hour from two
nocturnal hours, the remainder will be the length of the
planetary hour by night. Thus, if I hour, 12 minutes, 20
seconds, be taken from 2 hours, or 120 minutes, it will give
the length of the Sun's planetary hour by night, 47 mi
nutes and 40 seconds.
The solar hour is alone used in planetary rotation.
Thus, supposing the Sun's planetary hour to be 1h. 12m.
20s. by day, by would take the first hour from midnight on
a Saturday, which hour, being nocturnal, would be 47m.
40s. ; / would take the next hour, making 1h. 35m. 20s. :
d would govern the third hour, making 2h, 28m.; the @
would rule the fourth; Q, the fifth ; and #, the sixth,
which would be Sun-rise, when each hour would become
as above, 1h. 12m. 20s. long. . The ( would govern the
first of these, (making seven in all,) and B would govern
the 8th, 15th, and 22d.; 21, the 23d; d, the 24th; and the
O would govern the first hour on Sunday, commencing at
midnight. The ( would begin with Monday in like man
ner; 6, with Tuesday; #, with Wednesday; 2/, with
Thursday; Q, with Friday; and b again with Saturday.
This system is not so much in repute now as formerly, and
most of those who adhere to it, reckon by natural hours,
which will suit their purpose quite as well, and be much
easier calculated. Some call the horary time of every planet
its planetary hour, but the term is seldom taken in thissense.
iOUSES. There are two kinds of houses in astrology,
mundane and planetary. Mundane houses are each a 12th
part of a figure, and begin their numbers at the east angle,
which is the first house, and proceed according to the order
of the signs. The 2d house is the left, under the Earth,
and is what they call succeedent, because it succeeds to the
angle. The 3d is to the left of the 2d, and is called cadent,
because it falls from the angle of the 4th. The 4th is the
north as:gle, or imum coeli. The 5th succeeds the 4th as
the 2d does the 1st. The 6th is cadent from the west angle.
The 7th is the angle of the west, or descendant. The
8th succeeds the 7th. The 9th is cadent from the midhea
ven. The 10th is the midheaven, or medium coeli, or south
h o us E s. sts
angle. The 11th succeeds the 10th. And the 12th is
cadent from the 1st, or east angle (see the figure, pg. 107).
The order of the houses in dignity and strength, or ra
ther of the planets when in them, is as follows: the 10th,
1st, 7th, 4th, 11th, 5th, 9th, 3d, 2d, 8th, 6th, and 12th. .
Modern astrologers place the ascendant before the 10th,
but Ptolemy was perfectly right when he considered a
planet in the midheaven stronger than in any other part of
the figure, and this is every day demonstrated in the power
of the solar and lunar influences. There seems, however,
much room for amendment in the precedence of houses,
and this involves two considerations: because the effects
of planets are to be taken two ways, simple and combined.
The simple effect of a planet is what it produces in any
position; the combined is this joined with what it already
has produced. Thus, the Sun in the beginning of go is
more powerful in his simple operation than any where else,
because most vertical; but his effects are more evident
when in the middle of Sl, when his power is actually on
the decline, because this power is combined with the effect
of what he before produced when in gG. The tides, also,
are higher two hours after the luminaries have passed their
meridian than when they are actually in the meridian, be
cause their present influence is combined with the effect of
what is past. Of course, the effects of a planet will appear
more prominent when cadent in the 9th, than when angular
in the 10th. Their power, however, in nativities should
always be considered in relation to their simple effects, and
it will always be found, that those who have the luminaries
in their midheaven near the cusp will, allowing for other
casualties, be found more active and eminent according to
their station in life than those who have them posited in
the 9th. The next in power to the 10th is certainly the
11th, whatever authors may say of the east angle, and I
suspect the 9th is next to the 11th, but of this I am not
quite certain. -
Planetary houses are those assigned to the planets as the
chief of their essential dignities, but this doctrine, although
sanctioned by Ptolemy, is extremely erroneous and absurd.
The G) and D being the two principal, the former has Sl
assigned him for his house because he there produces the
greatest heat, the cause of which has already been shown.
The } has her house in gG as being nearest to our vertex.
She like every other planet, must have more power in pro
portion as her rays are more direct. They should, however,
have known that the Sun '' same simple power there
9 | -
- -- - - - - ------------------
274 H O U S E S, \
as the ), and that the ) must have her combined power
increased in Q as well as the Sun. B, #:the great
est distance from the G), is lodged as far off as possible,
and accommodated in V5 and ::, the former being in 8 to
the house of the P, as the latter is to that of the Q, and
both being inconjunct with the houses they do not oppose.
Y’s two houses are 1 and 36, the former of which is in A
to that of the G), and the other to the house of the );
they are also inconjunct with the others, the same as those
of #2, which is rather improper for the houses of a greater
fortune. 6, being the next, has Y and ml for his two
houses, because they are in D to those of the luminaries,
but they forget they are also in A to them, although d is
the lesser infortune. Q has 8 and = assigned to her,
which, by the bye, notwithstanding her being a fortune, sets
her more at variance with the houses of the luminaries than
C; himself; for her houses are, like his, in D to those of
the Q and ), whereas she only beholds them by a k,
while & beholds them by a A. : , because he is never
but one sign distant from the Q, nor that neither, is domi
ciliated in my, which is next to Q, and because they had
then only one sign left, which is II, they gave him that
for his other house, which is one sign distant from the ),
because Ptolemy says, his sphere lies near that of the ) :
an observation that has no meaning whatever. His reason
for assigning Y and m to 6, is because they have an evil
aspect to the houses ofthe luminaries, but he never mentions
those of Q, which have the same. Had there been 14 signs,
the luminaries would have had two as well as the rest, but
there being but 12, they have but one each. The planet
Herschel was then unknown, else he would have dislodged
some of them by a writ of ejectment. Few seem to have
been more aware of this absurdity than Placidus, but, not
wishing to contradict Ptolemy, he preserves an almost
profound silence respecting exaltations and domal dignities.
He speaks largely of the terms, but appears to consider b
or 6 equally anaretic and powerful, without any regard
to their other essential dignities, although he frequently
mentions their being angular, oriental, &c. *
It is with regret I am obliged to confess that the chief
part of Ptolemy's system is founded on this ridiculous,
cabalistical nonsense of the domal dignities of the planets,
a mere human invention and arrangement, and one of the
worst that ever was known, being neither agreeable to
nature, nor reason, nor consistent even with itself. The
existence of an eighth planet unveils the absurdity at once;
* *** - - - -
a--- - - - - -
- - - - - - ----------
"------------------
H O U S E S. 275
but allowing there were but seven, and even admitting for
argument sake, that the planets really possessed such domal
dignity, and strength in certain signs, they could have no
effect in such places when not posited there. How then
can they have that “rule and dominion” of which Ptolemy
so frequently makes mention, which governs the disposition,
regulates the fortune, and even disposes of the life of the
native, merely because they would have had dignities in
the ascendant, midheaven, or in the places of the new or
full moon, had they been there. Instead of considering
the heavenly bodies as ponderous masses of matter, operat
-ing by their sympathetic attraction on each other, they are
represented like school-boys always quarreling and fight
*ing about their playthings; or like the good and evil spirits
of the magi, keeping the world in perpetual confusion to
gratify their own malice and folly.
Modern astrologers divide these houses into diurnal and
nocturnal, so that, although each planet (the luminaries
excepted) has two houses, he is not alike strong in each at .
all times, but prefers one by day and the other by night.
The day house of b is :, and his night house V5. The
day house of 2 is 1 and his night house X. The day
house of 6 is Y and his night house Ill: The day house
of Q is -- and her night house %. And the day house of
§ is II and his night house ' This is founded upon their
aspects to the G) and ), and their being diurnal or noc
-turnal. -
is diurnal, and therefore must have : for his day
-- house, that he may oppose the Q's house from it.
2/ is diurnal, and therefore has 1 by day, that he may
cast a friendly A to the house of the G). -
d is nocturnal, and works all night, he therefore chuses
ml for his night house, that he may cast a D to Q.
Q is nocturnal and has 8 for her night house, that she
may favour the ) by her >k, for she is too modest to have
any dealings with the G). -
is either diurnal or nocturnal as best suits his purpose,
and therefore has Il for his day house to be in >k to the Q,
or my for his night house, where he is in >k to the D. . .
In horary questions, a planet in his house denotes secu
rity and prosperity to the person or thing it represents, and
is equal to five essential dignities. - - . . . \
For the signification of houses “see Horary Questions.”
A planet in his own house denotes one who is well en
dowed with the good things of this life, independent and
*
276 I N C O N
master of his own property or estate, and he is also very
happy and secure, if the planet be free from affliction. . .
£N SIGNS, HI, 19, 2x, and the first half of 1.
. They are said by Ptolemy to give the native a humane dis
position when the lord of the geniture or the ascendant is
in one, otherwise he will be brutish and savage. He also
says that the lord of an eclipse being in any human sign,
its evil effects will fall on mankind. .*
: HURTFUL SIGNS, Y, 3, g3, m, and V3. Those
born under them are said to be more liable to blows, falls,
wounds and other injuries.
HYADES, seven stars in the Bull's Head, near Aldeba
ran. They are supposed to cause rain when they rise or
set heliacally. Their influence in other respects is the same
as that of the Pleiades. , , -
HYLEG. See Apheta. - * - . . . . "
HYLEGIACAL PLACES, the 10th, 1st, 11th, 7th, and
9th houses. They begin, according to Ptolemy, from 5°
above the eastern £and extend to 25° below it. The sk
dexter of these 30°, which, of course, is the 11th house from
5° above its cusp to 25° below it; the 10th, the 9th, and
the 7th, are all taken in the same way. Placidus thinks
nothing hylegiacal can commence below the middle of the
11th, except the horoscope; but there is no such doctrine
in Ptolemy. (see “Apheta.”). Lilly calls the horoscope,
the midheaven, and the places of the G), ), and @, the five
hylegiacal places; but he meant the places of the modera
tors, not knowing the meaning of the word. -
HYPOGEON, under the Earth: a Greek name for the
imum coeli, or 4th house. -
ILLUMINATION, that period of the ) when she may
be seen, which is 26 days and about 12 hours.
| IMPEDED or IMPEDITED, a term applied chiefly to
the luminaries, though sometimes to the other planets, and
denotes affliction by an infortune. The ) is impeded when
in C#, D, or 9 of G), b, or d. If in C# or 9, the impe
diment lasts four days, viz, two before and two after. If
in D, one day before and one after. When she is impeded
by the G) in a nativity, she causes a blemish in or near
the eye. -
IMPERFECT SIGNS, SR, m, 36. See Broken Signs,
IMUM COELI, the lowest heaven. The 4th house or
north angle. - -
INCLINATION, the motion of a planet towards any
inlace. -
INCONJUNCT, when a planet, house, or sign has no
Y.
--------->
J O YS * 277
aspect or familiarity with another. Thus, Y is inconjunct
with 8, 19, m, and 36, and, of course, a planet in either of
these would be inconjunct with planets in Aries, accord
ing to the old aspects of Ptolemy, though the new ones of
kepler make some difference if they are adhered to. Houses
also are inconjunct; as the 1st with the 2d, 6th, 8th, and
12th. Planets, therefore, in these would be considered in
conjunct with the 1st in respect to mundane familiarity, al
though they might behold each other in the zodiac. Planets
are also inconjunct in any signs when more than the length
of their orbs distant from any familiarity.
... INCREASING IN LIGHT. When a planet is clear- .
ing itself from the Sun-beams it begins to increase in light
until it reaches the opposition, after which its light de
creases. It is considered as a favourable omen both in
nativities and horary questions.
> INCREASING IN MOTION, when a planet moves
faster every succeeding day.
... INCREASING IN NüMBER, the same as swift in
motion.
INFERIOR PLANETS, Q, g, and the ).
INFORTUNES, b and d. -
INGRESSES. (See Secondary Directions.) Annual
ingresses. -
INTERCEPTED, a sign is intercepted between two
houses, when it lies between them without occupying the
cusp of either. - ,
JOYS OF THE PLANETS. The joys of the planets,
as described by Ptolemy, are very different from what have
been considered as such by his successors. “It is said,”
says Ptolemy, “that they are in their joy when, although
the : signs have no familiarity with them, they
have it with others of a similar nature, and although this
is very distant, yet they have it communicated to them by
sympathy.” Thus, if a planet be peregrine, or in detriment,
or fall, he is said to feel a sympathetic joy when another
with whom he has any connexion by dignity enjoys such
dignity, which is called having a familiarity with the sur
rounding signs, because a planet in its triplicity is in fami
liarity with two other signs of the same triplicity; a benefic
in house or exaltation has a familiarity with the solar and
lunar dignities; and a malefic has a Clor & to them, which
is that kind of familiarity in which it is supposed to de
light. B therefore, although peregrine, is supposed by
Ptolemy to feel a sympathetic joy when Ó is in his exalta
tion, because he is exalted in V3, which is his house, and in
278 'LATITUDE.
$ to g5 the house of the D. He also feels a joy when #
is in his triplicity, because they are both of the same tri
plicity, and likewise when Q is in either of her houses, be
cause they are in A to his houses, and one of them, --, is in
his triplicity. . ] is in his joy when the Q is in his house,
exaltation, or triplicity; when the ) is in her house or ex
altation; and when d is in his house or triplicity. 6 joys
when the G) is exalted, when the ) is in her house, and
B is in V}. In short, every planet, according to Ptolemy,
is in his joy when another is dignified in any of his dignities.
Doctor Whalley, who undertook to explain Ptolemy,
was remarkably silent on this subject, which, it is plain, he
: did not comprehend, and modern authors have contented
themselves with inserting what Ptolemy calls the thrones
of the planets for theirjoys, as follow, x for b, 1 for 2/,
m for 3, Q for the Q, 8 for Q, Q for #, and gå for the
-). The whole, however, is extremely absurd, and not
worth any one's attention; as it rests solely on the credit
attached to imaginary dignities, which never had any foun
dation in nature. * *
They are also said in modern astrology to have their joys
in certain houses according to their nature, whether good
or evil, thus > joys in the 12th, / in the 11th, & in the
6th, the G) in the 10th, Q in the 5th, £ in the 1st, and the
-) in the 8d., . It is also said, that the Q and 2 joy in
each others houses, as do b and # and also Q and the ).
JUPITER. See Planets. . . - - -
KACOTYCHE, ill fortune: a Greek name for the 6th
house. *
KATABABAZON, the Dragon's Tail. . .
- LATITUDE, the distance of a star from the ecliptic,
north or south, towards either of its poles. The ancients
thought that no planet could have at any time above 6° of
latitude, but the excentricity of d and Q sometimes ex
tends to 9°. The fixed stars have latitude according to
their position, extending in some instances to the pole
itself, 90°. The Q never moves out of the ecliptic, and of
course never has any latitude. -
Stars having north latitude affectus most as being nearer
to our own zenith, and therefore that idea is a foolish one,
that stars operate with greater power the nearer they are
to the ecliptic. Reason and experience both shew, that
the more vertical a planet is the more powerful must be
its effects. In all cases, where there is a C#, the latitude
ought to be well considered, as it diminishes the strength
of such a familiarity so materially, that, if we may believe
LIG HT - 279
some authors, life has been saved by a difference so small
as a degree and a half. In this case alone the proximity
of a planet to the ecliptic can increase its power, as, if the
G be made to the Q or to the ) in her node, the nearer
the promittor is to the ecliptic the more eminent will be its
effects. Hence, when any direction is calculated to a d
or zodiacal parallel, the latitude of the significator must be
taken atthe pointwhere the conjunctionor parallel isformed,
which alone can give its true distance. . . .
LEO. See Signs. * * * : * * * *.
LIBRA. See Signs. . . . . . * , **
LIFE AND HEALTH. The ascendant and luminaries
free from affliction is always considered a mark of long life
and good health. . . . . ; : " : . .
Ptolemy judges from the 1st and 7th houses, chiefly the
latter, and the 6th house because it is inconjunct with the
ascendant. There are, however, other houses inconjunct
with the horoscope as well as the 6th. Malefics in either
of these angles, or near the cusps of the other angles, cause
diseases and blemishes, which are the more severe if either
of the lights be angular. The signs on the cusps of these
angles shew the part of the body, and the planet the cause
and nature of the disease. They also in some degree shew
the part, for , b, he says, governs the right ear, spleen,
bladder, bones, and humours. 21, the hand, lungs, arteries,
and semen. 6, the left ear, kidneys, reins, and genitals.
The Q, the eyes, brain, nerves, heart, and all the right
side. Q, the flesh, liver, and olfactory nerves. , ; , the
tongue and mental faculties, the gall and bile. The ( the
swallow, stomach, belly, womb, and all the right side.
Modern astrologers have determined to render the whole
as ridiculous as possible, by directing the litminaries to the
lords of the 6th, 7th, 8th, 12th, and sometimes to the lord
of the 4th, whether benefics or malefics, as the cause of
diseases. When the lights cannot be so directed, they
direct the lord of the ascendant in a similar way." This
latter part of the system I have given under the article
“Horary Questions,” for it is fit for no other. The sys
tem of Ptolemy is more fully explained in the article
“Diseases.” # * t < *, *,
LIGHT COLLECTOR, a ponderous planet, having
the aspects of any two significators, who receive him in
some of their essential dignities. They must both be lighter
planets than himself. It denotes a mediator who will in
terest himself in the affairs of both the parties, and bring
any matter to a favourable issue which could not be per
----------~~~~
280 L () R. D. -
fected without him. It is a favourabte position for recon
ciling of differences, quarrels, lawsuits, bringing about of
marriages, &c.
LIGHTS, the luminaries.
LIGHT OF TIME, the Q by day and the C by night.
LIGHT PLANETS, the (, #, and Q, because they
are smaller than the others.
LION'S HEART, REGULUS, or COR LEONIS,
a violent fixed star of the nature of 3, in the 28th degree
of Sl. It is said to cause great martial honours, but they
eventually end in ruin £fa violent death, particularly if
it be joined to either of the luminaries.
LION'S TAIL, DENEB, or CAUDA LEONIS,
gives, it is said, riches and honours, which will end in
trouble and disgrace. It is a star of the second magnitude,
in 199 of #
LOGARITHMS, artificial numbers formed by progres
sion, and used by artists, particularly the idle part of them,
to supply the place of the Rule of Three, £ they may
work by addition instead of multiplication, and by sub
traction instead of division. After all, they, like others of
the same description, take the most pains, for any one used
to the Golden Rule, would answer the question while they
are looking in the table for their corresponding numbers.
In matters of importance, where numbers are immense, in
extraction of roots, and in mathematical operations, loga
rithms are eminently useful : but in astrology, where the
operations are all simple, they can be of no utility what
ever, except where the operator works by the rules of
Trigonometry. (See Trigonometrical Calculations.)
#D#. a part of the ecliptic reckoned from the
beginning of Y. Thus, 45° of longitude is 45 degrees
of that equinoctial point, or 15° of 8. The longitude is
altered by latitude, as will be seen in the Tables. -
LORD. That planet is called the lord of a sign whose
house it is: as, B is lord of V3 and 2: ; 2/, of 1 and 36 ;
&c. The lord of a house is that planet of which the sign
or domal dignity is in the cusp of such house. Thus if W3
or : were on the cusp of the ascendant, b would be lord
of the ascendant, &c. The lord of the £ is that
planet which hasmost dignities in a figure, whether essential
or accidental. The £the hour is the planet supposed
to govern the planetary hour at the moment of a nativity,
or at the time of asking a horary question. (See Hours.)
The lord of the year is that planet which has most dignities,
or is strongest in a revolutional figure.
w
M A R R I A G E. 281
As to the lord of the hour, the whole system has such a
ridiculous appearance, that even Morinus rejected the doc
trine, although he adhered to others quite as ill-founded.
The lord of the geniture is, by those who believe in him,
supposed to rule the disposition and propensities of the na
tive; but there have been many disputes about what planet
is entitled to such a distinction. Julius Firmicus says it is
the lord of that sign into which the ) enters next after
birth, except it be one of the luminaries, which cannot be
taken, as being universal significators. Others are of opi
nion, that it should be that planet, (not being a luminary)
that has most dignities in the places of the lights, the ascend
ant, the midheaven, and the Part of Fortune. It is not
worth a dispute, for the essential dignities are all nonsense
and absurdity.
LUCIFER, a giver of light; a name given to Q when
oriental and rising before the Q. Among the eastern na
tions all the planets, not excepting even the ), were con
sidered as masculine, and therefore the prophet calls her
“Son ofthe Morning.”
LUMINARIES, the Q and ).
LUNA, the Moon. See “Planets.” * -
LUNAR SEMICIRCLE, from 2: to go, both included.
LUNATION, a lunar period. From the time of the )
separating from any given point until she arrive there again.
Thus, if the ) was at birth in 8° 12 of Y', a lunation
would be accomplished when it arrived at 8° 12 of Y again.
This is called a periodical lunation, and is performed in
27 days, 7 hours, 41 minutes. A synodical lunation is from
the time she-quits the Sun until she overtakes him again,
and is performed in 29 days, 12 hours, 44 minutes. This
is also called an embolismic lunation: there are twelve of
them in a year, and 11 days over. The quarters are also
called lunations, when the D comes to the g, D, or 9 of
the Q, at all times, and if at these times she also forms a
6, Cl, or #, with the radical infortunes, the native at
those periods is generally unfortunate. These are called
quadrate lunations.
LUXURIOUS SIGN. Y is called a luxurious sign, be
cause it is said to endow the native with a propensity to
luxury and intemperance.
MALEFICS, doers of evil: b and 6.
MARRIAGE. The first thing to be considered, accord
ing to Ptolemy, is the luminaries; the X for a man, and
the Q for a woman. If the D be in her 1st or 3d quarter,
the native will either marry young, or when old to a young
2 O
282 M A R RIA G E.
wife. If the D be in these quadrants under the Sunbeams,
or configurated with b, it causes men not to marry at all.
Ifshe be in a sign of one form, and apply to only one planet,
the man will marry but once. If she be in a bicorporeal or
double-bodied sign, or apply to many stars, (which, Cardan
says, should be all in the same sign) he will marry often.
If these stars are benefics, his wives will be good; if malefics,
evil. If she apply to B the wife will be laborious, but
austere and evil; to 21, she will be modest, grave, retired,
and domestic; if to 6, bold, refractory, and vicious; if to
Q, cheerful and merry; if to #, wise and active, but this
will be according to his condition; Q, too, is affected by
the presence of a superior, for it is said, that if she be with
either B, 2/, or #, she gives good wives, and such as are
attached to their husbands and families; but if with d,
they will be passionate, loose, and thoughtless; if the )
be in her 2d or last quarter, he will marry old, or when
young to an old woman.
For women the Q is to be taken : if he be between the
east and south angles, or between the west and north
angles, the native will marry young, or when old to a young
man; if between the 10th and 7th, or the 4th and ascend
ant, she will either marry when old, or when young to an
old man; if he be in a sign of one form, or configurated to
one oriental planet, she will marry but once; but if in a
double bodied sign, or configurated to many oriental stars,
she will have a plurality of husbands. As to oriental
planets, he makes no such distinction in the case of the D's
- '' nor do I think it matters much whether those
planets receiving the application be oriental or occidental.
If : be configurated with the G), the man will be laborious,
modest and rich, says Ptolemy: but why he should be rich
is difficult to tell. His modesty will be the effect of a dull,
cold constitution, but he will certainly be austere and dis
agreeable. If the G) apply to 24, he will be a kind, steady,
honest husband; if to d, cruel, angry, and vicious; if to
Q, handsome and merry; and if to #, a man of business,
but this will be as he is situated, for if he be combust,
retrograde, or afflicted, he will be very worthless; if Q
be with b, he will be more dull and timid; if with 21, he
will be every way an excellent character; if with d, he
will be active and very lustful, inconstant and dissipated;
and if with #, Ptolemy says, he will have unnatural pro
pensities. . . .
It would be best for those who marry to chuse those, if
they could, in whose nativities the lights were in >|< or A
M A R R.I.A.G. E. 283
<
to their own, (Ptolemy says with mutual reception, but
that is nothing) for in those cases they will agree by sym
athy, and have a much greater chance of being happy.
£ such cases, all agreements of the planets have their
effects, but the best of all is when the ) of the male agrees
with the G) of the female. If on the contrary they are in
conjunct, there will be no affection, and if they are in D
or 9 it portends the most fatal evils, particularly if the as
pect be by application. If a benefic give good testimony
to good aspects, they will be supremely happy; if the
testimony be evil, as a D or 9, they will have some trifling
differences, and it will be the same if the luminaries behold
each other by a DJ or 9, provided the benefics have an
agreeing aspect to either. If the Q and D be in good as
pect with each other, and the malefics afflict either, there
will be at times serious dissentions; but if all the aspects
be evil, it generally shews a separation or extreme misery.
Ptolemy says, if Q be with the malefie, the separation will
be for adultery or sorcery: by sorcery he probably meant
poisoning, an art for which eastern nations have ever been
famous.
Thus far the observations of Ptolemy are very rational,
as indeed they always are when he keeps clear of lordships
and essential dignities. His succeeding observations are
mixed with many absurdities, but I shall give them to the
reader as they are.
The illegal connexions between the sexes are taken from
Q for both the male and female. If Q be in good aspect
with P and behold the Moon of a man, or the G) of a
woman, they will live with their near relations or kindred,
and the same if she agree with & in a similar way, only
with b the person will be old, but with & young : the
reason of this is foolish enough, because her houses are in
A to those of b, and her exaltation in A to the house of
off, and the exaltation of d in A to her house. If she be
found in promiscuous signs with b or d, she causes women
to cohabit with brothers or relations, and if a man have Q
joined to the Moon he will cohabit with two sisters. In
women if Q be with the G) or 21 she will cohabit with two
brothers or kinsmen. If Q be found with B they will be
constant and live happy; if # join the configuration they
will gain by each other, but if Ó have familiarity, they
will be incontinent, jealous, and vicious; if Q be in the
oriental quadrants, ' will unite with young men or
women, but if in the occidental quadrants with those that
are older than themselves; if Q be in W5 and b in 2,
284 M A S C U L IN E
and one of them in the east or south angles, and the Moon
join the configuration, the men will cohabit with their
mothers or aunts, and the women with their sons or
nephews, but if the G) join the configuration the men will
cohabit with their daughters or nieces, and the women with
their fathers or uncles.
It must be here remarked, that Ptolemy wrote like an
Egyptian, among whom such incestuous commerce was com
mon; but, with the exception of the orientality of Q, which
may have some affinity with truth, the whole that is founded
on the essential dignities of the planets is not worth at
tending to. -
In modern astrology the lord of the 1st and the ) are
directed to the lord of the 7th, or planets in the 7th, or to
the planets in aspect with the D. It is entirely absurd so
far as relates to nativities, but it may be found under the
article “Horary Questions.” -
It is generally supposed, that the D cadent, combust, un
der the Sunbeams, joined to b or in a cadent house, or hav
ing b more elevated, or in D or & to b from cadent houses,
or in II, Q, Sl, or Y, or V3, are all signs of a single life,
though theDor & of b are reckoned very weak testimonies
if there be no other. Q was also considered by Ptolemy and
most others the same as the Moon, but this opinion cannot,
I think, be correct. The Moon oriental of the Sun, or in
the 10th, 11th, 12th, 4th, 5th, or 6th, house, denote early
marriage, the more so if the Moon be swift in motion. The
time of marriage is generally predicted by directing the mid
heaven to the g, k, D, or W. of the ) or Q, or directing
the G) to them, or by directing the ) to the same positions
with the G) or 6. Many direct them to the 7th or its lord,
or the 7th to the lord of the 1st, or vice versa: but this though
it may suit a horary question, can be of no use in nativities.
For women these directions are made to the Sun instead of
the Moon. -
MARS. See Planets.
MASCUSLINEand FEMININE. Thereare fewpoints
in astrology more confused than the doctrine of the sexes of
the planets, nor is it worth explaining in £to its utility.
Ptolemy says, the D and Q are feminine because they are
moist, and b, 21, 3, and the Q, masculine because they are
drying. #' sometimes dries and sometimes moistens, and is
therefore sometimesmasculine and sometimesfeminine. They
are also masculine when oriental and going before the Sun,
and feminine when occidental and following it; they are also
masculine when between the 1st and the 10th, and from the
-
MAS C U L IN E 285
7th to the 4th, and feminine in the other two quadrants. .
Here a planet may be masculine and feminine and masculine
again ''at one time. Again they are diurnal and nocturnal,
and those that are diurnal are masculine, and those that are
nocturnal feminine. Fortunately all the masculine planets
are diurnal, except G, who being nocturnal is feminine, al
though in reality masculine. 3 is diurnal and consequently
masculine when oriental, and feminine when occidental.
Placidus divides them according to their active and pas
sive qualities: those w:active qualities, as heat and
cold, are masculine; those who rely more upon their
assive qualities, as dryness and moisture, are feminine.
#' Q is masculine, because of his heat, as he is more
hot than dry. B is masculine, by being more cold than dry.
21 is masculine, by being more hot than moist. Ó is feminine
by being more dry than hot. Q, feminine, by being more
moist than hot. And the Moon is feminine from the same
reason. According, therefore, to Ptolemy, a planet may he
masculine, as Mars, because he is drying, and feminine at
the same time, because he may be occidental and following
the G); he may be also in an oriental quadrant, which makes
him masculine again, and likewise feminine by being noc
turnal all at once. As to Placidus, he is at issue with Pto
lemy in this question (though he probably did not know it),
for he says, 6 is feminine because his passive quality, dry
mess, exceeds his active quality, heat: whereas Ptolemy
makes moisture the only passive quality that is feminine.
Thus authprs, by their formal, precise allegorical nonsense
throw a science into confusion, and involve even themselves
in their own labyrinths. Modern astrologers, too, with their
usual sagacity, have rendered the confusion worse confused,
by discovering that a planet is diurnal, and of course mas
culine when in a diurnal nativity above the Earth, and in a
nocturnal nativity under it; in short, when it is in the same
hemisphere with the G). Of course, in an opposite condition
it is nocturnal and feminine. -
Although Ptolemy lays much stress in his quadripartite,
on the masculine and feminine condition of a planet, the
reader may rest assured the whole is an idle distinction, and
no more founded in reason than his essential dignities. Pla
cidus, as we have already shewn, differs from him in opinion,
but this is not to be wondered at, when he differed so much
in opinion with himself. I would advise the student to
give himself no trouble about the sex of the planets, but to
study their influence. Masculine and feminine distinctions
are only useful in horary questions; which being wholly
286. " * ME As U R E
symbolical, a planet may be deemed masculine when in a
masculine sign, and in oriental quadrants, and vice versá.
If these two testimonies are opposite, that part of the ques
tion at least is not radical, and cannot be answered. -
| MARKAB, a violent star in the wing of Pegasus, in 21°
of 36, of the 2d magnitude, having the nature of d and #.
It is said to give honour and success attended with great
dangers and sufferings, and to threaten a violent death.
MASCULINE SIGNS are Y, II, Q, --, 1, and 2:.
Feminine signs are 8, 9.5, 9, ": V5, and 96. Thus, the
cold signs are masculine and the hot ones feminine.
MATUTINE, appearing in the morning. The stars
are called matutine when they rise before the G) in the
morning, until they arrive at their first station, where they
become retrograde. The Moon is matutine until she has
passed her first dichotome. They are supposed by Ptolemy
to be in their first degree of orientality in this situation and
very strong, except Q and #, who are there considered
occidental and weak. They are aiso said to cause moisture
when in this position. See “Oriental.” - -- - -
MEAN MOTION, when the diurnal motion of a planet
is at a medium, neither fast nor slow. That of b, is 2'; 21,
4'59"; 6, 83 28"; the Q, 59 8"; Q, 59'8"; g, 59'8";
and the (, 13° 10'. -
MEASURE OF TIME, the mode of measuring the time
of an event by the arc of direction. Ptolemy recommends,
after directing the midheaven by right ascension and the
horoscope by oblique ascension, to allow a year for every
degree of such distance, or five minutes for a month. Ma
ginus, on the authority of Dr. Dee (who certainly was a
good mathematician) recommends the arc of direction to
be considered as right ascension, and measured according to
the Sun's motion, by right ascension, at the time of birth.
Placidus has a much more corret method, by adding the
Sun's right ascension at the time of birth to the arc of di
rection, thereby converting the whole into right ascension,
and finding in the ephemeris at what time the Sun arrives
at the end of such arc, and allowing a year for a day, and
so on in proportion. See Directions, and also Equation.
Naibod recommends finding the distance by right or oblique
ascension, and when the arc is discovered allow for every
degree, l year, 5 days, 8 hours; and for every minute, 6 days,
4 hours. According to the following table.
------------- * * * * * * * * *---------- ---------------------------------------
NAIBoD's TABLE of TIME. .
Y. "D. H. Q- Y. D. H. Q) Y. D. H.
1 5 8 8 8 42 20 50 50 267. 16
2 10 17 9 9 48 4 60 60 321 4
3 16 1 10 10 53 13 70 71 9. 11
4 21 10 20 20 107 1 80 81 62 24
5 26 18 30 30 160 14 90 91 116 13
6 32 3 40 40 214 3 100 101 170 2
7
|By this table the measure of time for those who choose to
use it, may be had for any number of degrees by adding them,
if they are not to be found in the table. Thus, if the time
were wanted for 26 degrees, add 6 years, 32 days, 3 hours,
the time for 6 degrees, to 20 years, 107 days, 1 hour, the time
for 20 degrees: the period will be 26 years, 39 days, 4 hours.
The odd minutes must be equated at the rate of6 days, 4
hours for each, and their time added to the rest.
MEDIUM COELI, the midheaven. -
MEDUSA'S HEAD, Cuput Algol : a violent fixed star
of the 2d magnitude, of the nature of b and 2/, in the con
stellation of Perseus, in the 24th degree of 8, said when
found with the ( to cause beheading. This is a very erro
neous opinion, though supported by Placidus, who gives an
instance of it in the nativity of Cardan, who was beheaded,
where he places this star in 20° of II, whether by mistake
or design '', not, neither can it ever be near the (, for
its declination is 40°. -
MERCURY. See Planets.
MERIDIAN, a circle crossing the equator (from the
poles) at right angles. Every place has its own meridian
passing through its zenith where it forms the cusp of the
midheaven or the Q's place at noon. From this to the ho
rizon either way is the semidiurnal arc of the Q or any star.
MERIDIONAL, southern.
METONIC, the lunar cycle of 19 years, so called from
one Meton, an Athenian who invented it. -
MIDHEAVEN, the south angle or cusp of the 10th.
MIND, QUALITIES OF THE, the disposition of any
person is considered by Ptolemy from # and the (, and
the planets that have domal dignities in the signs where they
are, or what are vulgarly called their dispositors. . g go
verns the rational, and the C the irrational or sensitive fa
culties. As these and their dispositors are posited in cer
tain signs, or in respect to the Q and angles (by which is
283 - M I N D,
meant their oriental, occidental, matutine, or vespertine
position,) so will the disposition of the native be.
If they are found in tropical or equinoctial signs, they
make the mind more active, sharp and ingenious, ambitious
and persevering.
If in double-bodied signs, they are crafty, subtle, unstable,
deceitful, negligent, superficial characters; easily pleased,
fond ofmusic and women, and not to be relied on foranything.
If in fixed signs, they are just, plain, firm, upright, pru
dent, patient, steady, laborious, rigid, temperate and fixed
in their purposes and pursuits, also malicious, contentious,
rebellious, ambitious, and covetous. -
If orientally configurated with the horoscope, namely,
between the 1st and 10th or the 7th and 4th, they make the
native open, candid, simple and without disguise, strong,
ingenious and active. -
If matutine or culminating, viz. between the 1st and 10th,
or on the cusp of the latter, they are prudent, settled,
thoughtful, constant and fit to be depended on ; fortunate in
their endeavours, firm, rigid, penetrating, of strong mind
and sound judgment, ardent and persevering.
Those stars rising in the beginning of the night, and oc
cidental (viz. those that ascend after sunset, and conse
quently in or near an opposition of the Sun), make the na-.
tive wicked, unstable, weak, ambitious, bullying and boast
ing, yet dull, cowardly, mean, servile, and despicable.
Vespertine planets, viz. those between the 10th and 7th,
or on the £ of the 4th or near it, or g and Q rising
vespertine by day: namely, when at or near their greatest
elongation, and rising or setting heliacally, make the native
ingenious and prudent, not fond of labour, but more ad
dicted to study and scientific pursuits and new inventions,
good mathematicians, philosophers, and eminent in that
which requires ready genius and mental exertion.
Planets having dominion in the places of # and the D,
being well posited, and free from affliction, and particu
larly when configurated in any manner to both # and
the ), give great mental endowments, and transcendant
abilities.
If they are weak, or ill disposed, they give, according to
their nature, imperfect and obscure ideas. They who are
impressed by the malefics with evil dispositions, if a good
aspect intervenes, have not the power to do the evil they
otherwise would do, and even if they persevere, are so un
fit for it, that they are soon detected and punished.
M IN D, 289
Again, those whose dispositions are good through bene
fic aspects, if a malefic have also configuration to the place,
will have an evil or hurtful impression mixed with the good,
asbeing mean, covetous, hasty tempered, or meek and bash
ful, so as to merit censure, or meet with imposition or ill
treatment. - -
alone, having dominion over the mind by governing
# and the D, if his mundane position be angular or strong,
makes the native obstinate yet fearful, laborious, envious,
severe, and covetous; but if badly situated, sordid, mean
spirited, illdisposed, cowardly,envious, solitary, fretful, and
apt to cry, laborious, melancholy, treacherous and slovenly.
If he be configurated with 2/ in a good position, he makes
the native well disposed, judicious, magnanimous, busy,
and prudent; but if ill-disposed, foolish, cowardly, yet
violent, suspicious, superstitious, crafty, ''. idle,
austere, friendless, cautious and slow. If with 3 well
disposed, the native is laborious, firm, bold, turbulent and
austere, full of contempt and insolence; seditious, rebel
lious, tyrannical, covetous, malicious, proud, unyielding,
insulting, inhuman, violently ambitious, implacable, curi
ous, penetrating, active and invincible; able, commanding,
fit for any undertaking, but extremely wicked. If d be
ill-posited, the native will be a thief, murderer, and
assassin ; deeply rapacious, and inhuman, atheistical,
sacreligious, lustful, luxurious, and every way wicked. If
b be configurated with Q well disposed, the native will
be solitary, melancholy, envious, austere, unpleasant in
company, superstitious and fanatical, grave, bashful,
modest, ingenious, and faithful in attachment, but fretful,
and jealous. If Q be evil disposed, they will be obscene,
lustful, and filthy; vulgar in their pursuits and propensi
ties, drunkards, impious, and fit for any thing infamous.
If b be configurated with # well posited, they will be in
genious, curious, studious, of good abilities, .'
in law or physic, careful, sober, industrious and successful;
but of a bitter, ill-natured, captious disposition. If # be
ill-disposed, they will be malicious, cruel, treacherous,
thieves, swindlers, forgers, pettifoggers, house-breakers,
and every way base and infamous.
If 2/ alone have the dominion and be well posited, he
makes the native honourable, open, just, magnanimous,
and venerable, pious, courteous, and every way good and
fortunate. If evil disposed, those qualities will be im
pressed on the mind more faintly; he will be more prodigal,
fearful, proud, bashful, we.'" careless. *
2
299 M IN D,
If he configurate with d well situated, the native wilf
be bold, proud, contentious, impetuous and insubordinate,
hot headed, active, fond of fighting, magnanimous, and,
honourable; penetrating, judicious, courageous, and suc
cessful. If .# be ill placed, he will be cruel, seditious,
arrogant, rapacious, rash, indiscreet, desperate, factious,
stubborn, unstable, lustful, faithless, dissatisfied and in
judicious. -
If he have familiarity with Q well disposed, the native
is a person of taste and elegance, fond ofpleasure, children,
and beautiful objects, partial to music, active, kind, affable,
cheerful, ingenious, liberal, and ambitious of love and ad
miration. If # be ill-disposed, the native will be wholly
sensual and addicted to every kind of pleasure, lust and
dissipation; fond of dress, shew, and pleasure; very lascivi
ous, talkative, yet not evil disposed; affable, cheerful, and
free, very effeminate, and generally handsome. -
If he be in familiarity with # well placed, he disposes
to business, and all kinds of learning, poetry, oratory, and
knowledge of every kind; the native is sober, kind, cheer
ful, affectionate, and wise. If # be evil disposed, the
native will be shallow, superficial, proud, stupid, trifling,
enthusiastic, silly, and generally wrong.
If d alone have dominion and be well placed, he makes
the native bold, generous, brave, magnanimous, strong
confident, rash, contemptuous, angry, violent, desperate,
and born to command. If ill-disposed, they are cruel,
bloody, drunken, furious, headstrong, turbulent, rapaci
ous, luxurious, athiestical, and desperately mischievous.
If he have familiarity with Q well posited, the native is
cheerful, merry, fond of music, dancing and all kinds of
amusement, simple, good humoured and friendly, but
given to lust of every description, hasty tempered, jealous,
and intemperate.
If Q be ill placed, they will be proud, mischievous, liars,
drunkards, treacherous, perjured, rash, intemperate, very
lascivious, adulterers, w' debauched and infamous.
If he have configuration with # well posited, the native is
bold, violent, laborious, crafty, ready to invent mischief,
witty, quick, ingenious, treacherous, very active, eloquent
and successful; good enough to those like himself, but
mischievous to his enemies. If # be ill posited, they will
be intemperate, cruel, liars, thieves, murderers, thieftakers,
parricides, assassins, forgers, poisoners, bold, violent, and
deeply wicked.
M IN D, - 291
- -
If Q alone have the dominion and be well placed, the
native will beneat, delicate, elegant, and beautiful, fond of
music, dancing, and amusement; cheerful, kind and happy,
charitable and every way well disposed. They are not
fond of labour, and inclined to be jealous. Ifill disposed,
they will be slothful, effeminate, lustful, timid, careless,
obscure and infamous. If configurated with # well placed,
they will be learned, scientific, and judicious, eloquent,
cheerful, fond of refined and delicate amusements, kind
hearted, well-disposed, pleasing and courteous, magnani
mous but given to contention where they think their rights
are invaded, and if Ptolemy may be credited, addicted to
unnatural practices. If # be ill disposed, they will be
treacherous, crafty, subtle, unstable, liars, slanderers, per
jured, weak-minded, obstinate, effeminate, debauched, and
notoriously infamous in all their propensities.
If # alone have dominion and be well posited, they will
be learned and scientific, great orators, logicians, mathe
maticians and philosophers, and generally well disposed.
If ill placed, ' will be foolish, stupid, liars, furious
trifling, thoughtless, forgetful, covetous, knavish, deceitful
and always doing wrong, through a defect in judgment.
To all those the ) contributes more or less according to
her position. When in her greatest north or south latitude,
she makes the native more crafty and changeable, but when
in her nodes, more active and industrious. When in ori
ental quadrants or increasing in light, she makes the dis
position more fixed, free, open, and ingenious, but when
in occidental quadrants, or decreasing in light, they are
more dull, unsettled, slow, cautious, and obscure.
The Q, when angular, or in oriental quadrants, makes
the native more just, industrious, honourable, and well
disposed; but occidentally posited, or cadent, more abject,
cruel, obstinate, laborious, obscure, and ill disposed.
The general qualities of P are fear, melancholy, slow
mess, labour, solitariness, and a propensity to cry.
Of21, candour, gravity, greatness, magnanimity, security,
boldness, goodness and love.
Of 6, anger, rashness, desperation, courage, propensity
to war or quarrels, roughness, obstinacy, theft, murder
and rapine. -
Of Q, beauty, delicacy, good taste, fondness for music,
dancing, pleasure and love, effeminacy, lust, debauchery,
and dissipation. -
Of #, learning, eloquence, wit and judgment, arts, sci
ences, and knowledge of everr kind, genius, activity and
292 M IN D,
*...** -
invention: also dishonesty, fraud, theft, lying, unsteadiness,
trick, and artifice. It is general # said, that g with the G
makes the native fit for business, but when 20 or 25 degrees
distant, more fit for learning. Others say, he renders the
native more fit for business when in moveable signs, and
dull when in watery signs. When afflicted, the native is
said to be more shallow and divested of wisdom, however
specious he may be in appearance. When retrograde
they are sceptical; and when swift they are unsettled an
changeable; when under the sun-beams always, busy in
useless speculations, and inventions; but when above 17°
distant, ingenious and judicious; when oriental, open and
honest; when occidental, deceitful. . . . . . . .
. The greatest part of this exhibits a mass of confusion, or
at least intricacy not easily elucidated. Indeed, the nature
of the stars themselves and their various effects when com
bined, arising from so many opposite causes, will be ever
in some degree incomprehensible to us. this is evident
from the endless shades of dispositions, as well as counte
nance and feature, to be found in the human race, insomuch
that no two individuals are exactly alike in mind or ap
pearance. ** – – . "
There is little reason to doubt but that the ) and
have the chief influence in forming the mind, but that their
dispositors can have any effect more than other planets is .
... a very silly idea. Ptolemy is a very obscure author at most
times, one cause of which is his frequent allusions to opi
nions and technicalities very well understood at the time
he wrote, but now unknown. What he means by planets
ruling # and the ), and being well posited, does not clearly
appear. In the list of these ruling stars he places : him--
self, which is an absurdity, for he cannot be his own ruler,
He may possibly mean the dispositors of g and the D
or planets in aspect with them, but in either case, he can
neither dispose of nor aspect himself - . -
As to a star's being “in glory in respect to the G) and
angles,” we can only suppose he means oriental and angu
lar, and yet these seem £ very inadequate causes for all
these tremendous effects. Stars rising in the beginning of
the night are such as apply to opposition of the Sun. I
... have endeavoured to give the best explanation possible of
vespertine setting by day, which I conceive must mean when
# and Q are in the higher part of their orbit in respect to
us, and appear in the morning before the G). They thus
set # when the Sun rises, and this is what probably
Ptolemy calls vespertine settings, by day, though matutine *
M I N D, 293
settings would be the more proper term as they set in the
morning. Vespertine risings must be g and Q rising heli
acally in the evening,
The greatest part of this system is rendered unintelligible
through a mixture of obscurity and error; and the super
stitious remarks of modern astrologers have not contributed
to render it more intelligible. Even Ptolemy himself ap:
£ not to have been any way master of the subject, and
as certainly in many cases asserted more than he could
know from experience. The whole therefore must be
doubtful, and a new system founded upon the basis of the
old is absolutely wanted, in which the student must above
all things shun the doctrine of lordships and dispositors.
How far matutine and vespertine, oriental and occidental,
positions with respect to the Sun and quadrants may be
available, is not easy to determine, but I am certain their
leffects cannot be so powerful as described. A planet
angular is assuredly powerful, but there is great difference
in the angles, and why a planet should be more powerful .
succeedent than cadent (seeing they are both at an equal
distance from angles) is not easily explained. There can
be little doubt but that the configuration of the ) is the
best aspect : can have, he partakes of the disposition of
every planet with whom he is familiar, and when in corn
bustion, or £ or under the sunbeams, the abilities
of the native will be considerably impaired. When g and
the ) are in aspect with many planets the native will be
very unsettled and unstable in disposition, resembling each
by turns; but I have never observed that the nature of an
aspect made much difference, whether a D or >k, except
to one of the luminaries. -
In modern astrology it is usual to judge of the mind of a
native from the planets in the ascendant, and this at least
appears correct, only their effect should be joined to that
of # and the (. If none be in the horoscope, the planets
to which the ( applies, or if there be none such, those
from which she separates are the significators of manners.
The G, A, or >k of '' the (, shews ingenuity and
great ability; the [I] shews wit, but often applied, it is said,
to evil purposes; and the 9 is said to denote a stubborn,
wicked and seditious spirit.
# in 8 or V3, and cadent, retrograde, combust, or
afflicted, makes the native rude, silly or stupid : but these
debilities are enough without the aid of 8 or Vy to injure
£he intellect, though a good aspect of the C from the mid
heaven, or probably from any angle, would in a considerable
294 M OT I O N.
degree counterbalance it all. # in 6, # or A of b is
said to give sound judgment and a careful, constant wit;
but I am certain the d of b would be productive of quite
a contrary effect. 2 in d, k, A, or indeed any aspect of
£, causes honesty. 6 gives confidence, and to this may
be added extreme wickedness, ifjoined to #. The Q is
said to cause pride when in any aspect, and this is probably
the truth. Q gives pleasantness, elegance and sweetness,
except 'uné: by other planets. But the (gives
the most piercing wit and powerful abilities. The D or #
of b is said to cause an impediment in speech, but to do
this the C must be much afflicted. Any aspect of 6 in
clines to the study of medicine or surgery. . It is said, but
I think without foundation, that the J of d or the Q to
$, causes madness: as # never can be even one sign dis
tant from the Q, the latter part of this observation is ex
tremely ridiculous. - * > * :
* MINUTE, the sixtieth part of an hour in time, marked
Im. ; or the sixtieth part of a degree in measure, and
marked 1'. -
MOVEABLE SIGNS, Y, -o-, GE, and # so called be
cause the weather is moveable or changeable when the Q
is in them, and the disposition of the native whose ascend
ant they, or whose # or ( they contain, is said to be the
Same. - -
MODUS RATIONALIS. The method of Regiomon
tanus for regulating the cusps of the intermediate houses
between the angles in a figure, by dividing the ecliptic by
the equator instead of the semiarc. It certainly is any
thing but rational, for the cusps of all the houses except
the 10th and 4th, can only be determined by oblique ascen
sion. See “Figure.” -
MODERATORS, the Q, C, 10th and 1st houses, and
69. They are so called because each is said to have its own
mode of operating on the native according to its nature.
Thus, the 10th operates differently from the 1st, the Q dif
ferently from the (, and the 69 differently from them all.
Of the 5 moderators 4 only should be retained, for the 69
can have no effect in nativities.
MOISTURE, is said to abound when planets are matu
time, when the C is in her first quarter, and during the
winter and the might.
* MOON. See & Planets.”
. MOTION. The motion of a planet is either quick or
slow, as it exceeds or falls short of its Mean Motion, for
which see that article. -
M UN D A N E 295 . .
The following table will be found useful in calculating
the hourly motion of a planet from its diurnal motion.
Pr. Day. Pr. Hour. Pr. Day. Pr. Hour. Pr. Day. Pr. Hour.
Degrees ' " Degrees ' " Degrees ' "
Or 07" or . Or 07” Or
Minutes. " " Minutes. " " Minutes. " "
1 2 30 21 52 30 41 102 30
2 5 22 55 42 105
3 7 30 23 57 30 43 - 107 30
4. 10 24 60 44 110
5 12 30 25 62 30 45 112 30
6 15 26 65 46 115 -
7 17 30 27 67. 30 47 117 30
8 20 28 70 48 120
9 22 30 29 72 30 49 122 30
10 25 30 75 50 125
Hl 27, 30 3| 77 30 51 - 127 30
12 30 32 80 52 130
13 32 30 33 82 30 53 132 30
14 35 34 85 54 135
I5 37 30 35 87 30 55 137 30
16 40 36 90 56 140
I7 42 30 37 92 30 57 - 142 30
18 45 $8 95 58. 145
19 - 47 30 39 97 30 59 147 30
20 50 40 Í00 60 150
ExAMPLE: Supposing b to proceed at the rate of 7 per
day, his hourly motion would. 17" 30" per hour, which,
supposing the time required to be 7 hours, would, if multi
plied by 7, give 122" 30" for the arc he would describe
during that time, which divided by 60 gives 2'2' 30", but
the seconds and thirds are of no consideration.
Again, if the ('s motion be 14° 34' per day : for the 14°
allow 35 per hour, as the table directs, and for the 34 allow
85". The time being 7 hours, as before, multiply the 35'
by 7, it will give 245, to which add 10 more for the pro
duct of the 85" multiplied by 7, and the sum will be 255,
which divided by 60 gives 4° 15'.
MUNDANE, in the world. *
MUNDANE ASPECTS, distances in the world mea
sured by the semiarc, wholly independent of the zodiac.
Thus, the distance of the 10th from the 12th is a >k,although
perhaps not 50° of the zodiac distant. See “Directions.”
r" |
296 N E B U L AE.
MUNDANE PARALLELS, an equal distance of
two planets from any angle. Thus, a planet on the
cusp of the 9th is in mundane parallel to another on the
cusp of the 11th, being at equal distances from the 10th.
There are three kinds of mundane parallels: direct, where
the significator remains fixed in his horary circle, and the
promittor moves conversely; converse, where the promittor
remains fixed in its horary circle and the significator moves
conversely; and rapt, when both are carried away by what
was called the rapt motion of the Primum Mobile so as to
form parallels in their progress. All the mundane aspects
were invented by Placidus, who, nevertheless, affirms, that
they were known and referred to by Ptolemy, because the
latter speaks of the k of Q, an aspect she never can form in
the zodiac. So bigoted was Placidus to this mundane sys
tem, that, he says, he once actually rejected all the zodiacal
aspects, though, by the manner in which he treats of the
#Nativities, he appears to have been soon reconciled
to them again. For my own part, I have never found any
thing in mundame aspects worth depending on; nor have £
any opinion of their efficacy, and were I to direct to a pro
mittor it should be in the zodiac. See Directions. *
MUTE SIGNS, they are called dumb signs by th
Arabians, and are said to have an effect on the native's
speech, and cause dumbness, because the animals from
whom they are named, viz. g3, m, and 36, have no voice.
This is the very acme of ignorance and stupidity.
MUTILATED DEGREES, another silly distinction,
ofcertain degrees £to cause lameness £occupy
the cusp of the ascendant; or if the ), lord of the ascend
ant, or the lord of the geniture be in them. They are from
the 6th to the 10th degree of 8 ; from the 9th to the 15th
of ga; the 18th, 27th and 28th of of Q ; the 18th and 19th
of ml, the 1st, 7th, 8th, 18th, and 19th, of t, the 26th to
the 29th of W5; and the 18th and 19th of 2:. ..
NADIR, the point below the Earth directly opposite
to the zenith. - . .
NATIVITY, the birth, the instant the native draws
breath, or rather that when the umbilical cord is divided.
It also signifies a figure of heaven from the time of birth.
See “Figure.” - e
NATURAL DAY, the time of a complete revolution
of the Earth on its axis. - -
NEBULAE, clusters of stars that appear like clouds.
When ascending, or with the D at a birth, they are said
to cause blindness or some occular defect, particularly
O B L I Q U.E. 297
when in an angle. Among these are included Praespe, the
Pleiades, and even the Hyades.
NEOMENIUM, the change of the Moon.
NIGHT HOUSES, houses wherein planets are said to
be stronger by night than by day. The night house of b,
is W5; of 21, 3%; of d, ml; of 2, 8; and of #, p. The
G) and D have but one house each, which serves them
both by night and day. -
£ ARC, the distance or space through
which the Sun or a planet passes during the night. Also
the time it takes in passing.
NOCTURNAL TRIPLICITIES. 2 rules the fiery
triplicity by night, d the watery (both by day and night,)
§ the airy and the D the earthy. They are said to be
stronger in these by night than by day. Q also rules the
: triplicity by day and the ) by night, in conjunction
wit • -
$68tumnal PLANETS, planets are said to be
nocturnal when they excel in the passive qualities, moisture
and dryness. Thus, Q and the Moon are nocturnal, be
cause they are moist, and 6 because he is dry. The true
reason why Ptolemy made 6 nocturnal was because his
heat and dryness should be opposed to the cold and moisture
of the night so as to mitigate his noxious qualities. A
planet is also said to be nocturnal when in a nocturnal
nativity above the Earth. .
NOCTURNAL SIGNS, 3, g5, W, m, W5, and X,
because they excel in dryness or moisture.
NODES, the point where a planet crosses the ecliptic
out of south into north latitude is called its north node, and
where it crosses into south latitude its south node. The
Moon's north node is called the Dragon's Head and marked
Sè, and her south node the Dragon’s Tail, and marked 93.
Their motion is retrograde, about 3' pr. day.
NORTHERN'SiGNS, Y, 8, 1,5,6 up. They are
also called commanding signs, because planets in them are
said to command, and those in the opposite signs to obey.
OBEYING SIGNS = m, 1, W5, az, £ -
OBLIQUE ASCENSION, a part of the equator which
rises obliquely in an oblique sphere, which is when one
pole of the equator is elevated and the other depressed: of
course, less of the equator ascends with northern signs and
more with southern signs. This will make a £
between the right and oblique ascension, and the arc of
this difference intercepted between the right and oblique
ascension is called the ascensional difference. This, if
2 Q
298 O B L I QUE
subtracted from the right ascension in northern signs, of
added to it in southern signs, will give the oblique ascension.
ExAMPLE :-Suppose 2/’s right ascension to be
in gG, . - * 101° 54.
His ascensional difference, 33 0
Being in a northern sign it must be subtracted, -
and the remainder will be the oblique ascension, 68° 54'
t *
Had / been in a southern sign the ascensional difference
must have been added, and the sum would have been the
oblique ascension. . * * -
The oblique ascension may also be found by tables, which
will be published at the same time with this work.
Should it so happen that a star or degree has no declina
tion north or south, the right ascension and oblique ascen
sion are the same. The oblique ascension of any house may
be found by adding 30° for every house to the left of the
midheaven until it come to the 4th. Thus, 30° added to
the right ascension of the 10th, will give the oblique as
cension of the 11th, 60° added will give the oblique as
cension of the 12th, &c.
OBLIQUE DESCENSION, a part of the equator
descending obliquely in an oblique sphere in the same man
ner as the other ascends. A greater arc of the equator will
descend with northern signs than with southern, and there
fore the oblique descension may be found by adding the
ascensional £ when a northern sign descends, and
subtracting it when the sign has southern declination. The
oblique descension of the cusp of any house may be found
by subtracting 30°from the right ascension ofthe midheaven.
Thus, if the right ascension of the midheaven be 221° 2'
the oblique descension of the 9th will be 191° 2'; of the
8th, 161° 2'; and of the 7th, 131° 2'. In fact, it is nothing
after all but another name for oblique ascension : for if 30°
be added for every house to the left of the midheaven, it
will all come to the same thing.
OBLIQUE SPHERE, so called because all their as
censions and descensions are oblique, and all circles parallel
to the equator are oblique to the horizon and form acute
angles with it. This is caused by one of their poles being
more raised and the other more depressed, according to
, their distance from the equator. All who inhabit between
the poles and the equator live in an oblique sphere.
"
- |
O R. I E N T A L. 299
OCCIDENTAL, falling down, killing: western. See
* Oriental.”
OCCOURSES, or OCCURSORS, promittors.
OPPOSITION, when stars or places are diametrically
opposite, or 180° distant, either in the world or the zodiac,
it is reckoned a very evil aspect. See “Familiarities.”
ORDER OF THE HOUSES. They are said to rank
above each other as follows; 1st, 10th, 7th, 4th, 11th, 5th,
9th, 3d, 2d, 8th, 6th, and 12th.
ORB, the deferent of a planet, supposed by the ancients
to fit into each other like the coats of an onion, and to
carry the planets about with them. The word is now used
to describe the distance at which a planet may operate from
a partile aspect before it quite loses its effects. The orb of
b is said to be 9°; of 2/, 12°; d, 7°; G), 17°; Q, 88;
$, 7°; and the ), 12°. Some only allow / 9°, while
others allow P 12°: this extends to latitude as well as
longitude. Stars of the first magnitude have 7° 30' for
their orbs; of the 2d, 5° 30'; of the 3d, 3° 40'; ofthe 4th,
1° 30'. |
ORIENTAL. “Every one,” says Placidus, “knows
how largely and to what little purpose authors have treated
of the orientality of the planets.” This might well be the
case, when the whole was unintelligible even to those
authors themselves. Ptolemy, speaking of the masculine
and feminine, says that planets “when oriental and going
before the G) are masculine, and when occidental and .
following it they are feminine; also from the east to the
midheaven, and from the west to the lower heaven they are
masculine because oriental, and in the two other quadrants
feminine because they are occidental.” Here, therefore,
we find that a planet is oriental when going before the Sun,
and £"when following it. This is called being
oriental and occidental with respect to the Sun. They are
also oriental in the south-east and north-west quadrants,
and occidental in the south-west and north-east quadrants,
and this is called being oriental and occidental in respect
to the world. Now, upon this system a planet may be oc
cidental and oriental at the same moment of time, for if it
be in dexter >k to the Sun, it is oriental in respect to the
Sun, and if in the south-west or north-east quadrant it will
be occidental in the world. The words, therefore,
“oriental” and “occidental,” simply as such, have in them
selves no signification whatever, except their relation to
the G) or the world be specified. Again, if a planet going
before the Q be oriental, every planet must be oriental until
300 OR IENT A L.
it reaches the opposition, for it certainly precedes the G)
until then. Yet, in another place he says, “those quadrants
preceding the Sun and the horoscope, and the quadrants
opposite to them are oriental, the rest are occidental.”
Here, then, we have another contradiction; for a planet is
here discovered not to be oriental when preceding the G)
after he has completed his first quadrature, but in the 2d
quadrant until he arrive at the opposition is actually
occidental, although going before the G). When he has
passed the opposition he again becomes oriental, although
actually following the G), which Ptolemy has in the first
instance affirmed to be occidental. Surely, when an author.
like Ptolemy founds his system almost wholly on the
orientality and occidentality of the planets, he ought to be
more consistent and intelligible.
The orientality of the Q is more easily comprehended,
for as he cannot be oriental in respect to himself, he is only
oriental in the south-east and north-west quadrants, and
occidental in the opposite. The ) is oriental in respect
to the G) when passing from the change to her first dichotome,
and from the full to her second dichotome. In the other
two quarters she is occidental, according to Ptolemy.
Although the planets are thus considered in a general
manner, he in other places mentions the inferior planets
as being stronger when occidental and vespertine. Placidus
touches the matter as lightly as possible: he was obliged
to notice it; but the truth is, he was himself ignorant of
Ptolemy's meaning, and fully aware that it involved a
contradiction which he could not unravel.
His doctrine throws no light whatever on the subject as
it formerly stood, but it clearly demonstrates that he be
held it himself in its most natural point of view. He says
“the planets have four respects to the G) : first, from the
# to the first station, and in the ) towards her first
ichotome; from the first station to the opposition, in the
) towards the full; from thence to the second station in
the D towards her second dichotome; and from thence to
the C again. This,” he continues, “is a good reason
why the three superiors are stronger when mututine from
the G), and the three inferiors when they are vespertine,
because they have then a greater degree of light, in which
their influence consists, and then they are called oriental,
but if otherwise occidental.”
Here the truth breaks in upon us a little, though with a
very faint light. For a matutine position only extends
through one quarter of a planet's orbit; namely, that part
OR I ENT A L. 301
of it which ascends between midnight and sunrise, and is
therefore called matutine, because it rises in a morning be
fore the Q. In the same way, the vespertine quarter is
that part of a planet's orbit which sets in the evening be
tween sunset and midnight. Of the other two quarters
Placidus has taken no notice whether they are oriental or
occidental. If, however, his reason be just, and I believe it
is, that a planet is deemed oriental when increasing in light,
and occidental when decreasing, that half of the orbit en
tire, must be oriental from the C to the 9, because it is
then increasing in light, and the other half occidental be
cause then its light is decreasing. Lilly says “b, 2/, and
d, are oriental of the G) from the G with him to the 9,
and occidental till they arrive at the C again : for orien
tality is nothing but to rise before the Q, and occidentality
is to set after him, or to be seen above the horizon after the
Q is set. Q and g are oriental when in fewer degrees of
the sign the Q is in, or when they are in the preceding sign,
and occidental when they are in more degrees of the sign
than the Q is, or when they are in the succeeding sign.
The ( is oriental of the G) from the time of her Ó to the
8, and occidental from the $ to the d.” The whole of
this doctrine amounts to this, that a planet to be oriental
must rise before the Q, and of course set before him; and
to be occidental must rise and set after him. This is also
the opinion of most modern astrologers, who always consi
der their planets as oriental or £i of the G) only.
The term oriental is generally derived from oriens, the
east, and hence it is common to denominate a planet orien
ital when in the eastern part of the figure. odern astro
logers consider them oriental from the 4th eastward to the
10th. The word oriens itself is but a derivative from the
Hebrew "N, light, and from this the term oriental, so far
as relates to astronomy, seems to be derived, and it signifies,
“causing light. The term oriens, or, “brightness, was de
rived from the same root, and applied to the east because
the Q and stars rose in that quarter. -
The west was called occidens from occido, “to kill', be
cause there the light was destroyed. Here we have the origin
of oriental, which had no relation to the east, but merely
signified, ‘a causing or “increasing of light,’ and undoubt
ly applied to the increasing light of a planet until it ar
.rived at its perigee, when, its light decreasing in the same
proportion, it was deemed occidental or expiring. Of this
original system of astrology Ptolemy must have been gene
rally ignorant, as he only appears to have revived the sys
&
302 ORIENTAL.
tem from what scanty materials he could collect of the old,
which had probably perished with the rest of the learning,
and even the language, of the AEgyptians; hence his system
is founded on certain planetary arrangements, for which he
often found it difficult to assign a rational cause, and which
frequently compelled him to have recourse to allegory and
obscure unexplained dogmatisms to supply the defect.
What effect the increase or decrease of light may have
on a planet must be proved by experience, for the orien
tality of planets being so very contradictory, has been little
attended to by any astrologers. Placidus generally blinks
the question, as he does in some other rules laid down by
Ptolemy, which he was unable to comprehend and unwilling
to contradict. Ptolemy himself just contrived to involve
the matter in obscurity and paradox and there he left it.
The orientality of the planets, in my opinion, is merely
their increase in light and their £ towards their pe
rigee; and with respect to the oriental quarters in the south
east and north-west, they appear to have no foundation in
reason, or in any thing : but the imagination of Ptolemy.
The three superiors will, therefore, of course be oriental
when matutine, which matutine station will extend to the
point of the perigee. The (, #, and Q, will be oriental
when vespertine and rising heliacally in the evening, be
cause they are then increasing in light, and the two latter
are in the lower part of their orbit, and consequently nearer
to the Earth. N' I would advise the student to
examine seriously the rules laid down by Ptolemy, and try
if it be possible to bring them to something like consistency
before he finally reject them. They form the chief basis of .
that extensive and generally received system, and ought to
be well weighed before they are sacrificed to the opinion
of any individual. -
Orientality is generally meant with respect to the Q, and
is by modern astrologers considered a dignity of 2 degrees,
though Ptolemy mentions nothing of the kind. Q and #
are considered oriental when to the west of the G), and b,
2/, or G, are oriental to the east of him. According to
Ptolemy, it is a mark of great prosperity, if the Q be
guarded by oriental stars and the G be occidental, by which
he appears to mean stars that are miatutine, or going before
the Q, whether they be superior or inferior planets, but they
must not be three signs distant from him. The G on the
contrary, should be followed, not preceded, and therefore
they are called occidental only in respect to the (. I be
lieve his only reason for forming such an opinion was, that
PARALLELs. 303
the luminaries so guarded had the appearance of grandeur,
and looked like princes attended by their retinue. -
ORION'S FOOT, Rigel, a benevolent star of the first
magnitude in the 15th degree of II, said to cause great ho
nours and every degree of happiness when rising or cul
minating. - -
ORION'S RIGHT SHOULDER, Betelguese, a fixed
star of the first magnitude in 26° of II, of the nature of
6 and #, said so cause great martial honours, and pre
ferment. -
ORION'S LEFT SHOULDER, Bellatrix, a star of
the 2d magnitude, of the nature of 6 and #, in the 19th
degree of II, said to cause great military honours, attended
by eventual loss, danger and ruin. It causes blindness by
accidents when joined to the luminaries.
ORION'S BELT, Cingula Orionis: three stars, from
21° to 24° of II, of the 2d magnitude, of the nature of 2/
and B. They are said to be fortunate.
ORTIVE DIFFERENCE, the difference between the
primary and secondary difference in directing the Q when
found in the crepuscle. (See Directions.)
PARALLELS. There are two kinds of parallels: zo
diacal and mundane. Zodiacal parallels are circles equi
distant from the equator, namely, the beginning of Y and
--, and consequently any two points of the zodiac having
equal declination, whether of the same or the opposite kind,
are in \zodiacal parallel with each other. Thus, a star in 2°
of f, another in 28° degrees of Vy, another in 2° of II,
and another in 28° of gF, would all be in zodiacal parallel
to each other, because they would all have the same decli
nation in the number of degrees and minutes, viz. 20° 38'.
The two first are called antiscions, because they have the
same declination in number and name, viz. 20° 38' south
declination; the others are also antiscions in the same way,
as having 20° 38' north declination, but the two former are
called contra antiscions to the two latter, because, although
their declination is the same in number, it is different in
name, one being north and the other south declination.
Those having north declinataion are called commanding,
and the southern, obeying : because the north being nearer
our zenith must be most powerful. An antiscion is held by
some to have the effect of a >k or A, and a contra antiscion
that of a C or 9, but Placidus makes no such distinction.
Latitude makes a considerabie difference in all antiscions.
Thus, a star without latitude, in 22° of 8, would have its
antiscion in 8° of Sl, both of which have 18°20 of north de
304 P A R E N T S.
climation: but if such star had 5° of north latitude, its de
clination would be 23° 9' north, and therefore its antiscion.
would be in 10° ofgo. - Its contra antiscions would be, of
course, in the same degrees of the opposite signs. To find
the antiscions of any star, recourse must be had to tables of
declination.
Mundane parallels are taken from the angles ofa figure
in the same way as zodiacal parallels are taken from the
equator, and are measured by the semiarcs of the planets.
'' a star on the cusp of the 9th is in mundane parallel
with another on the cusp of the 11th, because they are
equidistant from the cusps of the 10th and 4th; and a star
on the cusp of the 11th is in mundane parallel with an
other on the cusp of the 3d, because they are equidistant
from the cusps of the 1st and 7th. Their opposite places
are also taken in the same manner as the contra antiscions
in the zodiac: so that two planets in parallel with any
angle are really in parallel with all the four. For the me
thod of finding parallels, see “Directions.” .
The effects of parallels are good or evil according to the
nature of the planets composing them, and perhaps there is
not any judgment more certain than that which is made
from the effect of zodiacal parallels, which may be consi
dered in every way the same in their effects as a 6. -
Placidus was the inventor of mundane parallels, and he
appears to have relied much on their efficacy: but I have
not yet been able to coincide with him in opinion. I would,
however, recommend the student to examine them tho
roughly before he comes to any final determination.
PARALLEL SPHERE, so called when the equator is
parallel to its horizon. The polar inhabitants, if any, live
always in this sphere. Their pole is their zenith. They
have but one day in a year, one half of which is light and
the other half darkness. -
PARENTS. According to Ptolemy the Q and b are
significators of the father, and the C and Q of the mother.
If the luminaries are surrounded by the benefics, or the
G) with b and the C with Q, the parents will be splendid
and fortunate; and the same when the Q is guarded by
oriental stars, and the ( by occidental, that is, stars going
before the O and following the (. b and Q oriental de
note happiness. -
If the luminaries are void of course and without a guard,
the parents are poor, mean, and obscure, especially if HP
and Q are not well configurated. If the lights are guarded,
but not by those of the same condition, it shews but middling
P A RE N T S. 305
fortune, as if d ascends to the O (that is, matutine to the
Q) or b to the ) (viz. following the D), because, if b
guard the Sun he is, although an infortune, the cosignifi
cator of the father, and therefore in this they are supposed
to agree; but if he ascend to the ), he is no consignifica
tor of the mother, and therefore operates as what he is, an
infortune. If those guards of the lights have good aspect
with the €9, the parents will be rich and prosperous; but
if they have evil aspect, or if & be the satellite to the Q,
or B to the D, they will be liable to great losses and re
verses of fortune. * ".
If 2/ or Q have any configuration to the O or B, or if
b be in good aspect with the Q, or joined to him in an
angle, or beholding him from angles, the father will have
long life. If they are not either angular or succeedent, life
will be short. If D be in D or & to the G) and cadent,
the father will be short lived, and subject to accidents. If
b E or oppose the G) from the east or south angle, the
father's life will be very short; but if from the west or
north angle, or, in their succeedents, the father will be
sickly. If 6 square or oppose the G) from angles or suc
ceedents, the father will die suddenly, or be injured in his
eye-sight, but if he have evil aspect to b, he causes the
father to be very diseased, and brings on fevers, wounds,
burns, and death. . . - -
If 2/ be any way configurated to the ) or Q, or the D.
and Q in G, A, or >k, the mother will be long lived. But
if 6 or b are joined to or in evil aspect with the ), and
if in the 7th or 4th houses or their succeedents, the mo
ther will be subject to many diseases; but if in the 1st or
10th, she will be very short lived. If 6 afflict the ) when
she is in the 1st or 10th, she will be liable to hurts in the
eyes or sudden death; but if in the 7th or 4th, she will die.
by abortion, wounds, or burning. The ) in the 1st or
10th, afflicted by b, will cause the mother to be diseased,
afflicted by fever, ague, consumption, &c. but in the other
two angles, she will be filled with hysteric or nervous com
plaints. The signs containing the malefics are also to be
considered. By day the G) and Q are the chief representa
tives of the father and mother, but by night b and the ).
He thefore directs a figure to be erected for the parents
when more particularity is required, making the place of
the @ by day and b by night the degree ascending for the
father, and the place of Q by day and the ) by night for
the mother. There is much absurdity in this doctrine, and
the chapter that treats of it,' the most lame and ill-de
*
806 PART OF FORTUNE.
fined one in the whole book. A bare perusal of it will
shew that Ptolemy understood nothing of the matter, but
inserted it merely from conjecture. From my own ex
perience I can safely affirm, that neither b nor Q are in
any way connected with the fate of the parents; nor can
any judgment be formed of them from the condition of
those planets. The luminaries do in some degree signify
them, but I have no reason to suppose in any other way
than that of general sympathy with the affairs of the native.
Hr the lights are in good or evil condition, the native and
everything belonging to him will be the same. -
PARS FORTUNAE, the Part of Fortune.
PARTILE, an aspect is partile when it falls in the same
degree and minute, both with respect to longitude and lati
tude. Thus, / would be in partile d of 6, if they were
both in 3° 4' of SU, and in partile A of b, if the latter
were in 3° 4' of Y. This can seldom happen, but a few
minutes can make no difference. It is a perfect and power
ful configuration, and in horary questions the business
denoted is sure of completion £ at hand, especially
if it be by application. -
PART # FORTUNE, an imaginary point in the
heavens, supposed as a moderator to contain equal power
with the luminaries, but which is really nothing but a phan
tom hatched in the figurative brain of Ptolemy, which has
no influence whatever, except influence can arise out of
nothing. It was a favourite maxim with that author to have
everything, as his grandmother might call it, “in apple
pie order: hence the 12 signs were £ into 4 trigons,
to suit the 4 elements; the planets were all accommodated
among them with houses, triplicities, and exaltations, and
the whole separated into £ was divided among
them for terms: they had their chariots, thrones, joys,
sexes; three of them were diurnal and three nocturnal,
and the odd one either or neither, as it suited him; the
had oriental and occidental quarters assigned them; eae
of them had a note of music committed to his care, and, in
short, the whole of the universe was parcelled out among
them with an air of as much authority and importance as if
Ptolemy had created it himself, and possessed a consequent
knowlege of all its intricacies and bearings. Each planet
had its wind, nations, animals, herbs, parts of the human
frame, &c. allotted to it. The distribution certainly dis
played much-order, regularity and ingenuity, and only
wanted truth and reason to render it complete.
* * *r" ~ - - - - - ----------------------- ---
* --- ****** = --- ------- - -------- - -- - - ----------
PART OF FORTUNE. 307
Among other things it was observed that there was an
ascending point in the heavens, and this they said belonged
to the Q. How they could imagine it belonged to the Q
I have not the most distant idea, for the ascendant is a
mundane point and has no more connexion with the @,
except when he is there, than the most remote point in the
heavens, nor can it have in any way more relation to the
Q) than to the C, or to any other planet. They found,
however, by experience, that the horoscope was a point of
some consequence (because there the stars first insert the
effects of their super terrene rays in an animal), and thi.
being so, it ought, they supposed, like every thing else, to
belong to something, and as the O was the most glorious
of the heavenly bodies, it must belong to him. he 4,
however, was also a planet of some consequence, and, in
reality more so than the G) in the rapidity and power of
her operations. It was necessary, therefore, that she should
have a horoscope of some kind, for the sake of uniformity.
There could be but one horoscope, and that being already
disposed of, it became necessary to call some point a ho
roscope that was not one, and this is the point the ( , is in
when the Sun is ascending, and consequently in what is
called his horoscope, “The 69,” says Ptolemy, “is rec
koned from the intermediate degrees £ the lumina
ries, and has an equal number of degrees from the horo
scope according to the succession of signs. Both by night
and day, therefore, it is considered, that whatever propor
tional distance or configuration the Sun has to the horo
scope, the C has the same to the 69, that it may serve as a
lunar horoscope.” -
*The opinion of Placidus before he had seen that of Ne
fusantius, was that the @ moved on the path of the C's
atitude, and he was right, if any thing can be called right
that is fundamentally wrong: for as the Sun, having no
latitude, is always in the £therefore uniform with
horoscope according to the course of the ecliptic, so
the C should be uniform with the €9 according to the
course of the ecliptic, the latter preserving the distance
only of the C's latitude from it. Negusantius invented
another method, which is wholly unintelligible, though £
£ of by Placidus, which is that of giving the 69 the
eclination of the Q, both in number and name, so that
if the ( were in W5 with 26° ofsouth declination, and the
69 in gå, the latter would have 26° of south declination
also, which cannot fail to render the whole unintelligible.
It is astonishing that Placidus could not see the cause of
208 PART OF FORTUNE.
the mistake of Negusantius, and he would have seen it had
he not been led away by the foolish doctrine of Ptolemy
concerning aphetical places, which denied the ( to be
hyleg because she was under the Earth. Now, there can
be little doubt but that the ( is always hyleg wherever she
'may be, and here lay the mistake of Negusantius. He
found death frequently ensue when the anareta acquired the
same declination with the 6+), because this was the declina
tion of the £ and what the ( suffered as hyleg was at
tributed to the 69. Now it is very certain, that, according
to the rules both of Ptolemy and Placidus, the GB cannot
"have uniformly the declination of the C, although the
latter could not see the drift of his own theory, which is
this, “The €9 he says, “is placed according to the C’s
distance from the Q, and, observe, whatever rays the Moon
has to the Sun, for the latter should have the same as the
69 has to the horoscope. As the Moon is to the Sun so is
the Part of Fortune to the horoscope, and as the Sun is to
the horoscope so is the Moon to the Part of Fortune.”
Now, the Sun seldom has the declination of the horoscope,
never, without he is in it, and consequently the ( should
not have the declination of the Part of Fortune, except
she be in it, else she cannot be to the Part of Fortune as
the Sun is to the horoscope. So that we see the opinion
of Negusantius is at variance with that of Placidus, which
was certainly the same as that of Ptolemy. Whether Pla
cidus changed his system when he embraced that of Negu
"santius we do not hear, but I often pity him when I reflect
on his observation. “I willingly confess,” he says, “that
I have with regard to the Part of Fortune laboured a long
time, and have never yet been able to find any truth in it.”
This might well be the case when there was no truth in it,
and it reminds me of a certain author, who says, “Some
fools employ all their lives in writing nonsense, and others
'all theirs in trying to make sense of it.” - -
. . . It is here worthy of observation, that there can scarcely be
a strongerproof of the truth of astrology than this. He could
find truth in the planetary configurations, because their
effects are founded on the immutable laws of nature, but
when he came to investigate the effects of the 69 he could
“find no truth in it,” because there was none. When he re
ceived the new invention from Negusantius, who was ano
ther zealous disciple of Ptolemy, he approved ofit much, and
said it was perfectly agreeable to “reason and experience,”
though, in another place, when considering its dependance
on the lunar parallels for its declination, he owns it wants
-
PART OF FORTUNE. 309
the confirmation of “examples and experience.” The
method of bringing the anareta to the parallels of the
Part of Fortune and the Moon both at the same, he says
“is truly ingenious” and so it is, for had not the effects of
the Moon been ascribed to the Part of Fortune, he might
have laboured at it all his life without finding “any truth
in it.” And after all, with all its agreeableness “to reason,
and experience,” he appears to have made use of it but
once, although many instances must have occurred wherein
the Part of Fortune was apheta. But except where its
declination was made to suit the anaretic point, any judg
ment founded on it would be sure to fail.
. The common way of taking the is to add the sign,
degree, and minute the ) is in to the sign, degree, and
minute of the cusp of the horoscope, and from the sum
subtract the place of the Sun, the remainder will be the
place of the Part of Fortune. -
ExAMPLE:—Suppose the cusp of the horoscope to be
7° 31' of V5, the D in 8° 12 of Y, and the G) in 1° 45' of
Y, I would know the place of the €9.
Place of the horoscope, 9s. 7°. 31'
Place of the P, . ()- 8 12
- Sum, 9 15 43
Place of the Sun, 0 1 45
Place of the GB, 9 13 58, or 13°58'ofW9.
When subtraction cannot be made, 12 signs must be added,
or if more than 12 signs remain, 12 signs must be sub
tracted.
This method is, at all events, evidently incorrect; for
the )'s place should always be taken with her latitude,
which, supposing it in this case to be 1° 56' north, it would
make her declination 5° 7' north, answering to 12° 55' of
^, which added to that of the horoscope, would make the
sum 9s. 20° 26', from which, when the Sun's place is sub
tracted as before, it would leave the place of the Part of
Fortune 18° 41' of VQ. - -
But this also would be incorrect, as it is mixing a zodiacal
and mundane position together, and because the places of
luminaries are taken in the zodiac while that of the horo
scope is taken in the world. The only true way, therefore,
is to take the oblique ascension of the places instead of the
places themselves, and work with them as before. -
310 PART OF FORTUNE.
*
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, , , 311° 2'
Oblique ascension of the D with latitude
in the pole of the horoscope, 51° 32' 0 27
* . 311, 29
Oblique ascension of the Sun taken in the
pole of the horoscope, - - 0 43
Oblique ascension of the 69, 310 46
... If this be subtracted from the oblique ascension of the
horoscope, it will give the oblique distance of the 69 from
the horoscope, 0° 16'.
The method of Negusantius is, to subtract the oblique
ascension of the Sun from that of the horoscope, and add
the Moon's right ascension to the remainder, which will
give the right ascension of the GB, which compared with the
right ascension of the midheaven will give its distance from
that angle; and this, again, compared with its semidiurnal
arc, ' give its distance from the horoscope, but it all .
comes to the same thing in the end as the other. -
Oblique ascension of the horoscope, ... 31.1° 2'
Oblique ascension of the Sun in the pole of the
horoscope, , 0.43
- 310 19
Right ascension of the Moon with latitude, 646
Right ascension ofthe Part of Fortune, 317 5
Right ascension of the midheaven, - 221, 2 .
*-*
Right distance of the @ from the midheaven, 96.3
'. It must be here observed, that the GBhas the same decli
nation as the Moon, and consequently its semidiurnal arc.
is the same. Now the Moon will have 5° north declination,
and her semidiurnal arc will be 96° 19, and that ofthe GB
will be the same. - -
*__ Semidiurnal arc of the # 96. 19.
Right distance of the GB from the midheaven, 96 3
Oblique distance of the @ from the horoscope, 0 16
When the right distance from the midheaven is greater
than the semidiurnal arc, the 69 is under the Earth, and in
PART OF FORTUNE. 311
that case its distance from the horoscope must be measured
by its seminocturnal arc. -
In the one instance given by Placidus, he directs it by
direct motion, a kind of astrological bull, which signifies
no motion at all, for the significator is supposed to remain
fixed in its horary circle, waiting for the converse motion
of the promittor. Whether or no it can be directed con
versely, he says, reason and experience alone can deter
Illine. .
The death of the child, wherein the Part of Fortune is
supposed to have been hyleg, was caused by the Moon in
the radix having the declination of b and the D of $:
The effect of these aspects was such, that from the birth
was not expected to live, and he was drowned at 3 years
old. 10° of = were on the cusp of the 11th house, and 4"
of ml on that of the 12th, and the Part of Fortune is said,
by Placidus, to be about the middle of the 11th house; but
: this middle was it is not easy to tell, for a little after
he says, the GB was about the beginning of m, which could
be only, 4 from the cusp of the 12th; a strange place to
be called the middle of the 11th, but he wanted it, if
possible, in both places, that it might catch the cosmical
D "...# and the 9 of 6, who was in 1° 26' of 8, with
out reflecting that while he was thus committing himself
to uphold the credit of Ptolemy, he was losing his own.
He observes, that at the hour the child died, Ó transited
the 8 of the @by passing over the middle of the 5th house;
but the GB was not near the middle of the 11th, if it was at
the beginning of ill; What part of the zodiac & transited
he has not told us, but it was probably the DJ of the Moon,
which would be likely to cause such an effect, for I conceive
that the Moon was hyleg, although near the cusp of the
3d; nor will all the crude formal dogmas of Ptolemy per-
suade me to the contrary. In his nativity of Philip the
3d, where, on the authority of Ptolemy, he makes the
horoscope hyleg, there can be little doubt but the Moon,
although in the 6th house, possessed a great share of
hylegiacal influence. The direction of the horoscope to the
£ # B was apparently the more immediate cause of death
but the disease had been of 7 years standing, andoriginated
in the Moon arriving at a parallel of the declination of #,
which occasioned a violent flux of the humours from the
head, and a bad state of health, which lasted without inter
mission until his death. This with the declination of b,
which the Moon had at his nativity, was the real cause of
his death; and the direction of the horoscope to the D of
-----------------------------
$12 PERIHELION,
---,------------ ------ - - - --~~~
b, if it had any effect (which I am not at present prepared
to deny), only served to complete the catastrophe. The
constitution was already broken by the lunar position and
subsequent direction to #, and the Sun in the nativity had
the declination of 6 and was in zodiacal D to the Moon,
so that the luminaries mutually afflicted each other by the
interchange of the evil effects of the two infortunes; and
although they were both under the Earth, I have no doubt
that they were both hylegiacal, and this, assisted by power
ful secondary directions, might occasion death at the time,
even without the assistance of the horoscope. The know
ledge we possess of astral influence is very superficial, and
although it is usual to expect some violent direction to ter
minate existence, it may often happen without, when those
more remote causes that produce it are, as in this instance,
extremely powerful. I have only made these observations
to shew that there is astrong probability that the luminaries,
and particularly the Moon, are at all times aphetical ; that
there is more probability of their being so than even the
horoscope; that the doctrine of the is wholly an ab
surdity; and that all the effects ascribed to it may be traced
chiefly to the Moon. -
Some artists take the Part of Fortune differently in the
night from what they do in the day, by reversing the rule, and
adding the Q's place to the horoscope, and subtracting the
Moon's place from it. It is all the same in horary questions,
provided the artist steadily adhere to one system; but this
was not the method used by Ptolemy. -
The @ enters a different quadrant about every 7 days.
At the new moon, it is invariably in the ascendant, from
thence it gradually removes through the 2d and 3d until the
first dichotome, when it arrives at the cusp of the 4th; from
thence it moves toward the 7th, where it arrives at the full
of the Moon; at the 2d dichotome it occupies the cusp of
the 10th, whence it passes to the ascendant at the ensuing
change. A knowledge of this will be useful to correct any
mistake that may occur in placing it.
The longitude and latitude of the QB may, if required, be
formed by trigonometry from its right ascension and decli
nation, like that of any other star. -
PASSIVE STARS, the Q and (.
PASSIVE QUALITIES, moisture and dryness.
PERIGEE, that part of a planet's orbit where it is
nearest to the Earth. -
PERIHELION, the lower apsis of a planet, or that
point ofits ellipse where it is nearest to £
*
------- ------ - - - - - - * -- - - - - - -
P L A N E T S. 313
PEREGRINE. A peregrine planet is one posited in a
sign where it has no essential dignity of any kind. It is
reckoned a debility of 5 degrees. In questions of theft, a
peregrine planet in an angle or the 2d house is the thief.
No planet is reckoned peregrine if it be in reception.
PERIODICAL LUNATION, the time required by
the ( in returning to her own place, viz. 27d. 7h. 41m.
PHOENON, terrible, cruel: a Greek name of b, but
more applicable to 6.
£ See “Signs.”
| PLANETS. In all treatises of astrology only seven pla
nets are considered, viz. Saturn (P), Jupiter (2/), Mars
(3), the Sun (Q), Venus (Q), Mercury (; ), and the Moon
(((). Since then a new superior planet has been discovered,
and named Ouranos, from the father of b, because its orbit
includes that of b. It is marked H. Its appearance is
white and shining, and not greatly unlike that of #. What
ever its influence may be, we are unacquainted with it at
£ but, if any judgment may be formed from the co
our of a planet, it does not appear very malignant. Some
think it can have no power because its distance is so great,
but if distance were an object in these cases, b’s effect
would be much inferior to that of 6 or /, whereas they
are all considered as possessing an equal degree of influ
ence. There are also four smaller planets, discovered be
tween the orbits of 6 and 21, viz. Pallas ( & ), Ceres (&),
Juno (£), and Vesta ($ ); but their effect can be but tri
fling, owing to their magnitude, which is very inconsider
able.
SATURN is the most distant of all the old planets: his orb
was formerly supposed to be next to that of the fixed stars.
He is of a dull, whitish, leaden, obscure colour, and his
motion is the slowest and his period the longest of all the
rest, owing to his distance from the Sun. He is 29y. 167d.
5h. in finishing his revolution, which is the duration of his.
ear. - -
ye He is considered a cold, dry, earthy, melancholy, mascu
line malignant, diurnal, solitary planet, and the greater
infortune.
When the body and mind of a native are formed by b,
he will, it is said, be middle-sized, dark or pale complex
ion, with small black leering eyes, thick lips and nostrils,
large ears: iean face, broad forehead and lowering aspect,
dark or black hair, broad shoulders, small lean legs and
thighs, and thin beard.
If well dignified, the native gill be acute, penetrating and
- 2 S
$14. P L A N E T S.
subtle; but austere, slow, and reserved; grave, close, and
ungenerous; patient and laborious, covetous, and careful
of what he gets, and constant both in attachment and hatred.
If ill-dignified, the native will be sordid, covetous, cow
ardly and suspicious, envious, treacherous, stubborn and
deeply malicious. -
ithout adhering too closely to these axioms, which are,
perhaps, not quite well founded, the nature of b is to make
the native fearful, suspicious, covetous, reserved, melan
choly, subject to fret, repine, and cry; they see everything
through the wrost mediums, and their vices are rather the
effects of their fear and mistrust, and the natural result.
of the disappointments of a life that is seldom fortunate.
This renders them often solitary, and glad to retire from
the world, whom they equally fear and detest. They are
not naturally inclined to be wicked, but are generally, like
most people of slow parts, very laborious, chaste, and cool;
very capable of strong and lasting attachment to those
they think their friends, and malicious and unforgiving to
their enemies. -
On my own part, I do not in any way consider P as the
greater infortune: the malignancy of d is ten times more
tremendous than that of b, as may be seen by a discerning
observer, when they are either of them in perigee, by com
paring their effects. To know the effects of a planet in pe
rigee no other should be in or near its perigee at the same
time, else their influence will be so mixed as to entirely
frustrate any attempt at considering each abstractedly.
If B be oriental he is said to make the native more stout,
tall and hairy than when he is occidental; if he have north
latitude, they will be more strong, corpulent and boney, with
much hair; but if with south latitude, more smooth and
fleshy; ifin his nodes, they will be very boney and muscular.
He is said to govern the bones, spleen, teeth, joints, and
right ear, and those born under him are always said to have
bad teeth, and to be very much afflicted with the tooth
ache. He is also said to govern the memory. .
His diseases are such as proceed from cold and obstruc
tions, as melancholy, agues, all nervous diseases, epilepsy,
blackjaundice, tooth-ache, cold defluxions, catarrh, phthi
sis, atrophy, fistula, leprosy, palsy, apoplexy, dropsy, &c., .
He is said to delight in the east, and to be friendly with
the Q, 2/, and #, and at enmity with 6, Q, and the (.
Others say he is friendly with Q, because his houses are in
A with hers; but the whole is absurd and nonsensical, and
therefore not worth a dispute. - -
P L A N E T S. 315
He is said to govern a number of countries, all of which
may be found in Ptolemy: but the whole system is ridicu
lous, for he, like every other planet, will always govern
those countries to whose zenith he is nearest, and it is the
extreme of folly, to suppose that a star, which revolves in
a certain circle in the course of twenty-four hours, should
not equally govern every place within that circle according
to its position. He is also said to govern a number of
herbs and plants, all of which may be found in Culpepper
by those '' think them worth seeking.
His day-house is 3:, his might-house ' ; his exaltation
is in 21° of ~; he governs the airy triplicity by day; his
greatest north latitude is 2° 48, and greatest south latitude
2°49. He is considered retrograde 140 days, and stationary
5 days before and 5 days after. His orb or circle of influ
ence extends 9', some say 12°, but it is generally fixed at
10. His mean motion is 2 per day. His shortest year is
30, his mean year 43, his great year 57, which is said to be
the longest period any one born under him can live. There
is also his greatest year, 465; so that if a kingdom, city, or
family, began under him, it will last this period of time,
and no longer, which is foolish enough.
When he is oriental, he is said to cause cold and mois
ture, and when occidental, dryness.
His place in a nativity is unfortunate to the native as
long as he lives, and therefore, among other things, he
should never travel in that direction. His place in a revo
lution is said to be unfortunate for the ensuing year.
Lilly, who assigns angels to all the planets in imitation
of the Arabians, says the name of the angel of b is Casiel,
or Captiel.
JUPITER is next in orbit to b, and is of a beautiful clear
brightness. His period is lly. 314d. 12h. 20m. 9s.
e is considered a hot, moist, airy, sanguine, masculine,
beneficent, diurnal, social planet, the author of temperance,
justice, and moderation, and is called the greater fortune.
When a native is born under his influence, he will be
tall, well made, erect and free in his carriage, handsome,
ruddy, robust, with a sober, commanding aspect, oval face,
high forehead, full grey eyes, soft thick brown hair, short
wide chest, long feet, and firm and frank in his manner.
If well dignified, he will be wise, magnanimous, affable,
just and good, mild in manners, temperate, moderate, and
inclined, they say, to religion.
If ill dignified, he will be indifferent and careless, of
shallow abilities, easily led astray by fools, and a bigot in
religion. -
316 P L A N E T S.
|
If oriental, the complexion will be more sanguine, eyes
more full, and the body more corpulent, with a mark, they
say, on the right foot. If occidental, the native will be
more delicate and beautiful, somewhat shorter, with light
brown hair near the temples and forehead.
The real character of 2/ is good nature, freedom, and a
conscious confidence, openness, and a disposition that would
feel a difficulty in doing or contriving to do wrong, and
could never, under any circumstances, be a bad character.
Being free from that nervous debility of mind so conspicu
ous in the natives of b, he has that prepossessing appear
ance which acquires universal confidence, as every one
feels himself secure and happy in his society.
He is said to govern the lungs, reins, blood, and all the
viscera, and his diseases are such as are seated in those
parts, or that arise from plethoric habit, or corrupt blood.
He is said to delight in the north (but this is an AEgyp
tian story: because their fruitful winds, and clouds causing
their inundations, come from thence), and to be friendly
with all the planets except 6.
His day-house is 1, and his night-house 96 ; his exalt
ation is in 15° of gF, and he governs the fiery triplicity by
*ight. His greatest north latitude is 1° 38, and south 1°
40. He is retrograde 120 days, and stationary 5 days be
fore and 5 days after. His orb is said to be 9°, but Pto
lemy and Placidus allow it to be 12°. . . His mean motion,
4'59" pr. day. His least year is 12, his mean 45, and his
great 79; his greatest year is 428. . . - -
When oriental he causes heat and moisture, and when .
occidental moisture only. -
His place in a nativity is fortunate to the native all his
life, and his place in the revolution fortunate for that year.
He is said to govern the number 3. The name of his angel
is Zadkiel. - -
MARs is the next planet in order to Jupiter, and per
forms his course in 1y. 321d. 22h. -
He is a hot, dry, fiery, choloric, feminine, nocturnal, ma
lignant, violent planet, and is called the lesser infortune;
though, when all his effects are considered, I deem him
more injurious than b, and more certain in his operation.
He gives a strong well-set, but short body, boney, lean
and muscular; complexion red, rather than ruddy; sharp
hazle eyes, violent countenance, some say round face, but
this is seldom the case; light brown, flaxen or red hair,
but this cannot be depended upon.
PLAN ET S. 317
The disposition when he is well dignified is said to be
fearless, violent, irascible and unsubmitting, fond of war
and contention, but in other respects prudent, rational,
and even generous and magnanimous. -
If ill-dignified, the native is wholly destitute of any vir- .
tue, prone to violence, quarrels, treachery, robbery, mur
der, treason, and every species of cruelty and wickedness.
The real disposition of 6 is anger, violence, and a
parently an eager wish to be in quarrels and mischief, the
countenance is exremely vicious and unbending, rude, un
kind, ferocious and bitter. They expect and exact universal
submisson, and although often generous and magnanimous,
they are never kind nor even sociable. Such dispositions,
however, are seldom seen, as the aspects of other planets
alter it materially. The greatest mark of the influence of
6 is a general redness all over the face, of a dark, not
rosy, hue, a tightness offeature, and a ferocious eye.
. He is said to rule the gall, left ear, head, face, smell,
imagination, reins, fundament, genitals and bladder; and
his diseases are the small-pox, jaundice, fevers, measles,
shingles, hot eruptions, carbuncles, diabetes, stranguary,
burns, wounds and bruises, and all hot fiery diseases.
He is supposed to delight in the south by those who suffer
from the pestilental heat of the south winds, but for this
they should blame the Q not & . Others say, he governs
the west winds, and is friendly to all but the ). This
friendliness of the planets is very great nonsense, and d.
is friendly to nothing. ?
His day house is Y, and his night house in. He is
exalted in 28° of V5, and rules the watery triplicity both
by day and night. His greatest north latitude is said to be
4° 31', and south 6° 47', but he is very excentric, and
often has much greater latitude. He is retrograde 80 days,
and stationary 2 or 3 days before and after. His orb is 7°
30' his mean motion 31' 27" pr. day. His least year is 15,
inis mean 40, his great year 66, and greatest 214.
When oriental he causes heat and dryness, and when
occidental, dryness only. His place is a nativity or revolu
tion is said to be very unfortunate. - - -
The colour of c is fiery, and when in perigee he appears
like a flame, or bright spark, in the heavens, it is generally
observed, that at this time the weather is warmer than is
usual for the season, but this may arise from other causes,
and although 1 have observed this warmth, I have also
known it to freeze when Ó was in perigee. It is certain,
however, that murders are more frequent, and of a more
3.18 P L A N E T S .
atrocious nature, at the time when that planet is nearest
the Earth; robberies and innumerable calamities mark the
whole period of his retrogradation, particularly if 2 be
near his apogee at the same time, and when Ó retires to his
apogee they will gradually diminish, and if 2 approach
towards his perigee at the same time, the alteration will be
still more remarkable. At the time of the murders of Marr
and of Williamson, and also when Chennell murdered his
own father at Godalmin, and Hussey destroyed Mr. Bird
and his housekeeper at Greenwich, G was in or near his
perigee. When he is in G with th G) he is said to produce
the same dreadful effects; but I suspect this to be an error.
As his distance increases, his effects diminish, until nearly
annihilated in the blaze of the Sun. His angel is called
Samael. -
SoL, or the G), has no revolution, except round his own
axis in about 25 days. He is considered temperately hot,
dry, masculine, and diurnal; and when well dignified equal
to one of the fortunes. He is said to be good or evil ac- -
cording to the planets in configuration with him, and when
he is joined to a planet he destroys its power, and assumes
its nature; but this does not seem justified by experience.
He is always considered as malignant to the ) when in
or 9, and } believe the same when in her parallel of decli
nation. With this exception, he seems to have little effect
of his own in proportion to other planets, and fewer judg
ments are drawn from him than from any other except #.
I scarcely know a stronger proof of the truth of Judicial
Astrology than this, for were those judgments founded on
whim and fancy I know of no celestial body so likely to
attract our notice as the Sun, or one more calculated to
receive the praise or censure of all the good or evil that
occurs; but he seems like every other planet to have a dis
tinct office assigned him, and to rule general more than
particular events. -
He is said to cause a large, boney, strong body; broad
high forehead; light, sandy curling hair; piercing eye,
and well made person; but one that will soon become bald.
If he be well dignified, the disposition is noble, generous,
proud and magnanimous, yet humane and affable, a faithful
friend and a generous enemy; one of few words, rather
profuse and fond of magnificence.
If ill-dignified, the native is proud and mean, arrogant
and submissive, a tyrant and a sycophant; talkative, empty,
restless, troublesome, austere, uncharitable, and unfeeling.
\ P L A N E T S. 319
The rule laid down here for judging the form of the body
is merely taken from the sign Sl £ and has nothing
to do with the G) in particular. Every native is born under
the G), for his influence is too powerful to be excluded from
having the principal share in the formation of every one,
but this power is general, and with little variation, except
as the G) is more or less angular, or above or below the
Earth; for the native generally possesses more confidence
and freedom when the G) is angular and diurnal, than if
cadent or nocturnal.
When in Y, 8, or II, he is said to be hot and moist; in
gö, SR, or ng, hot and dry; in =, ml, or 1, cold and dry;
and in V3, 3:, or %, cold and moist. This is only saying
the seasons are so, and deserves no attention. He is said
to delight in the east, and to cause east winds, but they do
not inform us when or by what means.
He is also reported to govern the heart, back, arteries,
right eye of a man, left eye of a woman, and the retentive
faculty or memory. These are some of the ridiculous
theories of astrology.
His diseases are supposed to be faintings, palpitation of
the heart, weak sight, fever, disordered brain, cramp, foul
breath, and all diseases of the mouth and throat, catarrhs,
defluctions, &c. which means no more than that such
diseases may be caught by a person overheating himself.
His house is '' both by day and night, his exaltation is
in 19° of Y, and he rules the fiery triplicity by day. He
has never any latitude, being always in the ecliptic, and is ,
never retrograde; but modern astrologers consider him as
retrograde, when slow in motion. His orb is 17°. His
mean motion is 59'8". His least year is 19, his mean 69,
his great year 120, and his greatest 461, though others say
1640. His swiftest motion is 61' 6".
He is said to be friendly to all the planets but b. His
angel is called Michael. - -
VENUs is the next planet in rotation: she shines with
a beautiful clear, pellucid, bluish light, sufficient at certain
times to cast a sensible shadow, and superior to all others
except the Q and D. Her period is 224d. 7h. She is
generally considered cold and moist, but by others hot and
moist, and if the observation of Placidus be correct, that a
bluish lustre denotes heat, she must be warmer than 2/
himself. She is never above 48° distant from the Sun.
She is a feminine, nocturnal, temperate, planet, and con
sidered as the lesser fortune. If (as some have asserted) a
beautiful brightness denotes beneficence in a planet, she
320 s P L A N ETS.
ought to be the greater fortune, but experience does not
prove her to be such, and although Ptolemy says that a ray
of either / or Q of any kind falling on the very anaretic
point will preserve life, I should place little reliance on Q
alone if / did not assist. According to the opinions of
most authors, she appears to be nearly as changeable as #.
when with evil planets, and not unfrequently adds to their
malignant qualities. -
Those born under her are said to be elegantly formed,
and extremely beautiful, with sparkling dark hazle or black'
eyes, round smooth face, light or chesnut hair, dimples in
the cheek or chin, a wandering eye denoting desire, sweet
voice, and very engaging address. - -
If well dignified the temper is even, quiet, mild, kind,
engaging andsweet, very merry and cheerful, neat, dressy,
fond of music and every elegant amusement, and very much
prone to venery, yet truly virtuous, but much inclined to
be jealous.
If ill-dignified the native will be lewd, profligate, shame
less, and wholly abandoned and inclined to every species
of lust and depravity. -
If occidental, very handsome, though rather short and
stout, but if oriental, tall and upright.
The general disposition derived from Q is mildness and
goodness, and whatever defects may fall to the lot of the
native, they are seldom great ones, and more the result of
weakness and strong animal desires, than constitutional
wickedness or a wish to do wrong.
She is said to govern the reins, spine, seminal vessels and
their contents, the neck, throat, and breasts.
Her diseases are those of the back, loins, genitals, belly.
and womb, priapism, siphilis, hernia, impotency, and heart
burn.
She governs the south wind, and is friendly to all the
planets but b. Her day house is -a-, and her night house
8.; her exaltation is in 97° of X, and she rules the earthy
triplicity by day, her greatest north or south latitude is 9°
2'. Her orb is 89. Her mean motion 59'8". Her least
year is 15, her mean year 45, her great year 82, and her
greatest 151. She is retrograde 42 day, and stationary
2 days before and 2 days after. -
When oriental she causes heat and moisture; occidental,
moisture only. Her place in a nativity is reckoned fortu
nate by some, though others confine these local influences
to the 3 superiors. Her angel is called Anael.
----------
P L A N ET S. 321
MERCURY is next to Venus, and appears when seen
through a telescope of a bright, white, glistening colour,
but more dull and leaden £ to the eye. He per
forms his orbit in 87d. 23h. His greatest elongation from
the Q is 28°. -
He is considered as a cold, dry, earthy, melancholy,
planet, and is diurnal or nocturnal, masculine or feminine,
good or bad, lucky or unlucky, according to those planets
with whom he is configurated. When oriental, he is
masculine, and when occidental feminine.
He gives a person a tall, straight, deep forehead; long
straight nose, thin lips, narrow chin, and thin narrow face,
little beard, long arms, hands, and fingers, thighs, legs,
and feet. If he be oriental, they are shorter, and of a more
sanguine complexion, but if occidental more lean, and
sallow. -
If well-dignified, the mind is strong, active, and subtle
the memory strong, and the native is eager in pursuit ofaii
kinds of knowledge, a good orator and very eloquent, witty
and pleasing in conversation. If he be under the sunbeams,
they are more qualified for trade than learning. -
If ill-dignified, the native will be of a mean, shuffling,
unprincipled character; a liar, thief, gambler, and tale
bearer; void of any kind of useful knowledge or ability,
but very conceited.
He governs the brain, tongue, hands, feet and intellect.
His diseases are consequently, madness, vertigo, apoplexy,
convulsions, stammering, dumbness, '' or humour
in the nose or head, stupidity, cough, and gout, in the
hands or feet. . . -
He delights, they say, in the east, but causes such
winds as are agreeable to the nature of such planets he is
configurated with. -
His day house is II, and his night house 9, he is ex
alted in 15° of Q, and governs the airy triplicity by day.
His greatest north or south latitude is 3° 33' ; he is retro
grade 24 days, and stationary one day before and one day
after. His orb is 7°; his mean motion, 59'8"; his year is
19, his mean year 69, his great year 120, and his greatest
461. He is friendly to all by 6. -
When oriental, he causes heat, and when occidental
dryness. His angel is called Raphael.
LUNA, or the Moon, performs her synodical course, or
the period between her conjunctions, in 29d. 12h.44m. and
her periodical course, or that wherein she traverses the
2T
* --------
322 P L A N E.T. S.
entire circle of the zodiac, in 27d. 7h. 43m. Of this period
she may be seen 26 days and a half. -
She is a cold, moist, watery, phlegmatic, feminine,
nocturnal planet, and fortunate or otherwise according to
those with whom she is configurated, and is certainly in .
many respects the most powerful cf them all, the Q not
even excepted.
She gives a full stature, fair pale complexion, round
face, grey eyes, short arms, thick hands and feet, smooth
corpulent and phlegmatic body. If impeded by the G) in
an angle, she causes a blemish in the eye, and the same if
near nebulae or violent fixed stars, but if in a succeedent
house the blemish will be near the eye. If combust, or ap
proaching to a conjunction, the native will be short lived
or sickly; but ifseparating, and / aspect the place in any
way, their health will improve; in this case, however, the
eyes are generally weak, or out of order.
If well-dignified, the native will be mild, soft, kind,
ingenious and polite, but timid and thoughtless, unsettled
and fond of rambling about, yet peaceful and wholly averse
to disputes or trouble of any kind.
If ill-dignified, idle, stupid, beggarly, mean and fond
of drinking. If oriental, more tall, corpulent, and smooth;
if occidental, lean, short, and ill-formed.
She governs, it is said, the brain, stomach, bowels,
bladder, left eye of a man, and right eye of a woman. Her
diseases are rheumatism, consumption, palsy, cholic apo
plexy, vertigo, lunacy scrophula, small-pox, dropsy, &c.
She produces such winds as proceed from the planet with
whom she is configurated by application, and she is said to
be friendly to all the planets but b and d.
Her house is go both by night and day; her exaltation is
in 3° of 8, and she rules the earthy triplicity by night, and
also the watery, according to others. Her greatest north
latitude is 5° 17', south 5° 12'. Her orb is 12° 30'; her
mean motion 13° 10' 36". Her least year is 25, her mean
year 66, her great year 108, and greatest 320. She is
never retrograde, but is considered the same as retrograde
when slow in motion.
From the new to the 1st dichotome she is considered hot
and moist; from thence to the full, hot and dry: thence to
the second dichotome, cold and dry; and from thence to
the change, cold and moist. In her increase, she causes a
full, fat, plump, tall, body; in her decrease, a short, low,
squat, stature. Gabriel is her angel. •
Such is the strange mixture of truth and absurdity laid
P L A N E T S. - 323
down by astrologers relative to the planets. The govern
ment of right and left ears and eyes would excite a laugh,
were it not for the regret that a valuable science like this
should be degraded by such stupidity. The form of the
body is chiefly taken from the nature of the signs which are
assigned to certain planets as houses, and consequently have
no relation to the planets whatever.
By a planet's being ill or well dignified is meant, its
being in its essential dignities, which, as I have already
shewn, can have no effect. The true dignity of a planet
consists in being angular, free from combustion, and in
perigee; to which may be added, a near approach to our
zenith. Whether a decrease in light and motion and
being retrograde, are real debilities, I am not quite certain,
any more than whether a planet may not be weaker when
under the Earth. Orientality I do not comprehend any
better than Ptolemy himself, and therefore can say little
on the subject. -
By a planet's ruling a native is frequently meant, its
being lord of the £, let it be posited where it may.
The almuten is also reckoned by some as the lord of the
geniture, and that it gives the disposition. Planets in the
ascendant are likewise supposed to have a share in this
endowment as well as those planets that aspect the Q, ),
and #. I believe firmly, that a planet ascending on or
near the cusp of the horoscope, has a very powerful effect
in forming both the body and mind of a native, and next to
that, those that aspect # and the ). Much depends on
# and the D having aspect or position with each other:
this is what I should call ruling a nativity. Whether the
Q has any effect from the particular aspects he receives,
remains to be decided; but I believe his effects are regu
lated chiefly according to his position in the world.
The lord of the ascendant, except he be there, is not
worth mentioning; nor can the almuten have any power
that is founded on essential dignities. The nature of the
sign on the cusp of the horoscope ought also to be attended
to, though not quite in the way laid down by authors in
general. Planets on a zodiacal parallel with # and the
), particularly the latter, have likewise considerable in
fluence in forming the mind. -
The diseases occasioned by each planet are said to arise
from the planet whose body or aspect arrives by direction
first at the anaretic place, after the anareta has performed
its office and destroyed life. If there be none such, that
planet causes the disease which separated by body or aspect
324 * P L A N. E. T. S.
last from the anaretic place. Others say, that the diseases
of the native are caused by those planets afflicting the G),
), and horoscope, if they are malefics, or if the malefics
and the luminaries have the same declination; but this
cannot be the case with 2/or Q, for no aspect of theirs alone
can cause disease. There is reason to suspect that most
disorders owe their origin to the X, at least they are
governed by her periods for some time, if acute, and even
when chronic a manifest difference will be found about
the quadratures and semi-quadratures. At the syziges
they are not so manifest, except in the cases of lunatics,
whose fluids, like those of the ocean, are more violently dis
turbed at the new and full.
In considering the natures of the planets, too much care
cannot be taken to avoid error. Most of the doctrine handed
down to us concerning them is full of absurdity, and even
the benefic nature of 2/ is in some cases disputable. In
all conjunctions of 21 and b, instead of the former correct
ing the evil of the latter, he only increases it, and at those
times a malignant influenza will be very prevalent, if their
latitude does not differ considerably. In close conjunction
with 6 he also increases his malignity; but as G3 is apt to
differ in latitude, their effect is not so obvious. In perigee,
or in zodiacal parallel, 21 always lessens the evil of an
infortune. In the horoscope, or having the same or oppo
site declination with the horoscope, he endows the native
with a good constitution. Ó in the horoscope near the
cusp generally cuts life short, and the small-pox, if not
£ by previous inoculation, generally happens when
e arrives at the horizon. This is a disease peculiar to G,
and it will often happen by his zodiacal square to the
horoscope. b, coming to the cusp of the horoscope, causes
broken bones or dislocations, but these directions should,
in my opinion at least, be all taken in the zodiac, and not
in the world. As to the planetary angels, they are only
mentioned here for the form's sake.
Lilly considers the Dragon's Head and Tail as planets
in their effects, and denies the truth of the general opinion
that the Head strengthens and the Tail weakens every planet
to which they are joined. He says, he always found the
Head increase the power of a good planet, and weaken that
of a bad one; and that the Tail £ and trebled the
power of an infortune; and when joined to a fortune the
good promised by that fortune was unaccountably delayed
by a variety of perverse accidents, and except the signifi
cator was angular and unusually strong the whole not un
P R IN C I P A L 325
frequently came to nothing. This is worth attending to in
horary questions.
PLANETARY HOURS, See “Hours.”
PLATIC, wide, a ray cast from one planet, not to
another, but to some place within its orb. The usual way
is to add the orbs of the aspecting planets together, and
take the half for the orb of each. Thus, if Ó be in 21° of
%, and 21 in 14° of ml, they will be in platic A, being
only 7° distant. The orb of 2/ is 12°, and the orb of 6
7° 30', making together 19° 30', the half of which is 9°
45 for the half of their orbs, which is 2° 45' more than their
distance from the A.
The orbs of the planets are said to be as follows:
b, 10° ; 21, 12°; 6, 7° 30'; the G), 17°; Q, 8°; #,
7"; and the ) 12° 30',
The fixed stars also have orbs of activity assigned to
them : those of the 1st magnitude, 7° 30'; of the 2d, 5° 50';
of the 3d, 3° 40'; and of the 4th, 1° 30'. The platic aspect
is considered not so strong as the partile, and always weak
...in proportion to its distance. The latitude should always
be considered.
PLEIADES, the Seven Stars in the Bull’s Neck, in
27° of 8, all of which are of the 5th magnitude, except
the middle star, which is of the 3d. They are said, when
rising or with the luminaries, or when directed to the as
cendant, to cause blindness, bad eyes, hurts in the face,
sickness disgrace, imprisonment, and every evil that can
befal humanity. -
POLE. See “Elevation.” |
POLE of the HOROSCOPE,the latitude of the country.
PONDEROUS PLANETS, b, 21, and g, so called
because they move slower than the rest.
POSITED, situated in any place. -
PRAESPE, a nebulous cluster in 5° of Q, of the na
ture of 6 and the (, said to cause blindness when ascend
ing or joined to either of the luminaries, particularly when
the conjunction is in an angle. They are also said to cause
diseases, disgrace, and every calamity.
PRIMUM MOBILE, the first mover, the tenth sphere
of the ancients. It was supposed to be beyond the sphere
of the fixed stars, which was their ninth sphere, and by a
motion of its own to whirl itself and all the subordinate.
spheres round the Earth every 24 hours.
PRINCIPAL PLACES, five places where the lumi
naries are said to have the most beneficial effects in a na
tivity. The 10th, 1st, 11th, 7th, and 9th houses.
26 PROMIT TO R,
PROCESS, the progression.
PROCYON. See “Dog.”
PROFECTION, the progression.
PROGRESSION. See “Secondary Directions.”
PROHIBITION, the same as frustration. -
PROMITTOR, that which promises to fulfil some
event. Thus, b and 6 are anaretic promittors, and pro
mise to destroy the life of the native when the hyleg is di
rected to them. 2 and Q are promittors of good when
directions to them are fulfilled. In horary questions the
planet signifying the event is the promittor, as in a ques
tion of marriage, the lord of the 7th is the promittor.
The following are the effects usually ascribed to pro
mittors. -
The Conjunction -
Of b to the horoscope: sickness, coughs, catarrhs, agues
quartain and tertain, head-ache, melancholy, fear, con
sumptions, dullness, idleness, weakness, lassitude, ill hu
mour, and a lethargic drowsiness; and danger, they say,
of drowning, if the sign be watery, and a violent fixed star
near the place. - -
... Of 21 : good health, and a happy cheerful disposition;
riches, favour, credit, and prosperity; preferment, and, if
by direction, marriage. He is also said, if peregrine and
in a fiery sign, to cause a slight fever; in a watery or airy
sign, the measles or small-pox; and in an earthy sign, the
scurvy: but these disasters are always accompanied by some
benefit, sometimes an inheritance or gift, children, &c. :
Of 6 : danger by fevers, small-pox, measles, madness,
eruptions of all kinds, pestilence, &c. and, in directions,
danger by robbers, horses, iron, fire, or fire-arms, stones
thrown; if in airy signs, by falls; if in fiery signs, by being
burnt alive. It also causes imprisonment or danger to those
-who ore prisoners, murder, bloody flux if in gå or ml, and
inflamation of the pleura, intestines, &c. -
. Of the Q : it denotes dignity, office, preferment, with
much anxiety, disease, pains in the head, and hurts in the
right eye. In airy signs, blights in the eye; in fiery signs,
fever, or ophthalmia; in watery signs, much rheum ; in
earthy signs, dim eyes, and humour in the head. They
also say, it causes all the actions of a man’s life to be made
£ makes him waste his substance, and quarrel with
-his brethren and sisters.
... Of 9 : . causes much happiness, courtship, marriage,
dress, dancing, and dissipation, children and gifts. If she
PRO MIT TO R. 327.
be in a watery sign, the native in such a direction, is apt,
it is said, to turn drunkard, spendthrift, and debauched,.
and is afflicted with such diseases as are the natural conse
quences of such pursuits.
Of ; ; it addicts the native to the study of letters and
science, merchandise, and various employments. Direc
tions of this kind generally bring the native to some new
: of study, employment, or profession, or improve the
Old One.
Of the C : if she was weak in the radix or afflicted, it
causes trouble both in body and mind, threatens drowning,
and whether fortunate or unfortunate, causes sudden changes
to good or evil, sometimes marriage, journeys, preferment,
death of the mother, cholic, and other lunar diseases.
Of the S2 : this is said to have the same effect as 21, and,
the QS has the mixed effect of 6 and b.
Of the # sudden fortune, the nature of which is de
noted by the planets that aspect it, and the houses they are:
lords of The power or weakness of its dispositors are
also considered. * * * * * -
To the cusp of the 2d house : riches and moveable pro
ertW. - - -
p #. the cusp of the 3d house : visits to and from bre
thren, and short journeys for pleasure. -
To the cusp '' 4th house : death. " . . . .
To Arcturus or Deneb: good fortune, with many cares.
and anxieties, chiefly caused by the native's own folly.
To Spica, or The Crater: ecclesiastical preferment, or
some very good fortune. - - -
To Orion's Belt: legacies or inheritance, love or dissi
pation; it is also said to denote great gravity and austerity.
To Regulus: abundance of honour and wealth, favour
of the great, victory over enemies, also scandal, and acute
hot diseases. ; : -
To Procyon : military preferment, quarrels, lust and dis
sipation; waste and ruin; loss in trade, or by servants. It
is said to denote an artful, crafty, dissembling person, who
will acquire wealth by violence and rapine.
To the Lion's right Knee : great military preferment.
and riches. - - *
To the south star in the Lion's Neck: great danger and
loss; to a military officer it threatens mutiny and murder,
by his soldiers, and when such a direction occurs the native
becomes violent and very intemperate, both in diet and
disposition. - - - -
To Hydra's Heart, Alphard: great trouble about estates
--- - - ------
$98 .. P R O M IT TO R.
and buildings, with much anxiety and loss; the native is
addicted to women and intemperance, which eventually
brings him to disgrace and ruin.
To the Pleiades and Praespe: violent fevers, blindness
of the left eye, wounds in the face and arms, ophthalmia,
imprisonment, exile, violent lust, quarrels and mischief;.
and if the @ oppose the horoscope or 6 at the same time,
it denotes an untimely end.
To the Asselli: burning fevers, bad eyes, blindness in
the left eye, injuries by beasts, quarrels, and slanders from
low women or vulgar persons. They are said to give mar
tial preferment. -
These effects are the same, whether arising from position
or direction, except that when they are so posited in a na
tivity, their effects are more durable than when they are
brought to the body of a promittor by direction. The GB
and Q and 25 are only imaginary points, and can have no
effect whatever in nativities, although they may be very
useful in horary questions, provided they do not cause con
fusion. As to the directing the cusps of the 2d, 3d, and
4th houses to the horoscope, it is absurdity itself, and not
deserving of further notice. -
The g of B with the midheaven, causes disgrace and
hatred of superiors, destroys preferment, and so vitiates the
inclination of the native as to render him indolent, foolish,
obstinate and mean; wholly undeserving of any one's re
ard, and accordingly he is ruined, and falls to rise no more.
ometimes it denotes an ignominious death, if there be
symptoms of violent death in the figure, and it always ren
ders him an object of hatred and contempt among his in
feriors. -
Of 2/ gives great honour, profit and preferment, favour
of the great, and extensive patronage. It benefits every
one according to their capacity and condition in life.
Of 3 : stirs up the resentment of great men, causes
exile, imprisonment, hatred, secret injuries, dreadful losses
by fire, thieves, treachery and fraud. Kings, from this di
rection or position, injure their subjects, and are dethroned
and murdered by them in return. It, however, gives mili
tary honours, with much anguish and trouble, and where
an untinely end is threatened in the radix, this shews the
time and quality of the death. -
Of the Ó : gives great honour and dignity, favour of the
great, high preferment, and endows the native with honour
and fidelity. It also renders the native proud and prodigal,
and greatly expands his mind, endowing him with lofty con
-
---------------------- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - -
P R O M IT TO R. 320
ceptions, and a spirit of enterprise. It also denotes the
prosperity of the parents, particularly of the mother of the
native, and is likewise the forerunner of her death.
Of Q : cheerfulness, joy and mirth, amusements, mar
riage, honour, profit, gain, love, respect, and preferment.
Of g : fortune and success in dispatch of business;
honour and profit by learning, sciences, or any thing result
ing from study and the use of letters; increase of business
and fortune. Youths become apprentices, or men set up
in business, scholars take degrees, &c. It also causes
scandal and disgrace, according to the condition of #.
Of the ) : much restlessness, and business, with good
or evil result according to the condition of the Moon;
marriage or friendship with women, and any thing signified
by the ) in the radix is now brought to perfection. Travel
ing, trade, office, dignity, and their opposites.
When the 11th house comes to the cusp of the 10th, it
is said to give friendship and good offices.
When the 12th comes to its cusp, it causes enemies, im
prisonment, and all the evils of the 12th, injury or loss
by horses, oxen, &c. -
If the horoscope reaches the midheaven, it gives great
honour and esteem.
: Sè and 83 have the same nature always as 21 or b
tan • - - -
The €9 to the midheaven, gives, they say, great profit
and increase of trade. -
The CŞ of Capella or Antares with the midheaven, gives
military or ecclesiastical connexions, and perhaps prefer
ment in those departments, or at sea; but it is productive
of waste, dissipation, envy, and trouble, for most honours
gained by fixed stars are seldom durable.
Of Orion's right Shoulder, Betelguese : gives great
military fortune, command and invention, it also assists in
the perfection of arts and sciences, and causes ingenuity.
Of Aldebaran; improvement in fortune, ingenuity, mili
tary preferment, and favours from women, or military com
manders.
Of Bellatrix, Orion's left Shoulder : quarrels, disputes,
hatred, infamy, fraudulent practices by the native or against
in forgery, swindling, coining, perjury, &c. .
Of Rigel great military command or ecclesiastical pre
ferment courage, magnanimity, anger, vexation, much gain
acquired by much labour and anxiety of mind.
f Canopus, or the Goats: the favour ofsome old gentle
man, dignity, power, riches and fame.
2 U
330 P R O M IT TO R
Of Regulus, Sirius, and Arcturus : some high office
under government, &c. giving great profit and reputation.
Of Arista: unexpected honour and preferment beyond
the native's hopes or capacity, according to his situation in
life. It is considered the best of all the fixed stars.
Of the Pleiades: dangers, quarrels, rashness, murder,
imprisonment, sometimes preferment, but such as always
ends in evil.
Of Caput Algol : murder, manslaughter, sudden death,
danger of beheading; the native is prone to murder and
mischief Lilly says he never knew an instance wherein it
did not cause evil, whatever the condition of the native
might be.
The Sun to the 6 of b : trouble and sickness, diseases
in the head, melancholy, fear, agues, weakness in the eyes,
hurts in the right eye by blows or falls, injury from great
men of saturnine dispositions, who will injure the native's
fortune and reputation, and cause him much uneasiness.
Great dangers in traveling by sea and land, and, some say,
it denotes sickness and affliction to the father.
Of 2/ : health, peace and plenty, preferment, honour,
and favour of the great. In kingdoms it denotes the renew
ing of treaties, peace, just government, and the clergy
"'
-
f 6 : acute diseases, fevers, head-aches, dim eyes, or
blindness, wounds in the face, burns, scalds, hurts by iron;
inconstancy, an evil mind both in the native and those he
has dealings with, injury by robbers or great men, mis
chievous enemies, injuries by soldiers, mad dogs, horses,
or ferocious animals, or large cattle. If a violent death be
in the nativity, it is then at hand. In moist signs, it is said
to cause the bloody flux. To kings it denotes murder,
poison, treachery and rebellion. - In a martial nativity, it
gives preferment, and that generally to some post of danger.
Of Q : music, plays, merry-making, venereal pleasures,
courtship, marriage, and these events will be good or evil
as Q is strong or weak in the radix. It gives increase of
trade and property, and to kings it is said to denote
marriage, or preferment to their children. In nativities,
where Q is peregrine, it is said to cause dreadful de
bauchery. -
Of #: much business, mercantile enjoyments, literary
undertakings, learning, literary contentions, embassies,
danger of thieves, propensity to travel, law-suits, £
and preferment, if the radix denote it. It also inclines the
native to fresh studies, and to be constant to none. i.
P R O M IT TO R. 33}
... Of the D : sickness, pain of the head and stomach, grief,
blindness, especially if denoted by the radix. It inclines
the native to travel, prodigality, waste, folly, rapine,
theft, and inconstancy. If the native marries on this direc
tion, the wife is proud and one that will usurp authority
over him. It denotes journeys; and if the D be strong, it
may give preferment.
f Rigel : boldness and insolence, faction, bloodshed,
enemies and great misfortunes.
Of Antares : military honours, danger and treachery,
fevers, hurts in the right eye, and some violence either
suffered or committed. -
Of Procyon: military preferment after great struggles
and expence.
... Of Cor Leonis: grandeur, preferment, violent disease,
though not mortal, afflicting both the native and his father.
To Hercules’ Head: the native acquires honour by
wisdom or artifice, but is apt to suffer imprisonment for
embezzling goods entrusted to him, lose his property, and
suffer from a fever. -
To Aldebaran : military honour and preferment, but
loss of all in the end, with, perhaps, either life or fortune.
. To Arista: eminent dignity and immense wealth, and it
is said to denote great happiness both to the parents and
children of the native; if the star culminate at the time, it
denotes church and state preferment.
To the Bull's south Horn: military enterprises and
stratagems, danger from deceit and ambushes.
To the Asselli: severe fever, danger of fire, disgrace,
hanging, imprisonment, and many calamities.
To Praespe; murder, execution, banishment, danger of
death from fire, iron, or stones, blindness,fever, flux, sharp
diseases, wounds, stabs, and lawsuits. Lilly says, he knows
most of this to be true from experience.
The Q directed to the cusps of any of the houses, is said
to cause a certain series of events, suitable to the nature of
those houses, which, therefore, it is useless to detail, and
that these events will be good or evil according as the
cusps of these houses are well or ill aspected, or according
to the nature of the planets posited near them : but the
whole is absurd, and not worth the artist's attention.
To the 69: profit. To the S2, the same as to 21, and to
ithe #3, the same as to P. -
The C of the G with b causes apoplexy, palsy, dropsy,
gout, agues, and fevers; false accusations, loss ofsubstance,
great anguish, fear, melancholy, sorrow and affliction; loss
332. P R O M IT TO R.
of friends, deceit, consumptions, blindness, or bad eyes, &c.
With 2/ : gives health, honour and riches, preferment,
and success in all things. - -
With 3 : great sorrow, loss, and misfortunes; loss of
sight, fevers, and eruptive diseases, siphilis, wounds, furi
ous beasts, bites of dogs, quarrels, murder, especially if d.
be anareta, and if the conjunction happen in Q or near
the Bull's Eye, or Antares, the disease will be pestilential.
With the O, when the ( is directed, it causes fevers (at
which time, they say, the native will disclose all his former
secrets), changes, an unsettled life, great perplexity, bad
eyes, also marriage. To kings it denotes success, to princes
it shews honours or accession to the throne, and to mer
chants a decline in credit but not bankruptcy. -
'With Q : it causes joy and pleasure, and if a moist sign,
drunkenness and all kinds of amusements; good health,
marriage, courtship, and gifts. To kings, peace at home
and abroad. -
With # : business, lying and dissimulation, eloquence,
subtility, fraud, theft, lewdness, forgery, hard study and
success. To a king it denotes negociations and treaties.
With the Q, the same as / ; to the £3, the same as to
b or Ó : and to the €9, increase in property and substance.
To the horoscope: sickness; and to all the other houses,
good or evil according to their signification and the fami
liarities they have with other planets or fixed stars.
To Rigel : injuries of life and fortune, and threatens,
they say, death to the wife or mother: this is Lilly's opi.
nion, who considered Rigel as a saturnine star, where as it is
more jovial, and is generally considered benevolent, and in
nature similar to Arista. -
To Arista: wealth and honour, from mercurial, venereal,
or jovial persons. -
o Hydra's Heart : lust, wantonness and profligacy;
failures in projects, and ill fortune to the wife or mother.
To Bellatrix: lust, luxury, vain ambition, waste and ruin.
To the Left Hand of Ophiuchus: it denotes infamy and
debauchery. - -
To the Left Shoulder of Boötes: preferment by indirect
means, succeeded by disgrace and ruin. -
To Attair: profitand preferment, marriage, children, &c.
To the nebulous star in the Dragon’s Eye: blindness,
wounds, quarrels, bruises, stabs, blows, kicks of horses, &c.
This is al groundless, for the ( cannot come near that star.
To Antares: dignity with danger and suffering.
To Hercules: power, pride, sickness, and calamity.
The 69 directed to the d, D, or 8 of b, denotes loss
P R O M IT TO R. 333
and ruin by theft, gaming, and sometimes by means im
perceptible. - - -
To the Sk or A of b : increases fortune by building,
mines, husbandry, legacies, old men, or maritime concerns,
dealing in oxen or horses, grazing of cattle, &c.
To the CŞ, X-, or 9 of 2/ ; gain, success, and profit.
To '': and 9 of 2/ : loss by religious persons of
wealth, office, credit, &c. It also denotes lawsuits. . -
To the 6, D, or 9 of d loss by thieves, soldiers, ser
vants, gaming, fire, lawsuits, bad courses, &c.
To the k or A of d wealth by dealing in iron, arms,
military stores or horses, by sea, or by dealing in rabbits,
goats, hogs, &c. -
To the 6 of the O : great waste, prodigality, and ex
pensive living. Lilly says, he never knew the O to bring
an estate or property, but always to waste it.
To the C or 8 of G): loss by lawsuits, loss ofoffice, &c.
To the Sk or A of O. : gives great and eminent friends,
honour and profit, but the whole will be spent or wasted.
To the d, k, or A of Q : gifts from eminent ladies,
wealth and honours, but what they produce will be wasted
in dress, &c.
To the D or 9 of Q : , waste of property on women,
which eventually leads to ruin.
To the 6, k, or A, of #: gain by contracts, learning,
books, law, industry, wit, contrivance, and voyages.
To the D or 9 of g : renders the native prone to de
fraud or to be defrauded, till he loses his all. . -
To the 6, Sk, or A of the C : profit by women, and by
the vulgar, by sea or land journeys. -
To the [...] or 8 of the ( ; loss in a similar way.
To the Q the same as to 21, and to the £5 the same as tod.
To Spica: great wealth and voluptuous propersities. .
To Cor Leonis: riches and honours, but these will be
of short duration. - -
To the South Scale the same as to 6.
The @ may also be directed to the cusps of the houses,
according to their respective symbols: but the whole is
groundless. -
We are also directed to consider the term of a planet the
same in its effects as the planet itself, and to be £
promittors as such : but this is too absurd to merit any
comment.
Of the Sextile and Trine.
The horoscope having the k or A of B, denotes favour
from old men, gain by agriculture, gardening, mines,
334 * P R O M IT TO R.
collieries, and all things relative to the Earth; legacies
and inheritance. It is said to be a good time to let lands,
or renew leases, build or speculate in saturnine employ
ments. * ,
Of 21 : great gain, riches and honours, health and
friendship.
Of 6 martial employment or exercises, and prefer
ment, also invention, impatience, anger and energy.
Of the G) : health, honour, profit, friends, and happiness.
Of Q : pleasure, enjoyment, marriage, children and good
fortune. , * . . . . -
... Of #: gain and preferment by study, and learning,
literary encouragement, &c. -
Of the ) : much business, health, and contentment,
marriage, journeys, and children, particularly daughters.
The midheaven to the sk or A of b, honour and esteem
from old people, gravity and sobriety, gain by agriculture
and other saturnine professions. If P be in 8 or V3, it is
- all the better.
- Of 21 : the same as the G.
... Of 3 : disposes the native to warlike exercises, riding,
hunting, and gives preferment in war, and gain by trade.
To kings it is a fortunate time to declare war.
Of the G) : great honours and dignities, bounties, gifts
from the great, and every degree of success and happiness.
Of Q : love of women, new dresses, furniture, arma
ments, &c.; health, marriage, children, and every degree
of felicity.
Of g : renders the natives learned, eloquent, and fortu
nate in all mercurial undertakings.
Of the ): great riches and prosperity, marriage to a
rich or poor woman, according to the strength ofthe ),
journeys, esteem and reputation.
The G) having the sk or A of b, denotes honour and
profit from old men, makes the native grave and severe,
and like to gain wealth by husbandry, building, or an in
heritance.
. Of 21 : sound judgment, honour, profit, preferment, and
male children. But if / be not radically strong the effect
will be more weak and unavailing.
Of 6 : friendship of martial men, preferment in arms,
courage, magnanimity, military reputation, victory and
traveling.
Of Q , reputation, office, dignity, love of women,
marriage, children, health, easy and elegant manners.
P R O M IT TO R. 335
The k of £ in directions, gives much business with, it
is said, little profit; propensity to travelling, with no good
result; £or church preferment, dealing in books, &c.
Of the ); favour of great persons, many friends, a rich
wife and honourable or diplomatic employment.
The ) to the k or A of b : great and valuable con
nexions, gifts from old women, much esteem and venera
tion; profit from dealing with old people, or in saturnine
commodities, as wool, lead, agricultural or horticultural
productions, houses, &c. *
Of 21 : much the same as the d.
Of f : boldness, pride, hatred, vigilance; oppression,
martial pursuits, hunting, and riding. If d be weak, he
will drink, game, and waste his property. It generally
shews increase of trade with success.
Of the G) : honourable and profitable connexions,
marriage, travel, much esteem, great success and prefer
ment.
Of Q : pleasure and happiness, a good marriage, great
favour with every one, and unbounded success if Q be
strong. |
Of g : a propensity to learning, traveling, music and
oratory; it also denotes incessant action, and a great pro
pensity to trade. -
Of the Square and Opposition. w
| THE horoscope to the D or 9 of 5, brings disease,
death, chronic diseases, much melancholy, fear and nervous
horrors; ruptures, flux, gout, cholic, fistulas, tumours in
the legs, injuries in the privates; loss, disgrace, and ruin.
Of 2/ : distempers, law-suits, enmity, and treachery;
but not attended with any material loss.
Of 6 : violent fevers by being overheated, sudden mis
fortunes, or death; falls, wounds, burning, loss, false ac
cusation, &c.; in a fiery sign, it causes inflamations, boils,
pestilent eruptions, &c. While this direction lasts, persons
should avoid all business or adventure as much as possible.
In earthy signs it threatens murder; in airy signs, violent
inflamations and eruptions; and in watery signs, violent
fluxes, and drowning.
Of the Q : diseases, ruin, sore eyes, oppression by great
men, imprisonment, shipwreck, &c. The DJ is not reckoned
near so bad as the 9. -
Of Q : venereal disorders, lust and prostitution; quar
$36 P R om IT To R
*
rels with and ruin by women; love, madness, jealousy, and
cuckledom. - -
. Of g : vain and expensive attempts at learning, to no
purpose: aversion to study, restlessness, law-suits, and
vexations; fraud on all sides, injury by false witnesses.
# youths, libels, and sometimes trouble by writing
ooks: - -
Of the D : disputes with the lower orders and low wo
men, family strife, danger of drowning, anxiety, affronts,
and ill-usage; robbery, disgrace, and a propensity to
luxury and debauchery. . . .
The midheaven to the D or 9 of b, causes disgrace,
loss of office by some deceitful, mean, brutish people, chiefly,
the vulgar; it is said to cause all sorts of trouble, beggary,
and ruin. To a king, breach of treaty, sedition and tu
mults among his subjects, and treachery among his servants.
Of 21 : enmity of judges and all great men, which will
cause many £, ut will not eventually injure the na
tive materially. To a king it denotes disputes with his nobi
lity and people, which will end to their credit and his dis
grace. - - -
° Of6 : robbery, quarrels, imprisonment, and many evils;
public accusation or death. To kings, loss of armies, depo
sition, broils with their subjects, armies to keep them
in awe, &c.
Of the Q : causes hatred and injury from great men, loss
of trade, office, credit, substance, liberty, and life. It de
notes bankruptcy and ruin, banishment, &c. To kings it
denotes pride, which will end in many afflictions.
Of Q : scandal and disgrace by women, unsuccessful
courtship, attended by scorn, delusion and contempt. To
kings, disgrace from incontinence. It also denotes divorces,
family broils, jealousy, loss of estate, jewels, &c. Marri
ages taking place when the midheaven is in 8 to Q, are
soon succeeded by separation, according to Lilly, who says,
that all such marriages are rash, and quickly repented of.
Of g : great trouble, lawsuits, literary disappointments,
failure in all attempts at office or preferment, disgrace by
false reports, libels, knavery, unjust witnesses andjudges,
anonymous letters, &c. t -
Of the C : hatred of the vulgar, disputes about women,
rofligacy, fornication, and waste of property; breaches
£ the native and his mother, wife, or mistress; con
demnation by a judge or some great man; the evil will be
durable according to the radical strength of the promittor
and of the ( in that year's revolution.
P R O M IT TO R. 337
The G) to the D or 9 of b : it has much the same effect
as the 6, and it is foolishly affirmed, that this direction
will kill the native's father, if he have but a slight direction
of death in his own nativity. *
Of 21 : envy and hatred of lawyers, and other enemies,
causing expence and loss of estate and character, all of
which will be recovered again, if the geniture be not wholly
unfortunate. To kings it denotes disputes with the nobility
and people through their own illegal ambition.
Of 6 : violent disease, bloodshot or inflamed eyes,
blindness, wounds by fire, iron, hurts by machinery, rob
bery, and (if the G) be hyleg) murder, calenture, madness,
&c. It is an evil direction in a climacterical year, or any
other fatal direction or lunation.
Of Q : this can only be the square, for none but such
men as old Parr can live to feel the effects of the 9. The
C is said to denote barrenness, disappointment in marriage,
lust, debauchery, and their natural consequences, disgrace,
infamy and ruin.
Of g : the D of # denotes infamy, false accusations,
disgraceful conduct of the native, or his connexions;
forgery, coining, swindling, loss of office and character,
hatred, malice, robbery, and disappointment. As to the
3, it is a direction that never can arrive. -
Of the D : evils from great men, loss in fortune and
trade, also in traveling; causes domestic quarrels, idleness,
drunkenness, sickness, blindness, prostitution and de
bauchery, small-pox, fever, measles, worms, &c. *
The ) to the D or # of b, causes hectic fevers,
melancholy, nervous fear, loss by low clownish people or
tenants, theft, &c. Family disputes and waste, quarrels
with the wife, loss in every undertaking, trade, merchan
dise, &c. It often causes death, and always diseases.
Of 2/ difficulties, loss of office, disgrace, &c.; but the
whole will be recovered, and his character restored. In
juries from religious men, magistrates, landlords, &c.
Of 6 madness, robbery, siphilis, stone or gravel, hatred
and disgrace by women, death of a good wife, or marriage
to a bad one, all kinds of sickness, bad eyes, death, ship
wreck, and every evil; wounds, kicks of horses, burn
ing, &c. -
Of the Q : great danger and suffering, tumult and sedi
tion, blindness, quarrels, injuries from superiors, fevers,
fluxes, &c. Lilly says, the DJ of the D to the Q is of little
importance, and therefore all this must be understood as
the effects of the 9. To kings it denotes loss of honour,
Q
ae/
338 P R O M IT TO R
deposition and death; and it is always the direction for a
violent death, if it be so determined in the radix.
Of Q : fornication, adultery, and prostitution, attended
of course by ruin and infamy; an unhappy marriage,
venereal diseases, &c. To children it denotes the small-pox
or measles; to women excessive menstrual discharges, &c.
Of # aversion to learning and study, or to those who
apply themselves to either; ill usage from the vulgar, dis
honesty and all its evil consequences; banishment, sentence
of death, debt, ruin, delirium, madness, frauds by attornies,
unhappy lawsuits, &c.
These are said to be the general effects of promittors,
whether the significators are so posited with them at the
birth or brought to them afterwards by direction. For my
own part, I think the greatest part of it to be a mass of
superstition and absurdity, especially where it descends to
minute particulars, which cannot be known. The effect
of good or evil directions is to create a strong bias towards
the persons, places, or other causes, that will most likely
be productive of such events, which bias is generally too
strong to be easily counteracted. It is a common observa
tion, that one evil seldom comes alone; and this is the
uniform effect of evil directions, transits, or lunations.
When a direction is likely to terminate fatally, there will
be a continual tendency to the causes, which will eventually
produce such an effect; but this tendency, so far from being
manifest and striking, is almost imperceptible to every one
but such as are very acute observers, and the native is the
least likely of all others to perceive it. As to directions to
the SA, QS, €, or the cusps of houses, according to the sup
osed nature of such houses, the whole is false and absurd.
hey can only be useful in horary questions, where the
mode of bringing up directions, is only counting the inter
mediate degrees between the significator and promittor, as
may be seen in the article “Horary Questions.”
The time the effects of a direction will endure, and the
strength or weakness of their effects, are said to be accord:
ing to the strength or weakness both of the significator and
promittor; but this only respects the radix, for all promit
tors in directions are alike in strength, and the power and
durability of their effects are in a great degree regulated by
the strength or weakness of the luminaries at the nativity.
If they are strong and free from affliction, subsequent evil
directions will have less power and durability, and good
ones will operate with double force; but if the significators
be originally weak, or in bad positions, a trifling evil direc
P. R O M IT TO R. 339
tion will have a very powerful effect, while a good direction
is almost unavailing and quite transient. Much also de
pends on the present state of the heavens; for if the lumi
naries are in those places that harmonize with the radix,
namely, the places of the fortunes, or those that are in
good aspect with them, or that are inconjunct with the
infortunes, or in good aspect with them: the effects of
promittors will be much increased or diminished, according
as their nature agrees with such positions. The revolution,
also, for the year, ought to be consulted, as that is very
powerful in its effects, if the luminaries harmonize, or dis
agree, with their radical positions; but where there is a
, mixture oftestimonies, or the luminaries are inconjunct with
the leading places in the radix, and have no particular
radical declination, the revolution for such a year will have
but little influence either way. Much depends on the luna
tions, and more, I think, on a quadrate than on an embo
lismical lunation. Transits, also, have an effect; but I
have not so high an opinion of ingresses as Placidus had.
In addition to all these secondary causes, there is a maxim
that astrologers should never forget, that a greater cause
will always overcome a less. This may be seen in the
seasons, when, from certain causes with which we are at
present unacquainted, continued wet or dryness prevails,
the lunations will be found not to have their usual effect,
and all the changes they produce are of very short duration.
If a man lives in a country where wars are seldom or never
known, and the dispositions of the inhabitants are mild,
symptoms of violent death in the radix can have little
efficacy as such, whereas in those countries where wars are
frequent, or in armies, very slight symptoms will cause a
violent death, because the superior cause will overcome
the inferior. Thus, animals resemble those by whom they
are produced ; children resemble their parents; men
acquire propensities like those of the inhabitants of the
eountries where they are born, or like those among whom
they are educated; aged £die of slight directions to
promittors that would not have affected them while young;
a child cannot be married when 3 or 4 years old, whatever
direction may occur, &c. &c.: therefore, in ascertaining
the effects of promittors we must always have respect to the
greater and less causes, and avoid predicting impossibilities.
PROPER MOTION, the direct motion of a planet
through the zodiac, so called in contradistinction to its di
urnal motion from east to west. - l
PROROGATOR, the apheta.
340 R. A D I C A L
PYROIS, fiery, a Greek name of 6. -
QUADRANTS, the four quarters of heaven. The two
oriental quarters are from the 1st to the 10th, and from the
7th to the 4th. The two occidental quarters, from the 10th
to the 7th, and from the 4th to the 1st. In the zodiac the
oriental quarters are from the beginning of Y to the begin
ning ofgas, and from the beginning of = to the beginning
of Vy. The reverse are the occidental quadrants. The
first quadrant is called, by modern astrologers, oriental,
vernal, masculine, sanguine, and infantine. The second is
called the meridian, estival, feminine, youthful, choloric
quadrant. The third, the occidental, autumnal, masculine,
melancholic, mature, cold, dry quadrant. The fourth, the
northern, feminine, decrepit, wintry, phlegmatic quadrant.
QUADRATE LUNATIONS, every D, 9, or 6, of
the Q and (. Their effects are good or evil according as
they happen in good or evil aspect with the radical places
of the fortunes or infortunes. See “Secondary Directions.”
QUADRATURES, the ('s dichotomes.
QUARTILE, the square : a distance of3 signs, or 90°,
marked D. It is considered an evil aspect, but in a second
ary degree.
QUERENT, the person who asks a horary question.
His significator is generally the ascendant, its lord, the (,
and planets in the ascendant.
QUESITED, that thing or person about which the que
rent inquires. The significator is various, according to
the nature of the question.
QUINCUNX, a new aspect, containing 5 signs, or 150°.
Ptolemy and most others consider it as inconjunct. It is
the opposite point of the semisextile, and those who hold it
to be an aspect, consider it a good one. -
QUINTILE, another new aspect, reckoned beneficial.
It is 72°, or one fifth of the zodiac. -
RADICAL, belonging to the radix. It is a term used
in horary questions to signify that a question is fit, and
may be resolved. It comes from radix, the radical figure
of the querent's nativity, because it is supposed by many
that the figure of a horary question must never be taken
when the real figure of the querent's birth can be had;
but if that time be not known, the figure erected to the time
when the question is asked will, through the power of ce
lestial sympathy, be the very figure ofthe querent's nati
vity. A horary question is called radical when the lord
of the ascendant and the lord of the hour are of the same
nature and triplicity. Thus, if d be lord of the ascendant
R. A. E) I C A E, 341
and of the hour, the question is radical. If he be lord of
the hour, and gö or % ascend, he is lord of the watery tri
plicty; or if Q ascend, he is of the same nature with its
lord the G), as they are both hot and dry, and therefore
the question in all these cases is radical. If 0° 0' of any
sign, or the 1st or 2d degree, ascend (especially in signs of
short ascension), the question is not considered radical,
except the querent be very young, and his marks and ap
pearance agree with the sign £
If the 27th, 28th, or 29th degrees of a sign ascend, it is
the same, except the person inquiring be of that age. In
all questions, however, relative to the time when an event
happens, as the moment of a decumbiture, a theft, &c.,
the degree is of no importance, because it is a certain, not
a proposed, time. -
The question is not supposed quite radical, when the )
is in 27°, or more, of a sign, particularly in II, m, or Wy;
or when she is in the via combusta. It is also doubtful,
when she is void of course, yet this can only relate to the
matter inquired about, which will come to nothing, because
her being void of course is itself a prediction. Some deem
this no impediment when she is in 8, gö, 1 , or #
The 7th house denotes the artist himself, and therefore,
if the cusp be afflicted, or its lord combust, retrograde, or
any way afflicted (except the question belong to the 7th
house, for in that case it is a prediction), the artist is likely
to incur disgrace or censure, and therefore he had better
decline it. '5 in the 7th corrupts the judgment of the artist,
or renders the whole issue unfortunate, if the question be
long to that house. If the lord of the 7th be in his fall, or
in £term of an infortune, it is said to vitiate the judgment
of the artist. If the lord of the ascendant be combust the
querent is either a villain, or doomed to some great evil.
If B be ascending, and especially if he be retrograde, the
£ may be dropped, for no good can be the result.
or further particulars, see “Horary Question.”
RADICAL ELECTIONS, certain times chosen astro
logically as being particularly fortunate for undertaking
any particluar business or enterprise. They are called ra
dical as having for their basis the radix, or nativity. The
revolutionary figure should also be erected, and judgment
drawn equally from both. The application of t'. signifi
cator in the revolution to the points in the radix, and of
those in the radix to the points in the revolution, must be
considered, whether those significators or points be good or
evil. If the revolution for the year oppose the radix, the year
842 R A D I C A L
will be generally unfortunate in those matters wherein the
& consists: as, if the horoscope or luminaries be on the
places of the infortunes in the radix, or in their square, op
position or declination, or if the C be combust or otherwise
anfortunate, in such a case, undertakings of any import
ance should be avoided for that year. In matters of great
importance, the secondary directions and the (’s process
are generally considered; but the most common way is to
take the radical and revolutionary figures, and observe if
any evil transit occurs, or is applying in either, on the day
in which any business is to be undertaken. The C being
combust, or going to the full at the time, is a bad symptom,
and many planets retrograde, generally denote evil. Some,
owever, say, that the infortunes retrograde, is an addi
tional proof of success; but, perhaps, this is of less im
portance either way than the application of the good or
evil planets to the points in the radix, which I should
always consider in preference to the revolutionary figure.
The general way is to consider the lords of the 1st, 10th,
and 11th, in the radix, or the lords of such houses as de
note the business in hand, and see whether they are at that
time free from affliction, angular, essentially dignified, or
in any way well-conditioned, or in application to a good
position : but this is making a horary question of it at once,
which, if so, had better be done in the usual way. The lu
minaries in a radical election should be, if possible, in their
radical places, or in A or k to them. If this in the radix
be an evil aspect, some other should be chosen, free from
that objection, yet having good aspect both with their own
and each others places, and free from affliction of the ra
dical infortunes, and, if possible, in G or good aspect with
the radical benefics. Places like these are difficult and
sometimes impossible to be found where the radix is evil,
which is the reason why such people are always unfortunate,
as they seldom or never can have a good transit. The (
should never be combust at the time of any undertaking:
but any other evil condition is of less consequence, provided
she be well with the radix. It is said, the radical malefics
should be cadent, if possible, and, at all events, not angular,
and by the same rule, the radical benefics should be any
thing but cadent. The ascendant should, it is said, be the
radical ascendant; but I am of opinion, that if the radical
ascendant be an unfortunate sign, V5 for instance, it should
not ascend, and the same if it contain the body or evil as
pect of malefics, or is configurated to afflicted luminaries,
or perhaps containing violent fixed stars. Others say, the
RECEPTION, 343
house denoting the thing undertaken should ascend, but
this is founded on the modern system of converting every
thing into a symbol, and can have no effect in any way. It
is also said, the 10th and 11th in the radix should be free
from affliction; but this is merely symbolical and of no con
sequence. An infortune, however, should not be in the
radical 10th, or horoscope, if possible, though I think it
would be of less consequence than is generally supposed.
It is usual to have the radical and revolutionary significa
tors applying to good aspect, or in mutual reception with
each other, but the reception is of no consequence what
ever, and the good aspect at the time of the undertaking is
as little, provided £right with the radix, and the lumi
naries, &c. were in harmony with each other at the time of
the revolution.
If the radix be unfortunate, no strong election can be
made, because an accidental good cannot prevail against
a radical evil. By the same rule, no strong election can be
made for evil where the radix is wholly good. Hence we
perceive certain persons always unfortunate, while others
continually flourish, owing to the weakness or strength of
the respective nativities.
RADIX, the root, the radical figure of birth.
RAPT MOTION, the apparent diurnal motion of the
heavens, occasioned by the real diurnal motion of the
Earth. It was called rapt, or forcibly carried away, because
the stars were supposed to be forcibly carried round by the
motion of the Primum Mobile. -
RAPT PARALLELS, parallels formed by rapt motion,
when two stars in their progress from east to west round
the Earth form parallels, by arriving at equal distances
from angles. See “Parallels.”
RAYS. In the common acceptation of the word, a ray
is a beam of light emanating from a star or luminous
body; but in astrology it signifies, a beam of influence of
sympathy, which accompanies such ray, and is supposed
only to proceed from a planet. Thus, the doctrine that
the fixed stars emit no rays, does not mean that they emit
no light, but that they have no distant influence by aspect,
but only operate with a planet when joined to it, or within
from 7 to 2 degrees of its body, according to the magnitude
of the fixed stars.
RECEPTION, one of the unmeaning refinements of
modern astrology, signifying, two planets being posited in
each others houses: as 6 in 8 and Q in Y, which, they
say, confers a dignity on them the same as if they were in
344. RECTIFICATION,
their own houses, which it very well may do, for it is
nothing. In horary questions, however, it is eminently
useful as a symbol, : shews that the affair inquired after,
will come to a happy termination, when the significators
are in mutual reception. There is also reception by exal
tation and triplicity, but they are seldom attended to, or
considered of much efficacy. Lilly holds with reception in
all the essential dignities, in which case the triplicity can
only be according as it is diurnal; for the G) in 1 by
night would not have triplicity, nor would # by day, be
cause the G) governs the fiery triplicity by d >y only, and
21 by night. In horary questions it is admitted in all the
5 essential dignities, of which the house is considered the
strongest, and the face the weakest degree of reception.
RECTIFICATION, the method of bringing a nativity
to its true time, as it is supposed that the inaccuracy of
a clock or watch, or the mistake of those whose business it
is to observe them, may cause an error in the time of birth,
which requires to be rectified. - *
Several methods are recommended for this purpose, of
which the oldest probably is the animoder of Ptolemy.
This not being found effectual, almost every subsequent
#: has invented one of his own with as little success.
Beside the animoder of Ptolemy, we have the truitine of
Hermes, the methods of Argol, Morin, Kepler, &c. &c.
Placidus is wholly silent on the subject of Rectification,
which is a proof he believed in none of them. Not one of
his 30 nativities are rectified, although he seems very much
to doubt the correctness of some of them.
The animoder of Ptolemy refers to the new or full moon
preceding a nativity. If a new moon preceded, the de
grees in which both the luminaries are at the birth must be
taken; but if a full moon preceded, the degree of that lu
minary alone must be taken, which was above the Earth at
the moment of delivery. The stars having dominion in
those places (which dominion may be taken 5 ways, viz.
triplicity, house, exaltation, term, and position or configu
ration) must be taken, and if there be more than one so
dignified, that which has most dignities must be preferred,
and the degree of the sign it was in at the time of birth:
will be the degree of the ascending sign on the cusp of the
horoscope, if it be nearer to the horoscope than to the mid
heaven. If two or more planets have equal dignities, that
which has the most partile configuration must be preferred.
If they are all equally partile, that which has the best as
pect to the conditionary luminary and the angles, must be
RECTIFICATION 345
preferred. If the chosen planet be nearer to the midheaven
than to the horoscope, make the degree culminating the
same in that sign which possesses the tenth, as the planet
holds in the sign in which it is posited, and rectify the
angles accordingly.
By the truitine of Hermes the C's distance from the as
cendant must be found in signs and degrees, if she be under
the Earth, by subtracting the angle from it; but if above,
her distance must be found from the 7th house in a similar
manner. If subtraction cannot be made, 12 signs must be
added to the (’s place. -
... Enter the following table with the remaining number in
the column marked “ (’s Distance”, and in the opposite
columns, according to the month of birth, will be found a
number of days, which must be added to the day of birth
or subtracted from it, according as “add” or “sub.” is
marked above the column, and the sum or remainder will
give the day of the month, in the month of conception.
Should the year of birth be a leap-year, another day must
be added. |
THE TABLE.
Barth in Barth in -
| Mar. ~ Mar.
Moon - May, Moon May,
wnder Jan. April June, above the Jan. April 1 June,
the Feb. or or July, Earth. | Feb. or or July,
Earth. Decm. Sept. Augt. Decm. Sept. Augt.
Octo. - Octo.
| Nov. Nov.
Moon's -- Moon's .
distance: add add add sub. Idistance. add add add add
0s. 0°| 3 || 2 | 1 || 0 | 6s. 09| 0 || 1 || 2 | 3
0.18 || 2 || 1 | sub. 1 || 5 17 | | | 2 || 3 || 4
0 26 || 1 | sub. || 1 || 2 || 5 4 || 2 || 3 || 4 || 5
1 9 sub. | 1 || 2 || 3 || 4, 21 || 3 || 4 || 5 || 6
1 21 1 || 2 | 3 || 4 || 4 9 || 4 || 5 || 6 || 7
2 4 || 2 || 3 || 4 || 5 || 3 26 || 5 || 6 || 7 || 8
| 2 17 | 3 || 4 || 5 || 6 || 3 13 | 6 || 7 || 8 || 9
3 0 || 4 || 5 || 6 || 7 || 3 0 || 7 || 8 || 9 || 10
| 3 13 || 5 || 6 || 7 || 8 || 2 17 | 8 || 9 || 10 | I]
3 26 || 6 || 7 || 8 || 9 || 2 4 || 0 || 10 | 11 || 12
4 9 || 7 || 8 || 9 || 10 || 1 21 | 10 | || 12 || || 3 ||
| 4 21 | 8 || 9 || 10 | | | | | 9 || | | | 12 13 | 1.4
| 5 ||4 || 9 || 10 | | | | 12 || 0 26 12 13 14 15 |
5 17 | 10 || 1 | 12 13 || 0 13 || 13 || 14 | 15 16 |
6 0 || 11 i. 12 || 13 14 || 0 0 || 14 15 | 16 17
* * 2 Y *
346 RECT IFICATION,
*
If the birth was in January the conception was in April.
If February, in May. | If August, in November.
If March, in June. If September, in December.
If April, in July. . . If October, in January.
If May, in August. | If November, in February.
If June, in September. | If December, in March.
If July, in October. -
When all this is found, get the )’s place on the same
time of the day of conception as the birth was on, and make
this the true degree and minute on the cusp of the horoscope.
It may be also done by subtracting the Sun's right ascen
sion at the time of conception from its right ascension at
the time of birth (taken in the table of houses opposite the
)'s place, and adding 360°, if it cannot be done without),
and if it be in time, or turned into time, the remainder will
be the true hour and minute of the conception; and the
degree and minute in which the ) was then in, is the
minute ascending at the birth. -
ExAMPLE:—Suppose the native to be born March the
22d, 1765, at 2h. 40m. A. M.: this is the estimate time.
I find the D in 8°12' of Y, and 7° 31' of W5 on the cusp
of the horoscope. -
. . . . X's place, 0s. 89 "12"
Add for subtraction, 120 0
12.8 12
Cusp of the ascendant, 9.7 31
)’s distance, 3 0 41
. As the D is under the Earth, I enter that column at
3s. 0°, and under the column for March, I find 7 days to be
subtracted, which gives the time of conception on the 15th
of June preceding: and the )'s place on that day at 40m.
after 2 o'clock in the morning, is the minute that, accord
ing to Hermes, should ascend at the birth. This certainly
merits a trial, and, so far as my experience extends, I have
little doubt but that this same sign ascends both at the con
ception and at the birth. It should be remarked, that this
Hermes was not the Trismegistus of Egypt, all of whose
works are lost, but a Christian author, who wrote in the
second century. -
Argol preferred rectifying by accidents: but his system
is founded on wrong principles, for he attributes all accidents
of the body to the horoscope, and all that relate to honour
or disgrace to the midheaven. His method is as follows:
RECT1F1CAT I on 347
The time of the accident is to be converted into an arc
of direction by Naibod’s measure of time (though that of
Placidus is by far the most rational), and then subtracting
it from the promittor’s right or oblique ascension, the re
mainder '' be the right ascension of the midheaven, or
oblique ascension of the horoscope. If it be the latter, sub
tract 90° from it, and the remainder will be the right as
cension of the midheaven corrected. Find the difference
between this and the right ascension of the midheaven at
the supposed time of birth, and add or subtract it to or from
the supposed time according as it is more or less, and the
sum or remainder is the true time of birth required. -
Kepler recommends making a table of the Sun's place
for about 100 days after the birth, and to take as many days
of the Sun's motion as there were years elapsed from the
birth to the accident (allowing in proportion for the odd,
months, days, &c.), and find the Sun's place for that time,
with its right ascension. Subtract this from the oblique
ascension of the promittor that caused the accident, added
to 270°. The remainder will be the right ascension of time
corrected.
Then, having set the figure accordingly, find the differ
ence between the Sun's place and his place at noon on the
day of birth, but be careful it is the right noon, and the
difference will be the Q's direction for the number of days
required. For the odd days of the accident say, as 365d.
6h. are to the Sun's diurnal motion, so are the odd days to
the odd minutes. Add these to the Q's direction above
and it will be the Q's true place at the birth. -
If the accident belong to the 10th house, subtract the
Q’s right ascension (as found before) for the year and day
of the accident, from the promittor’s right ascension (add
ing, as usual, 360°, if it cannot be done without), the re
mainder will be the right ascension of time corrected.
Morinus only differed from Argol in taking the latitude
of the promittor, which Argol neglected. -
Some, who cannot find any accident that can be traced to
either of the angles, take the position of the luminaries to
discover which of them might produce it, and when they
have fixed on one, they direct it under its pole (for the
estimate time) to the promittor which caused the accident,
for an arc of direction. They then make a second supposi
tion, working as before, and form another arc of direction.
They then say, as the difference of these two arcs is to the
'difference of their two poles, so is the first difference be
tween the first arc and the real time ofaccident tothe differ- -
848 . RECT 1 FICAT I on
ence between the estimate pole and the real pole of the
luminary. From this real pole they find the real oblique
ascension, or descension, of the luminary, and its distance
from the midheaven, which will give the right ascension of
the latter correct. -
The shortest way, however, were a person inclined, to
- correct by accidents, would be to consider the time of the
accident as a measure of time, and by subtracting the Sun’s
right ascension from it, the real arc would remain. It may
be objected that the Q's fight ascension would not be cor
rect; but as the G) moves but two minutes and a half in
an hour it could not differ materially in any reasonable
space of time that could arise from a mistake, which could
hardly exceed ten minutes, and never amount to even half
an hour. - - -
But the system of directing by accidents is very objection
able; for, in the present imperfect state of the science,
nothing is more probable than that a wrong promittor, or
significator, or both, might be taken. If Placidus be correct,
we find there are several instances of the effects of aspects
being delayed for years, until some secondary direction or
transit causes it to appear, and therefore the time of acci
dents can hardly be called a criterion.
... Another way, equally futile, is to erect the figure to
the estimate time, and take that luminary which is in the
center of the 1st, 10th, or 7th house, and bring it to the
cusp, and that minute it was in should either ascend, culmi
nate, or descend, at the moment of birth. If no such lumi
'. be found, they must be brought to a parallel from
angles, but if this cannot be done to suit the probable time,
then } or Q must be brought to a cusp, or parallel, in
the same manner; and if their positions will not agree, let
them be brought to a '' with the the conditionary
luminary. If their position does not admit of this, either
B or 6 must be taken in the same way; but in this case,
their influence is so destructive that the native seldom arrives
at maturity. - -
There is something very philosophical and ingenious in
this contrivance; but as it pre-supposes, that some planet
must either be on the cusp of an angle, or in parallel of
angles, with some other at the moment of every birth, I
fear it will not bejustified by experience. The most probable
cause of births is that sympathy between an infant and its
parents, and as it is apt to acquire a likeness to one of
them both in body and mind; that constitution of the
heavens under which that person they most resemble was
*
*
RECT IFICATION 349
born must exist as near as circumstances will permit, and
at this critical moment the child enters the world. Its
resemblance will consequently be more or less striking, as
the ambient more or less resembles that of the parent.
Upon the whole, the rectification of a nativity is very
useless, and would never have been thought of, had it not
been through the folly of professors in general, who, sup
posing they knew every thing, when, in fact, they knew
almost nothing, were quite astonished when any of their .
predictions failed, and instead of attributing the failure to
its true cause,—their own ignorance, they conceived some
mistake must have happened in the time, and therefore set
about rectifying the nativity, instead of their own blunders.
If the time of birth be taken at all, it is seldom consider
ably wrong, probably never ten minutes. This can make
but small difference in the relative positions of the planets
to each other. Even the D’s place would differ but 5 or 6
minutes, and probably the whole difference in the time of
a direction would not exceed a month, and the artist who
can bring his direction within three months of an accident
will have no reason to complain. If the direction were to
an angle, the inaccuracy would be much greater; but if
angles be significators they will meet with a number of
aspects which, when compared with the time of accidents,
will be so exactly alike in error, that the true time cannot
possibly be mistaken. - |
To bring two planets to a parallel from angles we are
directed as follows:
1st, Subtract the right or oblique ascension of one from
the other without latitude; it will give their distance from
each other.
2d, Say, as the sum of their horary times is to their dis
tance, so is the horary time of that planet which succeeds
the other in the zodiac to the difference of their distances
from the angle. -
3d, Add this secondary distance to the place of the suc
ceeding planet; the sum will be the cusp of the angle.
ExAMPLE:—Suppose the cusp of the 4th to be 13° 30'
of 85, 6 in 11° 29' 8, and b in 18° 15' of 8 ; I would
rectify by bringing them to a parallel from the 4th house,
latitude 51° 32'.
Right ascension of b, without latitude, 45° 46' '
Right ascension of 6, without latitude, 39 2 .
-
Distance of b from 6, 6 44
350 R. E. F. R A NATION
The seminocturnal arc of 3 is 69° 18', and his horary
time is 11° 36'. The horary time of b is 11° 38'. :
As the sum of their nocturnal horary time, 23° 14', is to
their distance 6° 44', so is the horary time of 6, 11° 36',
to his secondary distance, 3° 21'. Add this to the place of
&, 11°29' of 8, and it will give 14° 50' of 8 for the cusp
of the 4th house: to this all the other houses of the figure
are to be rectified. There does not appear much correct
ness in this system, and it would be nearer the truth, as
well as much easier, if, when the distance is found by as
cension, the half of such distance were added to the place
of the nearest planet. Thus the place of 6 is nearer to
the cusp of the 4th than that of J2, and if 3° 22' were added
to 11° 29 of 8, the cusp of the 4th would be 14° 51 of 8,
without any further trouble.
REFRANATION, is when two planets are approach
ing to any configuration, but before the configuration is
quite completed, that planet which is overtaking the other,
either by dexter or sinister aspect, becomes retrograde,
and so refrains from completing the aspect. The business
signified by such aspect, however close they may have been
before the refranation, will wholly come to nothing.
RELIGION. b, d, or the QS in the 9th, or b or 6
in & to the 9th, is said to make atheists, or violent secta
rians, * if 2/ be combust, retrograde, cadent, or
afflicted.
2/, Q, or the Q in the 9th, shews true religion, as does
also the Q, #, or 69 there, in >|< or A to 21 or Q.
If no planets are there, the religion of the native is taken
from the lord of the 9th and 2/. If neither of them be
strong, angular, or well-dignified, or in reception with one
of the lights, or with the lord of the 1st or planets therein,
or in the ascendant, the native will be void of religion, and
vice versá. -
Others say, P in the 9th shews zeal, chastity, and faith.
The Othere, shews a good preacher. If the Q or 2/ have
dignities in the 9th, or horoscope, and also in the places of
and the (, the words of the native, they say, will be
like oracles: this is all nonsense, like the greater part of
modern astrology. Neither the houses nor stars have any
thing to do with religion merely as such, any further than as
it depends on the moral disposition of the native. The
cause why the 9th house is supposed to be the house of re
ligion originates in a term given to it by Ptolemy, who for
some unknown reason, calls it “the divinity.” -
*
R Evo LUT 1 on s 351
RETROGRADE, when a planet appearsto move back
ward in the ecliptic contrary to the order of the signs, and
is denoted by an R marked next to such planet. All pla
nets, except the Q and (, are retrograde from their first
station to their second; the inferiors are retrograde in
their inferior conjunction when they pass from one elong
ation to the other; but the superiors are retrograde when
in opposition to the Q as they pass from their first to their
second station, and all of them when retrograde are in or
near their perigee. -
... In horary questions, it is reckoned one of the worst
symptoms. othing signified by a retrograde planet can
come to good, however good the planet itself, or its aspect,
may be, but, with the exception ofhorary questions, I am
not aware that a planet is weaker when retrograde than
when direct. The planet is always the same, and the whole
is an appearance caused by the relative motion of the
Earth. The only cause I ever knew assigned is, that a
planet is more powerful when most stationary in respect to
the world, that is, when it is least affected by the diurnal
motion, because then its rays, passing over the Earth more
slowly, have time to operate with more force. This must
always be the case when a planet is direct and swift in
motion, because it then resists the diurnal motion, by mov
ing in a contrary direction, whereas, when it is retrograde it
rather increases the effect of the diurnal motion by moving
zodiacally toward the west. Allowing, however, the truth
of this hypothesis, the difference can be but trifling, and
would have a different effect from that usually assigned to
retrogradation. Only the retrogradation of the benefics
could injure a native, for a retrograde malefic would be
rendered by it more innoxious, whereas it is always consi
dered to be more mischievous when retrograde.
Placidus was of opinion, that retrograde planets caused
disease, and that those nativities and periods, wherein many
many planets were retrograde, would be very sickly. This
may be so, because planets when retrograde are nearer to
the Earth, and I have generally observed, that whatever
good qualities they may possess, they are apt to disturb our
atmosphere when in perigee, which will naturally cause
distempers. - - -
REVOLUTIONS, the time in which a star revolves .
round the Sun or the Earth. Thus, B revolves round the
Sun in nearly 30 years, and the X round the Earth in a
periodical lunation. The term, however, is chiefly applied
to the annual period when the Q comes to his zodiacal
4.
352 R E V O L U TI O N S
place in a nativity, and for this point of time it is usual to
erect a figure every year, and to judge of the events of that
year from it. Some place such confidence in revolutionary
figures as to deem them equal, if net superior, to the radix
itself, and that an aspect in the revolution would nullify,
or greatly alter, one in the nativity. The opinions of
Ptolemy and Placidus are more rational; namely, that the
places of planets in a revolution are only of importance as
they respect their places in the radix. Of the truth of this
I am, fully persuaded; and there can be no doubt, that
when there happens a remarkable coincidence between the
revolution and the birth, it will cause striking events to
occur in the native’s life, for which no direction can be
found in a nativity, and this alone demonstrates the error
of rectifying by accidents. There is also reason to suspect,
that the solar revolution, although the principal, is not the
only one likely to produce such effects; but of this I am
not so certain.
I shall here present the reader with a striking example,
illustrative of this remarkable coincidence. . . -
In the nativity of a certain person the planetary posi
tions were as follow :
Plan. b | 2 | G T G)
Signs. | 8 || Vy m. Y.
Long. 1142|34 |io for ji,5 in 12 is50R it is
E-F
Y | Y. *
Revolution, 24 years after, exactly at noon.
Planets, b | 2 | 6 || @ Q | 8 )
Signs, 96 || V} | GB | Y | Y | Yi T Y.
- | | f o | o o
|Longitude 1957 | 13 6 5.8 is 6 gi 3 in 16 is 19
Here, we find b in almost close k to his radical place,
2 within orb of his radical position, 6 in A nearly to his,
- # and # nearly in their radical positions, and the (near
the O’s place and in Sk to her own., The O’s place is a
minute distant, because I took it at nóon. - *
There are few revolutions so closely resembling their
radix, and the event was equally remarkable, for the native
was married 2h, 50m, before the revolution took place. It
is proper here to remark, that the arc of direction of the
midheaven to the quintile of Q is 24° 3, which, by Pto
R. I C H E S 353
lemy's measure of time, of a degree for a year, gives 24y.
18d, for the period of marriage; whereas the time, as
measured by Placidus, would be near 26 years: this is
worth attending to.
What is called the annual revolution for the globe, is
erected when the G) enters the first point of Y', from a
belief that the world was born or created when the Q was
in that point; but this supposed effect of such ingress is
equally ridiculous with the notion which produced it.
The usual mode of calculating events from revolutions,
is to observe the sign ascending, and according to the house
it occupied in the radix will be its effects, and also accord
ing to the planets or stars it contained. If the stars were
all cadent in the radix, or peregrine, and in the revolution.
angular or domiciliated, it denotes evil, and vice versá. If .
they were all above the Earth in the one, and under the
Earth in the other, it denotes the same. The planets are
also supposed to produce effects corresponding to those
.radical houses and planetary places they are found in, at
a revolution: as #, for instance, arriving at the radical
£ of 6, makes the native quarrelsome, or causes,
im to enlist for a soldier, &c. The fortunes coming to the
places of the infortunes helps them to do good, if they are
are so disposed, and restrains their evil, &c. Much of this
"doctrine is ridiculous; nevertheless, it contains some truth,
and deserves the student's attention.
RICHES. Ptolemy says, the place of riches is the
Part of Fortune, and their greatness and duration is to be
esteemed by its dispositors, their strength, position, and
the planets aspecting them. If they are strong, and par
ticularly in good aspect with the luminaries, they cause
great riches. As Ptolemy speaks in the plural number, he
probably alludes to more lords than one, particularly as he
speaks of those of the same condition, which must mean,
several having dignity in the same sign, perhaps by house,
exaltation, and triplicity. His words are as follows: .
“We take what concerns property from that point called
the Part of Fortune only, and accordingly we subtractfrom
the horoscope the distance between the G) and ). This
done, we take the lordships, and consider their strength and
familiarity, and also the strength of those configurated
with them, or elevated, whether they be of the same or
opposite condition. Those having the government of the
£ strong, produce great riches, particularly when
the luminaries give testimony to them. -
2 Z.
354 R. I C H E S
*
I not known that Ptolemy thought much of w
“b will cause riches by building, agricultureor naviga
tion. 21 by the bounty of others, or by offices of trust or
by church preferment. 6 by warfare and military com
mand. Q by friendship and bounty of women. # by
eloquence and attention to business.
“If B be configurated to the GB and 21, they will cause
riches by inheritance, particularly when angular and above
the Earth, and 2 being in a double bodied sign; for in
that case they will be adopted, and thus become heirs, and
if those of the same condition with the lords give testimony
by dominion, this property will be theirs for ever; but if
those of a contrary condition be elevated above those places,
or succeed to them, the property will not remain with them.
The time must be taken from the respective significators,
as they incline towards angles or succeedents.”
To this modern astrologers have added, that those
planets angular cause riches in youth; succeedent, in the
middle of life; and cadent, in old age; and the nearer they
are to the cusp of the house the sooner it will be. They
also, with their usual consistency, affirm, that a planet
oriental with respect to the G) or the world, will cause
riches early in life; but if occidental, in old age; but these
are also divided into four quarters; the orient orientality
from the 1st to the 10th; the occident orientality from the
7th to the 4th; the orient occidentality from the 10th to
the 7th; and occident occidentality from the 4th to the
horoscope. There are also four quarters of oriental and
occidental positions with the Sun, for which see “Oriental.”
I should not have mentioned these modern opinions, had
£ he called
the orientality of the planets, and therefore, although he
has omitted to mention it here, it no doubt formed a part
of what he calls, the strength of those dispositors. I am
obliged again to repeat, that lordships and disposition are
nothing, and therefore the whole system is founded in error.
Indeed, if it even were so, the whole would be a mass of
indescribable confusion; for planets might be so posited
with angular, cadent, and two kinds oforiental and occi
dental positions, as to signify both riches and poverty at
the same moment of time. The doctrine of Ptolemy in
this case is very unconnected and confused: he never comes
directly to the point, and there can be no doubt, that the
system was as unintelligible to himself as he made it to
others. The moderns in some instances have come much
nearer the truth, and could they have kept clear of houses
and dignities, and Dragon's Tails, their opinions would
R I C H E S - 355
have been worth attending to. Some of the best of them
are as follow :
If many planets be strong in the geniture, particularly
the luminaries and the three superiors, the native will be
rich and respectable, and the same if the lights be angular
and in £ aspect with each other, particularly in the
10th, 11th, and 1st.
The luminaries afflicted or cadent, the D combust or
impeded by the G), all or most of the planets cadent and
inconjunct, or in evil aspect, are signs of poverty, mean
ness and misery.
All or most of the planets under the Earth, shew poverty,
want, and many troubles in youth, especially if the lights
be there and cadent; but if strong, and free from affliction,
the native will improve in riches and happiness when old.
Many retrograde planets are said to cause much poverty,
sickness, and affliction.
The more nonsensical part must be added, not for its
value, but to render the article complete.
The lord of the 2d retrograde, cadent, combust, pere
grine, or in his detriment or fall, or any way afflicted, will
always keep the native poor and in distress.
Planets in their houses, exaltations, or triplicities, par
ticularly the lord of the 2d or the dispositors of the 69, the
G) in his exaltation in A to the D, 2 or Q in the 2d or
the lord of the 2d oriental, or increasing in number, light
and motion, or the dispositors of the @ in the same condi
tion, or the @ joined to the Q, or to 2/ or Q, or the Sè
in the 2d.; are all said to be signs of riches and prosperity.
The dispositor of the QB in the 8th, or the lord of the 2d
there, or the lord of the 8th in the 2d; shew riches by
legacies, if they are well dignified. If the significators of
riches be in fixed signs, the property will be durable, and
the same if a fortune be in the 2d.; but if the QS be there,
it will be lost; or if the significators be in moveable signs,
it will be unstable. An infortune strong in the 2d, gives
riches, but they will be got and kept with much labour and
difficulty; and if weak, the native will always be poor.
If P be in the 4th, strong, or in good aspect with a
benefic, or with the lord of the 4th; or in reception with
the luminaries, provided they are in good aspect with the
4th or its lord; the native will acquire a fortune by mines,
quarries, &c.
The RS with any of the significators of substance, brings
the whole to nothing.
356 R. I G HT
The reader may be assured, that the best sign of riches,
is for the luminaries to be angular in good aspectwith each
other, and one of them culminating, and in my judgment,
this one should be ). The benetics angular, free from
combustion, and in good aspect with lights or joined to the
):; all the planets above the Earth, and the benefics more
angular than the malefics, and in good aspect with the
lights; are the best and truest signs of riches and good for
tune. B with the ), especially in an angle, is the worst
of positions, and denotes utter poverty or ruin. The 9
fortunate in the horoscope, is an excellent position; or if
she culminate, or join with good fixed stars. Fixed stars
also in the 10th or 1st, are all signs of riches or good for
tune. Planets oriental of the G), or direct, or swift, give
riches in youth; but occidental, retrograde, or slow, not
until old age. Directions have less or greater force as they
concur with those times.
RIGEL. See “Orion’s Foot.”
RIGHT ASCENSION, any arc of the equator, rec.
koned from the beginning of Y', and ending at that point
: rises with any star or part of the ecliptic in a right
Sphere. - - • * * *
"' right ascensions may be found either with or with
out latitude, in tables published at the same time with this
work. - - .. -
The longitude and latitude being taken the right ascen
sion will be found in the common angle of meeting. . .
ExAMPLE:—Suppose the Q to be in 14° 30' of X, I
would find his right ascension. As the G) never has any
latitude, I look in the first column and find the right ascen
sion of 14° 0' of 36 to be 345° 16': as 1” in 36 gives only
66 of right ascension, as will be seen in the table, I take
28% for the odd 30', and this makes my right ascension com
plete, 345° 44'. When a planet has latitude, as they gene
rally have, its right ascension may be found in the common
angle of meeting of the longitude and latitude, by taking
proportional parts in the case of fractions in the same man
ner as directed for the tables of declination. •
RIGHT DESCENSION, an arc of the equator that
descends with any star or point of the ecliptic; but this is
only an unmeaning term, for the whole is right ascension
from the first point of Aries to the first point of Aries again,
including the whole circle of 360°. * -
RIGHT DISTRANCE, the distance of any place from
another by right ascension, and it is found by subtracting
the right ascension of the preceding from that of the suc
~ *
S.A. T E L #, IT E S 357
ceeding place, adding 360° if subtraction cannot be made
without. -
ExAMPLE:—Suppose 18° of: to be on the cusp of the
10th, what is the right distance of 15 of Y }
The right ascension of 18° of : will be found in the
taile to be 320° 30', and the right ascension of 15 of Aries,
13° 48': add for subtraction 360°, the sum will be 373° 48',
from which subtract 320° 30, it will leave the right dis
tance, 53° 18'. - -
RIGHT SPHERE, so called, because all the circles
parallel to the equator make right angles with the horizon,
and the celestial bodies ascend and descend direct; hence
it is also called a direct sphere. The equator is always in
its zenith, and the poles of the world in its horizon, and its
days and nights are always equal. Those who inhabit the
equatorial parts of the globe, have always a right sphere.
RUMINANT SIGNS, signs that ruminate, or chew
the cud: 'Y', 8, and V3. This in astrology may be called
the very acme of the ridiculous. Because these three signs
are called the ram, bull, and goat, animals that chew the
eud, it has been asserted, that those born when the C is in
one of them will be apt to do the same, and some physi
cians have denied all medicines at those times, except
vomits, because, they said, it would be thrown up again. ..
SAGITTARIUS. See “Signs.” . .
SATELLITES, attendants, or guards; a term applied
in astronomy to those secondary planets or moons that re
volve round the primary, as our moon, or those of b, 2/,
and #. In astrology it signifies such planets as surround
the luminaries within a certain distance, which is generally .
supposed to be 30°. Placidus allows no limitation for dis
tance, but affirms every planet to be a satellite that in any
way aspects the Q or (, because they dispose such lumi
nary to operate throughout the whole life of the native ae
cording to the nature of such planet and aspect, whether
good or evil. Ptolemy says, those guards must be either
in the same sign with the luminaries, or in the following
sign; and if the Q be guarded by oriental and the ( by
occidental stars in this manner, the fortune of the na
tive's father will be “glorious and splendid.” Placidus
appears either to have overlooked or to have misunderstood
this passage, else he probably would have been of thesame
opinion, as it is, he is more correct; for Ptolemy probably
was in this, as in many other things, guided wholly by
fancy: supposing the luminaries when in that state to be
surrounded by their guards and retinue, and when thus
*
-
-
\
*
358 s E Co N D A R Y
“gloriously and splendidly” equipped, every thing under
their influence must be the same. Positions of this kind,
however, are worthy of observation, for even imagination
may lead to truth. - -
SATURN. See * Planets.” |
SCALES: the North Scale is a star of the 2d magnitude
of the nature of 2/ and d, in the 17th degree of ml, said to
be of a benefic nature, and causing riches, honours, and
happiness. The South Scale is said to be of a violent na
ture, and productive of every species of disease and misfor
tune. It is of the nature of b and Q, and is posited in the
13th degree of m. -
SCHEME. See “Figure.”
SCORPIO. See “Signs.”
SCORPION'S HEART, Antares, a violent fixed star,
of the first magnitude, in the 8th degree of 1, of the nature
of #, and & , said to cause rashness, enterprize, violence
and oppression, and productive of ultimate ruin and death.
• SECONDARY DIRECTIONS, those daily configu
rations to the luminaries and angles that happen after birth,
every day of which is reckoned for a year, 2 hours for a
month, 30 minutes for a week, and 4 minutes for a day,
Thus, whatever aspects take place in the first day of the
native’s life will develope their effects in the first year,
those of the 2d day in the 2d year, and, consequently, if a
person lives 50 years, his secondary direction for his fiftieth
year will arise from those configurations which took place
on the fiftieth day after his birth. Some, particularly the
Egyptians, used to predict the events of a nativity wholly
from the secondary directions, but Placidus was of opinion
that they chiefly relate to the primary directions, whether
good or evil, by accelerating or retarding their effects, and
so fully was he persuaded of their efficacy, that he never
calculated any event of importance without adding the
secondary direction to it. - -
The general opinion concerning secondary directions is,
that their effects will be in proportion to the strength or
weakness of a nativity, because an accidental good cannot
prevail against a positive evil, and vice versá. Indeed this is
supposed to be the case even in primary directions, for
where the radix denotes health and strength, a direction
to a malefic will but produce a short or slight disease, un
attended with danger, especially if the secondary direction
does not concur.
The principal thing to be considered is the C ; for on
those days when she comes to the place or evil aspect, and,
U
s Eco N D ARY 359
above all things, when she obtains the declination of the in
fortunes ; the years corresponding to these days will be
peculiarly unfortunate and dangerous; and where she ac
quires the position, good aspect, or declination of a be
nefic, they are equally fortunate, though with a bias in all
cases to the nature of the radix, whether it be good or evil.
Next to the C the Q is to be considered, £ all cases
of life or death, the hyleg must be observed; but I suspect
that the (, whether what is called hyleg or not, will be
found to have great weight on those occasions. We are
also advised to form a judgment from the positions of the
luminaries, or other planets, in the secondary direction, ac
cording as they respect the places of the angles in the radix.
As the luminaries in the secondary direction are consi
dered with respect to the places and declinations of the for
tunes, or infortunes, in the radix, so the luminaries in the
radix are to be considered with respect to the fortunes or
infortunes in the secondary direction, though, unless some
considerable time has elapsed, these cannot have greatly
changed their position. - -
The quadratures and syziges of the ) and her D., &,
ord, with her own place, are all, to be taken into the
account, and judgment formed from them. . . The lights
also must be considered as they are well or ill affected to
: other in the secondary direction, as well as in the
TàGil K, -
| Progressions, called Processes, may also be considered as
forminga part ofthe secondary directions. They are pro
duced by synodical (or as Placidus calls them, embolismic)
lunations, each ofwhich is said to govern a year of the native
in succession, every one of which commences at the moment
the ) is exactly at the same distance from the G) as at the
moment of birth. An embolismic lunation, therefore, has
the same effect on the affairs of the native as a solar day,
and the same judgment must be drawn from it, with this
difference, that the process wholly relates to the ) and her
good and evil positions with the other stars, particularly at,
her quadratures and syziges. The Arabians had their an
nual and monthly progressions, by allowing 30° of the zo
diac to every year and month; but this is as groundless as
their other systems. .* -
Ingresses are formed upon these secondary directions and
processes, as well as upon the places of the primary direc
tions; but they have no respect to the places of the nativity.
There are two kinds of ingresses, active, and passive. .
Active ingresses are those wherein the active stars operate
360 SEC 6 N D A R Y
-
*
by coming to the places of the significator; and passive in
gresses are those wherein the passive stars come to the
places of the promittors. By active stars are meant b, 2/,
# Q, and #, and also the Q and ) when they acquire
the nature of those stars and become promittors. Passive.
stars are the luminaries, because they remain passive, and
receive the good or evil communicated to them by the ac
tive stars. As to the active and passive ingresses, it is
merely a distinction without a difference; for whether the .
promittor makes an ingress on the place of the significator,
or the significator on that of the promittor, the effects are
the same. The time of an ingress is on the day of death,
or of any particular event or direction, whether good or
evil, and they either accelerate or retard such events, as
they agree with, or oppose it. . -
Transits are also a kind of ingresses, from which they
differ alone in this respect, that they only operate on the
points in the radix, and have nothing to do with any direc
tions or processes. Indeed, they may all be called transits,
for both ingresses and transits are the actual positions of
the planets on the day of an event, whether they respect
the places of the primary or secondary directions, or of the
processes or the radix. -
The chief thing, according to Placidus, to be considered,
is the lunations or places of the ) last preceding the day
of any event, whether it be a 6, 9, or D to the @ in
those places; for if either of the luminaries happen at such
time to be on an evil place, it threatens disasters, diseases,
murders, &c.; but if on a good place, where the benefics
or their good aspect is found, it denotes happiness and suc
cess, and this he says is found never to fail. For my own
part, I am persuaded it never fails; but I cannot say so much
for human judgment, which too often fails, owing, as Pto
lemy justly observes, to the vast magnitude of the under
taking, where such numerous, opposite, and intricate points
are left for our consideration.
By way of example, I shall here subjoin a specimen of
the method of Placidus in calculating these directions, taken
from his nativity of Charles the fifth, emperor of Germany.
The places in the radix were as follows:
* I b_|_2 | d' | Q || 9 || 9
|Signs. || 3 || > || 2 | X_|_% || >6.
|Long. ##730 & 0 | #30, 3040 10 jo
--
W
45
6
S E C O N D A R Y $61
Declinations. * -
#5, 15° 13' N. M., 9° 37' S. 3, 19° 52' N. G), 6°8 S.
£e 18 S. 3, 1451 S. ), 25 24 S.
He lived 58 years and 7 months all but two days, and
died from the effect of the D’s 8 to b, according to Pla
cidus, which she acquired by converse motion, the are of
direction for which when equated gives 58 days, answering
to 58 years.
“I thus,” says Placidus, “calculate the secondary direc
tions for near 58 years, 7 months; for the 58 years I add
58 days to the time of the birth, and 14 hours for the 7
months, and I come to the 22d of April of the same year,
(he was born on the 23d of February), and the following
is the position of the planets for the secondary direction.
Planets, b. I X | d Q 9 || 3 |
Signs, 8 || 36 II | 8 || II | 8 || 34
| | o / | C- C. ©
Longitude & 11 208s & 19 | f 36 || 8 || |545
| S. S. N. | | | S. S. S.
Latitude. 146 || 1 || 2 38 22 || || 23 || 50
“The D., being in 4 of X with 5° 0' south latitude, has
14° 44' of declination, which is the declination of 5 both
here and in the nativity, and on the day of death (as will
be shewn presently) d was in 4° 0' of my in partile & to
this place of the ). The G) in the secondary direction,
22d of April, had the parallel of b's declination both on
the dav of birth and ''death, and on the day of death he
entered (from the 3) the place of the p's zodiacal square
and two days before he died there had been a lunation o?
the C to the G) in those evil places. On the day of death
the ) was in the last degree of W5, with 4° 55' south lati
tude, which gave her the same parallel of declination with
6 in the secondary direction on the 22d of April; there
fore, there was a mutual change of aspect between her and
d, namely, an active and passive ingress to these motions
on the day of death : an admirable proof of the truth of the
calculation. The following are the planetary positions on
the day of death. - *
* | * | * || 7 | = | 9 || = | #
*… 'O 1 o o , o 1 © 1 o , e I
Ing. 2431 (2 4 || 4 28 || 7 31, 29 25 1729 || 2929
| | S. S.T.N. | TN. T.S.
itude, 234 || 051 || 0 24 | | 0.42 || 455.
- 3 A
–
-
-
362 SEC ON DARY
--~~~~:----------------
“I look for the process in this manner: 48 embolismic
lunations are finished for the 48 years, in 4 years after the
birth, all but 44 days, that is, 4 times II; for, as we have
said in its canon, that the ) finishes 12 embolismic luna
tions in 11 days less than a year, therefore, subtracting
44 days from the 23d of February, 1504 (he was born in
1500), brings us back to the 10th of January, when the D
is posited in the 22d degree of m, at the same distance of
68° from the Q asshe had at the nativity: thus the process
is finished for 48 years. The other 10 embolismic lunations
for the other 10 years brings us to the 31st of October,
1504, with the D in 10° # , and the G) in 18° of ill.
To preserve their distance correctly, for the remaining 6
months and 27 days to the day of death, add to this place of
the D six signs and 15 degrees for the 6 months, and 29°
30' for the 27 days, and we come to 24° 30' of Y, where
the D is posited on the 18th of November, and the rest of
the planets as follows.
“The Process.
O
© 1 © 1 © 1 C- 1. C-1 ©-r c
326 || 1615 || 1415 || 6 3 || 1340 || 24, 44 || 24
- -
1011 || 0401-0-2 0.9 || 0 40
“On the day of death & cast the DJ to the place of the
Q in the process; the ) had passed the place of her direc
tion in the zodiac, but having arrived at 25° of Y, she
entered by ingress on the day of death the parallel of 6's
declination, and came to the Ú of this place of her pro
gression when in 24° of Vy. She also applied in the pro
gression to the U. of b.” *
re we have the entire system laid down of calculating
- secondary directions. He first begins by allowing a day
for a year, and 2 hours for a month, and makes a scheme of
the £ places for that time, which is the secondary
direction. - -
He next finds the planets' places for the day of death,
and compares the two together. Here he finds the ) on
the fatal day in a parallel of b's declination, which was the
same both in the secondary direction and in the radix; or,
as astrologers term it, both by ingress and transit; because,
so far as it respects the secondary direction, it is called an
ingress, and so far as it relatesto the radix, a transit. There
--~~~t-- ***.
*
SEC O N D A R Y 363
! could not be a worse position than this. 6, likewise, on the
day of death made an active transit over the 9, of the place
of the D in the radix, which was 4° of 96, and 6 transited
4° of mg. The Q in the secondary direction had the same
declination as b had in the radix, and, what was extremely
remarkable, b on the day ofdeath was within 20' distance
of his place in the secondary direction, and within 6° of his
in the radix. - His declination at the three periods
early the same, and this was the Q’s declination in
the secondary direction. A striking instance here occurs of
the truth of what I have already observed, that the lights
are always in some degree aphetical, whether they are above
or under the Earth, and (although I am no friend to the
doctrine of houses, or angles,) I have much reason to sus
pect that the horoscope at the time of birth and in prima
directions is the same, though it can have nothing to do wit
secondary directions, progressions, ingresses, or transits.
The G), also, on the day of death transited the D of the
D in the radix, the latter being in 6° 45' of W5, and the Q
in 7° 31' of ~. He had just left the sign mp, where he had
been in 9 to the D’s place in the secondary direction, and
# to his own place in the radix. Placidus notices this with
| the design of shewing that one evil position succeeded ano
£ ; but this is certainly making the most of every thing,
as Placidus always does on these occasions. The & must
have happened in the 4th degree ofmy to the )'s secondary
place, and to his own radical place in the 15th degree, both
'of which the Q had passed ' before. The preceding
[T] of the G) and ) is deserving of attention. It had taken
place two days before the day of death, when she was po
sited on her own place in the radix, and in the zodiacal C
of which the G) was found on the same fatal day. At the
same time the ) acquired the declination of d in the se
condary direction, which is called a passive ingress, being
made by the ), who is a passive planet; and thus there was
a mutual change ofaspect by ingress between the ) and d.
First, the active ingress of 3, who on the day of death
came to the 9 of the )’s place in the secondary direction;
and, secondly, the passive ingress of the ), who entered on
the day of death, the zodiacal parallel of G in the secondary
direction. All these are not only strong but remarkable .
positions, and their strange coincidence on the day of death
can hardly leave a doubt in the mind of any reflecting per
son, that they were the cause of it in a great degree, if not
wholly, for I have little opinion ofthe converse direction of
the ) to the mundane & of b. x \
364 S E C O N D A R Y
The next calculation relates to the procession of the ),
by allowing an embolismic or synodical lunation, consisting
of twenty-nine days and a half, for a year, and in a similar
proportion for the odd days. When the D's position is
found for that period, the places of the planets are all liker
wise taken for the same point of time. This is also comr
pared with the position on the day of death. d on that
day applies to the D of the G) in the process; the Moon in
the process had passed her zodiacal C to her own place in
the radix, so that no additional evil could happen in that
respect; but on the day of death she made an ingress on the
parallel of d’s declination in the process, and this at a time
whenshe was in squareto her own place in the process. Placis
dus also remarks, that she was applying in the process to the
D of b. This is a proof that he differed in opinion with those
who imagine that a sign should be considered as a boundary,
for here the Moon is in 24° 30' of Y, and B in 3° 26' of S\,
which, according to modern notions, would have rendered
her void of course to all but #. But Placidus knew that,
the zodiac is measured by distances, not by signs, and that
the Moon was only eight degrees and a half distant from
the zodiacal D of b, to which she was applying. Here,
again, is another strange agreement in position, though
certainly not so striking as that which relates to the secon
'dary direction. - -
... I have dwelt more particularly on these operations, and
have explained them twice over, because I am certain they
merit the attention of the reader, and I wish them to be
thoroughly comprehended. They shew the real, though
minute, operations of the heavenly bodies on each other,
and consequently on all things subjected to their influence,
and at once demonstrate the necessity of close study, strict
attention, long experience, acute observation, and rational
conclusions. Any comment on the ignorance of those who
decry those truths, merely because they have read a few
silly books about houses and dignities, and dragons’ heads
and tails, would be superfluous. No one who has not spent
a considerable portion of his life in the pursuit of this kind
of knowledge, can form any competent idea of its nature,
and it would be as ridiculous to attach any importance to
the opinion of a person who has not done this (however
extensive his learning may be in other respects), as it would
be for a mason to listen to a cobler's opinion on the science
of architecture. When a man wishes to explode any
science, he should first learn it: for the student may rely
on this as an infallible truth, that among all his opponents
s EMI QUADRATE, 365
not one of them can bring up a direction, either primary or
secondary, or calculate an ingress or transit, or even com
prehend the meaning of the terms as applied to astrology.
SEMI, half. -
SEMIARC, half a diurnal or nocturnal arc.
SEMICIRCLE, half a circle, 180 degrees. -
SEMIDIURNAL ARC, half a diurnal arc. The time
or distance of half the daily course of a star taken from its
rising until it comes to the midheaven, or from the midhea
wen until it sets. It may be taken either in degrees and
minutes, or in hours and minutes. If the semidiurnal arc
be divided by six, it will give the diurnal horary time of the
star. If divided by three, it will give its double horary time,
or space of its house by day. The semidiurnal arc of any
star or point in the heavens is found by adding the ascen
sional difference of the star to 90°, if it have north declina.
tion ; but if its declination be southern, the ascensional
difference must be subtracted from 90°. It may also be
found in tables of semidiurnal arcs. If the ascensional dif.
ference be in time, it may be found in time by subtracting
the latter from six hours, or adding it, as before.
SEMINOCTURNAL ARC, half a nocturnal arc. The
time or distance of half the nocturnal course of a star from
the time of its setting until it comes to the lowest heaven, or
from thence till it rises. Divided by six it will give the
nocturnal horary time ofthe star, and divided by three, it will
give its double horary time, or space of its house by night,
It is found by subtracting the star's ascensional difference
from 90°, if the star has north declination, or by adding it to
90°, if the declination be south. If either the seminoctur
nal or semidiurnal arc of a star be known, the other may
be found by subtracting that one known from 180°, and the
remainder will be the other, or, if required in time, by sub
tracting it from twelve hours. • ,
SEMIQUADRATE, one of Kepler's new aspects, con
taining a distance of a sign and a half, or 45 degrees in the
zodiac, or the half of a semiarc in the world. It is the
half of the D, and is said to be evil, because the square
from whence it is derived is evil, but we have no evidence
of the truth of this supposition, and we are also certain
that the D is of a neutralizing tendency, because it crosses
two influences at right angles, which the semiquadrate does
not. Placidus allows it to have no influence that is perfect
of any kind, but supposes that at that distance a kind of
operative power commences, which is not quite perfected
until it reaches the sk. One thing, however, is certain,
/
\
-
* *
*
366 SEP A RATION,
that in general a most striking change takes place in the
weather when the D arrives within 6 or 7 degrees of her
last semiquadrate, previous to the conjunction, and a
similar change (though not so durable in its effects) when
within the same distance of the first semiquadrate succeed
ing the conjunction. To the same cause also may be traced
the two critical days of acute diseases so well known to
physicians, namely the 4th and 7th, when the ) arrives at
the semiquadrate and square of her position at the decum,
biture. There is great reason to suspect, that the semi
Quadrate is a very powerful suspending position, as it at
least suspends and often destroys the effects both of the
square and conjunction. Indeed, it deserves more atten
tion and investigation than it has hitherto received.
SEMIQUINTILE, half a quintile; one of Kepler's
new aspects, containing 36° in the zodiac, or one fifth of a
diurnal or nocturnal arc in the world. It isi said to be
good, because the quintile is good from whence it is de
rived, but it is not noticed by Placidus.
SEMISEXTILE, half a >}: ; the distance of a sign, or
30° in the zodiac, and one third of a semiarc in the world.
It is said to be good by Kepler, but it is not noticed by Pla
cidus, though, for my own part, I think the effects both of
the semisextile and the quincunx, which is its opposite
point, are very manifest. -
SEPARATION, when two planets having been in par
tile configuration are beginning to separate. It is dis
tinguished into simple and mutual. Simple separation is
when the lighter planet pursues its course and separates
from the other by excess of motion. Mutual separation is
when the heavy planet is retrograde, and consequently
assists in the separation. It is much weaker than applica
tion, for if the Moon separate from one planet ''apply
to another, she will be more affected by the latter. The
combustion of the Moon denotes sickness, but if the Moon
separate from the Sun, there will be hopes of ultimate re
covery in proportion to her distance; but if she apply, the
danger is great. -
Kn horary questions, applications and separations are of
great importance. The latter always denotes weakness,
insufficiency, and declining influence or attachment. Thus
in sickness, separating from an evil planet is a token of
recovery : in marriage, it denotes the decline of affection
in the party that separates, and if the separation be mutual,
it is considered nearly the same as refranation. -
SEXTILE w 367
SERVANTS. The doctrine of Ptolemy concerning
servants is so superficial as to plainly indicate he knew
nothing of the matter. “We take it,” he says, “from the
sign on the twelfth house, and from the stars in the geni
ture beholding that place either by conjunction or opposi
tion, and chiefly when the rulers of that sign are con
figurated with the chief places of the geniture, or behold
them with evil aspect.” That is, whether the lord, or rather
lords, of the 12th were well or ill configurated to the as
cendant or midheaven. If the aspect was good, they would
be honest; if evil, dishonest. £, symbolical astrology
can have no foundation so far as respects nativities. The
moderns, for reasons best known to themselves, make use
of the 6th to signify servants, and say, that if the lord of
the 6th be strong and well configurated to the lords of the
1st or 2d, or if either of these be lord of the 6th, or if the
lords of the 1st and 6th be angular and in good aspect, or
if any planet be in the 6th or 12th, in good aspect to the
lord of the ascendant, or if a fortune be in the 6th, or if #
be lord of the 6th and strong, or if the S2, be there, the
servants of the native will be honest and well disposed to
wards him, and vice versá. lf the QS or b or Ó be there,
or # ill dignified, they will be rogues or thieves. The
whole is too ridiculous to merit any attention. Those who
keep servants will find their conduct of a piece with the
rest oftheir fortune, whether good or evil, and if they wish
to know any particular respecting them, it may be dis
covered by a horary question. - - -
SESQUIQUADRATE, a new aspect of Kepler's, to
which Placidus appears to attach some importanee. It is
a square and a h'or 135° in the zodiac; and in the world
it is a semiarc and a half. Its effect is considered evil, as it
depends on the C1 for its formation. -
SESQUIQUINTILE, a quintile and a half, or three
signs and eighteen degrees in the zodiae, or a whole semi
arc and one fifth of another in the world. It is said to be
good, because the quintile is good, on which it is founded.
SEXAGENARY TABLES, so called from Sexaginta,
sixty: tables formed from the proportional parts of the num
ber 60, so as to give the product oftwo sexagenary numbers,
that are to be multiplied, or the quotient oftwo to be divided.
SEXTILE (>|<), an old aspect, when two planets are
two signs or 60 degrees distant from each other: . In the
world it is two-thirds of a semiarc. It is also called a hex
agon, and is supposed to be of the same nature as the A
(of which it is the half) but not so powerful.
- *
-
---------
- - - • - ----------
"--- ~ *
$68 | SIG NS,
SIGNIFICATOR. This term applies chiefly to the
luminaries, which (particularly the Moon) are significative
of the fortune of every native, who will be fortunate or
otherwise according to their condition. The 1st and 10th
houses are also deemed significators; the first governs in a
considerable degree the health and life of the native, and
the 10th his honour and prosperity. The 69 is also consi
dered as a significator even of life in certain cases, but this
appears quite inconsistent with reason, nor is it clear, to
me at least, that the 10th house can operate as a signifi
cator, except there are planets there at the moment ofbirth.
In horary questions every house and its lord are significa
tors of something, and the Moon is the general significator
of a querent as well as the ascendant and its lord. The 2d
and its lord signify riches; the 3d, brethren, neighbours,
&c. See “Horary Questions.” -
In directions the luminaries alone are considered signifi
tors, in contradistinction to B, 21, 6, Q, and #, who are
called promittors; though in certain cases the luminaries
operate themselves as promittors. Whether the angles and
69 are considered as significators or promittors is of uo
great consequence, for they are taken in both capacities.
SIGNS, every constellation or group of stars having a
name is by some called a sign; but the principal of them
all are the twelve which compose the zodiac, because the
course of the O, called the ecliptic, passes through them.
ARIEs (Y), the first of them, is a vernal, hot, dry, fiery,
cardinal, masculine, equinoctial, moveable, diurnal, east
ern, commanding, northern, choleric, luxuriant, violent,
fourfooted, fortunate,hoarse, bitter sign; ofshort ascension;
the day house of d, and exaltation of the Q.—Those born
under it have a spare, dry, strong, body; piercing eye, long
face, black eye-brows, long neck, thick shoulders, sallow
or swarthy complexion, sandy or red hair, and the disposi
tion is violent and intemperate.—It governs the head and
face, and its diseases are the small-pox, measles, ringworms,
shingles, epilepsy, apoplexy, fevers, convulsions, palsy, me
rims, baldness, and all diseases proceeding from heat and
ryness. It is considered rather barren.—The countries
under its influence are said to be Britain, France, Ger
many, Switzerland, Denmark, Less Poland, Syria and Pa
lestine, Naples, Capua, Ancona, Verona, Florence, Fer
rara, Padua, Saragossa, Marseilles, Silesia, Burgundy,
Utrecht, Cracow, &c.—Its colours are white and red.—lt
denotes pasture-grounds for cattle, sandy hilly grounds, hid
ing places for thieves, and unfrequented places. In houses
it denotes the covering, ceiling, or plastering; stables for
f
~------------------- ------
S I GN S. , 369
small cattle, lands recently enclosed or ploughed, and lime
or brick-kilns. •
TAUR Us (8) is a vernal, cold, dry, earthy, melancholy,
feminine, nocturnal, southern, fixed, unfortunate, fourfooted,
crooked, northern, commanding, hoarse sign; of short as
cension; the might house of Q and exaltation of the ):
, The native born under it will have a broad forehead, thick
lips, dark curly hair; is dull and unfeeling, slow to anger
and rather melancholy; but if once provoked, very mali
cious.—It governs the neck and throat, and its diseases are
consumptions, scrophula, croup, melancholy, defluctions of
rheum, putrid sore throat, quinsey, wens in the neck, &c.
It is rather sonsidered a fruitful sign, as belonging to Q.
It governs Ireland, Great Poland, White Russia, Holland,
Persia, Less Asia, the Archipelago,Mantua, Leipsic, Parma,
and Nantz, Franconia, Lorraine, Sens, Bythynia, Cyprus,
&c.-Its colours are red and citron.—It denotes stables for
- horses, cow-houses, places for holding furniture of cattle,
pasture-grounds at a distance from houses, grounds lately
cleared of bushes and sowed with wheat, trees that are not
far off, celiars and low rooms. - -
GEMINI (II) is a vernal, airy, hot, moist, sanguine, mas
culine, northern, commanding, diurnal, western, double
bodied, human, barren, common, whole, changeable, speak
ing, fortunate, bicorporal, sweet sign; the day house of #
and exaltation of the Q.—The native is tall and straight,
fair, of a dark sanguine complexion, with long arms, but
short fleshy hands and feet, dark hazle eyes, dark brown
hair, quick sight, smart active look, and good understanding.
-It governs the arms and shoulders, and its diseases are
brain-fevers, corrupt blood, fractures in the head, arms, &c.
It is called a barren sign, because # has no particular sex.
-It rules the south-west part of England, America, Flan
ders, Lombardy, Sardinia, Armenia, Lower Egypt, London,
Versailles, Brabant, Wittenberg,Mentz, Bruges, Louvaine,
Cordova, Nuremberg, &c.—Its colours are red and white
mixed.—It denotes wainscot, plastering and walls, coffers,
chests, barns, storehouses for corn, hills, mountains, and
high places. - - * - *
CANCER (GB) is an estival, cold, watery, moist, phlegmatic,
feminine, cardinal, tropical, northern, commanding, moc
turnal, moveable, fruitful, weak, unfortunate, crooked, mute
sign; of long ascension, the house of the ), and exaltation
.—The native is fair, but pale; short and small round
face, brown hair, gray small eyes, and weak voice, the up
per part of the body somewhat large; dull, effeminate con
\
*
370 s 1 GN s.
stitution, and if a female, very prolific. It is a very fruitful
sign, being the house of the ), and exaltation of 2/.–It
£ the breast and stomach, and its diseases are short
reath, bad appetite, coughs, consumptions, hoemoptoes,
asthmas, inflamations of the lungs, stomach, and diaphragm,
cancers, imposthumes, and dropsy.—It governs Scotland,
Holland, Zealand, Burgundy, Africa, Algiers, Tunis, Tri
poli, Constantinople, Amsterdam, Cadiz, Venice, Genoa, ,
agdebourg, York, St. Andrew's, and New York.—Its
colours are green and russet.—It denotes seas and great
navigable rivers or canals, brooks, springs, wells, marshes,
ditches, sedges, trenches, cisterns, sea banks, wash-houses,
and cellers. -
LEO (SR) is a hot, dry, fiery, choleric, eastern, mascu
line, diurnal, northern, commanding, fixed, estival, brutish,
barren, four-footed, broken, changeable, fortunate, strong,
hoarse, bitter, violent, sign; of long ascension; the diurnal
and nocturnal house of the G).—The native has a large
body, broad shoulders, austere countenance, large goggle
eyes, dark yellow hair, strong coarse voice, oval ruddy
countenance; of a high, resolute, haughty, ambitious
temper; yet generous, and often free and courteous. The
latter part of the sign makes the native weaker, his body
more thin and small, and his hair rather flaxen.—It governs
the heart and back, and its diseases are pains in the back
and ribs, convulsions, syncopes, fevers, pestilence, small
pox, measles, jaundice, and all hot diseases and inflama
tions. It is wholly barren, the Q being barren.—It governs
Italy, Bohemia, France, Sicily, Rome, Bristol, Cremona,
Prague, Syracuse, Crotona, Ravenna, Philadelphia, &c.—
Its colours are red and green.—It denotes haunts of wild
beasts, woods, forests, dens and deserts, rocky and inac
cessible places, castles, forts, parks, king's palaces, and
fire-places in houses.
VIRGo (my) is a cold, dry, earthy, melancholy, feminine,
southern, nocturnal, common, barren, human, speaking,
changeable, estival, unfortunate, northern, commanding,
sign; of long ascension; the night house and exaltation of
#.—The native is well made, tall (Lilly says of a middle
stature and no way handsome) and rather slender, but very
compact and well made; has a dark ruddy complexion,
roundish face, dark brown or black hair, small shrill voice:
and is witty, ingenious and studious, but fickle-minded.
If # ascend in it, free from affliction, the native will be a
great orator.—It governs the bowels, belly, spleen, and
diaphragm, and its diseases aresuch as arise from wind,
*
S 1 G. N. S. - 371
melancholy, illiac passion, dysentery, and all disorders of
the intestines. It is wholly barren because of #.-It
governs all Turkey both in Europe and Asia, Greece,
Mesopotamia, Crete, Jerusalem, Croatia, Lower Silesia,
Thoulouse, Paris, Lyons, Heidelburg, Padua, Basil, &c.
Its colour is black speckled with blue.—It denotes studies,
libraries and book-cases, closets, dairys, cornfields, gra
naries, hayricks, malthouses, storehouses of butter, cheese,
or corn, and barns. -
LIBRA (~) is a hot, moist, airy, sanguine, western,
diurnal, cardinal, equinoctial, moveable, masculine, human,
speaking, whole, changeable, sweet, fortunate, autumnal,
southern, obeying, sign ; of long ascension; the day house
of Q, and exaltation of B.—The native istall and elegantly
made, with a round beautiful face, ruddy in youth, but
inclined to pimples when old; light, yellow, auburn, or
flaxen hair; blue eyes, sweet temper, and upright in
principle. It is rather fruitful because of Q.—It governs
the reins, loins and bladder, and its diseases are impos,
thumes and ulcers in those places, weakness, debility,
tabis dorsalis, and the milder kinds of syphilis.—It governs
Austria, Alsace, Savoy, Portugal, Livonia, India, Ethiopia,
Lisbon, Vienna, Frankfort, Friburg, Placentia, Antwerp,
and Charlestown.—Its colour is black, crimson or any
dusky colour.—It denotes detached barns, outhouses, saw
pits, or cooperages, inner chambers, attic stories, ground
near windmills, mountain tops, sides of hills, chaces,
commons, barren, stony, or sandy ground, and places
having a pure, clear, sharp air. -
Scorpio (in) is a cold, moist, watery, phlegmatic, femi
nine, autumnal, nocturnal, northern, fixed, fruitful, mute,
broken, unfortunate, strong, southern, obeying sign; of
long ascension; the night house and joy of 6.—The native
is strong, corpulent, and robust; middle sized, dark com
plexion, brown curling hair, with thick neck and legs, and
short body, hairy and coarse, active, but very reserved.—
It governs the genitals, groin, bladder, and fundament, and
its diseases are confirmed lues, and all the worst kind of
syphilis, piles, fistulas, ruptures, scurvy, and urinal ob
structions. It is the least fruitful of the watery signs be
cause of 6.—It governs Judea, Mauritania, Catalonia,
Norway, West Silesia, Upper Bavaria, Barbary, Morocco,
Valentia, Messina, and Franckfort on the Oder.-Its colour
is brown.—It denotes places where vermin and reptiles
breed, sinks, drains, quagmires, stinking pools, ruins near
Water, muddy swamps, marshes, gardens, orchards, wine
yards, kitchens, larders, and wash-houses.
372 - S 1 G. N. S.
SAGITTAR1Us (1) is a hot, dry, fiery, choleric, mascu
line, diurnal, eastern, common, bicorporal, four-footed,
changeable, autumnal, fortunate, bitter, half feral, southern,
obeying, speaking, and half human half mute sign; of long
ascension; the day house and joy of 2/, and exaltation of
the 93.—The native is well formed, rather above the middle
stature, ruddy complexion, handsome countenance, oval
face, fine clear eyes, chesnut coloured hair, but apt to be
bald, active, strong, and intrepid. It is rather fruitful be
cause of 2/.—It governs the thighs, and os sacrum, and its
diseases are gout, rheumatism, fevers, falls, and broken
bones.–It governs Arabia Felix, Spain, Hungary, Mo
ravia, Liguria, Narbone, Cologne, Avignon, and Buda.—
Its colour is light green or olive. It denotes stables for
war horses, receptacles for great cattle, hills and high
lands, any rising place, and the fire-places in upper rooms.
CAPR1cortN (V3) is a cold, dry, earthy, melancholy,
feminine, nocturnal, southern, obeying, weak, moveable,
cardinal, tropical, domestic, four-footed, changeable, un
fortunate, crooked, hoarse, hyemal sign; the night house
of B and exaltation of 6. It is rather barren because of
6 and b.—The native is of a dry constitution, slender
make with a long thin visage, thin beard, dark hair, long
neck, narrow chin and breast, weak knees, and inclined
to be crooked. The disposition is subtle, collected, witty,
but changeable and at intervals melancholy, and the native
is more disposed to be unfortunate, than those born under
any other sign. The voice is generally weak, with a kind
of whistling roughness. Lilly says the hair will sometimes
be fair, when V5 ascends, but always black when it descends.
—It governs the knees and hams, and its diseases are
sprains, dislocations, and broken limbs, melancholy, hy
sterics, cutaneous eruptions, &c.—The countries it governs
are India, Macedonia, Thrace, and Greece in general,
Mexico, Saxony, Muscovy, Wilna, Mecklinburgh, Bran
denburgh, and Oxford. Colour black, or dark brown.— .
It denotes cow-houses, or receptacles for calves, tool-houses,
or places for lumber or old wood, ship-store-houses, sheep
pens, and fields, fallow or barren fields, thorny, bushy
places, dunghills, or places for soil, dark corners near the
ground or threshold, and low houses.
AQUARIEs (<) is a hot, moist, aerial, sanguine, mascu
line, diurnal, western, fixed, human, rational, speaking,
whole, fortunate, sweet, strong, hyemal, southern, obey
ing sign; the day house of B. It is more fruitful than
barren.—The native is well set, robust, strong, healthy
S IGN S. 373.
but not tall, with a long face, delicate complexion, clear
but rather pale; sandy, or dark flaxen hair; hazle eyes,
and of a good disposition. But if b be in V3 or ~, the
hair, Lilly says, will be dark, the complexion sanguine,
and the teeth crooked.—It governs the legs and ancles, and
its diseases are lameness, broken legs, gout, cramp, rheu
matism, and foul blood.—The nations it governs are
Arabia Petrea, Tartary, Russia, Denmark, Lower Sweden,
Westphalia, Hamburgh, and Bremen.—Its colour is sky
blue.–It denotes quarries ofstone, or mines of metals, or
any place recently dug up, hilly uneven grounds, vineyards,
Sources of springs or conduits, roofs and eaves of houses.
PiscEs (%) is a cold, moist, watery, phlegmatic, north
ern, nocturnal, bicorporal, common, hyemal, effeminate,
idle, sickly, broken, mute, unfortunate, crooked, southern,
obeying, fruitful, sign; the night house of 2/, and exalta
tion of Q.—The native is short, pale, fleshy, crooked or
stooping, thick, round shouldered, with brown hair, and
the head bent downward.—It rules the feet and toes, and
its diseases are all diseases in the feet, gout, lameness,
ulcerous sores, and cold, moist distempers. It is the most
fruitful of all the signs.—It governs Portugal, Spain,
Egypt, Normandy, Galicia, Ratisbon, Calabria, and Com
postella.—Its colour is white.—It denotes marshy grounds
full of springs where water fowls breed, rivers, and ponds
full of fish, moats, water-mills, old hermitages, and those
places in houses near where the water is, as pumps, cisterns,
or wells. -
I have here given a description of the 12 signs according
to the best authors, although I am certain some part of it
has no foundation whatever. The system is decidedly
wrong; for by being born under a sign signifies, according
to them, its being on the cusp of the ascendant, or con
taining either of the luminaries. A native may therefore
be born under three signs according to this doctrine; for,
the horoscope may be in one, the Sun in a second, and the
Moon in a third. This, were it true, would create con-
fusion enough; for they might all be of opposite qualities,
all ofwhich they say ought to be skilfully combined together.
There can be little doubt, that the sign ascending will much
influence the appearance and mind of the native, though
not exactly according to the rules here laid down.
The diseases attributed to them are said to be caused by
malefics posited in them afflicting the horoscope or lumi
naries. An instance of this we have in Placidus, where 8
in 96, the sign of the feet, afflicting the ) with a mundane
374 . S I GN S. .
square, and b in 3 to her from 1, the sign of the thighs,
while she was in the west angle with her south node, caused
the native to be born with his feet inverted. General ex
perience does not justifiy such an observation, and Placidus
ought to have known better. Other authors suppose those
diseases, or rather a disposition to them, to exist in such
as are born when the horoscope is in such and such signs;
but this is not quite correct, because the diseases here laid
down are more formed from the planets supposed to have
rule in such signs than from the signs themselves. 1 would
recommend the greatest experience before an artist attempts
to judge of diseases, for they have many origins; though
I think they chiefly depend on the ). In horary questions
or decumbitures they may be useful, provided they do not
involve contradictions. -
Lilly takes the appearance from the sign belonging to
any person's ascendant, and the two signs containing its
lord and the ). The nature of these are to be mixed
judiciously, and the greater number of testimonies taken.
He also takes the sign descending, and thus renders the
whole doctrine a mass of confusion; for such a number of
opposite testimonies may exist that nothing can be made
of them. -
Diseases are taken from the signs on the ascendant and
6th, but this rule, so far as my practice extends, is very .
erroneous.
The places denoted by a sign are those where any thing
stolen or strayed is supposed to be secreted, according to
the sign the significator of the thing is found in. Thus, if
cattle be strayed and their significator be in m, they will
be found near some stinking marshy place; or if a thing be
stolen, it will be hid in a kitchen, or wash-house, or buried
in a garden, orchard, &c.
In horary questions, signs containing planets have their
signification considerably altered in respect to diseases,
and the parts of the human body where they are situated,
according to the planet which is posited in such sign, and
its distance from the sign it governs, or what is called its
house. If it be in its house, it affects the head; in the next
following sign, the neck; in the sign following that, the
arms and shoulders, &c. as will be shewn in the following
table. - s
SIG NS 375
* 2/ d O Q || 8 (
Arms, neck,throat Belly Reins Secrets | Knees.
p shoulders, heart and & Thighs. & & &
and breast. belly. head. feet. legs. head.
Breast, Shoulders, Reins Head Thighs Legs
||8 heart, and arms, belly & Knees. & & &
back. and neck. throat. secrets. feet. throat.
- Heart, Breast, Secrets, Legs Throat Knees Feet,
|I|back, and reins and arms and & & & shoulders
belly. secrets. breast. ancles. thighs. head. and arms.
Belly, Heart, Thighs Arms, Eyes, Head,
CD reins, and secrets and & Knees. shoulders throat and breast andl
Seerets. thighs. breast. and knees. legs. stomach.
| Secrets, Belly, Knees, Breast, Throat, Throat,
& thighs and heart and | Head. heart and arms,shoul-stomach &
reins. knees. belly. legs. |ders & feet, heart.
Secrets, Reins Legs Stomach, I lead, Arms,
thighs, and & & Throat. heart, belly|breast and shoulders
feet. knees. belly. and feet. heart. & bowels.
Knees, Secrets, Feet, reins | Arms Head Throat, Breast,
: & legs, head, & & heart,stom-heart, belly
thighs. aud eyes | secrets. shoulders. intestines, lach &belly. and reins.
Knees, Thighs, Head, se- Breast Throat, Shoulders, Stomach,
& crets, arms & reins and arms, bow-heart, belly
legs. .* feet. and thighs. heart. secrets, lels & back.and secrets.
Legs Knees, Throat, Heart arms,shoul-| Breast, Back,
& head and thighs,arms & ders,secrets heart, reinsbowels an
| | feet. thighs. and feet. belly. and thighs. & secrets. I thighs.
Head |Legs, neck,arms,shoul-, Belly Breast, Stomach, Reins,
W & eyes and ders, knees & heart and heart and thighs and
- feet. knees. and legs. back. thighs. Secrets. knees.
Neck Feet, arms, Breast, Reins ifeart Bowels, Secrets,
£& shoulders | heart and & & heart and legs and
| | head, and breast. legs. | secrets. knees. thighs. ancles.
Arms, Head, Heart, Secrets Belly' | Reins, se- Thighs
% shoulders, breast and belly, feet & & crets, knees &
| & neck. heart. land ancles, thighs, legs. & thighs. feet.
The whole is an Arabian system, and certainly must
cause some confusion even in horary questions, where
alone it can have any signification. As to nativities, it
- would be absurd to suppose it can be of the smallest effi
cacy. When these planets are near an azimene, pitted, or
deficient degree of a sign, the disease or blemish is said to
be stronger and more remarkable. -
The countries they are said to govern, are wholly ima
ginary so far as relates to nativities. They are said to
operate on such countries when the G) or ) is eclipsed in
any of them, according to the condition of the luminaries,
and on this foundation chiefly predictions are made in
~ /
$76 S I G. N. S.
almanacks. This might be tolerated, but I am sorry to see
a rational man like Placidus, affirming, that “the sign 1.
relates to Spain and its inhabitants.” A silly observation .
like this casts a shadow ever all his other accomplishments.
Whatever may be the source of astral influence, it is at
least uniform, it operates by its attraction and position,
and a star whether fixed or erratic has the same influence
in one country as another where its position and distance
are the same. The famous prediction of April, 1807, re
specting the Grand Seignor's deposition and death, has been
much spoken of, and I sincerely wish it had been on good
grounds. , 6 had been at that time long retrograde in g,
the ascendant of Túrkey, and was just then become direct
in the beginning of the sign, so that he had to travel all
through it again. His duration in that sign at that period
was astonishing, for ''to his station being near its ex
tremities, he had passed the whole of his perigee or a third
of his period, in that sign only. According to the doctrine
of Ptolemy, who says that my has the disposing of Mesopo
tamia, Babylon, Assyria, Greece, Achaia, and Crete, the
whole of the Grand Seignor’s dominions are under its in
fluence; and on the 28th of April 5 opposed the G) from til,
which is said to govern Syria, a part also of the Turkish
dominion; the G) of course being in 8, which is said to
govern the whole of Turkey in Asia; the ) on the 1st of
May came to the 9 of 6 in 19 ; and where judgment is
formed upon such principles, there could not be in appear
ance a more fatal position for the Turkish Empire. The
G) being the significator of royalty, denoted the evil to fall
there, and the event literally justified the prediction. But
this is considering the stars as symbolical, rather than ef
fectual, and converting the whole into a species of divina
tion, or horary question, instead of accounting for these
events from the immutable laws of nature. Did events so
accounted for always take place, there would be no further
room for argument, because facts must supersede every
thing, but they do not: ofnumberless predictions founded on
those principles scarce one in a century is fulfilled. There
have been many striking events, not less important than this,
concerning Turkey, that were never foreseen or hinted at:
and it is therefore but just, when any prediction of this kind
is fulfilled, to ascribe it to what it really is, the result of ac
cident. That the fate of the Turkish #: was sealed
by the position of 6, there cannot be any doubt, but it
probably would have been the same had he been in any
other sign than my, so far as relates to the Turkish Empire,
> -
S I G. N. S. 377
though probably no other sign might have so exactly suited
his own nativity. Ó had been long in perigee, producing
incalculable evil; Spain, Portugal, and all Europe, were
at that moment involved in calamities, much greater than
any that could, or did, befal Turkey, and the oppositions of
the G) to P and the ) to G were not calculated to diminish
them. The G) towards the conclusion of April had the
declinations both of b and G, and was far distant from
those of the benefic, and the ) on the two last days of April
had the same declinations, and on the following day tran
sited the 9 of d from Virgo. No position of the lights
could have a more fatal tendency than this, or was ever
more severely felt: Europe was already convulsed, and there
fore, like a sick man, experienced the stroke more severely
which shook it to its center. Other nations, though not in
the same predicament, suffered proportionally, according to
their internal situation, and Turkey only had a small sip
out of the general cup of bitterness. *
In describing those signs, I have frequently inserted a
contradiction; as, for instance, where a sign is considered
both northern and southern at the same time." This arises
from the silly doctrine of triplicities; for a fiery sign is
called northern because it belongs to the northern triplicity.
All signs to the south of the equator are southern, and
hence the sign # is both northern and southern : northern
by triplicity and southern by position. Again, the earthy
triplicity is called southern, and therefore 8 will be a
northern sign from its position and a southern by triplicity.
This is the way fools get entangled in their own absurdities.
SIGNS OF LONG ASCENSION, gö, Q, W, so-, ml,
1, so called because they take longer time in ascending
than the others. Ptolemy says a >|< in a sign of long ascen
sion will have the same effect as a D.
SIGNS OF SHORT ASCENSION, W9, 2, 9%, Y, 3,
II, so called because they ascend in a shorter period of
time than the others, from the diurnal motion of the Earth
being when they ascend, nearly parallel with its orbit. A.
A in a sign of short ascension is, according to Ptolemy,
equal to a C in its effect, but, long and short ascensions
are only mundane, and not zodiacal positions; for all signs
occupy the same distance in the ecliptic, and the stars can
only operate on each other according to their zodiacal posi
tions, let Placidus say what he will. - r :
SIGNS OF VOICE, II, mp., --, 3:, and the first part of
1, because, it is said, if either of them ascend, and # be
strong, the native will be a #" Orator.
3
sis S P E CULUM,
SINISTER ASPECTS, aspects to the left according
to the course of the signs. Thus, a planet in Y will cast
a sinister k to II: They are said to be weaker than dex
teraspects; but this is all fancy. Itwas, however, a favourite
opinion of Salmon, though he acknowledges in his Medical
Synopsis, that the ancients thought differently.
SLOW OF COURSE, when a !' moves slower
than its mean motion. It is considere
it may be so in some cases of
SOL (G)), the Sun.
horary questions. .
a great debility, and
SOLAR SEMICIRCLE, from St to Vy, both included.
SOUTHERN SIGNS, A-, m, 1, w;, x, and
called, because they are to the south of the equator. #
are also called obeying signs, because a star in any of then,
would be weaker than another star in a northern sign having
the same declination, because of the more powerful and
commanding position of the latter. -
SPEAKING SIGNS. See “Signs of Voice.”
SPECULUM, a looking glass, a table so called, which
should be made out for every nativity, containing the as
censions, semiarcs, latitudes, declinations, poles, ascensional
difference, &c. &c. that the artist £ them
refer to in bringing up directions, &c.
to
he following is given
as a specimen, and contains all the particulars which the au
thor would require, except the crepusculine or obscure arcs
of the G), had his position required it. But artists differ in
their opinions, some requiring the horary time, terms, ob
lique ascensionsor descensions under the pole of the Cor Q,
or under their own poles, places of their antiscions, &c. &c.
Form of a SPECULUM.
•. L Decl | Right Ascen- '' Semi Semi £
#| Lati- Declina-Ascensi-sional £i. noctur- £
s tudes. tions. [on, with differ- Pole. :": mal :
S- | | | latitude.ence. roscope. " | Arc. Iroscope,
o 1 o 1- o t o 1 o 1 || o 1 i o - 1- O O |
H|046N.14 IN. 147 17 | 1818] I 0.122 59.108.18
B2 3 S.14 18N. 42 51 1843 |1930 108 43 61 :
2/024N. 23 2 S. 273 39 |32 26|13 0 12226241
G|| 49N. 13 10 S. 218 26 || 17 828.30285 34 107 8
Q 5 58N. 13 53 || 7 32|37.30 97.32 | 212
Q || 4 S. 630N. 18 6 814|35 98.14| 26
#242N. 939N. 16 0 | 12:21:3520 |102.21|| 282
Q4 52 S.17 38'N, 73 26 2335 | 0 30 49 51||113 35
&B 17:38N. 229 43 |23 35'2330.206 8 6625
F.I.F. 3d, 37,07, ATT. 2, 27-07-27, ST, GT, S.T., U.S.
Of the 1st & 7th, 53° 32'.
-------- - -
s TAT I o NARY, 379.
... SPHERE, a globe, the deferent of a planet was also
called its sphere, and was what is called at present its orbit.
Hence the Primum Mobile was called the 10th sphere.
SPICA VIRGINIS, Arista, a benevolent fixed star of
the 1st magnitude, in 20° of ~, of the nature of Q and & :
It is said to be the most fortunate of all the fixed stars, and
to ensure to the native every degree of success and happi
mess when it ascends, or culminates, or is joined to either
of the luminaries, or to a benefic in aspect to them.
SQUARE, the quartile aspect, containing a quadrant
or right angle. It consists in the zodiac of 3 signs, and in
the world of a whole semiarc. Its effect as an aspect is
evil, though somewhat less than an opposition.
STATIONS, those parts in the orbit of a planet where
it becomes either retrograde or direct, because it remains
for a while there stationary before it changes its course.
The first station is where they become retrograde, but in
the D, who is never retrograde, it is called her first di
chotome. The second station is after they have passed their
erigee, and from retrogradation become direct. This in
he ) is called her second dichotome. From these stations
their orientality is reckoned. From their apogee to their
first station they are called matutine, because they rise in
the morning before the G), and are in their first degree of
orientality. From the first station to the lower apsis or
perigee, they are considered in their first degree of occiden
tality, and when near the & to the Q are what Ptolemy
calls, rising in the beginning of the night. At their perigee
they again become oriental in the secondary degree, until
they arrive at their second station, and from thence to their
apogee or higher apsis they are in their last degree of oc
icidentality. They are said to be moist, from the G with
the G) to the first station; 'warm, until they come to the
& ; dry, until they arrive at the 2d station; and cool,
until they come to the solar d again. (See “Oriental.”)
This only relates to the superiors; for Q and # are
called oriental when vespertine or setting after the G) in
-the evening, because they are then increasing in light and
coming nearer to the Earth, until they disappear in their
lower conjunction with the G). When matutine or rising
before the G) in the morning they are called occidental, as .
they are passing toward their higher conjunction and leav
ing the Earth.
STATIONARY, when a planet is in its station and
appears to stand still. The lights are never stationary.
b is stationary 5 days; 21, 5 days; 6, 2 or 3 days; ?,
2 days; and # 1 day. . .
380 sy MPATHY
STELLIUM, a crowd of planets in an angle. Persons
having this in their radix have at some period in the course
of their lives prodigious good or ill fortune. So far as my
observation extends, a stellium of 4 or 5 planets in any
part of the radix always produces in the course of the na
tive’s existence some tremendous catastrophe.
| STRENGTH. Planets are generally supposed to be
strong when dignified either by house, exaltation, term,
triplicity, or face, or by any accidental dignity; but these
can have no signification whatever. Ptolemy is not very
intelligible respecting essential dignities, but he appears to
have considered them as qualities rather than strength.
When he has occasion to refer to the latter, he appears to
consider orientality, and angular or succeedent positions
as the principal causes of strength; next to which is their
being direct, swift, or increasing in motion. No doubt
their being angular, especially in the midheaven, must be
a very powerful position, but I think the perigee is the
most powerful condition especially with north declination.
As to the other degrees of strength, they are to me at least
roblematical. -
| STRONG SIGNS, Q, m, and x, because they are
said to give strong athletic bodies. -
SUCCEEDENT. When houses succeed to or follow
an angle they are called succeedent, and a planet posited
in one of them is reckoned nearly as strong as in an angle.
I cannot see any good reason for this, for their position
and distance from the angle are the same in a succeedent
as in a cadent house, and although they are advancing
towards the angle, their power cannot rationally be consi
dered from what they will be, but from what they are.
The 11th, 5th, 2d, and 8th houses are all succeedent.
SUN. See “Planets.”
SUPERIOR PLANETS, b, 21, and 3, so called be
cause their orbits are beyond those of Q and #. They are
said to be more powerful in their effects than the inferiors.
SWEET SIGNS, II, --, and 2x, because the native is
said to be of a sweet temper if born under one of these signs.
SWIFT IN MOTION, a planet is so called when it
moves faster than its mean motion. It is deemed a very
great fortitude, because it resists the effect of the diurnal
motion. -
SYMPATHY, a familiarity or attachment between two
persons, arising from the similarity of the planetary posi
tions in their respective figures. Ptolemy says, if the lights
are in reception with each other, or at a distance of 17
SY M P A T H Y 381
degrees only, or if either of the lights are within that dis
tance of the cusps of each other's horoscope or @, there
will be pure, sincere, and lasting friendship between the
parties; but if only configurated to them by a A or >k,
they cause slight attachments. When this attachment
arises from the position of the lights only, it will be the
result of choice and sincere affection; but if from any agree
ment with the Part of Fortune, it will be from motives of
gain; and if from a familiarity with the horoscope, it will
be from motives of pleasure or enjoyment. .
Enmities and antipathies are said to arise from their being
inconjunct or in ''aspect, and according as this happens
with the lights, Part of Fortune, or the horoscope, the
causes will be natural hatred, losses, and sufferings. The
enmity will chiefly arise from that person who has most
familiarity with the places and aspects of the other's
nativity. - -
Slight friendships are formed by transits, when the lights
or benefics in one radix come by direction to the places of
the lights or benefics of the other radix, and will last until
such direction be past.
Of the Part of Fortune and its supposed effects, I have
no opinion, but I know from repeated experience, that a
kind of attachment will take place between two persons
whose nativities sympathise on account of most or all of the
planets being posited in the same places, whether they be
good or evil. The trine or sextile of the luminaries to
each other in the zodiac, or their mutual position in each
others places, or on those of 2/ or Q, are the best signs of
attachment and vice versá. The same planet in two persons’
horoscopes gives them the same manners and propensities.
The infortunes in opposition to their own places cause con
tinual quarrels. The fortunes on the places of the infortunes
cause alternate enmity and attachment. If the G) and ),
or the G) and # , or the ) and #, change places with each
other, the attachment is not very strong. / and B in each
other's places, the natives form an attachment through
covetousness. 6 and Q in each other's places, they are
attached by lust and wickedness. If the G) or 6 be in &
to # or the ), they hate each other, and he that has Ó
will do the other a mischief b and g in 9, causes con
tinual enmity. - -
I would particularly and seriously recommend the doc
trime of sympathies to the student's attention, because it is
founded on a sure basis, although but little understood.
By way of throwing a little more light on this intricate
382 T E R M.
subject I shall insert the observation ofPlacidus concerning
the causes ofthe antipathy between Charles the 5th of Spain
and Germany, and Francis the 1st of France.
“They originated,” he says, “from their ascendants
being nearly opposite within a few minutes : H of Francis
was on the Q of Charles (within about 4 degrees), Ó of
Charles in D to the ) of Francis, and 6 of Francis in
sesquiquadrate to the D of Charles, B in the 4th ofCharles
and the 10th of Francis, d angular in Charles, and cadent
in Francis, and in zodiacal square to each other, &c.”
These observations are worthy of attention, though I do
not deem them of so much importance as Placidus did.
The chief causes of sympathy that have fallen within my
observation, are those wherein two nativities resembled
each other by the planets possessing all or most of them the
same zodiacal positions, though I think that the evil aspect,
or the malefies, to the lights, or the ascension of opposite
signs, are always productive of evil. The G) or ) in the
same place in two nativities, is reckoned a sign of the most
perfect agreement. Itis said, that those parties never agree
when the horoscope of the one is the same as the 6th, 8th,
or 12th of the other. Many calculate friendship or enmity
from the respective lords of the ascendants being friends or
enemies to each other, but this is a groundless opinion.
SYNODICAL. See “Lunations.” . . .
SYZYGES, the new and full Moon, also the d or &
of any two planets, and it is often used as a common term
for familiarities of every description. |
TABLE OF HOUSES. See “Figure.” (A complete
set of tables will be published for the use of the reader, and
*be had separate from this work.)
TAURUS. See “Signs.” - -
TEMPER. See & Mind.”
TEMPORAL HOURS, planetary hours.
TERM. Terms are certain degrees in a sign, supposed
to possess the power of altering the nature of a planet to
that of the planet in the term of which it is posited. Hence
a malefic in the term of 2/ or Q would lose much of its
anaretic power and be scarcely able to kill, and a benefic in
the term of a malefic would be rendered equally unable to
save. This notion of terms (which appears to me very ridi
culous,) is of great antiquity; for Ptolemy mentions two
sets of terms, one Egyptian and the other Chaldean, neither
of which he approves, nor does he seem to know much about
the latter, for although he says he met with an old writing
*
T E R M. . .383
containing the reason, order, and quantity of them, he has
no where inserted it. - .
The order of the terms, as laid down by Ptolemy himself,
is as follows: Every star having two dignities in a sign,
either by house, exaltation or triplicity, has the first place
whether benefic or malefic; but, if it have but one dignity,
however great that dignity may be, the malefics are always
placed last. The highest of all these essential dignities,
according to Ptolemy, was the exaltation; next, the tripli
city, and thirdly, the house; but the moderns have thought
proper to put the house first. The lord, therefore, of the
exaltation (if there were any) had the first choice if a bene
fic; next to him, the lord of the triplicity, if a benefic; and
thirdly, the lord of the house. The Q and ), having no
R.'qualities oftheir own, had no terms allowed them.
f there were no ruler having two testimonies in one sign,
or in the other two signs of the quadrant, then 2 and Q
had seven parts each; b and Ó, '' parts each; and there
being then six parts remaining, they were given to #, he
being common to both sides of the question. If any planet
had two dignities in any sign in the quadrant, they had a
larger allowance of degrees given them, and the deficiency
was thrown upon b or 21, because of the slowness of their
motion. As the lights had no terms, the malefics made up
in some degree for the disgrace in other signs, by taking the
first parts in them. These are the rules laid down by Pto
lemy, who condemns the Egyptian terms, because they
were not formed according to any known rule, and the
Egyptian might have returned the compliment, for his are
not arranged according even to his own rule. They are
as follows: - -
Terms according to Ptolemy. According to the Egyptians.
|
2 6 ||
584 T R. A. D. E.
To those who can comprehend this nonsense of Ptolemy,
the above table will be eminently useful. It is wholly un
intelligible to me, nor am I less at a loss to discover how
* Placidus could contrive to reconcile them to the dictates of
that reason he boasted of having for his guide.
In whatever term a planet is posited, it denotes the per
son signified by it to be of the disposition of the lord ofthat
term, whether it be his own or any other, but has no refer
ence to either wealth or poverty, or any condition of life.
TERMINUS VITAE, the end of life, the fatal direc
tion, or directions, that inevitably kill.
TESTIMONY, a term used by Ptolemy to signify the
mode of a planet's operation, which was either by having
what he calls “rule in the place” alluded to, or casting an
"aspect to it. Thus a planet would give testimony to # or
the ) by ruling them, that is, having dignity by exaltation,
triplicity, house, or term, in that degree where they are
£; or by casting an aspect to it nearly partile.
Having testimony, or having two testimonies, &c. is having
one or two of those dignities in any part specified. In
horary questions, every symbolical position or condition is
called a testimony. - - -
TETRAGONUS, the square aspect.
THEMA COELI, a figure of the heavens. . -
THRONES, any part of a sign where a planet has two
or more testimonies, i. e. essential dignities, is called its
throne, chariot, or any other foolish name that comes to
hand. Thus b’s throne is in 3: by house and triplicity;
2 has his in 1 the same; 6, in m ; Q, in Q ; Q, in 3 ;
#, in my by house and exaltation; and the ), in gå. But
Ptolemy would not have fixed them thus, for he preferred
exaltations to houses, and therefore b's throne would have
been in -a-, the Q's in Y, and the D’s in 8 ; for in his
time she had no claim to the watery triplicity. The whole,
however, is nonsense, and therefore not worth a dispute.
TIME. See “Equation of Time.”
TRADE or PROFESSION, according to Ptolemy it
is taken from the star that makes oriental appearance next
to the G), and the star which is in the midheaven; if the
oriental star be in the midheaven or in aspect to it, that must
be taken, particularly if the ) applies to it. If there be
one oriental and another in the midheaven that must be
taken which has the application of the ). If neither or
both have her application, both of them must be taken, but
the strongest must be preferred. If there be none oriental,
nor in the midheaven, the planet having dominion in the
*T R A D F 385
hildheaven must be taken. b and Y, however, he excludes
from this prerogative, and only takes d, Q, #, and the
D, as significators of profession, although he allows b
and 2/ to coincide by testimony. # makes writers, traders,
scholars of every description, and all who get a living by
' kind of learning. If b give testimony to him, they
will fill some ecclesiastical office, or agency for another.
If I give testimony, they will be painters, orators, and
such as are employed among the great. * *
If Q be ruler of the profession, she disposes to dealing
in perfumes, spices, sweetmeats, cordials, wines, medicines,
drapery, paintings, dresses, dying of colours, &c., if
give testimony to her, they will deal in charms, philtres,
sons, &c.; but these things are not so customary here as
were in Egypt. If I give testimony to her, they will
be knights-errant, champions, armour-bearers, and be very
prosperous through women.
If G rule the profession and have any kind of configura
tion to the G), #. disposes the natives to work at the fire,
as cooks, founders, braziers, smiths, &c. but if he be with
the G), they will be workers among wood or stone, or
agriculturists. If b give testimony to him, they will be
butchers, sailors, nightmen, scavengers, feeders of beasts,
cooks, or any that # by dirt or drudgery. If 21 give
testimony, they will be soldiers, tax-gatherers, innkeep
ers, • - - . . **
If g and Q be joint rulers, they make musicians, com:
posers, poets, musical instrument makers, particularly i
in mutual reception, for then they make actors, dancers,
tumblers, and devote them to all kinds of music, painting,
&c. If b give testimony, they will deal in female dresses
and ornamients. If Y give testimony, they will be lawyers,
schoolmasters, and officers of state. . . . - - - -
If g and d be joint rulers, they will be statuaries,
makers of armour, surgeons, engravers, wrestlers, and ad
dicted to any knavish trade, such as forgery, theft, thief
taking, &c. If B give testimony, they wifi be thieves,
murderers, plunderers, cattle-stealers, conjurors, and follow
every kind offraud, violence, and imposture. -
If Q and 6 are joint rulers, they become dyers, per
fumers, tinmen, plumbers, gold and silversmiths, apothe
caries, physicians, figure dancers, &c. If B give testimony
they will have some office in the church, or assist at
funerals, as sextons, undertakers, &c. If Y give testimony,
they will also have some religious employment, but more
honourable.
3 D
886 T R A N s IT s
If the D govern the profession, and separate from the
Sun and have familiarity with #, she makes astrologers,
magicians, &c.; but these are not fashionable trades at
present.
These significators oriental or angular, make the pro
fession great and powerful; but if occidental or cadent,
weak and subordinate. If the benefics be stronger than
the malefics the trade will be fortunate; but if the malefics
be stronger than the lords of the profession, it will be
mean, unprofitable, and uncertain. b causes injury by
apathy and inattention, and change of opinion. Ó, from
too much forwardness and rashness.
The time of the increase or diminution of trade is taken
from the places of the stars which cause the effect. If they
are between the east and south angles, it will be in the
early part of life; but if between the south and west angles,
it will be in old age.
There appears to be some small portion of truth amongst
this vast heap of rubbish of lordships and testimonies. I
suspect that § has some influence in this way, as well as a
star in the midheaven. As to oriental stars, their effect
must be proved by experience. The aspects to the 10th
merit some consideration, and in fact every position should
be carefully observed; for, in astrology, as in chemistry,
of which it is a part, the truth can only be obtained by in
quction. As to the particular kinds of profession, as above
described, they may be considered as mostly void of foun
dation. By the planet making oriental appearance is
meant, that planet which rises next before the G), and I
have seen some instances of the truth of this aphorism,
though not enough to be depended on. There is reason to
suppose, that g and Q rule the profession, or at least the
inclination, when they are next to the G), whether they
rise before or after him, and probably other planets do the
8tline.
TRANSITS, according to modern astrology, when a
planet crosses a house or place of its lord in a nativity it is
said to produce evil according to its nature and the nature
of the place it transits. Thus, if the lord of the 8th, even
if it be 2/, transit the cusp of the horoscope, it threatens
death ; if the lord of the £ transit it, it denotes sickness;
the lord of the 12th, imprisonment, or great troubles. It
is the same with the other houses; for if the lords of the
8th, 6th, or 12th, transit the 2d, or place of its lord, it
denotes loss; if the 3d or its lord, quarrels with brethren
or neighbours; the 4th, loss of parents; the 5th, loss by
T R A V E L IN G. 378
gaming, or by children, &c. Lords of good houses are
said to produce benefits by their transits, whether they be
benefics or malefics. It is useless to dwell longer on these
absurdities.
The transits of the ) are said to cause all the daily pass
ing events of a man’s life, as she transits the A, k, Cl, #2
or G, of any particular house. B and 2 are held to be
more powerful in their transits than the rest, and their
effects last about a year.
I much suspect there is great power in transits, and I
would recommend them particularly to the consideration of
the artist, though not as they respect the houses or their
lords, but as they respect the places of the lights or the
angles. For the real use of transits, see “Secondary
Directions.” I have always observed those times to be
most unfortunate to a native, when the luminaries are in
C#, D, or 3, to the radical places of the infortunes,
especially if they happen to square their own places at the
same time, or if the preceding lunation was in an evil
place. Some remarkably evil event is generally at hand
when the Q is in 6 and the D in D at £ same time to a
radical malefic.
TRANSLATION. Translation of the light and nature
of a planet is when a planetseparates from one that is slower
than itself and overtakes another either by conjunction or
aspect. In horary questions it is a good omen, if the aspect
be good; but if by an evil aspect, it is said to denote evil
or difficulty when the event comes to pass. Thus, if in a
uestion of marriage a light planet translates the light of
the lord of the 7th to the lord of the 1st, it is a good omen,
if it be by good aspect, and denotes that a person answering
the description of such translating planet will bring them
together, and they will be eventually happy. If it be by
evil aspect, it will be done either from ill motives, or will
be attended with much trouble and disappointment.
TRAVELING. According to Ptolemy, the lumina
ries, and particularly the ), declining from angles and oc
cidental, causes traveling. This must mean being in the
9th or 3d houses, for she is occidental and cadent in both
these. I have reason to suspect there is some truth in this,
which is too seldom the case in other matters. Sometimes
he says & occidental and declining from the midheaven
when in C or 9 to the lights, will cause the same; and,
if the 69 fall in traveling signs, the whole life and manners
of the native will be foreign. What signs cause traveling
I know not, but suppose he means the signs on the cusps of
388 TRAVELING.
the 9th and 3d. If these signs be of one form, or the stars
having rule in them be in signs of one form, the traveling
will not be frequent; but if they are double bodied, or of
two forms, the native will be always traveling. This is
not only foolish, but unintelligible; for the sign may be of
one form, and its lord in a sign of two forms. "if the lumi.
naries be in oriental quadrants the traveling will be south
and east; but if in occidental quadrants, north or west.
But how can this be, when the lights must be occidental, or
the ) at least, to cause traveling at all, except he take it
from the position of d or @? In that case, the native must
always travel west or north, when the lights are in the 9th
and 3d houses : for these are what he calls occidental
quadrants. | -
... Ifthe benefics succeed to these places (meaning I suppose
the 3d and 9th), or are configurated with them, there will
be much safety and profit in those journeys, but if the male
fics behold or succeed, it will be dangerous and ruinous;
but in all these configurations the strongest is to be pre
ferred. Here he makes no distinction between the nature
of the aspect, whether good or evil. . . .
If 2/ or Q are rulers of those places, viz. those of the
luminaries, the traveling will be safe and comfortable in
every respect; and if # £ with them, meaning if he have
£in the same places, there will be additional honour
and profit attached to it, If b and # govern the ':
and especially if they oppose them, the traveling will be
dangerous and unprofitable. If those planets are in watery
signs, they will be shipwrecked, or lost in desert, uninhabited
# aces; in fixed signs, they will suffer by contrary winds, or
e injured by climbing of precipices; in cardinal signs, they
will be sickly and in want of food; in human signs, they
will suffer by thieves and banditti; and in earthy signs, by
wild beasts, or earthquakes. If # have dignities there also,
they will be injured by venemous reptiles or false accusa
tions. The time of traveling, he says, must be ascertained
by direction. .
As to the Part of Fortune and the lordships, I have no
opinion of them, and indeed the latter involves a contradic
tion, for if the benefics are configurated or succeed to the
places, and the malefics have rule in them, and vice versá,
what is to become of the traveler then ? Neither can it be
of any consequence what signs the evil planets are found in,
Those whose births subject them to misfortunes are like
those whose broken constitutions dispose them to disease.
They are always out of order, because the slightest causes
TRIGONOMETRICAL 389
affect them. The luminaries cadent from the south or north
angle, may be one cause of traveling, but there are other
causes which are not yet discovered. The planet Mars
cadent in like manner is not, I think, productive of any such
effect. I know a person who had Mars near the cusp of his
3d, who all his # had the greatest aversion to traveling,
was seldom three miles, and never thirty miles from the
place of his birth. Neither is the position of the lights in
dicative of the direction in which t£native will travel, for
I know one who had them both in his 3d, who went abroad
but once, and that was for many years, to the East Indies;
yet, according to Ptolemy, he ought to have traveled west
or north, this being what he terms an occidental quadrant.
Even allowing the modern system to be true, that it is a
north-east quadrant, he ought to have travelled to Russia
instead of the East Indies. It was a favourite maxim with
Ptolemy, to account for every thing in some way or other,
right or wrong, but it is probable the direction ofjourneys
only depend on common circumstances, and not on any pla
netary position.
TRIGON. See “Triplicity.”
TRIGONOCRATORS, rulers of trigons. The Q and
2/ rule the fiery; Q and the D, the earthy; I2 and #, the
airy, and d alone, the watery, though the moderns have
united Q and the D with him in the watery triplicity.
TRIGONOMETRICAL CALCULATIONS, the me
thod of performing astrological calculations by trigono
metry, wherein the use of logarithms will be found indis
pensibly necessary. It is useless here to enter any farther
into the principles of trigonometry than is necessary to the
subject we are upon, and it is £ only requisite to
observe, that tabies of logarithms, sines, tangents, and se
cants, as referred to here, are those used with the Nautical
Ephemeris, and may be had of almost any bookseller.
Problem 1st.—The longitude of a star, without latitude,
being given to find its declination in the ecliptic.
Rule, Add the sine of 23°28' to the sine of the star's
distance from the nearest equinoctial point, the sum, less
radius, will be the sine of the star's declination.
... Example: Suppose the Q in 27° 36' of Y, what is his
declination ? - -
The first point of Y is the nearest equinoctial point to
where the Q is, his distance from it is 27° 36', the loga
rithmic sine of which will be found in the table (in the com
mon angle of 27 degrees and 36 minutes) to be 9.66585,
*
390 TRIGONOMETRICAL
Add to this the logarithm 9,60011, belonging to the tropi
cal sine, 23° 28, less radius, and it will give the logarithm
9.26596, which will be found to answer to the sine of 10°
38, which is the O's declination.
Problem 2d.—The declination of a star without latitude
being given, to find its longitude in the ecliptic.
This problem is evidently the reverse of the former, for
if the tropical sine, 23° 28, be subtracted from the sine of
the declination, the remainder will be the longitude re
quired. It is usual, however, to work as much as possible
by addition, and the arithmetical complement of a loga
rithm being added, has the same effect as if the logarithm
itself were subtracted, we therefore add the arithmetical
complement of the tropical sine, as found in problem 1st,
to the sine of the declination, and the sum will be the sine
of the longitude required. Example: * * -
Logarithm of the declination, 9.26596
Arith. comp. of the tropical sine, 0.39989
Logarithm of the longitude, 9.66585, equal to 27°
36 of Y.
Problem 3d.—The longitude and latitude of a star given,
to find its declination. -
Rule. , 1st, Add the tangent of 23° 28 to the sine of
the longitudinal distance from the nearest equinoctial
point, the sum, less radius, will be the tangent of the 1st
angle.
2d, If the latitude and longitude have the same denomi
nation, namely, if the latitude be north and the star in a
northern sign, or south and the star in a southern sign, the
latitude must be subtracted from 90°. But if the latitude
and longitude are of different denominations, the latitude
must be added to 90°. Subtract the 1st angle from the
sum or remainder, and it will give the amount of the 2d
angle.
3d, As the cosine of the 1st angle is to the cosine of the
2d angle, so is the cosine of 23°28' to the sine of the re
quired declination. -
The declination will have the same denomination as the
sign in which the star is, north or south, provided it be
greater than the latitude. But if it be less than the latitude,
and the latitude be of an opposite denomination to the sign,
the declination will have the same denomination as the
latitude.
TRIGONOMETRICAL 391
Example: Suppose 24 to be in 3° 21' of Vy, with 0°24'
north latitude, what will be his declination ?
The nearest equinoctial point is Y', from which X is dis"
tant 86° 39'.
Sine of 86° 39', , 9.99926
Add the tangent of 23°28', 9.63761
Itgives the tangent of the 1st angle, 9.63687, equal to 23°
26'. As the latitude and longitude are of opposite deno
minations, I add the 24 to 90°, which gives 90°24', from
which I subtract the 1st angle, 23° 26', leaving a remainder
of 66° 58', which is the 2d angle. -
As the cosine of the 1st angle, 23° 26' (of which I take
the arith. comp. for the sake of addition) 0.03738
is to the cosine of the 2d angle, 66° 58', 9.59247
so is the cosine of23°28', 9.9625]
to the sine of the required declination, 9.59236, which is
equal to 23° 2 of south declination, as / is in a southern
sign. Had this declination been less than the latitude, it
would have been north, because the latitude is north, and
of a different denomination from the longitude.
Problem 4th.—The right ascension and declination of a
star being given, to find its longitude.
Rule. 1st, Add the sine of the right ascension to the
cotangent of the declination, the sum, rejecting radius, will
be the cotangent of the first angle, which will be north or
south according to the declination.
2d, Call the obliquity of the ecliptic south, if the right
ascension be in the first six signs, or north if in the last six
signs, and subtract it from the 1st angle, or the first angle
from it, according to which is the most, the remainder will
be the second angle, and south or north accordingly.
3d, Add the the arithmetical complement of the cosine of
the 1st angle, the cosine of the 2d angle, and the tangent of
the right ascension together, their sum, rejecting radius,
will be the tangent of the longitude, which will be north or
south according to the right ascension, except the 2d angle
be above 90°, in which case the quantity found of the same
kind as the right ascension must be subtracted from 360°.
Example: Suppose the right ascension of 2/ to be 273°
39 (this £from 360° will be 86° 21' from the near
est equinoctial point), his declination, 23°2'south, obliquity
of the ecliptic, 23° 28, what is his longitude?
392 , TRIGONOMETRICAL
Sine of y's right ascension, 86°21', 9.999.1%
#
Cotangent of his declination, 23° 2, f0.37145
Cotangent ofthe 1st angle, 23, 4 south, 10.37056 •
The obliquity ofthe ecliptic being insouthern
signs, is north, , - " - 23° 28’
subtract the 1st angle, south, . 23 4
- 2d angle, north, 0.24
Cosine of the 1st angle, 23° 4', arith. comp. 0.03619
Cosine of the 2d angle, 0° 24, 9.99999 |
Tangent of the right ascension, 86°21', 11.19524.
Tangent of the longitude, 86° 39, 11.23142
... The latitude of the same star may be found by adding
the sine of the longitude and the tangent of the 2d angle
together, the sum, rejecting radius, will be the tangent of
the latitude. - -
Sine of the longitude, 86° 39' 9.99925
Tangent of the 2d angle, 0° 24', north, 7.84394
Tangent of the latitude, 0°24', 7.84319
The latitude is always of the same kind as the 2d angle,
which here being £ the latitude is also north. -
If the longitude should come out near 0°, or near 180°,
the operation must be changed, by substituting the tangent
and cosine of the longitude, instead of its sine. The opera
tion will then stand thus: add the tangent of the longitude,
the cosine of the longitude, and the tangent of the 2d angle
together, rejecting a double radius, or 20.00000, the re
mainder w: be the tangent of the latitude.
The longitude must always be taken from the nearest
equinoctial point, and of course, the right ascension must
be taken the same way. Therefore, if the right ascension
exceed 90°, it must be subtracted from 180°, and the re
mainder used as right ascension, because it is its distance
in right ascension from ~~. In this case, the longitude,
when found, will be, for the same reason, its longitudinal
distance from --, and therefore it must be subtracted from
180° to give its longitudinal distance from Y. If the right
ascension be above 180°, the 180° must be taken from it,
and the remainder will be the right ascension from ~. The
longitude, when found, will be the longitudinal distance
from c-. If the right ascension be above 270°, it must be
TRIGONOMETRICAL 393
subtracted from 360°, and the remainder used as right as
cension, which is its distance from Y south of the equator.
When the longitude is found, it must be subtracted from
180°, which will give the longitudinal distance from =; or
if subtracted from 360° it will give the distance from Y.
Problem 5th.—To find the ascensional difference from the
declination. -
Rule. Add the tangent of the latitude of the place to
the tangent of the star's declination, the sum will be the
sine of the ascensional difference.
Example: What is the ascensional difference of 21 in
the latitude of 51° 32' with 23° 2' declination.
- Tangent of 51° 32', 10.0999.1
Tangent of 23° 2', 9.62855
Sine of ascensional difference required, 9.72846, or 32 21'.
. N. B. If the tangent of the declination be added to the
tangent of the pole of a star, it will give the ascensional
difference of that star under its pole.
Problem 6th.—To find the right ascension of a star, not
having latitude. -
Rule. Add the cosine of its longitudinal distance from
the nearest equinoctial point to the arithmetical complement
of the cosine of its declination, the sum will be the cosine
of its right ascension from the equinoctial point, from which
the longitudinal distance was taken. The arc thus found
will, if the star be in Y, 8, or II, be the right ascension,
but if it be in CE, Q, or 9, it must be subtracted from 180 ;
if in --, m, or 1, 180° must be added to it; and if in V3,
:, or 26, the arc found must be subtracted from 360°.
Example: Suppose the G) to be in 15° 6 of Y, with 5'.
58 of declination, I would know his right ascension ?
Arithmetical complement of the cosine of the
declination, 5° 58', 0.00296
Cosine of its longitudinal distance from the first
point of Y, 15° 6, 0.08474.
Cosine of the Sun's right ascension, 0.08710
equal to 13° 58', which, as the Sun is in Y, is the true
right ascension required.
Problem 7th.—To find the right ascension of a star, hav
ing latitude. -
Rule. As the cosine. of the star's declination is to the
cosine of its longitudinal distance from the nearest equi
noctial point, so is the cosine of its latitude to the cosine of
the right ascension required.
3 E
394 TRIGONOMETRICAL
Example: Suppose / to be in 3° 21' of W5, with 23°2'.
of declination, and 0° 24 of latitude, what will be his right
ascension ?
As the cosine of 2/’s declination (arith. comp.),
23° 2, 0.03608
is to the cosine of his longitudinal distance from
the first point of Y, 86° 39', 8.76667
so is the cosine of his latitude, 0°24', 9.99998
to the cosine of his right ascension from that
point, 86° 21', 8.80273
Subtract the 86' 21" from 360°, # being in W5, it will
leave a remainder of 273' 39", which is the true right as
cension of 2/.
If, however, the star be in the beginning of op with
great north latitude, or in the beginning of -- with great
south latitude, the above method will not give the right as
cension correctly, and therefore the proportion must be
altered as follows.
As radius is to the sine of the star's longitudinal distance
so is the cotangent of the latitude to the tangent of the
first arc.
This first arc, when found, must be subtracted from the
ecliptical difference, 23° 28, and the remainder will be the
second arc. -
As the sine of the first arc is to the sine of the second arc,
so is the tangent of the longitudinal distance to the tangent
of the right ascension, from that point from whence it
was taken, which, being regulated as before directed, will
give the true right ascension. But the first rule will answer
very well if the star be 2° distant from the first point of Y,
or ~~.
When the ascensional difference and right ascension are
obtained, the semiarcs and oblique ascension or descension .
will be found in the usual way, as directed under the head
of those articles; the oblique ascension, by subtracting the
'ascensional difference from the right ascension, if the decli
nation be north, or adding it if south; and the oblique
descension, by adding the ascensional difference, if the
declination be north, or subtracting it if south; if the star
have no declination it has only right ascension.
The semidiurnal arc will be found by adding the as
censional difference to 90°, if the declination be north, or
subtracting it if south; and the seminocturnal arc by sub
tracting the ascensional difference from 90°, if the declina
tion be north, or by adding it if south.
TRIGONOMETRICAL 395
Problem 8th.—To find the point of the ecliptic on the
cusp of the midheaven for any given time.
Rule. 1st, Add the time from the last noon to the Sun’s
right ascension in time, the sum will be the right ascension
of the midheaven in time. This must be turned into degrees
and minutes. -
2d, Add the cotangent of the right ascension from the
nearest equinox to the cosine of 23°28', the sum will be
the cotangent of the longitude from the said nearest equi
noctial point.
Example: Suppose the right ascension of the midheaven
to be 72° 38', what point of the ecliptic should culminate 2
Cotangent of 72 38 (its distance in right ascen
sion from Aries), 9.49519
Cosine of23°28', . 9.962.50
Cotangent of the longitude from op, 74°0' 9.45769
Equal to 14° of II (see plate 3, fig. 1.).
hen the star is in op, 8, or II, this gives the longitude
from Y ; if in gG, Q, or ng, subtract the arc so found from
90°, it gives the longitude from CB; if in n-, In, or 1, it
gives the longitude from a without subtraction; and if in
V5, 2:, or 36, by subtracting it from 90° it gives the longi
tude from Vy.
Problem 9th.--To find what point ofthe ecliptic occupies
the cusp of any house, except the 10th or 4th.
Rule. Add 30° to the right ascension of the midheaven
for every house, according to its distance from the midheaven
eastward, the sum will be the oblique ascension of such
house (namely, 30° for the 11th, 60° for the 12th, 90° for
the horoscope, 120° for the 2d, and 150° for the 3d.)
Thus, if the right ascension of the midheaven be 72° 38',
the oblique ascension of the 11th will be 102° 38'; of the
12th, 132° 38'; of the horoscope, 162° 38'; of the 2d, 192°
38'; and of the 3d, 222° 38'):
2d, To the cosine of the oblique ascension of the house,
taken from the nearest equinoctial point, add the cotangent
of the pole of the house, the sum will be the cotangent of
the first arc. - -
3d, If the cusp of the house be nearest to Aries add to
the first arc 23° 28, but if nearest to Libra subtract 23°
28 from it; the sum or remainder will be the second arc.
4th, As the cosine ofthe 2d arc is to the cosine of the 1st
arc, so is the tangent of the oblique ascension of the house
to the tangent of its longitude from Aries or Libra; for if
the2d angle be less than 90° the longitude must be reckoned
396 TRIGONOMETRICAL
from the same equinoctial point the oblique ascension was
taken from, but if more than 90°, from the other point.
Example: What point of the ecliptic should occupy the
# of the 11th house, the R. A. of the midheaven being
2° 38' :
Cosine of the O. A. of the 11th, 102° 38', or -
77° 22', from A., 9.33987
Cotangent of the pole of the 11th, 23° 27' 10.36274
Cotangent of the 1st arc, 63° 14', 9,70261
Being the nearest to a subtract 23 28
- Second arc, 39 46
As the cosine of the 2d arc, 39° 46, (arith. comp.) 0.11427
is to the cosine of the 1st arc, 63° 14', 9.65355
so is the tangent of the oblique ascension, 77°22, 10.64949
to the tangent of its longitude, 69° 4, 10,4173]
As the 2° arc is less than 90° the longitude must be taken
from =, from whence the oblique ascension was taken, it
is therefore 69° 4' distant from --, and as it lies between
that sign and the first point of ga, it must be subtracted
from 90°, and it will give 20° 56' of gR for the cusp of the
11th house. The cusps of the other 4 houses, viz. the 12th,
1st, 2d, and 3d, may be found the same way, by means of
their respective poles, and adding 30° to each for its oblique
ascension. The cusps of the other six houses are of course
in opposite signs, degrees, and minutes. -
Example: In the 12th house ofthe same figure, its oblique
ascension will be nearer to -- by 30°, so that its oblique as
cension will be distant from that point only 47° 22'.
Cosine of47° 22', its distance from --, 9.83078
The pole ofthe 12th is 40°48', the co
tangent of which is 10.06390
Cotangent of the 1st arc, 9.89408 51°53' 1st arc
. . 23 28
As cosine of 2d arc, 28° 25', 0.05576 28 25 2d arc
is to cosine of 1st arc, 51 53, 9.79047
so is tangent ofdist. 47 22, 10.03592
to the tangent of long. 37° 19, 9.88215
This is its distance from A., which subtracted from 90°,
gives the distance from go, of 52° 41', or 22° 41' of Sl, for
the cusp of the 12th house.
TRIGONOMETRICAL 297
The longitude of the horoscope may be had the same
way, but as we have it correct to a minute in the table of
houses, we shall proceed to the 2d house.
By taking 60° of oblique ascension away for the difference
between the oblique distance of the 12th and 2d houses we
bring it 60 nearer to Libra, or, to speak more properly,
we pass Libra, for our distance of the 12th from Libra was
but 47° 22 of oblique ascension, which subtracted from 60s,
will make our distance from Libra, 12° 38', on the other
side, the cosine of which is, 9,98935
Cotangent of the pole of the 2d
house, 40° 48', 10.06390
Cotangent of the 1st arc, 10.05325 41° 30' 1st arc
23 28
- 18 22d arc
As the A. C. of the cosine of the 2d arc, 18° 2', 0.02184
is to the cosine of the 1st arc, 41° 30', 9.87445
so is the tangent of this dist. 12 38, 9.350.51
to the tangent of longitude, 10° 1', 9.24680,
which, without any alteration, is 10° 1' of Libra. *
For the 3d house we add 30° to the oblique distance,
12° 38' from Libra, and it will give 42° 38', the cosine of
which is, 9.86670 .
The pole ofthe 3d house is23°27', -
the cotangent of which is 10.36274 -
Cotangent of the 1st arc, 10.22944. 1st arc, 30°31
23 28
As thecosine ofthe 2d arc, 7° 3' 0.00330 2d arc, 7 3
is to the cosine ofthe 1st arc, 30 31 9.93524
so is the tangent of the dist. 12 38 9.96408
to the tangent of longitude, 38 42 9.90362, which is 38°42'
distant from Libra, or 8° 42 of ml. The opposite houses
have of course the same degrees and minutes of the oppo
site signs.
Problem 10th.—To find the pole of a star, or house, in
any figure.
Rule. 1st, As the semiarc of the star or point is to 90°,
so is its right distance from the 10th or 4th house (accord
ing as it may be situated) to the difference between its circle
of position and that of the meridian, which difference, sub
tracted from its right distance, will give its ascensional dif
ference under its own pole.
398 TRIGONOMETRICAL
2d, To the sine of this ascensional difference add the
#" of its declination, the sum will be the tangent of
its pole.
Example: Suppose the seminocturnal arc of 2 to be
122° 26, his right distance from the 4th, 21° 1', and his
declination 23° 2', what will be his polar elevation (com
monly called his pole)?
Here we may use the proportional logarithms, which
are contained in the same book as the logarithms of sines,
tangents, and secants. -
As the S.N.A. of 21, 122°26'(proportional logarithm), 1674
is to 90° (pro. log.) 3010
sois his right distance from the 4th,21° 1' (pro. log.) 9327
1.2337
- 1674.
to the distance between its circle of position from ! 1,0663
the 4th, which is equal to 15° 27' •
Subtract this 15° 27' from the right distance, 21° 1' it
will give the ascensional difference of 21 under his pole, 5°34'
To the sine of the ascensional diff of 2/, 5° 34', 8.98678
add the cotangent of 2/’s declination, 23 2, 10.37145
the sum is the tangent of 2/’s pole, 12 51, 9.35823
When the polar elevation of any house is wanted, its
semiarc and declination will be those of the G), when he
is posited in that point.
The arithmetical complement of these proportional loga
rithms may be found by subtracting the logarithm from
10.000, which will enable the operator to perform the whole
by addition. At the tops of the columns of these logarithms
the value is placed in degrees and minutes, leaving the left
hand column for the seconds, but they may be made to an
swer to any sexagenary proportion. For instance, the loga
rithm of 2/’s S. N.A., 122° 26', is the logarithm of 2° 2' 6",
but by considering every minute as a degree, the operation
will be the same.
Problem 11th.—To find the degree of the O's depression.
Rule. 1st, The difference between the right ascension
in time of the midheaven and the O's 9, is the horary
angle.
3d, With this horary angle enter Douwes Latitude Ta
bles (which constitute the 16th set in the abovementioned
Nautical Tables) and take the logarithm rising which cor
responds with its quantity.
3d, To this logarithm rising add the cosine of the latitude
of the place, and the cosine of the Q's declination.
TRIGONOMETRICAL 399
4th, Their sum (rejecting all the tens in the index) will
be the logarithm of a natural number (to be found in table
18 according to the usual rules.) -
5th This number, subtracted from the natural sine of the
Sun's meridian altitude (found in table 17th,) will give the
natural sine of the altitude of the Q's & , which is of course
the sine of the Sun's depression.
Example: Suppose the right ascension of the Q's oppo
site point to be 5h. 39m; right ascension of the midheaven,
11h. 54m, the Q's declination, 23° 23'; and the latitude
of the country, 448; what is the degree of the Q's de
pression ? -
Right ascension of the midheaven, 11h. 54m.
Right ascension of the Sun's opposite point, 5 39
The horary angle will be 6 15
The logarithm rising of which is 5.02750
Cosine of the Sun's declination, 23° 23' 9.96278
Cosine of the latitude of the country, 44°, 9.85693
it gives the logarithm, 4.84721
(The value, or natural number of this logarithm must be
sought for in table 18, called Logarithms of Numbers, as
follows: - - -
The nearest less logarithm to it is 84720, the natural
number of which, in the left hand column, is 703, and the
figure at the top of the column where the logarithm is being
4, this figure is added, and it makes the natural number
7034. The difference between the nearest less logarithm
and the real logarithm is 1, and the difference between the
nearest less logarithm and the next greater is 6. Add a
cypher to the 1, it makes it 10 (for as only one figure is
wanted, only one cypher can be added), and divide by the
6. It does not go twice, though very near, and therefore
a 1 or a 2 may be added, for the difference is nothing, and
the natural number will be 70342, for it must have the same
number of figures as the decimal parts of its logarithm. All
this has nothing to do with the problem or the example,
and to those who understand the method of working by
logarithms it is wholly useless, but I have inserted it
merely for the sake of those who do not, to prevent them
from being lost and confused.)
The natural number of the logarithm is 70342.
We now find the altitude of the Q’s opposite point by
adding the difference of latitude between the pole of the
country and 90° to the Q's declination. As the latitude of ,
the country is 44° the difference will be 469 () -
Sun's declination, 23 23 .
Altitude of the Q’s opposition, 60 23, the
400 TRIGONOMETRICAL
natural sine of which is 93596, as may be found in
the table of natural sines.
Subtract the natural number, 70342
Itgives the naturalsine of 13° 27', 23254, which is the de
gree of the Sun’s depression, and as it does not extend to
18°, is a proof that it is within the crepusculine circles;
whereas, had it been more than 18°, the Sun would
have been in the obscure arc, or beyond the bounds of the
crepuscle. - - ,
Problem 12th.—To find the extent of the crepusculine
and obscure arcs without tables.
Rule. 1st, Add the difference of the latitude of the
country from 90°, and the difference of the O's declination
from 90°, to the distance of the crepusculine circle from the
zenith, and take half their sum, - - -
9d, Subtract the difference of latitude from this half, and
take the sine of the remainder. Subtract also the differ
ence of the declination from the half sum, and take the sine
of its remainder. - -
3d, Add the logarithms of both these sines to the arith
metical complements of the sines of the difference of lati
tude and the difference of declination, and take half of the
sum of the logarithm produced, of which no part of the
index must be rejected.
4th, Find the sine of this half and double it, reduce it to
time and subtract it from 12h., the remainder is he time
when the twilight begins. Subtract this from the time of
sunrise, it gives the distance of time between the beginning
of twilight and sunrise, which, being turned into degrees
and minutes, will give the distance of the crepusculine arc.
If the crepusculine arc be subtracted from the seminoc
turnal arc, the remainder will be the obscure arc.
Example: Suppose the Q's declination to be 42 north,
in the latitude of 51° 32', what will be his crepusculine and
obscure arcs :
As the crepusculine circles always extend to 18° below
the horizon, the crepusculine circle of the G) must be dis
tant from the zenith, 108° 0'
Difference of latitude between 51° 32' and 90°, 38 28
Difference of the Q's declination from 90°, 89 #8
- Sum, 235 46
The half of which is 117° 53'. - -
- TRIGONOMETRICAL 401,
Subtract from this half sum the difference of declination,
89° 18, the remainder will be 28° 35', the sine logarithm
of which is , 9.67982
The difference of latitude subtracted from the
same half sum leaves 72°11', which will give the
sine logarithm - ; : . . , , , 9.97865
"Arith. comp. of the sine ofthe diff of dec, 89° 18', 0.00003.
Arith. comp. of the sine of the diff of lat. 38°28', 0.20616
- . . - 2)RSSGT66
The half of which is the sine of58° 50', 9.93233
which multiplied by 2 -
- gives 117 40, equal to 7h. 51m.
which subtracted from 12h. Om. gives 4h.9m., which, sub
tracted from the time of sunrising, which is5h.52m, leaves
1h. 43m. for the Sun's crepusculine arc, and this subtracted
from the Sun's seminocturnal arc, 5° 53', leaves 4h. 10m.
for the space of the Sun's obscure arc. - }
Problem 13th.—To direct the G) in the crepuscle to the
": of a star.
Rule. 1st, Add the difference between the O’s depres
sion and 90°, the difference between the latitude of the
country and 90°, and the difference between the declination
of the place of the aspect and 90°, all three together, and
take half their sum. . - :
2d, Subtract from this half sum the difference of latitude,
and take the sine of the remainder. Subtract the difference
also of the declination, and take the sine in like manner.
3d, Add the logarithms of both these sines to the sine
arithmetical complements of the two differences in latitude
and declination (without rejecting radius) and divide the
logarithm by 2. ' - -
4th, Find the sine of this half and double it, and subtract
it from the seminocturnal arc of the place of the aspect, the
remainder will be the secondarydistance, which, when sub
tracted from the Q's primary distance from the horoscope
(taken by oblique ascension) will give the ortive difference,
which added to the common arc of direction will give the
true arc. -
Example: Suppose b to be in 2° 24 of 1 , I would di
rect the Q as posited in problem 11th to the D of that plar
net. The direction falls of course in 2° 24 of 3%. .
3 F
402 TRIGONOMETRICAL
-
Difference of the Q's depression, 13° 27' from 90° 76°33'
Difference of latitude between 44° and 90°, . . 46 0 ,
Difference of declination between 10° 39' (2° 24'
%) and 90°, - 79 21
. . . Sum 201 54
the half of which is 100° 57". -
Subtract the diff of declination, 79° 21', the remainder will
be 21° 36' and its sine, . . . 9.56599.
Sub. the diff of lat. in like manner, its sine will be 9.89693
Sine arithmetical comp. of the diff of declination, 0.00755
Sine arithmetical comp. of the diff of latitude, 0.14307
- - 2)19.61354
. . . . Sine of 39° 51' - 9.80577
which multiplied by 2 -
- gives • 79 42, which subtracted from the
seminoeturnal arc of the aspect, 100° 27', leaves the secon
dary distance, 20° 45'.
This is taken from the nativity of Cardinal Farnese, in
Placidus, where the oblique ascension of the horoscope is
268° 35', and by subtracting it from the Q's oblique ascen
sion,289°32', there remains his distance from the horoscope,
20°57'. Subtract from this the secondary distance, 20° 45',
there remains for the ortive difference, 0°12', which, as the
secondary distance is less than the primary, must be added
to the common arc of direction, 55° 18', the true are of di
rection will be 55° 30'.
Placidus, who did nothing of this kind trigonometrically,
has brought up this direction in a very slovenly way in other
respects. He made the Sun's depression 'i, 13° instead
of 13° 27', and he took the secondary distance from 2° of
% instead of 2°24'. He likewise takes the Q's primary
distance in the tables at 20° 14' instead of 20°57', affirming
the difference to be of little or no consequence, and when
all these defects are added to the natural inaccuracy of the
crepusculine tables, it is not surprising that the ortive dif
ference should be only 12' instead of 1°54', as Placidus
makes it. This, however, is no impeachment of his candour,
for by lengthening the arc of direction it weakened his own
system of crepusculine positions. - -
Those who can work by trigonometry, according to the
problemshere laid down,will find their operations more cor
rect than they possibly can be by referring to tables, provided
they take their logarithms right. In finding the crepusculine
circle or obscure arc, it is infinitly more perfect than the cre
pusculine tables; and in finding the pole of a planet or house,
TRIPLICITY 403
or working with it when it is found, it is indispensibly neces
sary, for by this means the pole may be taken and used even
to a minute, a circumstance wholly neglected by Placidus,
and indeed most others, who think if they take the pole of
a planet to an even degree it is sufficient. I would there
fore advise the operator, if he be not already acquainted
with trigonometry and the use of logarithms, to become so
as soon as possible, for he can never calculate to any degree
of exactness without it. . . - - - . . .
: TRIMORION, the distance of 3 signs, or the square
ct. This distance may, it is said, in certain cases, give
120° of direction and not more (though I never knew an
instance of it), and as the direction to the D of the anareta,
they suppose, is sure to kill, those wise-acres have there
fore limited the utmost extent of human life, since the flood,
to 120-years, which they call the Trimorion.
TRINE (A), a distance of 4 signs, or 120°, in the zodiac.
In the world it is the whole of a semiarc and the third of
another. It is reckoned the best aspect of the whole,
though I own I have some doubts about this. The A in
signs ofshort ascension will kill, according to Ptolemy, if
it comes from B or d, because it is in his opinion equal to
a D. See “Aspects.” - * - - - - * * -
TRIPLICITY, a fourth part of the zodiac, forming an
equilateral triangle; or, a triangle of equal sides; it being
composed of three signs, each of which are at equal distance
from the other. These triangles are called Trigons. The
first trigon is composed of Y, SU, and I, and is therefore
called the fiery triplicity. 3 is lord of Y; the G), of Sl;
and Y, of 1, but, d. being an enemy to the Q, is ex
cluded and deprived of having any share in the government,
which devolves on the Q and M as lords of this tripli
city, the former of whom rules it by day and the latter
by night. The 2d trigon contains 8, up, and V5, which
being three feminine signs, are committed to the care of
Q and the ), viz, Q by day and the D by night. The
3d trigon contains H, --, and c, and is ruled by P and #,
b by day and ; by night. The 4th trigon is formed of go,
in, and 9%, 3 feminine signs, and is ruled by d, because
he is a feminine planet, though the ) by night and Q by
*: a share in its government. -
"he fiery trigon is northern, because of 2/, who is said
to govern the north, because he brought the Egyptians
fruitful showers from that quarter. It would be no bad
policy, were the Europeans to assign him the government
of the south, which would enable him to accommodate them
404 VIA, COMBUSTA.
in a similar way. This trigon is also north-west, from the
mixture of 6, who although outlawed, took the liberty of
introducing the west wind among them, and it is also south
west, because & is feminine £ the south is feminine.
... The earthy trigon is called southern, being under the
petticoat government of Q and the D, who contrived be
tween them to exclude b and #, for what reason we are
not informed. . It is south, because Q, they say, brings
south winds, and east, because b brings east winds.
* The 3d trigon is chiefly eastern, because b brought east
winds, and persuaded # to do the same. It is also north
east, because, it is said, 2 claimed a share in it on account
of his affinity to b, being both diurnal planets.
- The 4th trigon is westerly, because governed by 6, who
delighted in the west winds, because they scorched the
Egyptians, and it is also south-west, because of Q having
a share in it, and governing the south winds.
'... The stupid childish absurdity of all this requires no com
ment, only just to observe, that the doctrine of countries
and cities £ governed by certain signs and planets is
founded on this folly alone, and is consequently not deserv
ing the smallest attention. * * * |
in horary questions a planet in its triplicity denotes a
£ person, who has a sufficiency of every thing,
and is quite comfortable, . - -
2. TROPICAL SIGNS, gB and V}, so calledbecause they
limit the course of the Q. .
... TRUITINE of HERMES. See “Rectification.”
: TRUE MOMENT of BIRTH, that wherein the child
becomes independent of the mother, and the lungs are in
flated. . . -
- VENUS. See & Planets.” , , " " :
VERTICAL, directly over head. * * * > .
VESPERTINE, the reverse of matutine: when a pla
'met sets in the evening after the Q. It is reckoned the
same kind of dignity in an inferior planet as a matutine po
sition is in a superior planet, because they are then de
scending to the lowest part of their orb, increasing in light,
and approaching nearer to the Earth. *
...VIA COMBUSTA, the combust way: the last half of
= and the whole of m, though others say, the first 15 de
grees of ml, so called from several violent fixed stars, which,
they say, render that place extremely unfortunate, parti
cularly to the (, who suffers there as much as during an
eclipse. - *
**". . . .
wFATHER. 405
VIOLENT SIGNS, those that are the houses or ex
altations of the malefics, viz. Y, --, In, W5, and 3:. Also
those signs are called violent where there are any remark,
ably violent fixed stars, as 8 for Caput Algol, &c, ..
VIRGO. See “Signs.” - -
VOID or COURSE, when a planet forms no aspect
during the remainder of its course through the sign where
it is posited. It is only a distinction in horary questions,
and signifies that the business denoted by such a significator
will come to no good conclusion. Placidus never considers
the sign to make any difference in an aspect, but always
calculates them as if the zodiac were not divided into signs.
UNDER THE SUNBEAMS, when a planet is not
17 degrees from the O. It is reckoned four debilities. In
horary questions it is reckoned fear, trouble, and oppres
sion, but not so bad as combustion.
UNFORTUNATE SIGNS, 3, g3, ng, m, W5, and 36.
The natives are said to be unfortunate in the general ten
dency of the events of their lives. The most unfortunate
of them all is
WATERY SIGNS, g3, m, and 36.
- WATERY TRIPLICITY, the triplicity formed of
the three watery signs. - -
| WEAK SIGNS, CE, y}, and 36. The natives are said
to be weak in frame and less robust than if born under any
other sign. ".
... WHALE'S JAW, Menkar, a star of the 2d magnitude,
of the nature of b,in 12degrees of 8, said to cause sickness
when united to the luminaries, and when in the midheaven
disgrace, ruin, and great affliction. - -
WEATHER. The methods made use of in judging of
weather are several. It is usual to erect a figure for the Q's
ingress into the four cardinal signs Y", gö, --, and W5, and
rognosticate according as the Q and planets are posited.
he last 6 or & also of the luminaries is to be considered,
and what signs it happened in, whether heat or cold, dry
ness or moisture, predominated, and what kind of fixed
stars were near them.
. The Ó of b and 21 in fiery signs, or near fixedstars of the
same nature, produce heat and dryness in summer, and mi
tigate the cold in winter, for sometime both before and after
the C#. In watery signs it causes rains and floods; in earthy
signs, extreme cold; and in airy signs, wind and tempest.
If b have higher latitude than 21, terrible diseases or in
fluenza prevail, but if 2/’s latitude be more northern the
evil will be greatly mitigated. Some say the evil or good
*
406 WEATHER.
will prevail according as b or ) are essentially dignified
above each other. This weather is said to be renewed every
time they come to a k, D, A, or $, until the next g. In
all their aspects they generally stir up tempests and rain.
In the spring, from watery signs, they produce moist air
and rain; in summer, thunder and hail; in autumn, wind
and rain; and in winter, dark, thick, cloudy weather.
d; in C#, D, or 8 of b causes, in spring, wind, rain and
thunder; in summer, thunder and hail; in autumn, heavy
rains; in winter, warm, thick, cloudy weather." -
Q in d, D, or 8 of b causes a dark, cloudy spring; hail,
thunder, and cold in summer; rain and cold in autumn;
and clouds, snow, and frost in winter. - -
9 in 6, D, or 8 of b generally causes cold rain in
spring; sudden, hasty showers insummer; cold and wet in
autumn; and snow or sleet in winter. -
; : in C, D, or 3 of b brings drought in fiery signs; rain
in moist signs; wind in airy signs; and cold, dry air in
earthy signs. In spring wind and rain; in summer wind and
sh showers; in autumn wind and clouds; in winter
wind and snow. - -
(ing, U, or8 of b in moistsigns givescold cloudy wea
ther; in airy signs, or 1 or V3, cold; in dry signs, a sharp
air, and frost in winter. They generally cause cloudy, rainy
weather. In spring they cause a foggy moist air; in summer,
a moist cool air, but if 6 or # aspect them, they cause
thunder or hail; in autumn, cloudy cool air; and in winter,
clouds and snow, with excessive cold.
The 6, [T], or 8 of 6 with 21, in fiery signs, causes great
heat; in watery signs, thunder and rain. In spring, wind
and thick clouds; in summer, heat and thunder; in autumn, .
tempestuous weather; and in winter, a temperate air with
little cold. He f have higher latitude or declination than
d at these times, it causes general fertility: but if & be
more northern, it causes pestilential air and much evil. If
they are near violent fixed stars, as Atair, Arcturus, the
bright star in the Crown, Cauda Delphini, &c. they cause
thunder, hail, and wind. - - -
G) in G, D, or & of 21 gives serene weather and salu
brious winds in spring and autumn; in summer, thunder;
and in winter, warmth. - - - -
Q in G, C, or & of 2/ causes fine, serene, temperate
air; but if in watery signs, gentle showers, and in all cases
fine fertile seasons. -
# in D, d, or 9 of 21 causes wind and rain. In fiery
signs, warm wind, and dryness; in airy signs fine weather;
*
WEATHER. 407
in moist signs, very gentle showers; and in earthy signs, fine
temperate weather, but they generally cause brisk winds; in
spring and autumn they cause hail; and in winter, snow.
( in G, D, or 9 of 2/ causes general mildness, gentle
winds and serene air; in fiery signs, more warm and dry;
in watery signs, gentle showers; and in airy and earthy
signs, fine weather. by 1.
Q in 6, D, or 9 of 6 in fiery signs causes much Heat
and dryness; in watery signs, £rain and hail; in airy
signs, violent winds; and in earthy signs, thick, cloudy wea
ther. In spring and autumn, great dryness; in summer,
great heat; and in winter, warm weather for the season,
- # in G, [...], or 9 of d in watery signs gives much rain
both in spring and autumn; in summer, warm showers; in
winter snow, but without much cold. is .
# in G, D, or 9 of d causes snow in winter and spring;
in summer hail-storms and thunder; and in £:
same, with high winds. In fiery signs they give great heat,
and in earthy signs much dryuess. -
(, in 6, [...], or 8 of d causes rain when in moist signs,
but in fiery signs dryness, with red windy clouds, and some"
times rain. In summer, hail, lightning, and corruscations,
and at all times, a warm, pestilential, unwholesome air.
The Q and Q in 6 produce rain at all times ofthe year.
The G) and # joined in airy signs cause winds; in wa
tery signs, rain; in fiery signs, heat, and pestilential winds;
and in earthy signs, cold dry weather. … •.
The Q and ( at the 6, D, and &', generally produce
such weather as is congenial to the planets giving testi
mony. In watery signs they give rain; in airy signs, wind;
and in earthy or fiery signs, fair weather. - ...,
. The d, semisk, and k of Q and #, cause winds and
rain, or if in winter, particularly if they keep pace with
each other so as to prolong the aspect. in
When b passes out of onesign into another, the weather
becomes unsettled and turbulent, and G produces the same
effect, only with a greater degree of warmth. . . . . . .
d in Cancer with north latitude, brings warm weather,
with rain and wind, and if in aspect with b, 2 or #, makes
the atmosphere very unwholesome. When near the Hyades
he causes wind and rain; near the Pleiades, he makes the
weather cloudy; with Atair and Frons Scorpio, cold rain,
or snow; and when he rises or sets with Atair, Arcturus,
Occulus Taurus, Cauda, Delphini, Procyon, Sirius, the
bright star in the Crown, Orion, Regulus, the Hyades, An
tares, Spica, &c. he causes a windy and tempestuous or
sultry obnoxious air. -
~
-
– * * * *
-- ~~~~-------~~~
408 WEATHER.
The @ setting with Reguluscauses west winds; with the
Pleiades north-east winds; with Arcturus, south winds.
Rising with the Pleiades, he brings the east wind; with:
the Asselli, thunder-storms; with Atair, Caput Algol, and
the Goat's Tail, snow; with Orion or Aldebaran, wind
and thunder-storms; with Deneb, Cor Hydra, the Crown,
Frons Scorpio, or Orion, cloudy weather. When he sets
with Lyra, cold, rainy weather; with the Pleiades, mild
showers; with Regulus, thunder-storms; with Sirius, great
heat, thunder-storms, and corruscations; with Orion or
Aldebaran, stormy, wet weather; with stars ofthe nature of
b, cold rain or snow; of the nature of 21, serene weather:
with those of the nature of 6, thunder; and with those of
the nature of Q, mist and rain. , "I - -
B with Caput Algol gives cold rain; with the Pleiades,
stormy weather, rain and snow; with Orion or Arcturus,
wind and rain; with Spica, thunder-showers; with the
Dolphin, Crown, Goat's Tail, or the Harp, cloudy, wet
weather, andsometimes snow; with Praespe and the Hyades,
wind, thunder, and rain; with Cor Leonis, thunder-storms;
and with Sirius, tempests, thunder, and lightning.
2/ with Regulus gives fine weather, and mild even in
winter. With the £, Neck, winds; with the Goat's
Tail, showers; with Frons Scorpio, cold weather, rain or
snow; with Arcturus, violent winds, and thunder-storms;
with the Eagle, cold rains or snow; with Orion, the Hyades,
Regulus, or Sirius, great heat. * --->
Q in the first decade ofga, or with the Pleiades, Hyades,
or the Asselli, causes rain. * * ** *
§ with the Pleiades, causes mild wind and rain; with
Atair, cold rains or snow; with Orion, Hyades, Sirius, and
Regulus, wind, rain and thunder; with the Goat's Tail,
windy rain, or snow; with the Back and Neck of the Lion,
moist wind; with Deneb, Spica, Lyra, &c. it causes a sud
den change from fair weather to wind, or rain.
) in a fiery sign causes north-west winds; in an earthy,
south-east; in a watery, south-west, in an airy sign, north
east.
b, 21, 3, or #, with Arcturus, cause high winds; but
if at the matutine setting of the Dolphin there be rain, there
will be none at the rising of Arcturus. The Hyades at
the rising and setting cause wind and rain, especially if &
and # give testimony. The rising of the Hyades causes
rain. The matutine rising of Sirius causes great heat and
unwholesome air. Orion’s Belt rising cosmically makes a
turbid atmosphere. The Crown setting, or Sirius and the
* -
l
--- e--------------
WEATHER. 409
Eagle rising acronycally, cause tempests. Regulus setting
causes north wind, and sometimes rain. The Dolphin set
ting, causes wind and snow. Windemiatrix setting causes a
north-east wind. The Ram’s Horn rising causes wind and
snow. Arcturus rising acronycally causes tempests. The
Pleiades rising brings north winds. Sirius setting acronycally
causes south-east or north-east winds. The matutine setting
of the Hyades causes south winds and rain. The vespertine •
setting of the Pleiades causes a mild south wind, passing
round to the west. The rising of the Succulae brings rain.
Orion rising brings the west wind. The Eagle setting
matutine brings south wind and great heat; Arcturus and the
| Succulae setting in like manuer, causes rain, wind and snow.
These are the rules by which almanack makers put down
the changes of weather, and every year's experience proves
how seldom they are verified. This is because they attri
bute effects to the planets and fixed stars which belong to
the luminaries alone. When the G) arrives at SR the
Earth has been extremely heated during his progress
through Cancer, and this accumulated heat operating in
conjunction with his own natural power, causes all those
effects attributed to the matutine rising of Sirius. The
truth of this may be fully experienced in cold wet summers,
when by the interposition of clouds and excessive rain the
Earth has not acquired that degree of heat necessary to pro
duce such effects. The matutine position of the Dog Star
then is productive ofno such influence, and even the Asselli,
SO £ dreaded, lose their burning power. The Hyades
have been blamed for causing those heavy rains and storms
which result from the breaking up ofthe winter season as
the Sun proceeds northward, and poor Orion lost his good
character (if he ever had one) through a similar mistake.
So far as relates to my own observation, all changes of
consequence proceed from the Sun and Moon. On the
third day after the d a change may be expected, but it is
seldom of long duration. On the day the ) forms her first
dichotome, another change may be expected, but it seldom
lasts above a day, especially when the weather has a strong
bias in any particular way. Rain, however, that has lasted
a week, will frequently clear up on that day, and not re
turn till the end of the lunation. Changes sometimes
happen at the A and the 8, but very seldom, particularly
the latter, for which I own it is difficult to account. The
water is affected in a similar way at the full as at the change,
yet the weather seldom manifests any alteration. The )'s
second dichotome makes l',variationin the weather that
410 ZODIACAL PARALLELS.
can be depended upon, but on the third day after she has
£it, a moststriking difference may be always observed.
or the most part, the temperature of the air is materially
altered, the wind frequently changes, rainy weather be
comes fair, or fair weather rainy. If rain continues, it
will be much increased, or come from a different quarter;
and if fair weather continues, as it sometimes will when
the wind remains fixed in the east, a turbid, cloudy sub
stance will be seen rising in the west on the day in ques
tion, which after a seemingly hard struggle to gain the
ascendancy, will gradually dissolve. Severe frosts gene
rally break on this day, but when they remain, are attended
by an excessive fall of snow.
WHOLE SIGNS, II, 2-, and 3:. Those born under
these are said to be strong, robust, and not so liable to
accidents.
ZENITH, the point directly over head. Thus, every
place has its own zenith, and the nearer the planets are to
that zenith the more powerful is their operation.
ZIGIATUS, a very foolish name, given by some silly
astrologers to any person born under =, who, they say,
will be apt to commit suicide, because when Libra ascends,
8 will be on or near the cusp of the 8th house, and thus
the lady of the ascendant, Q, being also lady of the 8th,
the person will somehow or other be the cause of their own
death. . . The opinion was Ptolemy's originally, but he not
giving his reasons, Pontanus, as above, explains it for him.
This probably was not Ptolemy's reason, else the same
thing might have been said of those born under Y, who
would by the same rule have in for their 8th, and 6 would
would be lord of both. -
ZODIAC, a kind of circle or rather belt, 12 degree
broad, with the ecliptic passing through the middle of it.
It contains the 12 signs of the ecliptic, all of which being
animals, it takes its name from them. Modern astronomers
consider it as 18 degrees broad, on account of the extensive
latitude of 6 and Q.
ZODIACAL ASPECTS, aspects measured by the de
grees of the zodiac. In this case the promittor's place is
taken without latitude, instead of which the latitude is taken
which the significator will have when it arrives at the place
where the aspect is formed.
ZODIACAL PARALLELS. See “Parallels.”
THE END. -
(MVSEWMN
* * * * * * : A R, , ; - -
- # - I }.A}''ed by Thomas Chaplin, 1, Crane Court, Fl. et Street.
- 'A - -
A". W i3.
*
