{"name":"Defence Of The Holy Scriptures Refuting Joanna Southcott","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1811__buckley___defence_of_the_holy_scriptures_refuting_joanna_southcott.pdf","mytitle":"Defence Of The Holy Scriptures Refuting Joanna Southcott","mylang":"de"}
/
A '
DEFENCE
OF THE
H o ly S crip tu res, ,
H O L D IN G FORTH TH E FUNDAM ENTAL PREMISES
o r THE
S A C R E D T E X T ;
(Vhertin it given,for the Peace[anti Comfort o fall earnest Seeker*
into Truth, afu ll support ofthe
L I V I N G ' W O R D ,
COMPLETELY REFUTING THE SATANIC DOCTRINE'OF
Joanna Soutlicott,
Manifesting the heinousness of her Tenets, the unwarrantable
and profane liberty* with the Saviour of Mankind, and her
blasphemous and insulting Writing* against the omnipo*
tent God and the fulness of the Deity.
B Y J . B U C K LE Y, CANNON PLA C E , M IL E E N D ,
Anther of the DIVINE MIRROR, and several other Tracts.
* /
* «
— 1 m i h u h o n h w i**
L O N D O N :
Printed by I. R e e d , 26, Widegate Street, Bishopsgate Without,
1811.
Digitized by Google
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE authorhereofharing w
rittentwo tractt,
theon
eTruth by DivineWMRevealed, theother
An Address to Joann? Southcot, sheeringbyth
e
sacred tenor of the Uring w
ord, the error of th
is
w
om
arts w
ritings, he hathpresum
ed once m
oreto
triceuph
ispen indefenceof truth, seeing it beam
s-
ethneedfulfor everyo
n
e*to support, w
ithhanda
n
d
heart, th
ose sou
n
d doctrinal principlesso ptrinhf
m
anifested in thegospelevidence, w
hereinour spi­
ritualwelfareandtherockofhope,a
s
,toour eternal
peaceandcom
fort, issodeeplyconcerned.
Thew
riter, th
erefo
re^ intendingtin
s-littlew
orkto
behetdforth asabarrier<fdefence, andaguidance
againstthe deepsubtiltyof the enem
y, soapparent
inthe doctrinesandteachingsof JoannaSouthcot,hr
respectfullyoffersthefribwmgbriefandfmdamentri
truthsfromsacrcdwriefar dot cmitferation.
Digitized by Google
\The.Une tf theCovenant and the.Bemsmgof the
Serpents Head.
A l t h o u g h the work of our great Redeemer,
is folly and perfectly known and understood in
God’s church, and that he is, solely, held as the
^worker and completer of our salvation, by all true
believers, he having confirmed the same in his Tes­
taments, and sealed it with his blood; ye£ that
such sacred truth may faresupported against the •
wiles of the enemy, and, that as many may not suf­
ficiently comprehend how the covenant of promise^
and the bruising of the serpent’s head is to be un-
, vderstood, I shall, as God in iris gracious gift enables
me, show the; same, according to gospel evidence,
.and the sacred voice and testimony of the scrip­
tures.
When God created man, in and after his^own
image, it was even then foreseen, in the inward
.abyssal,ground of the fether, that man would fall
through temptation; and on this account, God the,
father entered into a,covenant with his son for his
redemption, and the recovery of his lost image
before this worid began: therefore, Christ was fore­
ordained to this great work, as the word testifieth,
*Who would manifest himself at the fullness of ./
time; the. same being comprehended in.the cove­
nant of.promise, and given to Us as ah aim at the
I limit thereof, which stood in Maiy, as the word _i
■ - » La
Now, when the voice of the Lord called to Adam
in the garden, saying, where art thou, it was then
the inspeaking word of grace, being the voice of
Christ, .which came.to give relief; whereby the
enemy’s power was held back, or limitted, so as
not to suffer his access afterwards so openly; seeiag
.the Lord pronounced a curse, not only on the bestial
serpent of the field, but also upon the wicked one,
the old serpent* the devil; saying, 1 will put enmity
between thee and the woman, and between thy seed
‘and her seed; her seed shall bruise thy head, and
thou shalt bruise its heel. Here commences the
promise of the covenant, whereupon the inspeaking
word o f covenant grace, incorporated itself in the
seed of the woman; the same being given as an
aim at. the limit thereof, which stood in Mary as
above given; which, incorporated'word was con­
tinued in the line o f Seth to Noah, with whom the
Lord renewed the covenant; and, also, down to
Abraham, to whom, God openedthe same, and gave
him the seal of the covenant, the seal of circnm.
dsion, in whose seed the kingdom of. Christ should
-manifest itself.' For it pleased the Lord to declare
his mercys. to mankind through this great and
chosen vessel; and, therefore, mis name compre­
hends a blessing above all others, in whom the in*
speaking word of covenant grace Wasopened, where­
by the kingdom of Christ is signified. For, be it
understood, that Abraham’s great name, whieh
God would make him in his seed, is not to be
taken, as to this world, in principality# and king­
dom s; he being, by God’s will and appointment, as
a-stranger and a pilgrim on the earth; but the great
name, which should be a blessing t©all nations, b
in the kingdom of Christ, in the covenant, which '
should he.manifest in Abraham’s seed; whose faith
laid hold of the .covenant thus:— the aim in tbs
covenant, which stood incorporated in the formed
word, ‘in Abraham's nature property, received the
4
speaking word of God. Abraham received the
ihspeaking word of grace into bis desite, whereby
the same became living and moving in the inward
image, and \qas accounted to him for righteousness.
Abraham took hold of God's promise, and formed
and conceived the same into a substance of his spi­
rit; so that God's word, that is, the inspeaking
. word of grace, and the human will and desire'came
into on£ spiritnal existence and essence : thus it
was that God accountedthe received inspoken, appre­
hended word to Abraham for righteousness. And
in this apprehended and blessed tiuth, rests our faith
- of justification.*
Having given the Lord’s most clear and decisive
truth, as to die line of the covenant and o f its mani­
festation, I proceed to show the full import and
meaning of the bruising of the serpent’s head; the
whicli is to be fully understood thus;- -it is to de-
stroj^the abominations of him, and to’bring down
effectually the enemy’s tort and strong hold, the
which he had so .powerfully erected in Adam and
Eve; whereby the baneful, lustful false desire, and
rebellious will became predominant, and the seed
of the woman deeply impregnated and figured with
the bestial property of the serpent, whence all un­
chastity, uncleanness, and evil concupiscence
ariseth. Now, that the same is bona fide and effec­
tually done, shall appear in the following as it
stands in the living word. First, we are to con- 1
aider the covenant of piomise which the Lord gave ■
to Adam and Eve in the garden; for God seeing
the state of his created image, he looked upon die
lame a$ a compassionating father, and moved him- <
self in th$ power of grace to give relief; and thisj
moving was in Christ, in the name of Jesu, the
great Emanuel God with us; whereby a limit
of separation of the enemy’s power took placet
._Jbf9Pgb tM inspeaking word, as the same rncor.
5
porated itStelf in the woman’s seed, ab hath been
.already noticed in the covenant line, the true limit
'and manifestation thereof, standing in Mary * she?
being ofthe seed of Abraham, who was the daughter
•of Joachim and Anna, according tb the flesh; but,
According to die will, she was the daughter o f the
covenant of promise.
" »
. W e are further to consider,' that* as holy writ
giyes it, according to the salutation of the angel,
Maty-was blessed above all women, as bang, thro’
the extraordinary sanctification, adorned-with the
heavenly virgin, Luke i. 12, whereby, she became.a
fit vessel, and prepared for the most high- Now it
‘follows, that in the mystery of the incarnation, the
Lotd took upon him and assumed the humanity, in
theseed’of the woman, and Was truly of, Mary’s
•essence, tn souland body; -for, -as being the son o f
-the'woman as well-as the son of man, he must be
of wonvan'j natural seed, and made under the law,
St. Paul’s epistle, Gal. iv. A.
Seeing that ifhe had not, in his humanity, beep of
•vorrtan’s natural seed, as we ail are, this redemption
<of fallen manwould not have been made foil and
perfect: for it became needful, that he should'as­
sume and take every th»ng.upon him belonging'to
human nature (sip excepted,) that his redemption
Jmighteffectually work in and comprehend the same.
•Having duly weighed these things; the. living word
>tci!s us that as sin came through one, and passed
^rom one to all, so the grace and victory of Christ
ipassed upon all also ;*and the wrath of God And
death is broken through in •the second Adata; and
the way to grace, through the disclosmgof death,
|k opened; wherein the wrath of the father, in the
leafed book, stood against the disobedience ofman.
Rev. chap. 5th. For when the-Lord hung his
hrthJv b o d y on the cross, he then held up simadri
Digitized by ^
6
death as a public spectacle, whose blood being shed-
through the eternal spirit, effectually' appeased the
wrath of nature in tne father. And when he de­
scended into hell, he broke.the bands of imprison­
ment^ and took captivity captive* giving- gifts to
mien. Psalm 68. Epb. iv. 5 and 8, that is; Christ
being pod as well as man, he'took the enemy to
our. souls captive,- and turned him out.of his in- *
dwelling power and Ijold in the soul; whereby the
same is freea from its bondage of him, and rose the
third day asjbonquerer, havingvanquished the prince
of this world who rules powerfully in the wrath:
so that now the soul can re-enter into it^-.first
estate, and obtain the redeeming blbod; which hath
changed the anger of the father into love and meek­
ness: thus, oh.courteous readers, the Lord ha9 trod
the wine press of the fierce wrath and anger, Rev.
xix. 15. and hath effectually overcome the powers
of darkness, when he saidit is finished, John xix. 30. -
and freed the way to light and grace-to all'regene­
rate believers. Seeing we have one God and one
mediator between than and God, the man Jesus
Christ, 1*Tim. ii. 5 and'6. who gave himself up,
and made atonement and ransom for all; there- -
fore, the serpent’s head is fully bruised, and the
sting of death and hell fully destroyed, if We are
to take and hold belief hi God’s word. St. PauP*
epistle, Cor. xv. 57- Having stated these facts
which hold forth a testimony that bears down all
equivocal sophistry of die enemy, we are to ob­
serve withal,, that as satan is. known as a god of]’
-this world, in the wrath of nature, he governs and
rules with groat power in the children o f disobe­
dience and in all those who are not in the way o f
truth; therefore,it becomes a spiritual warfare to
conquer herein, as the Scripture warns us enough.
We must, upon these grounds, enlist under the
banner of our caotaine
dand leader, who hath
7 * : , ■
effectually made way for us to become the children
of God— ••leaving nothing unfinished, as to our
salvation. . . .
* • - ^ >
Having gone through two essential points of
scripture, showing, according to the express te­
nor and spirit of tne word, as to the covenant and
bruising o f the serpent’s head, the fallacy o f
Joanna Southcot’s doctrine therein, the next thing
which calls, my attention, is {fiat of the circum­
stance o f woman’s redemption; the which, Joanna
Southcot says, is not in the covenant of grace, it
beingVvraled to her, and that till satan is cast,
woman.stands in her full guilt and sin ; and, ac­
cordingly, it appears,'that by her teacher, she i%
vested with this power. This woman’s doctrine
therefore maintains, that the Lord Jesus Christ,
in his justifying blood and atonement, is not
sufficiently adequate to this part of redemption;
and, therefore, this extraordinary liberation of
woman took place at the Neckinger, Bermondsey,
in 1804, by Joanna Southcot and 48 other persons
of her friends, who took upon them to east sataa
and free thewoman.
Now, if such a circumstance as the above* the
which is strictly ’ true, had not taken place, I '
should presume it would be impossible to bring
'any rational being into a belief of such a thing;
thus, for .an impure, unhallowed earthly vessel,
and 48 persons in their own self-will, without di­
vine authority, to provoke God, and stir up his
anger in such a proceeding; the same not o n ly '
being an insult upon deity, but it was waging war
to the uttermost against the sacred oracles of the
Lord, and rendering his gracious mercies to fallen
nature of no effect.
n .m ' . Digitized by Goo<:le
®ne nature and the iiaino* of t1u> n/nrrl ra iliiw
more especially tipdn such libwartantable a mac
ter. But, to proceed and show the delusive doc­
trine of this woman, as to the covenant, first, it is
to be noted, that as woman was taken out of man,
both are to be fully deemed as one body, accord­
ing^to the scripture; so tnat the seal of the cove­
nant extends to the woman as well as to the man,
tinder sfach comprehensive trntli: seeing the in­
corporated word ot covenant grace, from the be­
ginning, entered into the seed of'the woman, and,
upon this ground, woman becomes saved with
man: for, be it further noted, that the covenant
was made for the sake of the first image, before a
severing and dividing took place with Adam, and
the woman formed; therefore, both are to bejeon-
•idered as one flesh; on this ground, and through
child bearing, as the scripture testifiys, the woman
stands in the covenant of promise*.
f ’
Thus, oh, Christian friends! may be seen the
harmony, the connectedness, and the Ctearness of
the text, that the covenant of the woman stands
in the coVehant line, as I have already stated ;
but deemdd it proper to recite it here, on the
foregoing circumstance and proceeding, in order
to set so strange; and truly unwarrantable an
aflRrir, in its proper view; yet; withal, any inaccu­
racy* that may appear, 1 have to crave the readers
indulgence, being urged, in haste, to use m y pen
against such an invader and perverier of .God’s
truth.
' N. B. f request t6 refer to a work on the'Char-
ges against Joanna Southcot, and her 48
, friends on this affair, at the Neckinger,
Bermondsey, the same being very clearly
and candidly written by JL Tiann.
• Digitized by Gooole
The ndxt thing wh-idh moves my attention is
9
doctrine, satan haa his seat and residence. Nov
it may be, that some, for want of knowledge there*
in, may be led to think so, but with known science
and the manifestation of a triune God, in the pro­
perty's of nature, such thing is truly absurd and
ridiculous; the truth hereof stands as follows: .
the moon is known to be placed in the creation,
as one of the blessed lights, who shines, as all other
planets do, from the radiance of the sun. The
<moon is, also, the7£h property of nature, aqd with­
out which, no existence in this world could be;
either in animal or vegetable; therefore, satan has
no power to approach the moon’s body, much less
to have his seat and dwelling therein.
, Now, satan’s dwelling place, according to his
own nature and property, stands as follows: Lu­
cifer, which imports one whose light is extin­
guished, having been overcome by Michael die
archangel, gad being so vanquished, no place in
heaven bee**-*found he was thurst dtfwn to hell,
into that which- is outermost, in the wrath of the
father: the expulsion from thence being momen­
tary as lightening, as the Lord’s words in the gos­
pel testify Satan’s seat, mansion and dwelling,
is, therefore, in the deep of the father,jin the firery
darkness, in that which is the uttermost in the
wrath of the father: thus, candid readers, is the
Lord’s truth, against the spirit of error, so pie-,
valent; alas, in this deluded vessel’s teachings.
I now proceed to notice another strange part of
intelligence, held in Joanna bouthcot’s doctrine;
. she says that it is six days journey from h*aven to
this earth.
. #
In answer, in regard -to the movement o f spi­
ritual power, we are led to understand the same
to be quicker than thought, and, besides, there is
10
finite G od; therefore, this does away the absurdity
of travelling, or with that o f any temporal con­
cern or measurement. This woman saying that
heaven is six days journey from this world, I also
Answer to such doctrine, that the word declares no
snch thing, but, on the contrary, tells us the
kingdom of God is not removed from us, but is
even i» o u r doors and in our dwellings; and the
light shineth in the darkness,, but the darkness
fcOmprehendeth it not. John i. 5. And the Lord
saith, “ That where two or three or gathered to- .
gether in ftiy name, there am I in. the midst of
them.” Ana, again, the Lord saith, am not I he
that filleth all things: so that it is most decisively
Clear and evident, in this our middle statefw e
have both the light and the dark world near to us,
yet,.hid from our mortal eyes or seeing; for. it
stands in full truth, that the light and dark world
are in one another, yet, not comprehended by one
another, there being an immence space between,
or gulph; but this is to be considered as to the
state o f each: therefore, these skered and bona fide
troths are to be taken and held in a divine light,
in &divine knowledge; wanting no argument for
the support thereof.
Upon these stated facts, I wish to know what
Joanna Southcot may call, or comprehend such
space or distance to be, which she holds to be six
days journey- to this earth?
*
Having, I trust in the Lord, in his cause, refuted
the above strange holdings, I come,, now, to the
state of those who dwell in the wrath o f the father;
.to those whose situation becomes fitted to them,
accoitlingto divine justice, and the unchangeable
truth of an unerring God.
11
Digitized by Google
Now, as this woman sets scripture aside, clear­
ing away every thing to make way for an entirely
new complexion o f doctrine, I shall only notice
.the art and incoSsistencyin this matter; for, altho*
this woman avers that satarrand his lemons are
not included, as to the liberation pf the damned,
Whom she maintains are all .to be released out of
hell, but, further, adds, conditionally, that if satan
will really repent himself of the evil, which he
hath done and con^rmtted, he shajl even, also, be
restored to his heavenly possession ; for'so stands
this woman’s doctrine and te a ch in g sth u s, you
hawe, under one view, the inconsistency of pod*
and the deep sophistry o f satan, in meeting the
Change of state half way, and so to leaa the mind
gradually, into fatal error anc} eternal misery.
Here you may s^e, clearly, this deep casuist and
archenemy to man (who moves with great sub­
tilty in this deluded vessel) insinuates a distinction
is order to palliate the revemng of the d<v>n^
eternal apd unchangeable truths, o f an infinitely
unchangeable, unalterable God. . . _
This woman understandetb nothing of - the
sacred text, where it mentions the worn fitted;,
and be it understood, that God of himself neither
willeth nor maketh any thing evil, therefore, satan
made hell for himself, and He had it Man, aho,
made way to his fat), through his self will, and he
had the same. Now, satan entered jhto pride, arid,
through his own strength and might, into open
rebellion against his creator; and, therefore, he
fell without remedy. Whereas man’s fall came
through temparion; and,/ op this account toa
Lord had compassion on nipi, in hh covenant of
grace. B ut ir man refuae^such grand, such glo­
rious atonement and ^acrafice for tins, and
fully becomes k rebellions son, he tails without
redemption also; therefore, ofi, Christian readers »
.
be aware of such teaching and corruption of the
12
Urine word; being, evidently, held forth (joined
wjth her abominable seals, which give a pass-post
tp heaven, to all sorts, let them be ever so aban­
doned and profligate) to ensnare tbe unwary sin­
ner. I repeat, be aware of this rock and bdacon
o f destruction o f the enemy 1 seeing these se&ls
are fully calculated for the bane and delusion of
frail nature; and afford an open gate for the ene­
my, of entrance into, and continuation of the
In&tA of this world; 1, therefore, earnestly hope
the Irfwd .wiH open the e o f all believers, as to
this momentous truth t praying the light of grace
may become * guidance, against such corruption?
o f the living word, by this astonishingly deluded
woman, who* alas! ipeaketh of these.things,
through the powerful hepremions of a wicked
spitit,, and kaewsth. not whatene speaketh,
b av in s proceeded so far, in what 1 hold my
duty* M tuuur spiritual welfare, .against the ene­
my, | now enter upon the scriptures, which thi*
woowp dcclsres are full of contradictions. That;
the hie is a sealed bopk» not revealed to man;
mid that is the pease* (the woman) to whom,
the herd has vouchsafed. to open and make this,
spaed, book. Know*. Now, in answer, both these
obpefwtion* show this, persons language and
t$ ^ kiog*w t not from God,— First, to hold that)
thft gible is full of contradictions, is destroying
the unity of-divigsmovements, and abaserefiectkttn
Upon an unerring creator;, and making die holy
raphgt? na better .than deceivers. to mankind;—
*>$. the holding the same'to boa sealed-up book
w m men, iswaUifrating great, injustice from a
henefioent God» tp his creatures; in thus; with-
hfdding his. guidance and.hfe mercys.from them.
And, upon tbityground, la m fully moved and di­
rected, Dy the finger of him, from .whom no secreta-
ape hjd, Cpanswer, a»d to declare these things to
he. false, that is tbs Lord hat' not .revealed the
13
scriptures to this woman; nor, is the Bible asealed
book ; the holy word being folly open and mani­
fest to all whom the Lord may give the light of
grace. The scriptures, Christian friends, are be- •
stowed upon us, by the father of light, for profit­
able doctrine, for reproof, for instruction, &c.
2 Tim. xvi. 17- Seeing they hold forth-the won­
ders ,of an omnicient God, in ali bis movements,
determinations, counsels, and decrees, amongst '
the'children o f men: the harmony and consisten­
cy thereof, results, in thU happy1iMUe and comfort
tnfey afford, to all eoUghteUed1believers. The
simplicity, and the apparent dissonance o f the gos­
pel^ prove and -show the genuineness of them.
The four gospels 'may, suitably, be compared to a
grahd edifice; the same being wrought, supported
and inlaid with various rich and ornamental work­
manship—all joining to make up the well planned
work thereof: each part contributing to maintain
the beauty and the symmetry o f the whole. Thus,
it is even so with the gospels; each being written in
its own place, as the evidence of Christianity gives
it ; aud, what one hath not written, the other sets .
forth; even the same miracle shall be variously
made manifest, in order that the full truth of such
may be duly comprehended. These sacred truths,
Christian friends, need no support or further need
of elucidation; -being self-evident and full, to all,
whom the Lord may give the light of truth.
I do agree in one thing, *as to the Bible being a
sealed book, it is sealed from fleshly wisdom (her.
iug foolishness to the greeks) it is, also, sealed
from the ungodly and yordly minded, who seek
not the Lord in spirit and in truth; and, it is
roost assuredly sealed from this strangely deluded
vessel, as all her writings and movements most
evidently show to the world.
The next thing which calls my seriots notice
is, that ofJoanna Southcot’s ProDhecvs. as it fully
14 '
appears, that, by this great engine, all belief in
her doctrine and support is brought about; and
the short sightedness of frail nature, and the cre­
dulity of the human heart hath become captivated
therewith.' Now, as the Lord directs, under
whr se banner I, in mnch earnestness move, I will
show.upon three clear grounds, how prophecys,
or that of foreseeing in mundane or worldly af­
fairs cometh to pass, without the spiritual gift of
divine light.--First, such thing is certain, through
an astrum at birth; under undoubted configura­
tions and influences of the proper'ys of nature;
whereby a diviualpirit ariseth, auft-was in Nixon,
the Cheshire prdphet, whose prophecy’s were sure
and true, although an ideot Secondly, such
thing is understood by science, as it is well known
in the world, and winch the scripture fully testifiys
and coufii ms. Aud, thirdly, by the agency ofjsa-
tan, as the oracles of old ampiy prove: the scrip­
ture, also, fully manifests this truth, Acts xiii.
and xvi. 1(5. 17. These facts, Christian friends,
declare a-pubbe guidance tinder the power of satan,
which cannot be disputed or denied; besides, in­
numerable truths of this matter, individually,
where the enemy is -consulted and concerned itr
these matters. As a joining testimony, brothers,
for some time deceived the world; till it pleased
God to compel the enemy to shew his cloveu
foot in a lie, as to an earthquake, which this man
prophecyed should destroy a great part of Lon­
don. Now, admitting all these to be true, as they
are so,* we have still others of great moment; to
join, as to this person Joanna Southcot, her tenets
and doctrine fully show they are not from G od;
being totally -derogatory to the living word:—
therefore, if* her teachings are not from God, as
every testimony declares to the contrary, that they
n a t eisvalu kn* •\vA
flsK
«
u
>
tfa
( ka trn tinfkftlflT fill
15
• with divine influence, they cannot be deemed as
coming from the fountain of truth; the more es­
pecially, wheta they are full o f lies, inconsistency,
duplicity, and art in the extreme. 1 have already
shown, iii my address to Joanna Southcot, that
were satan gains access to the inward man, he
moves by the spirit of the soul, as an instrument
fitting for his purpose. . And, as I fully deem this
• woman to he bora into life under the complexion
o f astral influence of a divining nature, it is on
this ground^ and the spirit o f the inward man, that
satan moves in all her prophecy* and writings.
Having, Christian friends, gone' through the
math points o f Joanna SouthcotVteaets and doc­
trine, I request to give a few remarks thereupon,
that a'due comprehension may be had of this
thing. And, first, this ‘ woman claims a promise
in holy writ, presuming, through the spirit of
the Lord, as she maintains, to be chosen in the sa­
cred counsel ofO od, in the grace covenant; given
in the garden, down to the divine manifestation
thereof; artfully adopting the language of the
scripture, where God reveals his will’to Abraham;
whereby this person puts herself not only on a par
with this gr^at name, but she is making nul and
•void the clear current o f the Lord’s truth with
Abrahami and putting a new face upon the sacred
word, throngn her own strength and power;
seeing the covenant, as f have dearly written and
set forth, is decisive upon its own ground;
the promise being fully accomplished and>fulfilled}
and, therefore, shows presumption, and wicked­
ness in the highest degree indeed.
Joanna Southcot tellS'Us, that-Christ is the seed
c f the. Woman, but aibt the natural seed o f her
body. Now, ihanswer to this; as I have clearly
shown, that if Christ had nofbeen of woman's
natural seed, his redemDrion0could not haw iiMs
16
that the serpents head is not yet bruised; hereby,
importing that the Lord, the omnipotent God,
was not adequate to the work he came to accom­
plish for mankind : and also further says, that the
work o f redemption cannot be complete, without
the helpmate of woman, being so chosen herself
o f God to.this end. Here, this woman is guilty
o f an open insult upon deity, and a gross reflec­
tion upon God’s omnipotence, nothing less than
blasphemy.— First by saying the serpent’s head is
not yet bruised, as I have fully shown that it is, in
the foregoing; and also to have presuming vanity,
and weakness to hold hersell concerned in the
sacred counsel of the Most High This extra­
ordinary persou avers, also, that womans redemp­
tion is not comprehended in the grace covenant I
have already shewn ; but' that woman’s freedom
rests with herself,, the which is to be effected by
her casting of satan, as before noticed, flu e ts
another insult upon God’s mercy, charging his
wisdom, and hi> infinite goodness with defect and
partiality ; with defect in not completing the re­
demption, and with partiality in leaving out the
woman; both of which are self-evident nonsense,
as to the bonafide truth of the tulness of God iti
this matter, and profanely wicked proceedings
.against sacred writ
I have, already, noticed the strange absurdity
of this Woman’s holdiug. satan’s seat.being in the
moon; as also o f its being six days journey from
heaven to, this earth, which things- admit of no-
. thing else but sovereign contempt.
Thus far, having executed my duty, in holding
up to public view such notorious innovations, and
usurpations upon the work of the Lord, contained
in his sacred record, I wish to refer the reader td
a work upon .the charges against Joanna South-
cot, and lier fony eight friends, as to a.pretended
trial at the - Neckinger Dillermondacy, in 1S04,
c
17
wherein are to be found, as set forth in Joanna
Southcot’s writings, very clearly and candidly
given by R, liann, three remarkable criterions
and circumstances of unequivocal truth, the which
ought to have been deemed and taken as full and.
sufficient testimonys, as to the imposition of Jo­
anna SouthcoV’s doctrine on the public. The first
circumstantial truth, as this wonians writings
declare, is, that the spirit acquaints her the Bev.
Mr. Pomeroy is a proper and fully qualified person
to be her judge, as to hermission from Heaven.
'Jhe second most singular thing is, that of the
spirit having deceived Joanna Southcot no less
' thaq four times, in prophetic lies,, about her fa­
thers death and the weather, at last, the spirit
fixes a fifth time for her father’s decease; and, here
Joanna Southcot sealed up the spirit's words, and
. the signs set, and gave the same to the Rev. Mr.
Pomeroy, and others, together with a most so­
lemn and avowed appeal to heaven and earth, to
b&r, witness for her and against, her; for her, if
the signs set and given came to ■ pass; and against
her, if they failed.
Now, as the lord liveth, and his word beareth
record of him, this thing came not to pass, and
most assuredly was the fifth time the spirit of the
lord (as Joanna Southcot calls it) deceived her,
as to her father’s death. For the particulars of
the extraordinary proceeding of Joanna South­
cot, and her truly lying spirit, 1 request to refer to
the book of charges, as above noted'.
This, Christian friends, is the second time the
Lord interfered, as to the fallacy and delusion of
this woman’s teachings: First, the Rev. Mr. Pom­
eroy o f Exeter, who was appointed by the spirit
to be fully qualified to be her judge, condemns
her; Secondly, in the above wonderful circum­
stances o f an appeal to heaved and earth, &c.
And the third interference o f the Lord’s finger,
Digitized by Cj O O Q 0
18
*
was at the Neckinger, Bermondsey; for it seems
this woman’s fortitude and perseverence is uot
little: seeing she sets aside all tokens of Ciods
hand against her, the same being so fully mani­
fest in the foregoing; and therefore, Joanna
Southcot prevails upon forty eight select friends,
to form, a meeting,, under the colour of a synodi­
cal or spiritual court. and withal, most solemnly.,
acquaints them that the sign .from heaven would
manifest itself to them all, in that of a trance for
•even days, and this was to be fully deemed as a
testimony of her mission from the living Lord.
Now, readers attend to the sequel, the which 1
here aver in the Lord’s name. When the day and.
the hour came for such fulfilment, the Lord, once
more interfered his hand, as no trance could be
forthcoming, and no resoui ce to be had to make
up for such failure, but the damnable sophistry
and barefaced device of the enemy, made use of
j(oh wonderful to relate) ‘ to paliate and reconcile
the failure hereof.
Having laid before you this third falsehood o f
the spirit, and the denial of God, as to Joanna
Southcots’ mission, 1 request to refer to the afore­
said work on the charges, for the proceedings
in the above, as, also, to an extraordinary circum­
stance of Joanna Southcot, and her joined friends
stoping a famine, which was to ha"e taken place
in England for three years, or rather to screen the
prophetess from the odium in its failure inEngland,
it was, by the power o f the spirit, Joanna Southcot
and her forty eight friends, ordered over to
France; and when it will take place in France,
nobody knoweth; and, I should naturally con­
clude, that, by this time, even Joanna herself
must, give it up, it having become now as a
dead letter. D
ig
itiz
e
db
yGoogle
19
remarkable circumstances, of truth; ail forbid­
ding tl is woman's persevering tinder such heavy
cleIusions; earnestly hoping the same may have its
due effect
I shall proceed, now, to say something about
the millennium or sabbath of.rest, of which this de­
luded woman according to all heretrange doctrine,
speaks about, so widely from truth.
First, I beg to remark, that the hook of Revela­
tions, being the sacred prophecy of God, contains
the-deep things of deity ; being mystically writ­
ten, it being, also, well known that, the scriptures
stand, chiefly given in metaphors and figures to
enforce the strength and energy of the sacred
text. And those parts, which comprehend the
mysterys, cannot be seen into, nor understood by
the outward knowlege of man; yet, witball, such
things are vouchafed to those, whom the Lord
may raise and enable to reveal the same; so far as
may be needful fof spiritual welfare. Having
weighed thus far, I shall presume, as the Lord, in
his gracious Providence enables me, to give some
glimpse as to this prophecy, the which was spokeu
of in heaven first, as I have noted in my truth by
divine will revealed, and declared to us in the flesh,
at the fullness of time, by the evangelist S t John.
It commences at the fall of. lucifer, takes in the
fall of man, his redemption, the finishing of the
mystery, and the end of time, as to this world, and
the establishment o f the new one. The book
with seven seals imports the book of nature, where­
in stood the wrath of the father against the dis­
obedience of man, as I have written in the fore­
going. The opening of the six seals in their fol­
lowing order import six thousaud years. The
sixth seal .is opened for the due consideration of
man. The coming down of salan wi;li great
20
virgin in tlie revelations, is the blessed virgin, as I
have already shown in my truth by divine will re­
vealed. And, as standing upon the moon, as fi­
gurative ot' the two births, the heavenly and the
earthly. The sabbath of rest .and the chaining
down satan for a thousand years remains in the
sacred.counsel ofGod, and therefore, stands in its
own truth and worth, in the mystery. Thus far
I am moved, spiritually, to declare, that it, fully
refers to those, who have put off the earthly abode,
and entered into Christ's image, in-the holy*king­
dom.; the same having nothing to do with this
outward life; hut the time of such commemce-
ment is not known to mortal being; seeing the
Lord hath not aianifested this more clearly in
scriptural evidence; it, therefore, stands fully un­
revealed within thp sacred counsel of his will.
Having Christian friends laid before you these
things, so far as the Lord enables me, earnestly
hoping tlie same may weigh with you, in promo- '
ting the welfare of the inward man.— I shall now
beg to lay before yon my short address to this
woman, which receive as follow' .*
DELUDED W O M A N !
\
It is well known, that I have taken upon me to
. write two tracts against you, the sanpe being written
to apprize you of the error and dangerous tendency
of your doctrine; and, although I presumed it
would have but little effect, as knotting too well,.
' alas, that daring sufficiency of spirit, and great pre­
sumption, not to be met with, in the annals of hu­
man record, the which you are known to possess;
yet, 1 deemed it my indispensable duty; and, in the
. sale of my little works. 1 have met with much in-
Sult and abuse, fromigthose who are of your unfor-
a
.-- ---------------a - --- 1 V au liatro Kapn
21
00
under, called a visitation of satan, &c. This thing
is, in itself, truth, but the same hath been most
wtongi ti'lv' and cruelly misrepresented. Satan’s visi->
tation 1 have had in earnest. Now, be it known to
you, oh, mistaken woman ! the Lord hath permitted
this wonder'ul thing to come to pass, for the good
purpose of his w ill: for good, ,seeing that good is
comeofit. And, herein, receive the Lord’s truth;
satan h th been suffered to appear to me, as an'
angel of light, ill full speech and language. This
thing he kept up for three days ■‘—His language
for holy work much surpassing humau utterance—^
his quotations, and knowledge of the scriptures,
pointed, and apparently conclusive. Thus, his
communications on spiritual matters, and the deep
colourings of his procedure for three days, exceed
any thing l had heard from human tongue— but. as
this was suffered, to show to me his dangerous pow­
er, Where he may gain access to the inward mao,
as my writings fully show and set forth of him, the
Lord on the third day, in the morning, revealed
himself to me, by a divine visitor indeed; whereupon
the enemy threw off the *mask,—-and the angel of
God and truth .became my protection, guide, and
director. Themoving power of satan, as to his art,
craft, and deep subtilty (as it fully appears in fallen
.nature) is not m the power df my pen to give. . And,
it is upon this ground of bona fide truth, as to the
i knowledge of the enemy, and the wonderful visita­
tion of power divine^ tM same being most assuredly
with me, that enables me tb hold forth these things:
seeing my writings arise not from any conjectural
knowledge, or a presuming faith, but, are earnestly
given under the finger o f divine guidance, io faith-
Ibl testimony of the living God. And, however
painful it may be to me, to beunder the -necessity
i f stating the Lord’s truth against you, yet it is my
■ lift/ ivhinli nolle •mwLw
m
.UL -A
T
*
- ^ !_
answers, received, as you say fronvthe spirit o f the
living Lord, and consider the uriwarrantableness in­
consistency, and the mystical unscriptural declara­
tions, which 'appear in your writings, I am moved
with wonder, that any belief should be-put in them.
How is it possible, oh, strangely deluded wo­
man! that you can receive such movements and
procedure, as appears in your own words and decla­
rations, of the many prophetic lies' about your fa­
ther's death, your trance, &c. &c and deem them to
come from a jus( unerring God. And, how is it
possible that you could be so presumptuously vain,
and wicked withal, as to suppose that the Lord,
first having made a liar of himself (for so. your own'
assertions intimate) .in the non-performance of the
trance, and then threatens his judgments in that of
your own death, and also the destruction of all
England (upwards of ten millions of souls) should
your friends persist in requiring the same as promi­
sed : oh, shameful work is this !. and to attribute
ond hold these things as emanating from the spirit
of the living Lord, is earnestly incurring the highest
resentment, and provocation of God's vengeance
upon you * Do you not make God a liar to his •
Ace, when you say, in your distress of mind, as to
the failure of your predictions, that you thought
every word from him must be true; he having, (
as your words aver told you five lies concerning
your fathers death: And hath not God denied
your mission from him, in three especial and re­
markable criterions and* circumstances, as I have
jelated; are not these sufficient to warn you,
oh deluded woman! that these things are not
from the living fountain of truth. Oh, weak and
truly misguided sinner! is it possible, suffer me
once more to repeat, is it possible that you could
raise your presumption so nigh, as to believe that
your life, and the destruction of all Fngland was
at stake, merely upon your and your friends non-
23
compliance, as. to the trance, seeing the actual
duplicity of your invisible agent’s movement
clearly manifested who he was.. Look, and read,
with serious alarm, the unparalleled sophistry and
wickedness, so apparent in the language delivered
by you, to your triends, upon this affair. And
are you so vauely presumptuous, ev^p to believe,
that you and your joined friends, upon the strange
work you were upon, were able to avert and turn
aside a pretended famine for three years, which
was to have taken place in England, and to send
it over to France, as I have, in the foregoing,
pointedly noticed.
ihat you have presumption, and daring suffici­
ency to tempt God herein, is true, but, for appa­
rently reasonable men to join with you in such
things, puts a stop to my pen, in silept astonish­
ment.
As to your foretelling in mundane or worldly
affairs, under the colour of prophecying, the
which your friends build so much upon, I have
fully shown to the world, in the foregoing part of
this work, and in my former publication, how the
same cometh to pass. $fow, if a prophet decla­
re d a thing in the name o f the Lord, and that
thing cometh not to pass, it is a sure token that
the Lord hath not spoken it Deut, 18. 22. and, o f
this we have proof enough as to your predictions.
Your strange work upon the millennium (for
doctrine it cannot be called) is so extremely ab­
surd, as to draw forth the utmost contempt o f eve­
ry rational being; and, although such truly un­
paralleled abuse and tjiaspheraous insults upon sa­
cred writ, only chime in with the rest o f your un­
accountable proceeding as an enemy to God and
his truth, I ask how is it possible that you can be
jso presumptuously wicked against your M aker:
for, notwithstanding you'are led by aspirin as I
firmly believe and know, as I have written; yet
Digitized by Google
24
1
such communications as are manifest in all your
writings, held by you, teeming forth in toto noth­
ing else bat unwarrantable libertys upon God, hor­
rid absurdities, lies, contradictions, prevarications,
and base subterfuges; and all pressed upon your
unfortunate and most truly deluded adherents,
under the subtile device and satanic colouring of
mystery, shows, most unequivocally, the damna­
ble sophistry of the enemy tp your soul. Now,
as the Lord liveth, before whose judgment seat
I have to answer, to what I now, in his name,
declare to you, as a warning to you, and to all who
may be led astray in this matter, that your wri­
ting upon the millennium, with your shadows, and
judgments, and the way you say it is tobe held up-
' on this earth is false as God is true; such assertions
being, not only totally derogatory to the livin/t
word, but, is contrary to the light of nature, and
the common scope o f reason. Your saying that
the Lord hath.given you your choice, either to live
(never to die) in the (millennium upon this earth,
or, to depart this life and be with Christ in Hea­
ven, attended with such delusive remarks therein ;
And also, maintaining that the Lord Jesus Christ
the omnipotent God, is changed into a woman,
are so preposterously absurd, as admit, for bre-
, vity’s sake, sovereign contempt, not requiring
further remark. Your taking upon you the so­
vereign authority and power out of God’sbands,
as to the sealed in the Revelations, whose angel is
to do this, according to such, who may be cho­
sen into his holy kingdom, with whom alone, it
rests to know who are his, aud giving your fleshly
pasport (a piece of paper sealed up by an impure
earthly vessel,) with your threats of judgments,
in case o f non-compliance, as to the receiving of
your seals,'is too shocking to be admitted into
print; for, although this bears the features of
actual derangement, yet, it appears there are
Digitized by
25
those who hold themselves rational beings, who
believe in it. 1 have sufficiently noticed upon
your prophecying; and, notwithstanding I fully
allow that many things are fully in the power of
the enemy to foretel, he moving by a power
gained over the inward man, as 1 have written;
yet the Lord interferes greatly in this business,
and shows your prophecys to stand in and under
the power of satan,—-not only from the com­
plexion of words they are couched and given in
.but, as being full o f lies, and contradictory in- '
consistent mysterious nonsense: for it seems that
mystery is a salve for every sore in your prophetic
writing; and when any of your adherents are ad­
dressed on these matters, they reply, with a short
answer, (wonderful to hear it) on, it is all right—
but .it stands unden a mysterious meaning: thus
you carry on your unheard o f scene of mysterious
iniquity, and dangerous deception, to all who may
lean to your doctrine and teachings— witness your
trances, the three years convulsion and heavy
judgments on this kingdom, and the termination
o f England's sorrows, in peace, all which things
were to come to pass and all end in 1807, &c. &c.
thus, I repeat it, you hold up your covert acts to
your adherents, under the colour of mystery,
hereby you not only blaspheme against, the holy
spirit o f Godin attributing these lys to him ; but
make your crime double, by deceiving so many
souls, in persuading them it is all in the mysteiy
o f truth, &c. is it possible that you can presume
to interfere with the sacred oracles o f God, as to
the 144000.in the Revelations, in regard to your
extraordinary seals,as you are pleased to call them;
does not the complexion of that affair, and others
you meddle with, in that saicred prophecy, give
you the lie direct, both in scriptural evidence, and
reason. Ought not the fate ,o f that dreadfully
wicked woman, .Mr$. Bateman, o f Leeds in York­
shire, executed for pOisoning-'Mrs. l’erigo, for
36
being found guilty of sorcery, witchcraft, and
murder; who was one of your chief followers and
renders of your seals, according to confirmed cor­
respondence with you, as appeared upon the trial;
I say ought not this circumstance to alarm you,
seeing the great mischief produced in the minds of
but two many ; for all the believers of your doc­
trine, where this wretched woman lived, firmly
supported arid maintained, as well as herself, who
was sealed for Heaven 'by your passport to God, •
that she would by delivered •and transported,
by supernatural power, from the hands' of the
executioner, n o t.suffered to die, but, as God was
stronger than the devil, he manifested his truth,
and the failure of your seal, as she suffered the
punishment due to her deserts. Such it appears
are the. strange effects of these new pasports to
Glory, upon, the minds o f your adherents, that
they direct to have the seal in their coffin. These
alarming truths ought to awaken your soul with
horror; seeing, oh wretchedly deluded woman,
these bits of paper with a scriptural phrase inserted
therein, can afail nothing witn a just and righteous
God. Know you not, on strange woman, that the
letter kilUfth, it is the spirit that ghreth life; neither
can any soul seethe kingdom of light without grace
truly and effectually working within them. But it
seemsyou warrantan infallible entranceinto Christ’s
' kingdom, without grace or the light of truth— all
you call for is, faith in your mission, and full obe-.
dience to your tenets and doctrine. It appears,
also, that you wish to apprise the world you are as
a nothing in yourself, out as clay in the hands of
the- potter— these words, are held forth with sub-
tilty and ar{ to deceive; for when you are hold­
ing such mode of e^pression^'as an outward trait
27
\
it, in saying it is full of contradictions; and, that
it is, also sealed up from the knowledge o f man;
hereby making a beneficent, alwise, and merciful
God, unjust tp his creatures, and the holy prophets
as juglers to mankind-—thus, by invalidating the
permanent pillar of out faith, you make way to.
thrust in your heretical sophistry and damnable
doctrine of devils; engendered and brought forth
from the very dregs and bowels of h ell! Does not
the revealed will of the Father, through the nxedium
of the holy prophets who spokeas they were moved
by the Holy Ghost, Heb. 1.1. condemn you ; doth
not the Lords words, “ Search the scriptures;” si­
lence your false and absurd assertion. It is, also;
noted, St. Pauls epistle 2nd Tim. 16. 17. The
word is given for profitable doctrine, for reproof,
for instruction, &c. How is it possible that such
glaring abuse upon the sacred movements of
Deity, in throwing such colourings of disgrace
upon God’s all fulness can escape the judgment of
an offended Creator; See you not, oh, vainly mis­
taken woman, that the gospel evidence affords no
ground whatever for any millennium to be held
on this earth in the time of the flesh; neither doth
it belong to an earthly state as I have written. Is
not your art and duplicity too plain to escape
nptice in your making choice to die end be with
Christ in Heaven, rather than live (and not die
at all as you maintain) in thp millennium on earth;
your artful casuist and instructor being aware of
such device being detected, he hath, very prudent­
ly, directed you to choose death, rml so get over
the odinm of a lie. Seeing, oh, strangely deluded
sinner, you must die and pay the debt of Nature,
when the time comes:— no sealing of passport to
the regions o f bliss, as you would have it under­
stood, can keep you a moment from the visiting
28
work, in regard to persecutions, Imftittings of tiie
enemy, and of the heavy stripes you are to suffer
for the salvation of mankind— this you hold forth
naturally as knowing that such doctrine, and teach­
ings must meet with great opposition and con­
tempt of all, who may have the light of grace, and
hold firm to the word.
I am farther directed by the finger of him who
is the rock o f hope, and the fountain whereof
floweth the living truth that the dove which ap­
peared before you at the Rev. Mi. Foley's spoke
of by the maniac Joseph, was a device of the
enemy. All your prophetic intelligence, and that
of your strange work upon the scriptures, is from
the enemy. Your being told that the Lord is
removed from his throne^ is from the enemy.
Thus, oh mistaken woman! stand these delusions
before you, the same being so laid open to me, to
warn you. As to your assuming and taking upon
you to be the second Eve, the virgin of Israel, the
Baren Woman, the Virgin in the Revelations, the
bride, &c. bearing the like complexion with your
other presumptions, they admit only to be treated
with silent contempt and disapprobation.
Know you not, oh deluded woman 1 that satan
plays a double game with you , he moves with
and upon you, as an angel of light (for so is his
power to assume) at the same tiipe be unmasks
nis own wickedness to y o u ; whereby he accom­
plishes his deep and subtile work upon you : and
your disputing with the powers of darkness for
seven days, was, assuredly, the device of him—
all done by one afid the same spirit, and all his
other assaults upon, and caution to be aware of
his arts, and of your striking your deadly foe, &c.
The Lord thus moves me to warn you against the
same, as beina nnt the work of God. but that oi
29
in, in the foregoing observations, being urged to
perform my duty, I shall finish them with th at
remarkable passage o f scripture of our Lord's
words to the petitioning woman, who had a sick
child, and begged for even but the crumbs that fell
from the Lord’s table, only reversing the sense:
olij woman, great is thy delusion ! may even but
the crumbs of grace be ingrafted in thy inward
man, that the evil visiter may be dispersed ; 'and
that the .light of truth may shine fortn, and make
a change of state, it is my duty earnestly to wish
and hope. _ -
Thus far,' readers, you have my address to this
person.— You will note the thred remarkable cir­
cumstances of trath of God’s interference forbid­
ding the mission from Heaven; but whatsur-
E
rizes mew this, that any clergyman, who may
old himself qualified to preach the living
wOrd, and, consequently, ought to know the
established, uniteo, completed, and confirmed
body o f the sacred word, under God’s finger
given; how is it possible he can be so blinded and
insnared by the sophistry o f the enemy; in suffer­
ing the harmony and peace of the scripture to be
broken into, by an unhallowed earthly vessel; who
hath no token to show to the world, but that o f the
'vague, lying inconsistent, prophetic impressions,
and presumptions o f spiritual darkness; as appears
in all Joanna Southcot’s writings; being in no
part divine; no heavenly m’eekness; on the con­
trary, full of vanity; the lanenage fleshly, daring­
ly presumptuous, and fraught with mystical non­
sense ; aiming at the total destruction o f the har­
mony and connected truth o f the living word; it
being clearly evident, there is do .2nd Eve, no 2nd
promise in the grace covenant, no leaving-ont tfoie
woman in the Redeeming grace; bo 2nd bruising ’
30'
no2nd virgin in the^Revelations, in common sense:
All such truths standing sacred upon their own
foundation, against such profane intrusions and
satamc devices upon them.
Before 1conclude, 1shall add one observation, hold­
ing to view the extraordinary complexion aiid
absurdity of this woman’s doctrine, requesting to
refer hack to the subject concern of redemption,
the which is, this, Joanna Southcot avers in book
page 69, of the lord’s answer to the powers of
darkness, the that following declaration was made
importing the same to allude to herself“ T© clear
mv honour, 1 cannot free man but by the woman”
These words, according to their full sense and na-
tureof application, convey to the mind, and show,
in clear light, die device of Satan. As, first, they
bear not the feature o f divine intelligence, as being
fleshly, familiar, and heterogeneous to the living
word. And, for us to suppose that God’s honor
is dependant upon a frail being? unauthorized by
divine power, to complete man’s salvation, is not
only making God a liar to all his bonafide decla-
clarations in Holy writ, but, it is doiug away his
work of omnipotency, and rendering the full tenor
o f the sacred word, defective and inadequate.— -
Upon review (1 repeal it) of such strange, such
truly delusive communications as these; I am as­
tonished, and, at the same time, lament the frailty
o f human nature, thus, to be so grossly misled ancl
deceived by the sophistry of the enemy to our
souls, the which is so apparent and manifest in
this woman.
It is wonderful, indeed, to read this persons de­
clarations at her trial, if it may be called oue, and
to discover the self-evident conviction of that
fleshly duplicity, that presuming unscriptural in­
consistency o f language, which comes forth from
the deep colourings of the enemy. And, although
it is exceedingly clear^thiit so-manifest a delusion,
31
so open and truly unequivocal an infringement on
the doctrine of sacred writ, will fully weigh with
al, whom the Lord may give discernment therein,
the which will naturally die away, and sink into
oblivion, as all things which are not of God do so;
yet, for the sake of the many, who, are already in-
snared,and others who may still'be led aside, thro*
the power of the enemy, I nave deemed it my duty,
to offer this tract, in addition to my former. Fi­
nally, these things, Christian friends, are but a ful­
filment of the scriptures, Matt. xxiv. 24, You will,
also, perceive my introduced address to this wo­
man, showing a glimpse of my visitation— given to
nphold truth, against the cruel severity of censure,
and evil conceptions formed upon this thing, by
Jonana Southcot, and her adherents. Likewise,
some seasonable remarks to her, upon her proceed­
ings ; showing the heinousness of such work, the
unparalleled vanity of her mind,N
and the fallacy
of her prophetic writings and doctrine.
32
POSTSCRIPT.
I Am, slto, moved to repeat, that the holding of the mitteniam on thit
earth, at thit woman maintain, St contrary to the light of nature, reason,
and .cripture; and totally reverse to the things of an eternal nature »
teeing that things eternal standeth not, nor mixeth to with things temporal.
That eorth, which this woman tahet In the Revelations, for thit we now
dwell upon, in on earthly temporal state, is not to be so held § being is
imports, assnredly, in the Lord's truth, the truly paradisiacal earth,
that earth whereupon Is to appear the city and temple of the living
God | that earth, which passeth not away any more to eternity, but as tbit
sacred prophecy stands written after a figurative and magical way, con­
taining the mystery* of Deity, it is not to he wrested oat of its spiritual
allusions and sacred meanings, by such carnal weakness and fleshly con­
structions, as this presuming earthly vemel insinuates. Admlttla, alas,
ef no sucht rtrang work and, Indeed, havock mad# of this mysterious
book; by this deluded woman. It is therefore, to be understood that
all those who reign with Christ in his eternal heavenly state In tan
millennium most, first pat offthe perishable frame, to be with him eves as
be Is, the state being truly of an cterncl, not temporal natore, and bath
not any concern with this earth. . -
Digitized by Google
