{"name":"Transactions Of The Phrenological Society","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1820__anonymous___transactions_of_the_phrenological_society.pdf","mytitle":"Transactions Of The Phrenological Society","mylang":"de"}
TRANSACTIONS
OF THE
PHRENOLOGICAL SOCIETY,
INSTITUTED
22d FEBRUARY 1820,
WITH FIVE ENGRAVINGS.
JOHN ANDERSON JUN., EDINBURGH,
55. NORTH BRIDGE STREET,
AND SIMPKIN & MARSHALL, LONDON.
MDCCCXXIV,
P. Neill, Printer.
CONTENTS.
Page
Preliminary Dissertation on the Progress and Ap-
plication of Phrenology. By Mr Gkokge Combe, 1
Outlines of Phrenology, 66
I. View of some of Dr SpurzheinVs Lectures. By
Dr Poole, - - - 89
II. On the Functions of Combativeness, Destructive-
ness and Secretiveness. By Mr William
Scott, - 131
III. On the Effects of Injuries of the Brain upon the
Manifestations of the Mind. By Mr Andrew
Combe, - 183
IV. Remarks on the Faculty of Perceiving Colours.
By Dr Butter, - - 209
Cases of Deficiency in the Power of Perceiv-
ing Colours, in
Mr James Milne, - 222
Mi-Sloane, - - 226
Case of Deficiency in the Power of Perceiving
Perspective, - 229
Remarks on Dr Brewster's Note to Dr But-
ter's Communication, - - 232
VI CONTENTS.
Page
V. Case of a Patient who forgot the use of Spoken
and Written Language, his other Faculties re-
maining entire. By Mr A. Hood, - 235
Similar cases observed, by Drs Gall, Spur-
zheim and Gregory, - - 243
VI. Remarks on the Cerebral Development of King
Robert Bruce, compared with his Character as
appearing from History. By Mr William
Scott, - - - 247
VII. Report upon the Cast of Miss Clara Fisher.
By Mr George Combe, - 281
VIII. Case of J. G. aged ten years. By Mr David
Bridgesjun., - - 289
Continuation of the Case. By Mr George
Combe, - - 294
Issue of the Case. Communicated by Mr
Andrew Reston, - - 300
IX. On inferring Natural Dispositions and Talents
from Development of Brain. By Mr George
Combe, - - 306
Case in which the Natural Talents and Dis-
positions of the Reverend Mr M. were in-
ferred from the Development of his Brain.
Communicated by Mr Brian Donkin, 310
Analysis of the preceding Sketch. By Mr
George Combe, - - 313
1. —Observations on Evidence in favour of
Phrenology, afforded by Reports on the
Cerebral Development of Executed Crimi-
CONTENTS. Vll
- Page
Hals, as indicated by their Skulls. By Mr
George Combe, - - 319
2.—Case of James Gordon, executed for mur-
dering a Pedlar Boy. By Mr Robert
Buchanan, - - 327
3. —Case of John Bellingham, the Assassin of
Mr Perceval. By Sir George Stewart
Mackenzie, Bart., - - 339
Case of Mary Macinnes, who murdered Wil-
liam Howat. By Mr George Combe, 362
Her head compared with the heads of Rev. Mr
M. and D. Haggart, - - 378
X. On the mode of studying the Natural Dispo-
sitions and Instincts of the Lower Animals. By
Mr Andrew Carmichael, - . 380
XI. Phrenological Analysis of some of the Maxims
of La Rochefoucault. By Mr George Combe, 382
XII. Observations on Dr Barclay's Objections to
Phrenology. By Mr Andrew Combe, 393
XIII. On the Phrenology of Hindostan. By Dr
George Murray Paterson, - 430
On the Insane Hospital, - 446
[ viii ]
DIRECTIONS TO THE BINDER.
Plate containing Phrenological Head, with names of
Organs, to face - Page 65
Skull of King Robert Bruce, - 247
Head of Miss Clara Fisher, 281
—— Heads of Machines, Rev. Mr 1
M. and Haggart, I Both at the end of
—— Skulls of Gordon, Belling- : the Volume,
ham, and a Hindoo, |
i'.KKATA.
Page 18. Note, line 2. for 2 vols, read 8 vols.
89. date of paper by Dr Poole, for May 1. read April 17. 1823.
131. after title, supply Read 26th December 1822.
174. line 13. for tolerably read tolerable
255. line 17, after communicated to supply the manifestations of
286. line 11. for her read her's
295N last line,/??-
twelve read ten
318. line 32. for physic read physics
390. line 31, for all his read all the
> 404. line 20. after any supply constant and delete whatever
410. line 5. for great read grey
[ is ]
EIST OF MEMBERS
OF THE
PHRENOLOGICAL SOCIETY,
INSTITUTED
9S.& February 18520.
Dates of Admission.
1820,
Feb. 22. George Combe, Writer to the Signet,
James Brownlee, Advocate.
Andrew Combe, Surgeon.
Rev. David Welsh, Minister of Crossmichael.
Mar. 7. Alexander Fleming, Writer to the Signet.
April 4. William Ritchie, Solicitor in Supreme Courts of
Scotland.
17- Rev. Alexander Stewart, Minister of Douglas.
June 30. Robert Willis, M, D.
Sir George Stewart Mackenzie, Bart, of Coul,
F. R. S. L. & E., &c.
James Stewart, Engraver.
X LIST OF MEMBERS.
1820,
Nov. 28. James "Lawjunior, 38. York Place.
Robert Buchanan, St Ninian's.
William Calverly Trevelyan, Wallington, Nor-
thumberland, University College, Oxford," M.
W. S. & M. G. S.
Captain Thomas Brown, F. R. S. E. & M. W. S.
William Fraser, Writer to the Signet.
Melville Burd, Writer to the Signet, M. W. S.
Lindsay Mackersy, Accountant.
Richard Poole, M. D.
Patrick Neill, F. R. S. E. and Sec. Wern. Nat.
Hist. Soc. and Cal. Hort. Soc, &c.
Dec. 11. Robert Hamilton, M. D. F. R. S. E. Fellow of
Royal College of Surgeons, Edinburgh.
James Ashwell of Nottingham.
Alexander Buchanan, Writer, Glasgow.
26. Samuel Joseph, Sculptor.
1821,
Jan. 15. George Knight, English Academy, George Street.
James Maitland Hog, Advocate, M. W. S.
29- John Shank More, F. R. S. E. Advocate.
Francis Skelly, Edinburgh.
David Bridges junior, F. A. S. and Member of
the Wern. Nat. Hist. Soc.
W. C. Macdonald, Surgeon, Royal Infirmary.
William Brown, Surgeon.
John Calthrop Williams of Nottingham.
Feb. 26. Robert Everest, University College, Oxford.
Benjamin Bell, Edinburgh.
Mar. 12. David Clyne, Solicitor Supreme Courts of Scot-
land.
26. Rev. Thomas Irvine, Assistant Minister of Lun-
die and Foulis.
LIST OF MEMBERS. XI
1821,
Mar. 26. John Robertson Sibbald, Surgeon.
William Douglas, Miniature-Painter.
April 9- J- S. Pratt, Hanover Street.
John F. Macfarlan, Surgeon.
Nov. 22. William Davidson younger of Muirhouse.
Walter Tod, Nicolson Street.
John Anderson junior, Bookseller.
Thomas Elliotson of Jesus College, Cambridge.
Richard Abell, M. D.
Dec. 6. Peter Couper, Writer to the Signet.
William Waddell, Writer to the Signet.
1822,
Jan. 17. William Bonar, F. R. S. E. Banker, Edinburgh.
31. James Spittaljunior, Merchant, Edinburgh.
Feb. 28. William Smith, Greek and Latin Academy,
Brown's Square.
Apr. 11. Thomas Scott, Accountant.
25. Adam Gib Ellis, Writer to the Signet, M. W. S.
Nov. 28. William Scott, Writer to the Signet.
Dec. 12. Robert Ellis, Writer, Albany Street.
Patrick Gibson, Landscape-Painter.
1823,
Jan. 9. Charles James Fox Orr, Writer to the Signet.
April 3. Colonel Robert Wriglit, Royal Artillery.
Captain William Cargill.
James Simpson, Advocate.
James Bridges, Writer to the Signet.
George Lyon, Writer to the Signet.
Thomas Uwins, Historical Painter,
Xll LIST OF MEMBERS.
rponojrarg ^Bcmticns.
1820,
Mar. 20. F. J. Gall, M. D. Paris.
J. G. Spurzheim, M. D. Paris
Cotregponning Spemfiei-g.
1820,
Mar. 20. Bryan Donkin, Civil Engineer, London.
June 30. Andrew Carmichael, Solicitor, Rutland Square,
Dublin.
J. H. Earle, Harley Street, London.
1821,
Jan. 29. Prideaux John Selby, of Twizel House, Nor-
thumberland, Author of Illustrations of Bri-
tish Ornithology, M. W. S.
Mar. 26. Joseph Straton of Kirkside, F. R. S. E. Lieute-
nant-Colonel of the Enniskillen Dragoons.
Nov. 22. Matthew Allen, Surgeon, York.
Charles Caldwell, M. D. Professor of the Insti-
tutes of Medicine, Teacher of Materia Medica,
and Dean of the Faculty in the Medical De-
partment of Transylvania University, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky, United States.
John Torbctt, Surgeon, Paisley.
seoo
Nov. 22. John Findlay, Merchant, Paisley.
Andrew Alexander Royer, of the Administration
Office, Jardin du Roi, Paris.
John Elliotson, M. D, Physician to St Thomas's
Hospital, London.
LIST OF MEMBERS. Xlll
1822,
Jan. 17. A. Menzics, Assistant Surgeon, half-pay, 21st
Dragoons, India.
31. George Rennie, younger of Phantassie.
Feb. 28. John Butter, M. D. Plymouth, F. It. S. L., M.
W. S.
Alexander Hood, Surgeon, Kilmarnock.
Apr. 25. Adam Hunter, M. D. Leeds, Member of Royal
Medical Society, Edinburgh, Physician to the
House of Recovery, Leeds, and Secretary to
the Philosophical and Literary Society, there.
Nov. 28. Borge Anton Hoppe, M. D. Copenhagen.
1823,
Mar. 6. George Murray Paterson, M. D. Assistant Sur-
geon, Honourable East India Company1
s ser-
vice, Bengal Establishment, Member of the
Royal College of Surgeons, London, and of
the Asiatic Society, Calcutta.
William Wagner, M. D. Professor of Medical
Jurisprudence at Berlin.
Apr. 17. Thomas Buchanan, Licentiate of the University
of Glasgow, and Surgeon to the Hull Dispen-
sary for diseases of the Eye and Ear.
May 1. David Ross, Surgeon, Royal Navy.
Reverend John Grierson, Minister of Dunblane,
Captain John Ross, Royal Navy.
XIV LIST OF OFFICE-BEARERS.
2D fltce Yearns.
Sir GEORGE S. MACKENZIE, Bart, President.
Vice-Presidents, j £
E0 *GE CoMBE> I ?/
RoBERT Hamilton,
( Dr Richard Poole, ) Melville Burd.
Council.
> Bridges j
Willm. Ritchie, \ Andrew Combe, ] William Scott.
John R. Sibbald, ( David Bridges jun., ^William Waddell,
( Ani
©ecretarp.
Peter Couper, W. S.
Thomas Lees, Clerk.
Luke O'Neil ,/un., Figure-Caster.
The Society is indebted to Mr William Douglas for
the Drawings of the Skull of King Robert Bruce, and of
the Figures in Plate II. at the end of this volume ; and to
Mr James Stewart for the Drawings in Plate III.
[ xv ]
LIST
OF
DONATIONS
MADE TO THE PHRENOLOGICAL SOCIETY.
presented by Sir G. S.
Mackenzie, Bart.
Cast of the Head of Mr George Bidder, Mental Calcula-
tor, presented by Miss Patrickson of Edinburgh.
Cast of the Head of Maxwell, exe-
cuted at Edinburgh, for Stouth-
rief,
A large collection of Casts, illus-
trative of Phrenology.
Collection of Portraits of eminent
Painters,
Skull of Carnimbeigle, a New
Holland Chief,
Illustrations of Phrenology, with
Plates, by Sir G. S. Mackenzie,
Bart.
Des Dispositions innees de l'Ame et
de PEsprit, par F. J. Gall et J.
G. Spurzheim,
Dr Gordon on the Brain,
Dr Forster on Phrenology,
Skull of James Gordon, executed at Dumfries, for Mur-
der, presented by Dr Maxwell, Dumfries.
New Phrenological Bust, presented by Messrs Luke
O'Neill and Son.
Skull of a Child, presented by Mr Benjamin Bell.
Skull of Kapitapol, a Candian Chief, presented by Henry
Marshall, Esq. Surgeon to the Forces in Scotland.
Xvi LIST OF DONATIONS.
Casts of Heads of Three Ladies, presented by Dr Elliot-
• son.
Essay on Mineral Springs at Harrowgate, &c. by Dr Hun-
ter of Leeds, presented by the Author.
Specimens of Frontal Sinus in Skulls, by Dr Willis.
Bust of Dr Gall, \ presented by Mons. A.
Ditto of Dr Spurzheim, J Royer, Paris.
Essays on Phrenology, by George ]
Combe, Esq. ! presented by Mr
Cast of the Head of a Boy, with j
Combe.
a large Cerebellum,
System of Education on Phrenological Principles, by Dr
Spurzheim, presented by the Author.
Cast of the Head of Jacob Jervis,
an eminent Mechanician,
Mask of J. P. Curran, Esq. taken
from nature,
Cast of the Head of an African,
Ditto, of a Deaf, Dumb and Blind
Individual,
Two Hindoo Skulls, 1 presented by Dr J. S.
A New Hollander's Skull, j Combe of Leith.
Observations on Phrenology, as affording a systematic View
of Human Nature, presented by William Scott, Esq.
Twelve Asiatic Crania, presented by Dr George Murray
Paterson.
Cast of the Skull of Booth, executed at York, for Murder,
presented by Thomas Buchanan, Esq.
Outlines of Character, presented by Maughan, Esq.
London.
Mask of Dean Swift, taken from nature, presented by An-
drew Carmichael, Esq. Dublin.
"
presented by Dr Abell.
(PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION.)
ON THE PROGRESS AND
APPLICATION OF PHRENOLOGY.
By Mr George Combe.
Read to the Society, Ikth November 1822.
JUr Gall, a Physician of Vienna, now resident
in Paris, is the founder of this system. He is de-
scended of a respectable family residing at Tiefen-
brun, two leagues distant from Pforzheim in $wa-
bia. He was born on 9th March 1757, and is the
sixth child of the marriage*. His father was a
merchant, and Mayor of the village. His parents,
professing the Roman Catholic religion, had in-
tended him for the Church ; but his natural dispo-
sitions were opposed to it. His studies were pur-
sued first at Baden, afterwards at Brucksal, and
then were continued at Strasbourg. Having se-
* The facts of a private nature stated in this Dissertation,
are derived from letters of Dr Spurzheim to the Society, or
to the author of this article.
A
2 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
lected the healing art for his profession, he went, in
1781, to Vienna, the medical school of which had
obtained great reputation, particularly since the
times of Van Swieten and Stoll. Dr Gall
gives an account, of which the following is an ab-
stract, of the manner in which he was led to the
study of the natural talents and dispositions of men,
his views of which terminated in the formation of
the Phrenological System.
From an early age he was given to observation,
and was struck with the fact, that each of his
brothers and sisters, companions in play, and school-
fellows, possessed some peculiarity of talent or dis-
position, which distinguished him from others.
Some of his schoolmates were distinguished by the
beauty of their penmanship, some by their success
in arithmetic, and others by their talent for acqui-
ring a knowledge of natural history, or of languages.
The compositions of one were remarkable for ele-
gance, while the style of another was stiff and dry
;
and a third connected his reasonings in the closest
manner, and clothed his argument in the most for-
cible language. Their dispositions were equally
different, and this diversity appeared also to deter-
mine the direction of their partialities and aver-
sions. Not a few of them manifested a capacity
for employments which they were not taught ; they
cut figures in wood, or delineated them on paper ;
some devoted their leisure to painting, or the cul-
ture of a garden, while their comrades abandoned
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 8
themselves to noisy games, or traversed the woods to
gather flowers, seek for birds-nests, or catch butter-
flies. In this manner, each individual presented a
character peculiar to himself, and Gall never
observed, that the individual, who in one year had
displayed selfish or knavish dispositions, became in
the next a good and faithful friend.
The scholars with whom young Gall had the
greatest difficulty in competing, were those who
learned by heart with great facility ; and such indivi-
duals frequently gained from him by their repeti-
tions the places which he had obtained by the merit
of his original compositions.
Some years afterwards, having changed his place
of residence, he still met individuals endowed with
an equally great talent of learning to repeat. He
then observed, that his schoolfellows, so gifted, pos-
sessed prominent eyes ; and he recollected, that his
rivals in the first school had been distinguished by
the same peculiarity. When he entered to the Uni-
versity he directed his attention, from the first, to the
students whose eyes were of this description, and he
soon found, that they all excelled in getting rapidly
by heart, and giving correct recitations, although
many of them were by no means distinguished in
point of general talent. This observation was re-
cognized also by the other students in the classes,
and although the connection betwixt the talent and
the external sign was not at this time established
upon such complete evidence as is requisite for &
a 2
4 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
philosophical conclusion, yet Dr Gall could not
believe that the coincidence of the two circumstances
thus observed was entirely accidental. He suspect-
ed, therefore, from this period, that they stood in an
important relation to each other. After much re-
flection, he conceived, that if Memory for words was
indicated by an external sign, the same might be
the case with the other intellectual powers ; and
from that moment, all individuals distinguished by
any remarkable faculty became the objects of his
attention. By degrees, he conceived himself to
have found external characteristics, which indicated
a decided disposition for Painting, Music, and the
Mechanical Arts. He became acquainted also with
some individuals remarkable for the determination
of their character, and he observed, a particular
part of their heads to be very largely developed.
This fact first suggested to him the idea of looking
to the head for signs of the Moral Sentiments. But
in making these observations, he never conceived
for a moment, that the skull was the dause of the
different talents, as has been erroneously represent-
ed ; —he referred the influence, whatever it was,
to the Brain.
In following out by observations, the principle
which accident had thus suggested, he for some
time encountered difficulties of the greatest magni-
tude. Hitherto he had been altogether ignorant
of the opinions of Physiologists touching the
brain, and of Metaphysicians respecting the mental
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 5
faculties, and had simply observed nature. When,
however, he began to enlarge his knowledge of
books, he found the most extraordinary conflict of
opinions every where prevailing, and this, for the
moment, made him hesitate about the correct-
ness of his own observations. He found that the
moral sentiments had, by an almost general con-
sent, been consigned to the thoracic and abdominal
viscera ; and that while Pythagoras, Plato,
Galen, Haller, and some other Physiologists,
placed the sentient soul or intellectual faculties
in the brain, Aristotle placed it in -the heart,
Van Helmont in the stomach',' Des Cartes
and his followers in the pineal gland, and Dre-
lincourt and others in the cerebellum.
He observed also,- that a great number of Philo-
sophers and Physiologists asserted, that all men arc
born with equal mental faculties ; and that the dif-
ferences observable among them are owing either
to education, or to the accidental circumstances in
* which they are placed. If all differences are acci-
dental, he inferred that there could be no natural
signs of predominating faculties, and consequently,
that the project of learning by observation, to
distinguish the functions of the different portions
of the brain, must be hopeless. This difficulty he
combated, by the reflection, that his brothers, sisters,
and schoolfellows had all received very nearly the
same education, but that he had still observed each of
them unfolding a distinct character, over which cir-
6 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
cumstances appeared to exert only a limited con^
troul. He observed also, that not unfrequently
they, whose education had been conducted with the
greatest care, and on whom the labours of teachers
had been most freely lavished, remained far behind
their companions in attainments. " Often," says Dr
Gall, " we were accused of want of will, or defi-
" ciency in zeal ; but many of us could not, even
" with the most ardent desire, followed out by the
" most obstinate efforts, attain in some pursuits
" even to mediocrity ; while in some other points,
" some of us surpassed our schoolfellows without an
'*
effort, and almost, it might be said, without per-
" ceiving it ourselves. But, in point of fact, our
•'
masters did not appear to attach much faith to
" the system which taught the equality of mental
" faculties ; for they thought themselves entitled to
" exact more from one scholar, and less from
" another. They spoke frequently of natural gifts,
" or of the gifts of God, and consoled their pupils
" in the words of the gospel, by assuring them that
" each would be required to render an account,
" only in proportion to the gifts which he had re-
" ceived *."
Being convinced by these facts, that there is a
natural and constitutional diversity of talents and
dispositions, he encountered in books still another
obstacle to his success in determining the external
* Preface by Dr Gall to the " Anatomie &c. du Cerveau,"
from which other facts in this Dissertation are taken.
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 7
signs of the mental powers. He found, that, in-
stead of faculties for languages, drawing, distin-
guishing places, music, and mechanical arts, cor-
responding to the different talents which he had
observed in his schoolfellows, the metaphysicians
spoke only of general powers, such as perception,
conception, memory, imagination, and judgment
;
and when he endeavoured to discover external signs
in the head, corresponding to these general facul-
ties, or to determine the correctness of the physio-
logical doctrines regarding the seat of the mind, as
taught by the authors already mentioned, he found
perplexities without end, and difficulties insur-
mountable.
Dr Gall, therefore, abandoning every theory
and preconceived opinion, gave himself up entirely
to the observation of nature. Being Physician to
a Lunatic Asylum in Vienna, he had opportunities,
of which he availed himself, of making observations
on the insane. He visited prisons, and resorted to
schools ; he was introduced to the courts of Princes,
to colleges, and the seats of Justice ; and where-
ever he heard of an individual distinguished in any
particular way, either by remarkable endowment or
deficiency, he observed and studied the development
of his head. In this manner, by an almost im-
perceptible induction, he conceived himself war-
ranted in believing, that particular mental powers
are indicated by particular configurations of the
head.
8 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
Hitherto, he had resorted only to Physiognomical
indications, as a means of discovering the functions of
the brain. On reflection, however, he was convinced
that Physiology is imperfect when separated from
Anatomy. Having observed a woman of fifty-four
years of age, who had been afflicted with hydroce-
phalus from her youth, and who, with a body a lit-
tle shrunk, possessed a mind as active and intelli-
gent as that of other individuals of her class, Dr
Gall declared his conviction, that the structure of
the brain must be different from what was general-
ly conceived,—a remark which Tulpius also had
made, on observing a hydrocephalic patient, who
manifested the mental faculties. He, therefore,
felt the necessity of making anatomical researches
into the structure of the brain.
In every instance, when an individual whose
head he had observed while alive happened to die,
he used every means to be permitted to examine
the brain, and frequently did so ; and he found
as a general fact, that on removal of the skull, the
brain, covered by the dura mater, presented a form
corresponding to that which the skull had exhibited
in life.
The successive steps by which Dr Gall pro-
ceeded in his discoveries, are particularly deserving
of attention. He did not, as many have imagined,
first dissect the brain, and pretend by that means
to have discovered the seats of the mental powers ;
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 9
neither did he, as others have conceived, first map
out the skull into various compartments, and as-
sign a faculty to each, according as his imagination
led him to conceive the place appropriate to the
power. On the contrary, he first ohserved a conco-
mitance betwixt particular talents and dispositions,
and particular forms of the head ; he next ascer-
tained, by removal of the skull, that the figure and
size of the brain are indicated by these external
forms ; and it was only after these facts were deter-
mined, that the brain was minutely dissected, and
light thrown upon its structure.
Dr Gall was first known as an author by the
publication of two chapters of an extensive work,
entitled, " Philosophisch-medicinische Untersuch-
" ungen iiber Natur und Kunst im gesunden und
" kranken Zustande des Menschen, Wien, 1791."
The continuation of this work has never appeared
;
but in the first of the two chapters printed, he has
evinced the spirit with which his researches into
the moral and intellectual nature of man were
subsequently conducted. The first written notice
of his inquiries concerning the head appeared in
a familiar letter to Baron Retzen, which was
inserted in the German periodical journal " Deut-
" schen Mercur," in December 1798. In this let-
ter he announces the publication of a work upon
his views concerning the brain ; but circumstances
induced him to alter his intention.
10 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
In 1796 Dr Gall commenced giving courses of
private lectures at Vienna. Several of his hearers,
as well as others who had never heard him lecture,
published notices of his doctrines ; and have repre-
sented them with greater or less exactness. Among
the better class the following deserve to be noticed
Froriep.—Who has printed an Exposition of
the Doctrine of Dr Gall.—3d Edition, 1802.
Martens.—" Quelque chose sur la Physiogno-
mic" Leipzic, 1802.
Walther.—" Exposition critique de la Doc-
trine de Gall, avec quelques particularites con-
cernant son auteur," Zurich, 1802.
Having continued his lectures for five years, on
9th January 1802 the Austrian Government issued
an order that they should cease ; his doctrines being
considered dangerous to religion. A General Regu-
lation was made upon the occasion, prohibiting all pri-
vate lectures, unless a special permission was obtained
from the Public Authorities. Dr Gall understood
the object of this " General Regulation," and never
solicited permission, but rather stopt his courses.
The doctrines, however, continued to be studied
with greater zeal than before ; —the prohibition
strongly stimulated curiosity, and all publications
on the subject continued to be permitted, provided
they abstained from reflecting on the Government
for issuing the " general order."
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 11
In 1800 Dr Spurzheim commenced his labours
along with Dr Gall, and in that year assisted, for
the first time, at one of his courses of lectures.
Phrenology owes so many valuable additions and dis-
coveries to the talents and exertions of this gentle-
man, and in Britain we are so exclusively indebted
to his works and his personal exertions, for a know-
ledge of the science, that the introduction of a few
particulars concerning him cannot fail to be interest-
ing and appropriate.
Dr Spurzheim was born on 31st December
1776, at Longuich, a village near Treves, on the
Moselle. His parents cultivated a farm of the rich
Abbey of St Maximin de Treves ; and he received
his college-education at the University of that city.
He was destined by his parents to become a Clergy-
man, but in 1799, when the French invaded that
part of Germany, he went to Vienna to study Me-
dicine, where he became acquainted with Dr Gall.
He entered with great zeal into the consideration of
the new doctrine ; and, to use his own words, " he was
** simply a hearer of Dr Gall till 1804, at which
" period he was associated with him in his labours,
" and his character of hearer ceased *."
Having completed his medical studies, he and
Dr Gall quitted Vienna in 1805, to travel toge-
ther, and to pursue in common their researches into
* Essai Philosophique sur la Nature morale et intellectuelle
tie l'Homme, par G. Spurzheim, M. D. Appendix p. 2 IS.
12 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
the anatomy and physiology of the whole nervous
system. In the period which elapsed betwixt the
interdiction of Dr Gall's lectures in 1802, and
the time when he and Dr Spurzheim left Vienna,
the doctrine had made a rapid progress, not only in
general diffusion, but in solid and important addi-
tions ; a fact of which any one may be satisfied, by
comparing the publications by Dr Gall's audi-
tors already mentioned, with those by his hearers in
the different towns in Germany, visited in the
course of his and Dr Spurzheim's travels. The
following works, in particular, afford evidence of the
state of the science in 1805 :
Eischoff.—Exposition de la Doctrine de Gall
sur le Cerveau et le Crane, suivie de remarques
de Mr Hufeland sur cette doctrine.
—
Ber-
lin, 2de Edit. 1805.
Blcede.—Le Doctrine du Gall sur les fonctions
de Cerveau.
—
Dresde, 2de Edit. 1805.
From 1804 to 1813, Dr Gall and Dr Spur-
zheim were constantly together, and their re-
searches were conducted in common. They left
Vienna on 6th March 1805, to go direct to Berlin,
and thereafter visited a variety of places, remaining
at each the time noted below *.
* 1805 Berlin, from 18th March to the end of April.
Potsdam, during the first half of May.
ON THE PROGRESS OF rilRENOLOGY. 13
From November 1807, to the present time, Dr
Gall has never left Paris. In June 1813, Dr
1805. Leipzic, from
Dresden,
Halle,
Jena,
Weimar,
Goettingen,
Brauerschweig,
Copenhagen,
Kiel,
Hamburgh,
180G. Bremen,
Minister,
Amsterdam,
Leyden,
Dusseldorf,
Frankfort,
Wurtzbourg,
Marbourg,
Stuttgard,
Carlsruhe,
Lastall,
1 807- Freybourg en )
Brisgaw, j
Doneschingue,
Heidelberg,
Manheim,
Munich,
Augsbourg,
Ulm,
Zm'ich,
Bern,
Bale,
23d May till
14th June
8th July
1st August
7th August
21st August
5th September
24th September
1 3th November
4th December
3d February
21st February
25th March
25th April
9th May
27th May
23d July
14th August
8th October
28th November
26th December
2d January
16th January
28th January
19th February
27th March
31st May
28th June
15th July
8th August
7th September
13th June.
3d July.
28th July.
7th August.
18th August.
31st August.
13th Sept.
6th Nov.
1st Dec.
1st Feb. 1806.
18th February
19th March.
25th April.
4th May.
21st May.
6th June.
12th August.
25th August.
19th October.
26th Dec.
1st Jan. 1807.
l6th January.
2Sd January.
13th February.
6th March.
31st May.
25th June.
11th July.
2d August.
5 th September.
24th Sept.
14 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
Spurzheim paid a visit to Vienna; from which
he proceeded to Britain, and arrived there in March
1814. During his stay he published, in English,
" The Physiognomical System of Drs Gall and
" Spurzheim," in 8vo. ; an **
Outline of the
" System," in 12mo. ; and a work shewing the
application of Phrenology to the subject of In-
sanity. He also delivered lectures in London,
Bath, Bristol, Dublin, Cork, Liverpool, and Edin-
burgh. He returned to London in 1817; de-
livered again a course of lectures; became a Li-
centiate of the Royal College of Physicians in that
city ; and, in the month of July, of the same year,
returned to Paris, in which capital he has since
remained ; and there, says he, " je me propose de
" passer le reste de ma vie, occupe de la connais-
" sance de l'homme dans l'etat de sante et de ma-
" ladie*"
Dr Spurzheim has contributed largely to the
advancement of Phrenology, by enriching it with
important discoveries, by introducing into it philo-
sophical arrangement, and by pointing out its appli-
cation to many interesting purposes connected with
the human mind f
.
1807- Muhlhause, 24th September 2d October.
Paris, November
* Letter from Dr Spurzheim to the Rev. David Welsh,
Secretary to the Society, dated Paris, 2d February 1821.
t Since his return to Paris, Dr Spurzheim has published in
this country, and in English, a work on the " Elementary Prin-
" ciples of Education," founded on Phrenology.
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 15
" In the whole of our travels," says he, " we have
" been well received, and the second course was al-
" ways more fully attended than the first, so that
" there was no doubt that the subject excited great
" interest. But it is to be regretted that we stopt too
" short a time to form practical pupils. The princi-
" pies were explained, the development shewn, and
" we were off. You will conceive that this was not
" the way to establish the doctrine. We had more
" advantage than our pupils, because we had great
" opportunities of observing the heads of many men
" of talents : we got more conviction than our
" auditors. We were prepared by previous study
" to make observations, but our stay was too short
" to teach the auditors to repeat them. Dr Gall
" even gave the advice not to repeat the experi-
" ments, since it is difficult to do so, which I have
" mentioned in my large English work, 2d edition
" p. 270. But I assure you, that not one Phreno-
" logist, front knowledge, has fallen back, saying
" that the doctrine is false. I have seen frequently
" the contrary, i. c. the belief in it strengthened by
" self observations."
During Dr Spurzheim's absence from Paris,
Dr Gall did not lecture : after his return Dr
Gall delivered one private course in his own house,
and two public courses gratis, one, " a l'Ecole de Me-
decine," and the other in a hall " de l'lnstitution pour
les Aveugles." Dr Spurzheim himself has de-
livered two courses each year since he settled in Paris,
16 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
" sur l'Anatomie, la Physiologie, et la Pathologie
" du Cerveau, et des Sens exterieurs ;" each course
lasting three months ; and he intends to continue his
lectures in succeeding years. " Phrenology," says
he, " had been in a great measure forgotten during
'.*
several years, hut it gains strength of new. The
" ridicule which pursued it in France is overcome,
" and it now bears the reputation of a science.
" My auditors have encreased in numbers each suc-
" ceeding course ; and as a greater part of them are
" strangers from different regions, they will not
" fail to spread the doctrines in their native coun-
" tries. The zeal and assiduity with which they
" have followed my instructions, authorise me to
" entertain this expectation."
The following account of the state of Phrenology
in Paris in June 1 821, was communicated by a
Member of the Society, in a private letter, to the
Editor of the New Edinburgh Review, and appear-
ed in that Journal in October of that year : f I
" have heard," says the writer, " a belief in Phre-
" nology avowed by some of the most eminent Pro-
" fessors, both of the Colleges and of the Garden
" of Plants. Blainville mentioned in a lecture
" which I heard, that the principles were too well es-
" tablished to admit of doubt, and that he himself
" had made many observations, and never found an
" exception. He said that he regarded the greater
" number of the organs as established, and that he
" believed farther observations alone were wanting
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 1?
" to enable him to admit others. He started some
" objections regarding the lower animals, the unc-
" qual thickness of whose skulls, he said, rendered
" it difficult to determine whether the external elc-
" vations perceptible iu their heads were caused by
" brain or bone. In man, he said, no such objec-
" tion exists, except in old age, or cases of disease.
" Geoffroy St Hilaire also, in his lectures at
" the Museum of Natural History, avows his be-
" lief in the doctrines, and points out in the lower
" animals many correspondences. Monsieur XIoy-
" er, too, of the Garden of Plants, is well known
" as a most decided convert ; and, indeed, he ap-
" plied to me to procure for him the form of an ap-
" plication to be admitted a corresponding Mem-
" ber of the Phrenological Society of Edinburgh,
" which I obtained and gave him. It is worth
" mentioning, also, that, about two years ago, Dr
" Gall, at the request of the Minister of the In-
" terior, commenced lecturing for the benefit of the
" Medical Students in Paris. The lectures were,
" like others, delivered gratis ; but he was provided
" with the use of the operation and lecture room
" in the Hospice de Perfcctionncmcnt, for his first
" course, and afterwards, on account of that being
" too small, with the large examination room of
" the Institution des Jeunes Aveuglcs, which is
" well fitted for the purpose. His audience amount-
" ed to betwixt 200 and 300 ; and so eagerly is he
" attended, that it is well known that many more
B
18 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
" tickets were applied for at each course than could
" be given, and that the apartment was regularly
" crowded half an hour before the lecture began.
" Dr Spurzheim also continues to lecture in
" Paris, and although, from his demanding a fee,
" his auditory is not numerous compared with Dr
" Gall's, yet he is regularly attended, and his
'*
course is esteemed the more philosophic of the
" two. I beg to add, that the physiognomical ex-
" pression of some of the English students who
" were present at Blainville's lecture, and who
" probably knew nothing of Phrenology but
" through the English Reviews, was truly ludi-
" crous. They appeared to relax their features for
" a laugh when the name of Dr Gall first escaped
" the lips of the Professor ; but when they heard
" him spoken of with respect, and his doctrines de-
" clared to be true, the expression changed into
" wonder in some, and in others to absolute con-
" tempt. I thought of the self-esteem for which
" their nation is so remarkable, and could not re-
" frain from smiling in my own turn, at this amusing
" manifestation of the organ."
The statements of this letter are confirmed by
a notice which appeared in the New Monthly Ma-
gazine for January 1823 *.
* " Histoire des Fonctions du Cerveau. Par le Docteur Gall.
3 vols. Svo. Paris 1822.
" This is another exposition of Dr Gall's system of Invinci-
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. IS
The notion has been industriously propagated,
that the system of Phrenology is merely an emana-
tion from the fancies of the founders ; but it is im-
possible to attend to the successive steps by which
the science has been reared, and not be convinced of
the erroneous nature of this assertion. In the be-
ginning of his inquiries Dr Gall did not, and
could not, foresee the result to which they would
lead, or the relation which each successive fact, as
hie (innate) Dispositions. This Gentleman, who possesses no
little talent, both as a physician and a writer, has been prac-
tising, for the last twelve or fifteen years in Paris, where he has
established a reputation, and realized a handsome fortune. On
the first development of his system, it was received either with
unthinking pleasantry, or dismissed as idle, without due consi-
deration ; but a more intimate knowledge of the man has led, if
not to the adoption of his ideas, at least to a more serious and re-
spectful examination of them. There are many men here
(Paris) amongst the most eminent for their medical and phy-
siological knowledge, who, though differing widely upon other
scientific topics, yet agree in saying, that there is much, not
only of probability, but of truth, in the system of Dr Gall.
It is certain, that one of the most powerful motives of human
action, instinct, has been but very imperfectly examined by the
most celebrated modern philosophers, and, amongst others, the
acute Helvetius. It appears to be the general opinion of the
present suvans of Paris, that Dr Gall's system calls for a
mujch more serious and profound examination than it has
hitherto undergone. To this task it will be necessary to bring
a considerable share of anatomical science, as the Doctor, it is
said, has made some very important discoveries in the structure
of the brain. This new edition, which is improved and en-
larged, will consist of 8 volumes 8vo."
B 2
20 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
it was discovered, would bear to the whole truths
which time and experience might bring into view.
He perceived, for instance, that the intensity of the
desire for property bore a relation to the size of one
part of the brain ; and he announced this fact, and
called the part the Organ of Theft, because he found
it largest in thieves. When he had discovered that
the propensity to destroy corresponded to the size
of another part of the brain, he stated this fact also
as an isolated truth, and named the part the Organ
of Murder *, because he had found it largest in
criminals condemned for that crime. In a similar
way, when he had discovered the connection be-
tween the sentiment of benevolence and another
portion of the cerebral mass, he called the part the
Organ of Benevolence ; and so on in regard to the
other faculties and organs.
When we reflect on this mode of enquiring into
the functions of the brain, we find it to be in the
strictest degree philosophical, and to be free from
certain insuperable objections which have opposed
the success of all investigations conducted by the
methods previously in use. From an early period
Anatomists have dissected the brain, with the view
of discovering its functions, but by this method they
could not attain the object in view ; because the
* The reader will find some observations on this subject in
an Essay on Combativeness, Destructiveness, and Secretive-
ness, in a subsequent part of this Volume.
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY.
structure of the different parts of the body does not,
of itself, indicate their functions. By examining the
liver, independent of experience, no person could pre-
dicate that its function is to secrete bile ; nor by dis-
secting the lungs, could any one discover that their
office is to give out carbon from the blood.. The me-
senteric glands have been dissected by many thousand
anatomists, and up to this hour no certainty in re-
gard to their use is attained. Every effort, there-
fore, to discover the functions of the brain by mere
dissection, has necessarily proved abortive ; and
physiologists, in general, still represent the uses
of its different parts, as a mystery in science.
Metaphysical inquirers, on the other hand, have re-
sorted chiefly to reflection on consciousness, as a
means of cultivating the philosophy of mind ; but
as consciousness does not reveal the existence of the
organs, by winch the mind communicates with the
external world, they were incapable, by this method,
of throwing light upon the connection betwixt the
mind and the body *. There is no doubt that, by
attending to their own consciousness, metaphysi-
* In assuming that the Mind is not conscious of the exist-
ence of the organs, I differ from some Members of the So-
ciety, for whose judgment I have the highest respect ; and,
therefore, subjoin the following explanation. Consciousness is
held by some persons to be coextensive with thought and feel-
ing, and it is said that we are. conscious of all we know; but in
the text I speak of it as an independent source of original in-
formation. If an individual is seized with a pain in the thigh,
22 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
cians have ascertained and described the relations
of their own thoughts and feelings, and that occa-
it is the proper office of consciousness to make him acquainted
with the existence of the pain, and to indicate the direction
whence it proceeds, but not to inform him whether it origi-
nates in muscle, nerve, or bone. Suppose his thigh to be
opened by a surgeon, and that he has fortitude and philoso-
phy sufficient to attend to the tying of a ligature round the
popliteal artery, he may, in this manner, become acquainted
with the existence oi this bloodvessel ; and leavn, also, the
seat of the disease, and origin of the pain. On the principle
that consciousness is coextensive with knowledge, he might be
said to be now conscious of the existence of this part, and also
of the pain being situate in it, but it is obvious that he has
acquired this knowledge through the medium of the under-
standing, and not directly and intuitively by means of con-
sciousness. Now, the proposition of the text is this, that con-
sciousness does not directly and intuitively communicate to us a
knowledge of the mental organs, so as to enable us, by merely
reflecting on what passes within ourselves, to predicate their
connection with the mind. While in health, they produce no
sensation (distinct from thought) indicative of their own opera-
tion, and when diseased they produce only the feeling of pain
;
and pain in the ear, for example, no more leads us to infer (prior
to knowledge acquired by the understanding), that an auditory
nerve exists, than uneasiness in the thigh enables us (previous
to a knowledge of anatomy), to infer the existence of an ar-
tery. If the principle that consciousness is coextensive with
knowledge, were correctly applied, when used in this extensive
sense, a person might be said to have no consciousness of the
structure of his own body, before entering an anatomical thea-
tre ; but on his exit, after having heard a few able demonstra-
tions, to be conscious of every nerve, muscle, bone, artery, and
vein in his system. This would be clearly an abuse of language.
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 23
sionally these may be found to correspond with the
thoughts and feelings of others ; but their systems
do not exhibit complete and practical views of hu-
man nature ; and, without at all wishing to under-
value their labours, I must regret that they should
despise the advantages which they might derive
from phrenological observations.
The method of enquiry pursued by Dr Gael,
having for its object the discovery of the relation
betwixt the mental powers and their organs, pos-
sessed advantages peculiar to itself, and was free from
the objections to which the methods of the physio-
logists and metaphysicians were liable. He attend-
ed to facts presented to his senses and understand-
ing, and was thus led to a knowledge of a relation
existing in nature, betwixt particular portions of the
brain and particular facidties of the mind. How-
ever short, therefore, of complete success his en-
quiries may appear to some at present to be, it is
indisputable that he and his followers are in the
road which leads to truth. His mode of philoso-
phising has nothing in common with the formation
of an hypothesis ; and so far from a disposition to
invent a theory being conspicuous, there appears, in
He would know that these parts exist in other men, and his
understanding would infer that they exist also in himself; but
he would have as little direct and intuitive evidence of their
presence in himself, from pure consciousness, after the demon-
stration, as he had before it.
24 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
the disjointed items of information which he at first
presented to the public, a want of even an ordinary
regard for systematic arrangement. His only object
seems to have been, to furnish a candid and un-
coloured statement of the facts in nature which he
observed ; leaving their value to be ascertained by
time and farther investigation. The slightest at-
tention to the publications by Dr Gall's auditors,
before mentioned, will prove beyond a doubt that
this was really the manner in which he made all
his discoveries. A Member of the Society possesses
a small work, entitled, " Dr J. F. Gall's System
" of the Functions of the Brain, extracted from
" Charles Augustus Blcede's account of Dr
" Gall's Lectures, held on the above subject at
" Dresden; translated from the German." Blcede's
work, as already mentioned, was published in 1805 ;
and in this translation the following list of Organs
is siven.
1. The impulse to Propaga-
tion.
2. Tenderness for Offspring.
3. Mcmoria realis, (Indivi-
duality).
4. Locality.
5. The Organ of the recol-
lection ofpersons, (Form).
6. The disposition of Co-
ourinc'.
7. Sounds.
8. Arithmetic.
9. Words.
10. Languages.
11. Mechanic skill.
12. Friendly attachment
and Fidelity.
IS. Valour.
14. Murdering.
15. Cuiminjr.
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 25
16. The organ of Larceny. 22 Wit.
17. Height, (Self-esteem). 23. Inference.
18. Ambition and Vanity. 24. Good Nature, (Benevo-
19- Circumspection. lence).
20. Comparative Perspicuity, 25. Theosopliy, (Veneration).
(Comparison). 26*. Perseverance, (Firmness).
21. Metaphysical Perspicuity 27. Mimickry, (Imitation).
(Causality).
In the Monthly Magazine, also, for 1806, a plate
and a list of the Organs, will be found exhibiting
the discoveries then made, in which, as in the pre-
ceding instance, there is no philosophical principle
of classification, no attempt at analysis of the
powers, but a mere description of development and
accompanying manifestations ; and there were, as
there still are, blanks in the views of the cranium,
as well as faculties wanting in the list.
But what followed ? As soon as observation had
brought to light the great body of the facts, and the
functions of the faculties had been contemplated with
a philosophical eye, a system of the philosophy of the
human mind presented itself, almost spontaneously,
to view, " not like others presented to us, which ap-
" pear in comparison but as mere diagrams, the result
il
of study and imagination ; whilst this seems like a
" portrait from life by masterly hands *." When
the work of discovery had proceeded a certain length,
* Reflections on Gall and Spurzheim's System of Physio-
gnomy and Phrenology^ by John Abeknethv, F. R. Sv &c.
26 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
the facts appeared to be connected by relations
which it was impossible sooner to perceive ; and sys-
tem and arrangement at length suggested them-
selves where disorder only had previously reigned.
Hence, it was not till after Phrenology had been
cultivated for several years, that its real nature and
utility were discovered, and it was only then that
its form became systematic. Hence, also, its cha-
racter and its name changed as it proceeded ; and
from a mere species of physiognomy, it has become
a science capable of the most useful and interest-
ing applications. If, from the beginning, the dis-
coveries of Drs Gall and Spurzheim had as-
sumed the aspect of a regular and polished science,
and been moulded into complete accordance with
the prevailing doctrines of the times, it would have
been clear that they were theorizing; for a beau-
tiful and perfect system coidd not arise at once out
of the observation of facts. The history of dis-
covery in chemistry, and the other experimental
sciences, shews, that facts in nature may, for a
time, appear, not only isolated and uninteresting,
but absolutely inconsistent and perplexing, until
future discoveries shall have linked them into the
chain of causation, and exhibited them in all the
beauty and importance of essential parts in a system
of truth. The very fact, therefore, that out of this
mass of incoherence and apparent inconsistency,
there has at last arisen a system of philosophy de-
serving of admiration, creates a stroug presumption
that it is founded in nature.
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 27
13ut, it maybe proper to go a little more into the
detail of the advantages which Phrenology is cal-
culated to confer on the philosophy of the human
mind. In the first place, then, Man, as existing
in this world, is compounded of a thinking princi-
ple and a material body. The thinking principle,
cannot by itself become an object of philosophical
investigation, because, in this life, so far as we know,
it neither acts nor can be acted upon, except through
the medium of corporeal organs. The most sublime
productions of the poet's fancy, and most powerful
arguments of the impassioned orator, certainly the
purest and most etherial of all the impressions con-
veyed to our minds, do not, and cannot, as we are
at present constituted, reach us but through a ma-
terial eye or a material ear. Our growing vigour
as we rise from infancy to manhood, and decreas-
ing energies as we descend from manhood to the
grave, remind us also of the soul's alliance with
the dust. If, then, in this life, organization is so
indispensable to the manifestations of the mind,
and exerts so great an influence over them, no
system of the philosophy of man is entitled to the
name which neglects its agency, and treats of the
mind as a disembodied spirit : And yet, Locke,
Reid, and Paley, Stewart, and Brown, are
as silent upon the organs of the mind, as if the
mental functions were performed independent of
the body. The Phrenologist, on the other hand,
regards man as he actually exists, and, (to adopt
28 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
the ideas of Mr Stewart), desires to investigate
the laws which regulate the connection betwixt the
organs and the mind, but without attempting to
discover the essence of either, or to explain the man-
ner in which they are united. The method which
he follows, namely, that of comparing the power of
manifesting particular mental faculties with the de-
velopment of particular portions of the brain, is
philosophical in the most rigid sense of the term ;
and only prejudice and ignorance can undervalue
the object of his investigation, or state any serious
objection to the means.
In the second place, philosophers and the vulgar
speak frequently of the " faculties of the mind ;"
and we may be entitled to presume, that they at-
tach some meaning to this expression ; but when
we enquire at the philosophers what is implied in
the phrase, and how many faculties they admit, we
find the very fact of the existence of faculties still
under dispute. Dr Reid observes, that metaphy-
sics may " be truly called an analysis of the
" humanfaculties, and till this is performed, it is
" in vain to expect any just system of the mind,
" that is, an enumeration of the original powers and
" laws of our constitution, and an explication from
" them of the various phenomena of human nature."
Inquiry, p. 11. A late and ingenious writer in
the Quarterly Review, comments on this passage,
in the following terms. " Here, then, says he, it
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 23
" might reasonably be expected, that the real and
* substantial existence of these *
simple and un-
" compounded faculties, which it is the peculiar
" ' province of philosophy to analyse,' should be a
" matter that either had never been supposed to
" admit of any controversy, or else, that it had at
" least been regularly discussed and satisfactorily
" demonstrated. Our readers, however, will per-
" haps be surprized to hear the fact. So far is it
" from being true, that the theory of the mind
" which Dr Reid assumes, is a point which no
" person had dared to dispute, that there is hardly
" a metaphysician of any celebrity, who has not
" thought it necessary to warn his readers against
" the false notion, or, as they conceived it to be,
" the vulgar error, upon which the whole of his
" philosophy, considering it as a system, is entirely
" built."
—
Quarterly Review, No. 52. p. 493.
From these passages, we perceive a plurality of
faculties assumed as the basis of the philosophy of Dr
Reid, while the very existence of separate faculties
is denied by the English Reviewer. This point, in-
deed, has been long agitated between the metaphy-
sicians of England and Scotland, and they are still
far from being unanimous in regard to it. The in-
quiry, therefore, is curious, how the phrase " facul-
" ties of the mind" should have come to be invented,
and why, when occurring in ordinary composition, it
is so easily intelligible, while philosophical difficul-
ties of such magnitude attend its explication. When
30 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
we observe men in society, we perceive great diver-
sities in their intellectual endowments and moral
dispositions ; one individual is mild and charitable,
another is hot and intolerant ; this man is re-
markable for an acute and discriminating intellect,
but deficient in generalizing power ; that individual
displays a gigantic scope of comprehension, but has
much difficulty in correctly apprehending matters
of detail. George Bidder, at the age of twelve,
was able to solve in his mind, and without the aid
of notation, the most intricate questions in algebra ;
while many persons of mature age, and comprehen-
sive understandings, experience the greatest diffi-
culties in learning to perform the same operations.
In Edinburgh, an idiot is seen upon the streets who
whistles correctly several times, but cannot connect
three abstract ideas ; while we all know men of
powerful intellects, who cannot perform three notes
of the gamut. When these facts are seen and con-
sidered by men of plain sense, they are impressed
with the conviction that the human mind is endowed
with a variety of powers ; that they are bestowed,
some of them in a higher and others in a lower de-
gree, on each individual ; but that no person pos-
sesses them all in perfection, or is entirely destitute
of any. By the natural constitution of our minds,
we instinctively form conclusions upon facts sub-
mitted to our observation, and adopt them as fixed
principles of belief, although we are frequently un-
able to specify the steps by which they were at-
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 31
tained. In this manner, by an insensible induc-
tion, mankind in general have come to regard in-
equality of talent and disposition, even in the same
individual, as the result of natural constitution ; and
have never acted upon the belief, that every variety
of mental excellence is necessarily present, because
one eminent talent is possessed: In other words,
they have conceived the mind to be endowed with
a plurality ofpowers, and these to be enjoyed, even by
the same individual, in unequal proportions. Hence
the belief, on the part of the public, in the existence
of distinct faculties * of the mind, is easily account-
ed for ; and their ready understanding of the expres-
sion is also explained.
This notion, however, stands opposed to the doc-
trine of many highly esteemed metaphysical authors.
Mr Addison states, that " what we call the facul-
" ties of the soul, are only the different ways or modes
" in which the soul can exert herself." f Dr John-
* I use the word Faculty throughout in the Phrenological
sense, as meaning a mental power of a particular kind, either
of propensity, sentiment or intellect, attached to a particular
portion of the brain, and varying in natural energy as the
organ varies in size. The works on Phrenology enumerate
and describe the different faculties.
t Spectator, No. 600.—Mr Stewart quotes this passage in
his preliminary dissertation to the Encyclopaedia, and approves
of it. While writing his Elements of Intellectual Philosophy,
he appears to me to have been sometimes impressed with the
popular notion, that the mind possesses a plurality of powers,
each having a specific function, and at other times with the opi=
32 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
son observes, that " the supposition of one man ha-
" ving more imagination, another more judgment,
" is not true. It is only one man has more mind
" than another. Sir, the man who has vigour may
" walk to the east as well as to the west, if he hap-
" pens to turn his head that way." Although
neither Addison nor Johnson were metaphysi-
cians, yet, in these remarks, they delivered, in a
popular form, the doctrine of Locke *, which has
been embraced by many writers since his day, and
appears to constitute the creed of the Quarterly Re-
viewer. Locke in particular states it as a fault
" that faculties have been spoken of and repre-
" sented as so many distinct agents? If the
faculties are nothing more than different modes in
which the mind exerts itself, how can we account
for the facts before adverted to, of the same indi-
vidual possessing great power of exerting the mind
in one way, and very little of exerting it in another,
or for many of the phenomena occurring in insanity ?
Fodere', for example, in his " Traite du Goitre, et
" de la Cretinisme," remarks, " that, by an incxpli-
" cable singularity, some cretins endowed with weak
" minds, are born with a particultar talent for copy-
" ing paintings, for rhyming, or for music. I have
" known, says he, several who taught themselves to
nion stated by Mr Addison ; and hence some occasional in-
consistencies seem to have crept into his views.
• Book ii. chap. 21. § 20,
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. S3
" play passably on the organ and clavecin; others who
**
understood, without ever having had a master, the
" repairing of watches, and the construction of some
" pieces of mechanism/' p. 133. Pinel, in his
" Traite de l'alienation mentale," mentions the case
of a patient, who, as he remarks, would have present-
ed an enigma to Locke and Condillac, accord-
ing to their notions of the mind. " He was subject
" to periodical attacks, during which he felt a horri-
" ble furor, which made him, by an irresistible pro-
" pensity, seize hold of any instrument or offensive
" weapon, to kill the first person he should see. He
" felt an internal combat betxvecn thatferocious im-
" pulse and the profound horror zvith which such
" a crime inspired him. There was no wandering
" of memory, of imagination, or of judgment. He
" avowed to me that this propensity to commit a
" murder was absolutely forced and involuntary,
" and that his wife, whom he tenderly loved, was
" near falling a sacrifice to it." Many similar facts
might be stated ; but it is unnecessary to adduce
them, as every individual must have felt contending
emotions arising involuntarily in his mind, which,
with all the aid of his intellectual powers, he was
not able to allay, and could scarcely restrain from
outward manifestation. If, therefore, the term
Faculty means merely a mode in which the mind
exerts itself, and if the faculties have no peculiar
agency, from what sources could the furious im-
pulse to destroy, the sentiment of horror at the
34- PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
desire, and the exercise of reflection to curb it, all
existing simultaneously in the above mentioned in-
dividual, proceed ?
The interest of the question concerniDg a plu-
rality of faculties continues to encrease, when we
enquire into the origin of the mysteries with which
metaphysicians have contrived to envelope it. If
they had simply observed the phenomena of human
nature, it is difficult to conceive how they could
have come to doubt upon the subject ; for the same
diversities of genius and dispositions, which have
so forcibly impressed ordinary observers with the
notion of distinct faculties, must, one would na-
turally imagine, have carried home a similar con-
viction to them. But, with the view of penetra-
ting deeper than the vulgar into the elements of the
mind, they directed their attention chiefly inwards
to the subjects of their consciousness, and hence
their difficulties arose. The consciousness of each
individual reveals only the various mental changes
of a single thinking and sentient principle ; and it
is with extreme difficulty that he can detect those
separations in its powers, which the facts furnished
by observation upon others, would lead him to ex-
pert. A person may be conscious of a great faci-
lity in abstract reasoning, and of an insensibility
to music ; but there is no very palpable circum-
stance attending the mere consciousness of either
fact, vvhich would readily prompt him to conclude,
that bis mind possessed two distinct faculties.
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 35
one for reasoning, and another for receiving the
impressions of melody. He might think, that one
faculty would suffice for both offices, although,
owing to some peculiar circumstance which he could
not explain, it Was unable to perform one part of
its functions with the same success as it performed
the other ; and hence, he might reasonably question
the whole popular belief on the subject of a variety
of powers, and come to regard it as nothing better
than a " vulgar error." This accordingly appears
to have been the fountain whence the metaphysical
difficulties on this subject have flowed *.
The next point is to shew in what manner
Phrenology will diminish or remove the obscurities
attending this long agitated question. If we at-
tend to the development of the brain, and observe,
that all persons having a large pyramidal eminence
on the upper part of the middle of the forehead,
(such as Dr Chalmers, the Reverend George
Croly, and Mr William Tennant), possess an
extraordinary talent for tracing analogies, and ma-
king forcible comparisons ; and that those whose
heads are hollow in this particidar part, shew a ma-
nifest difficulty in finding illustrations, and, in their
writings and discourse, rarely compare or reason ana-
* At the same time, it appears to me, after mature reflec-
tion, that consciousness does give us some intimation of the
existence of a plurality of'faculties, although it affords no infor-
mation concerning the organs of the mind.
e 9
36 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
logically ; the dullest understanding may conceive,
that a special power of the mind is connected with
this part of the brain, and we may learn its nature
by means of observation, without much metaphysi-
cal acumen. If, on extending our remarks, we dis-
cover that persons, in whom the portions of brain
lying on each side of the part last mentioned are
large, possess the talent of tracing abstract and pro-
found relations, such as occur in metaphysics, and
political economy, with a degree of facility and suc-
cess bearing a proportion to the development of the
parts, and that many individuals possess this power
and organ in an eminent degree who are deficient
in the first, and vice versa, we would be furnished
with data for believing in another faculty of the
mind, and would be enabled to determine its func-
tions. If, on the most extensive observation, we
found other intellectual faculties, and also the power
of experiencing the moral sentiments, such as Jus-
tice, Benevolence, Veneration, and others, likewise
connected with particular portions of the brain, and
exhibiting a strength corresponding to the size of
the organs, the existence of these faculties and sen-
timents, as distinct powers of the mind, would be
established upon evidence closely resembling that
on which the conclusions of physical science de-
pend. If we found, too, that, by the internal acti-
vity of an organ, the propensity, sentiment, or in-
tellectual power connected with it, was excited into
action, the difficulties attending the cases men-
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 37
tioned by Fodere' and Pinel would disappear.
If, in a Cretin, the organ of Tune were large and
active, he might learn music with facility, although,
on account of other organs being small, he could
not reason, or if the organ of Constructiveness
were large and active, he might be capable of re-
pairing watches, and his intellectual deficiencies
continue unabated. In like manner, if in Pi-
Nel's patient the organ of " Destructiveness" was
excited into diseased activity, the impulse to
destroy might be strongly experienced, while the
greatest horror at the desire might be felt, by means
of the faculties and organs of the moral sentiments,
if these remained unimpaired. The intellectual
powers, too, might be exercised in restraining the
propensity, as long as their organs were unaffected
by the disease.
The doctrine of a plurality of faculties here
stated, is clearly consonant to popular belief, and
indeed is implied in the very structure of ordinary
language ; and, considering the point abstractly,
nothing appears more natural than that these dis-
tinct powers should possess separate organs, just
as the various senses operate through the medium
of different nerves. The difficulty, therefore, in ad-
mitting this view of our mental constitution, occurs
only with the philosophers, and their objections to
it, also, will probably disappear, when v
they bestow
on Phrenology the degree of attention which its im-
portance demands.
38 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
It is proper to observe, however, that the Scotch
metaphysicians in general, adopt the opinion, from
whatever source derived, that the mind manifests a
plurality of faculties ; but other questions of great
importance have been debated among them which
continue undetermined, namely, what are the na-
ture and laws of these primitive powers, and what
their number ? If I apprehend aright, the object
of the investigations of Dr Keid, Mr Stewart,
and Dr Thomas Brown, has been to present an
analysis of the human faculties, with the view of
exhibiting ajust system of mental philosophy ; but
it is well known that no two of these authors agree
in the results of their analysis, and that the most
powerful arguments are used by one, to prove that
certain principles admitted by another are not en-
titled to be regarded as primitive faculties of the
mind, and that, up to this hour, no system of men-
tal philosophy has appeared, which has been even
generally received. Phrenology, by presenting to
observation a corporeal organ, by means of which
a particular faculty manifests itself, will tend con-
siderably to do away with the airiness and shadowy
uncertainty which at present attend this branch of
metaphysical science. For example, when i* suffi-
cient number of instances have been observed, in
which the power of experiencing the sentiment of
Justice has been strong, when a certain part of the
brain has been large, and weak when the same part
has been small ; it will be difficult to dispute longer
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 39
the existence of such a primitive sentiment, although
it has been contested for the last 2000 years. In the
same way the existence of other faculties will be as-
certained ; and by this mode of philosophizing, any
point which has once been fixed, will not be liable
to be again shaken loose and subjected anew to un-
certainty and doubt. At the same time, scope will
be given, in prosecuting Phrenology, for the refined
analysis and profound speculation, which constitute
the delight and the glory of the metaphysician ; for
while the general function of each faculty and its
organ will be discovered by observation, it will only
be by means of reflection on consciousness, that the
ultimate principles and limits of demarcation of each
will be scientifically ascertained.
In the third place, it may be observed, that the
slight relation of the metaphysical systems of men-
tal philosophy to the actual dispositions and ta-
lents of men, and their consequent limited uti-
lity, have been subjects of complaint from the re-
motest ages. Phrenology, on the other hand,
contains elements, by the various combinations of
which, every variety of sentiment and intellectual
power occurring among individuals may be explain-
ed, not by an arbitrary use of terms, and an inven-
tion of faculties to serve in each emergency, but by
a rigid application of fixed and philosophical princi-
ples, announced as essential parts of the science.
If, indeed, we were to make an extensive survey of
•iO PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
the works of metaphysical writers in general, and of
authors who have written upon Moral Philosophy
in connection with Metaphysics, it is probable that
we might find all, or the greater part, of the Phre-
nological powers admitted by one or other of them
as elements of the human mind ; but the faculties
stated by one are denied by another, and no one
system is to be met with, in which several of the
most important active principles of our nature,
which fill the world with half the bustle by which
its daily scenes are agitated, are not either entirely
omitted, or ascribed to secondary laws of the mind,
altogether inadequate to account for the phenomena
which they are brought forward to explain. Those
Members of the Society who are familiar with meta-
physical science, will readily recognise the correctness
of these remarks ; and, were this a proper occasion,
it would be easy to establish it by numerous exam-
ples. For the sake of illustration merely, I shall
select a few instances of principles admitted in
Phrenology, but omitted in the works of Reid,
Stewart, and Brown, the latest and most es-
teemed metaphysical writers of Scotland ; and con-
cerning the existence of which, some judgment may
be formed by ordinary observers of human nature,
who are not attached to any particular system of
mental philosophy.
The Phrenologists admit " Adhesiveness," or the
instinctive tendency to attachment, as a primitive
principle of the mind. The authors above alluded
ON THE FHOGltE^ OF PlillENOLOC Y. 41
to either entirely omit the feeling, or treat of it
under the general aspect of " a desire for society."
They do not speak of its effects, when strong or
weak, upon the dispositions of individuals, nor do
they represent its influence in the domestic sphere,
which is, in fact, the chief field for its exercise.
These authors advert to " Instant Resentment " as
a feeling of the mind ; but this supposes an antece-
dent injury to call it forth, and they leave entirely
out of view the effects of " Combativeness " as an
active principle, operating independently of aggres-
sion ; and which, when active in a high degree, pro-
duces, in some individuals, a tendency to combat,
oppose, and dispute, in words or deeds, so as to form
a distinctive characteristic of their dispositions.
The metaphysical emotion of " Instant resentment"
affords no explanation of the pleasure derived from
the battles of Gladiators and Boxers, from Bull-
bating, and similar exhibitions. The phrenologi-
cal propensity of " Combativeness" being, in its pri-
mitive essence, a disposition to contend, explains the
source of these delights at once ; for the spectacle
of a combat directly gratifies it. The authors be-
fore mentioned treat of the emotion of " Anger,"
but this also supposes previous provocation ; and
their account of the feeling gives no glimpse into
the real nature of that faculty of the mind (by
Phrenologists named " Destructiveness *"), which,
* Dr Reid, in Essay III. chap. vii. v. and iii., and Dr Tho-
mas Brown, in vol iii. p. 324.', of his Lectures, describe ami-
42! PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
as an active principle, impels man to hunt and kill,
makes him continue to receive gratification from
hunting and killing, long after all necessity for do-
ing so, as a means of subsistence, has ceased to exist
;
which gives him the tendency not only to overcome,
but to destroy, every object that rises in opposition
to his will, and hence leads to the devastations of
war. Anger, or passion, is thus regarded by Phre-
nologists as a mere external expression of this pro-
pensity, when provoked by injury, real or supposed *.
The metaphysicians do not admit " Construc-
" tiveness " as an instinctive tendency, but suppose
it to be the result of understanding f, Children,
however, frequently excel in fashioning a variety
of figures of animals and things, long before their
understandings are matured. Partial idiots, also,
have been known to excel in mechanics ; while some
men of great talents have been unable to draw, fa-
bricate or construct ; and, in short, the fact is
undeniable, that genius for works of art is not
possessed in proportion to the strength of the under-
rate^ the effects of the Combative and Destructive propensities,
when excited by aggression. See also Stewart's Outlines of
Moral Philosophy, p. 150. § 154.
* The reader is referred to an interesting account of the
faculties of Combativeness and Destructiveness, by Mr Scott,
in a subsequent part of this volume.
t Reid, Essay III. chap. ii.
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 43
standing. They do not allow " Acquisitiveness *"
to rank as a primitive principle of the mind, al-
though it is one of the strongest and most general
impulses of our nature, and, in fact, the fountain of
wealth, by the tendency which it produces to ac-
quire, for the mere pleasure of possessing. They
resolve it into the love of power, or the desire for
the gratification of some other feeling, and yet many
men stifle and control every other passion to ex-
pend their whole energies in the pursuit of wealth,
which they never attempt to enjoy. Farther, men
of observation, acquainted with the world, will at
once recognize the existence of persons extremely
prone to duplicity and cunning, and who seem inca-
pable of proceeding openly and directly to their ob->
ject in the business of life f. Now, the metaphysi-
cians before mentioned, treat ofno faculty or faculties,
by the use or abuse of which such a disposition can
be accounted for. The Phrenologists, on the other
hand, have discovered the propensity of **
Secretive-
" ness," the legitimate purpose of which is to sup-
press and restrain from outward manifestation the
desires and emotions which arise involuntarily in
the mind, till the reasoning faculties shall have
passed judgment on their propriety ; and which,
when over active and abused, produces cunning and
* Ibid., and Stewart's Elements, p. 388. Outlines, p. J)2. ;
and Brown, vol. iii. p. 474.
t, See an E-ssay on Cunning, by Lord Bacon
44 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
duplicity. Observation shews it also to be indis-
pensable to the player, the dramatist, and the paint-
er, so that, although those persons were endowed,
in the most splendid degree, with all the metaphy-
sical faculties, yet, if they were destitute of Secre-
tiveness, they would be incapable of succeeding in
these arts ; of this fact the metaphysicians had no
idea #.
The emotion of " Fear," also, is familiar to every
reflecting mind, as a simple feeling, and yet it is
not distinctly treated as such by the authors already
alluded to. The Phrenologists name the faculty
on which it depends " Cautiousness," and regard it,
like the other feelings already discussed, as an ac-
tive principle, influencing the conduct in habitual
actions, independent of excitement by the presence
of imminent danger. In society we meet with per-
sons whose characteristic disposition is extreme hesi-
tation, and with others who are as remarkable for ex-
traordinary rashness and precipitancy of conduct. In
the metaphysical systems, before mentioned, no feel-
ings or faculties are noticed, the use, Lhe abuse, or
combinations, of which, enable us to account for
these peculiarities. Phrenological observation shews
that the former have large, the latter small, organs
of Cautiousness.
In the department of the Intellectual Faculties,
* See Mr Scott's Observations on Secretiveness in the pa->
per before alluded to.
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 45
the systems of these metaphysicians are not more
available to the explanation of the phenomena of
ordinary life. They divide the Intellectual Powers
into Perception, Conception, Memory, Imagination,
and Judgment ; and as each of these supposed fa-
culties is treated in a general way, as if its functions
were universal within its own sphere, we are led to
expect that he who possesses an eminent faculty of
perception in one way, should possess equal power
in all ; or, that he who enjoys a retentive memory
for one department of knowledge, should have equal
powers of recollection in every other ; but these in-
ferences, although legitimately following from me-
taphysical premises, are at variance with undeniable
facts. We find in society, for example, one indi-
vidual eminently distinguished by the natural
power of conceiving elegant forms, who, from birth,
has been deficient in the power of perceiving
differences in colours #. George Bidder pos-
sesses the most astonishing power of perceiving the
relations of numbers, but is by no means equally dis-
tinguished for the acuteness of his perception of me-
lody. Some individuals possess a ready and reten-
tive memory for mathematics, who find great diffi-
culty in recollecting the facts of natural history
;
others display great powers of memory in this de-
partment of science, who are incapable of recollect-
* Mr James Milne, whose case is reported in a subsequent
part of the Transactions, is an example in point.
4G PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
ing metaphysical deductions; while a third class
of persons, recollect logical demonstrations with
facility, who, nevertheless, are unable to recollect
mathematical propositions or historical details. The
metaphysical systems contain no elements capable
of accounting for these differences in the power of
applying the supposed faculties of Perception, Con-
ception, &c. to different classes of objects ; while the
discoveries of Phrenology completely explain them.
It is found by observation, that the power of per-
ceiving melody is in connection with one portion of
the brain ; and that, if the part be large in any in-
dividual, he will possess an eminent facility in per-
ceiving, conceiving, and remembering, musical notes.
This, however, is a distinct faculty, and its presence,
in a high degree, does not imply that equal powers
of perception and recollection as to other classes of
objects are possessed. On the contrary, if, in ano-
ther individual, the part of the brain, which is dis-
covered to be the organ of " Causality," be largely
developed, and if" Tune" be small, he may be distin-
guished for great acuteness of perception, concep-
tion, and memory, on subjects connected with ab-
stract science, and be quite incapable of perceiving
melody, and of recollecting a single tune.
To prevent misapprehension I beg to repeat, that
the foregoing examples are cited only for the sake of
conveying, in a general and popular way, a notion
of some of the points of difference betwixt the me-
taphysical theories and the phrenological system,'
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 4?
and arc not brought forward as embracing a full
and correct statement of the whole questions which
might be agitated between them. It is only by a
very intimate acquaintance with both, that an ade-
quate conception can be formed of the great supe-
riority of the new system over the old, in its capa-
bility of application to explain the phenomena of
human nature in general ; and in an introductory
discourse it is improper to enter into numerous and
extensive details.
In the fourth place, Supposing, for the sake of
argument, that the metaphysicians have been succes-
ful in their analysis of the faculties, and that they
have exhibited a correct system of the philosophy
of the human mind, so far as an enumeration of the
primitive powers is concerned, I proceed to remark,
that the faculties are possessed by different persons
in different degrees, and in different ratios ; and that
these philosophers have not explained the effects of
such differences on the dispositions and talents of
individuals. The existence of differences of talent
is noticed by Mr Stewart himself, and described
with his usual felicity of expression :
" One man,"
says he, " possesses a rich and beautiful fancy,
" which is at all times obedient to his will, Ano-
" ther possesses a quickness of recollection, which
" enables him, at a moment's warning, to bring to-
" gether all the results of his past experience, and
**
of his past reflections, which can be of use for il-
" lustrating any proposed subject. A third can,
48 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
" without effort, collect his attention to the most
" abstract questions in philosophy ; can perceive, at
" a glance, the shortest and most effectual process
." for arriving at the truth ; and can banish from
." his mind every extraneous idea, which fancy or
?' casual association may suggest, to distract his
" thoughts, or mislead his judgment. A fourth
" unites all these powers in a capacity for pereeiv-
" ing truth with an almost intuitive rapidity ; and
" in an eloquence which enables him to command,
" at pleasure, whatever his memory and his fancy
" can supply, to illustrate and to adorn it."
—
Ele-
ments, p. 336.
In this passage, the nature and extent of the h>
tellcctual differences among men are explicitly pre-
sented to our notice : but Mr Stewart does not
venture on any explanation of their origin ; nor does
he even attempt to point out how they could be pro-
duced by any combinations of the elementary prin-
ciples enumerated by himself. In this department
of the philosophy of man, in short, not one inch of
ground is cultivated or improved. Mr Stewart
is aware equally of its importance and forlorn condi-
tion, and observes, that " the varieties of intellec-
'•'
tual character among men, present a very interest-
" ing object of study, which, considering its practical
" utility, has not yet excited, so much as might have
" been expected, the curiosity of our countrymen."
—
Dissertation, part ii. p 198. Well might Mr
Stewart anticipate its " practical utility ;" for,
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHKENOLOGY. 4<.)
if metaphysical science can yield fruit in any de-
partment, it may be expected to do so in this, as 1
shall immediately shew. Chemistry, for example,
would be little esteemed for its practical utility, if
it enabled its professors only to deliver elegant and
ingenious discourses concerning the elementary prin-
ciples of matter, but not to combine them so as to pro*
duce beneficial results, or to analyse the combina-
tions which exist in nature, so as to discover the
manner in which they are calculated to act 1, and yet
this is the condition of metaphysical philosophy at
the present moment, viewing its merits even in the
most favourable light. Its supporters do not pre-
tend to have accomplished more than pointing out
the elementary principles of mind, and some of their
laws, leaving the effects of their combinations wholly
unexplained. The result of differences in the com-
binations, however, is to render an individual fit for
one situation, and inadequate to fill another ; and,
on this account, the philosophy of mind cannot be-
come practically useful, until it afford means of as-
certaining the precise degrees in which the primitive
faculties are combined in each particular person. If
parents, for example, could obtain a correct view of
the relative strength of the different mental powers
in their children, they could form reasonable conjec-
tures concerning the offices which they were calcu-
lated to execute. They could discriminate in which
direction their natural strength or weakness lay,
aud could dispose of them so as to cherish the one,.
D
50 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
and avoid reliance on the other. It is obvious, that,
if the science of Mind were in the same state of for-
wardness as Chemistry or Natural Philosophy, society
would now be reaping these fruits of its cultivation ;
and, if it is still so far distant as Mr Stewart ad-
mits it to be, from this desirable condition, after all
the labour and ingenuity which have been expended
in its fields, we ought at least to listen to any sys-
tem that promises to brighten its melancholy as-
pect.
Phrenology, then, holds out good grounds for ex-
pecting an improvement. Those who advocate its
truth, maintain not only that particular mental powers
are connected, by nature, with particular portions of
the brain ; but that the native energy of each primi-
tive tendency and talent, bears a relation to the size
of the organ ; and, if such be the case, then, by at-
tending to the relative size of the different cerebral
parts, in each individual, the natural energy of his
several mental powers may be correctly and philoso-
phically ascertained. For example, when the organs
of Ideality, Wonder, and Hope, are found in any
person to be large, and those of Cautiousness and
Reflection small, his dispositions are observed to be
gay and precipitate, and his intellectual powers limit-
ed and superficial. Where, on the other hand, the
organs of Cautiousness, Conscientiousness, Firmness,
and Reflection are perceived to be large, the indivi-
dual is observed to be grave, serious, prudent, and
circumspect, and possessed of a penetrating under-
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 51
standing. Possessing knowledge of this kind, the
situations in which such persons would be fitted to
act, with the greatest chances of success, might be
divined by parents of ordinary powers of reflection.
In the fifth place, the manifestations of the
mind are subject to derangement; and a true theory
of intellectual philosophy ought to contain princi-
ples capable of explaining the mental phenomena,
both in a state of health and disease. The present
practice of society, however, in cases of insanity, af-
fords a striking illustration of the opinion generally
entertained respecting the knowledge of the mind
possessed by metaphysical philosophers. Young
men, receiving a liberal education, attend courses
of lectures on logic and moral philosophy, where the
powers and laws of the mind form the leading sub-
jects of discussion : and they bestow many hours on
the private study of Locke, Hume, Reid, Stew-
art, Paley, and Brown ; but when a question
occurs respecting the state of mind of an individual
who is suspected of alienation, do courts of law resort
to these gentlemen, or their instructors, for evidence
respecting the real condition of his mental powers?
No. So little do they imagine this class of persons
to know about the mind in a state of disease, that
they are in the practice of appointing guardians to
lunatics, on the attestation of a medical practitioner
who probably had never made metaphysics an ob-
ject of study, when they would decline to listen to
the certificate of a metaphysical professor, as evi-
D 2
52 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
dence of insanity. In short, by the present prac-
tice, the mind, in health, is studied in schools and
colleges as a branch of abstract science, with little
relation to the affairs of life, and with as little re-
ference to the body, as if it existed in this world
as a spirit unconnected with matter; but no sooner
do the manifestations become diseased, than all these
speculations are abandoned as useless,, and the phy-
sician is called in to determine on the existence of
mental disease, and to effectuate a cure, without
relation to metaphysical science. Such a disjunc-
tion could not occur, were Phrenology received as
the standard philosophy of mind. The Phrenolo-
gist views the mental powers, at all times, as in con-
nection with the organs. He studies the effects of
every state of the organization on their manifesta-
tions ; and, on contemplating a case of mental alie-
nation, instead of finding, like the metaphysician,
his knowledge altogether inapplicable, his philosophy-
sheds light on the symptoms, and can therefore co-
operate with medicine in suggesting suitable modes
of treatment *.
In the .sixth place, the laws and institutions of
society emanate from the primitive dispositions and
* In the answer to Dr Barclay's Objections against Phre-
nology, in a subsequent part of this volume, some examples
will be found of the explanations afforded by Phrenology of the
phenomena of partial derangement, to which I beg leave here
to refer.
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 53
intellectual faculties of man ; but, until a successful
analysis of the latter is presented, and the depen-
dence of the former upon them clearly pointed out, we
must remain, in a great measure, in doubt, whether
many of the regulations which men are called upon
to observe, are the legitimate dictates ofnature, the
casual offspring of chance, or merely the abuses of
authority, established under various systems of go-
vernment, for the advantage of a part of society at
the expense of the rest. In searching for principles
also, to guide our taste and judgment in literature
and the fine arts, it is obvious that a correct view of
the ultimate principles of the mind, and of the ef-
fects of their combinations, must be of the last im-
portance. While these points remain in obscurity,
there is little check upon the attempts of presump-
tuous individuals, who endeavour to erect themselves,
and their productions, into standards of excellence,
and subject the public to the dominion of vicious
fashions, instead of the dictates of a correct taste.
Impressed with these views of the importance of
Phrenology, a few individuals of the city of Edin-
burgh, resolved to form themselves into a private
society, for the purpose of cultivating the science,
and communicating freely to each other their expe-
rience and observations on the subject. The project
originated with the Reverend David Welsh, and
was carried into effect by the following resolutions.
54 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
" Edinburgh,
« 8. Hermitage Place, Feb. 22. 1820.
" At a meeting of gentlemen, favourers of the Phre-
" nological System of Drs Gall and Spurz-
" heim,—present,
" George Combe, Writer to the Signet,
" James Brownlee, Advocate,
" Andrew Combe, Surgeon,
" William Waddell, Writer to the Signet,
" Lindsay Mackersey, Accountant, and
" The Reverend David Welsh.
" It was resolved,
" 1st, That the gentlemen present shall form
" themselves into a Society, which shall be denomi-
" nated The Phrenological Society.
" 2dly, That the object of the Society shall be, to
" hear papers, and to discuss questions on subjects
" connected with Phrenology ; to hold a correspon-
" dence with societies and individuals who may take
" an interest in the system ; and thus to collect and
" preserve facts and views that may improve and en-
" large the boundaries of the science.
" 3dly, That, in the mean time, the Society
" shall be strictly of a private nature, its meetings
" being held in the houses of the different members,
" to which no visitors shall be admitted.
" stilly, That the meetings of the Society shall
" be held once a fortnight, on Monday evening, at
" 8 o'clock.
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOJ.OCJ V. 55
u 5tkly, That the Members shall preside at the
H meetings in rotation.
" Qthly, That the Members shall read Essays in
" rotation."
Mr Waddell subsequently withdrew, for a
time, from attendance at the meetings of the Socie-
ty, for reasons assigned to the satisfaction of the
Members ; but these having ceased to operate, he
again joined, and his name appears in the list, of the
date of his second admission. The other gentlemen
continued to meet regularly, and to read essays du-
ring the spring and summer of 1820 ; and, by 28th
November of that year, their numbers had been so
much reinforced by new accessions, that the Society
was, on that day, declared public, and the meetings
transferred to an apartment in the College. It has
subsequently occupied a hall in Clyde Street, and
commenced forming a collection of casts and skulls,
which are exhibited in that place, on Saturdays,
to the Members, and visitors introduced by them.
The history of the Society, since it assumed a public
form, will be found in its Transactions ; but it is pro-
per to advert, in this place, to one point, to prevent
misapprehension on the part of the public, and to do
justice to the individual members. Each gentle-
man, at his admission, declares his conviction of the
truth of the general principles of the science, viz.
that there is in nature a connection or correspon-
dence between certain mental powers and moral feel-
ings, and certain portions of the brain, and that the
36 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
energy of the power bears a relation to the size of the
organ ; but no one is required to profess his belief in
the whole, or any given number of the faculties and
organs specified in the books upon Phrenology, nor
to give his assent to the metaphysical notions which
individuals have ingrafted on the phrenological doc-
trines. Those Members who founded the Society,
recollected the slow and almost imperceptible steps
by which they themselves had advanced through a
multitude of observations, to a comprehensive view
and full conviction of the truths of the science, and
were therefore disposed to make the most liberal
allowances for difference of opinion on points of de-
tail, among those who still required experience to
enable them to embrace the system in its fullest ex-
tent. They judged also, that no person who had
been convinced, by observation, of the existence of a
plurality of faculties and organs, could hesitate about
the advantages to be derived from minute and pa-
tient inquiries into the subject ; and, as investiga-
tion was their aim, they assumed only the general
principles as the point of union among the mem-
bers, and invited every one to bring forward the re-
sults of his experience and reflection, as appropriate
commentaries upon them.
This latitude of belief was rendered necessary also
on another ground. No opportunities of acquiring
a practical knowledge of the doctrines existed in
this country previous to the institution of the So-
ciety, and few minds possess the zeal and energy re-
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 57
quisite for becoming intimately acquainted with an
extensive science from the perusal of hooks alone.
Those, therefore, who became members, associated
themselves for the sake of gaining and communi-
cating a knowledge, in the first instance, of what
had been already accomplished by the founders of
Phrenology, and in the hope of being able only even-
tually to enlarge its boundaries by their own obser-
vations. The present publication is intended to pro-
claim the existence and the views of the Society
;
to hold it out as a point of union to those who take
an interest in the doctrines ; and to invite future
communications.
Before concluding, I beg leave to add a few obser-
vations on the nature of the evidence on which
Phrenology rests.
The proposition, That a certain mental power is
connected, by nature, with a certain portion of the
brain, relates to physical science, and can be proved
or disproved only by observation. The province of
reason, in such a case, is to compare the phenomena
observed,—to discover their relations,—and to draw
from them just conclusions ;
—but not to determine,
beforehand, whether the appearances alleged can, or
cannot, exist in nature. Those persons, therefore,
who attack the doctrines by mere arguments, whe-
ther founded on analogy or on previous opinions,
only render complicated a question which in itself is
simple ; for, if the facts alleged by the Phrenologists
58 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
really exist, all reasonings which go to contradict
them, must of necessity be defective in premises, or
unsound in deduction ; and, if they do not exist, the
whole fabric of the system will fall to the ground,
without the aid of any other objection.
The next consideration is the mode of bringing
forward the evidence by which the science is sup-
ported.
Delicacy to individuals stands opposed to the
public statement of many interesting cases in fa-
vour of the doctrines. For my own part, I have
been permitted minutely to examine the heads of
several hundred persons, in different ranks of life,
many of whom are well known by their talents as
authors, preachers, public speakers, artists, &c. and
the correspondence betwixt their mental qualities
and cerebral development was such as carried irre-
sistible conviction to my own mind, that Phrenology
is a correct exposition of nature ; but the confidence
implied in permitting the examination, imposes a
restraint upon publication of the results, which no
consideration will authorize me to disregard. It
is on this account, that Phrenologists eagerly so-
licit those who wish to ascertain the truth of the
system, to examine nature for their own satis-
faction. Busts are sold, which indicate the situa-
tions of the organs, and books which describe their
functions ; and no one can have any difficulty in
rinding proper subjects for examination among in-
dividuals, in his own circle, with whose talents and
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 59
dispositions he is intimately acquainted. If, for
example, two children are known, one of whom is
extremely timid, and the other rash and precipitate,
their heads may be placed in juxta-position, and
their organs of Cautiousness compared. The dif-
ference will be found to be so striking, that the
most inexperienced observer may recognize it. In
like manner, if of two girls, one be particularly fond
of admiration, and another be indifferent about her
appearance, and regardless of the opinion of others,
they may be placed in a similar situation, and a
very palpable difference in their organs of Love of
Approbation will be perceived. The degree of
conviction resulting from observations of this kind,
when repeated on a great variety of individuals, and
in every diversity of circumstances, far surpasses that
which can be produced by perusal of the most mi-
nute and authentic details of cases observed by
others. By contemplating phenomena as they ac-
tually exist, the mind forms a judgment concerning
the real nature of their relation to each other, with
a higher degree of certainty and satisfaction, than can
be attained by merely reading descriptions of their
appearance, and of the order in which they occurred.
In the former case, the inquirer satisfies himself by
an examination of all the circumstances which he
deems of importance ; in the latter, he is apt to doubt
that some material fact may have been overlooked,
which, if stated, would alter the whole import of the
experiment, These remarks are particularly appli-
60 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION
cable to Phrenological investigations. By selecting
for observation, persons intimately known to him-
self, the inquirer will enjoy the means of estimating
the real nature and extent of the talents and dispo-
sitions possessed, — the actual appearance of the
head,—the effects of health, education, and of a va-
riety of circumstances which he might imagine
were not attended to in investigations conducted by
others.
The same restraints, however, do not oppose the
publication of all cases bearing on the truth of Phre-
nology. When individuals have rendered them-
selves conspicuous by their virtues or vices, by their
talents or deficiencies of understanding, and when
casts of their heads have, by their own consent, been
placed in the hands of the public, or been properly
acquired, there appears to be no impropriety in dis-
cussing openly the correspondence or discrepancy be-
twixt their cerebral development, and the known ma-
nifestations of their minds. For example, a mask of
Mr Wordsworth, the poet, is sold openly in the
shops, and his poetry has long been committed to the
public. Now, on measuring the distance across the
mask, from the middle of the surface of one organ of
Ideality to that of the other, I find it to be exactly 6
inches. Again, a bust of Dr Chalmers, accurately
modelled by Mr Joseph, is also sold, and his works,
are extensively read. On making the same mea-
surement on his bust, I find the distance from Idea-
lity to Ideality, to be &§ inches ; and there appears
ON THE PROGRESS OF PHRENOLOGY. 61
no impropriety in stating these facts, and delivering
the opinion, that the works of Dr Chalmers, al-
though not in the form of verse, display occasionally
higher traits of Ideality than those of Words-
worth, and that, in this respect, the organs and
manifestations correspond. Perhaps, however, I err
(hut I know I shall be forgiven) in stating, that, in
the head of Mr Owen, of New Lanark, the same
measurement will very little, if at all, exceed 5
inches (I speak from recollection), and that in his
speeches and compositions he displays far less of
Ideality (and I refer to no other quality) than either
of the two celebrated persons already named.
Farther, where individuals have perished on the
scaffold, and the Society has procured authentic
casts of their heads or skulls, there can be no im-
propriety in discussing, in the freest manner, the
correspondence betwixt their mental manifestations
and the development of their brains.
In the subsequent pages of the Transactions,
therefore, several cases of both of these descriptions
will be introduced, for the sake of example, and ex-
citing inquiry ; but it is impracticable, in any mo-
derate bounds, to bring forward the whole, or even
any great proportion of the facts which are familiar-
ly known to those who make Phrenology an object
of serious study. At the same time, by throwing
open to public scrutiny the whole collection of casts
and skulls in possession of the Society, including
those of many distinguished individuals, a mass of
62 PRELIMINARY DISSERTATION.
evidence is presented which ought to be inquired
into, before the science is condemned, or before those
who support it are accused of passing fanciful opi-
nions upon mankind, in place of substantial truths.
Finally, It is frequently stated, that Phrenolo-
gists bring forward only such cases as support their
doctrines, and omit all notice of adverse instances :
and the insinuation is broadly made, that if they
were candid in their reports, one set of facts would
contradict or neutralize another, and that the whole
fabric of Phrenology would, in consequence, fall to
the ground. Such statements are wholly unfound-
ed ; and, if adverse facts exist, why do not the oppo-
nents bring them forward into view ? The line of
conduct, besides, here imputed to Phrenologists, im-
plies so much disingenuousness of purpose, nay, such
moral depravity, that those who make the charge
without supporting it by facts, merit only contempt
and reprobation,
2
OUTLINES
OF
PHRENOLOGY, $c.
—//<*< —
PHRET^OKOftlCAJ. OH'
,.,,1/1,11/ It, ilir fitjum indir/ttirU) ll.ru
kki.a in t rosjTtov
1 . I'ropcnsiiic.s
1 / /,/i////tr//r.t.f
J Phffopro cfenitive-i
3 /',„,,/,/,;, /,!',, ,.<y
/. .l/l//,A/r,//r.r.r
., (o/,i/'i///fciif.i:f
l)t slri,r/i\-cllt:.-s
7 ('ii//.y//-//r/i\ i
',
fu:i-
ft . //////, J///1 ///I'.l\r
!) A ,/// l,\, llr-.iw
Sentiments .
70. .!'///' <:</<<///
II !.,,, „r «/,/,, •()/>// J,/'///
n f',//////l//.v/l/\iW
i.i Benevolence
ii Vriirriilum
/:> If
apt
70. 1'//<</ hlv
It'/,//////-
17 . l'////.f/ ,
//'////'/'//A to&Tit
78. !'//•///// r.i'.r
11 .liilHIrrt .
i:> //////I/'///,////,
1
' "
/' lllfll/l'•/
r /('iff/'
>o. / 'or///
:>l Site
)>
93
Weight
(blo/ir/////
94. 1,/xi/l/h-
:'.> lh;lr/-
>/, 'I'/////-
'.'7. X////////'/'
:>n. 'I'/ui <••
?9. /,/////////////
30. ('//////////•/.i////
31
12
(,///.i/t///r
33 liiliti/li <•//
OUTLINES
OF
PHRENOLOGY, $c.
PHRENOLOGY is a system of Philosophy of the Human
Mind, and is founded on facts ascertainable by conscious-
ness and observation. The name is derived from <p§*iv mind,
and Xoyoi discourse.
It is a principle of physiology which cannot be disputed,
that dissection alone can give us no information concerning
the functions of the bodily organs. No anatomist, by dis-
secting the optic nerve, could predicate that its function is
to minister to Vision ; or, by dissecting the tongue, could
discover that it is the organ of Taste.
Metaphysicians having confined themselves chiefly to re-
flection on consciousness, could not discover the organs of
the mind ; and Anatomists, having merely dissected the
brain, could not discover ihe functions of that organ ; and
hence the comparative ignorance which has hitherto pre-
vailed regarding that interesting point in the philosophy of
man,—the connection betwixt the mind and his organic
constitution.
66 OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY.
Phrenologists have endeavoured to avoid the obstacles
presented by these modes of philosophizing, and have com-
pared manifestations of mind with development of brain,
in a great number of individuals. The system now taught
is the result of observations thus made ; and the principal
points which are conceived to be established by extensive in-
duction are the following
1st, That the brain is the material instrument, by means
of which the mind carries on intercourse with the external
world.
2d, That the brain is an aggregate of parts, each of which
has a special and determinate function.
3d, That the form of the brain can be ascertained by in-
specting the cranium ; and that the functions of the several
parts may be determined by comparing their size with the
power of manifesting the mental faculties.
The Organs and their Faculties are the following
I. Amativexess, or Physical Love.—This is an im-
portant propensity, and gives rise to the feelings which at-
tract the sexes so strongly to each other. It is the source
of that kindly interest which either sex feels in all that re-
lates to the other ; as well as of the stronger impulses of de-
sire. These are its direct effects ; but it produces others
indirectly by its influence on the other powers. It acts, in
many cases, as a stimulus to these, increases their activity,
and brings them into a state of higher susceptibility. That
love between the sexes, of which this is the origin, may be
strengthened and prolonged by Adhesiveness, and other
powers and sentiments brought subsequently into action.
OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY. 67
The cerebellum is the organ of this propensity, and its size
is indicated by the distance betwixt the mastoid processes
behind the ears, or by the general thickness of the neck
from ear to ear. Established.
II. Philoprogenitiveness.—The chief function of this
faculty is to produce the love of children, or offspring in
general : but it seems to give rise to a certain feeling of
kindness, mingled with condescension, and almost compas-
sion, for objects which are weak and helpless. In parents,
the feeling is so far compulsory, as to be independent of
any other qualities in the child than those of mere weakness
and helplessness ; and, as a proof of this, the more weak and
helpless the child is, the emotion is felt the more strongly.
In others, the feeling is less constraining, and more apt
to be influenced by the appearance of qualities calculated
to excite, at the same time, the other faculties,—such as
beauty, vivacity, or intelligence. It is this chiefly which
supports the mother under all the cares and troubles of
rearing an helpless offspring, during nights spent in watch-
ing, and days passed in unavailing endeavours to pacify or
relieve them ;'and that often independent of religion, mora-
lity,, or the dictates of reason. When this organ is large,
and 1. moderate, it gives a drooping appearance to the hind
part of the head. When the faculty is strong, the indivi-
dual is delighted at the sight of children, who, on the other
hand, understanding its natural language, are rejoiced and
flock around him when he makes his appearance. It is
quite distinct from general Benevolence. Established.
III. Concentuativeness.—When Dr Gall first made
observations upon this organ, he was led to believe its func-
tion to be a desire of inhabiting high places, because he
observed it large in animals who were fond of these situa-
e 2
68 OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY.
tions ; such as the chamois, the eagle, and the ptarmigan.
Farther observations shewed it to be large in those animals
and persons who seemed attached to particular places, and
who disliked much change of residence. It was then termed
the organ of Inhabltiveness. From more enlarged obser-
vations, it now seems probable that part of its function is
to maintain two or more powers in simultaneous and com-
bined action, and to determine them towards one object.
This organ is found large in authors and orators who
excel in concentration of thought ; and also in actors and
singers, who have the power of exercising several faculties
simultaneously, so as to produce, by their combination, one
harmonious and united effect ; and it is probable that it is
by the exercise of a similar power, that animals, such as the
chamois, who are fond of heights, are enabled to maintain
in action all those faculties which are necessary to preserve
their position while they browse in difficult or dangerous
situations, and at the same time avoid the aim of the hunter.
There appears, therefore, to be nothing in the limited ob-
servations of Dr Gall, inconsistent with the more extensive
views now taken of the functions of this faculty. Dr Gall
stated the organ of Inhabitiveness as conjectural.
IV. Adhesiveness.—The function of this faculty is to
produce friendly attachment in general ; and it is stronger
in women than in men. In children, it is generally shewn
by attachment to animals ; as dogs, rabbits, birds, or horses.
It is one of the main sources of friendship and society in
general. It is marked as only probable in Dr Spubzheim's
works, published several years ago, but is now established.
V. Combativeness.—This faculty gives a general pro-
pensity to contend, resist, or attack, without determining
the modes or objects. When the organ is large and active,
OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY. 6*9
delight may be felt even in fighting. The organ is situate
at the inferior posterior angle of the parietal bone. It may
be manifested in argument as well as in war. It incites us
to overcome opposition, and to encounter obstacles of every
kind. In all cases of difficulty and danger, where a severe
struggle is necessary to command success, this power is of
eminent use, and nothing will compensate for the want of it
as an active principle. It is generally large in persons who
have murdered, not from premeditated purpose, but from
the impulse of the moment. Established.
VI. Destiiuctiveness. —The special faculty of this or-
gan seems to be the propensity to destroy in general. When
it is energetic, it adds force to the whole character. It fur-
nishes the threat of unpleasant consequences in case of dis-
obedience, which gives weight to command. If it is found
in combination with a full development of the higher facul-
ties and sentiments, it materially aids in the production of
a character fitted for great achievements. It does not ne-
cessarily lead to cruelty ; on the contrary, when benevolence
and the higher sentiments are strong, it may be employed,
with full effect, to promote, by the exercise of a just seve-
rity, the purposes of virtue. It leads to crime only when
too energetic, and when the sentiments which should coun-
teract it are not sufficiently powerful. The organ is con-
spicuous in the heads of cool and deliberate murderers, and
persons habitually delighting in acts of cruelty, who are
also generally found to be deficient in the higher senti-
ments. This faculty, and the preceding, give the tendency
to rage. Established.
VII. Constructiveness.—The name of this organ im-
plies that it gives the special faculty to build or to construct
in general, but does not determine the object to be con-
70 OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY.
structed. Where the organ is large, Avith a head in other
respects poorly developed, we often see the most beautiful
workmanship, and the labours of months or years thrown
away on complicated structures, totally inapplicable to any
useful purpose. The effects are very different where the
rest of the head is well organised. The organ is indispen-
sable in all mechanical professions, from the engineer to the
lowest artificer. Birds that build, and also several animals,
as the beaver, field-mouse, &c. have it large. Established.
VIII. Acquisitiveness. —This faculty produces the
tendency to acquire and to possess in general, without re-
ference to the uses to which the objects, when attained, may
be applied. It takes its direction from the other faculties,
and hence may lead to collecting coins, paintings, minerals,
and other objects of curiosity or science, as well as money.
Idiots, under its influence, are known to collect articles of
no intrinsic value. When the propensity becomes too ener-
getic, it produces avarice ; and even a moderate proportion
of it, when it is not regulated by some of the higher senti-
ments, as conscientiousness, love of approbation, or fear,
may produce theft. Established.
IX. Secretiveness. —Man and animals are occasional-
ly liable to the assaults of enemies, which may be avoided
by concealment, in cases where strength is wanting to repel
them by force. Nature, therefore, has implanted in both,
an instinctive tendency to conceal, which, according to its
degree of intensity, and to the direction which it receives
from the other faculties, may produce prudence, slyness,
or cunning. In man, it serves an important purpose.
Various thoughts, desires, and emotions, arise involuntarily
in the mind, the outward expression of which requires to
')-
regulated by judgment. Sccrctivcncss produces the in-
OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY. 71
Extinctive tendency to conceal and suppress these emotions,
and hence it acts as a restraint on the manifestation of the
feelings, till the understanding shall have decided on their
propriety, and probable consequences. A certain portion
of it is indispensable to the formation of a prudent character.
Those in whom it is deficient, are too open for the general
intercourse of society. It becomes dangerous and hurtful
only when abused ; and then it may give rise to lying, du-
plicity, and deceit, and it supplies the cunning necessary to
theft. It is much assisted by Cautiousness, and its influence,
when excessive, is most directly counteracted by Love of
Approbation. This organ has been found large in actors,
and in those who excel in the imitative arts. Combined with
Imitation, it appears to give the power of expression ; and,
in actors, it may be conceived to do this, by furnishing its
possessor with the power of practising a conscious duplicity,
a talent necessarily implied in the representation of a va-
riety of characters. This power of personation, is one
of the ingredients in a talent for profound dissimulation
and hypocrisy. When joined with a full endowment of
the sentiment of the ludicrous, it produces humour, at
least that kind of humour which consists in saying or
doing ludicrous things in a grave, unconscious sort of
way, as if we were quite insensible to their ludicrous ten-
dency. Thus the man of humour will utter the most ab-
surd, the most laughable, or the most atrocious things, with
the appearance of perfect simplicity, and maintaining the
most imperturbable gravity, while every one else is convulsed
with laughter. In writing, it leads to the use of irony, which
is a species of humour. This power is also necessary to suc-
cess in story-telling, and in the writing of fictitious narra-
tive, as it enables the narrator to conceal his ultimate de-
sign or plot under some cover, until he can develope it to
his auditors or readers with the greatest effect. It is re-
72 OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY.
quisite, in addition to self-esteem and the moral sentiments,
to constitute dignity of character ; and it serves as a de-
fence against impertinence, or prying curiosity. It gives a
sidelong glance, and watchful look, to the eye. Established.
X. Self-Esteem.—The general tendency of this faculty
is to make us think highly of ourselves. This tendency ap-
pears very different in different persons, and is by no means
possessed uniformly in proportion to the merit of the indi-
vidual. The sentiment manifests itself in different manners
according to the peculiar combination of the other faculties
with which it is conjoined ; and, in general, it leads to esteem
of the special propensities and sentiments which characterize
the mind of the individual in whom it is powerful. Hence,
if the superior sentiments and intellectual faculties are large-
ly developed, it contributes to true dignity and greatness of
mind ; and the individual esteems himself for those qualities
which are really worthy of the esteem of others,—intellec-
tual and moral excellence.
" Oft-times nothing profits more
" Than Self-esteem, grounded on just and right
•' Well managed." Milton, Parad. Lost.
Dr Gall at first considered this faculty as connected with
the desire of physical height, from a certain sentiment of
elevation which it communicates ; but its functions are now
ascertained to be those above stated. It leads to pride, ar-
rogance, and disdain, only when possessed in an excessive
degree, and when not controlled by higher sentiments. It
corresponds, in some measure, to the Desire of Power of the
Metaphysicians. When very large, the individual walks
generally in an erect posture ; and, by his reserved and au-
thoritative manner, induces the impression in others, that he
considers himself as infinitely elevated above his fellow men.
OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY. 73
This faculty, joined with a large Acquisitiveness, and not re-
gulated by other sentiments, produces " Selfish ness" in the
general acceptation of this term. Veneration stands most
directly opposed to it; and Combativeness and Firmness
aid it. Established.
XI. Love of Approbation.—This faculty renders us
attentive to the opinions which others entertain of us ; and,
according to the degree in which it is possessed, and the
manner in which it is directed, produces the love of praise,
or of fame, and also emulation, ambition, or vanity. When
the organ is small, indifference to the opinions of others is
the consequence. As the last mentioned sentiment respects
the opinion we entertain of ourselves, so this has regard to
the opinion which is entertained of us by others ; and,
keeping in view this essential difference, almost all that we
have said of the former sentiment may be applied to this.
The manifestations of this, as well as of the former faculty,
are modified by the other faculties with which it is combined.
XII. Cautiousness.—The emotion of fear is familiar
to mankind in general ; and yet many celebrated metaphy-
sicians do not treat of it as a primitive feeling. It is ad-
mitted as such in Phrenology, in consequence of numerous
observations. The faculty produces doubts, hesitations,
caution, circumspection, or timidity and fear, according to
the degree in which it is possessed, and the other faculties
with which it is combined. It is an essential ingredient in
a prudent character. When Combativeness is not large, and
Cautiousness, Conscientiousness, and Love of Approbation
are large, the combination gives rise to bashfulness, or
mauvaise honte ; and many years of the most intimate ac-
quaintance with the world, will often not suffice to remove
the embarrassment thus occasioned. Many of the lower
74 OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY.
animals are remarkable for cautiousness, as the crane and the
rook, and they have the corresponding portion of the brain
largely developed.
XIII. Benevolence.—It has long been a subject of
debate among philosophers, whether Man is entirely selfish
in all his actions, or if there is in the mind any sentiment
determining him to desire the good of others as a direct
object, without reference to any expectation of advantage
to himself. The Phrenologists have discovered, that the
desire for the happiness of others, bears a proportion to the
size of a particular portion of the brain ; and hence they
conclude, that Benevolence is a primitive sentiment of the
mind, independent of all selfish considerations. The faculty
disposes to active benevolence and compassion. It also
gives mildness and cheerfulness to the temper, and a chari-
table mode of judging of the actions and characters of others.
When abused, it leads to profusion. A small development
of the organ does not necessarily produce cruelty. It only
leads to indifference about the welfare of others. When
Benevolence is strong and Destructiveness weak in the same
individual, he is apt to be too facile in his dispositions.
When both are vigorous, Destructiveness gives fire and
energy to the mind, and Benevolence modifies and controls
its improper manifestations.
XIV. "Veneration.—-The sentiment of Admiration has
long been recognized by writers on the mind ; but, in this
feeling, a certain degree of wonder is implied ; and it is not
limited to pure and respectful reverence. The latter emo-
tion is the result of the faculty now in question. It inspires
with the sentiment of respect ; and, when directed to the
Supreme Being, leads to adoration. It predisposes to re-
ligious feeling, without determining the manner in which it
OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY. 75
is directed. It leads also to reverence of ancestry and of
superiors in society. It is a distinguishing characteristic in
the love of children towards parents. When the organ is
large, and that of Self-esteem small, it gives the tendency
to humility. Established.
XV. Hope.—The function of this faculty is to produce /
*f
m
the sentiment of hope in general. It renders the prospect
of the future fair and smiling, and gives the tendency to
believe and expect. In religion, the faculty, when power-
ful, cherishes faith. It produces also, a sanguine disposi-
tion ; and, when not well directed, it disposes to credulity
and extravagant expectation. Established.
XVI. Ideality.—This faculty produces the sentiment 2o
of the sublime and beautiful ; the feeling of exquisiteness,
and the desire to invest every object with more than sublu-
nary perfection. It inspires with rapture and enthusiasm,
and prompts to embellishment. When joined with Cau-
tiousness and Veneration large, it tends towards the serious
and sublime ; when combined with Hope and Wit large,
and Cautiousness small, it disposes rather to gaiety and bril-
liancy. It is an essential requisite in the poet, orator, and
artist. Without it, the productions of the mind may be so-
lid, useful and becoming ; but they must ever be deficient
in grandeur of conception, and splendour of execution, and
they will want the glow of fancy which enlivens and adorns
every object presented to its touch. Established.
IS Wonder.—Immediately above Ideality, a blank space
appears in the cast and plates of the head : the function of
this part of the brain was not ascertained when the other
organs were numbered, but subsequent observations shew
that it is connected with the sentiment of AVondcr. Per-
76 OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY.
sons in whom this organ is large, are fond of novelty, and
susceptible of vivid emotions of surprise. They delight in
the marvellous, and are prone to entertain romantic views.
When very powerful, it gives to the eyes and eye-brows an
elevated cast, indicating a permanent expression of surprise.
The faculty produces delight in stories of ghosts and super-
natural agency. The organ is not numbered, to avoid, in
the present state of the science, an alteration of the numera-
tion of the subsequent organs. Probable.
/I XVII. Conscientiousness.—Observation, by shewing
that those who experience the sentiment of justice very
powerfully, have a certain portion of the brain largely de-
veloped, while those in whom it is weak, have this portion
small, has for ever settled the dispute among metaphysi-
cians, whether or not there is in man a governing principle
of moral rectitude and justice. This faculty produces a
great effect upon the manifestations of the other powers.
" Other principles of action may have more strength, but
" this only has authority. Its sentence makes us guilty to
" ourselves, and guilty in the eyes of our Maker, whatever
" other principle may be set in opposition to it. It is evi-
" dent, therefore, that this principle has,' from its nature,
" an authority to direct and determine with regard to our
" conduct ; to judge, to acquit, or to condemn, and even to
" punish,—an authority which belongs to no other prin-
" ciple of the human mind.""
—
(Reid, Essay III. ch. viii.)
Bishop Butler gives an illustration of the sentiment simi-
lar to this. This faculty is the fountain of all human laws.
The ors;an is considered as ascertained.
t->
L
f* XVIII.
—
Firmness.—The special faculty of this organ
is somewhat difficult of discrimination ; but it seems to be
perseverance, decisiveness, or firmness,—the object or pur-
OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY. 77
pose to be persevered in being determined by other facul-
ties. This faculty, when not directed by the superior sen-
timents, leads to obstinacy and infatuation. When small,
want of steadiness and determination is the result. When
very large, it gives a peculiar erectness and stiffness to the
gait. Established.
XIX. Individuality.—This faculty gives the desire
to know facts and things, without determining the kind of
knowledge, and without any view to the purposes to which
it may be subservient. It produces a talent for observation,
and a capacity for details. Many persons are to be met with,
who are learned but not profound, who know something
of almost all arts and sciences, and who are never at a loss
to speak on any subject. Such persons generally have this
organ large. When conjoined with ambition, and moderate
confidence in one's own opinion, it conduces to that readi-
ness of display which often passes for superior ability.
When combined with comparison, and the faculty of re-
membering names, it gives the talent necessary to botany,
mineralogy, and natural history in general. It is esta-
blished.
There are strong grounds for believing that two organs
* 2 are included in Number 1 9. The lower portion of it, in-
cluding a small space betwixt the organs of Locality, appears
to be connected with the talent for knowing and remember-
^ ing facts and occurrences. The upper portion, bordering
on Comparison, is large in persons who are fond of natural
history, and who appear to delight in the study of objects
which exist. The frontal sinus is occasionally found under
the lower space marked 19.
2$ XX. Form.—The size of this organ is indicated by the
width between the eyes, the different degrees of which cor-
2
78 OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY.
respond to the greater or less development of the portions
of brain situate on the mesial or inner side of the orbitary
plates of the frontal bone. The function of the faculty is
to judge of form. It aids the portrait-painter, and all per-
sons engaged in the imitative arts. It gives the power of
distinguishing faces. The organ appears to have been
large in King George III., who was noted for his recollec-
tion of individuals. Children in whom it is large, are fre-
quently observed, for their amusement, drawing, cutting, or
scratching the figures of men and animals. Established.
2 It XXI. Size.—Persons are found who have an intuitive
facility in estimating Size, and in whom the powers of dis-
tinguishing form and relative position are not equally
strong ; and the part of the brain under No. 21. has been
observed in such individuals to be large. It gives the
power of perceiving and judging of perspective. Some
officers in the army, in forming their companies into line,
estimate the space which the men will occupy with perfect
accuracy, and others can never learn to judge correctly of
this requisite, and the organ has been observed largely de-
veloped in the former. Locality also may conduce to this
talent. Probable.
XXII. Weight or Resistance.-—There seems to be
no analogy between the weight or resistance of bodies, and
their other qualities. They may be of all forms, sizes, and
colours, liquid or solid, and yet none of these features would
necessarily imply that one was heavier than the other. This
quality, therefore, being distinct from all others, we cannot
logically refer the cognizance of it to any of the faculties of
the Mind which judge of the other attributes of matter;
and, as the mental power undoubtedly exists, there is rea-
son to conjecture that it may be manifested by means of a
2
OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY. 79
special organ. Persons who excel at archery and quoits,
also those who find great facility in judging of momentum
and resistance in mechanics, are observed to possess the parts
of the brain lying near the organ of size largely developed,
and hence it is conjectured that the organ of weight is situate
in that direction. The organ, however, is not ascertained ;
and it is not marked on the bust.
2 L XXIII. Colouring.—Several of the Metaphysicians
were aware, that a person may have very acute vision, and
yet be destitute of the power of distinguishing colours ; but
habit and attention have as usual been adduced to solve
the difficulty. Observation shews that those who have great
natural power of perceiving colours, have a large develop-
ment of that portion of the brain situate under the middle
of the arch of the eye-brows, enclosed by the lines 23.,
whilst those who cannot distinguish minute shades of co-
lour have this portion small. The faculty of this organ is
to perceive colours, and their shades, but it does not give
what is called Taste in their arrangement. The organ is
now considered to be established.
2y XXIV. Locality or Space.—The special faculty of
this organ seems to be, to give the desire of seeing, and the
power of remembering localities and scenery of every de-
scription : the inclination to travel is a consequence of its
activity, and it is large in the expert landscape-painter.
The organ exists in animals ; and, becoming active at cer-
tain seasons, is supposed to prompt them to migrate. It is
large in the woodcock and swallow. It has been alleged
that the existence of the frontal sinus (a separation between
the inner and outer tables of the skull, occurring in some
individuals) renders it impossible to determine the size of
•this organ in the living subject. The Phrenologists, how-
80 OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY.
ever, affirm, as the result of numerous dissections, that the
sinus rarely rises so high as this organ, except in old age
and disease. This faculty, with Individuality, Size, and
Comparison, appears, from observations, to be essential con-
stituents in a genius for geometry. Where these are small,
this science excites little interest, and is learned with extreme
difficulty. The organ is established.
2 1]
XXV. Order.—Many people are remarkable for the
attention they pay to the arrangement of their domestic
concerns, for the order in which furniture, books, clothes,
&c. are kept : they are distressed to see any thing out of its
place, and are acutely sensible to all the comforts of arrange-
ment and order. Others, again, present the very opposite
appearances, and are lost to all the advantages which ar-
rangement bestows. In the first, the organ marked 25.
will be found large, in the second small. Dr Spurzheim
has marked it as only probable : on account of its small size,
it is often difficult to observe it correctly, but it may now
be considered as established.
t
i/ XXVI. Time.—The power of conceiving time, and of
remembering circumstances connected by no link, but the
relation in which they stand to each other in chronology, is
very different in different individuals. We have a few ob-
servations in evidence of this faculty, but these are not suffi-
ciently numerous to allow us to speak positively. The
organ is marked 26. on the bust, and the special faculty
seems to be the power of recollecting dates, of judging of
time, and of intervals in general ; but the organ is only
probable.
19 XXVII. Number.—Many examples of mental calcu-
lators must be known to every one. Mr G. Bidder per-
OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY. 81
forms the most complicated arithmetical problems, with a
celerity and accuracy equally astonishing. The organ
which gives this power is situate under Tl. on the bust,
and its special faculty is calculation in general. In Mr B.
it is very large. Established.
3- XXVIII. Tune.—The organ of tune bears the same
relation to the ears as that of colour does to the eyes. We
have seen that the eye may be very acute, yet the power of
discriminating shades of colour be defective. In like man-
ner, the auditory apparatus may be in the most perfect state,
and yet the power of perceiving melody and of recollecting
tunes, be not at all in proportion. When the organ is fully
developed, it enlarges the lateral parts of the forehead. It
is found of large size in all great composers of music, as
Handel, Haydn, Rossini, and in all who have flourished
as eminent performers. Established.
33 XXIX. Language.—The special faculty of this organ
is to enable us to acquire a knowledge of, and to give
us the power of using artificial signs or words. A low-
degree of the organ may enable a person, by great efforts,
to learn languages, but a full development is indispensible
to copiousness and fluency of style in speech or writing.
The signification of words is learned by other faculties:
For example, this faculty may enable us to learn and re-
member the word Melody, but if we do not possess the
faculty of Tune, we can never appreciate the real meaning
attached to that word by those who possess that faculty in
a high degree. The organ, which is indicated by promi-
nence of the eyes, will be found large in philologists, orators
and botanists. The prominence of the eyes is produced
by the large development of the part of the brain resting
F
82 OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY.
upon the upper orbitary plate, and pressing it downwards.
The organ is established.
3h XXX. Comparison.—Dr Gall observed various per-
sons, who, in order to convince others, had recourse to simi-
lies, examples, and analogies, and but seldom to philosophic
reasoning. In these he found, in the situation of 30. on the
bust, an elevation presenting the appearance of an inverted
pyramid. This faculty prompts us to comparison, without
determining its kind ; for every one must draw his analo-
gies, and choose his similies, from his own knowledge, and
from the sphere of activity of his other faculties. The
activity of the faculty is very important ; and people who
have it large, are generally said to have much discrimina-
tion. Individuality, Language, and Comparison combined,
give readiness of apprehension, and fluency of speech ; but
unless Causality be also great, the reasonings are not con-
secutive, and the views not comprehensive. It is generally
large in the heads of good artists, and in popular preachers*
who illustrate their subject by similitudes, examples, and
parables. By suggesting comparisons, it greatly aids wit.
Established.
3$ XXXI. Causality/. —Individuality and Comparison
take cognizance of every thing that is obvious to the senses.
This faculty looks a little farther than mere sense, and takes
cognizance of the relations and dependencies of phenomena.
It furnishes the idea of causation, as implying something
more than mere juxta-position or sequence,—and as forming
an invisible bond of connection between cause and effect. It
impresses us with an irresistible conviction, that every phe-
nomenon or change in nature is caused by something, and
hence, by successive steps, leads us to the first cause of all.
In looking at the actions of men, it leads us to consider the
OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY; Sri
motives or moving causes from which they proceed. It in-
duces us, on all occasions, to ask, Why and wherefore is
this so ? It corresponds nearly to the " Relative Sugges-
" tion"
1
'
of Dr Brown,—or the " Reasoning Power" of
Locke, and other writers. It gives deep penetration, and
the perception of logical consequence in argument. It is
large in persons who possess a natural genius for metaphy-
sics, political economy, or similar sciences. Established,
,'lj XXXII. Wit, or the Sentiment of the Ludicrous,—-
This faculty is treated as an intellectual power in Dr Spurz-
heim's English work ; but, in his French works, subsequent-
ly printed, it is considered as a sentiment, and the change
appears appropriate. It gives a feeling of the ludicrous,
and produces the tendency to represent objects under this
aspect, in the same way as Ideality gives a feeling of the
beautiful, and also the tendency to elevate and adorn all
the conceptions of the mind. Wit, in the common accep-
tation of the word, consists in conceptions formed by the
higher intellectual powers imbued with the sentiment in
question. Humour consists in the manifestation or repre-
sentation of the propensities or sentiments, under the co-
louring of wit, and to produce humour in representation
Secretiveness and Imitation are also requisite. Persons
who have been remarkable for the wit and point of their
writings, as Sterne, Voltaire, Piron, &c. have had
the lateral parts of the forehead in the situation of 32. on
the bust much developed ; and the same configuration of
head will be found in all living characters distinguished for
the same talent. It is greatly assisted by comparison, but
rather impeded in its manifestations by causality ; the latter
faculty producing the tendency to logical relation in the
thoughts, the reverse of the combinations of wit. Esta»
Wished,
84 OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY,
2 1 XXXIII. Imitation. —Dr Gall received the first hint
of the existence of the organ marked 33. on the bust, from
examining the head of one of his friends, who possessed the
power of imitating in a surprising degree, and was indeed
a perfect actor. He found the same configuration of head
in an individual in the Deaf and Dumb Institution, who,
the first time he put on a mask at the carnival, imitated
perfectly well all the persons who frequented the Institu-
tion. Observation afterwards multiplied examples to such
an amount, that it was speedily considered as established.
Persons who have the organ large, when they mention a
fact or relate an anecdote, imitate the voice, look, and ges-
ture of those they are describing, so that by its mimicry it
is easily recognized. Players require the organ, and many
painters have derived no inconsiderable share of their fame
from possessing it largely developed. It greatly assists
construedveness and form. Established.
GENERAL OBSERVATIONS.
We have already stated, that the science of Phrenology
rests on facts. By observation, then,—by comparing mani-
festation with development,—the phrenologists have pointed
out certain primitive faculties of the mind, and have shewn
the effect which both the absolute and relative size of the
organs has upon the power of manifesting them. In the
case of most of the faculties, the observations have been so
numerous, that they hold their conclusions as certain, and
we have accordingly marked these Established. In regard
to a few, where the observations have been more limited,
the conclusions are stated as probable ; and, in one or two.
V
OUTLINES OF l'lTttENOLOGV, 85
where reasonable evidence is wanting, they are mentioned
as only conjectural.
Every one who merely takes an index to the organs in
one hand, and a plate or cast of the head in the other, is
not thereby at once qualified to decide definitively on the
merits of the system ; both patience and practice are neces-
sary to enable us to become acquainted with the appearance
of the development, and considerable experience, and no
small degree of reflecting power, is requisite to enable us to
judge correctly of the effects of the combinations of the
different organs, and of the Consequent character.
If we have ascertained that the system is founded in na-
ture, we arc safe to conclude that the knowledge of it can-
not lead to harm. This is the proper answer to those per-
sons who allege that it teaches fatalism and materialism,
unless it can be shewn that the knowledge of truth neces-
sarily leads to evil. No inquiry is made into the nature,
essence, or substance of the mind or soul itself. Phreno-
logy teaches a knowledge of the works of the Creator
;
and, as his works are wisely and perfectly made, the legiti-
mate presumption is, that those who see danger in a know-
ledge of them, are mistaken in their views. Every objec-
tion that the system is dangerous, pre-supposes its connec-
tion with error. The answer to such an objection, there-
fore, is the demonstration of its truth. If it were false,
human ingenuity might certainly discover and point out
the evil consequences to which it would lead ; but, if it be
true, no human intelligence is entitled to condemn it. On
its truth, therefore, its supporters take their stand.
Throughout the preceding pages, we have spoken of the
organs in the singular number, but this was only for the
sake of perspicuity. All the organs are double,—as we
have two eyes, two ears, so we have two organs of tune, of
wit, of l^nevolence, firmness, self-esteem ; but in these three
Sti OUTLINES OF I'llltENOLOG Y\
last;, and in the others that are situate along the middle line
of the head, the two hemispheres of the brain approach so
closely, that both the organs are included in one circle, and
always spoken of as single ; thus we say, the organ of com-
parison, of benevolence, of veneration, &c. ; but there are
still two organs, one on each side. Every individual has all
the organs, but their size and degree of activity vary in all.
Strength is one quality of mind, and activity another. A
mind may be very powerful, but slow ; or very active, but
not remarkable for vigour ; or both qualities may be com-
bined. Strength depends on the size of the organs ; acti-
vity may result from constitution and exercise. Hence
Phrenology affords a measure of the strength alone. It
indicates whether a man is by nature fitted to think or feel
strongly or feebly ; but does not reveal the number of
thoughts or feelings which may pass through his mind in
a given time, nor the degree in which his faculties have
been cultivated. There are several portions of the brain,
particularly at the base, the development of which cannot
be ascertained during life. The functions of these parts
remain to be discovered.
If one organ be large, and the neighbouring organs small,
an elevation of the skull is perceptible at the places where
the large organs are situate. If a number of contiguous
organs be large, no particular elevation will be perceptible
but there will be a generalt
/«/wm of the corresponding part
of the head. Thus, if the organ of individuality alone be
large, there will be a prominence in the middle of the fore-
head, as in children ; but if the organs of all the knowing
and reflecting faculties be large, there will be a general
fulness of the forehead.
All (he faculties, when active in a due degree, produce
actions good—proper—or necessary. It is excess of ac-
tivity which produces abuses ; and it is probable that the
OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOG^. 87
science of Phrenology has only been discovered, in conse-
quence of some individuals, in whom particular organs
were very largely developed, yielding to the strongest pro-
pensities of their nature. The smallness of a particular
organ is not the cause of a faculty producing abuses :
thus, though the faculty of benevolence be but weakly
manifested, from the organ being small, this does not pro-
duce cruelty ; it is only accompanied with indifference to
the miseries and sufferings of others. When one faculty
is weak, abuses may result by another being left without
proper restraint. Thus active faculties of acquisitive-
ness and secretiveness, combined with a weak faculty of
conscientiousness, and weak reflecting faculties, may pro-
duce theft. Powerful faculties of combativeness and de-
structiveness, with a weak faculty of benevolence, may pro-
duce cruel and ferocious actions. A strong faculty of be-
nevolence, with a weak faculty of cautiousness, and weak
reflecting faculties, may produce prodigality, and expose a
person to be the prey of knaves.
Every faculty may be active of itself, in consequence of
internal activity of the organ, or it may be excited by ex-
ternal means. Hence arise natural propensities to particular
courses of action, and also the susceptibility of improvement
by education.
Every faculty being active, gives a desire of gratifica-
tion, by engaging in actions correspondent to its nature.
Thus the faculty of tune leads to the desire of producing
music. The faculty of benevolence prompts to acts of cha-
rity. Hence the foundation of particular tastes. Whatever
is suited to gratify the natural desires of the faculties which
are most active in any individual^ is that which pleases him
most, or is most suited to his taste.
The combination of the different faculties, and their re-
lative activity, determine the particular characters of inch-
88 OUTLINES OF PHRENOLOGY.
viduals. Thus, powerful faculties of firmness, conscienti-
ousness, and cautiousness, produce sedate, serious, and pru-
dent characters. Powerful faculties of hope, ideality, and
love of approbation, with weak faculties of cautiousness,
and weak reflecting faculties, produce gay, inconsiderate
characters. Self-esteem, firmness, and little love of appro-
bation, conscientiousness, and veneration, produce obstinate
characters. Love of approbation, and benevolence, will
give an obliging and attentive disposition.
( 89 )
I.
—
A View ofsome ofDr Spurzheim's Lectures,
as delivered at Edinburgh, in the Winter of
1816.
By Dr Poole.
(Read May 1. 1823J
VJTentlemen, — In soliciting your attention, even at
this distance of time, to the subject of Dr Spurzheim1
s
Lectures, I feel myself under no necessity to apologize for
intrusion ; and, I am not ashamed to confess, I entertain the
hope of experiencing something more satisfactory than your
compassionate forbearance. The avowal of your belief in
the substantial truth of the science of Phrenology, con-
veyed in the very fact of your being members of this So-
ciety, is ample warrant, for any individual of your number,
respectfully to offer to your notice such matter and com-
munications as have proved efficacious in enlightening and
confirming his own mind, in regard to the system, or seem
to him in any degree calculated to promote among others
an interest in its cultivation and advancement. It is an
expression of zeal, however feeble or unimportant its re-
sults, which indicates good intention at least, and therefore
cannot fail of a patient reception on the part of those whose
90 view or Dii spubzheim's lectures.
benefit, either by instruction or example, is professedly
consulted. But, on the present occasion, I am not content
to claim merely this common and incontestible privilege.
You would justly censure me if I did. In the very attempt
to preserve a memorial of one of the founders of our science,
considered in the character of a public teacher,—to describe
him as I well remember he was listened to and admired,—
and, still more, to exhibit, with candour and fidelity, an
outline of those doctrines, in the placid but fearless main-
tenance of which, he at once silenced the ignorant, dis-
armed opposition of its malignity, and carried conviction
to the unprejudiced,—I cannot for a moment hesitate to as-
sure myself of an approbation which has gratitude rather
than politeness for its origin. I say so, unblushingly, be-
cause I am aware that the honour is fitting so humble an
individual, no otherwise than from having enjoyed the felici-
ty of being one of Dr Spurzheim's auditors, and feeling it
impossible to resist the evidence of his singular deserts, or to
close my eyes to the importance and verisimilitude of those
facts and principles for which he so ably contended.
I have only to add, in the way of preface, that the Lec-
tures of which I propose to give a view, were delivered in
the Hall where the meetings of our Society are now held
;
that a numerous company, among whom were several la-
dies, repeatedly testified their satisfaction at the ingenious,
spirited, and eloquent manner in which Dr Spurzheim ex-
plained and defended the object of his labours ; that part
of the summary which I have now the honour to read, was
communicated at the time, and by desire, to one of the
Journals of this city ; and that, as the Lectures themselves
contained the principles of the science which we are pledged
to cultivate, it is probable that my remarks on them may
be found of some use as an introduction to phrenological
discussions.
VIEW OF DK SI'URZHEIM'S LECTURES. 9J
Dr Spurziieim commenced by apologizing for his faulty
pronunciation, and imperfect knowledge of the language in
which he was about to deliver himself, and expressing his
trust in the indulgent consideration of his hearers. But
there seemed to be fewer demands on their favour or pa-
tience than he gave reasons for applauding him. Without
the aid of notes, which a thorough acquaintance with his
subject, and the habit of public speaking, had rendered
unnecessary, he never failed to express himself in clear and
forcible terms, free from embarrassment or affectation, and
with the happy, but unassuming firmness of a man who
believed that the importance and the truth of his disco-
veries and observations formed a sufficient claim to atten-
tive regard, and would redeem those trivial and adventi-
tious errors which he might happen to commit in declaring
them. His illustrations were copious and striking, the pro-
duct of a mind matured in useful learning ; but still more
indebted to the long and varied exercise of native discern-
ment on the concerns and characters of mankind. This
gave peculiar value to his remarks, in the judgments of
persons who had learned to distrust the theories of the
schools, and to wait, with some degree of patience, till an
enlarged and well-arranged series of facts should warrant a
degree of confidence in the opinions which he delivered.
It may cost the admirers of certain established systems
some sacrifice of feeling and pride, to admit the relevancy
of the observations on which the new doctrines are founded ;
nor is it possible to think that the writings of those eminent
men who have given celebrity to metaphysical science, in
modern times, are far from elucidating the nature of our
species, without lamenting the inutility, if not positive mis-
chief, of so much ingenious and elegant labour ; but he
who aspires to the character of a philosopher must prepare
himself to abandon prejudices, and to submit to the exclu-
sive authoritv of demonstrable truth.
92 VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES.
Dr Spurzheim, duly sensible of the truth of these re-
marks, and convinced, as he seemed to be, of the solidity of
his views, and the weakness of the common arguments by
which they had been impugned, cautioned his hearers
against every kind of intellectual interference with the right
and necessity of private judgment on those facts which he
should adduce. His good sense, as might be expected,
prompted him to extend a similar interdict to the possible
influence which he himself might unintentionally produce
on some minds, and which indeed those who had the plea-
sure of his acquaintance, or had derived instruction from his
multifarious and interesting intelligence, might be thought
not at all unlikely to experience. " Do not,"" said he, " be-
" lieve any thing because I affirm it, nor, on the other hand,
object to it merely because others have done so before. I
may err, and others may err, but Nature is always true and
constant. See and judge of her for yourselves.
1
'
In the
same spirit, and with the same propriety, he distinguished
between the facts which he meant to bring forward, as at
all events deserving to be held important in the study of
the human character and constitution, and those inferences
which he or others had drawn from them. The former,
he affirmed, must be admitted, and accordingly, in regard
to them, both he and his hearers were bound to identity of
belief. But, with respect to the latter, especially in the
present infancy of the science, some difference of sentiment
might reasonably be anticipated, and certainly ought to be
regarded without the admixture of angry passion, or a dis-
position to unprofitable cavilling.
Reflections to this effect, followed by some observations
on the advantages of knowledge of every kind, and the par-
ticular importance of the science of mind, brought him to
the statement of the nature and object of his Lectures. In
the following remarks, by which I endeavour to record my
VIEW OF DR spurzheim's lectures. 9 J
own impression of these, I purpose, for convenience sake,
generally to speak in the present tense ; and I have only
this farther to mention as preliminary, that altogether, his
course furnished a rich intellectual treat, and seemed to
produce the fullest conviction, that the establishment of a
science, difficult, because complicated, and because it con-
cerned the least known parts of nature, and hazardous, be-
cause opposed to established opinion, could not have been
entrusted to more skilful hands ; and that, whatever might
become of the doctrine, it was morally impossible, I should
think, for any one who heard its advocate, to entertain a
doubt of his sincerity, or to call in question either the acute-
ness or the soundness of his talents.
The object of the science is not what it has often been
asserted to be. No investigation into the nature of mind
is even so much as attempted in it. We know no more
of mind, as it is in itself, than we know of matter ; and,
accordingly, we must content ourselves with observations
on the properties of the one, and the manifestations of
the other, as presented through the medium of our bodily
organs. No argument, it is evident, is thence to be drawn
as to the materiality of the mind. Such a question is
never once agitated in the system ; far less does the system
afford any thing like an approach to the affirmative, as
has sometimes, most erroneously, been imagined. The
doctrine, it is acknowledged, may be abused ; but, in this
respect, it does not differ from any other science, nor from
any of the gifts of nature, all of which may be, and most
of which have been productive of evil, through the depra-
vity or the weakness of mankind. This may be particu-
larly instanced in the professions of medicine and law, and
in the religious feeling or propensity, which, however na-
tural to our species, has often been perverted to persecu-
tion and the most disgraceful absurdities.
S
94 VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES.
The object of the system, then, is the manifestations of
the human mind, as dependent on, or connected with, or-
ganization. This dependence is assumed as essential, not
to the existence, but to the manifestation of the mind, for
we have no example of the operations or agency of the one,
without the instrumentality of the other. Admitting, there-
fore, the constancy of this conjunction, it may be shewn,
that the peculiarities of the organization are related to pe-
culiarities of mind ; and hence the system furnishes a foun-
dation for what is commonly denominated Physiognomy.
But the physiognomy to which it gives rise will be found
to differ very widely from that of any previous philoso-
phers. Here Dr Spurzheim thought it necessary to ex-
plain away the notion which had been entertained respect-
ing the system, namely, that it undertook, from the orga-
nization, to conclude as to the actions of mankind. No-
thing can be farther from the truth ; and it is really strange,
that those who have ventured to ascribe to it such absurd
presumption, should never have been at the pains to con-
sider the very first passage of Dr Spuezheim's printed
work, in which it is expressly disclaimed. The utmost
that is inferred is the existence and the constitutional pre-
dominance of those internal principles which lead to ac-
tions, whether of a moral or an intellectual nature.
The opinion, that the organization is intimately and
invariably connected with the condition and character of
mind, may be proved to be of older date than the present
times. One singular evidence of this we have in the strange
assertion of some of the ancients, that the mind created its
habitation, and that this is in exact proportion to its own
excellency. Hence the whimsical fancy that a deformed
or defective mind had an ugly body, and vice versa. In
modern times, similar sentiments have occasionally been
entertained. Lavatfr, for example, sought for indications
VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES, 95
of character in the form of the features, conceiving that an
aquiline nose, to take one instance, implied wit. Such ob-
servations, it is almost needless to say, are quite empirical,
and, in fact, so discordant and fanciful as to yield no satis-
faction to a philosophical inquirer. It cannot be necessary to
multiply examples of erroneous methods of procedure, in the
study of human nature, as the common reading of most per-
sons furnishes ample proof of lamentable failures. But one
allusion made by Dr Spurzheim, was too remarkable to be
passed over, and ought to be mentioned as strikingly il-
lustrative of the radical discrepancy between the founda-
tions of this science, and the metaphysical systems both of
past and present times. For the due cultivation of the
philosophy of the human mind, it is requisite, according to
one of the most popular, and certainly the most elegant
advocate for the latter, now living, to retire to one's closet,
and to attend exclusively and unremittingly to the objects
of one's own consciousness. But, in reality, a thousand
years may be spent in such a process, without a single ad-
vance or discovery being made, which ought to entitle the
votary to commendation. The mind of man must be
studied in company, amid the pursuits, the business, and
the difficulties of life. It is true, the results of this more
extensive inquiry may be less flattering, either to the indi-
vidual inquirer, or to the species at large ; but their supe-
rior importance will amply compensate for the loss of that
splendour, in which the visionary recluse may contrive to
array his creations. Nor are the difficulties so trifling, as
to render success unworthy the exertions and ambition of
the greatest genius. On the contrary, they are quite in
proportion to the abstract and complicated nature of the
subject to be investigated, and necessarily demand the ex-
ercise of cautious observation, and the full efficacy of in-
ductive logic.
96 VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM's LECTURES.
An important question now presents itself for discussion.
What part of the animal frame is allotted as the organ
of the mind, that by which it manifests itself, or operates
on the rest of the system ? Various considerations, and
what we may call the method of exhaustion, besides the
concurrent testimony of most philosophers, direct our at-
tention to the brain, that mass of curiously wrought and
singularly diversified matter, which occupies the interior of
the bones of the skull.
The first proposition to be stated in respect to this or-
gan, is, that without it no manifestation of mind has ever
yet been known. Such, at least, is the decisive and une-
quivocal result of all our inquiries. The few apparent ex-
ceptions which medical men have witnessed, are all expli-
cable by a peculiar change which the brain undergoes, in
consequence of disease ; but it is affirmed universally, that
wherever mind is indicated, brain is found, though the
converse of the proposition, it is needless to say, does not
always hold true.
The second proposition, founded also on observation, is,
that a certain quantity of brain is required for the mani-
festation of mind. In other words, a brain may be too
small to admit of the usual manifestations of mind. This
is ascertained to be the case in by much the greater num-
ber of persons born idiots, provided, it is necessary to men-
tion, there do not exist water in the brain ; a disease which
often, and more particularly in young subjects, occasions a
preternatural enlargement of the head. Dr SrURZHEiiM's
remarks on this proposition were peculiarly interesting,
and may readily be verified by an examination of the un-
fortunate creatures who, from infancy, have required the
constant care, or mortified the feelings of humanity. Here,
it is proper to mention, that in many cases of water in the
head, the manifestations of the mind are still carried on, at
VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES. 97
least for some time. The most singular one hitherto met
with by Dr Spurzheim, was that of a person then living
at Musselburgh, whose head was considerably larger than
any other in whom the mind had continued to manifest
itself.
In the third place, it may be remarked, that, other cir-
cumstances being alike, the manifestations of the mind bear
a proportion to the size of the brain. But here it is neces-
sary to guard against mistake. The best way of doing so,
perhaps, is to state, that size is only one of the conditions
on which the manifestations depend ; —or, in the language
of mathematics, it is one of the terms of an equation ; and
that there are other conditions, all of which require to be
known before any special conclusion is warranted. But,
universally, it may be affirmed, that men, remarkable for
the versatility and general scope of their genius, that is to
say, for an aptitude to excel in whatever they engage them-
selves in, have large brains, and these are so distributed as
to give great fulness to the fore and upper parts of the head.
This may be instanced in the case of Lord Bacon, with
whose cast we are all familiar. But the converse of the
proposition, it ought to be carefully remembered, is not
maintained. All that is asserted is, that persons display-
ing universal genius in a high degree, possess large brains,
arranged as has been mentioned ; but that there may be,
and are examples of large brains, where universal genius,
or a great and wide range of talents, has not been mani-
fested. It can easily be understood, indeed, that the con-
sistency of the brain—the temperament of the constitu-
tion—the degree of exercise of the talents—and other cir-
cumstances, are likely to have a certain influence. The
ancients, it may be remarked, were at one time extremely
attentive to the conformation and size of the head in dif-
ferent characters, as is strikingly displayed in the casts
o
98 VIEW OF DR SPUItZHEIM'S LECTURES.
from some of the remains of their sculpture. That of the
Gladiator, for example, varies extremely from that of one
of their wise men—and Jupiter from the rest of the gods.
The differences quite coincide with the remarks now made.
But the ancients were not always equally considerate. We
have a striking evidence of this, in a cast from the far famed
Venus, which displays a size of head probably never met
with, except in the case of a person an idiot from birth,
and who will continue so till death. Modern artists will
sometimes be found equally good authority ; but it must
be confessed, that a proper understanding of the connec-
tion of the mind with the organization, would materially
assist them in doing justice to their subjects. The poets,
who are most remarkable for their fidelity to nature, have
not been inattentive to the differences now alluded to.
Shakespeare, for instance, speaks of " foreheads villai-
" nously law/
1
—and Milton, describing, on the other hand,
our first parent, is careful to notice " his fair large front.""
The portraits of these two illustrious men, it may be added,
are no inadequate evidences of the truth of the proposi-
tion contended for.
When it is affirmed that the brain is the Organ of the
mind, it is meant that it is exclusively so ; that no other
parts of the system are employed as its instruments, how-
ever they may be subject, as they often are, to its in-
fluence. Again, when the Manifestations of the mind are
spoken of, the expression is not confined to the intellectual
faculties only, but comprehends also the whole of the emo-
tions, feelings, propensities, and sentiments—in fact, every
thing by which a sentient and intelligent being is distin-
guished, and which cannot, without absurdity and contra-
diction to the fundamental laws of philosophising, be consi-
dered as the property of matter. In the broad assertion of
these opinions, this doctrine differs widely from most, per-
VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES. 99
haps from all of its predecessors. That the intellectual
faculties were seated, to use the common, but surely very
objectionable phrase, in the brain, was a proposition early
maintained by philosophers, and for which also, many of
the moderns have contended. It is certainly an established
topic in popular belief; but those who admitted it, differed
extremely as to the precise region of the brain which was
entitled to pre-eminence. If it were not too serious a re-
flection on philosophers, one might be apt to take amuse-
ment in the history of their controversies on the subject;
and, in reality, so thoroughly have the pretensions of the
candidates been demonstrated and disproved by their re-
spective advocates and opponents, that one might be war-
ranted in saying, if he had no other guide, that every part
of the brain, and that no part of it, is the seat of the soul,
and that it is perfectly endless to make any inquiry about
the matter ! But, admitting the correctness of any one of
these opinions, it is certain that philosophers, almost with-
out exception, conceived the affections, sentiments, and
feelings, to have a separate habitation from the intellect.
The learned and unlearned appear to have agreed in ascri-
bing these to the viscera, though considerable dissension
has existed, at various times, as to their peculiar allotment.
Thus the heart, the stomach, the liver, the spleen, and
other parts, have all had their respective inmates. Now,
either these are very erratically disposed, and change their
quarters with the climate, or the whole system of popular
belief on the subject is fundamentally erroneous; for the
opinions and language of different ages and countries ma-
terially differ respecting the distribution and arrangement
of those intellectual and moral powers, as might easily be
shewn by quotations from the classics, contrasted with mo-
dern authors. But it is unnecessary to have recourse to
such a mode of reasoning. The common opinion is utterly
100 VIEW OF DR SPURZHElM's EECTURES.
untenable* as might easily be proved on other grounds,
particularly comparative anatomy and physiology.
There are animals, for example, which display certain
passions and propensities, though destitute of the organs,
on which, according to this opinion, they are dependent
and, on the other hand, there are animals which possess
certain viscera, though they do not display those affections
and sentiments with which these are supposed to be en-
dowed. There is no discoverable proportion, in any ani-
mals, between the size of their viscera and any of the al-
leged products. Moreover, animals with similar viscera,
have nevertheless very different inclinations and powers;
and examples might be mentioned of similar inclinations
and powers with different viscera. It is an established
principle in physiology, besides, that the viscera have each
but one function to perform ; and the history of disease
testifies the occurrence of great and even fatal derange-
ments in several, if not all of them, without any corre-
sponding diminution or decay of their alleged inmates.
The opinion now contested, is often endeavoured to be
maintained in another manner ; to which it is necessary to
pay some attention, because of its apparent and generally
admitted correctness. The heart, it is said, is assuredly the
seat of the affections and passions, because we are perfectly
sensible of peculiar feelings and motions' in it, whenever
these affections and passions are excited. And something
similar may be affirmed occasionally of other viscera, as the
experience of every individual testifies. We have never
seen greater justice done to this argument, which, beyond
all doubt, has been universally credited, than in the words,
somewhat quaint indeed, but abundantly explicit and point-
ed, of an old but meritorious author, who may be adduced
instar omnium as a reasoner on the subject. The passage
is a choice example of a mode of philosophising, to which
many moderns, professing adherence to the highest autho-
view or DK spuazheim's LECTURES. 101
rity in matters of science, have not been ashamed to give
sanction by the fidelity of their imitation.—" A question
" may be demanded, and not easily resolved, Whether the
*.*
faculty of our sensitive appetite hath allotted unto it some
" peculiar part of the body, where she exercises her proper
" functions and operations ? for, as we see by experience,
" the facultie of seeing, the power of hearing, the sense of
" smelling, tasting, and touching, have assigned unto them
" divers corporall instruments, habitations, or seats, where-
" in they see, heare, smell, tast, and touch ; as eyes, ewes,
" nose, tongue, flesh, and sinews. Now, the question pro-
" pounded is thus to bee understood, Whether may there
" be determined any part of the bodie, wherein peculiarly
" the passions of the mind are effected ? To which que-
" stion I answere, that the very seate of all passions is the
" heart, both of men and beasts ; divers reasons move me
" to this opinion. First, The very common experience,
" men trie daily and hourely in themselves-^for who loveth
" extremely, and feeleth not that passion to dissolve his
" heart?—-Who rejoiceth, and proveth not his heart di-
" lated ?—Who is moved with heaviness, or plunged with
" paine, and perceiveth not his heart to be coarcted ?
—
" Whom inflameth ire, and hath not heart-burning ? By
" these experiences, we prove in our hearts the working of
" passions, and by the noise of their tumult, we understand
" the worke of their presence. The second reason is, be-
" cause, as our sensitive apprehension hath her seat in the
" braine (for we all prove? that, in understanding, we es-
" pecially bend the force of our soule to the former part
" thereof) so the affections and passions, in proportionate
" manner, must have some corporall organ and instrument,
" and what more convenient than the heart ? For, as the
" brayne fitteth best, for the softnesse and moysture, to re-
" ceive the forms and prints of objects for understanding;
102 VIEW OF DR SPUltZHEIM'S LECTURES.
" even so the heart, endued with most fiery spirits, fitteth
sc
best for affecting. Lastly, For what other reason, in feare
" and anger, become men so pale and wanne, but that the
" blood runneth to the heart to succour it *."
Such is the substance of the popular creed, as held forth,
with various modifications, in the current language of most
countries, and adopted extensively as the basis of the phy-
siology of the passions. How erroneous and inadequate it
is, it would not be very difficult to demonstrate.
Our sensations are often very uncertain indications of the
causes by which they have been excited, or of the places to
which those causes are applied. All the parts of the body
are in connection with each other by means of nerves.
Hence it is that changes of feeling are propagated through-
out the whole. This takes place so rapidly at times, that
the sensations themselves, and the perceptions of the pro-
perties or qualities of the external substances which have
occasioned them, are confounded together in the imagina-
tion. In this transmission of feeling, if the phrase may be
allowed, there is often no diminution of force ; but, on the
contrary, it sometimes happens, that a distant part is much
more affected than that in which the excitement was first
produced. Medical men are well acquainted with instances
of this kind, and are in the habit of detecting diseases at
considerable distances from those places in which the pa-
tients feel most uneasiness. Thus, obstructions in the liver
are frequently accompanied with severe pain about the
shoulders, although the region of the liver itself is not ma-
terially affected ; a degree of pain, felt in a certain part of
the skin of the belly, so great as to attract the whole of a
person's attention, is not unusually the chief symptom of a
" The Passions of the Mind in General, by Tuomis Wiught, London,
1630.
VIEW OF DIl SPUIIZHEIM'S LECTURES. 103
calculus in the ureter ; a very distressing affection of the leg
and thigh is the consequence of a similar disease ; aching of
the limbs is often produced by a disordered state of stomach ;
indigestion sometimes occasions headache ; and the presence
of worms in the intestines, causes itching of the nose. The
mere circumstance, therefore, of our experiencing certain
feelings about the heart or other viscus, is not of itself suf-
ficient proof that the causes are situate there, or that these
viscera are their organs. There are still more familiar ex-
amples which prove the absurdity of ascribing certain affec-
tions and feelings to the parts which are apparently most
influenced by them. Sorrow will cause a flood of tears
;
anger or fear will make the knees tremble; a sense of
shame occasions a redness of the cheeks ; the recollection of
an injury quickens the motion of the blood. But who ever
thinks that the lachrymal gland is the seat of sorrow,
—
that anger and fear reside in the knees,—that the cheeks
are the organ of shame,—or that the memory is any way
concerned in the circulation ? Every person must be aware
of the fact, that in all these, and many other cases, the
mind is first affected ; and hence it can readily be believed,
that the parts which are ultimately brought into action, are
so through the medium of its organ, although the precise
mode in which the effects follow the causes may never be
perfectly understood. If the least doubt remain on the
subject, it may perhaps be removed by a single remark or
two, calculated to direct attention to the circumstance of
the previous emotion of the mind.
If a man be brought suddenly and unexpectedly to the
brink of a precipice, a degree of fear sufficient to make him
tremble instantaneously seizes him. But a person who is
blind, and has not otherwise been apprised of his danger,
would probably go on without the least uneasiness ; the
most pathetic story told to the deaf excites no emotion in
104 VIEW OF Dll SPUltZHEIM's LECTURES.
his mind ; and the most opprobrious words addressed to a
person who is ignorant of the language, will not stir up his
anger. In these, and a thousand other instances which
might be mentioned, it is quite manifest, that the exciting
causes operate only through the mind, which again, so far
as we know, produces all its influence by the organization.
Finally, it is possible to point out the identical nerves by
which the brain and various parts of the body are con-
nected ; and it is a matter of daily observation, that when
these nerves are diseased or wounded, so as to interrupt
the connection, though all other circumstances remain the
same, the mind no longer manifests itself by or in those
parts. A certain degree of animal life, in other words, may
be carried on for a time, without the slightest display of
either intellect or feeling. The discussion of this interest-
ing subject, which is scarcely accessible in all its bearings to
the general reader, is entered into at length in Dr Spurz-
heim's larger work.
The chief objections to be mentioned, are certain facts of
injuries done to the brain not having interfered with or pre-
vented the manifestations of the mind, from which it is in-
ferred that that organ is not essential to their production.
These facts are admitted to have occurred ; but, when ac-
curately considered, do not in the least contradict the opi-
nion maintained, any more than similar facts as to vision
having been carried on with one eye, after the destruction
of the other, or hearing with one ear, demonstrate that the
eyes and ears are not the organs of their respective senses.
The same explanation is to be given in the cases alluded to.
In reality, the brain is a double organ, as is manifest on dis-
secting it ; and hence it is easily to be understood, that parts
of it situate on one side may be diseased, or actually lost, as
has sometimes happened, and yet that the manifestations of
the mind may be carried on by its corresponding parts,
VIEW OF UK SPUHZHEIM'S F.KCTlJliKS. 105
which are situate on the other side. No valid argument,
then, can be drawn from such facts against the doctrine,
whilst, on the contrary, some others which might be ad-
duced in greater number, of the loss of the faculties of the
mind consequent on injuries done to the brain, are entitled
to the fullest authority in its support. It is quite conceiv-
able, on the principles of this doctrine, that the whole of
one of the hemispheres of the brain may be destroyed, and
that the other shall continue to manifest the mind ; but it
is most positively denied that ever both hemispheres were
destroyed, or any loss or disease of corresponding parts in
them sustained, without its total or partial disappearance.
Besides this general reason for the inadequacy of the facts
which have been mentioned in opposition to the doctrine, it
is proper to remark, that great inaccuracy has been often
committed in relating them, or rather in the opinions which
have suggested them, and the deductions to whicli they have
given rise. Such reports commonly affirm, that the person
continued to walk, to eat and drink, to know his acquain-
tances, to recollect events, to exercise judgment, to carry on
his business, &c.—undoubted evidences of mind indeed, but
not by any means all the manifestations of which it is capa-
ble, or all which the persons formerly displayed. A meta-
physical error, afterwards to be exposed, lies at the very
foundation of all such reports, in virtue of which, it is
imagined, that indications of consciousness, memory, judg-
ment, are competent proofs of the existence of certain ge-
neral faculties so denominated. No wonder, then, that the
reporters contented themselves with their conclusions, and
did not proceed to make inquiry as to the loss or injury of
special intellectual and moral powers.
After a wide, and it is believed, unexceptionable induc-
tion, therefore, there seems good reason for crediting the
fundamental proposition of this doctrine, that the brain u
106 VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES.
exclusively the organ by which the mind manifests the
whole of its powers ; and that, without it, no manifestations
ever have been, or can be exhibited. An important ques-
tion now arises :
—Is the brain one single organ, or does it
consist of as many particular organs as there are primitive
powers of mind ?
Both opinions have been entertained, almost from the
earliest dawn of philosophical inquiry. Dr Spurzheim has
specified upwards of thirty authors who have written either
expressly or incidentally on the subject, and who may be
divided, pretty equally, into two parties—one which asserts
the singleness or individuality, and another the complex
nature or plurality of the organ of the mind. We are pre-
pared to expect that he joins with the latter. A sketch of
his reasons may not prove unacceptable.
It is generally observed, that nature employs various
means of accomplishing various ends, and multiplies re-
sources without limit, as the occasions for them demand.
Thus, plants are differently organized, suitably to the dif-
ferences of their products; animals are modified so as to
correspond with the variety of conditions and circumstances
in Avhich they are found ; there is a particular organ pro-
vided for every one of the animal functions ; and the organs
of the five external senses are distinct and independent of
each other. It is very presumable, on analogy, therefore,
that all the internal functions and powers are accommodated
with separate and properly adjusted organs.
Again, on the supposition which is here conceived to be
proved, that the brain is the organ of the mind, it might
have been expected a priori, that the brains of different
animals should differ, because it is certain that their facul-
ties and propensities do so. Now, it is actually found, that
their brains differ no less than their faculties, and the in-
struments of voluntary motion with which they are fur-
VIEW OF Dlt SrURZIlElM's LECTURES. 107
nished. In general, the brain becomes complicated in pro-
portion to the extent and variety of the functions ; and this
appears to be so well established as a law of nature, that
different individuals of the same species, and even the same
individuals in different stages of their growth and duration,
shew differences in cerebral organization. All this is easily
explicable on the principle that the brain is a complex
organ, or rather a combination of organs, each of which has
its own office to perform in the animal economy.
Farther, it is certain, that the same individual manifests
some propensities and powers in a high degree, while others
are scarcely discoverable in him, though quite natural, or
frequently belonging to his species. One man, for example,
has an excellent memory as to words, but is utterly unable
to cai'ry on a process of reasoning on any abstract or philo-
sophical subject. Another displays a genius for painting,
but is insensible to the beauties of music. A third excels
in mathematical science, but has not a particle of taste for
poetry. These, and many more peculiarities, seem utterly
irreconcilable with the notion, that one identical mass of
brain presides over all the functions ; but it is easily under-
stood, on the supposition contended for, that the organs are
as various as the functions. Indeed, the former opinion
seems no less absurd than the belief, that one organ answers
all the purposes of the five external senses.
Something similar to what has now been mentioned, and
equally susceptible of explanation on the same grounds, is
the fact of the propensities and faculties not appearing or
disappearing simultaneously, but some earlier than others.
This cannot be reconciled with the opinion, that all the
manifestations of the mind depend on one organ. Other
considerations might be added, tending to the same point.
Thus, change of study, or of the object and kind of atten-
tion, relieves the sense of fatigue ; —in the state of sleep,
108 VIEW OF.DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTU11ES.
some of the organs occasionally continue active, whilst the
others are at rest, which constitutes the phenomenon of
dreaming, and, in certain peculiarities of body, that of
somnambulism :
—in some diseases, the manifestations of the
mind are partially deranged ; or, in other words, some of
the mental organs are disordered, while the rest remain
sound.
On the whole, then, it is thought demonstrable, that the
brain is not one organ, but a combination of many organs,
and that every one of these is destined to a particular kind
of manifestation of mind. It is now to be inquired, If these
organs can be determined or pointed out ? The investiga-
tion thus suggested is not a new one, but perhaps has never
hitherto been properly conducted.
Some philosophers have concluded, that the functions of
the brain are proportioned to its absolute size ; and that the
superiority of man is the result of his possessing more brain
than any other animal. But this assertion is incorrect.
The whale and the elephant have larger brains than he has,
but surely do not equal him in intellect. Moreover, mon-
keys and dogs surpass the ox and ass in the extent of their
faculties, but have far less brains ; and many animals which
have equal sized brains, differ essentially in kind and degree
of faculties. This opinion then gave way to another, that
the faculties are in the proportion of the relation of the
size of the brain to that of the body. According to this,
the superiority of man depended, not on the absolute, but
the relative magnitude of his brain. But even this is inca-
pable of being maintained, unless it be allowed that spar-
rows, linnets, and many other birds, which have larger
brains in proportion to their bodies, surpass him in intellec-
tual powers; and that, for a similar reason, rats and mice
excel the horse, the dog, and even the elephant. To which
may be added, the fact of children having larger brains, in
VIEW OF Dll SPURZHEIM*S LECTURES. 109
proportion to then size, than adults. Other comparison:;
have been proposed, in order to determine the question, as
between the size of the brains and that of the nerves, or be-
tween the former and that of the spinal marrow. These
seem to hold more generally true, but are nevertheless
liable to insuperable objections ; and, at all events, being
only practicable on the dead subject, can be of no use what-
ever as a foundation for physiognomical science.
The celebrated Camper proposed another mode of ascer-
taining the degrees of intellect, not only in man, but also
the lower animals. It is perfectly fanciful ; but, being in-
genious, and corresponding with a vast number of facts, has
obtained the approbation of many eminent men. The name
of the facial angle is given to it, because, a vertical line
being drawn from the upper lip to the most projecting
point of the forehead, and a horizontal one running in the
direction of the plane of the edge of the upper teeth towards
the opening of the ear, it is conceived, that the understand-
ing of animals is in the proportion of the obtuseness of the
included space. But, although all the faculties of the mind
had their organs in the fore part of the head, this facial
angle would be an unfair and erroneous method of estima-
ting them, as might be shewn on anatomical grounds. It
becomes more evidently objectionable, when, admitting its
application to the measurement of the forehead, it is disco-
vered to be totally inapplicable to the lateral and posterior
parts, in which, however, a very large portion of brain is
commonly found. Another angle, called occipital, from the
name of the bone to which it is referred, and proposed by
Daubenton for a similar purpose, is not more to be trust-
ed to.
Cuvier and others have compared the different parts of
the brain together, with the view of determining their func-
tions: but the results will be found often in contradiction
110 VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIJVl'S LECTURES,
to the best established facts, and are, therefore, in this re-
spect at least, undeserving of confidence.
The anatomical structure of the brain has been explored,
in order to point out the intellectual organs ; and it has of-
ten been reported, indeed, that this new doctrine is founded
on the results of such an examination. But this is not the
case. On the contrary, Dr Spukzheim is of opinion, that
anatomy seldom affords light as to the functions of any of
the organs, and affirms most positively, that a knowledge of
the structure has not led to that discovery. The reason
seems obviously to depend on the fact of our total inability
to explain the phenomena of living beings, a single step be-
yond the laws of matter, whether mechanical or chemical.
As far as these go, we can proceed with a probability, per-
haps a certainty of success ; but, soon or late, we come to a
point where all our knowledge fails us, and inquiry only
demonstrates the insufficiency of our means of advancing.
This occurs sooner in some cases than in others, but is
universally met with in that region which distinguishes an
animated being from a dead carcase. The structure of the
eye is admirably contrived, on the principles of optics, to
receive rays of light, and the figures of bodies. But who,
after tracing them to the retina, on which their inverted
images are formed, can explain in what manner the optic
nerve is necessary to the information of the mind, as to the
existence of their prototypes in a very different state exter-
nally ? We can pursue undulations of the air to the mem-
brane of the ear, and imagine them echoing through the
mazy vaults of that curious fabric ; but does this satisfy our
minds as to the whole process of hearing? Far from it.
We are more perplexed than ever, to account for the per-
fection and excellence of that sense. Now, in these two
examples, it will be allowed, an aid has been lent to anato-
my, which it does not ordinarily enjoy. We find, accord-
VIEW OF DIl SrURZIIEIM'S LECTURES. Ill
ingly, that, though prosecuted to the utmost, it merely
shews us the relationship, or adaptation of parts, to the
functions which have otherwise been discovered. The best
proof of this, perhaps, is the circumstance of there still ex-
isting several organs in the body, whose functions are un-
known, although their anatomical structure have been no
less diligently explored than that of other parts. It is per-
fectly conceivable, that the brain may be in the like predi-
cament ; but hitherto, it is presumed, no anatomist will de-
clare that it is so. It may be possible, notwithstanding, on
other grounds, to determine the organs of which it consists
;
and this is actually affirmed to have been done, in certain
cases at least, by the labours we are now considering. It
remains for succeeding inquirers to point out, in respect of
them, as in other organs, the relation between the structure
and the functions thus discovered. In the mean time, it is
maintained by Dr Spurzheim, that neither human anato-
my nor comparative or animal anatomy, has promoted, in
any remarkable degree, the physiology of this puzzling
member.
A system of mutilating and torturing has been practised on
living animals, by other philosophers, in the hopes (scarcely
cogent enough to vindicate the barbarity) of determining
the functions of the brain. The principle is that of re-
moving various parts of it, in order to see which of the
faculties were impaired or destroyed *. Among other ob-
vious objections to any deductions from such a process,
what was formerly noticed as to the doubleness or duplicate
nature of the organs, ought to be remembered ; and also
* A report by the celebrated Cdvier to the Academy of Sciences on some
experiments of M. Floutens, of the nature here alluded to, has lately been
published in Paris ; but the results scarcely justify the means employed in
attaining them.
-7-—"
112 VIEW OF DR SFURZHEIM'S LECTURES.
that source of error which has been alluded to, the suppo-
sition that there exist general faculties answerable to the
abstract terms, imagination, memory, &c. There is not the
slightest occasion for these violent operations. Nature has
been a more merciful, as well as a more skilful experimenta-
list, and has actually, in a vast variety of ways, and on a
large scale, produced examples of brains, comparatively
speaking, defective. Some of these are afterwards to be
contemplated.
The principle assumed by Dr Spurzheim, is, that " the
" energy of the functions of any organic part depends on
" its size, and on its organic constitution.""
But it is pro-
per to add, that, in judging of the degree of activity of the
faculties, he admits the necessity of considering " the exer-
" cise of every faculty, and the mutual influence of the
" faculties upon each other.
11
It is obvious, however, that
it is on the size of the organs, whatever or wherever they
may be, that he chiefly depends, as more easily observed
than any of the other conditions, and in reality sufficient of
itself to determine the nature of the functions.
The principles of the method now proposed, abstracted
from the arguments by which they are defended, may be
summed up in a few words. The different parts of the
brain, considered, as has been mentioned, a combination of
various organs, are differently developed ; the functions of
those which are most so, are conceived to manifest themselves
with more energy, those of the parts which are least de-
veloped, being correspondingly less active. The develop-
ment of the different parts of the brain is eonceived to be
appreciable by respective modifications of the bones which
include and protect it : and hence, from these modifications,
it is asserted to be possible to infer the functions themselves,
and therefore, in a great degree, the propensities, talents,
and characters of individuals. But though this be a ge-
VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES. 113
neral view of the system, it is essential to notice, that it re-
quires most materal qualifications and explanations.
First, Let it be understood why the form and size of the
head are imagined to be indicative of the dimensions and
conformation of the brain. This subject is discussed by
Dr Spurzheim, in his reply to the question, whether it
is the skull or the brain which determines the form of the
head ? The following statement will afford some informa-
tion to the general inquirer, though it can have little preten-
sions to the regard of professional men.
The brain exists, in the earliest stage, before it is covered
by the skull, enveloped in a kind of membranous bag, which
is fourfold, and exactly represents its form. The outermost
fold is of a gristly nature, but gradually assumes a bony
consistency, though with different degrees of rapidity in
different places ; so that, at the time of birth, about eight
bones may be discerned in it. These are commonly con-
nected together by a kind of articulation called Sutures, in
such a manner as to preserve and indicate the exact size
and form of the brain. Any compression or alteration of
shape which the head undergoes in birth, is usually of very
short duration ; and, in all probability, at least in general,
makes no difference in the relation between the brain and
the bones. So far, therefore, it is fairly imagined, the
brain determines the form of the head, and not the bony
covering ; and, it may well be doubted, if any after process,
in the ordinary course of nature, invert this law. Dr
SruKZHEiM has particularly investigated this point in all its
extent, and gives very satisfactory reasons for the inference
now stated, which is clearly of fundamental importance to
his system.
Secondly, We must distinguish between the neat size of
the skull, and the gross dimensions of the head. The
H
11* VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM's LECTURES.
former alone is of moment in this system. Inattention to
allow for and except several things, which serve to make up
the latter, will infallibly produce mistake in determining
the developments. It is necessary also to be acquainted with
the common size of the head, so as to be able always to no-
tice, at first view, whether any one is larger or smaller than
usual ; and certain irregular and accidental bony excrescen-
ces and elevations must not be confounded with the charac-
teristic signs of the organs. There are even some protu-
berances constantly met with, because destined to particu-
lar uses in the animal economy, which have no manner of
reference to the development of the organs ; and are conse-
quently not to be taken into account, though, by affording
some direction as to their situations, they may aid the in-
vestigation : —of some of these, it is important for the un-
scientific student to be early apprised, lest he should err in
the very outset. The necessary information on this sub-
ject, and on the peculiar anatomical construction of the
bones of the sVull, from which it has been alleged there
arise invincible objections to the practice of the system, is
given in Dr Spurzheim1
s work. It is enough to allude to
them at present. All that it is requisite to add here, is,
that results of the examination of the head cannot generally
be relied on, after the individual has reached that period of
life, different in different persons, when the brain begins to
diminish in size. The most certain indications are given at
those ages in which the faculties have the greatest degree of
activity. Sight and touch are required to determine all the
organs, but one of them is sufficient as to several. The eye
is more generally useful, and \v
r
ould alone be adequate, if
the skull were completely exposed. A good many difficul-
ties are occasionally to be encountered.
Thus, though one organ is much developed, and the
neighbouring ones are not so, it is very easy to come to a
VIEW OF DR SPURZIIEIM'S LECTURES. 115
conclusion as to the former ; yet it sometimes happens, that
several organs in the vicinity of each other are equally or
proportionally developed ; so that, in place of a protube-
rance, from which the indication might be taken, a smooth
or regular surface is met with. Some difficulty is now and
then presented, by what are called the frontal sinuses, cer-
tain cavities situate within the two plates of the bone of the
forehead, a little above the root of the nose, and which, in
some persons, are so large as to occasion a kind of crest or
ridge on that part of the face. The organs, too, which are
placed behind the orbits of the eyes, are not readily distin-
guished. But the greatest difficulty is said to arise from
the circumstance of any one organ being so extremely de-
veloped, as to push the neighbouring organs from the places
usually occupied by them. Into the consideration of these
and other perplexities I cannot now enter.
Thirdly, It must not be imagined that it is the mere
surface of the brain which constitute* the organs. On the
contrary, these are conceived to extend downwards through-
out the whole, or nearly the whole mass of the brain. It is
possible, too, that there may exist organs, no part of which
approaches to the surface, as it is certain that there are
convolutions in the brain so situate as not to contribute di-
rectly to the external form. But Dr Spurzheim gives it
as his opinion, without attaching much weight to it, that a
great part of every organ, stated as ascertained, lies at the
surface, and that, at all events, if one part of an organ be
much developed, the whole of it so participates in the de-
velopment, as to be appreciable in the external configuration
and size.
Lastly, It is admitted that there are cases in which it is
impossible to determine the size of the brain in general, or
of its individual parts, from the dimensions or the form of
h2
116 VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES.
the head. Thus, the brain may be diminished from age,
though the external size and form remain nearly the same
;
in which case, the skull itself becomes thicker than former-
ly. A similar change is sometimes found in cases of insa-
nity ; and, it is probable, that certain diseases of long con-
tinuance may prove no less destructive of the ordinary in-
dications.
Some considerations of a still more general nature, affect-
ing the very foundation of metaphysical science, and lead-
ing to very singular and highly important results, now de-
mand our regard.
The nature of man is to be studied in the same manner
as that of other created beings. It presents two subjects for
examination, namely, bodily structure and functions ; the
former constituting the object of anatomy, and the latter
the objects of physiology. Taken in its largest extent, this
study might be directed to four points. 1st, The structure
of the whole body, and of each of its parts : %d, The
functions of the whole, and those of the parts : 3d, The
mutual influence of the parts and functions ; and, Mhly,
The relations which men bear to one another, and to all
the beings around them. How wide a field this is, and how
important to mankind, need not be mentioned. In the
science of Phrenology, we confine our attention chiefly, if
not entirely, to those functions which takes place with con-
sciousness, and to those peculiarities in the structure or or-
ganization, by which they are manifested. Here, then, no
inquiry is hazarded into the nature of Spirit, of which it is
conceived to be impossible to obtain any knowledge other-
wise than as it is manifested through the instrumentality of
gross and material agents. It would be equally vain, it is-
believed, to attempt to investigate the nature or essence of
Matter ; and hence, therefore, structure and functions alone
claim our regard, '
:
We never (saysDr Spukzheim) ven-
VIEW OF DR Sl'UHZHElM'S LECTURES. 117
" fcure beyond experience. We neither deny nor affirm
" any tiling which cannot be verified by experiment. We
" do not make researches either upon the dead body, or
" upon the soul alone, but upon man as he appears in life.
" We consider the faculties of the mind, only so far as they
" become apparent to us by the organization. We never
" question what the moral and intellectual faculties may be
" in themselves. We do not attempt to explain how the
" body and soul are joined together, and exercise a mutual
" influence. We do not examine what the soul can do with-
" out the body. Souls, so far as we know, may be united
" to bodies at the moment of conception, or afterwards
;
" they may be different in different individuals, or of the
" same kind in every one ; they may be emanations from
" God, or something essentially different. Hence, what-
" ever metaphysicians and theologians may decide in re-
" spect to all these points, our assertion concerning the
" manifestations of the mind, in this life, cannot be sha-
" ken." A practical steady adherence to the spirit of these
declarations must at least exclude one source, and that a
very abundant one, of unavailing controversy.
The first thing that strikes an observer, proceeding on the
plan, and according to the restrictions now suggested, is,
that the manifestations of the mind seem to be somewhat
different in the two sexes, in different individuals, and in
the same individuals at different ages. These differences,
too, are met with, in spite of the uniformity of education,
opinion,, customs, professions, and employments. One per-
son has obviously more capacity, and a greater inclination
for one pursuit than for another. This is found even in
children ; and differences of this kind are no less remark-
able than those peculiarities of feature and expression by
which mankind are commonly distinguished. It is farther
observable, that all the manifestations of the mind do not.
118 VIEW OF Dll SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES.
by any means, occur at the same period of life. Some are
presented earlier, some later, in the history or progress of
individuals ; and the times of disappearance of the faculties
and propensities are at least equally various. How are
these modifications to be explained ? Certainly not without
taking into account the successive and probably connected
changes in the organization.
Lavateii and others imagined that the whole body de-
termined the manifestations of the powers. But it is object-
ed to this idea, that there is often no discoverable harmony
among the different parts, nor any proportion between them
and the entire system. In opposition, therefore, to the phy-
siognomical hypothesis of that ingenious but assuredly fan-
ciful writer, Dr Spurzheim maintained, that all the parts
have their own specific functions ; that these functions de-
pend on the healthy state and action of the corresponding
organization ; and that it is only in so far as their related
organizations are dependent on each other, that the parts
mutually contribute to one another's functions. There is
no evidence whatever, in short, that the manifestations cf
the mind depend at all on the size and shape of the whole
body ; and, in general, it is remarked, in opposition to
such an opinion, that little or short persons display, com-
paratively or proportionally, more intellect than large or
tall ones.
The organic constitutions, or what are called the physi-
cal temperaments, have been advanced by other authors^
both in ancient and modern times, as that on which the fa-
culties depend. But this is a theory which may be proved
to be no less erroneous, though, it must be admitted, that
these temperaments appear to occasion very different de-
grees in the activity of the faculties. A very slight ex-
amination will convince any person, that similar manifes-
tations of mind,—similar, thai is, in kind, frequently exist
VIEW or DB SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES. 119
in different temperaments, and that very different manifes-
tations are frequently found in the same sort or species of
temperament. In point of fact, then, there is no disco-
verable proportion whatever between the vital functions,
which are chiefly affected by the temperaments, and the
faculties of the mind; and, therefore, none between the
temperaments and the faculties. " A man (says Dr
" SruRziiEiM justly) may be well nourished and active,
" and yet at the same time either stupid or intelligent.
" Many persons who have a melancholy look, are not at all
" melancholy ; —we find sanguine and bilious individuals,
" who are intellectual or stupid, meek or impetuous;
—
" and we may observe phlegmatics of a bold, quarrelsome,
" and imperious character. In short, the doctrine of the
" temperaments, as applied to the indication of determi-
" nate faculties, is not more sure, nor better founded, than
" is divination by the hands, the feet, skin, hair, ears, and
" similar physiognomical signs."
Malebranche was of opinion that the differences in
thinking and feeling, as exhibited by men and women, de-
pended on the differences in the degrees of delicacy in the
fibres of their brains ; and Dr Mandeville, the author of
the " Fable of the Bees,"" apparently entertaining a similar
notion, argues stoutly for the superiority of the fair sex, on
the ground that they are the finest specimen of Nature^
workmanship. Perhaps the poet Burns, very allowably in
his profession, adopted the same complimentary fiction, as
may be gathered from one of his most popular songs :
—
" Her prentice hand she tried on man,
" And then she made the lasses."
But this is mere idle conjecture, unauthenticated by ob-
servation, and which only requires to be noticed, in order
to ensure its condemnation.
120 VIEW OF DR spurzheim's lectures.
It is time now to specify the mode in which Drs Gall
and Sptjrzheim proceeded, with the view of determining
the functions.
The Society have already heard *, that Dr Gall, the
founder of this new science, early noticed certain differences
of faculties and propensities in the members of his family,
and among his school-fellows. He Avas grieved to find
that several of them greatly excelled him in the facility
with which they learned their lessons by heart; but, on
the other hand, he had the satisfaction to perceive, that
he was their equal, if not their superior in the powers of
reflection and reasoning. The observation that, in those
persons who had good verbal memories, the eyes were par-
ticularly prominent or full, was the foundation and com-
mencement of his inquiries into the relation existing be-
tween the bodily structures and the mental functions : and
these inquiries he was the more induced to prosecute, in
consequence of observing, during his subsequent study of
medicine, that the functions of the brain were not well un-
derstood, if understood at all, by the profession. It now
occurred to him, in following up his original remark, that
it was very possible the faculties of the mind might be dis-
tinguished by the conformation of the head.
But the notions as to metaphysical subjects, which he
had acquired in the schools, for some time obstructed his
inquiries; or, more strictly speaking, directed them into a
wrong channel. He had been led to believe in the com-
mon doctrine, that there existed certain general intellectual
faculties, such as memory, judgment, and imagination ;
and, accordingly, he naturally looked for the signs of such,
in the size and the form of the head, without ever being
aware or suspecting that these were creatures of metapliy-
• Preliminary Dissertation, pp. 2 —7-
VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES. 121
sical abstraction, merely logical distinctions, which have no
more status or reality of existence than any other of the
ideal objects designated by general terms, and without
knowing, on the other hand, that the feelings and senti-
ments had also their origin in the brain, or were somehow
dependent on its constitution. About ten years, then, were
spent in endeavouring to discover where the general facul-
ties he was in search of were situate. But a century
would have been equally inadequate to his success,—and
for the most cogent of all reasons, —there are no such facul-
ties. "If there be one excellence or merit in JDr Gall
" (said his colleague) for which I admire him more than
" for any other, it is for the resolution he now took to aban-
" don all preconceived opinions, and the best established
" maxims of the schools, on the subject of human nature;
" and to recommence the study of it by observation alone."
It must be admitted, nevertheless, that the determination
thus eulogized, was too unqualified, and that, in its prose-
cution Dr Gall was at first drawn into several very mate-
rial errors. This is neither wonderful, nor greatly to his
discredit.
His method was to compare the size and the conformation
of the whole head with the favourite occupations or pursuits
of individuals. Several curious but partial conclusions were
the result ; but to these, he found he was under the neces-
sity of admitting there were sundry exceptions,—a fact
which convinced him, either that he was not in the right
track, or that he had not yet arrived at the truth ; for it
was a fundamental proposition in his mind, that nature is
regular and constant.—" If the eye be the organ of sight,
" (said he) vision can never exist without the eye ; and it
" is the same with the internal organs: —If any faculty be
" attached to a particular organ, this organ can never be
f '
wanting, if the faculty manifests itself.
11
In place, there-
122 VIEW OF Dll SPURZHEIM'S LECTUKES.
fore, of considering the general configuration of the head,
in reference to particular faculties, Dr Gall now sought for
a correspondence or coincidence between particular organs
and the natural vocations or habitual actions of indivi-
duals; that is to say, those occupations and actions for
which their faculties and inclinations seemed most to dis-
pose and fit them. In this manner, accordingly, he dis-
covered peculiar developments of the head in various per-
sons who were noted for their excellence in certain profes-
sions and pursuits, as those of the mechanician, the mathe-
matician, musicians, sculptors, &c. His observations of this
kind were first confined to persons of what may be called par-
tial genius, as, with propriety, supposed most likely to afford
well marked organic indications ; but they were afterwards
extended to cases, in which, from circumstances, there was
little danger of being misled by dissimulation or conceit
and ultimately they reached to persons taken indiscrimi-
nately from the lower classes, whom he called into his house,
and, by various means, excited to such conversation and
behaviour as might enable him to become acquainted with
their respective characters. The office of physician to the
Establishment for the Deaf and Dumb at Vienna, contri-
buted essentially to his opportunities of acquiring informa-
tion on the subject which now so deeply occupied his mind.
But an error of considerable magnitude still pervaded his
investigations,—the consequence, apparently, of the resolu-
tion already mentioned not having been corrected by an
acquaintance with what are now denominated the Special
Faculties ; and also of his not attending sufficiently to the
fact, that those actions of mankind which he principally
contemplated are rather the results of combinations of the
faculties and propensities, than the simple product of any
one of them by itself. Moreover, it is certain, that his
names for the organs, which he discovered, in this manner,
VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES. 123
to be somehow or other connected with the principal ac-
tions and propensities of men, were necessarily defective
and incorrect,—a clear proof, we may be sure, of something
faulty in his own conceptions. The impropriety of de-
ducing them from the actions to which the supposed organs
contributed, and, more especially, where those actions were
grossly immoral and illegal, was indeed so obvious and so
great, as to bring very general odium on the doctrine which
they were meant to illustrate. An organ of theft and of
murder, for example, could never be admitted, whilst it
was perfectly certain that either of these transgressions
might originate in a variety of motives. Although Dr
Gall had been able to demonstrate that, in every person
who committed them, a certain portion of the brain was
peculiarly developed, this never could be allowed to be a
proof that the discovered protuberances were the peccant
parts. Dr Spurzheim was well aware of the implied ab-
surdity, and seems to be entitled to the merit of having re-
formed the nomenclature, which he has endeavoured to de-
rive, as much as possible, from the primitive feelings and
radical designs or efforts of the faculties. He has acknow-
ledged, too, the extreme difficulty of ascertaining these, in
seme cases, and would doubtless be thankful for any addi-
tional or corrective light which others might bring to bear
on the subject. The means employed by Dr Gall, in or-
der to ascertain the organs of the manifestations, are never-
theless unexceptionable,—two principles being considered
proved, viz. 1. That the brain, considered as a combination of
organs, is the instrument by which the mind, no matter how,
manifests itself; and, 2. That the size of the organs is one
of the elements from which we are to determine the nature
of the functions of the various parts of the brain. He pro-
ceeded, then, on the inductive plan recommended by the
father of modern philosophy, Lord Bacox, of whom, not-
124 VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES.
withstanding some errors, which, beyond all question, I
imagine, have been abundantly visited by the severity of
criticism, he may be justly commended as a faithful and
an ardent disciple. Those persons, if, indeed, there are
any such, who have carefully studied the immensity of facts
by which he has established his principal conclusions in this
science, and have either disproved them by more abundant
or more correct evidence, or have superseded them by the
fruit of wider inquiry, are alone warranted in refusing his
claims to this honourable title. The merit of his colleague,
on the other hand, it is probable, will be less contested, at
least in this country, since the many opportunities which his
visit afforded of displaying the endowments of his truly phi-
losophical mind, were calculated most effectively to dissipate
the injurious prejudices that were so industriously excited
against his name, his character, and his doctrines. The
vigour of his intellect refused no toil in the cause of science.
The promptitude of his spirit and his zeal secured effi-
ciency of judgment, and patient inquiry, on occasions which
might have been thought trivial and unpromising by com-
mon observers. His serene, probably because his conscien-
tious reliance on the ultimate triumph of truth, supported
him against the obstinacy of ignorance, and the malevolence
of systematic error ; and to these high endowments, so re-
quisite to the character of a philosopher, especially when
waging war with established creeds, he added a simplicity
and a gentleness of manners which did not fail to conciliate
regard, where his reasoning and his extensive information
were urged seemingly in vain. I offer you this testimony,
Gentlemen, as that of one who knew not Dr Spurzheim,
till prejudice, folly, and presumption had accomplished
their wonted drudgery of misrepresentation and slander;
and I must be allowed to persuade myself, that the can-
VIEW OF Dlt SPURZHEOl'S LECTURES. 125
dour and the kindliness with which you receive it are in-
contestible proofs of its accuracy *.
• The language in which I have spoken of the treatment awarded in
this country to Drs Gall and Spurziieim, and especially by some indi-
viduals who assumed to guide the public mind in matters of literature and
science, may seem harsh and opprobrious. I could appeal, for evidence of
its justness, to various works ; but almost any one shred of the memorable
tissue of misrepresentation, conceit and effrontery, which disgraces the
far-famed journal of our metropolis, will bear me out. " We look upon the
" whole doctrines taught by these two modern peripatetics, anatomical,
" physiological, and physiognomical, as a piece of thorough quackery from
" beginning to end."—" Were they to succeed in shaking off the suspicion
" ofmalajides, which we apprehend is inseparably attached to their charac-
" ter," &c.—" The system (of the diverging and converging fibres of the
»' brain), is a complete fiction from beginning to end."—" It is a wilful
" misrepresentation in them to affirm, that either diverging or converging
" fibres can be shown."—" It certainly required the hardihood of those
" never -to-be-appalled gentlemen to endeavour to demonstrate," &c " The
" writings of Drs Gall and Spukzheim have not added one fact to the stock
" of our knowledge, respecting either the structure or the functions of
" man ; but consist of such a mixture of gross errors, extravagant observa-
" tions, downright misstatements, and unmeaning quotations from Scripture,
" as can leave no doubt, we apprehend, in the minds of honest and intelli-
" gent men, as to the real ignorance, the real hypocrisy, and the real empi-
" ricism of the authors."
—
Ediiu Review, No. 49. The article from which
these passages are taken, will at once record the ignorance which prevailed
at the period in question, even among philosophers, regarding the functions
of the brain and the faculties of the mind, and afford a criterion, by which
posterity will assuredly judge of the magnitude and value of the discoveries
of Drs Gall and Spurziieim.
May I may be allowed to take this opportunity of stating, that the objec-
tion to Phrenology, as founded on Materialism, and leading to infidelity,
seems to me one of the most irrational and unjust allegations ever brought
against any science. In reality, the perfect, explicit, unqualified corres-
pondence of the doctrines of the system with those portions of the Sacred
Scriptures which relate to the character of man, is, to my mind, an inciden-
tal, but a powerful evidence of truth, which I confess I have looked for in
vain in the proud metaphysics of the schools.
126 VIEW OF DE SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES.
The common division of the faculties of the mind into
Will and Understanding, is discarded from this system, at
least as modified by Dr Spurzheim, together with that no-
tion which refers the faculties of animals to something called
Instinct, in opposition to the understanding of man. Ac-
cording to him, Will, a term often employed to denote every
propensity, ought not to be considered as a particular class
of functions distinct from the intellectual faculties ; for all
the faculties, whether moral or intellectual, so soon as they
become active, have their corresponding desires or propen-
sities, and may be excited from the lowest degree of incli-
nation, to the highest degree of passion. But he does not
imagine that all the faculties are capable of the same mo-
difications of action. The moral sentiments, for example,
are said to produce feelings only, but not to possess either
memory or judgment, while the intellectual faculties pre-
sent both. Farther, it is conceived thatthere is a difference
observable between the feelings, some of which produce a
mere propensity, while others, besides a propensity, are ac-
companied by a peculiar kind of sensation, which must be
experienced in order to be understood. Of this last sort
are self-love, justice, compassion ; some of them are proper
to man, others are common to him and the lower animals,
as are the faculties to which the name of Propensities is
given. Those faculties, again, by which we become ac-
quainted with the external world and the qualities of bo-
dies, Dr Spurzheim denominates Knowing Faculties, for
want of a better title, and in contradistinction to certain
other intellectual powers by which we compare " the rela-
" tions between the different external bodies, the relations
" between the external bodies and the internal faculties, and
" those between the internal faculties themselves,
11
which he
styles Reflecting Faculties. The term Mind is considered,
in this system, as nearly synonymous with Faculties.
VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES. 127
Here it is requisite to say a word or two, in explanation
of the phraseology employed to denote the faculties. This
is certainly an innovation, and can be tolerated only on the
ground of necessity. It is no doubt fair that the founders
of a new science be allowed to avail themselves of every
possible combination or invention of words which shall most
suitably apply to their subject. Dr Spurzheim ingeniously
argued for this right of coining terms, particularly compound
ones, which the genius of his own language^ the German,
much more easily admits than English. The termination
ive is employed to denote the quality ofproducing, and
iicss, the abstract state. These are joined to different roots,
as much as possible chosen from the English language;
failing this source, from Latin participles in common use
;
and, in one case, from Greek words. Terms, therefore,
which end in iveness, signify different propensities, con-
ceived to be peculiar faculties of the mind. They have a
strange appearance, it is true, and are often troublesome
from their length ; but the preciseness of their signification,
and the circumstance of their saving much circumlocution,
repay the sacrifice of taste, and the toil of pronunciation
which they require. Dr Spurzheim entered on a particular
defence of some of these terms ; but, at the same time, de-
clared his anxiety to be put in possession of better, as he
had no ambition to gratify by so hazardous an innovation.
Dr Spurzheim did not treat of the organs, in the order
in which they are said to have been discovered, but accord-
ing to their situation in the brain, beginning with that which
is lowest in the back part of the head, where the cerebellum,
or little brain, is situate. The Outline of the System, and
the Plate, in the hands of all the members, will afford an
intelligible idea of their nature, number, and relative im-
portance ; but the assistance of a figure, and some portion
of anatomical knowledge, are requisite to a correct acquain-
tance with their positions.
128 VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES.
It is not affirmed that all the organs which have been
enumerated are equally demonstrable, or have been with
equal certainty determined. On the contrary, several of
them were considered somewhat doubtful, and as resting
on an insufficient number of observations ; a [ew are merely
conjectured to exist ; and of these, very vague notions were
probably entertained : but the greater part, Dr Spurzheim
asserted to be established in such a manner as entirely to
exclude scepticism, and the apprehension of mistake, I
need not tell you, that subsequent inquiries have both con-
firmed and greatly extended the system. The most cau-
tious inquirer, it might be remarked, is bound to admit the
facts brought forward regarding the coincidence between the
faculties and certain developments of the brain, indicated by
corresponding modifications of the skull, but he is not there-
fore necessitated to go the length of deciding that these de-
velopments are the seats of the faculties ; or, in other words,
the residence of the soul—a question, as already stated,
never once agitated in this system. But, even admitting
this to be the case, it is perfectly obvious, that the accu-
mulation of such facts contributes essentially to our ac-
quaintance with human nature, and lays the basis of a ra-
tional system of physiognomical science. In this point of
view, then, Avere there nothing else to recommend them,
the labours of Gall and Spurzheim merit high distinction
in the records of science.
But it would be unjust, I apprehend, to limit the claims
of this doctrine to any rank, however elevated, in physics
merely : and I am greatly deceived, if the facilities which
it presents for the prosecution of intellectual philosophy—of
all those studies, in short, which have the human constitu-
tion and character for their object, will nor, ere long, be
extensively admitted as constituting one of its chief recom-
mendations. Indeed, I think I perceive the dread of this,
in the conduct of some of its recent antagonists,—a sort of
3
VIEW OF DR SPU11ZHEIMS LECTURES. 12$
tremulous anxiety which I confess I have difficulty in be-
lieving to proceed so much from a generous love of truth,
as a jealousy lest the honours of a declining rival should alto-
gether vanish. The shock which the science of Metaphy-
sics, if such it must be called, has experienced in our own
day, might have been expected to occasion a considerable
degree of uneasiness on the^ part of its conscientious vota-
ries, and almost justifies it; because it is as impossible for
a human being to be quite insensible to popular opinion, as
it would be improper for him if he could : But the pertina-
city which continues to idolize systems and creeds, after an
experiment of two thousand years duration has shewn them
to be unproductive of any real benefit to mankind—and
which, in demonstrating its devotedness, does not scruple
to disport itself in unmanly slanders and detestable ribaldry,
can have no other source than a perverted understanding
and a vicious heart. The prostitution of talents, which we
have all of us had occasion to witness, in the opposition
made to Phrenology, and the frequent exposures of un-
happy defects and bad habits, volunteered by some of its
enemies, while they neither affect its foundation, nor ruffle
the temper of its disciples, are productive of essential, but,
it must be allowed, very painful advantages;—they fur-
nish ample materials for the confirmation of its truth, and
no less ample motives and opportunities for the exercise of
that forbearance and compassion which it is one of its ex-
cellencies imperatively to inculcate.
I beg leave to conclude these remarks in the expressions
and highly appropriate language of the late Mr Playfair.
" Even in matters purely intellectual, the prejudices and
" the selfishness, or the vanity of those who pursue them,
" not unfrequently combine to resist improvements, and
" often engage no inconsiderable degree of talent in draw-
Ci
ing back, instead of pushing forward, the machine of
r
130 VIEW OF DR SPURZHEIM'S LECTURES.
science. The introduction of methods entirely new,
must often change the relative place of the men engaged
in scientific pursuits ; and must oblige many, after de-
scending from the stations they formerly occupied, to
take a lower rank in the scale of intellectual advance-
ment. The enmity of such men, if they be not ani-
mated by a spirit of real candour, and the love of truth,
is likely to be directed against methods by which their
vanity is mortified, and their importance lessened.'
11
( 131 )
II.
—
On the Functions ofCombativeness, Destruc-
tiveness, and Secretiveness—with Illustrations
of the effects of different degrees of their en-
dowment on the Characters ofIndividuals,
By Mr Scott,
x\mong the prejudices which are entertained on the sub-
ject of Phrenology, there is none more general, or which
seems to stand more in the way of its cordial reception, than
the very erroneous one, that it considers man as endowed
with some propensities that are purely evil. That a doc-
trine of this kind should have excited some alarm and op-
position, will not appear surprising, when it is considered
how much it is adverse to those ideas which we love to en-
tertain of the dignity and perfection of human nature. To
suppose that any powers or propensities were implanted in
us, originally and intrinsically bad, not only shocks our
self-love, and that complacency with which we are prone to
view our character, but seems to impeach the goodness of
the Divine Author of our being, in whose image we are
told that we were originally formed,
i2
132 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
Though I have called this, as I conceive it to be, an
erroneous prejudice, it cannot be denied, that, at one time,
there did appear some foundation for the reproach which it
seemed to cast upon Phrenology ; when, at the first pro-
mulgation of its doctrines by Dr Gall, he stated, among
the organs which he held to compose the mass of the brain,
an organ of Theft and an organ of Murder. It was natural,
and even perhaps necessary, at first, to term them so, from
their being first observed only in that state of great de-
velopment in which they were found in notorious rogues
and condemned criminals, and before a more extended ob-
servation had shewn them to have a larger and more general
function. I even consider this original defect in the science,
to be one of the many evidences of its truth, and of the
honesty and fearlessness of its first cultivators. In pro-
mulgating their discoveries to the world, they seem to have
entirely disregarded all previous opinions on the subject
—
to have paid no respect whatever, either to philosophical
theory or vulgar prejudice —and to have stated what they
observed, or what they conceived to be true, utterly re-
gardless of all sorts of consequences. That, in doing so,
they should commit errors—that they should occasionally
miss the true tendency of a faculty—that they should mis-
take the abuses of a power for its natural and legitimate
uses—is just what was to have been expected ; and the only
astonishing part of the affair is, that, within so short a space
as has elapsed since these doctrines were first heard of, they
should already have assumed so much the appearance of a
science and a system. It does appear wonderful, and to
many almost incredible, that no fewer than thirty-three
separate special faculties should have been discovered, and
many of them ascertained by evidence of the most convin-
cing kind, and that all this should have been done during
DESTItUCTIVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS. 133
tiie lifetime of one man—when Metaphysicians have been
labouring for 2000 years, without being able to establish a
single mental power on any thing like solid or satisfactory
grounds. To those who object that all this is incredible
and impossible, it may be sufficient to say, that there is but
one path which leads to truth ; that if we miss it, we may
blunder on for ever, without coming one step nearer the
object of our investigation : but that this being once dis-
covered, every part of our progress thenceforth becomes
obvious and easy. This has been exemplified in the nine-
teenth century, in two instances—the opening of the Second
Fyramid at Giza, and the discovery of Phrenology.
It is farther to be remarked, that the changes that have
taken place in the aspect of this science, are not mere
changes without improvement, but that each of them is a
step gained, and a movement in advance, not inconsistent
with any thing that went before, but connecting it with
something else that includes and comprehends it. It has
not been the case here, as hitherto in metaphysics, that one
votary of the study has taken it upon him to overturn all
the labours of his predecessors, and erect a new fabric of
his own. The science has proceeded without one retrograde
movement ; and a principle once fixed, is never lost sight of,
although it may be afterwards found to be included in an-
other principle of larger extent and more general applica-
tion. Still, however, we are on the mere threshold. Much
remains to be done in generalizing and liberalizing the study,
and bringing it up to the pitch of improvement which the
present state of cultivation of the human faculties and £of
the other sciences demands. Many and great are the la-
bours that must be gone through, before all this is accom-
plished, and more, probably, than the present generation
will ever see ; but this is not to prevent us from doing what
wc can.
134 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
Among the improvements that have already taken place
in the science, there is none greater than that gradual and
cautious advance from fact to principle, of which, I believe,
the chief merit belongs to Dr Spuezheim—in giving to the
powers names indicating a general feeling and propensity
and not an impulse to a particular act. Thus, in place of
an organ of Theft and of Murder, we have now the organs
of Acquisitiveness and Destructiveness. This, no doubt>
removes, in part, the objection to which I at first alluded
;
but still, without some farther explanation, it may be, and
by many is thought, that the science holds out these to be
naturally bad propensities, and such as our nature would
be better without. Secretiveness also seems to be held of
evil tendency, though no longer denominated the organ of
Deceit. It is no doubt known to those who are farther ad-
vanced in the study, that these propensities are not necessa-
rily, or even principally evil ; that, on the contrary, they
are necessary constituent parts of our nature, which would
be imperfect without them ; that their principal aim and
intention, when under due regulation from higher powers,
is altogether good ; and that, as in all other parts of nature,
the evil which sometimes arises from their abuse or over
activity, is only accidental and casual—the exceptions and
not the general rule. Although all this is perfectly known
and acknowledged by those who have made progress in the
science, it has not as yet been brought out thoroughly
in any detailed exposition of the several powers and their
functions. Those who have hitherto written on the subject,
have had so vast a field of other matter to discuss, that they
have not had leisure to enter upon questions of this nature,
I have therefore thought it might be useful, without at all
pretending to any thing new, to give a more detailed view
than they have done, of the functions of some of the pro-
pensities and powers ; and I have chosen for the subject of
DESTltUCTlVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS. 135
this Essay, three which are generally considered to have
most of the animal, and least of the man in them, Comba-
tiveness, Destructiveness, and Secretiveness.
It may appear to require some apology, that one who is a
mere tyro in the study, should present himself thus early to
the notice of the Society in this way ; but I shall only, on this
account, solicit a larger share of their indulgence, as I hope
it will not be objected to any one, that he endeavours to do
what appears to him practicable, because it might have been
better done by another and an abler hand. We are all fellow
labourers in the same vineyard ; and every one should be
encouraged to lend his aid, whether it may be more or less
valuable. I have also, perhaps, to apologize for using il-
lustrations which may appear to some of a nature not very
relevant, and not suited to such an inquiry as this ; and par-
ticularly for reference, on some occasions, to a class of wri-
ters not generally ranked among philosophers—I mean the
poets. But, in truth, I regard these, as has often been
done in a critical, though seldom in a philosophical view,
as our great masters in the science of human nature. I
consider that it is in their productions, more than in the
elaborate works of philosophers and metaphysicians (who
generally write for the purpose of supporting a system) that
we are to look for a just delineation of human thoughts and
feelings, and a true and living picture of man, in his just
lineaments and proportions. It is there we find him repre-
sented as he really exists, manifesting his feelings and ener-
gies as they shew themselves under all the trials of exertion
and suffering to which he is exposed in the collisions of the
world, and standing before us in all his strength and in all
his weakness.
The propensities mentioned by phrenologists may be pro-
perly enough distinguished into three orders—those which
136 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
excite to action—those which restrain from it—and those
which retain us in a fixed and permanent course of con-
duct. Of the first kind, are the lowest propensities of all,
the organs of which lie along the base of the brain—Ama-
tiveness, Combativeness, Destructiveness, Constructiveness,
and Acquisitiveness. Of the second class are Secretiveness
and Cautiousness. And of the third, Philoprogenitiveness,
Adhesiveness, and, No. 3., formerly termed Inhabitiveness,
but now among us designated Concentrativeness. The cha-
racteristic of the first class seems to be ardour of pursuit,
modified with respect to the object to which they are speci-
fically directed :
—ardour, eagerness, keenness,—to enjoy, to
struggle and overcome, to destroy, to construct, to acquire,
—seem to include the most of these strong desires which im-
pel us originally to action, and which lie at the foundation
of the human character.
These seem to be the impelling forces which put the
machinery in motion. They act as the steam, while the re-
straining powers are the condensers and safety-valves ; and
the third class, the affections, may be likened to the Jfy9
which keeps the motion equable and steady : and, if we are
inclined to carry the parallel farther, we might say that
those sentiments and intellectual faculties which ultimately
serve to regulate and direct the conduct, may be compared
to that ulterior complication of wheels and machinery which
enables a blind physical force to accomplish all those won-
ders which we see it actually perform ; though, in either
case, all this combination of powers could do nothing, with-
out an infusion of that intelligent mind which originally
planned, and must throughout animate and inspire the whole.
To observe the lower propensities aright, we should look
first at their effects in the lower animals, where they are not,
at least not so perfectly as in man, controlled and modified
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS- 137
by powers of a superior kind. In the brutes, they fre-
quently appear single and unrestrained ; and, while any of
them is naturally predominant, or for the time in a state of
activity, they rush to its gratification with a fury which dis-
regards all consequences.
The direct impulse of any of these propensities, unre-
gulated by higher powers, may be compared to the effects
of simple forces in mechanics, by which a body is impelled
to move in a certain direction and in a straight line. In
this case, the motion produced affords an accurate measure
of the force applied, both in its direction and in its power.
The effect of such propensities in the human character, on
the other hand, where their energy is controlled and modi-
fied by higher feelings, may be likened to that produced by
a combination of forces, where a body, instead of moving
in a direct line, in the direction and with the velocity im-
pressed by the original moving power, is drawn aside, and
made to move in a diagonal, or in a curve, by the influence
of some other power acting along with it. In this case, the
motion produced is not a measure either of the one power
or the other ; and their relative nature and degrees of force
can only be discovered by careful analysis and patient cal-
culation.
I shall proceed, without farther preface, to the considera-
tion of
COMBATIVENESS.
There is no quality whatever in which men differ more,
than this of Combativeness. While some individuals are
so devoid of it, as to shrink from the most trifling opposi-
tion, and would almost run away from a Barbary hen, " if
" her feathers turn back with any shew of resistance
;"
there are others who are never so happy as when en-
gaged in a vigorous contest, such as to employ to the ut-
138 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
most their whole powers and means, both offensive and de-
fensive. There is hardly a greater difference between the
most gentle of animals and the most savage,—between a
lamb, for instance, and a lion, than there is between one
individual of our species and another, in respect of this
propensity.
It is impossible to account for such a prodigious diversi-
ty as this in any way but one. No differences of educa-
tion, or of habit, or any of the circumstances commonly
supposed to affect or modify the character of individuals,
could ever produce so complete an opposition of tastes and
powers, if men were originally formed alike ; for this is not
a variety merely, but a total and entire opposition. In the
inferior animals, education and habit may be employed, to
modify to a certain degree their original propensities ; but
no force of education or habit, will ever root out one strong
propensity and implant its opposite. No education will
make the tame and docile tribes learn the manners of the
wild and ferocious. Game cocks, who have a natural pro-
pensity to fight, may be taught to fight in a particular
way ; but it is quite impossible to teach pigeons or hares to
fight with the ardour of game-cocks.
When we are asked, what is the reason of this extreme
difference in the habits of animals ? We answer, quite cor-
rectly, that it is their nature ; that one has naturally and
originally implanted in it an instinctive propensity or power,
which another has not. When we find as great a difference
in our own species, why should we give a different answer
in their case ? Why should we attribute to education or
habit, effects greater than education or habit was ever
known to produce in any individual instance ?
If any instances could be shewn, where native original
propensities, perfectly well marked and ascertained, were not
only modified and altered, but the opposite propensity very
3
JDESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECltETlVENESS. 1J9
strongly induced, by education and habit ; then it might
be correct and philosophical to conclude, that these will ac-
count for all characteristic differences. If it were a com-
mon or not unusual occurrence, to find a man, originally of
a soft and yielding disposition, utterly averse from every
kind of contention, by being placed in certain circumstan-
ces, a«d under a particular training, become bold, active
and spirited, delighting in danger and fatigue ; or if, by a
contrary mode of treatment, a stirring, fiery spirit, could be
smoothed and softened down to the gentle disposition of a
girl,—such instances would be facts which would furnish
the grounds of legitimate argument. But it may be confi-
dently said, that no such instances can be produced, or ever
existed ; and in the absence of all such, we have only left
us to conclude, that the differences we observe in the tem-
pers and dispositions of individuals in this respect, arise
from an original difference in the constitution of their
minds.
These observations may, in some measure, apply to all
the propensities ; but they are not more conspicuously true
with regard to any, than this of Ccmbativeness. This pro-
pensity is not confined to the mere act of fighting, that be-
ing only one of the modes in Avhich it manifests itself. It
seems to be the prhnum mobile of our constitution ; the
main spring which sets the other wheels of the machinery
in motion. Its essence seems to be a sort of restlessness,
—
an impatience of ease,—an abhorrence of a state of inacti-
vity. By itself it is a blind impulse, delighting in opposi-
tion for its own sake,—a restless spirit of contention, with-
out end or object,—but under the direction of higher
powers, it gives boldness and force to the character, and en-
ables these to act with energy and effect. All the propen-
sities are not merely propensities, but powers ; and this of
combativeness is eminently so. It not only gives the de-
140 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
sire to contend, but the power of contending ; and without
this as an active principle, no other motive can induce the
same species of exertion.
I have said that it does not show itself in fighting only.
In all cases where we have difficulties to encounter, where a
severe struggle is necessary to command success, this power
is of eminent use ; and nothing can supply or make up for
it, if it is wanting. In the ancient games, it was the same
internal impulse which strained to the utmost the speed of
the racer, and gave force to the arms which wielded the
disc or the cestus. No doubt, the love of approbation may
be a powerful auxiliary, by producing the desire to excel
;
and firmness may supply the passive principle of resist-
ance and determination not to yield ; but these are auxi-
liaries only ; and, in the actual struggle, they can do nothing
without the power of combativeness, and that in large mea-
sure.
When this power is too energetic, or not properly con-
trolled by other powers, it renders a man a nuisance to so-
ciety, or fit only for savage life : but when it is duly ba-
lanced, and kept in subordination to the superior powers,
it is of eminent use, and a necessary ingredient in a manly
character. It is of use not merely in the contests of the
field, but in the collisions of civil life, whenever our views
happen to clash with, or be opposed to, those of others. It
may display itself in the bloodless contests of the bar or
the senate ; and even among the softer sex, in the rivalries
of the boudoir and the ball-room, no less than in the are-
na, or in the field of battle. In every contest, he who is
endowed with this power dashes through obstacles, and
struggles on to the last ; while he who has it not is easily
discomfited, and with every desire to get forward, feels him-
self worsted, baffled and beat down in every quarter, by
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECItETIVENESS. 141
those more highly endowed with combativeness than him-
self.
This propensity sometimes manifests itself very strong-
ly, where there is no opportunity or pretext for any serious
or actual opposition. There are some men in whom it ap-
pears, in the course of the lightest or most amicable conver-
sation. Such men are your great arguers. The spirit of
contention and opposition is so strong in them, that they
cannot prevail upon themselves to assent to the simplest
proposition. There are men who make a point of contra-
dicting almost every thing that is said ; who, whatever
opinion is broached, are sure to take the opposite,
" And even tho' vanquished, they can argue still."
Such persons cannot endure to have their opinions assented
to. If you are convinced by their arguments, they will go
over to the opinion you have left,
" Confute, change sides, and still confute."
The character of " my Father " in Tristram Shandy, is an
exquisite delineation of a person of this kind, and the
humour is kept up by making it one of his greatest annoy-
ances, that " my mother " mil, by no means, be brought on
any occasion to contradict him, or to dispute with him ; but
invariably assents to every thing he says, so that their con-
versation never proceeds beyond a third sentence,—the pro-
position,—the reply,—and the rejoinder.
They who satirise the softer sex, represent, with what
truth need not be said, this spirit of contradiction as some-
times exceedingly strong in them. It would be injustice
surely to say, that this is frequently the case in those of
better rank and education,—but among the children of na-
ture, whose original qualities, good and bad, are allowed to
shoot up unrestrained, it unfortunately occurs too often.
142 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
And every one must have seen among the lower ranks, in-
decent brawls occur in families, which can only proceed
from a large share of combativeness in the weaker vessel.
When combined with destructiveness, it constitutes what is
generally called a scold ; and is apt to produce a series of
open brawling and loud threatening looks and language,
which render a woman the terror, not of her own family
only, but of a neighbourhood.
But combativeness does not shew itself in perfection,
when combined with any other principle of action. There
are many who may be ready enough to strike, " when they
" see occasion,""—but true combativeness shews itself in
prompting to strike, whether there be occasion or no.
This appears nowhere better exemplified at the present
day, than in the character of the low Irish. The Irish-
man seems to exhibit the very beau ideal of combativeness.
It would be interesting to know if this is accompanied by
a corresponding development. There is in this strange
race a mixture of ferocity and fun, which seems to be in-
explicable on any other principles than those of phrenology.
It is explained at once by supposing, that the organs of
combativeness and wit exist in them, in a state both of high
development. If this shall prove not to be the case, on an
attentive examination of the Hibernian sinciput and occiput,
it will in no small degree contribute to shake my belief in
the doctrines of phrenology.
The Irish, of the lower ranks, it is well known, delight
in fighting for its own sake. A blow is with them a smart
repartee, and fighting an agreeable exercise, to keep the
blood in circulation. On all occasions which bring the peo-
ple together in any considerable numbers, whatever may be
the original ostensible purpose or pretence, they can never
separate without the most decided manifestations of this
propensity. I speak not here of their almost perpetual dis^
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS. 143
turbances, riots, rebellions and murders, which manifest no
small portion of dcstructivehess ; but of their more peaceable
and orderly meetings, whether for the purposes of business
or pleasure.
Sir John Carr, in his " Stranger in Ireland,'
1
informs us,
that there is not a more deadly symptom of the state of
that country, than a cessation from this favourite amuse-
ment. The rebellions in Ireland, he observes, like the
hurricanes in the West Indies, have always been preceded
by a calm : so much so, that shortly after the year 1798,
upon a gentleman who lived in a town, where a great fair
was holding, and who knew the Irish character well, being
asked how the people seemed disposed at the fair,—he re-
plied, " all was peace and quiet ; for he bad left them all
" fighting."
The same lively tourist relates that an Irish gentleman,
who was travelling abroad, happened, on entering a village
in the south of France, to see an irregular skirmish among
the inhabitants, such as is termed a battle royal : he im-
mediately jumped out of his carriage, and joined one of the
parties ; and the side he espoused happening to be worsted,
he received some hard knocks ; but being conveyed back
to his vehicle, with some pretty severe contusions on the
head and limbs, instead of lamenting these, he declared it
was " the first bit of fun he had had since he left little
" Ireland."
The above is perhaps not exactly true in all its circum-
stances ; but the very fact of such a story being invented,
if it is an invention, marks the character of the nation to
whom it is applied.
The description of an Irish feast, translated from an old
song, in the language of that country, by Swift, shews that
this part of the national character was, a century ago, near-
ly what it is now.
144 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
" Good Lord, what a sight,
" After all their good cheer,
*• For people to fight
f* In the midst of their beer.
** They rise from taeir feast,
*' And hot are their brains ;
*' A cubit, at least,
*' Are the length of their skeans-
" What stabs, and what cuts,
« What clattering of sticks
" What strokes on the guts,
" What bastings and kicks,
" With cudgels of oak,
«' Well hardened in flame,
« An hundred heads broke,
" An hundred struck lame,"
The concluding verse,
*' Come down with that beam,
" If cudgels are scarce."
evinces an extent of the combative propensity truly Hiber-
nian.
But at a period still more remote, it appears from au-
thentic documents, that our own ancestors fell little short,
in this particular, of the modern Irish. The following
verses from a poem, which is acknowledged to contain a
correct and admirably graphic description of the manners
prevalent in that age, will shew what was very generally
the conclusion of a merry meeting in the days of our fore-
fathers. It will be observed that the fighting is introdu-
ced quite as a matter of course, and without any reason
whatever being assigned for its commencement.
" Wi' forkis and flailis they lent great flappis,
'• An' flang togidder like friggis
;
" Wi' bougaris of barnis they beft blew cappis,
M While they of bairnis maid briggis.
DESTltUCTIVENESS AND SECItETIVENESS. 145
" The reird raise rudely w*' the rappis,
" While rungis were laid on riggis ;
" The wiffis cam furth wi' cries and clappis,
" See whare my liking liggis
" Fu low
" At Christis Kirke on the Greene that daye."
" The miller was o' manly mak,
" To meit him was nae mowis
;
" There durst nae tensome there him tak,
" Sae noyted he their powis :
" The bushement hail about him brak,
" And bikkerit him wi' bowis;
" Syne traiterously behynd his backe,
" They hewit him on the houghis
" Behind,
" At Christis Kirke on the Greene that daye.
" Twa that were herdsmen o' the herd,
" On ither ran like rammis,
" They followed, seeming right unfeared,
" Beat on wi' barrow trammis
;
" But whan their gabbis they were ungeared,
" They gat upon the gammis ;
' Quhile bludie barkenit was their baird,
"As they had worreit lammis
' Maist lyke,
•' At Christis Kirke on the Greene that daye."
That all this warlike proceeding was merely an ebulli-
tion of the combative propensity, without any mixture of
the destructive, appears from this, that no fatal casualty
is recorded ; and it seems still more apparent, from the
following account of the conclusion of the fray.
•' Quhen thai had beirit lyke baitet bullis,
" An brain wode brynt in bailis ;
'* Thai wer als meik as ony mulis ;
" That mangit were wi maillis
:
146 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
" For faintnesse thae forfoughten fulis,
" Fell down like flaughterit faillis
;
" Freshe men cam in, and hailit the dulis,
" And dang them down in dalis
" Bedeen
" At Christis Kirk on the Greene that daye."
It is not quite useless to trace these symptoms of na-
tional character and manners. What our forefathers were
two or three hundred years ago, the Irish peasantry seem
to be now. We know the improvement that has taken
place amongst us since that period, and we know the means
by which that improvement has been effected ; and if the
same means were used with Ireland, we may hope that the
same effects would follow.
Destructiveness
Goes a step farther than Combativeness, and implies a de-
sire, not of merely overcoming our adversary, but of de-
stroying him, and putting him to death. Be it remember-
ed, that, in speaking of this, as of all the lower propensities,
they are to be considered first in their direct tendency mere-
ly, in reference to their end and aim, when altogether un-
restrained. In man they are never entirely so ; as man is
furnished with powers of a different kind, which were given
him to govern and control them. But, in the brutes, these
propensities, and this one of destructiveness among others,
are often seen to rage without check or limitation,—with-
out either pity or remorse. A blind fury animates them,
inciting them to kill and destroy every living thing that
comes in their way. Some even of the savage tribes, such
as the lion, appear to have some sparks of generosity in
their nature, and do not kill, except when pressed by hun-
ger ; but others, as the tiger, take delight in destroying
DESTRUCtlVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS. 147
lite, for its own sake, and without any object but that of
killing, spring on the defenceless passenger, or the harmless
bullock,—plunge their remorseless fangs into his bowels,
and, as the life-blood drains away, growl with a horrid de-
light over the object of their butchery.
In man, this propensity is generally restrained and pre-
vented from reaching its direct object, so far, at least, as
regards the persons and lives of our fellow-men. But,
where the restraints of principle, and the higher feelings
are not supposed to apply, those in whom the propensity
is strong, indulge themselves in committing havoc among
the inferior tribes. The sportsman who boasts of killing
in one day ten fat bucks, or forty or fifty brace of unof-
fending birds, would perhaps be shocked, were he told that
the pleasure he takes in these amusements, or sports, as he
calls them, proceeds from his possessing a large portion of
that quality which renders the tiger the most ferocious of
animals. The fact is nevertheless so ; the pleasure has its
first origin undoubtedly in Destructivcness.
The avidity also with which all ranks crowd to execu-
tions, proceeds chiefly from this propensity ; although the
love of effect, arising from Wonder and some other facul-
ties, operates along with it in prompting individuals to be
present at such spectacles. We have too much humanity
ourselves to put a man to death. But if a man is to be
killed, we have no objection to witness the fact, or, if I
may be allowed to say so, to enjoy the pleasure of seeing
it performed. That there is with many a pleasure accom-
panying such spectacles cannot be doubted ; and this plea-
sure is so great, that, to enjoy it, they are willing to do
violence to all their other feelings. Were Destructivcness
wanting, and Benevolence favourably developed in persons
present at an execution, they v>uld be horrified, not de-
lighted, by such a scene.
s 2
148 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
Those who have much Combativeness and Destructive-
ness will delight in reading histories of battles, sieges, and
wars. The love which the common people have for accounts
of bloody murders, arises from the same propensity.
The games of the Romans, where hundreds of human
beings were exposed to the fury of wild beasts, or obliged
to fight with and destroy one another, evince a people in
whom this propensity must have been remarkably strong.
It is not wonderful that such a people should have been
almost constantly engaged in wars, or that they should
have succeeded in subjugating all other nations ; and, it
may be presumed, that there existed among them many a
Caligula or Neiio, who never was raised to the purple.
Were not this propensity to be duly restrained, the
earth would, as in the days before the flood, be indeed
" filled with violence ;" but it is restrained both by resist-
ance from without, and by Cautiousness, Benevolence,
and other superior sentiments within. It proceeds to the
last extremity of murder, only when these restraints are
too weak, or when they are overborne by a sudden access
of the destructive propensity, too strong to be resisted.
The form in which it manifests itself when opposed by
obstacles from without, and when not duly restrained by
other sentiments within, seems to be the passion of anger.
It excites to loud threatening, which has the effect to put
upon their guard those against whom it is directed. It
gives the tendency to curse, which is the true manifesta-
tion of this propensity in words. It imparts a bitterness
and force to every kind of vituperation and sarcasm.
It is a mistake to suppose that this is always an evil or
a mischievous propensity. When combined with benevo-
lence or a strong sense of justice, it gives rise to a virtuous
indignation, some degree of which is absolutely necessary
to the true dignity of man. Nothing is more necessary, or
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECHET1VENESS. 149
more becoming a perfectly virtuous character, than a just
degree of severity and anger against every species of vice,
fraud, deceit, and cruelty. When we witness any signal in-
stance of these, not to be angry, is a proof of a mean and
contemptible spirit. " Be angry and sin not,
11
is a precept
founded upon this part of our constitution, and this anger,
so just and commendable, will probably be found to have
its source in the power of Destructiveness.
It is this faculty, as it appears to me, which gives to the
character its greatest energy and power. It lends a pecu-
liar force to the accents of command. Every command so
enforced, implies in it a threat :
" Do thus, or thus, as
" ye shall answer.
11
It is an intimation of the will of the
speaker, coupled with the farther intimation expressed or
implied, that disobedience will be attended with fatal or
inconvenient consequences. This power, accordingly, is
highly necessary to the chiefs of savage or uncivilized na-
tions, and even among a more refined people to the com-
manders of armies. Robert Bruce in former days, and
Buonaparte in our own, had this organ in large de-
velopment.
Power is manifested, not so much in actually destroying,
as in exhibiting an intention to destroy, if our will is not
obeyed. This is the first idea of power in the despotic,
which is the most simple, and next to the patriarchal, the
most ancient form of government. Laws are a refinement
of more modern growth. The despot knows no law but
his own capricious will, nor any means of enforcing his
commands but the immediate terror of the axe and the
bowstring. But, although under more due regulations in
a limited government, the principle of all power and all
command is the same. It is this which gives its force
to all military and naval discipline. The articles of war
are known to denounce death to all who shall disobev,
150 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
oppose, or evade the orders of their officers or superiors.
In civil life, the sanctions which preserve the public order
and tranquillity, differ from the above only in this, that the
rules to be obeyed, proceed not from the will of an indivi-
dual, but from the equal voice of the laws which apply to
all ; and the punishment which follows their infringement
is not inflicted by the party aggrieved, but by a public
magistrate, after due investigation and form of trial.
But, in all states of society, there are many acts to which
the laws and the voice of the public magistrate do not, and
cannot apply. We are often called upon to defend our per-
sons, our properties, and our rights, from fraud and violence,
as we best can. For doing this with effect, the power of De-
structiveness is highly necessary, though it is not always ne-
cessary even then to give it full scope, or carry it the
length of extinguishing life. It requires much firmness,
and a complete possession of all our powers, to know how
far forbearance should be carried, and when a just severity
becomes necessary and proper. A person, with large De-
structiveness, and deficient controlling power, will, from
fear, or for some trifling inadequate motive, destroy life.
A man of superior intellect knows his interest better. Con-
scious of the tendency, he restrains it in its last and most
fatal effects ; because it produces more desirable ends in its
more moderated exercise. The pistol which, when dis-
charged, can shoot only one man, may, when held in a
threatening position, overawe a hundred. So it is with the
man, whose passion, though ready to burst forth, is under
controul. He commands, and his commands are obeyed ;
because it is known there is that about him which brooks
no dallying. Thus Hamlet, when attacked by Laertes,
before he proceeds to repel force by force, calmly remon-
strates with his antagonist,
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS. 151
«'
I pri' thee, take thy fingers from my throat,
" For tho' I am not splenetic and rash,
" Yet have I in me something dangerous,
" Which let thy wisdom fear."
It frequently happens, that those who possess this power
in most perfection, do, in a personal contest, exhibit much
more coolness, and a greater reluctance to proceed to ex-
tremities, than those who have not half the original power,
but whose power, such as it is, is, from circumstances, more
in a state of excitation, or less under the control of the
restraining faculties. In the following passages from
Othello, it will be seen, that the brave and redoubted
chief,—the scourge of the Ottomites,—the prop and bul-
wark of the Venetian name,—who had faced and discom-
fited thousands of his countries'' enemies,—he, in short, who,
of all the persons represented, must be supposed to have
possessed this power in largest measure, is, throughout, the
most cool, and the most averse to use, or to allow to be used,
any actual violence. In the first scene, the old, decrepid,
and infirm Brabantio, is clamorous, fierce, and boastful
;
while Othello, in the full consciousness of his own supe-
riority and safety, receives him with a calmness almost in-
dicating contempt.
" Rodrigo. Signior, it is the Moor.
" Brab. Down with him, Thief.
" Oth. Keep up your bright swords, for the dew will rust them.
** Good Signior, you shall more command with years
" Than with your weapons."
Swords being raised on both sides, Othello calls out with
the tone of one accustomed to command,
" Hold your hands—
" Both you of my inclining and the rest,
'* Were it my cue to fight, I should have known it
" Without a prompter."
In the second act, he shows the same anxiety to preserve
the peace, which is disturbed by the quarrelling of his oftv
152 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
cers in Cyprus ; and the manner in which he does it, cha-
racterises his destructive energy no less, than if he had been
the foremost in taking a part in it.
" For Christian shame, put by this barbarous brawl,
•' He that stirs next, to carve for his own rage,
" Holds his soul light
—
he dies upon his motion."
Afterwards, when his repeated interrogatories cannot ex-
tract from the actors in it, an account how the disturbance
began, his anger begins to rise indeed.
" Now, by Heayen,
*' My blood begins my safer guides to rule,
;
" And passion, having my best judgment collied,
" Assays to lead the way : If I once stir,
" Or do but lift this arm, the best ofyou
u Shull sink in my rebuke. Give me to know
" How this foul rout began ?—Who set it on ?
" And he that is approved in the offence,
" Tho' he be twinned with me, both at a birth,
" Shall lose me.—What, in a town of war,
" Yet wild, the peoples' hearts brimful of fear,
" To manage private and domestic quarrel
"In night, and in the court and guard of safety,
" 'Tis monstrous !"
There is something in the gesture, in the looks, and,
above all, in the tone of voice, of one who possesses this
power, which, in less energetic minds, inspires an instinc-
tive fear, and induces an involuntary obedience. The feel-
ing to which it addresses itself is Cautiousness. When in
the state of greatest energy, its effect is irresistible. It is
not mere loudness ; for that may be assumed by any one
who possesses the requisite strength of lungs. It is not
the mere appearance of anger ; for anger, in an unenergetic
mind, is only an object of ridicule. But when these indi-
cations are exhibited by a powerful mind, there is in them
an indefinable something, which awes inferior spirits, and
reduces them to obey, in spite of themselves. The most
detailed portrait of the terrible being which man may be-
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECRET1VENESS. 153
come, when destructiveness is combined with superior intel-
lect, is presented to vis in the Achilles of Homer. But none
of his actual exploits in battle, not even his resistless rage,
where he stands alone, and is victorious over a host of foes,
though the gods themselves mingle against him in the fight,
conveys such an idea of the destructive energy of his charac-
ter, as his appearance, unarmed and naked on the Grecian
battlements, when he goes to survey the contest, for the
dead body of his friend Patroclus ; and when he raises
that shout, which startles and appals the contending multi-
tudes, and causes them to drop their arms, and pause in the
midst of the combat. Stenior might have shouted as
loud or louder, without producing this, or any effect at
all. No doubt, Homer says, that Minerva threw her aegis
over the head of her favourite, and swelled his shout with
her own voice ; but this is merely Homer's way of express-
ing to us the terrible energy of mind which gave its force
to the voice and lightning looks of the hero.
This organ is said to be generally larger in men than in
women ; and it is remarked, that the male head is for the
most part shorter and broader, the female longer and nar-
rower. Now, as this organ is placed in the lateral parts of
the head, it will at once be seen that this conformation in-
dicates a greater development of it in the male head than
in the female. Of course there are exceptions ; but, taking
this as the general case, it appears to correspond with the
difference of character, particularly if we are right in sup-
posing, that a superior development of this power commu-
nicates to the whole mind a superior energy, and that it
gives the power of enforcing command, or of overruling the
will of others to our purposes, seeing that it is in general
the man's province to command, and the woman's to obey.
It will be seen, I think, from the above, that this is a
most important power, not so much in its direct tendency.,
154 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
as in the use which it serves, when under proper controuh
It may be compared to the element of fire, which is said to
be a good servant, but a bad master. It is not, as is vul-
garly supposed, neutralized and destroyed, by being joined
to a large portion of benevolence, and other controlling
principles ; it is only turned by them to a valuable and use-
ful purpose. A weak mind, with a large Destructiveness,
may be compared to a vessel which bears too much sail in
proportion to its ballast, and which is apt to be overset by
every sudden squall, burying its unfortunate owners in the
deep ; but when under the government of a firm and en-
larged intellect, and proper principles of conduct, it acts as
the wind upon the same vessel, properly trimmed and
steered, impelling it to whatever point the helmsman de-
sires, and even sometimes in a course almost directly con-
trary to that of the original moving impulse.
Of Secretiveness.
This faculty is exceedingly important ; but the analysis
of its functions is attended with peculiar difficulty. In the
following discussions, I shall carefully endeavour to distin-
guish those points, which rest on actual observations of
Nature, and those general views, which are merely inferred
from the facts observed, and which seem to elucidate the
nature of the faculty. The latter, I wish it to be distinctly
understood, are mere inferences or conjectures, which at
present appear to myself to be correct, or at least probable,
but which farther reflection, or a more extended observa-
tion, may make it necessary to alter or modify.
This power is of a very different kind from the two
which we have been considering. It is the office of these
to incite to vigorous action, and their manifestations are
open and undisguised. There are other powers, as we
have seen, which serve to restrain and moderate these pro-
DJESTEUCTIVENESS AND SECKETIVENESS. 155
pcnsities, and to direct them towards proper objects. Se-
cretiveness is, in some respects, a power of the latter kind.
It enables us to repress or regulate the outward manifesta-
tion of the other powers,—the outward expression of those
desires and feelings which excite us to action,
—
until we
reach the point towards which their impulses would lead
us. When we are excited by the propensity which we
have been last considering, to perform an act of de-
struction,—Secretiveness does not indeed diminish our de-
sire to destroy ; but it enables us to suppress the outward
manifestations of that desire. It restrains the expression
of anger, until that which is the object of it comes to be
so within our power, that we are enabled to inflict the me-
ditated blow without hindrance or opposition.
As the very notion of concealing any thing, implies that
there are sentient and intelligent beings from whom it may
be concealed, this power has necessarily a double aspect,
and has a regard to the beings from whom, and the matter
of which, concealment is desired. A desire of concealment
can have no place, when we are alone, or surrounded
merely by inanimate objects ; but place us among our fel-
low men, and the desire instantly has room to operate. It
is farther necessary, for the purposes of concealment, that
we have some insight into the views, the feelings, and the
purposes of the beings around us. Without this, there
could be no definite object in concealment. The cat
knows that the mouse is afraid when he sees her, and
therefore she hides herself till she can spring out upon
him. The hunter studies the habits of the animals he
pursues,—that he may lay his snares, and shape his pro-
ceedings accordingly. So it is in human life : those who
are secret and close in what regards themselves, are vigi-
lant in watching others, so as to discover, if they can, their
sentiments and purposes. Both these desires, that of dis-
covering the feelings and purposes of others, and conceal-
156 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
ing our own, result from, and are dependent on, the acti-
vity of this organ. The desire is, in either case, accompa-
nied, to a certain extent, with a corresponding power ; al-
though, in order to attain perfection in either, other fa-
culties, both of intellect and feeling, are undoubtedly ne-
cessary.
The first point, then, which we shall consider, is the en-
deavour which this propensity leads to, of penetrating into
the thoughts and feelings of others. As we have said that
this endeavour is accompanied with a corresponding power,
it is proper to explain the nature of that power, and how
far it depends upon the faculty we are now considering.
There is no doubt, that any desire, when strong, incites
to action all the powers of the mind, which can any way
assist in gratifying it. And this desire of discovering
the feelings and the purposes of others, which we suppose
to originate in Secretiveness, must necessarily excite other
powers, particularly the knowing and reflecting faculties,
to exert themselves in procuring the desired information.
But these are of themselves not sufficient in many cases,
without the aid which is furnished by Secretiveness itself,
consisting in a certain instinctive tnct^ which assists us in
discovering and penetrating to that which is intended to be
concealed from us.
All the powers of the mind, both of intellect and feel-
ing, possess a tact of their own, and are fitted in some
way to read the natural language, by which the feelings of
others are expressed. Every power * reads the natural lan-
" In describing the faculties, it is almost impossible to avoid speaking of
them as separate agents. It is proper to warn the reader, that it is by no
means intended to convey this meaning, as it is always understood that the
mind is one and indivisible, and that it is merely enabled to manifest certain
powers and qualities, by means of the organs of the brain. To express our-
selves, however, in all cases, so as correctly to convey this idea, would
require a degree of circumlocution, which would be altogether intott-
BESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS. 157
guage of those feelings which address themselves to it, or
by which it is most affected. The amative propensity is
soonest discerned by those who possess the same propen-
sity themselves in a considerable degree. Cautiousness
soonest discerns the signs of anger, and of those other feel-
ings which threaten danger. Those who are highly en-
dowed with kindness and benevolence, most easily read
the characters of kindness and benevolence in others ;
and those most eager for applause, are most acutely sen-
sible of any appearance of disapprobation.
The knowing and reflecting faculties enable us to esti-
mate the degree of these powers in others, and to form a
judgment of their sense and understanding. But suppos-
ing all these faculties to be possessed in perfection, there is
still something more wanted, to enable us to dive into the
real characters and feelings of others, seeing that these are
scarcely ever laid perfectly and entirely open before us,
but always with more or less of disguise or concealment.
All have this propensity in a certain degree. There are
none who do not conceal, or endeavour to conceal, some
part of what passes in their minds. The mind can no
more be without a covering than the body ; and a veil,
more or less opaque, is equally proper for both. Now, as
Secretiveness gives the desire of concealing our own
thoughts and feelings, so it also gives the desire of discover-
ing the thoughts and feelings of others ; and to this extent
it gives the power of doing so, that it reads in them the na-
tural language or outward expression by which this desire
of concealment manifests itself. There is a manner which
is peculiar to Secretiveness ; —an appearance of closeness
and reserve, which, even in concealing, betrays to us that
rable. This notice is sufficient once for all, and the reader may easily apply
it in any case, when the organs or faculties are spoken of as if they exercised
a separate agency.
3
158 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
something is concealed. In spite of every art, there is
something in the conduct where this exists, different from
the open straight-forward course of plain undisguised truth ;
and be these indications as faint as they may, those who
possess the power strongly themselves, will not fail to mark
them, and will penetrate, by means of them, through the
thickest disguises.
It may be hardly necessary to mention here, that, al-
though Secretiveness gives in some respect the power of pe-
netrating into character, by a sort of instinctive tact, all who
possess a large Secretiveness, are not equally capable ofjudg-
ing of the characters of others. This propensity gives the
desire merely ; and only so far the power, that it reads the
natural language of the same propensity in others. But,
in order to give a perfect penetration into character, all the
other powers of intellect and feeling are necessary, as they
all read in some degree the natural language of the same
powers and feelings in others ; and the degree and kind of pe-
netration which is possessed, will depend upon the develop-
ment of powers in the individual in other respects. In ge-
neral, it may be remarked, that an individual cannot form
any just conception of a character which is much superior
in any respect to his own ; and that though a large Secretive-
ness may enable him to unravel the labyrinths of deceit,
and to penetrate the darkest recesses of concealment, it
gives no insight whatever into the higher feelings and sen-
timents. It may even happen, that those who are endowed
with large Secretiveness, but with a slender portion of
intellect and sentiment, will overshoot the mark in their
endeavours to penetrate the designs of others. For, though
they may be perfectly at home with those who are as se-
cret as themselves, and be able to fathom all their myste-
ries, they will be entirely out in their calculations, when
they meet with a person who uses no disguise. They will
never believe but that there is some deep design under
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECIiETIVENESS. 159
every thing lie says and does ; and hence, the more open
and unreserved he is in his proceedings, the more they will
be puzzled, and the more difficult they will find it to under-
stand him.
This corresponds exactly with all that the Phrenologists
have discovered of the functions of Secretiveness. They
have found, that, when it is too predominant in the charac-
ter,—when it is not properly balanced by the superior
powers,—it leads to cunning\ which comprehends all that
we have been endeavouring to explain ; the instinctive pro-
pensity to penetrate into the purposes and feelings of others,
and to disguise our own *. I call it instinctive propensity,
for it is not an intellectual power, and acts by instinct, and
not by reason. The cunning, we know, often deceive
themselves in their endeavours to overreach others. " There
is," says Lord Bacon, " a great difference between a cun-
" ning man and a wise man, not only in point of honesty,
" but in point of ability. There be who can pack the
* cards, and yet cannot play well ; so there are some that
" are good in canvasses and factions, that are otherwise weak
" men. Again, it is one thing to understand persons, and
" another thing to understand matters ; for many are pcr-
" feet in mens1
humours, that are not greatly capable of
" the real part of business.
1
'
The whole essay from which
" Since this Essay was sent to press, I have found a remarkable confirma-
tion of some of the views above stated, in the writings of an author who
will be allowed to be a good judge of human nature. In the novel of Quentin
Durward, just published, the character of Louis XI., in whom Secretive-
ness seems to have been a predominant, propensity, is represented so as to
correspond, in the minutest point, with the account which is here given of
it. In particular, it is mentioned, that the King, " like all astutious pcr-
" sons, was as desirous of looking into the hearts of others, as of concealing
" his own,"—an observation which is repeated several times, and upon which
considerable stress is laid in the delineation of the character.
1G0 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
these remarks are taken, may serve as a study for those
who would understand the true nature of cunning, and
contains among the best illustrations that can be given of
the manifestations of this propensity in the conduct.
Although this be an instinctive propensity, and in those
who possess it in a strong degree, it acts independent of any
other motive, it certainly is excited most powerfully where
matters are to be agitated, which the party is conscious are
of an improper or criminal nature. Setting conscientious-
ness out of the question, which, in such persons, may be
supposed to have little influence, Cautiousness and the Love
of Approbation unite with the native love of secrecy, in in-
ducing them to use every art of concealment, and to put a
veil of the thickest mystery over what is too monstrous to
endure being looked on. Even when it is necessary, in the
prosecution of criminal designs, to reveal them to others, it
is done in the most cautious manner, and the intention ra-
ther hinted at by dark surmises, than openly spoken out
and avowed. There is a scene in " King John," when that
monarch wishes to induce one of his followers to murder
the young and innocent Prince Arthur, where this is repre-
sented with the most consummate art. The passage has
been often quoted ; but it is so perfect a delineation of the
very inmost soul of Secretiveness, that I cannot resist gi-
ving a part of it here. It is evident, that, throughout, the
king is feeling the ground before him, and probing Hubert's
mind, as if he would read his most secret thoughts ; and
that he does not venture on the most distant hint of his
purpose, until he has ascertained, by his patient listening,
and at last by his hearty avowal of zeal for his cause, that
he is an apt, and will probably be a not over-scrupulous
depositary of his secret. This corresponds with what we
have said, that Secretiveness gives the desire to penetrate
the thoughts of others, as well as to conceal our own.
1DESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS. 161
** K. John. I had a thing to say, but let it go
;
The sun is in the heavens, and the proud day.
Attended with the pleasures of the world,
Is all too wanton, and too full of gauds
To give me audience. If the midnight bell
Did, with his iron tongue and brazen throat,
Sound One unto the drowsy race of night
;
If this same were a church-yard, where we stood,
And thou possessed with a thousand wrongs;—"
Or, if that thou couldst see me without eyes
;
Hear me without thy ears ; and make reply
Without a tongue, using conceit alone ;
—
Then, in despite of brooding watchful day,
I would unto thy bosom pour my thoughts.
But, Ah ! I will not. Yet I love thee well.
And, by my troth, I think, thou lov'st me well.
" Hub. So well, that, what you bid me undertake,
Though that my death were adjunct to the act,
By heaven, I'd do't.
** K. John. Do I not know thou wouldst ?
Good Hubert, Hubert, Hubert *, throw thine eye
On yon young boy. I'll tell thee what, my friend,
He is a very serpent in my way ;
And, wheresoe'er this foot of mine doth tread,
He lies before me. Dost thou understand me ?
Thou art his keeper.
" Hub. And I will keep him so
" That he shall not offend your Majesty.
" K. John. Death.—
« Hub. My Lord !
" K. John. A grave.
—
" Hub. He shall not live.
" K. John. Enough I could be merry now. Hubert I love thee
N
« Well. I'll not say what I intend for thee.
" Remember.
" The hesitation shewn in the thrice repeating of Hubert's name, is ini-
mitably fine, The King lingers on the brink of discovering his intention,
and it is not till the third attempt that he musters courage to hint it.
L
162 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBAT1VENESS,
But the love of secrecy is not confined to the hiding
of criminal thoughts and desires. Those in whom the pro-
pensity is strong, love to make a mystery of every thing.
There is in them a gratuitous desire of concealing even the
most ordinary matter, though there should be nothing about
it improper, or that they need in any respect to be ashamed
of. The great and virtuous Samuel Johnson seems to
have been beset with some degree of this weakness ; as,
notwithstanding the persevering curiosity of his admiring
friend and biographer Boswell, there were some things in
the philosopher's life and conversation, seemingly of very
little importance, which he never was able to procure an
account of; and he mentions that Johnson delighted in
making a secret even of such an affair as his going out to
dinner.
Lord Bacon says, " There be three degrees of this hid-
" ing and veiling of a man's self; the Jirst closeness, re-
" servation, and secrecy, when a man leaveth himself with-
" out observation, or without hold to be taken, what he is
;
" the second dissimulation in the negative, when a man
" lets fall signs and arguments, that he is not that he is
;
" and the third simulation in the affirmative, when a man
" industriously and expressly feigns and pretends to be
" that he is not. For the first of these, secrecy, it is
" indeed the virtue of a confessor,—and assuredly the
" secret man heareth many confessions, for who will
" open himself to a blab or babbler. But if a man be
" thought secret, it inviteth discovery, as the more close
" air sucketh in the more open." For the second, which
is dissimulation, he observes, " it followeth many times up-
" on secrecy by a necessity ; so that he that will be secret
" must be a dissembler in some degree ; for men are too
" cunning to suffer a man to keep an indifferent carriage
" between both, and to be secret, without swaying the ba-
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS. 16S
" lance on either side. They will so beset a man with
" questions and draw him on, and pick it out of him, that,
" without an absurd silence, he must shew an inclination
" one way ; or if he do not, they will gather as much by
" his silence as by his speech. As for equivocations or
" eraculous speeches, they cannot hold out long ; so that
" no man can be secret, except he give himself a little
" scope of dissimulation, which is, as it were, but the skirts
" or train of secrecy.
" But for the third degree," says his Lordship, " which
" is simulation and false profession, I hold it more cul-
*'
pable and less politic, except it be in great and rare mat-
" ters." What these great and rare matters are, in which
Lord Bacon considers simulation to be politic and allowable,
he has not condescended to tell us. Men who have been
engaged in as great affairs as ever Bacon was, among whom
we may reckon the great Sully, held a contrary doctrine,
and maintained that no conduct could be truly politic and
wise, which departed from the straight line of honesty and
good faith. This we consider the safer, as well as the
more correct doctrine ; and we are inclined to think it holds
in great matters not less than in small, or rather that, in the
former, it is of the stronger and more indispensable obliga-
tions.
We mean not here, however, to write a moral essay, but
to describe the functions of Secretiveness, which we are
aware, when unrestrained by higher motives and conscienti-
ous considerations, leads to every species of lying and de-
ceit, and by consequence to almost every kind of vice, the
first step to which seems to be a love of concealment, and
a disregard of truth. There would, no doubt, be a much
greater restraint upon any evil propensity, were immediate
detection invariably to follow the commission of what is
wrong. The propensity to conceal, therefore, assists and
i-
8
164 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
strengthens all the other evil propensities, and even though
these may be originally not remarkably strong, if this is so,
it may lead them to seek indulgence in an illegitimate way,
unless restrained by some of the higher sentiments, Hence
a large secretiveness, with a moderate portion of acquisitive-
ness, may lead "a person to steal, more readily than a larger
acquisitiveness, with a moderate secretiveness. Those un-
fortunate women, who abandon the virtue and modesty of
their sex, are generally found to be quite regardless of
truth. The closeness which is given by this faculty, and
the idea which it inspires, that whatever is wrong may be
concealed, seems to remove, in the first instance, the re-
straints which operate against crime,—and the barrier once
broken down, one step leads to another, until the individual
is lost to every feeling of shame and honour.
To tell a simple direct lie, does not seem to require any
great endowment of secretiveness. Any child can for once
do that; and sometimes in the very act of saying that
which is not true, and which is meant no doubt to deceive,
children often betray a great deficiency in this very facul-
ty ; and the covering of falsehood is so thin and transparent
as to deceive nobody. It is greatly otherwise with those
in whom this power, originally strong, has been improved by
long practice in deceit. Such persons are sometimes able,
by means of well connected tales, utterly devoid of truth,
or only so far true as to give them an appearance of plausi-
bility, to impose upon the most wary and incredulous. They
seem to possess a power resembling that of the cuttle-fish,
which, when attacked or pursued, throws out a liquid
which so darkens the waters around it, that it can no
longer be perceived. So it is with them, when their powers
are put on the stretch to obtain some favourite object, or
to escape the deserved punishment of their misdeeds ; on
which occasions they are sometimes able to weave around
DESTltUCTIVENESS AND SECltETlVENESS. 165
them such a complicated tissue of falsehood, as to baffle the
most skilful in their attempts to unravel or to disprove it.
Instances of this occur in the course of judicial proceedings,
which are sufficient to strike with amazement, any person
who is not endued with a large portion of secretiveness, or
whose propensities, of this kind, are under the command
and controul of those better powers, which always ought to
govern the conduct.
But Secretiveness does not always lead to vice. It only
does so when there is a deficiency of the higher sentiments.
If Conscientiousness is very strong, it will probably in all
cases operate as a sufficient restraint ; but even though it
should not be more than moderate, what it wants in strength
may be made up by some of the other sentiments, when
properly cultivated. Love of Approbation is peculiarly
valuable in this respect ; and, when it has been properly
directed, may serve to keep us right, in a great degree,
without much assistance from Conscientiousness. This sen-
timent is found particularly efficacious in counteracting the
evil tendencies of Secretiveness; and there is reason to
think that it directs that power to a legitimate purpose,
in a matter where we would hardly suspect it to have any
concern.
It has been observed, in a great variety of instances, and
may almost be taken as an ascertained fact, that all great
actors—all who attain any eminence in the higher depart-
ments of the scenic Art, besides " Imitation," which is of
course necessary to them, possess a very considerable en-
dowment of Secretiveness. This is found not to be con-
fined to actors, but farther observation has shewn that the
same is the case with those who follow the imitative arts in
general. It is the case, at least, with painters and sculp-
tors. Observations are not yet sufficiently numerous to
shew if it extends to poets and musicians, but analogy
166 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
would lead us to conclude that it may. In general, it is
observed that Secretiveness is necessary in order to give
the artist the talent of expression. Imitation seems to give
the power of copying the externals, but Secretiveness is
necessary to give a life and soul to the performance.
These are facts which, as they have been observed,
must be admitted, whatever theory we adopt for the expla-
nation of them. What follows is not given as the result of
observation, but it has suggested itself to me as affording a
probable explanation of the manner in which Secretiveness
may produce the above effects. How far it is correct must
be left to be decided by farther observations, and more
mature considerations : but, at any rate, the views here
suggested may be useful in leading those qualified to make
observations, which may either affirm or refute them. In
either case, the cause of truth will be equally served ; and
it is this, and not any vain desire of erecting a theory,
which has induced me to follow out the speculation.
As the faculty of Secretiveness extends to every kind of
false seeming, and gives the inclination not only of con-
cealing " that we are," but also, when there is occasion, of
feigning " that we are not," it is to be expected that, in its
highest degree, it should include a power corresponding to
that inclination, and ready to second it under all circum-
stances. It is necessary to those who would conceal their
real sentiments, that they be able to refrain, not merely
from the utterance of their thoughts, but also from the out-
ward expression of their feelings, even the most acute, and
the least generally under controul ; and, as Lord Bacon
remarks that we can hardly retain an entire reserve, with-
out some dissimulation, so we can hardly, on all occasions,
dissemble our real feelings and sentiments, without some
degree of simulation, or putting on the outward seeming of
feelings or sentiments of an opposite kind. In order, there-.
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS. 167
lore, to the perfection of concealment, it is necessary that
there be a power somewhere of holding the feelings, at least
the outward expression of them, under the controul of the
will,—a power which, if existing in sufficient strength, might
enable a man to wear, as it were, a perpetual mask, and to
shroud his proceedings and purposes in impenetrable mys-
tery.
The degree to which this power is possessed, both of re-
pressing and expressing at will, feelings of the most acute
kind, is such as to strike those with astonishment who are not
gifted in a similar way. When exerted in repressing feelings,
it is assisted by firmness. Instances of this occur in soldiers
and sailors who feign sickness in order to procure their dis-
charge ; or, to use the common expression, " sham Abram."
When this is suspected, they are often subjected to a course
of torture, which, in some cases, they bear with the most
amazing constancy. Some years ago, an account was pub-
lished of a soldier who pretended to have a locked jaw ; and
when, in order to rouse him from his apparent lethargy,
pins were thrust into his flesh, or under his nails, his head
was shaved, and a blister applied to the whole coronal sur-
face, and various other plans were resorted to, sufficient,
one would have thought, to have extorted symptoms of
feeling, had any feeling of pain existed ; yet he bore the
whole without shrinking : and, when wearied out at last,
his commanding officer discharged him, and delivered him
to his friends, he was found, the week following, in perfect
health, assisting his father at his business as a carpenter,
Some have been known who feigned themselves to be deaf
and dumb, and who continued to<carry on the deception
for years, which could not have been done with success,
without a command over the manifestations of the feelings,
constantly exerted, of the most wonderful kind. Others
have been known to gain a comfortable livelihood by star-
168 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
ving themselves, or rather by pretending an inability to
take food. Various other instances might be mentioned,
where the strongest feelings of our nature have been re-
pressed for an incredible length of time, by artful and
wicked impostors. In all these cases, there is little doubt
but that the power of repressing the outward indication of
feeling is given by Secretiveness^ and that Firmness gives
perseverance, and enables the party to prosecute his decep-
tion for a length of time.
But imposture goes often much farther than this ; and
those who wish to deceive us, are able not merely to repress
the most acute feelings, but to assume others, or rather to
work up and excite their latent feelings to action, so as to
put on any appearance of passion or suffering which may
happen to suit their purpose. It would seem that the de-
sire of deceiving which this propensity gives, —the conatus
or endeavour to put on the appearance of feigned feelings,
is attended, when sufficiently strong, with a corresponding
power of doing so. This is shewn by impostors, in their
voluntarily throwing themselves into fits, which they some-
times do, in order to extort the compassion of the benevo-
lent, although the power has often been abused for pur-
poses of a much more detestible kind.
But there can be no doubt that the power to which we
attribute much of this kind of imposture, may be possessed
and exercised in an eminent degree, without being made
subservient to any improper purposes. In fact, we consi-
der that it is this power which gives the talent of personation
or acting. It is obviously necessary to the perfection of
this art, that the feelings, at least the outward expression
of them, be under the controul of the will. There is no-
thing in acting, at which we are more disposed to wonder,
than that actors should be able, so easily, to weep when
they are not grieved, and to laugh when they arc not mcr-
DESTUUCTIVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS. 169
ry. It is not habit alone that gives this power ; for many
possess it naturally, without any study, and others are in-
capable of acquiring it, after many years hard application.
It depends, in truth, upon a special faculty, which, if na-
ture has denied, no effort of study or application will be
able to confer ; and that special faculty we conceive to be
Secretiveness. The organ of this power is found large in
all great actors ; but in order to direct it to the purposes of
the scenic art, and to form what may be called a genius for
acting, there are also required Imitation, and Ideality, aid-
ed by Love of Approbation. Secretiveness, however, is an
indispensable requisite, as it consists with the observations of
all phrenologists, that, without this power, the actor is in-
capable of giving expression to what he utters, or of in-
fusing into his performances the force and energy of pas-
sion. It need not be told how much actors differ in the
degree in which they possess this talent, and to what a won-
derful extent some of them also possess it. Whoever has
witnessed the performance of the elder Mrs Siddons, in the
days of her greatest glory,—who has seen her as Belvidera,
led in among the conspirators, pale and trembling, and
seemingly under all the influence of terror,—in the scene
where she is delivered over by Jajjier, to these monsters,
with a dagger, which is to be plunged into her heart, " if he
should prove unworthy,
1
'
—her face instantly changing from
the deadliest pale to the deepest crimson, and tears, not in
scanty drops, but a copious flood of natural tears stream-
ing down her cheeks,—who saw her convulsive struggles to
escape to her husband, and heard her shrieks and cries as
she is finally torn from him, must have been satisfied,
that that woman possessed a power, the name or description
of which was not to be found in all the writings of all the
metaphysicians, from the days of Akistotle until now.
170 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
That I may not be misunderstood here, it is proper to
state, that the wonderful phenomenon now referred to is
not conceived to depend upon a single faculty. Secretive-
ness alone will never give the appearance of passion. The
utmost effect which we attribute to it, is the power of com-
manding the expression of those feelings, of which the ap-
propriate organs are possessed by the actor, in a state of
sufficient development. It is not the " fiery Pegasus,
1
" but
the rein with which we " turn and wind" him. Agreeably to
this, it is found, that though Secretiveness be necessary to
every great actor, actors will always succeed best in deline-
ating those feelings which they possess themselves, in a state
of the fullest development. Thus, when Secretiveness is
equal, that actor will most eminently excel in representing
the angry passions, who possesses a large Destructiveness
;
and the actress in whom Adhesiveness and Philoprogenitive-
ness are strong, will succeed best in scenes of tenderness and
pathos. This talent is thus described, by one who well
knew in what the perfection of acting consisted, though
owing, perhaps, to a deficiency in this respect, he never
could attain any eminence in it himself.
" Is it not monstrous, that this player here,
" But in a fiction, in a dream of passion,
" Could force his soul so to his own conceit,
" That from her working, all his visage wanned,
*' Tears in his eyes, distraction in his aspect,
" A broken voice, and his whole function suiting
" With forms to his conceit ?—-And all for nothing !
•« For Hecuba !—What's Hecuba to him ?
M
It may, perhaps, be thought, that the power which is
now ascribed to Secretiveness, seems rather to encroach
within what maybe supposed to be the province of Imitation;
and it is perhaps not easy to draw the line accurately be-
tween them, in consequence of this, that both arc found to
DESTItUCTIVENESS AND SECltETlVENESS. 171
be requisite to perfect acting. If we may be allowed to in-
dulge in a conjecture, we would be inclined to suppose,
that imitation enables the actor merely to assume the
outward manner of another,—to copy the most minute
particulars of his behaviour, gait, gesture, tone of voice, and
pronunciation ; and that it comes nearer, and probably in-
cludes the talent of mimicry, which may either be serious
or ridiculous, according as it is united with, and operated
upon by ideality or wit. But we conceive, that Secretive-
ness, when found in conjunction with the other requisite
powers, enables the actor, not to imitate merely the outward
appearances, but actually to excite to action the very in-
ward feelings from which these appearances flow, as from
their natural fountain. And hence it arises, that when the
acting is perfect, it has not at all the appearance of imitation,
We have all the conviction that the outward signs of emo-
tion which the actor exhibits, proceed from real feeling
;
and it is this, and the sympathetic feelings which it excites
in others, that gives him so much influence over the minds
of his audience.
It is hardly possible to conceive the extent to which this
power might be abused, or the effects which might follow
from its abuse, if it were united in its fullest perfection, in
real life, with a character which was under no restraint from
conscientiousness, or any superior regulating principle.
This power in the combination which we have supposed,
would confer a capacity for the most transcendant villany
and hypocrisy. This is represented as the prevailing cha-
racteristic of Gloster, in all the parts of his history, pre-
vious to his obtaining the crown ; and he thus describes his
own qualifications,
** For I can smile and murder when I smile,
" And cry content, to that which grieves my heart,
'-'
And suit my face to all occasions."
172 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
Women who possess this power, may exercise a prodigious
influence over the other sex. Poets and satyrists who
have observed this in some women, have erroneously thought
it to be true of all, and have recorded that
" Women when they list can weep."
This I am convinced is not the fact ; indeed, I have seen
many women who are as little able to melt at will as men
are : But with some this power certainly exists in rare per-
fection, as has indeed been the case in all ages. We are
told that Samsorts wife, whom he chose of the daughters of
the Philistines, wept before him for seven days, until she
drew from him the secret of his riddle,—which she imme-
diately told again to the children of her people ; and thus in
all ages have artful and unprincipled women been able, by
these weapons, with which nature has endowed them,
—
the artillery of sighs and tears,—alternate fits of rage and
fondness,—scorn and caresses, to overcome all the boasted
superior wisdom of man, and to turn and mould at' their will
those who permit themselves to come within the sphere of
their wiles. It is easy for those who have not been tried
to suppose it the extremity of weakness and stupidity in
men to allow themselves to be so gulled ;—but we have it
upon record, that no wisdom or strength of mind can
enable a man to resist the allurements of a woman he loves
;
even when his better judgment shews him that she is
drawing him to his destruction, and that in such a case his
only safety lies in a timely flight.
But it is more difficult to conceive what influence this
faculty can have in some of the other arts. Granting that
in acting, a power which gives a command over the re-
quisite feelings and sentiments, enables the actor to throw
expression into his performance, seeing that in this case
the feelings arc directly expressed through the medium of
his own bodily organs ; how, it may be asked, is this done
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS. 173
in painting and sculpture, where the artist expresses no-
thing himself, but merely endeavours so to form a piece of
inert matter without him, as to communicate, by means of
it, the expression he desires. But we may perhaps come to
understand this better, if we knew more of the manner in
which artists proceed in forming their conceptions. I
have heard it stated of a great living painter *, (and I
have every reason to believe the statement to be authentic),
that when he wishes to represent a particular character, or
to communicate to a face any peculiar expression, he goes
to a mirror, and having worked up his own mind to the
kind and degree of excitement which he wishes to ex-
press, he watches the expression of his own features, as the
feelings arise, and having once caught this expression, and
fixed it in his mind's eye, he has no longer any difficulty in
transferring it to convass.
But'Secretiveness is not merely useful in the arts,—it is
of essential service in the invention of plots, both in reality
and in works of fiction. It seems indeed to contain with-
in it the very germ and first principles of this kind of in-
vention, as, although it does not form the combinations of
itself, it sets those powers aworking whose business it is to
form them; and it also enables the author to arrange his plot,
and conduct it to a proper conclusion. After he has before
him the whole series of events which he means to intro-
duce, he is naturally led by Secretiveness to mask his bat-
tery, to conceal under some cover what he intends to relate,
so as to prevent his reader from anticipating the catastro-
phe, until the point when it can be developed with the
greatest effect. The reader is thus kept throughout the
perusal, in that degree of suspence which is necessary to ex-
* Wilkie.
174 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
cite curiosity and interest : and hence it is, that Secretive-
ness is a necessary ingredient in a talent for fictitious
narrative.
When Secretiveness is found in combination with Wit,
—
or that power which gives the perception and love of the
ludicrous, it becomes what is called humour,—a quality
which the metaphysicians have often endeavoured to ex-
plain without success. "Humour is of various kinds, or at
least the talent is exhibited in a variety of different ways
;
and in all of them it appears to me that Secretiveness is
largely concerned. There is one kind of humour, which
consists in the nice perception of what is ludicrous in cha-
racter. Now, if to a tolerably endowment of the feelings of
the ludicrous, there be added Secretiveness, which gives, as
we have supposed, an instinctive tact of discerning character,
and a power of penetrating through all the ordinary dis-
guises which Secretiveness throws around the characters of
others, we have at once all the materials necessary for this
species of humour. Secretiveness enables vis, by reading
the natural language of Secretiveness in others, to see
through these little concealments and contrivances, by which
they attempt to impose upon the world, and almost upon
themselves, and to pass for something else than they really
are. The man of humour delights in detecting these little
pieces of deception, and the ludicrous effect of this seems
to arise from the incongruity which appears between the
real and the assumed character, the contrast between what
is intended to be apparent at the surface, and that which
is seen to be at the bottom. Of all the sources of humour,
there is none more fertile than the manifestations of self-
esteem, and love of approbation, operating upon a mind in
other respects weak. The assumed airs of consequence
and dignity which these impart, appear most ludicrous
when contrasted with the insignificance and folly which
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS. 175
are often seen to accompany them. The same is the case
when any appearance of meanness, niggardliness or conceit
peeps through the disguise of fair profession, which is out-
wardly thrown over them.
But humour is exercised not merely in perceiving and
enjoying these traits of character, but in the power of ex-
hibiting them to others, and of pointing out, for their
amusement, that from which we have derived so much our-
selves. This seems to depend as much upon Secretivcness
as the other,—not only because, in order to exhibit the lu-
dicrous traits to others, we must first perceive them, but
because, in the very act of exhibition, we address ourselves
to those very faculties in others, which enable us to per-
ceive them. Hence the man of humour seldom or never
makes a complete exposee of that to which he would attract
our notice. There is no occasion for this ; on the con-
trary, it would defeat his purpose. He contents himself
with indicating merely what he would point out; and
those who possess any degree of the power themselves im-
mediately catch the idea he would convey, and penetrate
to the very point to which he wishes to carry them. A
humorous delineation of a character is, therefore, seldom a
complete delineation, but consists generally of a few rapid
traits or touches, from which all the rest is suggested to
us by a kind of inference. These are mere outlines, which
are left to be filled up by our own imaginations ; and it is in
this mental filling up, that half the pleasure attending them
consists.
Thus, in the admirable delineation of Falstaff, when he
says to Doll Tearsheet, who is sitting upon his knee, " I
" am old,—I am old,"—we see that something is passing
in his mind quite different from what he utters. We see
at once that he does not wish to be believed, when com-
plaining of the infirmities of age, but rather to draw from
176 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
her a contradiction that will be flattering to his vanity.
When she replies, " I love thee better than e'er a scurvy
young boy of them all,'" we see, also, that this is not
her real sentiment ; and the humour is heightened, when we
contrast it with the very next sentence she utters, after the
Prince and Poins make their appearance, " How, you fat
" fool, I scorn you.
1
" When Morton of Millwood is re-
minded of the extravagantly generous promise into which
he had been betrayed by his fears for his nephew's life,
to pay twenty pounds for his liberation, there is exqui-
site humour in his reply, " Punds Scots,"—indicating ex-
actly what is passing in his mind. The fit of momen-
tary generosity had evaporated and disappeared with the
fears that had first given rise to it ; and his mind had re-
turned to its original bent of sordid avarice, his ruling, if
not his only permanent passion.
There is often great humour shewn in the delineation of
a character, of which the original, were he actually alive
and before us, would not be thought to possess any. Ad-
dison's humour is much talked of in his character of Sir
Roger de Coverlet/, who certainly would not, in his own
person, have been considered a man of humour. Sir Ro-
ger's character is, indeed, the reverse of concealment,
as he gives utterance to many thoughts which other people
keep to themselves. This is the very opposite of humour
in itself, and is the same as what is called by the French
naivete. But still, in order to represent this naturally,
there must be required that instinctive tact in discerning
character which Secretiveness gives, and that quick sense of
the ludicrous, which, when united together, form the ta-
lent of humour.
When this talent exists in perfection, it is accompanied
by a tact, not only of perceiving the ridiculous in charac-
ter, but in feeling what is the most effective way of com-
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECltETIVENESS. 177
municating this to others. The secret often consists less
in the matter that is to be told, than in the manner of tell-
ing it. The humorous man knows, or rather feels in-
stinctively, the exact point where his delineations ought to
stop, in order to produce the best effect upon his auditors
and readers ; how much he ought to show, and how much
he ought to hide. In general, there should be shewn no
more than is necessary to the understanding of the charac-
ter ; but how much should be shewn will depend upon
the nature of the character to be exhibited, and the object
in exhibiting it. Sometimes a single trait or two will be
sufficient to let us into all that is required. In other cases,
a much more detailed portrait is necessary ; and there may
be exquisite humour shewn in displaying a great deal.
This is the case as well in the delineations which may be
given of the characters of others, as in the displays which
we may choose to make of our own.
In this last, humour may display itself in various ways ;
but in all of them, Secretiveness seems to have a share. It
sometimes consists in suppressing feelings which we actu-
ally experience ; and sometimes in assuming others which
are not natural to us. There may be much secretiveness
often even in an assumed naivete, in speaking out openly
those things which most people conceal, when this is done
by design, where the individual has a sort of half know-
ledge that his intention is seen through, and when he half
consents to make himself a butt. It adds greatly to the
zest of this, when it is done with a perfectly grave counte-
nance ; and,, indeed, this seems a necessary adjunct to all
sorts of humour. In all this, it. is proper to mention, that
it is not meant to be said that secretiveness ever can be a
substitute for wit ; or that faculty which gives the feeling
of the ludicrous. This is always understood as indispen-
M
178 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COAfBATIVENESS,
sable ; but what I mean to shew, is the manner in which
Secretiveness assists that faculty in producing humour.
The humorous man says and does the most ludicrous
things, without seeming at all conscious of their ludicrous
tendency ; and while he excites his auditors to the most ex-
cessive mirth, maintains all the while himself the most im-
perturbable gravity. The command of countenance which
this requires, can only be conferred by Secretiveness ; and
this is just one of the ways in which this faculty operates
in producing humour.
There are other modes in which this quality is exhibited^
among which may be mentioned, that species of writing
which is called Irony, where one thing is said, and another
obviously intended. This is a style which it is very diffi-
cult to manage; and we have hardly any master in it
except Swift, who, in this particular, stands altogether un-
rivalled. The difficulty lies in making the ulterior mean-
ing not too obvious ; in which case the coarseness of the
contrivance, and clumsiness of the execution, take away
all the pleasure we might derive from it ; and, on the other
hand, avoiding the other extreme of hiding it too much,
by which means the true intention of the writer is not per-
ceived, and what he intends to say in jest is taken in good
earnest. Secretiveness is, undoubtedly, the power which
enables us either to use, or to perceive and enjoy the use
of irony ; and it is probable that this power was large in
Swift and in other writers, who have excelled in the use
of this weapon.
If the above account of humour be just, it may perhaps
enable us to explain more satisfactorily than has been hi-
therto done, the difference between wit and humour. Wit
always consists in some unexpected combination ; but then
this combination is placed before us openly and without
DESTHUCTIVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS. 179
disguise ; and hence we are never at a loss to point out ex-
actly where the wit lies. But humour consists, in a great
degree, in an intuitive tact ; and as it addresses itself to the
same tact in others, its manifestation, however palpable to
the feeling, can hardly be made obvious to the understand-
ing. Wit invariably makes the incongruous combinations
which it shews us, and brings these openly on the stage
before us. Humour only draws aside the curtain, and in-
dulges us with a peep of what is going on behind it ; and
it seldom draws it entirely open, but, while it shews us a
part, leaves a part to be guessed at and understood.
Hence it is the property of humour that we can hardly tell
what it is, or wherein it consists ; and, in fact, it consists
in nothing tangible. We do not laugh at that which is
actually said or done, but at something beyond which this
suggests to us. Hence it comes that wit is of a more port-
able quality than humour: a witty sally or bon-mot admits
of being repeated, and is hardly the worse of being con-
veyed from one to another, till it is communicated to thou-
sands. But humour is entirely personal to its possessor,
and utterly incommunicable; so that the same words ut-
tered, or things done, by a different person, and without
the requisite accompaniments of tone, look, and gesture,
which are peculiar to "him, or which he knows how to
assume, will, instead of exciting the most intense feeling of
mirth, most probably appear perfectly inane and stupid.
Secretiveness being, then, necessary to humour, it will
thus appear that the Comic Muse is no less indebted to
this faculty than the Tragic, and that its use may be ex-
emplified in scenes of the broadest farce, no less than in
those of the deepest pathos. It is also indispensable to the
art of story-telling, and this in various ways ; first, as it
gives the necessary tact in the discernment of character,
M 2
180 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS,
particularly in the development of those lower and meaner
qualities, which are generally allied to the ludicrous ; next,
as it enables the narrator to bring out his matter in the
order best calculated to interest his auditors, and so to
mask his story as to surprise them with a sudden turn for
which they are not prepared ; and, lastly, it is of use in
giving him the necessary command of countenance, so as
not to betray the jest beforehand, until it can be brought
out with the greatest effect.
But all that has been said of the uses of this faculty, is
nothing in comparison with its eminent use in real life.
There is no business which we can be called upon to trans-
act, and hardly any situation of more or less difficulty in
which we can be placed, in which some degree of this
power is not only useful, but absolutely necessary, for en-
abling us to obtain success in our objects and measures.
I do not here allude to any species of chicanery and cun-
ning, which proceed from a too great endowment of this
power, unregulated by higher principles ; I refer merely to
that proper, dignified reserve, which is necessary for en-
abling us to command respect,—to keep at a distance the
busy, the idle, the impertinent, and the selfish,—that we
may not, in short, " wear our hearts upon our sleeves for
daws to peck at." This degree of reserve, which is per-
fectly consistent with all that is good and honourable, pro-
ceed from a proper endowment of secretiveness, duly regu-
lated by the moral and intellectual powers. It may be
said, that if all mankind were guided in their conduct by
motives of uprightness and benevolence, there would be no
occasion for the exercise of such a power as this, nor for
any concealment either in our thoughts or our designs. A
world so constituted might, no doubt, be extremely agree-
able ; but it would be a very different world from that in
DESTRUCTIVENESS AND SECRETIVENESS. 181
which we are destined for the present to reside ; and as the
world is now constituted, there is not a power or a faculty
of mind, which we possess of more eminent and signal uti-
lity than this of Secretiveness. Without it, where would
be the confidence of friendship, the proprieties of social life,
the delicacy so proper in the intercourse between the sexes,
and the comforts of domestic privacy ? It is this, when duly
regulated by the higher sentiments, which gives to each
individual his separate title to consideration and respect,
and which enables him to act his part, and to fill his pecu-
liar niche in society. A man altogether without Secretive-
ness, who gave utterance to every thought and to every
feeling as it arose in his mind, though possessed in other
respects of every other quality of mind in a state of abso-
lute perfection, would appear to us in the light of a fool,
and a nuisance. Were it not for this power, there would
be no merit in honesty and sincerity, nor any thing like
what we now understand by dignity of mind, or proprie-
ty of conduct. Society would, without it, lose most of
what now constitutes its chief interest, and would be like
a game where all the cards were spread open upon the
table. In short, to state all the uses of this power, would
require a volume; and many volumes might be written
without explaining them fully. Enough has been said to
shew that it is a power of the very first importance.
I cannot conclude, without noticing what has often been
remarked with regard to the other special faculties, that no
, metaphysician has ever imagined the existence of such a
power as this. Its functions seem, at first sight, to be so
various, that it might be thought impossible they could be
comprehended within the limits of a single faculty; yet, on
more attentive consideration, these seem all to depend upon
a few very simple principles, and to admit of being ana-
3
182 ON THE FUNCTIONS OF COMBATIVENESS, &C.
lysed and resolved into the same original element. No one
could, beforehand, have predicated the existence of such a
faculty, just as no one could, antecedent to experience, pre-
dicate the existence of a rose or a tulip ; but, when it is
shewn to us, and the relation of its different parts explained,
it is acknowledged at once as the evident production of
Divine contrivance.
( 183 )
III.
—
On the Effects of Injuries of the Brain
upon the Manifestations of the Mind.
By Mr Andrew Combe.
{Read Qth January 1823.)
XT is unnecessary for me to state what is already well
known to the members of this Society, that the application
to Nature of the mode of investigation discovered by Dr
Gall, has, by revealing to us the functions of the indivi-
dual portions of the human brain, proved eminently success-
ful in dissipating much of that obscurity which so long
enveloped the philosophy of the human mind, and in sup-
plying what was for many ages one of the most important
but hopeless desiderata of medical and physiological science.
The system of Phrenology is the immediate result of ob-
servations conducted in this way ; but it has often been
urged by the opponents, and those unacquainted with its
doctrines, that *\ the system of Gall and Spurzheim, how-
" ever ingenious or amusing in theory it may be, is annihi-
" lated by the commonest references to fact. Experience
" has shewn us, that a man may live in the full enjoyment
" of his intellectual faculties, although a part of his brain
184 EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE BRAIN ON
" is destroyed by disease. Portions of the brain, various
" in situation and size, have been found to have been en-
" tirely disorganized, yet no single power of the mind was
" impaired, even to the very day of the patient's death.
" It would be difficult to find any one portion of the brain,
" that has not, in some case or another, been deranged in
?' its structure, without any injury to the mind. Certainly,
" it is said, of the parts specified by Gall and Spurzheim,
" every one has, in its turn, been found wanting, without
" any deficiency in that intellectual faculty which they
?' would represent it either to produce or sustain*;""—where-
as, if Phrenology had its foundation in Nature, injury done
to any particular part ought invariably to be followed by
disorder of that particular mental faculty, with which it is
more immediately connected, or of which it is the organ.
This objection, if correct, would no doubt go far to over-
turn the whole doctrines of Phrenology ; and, coming as it
generally does, directly or indirectly, from the medical pro-
fession, it is received by many with implicit confidence, and
thus operates upon them with all the force of truth. In fact,
to those who are alike ignorant of anatomy, of surgery, and
of phrenology, and who are therefore incapable of forming
an opinion of their own of its justness, it presents a very for-
midable aspect. I propose, therefore, in the following pages,
to examine the evidence, upon the faith of which these asser-
tions are so confidently made, and so confidently repeated
;
and I hope to be able to shew, that, so far from invalidating
the fundamental principles of Phrenology, it, of itself, goes
far to establish their truth. With this view, I shall first make
some observations on the evidence afforded us of the state
of the faculties, and then shall examine anatomically what
inferences may justly be drawn from the extent, situation
• Rennel on Scepticism, p. 100.
THE MANIFESTATIONS OF THE MIND. 185
and nature of the injuries of the brain in the cases alluded
to ; and, lastly, I shall offer a few observations on the pos-
sibility of discovering the functions of the brain, from no-
ticing the effects of its injuries,—a mode of proceeding late-
ly recommended from high authority.
In proceeding to this inquiry, it must first be observed,
that, without a single exception, all the cases alluded to are
related by surgical authors, for surgical purposes, without the
remotest idea of their being afterwards founded on to prove
that entire preservation of the mental faculties may coexist
with extensive disorganization of the organ of mind ; conse-
quently, in all of them, the state of the mind is merely men-
tioned incidently, and in very general and vague terms, as
it was, in reality, scarcely attended to. Before placing re-
liance on evidence of this kind, therefore, it is natural, that,
like the Reviewer *, we should " wish to see cases more mi-
" nute in all their details, and observed with a view spe-
" daily to this jjhysiological inquiry, substituted for those
" we at present possess."" Under these conditions they be-
come valuable, without them they are of no weight.
In almost every instance, as will be seen by a reference
to Dr Ferriar's paper, in the 4th volume of the Manches-
ter Memoirs, and to the 48th Number of the Edinburgh Re-
view, the evidence of the integrity of the manifestations of
the mental powers, after injuries of the brain, is given in
such words as the following ; " The senses were retained to
" the last
:"
—All the faculties remained entire :"—" There
" was no deficiency in any intellectual faculty :"—" No
" single power of the mind was impaired.
11
This testimony, to be of the smallest value in establish-
ing the point in dispute, necessarily supposes a perfect
knowledge of the number and nature of the primitive fa-
Edinburgh Review, No. xlviii. p. 448.
186 EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE BRAIN ON
culties of the human mind ; and also a previous knowledge
of the healthy power of each, in the particular case under
consideration.
Now, as to the first of these, it is very well known, that
scarcely any two metaphysicians who make the philosophy
of mind their particular study, are agreed either upon the
number or nature of the primitive mental powers. Much
less, then, can we expect the surgeon, engaged in the hurry
of general practice, to be better informed. " Certain crude
" ideas," says the Edinburgh Review of Sir E. Horned
paper on the Functions of the Brain, " are attached to the
" words Intellectual Faculties, a vague conjecture arises as
" to the seat and nature of these faculties *." How, then,
I would ask, can any one certify, even after the most scru-
pulous attention, that all the powers of the mind are re-
tained, when he is ignorant what these powers are ? When
he is ignorant, for instance, whether the propensities of
Destructiveness, Acquisitiveness or Secretiveness exist, and
whether the sentiments of Veneration, Hope or Conscien-
tiousness, are primitive emotions. The state of these, and
other feelings and propensities, proved by Phrenology to be
primitive, is never once alluded to in the history of injuries
of the brain ; and, consequently, for any thing we are told
to the contrary, they, along with their respective organs,
might have been entirely wanting, in every one of the
cases which are advanced as instances of entire possession of
the faculties. The opponents never speak of any except
intellectual faculties ; and in expecting lesion of these
powers, when, for instance, it is the cerebellum, or posterior
lobes of the brain alone, which are diseased, they at once
display their own ignorance of the nature and number of
the primitive faculties, and their most profound ignorance
* Edinburgh Review, No. xlviii. p, 439.
THE MANIFESTATIONS OF THE MIND. 187
of the doctrines which they impugn. If an injury occurs
of that portion of the brain lying under the most prominent
part of the parietal bone, which the phrenologist states to
be the organ of Cautiousness, and if we are in doubt as to
the accuracy of the function assigned to it, and wish to
have our observations confirmed or refuted by the pheno-
mena attending such a case, one would naturally suppose
that, as the organs are all double, we would begin by ob-
serving, whether the corresponding portion of brain of the
opposite side partook in the disorganisation or not; and
that we would then proceed to investigate the state of that
particular faculty, of which these parts constitute the or-
gans, and thus ascertain whether the feeling of Cautious-
ness ever remained undiminished, where, from the extent
of the disease, it ought, according to the ordinary laws of
the animal economy, to have been either impaired, or en-
tirely awanting.
This mode of proceeding, plain and simple as it appears,
is not fitted for the opponents of Phrenology. The opponent
does not care, and does not inquire, whether it is one side
only, or both sides, which are diseased : he makes no inquiry
about the sentiment of Cautiousness : he proceeds at once
to the state of the intellectual powers, with which Phreno-
logy most distinctly teaches that that part of the brain has
no direct connection ; and finding none of the faculties
which he calls Attention, Perception, Memory or Imagi-
nation at all impaired, he, with great confidence, con-
cludes, that the part in question cannot be the organ of
Cautiousness ; and so satisfied is he with his own reasoning,
that he laughs at those who do not see its cogency as
clearly as he docs himself. On any other subject, this
mode of reasoning would be looked upon as proceeding
from a very blameable and lamentable degree of ignorance,
especially on the part of any one who comes forward un-
188 EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE BRAIN ON
called for to the attack ; but, as directed against Phreno-
logy, it is looked upon by many as satisfactory and philo-
sophical in a high degree. Such is the kind of testimony
supported by which, the opponents are pleased to affirm
that in many cases of wounded brain, no diminution, mueh
less loss, of any faculty, takes place. We shall see after-
wards how these cases tally with their own creeds.
- But, even supposing that the number of primitive facul-
ties was known, it is clear that, no dependence can be
placed upon cases not observed, with a view " specially to
" this physiological inquiry ;
11
for daily experience proves,
that whenever a patient is able to return a rational answer
to any simple question about his health, the surgeon and
attendants, whose attention is not directed to the point, in-
variably speak of him as in full possession of all his facul-
ties, although he is as unable to think or reason on any
serious subject, with his accustomed energy and facility, as
a gouty or rheumatic patient is unable to walk with his ac-
customed vigour. The former has, no doubt, as many fa-
culties as before, just as the latter still has the power of
muscular motion ; but the power of exercising them is as
much diminished in the one case, as that of using the
muscles is in the other. Even take a convalescent from an
acute disease, and introduce any subject which requires a
train of thinking, and concentration of mind, to which, in
health, he is fully equal, so far from retaining his powers
undiminished, he will soon be reminded of his enfeebled
state, by painful confusion in the head, and other disagree-
able symptoms. But, confine his attention to any thing,
which requires no effort on his part, and you benefit, rather
than harm him by such exercise, for it is then suited to the
diminished vigour of his mind. Now, this is precisely the
kind of discourse which the judicious surgeon permits to
bis patient, and from it alone he forms his own opinion o£
THE MANIFESTATIONS OF THE MIND. 189
the state of the mind ; and, therefore, a person in such
state is uniformly said " to retain his faculties,
11
&c. In
like manner, the convalescent gouty or rheumatic patient,
if gently exercised by strolling about his room, reaps bene-
fit and strength ; but suppose you force him to an effort be-
yond what his muscular energy is calculated to support, the
same bad effect is produced as in the case of the mind.
As well might this person be said to retain his power of
voluntary motion undiminished, as the other all his force of
intellect unimpaired.
That the evidence as to the state of the mind, af-
ter wounds or alteration of the cerebral mass, is really so
vague and unsatisfactory, may easily be shewn from Dr
Ferriar's paper, and from the Edinburgh Review, the
text-books of the opponents. Besides the objection of ex-
treme latitude in such expressions, as " no loss of sensi-
bility,
11
no loss of voluntary motion, &c. &c, when used
to indicate the condition of all the mental faculties, it may
be remarked, that Dr Ferriar speaks of one man as re-
taining all his faculties entire, who, it appears, had laboured
under hypochondriasis for ten years ; a disease which so
nearly affects the mind, as to have been sometimes classed
in the list of insanities: and of a girl who, with evident symp-
toms of oppressed brain, is also said to have retained her
faculties ; and that the reviewer speaks of a lady, who, " the
" day before her death, was capable of being roused from
" her stupor, and was then in possession of all her senses.
1'
But the idiot from birth, when roused from his natural
stupor by the exaltation of a fever, appears sometimes to
gain a considerable share of intellectual power, only to be
lost upon recovery. Will he too, then, in his state of stu-
por, be said to be in full possession of every faculty, be-
cause thus shewn to be susceptible of excitation from sti-
muli ? The one inference appears as logical as the other.
190 EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE BRAIN ON
As soon as the number of the primitive faculties, and
the situations of their respective cerebral organs are disco-
vered, then, but then only, we shall be able to judge fairly
of the consistency of the phenomena with the functions as-
signed to the injured part. If the true function is disco-
vered, it will derive additional confirmation from the obser-
vation of these cases, and vice versa.
Qdly, It appears to be a self-evident proposition, that be-
fore we can affirm that a man possesses all his mental fa-
culties unimpaired under disease, we must have had some
previous knowledge of their natural energy in the state of
health. The difference of intellectual vigour between man
and man is exceedingly great. The scale extends from the
lowest pitch of idiocy, up to the highest endowment of
genius ; and the history of diseases informs us, that a man,
whose faculties have suffered a great diminution of energy,
is still able to return a rational answer to a question, al-
though his mind is unable to fathom the depths it pene-
trated before; and, when we consider that injuries of the
head are by far more frequent in hospital than in pri-
vate practice ; and that, in the former, the surgeon has sel-
dom seen the patient before, it will be obvious, that even
supposing the testimony as to the state of the faculties to be
as specific and precise as it is general and vague, still, in a
great majority of instances, the surgeon is unfavourably si-
tuated for speaking of the comparative force of any of the
faculties, because they do not form the object of his in-
quiries, and although they did, he is in utter ignorance of
their state before the injury was sustained.
Having now shewn that the observers quoted by the
opponents were evidently deficient in the two qualifications
which are necessary to enable us to judge of the possession
or diminution of any individual faculty, in cases of disease
or wounds of the cerebral mass; I proceed to point out nn
THE MANIFESTATIONS OF THE MIND. 191
anatomical requisite, which, although as essential as the
other two, could not have been possessed in any perceptible
degree, by one out of ten of those to whom the cases occur-
red, or by whom they are quoted. I allude to a knowledge
of the situation, form, and direction of fibre of the several
organs, of which the brain is a congeries. Without this
knowledge, any observations are manifestly imperfect :
—
nine-tenths of the cases occurred long before the organs
were discovered, and the remaining tenth, I believe, were
observed in ignorance of the discovery, so that all come
under one class. Whenever any one can prove that he has
found both the organs of Conscientiousness, for instance,
destroyed, while that feeling was manifested as powerfully
as before, then he proves that function to be erroneously
ascribed to that organ. But unless he knows accurately
the situation of that organ towards the surface, and the
direction of its fibres towards the interior, whether they are
horizontal, vertical, or oblique, and unless he ascertains the
condition of the organs of both sides, How can he venture
to affirm that they were destroyed either in whole or in
part ? We are told, indeed, by Mr Rennel, and other
opponents, that every individual part specified by Gall
and Spurzheim has in its turn been destroyed, without in
jury to the faculty of which they call it the organ. But if
we examine the foundations upon which such assertions
rest, the same want of precision, the same inconclusive
vagueness, will be found to prevail, as in the evidence of
the state of the mind. Not a single case in point can be
produced ; and it is evident that Mr Rennel, as well as
the other opponents, supposes the organs to be confined to
the surface of the brain, instead of extending to its very
base, to the medulla oblongata. They also, by what rules
of logic I know not, appear to think injury of one organ
3
192 EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE BRAIN OK
sufficient to destroy the function of both, although they
may daily see the reverse exemplified in the case of the
external senses at least.
It is unnecessary for me to remind you, that the brain is
Composed of two similar halves or hemispheres, and that,
consequently, the organs of all the faculties are double.
That one eye, one ear, or one nostril may perform its func-
tion, and the person see, hear, or smell, although the eye,
ear and nostril of the opposite side is diseased or injured,
is a fact of which all are aware. Now, as the organs of
the mental faculties are double, analogy would lead us to
conclude, that such will also be the case with them ; and
that before we can expect complete loss of any one faculty,
the entire organ of each side must be destroyed, just as
both eyes or both ears must be diseased, before complete
loss of sight or of hearing occurs. It will be seen, however,
from an attentive perusal of the cases quoted, that not a
single instajice is to be found, in which this destruction of
both organs 7ms occurred, while the alleged manifestations
existed. In almost all the cases, the injury or disease is
expressly said to be on one side only ; and where it is on
both, the parts affected are different. But this will be
better understood by a statement of the cases themselves,
as they are recorded in the Manchester Memoirs, and in
the Edinburgh Review.
Mr Earle relates the case of a man whose sensibiliti/
remained unaffected till within a few hours of his death,
although an abscess occupied nearly one-third of the
right hemisphere. Mr Abernethy saw a gentleman who
lived for two (
years in the full possession of every fa-
culty, notwithstanding a cavity two inches broad by one
long in the right hemisphere. Another was perfectly sen-
sible with an abscess in the left hemisphere. Sir John
THE MANIFESTATIONS OF THE MIND. 193
Pringle (Diseases of the Army, p. 259.) found an abscess
in the right hemisphere, as large as an egg, in a patient,
" who had never been delirious, nor altogether insensible ;*
and in another, " who had never been so insensible as not
to answer reasonably when spoken to" he found an abscess
in the cerebellum as large as a pigeon's egg. Dr Ferriar
says that Dr Hunter found the whole of the right hemi-
sphere destroyed by suppuration, in a man who retained his
faculties to the last. One of Wepfer's patients manifested
no loss of sensibility, although a cyst was found in the right
hemisphere of the brain as large as a hen's egg. Diemer-
broek saw a young man who received a thrust from a
sword, which entered at the eye, and passed upwards
through the right ventricle, as far as the sagittal suture.
During ten days, he " remained quite well" with no loss
of sensibility, of voluntary motion, or of judgment, " cum
sociis convenienter, et bono cum judicio, quacunque de re
disserens ;*"
after winch he was cut off by a fever. Petit
(Memoires de l'Acad. 1748) saw a soldier, shot through the
left lobe of the cerebellum and left posterior lobe of the
brain, live forty-three hours, whose faculties were perfect
to the last. Another man, mentioned by Quesnai as seen
by Bagieu, received a musket-shot from below upwards
through the right anterior lobe, who had no bad symptom
till the twelfth day, and ultimately recovered. Next are
mentioned three cases ; in the first of which a ball, in the
second the end of a stiletto, in the third a part of a knife,
remained in the brain without inconvenience for some years.
Genga tells us of a man who, from a blow on the left pa-
rietal and occipital bones, lost a portion of brain as large
as a pigeon's egg, and yet recovered. Petit saw a man
with a corpus striatum converted into a matter like dregs
of wine, with no loss of sensibility, although one side was
paralysed. Valsalva saw an old man who was not insert-
N
194 EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE BRAIN ON
si-ble, with an abscess of the right thalamus opticus extend-
ing to the surface of the brain.—Then come some cases of
diseased pineal gland and cerebellum, without loss of sensi-
bility. The Reviewer then speaks of a lady who com-
plained for a fortnight of an affection of the head, became
comatose, and died. " The day before her death she was
capable of being roused from her stupor, and was then in
full possession of all her senses.'''' The left hemisphere of
the cerebellum was converted into pus. Then follows a
case from La Peyronie, nearly similar, without loss ofsen-
sibility. Drelincurtius (Addend, ad Wepfer, Hist.
Apop. Obs. 83.) saw a steatomatous tumour as large as the
fist between the cerebrum and cerebellum, produce first
blindness, then deafness, and at last the abolition " omnium
sensuum et functionum animalium, et necem ipsam." Dr
Tyson (Phil. Trans. No. 228.) mentions a case where the
left hemisphere of the cerebellum was found sphacelated,
and the testis of that side enlarged and stony. The patient
had been ill two months, and for the most part rational.
In the Memoires de TAcad. Royale, 1703, Duverney
relates a case of extensive injury, without loss of sensibility.
The Chevalier Colbert received a blow from a stone upon
the temple, which drove in the bones forming the back
part of the orbit, as well as the sella turcica. The inferior
portion of the middle lobe of the brain, as far as the cere-
bellum, was found broken down, and partly in a suppura-
ting state. He lived seven days, " retained his judgment
M perfectly, continued to perform all his functions, and ex-
** hibited a surprising tranquillity of mind till his death.
1*
Ferriar attaches little importance to this case, as con-
fused. One of the most remarkable cases is that quoted
by the Reviewer from Planque, and by Dr Ferriar from
La Peyronie, as having occurred to Billot, (Mem. de
TAcad. 1741.) A boy of six years received a pistol-shot
THE MANIFESTATIONS OF THE MIND. 195
in the middle of the brow, which passed through to the oc-
ciput. He survived eighteen days, and lost a portion of
brain as large as a nutmeg daily, and yet remained quite
zvcll until within a few hours of his death. The portion
of brain found remaining in the skull did not exceed the
size of a small egg.
The Reviewer then quotes three cases of hydrocephalus
internus, or water in the head, which convince him that
sensibility may remain after the whole brain has been de-
stroyed.
Many of the Reviewer's cases are taken from Dr Ferri-
au"s paper in the Manchester Memoirs. I shall, therefore,
select the most interesting of those which remain. Die-
merbroek, Anat. lib. 3. p. 637, quotes a case from Lin-
danus, of a patient receiving a wound in one of the lateral
ventricles, who went about as usual for fourteen days, and
then died. His surgeon thrust a probe into the ventricle every
day without exciting any sensation. He says, p. 580,-1.,
he saw a woman who lost a portion of brain as large as the
fist, from a fracture of the right side. She lived thirty-six
days without alienation of the mind, although paralytic
on the opposite side. In the appendix to Wepfer1
s Hist.
Apoplect., Dr Brunner mentions a case of a drunken
blacksmith, aged sixty-four, who died of apoplexy, whose
faculties were rather excited than impaired, although he
observed after death " piam matrem aqua turgidissimam.—
.
" Ablata dura matre serum perpetim exsudavit et effluxit
" limpidum. Uterque ventriculus aqua scatebat turbida,
e* quin omnes recessus et cerebri cavitates hac inundatae et
" repletae fuerunt. Cerebellum minime flaccidum, sed sicut
" reliquse cerebri partes firmum apparuit,
11
&c. He was
rather acute in his intellect towards the end. La Peyronie
mentions a case of a man who had been troubled with hypo-
chondriacal symptoms for ten years, whose faculties were
n2
196 EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE BRAIN ON
never affected, although the fourth ventricle and cerebel-
lum were found diseased. A girl died in the fourth month
of an arthritic complaint, with evident symptoms of op-
pressed brain, but in perfect possession of her intellectual
powers, although the brain was soft, and water effused.
Bonnet saw a case, where, after eleven days illness, and
only towards the end, occasional alienation of mind, " tota
" fere basis cerebri, imprimis cerebellum, et ea pars me-
" dullse spinalis qui primis vertebris excipitur, sphacelo
" inventae sunt corrept8e.
,,,
The Doctor concludes by quoting from Ambrose Pare',
what he considers a most extraordinary case ; but Parens
authority being very .
great, he thinks it merits confidence.
It is that of the Due de Guise, " who was wounded in the
" head by the thrust of a lance, which entered under the
" right eye, near the nose, and came out at the neck, between
" the ear and the vertebrae. The steel remained in the brain,
'< was extracted with great difficulty, and the patient re-
" covered.
1
'
Such are the principal cases.
The farther removed an account is from what we are
accustomed to observe in ordinary circumstances, the
stronger is the evidence required, before we can believe it,
and inversely. So, in the present instance, when we find
almost all the cases mentioned, consisting of very partial
injury of one side only of the brain, with no striking dis-
turbance of intellect, we are not disposed to be scrupulous
in admitting them to be true. We see such things occur in
our own day, and they are in themselves sufficiently proba-
ble ; seeing that the organs are double, and that one may be
affected without the other participating in the injury ; and
that the organs of the intellectual faculties constitute so
small a portion of the brain, as to leave nearly two-thirds of
the whole mass to be destroyed on both sides, without ne-
cessarily interfering with the intellect. But when we come
to such cases as that of the boy, who lost all his brain except-
THE MANIFESTATIONS OF THE MIND. 197
ing " about the bulk ofan egg, and yet remained quite weir
1
till within a few hours of his death, we are compelled to
pause, and ask for stronger evidence than that afforded by
a quotation at third hand of a single case. Neither the
Reviewer nor Dr Ferriar appear to have seen Billot's
own account of it, since each has quoted from a different
source ,• and not having been able to procure the ori-
ginal work, I know not whether it is correctly quoted by ei-
ther. No such case, we may rest assured, has occurred
in our own day, otherwise we should have heard of it. In
like manner, when we are told, as in the three cases al-
luded to by the Reviewer, of the faculties remaining entire
after the complete destruction of the brain by water, we
require evidence of no ordinary force before giving credit
to their truth, in the face of so many facts of an opposite na-
ture. More especially so, since the late discoveries by
Gall and Spukzheim of the structure of the brain, shew
the fallacy of the appearances commented upon as indicating-
its absence.
Out of the twenty-nine cases here quoted from different
authors, eighteen expressly refer to injury of one side only.
These require no remarks ; for, granting that none of the
faculties were lost, there still remained the sound organs
of the opposite side to execute the functions. Five more
expressly refer to injury or disease of the cerebellum and
fourth ventricle, parts which have no immediate connection
with the exercise of the intellectual faculties. In two, the
side is not mentioned, and another is Billot's case. In
three more, the whole brain was extant, but altered in ap-
pearance. Some of these demand a few observations.
In Dr Brunner's case of the drunken blacksmith, who
died apoplectic, the whole of the brain was still extant at
his death ; but a quantity of water was found effused up-
on it ; notwithstanding which, he not only retained his fa-
108 EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE BliAlN ON
culties, but was even more acute. " Cerebellum minime
*' flaccidum, sed sieut reliquas cerebri partes flrmum ap-
" paruit." This is the consequence of a certain degree of
inflammation, which, in the case of the brain, as well as in
that of other organs, often exalts instead of diminishing the
function. The effusion appears to have been the cause of
the apoplexy and of death.
In the hypochondriacal patient, even supposing all the
faculties to have been unimpaired, the visible seat of the
disease was confined to the cerebellum and fourth ventricle,
and did not extend to the organs of the intellectual powers.
In Bonnet's case of eleven days' illness, with occasional
alienation towards the end, where the cerebellum, part of
the base of the brain, and a portion of the medulla spinalis,
were mortified, " sphacelo inventae sunt correpta?," the part
of the base of the brain is not mentioned ; and, therefore,
no conclusion can be drawn in favour of the organs of the
intellectual faculties having been even partially destroyed
;
and, besides, there is every reason to believe the sphacelus
to have been the immediate forerunner of death, and not to
have existed for any length of time.
Lastly, Although what Ferriar calls the very extraor-
dinary case of the Due de Guise, be included in the
eighteen cases of injury of one side only, it is deserving of
particular attention. The lance entered under the right
eye, near the nose, and came out at the neck between the
ear and vertebra?. The steel, it is said, remained in the
brain, was extracted with difficulty, and recovery followed.
The state of the faculties is not even mentioned. In this
case, he says, the base of the brain must have been ex-
tensively injured. I humbly apprehend, however, that the
brain was not, and could not be touched. Let any one exa-
mine on the head of his neighbour, or on the skull, the di-
rection of such a wound, and I think he will agree in this opi-
THE MANIFESTATIONS OF THE MIND. 199
nion, and will then be at no loss to account for the difficul-
ty of extracting the steel. Having seen it stated in Boyer1
s
Chirurgie, that the spear entered above the eye, I procured
the original work of Ambrose Pare', and found that Dr
Ferriar was right in saying that it entered under the eye.
But Pare' never once mentions either brain or faculty.
He says, " The head of the lance stuck so fast as to re-
*' quire a pair of smith's pincers for its extraction. Al-
" though the violence of the blow was so great, that it could
" not be withoutfracture ofthe bones, a tearing and break-
" itfjg* ofthe nerves, veins, and arteries, and other parts, yet
" the generous Prince, by the favour of God, recovered,"
p. 235, lib. x. Although the state of the faculties is not
mentioned by Dr Ferriar, I remember to have read in
some French author, that the Duke bore the extraction
with great fortitude, and retained his faculties apparently
undiminished, and the above quotation accounts perfectly
for the fact ; for it shews that the brain was not in the least
affected, the wound being altogether below it. In the case
of the Chevalier Colbert, also, Dr Ferriar says, the eye
was crushed to pieces, and the orbit knocked in ; which
misapprehension must have arisen from the confused ac-
count given by the original author Duverney ; for, in
point of fact, the stone struck the temple, and not the front
of the eye.
Little confidence can, at any time, be placed in the his-
tory of dissections, made only to discover the cause of death,
when afterwards applied to physiological purposes. The
surgeon, who has been in the habit of seeing numerous dis-
sections, and particularly in hospital practice, made with
this object alone in view, knows well how ver-y general the
examination of the diseased parts frequently is, even when
seated in organs whose structure and functions are both
known ; and this observation naturally applies with double
200 EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE BRAIN ON
force to parts so little known as those contained in the cavi-
ty of the cranium. The Edinburgh Reviewer himself, in
speaking of some parts (such as the corpus callosum, for-
nix, &c), which have not been expressly mentioned as de-
stroyed, says, p. 446., " We believe, indeed, that several, if
" not the whole of them, were actually destroyed in the
" cases we have quoted ; but that they were omitted in the
" detail of the dissection, either from a fear of being te-
" dious, or because the authors did not conceive minuteness
"
qfdescription to be an object either ofpractical or physi-
" ohgical importance. As it is, however, instances are still
" wanting, in which the parts we have enumerated are ex-
" pressly stated to have been destroyed ; and we beg leave
" to call the attention of the physiologists to this circum-
" stance " &c. The phrenologists, in like manner, may
truly say, that instances are still wanting, in which any one
of their organs is expressly stated to have been destroyed,
and the function remained.
To such an extent, indeed, have anatomical structure
and minuteness of detail been neglected in the history of the
diseases and injuries of the cerebrum and cerebellum, in so
Jar as they are connected with the mind, that in almost
every instance, the palpable fact of the organs being double
has been overlooked ; and not only has no attention been
paid to the situation of the individual organs, in examining
the effects of their injuries in relation to Phrenology, but it
never has once been taken notice of by the opponents, that,
while they confine their attention to the state of the intel-
lectualJ'acultics alone in all cases of wounded brain, the or-
gans of these faculties, in the new system, constitute not more
than one-third of the whole cerebral mass. The other two-
thirds constitute the organs of the sentiments and propensi-
ties, which are never inquired into, as not being conceived
to have any thing to do with the brain.
THE MANIFESTATIONS OF THE MIND. 201
As it appears, then, notwithstanding the affirmations of
the opponents to he quite consistent with the principles of
Phrenology, that injuries of the brain may occur, without
necessarily affecting the intellectual faculties, I might, per-
haps, here safely drop the subject. Before quitting it,
however, we may shortly inquire how far the cases referred
to coincide, or are compatible with the doctrines which the
opponents themselves profess. They tell us, for example,
that the whole brain is the organ of mind, and that every
part of it is engaged in every act of thought. Now, it
seems to me, that their own cases are fatal to any such theo-
ry; for were any part of that general organ injured, the
function, even according to their own account, ought always
to be impaired in proportion as the brain is subject to all
the ordinary laws of animal organisation. Instead of which,
it would appear that the function does not suffer with al-
niosi total destruction of the brain ! How can they recon-
cile this remarkable fact with their leading principle of uni-
ty of organ ? No part of the human body is known to re-
tain its functions unimpaired, amidst total or partial change,
or destruction of its structure. Had they not been blinded,
therefore, they must have perceived that this very circum-
stance was sufficient to prove that every part of the brain
was not necessary to every individual act of mind, and that
the brain was not the single organ they believed it to be.
Phrenology, or the doctrine of a plurality of organs and
faculties, alone satisfactorily explains the apparent contradic-
tion, by showing, that the state of one organ, or part of
the brain, does not necessarily affect the state of all the
others.
Those philosophers who believe in the brain, as a zvhole,
being the organ of mind, and yet believe it proved, that a
brain reduced to the size of an egg is sufficient for the men-
tal manifestations, believe absolute contradiction. If such
202 EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE BRAIN ON
cases really occur, the only legitimate conclusion we can de-
duce from them is, that the brain is not the organ of mind,
—a conclusion which would require no small body of evi-
dence for its support, before we could receive it as correct,
considering the innumerable host of facts, not of old date,
but of every day^ occurrence, which irresistibly lead to a
contrary result. Is it not a little strange, then, to see Dr
Ferriar, in the paper already quoted, in one page grave-
ly doubting whether the brain has not been altogether de-
stroyed, without loss of mental faculties ; and in another de-
claring, that he " considers these medical facts as almost
" demonstrating that the brain is the instrument,—not the
" cause of the reasoning powers ?""
We, too, consider the
brain as the instrument of the mental faculties ; but we are
not so inconsistent as to suppose, with the metaphysicians,
that it is a matter of indifference to these faculties whether
that instrument be a whole or a broken one, or have even
altogether ceased to exist. Phrenology, then, so far from
having any thing to fear from these " medical facts," de-
rives additional confirmation from them, since it is upon
phrenological principles alone that they are either explica-
ble or consistent with any of the known laws of nature.
And it is in such circumstances that the new science rises so
far superior to any theory of the mind hitherto invented
;
and it can only be from its being founded on the solid basis
of truth, that it is ever so beautifully and simply consistent
with the observed phenomena of mind, alike in a state of
health and of disease.
I proceed now, as mentioned in the beginning of this
paper, to make a few observations on a mode of investi-
gating the functions of the individual parts of the brain,
proposed by that excellent surgeon Sir E. Home, in a
paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1814, and
differing widely from that in use among the Phreno-
THE MANIFESTATIONS OF THE MIND. 203
logists. " The various attempts," says he, at page 469.,
" which have been made to procure accurate information
" respecting the functions that belong to individual portions
" of the human brain, having been attended with very lit-
" tie success, it has occurred to me, that were anatomical
*' surgeons to collect, in one view, all the appearances they
u had met with, in cases of injury of that organ, and of the
" effects that such injuries produced upon its functions, a
" body of evidence might be formed, that would materially
" advance this highly important investigation.'"
As this mode of inquiry is still looked upon by many as
the most promising and philosophical that has yet been
tried, and as such is recommended by the Edinburgh Re-
view, it may be worth while to see what it is really able to
effect. To me it appears to be totally inadequate for the
purposes of original discovery, although it may be usefully
employed to procure additional information, after the func-
tions of the different parts of the brain have been investi-
gated phrenologically.
It is inadequate, 1st, because, from the mere aspect of the
wound, we are never certain of the precise extent of the in-
jury done to the brain, and consequently can never posi-
tively refer the phenomena to an affection of any particular
part, and of it alone. One injury, for instance, apparently
of the very slightest nature, often produces the most seri-
ous constitutional symptoms, and disturbance of the whole
mind ; while another, to appearance much more severe, is
productive of little inconvenience. In the former, the ef-
fects of the violence seem to extend either immediately or
from sympathy over the whole brain, or at least, much
farther than the mere point of contact, the visible seat of
the mischief; wT
hile in the latter, the affection is more of a
local nature ; so that the results obtained in one case ap-
pear to be negatived by those obtained from another. %dly,
2
204 EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE BRAIN ON
Because the complicated structure of the brain (about which,
besides, so little is known), makes it exceedingly difficult,
if not impossible, to injure or destroy one part without the
neighbouring parts participating in a greater or less de-
gree, so that their function is also deranged. Professor
Rolando of Turin, who has devoted much of his time to
the study of the anatomy and functions of this organ, in
speaking of mutilations, performed upon the lower ani-
mals, says, " I have made innumerable experiments to dis-
cover the results of injuries done to the bigeminal tu-
bercles, and the parts in the neighbourhood of the
optic thalami, but I have rarely obtained consistent re-
sults ; which is not surprising, if we consider the pecu-
liar interlacing of the numerous medullary fibres which
meet in these parts ; for as it is extremely difficult to
know what bundles of fibres have been affected in these
operations, we cannot draw clear and precise conclu-
sions, where there is a difference in the result.
1
'
If
this holds true with regard to mutilations performed
with every precaution to avoid wounding other parts,
and under every advantage which an acquaintance with
the anatomy can afford, it certainly applies with tenfold
force to injuries, the results of accidental and unguided
violence.
Now, it will be seen by a reference to Sir E. Home's
paper, that although his cases must have been observed
with a view to this inquiry, the same want of specification
as to the precise limits and situation of the injury, shews it-
self in almost all of them. So that, taking the divisions as
marked out by the Phrenologist, it would be impossible to
tell, from his description, what particular organ or organs
were the seat of the mischief; much less to say, whether
any one organ was destroyed in its whole course from the
base to the circumference. He does not even allude to the
THE MANIFESTATIONS OF THE MIND. 205
organs being double, much less does he ascertain, how much
of the function is performed by the one side or by the other,
when either is diseased alone, as is the general case.
Sir Everard confines himself to the consideration of those
cases which have come under his own observation, and divides
them into ten different classes. 1st, Effects produced by an
undue pressure of water upon the brain :
c
Zd, Effects pro-
duced by concussion of the brain : 3d, Effects produced
by preternaturally dilated or diseased bloodvessels of the
brain : 4?th, Effects produced by extravasated blood : 5th,
By the formation of pus : 6th, By depression or thicken-
ing of parts of the skull: 1th, Pressure from tumours: 8th,
Injury to the substance of the brain : 9th, Alteration of
structure : 10th, Injury of medulla spinalis. It will occur
to the mind of every one, on considering the nature of the
diseases included under these different heads, that in all of
them, except the last, the totality of the brain is affected in
a greater or less degree. As almost all, in one sense at
least, resolve themselves into cases of general pressure,
some attended with peculiarities from which others are
free ; consequently the effects produced are general, as
delirium, convulsions, apoplexy, coma, sickness, watching,
and the like, and not lesion of any particular faculty, such
as could possibly indicate the function of a part. In one
or two instances, the state of the memory and external
senses is mentioned along with other generalities. So that,
to use the words of the Reviewer, " The greater number
" of cases serve only to confirm what had already per-
" haps been sufficiently made out by the authors we have
" named ; to-wit, that there is no sort of uniformity either
" in the kind or degree of the symptoms which accompany
" diseases of the brain."" No sound inference, therefore,
can be deduced from them alone, as to the function of
any particular part, in as far as the mind is concerned.
206 EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE BRAIN ON
But supposing the functions and localities of the differ-
ent parts of the brain to have been accurately ascertained
by some other means, then the facility of making interest-
ing physiological and pathological observations is so great-
ly increased, that much valuable information may be attain-
ed from attention to the effects of injuries and disease; espe-
cially in some individual cases, in the 8th and 9th sections
of Sir E. Home, viz. partial injuries and partial alteration of
structure. But so long as the anatomy of the brain is im-
perfect, and so long as the exact situations and precise func-
tions of its component parts or organs are unknown, we can-
not with certainty pronounce upon the nature of the lesion ;
we cannot say, whether it is confined to one organ or part of
an organ, or whether it extends to several, whether it affects
the same parts on both sides, or different parts, and conse-
quently, amidst the complicated phenomena which present
themselves before us, we are completely at a loss, when we
attempt to refer each to its own cause.
If an injury of the cerebellum, or of part of the posterior
lobes of the brain, occurs to a philosopher, who is firmly
satisfied in his own mind " that the whole brain is engaged
" in every act of thought,
11
and that no part of it is in con-
nection with any of the propensities or sentiments, what
inference can he draw as to the function, upon finding no
intellectual faculty with which he is acquainted, impaired
or wanting ? He cannot consistently investigate the state
of the propensities, and refer any irregularities among them
to the injury sustained, because these are not intellectual
faculties, and, according to him, can have no connection
with the brain. He remains of necessity as much in the
dark as ever. But let such a case occur to the Phre-
nologist, or to him who has ascertained, by previous ob-
servation, the uses of the part, it is evident that, although
he could not any more than the philosopher infer the
THE MANIFESTATIONS OF THE MIND. 207
function from a consideration of the symptoms alone, yet
having discovered it by other means, he comes to the in-
quiry fully competent to judge whether his former observa-
tions are confirmed or refuted by the phenomena now be-
fore him. It is only when in possession of this previous
qualification that we can derive any advantage from such
cases in increasing our knowledge of mind.
That the philosopher with such views could never have
been led to the discovery of the connection between certain
parts of the brain and the propensities and sentiments, by the
mere observance of their injuries, is proved by wounds of
these parts having been actually attended with symptoms
corresponding to their phrenological functions, and neither
he nor the anatomical surgeon having drawn any such in-
ference. Wounds and diseases of the cerebellum, for in-
stance, have forced themselves upon their notice, where the
sexual prospensity was extinguished by loss of substance,
or preternaturally excited by the subsequent inflammatory
action ; and yet no one drew the inference that the cerebel-
lum was the organ of Amativeness *. The temper and moral
sentiments have also been entirely changed, in consequence
of certain injuries of the brain, while the intellect remained
unimpaired ; and no one drew the conclusion that the parts
affected were the organs of these sentiments. Nor would
they have been warranted in doing so, because instances of
injury confined so entirely to one part, as to affect its
function, without having any influence upon those of the
neighbouring parts, are so few and so rare, in comparison to
those of an opposite kind, that no just inferences can be
• Wepferus' Historiae Apoplecticorum, edit. 1724, p. 487. Majeh-
die's Journal de Physiologie for April and August 1822 : also Medical Re-
pository, vol. xviii, p. 268-358
—
Larey's Memoires de Chirurgie Militaire
et Campagnes, vol. ii, p. 150 ; vol. iii. p. 262.
208 EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE BRAIN, &C.
drawn from them alone ; although, combined with other
evidence, they are highly important.
Time will not permit me to enter upon the consideration
of mutilations performed upon the brains of the lower ani-
mals, with a view to discover the functions. They appear
from other causes to be as inconclusive as the observation
of the effects of injuries in man. At another time, I may
perhaps lay before the Society some account of the experi-
ments performed by Professor Rolando about sixteen years
ago, and contained in his book, " Saggio sulla vera strut-
" tura del Cervello del Uomo et degli Animali, e sopra le
" funzioni del systema nervoso,
11
Sassari, 1809. I have
not yet been able to procure this work ; but a very inte-
resting analysis of it is to be found in the first volume of
the Archives generales de Medecine.
These experiments, in themselves of very considerable
interest, have now an additional claim upon our attention,
in consequence of the publication of a report to the French
Institute, by the celebrated Cuvieii, upon the merits of a
memoir laid before that body, by Mons. Floukens, in which
an account is given of several experiments very similar to
those performed by Rolando, and which afforded nearly
the same results, although Flourens carried on his re-,
searches in ignorance of Rolando"^ labours.
( 209 )
IV.
—
Cases of Deficiency in the Power of Per-
ceiving Colours.
I.
—
Remarks on the Faculty of Perceiving Colours
By Dr Butter, F. K. S. L. S. &c.
{Read 28th November 1822.)
JYnowing how much you have directed your attention
to the subject of optics, and that every variation connected
with the ordinary phenomena of vision is interesting to you,
I transmit, without farther apology, the particulars of the
following case, which my friend, Dr Tucker of Ashbur-
ton, Devon, has lately made known to me in the instance
of his own son. About two years ago, Mr Robert Tucker,
who is now aged nineteen, and the eldest member of a fa-
mily of four children, discovered that he was unable to dis-
tinguish several of the primitive colours from each other.
He was employed in making an artificial fly for fishing, in-
tending to have constructed the body of the fly with silk
of an orange colour, whereas he used that of a green.
When the error was pointed out to him by his younger
brother, he could not believe it, until it was confirmed by
other persons. Threads of orange and green silk were
then twisted round his finger, and he could not perceive
any difference in them, but thought them to be the same
o
210 DR BUTTER ON THE FACULTY OF
coloured thread twisted several times. This circumstance
led to a trial of his powers for distinguishing other colours ;
and the following are the results which have been ascer-
tained, taken correctly by frequent repetition, and confir-
med by the trials made in my presence. Many of the
leading or primitive colours, he neither knows when they
are shewn, nor remembers after they have been pointed
out to him. Certain colours are confounded with each
other. Orange he calls green, and green colours orange ;
red he considers as brown, and brown as red ; blue silk
looks to him like pink, and pink of a light blue colour ; indi-
go is described as purple. The seven prismatic colours seen
in the spectrum are described in the following manner :
Colours. Colours.
1. Red, mistaken for - - Brown.
2. Orange, - - Green.
3. Yellow, generally known, but sometimes
taken for - Orange.
4. Green, mistaken for - - Orange.
5. Blue, - - Pink.
6. Indigo, - - Purple.
7. Violet, - - Purple.
So that the yellow colour alone is known to a certainty.
The colours wr
ere shewn to him on silk, on feathers, and in
Syme's book of colours, with uniform result. Red and
brown colours appear the same, as well as green and orange,
blue and pink, and indigo and purple. With the exception
of black or white objects, which he seldom mistakes, all
colours are by him divided into three classes, viz.
1st, Includes red and brown.
%d, Includes blue, pink, indigo, violet and purple.
3d, Includes green and orange colours.
He can generally say with certainty, to which of these three
PERCEIVING COLOURS. 211
classes any colour belongs ; bul he mistakes one colour for
another. A difference in the shades of green he can
distinguish, though not the green colour itself from the
orange. Soldiers
1
scarlet coats appear red. Grass looks
green *. The colours of horses are quite unknown to
him, except a white or black horse. A bay, a chesnut,
anil a brown horse, is described of the same colour. The
colours of the rainbow, or of the moon, appear nearly the
same, being two-fold ; at least, two distinct colours only are
seen, which he calls yellow and blue. A blue coat, how-
ever, he can distinguish from a black ; but this circum-
stance may be owing to the metal buttons on the one coat,
and not on the other ; and a yellow vest is always known
to him. By day, he called carmine red. lake red, and
crimson red, purple, in Werner's book of colours by
Syme ; but by candle light, this error was detected, and
the colours were called red with a tinge of blue. Black,
which is the negation of all colour, could not be dis-
tinguished by him from a bottle-green colour, in one in-
stance, though the difference was quite obvious to myself.
Black, white, and yellow bodies are, however, recognized
with tolerable certainty, though the shades of white, which,
again, is but the beam of all colours, are not distinguish-
able. The shades of green can be distinguished from each
other, as already stated, though none of them are known
from orange. Duck green he called a red, and sap green
an orange colour. If he closed one eye, and looked with
the other, the results were not altered. —His health has
been good. This defect has not sprung from disease ; it
bears no relation to nyctalopia or amaurosis, only in its
probable seat; it is natural, not morbid.
* It is remarkable that green, which is the softest of colours and com-
posed of yellow and blue, should be mistaken for orange, on every substance
except on grass.
o2
212 DR BUTTER ON THE FACULTY
Description qfEyes.
Mr R. Tucker's eyes appear to be very well formed,
being oblate spheroids, with cornea? neither remarkably
convex nor flat. Irides light ash-colour. His vision is ex-
ceedingly acute. It has been frequently exemplified in
finding birds' nests, in shooting small birds, and in reading
minute print at a short or long distance. Light appears to
him as light. He sees the forms of surrounding objects,
like other people, at noon-day, in the twilight, and at night.
In short, his sight is remarkably good in any light, or at
any distance. His grandfather, on his mother's side, seems
not to have possessed the faculty of distinguishing colours
with accuracy.
General Remarks.
Physiologists may speculate in opinion, whether or not
this deficiency in the faculty of perceiving colours, as exem-
plified in the instance of Mr R. Tucker, depended on the
eye, as the instrument and organ of vision, or on the senso-
rium, to which all impressions made on the retina of the
eye are referred, and in which the faculty or power of dis-
criminating colours is supposed to reside. Vision, regarded
as a sensation, is only one medium of communication, which
the brain, or common sensorium, has with the external
world. The other senses afford other media. If an eye
sees objects clearly, distinctly, and quickly, vision cannot
be considered defective. The faculty, whatsoever it may
be, wheresoever it resides, of discriminating the differences
between different objects, certainly is not confined to the
eye. The eye is but an optical instrument, serving to the
purposes of vision. The judgment exercised upon the vi-
sual sensations is an after process, and resides not in the
eye. Still, however, the construction of the visual organ
modifies the appearances of objects presented to it. All
OF PERCEIVINCx COLOURS. 213
eyes do not see equally well in the same light ; nevertheless,
there is a standard of vision, which we call common. A
difference in the vision of eyes depends, not unfrequently,
on the colours of the iris and tapetum. In Albinoes, the
iris is red. They cannot see distinctly in the day-time, be-
cause the red rays of the sun are possibly reflected, while
the rest may be absorbed. It is probable, that the red rays
may be reflected from the iris, when most closed, in Al-
binoes, because in them, there is a deficiency in the pigmen-
tum nigrum, or black coating which covers the choroid tu-
nic, and which being wanting, allows the rays to be more
reflected and less absorbed, than they are in human eyes
generally. Hence, the pupil is almost closed in Albinoes.
Red, we know, strikes the eyes most forcibly, as it is the
least refrangible colour. In optics, it is proved, that red
bodies reflect the red rays, while they absorb the rest ; and
green colours reflect green rays, and possibly the blue and
yellow, but absorb the rest. Still, however, the conscious-
ness of colours does not depend on the colour of the iris,
because one person, having a dark iris, and another a
light grey, can distinguish colours equally well; nor on
the tapetum, by the same rule, though the use of this
coloured matter in the eye is not well made out. Her-
bivorous animals, as the ox, are supposed to have the ta-
petum in their eyes, of a greener colour than carnivorous,
in order to reflect the green colour of the pasturage. But
this explanation, given by Monro primus, does not hold
good ; for the hare, whose tapetum is of a brownish-
chocolate, and the stag, which has a silvery-blue tapetum
inclining to violet, are equally herbivorous with the ox.
In man, and apes, the tapetum is of a brown or blackish
colour; in hares, rabbits, and pigs, it is of a brownish-
chocolate. The ox has the tapetum of a fine green-gilt
colour, changing to a celestial blue ; the horse, goat, and
'214 DIt BTJTTEU ON THE FACULTY OF
stag, of a silvery blue, changing to a violet ; the sheep of
a pale-gilt green, sometimes bluish ; the lion, cat, bear,
and dolphin, have it of a yellowish-gilt pale ; the clog, wolf,
and badger, of a pure white, bordering on blue. The use
of the tapetum, and of the pigmentum 7ugrumi
can scarcely
be said to be known. We can only infer, that the tapetum,
if white, might reflect all the rays, and absorb none ; and
if black, as in man, it should absorb all the rays, and re-
flect none.—" II est difficile," says Cuvier, " de soupcon-
ner fusage d'une tache si eclatante dans un lieu si peu
visible, Monro, et cVautres avant lui, ont cru que le tapis
du bceuf est vert, pour lui representer plus vivement la
couleur de son aliment naturel ; mais cette explication ne
convient pas aux autres especes." Cuvier, Lemons cVAnat.
Comp. torn. ii. 402. Birds and fishes may perceive colours
as well as animals, though they have no tapetum. The
vision of man is regarded the most perfect ; and defective
vision in old people is sometimes produced by a deficiency
of the black paint. These considerations do not, however,
lead us to suppose, that the faculty of distinguishing the
harmony of colours depends on the eve, any more than the
concord of sounds does on the ear. The eye and the ear
can be regarded only as instruments for bringing the sen-
sorium, or thinking principle of man and animals, acquaint-
ed with whatever is visible or audible. The faculty, there-
fore, must reside elsewhere. Quickness of vision never
made a Newton, nor delicacy of hearing a Handel, nor
fineness of touch a Reynolds, nor acuteness of smelling a
Davy, nor accuracy of taste any philosopher whatever.
For, all that man sees, hears, touches, smells, and tastes,
constitutes only a specific difference in his sensations. These
several sensations are compared, judged of, and distin-
guished from each other, by some internal principle which
t does not reside in the organs themselves. It is this prin-
PERCEIVING COLOURS. 215
ciple, or discriminating faculty of colours, which is wanting
in Mr It. Tucker. Pressure made on the optic or auditory
nerves entering the brain, will paralyse these organs which
can neither see nor hear, unless their communication with
the brain be preserved. Amaurosis sometimes arises from
disease in the brain, and deafness from a similar cause.
The brain is the sensitive centre, which feels all the sensa-
tions of light, sound, odour, and taste. In palsy, the latter
is often annulled *. In the instance of Mr It. Tucker, there
is no evidence whatever, to lead a person to suppose that
defect exists in the functional office of his eyes, for his vision
is quick above par. Where, therefore, does the fault lie ?
His eyes do their office, but the subsequent processes of
perceiving, judging of, comparing, and remembering, (as
confined solely to colours, his other faculties being perfect),
are deficient. We must seek the explanation,- therefore, in
physiological, and not in optical, science,, for the phenomena
do not depend on the mechanical construction of his eyes.
Looking to the brain as the organ of the various mental
powers, we may fairly infer, that these differences, disco-
verable in the faculties or capacities of individuals, are re-
ferable to some peculiarity in its structure and organization.
Whilst physiologists in general admitted, I believe, this
theory, it was not surprising that Drs Gall and Spur-
zheim should have directed their analytical powers of in-
vestigation, in an especial manner, to the brain itself, nor
that they should have brought together the leading pheno-
• I have lately dissected the brain of a lady who died of Apoplexy.
Her first symptoms were, partial privation of vision, the sensation of objects
like flies of different colours dancing to and fro, of flashes and sparks of light
before the eyes, of dizziness and confusion. The anterior and middle lobes
of the brain were here affected. These morbid affections bear an affinity to
natural deficiencies in the cerebral conformation, and shew us where to look
for an explanation of mental incapacity and a want of proper perception,
216 DR BUTTER ON THE FACULTY OF
mena connected with its functions. As patience and per-
severance have elucidated so many abstruse points in ana-
tomy, and solved such hidden phenomena in mental agency,
these prosecteurs were doubtless encouraged in the labo-
rious task, they had undertaken, and led to hope, that, by
their continued industry in unravelling the cerebral masses
of man and animals, these organs which appeared to com-
mon observers as connected and inseparable in their struc-
ture, would admit of division, and that the different com-
partments, arbitrarily divided, might be found to com-
prise the material seats of so many distinct faculties *. Fair
and delusive, perhaps, was the expectation ; correct and in-
disputable, however, are many of their facts and histories.
I do not profess to analyse their labours ; I acknowledge my-
self incompetent to embrace all their views ; but I speak
with confidence, so far as one instance goes, that these ana-
tomists appear to have discovered the true situation of the
organ of colours, over the arch of the eye-brows.
In comparing Mr Robert Tucker's cranium with casts,
and with the plates in Dr Spurzhejm's book, I was forci-
bly struck with the flatness of his os frontis, at the place in
the orbitary ridge where the organ of colouring is said to
be situated ; and this flatness, it is well known, indicates a
small development of the organ.
In reciting this case, and in offering such comments on
it, as the premises appear to me to warrant, I have no wish
to provoke discussion, but merely to state the truth, so far
as I have observed it.
• The Committee charged with superintending the printing of the pre-
sent volume think it proper to remark, that, at the time Dr Butter wrote
the observations in the text, he was not a member of the Society, and that
the article was originally intended for a different publication. He appears
not to have been, then, correctly informed concerning the principles on which
the founders of Phrenology proceeded. These arc stated at length in the
Preliminary Dissertation.
PERCEIVING COLOURS. 217
The following quotation from his book will shew, that
Dr Spurzheim had collected instances similar to it. In
page 36iJ, he says, " Certain persons are almost destitute of
" the power of perceiving colours. We know a family, of
" which all the individuals distinguish only black and white.
" Dr Unger of Altona could not perceive green and blue ;
" and a boy of Vienna, who wished to become a tailor, was
" obliged to abandon this trade, because he could not dis-
" tinguish different colours. Those persons who do not
" perceive colours, have sometimes the sense of vision very
" acute, and readily perceive the other qualities of external
" bodies, as their size and form. Indeed, the faculty of
" perceiving the harmony of colours is totally distinct from
" that of form ; for there is nothing more common, than
" that a painter should be an admirable draughtsman, and
" a vile colouri»t.
ri
In the Philosophical Transactions of London for 1777,
there is published a case, communicated by Mr Huddart
to Dr Priestley, of one Harris, a shoemaker, at Mary-
port in Cumberland. This man could discern the form
and magnitude of all objects distinctly, but could not dis-
tinguish colours. Harris had three brothers affected with
the same peculiarity of vision as himself. I do not seek to
multiply these instances, as I believe that they are not un-
common.
The organ of colours, Dr Spurzheim states, is more con-
spicuous in women than in men, and the former exhibit a
greater variety of colour in their dress and furniture, and
are more fond of flower-gardens than men. The Chinese,
who are great colourists, have their eye-brows much arched.
Indeed, it seems to me, that the evidence is more than pre-
sumptive of a flatness of the eye-brow, denoting the absence
of certain faculties, that of distinguishing colours as one,
and of a prominency pourtraying their presence and capa-
bilities.
218 DR BUTTER ON THE FACULTY OF
The foregoing communication (with some additional
phrenological observations, of a general nature, which are
here omitted, being familiar to Phrenologists, although not
unsuitable for a journal intended for general readers) was
sent by me to Dr Brewster, for insertion in the Edin-
burgh Philosophical Journal. Dr Brewster, without
communicating with me, was pleased to alter the title of the
article from that which it now bears, and to print it in his
Journal, as, " Remarks on the Insensibility of the Eye to
certain colours," by John Butter, &c. He also sup-
pressed the Phrenological Comments, and added the fol-
lowing Note, titled,
" Observations on the preceding Paper, by
M Dr Brewster?
" From the facts described in this very interesting paper,
" Dr Butter has concluded, that Mr R. Tucker's imper-
" feet vision of colours has a physiological, and not an op-
*' tical origin ; and he proceeds, in the conclusion of his pa-
" per, (which, for obvious reasons*, we have omitted), to
" fortify this conclusion, by the statement, that Mr R.
" Tucker is particularly defective in the organ of colours.
" In giving an account of the case of Mr Dalton and
" others, whose eyes have an imperfect perception of colours,
" Dr Thomas Young has remarked, (in opposition to Mr
" Dalton's opinion, that the vitreous humour of his own
" eye is of a light blue tinge), ' That it is much more simple
• '« We have received various phrenological communications for insertion
u in this Journal ; but, independently of the opinion which we entertain of
" this branch of modern study, we could make no apology to our readers for
" inserting such articles, when we arc obliged to omit one-half of the papers
" that are sent to us on subjects of substantial science."
PERCEIVING COLOURS. 219
" * to suppose the absence or paralysis of those fibres of the
" ' retina, which are calculated to perceive red.
1
" With regard to the existence of fibres in the retina,
" suited to the perception of different colours, we have no
" evidence ; but it seems quite sufficient for the explanation
u of the leading facts, to suppose that the retina is insensi-
" ble to certain colours.
" Dr Wollaston, in his interesting paper on sounds in-
" audible to certain ears, has shewn, that ears, both of the
" young and of the old, which are perfect with regard to
" the generality of sounds, may, at the same time, be com-
" pletely insensible to such as are at one or the other ex-
" tremity of the scale of musical notes ; and I have lately
" ascertained, that some eyes, which perform all the func-
" tions of vision in the most perfect manner, are insensible
" to certain impressions of highly attenuated light, which
" are quite perceptible to other eyes. Dr Wollaston has
" given the most satisfactory explanation of this partial in-
" sensibility of the tympanum ; and I conceive, that the in-
" sensibility of some eyes to weak impressions of light, re-
" quires no other explanation, than that, either from origi-
" nal organisation, or some accidental cause, the retina of
" one person may be less delicate, and less susceptible of
" luminous impressions, than the retina of another, without
" being accompanied with any diminution of the powers of
" vision. If a sound ear, therefore, may be deaf to sounds
" of a certain pitch, without our looking for the cause of
•* this in the form of any part of the brain, why should we
" appeal to such an uncertain guide for an explanation of
" the analogous phenomenon of the insensibility of the eye
" to certain colours ?" (The Edinburgh Philosophical
Journal, vol. vi. p. 140).
Although I felt much honoured, by Dr Brewster keep-
ing back my explanation of Mr Tucker's defect, and sub-
220 DR BUTTER ON THE FACULTY OF
stituting these observations of his own, I trust I may be
permitted to offer a few remarks upon his comments.
In the instance of Mr Robert Tucker, I could have
multiplied the examples already given of his non-percep-
tion ofcolours. He knew not blood on a spaniel's neck from
dirt, until he was told, and had seen the wound in the dog's
ear ; and he called the beautiful crimson-colour of the flower
of Pyrus japonica green. He has lately read the account
given of Mr Dalton's case in the Manchester Memoirs,
(See vol. v. parti.), and considers the principal facts there-
in cited precisely parallel with his own. Mr Dalton is,
however, shortsighted, and Mr R. Tucker's vision, as al-
ready stated, is very quick. Since the publication of his
case, Mr R. Tucker has visited Paris, and presented him-
self to Dr Spurzheim, who considered his case similar to
all others of this description, excepting the quickness of his
vision.
Miss B., a lady of Plymouth, has lately informed me of
another instance of one of her relations, a gentleman, who
knows not the real colour of bodies. I have also heard of
two other examples which I need not give, one of Miss M.,
the daughter of the late General M. An account has been
published of a limner in Edinburgh, who painted a man
with a green beard and blue cheeks. (See Memoirs of
Manchester Society, vol. v. part. i. 1798.)
The instances of persons in whom the faculty of perceiv-
ing colours is wanting, are thus sufficiently numerous.
Objections are not opposed to the facts, I conceive, but to
reasoning advanced on them.
DAlton's theory is, That one of the humours of his eye
must be a transparent, but coloured medium, so constituted
as to absorb red and green rays principally. He sus-
pects that the vitreous humours may be a modification of
blue.
PERCEIVING COLOURS. 221
If we look through a pair of green or blue glasses, we
still can recognise every primitive colour on bodies, with a
shade of blue or green over them ; and, although we look
through a coloured medium, yet we know other colours :
therefore, supposing the rays of light passed through a
green or blue vitreous humour, it does not follow that the
object, from which the rays emanated, should appear intrin-
sically to be either blue or green. A simple experiment
does away with Dai/ion's theory.
Dr Thomas Young, on the other hand, says, " It is
" much more simple to suppose, the absence or paralysis
" of those fibres of the retina which are calculated to per-
" ceive red." Now, had such fibres of the retina existed,
or admitted of discrimination from other fibres of the reti-
na, Dr Young ought to have first demonstrated them,
otherwise his theory has no foundation. I have never
heard of an anatomist who has yet made out those fibres,
or even had curiosity to look for them.
Dr Wollaston, whose high opinion has received the
concurrent and able support of Dr Brewster, in his inte-
resting paper, published in the Transactions of the Royal
Society of London, for 1820, on sounds inaudible to certain
ears, supposes, that some ears may be perfect to the genera-
lity of sounds, and yet insensible to those which are at the
extremity of the scale of musical notes. This may be true
;
but are we hence to infer, with Dr Brewster, " that the
" insensibility of some eyes to weak impressions of light,
" requires no other explanation, than that, either from origi-
" nal organization, or some accidental cause, the retina of
'* one person may be less delicate, and less susceptible of lu-
" minous impressions, than the retina of another, without
" being accompanied without any diminution of the powers
" of vision ?" If this hypothesis be verifiable, we must ask,
What is the original organization of the retina ? Is it de-
222 CASE OF DEFICIENCY IN THE POWER OF
monstrable ? What is the cause which produces that deli-
cacy and susceptibility essential to the right perception of
colour ? The opticians have never shewn any cause, and
the Phrenologists state facts which they have observed.
II.
—
Case of Deficiency in the Power of Perceiving and
Distinguishing Colours, accompanied with a small de-
velopment of the Organ, in Mr James Milne, Brass-
Jbunder in Edinburgh.
By Mr George Combe.
(Read 28th November 1822).
ivJut Milne's grandfather, on the mother's side, had a de-
ficiency in the power of perceiving colours, but could dis-
tinguish forms and distance easily. On one occasion, this
gentleman was desirous that his wife should purchase a
beautiful green gown. She brought several patterns to
him, but could never find one which came up to his views
of the colour in question. One day he observed a lady
passing on the street, and pointed out her gown to his wife,
as the colour that he wished her to get ; when she expressed
her astonishment, and assured him, that the colour was a
mixed brown, which he had all along mistaken for a green.
It was not known till then that he was deficient in the power
of perceiving colours.
Neither Mr Milne's father, mother, nor uncle, on the
mother's side, were deficient in this respect ; so that the im-
PERCEIVING AND DISTINGUISHING COLOURS. 223
perfection passed over one generation, In himself and his
two brothers, however, it appeared in a decided manner
;
while in his sisters, four in number, no trace of it is to be
found ; as they distinguish colours easily. Mr Spankie, a
cousin, once removed, has a similar defect*.
Mr Milne is rather near sighted, but never could find
glasses to aid his defect. He rather excels in distinguish-
ing forms and proportions ; and although he cannot discover
game upon the ground, from the faintness of his perception
of colours, yet he is fond of shooting ; and when a boy, was
rather an expert marksman, when the birds were fairly vi-
sible to him in the air. He sees them, however, only in the
sky-light ; and last year, when a large covey of partridges
rose within ten or twelve yards of him, the back ground
being a field of Swedish turnips, he could not perceive a
single bird. His eye is decidedly convex to a considerable
degree.
Mr Milne's defect was discovered in ratheracurious man-
ner. He was bound apprentice to a draper, and continued in
his service for three years and a half. During two years, he
fell into considerable mistakes about colours, but this was at-
tributed to inexperience and ignorance of the names of the
shades merely. At length, however, in selling a piece of
olive corduroy for breeches, the purchaser requested strings
to tie them with ; and Mr Milne was proceeding to cut off
what he considered as the best match, when the person stopt
him, and requested strings of the same colour as the cloth.
• I have examined the heads of Mr Milne's brothers, who are deficient
in the power, and in them the organ is evidently little developed. I have
also examined its development in one of his sisters, and found no deficiency,
but rather a fulness in the organ. Mr Lyon, a member of the Society, states,
that he has examined the head of Mr Spankie, and found the organ rather
deficient.
224 CASE OF DEFICIENCY IN THE POWER OF
Mr Milne begged him to pick out a colour to please him-
self ; and he selected, of course, a green string. When he
was gone, Mr Milne was so confident that he himself was
right, and the purchaser wrong, in the shade that he had
chosen, that he cut off' a piece of the string which he intend-
ed to give, and a piece of that which had been selected, and
carried both home, with a piece of the cloth also, and shew-
ed them to his mother. She then told him, that his ribbon
was a bright scarlet, and the other a grass green. His
masters would not believe in any natural defect in his power
of perceiving colours ; and it was only after many mistakes,
and some vituperation, that he was permitted to resign the
business, and to betake himself to another, that of a brass-
founder, to which he had a natural disposition ; for he had
used the turning-loom in constructing play-things, when a
mere boy.
As to the different colours, he knows blues and yellows,
certainly ; but browns, greens and reds, he cannot distin-
guish. A brown and green he cannot discriminate or name
when apart ; but when together, he sees a difference between
them. Blue and pink, when about the same shade, and
seen in day-light, appear to him the colour of the sky, which
he calls blue ; but seen in candle light, the pink appears like
a dirty buff, and the blue retains the appearance which it
had in day-light. The grass appears to him more like an
orange, than any other coloured object with which he is ac-
quainted. Indigo, violet and purple, appear only different
shades of one colour, darker or lighter, but not differing in
their bases. He never mistakes black and white objects
:
he distinguishes easily between a black and a blue, and is
able even to tell whether a black be a good or a bad one.
In the rainbow he perceives only the yellow and the blue
distinctly. He sees that there are other shades or tints in
it, but what they are he cannot distinguish, and is quite
PERCEIVING AND DISTINGUISHING COLOURS. 225
unable to name them. In day-light crimson appears like
blue or purple, but in candle-light it seems a bright red.
When in Glasgow, his greatcoat was carried off from
the travellers'-room by mistake, and on inquiring at the
waiter what had become of it, the question was naturally
put, what the colour of the coat amissing was ? Mr Milne
was quite puzzled by the interrogatory ; and although
he had worn it for a year, he could only reply, that it was
either snuff-brown or olive-green, but which he could not
tell. The waiter looked as if he suspected that Mr Milne
wantedto get a coat instead of to recover one ; but the coat
was found ; although even yet Mr Milne is not able to tell
the colour. He is apt to mistake copper for brass, unless
he distinguish them by the file. —I submitted the above
statement to Mr Milne, and he certified it as follows
:
" Having heard this paper read over, the circumstances
" related are perfectly correct. James Milne.
" Edinburgh, 26th November 1 822."
I beg leave to lay before the Society, a cast of Mr Milne's
head (27. Busts), and to intimate, that he has kindly
consented also to attend this evening, and is now present.
You will perceive by the cast, that the organs of Form, Size
and Constructiveness, are well developed ; while that of Co-
louring is decidedly deficient ; there being a depression in
the part corresponding to this organ, into which the point
of the finger falls, on passing it along. As a contrast to
it, I beg to refer the Society to the mask of Mr Douglas,
miniature-painter (No. 49- masks), and on comparing the
extent to which the organ in question differs in the two,
you will perceive it to amount to about a quarter of an inch.
The masks of Mr David Wilkie (No. 19«)> Mr Haydon
(No. 20.), and Mr Williams (No. 21.), all eminent paint-
p
226 CASE OF DEFICIENCY IN THE POWER OF
ers, may also be compared with Mr Milne's, in regard to
this organ.
As phrenologists are sometimes supposed to see diffe-
rences by the aid of fancy, which are not distinguishable
by men endowed with only ordinary powers of perception,
I beg to suggest to the Society a very simple experiment
in regard to this case. Mr Patrick Gibson, landscape-
painter, a member, is now present. Let us place him and
Mr Milne behind the screen, at the door, and cover the
head of each with a handkerchief. Several visitors are pre-
sent, who probably are strangers to the persons of both.
Some of these gentlemen may be requested to feel the heads
of the two at the organ in question, through the handker-
chiefs, and if they do not distinguish them by this mark
alone, we may allow it to be said that no difference exists.
(This experiment was accordingly performed, in presence
of the Society, and a number of visitors ; and more than
half a dozen of gentlemen, who were strangers to Mr Gib-
son and Mr Milne, named them respectively and correct-
ly, by feeling their heads at the part indicated.)
Cases of a similar nature are not rare : I beg to add
that of Mr Sloane of Leith, in whom the power of distin-
guishing Colours, when presented separately, is deficient,
and in whom an imperfect development of the organ also
occurs.
The mask No. 33. is that of Mr Sloane, and it coin-
cides with that of Mr Milne, in presenting a small develop-
ment of the part marked as the organ of Colouring : In a let-
ter, dated 20th February 1822, addressed to me, this gen-
tleman says, " When I see a piece of tartan, or any other
w complication of colours, I can easily distinguish the dif.
PERCEIVING AND DISTINGUISHING COLOURS. 227
" fercnce of shades; but were the different colours present-
" ed to me singly, I could not say which was which. I feel
" particularly at a loss to distinguish betwixt green and
" brown, and likewise betwixt some shades of red and blue.
" I am not sensible of being deficient in seeing any thing at
" a distance, or of being unable to perceive as small a par-
" tide as the generality of men can do.
1
'
In this mask, the
deficiency is not so great as in the cast of Mr Milne, but
the organ of colouring is greatly less developed in it than in
the masks of the painters before alluded to.
The proper way to observe the development of this or-
gan, is to distinguish to what extent the centre of each eye-
brow projects forward. In Mr Milne it is slightly de-
pressed below the neighbouring parts ; in Mr Sloane, it is
scarcely depressed, but it does not project, so as to overhang
the eyeball ; in the painters it is large and prominent, form-
ing a heavy shade above the eye.
Mr Sloane also mentions in his letter, that he is " very
" deficient in music ;" and on comparing the development
of the organ of Tune in his head, with its appearance in the
mask of Mr Macvicar (No. 39.), who told me that he is
passionately fond of music, and whose powers were certified
by a gentleman with whom I am well acquainted,, a great
difference will be perceived ; the organ being greatly larger
in the latter than in the former.
In the Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. vii. Part ii.
p. 477., an account is given by Whitlock Nicholl, M. D.
of Cowbridge, of a " Curious case of Imperfection
11
of Vi-
sion, of which the following is an abstract.
" The subject of the present case is a boy eleven years
" old, lively and healthy. His eyes are grey, with a yel-
" low tinge surrounding the pupil. He does not call any
" colour green. Dark bottle-green he calls brown, con-
p 9
228 CASE OF DEFICIENCY IN THE POWER OF
" founding it with certain browns. Light yellow he calls
" yellow ; but darker yellows, and light browns, he con-
" founds with red. Dark brown he confounds with black.
" Pale-green he calls light-red ; common green he terms
" red. Light-red and pink he calls light-blue ; red he calls
" by its proper name. Blue, both dark and light, he calls
" blue. On looking through a prism, he said he could dis-
*' cover no colours but red, yellow and purple,'" &c.
" This boy has four sisters, in neither of whom does this
'* imperfection of sight exist. He has an infant brother, of
" whose vision nothing of course can as yet be known. The
" peculiarity of sightas to colours is derived from his mother,
" in whom, however, it does not exist ; she has a sister who
" is also free from it ; but she has no brother. Her father,
" who is now living, has this imperfection of vision. This
" gentleman, Charles , had two brothers and three
" sisters ; one of the brothers (John) had also this peculi-
" arity, but the other brother, and all the sisters, were with-
" out it. Charles was in the Navy ; and several years
" ago he purchased a blue uniform coat and waistcoat,
" with red breeches, to match the blue. John , the
" brother of the boy"^ grandfather, has mistaken a cucum-
** ber for a lobster, and a green leek for a stick of red seal-
" ing-wax."
No theory is offered to account for these facts.
Another case of defective power of distinguishing Co-
lours, is communicated by Whitlock Nicholl, M. D. of
Ludlen Medicc-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol. ix. Part. ii.
p. 359.
The subject of the case is a gentleman residing near
Mauchline in Ayrshire ; and he recites the facts himself.
PERCEIVING AND DISTINGUISHING COLOURS. 229
" My eyes,
11
says he, " are of the same colour with the
" youth's you mention, grey, with a yellow tinge round the
" pupil ; the pupil is rather small, but not remarkably so.
" The colour I am most at a loss with is green ; and in at-
" tempting to distinguish it from red, it is nearly guess-
" work. Scarlet, in most cases, I can distinguish ; but a
" dark bottle-green I could not, with any certainty, from
" brown. Light-yellow I know ; dark-yellow I might con-
" found with light brown, though, in most cases, I think I
" should know them from red,*" &c.
" The only advantage I have observed from this pecu-
" liar vision is, that I see objects at a greater distance,
" and more distinctly in the dark than any one I recollect to
" have met with. This I discovered many years before I was
" aware cf my defective error in colours. I am in the 49th
" year of my age, and I do not find my sight getting dim,
" as it generally does in persons before that time of life.
" I am the youngest of a family of ten children, nine of
" whom arrived at maturity. I had a brother who died in
" 1791, and who, I since find, could not distinguish co-
" lours," &c.
No theory of this case is offered.
In treating of the external senses, Dr Spukzheim states,
that the eye perceives only modifications of light, and that
internal faculties perceive colour, form, size and distance.
The same doctrine is fully explained in the Essays on Phre-
nology, p. 126. I have met with a case which throws some
light on the subject ; and shall quote it from a memoran-
dum, dated 26th May 1821.
Mr F. is tutor in the family of Sir G. S. Mackenzie.
He stated, that he had a difficulty in " understanding a
" landscape" in a picture ; and explained, that " it appear-
" ed to him to present a groupe of objects on a plain sur-
2S0 CASE OF DEFICIENCY IN THE POWER OF
" face, without any perceptible fore or back ground." He
attributed this defect in his perceptions to the circum-
stance of his not having learned the rules of perspective at
school. In the course of farther interrogation, he stated,
that he sees the forms of objects distinctly, as also their co-
lour ; that he likes brilliant tints best, and that in nature he
perceives distance also. He has visited Rosslin, (in the
neighbourhood of Edinburgh), and not only perceived the
varying loveliness of hill and dale, of " fountain and fresh
" shade," which characterises that delicious spot, but en-
joyed its beauties with a keen relish. He has also seen
many pieces of Highland scenery, and enjoyed them.
Rivers, meadows or trees, or cultivated ground, are, how-
ever, the objects which interest him most. On turning
his back upon any natural landscape, or shutting his eyes
upon it, his recollections instantly become very confused.
He is not able to recall in his mind the " relative positions"
of the objects; while he distinctly recollects the pleasing
impressions which they had made upon him ; this remem-
brance does not soon fade. His recollection of Rosslin, for
example, is like that of a confused picture of rocks and
trees, and a river winding through them ; but his remem-
brance of the impressions of grandeur and beauty, made up-
on him by the objects, is vivid and distinct.
For a long time I could not satisfactorily account for
this curious deficiency of mental power. Mr F. permit-
ted a cast of his face and forehead to be taken (No. 22.
Masks,) and in it the organ of Size appeared to be de-
cidedly small, and Form and Locality not very fully de-
veloped ; while, by examining his head, it appeared, that
Ideality, Wonder, Benevolence, and the organs of the other
sentiments, and also of the intellectual powers, were nowise
aeficient ; but to which of the three organs of Size, Form,
PERCEIVING PERSPECTIVE. 231
or Locality, the imperfection ought to be ascribed, I was' at
a loss to determine.
Subsequently, however, Mr Douglas, a member of the
Society, already mentioned, stated in conversation, that one of
the earliest indications of a liking for painting which he had
manifested, was an extraordinary interest in matters con-
nected with perspective. When a mere child, the appear-
ance of approach in the far end of ploughed ridges puzzled
him exceedingly, and he crawled across the fields, before
he could well walk, to measure the actual distance betwixt
each ridge with a stick, and was lost in astonishment when
he found that the space between each was actually the same
at both ends, notwithstanding of the great difference which
appeared between them to the eye. He continued from
this time to take a great interest in perspective, as a quality
in painting, and gave up landscape for miniature painting,
not from inclination, but from motives of a different kind.
On comparing his head with Mr Ferguson's, I found that,
in the organ of She, the difference was greater than in any
of the other organs.
On subsequently examining the head of Mr P. Gibson,
who is known to excel to a high degree in perspective, I again
found the organ of She very large. And, finally, in the
head of a gentleman with whom I am intimately acquaint-
ed, this organ is developed rather below than above an
average degree ; and he stated to me, that, with the power
of perceiving and recollecting distances with facility, he has
nevertheless felt great difficulty in representing distance
correctly on paper ; and, while he understands the general
theory of perspective, he could never learn to execute the
rules by tact of hand, and gave up all attempts at drawing
on this account.
From these cases, I am disposed to infer, that the organ
of Size, marked No. 21. on the phrenological bust, is in
282 CASE OF DEFICIENCY IN THE POWER OF
some degree connected with the power of perceiving per-
spective, and of representing distance in a picture ; but this
can yet be regarded as very little more than a conjecture,
the instances now alluded to being infinitely short of that
full demonstration on which alone the phrenologists admit
the functions of organs as ascertained.
I may add, by wr
ay of explanation, that the organs and
faculties of Form, Size, Locality, and Colouring, only serve
to transmit the respective impressions received by them to
the faculties of the Higher sentiments and understanding
;
and that the latter, Ideality for example, or Benevolence, or
Comparison, enable us to feel the emotions, or exercise the
reflections which are called up in the mind, by the presenta-
tion- of external objects, invested with magnificence or beau-
ty ; and that as the organs of these latter faculties are fully
developed in the head of Mr F., the circumstance of his
emotions being strong, and his recollections of them distinct,
is easily accounted for on the principles of our science.
Perception is the result of the lowest degree of activity of
each intellectual faculty and organ, and memory \s a higher
degree of activity. Thus, the faculty of Tune, in its lowest
state of power, may enable an individual to perceive me-
lody, when produced by others, but it may not be vigorous
enough to enable him to recal the notes of a tune which
he has only once heard. In like manner, the organ of
Size seems to have been sufficiently developed in Mr F. to
permit the lower manifestation of the faculty, that of Per-
ception of distance, when objects in nature were presented,
but not sufficiently so, to allow the higher degree of action
to take place, that of Memory, or the act of recalling the
"onceptions of distance, when the objects were removed.
PERCEIVING AND DISTINGUISHING COLOURS. 233
Remarks on Dr Brewster's Note to Dr Butter's
Communication.
Dr Brewster thought it unbecoming to publish the
Phrenological Explanation offered by Dr Butter, of the
case of Mr Robert Tucker, and assigned as a reason
for withholding it, that, " independently of the opinion we
" entertain of this branch of modern study, we could make
" no apology to our readers for inserting such articles,
" when we are obliged to omit one-half of the papers that
" are sent to us on subjects of substantial science.'''' On
this passage I beg leave to make a short comment : Dr
Brewster's own " observations,
11
which he substituted for
those of Dr Butter, occupy nearly as much space in his
Journal as the suppressed portion of the original communi-
cation would have done ; and they ought, therefore, to have
been sounder and more satisfactory in themselves, other-
wise his readers were no gainers by the change. But, in-
stead of being so, they are directly the reverse. Dr But-
ter states a plain and simple fact, that Mr Robert Tuck-
er's head is not fully developed in the part where Drs Gall
and Spurzheim indicate the organ of Colouring to be situ-
ate ; and this statement was valuable, just because it re-
lated tofact, and implied neither hypothesis nor conjecture.
Dr Brewster, however, suppressing this fact, substitutes
in its place,—a purely gratuitous hypothesis, a supposi-
tion of " the absence or paralysis of those fibres of the retina,
" which are calculated to perceive red,
11
—a theory so per-
fectly destitute of proof, that he himself, in the very next
sentence, proceeds to mention, that, " with regard to the ex-
" istence of fibres in the retina, suited to the perception of
" different colours, zee have no evidence ; but it seems quite
" sufficient for the explanation of the leading facts, to sup-
" pose that the retina is insensible to certain colours.'
1
''
This,
then, is a specimen of the substantial Science ! which is worthy
234> CASE OF DEFICIENCY, &C.
of a place in the Journal of Dr Brewster. If the phreno-
logists had been guilty of penning such a sentence, this gen-
tleman would have been one of the first to detect and ex-
pose so glaring a departure from the rules of just philoso-
phising : One of the first principles of reasoning in physics
is, that a cause is never to be taken for granted, and yet he
here deliberately rejects positive evidence, and substitutes
an assumption in its place. The conductors of the Edin-
burgh Philosophical Journal, says Dr B., can afford no
room for phrenology, on account of papers sent to them
" on subjects of substantial Science .'" The world, I pre-
sume, is infinitely more interested in determining whether
the " Chess-player" was a man or a machine, to which sub-
ject he devoted many pages of his work, than in discover-
ing the functions of the Brain, or investigating the philoso-
phy of the Human Mind !
( 235 )
VI.
—
Notice of a Case in which the Patient sud-
denly forgot the Use of Spoken and Written
Languages.
By Mr Alexander Hood.
{Read 23d January 1823.)
R. W. , the patient in this remarkable case, is a man of
regular and sober habits, in the sixty-first year of his age,
and by trade a blacksmith. His general health is good,
though, for many years, he has been subject to severe
headaches, which were uniformly referable to the sockets of
the eyes and eye-brows. Some twelve or fourteen years
ago, after much fatigue from a long walk in the night, he
was affected with severe inflammation, pain, and much
swelling in the submaxillary and parotid glands. While
the inflammatory action was going on in the glands of the
neck, the left eye was attacked with excruciating pains,
which continued several weeks with little abatement. In
the course of the disease, mercury had been prescribed
freely, as the mouth and gums were much affected ; but, at
this distance of time, the other curative means have not
been ascertained. When the complaint had continued for
9S6 A TATIENT WHO FORGOT THE USE OF
two or three months, the swelling in the glands began to
diminish, and the pain in the eye abated ; but the function
of the organ was about this time rather unexpectedly lost.
The right eye sustained little injury ; the swelling in the
neck continued to diminish ; and, about the end of the
fourth month, the patient had, in every other respect, a
good recovery. After a lapse of thirteen years, there is not
at present any appearance of disorganization of structure,
or opacity in the cornea or lens of the left eye, which can
possibly occasion blindness. It seems, in fact, to have been
infected with amaurosis.
On the evening of the 2d of September 1822, in the
midst of his family, he suddenly began to speak incohe-
rently, and became quite unintelligible to all those who
were about him. The complaint, in the first instance, ap-
peared to be pretty much like delirium, or the effects of
liquor ; with this remarkable difference, however, that the
words which were uttered, wr
ere unconnected with the sig-
nifications with which they are generally associated. On
the morning of the 3d September, when I first saw him,
he was in bed, and seemed to be somewhat confused ; for,
though he could speak, no general ideas could be collected
from the words which were expressed, as he only rendered
himself intelligible by signs. Being apprehensive of apo-
plexy, as there was some fever present, with a full strong
pulse, upwards of ninety beats in the minute, 1 took four-
teen ounces of blood from the arm ; but he having become
faintish, the wound was bound up, and leeches applied to
the temples. A brisk purgative was also administered
and, towards the evening, the skin became cool, and the
pulse moderate ; but the mental affection remained the same,
and it was now discovered that he had forgotten the name
of every object in nature. His recollection of things seemed
to be unimpaired, but the names by which men and thing*
SPOKEN AND WRITTEN LANGUAGES. 237
are known, were entirely obliterated from his mind, or ra-
ther he had lost the faculty by which they are called up at
the controul of the will. He was by no means inattentive,
however, to what was going on ; and he recognized friends
and acquaintances perhaps as quickly as on any former oc-
casion ; but their names, or even his own, or his wife's
name, or the names of any of his domestics, appeared to
have no place in his recollection.
Under die serious apprehension that this strange mental
affection might probably be the harbinger of death, he was
extremely anxious to settle his affairs, and make his peace
with the world. A gentleman who had often suggested to
him the propriety of making a testamentary settlement,
now occurred to his mind, though he could not, by any
effort, call up his name. He laboured, with the utmost
assiduity, more than an hour, to make his family under-
stand whom he wanted, and ultimately succeeded in direct-
ing them to the individual, by depicting the number of
houses and doors between his own house and that in which
his friend resided. Thus directed, some one of the family
asked him if it was such a one, naming the person that he
wished to see. He seemed to be overjoyed, and signified,
by various gesticulations, that this was the person, and that
he was desirous his friend should be brought to him imme-
diately. 1 was afterwards informed by the gentleman, that
my patient had succeeded completely, by means of signs,
hieroglyphics, and a few expJanations from one of the fa-
mily (who perhaps previously knew something of the old
man's mind on the subject) in making known to him the
manner in which he wished his children severally to suc-
ceed in the possession of their respective shares of his pro-
perty. The same evening had been fixed for a committee
meeting of a Friendly Society, of which he was a member;
but, though he recollected the society, the meeting of com-
238 A PATIENT WHO FORGOT THE USE OF
mittee, the time and place of meeting, and other circum-
stances connected with it, yet he had forgotten all the
words by which these ideas are expressed. He seemed to
regret much his inability to attend, and wished to convey
this idea to his family ; but could make them understand
what he referred to, only by forming a circle with chairs,
and placing one more conspicuous than the rest, indicative
of the president's, by which his meaning was at last disco-
vered.
On the morning of the 4th September, much against the
wishes of his family, he put on his clothes,, and went out to
the workshop ; and, when I made my visit, he gave me to
understand, by a variety of signs, that he was perfectly well
in every respect, with the exception of some slight uneasi-
ness referable to the eyes and eye-brows. I prevailed on
him, with some difficulty, to submit to the reapplication of
leeches, and to allow a blister to be placed over the left tem-
ple. He took also a full dose of calomel and jalap, which
operated well, having elicited, besides feculent matter, a
copious discharge of bile. From this time, he declined all
medical treatment, except taking occasionally a dose of
salts. He was now so well in bodily health that he would
not be confined to the house ; and his judgment, in so far
as I could form an estimate of it, was unimpaired ; but his
memory for words was so much a blank, that the monosyl-
lables of affirmation and negation seemed to be the only
two words in the language, the use and signification of
which he never entirely forgot. He comprehended dis-
tinctly every word which was spoken or addressed to him ;
and, though he had ideas adequate to form a full reply,
the words by which these ideas are expressed seemed to
have been entirely obliterated from his mind. By way of
experiment, I would sometimes mention to him the name of
a person or thing. His own name, for example, or the
SPOKEN AND WRITTEN LANGUAGES. 239
name of some one of his domestics,—when he would have
repeated it after me distinctly, once or twice ; but, general-
ly, before he could do so a third time, the word was gone
from him as completely as if he had never heard it pro-
nounced. When any person read to him from a book, he
had no difficulty in perceiving the meaning of the passage,
but he could not himself then read ; and the reason seemed
to be, that he had forgotten the elements of written lan-
guage, viz. the names of the letters of the alphabet. In
the course of a short time, he became very expert in the
use of signs ; and his convalescence was marked by his im-
perceptibly acquiring some general terms which were with
him at first of very extensive and varied application. In
the progress of his recovery, time and space came both un-
der the general appellation of time. All future events and
objects before him were, as he expressed it, " next time ;"
but past events and objects behind him were designated
" last time.'''
1
One day being asked his age, he made me to
understand that he could not tell ; but, pointing to his wife,
uttered the words " many times
1
''
repeatedly, as much as to
say that he had often told her his age. When she said he
was sixty, he answered in the affirmative, and inquired
what " time"" it was ; but, as I did not comprehend his
meaning distinctly, I mentioned to him the hour of the
day, when he soon convinced me that I had not given him
the proper answer. I then named the day of the week,
which was also unsatisfactory ; but, upon mentioning the
month, and day of the month, he immediately signified that
this was what he wanted to know, in order to answer my
question respecting his age. Having succeeded in getting
the day of the month, he then pointed out the " time'''' or
day of the month on which he was born, and thereby gave
me to understand that he was sixty years of age, and five
days or " times? as he expressed it.
240 A PATIENT WHO FORGOT THE USE OF
After the fourth or fifth day from the attack of the com-
plaint he attended the men in the workshop regularly, and
occasionally did little jobs himself. As his general health
seemed to have sustained no perceptible injury from the
mental affection, and his judgment remaining clear, he was
extremely anxious to recover the power of reading and wri-
ting. In his desire to become again acquainted with writ-
ten language, he had recourse to books with more than
school-boy assiduity. About the middle of September,
when he had recovered the use of several vocables, and
could even sometimes go so far unassisted as to write the
one half of his own name, by way of trying his memory,
I asked him the name of an object with which I knew he
was familiar ; but after a long pause he could give ine no
answer. When I mentioned the name, he pronounced it
distinctly twice or thrice after me ; but with every effort
he could make, in the space of a few seconds it again slipt
from his memory. It was no uncommon thing with him to
remember one-half of a word, and not the other ; ham- for
instance, instead of the whole word hammer. In as far as
my observation goes, he always recollected in the order of
pronunciation, and never the last part of a word without
the syllables preceding.
October 8. His memory is now very much improved
;
he remembers his own name, and the names of many of his
friends and acquaintances, and can read an advertisement
without much difficulty. There are still many words, how-
ever, which he cannot recollect, though the things desig-
nated by them be perfectly familiar to him, and which he
cannot retain in his memory more than a few seconds.
The word tongs is an example of this kind, notwithstand-
ing, as he observes, that he has been handling them these
fifty years.
SPOKEN AND WRITTEN LANGUAGES. 24
f
December 28. He can now support conversation tolera-
bly, though in many respects his memory is still very de-
fective. It often happens, that in jotting down accounts
in his book, a syllable or two of the leading word is all that
he can write at the time; but he assures me, he never fails
in marking the price correctly ; and some hours afterwards,
or perhaps the following day, he returns and fills up the
unfinished word or sentence just as his memory serves
him.
Observations.
The patient R. W. was possessed of the ordinary
knowledge of written and spoken language before this
attack. I have known him for ten years, and, although
he never seemed to be possessed of much oratorical
talent, he had no difficulty in making himself distinctly
understood. His son assures me, that his written corre-
spondence was characterised by perspicuity, distinctness,
and brevity. He never was taught arithmetic, but he could
solve readily, by mental calculation, questions of much in-
tricacy, and, what is more remarkable, without almost ever
making a mistake even in the minutest fraction. In Coil-
ed ,
trading by specification for the iron- work of large build-
ings, all his calculations were made in this way, and the
general result only was put down in figures.
The facts of this case appear to be, in many points of
view, extremely interesting, inasmuch as they seem to esta-
blish, beyond the possibility of doubt, that the brain must
consist of a congeries of organs, or parts, each serving to
manifest a particular faculty, and that to one or more of
these particular parts is appropriated the function of recol-
lecting words or names. It appears also to be evident, that
this portion of the brain may have its function suspended
or destroyed, without the judgment being impaired, or the
Q.
242 A PATIENT WHO FORGOT THE USE OF
recollection of facts, circumstances, and events, being ef-
faced from the mind. If the brain were a single organ, and
every part of it necessary to each mental act, such cases
could not occur ; for it could not be both perfect and im-
perfect at one and the same time. The organ of artificial
language has been pointed out by Drs Gall and Spurz-
heim as " situated above and behind the eye."" Now, the
pain, in this case, was uniformly referable to that part of
the head, so that, in as far as pain is indicative of the seat
of disease, the observations of these gentlemen seem to be
confirmed. It is scarcely possible to take a general view of
the case, without considering the headachs or condition of
parts in which they originated, the blindness of the left
eye, and subsequent affection of memory, except in the
relation of cause and effect. Objections may, no doubt, be
started to this inference from the facts narrated, and it may
be admitted that they perhaps do not necessarily stand in
this relation : at the same time, it may be affirmed, with-
out fear of contradiction, that deranged functions happen-
ing to any other organ or member of the body, preceded
many years by frequent and excruciating attacks of pain,
would justify the pathologist in taking this view of the sub-
ject.
In the works on Phrenology, the doctrine is laid down,
that Perception is the result of the lowest, and Memory of
a higher degree, of activity of each faculty and organ. In
attempting, therefore, to account for the fact of his com-
prehending the meaning of words used by others, without
being able to use them himself, it occurred to me, that the
organs of verbal memory may have been paralytic, or in
some analogous condition,—so that, although the power of
ministering to sensation or perception was not destroyed,
their energies were so much impaired as to render them
incapable of performing the higher part of their ordinary
SPOKEN AND ITR1TTEN LANGUAGES. 24#
functions. During his convalescence, it was very obviou.-,
that he could recollect sonic words with facility, while, with
his utmost efforts, he could not recollect others more than
a few seconds. This fact induced me to believe, that,
in the tissue of fibres composing these organs, the same
degree of morbid action did not equally pervade them
throughout, else there would have been more unifor-
mity in his power of recollecting and using words with
which he was equally familiar. The same fact also
suggested the probability, that the whole phenomena of the
disease might possibly be explained, on the supposition of
the organs being double, and always acting uniformly and
simultaneously, so that, when the one became diseased, or
paralytic, the functions of the other were disturbed by
sympathy. The two eyes and two ears being more imme-
diately channels of communication with the material world,
for the better accommodation of the animal, may reason-
ably be supposed to be more distinct in their functions than
organs situated entirely within the cranium, and well pro-
tected from external injuries. When the function of an
eye or ear, for instance, is suddently destroyed, we are well
aware of the embarrassment, which it often occassions to the
suffering individual ; but when the functions of internal
organs are impaired or destroyed, much more confusion
must arise, as may easily be conceived, from their intimate
connection with each other, and the juxtaposition of parts.
The conjecture, however, concerning the disease existing
only on the one side, is hazarded, more with the view of
exciting discussion, than from any settled belief entertained
on the subject.
Observations on the same subject, by Mr G. Combe.
Dr SpurzhEim mentions a case similar to the forego-
ing. He says, " J'ai vu, a Inverness, en Ecosse, un homme,
244 A' PATIENT WHO FORGOT THE USE OF
qui,, etant frappe cTapoplexie, connoissoit les qualites des ob-
jets-; qui se rappeloit les signes vocaux, mais qui ne pou-
voit pas les prononcer. Si on lui montroit une couleur telle
que la verte, et qu' on lui demandat si la couleur etait
brune, jaune, ou toute autre que verte, il repondoit que
non ; aussitot quYm nommoit la veritable couleur, il disoit
qu oui. Il faisoit de meme aux figures des objets. J'ai
observe un cas semblable a Paris. L'homme comprenoit
tout ce qu'on lui disoit, mais il ne pouvoit pas trouver la
prononciation des mots dont il avoit besoin. II demandoit
differens objets ; si on lui apportoit la chose dont il avoit
prononce le nom, il repondoit, sur-le-champ ; c'est, ou ce
n'est pas cela. Ces phenomenes prouvent que les idees, et
toutes les fonctions des facultes interieures doivent etre se-
parees des signes arbitraires, et qu'elles precedent les
signes. "
—
Observations sur la Phrenologie, p. 304.
Dr Gall also cites the case of a notary recorded by
Pinel, who, after an attack of apoplexy, had forgot his own
name, and that of his wife, children and friends, although
his tongue preserved all its mobility. He could no longer
read nor write, but nevertheless remembered objects which
had formerly made an impression on his senses, and which
related to his profession. He frequently pointed out with his
finger, the files which contained documents that could not
be found, and indicated, by other signs, that he preserved
the former train of his ideas entire, (" Pinel sur PAliena-
" tion mentale, 2de edition, p. 105.") Dr Gall mentions
also the case of a soldier sent to him by Baron Larrey,
whom he found to be very nearly in the same condition as
the notary mentioned by Pinel. u It was not his tongue
-
"
says he, " which was the source of his embarrassment,"
for he was able to move it with great agility, and to pro-
nounce even a great number of isolated words. It was not
SPOKEN AND WRITTEN LANGUAGES. 245
his memory either which was in fault, for he shewed evi
dent dissatisfaction with himself, at not being able to ex-
press himself upon many subjects which he wished to men-
tion. The only faculty in him which was impaired, was
that of speech. This soldier, like the patient of Mr Pi-
xel, is no longer capable of reading or writing, (" Phy-
" siologic du Cerveau, v. iv. p. 84.
r,
)
Cases similar to these have frequently occurred in this
country. A gentleman who attended the late Dr Gre-
gory's lectures in this city, has favoured me with the fol-
lowing extract, from notes which he took at the time.
** There are many various modifications in the loss of
'* the mental powers : one may be lost and not another.
" Thus the memory of language may be lost, while that of
" things remains. Wepferus mentions some instances of
" this kind. I met with one in the case of a lady, who,
" at the age of forty-two, had an attack of apoplexy, from
" which she recovered remarkably, with this exception. She
" had even forgot the letters of the alphabet. She had been
66
a good French scholar, but also forgot it completely ;
" yet she retained the memory of things, though from this
" circumstance she could not express herself in words.
" This was ascertained by different experiments, one of
" which was to leave her in the house by herself, the other
" ladies taking care to be out of the way ; the cook came
" to her for directions about dinner ; she could not tell
" her, but went alongst with her, and pointed out very
" distinctly what she wanted, and how she would have it
" served. She lived about thirty years after the apoplectie
" attack. In another case, I could not get any answer
" from the patient, merely because he had not the memory
" of language. He could repeat any word after hearing
" it, or read a part of a book after another, though he
" could not by himself. In Dr Reid's works, we find an
216 A PATIENT WHO FORGOT LANGUAGE.
u account of a case somewhat similar. On the other hand,
" the memory of things may be very imperfect, while that
" of ivords is complete. This occurred in the case of a
" lady with whom I was acquainted. She could talk well
" enough, but forgot tilings so much, that she did not
" know her own son, and even identified him with his de-
" ceased father, forgot she was an heiress, by whom an
*' estate had come to her son, and even where she was.
" I observed it also in a gentleman, who otherwise had a
" good recovery from hemiplegia. Such as these are ex-
" treme cases, but the approaches to them are by no means
" uncommon.'
1
The actual condition of the part of the brain, which is
observed by phrenologists to be connected with the faculty
of language, does not appear to have been ascertained by
dissection in any of the foregoing cases. The only infer-
ence, therefore, which can be legitimately drawn from
them, is the one stated by Mr Hood, that different parts
of the brain must, of necessity, have the function of mani-
festing different mental powers ; and that the part which is
connected with the faculty of using artificial language, is
different from those parts which serve to manifest the
powers by which the existence of external objects, their re-
lations and qualities, are perceived and remembered. By
calling the attention of physiologists to these facts, they
may be led, by future dissections, to confirm or refute the
conclusion which the phrenologists have already drawn
from a great multiplicity of observations made during life,
that the convolutions which lie on the middle of the supra.
orbitary plates of the frontal bone, arc the organs of.lan-
ffnage.
>*
rs
\
AV
( 247 )
VI.
—
Remarks on the Cerebral Development of
King Robert Bruce, compared with his cha-
racter as appearingfrom History.
By Mr William Scott.
AJT the time when Phrenology was first beginning to at-
tract attention in this country, it must certainly be regarded
as a piece of extraordinary good fortune, that the discovery
of the tomb of Robert Bruce, authenticated beyond the
possibility of doubt *, should furnish us with the cerebral
• King Robert was the last sovereign of Scotland, whose remains are re-
corded to have been interred at Dunfermline. He was, nccording to Fordun,
'* Sepultus apud monasterium de Dunfermlyn in medio chori, debito cum
" honore." His heart having been taken out, to be carried to the Holy
Land by Sir James Douglas, was, on the death of that knight in Andalusia,
conveyed back to Scotland by Sir William Keith, and afterwards buried at
Melrose.
The church of Dunfermline, which occupied the nave of the ancient
cathedral, having become ruinous, it was resolved, in 1817, to erect a new
building, extending over and including the space occupied by the Royal
Tombs. In the course of these operations, the workmen came, by accident,
upon a vault in a line with the centre of the ancient choir, which was co-
vered by two large flat stones. This having been opened, at first only so
far as to ascertain its being a royal vault, was Immediately closed again, and
remained so, until the 5th November 1819, when it was laid fully open,
24)8 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
development of one of the most renowned monarchs, and
one of the most justly celebrated men, whom this country,
or whom the world, has ever produced. The opportunity
thus afforded of illustrating the new science, and, at the
same time, of exhibiting the true elements which formed
the character of the great deliverer of Scotland, could not
fail to be of the highest importance : and although, upon
and its contents carefully examined in the presence of the King's Remem-
brancer, and of several of the Barons of Exchequer. It then appeared,
without a doubt, to have been the tomb of King Robert Bruce.
The vault or grave was about seven feet long, of regular built masonry,
situated within a larger vault. It contained a human skeleton, wrapped
up in two separate coverings of lead. At the time the grave was first
opened, there was at the top of this lead covering, something which had
the appearance of a rude crown. Under this lead was a covering of linen
cloth, interwoven with gold-thread, but which, on the second opening, was
found in a state of great decay. The whole being removed from over the
body, the skull was taken up, and found in a most perfect state. The qs
hyoides was entire, and several cartilages of the larynx were visible, from
having, it is supposed, been ossified. The whole teeth in the under jaw
were entire, and in their places; but there were four or five in the upper jaw
wanting, with a fracture of the jaw-bone in front, probably occasioned by a
blow which the King had received in one of his military adventures.
The most remarkable circumstance observed regarding the skeleton, was
the state of the sternum, which was found to have been sawed asunder, from
the top to the bottom. This was considered to afford additional evidence that
the skeleton was that of Bruce, as this operation would be necessary to get
at the heart, which, as already mentioned, was taken out, to be carried to
the Holy Land.
The workmen, in the course of their operations a few days afterwards,
found, among the rubbish of the vault, a plate of copper, which had escaped
notice at the previous examination, having engraved upon it a cross bearing
the inscription " Robertus Scotorum. i?er." Above the inscription is the figure
of a crown ; and, beneath it, a crosslet, with four stars or mullets inserted
in the angles. The letters of the inscription resemble those on the coins of
Bruce. Upon the whole, there cannot be conceived more satisfactory evi-
dence of any fact of the kind, than that the skeleton thus discovered, was
that of King Robert Bruce.
KING ROBERT 15KUCE. 249
the first announcement of the cerebral development of
Bruce, and without a sufficient attention being paid to his
real history and character, some may have thought that it
did not correspond with the exalted ideas they had enter-
tained of his merit, I will venture, without much risk of
contradiction, to affirm, that no cause exists for any feeling
of disappointment on this account. I think it will appear,
on a minute examination of the circumstances of Bruce's
life, and of the times in which he lived, that the character
indicated by the development, is not only borne out by the
history in the closest manner,—but that, had that develop-
ment been in any material respect different from what we
find it, it would not have agreed with the history, and
would have furnished grounds for impugning either the
authenticity of the head, or the correctness of the principles
laid down in the science.
The first point on which an objection has been stated, is
the apparent deficiency in Bruce in the organs of the in-
tellectual powers, as compared with those of some of the
feelings, and particularly the animal propensities ; and it
has been asked, is it possible that there could have been
any intellectual deficiency in so great a man ? But here it
is fit that we make proper distinctions. In Phrenology, two
kinds of intellectual faculties are recognised ; the first com-
municating the perceptive powers, the second the reflective.
In Bruce's head, the organs of the first class are amply
developed, and only the second are comparatively small.
It is proper, therefore, that we consider what was the land
of intellectual power which Bruce exhibited, or which was
necessary for enabling him to perform what he did. We
must consider, in the first place, that Bruce did not live
in an intellectual age. He was the head and ruler of a
rude people, just emerging, for we cannot say that in his
time they were actually emerged, from barbarism. Not to
2.50 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
mention the evidence of our own historians, which is suffi-
ciently explicit upon this point, we may only allude to the
testimony of Froissart, a contemporary chronicler, and
one whom there is no cause to accuse of unfairness. The
account he gives of the Scots in Bruce^s reign, of then-
manner of making war, of their mode of encampment, of
their living upon flesh in a half raw state, merely sodden
in skins, and of their wearing shoes or buskins of untanned
leather, is such as to wear the stamp of truth, while it
mortifies us not a little at the low state of civilization in our
ancestors of the fourteenth century. They seem to have
been in a state little, if at all, superior to the Cossack tribes
of the present day. This was the people whom Bruce
commanded, among whom and of whom he was born ; and
it surely cannot be thought surprising, nor imputed as a
defect in the chief of such a people, that he is not found
to be endowed with those higher reflective powers which
are necessary for sounding the depths of science, or for
pursuing to its consequences a long train of inductive rea-
soning. As yet Science was not. Colleges and schools
had no existence in the land ; printing was not invented
;
and all the learning of the age was monopolized by a few
of the clergy, in so much that many distinguished nobles
could not write, and probably could not read. The
reasoning faculties of Bruce were not exercised in his
youth, by being imbued with the wisdom of the antients,
and by having opened to his view the treasures of learning
and the inexhaustible wonders of science. War and the
chase formed in his time at once the school and the pastime
of the noblest spirits. The duties of a monarch were in
those days few and simple. They were chiefly, if not ex-
clusively, " to go in and out before the people, and to fight
their battles."
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 251
The head of Bruce was, soon after its discovery, exa-
mined by different phrenologists, and its development, as
stated by them, has long been before the public. It cer-
tainly appears to me that they have, at least, not erred on
the favourable side in this case ; and, instead of bending
the development to suit preconceived notions, and to raise
the monarch in the scale of intellect, I rather think, with
submission to them, they may have somewhat under-rated
the reflecting powers of Bruce. He is admitted to have a
large Individuality ; and, I may add, (if we are right in
holding that there are two organs included in this), that
they are both largely developed in Bruce. It is laid down
in the Outlines, and, indeed, in all the systems of Phreno-
logy, that these organs give the talent of quick observation
and tenacious memory for facts and occurrences presented
to the senses ; and, when joined to a favourable combina-
tion of the propensities and sentiments, they give that kind
of judgment which is known by the name of sagacity, or
common sense : for it must never be forgotten, that prac-
tical judgment is held, in Phrenology, to depend fully more
on the power of feeling correctly, than of reasoning deeply.
We have known many persons in whom we have observed
these organs to be well marked, who, with a very moderate
or rather a small portion of what are called the reflecting
faculties, possess a quick intuitive judgment in common af-
fairs, are prompt to decide and to execute, and are hence
better fitted for the ordinary business of life, than those
whose high reflective faculties are far superior, but who
enjoy less of these lower powers. Now, this was exactly
the sort of talent which was required and exhibited by
Bruce. There is nothing in his history which leads us to
suppose, that, in •point of intellect, he rose at all higher
than good shrewd sense. There are many such men, who
though they want that comprehensiveness and subtlety of
252 ON THE CEREBKAL DEVELOPMENT OF
mind which can pursue long trains of reasoning, and
cannot even state the reasons of their conduct in a luminous
and distinct discourse, yet never fail in discerning, as
it were, by an intuitive tact, their own true interest, even
in a view of the most complex affairs, and at once de-
cide upon that course of conduct which is fittest for ob-
taining their ends. The talents for shinino- in reasoning;
and discourse, and those necessary for wise and decisive
action, thus appear perfectly different. And if, on the one
hand, we were to place the reflective and reasoning powers
of Burke or of Bacon,—which are given only by a large
development of the higher intellectual organs ; and, on the
other, that rapid and accurate perception, which is given
by Individuality, with that tact of sagacious feeling,
prompt decision, and energy of action, which are the results
of a good combination of the propensities and sentiments
;
—and we were asked which of these kinds of talent was
most likely to shine in the age of Bruce, we would most
assuredly answer, the latter. I have only to add on this
subject, that, although what are called the higher intellec-
tual organs, Comparison, Causality, and Wit, are by no
means fully developed in Bruce, as contrasted with the
other parts of the head, this is more relatively than abso-
lutely the case. The head is a very large one, and these
organs appear small only in comparison with those of the
feelings, which in him are very large ; and when compared
with the corresponding organs in a head of ordinary size,
they will be found really not deficient. They are not ac-
tually smaller than are to be found in many persons of
good sense and shrewd understanding at the present day
:
and we may be satisfied that, even in respect of these,
Bruce stood rather above than below the average of intel-
lect among his countrymen in his own time. The head of
Bruce is altogether one of the largest which has come un-
king ROBEirr miucE. 253
tier our observation ; and it will be recollected, that, in per-
fect and healthy conformation, great size in the brain is
held to indicate great power in the mind ; the kind of
power corresponding to the region of the brain which is
most enlarged.
The next thing to be noticed is, the deficiency which has
been remarked in the sentiments of Benevolence and Con-
scientiousness. It is true, that both of them are exceed-
ingly moderate in Bruce, the last being particularly small.
But this affords no objection. There is nothing in the his-
tory of Bruce whidh leads us to suppose that he possessed
either of these sentiments in great vigour. There is no in-
stance recorded in which he shewed any great regard for
the happiness, or regret for the sufferings of others ; and
certainly none in which he made any great sacrifice, or suf-
fered himself to be stopped in any of his plans, from a mere-
ly benevolent or conscientious motive.
But passing these topics, which really afford no objection
either to the authenticity of the head or its correspondence
with the character, we shall state the development as we
find it, and afterwards add a few observations on the cha-
racter and history of the illustrious person to whom it be-
longed.
1. Amativeness,—full. 14. Veneration,—large.
2. Philoprogenitiveness,—large. 15. Hope, —large.
3. Concentrativeness,—rather full. 16. Ideality.—moderate.
4. Adhesiveness,—large. 17. Conscientiousness,—small.
5. Combativeness,large. 18. Firmness,—-very large.
6. Destructiveness,—large. 19. Individuality,—lower,—large.
7. Constructiveness,—rather small. : upper,—full,
8. Acquisitiveness,—moderate. 20. Form,—large.
9. Secretiveness,—very large. 21. Size,—large.
10. Self-esteem,—rather large. 22. Weight,— uncertain.
11. Love of Approbation,—large. 23. Colouring,—moderate.
12. Cautiousness,—large. 24. Locality,—rather large.
13. Benevolence,—rather small. 25. Order,— moderate.
254 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
26. Time,—uncertain. 31. Causality,—moderate.
27. Number,—uncertain. 32. Wit,—rather small.
28. Tune,—moderate. 33. Imitation,—moderate.
29. Language,—uncertain. Wonder,—moderate.
30. Comparison,—moderate.
The size of the head will be seen from the following mea-
surements, taken from the middle of the surface of each or-
gan, as indicated on the skull.
Inches.
From Philoprogenitiveness to lower Individuality, . 8
Concentrativeness to Comparison, . . 6*
Meatus auditorius extcrnus (right side), to the junction of
the occipital spine, with Philoprogenitiveness, . 4 5
Do. to lower Individuality, , .5
Do. to Firmness, . . , . 55
Destructiveness to Destructiveness, . . 57
S
Secretiveness to Secretiveness, ... 6
Cautiousness to Cautiousness, . . . 5-5
Ideality to Ideality, . . . . 46
It will be obvious, to every phrenologist, on looking at
this development, that the character which it indicates, is
one (either for good or for evil,) of great energy and power.
From the full endowment of Amativeness, and the large
Philoprogenitiveness and Adhesiveness, we would conclude,
(what we know to be the case from his history,) that he was
a kind husband and father, attentive to the interests of his
family, and disposed to enjoy the pleasures of private friend-
ship and domestic society. His large Combativeness and
Destructiveness were abundantly shewn by his prowess in
battle, and also by that warmth of temper, of which many
instances occur, and which might lead us to apply to him,
what has been said of his country in general,
" Whoe'er shall provoke thee, th' encounter shall rue."
His Cautiousness and Secretiveness were shewn, not merely
in the mode in which he generally attacked his enemies,
KING IIUUKKT BBTJCE. 255
which was oftener by stratagem and surprise than in the
open field, and by the general prudence of all his measures
;
but also in his power of dissembling, when he chose, his se-
cret feelings, which we frequently find him doing, both
with the English Monarch, in whose court he at one time
resided ; and in his intercourse with his own nobles, when
in the height of his power. His full endowment of Self-
esteem, and the large love of Approbation, (the latter of
which inspires with Ambition,) joined to some portion of
Ideality, account for that high spirit of chivalry, and ardent
love of glory, which he manifested in so great a degree,—
and these joined to his Combativeness, Destructiveness and
Adhesiveness, and the feeling of greatness, arising from the
consciousness of his royal descent, sufficiently account for his
long and vigorous exertions on behalf of his suffering and
much injured country. This combination also, joined to the
great power communicated to the mind, by the large size of
the brain, would give him a noble and commanding aspect,
a princely bearing and carriage, although not a profoundly
intellectual look. His Firmness and Hope, which were both
large, are sufficiently shewn, by his persevering in his ex-
ertions ; his patience, under every distress and privation,
and his constant expectation of ultimate success, which ap-
peared so remarkable to Boece, that he thinks it can only
have " cumin be miracle and grace of God. Howbeit his
" friendis war neir all uterly destroyit, he ceissit nevir to
" have ferme esperance sum tyme to recover his realme,
" and liberte of his pepil.'"
Owing to his moderate Acquisitiveness, we nowhere find
him guilty of any mean or sordid action. It was ever the
glory and the power annexed to a crown, and not the pos-
sessions attached to it, which he seems to have desired.
His moderation in this respect, appears from what we are
told by Buchanan, that for some years before his death,
256 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
he had given up the splendours of royalty, and lived at
Cardross near to Dumbarton, more like a private person
than a king. Of his great Veneration he gave many unque-
stionable proofs, in the regard which he paid to the religion,
and even the superstitions of his time ; and a very remark-
able one appears in the very last act of his life, his order-
ing his heart to be conveyed to the Holy Land.
I shall now examine more minutely, some of the more
prominent passages of Bruce's History ; and I think it will
appear that they correspond with the development in a way
equally exact and surprising.
The first acts which are recorded of him are unfortunate-
ly not such as to afford any omens of his future greatness.
In his youth he was wavering and unsettled ; and his cha-
racter unfolded itself afferwards, as events afforded
opportunity. After an end had been put to the short
and unfortunate reign (if reign it can be called) of
John Balliol, Edward of England (1296), who now
hoped to annex the crown of Scotland to his own, held a
Parliament at Berwick, and there received the fealty of the
clergy and nobles of that country. Among those who con-
curred in this disgraceful national submission, was " Robert
** Bruce the younger, Earl of Carrick? The year follow-
ing (1297), when Wallace had just begun his great and
heroic exertions for the liberation of his country from the
English yoke, Bruce, whose great possessions, as well as
his pretensions to the crown, rendered him suspected, was
summoned to Carlisle, by the Wardens of the West March-
es, for the purpose of renewing his oath of allegiance. " He
" obeyed," (says Hailes,) " and swore on the consecrated
" host, and on the sword of Becket, to be faithful and vi-
" gilant in the cause of Edward. To prove his sincerity,
" he invaded the estate of Sir William Douglas, with
" fire and sword, and carried off his wife and children.
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 257
" He instantly repented of what he bad done. I trust, said
" he, that the Pope will absolve me from an extorted oath.
" He abandoned Edward, and joined the Scottish army."
—(See Hailes's Annals.)
In all this, we see the deficiency of the conscientious prin-
ciple, and the dexterity of self-delusion, by which his fail-
ure in this respect is reconciled to his religious feelings.
Oaths are taken and broken without scruple, trusting to
obtaining an absolution from the Pope. But we are not
yet done with these acts of tergiversation. Some of the
Scottish leaders, and Bruce among others, afterwards con-
sented to treat with the English ; but the known incon-
stancy of Bruce required something more than acknow-
ledgments of submission, and oaths of fealty. The Bishop
of Glasgow, the Stewart, and Alexander de Lindesay,
became sureties for his loyalty and good behaviour, until
he should deliver his daughter Marjory as a hostage. This
curious instrument is dated 9th July 1297.
Some time after the successful issue of the battle of Stir-
ling, (but probably not until the spring of 1298,) the young
Earl of Carrick again acceded to the cause of his country,
now apparently triumphant. At the time of the disastrous
battle of Falkirk, he was in arms on the side of the Scots
;
but instead of being present in the main army, he guard-
ed the Castle of Ayr, which preserved the communication
with Galloway and the West Highlands. This au-
thentic circumstance completely refutes the absurd tale of
Bruce having fought on the side of the English at Fal-
kirk, and of a conference between him and Wallace, im-
mediately after that battle, on opposite banks'of the Carron.
Some time after the unfortunate issue of that engage-
ment, we find Bruce not merely acting once more with the
English party, but, what may seem most extraordinary, we
find him apparently high in the confidence and favour of
R
258 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
the English monarch. At this time a Scots Regency Avas
formed in the name of the absent John Balliol, who can
now be considered nothing else than a mere puppet in the
hands of Edward. The members of this regency, besides
Bruce, were the Bishop of St Andrew's, and John Comyn,
younger of Badenoch. It is understood, that Comyn took
the chief direction of affairs under this regency ; and that
Bruce was never very cordial or sincere, either in acknow-
ledging Balliol, or supporting Comyn, may be presumed,
from the feeble and versatile conduct which he always
evinced, until circumstances induced or compelled him to
urge his own pretensions. (Kerr's History of Robert the
Bruce).
After this we hear little of Bruce for some years, du-
ring which he appears to have lived at peace, and even in
favour with Edward, and to have occasionally resided at
his court. His large secretiveness and caution, and also
that quick observation and tact given by his large indivi-
duality, would fit. him to play the courtier, and to conceal
his real designs under a veil of ease and carelessness. This
seems to have continued, until the discovery of the intrigues
between him and Comyn, and the slaughter of the Comyn,
by Bruce and his associates, in the church of the Minorites
at Dumfries, made it no longer possible for him to preserve
terms with Edward. I mean not to inquire whether this
homicide was justifiable or not. It is only necessary here
to examine, whether it is such an act, as Bruce, from
what we know of his development, and consequent tem-
per, was likely to commit upon provocation given. On
looking at the development, we perceive combativeness and
destructivcness both large ; and in the works on Phreno-
logy, these are uniformly mentioned, as conducing to
rage, or that impetuous passion which boils over in a mo-
mentary fury; and hence we may confidently say, that.
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 259
on the principles of Phrenology, the daughter of Comyn
was such an act, as a person with this development was
likely to commit. The circumstances alleged by the Scot-
tish historians, for palliating or justifying the deed, may
or may not be true, but the undoubted facts are quite suf-
ficient. It will be remembered, that Bruce and Comyn
were the chiefs of two discordant factions ; both had claims
to the crown ; and at a meeting, for the discussion of mu-
tual injuries between men of such high and irreconcilable
pretensions, it is not wonderful that such matter of provo-
cation should occur, as to cause a man of the impetuous
temper of Bruce to have recourse to his sword.
That Bruce's part in the murder proceeded from sud-
den impulse, and not from premeditated intention, seems
obvious from this, that he did not effectually perpetrate the
act. No sooner had he given the blow, than his anger
seems to have yielded to his constitutional cautiousness;
and his veneration, which was great, occasioned, if not re-
morse, a sudden horror at the crime he had been guilty of,
the most heinous circumstance of which would probably
appear to him to be, that it was committed in a church *.
Impressed with these feelings, he rushed out, hardly know-
ing what he did, exclaiming to his friends without, " I
" doubt I have slain the CoMrN."" They, with more cool-
ness, and instantly seeing the danger of leaving so powerful
a rival alive, against whom such an attempt had been made,
determined to secure the matter beyond a doubt, and
* " Bruce," says Sir Walter Scott, " uniformly professed, and probably
" felt compunction for having violated the sanctuary of the Church, by the
" slaughter of Comyn ; and, finally, in his last hours, in testimony of his
" faith, penitence, and zeal, he requested James, Lord Douglas, to carry
" his heart to Jerusalem, to be there deposited in the Holy Sepulchre.
1 '
Lord of the hies. Note 17. Canto II.
26(1 ON THE CEREBRAL UEVELOPMNT OF
going in, stabbed him to the heart. Such a deed, at the
present day, strikes us with horror; but in those times
it was probably regarded differently. As a proof of this,
we may refer to the circumstance of Kirkpatrick, the
chief of those who assisted in the murder, assuming a
bloody dagger for his crest, and for the motto, the words
" I mak sickar ;" plainly alluding to this very deed, which
he thus seems to have regarded as redounding to his ho-
nour, rather than as being a subject of reproach.
It is probable, from Bruce's large cautiousness and se-
c?~etiveness, that if he had at this time entertained any de-
signs for obtaining the Crown of Scotland, he would have
concealed them for some time longer, and delayed taking
any active measures till a favourable opportunity occurred,
had not this homicide made farther temporising impossible,
and rendered an open avowal of his pretensions a measure
of prudence, and even of necessity.
Down to this period, we have seen nothing of Bruce
but one continued course of fickleness and tergiversation,
giving rise to crimes to which, unless we make large allow-
ances for the difficult circumstances in which he stood, and
the feelings of the age in which he lived, we can give no other
names than those of perjury and murder. But we are
now approaching a different scene, where the powers and
propensities with which lie was endowed, were all gratified
with legitimate indulgence and the fullest exercise, in a
manner which redounded not more to his own individual
advantage and glory, than to the advantage, the interest,
and the glory of his country. From the moment that he
touches the last sad point of his degradation, and is driven
to the measure of openly claiming the Crown of Scotland,
Bruce appears to rise before as a new man. This is quite
easily accounted for by the new direction afforded to his
faculties by the circumstances in which he is placed, with-
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 26)
out any change in his natural character. His former mis-
conduct arose from the opposition which existed between
his love of country and his own ambitious views on the one
hand, and his fear of offending King Edward on the other.
But the murder of Comyn having placed him in a state of
irreconcilable enmity with the English Monarch, ^his whole
powers are now directed, without any division or distraction,
upon one exclusive object, fair and honourable in itself,
—
the recovering to himself the throne of his ancestors, and
to Scotland, freedom from an odious foreign yoke. Besides,
the new situation in which he is placed, impressing him
more fully with a sense of his own importance, would
call into activity feelings which had previously no opportu-
nity of displaying themselves. His self-esteem, and hope,
thus excited, would lead him to consider himself the
anointed of Heaven, the destined deliverer of his people.
His love of approbation, would add to this the desire of
glory, and an anxiety to avoid whatever might tarnish the
honour of a true knight, and of a lawful Monarch. His
veneration, joined to all these, would cherish a peculiar
sentiment of self-respect, founded upon the long line of a
hundred kings, through which the chronicles of his country
taught him to believe the sceptre which he now aspired to
had been transmitted : And the whole united, would fill
his mind with that inborn feeling of dignity, which no de-
gree of merit, without the adjunct of hereditary exalted
rank, is ever known to inspire, and make him feel, and be
felt by others to be, " every inch a King V
From this time forth, the life of Bruce, as related by
• The following passage, in Scott's a Lord of the Isles," descriptive of
the mien and demeanour of Bruce, was pointed out to the author after the
above was written. Its coincidence with what is stated in the text, derived
from Phrenology, is striking, and affords an instance among a thousand
which might be produced, how characters drawn from the life, or with just
262 ON THE CEUEBKAL DEVELOPMENT OF
our artless chroniclers, resembles the events of an epic
poem. It is needless to relate, minutely, the hardships he
endured on his first entering upon the arduous task of res-
cuing his country from the English yoke. We find him,
even in these hopeless circumstances, manifesting his vene-
ration for established customs, and the established reli-
gion, by going to be crowned at Scone, and sending to
Rome for a pardon for the crime of the murder. His
first attempts after this were singularly mfortunate. Twice
he was defeated by the partizans of Edward, and all his
followers dispersed. Two of his brothers, who were bring-
ing him reinforcements, were defeated and taken prisoners,
and cruelly slain by the English. His wife and daughter
were also taken, and remained captives in the hands of his
enemies. We find him wandering, deserted, and an out-
cast in his own kingdom, subsisting on roots, and hiding
himself among mountains and in caves, reminding us of the
evils endured by David when he fled before the face of the
furious Saul. We need not follow him in die gradual steps,
—the fortunate accidents steadily improved, which led to his
final success, and the expulsion of the hated Southron from
the Scottish soil. The qualities which were here exhibited
by Bruce, both in exertion and suffering, have been al-
notions and views of human nature, will be found to correspond minutely
with those views which Phrenology presents to us.
" Proud was his tone but calm, his eye
" Had that compelling dignity,
" His mien that bearing haught and high,
'* Which common spirits fear
;
" Needed nor word nor signal, mere
" Nod, wink, and laughter, all were o'er
;
" Upon each other back they bore,
\nd gazed like startled deer."
Lord of the Isles, f'anto I.
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 263
ready, in some measure, pointed out and explained. But
it may be proper to contemplate, for a moment, the means
which he pursued to accomplish his purpose, as illustra-
tive at once of his own character, and of the circumstances
in which he was called upon to act. He did not take a
profound and comprehensive survey of the situation of his
kingdom, measure its strength with the strength of Eng-
land, combine his means in one great effort ; and either by
a general rising in every district of the country, or by a
collected mass of soldiers, attempt to deliver Scotland from
her chains. Such a mode of proceeding would have indi-
cated those higher powers of reflection and combination
which his development shews that he did not possess. But
he resorted to no such measures. He obeyed the impulses
of an instinctive bravery and ambition. He collected a
tew hundred followers, and took the field with them as at
once their King, their commander, and their fellow soldier.
A powerful arm was then held in higher estimation than a
highly gifted understanding ; and while Bru-ce
1
s prowess
in personal combat is the theme of deserved eulogy, no
trace is to be found of the display of those penetrating and
comprehensive powers which depend exclusively on a great
intellectual development.
The following are instances of the kind of exploits per-
formed by Bruce, by which he sometimes extricated him-
self from difficulties which would probably have overwhelm-
ed any other man. On the occasion of his being defeated,
with his small party, by the superior forces of Lorn, in
Glendochart, he retreated with his men up a narrow and
difficult pass, " he himself bringing up the rear, and re-
" peatedly turning and driving back the more venturous
" assailants." Three of Lokn's stoutest followers resolved
to make a dash at him. " They watched their opportu-
*' nity (says Sir W. Scon), until Bkuce's party had en-
264 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
"•
tered a pass between a lake and a precipice, when the
" King, who was the last of the party, had scarce room to
" manage his steed. Here his three foes sprung upon him
" at once. One seized his bridle, but received a wound
" which hewed off his arm. A second grasped Bruce by
" the stirrup and leg, and endeavoured to dismount him ;
" but the King putting spurs to his horse, threw him down,
" still holding by the stirrup. The third taking advan-
" tage of an acclivity, sprung up behind him upon his
" horse. Bruce, however, whose personal strength is uni-
" formly mentioned as exceeding that of most men, extri-
" cated himself from his grasp, threw him to the ground,
" and cleft his skull with his sword. By similar exertions,
" he drew the stirrup from his grasp whom he had over-
" thrown, and killed him also with his sword, as he lay
" among the horse's feet." It is added, that the King's
bravery, on this occasion, drew, even from his foes, expres-
sions of the warmest admiration ; and Macnaughton, one
of Lorn's followers, declared " he had never heard of one,
" who, by his knightly feats, had extricated himself from
" such dangers as had this day surrounded Bruce.11
A similar exploit is recorded of Bruce, when in still
more desperate circumstances. It occurred in Ayrshire,
after the dispersing of his friends, on his first landing in
that country. He and a small band who still adhered to
him, were pursued by a party who brought with them a
sleugh dog, or blood-hound ; which, it is said, " had been
" once a favourite of Bruce himself ; and, therefore, was
" not likely to lose the trace.
11
Bruce divided his force
once and again, but still found that his pursuers, guided
by the blood-hound, directed all their force in pursuit of
the division in which he remained, paying no attention to
the others ; at last the King was left with a single atten-
dant, his foster-brother, when live of the most active of his
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 265
pursuers were detached to follow him and interrupt his
flight. " What aid wilt thou make ?" said Bruce to his
adherent, when he saw the five men gain ground upon
him. " The best I can,'
1
was the answer. " Then," said
Bruce, " here I make my stand.'
1
The five pursuers
came up fast. The King took three to himself, leaving
the other two to his foster-brother. He slew the first who
encountered him ; but observing his foster-brother hard
pressed, he sprung to his assistance and dispatched one of
his assailants. Leaving him to deal with the survivor, he
returned upon the other two, both of whom he slew be-
fore his foster-brother had dispatched his single antagonist.
When this hard encounter was over, with a courtesy which
every where marks Bruck's character, he thanked his
foster-brother for his aid. "It likes you to say so," an-
swered his follower, " but you yourself slew four of the
" five.
11
The above story is quoted from Barbour, by
Sir Walter Scott, in his notes to " The Lord of the
« Isles.
11
I now wish to state, somewhat in detail, the events of
the celebrated battle of Bannockburn ; events which dis-
play more of the spirit of chivalry than almost any of the
fictions of romance ; and which, so far as Bruce is con-
cerned, receive no little illustration from the enquiry we are
now pursuing. The circumstances which led to this famous
action, are well known. Bruce having made himself
master of most of the fortified places in the kingdom, had
left his brother Edward to besiege Stirling, one of the
few strengths still occupied by the English. Philip de
Mowbray, the Governor, offered to surrender, if he was
not relieved on the feast of St John the Baptist (24th
June), the following year. To this offer, Edward Bruce,
without consulting his brother, agreed.
The King of Scots was highly displeased at this rash
266 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
treaty. By it the military operations were interrupted, and
a long interval allowed to the English for assembling their
utmost force ; while, at the same time, the Scots were re-
duced to the necessity either of raising the siege with dis-
honour, or hazarding the kingdom on the event of a single
battle. But Bruce was not now the inconstant youth,
who had made and broken covenants and oaths, as will or
interest directed. He had now to support the dignity of
his Crown, and of a name already great in arms. The
word of a Prince, of his own brother, had been given to
the English knight ; and the manners of the age made it
impossible to forfeit that word, without an indelible stain
upon his honour. He was constrained, therefore, to ob-
serve it, through the influence of love of' approbation, if not
from the dictates of conscientiousness. He, therefore, con-
sented, however reluctantly, to the treaty, and resolved to
meet the English on the appointed day.
Bruce must, no doubt, have seen with anxiety and
alarm, the mighty preparations made by the King of Eng-
land, for the approaching struggle ;
—preparations which,
as that Monarch imagined, were not only to wipe away all
his former disgraces in Scotland, but to finish at one blow the
liberties and the hopes of that unfortunate country. And
certainly, if victories were to be disposed of by numbers,
and if trust was to be put " in chariots and in horses,'" there
seemed then little hope for Scotland, or for her defenders.
While England, rich and unexhausted, sent, as we are told,
100,000 warriors to the combat, with such a multitude of
followers, as overspread the land, and seemed as if they
came to take possession of an easy prey, rather than to
fight a dubious battle ;
—
Bruce, with all his exertions, was
unable to raise from his impoverished country, broken with
continued oppressions and spoils, more than 30,000 men ;
nnd these, as may be supposed, poorly armed and aocdu-
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 267
tied, in comparison with the array of sturdy yconicn, and
gaily caparisoned men-at-arms from wealthier England.
We have said, that Bruce possessed the faculties which
impart quickness in perception, and prudence in conduct.
The skill and sagacity shewn by him in his choice of the
ground where he was to meet the enemy ; and his strata-
gem of digging pits for entangling the English horse, il-
lustrate well those features of his character depending
on individuality, cautiousness and secretivcness. It has
been remarked, however, that by the disposition he made,
he exposed his left flank to the garrison of Stirling. But
Mowbray, the Governor, had consented to a truce; and
if he had assailed the Scotch before the fate of the castle
was determined by battle, he would have been deemed a
false knight. In those days, we are told, the point of ho-
nour was the only tie which bound men ; for dispensations
and absolutions had effaced the reverence of oaths.
The following circumstance deserves to be noticed, as
highly characterestic of Bruce. Eight hundred horsemen,
commanded by Sir Robert Clifford, were detached from
the English army ,• they made a circuit by the low grounds
to the cast, and approached the castle. Bruce, whose vi-
gilance nothing could escape, (his large individuality is con-
spicuous here), rode hastily up to Randolph, his nephew,
who commanded the left-wing, and said to him angrily,
that " a rose was fallen from his chaplet * ; for where he
was set to keep the way, he had allowed the enemy to pass.
,
'
>
" Thi3 expresion is obscure. If really used by Bruce, it shews some
comparison and ideality. It may have been a common or proverbial ex-
pression at the time. The words of Barbour are,
For the King had said him rudely,
That a rose of his ckapilet
Wasfallen ; for where he was set
To keep the way, those men were past.
2
268 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
Randolph hastened to repair his fault or perish. As he ad-
vanced, the English cavalry wheeled to attack him. Ran-
dolph drew up his troops in a circular form, with their
spears resting on the ground, and protruded on every side.
The enemy far superior in numbers, pressed him hard.
Douglas saw him in jeopardy, and asked the King's per-
mission to go and succour him. " You shall not move
" from your ground," cried the King. -'
Randolph must
" extricate himself as he best may. I will not alter my or-
" der of battle, and lose the advantage of my position.'
1
(Cautiousness, firmness, and the small development of be-
nevolence, here display themselves). Douglas afterwards
obtained his tardy permission to succour his friend ; but
the aid was unnecessary. Randolph had repulsed the
enemy ; and Douglas, with a truly chivalrous feeling, for-
bore to join him, lest he should diminish the honour of his
success.
The King's exploit on the evening before the battle, when
he clove with his battle-axe the helmeted head of Henry
de Bohun, an English knight, who had attacked him as he
rode carelessly along his line, is sufficiently indicative of his
great personal strength and address (another word for the
rapid perception conferred by individuality) as well as of
his large endowment of combativeness and destructiveness.
His veneration appears conspicuous, in the acts of piety
which were performed in the morning of the battle. The
Abbot of Inchaffray, we are told, said mass upon a rising
ground in sight of the whole army, and afterwards carried
barefooted, a crucifix along the line, encouraging the sol-
diers to fight. The Scots kneeled down. " They yield !"
cried Edward, " see they implore mercy.
1
' " They do,"
answered Ingelram de Umkraville, " but not from you !
" On that field they will be victorious or die !" De Um-
fraville was right. When veneration is excited in the
degree it appears here, along with a powerful firmness, and
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 269
a sufficient endowment of the combative and destructive
powers, there is no thought of yielding or of flight. Men
so excited, fear death far less than submission ; or, rather,
they do not fear it at all. Fighting in a cause which they
deem holy as well as just, there is something of the zeal of
the martyr superadded to the courage of the hero ; and
death even appears a consummation to be desired, as at once
the most glorious termination of their earthly toils, and as
offering an immediate passport to heaven *.
• The motives which inspire men, and almost render them invincible,
lighting in defence of their king and country, have seldom been better pour-
trayed than in the nervous lines of Burns, in the address which he supposes
to have been delivered by Bruce to his soldiers before the battle of Bannock-
burn. It may not be out of place here, to point out, phrenologically, the sen-
timents and feelings which this address is calculated to call into action.
" Wha wad be a traitor knave ? l
" Wha wad fill a coward's grave ? -
k* Wha sae base as be a slave ? 3
" Let him turn and flee.
" Wha for SCOTLAND'S KING and LAW, *
" Freedom's sword can strongly dr<MV,
M Freeman stand, or freeman fa'—
?
" Let him on wi' me.
" By oppression's woes and pains, 5
" By our sons in servile chains, 6
' We will drain our dearest veins,
" But they shall be free.
" Lay the proud usurpers low, "•
" Tyrants fall in every foe,
" Liberty's in every blow ;
8
" Forward,—do—or die.
These three lines (1, 2, 3.), are all addressed to love of approbation, but
the first also particularly addresses conscientiousness, and the third self-esteem.
This stanza, (4,) in addition to the sentiments before mentioned, calls in
270 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
It has been said by some, that the English were seized
with a panic, on observing what they thought a new army
appearing on the heights, which were no other than the wag-
goners and sumpter boys, dressed out as such with pennons
and standards. But by the most authentic accounts, the En-
glish appear to have fought bravely ; and the victory,
though complete, was neither easy nor bloodless. It would
rather appear, that the victory was decided by Bruce's
ordering Sir Robert Keith to charge the English archers
in flank, while he himself came up with the reserve. Now,
Bruce"^ development is exactly such, as would enable him
to preserve coolness and complete presence of mind, and
give distinct orders in the midst of such a scene of carnage
and confusion. His large combativeness and destructive-
ness are kept in check, and balanced by his caution and
firmness, leaving full scope for that quick observation of
passing events, and that intuitive judgment and rapid de-
cision, given by his large individuality. In the shock of
an engagement, there is no time for subtle and refined com-
binations. The movements must be simple, obvious and
easy ; but, above all, they must be prompt and sudden.
The intellectual powers which belonged to Bruce, and
which he possesssed in full perfection, were perfectly com-
the aid of veneration; and the following one addresses itself to cautiousness (5),
and to the domestic affections pkiloprogenitiveness and adhesiveness, (6). The
last stanza winds up the whole, by combining all the sentiments and feelings
already called into action, in rousing to their greatest exertion the powers of
combativeness and destructiveness (7). Hope is also excited, by pointing out
what is to be the effect of these exertions, (8.) And the last line returns to
what may be called the key-note of the ode, and calls the soldier to victory
or death. We see here no fewer than ten of the strongest sentiments and
propensities called into the most energetic action, and all tending towards one
end ; and wc need not wonder that these should entirely overcome any feel-
ing arising from the single, uncombmed, and unassisted effect of any con-
trary sentiment.
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 271
pctcnt to this ; and the genius of a Shakspeare or a Ba-
con could not have performed the office so well.
We must not omit to mention the courteous behaviour
of Bruce after the battle, and the generosity shewn by
him in his treatment of the prisoners who were allotted to
him. He set at liberty Ralph de Monthermer, and Sir
Marmaduke Twenge, without ransom. (Here we see
his moderate acquisitiveness makes him regardless of sor-
did and mercenary considerations). By humane and cour-
teous offices, it is said he alleviated the misfortunes of the
captives, won their affections, and shewed the English how
they ought to have improved their victories.
That this courtesy and humanity did not proceed entire-
ly from benevolence, appears from the small regard which
Bruce shewed on other occasions for the sufferings of the
people, in the destructive inroads which he made into Eng-
land, when his course was tracked by smoking villages, and
every kind of destruction and rapine ; and in the ravages of
a similar kind, which his brother and he afterwards commit-
ted in Ireland. But this was the age of chivalry, and, next
to valour, courtesy, and particularly courtesy to the weak
and the helpless,—to women and to prisoners, was the vir-
tue most prized in a true knight. The courtesy and kind-
ness here shewn by Bruce to his captives, proceeded, there-
fore, most probably, from his love ofapprobation, which we
have seen to be great. This is not a solitary instance ; it
was the fashion of the day. It was exhibited, perhaps,
with somewhat more of ostentation and theatrical effect, by
the Black Prince and his father, in their behaviour to King
John of France, after the battle of Poictiers. Perhaps,
also, in so politic a Prince as Bruce, there might be some
regard here to his interest as well as to his glory. Hardly
yet secured upon his throne, it might have appeared an ob-
ject of consequence even to the Scottish Monarch, to ob-
l
27£ ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
tain the friendship and good will of some of the rich and
powerful nobles of England. Cautiousness and secretive-
ness may, therefore, have had a share in producing King
Robert's kind treatment of his captives *
The only occasion on which Bruce1
s caution seems to
have deserted him, was in his listening so easily to the of-
fer made to his family of the Crown of Ireland. Even
here his caution prevailed so far, as to prevent him from
accepting that crown for himself; but in permitting his bro-
ther Edward to accept it, he must have seen, at least he
had reason to fear, that he was engaging in an enterprise
beyond his means. But his ambition and love of glory
had for once overcome his original cautious temper ; and
these, we may suppose, were excited, in no small degree, by
the prosperous state of his affairs at home, and particularly
by his wonderful success at Bannockburn ; which action, it
is said, for a time raised the confidence of the Scots, and
dispirited the English to such a degree, that no superiority
of numbers would induce the latter to meet the former in
battle. The power which is, perhaps, most liable to this
kind of excitement from external causes, is hope, which
we have seen in Bruce was large: and this will sufficiently
account for a step, which, in point of strict prudence, he
ought not to have taken.
The behaviour of Bruce in what has been called his
Black Parliament,—his dexterity in first drawing within
his grasp,—and his promptness and severity in seizing,
condemning and executing so many of his barons, con-
• " There might be policy in this," says Sir Walter Scott, " as Bruce
" would naturally wish to acquire the good opinion of the English barons, who
*' were at this time at great variance with their king. But it also well ac-
" cords with his high chivalrous character."
—
Lord of the Isles, Notes to
Canto VI. p. 491.
1
KING IIOBERT BRUCE. L
27%>
victed of treasonable practices,—shew in a strong light al-
most all his characteristic peculiarities,
—
cautiousness, se-
crctivencss, firmness, self-esteem, and destructiveness.
Had any one of these been wanting, Bruce could hardly
have done what he did upon that occasion. Either he
would have failed in taking some of the necessary precau-
tions, or he would have let out his design before he was
ready to execute it ; or he would have failed, for want of
the requisite proof; or he would have faultered in the
execution, and extended to some of the offenders (some of
them were his own near connections) the royal mercy.
But nothing of all this happened. The first who suffered
was David Abernethy, the King's sister's son. Boece
relates, that " the King wald fain that he had been saifit
;
" nochtheless he was sa rigorous on the laif, that it might
" not be esaly done. And becaus na man labourit for him,
" he was heidit, with great lament of pepil : for he was
" haldin the flower of chivalry, and had fochtin riiony yeris
" afore, with great honour and victory, aganis the Turkis.
" On the morow, all the remanent conspiratoris war heidit,
" in the samen manner, but ony mercy." This is all quite
conformable to the character indicated by the development
before us; and, indeed, we need only look at this to be
assured, that, however he might at times appear the cour-
teous knight, or the kind father of his people, it must have
been a fearful thing to have incurred the anger of The
Bruce.
The sccrctivcness of Bruce is nowhere better displayed
than in his sarcastic reply to the messengers of the Pope,
when he returned his Holiness's letters unopened, because
they were not addressed to him as King,—and when, al-
though he must have been highly displeased at being de-
nied this title, he dissembled his displeasure, and addressed
the messengers, as is said, " with a mild and pleasant coun-
s
274 ON THE OEBEBBAL DEVELOPMENT OE
tenance." The ncgociations which afterwards took place
to induce his Holiness to yield this punctilio, and to address
him by the title of King, are no less indicative of this qua-
lity. Randolph, who acted as the ambassador of Bruce
on this occasion, proved himself to be a consummate poli-
tician, unless, as is likely, he acted by the directions and
according to the instructions given him by Bruce himself.
The mode in which the business was opened, under the
pretence of asking leave for Randolph himself to repair
to the Holy Land,—the dexterity with which, when this
first and principal request of Randolph was refused, other
matters were brought forward and discussed touching the
reconciliation between England and Scotland,—leaving
this, which was really the chief object of his mission, to be
brought in at the end, as a matter by the bye, and of no
consequence, shews a degree of diplomatic art, or, shall we
call it cunning? which has rarely been excelled, even in
the annals of Papal intrigue. The ambassador of the
northern prince proved himself on this occasion an over-
match both for the Reverend Pontiff and the King of
England.
Bruce had been obliged at Bannockburn to risk the fate
of himself and his kingdom upon a single battle ; but he
did so, as we have already said, against his will ; and not-
withstanding all the glory he. obtained on that memorable
day, he never would repeat so hazardous an experiment.
In his future wars with England, his constant practice was
to annoy his enemy by sudden and destructive inroads, and
to retreat before a sufficient force could be brought to op-
pose him. And when the English invaded Scotland in re-
turn, he commanded the country to be laid waste, and all
the cattle to be driven away before them, so that they could
neither find an enemy to fight, nor food to subsist on. On
one occasion, we are told, this had been done so effectually,
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 275
that, after overrunning all the country south of the Forth,
the English could meet with no other spoil than a lame
bull, which had been left at Tranent ; and, on its being
brought to him, the English General asked if that was all
they had got ; and being told that it wasj he declared " he
never had seen so dear a beast."" Here cautiousness seems
to be carried even to a degree of excess, and, it must also
be confessed, somewhat at the expense of benevolence.
But Bruce is not singular in considering it the duty of a
monarch, in making war, to take the most effectual means
of annoying his enemy, without regarding the sufferings to
which he exposes that enemy, or his own unoffending sub-
jects.
Quite akin to this, were the advices which Bruce is
said to have given on his deathbed, for the guidance of
his successors. These were three in number : First, Never
to make one person Lord of the Isles : Second, Never to
engage against England with the whole forces of the king-
dom at once : and, thirdly, Never to remain longer at peace
with England than three or four years at the most. The
reason of the first advice obviously was, that the islands
were too great and extensive to be safely put under any
one subject, for, if he chose to cast off his allegiance^
it might be a hard matter, from their difficulty of access,
to reduce him to obedience. For the second, the reason
assigned was, that, in case of a defeat, the whole kingdom
might not be laid at the mercy of the enemy, but that there
might still be some force left to cope with him. And, for
the third, that a long peace might make the people indo-
lent and averse to war ; and that so the English, whose
troops were kept in constant exercise by the perpetual wars
with France, might acquire such a superiority in military
affairs, as to be able to conquer the kingdom. These dt-
s 2
276 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
rections are remarkable for that plain practical sense which
seems to have characterised the understanding of Bruce,.
and do not import a degree of thinking beyond what we
have seen indicated by his frontal development. They cor-
respond also entirely, and in every point, with his endow-
ment of the propensities and sentiments.
The last act of his life, in directing his heart to be car-
ried to Palestine, there to be deposited in the Holy Sepul-
chre, is not only accordant with his large veneration and
hope,—the creed of these times inducing a belief that this
service, or rather the performance of this vow, would be
acceptable to God, and serve as an atonement for the sins
of his life; but it would also gratify his adhesiveness, to
think that this service would be performed by his friend
Sir James Douglas, the greatest and most favoured of all
his subjects, who had adhered to him through every extre-
mity of good and evil fortune. It would also be highly
agreeable to his self-esteem and love ofapprobation, as he
would consider that such a disposal of the heart of so re-
doubted a monarch could not fail to add to his glory and
renown.
We have now considered most of the remarkable events
of Bruce's life, and have seen that his behaviour in all of
them corresponds most remarkably and minutely with his
cerebral development. Not only is this the case, but we
may even go the length of saying, that were the develop-
ment in any respect different from what it is, it would not
have corresponded with the character of Bruce, as exhi-
bited in his actions. Had the benevolence been very large,
this, to be sure, might have been consistent with his kind-
ness to his prisoners at Bannockburn ; but it would have
been contrary to almost every other action of his life ;—
his want of concern for the lives and sufferings of others,
whenever these stood in the way of his interest or his am-
KING HUBERT BRUCE. 277
bition ; while his courteous behaviour on the occasion
alluded to, is sufficiently explained, and by authors not
phrenologists, by reference to other feelings. Had con-
scientiousness been large, it would have accounted, no
doubt, for his observance of the agreement made with
De Moubray regarding Stirling: but how would this
be reconciled with his light observance of treaties and
oaths upon other occasions? It will also be sufficient-
ly [gathered from what has been already observed, that
had any of the propensities and sentiments which we have
seen to have been predominant in Bruce, been found in a
state of less energy than they actually were, his conduct
could not have been what it was on many, or almost on any
important crisis of his life. Had it not been for his com-
bativoncss and destructiveness, self-esteem, firmness, sc-
cretiveness, cautiousness, and love of approbation, all in
large measure, and all co-operating to one end, Bruce could
never have succeeded, in what certainly constitutes his
greatest glory, the Restoration of the Scottish Monarchy.
Had any one of these been wanting, he would probably
have failed. His brother Edward was equally brave, but
Edward Bruce could not have been the deliverer of his
country, from his want of prudence and foresight, (Cau-
tiousness and Sccretiveness). Had he been more scrupu-
lous and just, more benevolent and compassionate than he
was, he would also probably have failed, or rather, it is
more likely, that he would never have made the attempt.
It thus appears that Bruce was fitted for accomplishing
the great business which was given him to do, not only by
the qualities he did possess, but negatively by the very
want of others, which he did not possess. Bruce, at one
time after the battle of Methvcn, was reduced to perfect
desperation. If he had possessed a great reflecting head,
and seen the relation of cause and effect clear) v, he proba-
ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
bly never would have attempted the liberation of his coun-
try. Bonaparte gave up in far less desperate circum-
stances. But Bruce instinctively felt courage that could
not be shaken by adversity, ambition that could not be
quenched by disappointment, and energy that was fit for
every effort ; and, acting instinctively under these, without
comprehensive views, he succeeded, when, with greater re-
flection, he would not have made the attempt.
There seem to be, on some occasions, men who are raised
up by Providence, as instruments for accomplishing certain
great events or revolutions ; and just such an instrument
Bruce may be considered to have been.
While, however, I cannot help considering the coinci-
dence between Bruce's development and the events of his
life, as most remarkable and striking, I think it proper to
observe, by way of caution (what cannot be too often im-
pressed both on Phrenologists and on the public) that,
without a previous knowledge of these events, of the situa-
tion which he held, or of the actions he performed, no one,
from merely examining the development, could take upon
him to say what these actions were, or even what they were
likely to be. Dr Spurziieim declares, in the commence-
ment of his Physiognomical System, that he cannot speak
of actions, and this declaration should never be forgotten
by those who study Phrenology. No one could tell, on
examining this head, whether it was the head of a great
and a valiant chief of a rude or semi- barbarous people, or
of a common traitor or murderer. We see that the charac-
ter, as formerly observed, is one of great power, and we
know the nature of the power ; but it is impossible to pre-
dicate whether it is to seek its gratification in a legitimate
or illegitimate sphere of action. That depends upon cir-
cumstances which cannot be discovered from the develop-
ment. Thus, one of the sentiments upon which the cha-
KING ROBERT BRUCE. 279
racter of Bruce mainly hinges, is his love of approbation.
But it is obvious, that the direction which this was to take,
and the effect it was to have upon his character and con-
duct, depended, in a great degree, upon the opinions, the
modes of thinking and acting, which prevailed in his day,
and the conduct which was then in vogue ; or, in other
words, which was generally approved, His conscientious-
ness, comparison, and causality, are not so large as to ren-
der him a rule to himself, independently of the character of
the age in which he lived. Beuce happened to be born
when the ideas of chivalry prevailed, and when the highest
meed of praise was reserved for the fearless valour, the
punctilious honour, and the generous courtesy of knight-
hood ; and hence the corresponding effects which this sen-
timent had upon his behaviour. Bkuce would have pos-
sessed a large self-esteem, although he had not happened
to be born in an exalted station, and the heir of a Crown.
But who does not see that this circumstance, though mere-
ly external, gives a direction to the propensity which other-
wise it never could have received ? Had Bruce been a
man of ordinary rank, he might have continued a gay gal-
lant at the court of Edward, and sought to distinguish
himself, by outshining his compeers at feasts and tourna-
ments, and by courting the favours of the fair ; or engaged
in the holy wars, and sought renown by fighting with
the Infidels in Palestine. Had his birth and station been
low, he might have been induced, by discontent, to engage
in plots and conspiracies ; and had he done so, we might
say of him,
tt Here was a man
" Fit to disturb the peace of all the world."
Like Alcidiades, he might have outdone the Spartans in
abstemiousnes, and the Persians in splendour and profu-
sion. In short, it depended in a great degree upon the si-
280 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT, &C
tuation in which he might be cast, what his conduct should
be, and whether his life should be a blessing to his country,
or the reverse. Fortunately for him, and for Scotland, it
so happened that he was placed, I might say forced, into
a situation which called forth all his powers in their most
favourable modes of action ; and hence his name has come
down to us as the greatest and wisest of our Kings, the
brave defender of Scotland's liberty, and the great vindica-
tor of Scotland's independence ; nor while we continue to
enjoy the blessings of freedom, and the administration of
equal laws, can we ever cease to remember with veneration
and gratitude the name of Robert Bruce.
1
I
/
.&,
4ae d .0 ),
( 281 )
VII.
—
Report upon the Cast of Miss Clara Fisher
By Mr George Combe,
(Read 26th December 1820.>
AN May 1820, Miss Clara Fisher appeared for the se-
cond season on the Edinburgh stage. She was then eight
years and ten months old. At the request of the Society,
a cast of her head was taken by Mr Scoular.
The cerebral development, as shewn by the cast now
presented, goes a certain length in throwing light upon
two points of considerable importance in Phrenology. The
first, Whether great mental power is ever found at an
early period of life, in concomitance with a small brain?
The other, What particular combination of faculties is es-
sential to success in the histrionic art ?
In proof of the possession of great mental power, it may
be observed, that Miss Clara Fisher plays Richard III.
with admirable effect ; embodying in her representation
much of the intense intellectual energy bestowed by Shak-
speare upon that character ;—-his insatiable ambition,—his
282 REPORT UPON THE CAST OF
deliberate duplicity, and determined cruelty. She also per-
forms the characters of Douglas, Shylock and Falstaff-
Y
especially the first two, with distinguished success. In all
her acting, she displays so much comprehensiveness of
mind, that, when the full expression of intellectual power
and deep feeling is heard from her lips, and her whole man-
ner is perceived to be in unison with that expression, her
age and diminutive stature are instantly forgotten, and she
is listened to with that fixed attention which genius alone
can command. We have only to refer to the periodical
publications of the last two years for evidence, that this ac-
count of her talents is supported by facts. If it be true,
then, that great mental power is never found in concomi-
tance with a small brain even at an early age, that of Miss
Fisher must be one of no ordinary size. Accordingly, we
find, by comparing the measurement of her head with that
of children of a similar age, that it is uncommonly large
for her years. The dimensions on the cast> which includes
the integuments, are as follows :
Inches,
From middle of Philoprogenitlvcness to Lower Individuality, 7
Do. to Meatus auditorius cxternus, - 4
Meatus auditorius externus, to lower Individuality, ^|
Do. to Firmness, . - 5|
Do. to Benevolence, . • 5g
Conccntrativeness to Comparison, . 7
Destructivcness to Destructiveness, -
5$
Sccretivcness to Sccretivcness, - 5g
Cautiousness to Cautiousness, -
- 5fl
Ideality to Ideality, . „ ^q
3
Constructivcness to Constructivcncss . 4,1
The first point being thus ascertained, in as far as one
case can bear upon it; in endeavouring to answer the
second query, I shall begin by stating the development of
each of the organs individually, ay indicated by the cast
;
MISS CLAltA FlSHElt. 283
and then endeavour to trace the particular combination of
faculties, which is essential for the success of an actor.
1. Amativcncss,—not fully developed. 18. Firmness,—large.
2. Philoprogenltiveness,—large. 19. Individuality, lower,—large.
3. Concentrativeness,—rather large. upper*—ftill.
4. Adhesiveness,—.large. 20. Form,—full.
5. Combativeness,—very large. 21. Size,
moderate.
J
6. Destructiveness,—full. 23. Colouring.
7. Constructiveness,—full. 24. Locality,—full.
8. Acquisitiveness,—rather full, 25. Order,—moderate.
9. Secretiveness,—large, 26, Time,—full.
10. Self-esteem, rather large. 27. Number,—rather full.
11.—Love of Approbation,—large. 28. Tune,—full.
12. Cautiousness, very large. 29. Language,—large.
13. Benevolence,—large. 30. Comparison,— full.
14. Veneration,—moderate. 31. Causality,—large.
15. Hope,—moderate. 32. Wit,—full.
16. Ideality,—rather large. • 33. Imitation,—large,
17. Conscientiousness,—full. Wonder,—rather large.
Observations on several individuals in private life, who
possessed the talent of acting, led me to conclude, that se-
cretiveness and i7nitation are essential requisites to this
power ; and this inference, it will be observed, is confirmed
by the present case ; for here both of these organs are large.
Secretiveness appears to give the power of suppressing and
concealing the natural character, and thus aids the mind in
assuming, by means of imitation, such other characters as are
intended to be represented. Ideality adds splendour to the
performance; for it infuses the spirit of poetry, the glow and
colouring of fancy into the personation, and distinguishes
it from mere mimickry. Concentrativeness, likewise, by en-
abling an actor to support a variety of faculties in a state
of simultaneous and combined activity, aids him in repre-
senting mixed emotions, and also in infusing force and
expression into the dialogue.
281 REPORT UPON THE CAST OF
While Secretiveness and Imitation may thus be regarded
as general powers, without which no talent for acting can
be manifested, it is proper to observe, that the effect with
which they can be applied in representing particular cha-
racters, will depend on the degree in which other faculties
arc possessed in combination with them. They confer on
the individual only the capacity of applying, in this parti-
cular way, the whole other powers of the mind, so far as
he possesses them ; but they do not supply the want of
these powers. For example ; an actor destitute of tune,
however highly he may be endowed with Secretiveness and
Imitation, could not imitate Catalani, or what is the
same thing, perform her parts on the stage ; and neither
could an individual possessing little combativencss and
destructiveness, represent with just effect, the fiery Co-
riolanus ; because the natural language of indignation
can no more be called up by Secretiveness and Imitation,
without Combativeness and Destructivess, than melody
without the aid of Tunc. Hence, to constitute an accom-
plished actor, capable of sustaining a variety of parts., a ge-
neral full endowment of the mental organs is required.
Nature rarely bestows all these in an eminent degree on one
individual; and, in consequence, each performer has a
range of character in which he excels, and out of which he
is nothing ; and I have found, by repeated observations,
that the lines of success and failure bear a decided refe-
rence to the organs fully or imperfectly developed in the
brain. Any one may easily put this observation to the test
of experiment. Actors incapable of sustaining the dignity
of a great character, but who excel in low comedy, will be
found deficient in ideality ; while, on the other hand, those
who tread the stage with a native dignity of aspect, and
seem as if born to command, will be found to possess it
largely developed ; and also firmness, sclf-cslccm, and
MISS CLARA FISTIER. 285
love of approbation. It does not follow, however, from
these principles, that an actor, in his personal conduct,
must necessarily resemble most closely those characters
'which he represents to the best advantage. To enable an
individual to succeed eminently in acting Shylock, for ex-
ample, firmness, acquisitiveness and destructiveness, are
reckoned indispensable ; but it is not necessary, merely be-
cause Shylock is represented as being deficient in Benevo-
lence, Justice, Veneration, and Love of Approbation, that
the actor also should be so. The general powers above re-
ferred to, although they do not supply the place of deficient
faculties, are quite competent for the time, to suppress
the manifestations of opposite sentiments. Hence, in his
proper character, he may manifest in the highest degree
the moral sentiments ; and yet, by shading these for the
lime, by the aid of secrctiveness, and bringing into play
only the natural language of the lower propensities, which
also we suppose him to possess, he may represent a scoun-
drel to the life.
In Miss Clara Fisher wc perceive all the general
powers necessary for acting, supported by a high endow-
ment of a variety of other faculties, calculated to give them
eminent effect. In particular, the elementary qualities con-
stituting the character of Richard, are present in a high de-
gree; and hence, perhaps, the cause of her representing
that personage with peculiar excellence.
The high andfull forehead givesher the intellectual energy
of that character. The immense love ofapprobation, firm-
ness and cautiousness, enable her to feel and to express the
ambition, the determination, the coolness of the tyrant. The
secrctiveness supplies the cunning, and the combativeness and
destructiveness the fire, and also the genuine obduracy
of sentiment so characteristic of Richard; while idea-
lity throws the colouring of poetry over the whole represcn-
286 TlEf OUT UPON THE CAST OF
tation, averts disgust, and holds the mind subject, by an
intense interest, to a being too diabolical otherwise to be
looked upon without horror. Of course, the benevolence,
thejustice} the adhesiveness, and other higher faculties^
joined with the great reflective powers, and Ideality, render
the real character of Miss Wisher very different from that
indicated by her representation of Ricluird.
Although not strictly phrenological, I may, perhaps, be!
excused, for adding a few additional remarks on her concep-
tion ofthis character. Comparing her representation of Rich-
ard with Kean's, I am inclined, in several points, to give her
the preference. ShaKspeare"^ has, undoubtedly, invested
the character with an intense intellectual energy, and with a
deep colouring of ideality. Richard^ as drawn by the poet, is
fell, deceitful, unprincipled, and relentless in the very highest
degree ; but his passions appear in the shape of motives ur-
ging on his intellect* and, at the same time, acting under its
guidance, rather than in open bursts of violence and emo-
tion. In short, he is a fiendj but an intellectual fiend. He
resembles Milton's Satan, and not Moloch,
" The strongest and the fiercest spirit
" That fought in Heaven, now fiercer by despair.'*
In Shakspeare1
s description his youthful days alone arc re-
presented as " wild and furious,
11
and his " age confirmed
11
as
*' proud, subtle, sly, and bloody*.
11
In Kean's acting, Ricli-
ard storms, rages, and vociferates. His whole soul is at times
• Shakspeare's description of Richard is as follows
" Tetchy and wayward was thy infancy
" Thy school-days, frightful, desperate, wild and furious
" Thy prime of manhood, daring, bold, and venturous ;
'• Thy age confirmed, proud, subtle, sly and bloody,
*« More mild, but yet more harmful, kind in hatred."
3
MISS CLAHA FISIIEll. 287
lost in outrageous bursts of passion. The ever-presiding in-
tellect is dethroned, and rage and cruelty, and ambition, con-
stitute the man. In Miss Fisimfs acting, he is fiery, bloody,
and relentless ; but his rage, is the storm of a mighty intel-
lect, imbued with hate. In the scene with Lady Anne,
also, Kean puts on the air of honesty in such complete per-
fection, that we feel as if Richard's character had changed.
He appears no longer to be Richard, but a repentant, and
an honest man. It is thought by many, that this acting is
highly skilful, as it affords an apology for Lady Anne's
subsequent conduct, and renders it at least in some degree
consistent with probability. Miss Fisiieu, however, as
Richard, approaches that Lady with an air of the most con-
summate hypocrisy ; with a look of contempt for her weak-
ness, yet with a cozening smile that appears deliberately ad-
justed, so as to impose upon her feeble understanding. The
spectator sees the deception,—but it appears as if Lady Anne
has too shallow an intellect to discover it. In every look, and
gesture, and expression, the spectator sees Ricliard as him-
self ;
This description is admirably true to nature, and equally accordant with
Phrenological principle, A great endowment of combativeness, destruc-
tiveness, secretiveness, love of approbation, and self-esteem, not regulated by
conscientiousness and benevolence, would produce such a character as is
fa ere represented. In infancy, it would be " tetchy and wayward ;" in school-
days, " frightful, desperate, wild, and furious ;" and in manhood, <« dar-
'* ing, bold, and venturous." " In age confirmed," when the intellect had
attained its highest degree of controlling power, and when the wildness and
fury of combativeness and destructiveness had begun to subside, secretive-
ness, the fountain of intrigue, would come more fully into play, and then
the dispositions would become " more mild, but yet more harmful;" and
the individual would be, indeed, " proud, subtle, sly, and bloody." The
description, " kind in hatred," is exquisitely characteristic of the manner
of destructiveness, when acting under the influence of large secretiveness
and love of approbation. It then disguises its villanous purposes, and exhibits
an hypocritical semblance of regard, even while it whets the knife for murder.
288 REPORT UPON THE CAST OF, &C.
but Lady Anne is so miserably silly, that the disguise is
complete enough to impose upon her. This acting throws
as much probability into the character as that of Kean ;
for it reduces Lady Anne to a state of great mental weakness ;
and it is only on such a supposition that her conduct can be
conceived to be at all natural ; and it renders Richard's
character more consistent, and, therefore, more true to na-
ture. From a transient glance of Kean's development,
his cautiousness appears greatly less than Miss Fisher's ;
and, hence, probably, the rage of Richard in his acting is
open, boisterous and violent; in Miss Fisher's, cool, de-
liberate, deep and dreadful. In Kean's acting, you see
Richard at once ; in Miss Fisher's, he appears as an abyss
of iniquity, incomprehensible and unfathomable, opening
up only by degrees ; and the spectator feels it impossible
to divine to what extent his evil mind would go, if circum-
stances but urged him on. The difference of conception
of the character, I have no doubt, bears a relation to the
different mental endowment of the actors.
Miss Fisher's father and mother accompanied her, and
were very polite to the committee whoobtained the cast. The
fatherwasan auctioneer in Westminster, and hisdaughterhas
only lately learned to read ; so that she is a child of nature,
and not of education. She began to show her histrionic ta-
lents at four years of age ; and at one year old distinguished
airs in music. Her father says, that her verbal memory is
so great, that she will learn 100 lines in 100 minutes.
She told me that she was fond of play ; but her father said
that she liked the society of persons older than herself, and
could not endure that of children of her own age.
( 289 )
VIII.
—
Case ofJ. G., aged ten years.
By Mr David Bridges^'mw.
(Read 6th December 1821.)
UN 12th June 1821, Captain Davidson, younger of
Muirhouse, requested me to introduce him to Mr G. Combe,
as he wished to obtain his opinion of a boy whose history
was somewhat peculiar and interesting. We waited on that
gentleman, and presented the boy, J. G., aged eight years,
adding, that he was a singular character, and requested
Mr Combe to specify, from his cerebral development, in
what respect he was such.
Mr Combe dictated the following note of his development,
which I wrote in pencil, viz.
1. Amativeness,—not yet developed.
2. Philoprogenitivcness,— large.
3. Inhabitiveness or Concentrative-
ness,—rather small.
4. Adhesiveness,—rather full.
5. Combativeness, —full.
6. Destructiveness,—large.
7. Constructiveness,—full.
8. Acquisitiveness,—full.
9. Secretiveness,—very large.
10. Self-esteem,—moderate.
11. Love of Approbation,—moderate.
1 2. Cautiousness,—very large.
13. Benevolence,—large.
14. Veneration,—rather small.
15. Hope, —moderate or ditto.
T
290 CASE OF J. G.
16. Ideality,—large.
17. Conscientiousness,.—small.
18. Firmness,—mod. or rather small,
19. Individuality,—moderate.
20. Form,—very large.
21. Size,—large.
22. Unascertained.
23. Colouring,—moderate or rather
small.
24* Locality,—moderate.
25. Order,—rather small.
26. Time,—full.
27. Number,—moderate.
28. Tune,—full.
29. Language,—full.
30. Comparison,—full.
31. Causality,—very large.
32. Wit,—full.
33. Imitation,—large.
Wonder,—full.
Mr Combe desired the boy to leave the room, and then
pointed out, that form and size were very large, and con-
structiveness considerable ; so that he might shew some ta-
lent in drawing, clipping of figures, or constructing play-
things, in a manner remarkable for his years. The reflect-
ing organs also, he mentioned, were uncommonly full ; and
suggested it as probable, that the boy would shew uncom-
mon penetration, and considerable scope of mind.
He then adverted to his moral development, and men-
tioned, that the weakest point was in conscientiousness', the
organ of which was very deficient. He noticed also, that se-
cretiveness was very large ; and he put into Captain David-
son's hands the Outlines of Phrenology, from which this
gentleman read, that, " when secretiveness is full, (and
not well directed), it gives " a tendency to duplicity and
finesse.
11
He mentioned also, that, from his acquisitiveness
being full, his honesty might be questionable ; and that,
from combativeness being full and destructiveness large, and
love of approbation moderate, the dispositions would pro-
bably be low and grovelling, and the temper hot.
While Mr Combe was examining the development of the
head, he remarked to the boy himself, that, from tune be-
ing well marked, and time, ideality, and imitation large, he
ought to be fond of music. The boy denied that he was
so; affirmed that he could neither whistle nor sing, and that
CASE OF J. G. 291
he derived no pleasure from hearing either fiddle, flute, or
bagpipe played.
Captain Davidson then mentioned, that the boy had
been picked up miserable and starving on the highway, by
Mrs Cockburn of Caroline Park; that he pretended he
came from Glasgow ; but that he was such a complete liar,
thief, and swindler, that it was impossible to discover what
his true history was ; that he preferred sleeping in a dog-
kennel, or out-house, skulking like a fox, to sleeping in a
comfortable bed in the dwelling-house ; that he appeared
and disappeared nobody knew how ; and even kind treat-
ment did not render him social. Captain Davidson did
not know to what extent he had been educated.
At the request of Captain Davidson, Mr Combe gave
him a note of the development, and added to it some re-
marks regarding the weak points of the character, and the
means which the boy's high intellect, benevolence, attach-
ment, ideality, and cautiousness afforded for supplying his
deficiencies and counteracting his tendencies to evil.
The observations concluded with the remark, that " this
" subject is a fair one for education to do its utmost upon.
" Nature has given faculties susceptible of education, and
" she has left great wants to be supplied. If left to his
" natural tendencies, he will probably turn out a very first
" rate swindler : if well educated, he may get through life
" without crime, and even with credit for his intellectual
" powers ; but he will, with difficulty, be made amiable,
" sincere, and worthy of confidence.
1"
Captain Davidson transmitted Mr Combe's observations
to Mrs Cockburn, who informed him that she had learned
that the boy had run from the Charity Work-House at Glas-
gow ; that she had kept him in her house for a consider-
able time, and endeavoured to reclaim him by education,
t2
292 CASE OF J. G.
but without success. She added, that so tar from be-
ing insensible to music, he was very fond of whistling and
singing ; and frequently, when under hiding, he betrayed
*
his lurking place by whistling or singing unawares, so loud
as to be overheard.
Mrs Cockburn gave Mr Combe's observations to Mi-
David Waddell, the tutor in her family, who sent the
following letter to Captain Davidson upon the subject.
" Silt, Caroline Park, 17th June 1821.
" I have read, with regret, the phrenological description of
J. G.'s head ; and it appears to me not more melancholy than
true.
" I conducted his education for a considerable time, and had
many opportunities of observing his natural propensities and
intellectual powers ; and I, therefore, feel no hesitation in de-
claring, that the leading features of his character correspond,
in the most striking manner, with the development described
in the report. Of his intellectual powers, however, I cannot
speak so confidently, as he had little opportunity of displaying
them: but the development of his moral faculties coincides in
the most decided and unequivocal manner with my observa-
tions.
" I recollect one or two instances ofhis attachment ; many of
his comhativencss and destructivencss, in his disposition to quar-
rel, and in his cruelty to birds, &o
" Covetiveness, secretiveness, and cautiousness, which are repre-
sented in the report as very large, were his predominating pro-
pensities. These propensities he manifested almost every day, in
opening trunks and drawers,—in pilfering every article he could
lay his hands upon, and making his bed the receptacle. His
schemes were generally devised with a cunning, and executed
with a caution, far beyond his years. And, when he happened
to be detected in any of his bad practices, to avoid punishment,
he always absconded, and frequently eluded the keenest and
strictest search. The following incident, which occurred a
few nights after his arrival at Caroline Park, exhibits some
traits of his character in a very striking light. Having
watched an opportunity, when the gardener and all his family
were from home, he entered his house ; and having barricadoed
the door and window, to prevent any interruption in his manoeu-
vres, he regaled himself with the best cheer of the house ; and
was so liberal in his potations, that, in a short time, a bottle of
CASE OF J. a. 293
strong whisky disappeared before him. He seemed to have con-
ducted matters with great coolness, and with a marked attention
to comfort. For, when the gardener obtained admission, he dis-
covered a candle burning on the table, and another ready to be
lighted, with the empty bottle, sugar, and other delicacies, and
the little urchin stretched upon the bed in a state of intoxication.
Another anecdote may be mentioned. He seemed greatly to
dislike the idea of being regarded as a menial ; and so anxious
was he to be distinguished from the servants, that he made it
his constant endeavour to sit above them all at church ; and
being on one occasion compelled to occupy the lowest seat, he
wept excessively during the whole service.
" Ofhis conscientiousness, which is described as very small, I
do not recollect of having ever seen any indication. I fre-
quently attempted to impress him with a sense of duty, but sel-
dom or never succeeded. I endeavoured, also, to render his
love of praise subservient to virtue; but this passion being it-
self moderate, was counteracted by more powerful propensities.
I tried, at last, what effect the fear of punishment would have
upon him ; but this also failed, for he seemed to fear neither
God nor man.
" He is certainly, with respect to his moral faculties, the
most unpromising subject I ever met with. His dispositions,
as alleged in the report, are naturally very bad, and have been
allowed to " grow with his growth, and strengthen with his
strength." Iniquity, accordingly, seems now to be his element
;
and so coarse and grovelling are his propensities, so depraved
and rivetted are his habits, that, young as he is, I am afraid it
would baffle even the regenerating plan of Mr Owen to reform
him.
" I trust you will excuse these loose and unconnected ob-
servations. I am, &c.
" David Waddell."
Mrs Cockburn, finding the most anxious efforts to amend
his dispositions unavailing, and having ascertained that he
had run from the Charity Work-House at Glasgow, return-
ed him to that establishment, but before Captain Davidson
was aware of her intention to do so, so that a cast of his
head was not obtained. Mr Combe sent a copy of the
development,—of his own observations, and of Mr Wad-
dell's letter, to Dr Chalmers, soliciting his attention to
the boy ; and afterwards received the following letter from
Dr Chalmers.
294 CASE OF J. G.
" Deab Sir, Glasgow, December 13. 1821.
I feel heartily ashamed of my long delay in answering'your
most kind and interesting communication. The truth is, that
I consigned the affair over immediately to one, who undertook
to look after the case, and failed. My brother-in-law, who
ia now with me, came in his place ; and I trust that matters in
regard to the boy of whom you wrote are in a right train.
He has made characteristic exhibitions of himself since he came
to the Town-Hospital of Glasgow, having repeatedly made his
escape from the place, and conducted himself in a way that
shows him to be at once dexterous, deceitful, and impatient of
the restraints of ordinary life.
" There is a friend of mine, who has adventured to take
him out of the Hospital, and give him employment in a cal-
lender. He will be looked sharply after, and I can confide in
all being done to his moral and religious training through
means of Mr Buchanan, who has kindly taken this experi-
ment in hand. I expect to see the boy soon ; and indeed
would have done something hitherto in my own person, had it
not been for a weight of engagements which are always upon
me.
" Mr Pratt desires his best compliments ; and I entreating,
that I may be forgiven my past negligence, farther request you
to believe me,
" Dear Sir,
" Yours truly,
(Signed) " Thomas Chalmers."
Continuation ofthe Case of' the boy J. G.
By Mr George Combe.
(Read 9th January 1823.)
OlNCE this case was last under consideration of the So-
ciety, I have learned that the father of the boy was a wri-
ter of dissipated habits and indigent circumstances; but of
considerable talents. His mother, whose character was not
favourable, died when he was five years of age, in conse-
quence of which circumstance he was taken into the Chari-
ty Work-House of Glasgow.
CASK OF J. G. 295
In conformity to a general practice, he was boarded out
of the Hospital, and the woman to whose care he was com-
mitted, as subsequently discovered, was not quite correct
in her conduct. He remained with her for two years. At
the age of seven, he was taken back to the Work-House
;
where he shewed a disposition to idleness and tricks.
Whenever an opportunity offered, he ran oft' to his nurse.
Every effort was used by the Manager of the Work-House
to check and amend his dispositions, but without success.
After writing the letter of 13th December 1821, Dr
Chalmers took the boy out of the Charity Work-House,
and gave him in charge to Mr Buchanan, one of his
Elders. By close watching and constant employment, he
conducted himself so well, that Mr Buchanan mentioned
only one instance in which he had been implicated in mis-
conduct, and as several other boys were also engaged in it,
the real amount of blame attachable to him was not easily
ascertained. He, however, was not very favourably situ-
ated in Mr Buchanan's service for moral and intellectual
education, farther than being kept in unremitting employ-
ment in the callender, and receiving an occasional lesson
from one of the workmen, with whom he lodged. In
August 1822, Dr Abell, on a visit to Glasgow, saw him,
and suggested that he ought to be brought to Edinburgh,
where he would be more completely attended to. I com-
municated this suggestion to Dr Chalmers, and he having
given his consent, application was made to Mr James
Milne, brassfounder in Edinburgh, who kindly under-
took to receive him, and to instruct him in his trade. In
October 1822, I waited on Mr Buchanan in Glasgow, re-
ceived the boy, and brought him to Edinburgh, and he is
now (January 1823) boarded with Mr Andrew Reston,
a person in the employment of Mr Milne. Being only
about twelve years of age, and not forward in his growth,
296 CASE OF J. G.
he is still too young and weakly for Mr Milne's employ-
ment ; and, in the mean time, has been sent to a public
school in Leith Wynd, at which it is intended to keep him
engaged for two or three years, that he may learn reading,
writing, and arithmetic ; after which he may commence an
apprenticeship with Mr Milne. A cast of his head has
been obtained, and is now presented, (Busts, No. 25.)
The great peculiarities of his natural dispositions are an
excessive secretiveness, with a deficient conscientiousness and
firmness. This combination produces in him a strong
tendency towards duplicity and cunning, with a great in-
sensibility to truth. He has behaved with propriety since
he came into Mr Reston's hands, although he has not
failed to manifest his secretiveness on more occasions than
one. One instance is so remarkable, that it is worthy of
being noticed, and I shall use Mr Reston's own words
:
" He had never refused to attend school, but had given se-
veral indications that it was rather an irksome task to him. I
told him one day to bring home his book, that I might hear
how he was getting on, and that I would assist him in getting
his lessons. He stated on return, that the master would not
allow any of the scholars to take their books out of school. I
then wrote a note, and gave it to him to be delivered to the
teacher, requesting him to send me a duplicate of his book, for
the purpose mentioned. J. forgot to deliver the note; next
day he said he had got no answer : and when he saw that I
was getting impatient, he said that the master would not allow
any person but himself to give lessons to his scholars. Not be-
ing satisfied, I waited on the teacher, who informed me that this
was the first time he had heard a word on the subject, and wil-
lingly gave me what I wanted. On Sunday following, after
breakfast, I gave the book to the boy, and asked him to look
out the lesson he was then learning, and read it. He searched
the book from beginning to end repeatedly, and could not find
the place, and then in the most artful manner endeavoured to
make me believe it was a Wrong book. Having had some little
conversation with the teacher respecting him, and which took
place alongside the class to which he belonged, I had a distant
recollection of the lesson myself, and pointed it out to him,
and requested him to proceed. I laboured upwards of half an
case or j. g. 297
hour, and could scarcely get him to name a single word. I
then took him aside, and remarked to him rather firmly, that
I believed his intentions were to deceive me; that I clearly
perceived his designs, and that if he meant to persist in such
pi'actices, I would assuredly proceed to the most severe corpo-
ral punishment. Nothing more was said till towards evening,
when I ordered my own boy to read over a lesson, and J. to do
so at same time (without making any observation on what had
taken place inthe forenoon). J. looked out the lesson, and then
was able to read it, and some others, with the exception of only
a very few words."
Acquisitiveness is full in the boy's head, but not pre-
ponderating! v large. There are several instances in which
great cunning, and moderate acquisitiveness, when not re-
gulated by conscientiousness, have produced theft.
—
While with Mrs Cockburn, lie was accused of several
petty depredations, but no instance of this kind, with the
exception above mentioned, occurred while he was with Mr
Buchanan ; and since he came to reside with Mr Reston,
only one very trifling manifestation of the tendency has
been observed. He lately abstracted some buttons, for
which he had taken a fancy, from one of Mr Reston's
children, and stoutly denied his possessing them, although
they were immediately taken out of his pocket. He shews
a tendency to acquire objects frequently of no value, and
Mr Reston mentions, that his pockets are sometimes
stuffed with mere trumpery, which even ordinary children
of his age would not reckon worth the possessing.
To counterbalance these unfortunate tendencies, the
organ of cautiousness is very lai'gely developed, and while
this aids cunning, by prompting him to be more prudent in
his schemes for deceit, it likewise renders him more alive to
the emotion of fear, and, of course, furnishes a source of
motives to avoid misconduct, through terror of the
consequences which may follow in the way of punish-
ment. As his faults arise from an abuse of natural
tendencies, Mr Reston makes a point of treating him with
298 GASE OF J. G.
uniform gentleness, mixed, at the same time, with sufficient
firmness and decision. It is intended to make the boy ac-
quainted with his own nature as early as possible ; to make
him aware that his chief enemies lie within himself, and to
make him feel from experience, that there are good men in
society, whose countenance it is his interest to maintain, by
conduct croresponding to the laws of morality. In his head,
the organs of adhesiveness, benevolence, and ideality, arc
largely developed, while love ofapprobation is moderate in
size. These faculties will afford very considerable means
of elevating his conduct, and, if sedulously cultivated, of
counteracting his inferior propensities. His hnxnmng and
reflecting organs are decidedly large, and, so far as has
yet been observed, his talents correspond. He will not,
therefore, be deficient in ability, however mucli he may be
so in principle. Firmness is rather deficient; and while
this will render him more easily managed and led to vir-
tue, it will dispose him, at the same time, the more readily
to yield to temptation, when placed in his way. In short,
we have, in this individual, a combination of great deficien-
cies with great endowments, and as, from the outset of his
life, he appeared to be running, by rapid strides, to perdition,
it is impossible to render him worse, while there are many
chances of rendering him better, by a good education, and
sedulous moral and religious training. The trade of a
brass-founder affords considerable scope for invention,
taste, and ingenuity, and it is selected as one which, view-
ing the combination of his organs, will probably interest his
mind, and this would be a great step gained in leading
him to virtue. Mr Reston is assistant Librarian in
the School of Arts, and gives constant attendance at the
lectures. He means to carry the boy to that institution, as
soon as his mind shall be capable of profiting by scientific
information ; and in this way also his intellect may be
CASE OF J. G. 299
called into action, and a relish excited in him for plea-
sures which can be enjoyed only by the preservation of a
spotless character. In short, it must be by elevating and
enlarging the general tone and scope of his sentiments and
intellect, and by making him feel a substantial interest in
virtue, on account of the pleasures it affords, and the ad-
vantages it confers, rather than by a multiplicity of rules
and precepts committed only to the memory, that success
ought to be expected. Even after every exertion shall
have been used, the result may not correspond with our
expectations ; for those who have looked most closely into
the web of human life, are aware how difficult it is to
change the threads of Nature's weaving ; and that the poet's
observation,
•' Naturam expellas furca, tamen usque recurret,"
is too well supported by experience to admit of being
slightly regarded. Whatever measure of success, however,
shall ultimately attend the experiment, good must ensue.
If it fail, this will serve as one instance to shew, that the
wicked are sometimes unfortunate as well as criminal, and
that no ordinary circumstances are sufficient to correct dis-
positions radically and naturally bad ; in short, that the
leopard cannot change its spots, nor the Ethiopian his
skin. If this fact were demonstrated to be generally true, the
Legislature would perceive the propriety of endeavouring to
prevent crimes, rather than of trusting'exclusively to punish-
ment as a corrective,—a practice which is founded entirely
on the principle of the criminal being capable, if disposed,
in all cases completely to restrain his improper desires.
If, on the other hand, we shall be so fortunate, which I
sincerely trust will be the case, as to rescue this boy from the
dominion of his lower faculties, and elevate him into a moral
and intellectual being, it will be a glorious instance of the
300 CASE OF J. G.
triumph of education over great natural defects, and it may
furnish an example ultimately productive of the most bene-
ficial results.
Issue of the Case ofJ. G.
The following communication, which was laid before the
Society on 24th February 1823, will shew the issue of the
experiment detailed in the preceding communication.
Letter Mr Andrew Reston to Mr George Combe.
" Sir, Edinburgh, Mth February 1823.
" When you requested me to take the boy J. G. under
my charge, (where he remained for near five months,) it
was your wish that I should note such observations of facts re-
garding him, as I might consider of consequence in delineat-
ing his true character, and give you a narration of them. Be-
fore doing so, you must allow me to remark, that this singular
boy would have required a discriminating acquaintance with
human nature, in all its bearings, together with a closeness and
accuracy of observation, to which I have not a shadow of pre-
tension ; and I may candidly state, that I need not attempt, by
language, to convey to the mind of any one those impressions
which his conduct, as a whole, has left on my own.
" For some time his behaviour afforded very little for obser-
vation. Indeed, so much so, that I had become very sceptical
respecting the greater part of the statements that had been
given me respecting him. His general demeanour was quite
compliant, rather artless than otherwise, and inoffensive. The
only observations that I can offer, from the very commence-
ment, were, that he seemed to have an indirect eye and ear up-
on all that was passing around him, so that you could not, at
any time, direct your eye toward him, that his did not instant-
ly catch yours ; not by a similar direct look, but by a momen-
tary side glance, which he would keep up so long as your at-
tention might be directed to him *. This was observable, what-
ever he might be engaged in at the time. I may remark, too,
" This is the natural expression of a large secretiveness.
CASE OF J. G. riOl
his disinclination to voluntary communication, except it were
elicited from him by questions. I do not recollect of ever hear-
ing him give a voluntary statement of any past transaction,
either trifling or important. Another rather remarkable cir-
cumstance occurred soon after he came to us. It appeared
that he had never been accustomed to sleep with a night-cap
;
and his hair was, in consequence, all dishevelled, and standing
on end. When one was got for him, he seemed much disin-
clined to use it; and for two or three nights threw it aside,
after he went to bed. When questioned about it, he said it al-
ways came off when asleep ; and that he could not help it. 1
ordered strings to be put to it, and they were tied by one of the
family. On the second morning afterwards, the cap had disap-
peared, and the boy could give no account of it whatever. My
wife had noticed him putting something below his bed that mor-
ning, and had the curiosity to make a search, when she found the
cap thrust into the most obscure place, betwixt the bottom of
the bed and matress. J. insisted that it must have been some
other person who put it there, as he did not do so. For this I
took him strictly to task (by remonstrances and threats,) and
his conduct became more studiously concealed for some time.
" I have mentioned that he never made a voluntary commu-
nication on any subject or case. The following is a remarkable
instance. Being one day requested to go a message to a rela-
tion of ours in Pleasance, on his return, he had fallen on the
street, and a cart passing at the instant, the wheel went over
his legs. One of the crowd, who had gathered round, carried
him to the most convenient place, which happened to be the
very house that he had left but a few minutes before.—His legs
were examined, and every thing done for him that his case re-
quired. As the cart was empty, and there was loose snow on
the street, he was so little hurt as to be able, in a little time, to
walk home. I happened to be in the way when he returned,
and noticed him halting a good deal, and enquired what was
the matter ? He replied, That he had fallen on the street, and
that having come down in a certain position, (putting himself
into an attitude, to shew me) he had hurt one of his legs
a little. On examining the leg, it appeared a good deal swelled
and discoloured; and all the bandages and dressing, which it
had previously received, had been removed on his way home.
I observed, also, that his cheek, and one of his eyes, were in-
jured. He said, that one boy had been throwing a stone at
another, and that it had struck him by chance. Next day, our
relation sent one of her family to inquire how J. was after
the accident ; but this person not knowing what had happened
to him, could not give us any particulars ; and it was not till a
302 CASE OF J. G.
week after that our friend called herself, and gave us all
the information about the matter, not one syllable of which had
escaped from the boy. Another instance of absurd conceal-
ment may be noticed. A pair of new stockings which had been
given him on a Sunday, had disappeared ; and he could not
give any account of them, except that he had laid them aside
with his Sunday's clothes. On examining his legs at the time
of the accident, I found them inside of his common stockings ;
that is#
, he was wearing two pairs at same time : and yet he de-
liberately affirmed, that he did not know any thing about this
circumstance, alleging, that some other person must have put
them on unknown to him.
I do not recollect, in my whole life, being as completely
baffled as I was by the boy, in the following case. One Sun-
day he and I only were going to church. After being dressed,
something occurred which detained me for a little; and I told
J. to proceed to church, and I would follow him instantly.
It happened that I did not get away for about ten minutes,
and was surprised enough that I did not find him in the seat.
He returned to the house punctually about the usual time of
dismissal. Seeing that he returned alone, my wife asked him,
when he came in, where I was ? He replied, that I was just
behind him, and would be here immediately, which was lite-
rally the case. I did not tell him that I had been at church,
but put a few general questions to him, to learn his move-
ments ; to all of which he gave ready answers ; yet, in so vague
and artful a manner, as almost to convince me that he had not
been there. I then took him aside, and put a long series of
questions to him, the answers to which were managed with
such dexterity, as almost to deserve compliment for his decep-
tive ingenuity. Whenever he discovered that I had been there,
he immediately pretended to recollect that he had gone up the
left hand staircase, in place of the right, and of course had
been in another seat by mistake. Some of the questions were
as follows : Q. What part of the seat were you in ? A. Near
the head of it. Q. Was it throng ? A. Middling. Q. How
many might there be in it ? A. T do not know ; I did not count
them. Q. Were there any females in it ? A. Yes ; some. Q.
How many do you think? A. The place where I was sitting
I could not see very well. Q. You have said there were some ?
Were thei'e more than one? A. I am not sure if there were
more nor one. I put a number of similar questions respect-
ing the seat before ours, but J., conceiving that he had now
got the fact of his being in a wrong seat established, gave me
more specific answers, without it being in my power to check
him. Q. Did the congregation dismiss when you came out ?
CASE OF J. g MX
A. Yes. Q. It is the Sacrament Sunday tins, and they are not
dismissed yet? A. A number came out when 1 came away,
and I thought they had been all coming. Q. What was going
on when you came out? A. Singing psalms. The two last
answers being strictly correct, I was again uncertain whether
be had been at church or not, and said little more about the
matter at that time, resolving to resort to another method, by
which we had repeatedly got at the truth. That was to tell
him, that we had obtained information from some other quar-
ter, of his having been seen doing this, or going such a where
(as the case might be). Whenever he apprehended that our
statement was going to be worse than the truth, then, and then
only, would he make a correct acknowledgment. According-
ly, on the day following, we obtained the confession ; that I
being detained a little longer in the morning than either he or
I expected, he supposed that I was not coming to church, and
therefore made oft' for Leith, and spent the forenoon there.
He called at church on his way home, (being in St James's
Place,) and was thus enabled to answer the two last questions
correctly. By the same method, we obtained the acknowledg-
ment that he had spent two other Sundays in a similar way,
when sent to church by himself, but returned exactly at the
mid-day and evening dismissals.
" In comparing some parts of his conduct with others, I
was frequently at a loss what opinion to form regaining him.
For instance, if sent the most trifling message, he generally (I
should rather say uniformly) indicated the greatest dulness,
amounting sometimes to actual stupidity. We soon discovered
that he had no great partiality to going errands ; and as they
occurred more frequently than he seemed to relish, he resorted
to that method of getting quit of them. When sent about any
thing relating to himself, in which he was interested or pleased,
his manner of going about it was a complete contrast to that
assumed on these other occasions. Before he left us, he had
in part succeeded in his design ; for the members of my family
would rather have performed a number of the messages them-
selves, than been bothered with his blunders and assumed stu-
pidity. I have seen him, when sent out for a single article,
return two or three times to ask what it was, and buy some-
thing completely different after all.
" I could detail more facts, corroborative of what I have here
mentioned, but prefer stating a few circumstances minutely,
to relating many in general terms.
" I have now to advert to the most melancholy trait in his
chai'acter, that of pilfering. In a very short time after he came
to us, various little things disappeared. The first instance that
304 CASE OF J. G.
we noticed was this : One day I had put a small leathern bag,
containing some silver, upon a table in the parlour, (having oc-
casion to go out in haste) ; when my wife looked in, a little af-
ter, J. had unloosed it, and had his hand fairly introduced
into it. He excused himself, by saying, that one of my chil-
dren was anxious to see what was in the inside ; and that he
was only going to indulge her. In two different instances, we
discovered that he had carried off articles, and disposed of them
among his school-fellows. When ordered to bring them back,
he told us that the boys had left the school, and that he never
afterwards saw them. One evening, our little infant, in my
sister's arms, dropped a penny ; and it being inconvenient for
her to stoop at the moment, she clapped her foot on it, and cal-
led to J. to hand it to her. He pretended to make a long
and diligent search, but could not find it. My sister being
confident that he must have got it, accused him accordingly ;
upon which he turned out all his pockets, and persisted, with
his usual confidence, in denying that he knew any thing about
it. Next day, we got him to acknowledge that he had really
found it, and had concealed it in the sleeve of his jacket, till
he got out of the house, when he disposed of it.
" The following circumstance shews another method of impo-
sition that he attempted. I was informed, that one evening,
when he was sent out a message, he pretended to have lost a shil-
ling on the street, gathered a great crowd around him, and set
up a most piteous outcry about his loss, assuring the passengers,
that if he did not obtain a shilling somehow or other, he need not
go home. However, he could make nothing of it, and contrived
to find the shilling himself, and came home as usual. We heard
nothing of the matter from him, but from another person, who
had witnessed it. These, and several others, are specific cases
of pilfering which I could bring home to him, but I have no
hesitation in imputing to him a good many more, which he had
managed in such a way as to escape detection at the instant. He
was in the frequent practice of getting out of bed during night,
procuring a light, and rumaging the whole house. Two diffe-
rent times, I am certain of a small sum of money having been
taken from my pockets ; also two pen-knives, one of which I
regretted particularly. I cannot say that his disposition to
pilfer was confined to any particular object. It seemed quite
indiscriminate. I have noticed sometimes, his pockets a little
bulky when he had returned from school, and have examined
them two or three times, when I generally found them stuffed
with such things as he must have obtained from dunghills, or
similar places : and the articles were of such a nature, and in
such a state of dirt, that I would have imagined the most co-
CASE OF J. G. 305
vetous disposition could not have been gratified with them.
He never withheld an answer when a question was put to him :
and we sometimes put a few relating to himself; the answers
to which, and the manner in which he gave them, made me of-
ten doubt if his conceptions of right and wrong were not con-
siderably deficient. For example, he was asked one night how
long it was since he had commenced telling lies? He answer-
ed, with the greatest ease and pleasantry, that he had told lies
ever since he recollected ; and that he did not think there was
any harm in it. On another evening, when he had been get-
ting a severe reprimand for falsehood, my sister offered him
some small reward, if he would abstain from telling lies for one
week only. In a little, he replied, very coolly and good hu-
mouredly, that he might try, but he was sure he could not do
it; for he had never passed one week of his life without telling lies.
" For the last two or three days that he was with us, he had
behaved very correctly ; and we were almost in hope that some-
thing might be made of him. On the day preceding his elopment,
he signified much anxiety to have his shoes repaired; and this I
gave him permission to get done. On the evening he was very
anxious to have his Sunday's clothes laid out, that he might put
them on in the morning, which, for some reason, were refused
him. He seemed very uneasy all next morning, and inquiring
whether he was to get to church. Upon being told that he was,
he dressed himself with great dispatch. As soon as I was
dressed, I said he might be going; when he instantly left the
house, and has not since been heard of. It appeared that he
had been out of bed the preceding night, and had extracted 1 s.
6d. from my pocket. We did not discover any thing else miss-
ing, except a little bread, for which we did not blame him.
" I might have extended further details of him, but as they
are all of similar import, I presume what I have given wiil
afford a tolerable specimen of this most remarkable youth. I
am, Sir, your humble, and most obliged servant,
" A. Reston."
Notice of the boy^s eiopement was instantly given to the
Manager of the Charity Work-House in Glasgow, and to
every person with whom he was known to be acquainted
;
but up to the present day no account of him has been re-
ceived. A report of a boy of the same name and age ha-
ving been found swindling in Berwickshire, reached a mem-
ber of the committee in July ; but on farther inquiry, he
ascertained that the individual was another than the subject
of the present communication.
9.0th August 1823. u
( 306 )
IX.
—
On inferring Natural Dispositions and
Talentsfrom Development of Brain.
Bv Mr George Combe.
(Read 11th April 1822)f
AN several instances, casts of the heads of individuals, or
a note of their cerebral development, have been sent to
phrenologists, who have given sketches of the natural
talents and dispositions of the originals, sometimes with
great accuracy and truth, and sometimes with more equi-
vocal success. None of the practical applications of the
science has been regarded with greater suspicion or dislike
than this ; and it has been, unhesitatingly, represented as
mere quackery, or at least as entirely akin to fortune-tel-
ling and palmistry in general. A short inquiry into the
principles on which the practice is founded, may, therefore,
not be without utility.
The proposition, That the natural energy of each primi-
tive propensity, sentiment, and intellectual faculty of the
mind, bears a relation to the size of a particular portion of
DISPOSITIONS AND TALENTS INFERRED. 307
the brain, is one that can be proved to be true or false only
by observation. Every phrenologist holds it to be certain-
ly true, and, accordingly, it will be treated as a fundamen-
tal principle in the present discussion. A healthy brain, at
a vigorous period of life, is always understood.
If, then, a head is presented to us, in which the organs
of intellect and of the moral sentiments are largely de-
veloped, and those of the animal propensities very moderate
in size, it is quite obvious, that, if the mental powers act
with a force corresponding to the dimensions of the organs,
the tendencies of the mind will be strongest towards moral
and intellectual pursuits, and that they will be compara-
tively feeble in the range of animal desire. To predicate
that this will be the case, savours no more of divination,
(the principle being admitted), than it would do to predict,
that the scale of a balance which is charged with the
heaviest weight will descend. It is quite true, that if the
principle is regarded as unsound, all conclusions deduced
from it must appear empirical ; and the coincidences, when
such occur, betwixt the inferred tendencies and the actual
dispositions, can be looked upon only as fortuitous,—or
lucky hits, exactly resembling those occasionally made by
fortune-tellers, to whom phrenologists have been com-
pared. But, in this case, the empiricism of the conclusions
is apparent only, and not real ; and the semblance of it
arises altogetherfrom disbelief, in the observer, in the sound-
ness of the principles on which the phrenologist proceeds,
and not from any perception of inconsequence betwixt the
principle and the result. The charge, therefore, is itself em-
pirical and unphilosophical, unless the objector be prepared
to establish, by evidence, that the principle is really un-
founded in nature, or to meet the proofs of its reality of-
fered by the supporters of the system, which is generally
u 3
308 DISPOSITIONS AND TALENTS INFERRED
the farthest thing in the world from the intention of the op-
ponent.
It will be said, however, that the actual dispositions and
talents of individuals, are the result, not of their natural
mental constitution merely, but of this modified in a
thousand ways, by education and external circumstances ;
and that, as the influence of the latter causes is not indi-
cated by the cerebral development, the conclusions of the
phrenologist are still liable to the charge of being deduced
without attention to all the elements by which the character
is formed. The answer to this remark is simple. The
phrenologist in no case ventures to predicate, from the
mere development, any thing more than simple natural
talents and dispositions ; and in every instance where a
sketch, resembling that of actual character, has been given,
previous information has been afforded of the age, sphere
of life, and education of the individual in question ; and the
conclusions have consisted of an estimate of the effects of
these extrinsic causes operating upon, and modifying, the
direction of the original powers. Hence, there is principle
in this case, as well as in the former ; and, however diffi-
cult its application may be, or however incapable the phre-
nologist may be supposed to be to apply it with success,
the very circumstance of principle being recognised, and
of its being adequate, if ably employed, to produce the re-
sult, ought to absolve the science and its followers from the
idle imputation already alluded to.
There are cases in which the natural dispositions and ta-
lents are so decided, as to command and predominate over
external circumstances, instead of being greatly modified by
them. Shakspeaiie and Burns, and Buonaparte, for
example, forced upon the world the impression of their na-
tural powers, in opposition to the strongest external ob-
stacles to their success. Now, if the principle above stated
FROM DEVELOPMENT OF BRAIN. 309
be correct, the brains of these individuals must have
presented phrenological indications of their predominant
powers as well marked and unequivocal as their mental
manifestations themselves ; and, if so, it is quite obvious
that a phrenologist, on examining their heads, might have
predicated quite philosophically, that Shakspeare pos-
sessed immense energy, an unbounded scope of fancy, and
a very great talent for observation ; that Burns was gifted
with much manly, yet tender and simple feeling 4 and that
Buonaparte had received at birth an endowment of pro-
digious energy, joined with insatiable ambition and great
intellectual power. In short, in this instance also, the que-
stion resolves itself again into this : Does the natural en-
ergy of the mental powers bear a relation to the size of their
organs or not ? For if it does, then it is quite philosophi-
cal to predicate powerful manifestations from large organs.
In cases where the organs of the animal propensities, mo-
ral sentiments, and intellectual powers, exist nearly in equi-
librio, education and circumstances produce the greatest ef-
fects ; because then, individual powers may have been cul-
tivated into a comparatively high degree of activity, while
others may have been left comparatively dormant; and
thus the actual result may have depended more on adven-
titious than natural causes. In ah such cases, the phreno-
logist would limit himself, by pointing out this very capa-
bility of being greatly modified by circumstances, as the
distinguishing feature of the character ; and he would not
venture on inferring a single particular trait, unless he
were minutely informed concerning the nature of the mo-
difying causes.
On the other hand, when particular organs are greatly
defective, the modifying influence of circumstances is small,
for unless a certain degree of power be conferred by nature,
education has no basis to act upon, and will produce very
310 DISPOSITIONS AND TALENTS INFERRED
limited effects. Hence, if a skull be presented to a phre-
nologist, in which the organs of the intellectual faculties,
and of the moral sentiments, are greatly deficient, and those
of the animal propensities greatly developed, as in Mary
Mackinnes, the inference is unavoidable, that the strong
tendencies are all to low gratification, and that as the re-
straining powers are feeble, the dispositions of the indivi-
dual, unless controuled by power superior to his own, will
correspond.
Case in which the Natural Talents and Dispositions of
the Reverend Mr M. were inferred from the Develop-
ment ofhis Brain. Communicated by Mr Brian Don-
kin.
In March 1821, I transmitted to Mr George Combe,
in Edinburgh, a cast of the head of a gentleman, Plate II.,
fig. 2., stating that the individual in question had received
a good education, and moved in enlightened society, but
without mentioning the name, or any circumstances of his
life or profession; and I requested that he would give a
sketch of the natural talents and dispositions which the de-
velopment appeared to indicate. In a letter dated 31st
March in that year, he sent me the following remarks.
" The cerebral development of the gentleman whose cast
" you sent, appears to have been as follows *.
• The Committee beg to remark, that, at the time this development
was stated, the Society had not fixed on specific terms to be used in denoting
the relative size of the organs ; so that some expressions occur here, which
FROM DEVELOPMENT OF BllAIN. 31
" 1. Amativeness,—rather small.
•* 2. Philoprogenitiveness,—large.
*' 3. Inhabitiveness, now Concentra-
" tiveness,—moderate.
" 4. Adhesiveness,—moderate.
*' 5. Combativeness,—small.
" 6. Destructiveness,'—pretty full.
*' 7. Constructiveness,—moderate.
'« 8. Acquisitiveness,—rather full.
" 9. Secretiveness,—rather full.
" 10. Self-esteem,—large.
M 11. Love of Approbation,—very large.
u 12. Cautiousness,—very large.
" 13. Benevolence,—large.
14. Veneration,—very large,
15. Hope,—large.
16. Ideality,—not large.
17. Conscientiousness,—very large.
18. Firmness,—large.
19. Individuality,—small.
20. Form,—moderate.
24-. Locality,—large.
28. Tune,—rather full.
30. Comparison,— full.
31. Causality,—full.
32. Wit,—moderate.
33. Imitation,—full.
Wonder,—not large.
" The individual would be decidedly moral and intel-
" lectual, and little prone to animal indulgence. He would
are not now generally used. Their meaning, however, is so obvious,
that no change or explanation appears necessary. They increase in the or-
der " small, moderate, large." The practice of measurement also, was not
then resorted to ; but they subjoin the dimensions taken from the cast in
possession of the Society, Bust 26., the integuments being included. The
only correction which the measurement suggests on the development, as
above noted, is to state Destructiveness " Large," and Cautiousness " Ra-
" ther Large," in place of " Pretty Full," and " Very Large," shades of
difference which do not affect any of the points in the sketch.
From junction of occipital spine with Philoprogeni-
tiveness to Lower Individuality,
Concentrativeness to Comparison,
Meatus auditorius externus to occipital spine,
Ditto to Lower Individuality,
Ditto to Benevolence,
Ditto to Firmness,
Destructiveness to Destructiveness,
Secretiveness to Secretiveness,
Cautiousness to Cautiousness,
Ideality to Ideality,
Constructiveness to Constructiveness,
Inches.
7
i
4
|
H
6
i
6
I
6|
6
I
5
i
312 DISPOSITIONS AND TALENTS INFErOlED
" be scrupulous and honourable in the extreme, xcith a great
" aversion to debt ; ambitious of distinction, or desirous to
" please, but exceedingly modest, and most esteemed by those
" who 'knew him best. His justice, though great, zvoidd
" not be severe, but woidd be softened by benevolence, and
" elevated by veneration. The intellect would be pene-
" trating, but would have a greater tendency to speculate
" on moral than on physical causes. He would shine
" more in the private circle than in public. His under-
" standing would be slow, but sound in its conclusions
" and he would be much troubled with doubts and diffi-
" culties in his decisions. The individual would not wor-
" ship wealth, but he would have a prudent regardfor pro-
" perty, and would calculate his expenccs and his income,
" so as to keep the former considerably within the latter.
" He would be alive to music. He would be religious, and
" a sincere worshipper of Gov"
Mr Combe's letter was shewn to the surgeon, from whom
I obtained an account of the case, and who attended the
patient during his illness : had known him for many years,
and opened the head after death. He requested to have a
copy of that part of the letter pointing out the development
of the organs, and the phrenological deductions. He re-
turned it with a note, merely saying, " I have marked with
" a line underneath those parts of the estimate which are
" correct.
11
'
(To save repetition, the words so marked are
printed in italics in the foregoing copy.) By a strict in-
junction from the medical gentleman, who is of the highest
respectability, and my own promise given to him, I am
bound not to commit his name to paper ; nor did he even
tell me the name of his late patient, the subject in que-
stion.; but, in describing the case afterwards to a third
person, a Mr F. of Charing-Cross, he informed me it must
of necessity be that of Mr M., upwards of thirty years
FROM DEVELOPMENT OF BRAIN. 313
minister of a Baptist congregation, of which he himself was
a member. I do not, therefore, think that I commit any
breach of confidence in stating thus far. It appears that
Mr M. was first brought up to the trade of watch-
making, but which he soon abandoned for pursuits more
congenial to his taste and inclinations. By great applica-
tion he became a scholar and a man of considerable learn-
ing. Besides what I learned from his medical friend, Mr
P. spoke of him in terms of the highest respect, as a minis-
ter esteemed by all his congregation ; as a man of most ex-
emplary conduct, and of the strictest integrity ; he also
agrees as to his care and economy in the management of his
own affairs.
The anatomical description of the brain, as given by the
gentleman who opened the head, I cannot send to the So-
ciety at present, as I find the copy I have too imperfect.
He concludes, however, by saying, "It appears that the
" parts of the brain which had become pulpy, were those
{* in which Gall places the organs of Prudence and Cir-
" cumspection {cautiousness) for which this gentleman had
" been remarkable prior to his illness, which lasted six
" years, but which he rapidly lost after its commencement.
" He became at length perfectly foolish ; his mind retain-
" ing no distinct ideas, except on theological subjects, on
" which he always gave consistent answers.""
Analysis of the preceding Sketch.
By Mr George Combe.
It will be observed, that Mr Donkin communicated the
information that the individual whose cast he sent, " had
3H DISPOSITIONS AND TALENTS INFERRED
" received a good education, and moved in enlightened
" society." I was thus made acquainted with the causes
which tended to modify the direction of the natural disposi-
tions ; but, besides, the head stands in one of the extremes
formerly mentioned, in which nature controls rather than
is modified by external circumstances.
The first observation is, " that the individual would be
" decidedly moral and intellectual, and little prone to ani-
" mal indulgence? This inference is founded on the great
preponderance of the organs of the moral sentiments and
intellectual faculties, over those of the animal propensities.
It is necessary only to glance at the cast or engraving of the
head to perceive, that there is very little brain at the base
behind the ear ; that the coronal surface, the seat of the mo-
ral sentiments, is not only broad, but elevated, and that the
portion of brain extending from the ear to the fore-head, in-
cluding the organs of the intellectual powers, is also large.
The next observation is, " that lie zvould be scrupulous
" and honourable in the extreme, with a great aversion to
" debt? The organs of conscientiousness, veneration, and
love of approbation, are all large, so that the natural senti-
ment of justice,—the dictates of religion,—and regard to
the opinion of society,—would concur in prompting the in-
dividual to virtuous conduct. In several instances in real
life, in which a large development of conscientiousness was
joined with self-esteem and love ofapprobation large, I have
observed, that the individual was as anxious to keep out of
debt, as a person of opposite dispositions was ready to get
into it ; and, on this observation, the above inference is
founded.
" Ambitious of distinction or desirous to please? This
characteristic depends on the love of approbation. If the
individual move in the public eye, this sentiment will prompt
him to desire distinction ; if in a private sphere, only to
please those with whom he associates.
FROM DEVELOPMENT OF BRAIN. 315
" Exceedingly modest, and most esteemed by those who
" knew him best.'''' Modesty arises from a great endow-
ment of love of' approbation, cautiousness and conscientious-
ness, generally joined with a considerable self-esteem, and
sometimes with moderate or defective combativeness ; and
this combination occurs in the individual in question. Be-
ing modest, necessarily implies that he would be most es-
teemed by those who knew him best.
" His justice, though great, woidd not be severe ; but
" would be softened by benevolence, and elevated by venera-
" tionT This remark explains itself, because the three
organs mentioned in it are all large. A large conscientious-
ncss,]o'me&w\\\\mu<hfirmness dL\\<$.destructivencss, and little
benevolence, produces extreme rigidness, and even severity
of disposition. The individual will be disposed to perform
justice up to the very letter of his obligation ; but he will
have a tendency to exact it with equal inflexibility, how-
ever incapable the person who owes it may be to satisfy thus
amply his demands. The sentiment of conscientiousness,
when combined with veneration and benevolence, produces
dispositions, charitable, long-suffering, and humane, as well
as scrupulously just.
" The intellect would be penetrating, but would have a
greater tendency to specidate on moral than on physical
causes.''''—The intellect takes its direction from the predo-
minating propensities or sentiments with which it is com-
bined. When joined with much acquisitiveness, for exam-
ple, it will be directed towards procuring wealth. When
combined with great love ofapprobation and ideality, it will
be turned towards acquiring fame. In the individual
in question, constructiveness, and the knowing organs in
general, which give the tendency to mechanical and physi-
cal pursuits, are moderate in size ; whereas the organs of
the moral sentiments, which furnish the mind with those
316 DISPOSITIONS AND TALENTS INFERRED
feelings on which ethics are founded, and the reflecting
faculties which take cognizance of these, are possessed to a
Considerable extent. Hence the direction of his intellect
towards moral speculations was inferred.
" He would shine more in the private circle than in
public?—This arises from natural modesty of disposition,
the elements of which have already been explained. " His
" understanding woidd be slozv, bid sound in its conclusions
" but he would be much troubled with doubts and difficulties
" in his decisions? I have observed, in actual life, that
when the endowment of cautiousness and conscientiousness
preponderates over the degree of intellect possessed ; and,
in particular, where combativeness, which gives courage, is
small, slowness of decision, and extreme hesitation, ai*e ne-
ver-failing results. Conscientiousness produces an extreme
desire of arriving at absolute truth, and cautiousness inspires
with the fear of not having reached it ; and, unless the in-
tellect be naturally so penetrating and comprehensive, as to
present a clear perception of the whole bearing and relations
of a case, at one glance, so as to satisfy these sentiments,
no alternative remains, but for the understanding to em-
ploy repeated efforts to accomplish that which it cannot
effect by one exertion of its powers ; with such a combina-
tion of feelings, clear intellectual perceptions must be ob-
tained, before the mind can feel satisfied that all is right.
Mr Donkin's correspondent dees not speak of the correct-
ness of this inference in the individual in question, which I
regret, as the point is of importance. He does not, how-
ever, say that it is erroneous ; and, from numerous observa-
tions in real life, I am inclined to think, that if he had pos-
sessed sufficiently close opportunities of observation, he
would have recognised its truth.
" The individual would not worship wealth, bid he would
if
have a prudent regardfor property, and would calculate
FROM DEVELOPMENT OF BKAIN. 317
" Ms expcnccs, and his income, so as to keep the former
" considerably xcithin the latter?—Acquisitiveness gives the
desire to obtain property, and self-esteem produces that re-
gard to sell-interest which prompts one to hold it when ac-
quired ; and both of these are well developed in the subject
of the present case. When to these faculties are added, as
in him, a powerful conscientiousness, cautiousness, and love
of' approbation, there is superadded to the selfish feelings, a
great desire of acquiring wealth, as the means of doing jus-
tice, of averting want, and of obtaining the respect of the
world ; so that, in the person in question, every motive cal-
culated to produce the effect mentioned in the sketch was
combined.
" He would be alive to music.'
1''
—This evidently depends
upon the development of the organ of tune. It is not spo-
ken to in the remarks by Mr Doxkin's friend. " He would
" be religious, and a sincere worshipper of God.'''' This in-
fei'ence is founded on the possession of the faculties of vene-
ration, hope, and conscientiousness, joined with a respecta-
ble endowment of intellect.
The present application of Phrenology is highly important,
because, on its practicability will depend, in a great degree,
the utility of the science. If cerebral development indicates
natural talents and dispositions, then the science will afford
some aid in enabling parents to dedicate their children to
those pursuits in which they are most fitted to excel, and
will also be useful in enabling mankind in general, to judge
of the qualifications of individuals with whom they may re-
quire to be connected in life. I have repeated experiments
similar to that now detailed, in ten or twelve instances, and
have seen at least ten cases more, by other phrenologists ;
and, in all, there was a great measure of success. At the same
time, it is proper to state, that difficulties occasionally pre-
318 DISPOSITIONS AND TALENTS INFERRED
sented themselves, and inferences were sometimes drawn,
which did not correspond with the dispositions in nature
;
but, in every such case, it turned out, that an unusual com-
bination of faculties had presented itself, the effect of which
the phrenologist had not had an opportunity of ascertaining,
by actual observations in nature. For example, on one oc-
casion, I met with a combination of large secretiveness, which
gives the desire to conceal ; and, when ill directed, leads to
finesse ; with large love ofapprobation, which gives the de-
sire of publicity and ostentation ; a full conscientiousness,
which produces the sentiment of explicit truth, joined with
imitation, which is one ingredient in a talent for personation,
—all in one individual ; and, being then unenlightened by
observation concerning the precise result of the whole acting
together, I felt great embarrassment. A conjecture which
was hazarded, turned out to be, in some points, erroneous.
When, however, the effects of this combination were ex-
plained, a step in advance in the science was gained. Na-
ture is constant ; and, as similar causes produce similar ef-
fects, on meeting with the same combination in another in-
dividual (and several instances have since occurred), it was
easy to predicate correctly the tendencies which it would pro-
duce. Thus an intimate acquaintance with the cerebral
development of numerous individuals, and ample opportu-
nities of observing the dispositions and talents connected
with each, are indispensably necessary to qualify any person
for the practice of this branch of the science. Such a de-
gree of reflective power also, as gives perception of motives,
is necessary to the observer ; for it is a fact, revealed by
Phrenology, that persons in whom the reflecting faculties
are exceedingly defective, do not perceive causation either
in morals or in physic. Such persons see actions only as
occurrences, and are blind to the motives which produce
FROM DEVELOPMENT OF BRAIN SI
9
them. They are the loudest scoffers at Phrenology, and
are excusable, in every respect, for being so.
1.
—
Observations on Evidence infavour ofPhrenology, af-
forded by Reports on the Cerebral Development of Exe-
cuted Criminals, as indicated by their Skulls.
By Mr George Combe..
(Read 25th April 1822.;
JlLAVING occasionally heard objections stated against
the validity of the evidence in favour of Phrenology, af-
forded by reports on the conduct and cerebral development
of executed criminals, I beg to trouble the Society with a
few remarks on the subject, rather with the view of draw-
ing forth any objection which may exist, and exciting dis-
cussion upon it, than in the hope of throwing new light up-
on the merits of the question itself.
The objection I understand to be,—that the character of
the criminal being known from the evidence on his trial, a
little ingenuity will enable any member to make up a
plausible case of concomitance betwixt the dispositions mani-
fested, and the development of the brain, whatever the latter
may be, and hence that the report, is an evidencejof ingenuity
on the part of the reporter but not of truth in the science.
The same objection has also been stated against reports of
2
320 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
correspondence betwixt the development and dispositions of
persons whose characters are previously known. Let us
examine these objections.
Phrenology professes to be an inductive science, and those
who cultivate it do not pretend to powers of divination. It
is founded on a discovery by Dr Gall, that the size of
particular portions of the brain bears a relation to the
energy of particular mental powers or dispositions. Before
the discovery could be made, Dr Gall of necessity re-
quired to be acquainted with the talents or dispositions of the
individuals whose heads he observed, for the development
itself carried no intimation of its connection with any fa-
culty of the mind. Two points, therefore, were necessary
to be established, to enable him to place his discovery on a
philosophical footing : 1*/, The possession of particular
talents or mental dispositions, by particular individuals, re-
quired to be ascertained : 2eZ/z/, The concomitant develop-
ment required to be obvious and perceptible to any person
who made it his study to observe it. Now, any mental
talent or propensity could be known only by its being ma-
nifested in actions. One individual, for instance, probably
sung melodiously, and this was evidence that he possessed the
musical talent ; another was noted for pride and pomposity,
and this proved that self-esteem was powerfully active in
his mind. In the next place, to ascertain the cerebral de-
velopment, which accompanied these powers, observation
of the head was indispensible. Supposing, then, .that a phre-
nologist should maintain the truth of any particular organ
upon such evidence, what objections against it would be
well founded ?
An opponent might deny the mental manifestations, and
say, that the individual in question could not sing, or that
the other manifested no pride. The point could be brought
to an issue only by an appeal to those who knew- the indi-
viduals best, and had seen them in the greatest variety of
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 3£i
circumstances. If they testified to the reality of the mani-
festations, the latter would be proved. If, again, an oppo-
nent objected to the account of the development, and alleged
that there was no test, rule, or standard, for judging of size,
(and hence that it was easy for a phrenologist to call an or-
gan large or small at his pleasure), and that he thus possessed
innumerable means of escapes, however closely the difficul-
ties were pressed; and, therefore, that he the opponent could
not enter into particular objections, but was obliged to rest
upon a general denial, that the organs were in size or
appearance such as was asserted ; —the reply to this state-
ment would not be difficult. The phrenologists affirm,
that an organ of tune should be very large in a very great
musician, and small in a person destitute of musical talent.
If, then, any member of this Society should present a report,
stating, that he had heard A. B. play admirably on the
violin, and had examined his head, and found a large or-
gan of time, it is obvious that the circumstances stated are
quite possible in themselves ; and, therefore, that these as-
sertions afford primafacie evidence of their truth ; and an
opponent who wishes to rebut them must assert, that he
had heard A. B. attempt to play, and perceived him fail
;
or that he had compared his organ of time with that of
C. D., who had no musical talent, and found the latter to
be equally large. In short, he would be bound to come
forward with a contradictory statement of facts, or to allow
the phrenological testimony to stand unshaken.
Let us apply these principles to the case of a report on
the head of an executed criminal. We have, on the one
hand, the judicial record, and all the various circumstances
attending the commission of the crime, to lead us to a
knowledge of the motives which impelled him to the deed in
question. It is difficult to conceive evidence which the
322 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
phrenologist would be less able to twist or misrepresent, or
which is better entitled to be received as an authentic testi-
mony, concerning the feelings and views under which the
criminal acted. At all events, an opponent who questions
it, is bound to bring forward some statement in point of
fact or argument, of a positive and tangible nature, to shew
that it is fallacious, and is not entitled to get the better of
it by a simple denial.
In the next place, the phrenologist produces the skull it-
self, or a cast of it, as evidence of the development. He
assumes as a principle fixed by previous inquiry, that the
skull indicates the development of the brain ; and he then
proceeds to state in what manner he connects the skull in
his hands with the criminal. He mentions who sent the
skull, or who took the cast ; and proves that the one exhi-
bited is authentic and genuine. Having done so, he speci-
fies the development of organs which it indicates. If the
skull shews that combativcness and dcstructiveness, and ac-
quisitiveness, are large, and benevolence and conscientiousness
small, and the record of the trial bears, that the criminal
was an unprincipled thief, and an atrocious murderer, he
draws the conclusion, that the organs and dispositions cor-
respond, and is entitled to represent this case as an addi-
tional proof that these parts of the brain are connected
with the tendencies ascribed to them in the phrenological
system.
An opponent who would contest this argument is not en-
titled to reply, that he perceives a development, but cannot
tell whether it is large or small ; or that the phrenologist
may juggle among the combinations, and assert what he
pleases, without fear of contradiction. The localities of the
organs are designated on casts in the hands of the public
;
and no member of this Society, to serve a purpose, could
maintain, that the organ of dcstructiveness lay under the
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 323
centre of the frontal bone, or that of benevolence under the
temporal bone. The opponent, therefore, possesses the
means of determining precisely the situation of the organs,
if lie chooses to take the trouble. Again, the real size of
the organs is equally capable of being ascertained. Many
casts of skulls of individuals of the most opposite charac-
ters are sold in the shops, or exhibited to the public in the
Society's collection ; and an opponent is bound to compare
one with another, and to make reasonable exertions, to dis-
cover the actual size of any particular organ, about which
he means to dispute, before he is entitled philosophically
to assert, that it is not such as it is represented to be. In
the third place, thcfunctUms of the faculties are stated in the
books of Phrenology ; and a disciple can no more pretend
that the organ marked dcstructivcncss serves to feel benevo-
lence, and that the one marked hope serves to feelfear, than
he can pretend that the ear sees, or the eye hears. In the last
place, the effect of the combinations is matter of philosophi-
cal inference, on which an opponent is bound to reason fairly
and logically, before any conclusion, which he may draw,
is entitled to the least weight. If combativeness and dc-
structivcncss be large, and benevolence, love ofapprobation,
and conscientiousness small, little skill is requisite to in-
fer that the dispositions will be ardent, cruel and unjust.
If a phrenologist, with such a combination in hand, were
to represent the character as mild, benevolent and honest,
how easily might he be refuted ; or, to take another exam-
ple, if two individuals were found to possess a large develop-
ment of acquisitiveness, but if, in the one, conscientiousness
was very large, and in the other very small, and we were
told that the one was a thief, and the other an honest man,
how complete would the refutation be, if the one, possess-
ing the large conscientiousness, were found to be the rogue.
No principle would bear out the inference, that acquisitive-
x2
324 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
ness, directed by a strong sentiment of justice, leads to steal-
ing ; whereas, if the results were exactly reversed, every one
would see, that it was a just deduction to conclude, that the
desire of property, directed by a sense of duty, would lead
to honourable enterprise to acquire wealth ; while the same
desire, undirected by justice, might lead to theft. The
combinations, therefore, do not present juggling intricacies,
but philosophical modifications of the manifestations of one
power by another. Skill, and some comprehensiveness of
understanding, are requisite to trace the effects, but princi-
ple is always to be found to direct the judgment; and an
ignorant and impatient objector has no good ground of
complaint that he does not see through the maze, if he has
not bestowed adequate attention, or possesses adequate abi-
lity to unravel it.
If, therefore, the record of the trial bears testimony to
the dispositions of the criminal ; if the authenticity of the
skull or cast is established ; if the development of the or-
gans is matter of fact which is capable of ascertainment
by inspection ; if the functions of the organs are set forth
in the works on Phrenology ; and if the effects of the com-
binations arc regulated, by fixed and philosophical prin-
ciples,—I do not see, in what respect, a report on the
head of an executed criminal is objectionable as evidence
in favour of the science.
In other arts or sciences, such cavilling objections as we
have supposed are not listened to. If a surgeon reports
that a case of hepatitis fell under his observation ; that the
symptoms were so and so ; and that, on dissection, the liver
presented such and such appearances,—his report is received
as testimony, according to the known veracity and intelli-
gence of the individual ; although, owing to the interment
of the patient, the facts, in nine cases out of ten, are not
susceptible of verification. No person in his senses would
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 325
think of denying the appearances described, on mere hypo-
thetical suppositions of difficulty in tracing them, and faci-
lities for imposition in the narration of them. The bona
Jides and competency of a reporter must be admitted, till
sufficient reason be shewn for doubting them; and mere
ignorance and aversion to inquiry occurring in the ob-
jector, are never, in any science, held to afford philosophi-
cal reasons for questioning a statement.
As to the effects of the combinations, again, in the theory
of gravitation, the centripetal is held to control the centri-
fugal force of the planets ; and distance is held to modify
the effects of size. In chemistry, an alkali is admitted to
affect the action of an acid. In medicine, age, climate, con-
stitution, are admitted to modify the effects of particular
medicines ; and, in short, in every science which takes cog-
nizance of agents, one power is admitted to modify the ac-
tion of another ; and yet no person in his senses thinks of
representing these^ modifying effects as destroying all cer-
tainty, and opening wide doors for imposition and deceit in
these several branches of knowledge. No reason, therefore,
can be discovered, why such a notion should be deemed un-
philosophical, when applied to Phrenology. In the sciences
now alluded to, the combinations increase the difficulties of
attaining a correct knowledge of the peculiar qualities of the
elements ; but these difficulties are surmounted by patient
and acute investigation ; and Phrenology, in requiring ap-
plication and intelligence for its cultivation, is, in this re-
spect, only on a par with the other branches of human
knowledge.
The chief difficulty in tracing the effects of the combina-
tions in Phrenology, arises from an erroneous notion, de-
rived from the analogies of physical science, that two facul-
ties of opposite functions, such as benevolence and destrvc-
tiirncss, destroy each other, and that the possessor should
326 OF THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
then manifest neither. If we look into the conduct of men,
however, we will find, that an individual may be prone to
anger (the effect of large destructiveness), and nevertheless,
in his general conduct, be remarkable for goodness of heart,
and kindness of disposition,"—the result of a powerful bene-
volence. Again, it is supposed that benevolence and acqui-
sitiveness ought to counteract each other, and produce a
state of indifference both to the acquisition of wealth, and
to the bestowing of charity, in the individual in whom they
are combined ; whereas, the true principle is, that a person
in whom both organs are large, will manifest each so as not
to offend the other ; for example, he will be kind and cha-
ritable, by bestowing his influence, advice, or personal
trouble, but not his money ; thus manifesting real warmth
of heart, although averse to part with his property, in con-
sequence of acquisitiveness being strong. An individual,
on the other hand, in whom acquisitiveness is large, and
benevolence small, would not shew kindness either in giving
money or in taking personal trouble. If, again, benevolence
be large, and acquisitiveness small, it is probable that the
possessor of this combination would give away money very
readily, because he felt no strong desire to retain it, while
he could not be troubled in making any great personal ex-
ertions in favour of a person whom his benevolence disposed
him to serve. Thus this science must be studied accord-
ing to its own laws, and not j udged of by inapplicable ana-
logics, and false and superficial views, drawn from other
sciences ; and, when sedulously cultivated in this manner,
it will not fail to yield an abundant harvest of useful know-
ledge.
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 327
2.—Report on the Development of James Gordon, execu-
ted at Dumfries, 6th June 1821 ,for the murder ofJohn
Elliot, a Pedlar Boy.
By Mr Robert Buchanan.
(Read 25th April 1822J
V-lUR information regarding the life of Gordon, previous
to the commission of that act which brought him to the
scaffold, is derived chiefly from the newspaper in which the
judicial proceedings at his trial were published. It is neither
copious nor circumstantial : and although it might have
been satisfactory to have known more particularly the his-
tory of an individual who was capable of performing so
brutal a deed, the general outline given is perhaps sufficient
for our purpose.
Gordon was a native of the county of Mayo, in Ireland,
and of the Roman Catholic persuasion. His person was
short, his face much marked with the small-pox, and the
general expression of his countenance repulsive and dis-
agreeable. Like too many of his countrymen, he appears
to have been deplorably ignorant, and could neither read
nor write. No mention is made of the period ajt which he
$28 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMEN OF
quitted Iceland ; but if the reports which prevailed about
the time of his execution be worthy of belief, his change of
country was the necessary consequence of some deeds of vio-
lence he had committed at home. According to his own
account, he had been lingering, in a very unsettled manner,
in the south of Scotland, for five or six years before the per-
petration of the murder. He seems to have procured the
means of subsistence, by working occasionally on different
farms for a few weeks or days, as he found employment
and either to have begged during the rest of his time, or
lived by means still more equivocal.
The poor boy of whose death he was accused, is supposed
to have been born at Hexham, in England. And, being
rather weak in his intellects, and of a delicate frame of bo-
dy, had gained a livelihood by carrying a small box, con-
taining a few trifling articles of hardware and stationery,
through the pastoral parishes that lie contiguous to the
Border. Judging from the evidence of the witnesses, as
well as from the specimens that were exhibited to the
Court, the whole amount of the pedlar Elliot's property
could scarcely have exceeded the value of a few shillings
and this affords a striking proof of the utter disregard of
human life displayed by the murderer.
It appears that, late in the evening of the 11th Novem-
ber 1820, Elliot arrived at a farm-house in the parish of
Canobie ; and that Gordon also came to the same place
a few minutes afterwards. The former, according to the
evidence of the family, carried a red box, and appeared a
simple looking lad ; and, from his conversation with Gor-
don, at this place, they appeared to have met here for the
first time. Next day was Sunday ; and, accordingly, they
both remained at the farm till the following morning, when
they set out together. They were seen during the day,
travelling towards Eskdalemuir, and the same night they
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 329
arrived at the farm of Coat in that parish. Gordon had
two hare-skins in his hand, and the pedlar his box, the con-
tents of which he as usual offered for sale to the inmates of
the house. After spending the night here, they again set
forth on the morning of Tuesday the 14th ; Gordon telling
the boy he would get a good dinner when he came to Thirl-
stane, the residence of Captain Napier. The parties were
seen together, for the last time, by two women and a girl,
who met them travelling along the road near Burncleugh.
Gordon wore on his feet a pair of heavy clogs, which parti-
cularly attracted the notice of the girl, from the " queer
mark,1'
to use her own phrase, which they imprinted in the
mud. On this day, the murder is supposed to have been
committed. Towards the evening, Gordon was met walk-
ing alone, by a farmer and his shepherd, at a place called
Overkirk-hope. He had the red box slung across his
shoulder; and the shepherd having seen him frequently
before, said, " You have got a box now, I see.
11
To which
Gordon readily answered, " Ou aye." He asked them for
lodgings, and being refused, continued his route ; and,
about an hour after, reached the farm of Cossershili, in the
parish of Ettrick. The farmer did not see him till after
family-worship, when his confused and agitated manner
struck him so forcibly, that he mentioned the circumstance
to his wife and mother, on going into the parlour. The
good woman had observed that Gordon did not join in the
psalm, and spoke of it to him, when he merely replied,
that " he was not book learned.
11
He left this place early
next morning, and spent the following night at Hyndhope,
where he sold several of the little articles contained in the
box ; and next day, was again seen still carrying the box
and the hare-skins. The box, however, was found that
evening, at the side of a streamlet, by a shepherd boy,
Gordon having thrown it away, after rifling it of its con-
330 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
tents, which he afterwards carried about with him in a small
harn bag.
The body of Elliot was not found till the 26th, when
it was discovered at a lonely spot called Steel-bush-edge, in
Eskdalemuir, by a shepherd boy, who was employed in
tending his father's sheep. The body was stretched on the
grass, with one hand across the breast, and the other ex-
tended on the ground. The boy immediately went home,
and related what he had seen to his family, when his father,
yoking a cart, and taking another of his sons along with
him, they all three went to Steel-bush-edge, and wrap-
ping the body in a plaid, placed it in the cart. By this
time it was getting dark; but still they could observe
the marks of blood where the head of the body had
lain. The farmer, on his return, summoned several of
his neighbours, and sent for a surgeon to the nearest
village, in whose presence the body was examined. It now
appeared there was a cut or contusion on the chin, a cut
above the right eye, and a great many wounds on the back
of the head ; —wounds which, in the surgeon's opinion, the
boy could not have survived, even if he had been found
immediately after they were inflicted. The family by
whom the body had been discovered, now recollected a man
and a boy having come to their house a short time before
this, whose appearance they remembered so minutely as to
enable them to identify the body of the boy. The man
had worn clogs or wooden-shoes, strongly bound with iron,
and shod on the heels with the same metal ; the mark of
which they also had observed in the mud. Next day the
body was interred ; and a few hours afterwards, the same
boy who first discovered it being again on the heights, ob-
served a pair of iron-shod clogs, lying within fourteen yards
of the spot where Elliot's body had been found. On
this he once more returned home, and related the circum-
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. Ml
stance to his father, who, with his wife anil the surgeon,
went to the place and brought them away. Information
having, by this time, been given to the Sheriff, the body
was disinterred and examined anew by two surgeons.
These gentlemen concurred in opinion, that the wounds
must have been given by an instrument not very sharp,
such as the iron-hoop of a clog ; and having applied the
forepart of one of the clogs to a semi-circular wound in the
back-part of the deceased's head, they found it exactly to
correspond. The contents of the boy's pack were easily
traced to Gordon, as he had, subsequently to the murder,
shewn them to several persons, and sold part of them to
others. In consequence he was apprehended at Nairn soon
afterwards. In May following, he was tried before the
Circuit Court of Justiciary at Dumfries, for the crime of
murdering the pedlar boy, and having been found guilty,
was condemned to suffer death.
During the period which elapsed between his trial and
execution, he held no intercourse with any of his relatives,
although it was known he had a father, and several brothers
and sisters still in life. He saw no one but his priest, who
attended him assiduously, and apparently not without ef-
fect. His behaviour to the Court when sentence was pro-
nounced upon him had been highly indecorous ; and at
that time he declared himself innocent of the crime for
which he had been condemned. When led back to his
prison, however, his hardened feelings seem, in some mea-
sure, to have given way. The solitude of a dungeon, whose
door he must regard as the threshold of eternity, could
hardly fail to stir up some feeling of remorse or contrition ;
and, accordingly, when he appeared for the last time on
the stage of human life, his mind had undergone a consi-
derable change. Instead of reviling, as formerly, the Jury
by whose verdict he was to suffer, he now prayed both for
332 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
them and for his Judges. And although he never distinctly
acknowledged himself guilty of the horrid deed, he admit-
ted, on the scaffold, the justice of his punishment. At the
moment when the fatal signal dropped from his hand, a
circumstance occurred, which, a century ago, would have
been regarded as the voice of Heaven denouncing the mur-
derer ; and proclaiming to the spectators, that " whoso shed-
" deth blood, by men shall his blood be shed." A flash of
the most vivid lightning seemed for a moment to envelope
him in its flame, and the tremendous peal of thunder which
instantly followed was the last sound which fell upon his
ear ! His body was given for dissection to Dr Maxwell
of Dumfries, who presented the skull to the Society.
Having thus sketched the outline of Gordon's history, in
so far as it is known to us, we shall now state the cerebral
development, as indicated by the cranium, for examining
which, the amplest opportunities were afforded ; and af-
terwards enquire shortly, whether it is such as the doctrines
of Phrenology would have led us to anticipate.
1. Amativeness,—moderate.
2. Philoprogenitiveness,—large.
3. Concentraiiveness,—small.
4. Attachment,—full.
5. Combativeness,—full.
6. Deslructiveness,—very large.
7. Constructiveness,—small.
8. Acquisitiveness,—full.
9. Secretiveness,—rather full.
10. Self-esteem,—full.
11. Love of Approbation,—full.
12. Cautiousness,—large.
13. Benevolence,—moderate.
14. Veneration,—large.
15. Hope,—full.
16. Ideality, —small.
17. Conscientiousness,—small.
18. Firmness,—rather small.
19. Lower Individuality,—large.
Upper Individuality,—full.
20. Form,—full.
21. Size,—large.
22. Colouring,—small.
23. Locality,—full.
24. Order,—moderate.
25. Time,—small.
26. Number,—small.
27. Tune, --small.
28. Language, in so far as can be
judged from an examina-
tion of the cranium only,
—full.
29. Comparison,.—small.
30. Causality,—small.
31. Wit,—small.
32. Imitation,— moderate.
Wonder, —moderate.
Executed criminals. 833
Measurement of Gordon's Head. Inches.
From Philoprogenitivcness to Lower Individuality, , 6
^
Concentrativeness to Comparison, . • 6 |
Destructiveness to Destructiveness, . . 5 J
Meatus auditorius externals to Lower Individuality, . 4 |
Ditto, to centre of Philoprogenitiveness, . 4 %
Ditto to ditto of Firmness, . 5 j-^
Cautiousness to Cautiousness, . . 5 %
Ideality to Ideality, . , 4 \
1 have only to add, that, as this report was drawn up upon
a short notice and from scanty materials, (and the period
that has elapsed since the execution of Gordon having,
besides, so materially limited the information respecting
him,) it is hoped that the Society will look with indulgence
on its imperfections.
When we compare the foregoing development with the
conduct of the individual, it appears to correspond in a re-
markable degree with his dispositions, both as indicated by
what we know of his previous history, and by the circum •
stances attending the act for which he suffered. The head
is altogether much below an average size, and, consequently,
indicates corresponding weakness in the mental manifesta-
tions. Although his self-esteem and love of approbation,
(which under proper regulation are important powers),
are full, and acquisitiveness (leading to a desire of bet-
tering his condition), is also full,
—yet as we find that con-
structiveness, (which gives dexterity in manual opera-
tions, and when joined to the other powers just mentioned
inspires a love of industry), is small, —that eoncentrativeness
andfirmness, (the one giving the power of directing the
faculties in a combined action to one object, —and the
other giving a perseverence and steadiness in whatever we
undertake), are also small ; —we might expect to find what
seems to have been precisely the case, that this individual
was an idle and inefficient workman, averse to any kind of
334 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
constant labour. When to this is added, the great defi-
ciency of conscientiousness, we will not be surprised that
he should be more willing to procure a livelihood by-
begging or theft; or, in short, by any means, however
irregular, rather than by honest industry. Still, it may
to many appear difficult to conjecture what was the
motive which led him to commit the horrid act of mur-
dering the poor defenceless half-witted lad, in the bar-
barous manner he did, when all he was to gain by it did
not exceed a few shillings in value. I am, however, dis-
posed to think, that all this is perfectly explicable, under
the circumstances of the case, and that the development of
Gordon leads us to a very clear view of the motives under
which he acted. I have no doubt that the original moving
cause which first prompted the deed, was Gordon's desire to
possess himself of the pedlar's box. No doubt this box and
all its contents appear to us of very small value, but it
will be recollected that all ideas of value are comparative
;
and that though to us it may appear perfectly trifling and
insignificant, it may have appeared very differently in the
eyes of Gordon, who, it is more than probable, never pos-
sessed so much riches in the whole course of his life ; and
in his then wandering and unsettled mode of living, he
might have no prospect of ever acquiring so much, in any
other way. Besides, we are not merely to consider the ac-
tual value of the moveables in shillings and pence, but the
importance which a person like him might naturally attach
to the profession of a pedlar, and the status in society
which he might acquire by the possession of a box
and wares,—which his full endowment of liopc, might in-
duce him to imagine would, by good luck and good ma-
nagement, conduct him to a state of wealth and independ-
ence, far beyond any thing which could be actually reali-
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 335
zed from such slender means *. All this, it is easy to sec,
might have presented to this man, who, besides being utter-
ly uneducated, seems to have possessed a very slender en-
dowment of reflective powers,—a temptation which he was
quite unable to resist ; and when, in addition to this, we
consider the opportunity that, was afforded by the wild so-
litude they were traversing, the weakly constitution of
Elliot, and also his defective intellect, both of which would
incapacitate him from offering any effectual resistance, we
may cease to wonder at this result. The development of
Gordon shews us a man who would never have committed
a murder which required boldness or determination. His
cautiousness was large, and his combativencss not more than
full, whilefirmness and conccntrat'wcness were both very de-
ficient. But from this boy he had nothing to fear,—and pos-
sessing no restraining feelings of a conscientious or benevo-
lent kind, and the solitude leaving him without any fear of
interruption, he had proceeded under the influence of the
motive we have mentioned, and of his destructiveness, which
wr
e have seen was very large, to perpetrate the bloody deed.
It is impossible to trace these feelings and motives more
minutely. Perhaps he might have first endeavoured to
possess himself of the property without murdering the boy,
and that enraged at his resistance he had killed him ; or he
may have meditated the murder from the first, thinking
that this wr
as the best or the only means of preventing the
robbery from being discovered. Neither of these supposi-
tions is inconsistent with die development ; but at all events
the great destructiveness and deficient benevolence, shew
themselves conspicuously in the brutal ferocity with which
the murder appears at last to have been perpetrated,—and
in the barbarous method taken to extinguish the poor boy's
life, by beating him about the head with an iron-heeled shoe.
• Vide the storv of Alnaschar in the Arabian Nights' Tales.
336 ON THE CEREB11AL DEVELOPMENT OF
The state of the body shewed that the vital spark had not
been extinguished by one blow, for every part of the de-
ceased's head attested the ferocious spirit of his destroyer,
and would almost persuade us, that this spirit had continued
to operate even when its violence could not longer affect the
unfortunate sufferer.
The behaviour of Gordon after the murder, corresponds
with the development in a way equally exact. Possessing,
as we have seen, a full endowment of hope, deficient reflec-
tion, and no great secretive?iess, it would never occur to
him that it was necessary to use any precautions to prevent
detection of the crimes he had committed; and of which, at
the time they were committed, there was no living witness.
Unable himself to trace or to foresee the consequences, his
hope might suggest to him that no person would ever know,
what no mortal eye had seen perpetrated ; and not possess-
ing that strong desire of concealment, and that instinctive
power of veiling his acts and intents which is given by se-
cretiveness, he proceeded in a manner which was sure to
lead to a discovery. Instead of taking measures to conceal
the body, he seems to have left it on the very spot on
which he deprived it of life. And far from endeavouring
to escape, by withdrawing himself from the country, he con-
tinued for some time wandering through the very country
which Elliot used to frequent, and offering for sale those
very articles by which the unfortunate boy had obtained
his support.
On examining the development farther, one might per-
haps have imagined that the large organ of veneration
would, in some degree, have supplied the place of bene-
volence and conscientiousness; and restrained his mur-
derous arm. But from the deo-rading; state of ignorance in
which he was found, as well as from the short outline of his
history, which we have been enabled to give, it appears,
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 337
exceedingly probable, that this organ had received but lit-
tle cultivation ; without which, considering that he was
possessed of powerful passions, with moral sentiments, and
intellectual faculties of the lowest order, its influence, at
such a moment, could hardly be felt. At the same time,
we are inclined to regard his emotion at the farm-house,
during the family devotions, as arising principally from this
source. It was only a few hours before that he had hurried
an unoffending fellow mortal into the presence of that
Being before whom his knee was now bent ;—and to a mind
naturally susceptible of a religious feeling, the situation
in which Gordon now found himself, could not fail, by
awakening it, to fill him with temporary remorse.
If a deed of such horrid barbarity had been found in
connection with a cerebral development such as was at one
time assigned to Gordon, by some enemies of our science,
they might, with some shew of reason, have exulted in the
prospect of its overthrow. If, instead of the large destruc-
tiveness, and full combativeness and acquisitiveness, with
the weak organs of conscientiousness and benevolence which
his cranium exhibits, the last two had been found large,
and the first three moderate or small, the disciples of Phre-
nology might have trembled for its fate. But when, in
addition to the ominous magnitude of the most fatal pro-
pensities, there is at the same time discovered so great a
deficiency in those sentiments and intellectual powers which
might have opposed their influence, the case presents lit-
tle to perplex the phrenologist. And, in this instance, his
advantage over the mere metaphysicians is strikingly ap-
parent. Had the case of Gordon been presented to the
latter, and an explanation requested of the source in his
mental constitution, from which this brutal act had pro-
ceeded, they would probably have extricated themselves
from the difficulty, by perplexing us with some vague and
indefinite terms of power andfaculty. " Quand nous voyons
Y
338 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
un effet," says a French writer, on the operations of the
mind, " dont la cause nous est inconnue, nous nous imagi-
nons l'avoir decouverte lorsque nous avons joint a cet effet
un mot general de vertu, ou de faculte ; qui ne forme dans
notre esprit aucune autre idee, si non que cet effet a quel-
que cause, ce que nous savions bien avant d'avoir trouve ce
mot r If, inthepresent instance, however, they declined pur-
suing this unsatisfactory course, the only other they could
with safety adopt, would be at once to acknowledge the case
to be altogether monstrous and anomalous. Nor need it ex-
cite astonishment that they should be forced to take refuge
under such a cover. For, as their system of the mental consti-
tution of man is nothing more than an imperfect account of
their own nature—their science supplying them with no power
to draw aside the veil which conceals that of their neighbour
—
they would most probably conclude, and perhaps with justice,
that it contained no principle which the circumstances of
this case could have instigated to the performance of such
a deed. And it may be added, without pretending, in any
degree, to detract from the real merits of the established
philosophy of the mind, that any attempt to apply it, in
investigating the sources of human action, would most fre-
quently lead to the same uncertain result.
Gordon's whole conduct subsequent to the murder appears
so like infatuation, that, on viewing it in conjunction with
the smallness of the brain, we are led almost to suspect
either the presence of mental disease, or a near approach
to idiocy, in the individual. He seems to have made no
attempt to conceal the body, but to have left it carelessly
where it was murdered; and, instead of providing for his
safety, by removing to a distant part of the country, he
continued, till the period of his apprehension, wandering
through the very neighbourhood which Elliot used to fre-
quent, and offering for sale those very articles by which his
unfortunate victim had formerly obtained his support.
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 339
Such a proceeding strongly confirms the opinion his de-
velopment led us to form concerning him, viz. that he felt
little true remorse for the crime of which he had been
guilty, and that his intellectual faculties were too weak
to enable him to adopt the proper means of saving him-
self from its consequences.
3.
—
Remarks on the Case of John Bell'ingham, the Assas-
sin ofMr Perceval.
By Sir George Stewart Mackenzie, Baronet.
(Read 20th March 1823J
iN O individual, fit to live in society, ever expressed a
thought, that the passions and propensities of our nature
should not be kept in due subjection to our better principles.
Even men of very lax principles, and loose practice, admit
that they err in their conduct ; and they seldom offer any
excuse, but that they cannot resist their propensities. This,
in so far as it regards the welfare of society, cannot be ad-
mitted as any extenuation ; because, when there is suffi-
cient and sound intellect, consciousness, for the most part,
satisfies the offending individual that his conduct is impro-
per. Although reason may excuse a man for offending
against any law, human or divine, of which he may be ig-
norant, he cannot be forgiven by society ; because, if this
principle were established, ignorance would be pleaded in
every case, and men, who did not wish to control their
propensities, would take care to keep themselves in igno-
rance, and out of the pale of responsibility.
It is a fixed rule in human institutions, that all men arc
responsible to the laws, with the exception of insane per-
sons, and idiots from birth. There has not, however, been
y2
340 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
any great pains taken to define either insanity or idiotism,
nor to point out where these end, and rationality begins.
An idiot, or an insane person, may, by the excitement of*
fear, be prevented from committing certain actions ; and
he may be brought to consider himself so far respon-
sible, as to be aware that, if he commit certain actions,
to gratify his propensities, bodity suffering will follow.
This is, in reality, the proper idea of responsibility, with
this difference, that a sane person is guided by reason more
than by fear to submit to the laws, and to hold himself re-
sponsible ; while an idiot or madman merely associates cer-
tain actions with bodily suffering, the fear of which alone
directs his conduct. There are degrees of idiotism so very
low, that even this association can neither be remembered
nor formed. But in ascending towards sanity, it is ex-
tremely difficult, by means of evidence, to prove where sa-
nity begins ; or in descending, to discover where* it ends.
The only distinction held sufficient by the law is, that he is
an idiot or a madman who cannot distinguish right from
wrong. This, however, does not, either legally or philo-
sophically, enable us to see the limit between rationality
and idiotism, sanity and insanity. The power of being
able to distinguish right from wrong, or the want of that
power, must to the law be proved ; but the only proof that
can be brought before a judicial tribunal, is the evidence
of speech and action. Neither of these can prove that there
exists no consciousness of action, or no meaning. They
cannot prove absence of intention or of motive. It is cer-
tain that idiots and madmen, like sane persons, perform ac-
tions that they may derive gratification from them ; and all
that can be proved from their conduct is, that they act un-
der the influence of uncontrolled impulse or propensity, or
that the power of control is absent. But what is this
power of control ; and how are we to ascertain when it is
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 341
present, and when it is absent ? This question involves a
great deal that is important to society, and to the due ad-
ministration of justice ; and is the branch of medical juris-
prudence of by far the greatest consequence. No system
of philosophy that existed before the promulgation of Phre-
nology, has ever held out the means of answering this ques-
tion ; and it is one of those admirable results which must
follow the discoveries of Gall, that we shall be able, in all
cases when disease is absent, to decide with certainty, whe-
ther a man be responsible for his actions, or otherwise
;
and to direct punishment, discipline or education, for
those whose actions have rendered them amenable to the
laws.
It is not a matter of doubt among men in general, that
they differ extremely from each other in talents, in temper,
in disposition, and in a thousand particulars, as various as
the forms and colours of the face. Having had the same
education, one man is proud, another is humble ; one man
is passionate, another is meek ; one man is quick, another
slow in apprehension ; and there is no difficulty in pointing
out numerous and well-marked distinctions, for which nei-
ther education nor habit will account. When we look
around us, and observe our fellow men with attention, we
soon discover that the gradations from idiotism to brilliant
powers, are not only exceedingly minute, but that, in fact,
the differences and varieties in human intelligences, and
human propensities, are innumerable. If we take as the
highest degree of intelligence, a man who is perfect in the
knowledge of every science, of every art, and of literature
in all its branches, we do not find that, in the descent of
human intellect, there is a regular diminution of intelli-
gence with respect to every branch of knowledge. Some
men, indeed, there are, who possess some knowledge, more
or less, of every thing ; but intelligence commonly varies in
342 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
a different manner. One man may be remarkable for me-
taphysical acumen, avIio is yet incapable of understanding
or arranging a piece ofmechanism . One man may have a per-
fect knowledge of languages, and yet be utterly ignorant
and incapable of instruction in the physical sciences. A
man may exhibit almost miracles in calculation, and be to
all intents and purposes an idiot in every thing else.
Similar remarks may be made on the moral characters
of mankind ; and, in short, it is an irresistible fact, that
men differ in dispositions as well as in intellect, and these,
too, owing to natural constitution. Men are to be found
who have been well educated, whom nothing but the fear
of detection and punishment prevents from committing
crimes; and others are to be found, wholly uneducated,
whom no consideration whatever will induce to deviate from
innocence.
Although many may be disposed to deny an abstract
gradation in responsibility, it is well known that judges and
juries are in the habit of distinguishing cases of different
responsibility ; though upon principles so uncertain, as of-
ten to lead to the escape of those who deserve punishment
the most. When several persons have committed a crime
in combination, it is no uncommon thing for a distinction
to be made in the degree of punishment awarded to each,
according to the activity that each displayed in the perpe-
tration. It is quite possible, however, that the very per-
sons who may be lightly punished, because they had stood
aloof, might have been the instigators, and the real authors
of the crime. It is true that judges must abide by the
verdict of a jury, and by the law, in pronouncing sentence ;
and the jury must decide according to evidence. But no
consideration is ever given to the possibility of discovering
the motives that led to the commission of crime, although,
by our law, malice prepense must be proved in the case of
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 343
murder, and wicked intention in minor crimes. These,
however, are more frequently taken for granted than proved.
If a man break into a house for the purpose of steal-
ing, and without any intention to commit murder,—with
a positive resolution not to commit murder, —circum-
stances may arise to render it necessary, for his own safety,
to kill some one. Here is no malice prepense ; but the
guilt of murder may be held to be complete, because it
was committed during the perpetration of another crime.
Yet a man in such circumstances is less guilty for ha-
ving killed another, in his own defence, than another who
commits murder, in order to enable him to obtain his prey.
It is unfortunate that our laws make so little distinction in
the degrees of criminality, and that the same punishment is
awarded to crimes of very different magnitude. If a man
break into a house to steal, no matter what, he is sure that,
if detected and taken, he will suffer death ; but he is also
certain that no greater punishment can await him, if he
should kill any one, either in self-defence or deliberately
;
and as there may be many cases in which it may be for the
interest, so to speak, of a thief, that he should kill either
before or after the perpetration of theft, the laws thus vir-
tually encourage murder ; a fact abundantly horrible to
justify their alteration.
To every one who is capable of studying and apprecia-
ting the value of the discoveries of Drs Gall and Sruitz-
heim, the utility of a phrenological examination of crimi-
nals, before they are brought to trial, will be sufficiently
obvious. The result of such an examination in the hands
of the public prosecutor and judges, would be an infallible
direction for the degree of punishment, and for the means to
be pursuedin attempting the reformation of criminals. With-
out the aid of Phrenology, all the efforts of the benevolent
will be in vain, at least the directions of their efforts must he
.344 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
uncertain, and their good effects the result of mere chance;
and it is to be regretted, that, while so much benevolence is in
action, the doctrines of Phrenology are not resorted to, and
tried by the best, as it is the most severe, test that can be
applied to them.
The circumstances attending the death of Mr Perceval,
were sufficiently remarkable to have arrested the attention
of the philosopher ; and had not the horror excited by his
murder hurried all towards the speedy infliction of punish-
ment, it is probable a different fate might have awaited the
wretched assassin. He had no wish for concealment ; the
act was done in open day, and deliberately in the presence
of many. There was no attempt to escape,—the murderer
having accomplished his purpose, quietly sat down ; and
avowed, and attempted to justify, what he had done. The
particulars on which I now propose to offer a few com-
ments, with the view to shew the propriety and necessity
of our criminal law having more regard to the means of
discovering the degree pi' responsibility that ought to be
attached to individual criminals, I have taken from the
published account of Bellingham's life and trial. I hope also
to shew how little understood the distinction between sanity
and insanity is, and also between intelligence and idiotism ;
which latter distinction is unquestionably as necessary as the
former, in attaining the substantial ends of justice, when
ability or inability to distinguish right from wrong, arc the
tests by which guilt or innocence are to be ascertained.
JohnBellingham, the murderer of Mr Perceval, was,
it is said, about thirty-six years of age. He was born at St
Neots in Huntingdonshire, and was brought up to mercan-
tile business in a counting-house in London. Several years
before the murder he repaired to Archangel, on an en-
gagement with a Russian merchant, in whose employment
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. '345
he continued as a clerk for about three years ; but having
formed a connection with a Mr Boeisecker, he returned
to England, in order to seek a contract for the supply of
timber. In prosecution of this undertaking, he entered
into considerable engagements with the merchants of Hull,
and several vessels were in consequence sent for cargoes to
Archangel. In the mean time, however, Mr Borbecker
had become bankrupt ; the vessels of course returned in
ballast ; and the disappointed merchants, holding Belling-
ham liable for the loss they sustained by the non-fulfil-
ment of his contract, threw him into prison on charges for
a very considerable amount. Being a man of violent tem-
per, and of a warm or rather infatuated imagination, he
was apt to consider every misfortune which overtook him,
not as a necessary consequence of his own imprudence, or
as one of those inevitable calamities to which mankind are
exposed ; but as an intended injury, and an unjustifiable
aggression. From this strange and almost unaccountable
perversity of judgment, he considered his arrest by the
merchants of Hull, who had been so unfortunate as to have
transactions with him, as an act of flagrant injustice against
an innocent man ; and, under this impression, he wrote and
published, during his confinement, a pamphlet against them,
full of virulent invective, and replete with sarcasm and ri-
dicule.
Having by some means recovered his liberty, he again
repaired to Archangel, where, from his impetuous disposi-
tion, he embarked in various complicated and extensive spe-
culations, which ended, as might have been expected, in in-
volving him in still greater difficulties and inextricable em-
barrassments. Labouring under his usual mistaken im-
pression, that he himself was never to blame for the conse-
quences of his visionary and inconsiderate speculations, and
imagining that he had only to make his schemes and his
346 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
ideal injuries known, in order to obtain protection and re-
dress, he pestered the Government to such a degree with
petition after petition, and with memorial upon memorial,
that forbearance was at last exhausted, and he was, as now
appears, with fortunate prudence, put under confinement,
as a restraint on his turbulent and unmanageable proceed-
ings. Smarting under this new and aggravated injury, he
applied repeatedly to the British Minister at Archangel for
protection, but without success. He was at length, how-
ever, liberated, and, despairing of redress abroad, returned
to England, full of loud complaints against the injustice
and oppression of the Russian Government.
He had married a Miss Mary Ann Neville, daughter of
Mr Neville, merchant in Nevvry, by whom he had three
children ; and now took up his residence at Liverpool,
where he again speculated as an insurance-broker, while
Mrs Bellingham pursued the business of a milliner. Though
thus engaged, he presented at intervals memorials to Go-
vernment on the subject of his claims ; and, notwithstand-
ing he was repeatedly informed that Government could
not interfere in his affairs, he continued, with invincible
obstinacy and indefatigable perseverance, to urge his un-
reasonable if not unjustifiable demands.
That he might be better able to push his claims, he re-
sided for some time in London ; and among the last of his
papers is the following letter to the Members of Parliament
individually, which is sufficient to shew the nature of his
applications. ,
« SIR,
* Having suffered, in a most unprecedented manner, for a
period of six years in Russia, on my return two years ago, I
made a representation of the case to various departments of his
Majesty's Government ; and, in January last, I applied for re-
dress, by petition, to his Royal Highness the Prince Regent,
who was graciously pleased to refer the affair to His Most Ho-
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 347
nourable Privy Council. The Council declined to act in the
business, upon which I requested an official copy of their Lord-
ships' decision, and was answered by the Clerk of the Council
it could not be complied with. In consequence, I renewed my
application to his Royal Highness the Prince Regent, accom-
panied by the inclosed petition to the House of Commons, pray-
ing his Royal Highness, that, as the affair was purely national,
he would be graciously pleased to direct my complaint to be
laid before Parliament.
" Having borne the weight of this unhappy affair abroad,
for a series of years, in a manifold way, on my return home, I
had the mortification to find my affairs gone to ruin, my pro-
perty sold up, my family distracted, and suffering in the most
severe manner, by the inevitable ruinous consequences of my
detention ; and for the preceding two years they had not been
able to ascertain whether I was alive or dead. Since my re-
turn, I have not only been bereaved of a further property (be-
queathed in my absence), to make good the consequence of this
business, but am now considerably involved, so fatal has it
proved. Thus circumstanced, I trust I shall be pardoned in
addressing the House of Commons individually, in the hope
that, on the behalf of material justice, some member will do me
the favour to bring forward my said petition, as common jus-
tice is all I solicit, and what every one will agree I ought to
have ; more especially as my sufferings for the last eight years
have been almost too great for human nature to sustain.
" In soliciting your kind aid, I beg to be understood, that
it is far from my intention, by this address, to complain of any
party whatever, being convinced, that in no country upon earth
is justice so purely administered as in this ; and justice I am
sure I shall have, so soon as the affair is known to the tribunal
where alone it can be taken proper cognizance of. Witli as-
surance that my sole wish is to obtain what is right, without
prejudice to any individual, I have the honour to be, Sir, your
very humble and obedient servant,
" John Bellingham."
" No. 9. New Millman Street,
\
Mar. 11. 1812." J
« To the Honourable the House of Commons of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, in Parliament as-
sembled, the humble Petition of John Bellingham of
Liverpool, merchant;
" Sheweth,
" That, in the year 1 804, your'petitioner went from this coun-
try to Archangel in Russia, for mercantile purposes ; and, ha-
348 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
ving dispatched his vessels, and all his other affairs there, pe-
titioner took out his petrosnick from the Governor-General on
the 15th of November in the same year, for the purpose of re-
turning home by the way of St Petersburg.
" That as your petitioner was on the verge of departure, he
was seized, dragged out of his kabitsky, and thrown into pri-
son, in consequence of an affidavit of a person named Solomon
Van Briemen, declaring your petitioner to be indebted to him-
self and others a sum of money, when no such circumstance
did or ever had existed. Your petitioner declares, that this
Mr Solomon van Briemen was one of the owners of a Russian
ship called the Sojus, that was v/recked the preceding autumn
in the White Sea ; and that he committed this perjury with a
view to obtain an irregular insurance out of Lloyd's Coffee-
house on the said vessel, on the supposition that your peti-
tioner had communicated the circumstance attending her loss
at Lloyd's, which he had never done ; of the truth whereof all
parties were afterwards convinced, by the result of inquiries
from London.
" Had the supposition regarding your petitioner proved
true, this masked detention was intended to be dropped, and
he was to have been prosecuted for the amount of the insurance
on the Sojus, which the underwriters at Lloyd's refused to pay.
It so happened, that a Mr Popoff, another of the owners of the
Sojus, was Mayor at the time, and, by virtue of office, Presi-
dent of the Magistracy : in this way the Magistrates took cog-
nizance of so extraordinary a proceeding. So unhappily cir-
cumstanced, your petitioner wrote the particulars to Sir S.
Shairpe, as also to Lord G. L. Gower, his Majesty's Consul and
Ambassador at St Petersburg, praying their interference to ob-
tain an order for him to proceed on his journey without fur-
ther molestation. To which application Sir S. Shairpe replied,
" He had by that post written to the Governor-General of Arch-
angel, desiring your petitioner might be immediately liberated,
if not legally detained." Some weeks passed on, without any
thing being done. Your petitioner applied again to both the
Consul and Ambassador ; to which application Sir S. Shairpe
answered, " That the Governor-General had replied to his let-
ter, stating your petitioner to have behaved very indecorously,
and that he was legally detained ;" when the fact is, he was
patronizing Mr Van Briemen in the proceeding before stated.
Lord Gower also replied to your petitioner's application, say-
ing, " That in consequence of what the Governor-General had
written to Sir S. Shairpe, he was precluded from making ap-
plication in his behalf; but if your petitioner could bring for-
E&ECUTED CRIMINALS. 349
ward any proofs of irregularity in the business, lie would then
act as the ease might require."
" The proceedings were of so impure a nature, and of such
public notoriety, that the Procurer of Archangel, immediately
after this correspondence, reported to the Minister of Justice at
St Petersburg, " That your petitioner was extremely ill-used,
and that he was illegally detained." It appeared afterwards,
that Sir S. Shairpe read the report at Prince Lapuchin's, the
Minister of Justice, on its arrival at St Petersburg, but of which
report no notice was ever taken; and although your petitioner
made subsequent and frequent applications to the Consul and
Ambassador, yet not the smallest answer was ever returned to
his entreaties. The Procurer also forwarded a copy of his re-
port to Prince Lapuchin, but with no better success.
" After a durance of six months, your petitioner was libe-
rated, when he proceeded to St Petersburg, with every re-
quisite voucher of the Governor-General's letter, and of the ill-
treatment he had sustained.
" Your petitioner, on his arrival at St Petersburg, found it
necessary, in behalf of his injured reputation, to impeach Ge-
neral Furster, the Military Governor of Archangel, to Count
Kotzebue, the Minister of Justice, on three counts, to-wit,
" 1. For having sanctioned Mr Solomon Van Briemen in an
impi'oper oath, knowing it to be so.
" 2. For having written an untrue account of the affair to Sir
Stephen Shairpe, his Majesty's Consul, for the purpose of pre-
venting justice.
" 3. For causing him to be thrown into a loathsome military
prison, for the purpose of extorting from him a sum of money,
with a view to colour the transaction, and thereby pave the
way to a justification of his own conduct and that of others.
" Count Kotzebue had the matter investigated through the
Chief Government Court at Archangel ; and, finding every al-
legation to be correct, he furnished your petitioner with a do-
cument, to be carried into the Senate, together with his com-
plaint and vouchers, for the purpose of obtaining an indemni-
fication for his sufferings, according to law.
" The affair afterwards went into the Senate, through Lord
Gower, by virtue of an Imperial ukase.
" That although your petitioner's case was irrefutable, yet
the Senate, instead of answering to your petitioner's complaints,
or redressing his grievances, patronized the proceedings, and
had your petitioner arrested and imprisoned, on various erro-
neous allegations; of the erroneousness of which, their own
courts were afterwards obliged to furnish official testimonies.
After having tortured your petitioner for a series of years,
350 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
sometimes by closely confining him in a wretched loathsome
prison ; at others condemned to a dungeon, to be kept on bread
and water; often publicly marched through the city with gangs
of felons, and criminals of the worst description, and even then
by the house of his Majesty's resident. At best, he was never
suffered to go out but like a person under serious criminal ar-
rest, and was the object of attention, not only of all the Foreign
Ministers resident at the Court, but of the public at large, to
the great disparagement of his Majesty's Crown, and the heart-
rending humiliation of himself.
" Through the whole course of these proceedings, your peti-
tioner made innumerable applications to the Consul and Am-
bassador for an appeal to the Emperor on such a national dis-
grace, and was not only uniformly rejected, but the Consul
went so far as to assert the proceedings to be right.
" Thus, without having offended any law, either civil or cri-
minal, and without having injured any individual, in this man-
ner was your petitioner bandied from one prison to another,
through the various ministrations of Lord G. Gower, Mr Stew-
art, the Marquis of Douglas, and Lord G. L. Gower's second
embassy, and two years subsequent thereto.
" That, during this period, a dispute happened betwixt a
Captain Gardener of Hull and the Captain of the Guard-ship,
on a squabble of only two roubles for pilotage, which trifling
affair was carried to the Emperor no less than four times by his
Majesty's Minister within the space of two months, while your
petitioner's case was sedulously suppressed, although the ho-
nour of both countries was materially concerned in the issue.
" That, previous to Lord Gower quitting St Petersburg the
last time, your petitioner waited upon his Lordship, and also
upon Sir S. Shairpe, urging the nationality of the case, and
praying for an appeal to the Emperor, as both law and justice
required, when your petitioner was, for the last time, positive-
ly denied, through Mr Rick, his Lordship's secretary, who said
his Lordship could not do it. Thus both the Consul and Am-
bassador left St Petersburg, leaving your petitioner the object
of persecution, without any aid whatsoever. At length, the
Senate, being tired of its proceedings, your petitioner was fur-
nished with a pass to quit Russia, in October 1 809 ', which act
was a declared judgment in your petitioner's favour, and a
proof that the Senate must have revoked its own ukase.
" That on your petitioner's return to England, he made a
representation of his case to Marquis Wellesley, furnishing the
original Russian ukases, and other vouchers, confirming the
truth of every allegation here stated, praying redress.
" That your petitioner's case and documents were investi-
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 351
gated by his Majesty's Most Honourable Privy Council, and
found to be perfectly correct.
" That in consequence of the peculiar and overwhelming
hardships of the case, combined with its nationality, your peti-
tioner was induced to apply to the Lords of his Majesty's Trea-
sury for relief, which relief their Lordships were unable to
grant.
" That your petitioner, by this long-continued series of cruel-
ty and oppression, has not only had his health and reputation
materially injured, with the loss of his business, but his whole
property has been absorbed in supporting the expences, and
making good the consequences of the proceedings, leaving him
at present considerably involved.
" That your petitioner pledges himself to prove, at the bai*
of your Honourable House, the facts stated in this his humble
petition, if he shall be permitted so to do.
" Your petitioner humbly conceives, that having undergone
such a series of persecutions, solely on account of his having
applied for redress for the injury sustained by the letter of Ge-
neral Furster, the Governor-General of Archangel, to Sir Ste-
phen Shairpe, herein before stated, he presumes it renders the
affair of national import, as such; and that the' Consul and Am-
bassador having neglected and declined interfering in his be-
half with the Emperor, which your petitioner is of opinion
they ought to have done ;
—your petitioner therefore humbly
thinks, that, in justice, he is entitled to satisfaction for the da-
mage he has sustained, from the Government of this country.
" Your petitioner, therefore, most humbly prays your Ho-
nourable House to take into its consideration your petitioner's
case, and recompense your petitioner for the losses he has ac-
tually sustained, in consequence of the circumstances herein
before stated, with a compensation for his personal sufferings,
as your Honourable House may judge right and proper; and
your petitioner will ever pray, &c. &c.
" John Bellingham."
" London, 28th Feb. 1812."
(Copy, No. 1.)
" SIR, Whitehall, Feb. 18. 1812.
ec
I am directed by Mr Secretary Ryder to acquaint you,
That your petition to His Royal Highness the Prince Regent
has been referred, by the command of His Royal Highness, for
the consideration of His Majesty's Most Honourable Privy
Council. I am, Sir, your most obedient, humble servant,
" J. Beckett."
" John Bellingham, Esq."
352 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
v
(Copy, No. 2.)
" SIR, Whitehall, March 9- 1815.
" I am directed by Mr Secretary Ryder to acquaint you,
That your petition to His Royal Highness the Prince Regent,
praying that he would be pleased to order your Memorial,
therein enclosed, addressed to the House of Commons, to be
brought before Parliament, has been laid before His Royal
Highness, and that he was not pleased to signify any command
thereupon. Your Memorial to the House of Commons is ac-
cordingly herewith returned. I am, Sir, your most obedient
humble servant,
" J. Beckett."
" John Bellingham, Esq."
Finding that the preceding papers had not their desired
effect, he next made the following application to the Ma-
gistrates of Bow Street
:
" To their Worships the Police Magistrates of the
Public Office in Bow Street;
" SIRS,
" I much regret its being my lot to have to apply to your
Worships, under most peculiar and novel circumstances. For
the particulars of the case, I refer to the enclosed letter from
Mr Secretary Ryder, the notification from Mr Perceval, and
my petition to Parliament, together with the printed papers
herewith. The affair requires no further remark, than that I
consider his Majesty's Government as having completely closed
the door of justice, in declining to have, or even to permit, my
grievances to be brought before Parliament for redress, which
privilege is the birth-right of every individual.
" The purport of the present is, therefore, once more to so-
licit his Majesty's Ministers, through your medium, to let what
is right and proper be done in my instance, which is all I
require. Should this reasonable request be finally denied, I
shall then feel justified in executing justice myself; in which
case, I shall be ready to argue the merits of so reluctant a mea-
sure with his Majesty's Attorney-General, wherever and when-
ever I may be called on to do so. In the hopes of averting so
abhorrent but compulsive an alternative, I have the honour to
be, Sirs, your very humble and obedient servant,
" John Bellinoham."
M 9. New Millman Street, )
March 23. 1812." )
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 353
On calling for an answer to the preceding, he was in-
formed, in a note, that " the Magistrates could not inter-
fere." His last application to Government was made on
the morning of Monday Mayt
ll. ; and an answer was pre-
pared for the signature of the Secretary of State, again in-
forming him that his demand could not be acceded to.
Furnished with such an account of his conduct, a phre-
nologist of little experience might predicate the form of
Bellingham's head. But, without attending to Phrenology
at present, let us observe, that the first thing to be noticed
in this account is, that Bellingham was a man of violent
temper, infatuated imagination, and perverted judgment.
In other words, that his passions were very strong, and his
intellect very weak,—a combination the most unfortunate
that a human being can possess. It is well known to be
difficult to restrain violent passions, even when the intellect
is powerful ; and, therefore, when it is very weak, there can
be scarcely any restraint at all exercised. When a man's
understanding is so feeble as not to admit of his discovering
so clear a matter of business, as the liability of Bellingham
to the merchants from whom he received orders, and whose
ships were engaged, he must approach very nearly to the
verge of idiotism. Bellingham, considering his arrest, in
consequence of the failure of his contract, as an act of in-
justice, clearly indicated the inability to distinguish justice
from injustice, which is the same thing as being unable to
know right from wrong. His speculations appear to have
been not only extensive, but complicated, visionary, and
inconsiderate. He laboured under an impression, that no-
thing which he did could be wrong. His injuries are cha-
racterized as ideal ; and the perversion of his judgment, or
rather his want of judgment, led him to imagine that his
were national concerns. His whole proceedings are said
to have been turbulent and ungovernable ; and he pur-
z
354> ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
sued his unreasonable objects with indefatigable perseve-
rance. Such being the character of the man, it is not a
matter of wonder that he was put under restraint in Rus-
sia, as he must have been taken for a madman. His appli-
cations to the Government at home, to the members of the
House of Commons, and to the Police Magistrates, clearly
indicate, if not a disordered, a very weak intellect, and a
violent temper, the more to be dreaded on account of the
poverty of understanding. A good memory for facts and
language it is probable he possessed, as there appears con-
siderable method in his madness. The address to the Po-
lice Magistrates, besides shewing that there was a total want
of reflection in applying to such a quarter for redress, be-
trays the insanity of the man's mind, in the clear and ex-
press declaration of his intention to commit murder, if what
he demanded were not granted to him. What had be-
come of the sagacity of the magistrates, when this applica-
tion was made to them, one is at a loss to conceive. They
ought instantly to have set a watch on Bellingham, or sent
him to a mad-house. His satisfaction with his own conduct,
and disappointment at not finding others ready to coincide
with him in opinion, seem to have rendered his feeble intel-
lect literally insane, when he could contemplate, first a deli-
berate murder, and then a public trial, and a disputation
with, and a triumph over, the Attorney-General. If ever
there was a case of what may perhaps be usefully termed
Idiotic Insanity, this was one. Let us now consider how
this poor wretch was treated.
The first hardship which the law inflicted, was a refusal
by the court to allow counsel to the prisoner, before he
should plead, guilty or not guilty. If a criminal have no
right to counsel till he has pleaded, and if he be incapable
of pleading, the law should be reformed. Mr Alley
moved that the trial should be put off, in order to give
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 355
time for the production of evidence that the prisoner was
insane. Affidavits were produced as to the insanity, and it
was evident that it had been impossible, owing to the short-
ness of the time allowed before the trial, to procure a great-
er number, or a sufficient number of witnesses. The At-
torney-General contended that this was a mere contrivance
to impose upon the court. He alleged that Bellingham had
been in town four months transacting business, and affirmed
that he had exhibited proofs not only of a sound but of a
masculine mind. This shews the probability, that the At-
torney-General had attended but little to the prisoner's his-
tory, and to the nature of insanity. Although he had not
seen any thing about Bellingham that indicated derange-
ment, he seems not to have known that it might be possible
to traverse Bedlam, without meeting with a single indivi-
dual, whom, from his own passing observation, he could
pronounce insane. It was nothing to say that the affidavits
produced did not prove insanity at the moment the crime was
committed. If this be necessary to be proved, no one could,
conscientiously, make an affidavit, such as was required by
the court in this case. Even those present could not tell
the state of a man's mind at the very moment he committed
a crime ; and -those who could swear that he was a maniac
an hour before, could not know that the crime had or had
not been committed during a lucid interval, however short.
A man may be insane at one time, but apparently of sound
mind at another. But who can tell the moment at which a
paroxysm may come on ? Or, whether, at the moment of
any act, the individual be sane or mad ? The question of
insanity ought always to be considered as a very delicate,
and a very difficult one. That Bellingham had been insane
at any time, was enough to have justified the delay of a
week or two, which could be of no importance. But there
seemed, and it was not very unnatural, to be a greater thirst
356 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
for vengeance than for justice. In his opening speech, the
Attorney-General described the various transactions in which
the prisoner had been engaged, and which, to any unpreju-
diced person, must appear to have originated in a very weak
mind. The idea he entertained that he had a just claim on
Government, was that of a fool or insane person. His avowed
determination to murder some one or more members of the
Government, was a proof of insanity ; for no man of sound
mind could imagine the members of the Government, either
collectively, or individually, responsible in such a case.
The place he chose for the perpetration of the deed would
not have been chosen by any person of sound intellect, who
might have resolved to commit such an atrocity. Belling-
ham had resolved not only to commit the crime, but to do
it so publicly that he might be taken and brought to trial,
in order that he might have his wrongs made known and
redressed, and, as he madly imagined, that he might ob-
tain a triumph over the Attorney-General. Nothing could
shew insanity in a clearer light than this. The Attorney-
General stated the law of the case with respect to the cog-
nizance of right and wrong. Now, it had been found im-
possible to convince Bellingham that he was wrong. Every
one else saw and believed that he was wrong. When a
man cannot see that which all other men clearly see, it is
impossible not to infer that that man is utterly unable to
perceive the distinction between right and wrong. Belling-
ham was, for a long time, impressed with the notion, that
it was necessary for him to take the law into his own hands,
and to punish the members of his Majesty's Government
for their not being able to perceive that lie was in the right.
Such an impression resting on a man's mind proves him to
be insane. The Attorney-General cited the cases of Ar-
nold and Lord Ferrars, neither of which cases shewed much
humanity in the judges or juries. If the law requires the
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 357
state of mind at the moment of action to be proved, it re-
quires an impossibility. It was well for the brother of Sir
Archibald Gordon Kinloch, that he was tried by Scottish
judges and a Scottish jury. Had that case been tried in
the manner of Bellingham's, the end would have been the
same. The conclusion of the prosecutor's speech contained
an argument of rather an extraordinary kind. He said,
" That if even insanity, in all his other acts, had been ma-
" nifest, yet the systematic correctness with which the pri-
" soner contrived the murder of Mr Perceval, shewed
" that he possessed a mind, at the time, capable of distin-
" guishing right from wrong.
11
The conclusion to be drawn
from this argument might surely be as well the reverse of
that deduced by the Attorney-General. If a man bestow
much pains in preparing for any action, that preparation
cannot be a proof that he knows and believes the action
prepared for to be wrong. It may prove as well, that the
action is firmly believed to be right ; and the more deli-
berate the preparation, the more firm we may suppose the
belief to be. It is true that a man, knowing an action to
be wrong, may prepare very deliberately to perform it ; but,
in such a case, there is commonly much caution and con-
cealment, and a plan for escaping detection is laid. In
Bellingham's case, every accessary proof was present, that
he firmly and devoutly believed that what he was about to
do was justifiable and right. He uttered a threat,—he
avowed his determination,—he chose a public place to do
the deed,—and, after he did it, he sat down by the fire,
avowed himself to be the man who had fired the pistol, and
appeared pleased and satisfied that he had accomplished his
purpose, and that he should have an opportunity of being
justified by a jury of his countrymen. In his defence, he
said that the last answer he had received from Government
358 ON THE CEREBRAL DVELOPMENT OF
had given him a carte-blanche to commit the crime with
which he stood charged. AH this indicated insanity, or
idiotism. While under sentence of death he professed
repentance for all his sins; but would not, notwithstand-
ing the most earnest and pressing solicitations, acknowledge
that his having deprived Mr Perceval of life was a
wrong action. At intervals, he offered up devout eja-
culations and extemporaneous prayers, with great fer-
vency, ease, and coherence ; so much so, that Dr Ford,
the ordinary, in the course of his attendance, was astonished
that a man, who appeared to have the principles of religion
so deeply impressed upon his mind, should be so hardened
and impenitent as to appear unconscious that the deliberate
murder of a fellow creature was a crime in the sight of
both God and man. There cannot be a doubt, then, that
this unfortunate being- could not be convinced that what he
had done was wrong,—that he firmly believed and felt that
it was right. As little can it be doubted, that he was in-
capable of distinguishing right from wrong, in the matter
for which he was tried. The judge styled BellinghanVs
mode of reasoning, in his defence, a dreadful one ; and truly
it was so : but, being dreadful, it surely could not properly
be denominated the reasoning of a man of sane mind*.
On the whole, it seems extremely probable, that Belling-
ham wr
as actually insane, according to the common accep-
tation of the term ; that is, his sufferings arising out of his
own imprudence, operating on a violent temper and a very
weak intellect, had produced insanity. But setting aside
the ordinary idea of insanity, his case appears to be one
that probably was never at any previous time before a court
• I am not disposed to dispute the principle, that, when idiots and mad-
men become mischievous, they should sutler for the crimes they commit,
when the safety of society is considered.
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 359
of justice. It is one most interesting to the phrenologist
;
inasmuch, as it is one in which the effects of want of intel-
lect and feeling are displayed, while the animal propensities
are in an evidently large proportion. BellinghanVs skull
is preserved in St Bartholomew's Hospital in London
;
and it is worthy of remark, that when Dr SrunziiEiM was
looking over the skulls collected in that hospital, he said, on
taking up that of Bellingham, without knowing whose it
was, that it must be the skull of a murderer.
At the first glance, the head strikes us as being remark-
ably small ; and the diminutive size is quite apparent, when
it is placed by the side of another. By far the greatest
proportion of brain lies backward and laterally, the fore-
head very low and narrow. Any phrenologist, from what
has been stated, might describe the proportions of the dif-
ferent organs, without having seen the skull. They are as
follows
:
1. Amativeness,—full.
2. Philoprogenitivcness,— full.
3. Concentrativeness, —full.
4. Adhesiveness,—full.
5. Combativeness,—very large.
6. Destructiveness,—very large.
7. Constructiveness,—full.
8. Acquisitiveness,—Large.
9. Secretiveness, —full.
10. Self-esteem,—large.
1 1. Love of Approbation,—full.
12. Cautiousness,—moderate.
13. Benevolence,^— very small.
14. Veneration,—moderate.
15. Hope,—full.
16. Ideality.— small
1 7. Conscientiousness,—small.
18. Firmness,—large.
19. Individuality, upper,—small.
lower,—large.
20. Form,—moderate.
21. Size,—moderate.
23. Colouring, —small.
24. Locality,—very large.
25. Order, —small.
26. Time,—moderate.
27. Number,—moderate.
28. Tune,—full.
29. Language,—probably larger
cannot be decided easily
on a skull.
30. Comparison, \ small. —Forehead
31. Causality, J slopes rapidly.
32. Wit,—small.
33. Imitation,—moderate.
360 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT 01
The Measurement is as follows
:
inches.
From Occipital spine to Lower Individuality, , 7
Concentrativeness to Comparison, . . 6 *
Ear to occipital spine, . . . 36
Ditto to centre of Philoprogenitiveness, . 4 5
Ditto to Lower Individuality, . . 4£
Ditto to Firmness, ... 5
Ditto to Benevolence, . . . 4,|
Destructiveness to Destructiveness, . . 5§
Cautiousness to Cautiousness, , . 5|
Ideality to Ideality, . . 4|
Probably there never was a development and character
more truly coincident than those of Bellingham. The weak-
ness of his understanding is indicated, both by the smallness of
the whole head, and by the small proportion of the forehead,
It is obvious that his ideas of his own importance were
high ; while his love of' approbation must have rendered
him more alive to disappointment. His acquisitiveness,
want of benevolence, and self'-esteem, must have concen-
trated his whole thoughts in self. His cautiousness being
moderate, he had little prudential feeling. His great
courage and firmness led to his persevering and harassing
complaints, which he could not, from want of intellect,
perceive to be unreasonable ; and his full organ of hope,
indicates a strong excitement to perseverance. The very
little conscientiousness he had, was confined entirely to his
own case, and perverted, His very large organ of destruc-
tiveness, besides indicating a violent temper, and a disre-
gard to the feelings of others, inspired him with an im-
patient activity, and led him to resolve on the horrid
deed which he committed. Whatever pity he might
have expressed for the family of his victim, his pretensions
to that feeling are flatly contradicted, by the pains he took
to state that he did not repent of what he had done, as
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 361
well as by the smallncss of the organ of benevolence. On
the whole, a case more favourable for Phrenology can scarce-
ly be imagined ; and it is one, too, equally favourable for
demonstrating how erroneous the law is with respect to re-
sponsibility. To say with the Attorney-General in this case,
that a man deficient in understanding, is, nevertheless, ca-
pable of distinguishing right from wrong, would be to say
too much, without defining the limit between sanity and
insanity, and which, probably, is not to be discovered. A
man without much intellect, may indeed possess, according
to Phrenology, that feeling which prompts just actions, and
gives an aversion to the commission of such as are unjust.
But setting phrenological knowledge aside, the opinion of
the Attorney-General must be understood as tantamount to
the assertion, that idiots are responsible for their actions ;
idiots being no other than human beings deficient in un-
derstanding. But the case of the wretch Bellingham was
more deplorable than that of an idiot ; for, with a very de-
ficient understanding, he had opposed to it all the lower
propensities of human nature, in a high degree of activity.
The difficulty, and it is one of great magnitude, which lies
in the way of criminal legislation, and of the exercise of
mercy in cases such as that we have been considering, is
to ascertain where, in the descending scale of intellect, re-
sponsibility ends. Until the truth of Phrenology be uni-
versally assented to, there can be no hope of the removal of
this difficulty ; nor will due effect be given to the establish-
ment of houses of refuge, penitentiaries, and the like. But
whenever the world shall have shaken off prejudice, when-
ever it shall condescend to put Phrenology to those tests
that have been freely offered by its advocates, then we may
expect to see the exertions of the benevolent crowned with
success; the reformation of criminals judiciously attempted,
punishment properly regulated, and mercy extended with-
362 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
out fear of abuse. The Society to which I have addressed
these desultory remarks, has been held up to ridicule,
which it properly contemns ; but I give myself leave to
hope, that I may yet live to see it not only treated with
high respect, but looked up to as the source of instruction
by those who are at present least disposed to acknowledge
its authority. Exertion, I trust, will not be wanting ; and
I expect the members not only to be active in the defence
of their own opinions, but boldly and resolutely to try the
existing systems of philosophy on their own merits, and to
contrast them with Phrenology. It cannot be said of any
of us, when we attack a favourite system, that we have no-
thing to substitute in its place. The foundation of the
great work has been laid ; and we are bound to shew to the
world, that we are able to raise up the edifice we have
promised, and to shew, that those who consider our pro-
mises vain, are incapable of appreciating the means in our
power.
4.—Observations on the Cerebral Development, and Dis-
positions and Talents, qfMary Macinnes.
By Mr George Combe.
(Read 1st May 1823J
^/tlccording to the most authentic account, this unfortu-
nate woman was the daughter of Archibald Macinnes,
sometime lime-burner in Isla, where she was born, and
Flora Macdonald, also a Hebridian. She represented her-
self as being the daughter of Quarter-Master, now Adju-
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 363
tant Mackinnon, of the Regiment ; but it is perfeetly
ascertained that this was a misrepresentation.
About the year 1812 she established a brothel in Edin-
burgh. On 8th February 1823, William Howat, Henry
Ker, Alexander Welsh, James Johnstone, Walter Grieve,
and John Wilkinson, alter having dined in Howat's lodg-
ings, and after having drank largely, proceeded to her
house. After drinking half-a-mutchkin of toddy (anglice
punch) there, in doing which they were assisted by two or
three girls, their bill was paid, and they moved to go away.
The girls said it was a shame to come in for one jug, and that
they could not leave the house without having one a-piece,
and resisted their going out. A scuffle ensued in the kit-
chen and passage, betwixt the party wishing to get away,
and the woxnen endeavouring to prevent them. During
its continuance, Mary Macinnes, who had been abroad,
came into the house. Henry Ker depones, " That when she
" came into the kitchen, she exclaimed, Stand back, let
" me get a knife, and I will soon settle the b rs. She
" did not seem in a great rage, but went deliberately for-
" ward. There was nothing going on in the kitchen at
" the time pannel came in ; heard no particular disturb-
" ance in the house at the time. Pannel went deliberately
" to the dresser-table, at the back of the door, put both
" her hands into a knife-case, and took one out. Heard
*' knives rattling in the box. It was a kind of open tray
" or box. She appeared to him, from her motions in the
" box, to be selecting a knife. She had met with no ob-
" struction on her way to the dresser. Is convinced there
*' was not a word spoken to her at that time. Saw a wo-
" man at the kitchen-door when pannel entered, who also
" came in, (it was Jane Lundie). Pannel took the knife
" and darted forward,—saw the knife in her hand at the
" time,—seemed a common table-knife, and appeared worn
364 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
" away with sharping. Saw a man at the kitchen-door
" while pannel had the knife in her hand ; understands it
" was Samuel Hodge. Pannel sprang forward towards
" witness, who parried her hand with his arm, and she was
" instantly seized by several women ; Lundie, and, he
" thinks, Macdonald, were two of them. Witness, had
" he not parried, would have received the blow : stept to
" one side, and pannel passed him from the violence of her
" blow. The women came forward to meet pannel, and
" seized her by the clothes. None of witness's party of-
44
fered the least violence to pannel at this time. She was
" restrained entirely by the women ,• the whole was the
" work of a moment."
Mr Ker afterwards went to the lobby, " where he re-
" mained a second or two, and returned towards the kitchen,
" where he saw Mr Howat standing with his face towards
" the door. His right arm was stretched out, and bent to-
" wards Macdonald, who, with Macinnes, were in front of
" him. His fist was clenched. He might have been striking,
" but witness did not see him, nor any thing that could lead
" him to think he was doing so. Witness's impression was,
*' that Howat was keeping the women at bay, defending
" himself. Macdonald had not any thing in her hand. Did
" not appear to be pushing upon deceased. Pannel was
" standing in front of Howat with the knife in her hand
—
" seemed to be the same knife she had before, but it was now
" in her right hand—it was in her left before. Did not hear
" Mr Howat speaking, nor any of the women. Saw the
" pannel strike a blow with the knife at Howat, and witness
" immediately sprang forward, seized her by the back of the
" neck, and knocked her feet from her, and she fell on her
" back on the floor. The blow was so sudden, that he could
" not see what part of the body it struck ; but it was about
" the upper part of it. It was a sweeping back-stroke of the
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 365
" right hand, and appeared to strike his left side. It ap-
" peared a sudden and violent blow. Witness sprang right
" forward to his friend Mr Howat, who was in the farthest
" corner of the kitchen. Pannel and Macdonald were out-
" side of him. Deceased appeared very pale, and looked
" up into witness's face, saying, ' Henry, she has given
" * me an wound.' Dropped him gently into a chair,
" where he fainted."
He was carried to the Royal Infirmary, where, after
lingering till the 20th of February, he died. He had,
however, pi^eviously emitted a declaration, corresponding,
in general terms, with the evidence of Ker, and identified
Mary Machines as the individual who inflicted the wound.
Mary Machines was brought to trial before the High
Court of Justiciary, at Edinburgh, on Friday, 14th March
1823. The preceding narrative contains a general state-
ment of the evidence against her. Several witnesses were
examined, upon her part, to shew that Ker was so much
intoxicated at the time of the occurrence, that his testimony
could not be relied on, and that a great tumult and distur-
bance had been excited by the deceased, and his party, in
her house ; that she entered in the midst of it, naturally
influenced with resentment, and that she was maltreated on
entering. Mr Jeffrey, her counsel, pleaded, that, " if the
" Jury did not think the act of the pannel altogether justi-
" fled, there was still another question for them, viz. whether
" or not the circumstances of the case would not go so far
" to palliate the offence, as to authorize them at least to bring
" in a verdict of culpable homicide."" The Lord Justice-
Clerk summed up the evidence, and stated, that more credit
ought to be attached to the evidence of the men than to the
testimony of the women, in those cases in which the two
came into collision ; and that there was nothing in the cir-
cumstances that rendered the act justifiable.
366 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
The Jury, after retiring for twenty minutes, returned a
verdict, " Finding the pannel, by a plurality of voices,
" guilty of the crime of murder ; but they also recom-
" mended her, by a majority, to mercy.'"
The unfortunate criminal was sentenced to be executed
at Edinburgh, on the 16th of April, and her body there-
after to be given to Dr Alexander Monro, for dissection.
She had fainted when the verdict was returned ; and, after
receiving the awful sentence, she fainted again ; and, when
the Court dismissed, was lying extended, apparently lifeless,
on the seat.
The execution took place upon the day appointed. She
conducted herself with astonishing; fortitude during the
awful ceremony, and died protesting her innocence of the
murder. She admitted, however, to the Reverend Mr
Thomson and others, that she considered herself equally
guilty as if she had inflicted the blow, but always denied
having struck it. On the evening of the execution, Mr Jo-
seph obtained a cast of her head, and obligingly laid it be-
fore the Society at last meeting. Dr Monro, on the ap-
plication of the Society, was so kind as to permit a cast to
be taken also by Mr CNeil. The hair was shaven off be-
fore taking the casts ; and both of them seem to be very
accurately executed, (Plate II. Fig. 1.) The development
of the different organs appears to be the following
:
1. Amativeness,—very large. 10. Self-esteem,—rather large.
2. Philoprogenitiveness,—large. 1 1. Love of Approbation,—large.
3. Concentrativeness,—full, 12. Cautiousness,—rather full.
4. Adhesiveness,—large. 13. Benevolence,—full.
5. Combativeness,—enormously large. 14. Veneration,—full.
6. Destructiveness—large. 15, Hope,—full.
7. Constructiveness,—rather large. 16. Ideality, —small.
8. Acquisitiveness,—rather large. 17. Conscientiousness,—rather small.
J). Secretiveness,—large. 18. Firmness,— rather large.
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 367
19. Individuality,—higher, \ . .. 27. Number,—rather full.
19. Ditto,— lower, j 28. Tune,—full.
20. Form,—moderate. 29. Language,—full.
21. Size,—moderate. 30- Comparison,—moderate.
22. Unascertained. 31. Causality,—small.
23. Colouring,—rather full. 32. Wit,—small.
24. Locality,—ditto. 33. Imitation,—rather smalL
25. Order,—ditto. Wonder,—small.
2C. Time,—ditto.
Measurement.
From Philoprogenitiveness to Lower Individuality, . 77
Meatus auditorius to Lower Individuality, . 4?
Do. to middle of external surf, of Philoprogenitiveness, 5
Ditto to Firmness, . 6
Destructiveness to Destructiveness, . . C
Cautiousness to Cautiousness, . . 5'
Ideality to Ideality, . 4|
Meatus to Benevolence, , . 5|
Constructiveness to Constructiveness, .
5|
The organs of the lower propensities are here very large-
ly developed, while those of the intellect and moral senti-
ments are proportionally deficient. Her education was very
limited. She could read in some degree, and she attempted
also to write ; but her penmanship was very imperfect. Her
love of approbation was so strong, that she pretended to
those attainments in a higher degree than she really pos-
sessed them. The organ of the amative propensity is very
large for a female. It is combined with a very large com-
lativeness, which gives boldness to the character, and is
not proportionally restrained by conscientiousness, or the
reflecting powers ; and this combination sufficiently accounts
for the line of life which she adopted, followed up by the
commission of the crime for which she suffered.
The organ of destructiveness is large, and that of com-
bativeness very large, and the deficiency of the restraining
368 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
powers has already been observed. In the Outlines of Phre-
nology, published in 1822, it is stated that combativeness
" produces courage; and, when very active, recklessness,
" and the propensity to attack. It is generally large in per-
" sons who have murdered from the impulse of the moment."
And destructiveness is said to " produce the propensity to
" destroy ;" and, it is added, " this faculty and eombative-
" ness, give the tendency to rage, and bear an analogy to the
" malevolent affections of the metaphysicians.'
1
It is impos-
sible to doubt, that the murder of Mr Howat was committed
on the impulse of the moment. From numerous inquiries
also, I have learned that the unfortunate criminal was ex-
cessively prone to rage ; and indeed she frequently confessed
to the Reverend Mr Porteous that she was so. In pai*-
ticular, it is stated, in a Biographical Account of her, lately
published,—and the narrative is confirmed by a gentleman
who had access to know the fact, and with whom I have
conversed upon the subject,—that, on the Monday preceding
her execution, she evinced the most violent emotions of rage,
on account of not being permitted to see a person to whom
she was attached. " She expressed, it is said, a wish to
" see a gentleman, whose name we forbear to mention
;
" and, on being told that he could not be admitted without
" an order from the Magistrates, she became inflamed into
" a violent fit of rage, and (rising up energetically in her
" bed) said, ' I do not know what to make of the Ma-
" ' gistrates ; they have always appeared very kind to me,
" ' and have asked me if they could do any thing to make
** * me comfortable ; but the only request I have made to
" * them they have refused me. The Great God Al-
" * mighty will judge between them and me ; and they
" * cannot prevent me from going on my knees on the
" * scaffold, and telling how I have been used.'' She was
" permitted by the Magistrates to sec that person."
EXECUTED CRIMINALS,
l
S(>9
David Haggart, whose case* has already been before
the Society, was also a murderer from the impulse of the
moment ; and you will perceive, that his head and Mary
Machines'* coincide exactly in a very large development of
combativeness, but that, in other respects, they differ con-
siderably. In Haggart, destructivencss is less, and bene-
volence and intellect greater than in Mary Macinnes. Now,
we have Haggarts own statement in his life, that, where
outrage could not serve his purposes, " he was a. peaceable
" prisoner ;
w
and the Reverend Mr Porteous, who attend-
ed him in prison, and the late Mr Sibbald, Governor
of Edinburgh jail, who knew him well, confirmed his state-
ment in this particular. Mary Macinnes, on the other hand,
was much more violent, and prone to rage. Mr Thomson
informed me, that on one occasion she had taken offence
at some expression in his prayer, and noticed it with evident
marks of displeasure at his next visit. He explained to her,
and stated that she had wholly misapprehended him, when
she apologised. In the phrenological observations on David
Haggart, it is observed, that " the effect of the moral senti-
" ments in inspiring with contrition for crimes committed
" under the impulse of the lower propensities is, to phre-
" nologists, the surest test of the degree of strength which
" they possess."
11
—'* He in whom the propensities decidedly
" preponderate, enjoys more intenial peace of mind than is
" commonly supposed ; for it is only where both the higher
"'
and lower feelings possess considerable activity, that their
" opposition is strongly felt, and that the individual is con-
" scious of powerful contending emotions. The faculty of
" conscientiousness is opposed to stealing, which implies an
" insensibility to the dictates of justice, and the rights of
• See '« Phrenological Observations on the Cerebral Development of D.
" Haggart, 1821."—.W. and C. Tait, Edinburgh; and Longman and Co.,
London.
370 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
" others. Benevolence is opposed to destrnctiveness, which,
" when powerful, disposes to cruelty.
1
'
1
Any one who reads Haggarfs account of his emotions
upon hearing of the death of the jailor, will perceive how
much, in his calm moments, the influence of the feeling of
benevolence, in his mind, surpassed that of the propensity
of dcstnictlvencss. I am authorised to state, that Mary
Machines, on the other hand, at first viewed rather with
complacency the death of Howat; and that although she
coupled with her denial of having inflicted the wound, an
acknowledgment to Mr Thomson that she was as guilty
as if she had given it, and although she acknowledged in
words the magnitude of her sins ; yet she never, on any oc-
casion, exhibited that deep regretof Howafs calamity, or that
keen remorse for having, if not inflicted it, at least permit-
ted it to happen, which would have resulted from a power-
ful and awakened benevolence, combined with only an ordi-
nary degree of destructiveness. Mr Thomson bears testi-
mony to the superior intelligence as well as softness of
Haggarfs nature ; and has assured me, that he observed
the tear starting in Haggarfs eye, at the close of his devo-
tional exercises, while no deep impression, or rather no im-
pression at all, seemed to be produced on Machines.
The organ of sccretivencss is also largely developed in
the subject of the present observations, and the manifesta-
tions of the faculty have been numerous in her conduct.
Although it is perfectly certain that her father's name was
Machines, yet she persisted in maintaining that she was the
daughter of Mr Mackinnon, formerly alluded to. Her
sister visited her in jail, while under sentence of death, and,
in an agony of grief, entreated her to disabuse the public
of this monstrous falsehood, and not to die with such a pal-
pable and wicked lie on her lips ; but Mary remained
unmoved by her entreaties, and maintained her own story.
The onlv indication that she ever gave of departing from
EXECUTED clUAKNWl.S. .'A \
it, \»<is ail her way to the scaffold. The Reverend Mi
Poktkous then asked her, II' she still adhered to her de-
claration respecting her parentage? She paused; made
no answer, and changed the discourse to another topic.
This, it may be observed, was equal to a confession of the
falsehood of her statement ; for, while she anxiously reite-
rated the declarations of her innocence of the murder, it is
not probable that she would have failed to support her
former statement, if it had been true, bv a renewed asser-
tion upon this point also. ; During her confinement, she
preserved the most profound silence regarding the persons
who had been connected with her in her previous life
Mr Thomson, in particular, mentioned, that although .he
made it a rule never to question persons in such a situation,
yet many of them made voluntary- declarations ; but that he
did not recollect of meeting with a criminal who made fewei
communications of any kind than Marv Macinnes. Mr
Pokteous stated, that she endeavoured to envelope every
circumstance concerning her in mysterv.
It is scarcely necessary to observe, that these unfortunate
results arise from the lower propensities, only when they
are out of due proportion to, and not regulated by, the su-
perior faculties, both of which unfavourable circumstances
are found united in the present case.
To. relieve this dark picture, it is proper to notice cer-
tain faculties of a more favourable description, which she
possessed in a state of considerable development. Adhe-
siveness and love of approbation are both large, and vene-
ration and benevolence arc full. It is stated, and from the
best information which I have been able to obtain correct-
ly, that she was an affectionate daughter, " affording assist-
" ance to her parents, and visiting them from time to time
" in Glasgow, where they latterly resided." She also con-
cealed her mode of life from her parents, and corresponded
A a 2
372 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
with them under the name of Mrs Lyon, representing her-
self as the wife of a person of this name. Her mother vi-
sited her in Edinburgh, and believed that she kept an inn
;
but she was always sent from the house before night-fall
;
and on no occasion allowed to remain after the ordinary
scenes of licentiousness had commenced. These traits of
character appear to have proceeded from adhesiveness and
veneration, the two combined producing the feeling of filial
piety. It has been stated also, on what is conceived to be
good authority, that the unhappy criminal was not desti-
tute of benevolence to the poor, but visited the sick in the
neighbourhood of her house, and ministered to their relief.
As formerly mentioned, the organ of benevolence is not
deficient, although not developed in any corresponding pro-
portion to the organs of combativeness and destructiveness.
The degree of this sentiment, therefore, which she possessed,
joined with the love ofapprobation, probably produced this
more amiable feature in her dispositions. Mr Pouteous
mentioned another instance of a similar kind. A man,
residing in the West-Port, called upon him, and men-
tioned, that his wife had nursed a child to Mary Machines ;
and that he was prompted, by gratitude, to inquire into
her situation. She had displayed great affection for her
infant, had not only paid his wife punctually the stipulated
board, but had defrayed the expense of his entry with two
benefit societies ; and, in other respects, treated him with
much kindness. These instances illustrate the activity of
certain of the higher powers ; and are perfectly in accord-
ance with the phrenological doctrine of the co-existing ener-
gy of the higher with many of the lower feelings of our na-
ture in the same individual, when the organs of both are
fully developed.
The organs of veneration and hope also are both full,
although greatly inferior in size to the organs of the animal
propensities. Every phrenologist knows, that these senti-
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 373
ments, when not directed by understanding, lead to super-
stition ; and it is a curious fact, that Mary Macinnes was
excessively sanguine in expectation, and also superstitious.
Mr Thomson mentioned, that she entertained a profound
belief in dreams, questioned him as to his opinion on the
subject, seemed disappointed that it did not coincide with
her's, and gave him an instance which had just occurred to
herself, of her having dreamt that some communication
had been conveyed to her in a paper with three seals, and
of the dream being realized in an unknown lady having
sent her some extracts from a religious book, in an enve-
lope, secured with three seals: —On another occasion, obser-
ving that he had a sore eye, she advised him to get it touched
with a gold ring, as an infallible cure, and enforced her ad-
vice, by mentioning the case of a Captain , to whom
she had given a similar counsel some weeks before, and who
had followed it with perfect success. The influence of hope,
unguided by reflection, was conspicuously displayed in her
confident, and even superstitious expectations, of experien-
cing the Royal mercy in very unpromising circumstances.
She said, that every event of her life had been borne in up-
on her mind in dreams, and that this (meaning the execu-
tion) was not among her intimations ; and she was sure it
would not happen. She founded her reliance as much on
imagined applications from the ladies of Edinburgh to pre-
vent a woman from being hanged, and on the circumstance
of her being the first woman condemned since his Majesty's
visit to Edinburgh, as on the recommendation of a majority
of the jury, or on the circumstances attending the crime
itself; affording, in this instance also, evidence of great de-
ficiency of reflection. In walking to the scaffold, she told
Mr Thomson and Mr Porteous, that she had seen all this
in a dream, and endeavoured to impress upon them the im-
portant communications that might be made in this manner.
374 ON THE CEHEB11AE DEVELOPMENT OF
It will be observed, also, that the organ of firmness is
largely developed. Both of the clergymen, above mention-
ed, stated, that she manifested this faculty in a very extra-
ordinary degree. In walking to execution not a muscle
trembled ; and, in her conduct on the scaffold, she evinced
a degree of fortitude and composure which would have
done no discredit to a man of a resolute disposition. Comba-
iivencss would lend a powerful aid in supporting her in
these trying circumstances, as it supplies courage in meet-
ing danger of every description.
Her deficient conscientiousness is apparent in her whole
conduct, and especially in the multitude of lies which she
continued to tell, during the period which elapsed betwixt
her condemnation and execution, several of which have been
mentioned.
In her head, as in the head of every murderer which the
Society possesses, ideality is small. This faculty produces
the sentiment of the beautiful and excellent, —feelings
which are naturally opposed to the lower and more brutal
manifestations of the animal propensities.
The organs of the reflecting faculties, comparison and
causality, are decidedly small, in comparison with the other
organs of the brain, and below the average of the same or-
gans in females of an equal age. Mr Thomson mentioned,
that a corresponding intellectual deficiency was exceedingly
perceptible in her mind. He found it impossible to fix her
intellect upon any subject, except the incidents of life with
which she was familiar. He stated, that, in an interview
upon any ordinary topic, she might have appeared as not
particularly deficient in understanding ; but when he at-
tempted to interest her by reasoning, or to set before her the
important doctrines of the Gospel, as an object of intellec-
tual apprehension, he was in a great measure unsuccessful
;
and, though she always listened to his exhortation with ap-
parenl attention, ye1 she seemed relieved when any thing
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 375
occurred to divert the conversation to what was of a less se-
rious and important cast. Mr Porteous also mentioned, that
he had found it impossible by reasoning, illustrations or ex-
planation, to impart to her any tolerably distinct apprehen-
sion of the scripture doctrines, regarding her own state as a
sinner, and the means of salvation. The deficiency, he was
satisfied, was natural, and not the mere result of a defec-
tive education. She lacked not only information, but the
capacity of apprehending it when presented to her, or of
retaining it in her mind. Impressions seemed to die from
her recollection, almost as soon as the speaker had finished.
Mr Porteous mentioned two anecdotes exceedingly il-
lustrative ; the one, of her weak intellectual and moral per-
ceptions ; and the other, of the great strength of her natu-
ral feeling of attachment. While under sentence of death,
but during a period when a petition for mercy had been
forwarded and remained unanswered, a gentleman, whose
talents Mr Porteous represents as powerful " in awaken-
" ing, and interesting, and persuading sinners,
11
spent a
considerable time with her in prayer, exhortation, and read-
ing the Scriptures ; and Mr Porteous himself immediately
followed him, and remained an hour engaged in similar ex-
ercises. At his departure, and before he had well left the
cell, she said to the guard who was over her, " You see
" what an interest these good men take in my soul. They
" desire me to look only to Jesus Christ for all hopes of
" mercy ; but it can do no harm to try George IV. in the
" mean time.
11
This, he said, was uttered with an air of vi-
vacity that strongly indicated the slight impression that had
been made upon her feelings, as well as her intellect, byr
their exhortations.
The other circumstance illustrative at once of her weak
powers of reflection, her superstition, and her ardent at-
tachment, was the following. It is certain that she had
gained the affections of a person in Edinburgh, whose name
1376 ON THE CEREBRAL DEVELOPMENT OF
need not here be mentioned ; and that her attachment to
him continued strong in death, and assumed even a roman-
tic appearance in the last moments of her mortal career
He had sent her a pocket-handkerchief, having his name
written in one corner, and also half an orange, with a desire
that she would eat the latter on the scaffold, in token of
their mutual affection, he having eaten the other half the
preceding morning at the corresponding hour. She held the
corner of the napkin in her mouth almost all the night pre-
ceding her execution, and even on the scaffold. When
seated on the drop, the turnkey gave her the half orange.
She took it out of his hand ; and, without the least symp-
tom of fear, said, " Tell him (the object of her attachment)
" that I die perfectly satisfied that he has done all in his
" power for my life, and that I eat the orange as he desired
" me. May God bless him. Say to him that it is my
" dying request that he may take care of drink and bad
" company, and be sure never to be late out at night."
She seemed to forget eternity in the ardour of her attach-
ment to earth.
I have already adverted to the faculty of the love ofap-
probation, which in her was largely developed. That she
was alive to the love of dress, and shewed an interest in
many other little matters connected with this sentiment, is
certified by several persons who observed her habits ; but
I am inclined to think farther, that to this feeling chiefly is
to be attributed the decided denial of her guilt, even on the
threshold of eternity. From the strength of this sentiment
in her mind, she would probably desire with ardour to relieve
both her memory and her friends from the deep stigma
which she knew was universally attached to the name of
a murderer. When conscientiousness is small, sccrctivcncss
large, and the reflecting faculties very deficient, cunning
usurps the place of sense, and this combination occurred in
her. She might, therefore, imagine, that a positive denial,
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 377
solemnly reiterated with her last breath, would go far to
outweigh, in the minds of many, the evidence on which she
was condemned, and relieve her memory from the load of
infamy under which she saw that otherwise it would rest.
That such a feeling might predominate in death, is ren-
dered probable by her development, and the idea is con-
firmed, by what I have already said of the manifestation of
her ndftesiveness upon the same occasion.
In the preceding narrative, we perceive the unfortunate
woman carried away by the various feelings which predomi-
nated in her mind. Reflection and the moral sentiments ap-
pear to have been so feeble, in proportion to the lower powers,
as scarcely to have sufficed to guide her conduct amid the
storms of passion, engendered by the propensities; and hence,
she lived, without remorse, in the very depths of turpitude
and debasement. Still that portion of better feeling which
nature had allowed her, seems to have broken forth in occa-
sional gleams, and to have manifested itself withal in its na-
tive simplicity, starting at once to its objects, and clinging to
them, little modified or directed by ulterior considerations.
It is the fashion to treat such reports as the present with
ridicule, and to represent the seeming accordance betwixt
the mental manifestations and cerebral development, as
the result of some ingenuity, and of much disingenuousness
on the part of the phrenologists. I may mention, that, in the
present instance, I wrote down the development, such as it
has now been stated, before hearing a word concerning the
manifestations from either of the clergymen above named
;
and a member of the Society is now present, who saw a note
of it produced to Mr Thomson before he had spoken up-
on the subject. I have given the authority upon which
the foregoing account of the manifestations is founded, and
the cast of the head is now presented to you ; so that both
as to character and development any mistakes of mine may
be rectified.
378 ON THE CEREB11AL DEVELOPMENT OF
On a former occasion, the Society considered a report on
the head of the Reverend Mr M., with a sketch of his na-
tural talents and dispositions * His character stood near-
ly in the antipodes to that of Mary Machines. He was led,
by a strong natural bias, to abandon the trade of a mechanic,
and to embrace the profession of a preacher of the Gospel.
His mind coincided with the description of an amiable one
given by the poet
:
" Some minds are tempered happily, and mixed
" With such ingredients of good sense and taste
" Of what is excellent in Man ; they thirst
" With such a zeal to be what they approve,
" That no restraints can circumscribe them more
" Than they themselves by choice, for wisdom's sake,
" Nor can example hurt them : What they see
" Of vice in others but enhancing more
" The charms of virtue in their just esteem."
Cowper.
How opposite is the character of Machines! On com-
paring the two heads, you will perceive, that a great mass
of the brain in the head of Machines lies behind the ear
towards the base of the skull ; that the forehead is low,
and the coronal surface narrow. In the Reverend Mr M.,
on the other hand, by far the larger portion of the brain is
situate before the ear ; the forehead possesses a full develop-
ment, and the coronal surface is highly expanded. You
are aware, that the Society possesses casts of nearly thirty
murderers ; and that in every one of them, without a single
exception, a large development of the animal organs, in
proportion to those of the intellect and moral sentiments, is
found. These casts and skulls of murderers have been col-
lected from Paris, London, Nottingham, York, Dumfries,
Glasgow, and Edinburgh ; and the same type runs through
the whole of them. On the other hand, the Society pos-
sesses a varicy of casts of the heads of virtuous individuals
;
Sco page 310. of this Volume.
EXECUTED CRIMINALS. 379
and, in all of them, an evident preponderance prevails in the
development of the moral and intellectual organs, as in the
case of the Reverend Mr M. These are facts at which the
superficial may smile ; but they give pause to the philoso-
pher, and lead him to very serious contemplations.
The observations on the head of David Haggart have
also been subjected to much severity of criticism ; but I
have never met with an individual who ventured upon such
a course of remark, after studying philosophically the dis-
positions of that criminal, and inspecting the cast of his
head (Plate II. Fig. 3.), which has long been in the hands
of the public, and contrasting it with the development of
persons of an opposite natural character. Additional oppor-
tunities are afforded by the present case, of trying the ac-
curacy of the observations upon Haggart. The develop-
ment of his brain coincides with that of Mary Machines, in
those points in which their dispositions agree, and it varies
in those points in which their feelings and talents differ ;
and both form a striking contrast to the heads of persons
of amiable dispositions and elevated talents. The develop-
ment of Haggarts brain, as it appears from the cast of the
skull, is as follows :
—(Plate II. Fig. 3.)
1. Amativeness,—moderate. 19. Lower Individuality, \
2. Philoprogenitiveness,—large. —Upper ditto,— J
modei'
atc*
3. Concentrativeness,—large. 20. Form,—full.
4. Adhesiveness,—moderate. 21. Size,—moderate.
5. Combativeness,—very large. 22. Weight,—unascertained.
6. Destructiveness,—full. 23. Colouring,—small.
7. Constructiveness,—large. 24. Locality,—large.
8. Acquisitiveness,—moderate. 25. Order,—full.
9. Secretiveness,—very large. 26. Time, —moderate.
10. Self-esteem,—ditto. 27. Number, --moderate.
11. Love of Approbation,—small. 28. Tune,—full.
12. Cautiousness,—full. 29. Language,—full.
13. Benevolence,—large. 30. Comparison,—moderate,
14. Veneration, —moderate. 31. Causality,—full.
15. Hope,— rather small. 32. Wit,—full.
16. Ideality,—very small. 33. Imitation,— full.
17. Conscientiousness,—small. Wonder.— small,
18. Firmness,—very large.
( 380 )
X.-
—
On the mode ofstudying the Natural Dispo-
sitions and Instincts of the Lowe?' Animals.
By Mr Andrew Carmichael.
(Read 8th January 1821.)
A HE information concerning the natural dispositions and
instincts of the lower animals is still vague and uncertain,
in no ordinary degree. The phrenological mode of philo-
sophising is applicable to many genera of them, as well as
to man ; for particular parts of their brains have particular
functions ; and, in the case of the larger animals, much
valuable and accurate information may be obtained, by
comparing their habits and cerebral development. It was
my intention to have set about a synopsis for promoting
this object ; but my time is so occupied by business, that I
am persuaded I shall never make the attempt ; but I hope
that it will fall into abler hands. My plan was very sim-
ple. To form four columns, under the name of the ani-
mal. In the first column to insert all the habits, &c. of
the animal recorded. In the second, to reduce these to
DISPOSITIONS OF LOWER ANIMALS. 381
such of the thirty-three faculties of man as they might
most properly be ascribed to. In the third, to state whe-
ther the respective organs had been ascertained or not
:
And to leave the fourth for observations respecting the dif-
ferences between the male and female, and for pointing out
prominences supposed to be organs, the faculties of which
had not yet been discovered. Such a synopsis would ex-
hibit at a glance the whole of our information, and all our
deficiencies; but, in the present state of our knowledge,
the two last columns would be nearly blanks *.
• The foregoing observations were contained in a letter by Mr Car-
mickael, read to the Society, and were not intended for publication ; but the
Committee avail themselves of them, to call the attention of the Members
to a very important subject, in which a great deal remains to be accom-
plished.
( 382 )
XL
—
Phrenological Analysis of some of the
Maxims o/'La Rochefoucault.
By Mr George Combe.
(Read 1st May 1823.)
XX contributor to the Edinburgh Review, speaking of
La Rochefoucault, observes that his " maxims have
" done more than almost any other work to give credit to
" the unsocial sentiments, in which they who find it more
" easy to calumniate than to love their species, and indulge
" their wit at the expence of their heart, place their whole
" philosophy. La Rochefoucault had lived among the
" most licentious portion of his licentious countrymen ; and
" he generalized what might be partially correct. It can-
" not be said that any one of his maxims is absolutely and
" universally false, or that any one of them is absolutely
" and universally true ; and this latitude of opinion is what
" makes them dangerous. We have often thought that a
" good commentary upon his principal aphorisms, drawn
" from a more liberal field of observation, might destroy a
rochefoucault's maxims. 383
k
* part of their noxious effects, and reduce them to their
v *
proper value, by pointing out the cases in which they
" should be rejected or received.
1
'
(No. 6*9.)
Phrenology affords particular facilities for accomplish-
ing the object desired by the Reviewer. It not only in-
troduces to our notice a greater variety of primitive prin-
ciples in human nature, than arc recognised in any pre-
vious system of mental philosophy, but it opens up a re-
gion of study entirely new in the effects of the combina-
tions of the primitive powers, in different degrees of rela-
tive strength. A maxim, for example, which might with
great propriety be applied to one individual, in whom con-
scientiousness and benevolence were weak, mightbe totally in-
applicable to another, in whom these sentiments were predo-
minantly powerful. A commentary, therefore, pointing out
the natural characters in regard to which particular
maxims are well founded, and those with respect to which
they are erroneous, would reduce them " to their proper
" value, by pointing out the cases in which they should
" be rejected or received." I differ from the Reviewer,
however, when he states, " that it cannot be said that
" any one of his maxims is absolutely and universally
" false, or that any one of them is absolutely and univer-
" sally true.'' Some of them appear to be indubitably and
universally true, and others undoubtedly and unrestrict-
edly false. I shall therefore take the first twenty-two
maxims, as they stand in the original work, and add a com-
mentary to such of them as appear to require it, either in the
way of elucidation, or correction ; and to those which seem
either universally true, or too obvious in their application,
to afford room for mistake, no addition shall be made. In
rendering the maxims into English, I have in general a-
dopted the language of a translation printed by Whitting-
384 analysis o\
ham, London, in 180^, except in a very few instances in
which it appeared susceptible of improvement.
1. What we mistake for virtue is often no more than a concur-
rence of divers actions and interests, which fortune or in-
dustry disposes to advantage. It is not always from the
principle of valour and chastity that men are valiant, or
that women are chaste.
The same action may proceed from a variety of motives.
Genuine chanty springs from the sentiment of benevolence,
guided by conscientiousness and veneration, but a dona-
tion may proceed also from the love of praise. Hence,
if fortune places an individual deficient in benevolence,
but strongly endowed with love of approbation, in the so-
ciety of persons who bestow high encomiums on charitable
deeds, it is quite possible, that, to obtain gratification of the
latter faculty, he may give alms to the poor,—at least if
acquisitiveness be moderate in energy. Some individuals
in whom the organs of combativeness, secrctiveness, acqui-
sitiveness, firmness, and intellect were large, and conscien-
tiousness deficient, have become robbers on the highway to
gratify the former powers. Had fortune, however, placed
them in Greece or Spain during the wars for liberty, they
might, as guerilla leaders, have directed the same faculties
against the enemies of their country, and obtained the re-
putation of heroes. King Robert Bruce might have
figured in either sphere. The maxim, therefore, may be
correctly applied in individual cases ; but these are of rare
and not of frequent occurrence, as asserted in the text.
2. Self-love is the greatest of flatterers.
A powerful and ill regulated faculty of self-esteem, (ills
the mind with unbounded sentiments of self-excellence,
without reference to merit.
l
ROCHEFOUCAULT'S MAXIMS. 385
3, Notwithstanding all the discoveries that have been made
in the regions of self-love, there still remains much terra
incognita.
4. Self-interest is more penetrating than the cleverest of men.
The love of self arises from powerful faculties of acquisi-
tiveness and self-esteem, and these stimulate the intellect to
the greatest possible exertions to minister to their gratifi-
cation. " Amour proprc? here translated " self-interest,""
is frequently rendered " self-esteem" or " self-love,'' but
the phrenological faculty of self-esteem, operating by itself,
gives rise to self-satisfaction, rather than self-interest ; and
requires to be combined with an active acquisitiveness, to
produce the effects ascribed to " amour propre.
11
5. The duration of our passions is as little in our power as the
duration of our lives.
Passion is the result of the highest degree of energy and
activity of the different faculties ; thus, a passion for wealth
arises from excessive energy and activity of acquisitiveness,
a passion for fame from the same state of the love of ap-
probation ; the mind cannot vary the proportions of the or-
gans at pleasure, so as to reverse its own natural constitu-
tion, and render that feeling the weakest which nature had
implanted the strongest, and hence the passions will con-
tinue to exist independent of the will ; but if intellect and
the moral sentiments be largely possessed, the indulgence
of them in actions may be restrained,
6. Passion often makes a fool of a man of sense; and it some-
times renders a fool clever.
In the one case it overpowers, by excessive excitement,
an intellect naturally vigorous; in the other, it furnishes an
unwonted stimulus to faculties constitutionally dormant o^
feeble,
Bb
386 ANALYSIS OF
7. Great actions, the lustre of which dazzle us, are represent-
ed by politicians as the effects of deep design ; whereas
they are commonly the effects of caprice and passion.
Thus the war between Augustus and Antony, supposed
to be owing to their ambition to give a master to the world,
arose probably from jealousy.
8. The passion9 are the only orators that always persuade.
They are, as it were, Nature's art of eloquence, fraught with
infallible rules. Simplicity, with the aid of the passions,
persuades more than the utmost eloquence without it.
The propensities and sentiments furnish the motives which
impel the mind to action : Passion, in the general sense, is the
highest degree of their excitement : Eloquence, therefore,
without passion, must proceed from intellect alone ; and as
men rarely act from abstract considerations, independently
of feeling, such oratory must of necessity be little calculated
to rouse an audience to active enterprise.
9- So much injustice and self-interest enter into the composi-
tion of the passions, that it is dangerous to obey their dic-
tates; we ought to be on our guard against them, even when
they seem most reasonable.
The passions arise from excessive energy and activity of
the different primitive powers ; and the ardent desire for
gratification attending this state, constitutes their self-inter-
est. Injustice, however, does not enter necessarily as an
element, into their composition ; but their undue prepon-
derance produces a constant tendency towards it. Hence,
even the best sentiments, when passionately active, lead to
impropriety of conduct. In Don Quixote, benevolence, love
of approbation, and conscientiousness, assume the character
of passions ; and lead him, in seeking their gratification, by
the redressing of public wrongs, to forget the duties of his
private station.
10. In the human heart there is a perpetual generation of pas-
sions, so that the destruction of one is almost always fol-
lowed by the ascendancy of another.
ROCHEFOUCAULT'S MAXIMS. 387
If Nature has bestowed on any individual uncommon
energy and activity of a variety of faculties, one of them
may break out into excess as frequently as another is re-
strained, and hence in him there may be found the per-
petual generation of passion here spoken of. But if only
one faculty is naturally predominant, a single passion may
engross the mind, and it being once subdued, no other
would usurp its place. In general the miser feels no pas-
sion except that of acquisitiveness.
11. Passions often beget their opposites ; avarice sometimes
produces prodigality, and prodigality avarice. Men are of-
ten firm through weakness, and bold through fear.
No degree of acquisitiveness will ever generate the sen-
timent of benevolence-, and no degree of fear will become
intrinsic courage. Hence phrenological principle would
lead us to deny that any passion can beget its opposite.
Some faculties, however, acting in particular circumstances,
may give rise to actions that usually spring from opposite
sources. Thus, some persons confer favours on the pow-
erful, not from benevolence, but under the influence of a
far-sighted selfishness, expecting a double return. Op-
posite faculties may exist in a state of vigour in the same
individual, and the energy of one may stimulate ano-
ther into action, to supply it with the means of gratifi-
cation. Thus we are told that Catiline and the Duke of
Buckingham " were as covetous of the property of others
as profuse of their own."" If benevolence, love of approba~
Hon, and acquisitiveness were all strong in their minds,
and conscientiousness weak (which appears from history to*
have been the case), they would indulge the first two ten-
dencies without controul from principle, and this would be-
get profusion. Their wealth being squandered, the very
energy of these faculties would stimulate acquisitiveness to
B b 2
388 ANALYSIS OF
vehement action in order to acquire more ; and the impulses
of this tendency also being followed without controul from
conscientiousness, rapacity would be the natural result ; so
that such individuals would be both profuse and rapacious.
Excessive fear also, amounting to desperation, may forcibly
stimulate a moderate combativeness, and produce momen-
tary valour ; but in these instances passions only excite
their opposites into activity, and do not, in a philosophical
sense, produce them.
12. Notwithstanding all the care we take to conceal our pas-
sions, under the pretences of religion and honour, they still
appear through such flimsy veils.
Every propensity and sentiment has a natural language,
manner, and gesture, peculiar to itself. The most perfect
actor cannot habitually disguise these, or exhibit only the
manner of veneration and justice.
1 3. Our self-love bears with less patience the condemnation of
our taste than of our opinion.
14. Men are not only subject to forget benefits and injuries ;
they even hate those who have obliged them, and cease to
hate those who have injured them. The very attention to
requite kindnesses, and revenge wrongs, appears to them
to be an insupportable slavery.
This maxim holds good as to men who possess a certain
combination of faculties, while it is inapplicable to others.
If an individual possess great self-esteem, and little con-
scientiousness and benevolence, it is quite possible that he
may hate those who have obliged him ; because, while the
weight of the obligation would occasion a constant mortifi-
cation to his self-esteem, conscientiousness and benevolence
would be too feeble to produce the sentiment of gratitude.
If, on the other hand, self-esteem were moderate, and con-
scientiousness, benevolence, veneration and adhesiveness
rochefoucault's maxims. S89
powerful, the individual would never forget a kindness,
and never cease to love his benefactor. Men cease to hate
those who have injured them, because disagreeable affec-
tions of self-esteem and destructiveness, which give rise to
hate, subside naturally by the influence of time ; while the
higher sentiments, the sources of better feeling, when suffi-
ciently possessed, are ever ready to resume the sway. At-
tention to requite kindnesses, and revenge wrongs, is an in-
supportable slavery, only when the feelings that lead to
gratitude or revenge no longer animate the mind.
15. The clemency of Princes is often nothing more than poli-
cy, to gain the affections of their subjects.
16. This clemency, of which we make a virtue, is practised oc-
casionally through vanity, sometimes through indolence, of-
ten through fear, and almost always from a mixture of all
the three.
17- The moderation of happy people arises from the calm
which good fortune bestows upon the temper.
It arises from a well-balanced endowment of faculties,
placed in favourable circumstances. As a general rule,
good fortune, or agreeable external circumstances, have
a natural tendency to call the higher sentiments, viz. be-
nevolence, ideality, hope, love of' 'approbation, andjustice,
into activity ; while adverse circumstances repress them ;
and excite combativeness, dcstriietiveness, wr
ith the ani-
mal propensities in general. The crew of the Medusa
French frigate, before the wreck, manifested the former
sentiments, and were full of gaiety and joy ; after it, and
amid the privations of the raft, they manifested only the
latter faculties, and resembled demons. But there are
many individuals, on whom, owing to an unfortunate pre-
ponderance of the propensities over the sentiments, good
3<M> ANALYSIS OF
fortune operates as an excitement to evil. Nero must have
been such a one ; while there are others in whom the pro-
portions are reversed, and they preserve serenity of temper
even in the greatest adversity. Such was John Hepburn,
who accompanied Captain Franklin and Dr Richardson
in the Arctic Expedition ; and in his head, as I know from
examination, the moral and intellectual organs greatly pre-
dominate over those of the animal propensities.
18. Moderation is a dread of incurring that envy and con-
tempt merited by those who allow themselves to be intoxi-
cated by prosperity. It is a vain ostentation of the strength
of our mind. Moderation in the most exalted situations, is
a desire of appearing superior to fortune.
From observations in real life, I know that moderation
in conduct springs either from an absence of strong desires,
or from a good endowment of conscientiousness, cautious-
ness, firmness and reflection, controlling the impulses of
the mind. Moderation in prosperity is attributable chiefly
to conscientiousness. This sentiment, when vigorous, con-
tinually enforces the discharge of every active duty, and
opposes all aggressions by word or deed upon others.
Hence, a well-regulated course of action is the necessary
result of its preponderance in the mind. It feels the force
and beauty of the observation,
Est modus in rebus ; sunt certi denique fines,
Quos ultra citraque nequit consistere rectum.
The maxims of Rochefoucault afford strong pre-
sumptive evidence, that while he possessed great love of
approbation, secrctiveness, and self-esteem, lie must have
been deficient in conscientiousness : and to this defect in
his mind, almost all his departures from nature and truth,
in his maxims, may be traced. The present maxim affords
one striking illustration of this remark. An individual
possessing such a combination as I have ascribed to him ;
ROCIIEFOUCAULT'S MAXIMS. 391
would not feel the imperative call to moderation communi-
cated by conscientiousness, while he would be acutely alive
to the fear of ridicule and contempt. In his own mind,
therefore, the noble author would probably feel no higher
motive to moderation than the " dread of incurring that
envy and contempt merited by those who allow themselves
to be intoxicated by prosperity ;*"
but he erred in found-
ing upon his own feelings, a maxim to be applied to man-
kind in general. Madame de Maintenon says, that " he
" was an intriguing, supple man.'
1''
These qualities indi-
cate cautiousness and secretiveness powerful, and conscien-
tiousness deficient. She adds, " Yet there never was a
friend more open, more solid, or who gave better advice."
This bespeaks adhesiveness, benevolence, and intellect
strong; but I would suspect him to have been open, only
when he had no interest of his own to serve by conceal-
ment.
19- The misfortunes of other people we all bear with an he-
roic constancy.
20. The constancy of the wise is only the art of keeping their
disquietudes within their own minds.
This maxim affords another glance into the constitution
of the author's mind. If secretiveness, self-esteem, and love
ofapprobation, were large in him, he might appear constant
under small disquietudes merely, by the art of keeping his
uneasiness within himself; if, in another individual, how-
ever, firmness and conscientiousness were large, he would be
constant through natural constitution and principle.
21. Criminals at their execution sometimes affect a constancy,
and contempt of death, which is, in fact, nothing more than
the fear of facing it. Their constancy and contempt may
be said to be to the mind what the cap is to their eyes.
392 ItOCHEFOUCAULT'S MAXIMS.
Natural constancy in the near prospect of death arises
from a great endowment of veneration, hope, combativeness,
andfirmness, with a moderate cautiousness. With this de-
velopment death loses half its terrors, and real constancy
becomes practicable. If the proportions of these faculties
be reversed, and cautiousness be large, with hope, combative-
ness andfirmness small, the most abject terrors will be apt
to encompass the mind. With the latter development, the
fear of death cannot be pushed aside merely as a disagree-
able object of contemplation. It seizes on the mind, and
overwhelms it. If to large combativeness, hope, firmness,
and secretiveness, is added an ample endowment of cau-
tiousness and reflection, death may then be felt, by means
of the latter faculties, as truly terrible ; while the mind, by
the aid of the former, may triumph over it. In such a
case, however, the individual could not affect to despise it.
The maxim is, therefore, wholly erroneous. Independent-
ly of Phrenology, we would be led to conclude that the
man who possesses force of character sufficient to shade
death from his eyes, in the very act of execution, would
enjoy fortitude to face it bravely ; while, on the other
hand, if a criminal is so constituted as not to feel its ter-
rors, he will contemn it, because, to him, it is really not ap-
palling.
22. Philosophy easily triumphs over past and future ills ; but
present ills triumph over philosophy.
Present ills strongly affect the propensities and sen-
timents, and excite them to painful activity. Intellect or
philosophy may suppress the manifestation of the emotions,
but cannot make them cease to be felt. Hence such ills
triumph over both. Past or future ills feebly excite the
propensities and sentiments, and over them philosophy is
easily victorious.
( '.W )
XII.
—
Observations on Dr Barclay's Objec-
tions to Phrenology.
By Mr Andrew Combe.
(Read 3d April 1823J
JL/R Barclay, in his valuable work on Life and Omani-
zation, comes forward as the opponent of Phrenology, and
condemns it as visionary and unfounded. The object of
the present paper is, to examine shortly the arguments, for
he advances no facts, upon the strength of which he pro-
nounces this unqualified judgment. The phrenologists
state, that they have observed certain facts in nature, and
drawn certain conclusions from them. In order to refute
their statement, an opponent is called upon, by the dictates
of sound logic, to follow one of two courses ;
—either to dis-
prove their alleged facts, by shewing that nature is in op-
position to them ; or to allow their assertions to be true, and
to demonstrate, by argument, that their conclusions do not
follow, even from their own premises. Dr Barclay, how-
ever, is pleased to follow a course altogether different. He as-
sumes, without inquiry and without evidence, that the facts
3<H DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED.
have no foundation ; and he then proceeds to shew, by argu-
ment, that the phrenological conclusions are inconsistent,
not with their own premises, but with certain preconceived
notions of his own, altogether foreign to the question. The
result is, that he fights with a shadow, and the merits of
Phrenology remain exactly as he found them. The fol-
lowing observations, therefore, are necessarily limited to
pointing out the insufficiency of Dr Barclay"^ method of
attack.
His first and principal proposition, upon the strength of
which all the others more or less depend, is so very unte-
nable, that I am surprised at his stating it seriously ; and
if his whole subsequent reasoning had not been founded
upon it, I should have passed it over as an unintentional
mistake. It is as follows: that " voluntary organs, or
organs formed to obey the will, are not restricted to any specific
modes of operation." This proposition he illustrates as follows:
" The human hand/' says he, " is not limited to acts of be-
neficence, or to acts of cruelty ; it is equally subservient to all
the instincts, appetites and passions ; equally obedient to all
who employ it in the different departments of the fine arts, and
to all who exercise it in the numerous fatiguing and diver-
sified labours of the mechanic. An organ thus employed, in
such a variety of different offices, and executing each with
promptness and precision, might naturally lead the unwary to
imagine, that it is composed of a great variety of subordinate
organs, corresponding in number to the different duties which
it has to perform. Such is the conclusion wiiich one would
draw in reasoning analogically from the works of art ; but
such a conclusion certainly would not follow, in reasoning ana-
logically from the works of nature ; for although the hand be
composed of many dissimilar parts, it is not constructed on the
principle of a time-piece, whereof each index, as that for the
hour, the minute and the second, requires a distinct and appro-
priate apparatus. In the human hand all the parts are ob-
served to combine in each operation ; and it is certain, that the
varieties of its operations are not so much owing to the num-
ber of parts as to the varieties of their combinations ; the com-
binations into which they enter being almost incalculable,
while the parts themselves arc comparatively few, and easily
counted. Taking the hand, then, as a specimen of the works of
nature and of animal structure, and thence reasoning on the prin-
DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED. 395
ciples of analogy, with respect to the brain, ought we not tp infer,
that all the parts, of which it is composed, may also combine in a
similar manner, and be concerned in every phenomenon which has
been ascribed to it ? This inference," he continues, " it is true,
is not, and cannot consistently, be the inference of the phreno-
logists, who, upon the supposition that the brain is constructed
as man would construct it, on the principles of art, imagine,
that each specific phenomenon, or series of phenomena, is the
effect of a specific dwxpus, faculty, or vita propria ; and that each
faculty or vita propria has a specific system of organs, by which
it perceives, conceives, imagines and remembers, in a manner
peculiar to itself." Pages 373-4.
Is it really true, then, that voluntary organs " are not
" restricted to any specific modes of operation ?" If Dr
B. means merely, that such organs are not restricted to the
performance of any specific acts, no one will refuse assent
to his proposition ; for the same muscles which move the
hand to do an act of charity, may move it to commit a ho-
micide, by precisely the same function of contraction. But
if his meaning be what his words express, viz. that " vo-
" luntary organs are not restricted to specific modes qfopc-
" ration? every physiologist must differ from him ; for his
proposition would then amount to this, that such organs
have not received from nature any definite constitution and
functions ; but that muscles, for example, besides acting by
contraction and relaxation, which have hitherto been con-
ceived to be their sole modes ofoperation, may assume any
other mode of action, which the will, directed by the fancy,
may choose to impress upon them,—a notion too absurd to
require any serious refutation.
In the case of the hand, it is obvious, that all its opera-
tions are distinctly referable to the single mode or principle
of voluntary motion, or muscular contraction ; and there-
fore to maintain the analogy between its acts and those of the
mind, the whole operations of the latter ought to be equally
referable to one principle,—feeling, or reflection, for in-
stance, but not to two or more. The hand which ampu-
396 DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED,
tates a diseased limb performs an act of beneficence ; while
the hand which would cut off a sound leg would be the in-
strument of atrocious cruelty ; but, in either case, the ac-
tion of moving the knife is precisely the same, and one set
of muscles, acting in one way, is amply sufficient for im-
pelling it in both operations. But, taking the other part of
the parallel, will Dr B. himself venture to assert, that the
feeling of the mind which impels the knife is in both cases
precisely the same ; and so completely so, that we are bound,
by the mere force of analogy, to infer, that as one set of
muscles serve to move the knife in both operations, so both
emotions must be experienced by means of one and the same
mental organ ? This length he is bound to go ; for he feels
so strong in the force of his analogies, that he reckons all
direct inquiry into thefact superfluous. In this instance,
however, the analogy is scarcely in his favour.
I may observe, farther, that there is as great a difference
betwixt the feeling of benevolence and that of cruelty, as
betwixt a sound and a smell ; and as we know, that, in the
latter case, Nature has provided different organs for receiv-
ing the different kinds of impressions, we are led to infer,
that she may have followed the same course in regard to
the different internal feelings. Even in the case of the
hand, also, the analogy is in favour of this inference, and
in opposition to that of Dr B. This organ, besides per-
forming the function of voluntary motion, is also the instru-
ment of touch. If Dr B.'s analogy hold good, both func-
tions should be performed by means of the same corporeal
parts, and the power of exercising the one function, should
be always in proportion to that of performing the other.
Recent experiments, however, have shewn, that volun-
tary motion is performed by one set of nervous fibres, and
that touch is exercised by another, although both are in-
closed in a common sheath ; and it is also an indisputable
DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED. 397
fact, thai frequently the most exquisite sensibility of touch
co-exists with great deficiency of muscular energy ; besides,
that the one occasionally remains unimpaired, when the
other is entirely destroyed by disease. Hence, reasoning,
even from the analogy of the hand, we should be led to con-
clude, that wherever mental affections are dissimilar, and
disproportionate in natural intensity, they will be manifest-
ed by different organs.
Dr Barclay next proceeds to deny the existence of a
plurality of organs in the brain, because, says he, we
have no ocular demonstration of their existence; for "on
opening the skull, and examining the brain towards the sur-
face, where these organs are said to be situated, it seems to re-
quire no small share of creative fancy to see any thing more
than a number of almost similar convolutions, all composed of
cineritious and medullary substance, very nearly in the same
proportions, and all exhibiting as little difference in their form
and structure as the convolutions of the intestine ; nay all, when
unfolded, according to Spurzheim, in cases of hydrocephalus
internus, presenting but one uniform web of cineritious and
medullary matter. No phrenologist has ever yet observed the
supposed lines of distinction between them ; and no phrenolo-
gist, therefore, has ventured, in the course of his dissections,
to divide a hemisphere of the brain accurately into any such
number of well marked and specific organs. But, suppose it
divided, and each organ or system of organs to be presented
to another professed adept in the science, would he venture,
were they presented promiscuously, to distinguish, merely by
their foim and structure, an organ of one propensity from ano-
ther ; an organ of propensity from an organ of sentiment, an
organ of sentiment from an organ of knowledge, or an organ
of knowledge from an organ of reflection ? He would be a
hardy phrenologist if he did, as these organs are not distin-
guishable by any characteristic appearance like the organs of
sense.—On seeing an ear, an eye, a nostril, a hand, or a tongue,
no anatomist requires to be informed what these are, where
they were situated, or how they were connected, to be able to
say in what functions it had been employed. Their marked
peculiarities speak for themselves. No such differences appear
among the organs assigned to the brain."
Admitting, for the sake of argument, that what Dr Bar-
398 DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED.
clay here advances is strictly true, yet, it does not, in the
slightest degree, impugn the validity of the fact observed
by the phrenologists, that a particular power of the mind
is always found in connection with, and in proportion to^
the size and healthy state of a particular portion of the
brain. It therefore ought to have no weight as an objec-
tion. If Dr Gall had said, I perceive, in the anterior lobe
of the brain, a certain kind of structure, and I therefore
assign to it the reflecting faculties ; in the middle lobe ano-
ther kind, and I therefore assign to it the sentiments ; and
in the posterior lobe a third kind, which I conceive is best
adapted to the propensities ; Dr Barclay's objection, that
the form and structure of the whole brain were so exactly
similar, that it was impossible by these indications alone to
distinguish one part from another, would be insuperable ; it
would overturn the very basis of the system^ and explode
the whole doctrines on the subject. But, as already men-
tioned, Dr Gall did not found on such a basis ; for the facts
observed by him, and out of which Phrenology arose,
were numerous and apparently well established, long before
the idea of connecting them by a theory appeared practi-
cable. I might almost say, that even now, in his hands,
Phrenology still retains much more the appearance of an in-
teresting collection of observations on the connexion be-
tween mind and organisation, than that of a system of the
philosophy of mind.
But in reality, Dr Barclay's objection is not altogether
borne out by the structure of the brain itself. Dr Sr-UR-
zheim, in a letter to my brother, containing some remarks
on Dr Barclay's book, speaks directly to the point, whe-
ther it is possible to distinguish the different organs, an or-
gan of a propensity from an organ of sentiment, or of intel-
lect, &c. "Is it really true," says he, " that it seems to
require no small share of creative fancy, to see any thing
3
DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED. 399
more than a number ofalmost similar convolutions, and that the or-
gans are not distinguishable by any characteristic appearance f
"
" Dr Barclay/' continues Dr Spurzheim, " has my esteem asan
anatomist in general. His skill as a teacher ofanatomy also can-
not be called in question, and there is no doubt that he has paid
more attention than any other man of science in Edinburgh to
comparative anatomy. But as to the structure of the brain, he,
like many other anatomists, may be excused for having been
less attentive to it. I cannot help blaming him, however, for
deciding that such a thing is impossible, merely because
he has not examined it with due attention in nature. Phreno-
logists, in comparing the relations between anatomy and
physiology, admit as a fundamental principle, that the anato-
my of any part never indicates the nature of its functions.
The function of every organic part must be determined by ob-
servation, and by observation alone. The only question then
is, Whether the individual organs of the mind are distinguish-
able by any characteristic appearance, so as to render it possible
to compare them with individual sorts of mental operations.
I cannot say what Dr Barclay is able to do ; but it is certain-
ly easy to distinguish the anterior, the middle, and the poste-
rior lobes of the human brain from each other ; and were they
shewn to me separately, I should never take one for the
other. In the same way, I should never confound the organ
of amativeness with that of philoprogenitiveness ; or philoprogeni-
tiveness with that of sccrctiveness ; or the organ of the desire to
acquire with that of benevolence or veneration ; and Dr Bar-
clay may be sure, that, if he make it a study to compare the
configurations of the cerebral convolutions, and of the diffe-
rent organs, he will find great differences, which he has hither-
to overlooked. Moreover, when he shall see, besides, the dif-
ferent forms of the organs, that they are frequently developed
in different proportions, that of benevolence, for instance, large,
when veneration is small, or vice versa, he will have an additional
proof that the brain consists of a congeries of parts performing
different mental functions. It will not be denied that fre-
quently some convolutions of the brain are much more de-
veloped than others; and in these cases Dr Barclay ought to
observe, whether the functions which phrenologists ascribe to
the different parts, are not more vigorously performed by the
larger than the smaller organs."
To shew that Dr Spurzheim is able to distinguish one
organ from another in the brain itself, without the interme-
dium of the skull,—" an organ of propensity, for example,
" from an organ of sentiment, and an organ of sentiment
400 DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED.
" from an organ of knowledge,"—I shall shortly state a
case in which, without having seen the skull, he pointed
out the different degrees of development of the different or-
gans, from an examination of the size and appearance of the
brain and its convolutions.
On 1st December 1818, when engaged in the first course
which he gave after his return to Paris, a brain was hand-
ed in to him during lecture, with a request that he would
say what characteristic dispositions it indicated; and he
would then be informed to whom it had belonged, and
how far he was correct.
Dr Spurzheim said, that in such a case two things should
always be attended to ; 1st, That as brains of every size are
subject to disease, and many natural imperfections com-
mon to them with other organized parts, we must either
be previously informed of the temperament and health of
the individual, or we must draw our conclusions with the
proviso, that they will hold good only on the supposition
of his having enjoyed such a state of health and activity as
were necessary for the due operation of the mental facul-
ties ; Qdly, We ought to state distinctly, that, by develop-
ment alone, we can never predicate a man's actions ; as
these must necessarily vary according to circumstances.
We can only speak as to his natural dispositions and ta-
lents.
Having premised this, Dr Spurzheim proceeded to point
out the peculiarities of the development, although from
lying on a flat dish, the brain had considerably changed its
shape. He desired his auditors to remark the size of the
cerebellum, and the great development of the posterior, and
of part of the middle lobes of the brain, the convolutions of
which were large and rounded, forming a contrast with the
deficient size of the anterior lobes. The convolutions situ-
ated under the vertex, and towards the top of the head,
3
DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED. 401
belonging to the organs of self-esteem andfirmness were al-
so very large, while those of veneration and benevolence
were small. These peculiarities were so well marked, that
Dr Spurziieim felt no difficulty in inferring from the large
size of the cerebellum, that the individual would have " des
" dispositions fortes a Tamour physique.'" From the large
development of the convolutions belonging to the organs of
the lower propensities, common to men and animals, and
from the small endowment of intellect and moral senti-
ments or restraining powers, he inferred that " his natural
" tendencies would not be towards virtue ;" that he would
be what is familiarly expressed in French by " un mauvais
" sujet,
11
being a very comprehensive term for every variety
of bad dispositions, and that " he would be one to whom the
" law would be necessary as a guide C but not knowing
the circumstances in which he had been placed, he could not
say what his actions might have been.
At the conclusion of the lecture, a young man, an " eleve
" interne " of the Hotel Dieu, came forward and said, that
the brain was that of a suicide, who had died in that hos-
pital, and that the dispositions inferred by Dr Spurziieim
coincided perfectly with those manifested during life. As
I happened at that time to follow the very interesting clinique
of the justly celebrated Dupuytren, sm-geon of that Hos-
pital, whose patient he was, and as the case was interesting
both in a surgical and phrenological point of view, my at-
tention had been particularly directed to this very indivi-
dual from the day of his entrance to that of his death. I
was thus better able to appreciate the perfect accuracy of
Dr Spurzheim's conclusions, than if I had merely trusted
to the report of the eleve. To enable others to j udge how
much they coincided with the truth, it may be worth while
to enter into a short detail of the man's history.
The man had been a soldier ; and, for some crime or
402 DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED.
fault which he would never name, he was subjected to a
" peine hifamante" and banished from Paris to Orleans.
He there tried to obtain employment in his own trade, that
of a barber ; but the news of his disgrace having reached
the place, no one would receive him. He then suspected
his wife, who remained in Paris, of having concerted his ba-
nishment with the Police, and of having entered into a plot
to keep him at a distance. He thereupon resolved to return
and to kill her, and then to slay himself. He set out ac-
cordingly ; and, as he affirmed, walked the whole dis-
tance, without stopping more than a few minutes at a
time. He saw his wife, and attacked her with a knife
;
but, from her greater strength, she succeeded in defending
herself, and escaped. He then plunged the knife into his
own side, and inflicted a deep wound between the seventh
and eighth ribs ; and, on that account, was brought to the
Hotel Die\i. During his illness, he shewed the most deter-
mined obstinacy, and indulged himself in abuse against
every one, and particularly against his wife, and declared
that he would still like to kill her.
In his clinical lectures, Dupuytren often mentioned and
laid stress upon the " mauvais moral
1
'
1
of the man, which,
he said, rendered the danger ten times greater. He added,
that " Le malade s'impatientait contre tous les remedes, etait
" tres imperieux, et donnait un negatif directe aux pre-
" scriptions.
1''
The first three days he was obliged in con-
sequence to put him in a strait waistcoat ; and, at the
end of that time, he bee-o-ed to have one hand left at
liberty, to take snuff, which was granted. He instantly
tore away the dressings, and was again confined. He was
brought to the hospital on 14th, and died on 29th Novem-
ber.
On the morning of the 1st December, the cavities of the
thorax and abdomen were opened, but the head was left
untouched. When, on the evening of that day, the brain
Dll BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED 403
was given in to Dr Spurzheim, as I knew that one of the
elcves from the Hotel Dieu attended his course, my first
impression was that this must be the brain of the suicide
;
but, upon looking at it for a moment, I observed to a friend
beside me, that it could not be the same ; for the head of
the suicide seemed to be a small one, whereas this brain was
a large one. But I soon perceived the cause of the appa-
rent difference. During his illness, the patient lay always
on his back, with the occiput sunk in the pillow, leaving the
forehead alone visible ; and, as he could not be disturbed
during all that time, we saw nothing more than the front.
But, on examining the brain before us, the anterior lobes,
or those which lie under the frontal bone, and which we
saw, were found to be in reality very small ; while the pos-
terior, which were covered with the pillow, were, as already
mentioned, very large. It was the large development of the
posterior portion which gave the appearance of size to the
whole brain *.
If any one, with the view of ascertaining the appearances
of the convolutions, will carefully examine a variety of
brains, I believe he will not afterwards be disposed to as-
sert, that there is really so little difference among them as
he would be led to expect from Dr Barclay's statement.
Before my attention was directed particularly to this sub-
ject, although I had then seen many brains, I would have
been disposed implicitly to assent to his opinion. But, af-
ter carefully comparing a great number, with the view of
satisfying my own mind, I perceived the characteristic dif-
ferences pointed out by Dr Spurzheim, to which I had
• A notice of this case appeared in my Brother's " Essays on Phreno-
" logy ;" but the letter from which it was taken, having been written for
his private information, and not intended for publication, it was necessarily
imperfect. The account here given is translated from notes taken at the
time, of what I either saw or heard from the individuals themselves.
c c 2
404 dr Barclay's objections considered.
not previously attended. It is stated, for example, that the
anterior lobe of the brain uniformly presents convolutions
different in appearance, direction, and size, from those of the
middle lobe ; while the latter, towards the coronal surface,
uniformlv presents convolutions differing in appearance and
direction from those of the posterior lobe ; and, above all,
that the cerebellum, or organ of amativeness, is not only
widely different in structure, but is separated by a strong
membrane from all other organs, and can never be mis-
taken for any of them. Dr Barclay sometimes accuses
the phrenologists of using their oculi interni, instead of
their external senses ; but these differences in the appearance
of the different parts of the brain, have been pointed out to
so many individuals in the dissections given along with my
Brother's Lectures on Phrenology, that their existence can-
not easily be denied. Indeed the careful inspection of a few
brains will soon satisfy any one, that such differences ac-
tually exist in the different parts of the brain, Avhich, joined
to the fact of the development of no one of these parts bear-
ing any relation whatever to the development of the others,
would lead us to infer that each had a distinct function,
even although we had not the analogy of other parts of the
nervous system to support us. Has it not, as already men-
tioned, been lately proved by Mr C. Bull and Magenjhe,
that nerves, which, from their similarity of appearance, had
for ages been regarded as possessing similar functions, in
point of fact, had functions totally distinct and different ?
When Dr Barclay says, that " on seeing an eve, an
" ear, a nostril, a hand, or a tongue, no anatomist requires
" to be informed what these are, where they were situated,
" or how they were connected, to be able to say in what func-
" tions it had been employed,
1
'
1
and that " their marked pecu-
" liarities speak for themselves,
1 "
1
he appears to overlook the
fact that it is only in consequence of prior observations that
Dlt BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED. 405
the anatomist does not require to be so informed. The uses
of these parts were not discovered by intuition, nor by a pro-
cess of reasoning upon the mere presentment of the object
;
for no man who saw an eye, an ear, or a nostril, for the
first time (supposing it were possible for a man to be so
situated) could, merely by looking at it, infer its function.
In proof of this, I am much mistaken if Dr Barclay him-
self, on merely seeing an isolated branch of any of the
cervical nerves, for example, or of the fifth or ninth pair,
for the first, or even for the tenth time, could inform us
" where they had been situated," or " how connected," or
" in what functions employed,
11
or if he could point out any
" marked peculiarities which would speak for themselves
;"
and yet these parts are admitted to perform different func-
tions.
But Dr Barclay's argument fails in another respect,
that there is one at least of the phrenological organs which
it is impossible to mistake in any situation. I allude to the
cerebellum, which is as easily recognised as an eye or an
ear, by him who has seen it once. And, if the brain lay as
much open to observation as the hand, the eye, or the ear,
I have no doubt that the differences which characterize its
different parts, and the function which each performs,
would have been discovered long ago. But the cases are
widely different : for, even the anatomist, who confines his
attention to his own science, has but few opportunities of
minutely inspecting the brain ; and, having hitherto had no
particular motive for doing so, these opportunities were not,
in every instance, embraced. The phrenologist, then, in
endeavouring to discover the functions of the different parts
of the brain, by the observation of the relations existing be-
tween these parts and particular mental faculties, is only
following the same course which proved to us that the eye
was the organ of sight, flic liver the secreter of the bile, or
406 dr Barclay's objections considered.
the kidneys the secreters of the urine. And, by a close ad-
herence to observation, he hopes at last to be able to pro-
nounce as certainly upon the functions of the component
parts of the brain, as he is now able to do upon those of the
parts alluded to. Dr Barclay proceeds
:
" Perhaps this circumstance may be adduced as one of the
reasons why these organs have remained in concealment for so
many ages ; and yet this reason is scarcely admissible, consider-
ing especially, that these organs are never found at the base of
the cranium, nor in any place where they cannot at all times be
easily seen ; nay, it appears that they so affect conspicuous situa-
tions, and so prone are they to obtrude themselves on the notice
of the senses, that there is not any visible part on the crown of
the head, on the frontal bone, on the occiput, or the temples,
where, according to phrenologists, they do not exhibit, even
through the hardest and the thickest skulls, undeniable proofs
of their actual presence. Is it, then, in order to be always
within the sphere of physiognomic and phrenological investiga-
tion, that they equally avoid the central parts of the cerebral
substance ? But, if always thus confined to the surface, and to
the convolutions, for the sake of being seen, what becomes of the
corpus callosum, the septum lucidum, the fornix, the infundibulum,
the two commissures, the corpora striata, the corpora quadrigemina,
the pineal gland, the cornua ammonis, and the four ventricles? Are
these to be excluded from the number of organs, and not to be
permitted to have any influence on the propensities ?" &c.
The whole of this paragraph affords ample proof, if such
were necessary, of what I advanced at the beginning of this
paper, viz. that Dr Barclay uniformly writes under the
impression, that the doctrines of Phrenology are the mere
invention of Drs Gall and Spurzheim, and that they, and
not Nature, have assigned particular functions to particular
parts of the brain, and that it is therefore unnecessary to
inquire whether the facts stated by them are true or false.
So far from refusing to examine any new truth which is
alleged to have been discovered, on the ground that a part
cannot be true, until the whole is made known, I would be
inclined to put more faith in the veracity of the discoverer,
for not having claimed too much. In like manner, I regard
the fact of Drs Gall and SrURZHElM not having assigned
DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED. 407
functions to parts which are inaccessible to observation du-
ring life, in so far as it goes, as an irrefragable proof of their
good faith and sincerity, since, by confining their attention
to the observation of what is visible to all, they lay them-
selves completely open to refutation, if their observations
are in the least erroneous ; whereas, if the whole science
were a mere invention of their fancies, no portion of the
brain could be conceived more appropriate, or better fitted,
for the purpose of being divided into imaginary organs,
than those very parts alluded to by Dr Barclay, because,
being hid from our view, neither he nor any other person
could have had it in his power to verify or refute, from ex-
perience, the functions assigned them. If Dr Barclay
had kept in mind, that Dr Gall discovered the functions
of the brain, by comparing the development of its particu-
lar parts with the natural dispositions and talents of indi-
viduals, he would have seen the impossibility of assigning
functions to parts, cf the development of which he had no
means of judging, during life; so much so, that had Dr
Gall assigned particular functions to every part, whether
hidden or exposed, then I conceive Dr Barclay would
have been perfectly justified in concluding, that Phrenology
was a mere fiction or theory of its founder, which he endea-
voured to establish, by appealing to such experience as
" bends and accommodates itself
11
to his views. So much,
then, for the proneness of the organs " to obtrude them-
" selves on the notice of the senses."" As, from Dr Barclay's
statement, however, one might be led to suppose, that the
phrenologists deny the existence of any organs of mental
faculties at the base of the brain, it may be proper to ob-
serve, that, in their writings, they expressly mention their
belief of the connection of some mental powers with these
parts, although, from then- position in the living subject, no
decisive observations have yet been made to determine their
nature and number.
408 DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED.
Nor is Dr Barclay altogether correct when he says,
that there is no visible part on the crown of the head,
on the frontal bone,—on the occiput, or the temples, where
these organs do not exhibit themselves; or when he says, that
they are always confined to the surface, and avoid the
central parts. For even in the latest phrenological plates
and casts of the head, published in this country, a blank
space is perceptible between the organs marked 16. and 33.,
the function of which has been but lately discovered ; and
the latest publications state, that the functions of No. 3. are
still undetermined. It might be unnecessary to notice this
fact, did not Dr Barclay's statement lead to the idea, that
all the organs and faculties were marked out as they now
stand from the very beginning, instead of being successive-
ly discovered, as mentioned in the preliminary dissertation.
As to the organs being confined to the surface, Dr Spur-
zheim expressly and repeatedly mentions, and gives his
reasons for believing, that they extend from the pyramidal
bundles of the medulla oblongata, to the external surface of
the convolutions ; and he cautions his readers against fal-
ling into the common mistake, of supposing them confined
to the surface. He, consequently, proposes estimating the
length of the fibre, by that of a line drawn from the open-
ing of the ear to the circumference in the direction of the
organ, as the ear is found to be very nearly on a line with
the upper part of the medulla oblongata. Dr Spurziieim,
too, very justly remarks, that even if the organs xvcre con-
fined to the convolutions, and the energy of any mental fa-
culty depended on their size ; that fact would remain en-
tirely unaffected by our ignorance of the functions of the
central parts.
Farther, even supposing that we were entirely ignorant
of the uses of the corpus callosum, &c. the inference which
Dr Barclay wishes to be deduced, that we must there-
DR BAltC LAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED. 409
fore be ignorant of the functions of all the other parts of
the brain, appears to be singularly illogical, as will be still
more apparent, by the application of such a principle to the
other organs of the body. Would Dr Barclay, for ex-
ample, consent to be held ignorant of the uses of the lungs,
because he, in common with other anatomists, remains ig-
norant of those of the mesenteric or thymus glands ?
Would he consent to be held ignorant of the use of the op-
tic nerves, because he is ignorant of the functions of the
ganglia of the sympathetic ? Most assuredly not. Then,
why refuse to receive or examine the discovery of the func-
tions of certain parts of the brain, on the plea that we still
remain ignorant of those of some other parts ?
Even supposing the inference, that we must be ignorant
in whole, because we are ignorant in part, to be strictly lo-
gical, I fear that we must weaken Dr Barclay's premises,
by diminishing the number of the high sounding and for-
midable-looking, but really little things, upon which that
extraordinary argument is founded. We begin by sub-
tracting the itifundibidum, waAJbur ventricles, which, be-
ing mere Itoles or canities in the brain, and not substances,
cannot consistently be called organs of mental faculties, by
any one who has even the most superficial acquaintance
with the first principles of Phrenology. No one who had
the slightest idea of the new system, could possibly express
his surprise at cavities or holes not being received into the
number of cerebral organs, destined for the operations
of the mental faculties, " Nous ne cherchons pas les
" ibnetions particulieres du cerveau dans le vide, mais
" dans les organes eux-memes,"" said Gall and SruR-
zheim on a similar occasion *. Of the four corpora qua-
drigemina, two are known and admitted to be the origin of
* Recherches sur le Systemc Nerveux, &c. p. 1 G5,
410 DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED.
the optic nerves ; but the uses of the inferior two, each as
large as a small bean, are still unknown. The corpora stri-
ata appear to constitute a part of the organs themselves, as
the fibres forming the latter run through, and are increased
bv, and in proportion to, the great matter contained in these
bodies. The phrenologists, however, having no means of
making any physiological observations on the uses of the
other parts, viz. the corpus callosum, &c. are obliged as
yet to content themselves with what information can be de-
rived from an anatomical investigation of their structure.
An outline of this information may be given from an unbi-
assed authority, that of the French anatomist Cloquet,
whose work is in the hands of every student.
At p. 549. of his " Anatomic Descriptive," he says, " We
" have just seen how the hemispheres of the brain are
" formed by the diverging fibres ; but all theparts ofeach of
" these hemispheres are put in communication with the analo-
'*
gous parts of the other hemisphere, by a new order of me-
" dullary white and converging fibres, which arise from the
" grey matter covering the external surface of the convolu-
" tions, and constitute different commissures. It is these we
" now proceed to study." He then describes as the first of
these the corpus callosum, of which he tells us, p. 551, that
the cornu ammonis is merely a reflected portion. Cuviee al-
so speaks of one hemisphere " uniting with that of the oppo-
" site side by one or more commissures or bundles of trans-
" verse fibres, of which the most considerable takes the name
" of corpus callosum.'
1
''
Revue Encyclopedique, Nov. 1 S22,
p. 258. As to the septum lucidum, Cloquet describes it
as formed by the fibres of the corpus callosum, which turn
downwards at the raphe, and " thefornix is formed by
" the converging fibres of the posterior convolutions of the
" middle lobe ;""
and in this account he is supported by
most of the French anatomists of the present day, whose au-
db Barclay's objections considered. 411
thority, from the facilities which they enjoy of procuring
, fresh brains, and the use they have made of them, cannot
easily be called in question.
The phrenologists, in common with other anatomists,
give their reasons for believing these parts to belong to the
system of commissures, without attempting to explain how
they act ; and not having sufficient data, they neither pro-
fess " to exclude" the former from the " number of organs,"
nor attempt to explain what " influence they may have on
" the propensities or sentiments.'"' It may, however, be
worth while to^state, that the pineal gland, the inferior cor-
pora quadrigemina, and septum lucidum, with thefornix
and cornu ammonis to boot, would with difficulty fill up
little more than a cubic inch of space ; so that if the public
judge of their importance by the length of their names, the
estimate will be a very erroneous one.
The next quotation which we shall give, affords another
example of Dr Barclay's excessive liking for analogies,
which, however, owing toamuch greater facility which hepos-
sesses of perceiving resemblances than of distinguishing dif-
ferences, are too often vague, inconclusive, and inapplicable.
He says, " Another question also occurs, how does it happen,
that these organs (»". e. cerebral organs), seem to be destitute of
muscular action ? One should imagine, that those faculties of
which they are the residence would, beside deliberative organs,
require corresponding executive organs, to bring their inten-
tions, their resolutions, or their suggestions, when it is requi-
site, into visible operation. But where, it may be asked, are
these corresponding executive organs ? To this question no
answer has been given ; and should it be said that the muscles
of the face, of the head, neck, trunk and extremities, may, by
varying their infinite number of powers and of combinations,
be sufficient for all executive purposes, will not such an answer
lead to the conjecture, that a small number of parts in the
brain may, by similar combinations, suffice for all the species
of propensities, the species of sentiments, and the several facul-
ties of knowledge and reflection ? That State, he continues-,
certainly is not much to be envied, where there are more to
advise than to listen, and more to command than are willing to
obey. In all well regulated fleets and armies," &c.
412 DIt BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED.
In answer to the first question, I confess, I cannot see
what need the brain has of muscular action, on the suppo-
sition of its being a congeries of several organs, any more
than on that of its being in itself a single organ. If Dr
Barclay could shew, that, as a single organ, it has muscu-
lar action, and that it loses it as a compound one, then his
question would be quite to the point. The answer to the
second question is, that, in truth, the muscles of the head,
neck, trunk and extremities, act the part of the executive
organs ; because, without .them, the mind is incapable of
acting upon the external world. In this instance, therefore,
and for the first time, Dr Barclay's analogy holds good,
without his being aware that it does so. The " deliberative
" bodies,"' which ought to heJew in number, amount in
the phrenological system to betwixt thirty and forty facul-
ties; and the executive, which he infers ought to be
much more numerous, are so in reality ; —they include all
the muscles of voluntary motion, amounting to upwards
of 220 'pairs, the bones, ligaments and cartilages, all of
which are obviously essential to the performance of any act
prompted by the will. Here, then, to use Dr Barclay's
own Avords, there are evidentlyJew to advise and many to
listen, few to command and many to obey.
Having now examined in detail, the whole of Dr Bar-
clay's objections, and shewn, that they are not supported
by a single fact, observation, sound argument, or correct
analogy, I may, with propriety, proceed to make a few ge-
neral observations on the respective merits of the theory of
unity, and of the phrenological view of a plurality of men-
tal organs. Dr Barclay, indeed, does not very distinctly
announce any theory of his own, concerning the organs of
the mind ; but as he evidently admits the existence of some
organic medium, while he argues against the notion of the
organs being several, it seems a fair inference to suppose,
DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDEIIEI). 413
that he espouses the idea of unity as the more philosophi-
cal of the two. The proper way to attain conviction of the
truth ot either, is carefully to examine Nature, and compare
the result ; but as Dr Barclay seems to have an aversion
to this mode of enquiry, I shall at present follow more closely
his own method, and proceed to consider what presumptive
evidence may be drawn from sound analogies in favour of
either side of the question. I do this chiefly in deference
to Dr Barclay, who appears unwilling to repeat our obser-
vationsfor himself; and, therefore, has recourse to argument,
founded on analogies, in order to disprove their accuracy.
I i Phrenology, however, has a real foundation in Nature,
all sound arguments and correct analogies ought to coincide
with and support it; and, therefore, we have no reason to
fear the one mode of investigation more than the other.
We prefer the method of observation simply because it
leads to demonstration; whereas the other at best leads
only to probability.
To ascertain, then, in the way alluded to, as far as pos-
sible, whether it is Dr Barclay himself or the phrenolo-
gists, who have really been guilty " of forsaking Nature,
1'
and " of taking their model from art," I propose to ap-
ply his view and that of the phrenologists to such pheno-
mena of mind as are universally admitted, in order to dis-
cover which of the two best accords with and explains them.
This line of argument is fair to both ; for, as Nature must
ever be consistent with herself, and as the two views are so
opposite in themselves that the same facts cannot tally
equally with both, we may fairly presume, that the one
which appears best to harmonize with and explain these
facts regarding the mind, will be the true one.
First, Then, it is an undisputed truth, that the various
mental powers of man appear in succession, and as a ge-
414 dr Barclay's objections considered.
neral rule, that the reflecting or reasoning faculties are
those which arrive latest at perfection. In the child, the
powers of observing the existence and qualities of external
objects, arrive much sooner at their maturity than the
reasoning faculties. Daily observation shews, that the
brain undergoes a corresponding change ; whereas we have
no evidence that the immaterial principle varies in its
powers from year to year. If the brain, as a whole, is the
organ of the mind, this successive development of faculties
is utterly at variance with what we should expect a 'priori
;
because, if the general organ is fitted for manifesting with
success one mental faculty, it, one should think, ought to
be equally so for the operation of all, which we see is
not the case. The phrenologist, who observes different facul-
ties to depend for the means of manifesting themselves on
different parts of the brain, has no difficulty in reconciling
and explaining the fact by his system ; for one of these
parts may be prematurely, and another lately, developed,
accompanied with a corresponding development of faculty.
Observation, indeed, shews, that different parts of the
brain are really developed at different periods of life. In
infancy, according to Chaussier, the cerebellum forms
one-fifteenth of the encephalic mass ; and in adult age,
from one-sixth to one-eighth, its size being thus in
strict accordance with the energy of the propensity of
which it is the organ. In childhood, the middle and
lower part of the forehead generally predominates ; in later
life, the upper lateral parts become more prominent,
which facts also are in strict accordance with the periods of
unfolding of the knowing and reasoning powers.
2d, Genius is almost always partial, which it ought not
to be, if the organ of the mind were single. A genius for
poetry, for mechanics, for music, or for mathematics, some-
times appears at a very early age in individuals, who, in
3
DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED. 415
regard to all other pursuits, are mere ordinary men, and
who, with every effort, can never attain to any thing above
mediocrity. If Dr Barclay believes that these results may
depend on some difference of the immaterial principle, then
he must suppose the latter to undergo a change, which is
generally reckoned inconsistent with its nature.
3dly, The phenomena of dreaming are at variance with
the supposition of the mind manifesting all its faculties by
means of a single organ, while they are quite consistent
with, and explicable by, tlrat of a plurality of organs. In
dreaming, the mind experiences numerous vivid emotions,
such as those of fear, joy, affection, arising, succeeding one
another, and departing without controul from the intellec-
tual powers ; —or, it is filled with a thousand varied con-
ceptions, sometimes connected and rational, but more fre-
quently disjointed and absurd,—and all differing widely
from the waking operations of the mind, in wanting har-
mony, consistency, and sense. These phenomena harmo-
nize remarkably with the notion of a variety of faculties
and organs, some of which being active, would communi-
cate these ideas and feelings which constitute a dream,
while others remaining asleep, would, by their inactivity,
permit that disordered action which characterise the pic-
tures formed by the fancy during sleep.
In some individuals, of whom Condillac was one, cer-
tain faculties act with greater energy during sleep than
awake, because attention is not then distracted by the ac-
tivity of the other powers. Were the organ of mind single,
it is clear that all the faculties should be asleep or awake
to the same extent at the same time ; or, in other words,
that no such thing as dreaming could take place. Som-
nambulism, although in itself a species of dreaming, affords
a still stronger illustration. In that state one or more of
the externa], as well as internal, senses are awake, while
4>l6 dr Barclay's objections considered.
the others are dormant. In this instance we see that the
organs asleep and awake are different, as when a person
walks with his eyes shut ; but let us suppose that they
were as much hidden as the brain, would any man in-
fer from the phenomena that sight, smell, taste, and vo-
luntary motion, could be exercised by one and the same
organ, when he finds all of them in different states and de-
grees of intensity in one individual at the -same time ?
Never. Then, on what principle does any one draw a dif-
ferent inference from similar phenomena, when the internal
faculties and organs are in question?
At present, however, it is chiefly to the admitted phe-
nomena of what are called Partial Idiocy and Partial In-
sanity, that I am anxious to direct your attention ; because
these states of the mind are so plainly and strongly in con-
tradiction with the notion of a single organ of mind, that
Pinel himself, no friend to Phrenology, asks if their
phenomena can be reconciled to such a conception.
Partial Idiocy is that "state in which an individual mani-
fests one or several powers of the mind with an ordinary
degree of energy, while he is deprived to a greater or less
extent of the power of manifesting all the others. Pinel,
IIaslam, Rush, Esquirol, and, in short, every writer
on insanity, speaks of the partial development of certain
mental powers in idiots ; and Rush in particular not only
alludes to the powers of intellect, but also to the partial
possession of the moral faculties. Some idiots, he observes,
are as remarkable for correct moral feelings as some great
geniuses are for the reverse. In his Traite du Goitre et de
la Cretinisme, Fodere' thus speaks, p. 133., " It is re-
" marked, that, by an inexplicable singularity, some of
" these individuals (cretins) endowed with so weak minds,
" are born with a particular talent for copying paintings,
" for rhyming, or for music. I have known several who
DR bahclay's objections considered. 417
" taught themselves to play passably on the organ and
" harpsichord ; others who understood, without ever having
" had a master, the repairing of watches, and the construc-
" tion of some pieces of mechanism.
1
" He adds, that these
powers could not be attributed to the intellect, for " these
" individuals not only could not read books which treated
" of the principles of mechanics, but Us etaient deroutes
" lorsqucm en< parlait et ne seperfcctionnaientjamais? It
must be observed also, that these unfortunate individuals
differ very much in the hind as well as quantity of mental
power possessed. For example, an instance is given by
Pinel, of an idiot girl who manifested a most wonderful
propensity to imitate whatever she heard or saw, but who
displayed no other intellectual faculty in a perceptible de-
gree, and never attached an idea to the sound she uttered.
Dr Rush particularises one man who was remarkable for his
religious feelings, although exceedingly deficient in intellec-
tual power, and other moral sentiments ; and among the cre-
tins, many are to be found who scarcely manifest any other
faculty of the mind except that of Amativeness. The above
quotation from Fodere' also illustrates this fact. One is
all kindness and good nature, another quarrelsome and mis-
chievous. One has a lively perception of harmony in
music, while another has none.
It ought also to be observed, that the characteristic fea-
tures of each particular case are strictly permanent. The
idiot, who to-day manifests the faculty of tune, the feel-
ing of benevolence, of veneration, or of self-esteem, will not
to-morrow, nor in a year, change the nature of his predo-
minant manifestations. Were the deficiency of the single
organ the cause of idiocy, these phenomena ought not to ap-
pear ; for the general organ being able to manifest one
faculty, ought, according to the circumstances in which the
individual is placed, to be equally able to manifest all
p d
418 dr Barclay's objections considered.
others, whose activity may be required, and thus the cha-
racter of the idiocy ought to change with every passing
event, which it never does. Fodere' calls these " inexpli-
" cable singularities," and, no doubt, on his and Dr Bar-
clay's theory they truly are so. To the phrenologist, how-
ever, they offer no difficulty, for they are in perfect harmony
with his views. Satisfied from observation that each men-
tal faculty manifests itself through the medium of a sepa-
rate organ, it is as easy and natural for him to conceive
that one of these organs may be defective from birth, ac-
companied with a corresponding deficiency in the power of
manifesting the faculty with which it is connected, as to
conceive that the organ of an external sense, that of hear-
ing, for instance, may be imperfect from birth, while those
of sight, taste, smell, and touch, may either be unimpaired,
or may be impaired to a less degree. The difference in
the kind of powers manifested in cases of partial idiocy,
between the capacity for mechanics, for instance, and the
sentiment of veneration, self-esteem, or benevolence, is as
great as between the sensations excited by the perception
of a sound, a taste, or a smell. To infer, therefore, that
one organ serves for the manifestation of all these faculties,
is really much the same in point of logic, as if we were to
suppose all the external senses to communicate with the
mind through the medium of only one nerve, in spite of
the facts of many individuals being blind who are not deaf,
or deaf and still able to see and smell.
Although partial idiots manifest one or more faculties
more powerfully than others, yet they seldom or never ma-
nifest any with the energy of a sound mind. Consequent-
ly, according to the phrenological system, we ought, in
such cases, generally, to find the brain defective in size.
Now, Pinel, and many other opponents, inform us, that
this is precisely the case ; and in the course of my own ob-
dr Barclay's objections considered, 419
seivations, both on the Continent and in this country, I
have found the same fact to hold good in a considerable
number of cases. It does not always occur, because, al-
though small size is a frequent cause of idiocy, it is by no
means the only one. I may farther mention, that phreno-
logists, by actual observation, have found in idiots those
parts of the brain most fully developed, which correspond-
ed to the organs of the faculties most strongly manifested
by them ; and observation also, has, in some instances,
shewn the entire absence of those convolutions which form
a part of the organs of certain faculties, in which they were
deficient. Indeed, by comparing the brains and mental ma-
nifestations of some idiots with those of healthy individuals,
the conviction of a plurality of organs is almost forced upon
the mind, by the evident and distinctive characteristics of
each. In the collection of the Society, there is a cast of the
brain of an idiot girl, in which no trace of certain convolu-
tions, which, in the ordinary state, indicate the development
of the organs of causality, can be perceived ; while others are
distinctly recognisable. I have also seen in the possession of
Dr Spurzheim, a cast of a brain, in which the organs of ve-
neration were wanting, and a deep hollow existed in the cor-
responding situation.
We come now to the consideration of Partial Insanity, or
that state in which one or more faculties of the mind are
diseased, without affecting the integrity of the remainder.
This state, which is also known by the name of Monoma-
nia, appears, equally with the former, to exclude the possi-
bility of one organ executing the functions of all the men-
tal faculties ; for the argument constantly recurs, that if the
organ be sufficiently sound to manifest one faculty in its
perfect state, it ought to be equally capable of manifesting
all ; which, however, is known to be in direct opposition to
fact. Having, in a former paper " On Insanity, as illus-
d d 2
430 Dit Barclay's objections considered*
trated by Phrenology," laid before the Society a great va-
riety of cases connected with the point now under discus-
sion, I shall, on the present occasion, confine myself to the
statement of a very few instances, merely in illustration of
the proposition.
Offolic raisonnante Pixel thus speaks :
—
" Hospitals for
the insane are never without some example of mania marked
by acts of extravagance, or even of fury, with a kind of judg-
ment preserved in all its integrity, if we judge of it by the
conversation; the lunatic gives the most just and precise an-
swers to the questions of the curious ; no incoherence of ideas
is discernible ; he reads and writes letters as if his understand-
ing were perfectly sound ; and yet, by a singular contrast, he
tears in pieces his clothes, and bed-covers, and always finds some
plausible reason to justify his wandering, and his fury. This
sort of mania is so farfrom rare, that the vulgar name of folic rai-
sonnante has been given to it." Page 93.—A very striking in-
stance of furious mania, with integrity of intellect, will be
found, quoted from Pinel, in the Preliminary Disserta-
tion, and which it is unnecessary for me to repeat. I shall,
however, add another equally interesting case, from the
same author. " On ne peut concevoir la nature d'une cer-
taine alienation, qui est comme un melange de raison et d'ex-
ti'avagance, de discernement, et d'un vrai delire, objets qui sem-
blent s'cxclurc reciproqucment." " One lunatic," he continues,
" whose malady is of seven years' standing, is perfectly aware
of his state, and forms as sound a judgment of it as if it were
a thing which did not immediately concern himself. He tries
to make efforts to free himself from it: but, on the other hand,
he is convinced that it is incurable. If any one remarks the
incoherence in his ideas in his talking, he readily acknowledges
it ; but answers, that this inclination overpowers him so much,
that he cannot but submit. He adds, that he does not guaran-
tee the soundness of the judgments which he forms, but that it
is not in his power to rectify them. His understanding is much
more altered in another respect, that he believes himself above
all ordinary rules ; and he thinks, that if he once resolved to
approximate to other men in his conduct, he must begin by
doing most extraordinary things, from which the greatest evils
and even atrocities would result to himself. He believes, for
example, that if he wiped his nose, that organ would remain in
his handkerchief; that if he shaved himself, he must, of neces-
DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS. CONSIDERED. 421
sity, cut his throat, and that at the first attempt to walk, his
legs would break like glass. He sometimes subjects himself
to rigorous abstinence, for several days, under the impression,
that if he took aliments, they would suffocate him. What are
we to think of an aberration of intellect so regular and so sin-
gular ?"—Page 94.
I may, for the sake of illustration, mention an instance
of religious melancholy, which I saw, when attending
Esquiroi/s very interesting practice, at the Salpetriere of
Paris. It was that of a woman, who believed herself possessed
of the devil, and devoted to hell-fire. No arguments,
however forcible, could afford her any consolation, by shew-
ing the error under which she laboured. She sat absorbed
in melancholy at the prospect of future misery. If her at-
tention, however, was called to any other subject, she talk-
ed not only with perfect soundness, but with more than or-
dinary acuteness ; whenever any allusion was made to that
single point, she became incoherent and agitated. Esqut-
rol mentioned in bis lectures a remarkable instance of the
integrity of intellect, in a similar case. After endeavour-
ing, by argument, to convince the patient of her mistake,
she answered calmly, " Je vous entends tres hien,je com-
" prends vos raisonnemens ; mats sijetais convaincue, je
" serais guer'ie?
Nothing is more common than to see patients diseased
so far as to believe themselves kings, princes, generals, or
even the Deity himself, and yet act and talk rationally and
consistently, if their new dignity is not disputed. Some
shew a talent for mechanics, for music, or for poetry, which
they never possessed while in health ; and yet, in other re-
spects, are evidently insane. Rush, Perfect, Crichton,
Pinel and Esquirol, all mention facts of this nature ; and
I have had an opportunity of seeing them myself. In some
instances, from diseased activity of the intellectual faculties,
the patient manifests an energy and scope of reasoning
422 DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED.
powers, which he never before possessed. Pinel mentions
cases of this kind, particularly that of a man, who longed,
with impatience, for the accession of the paroxysm ; for,
during it, every thing appeared easy to him ; and he dis-
coursed on the political events of the day with great ease
and profoundness. Fodere', in his Traite du Delire, has
a passage which is worth quoting. " If,
-1
"
1
says he, " the
" imagination, for the most part, offers only disjointed sen-
" tences, and actions full of extravagance, one is astonish-
" ed, at other times, with the elevation of ideas, with the
" propriety of language, with the force of reasoning, with
" the dignity of carriage, and with the expression of some
" madmen during the fit, who, in the intervals, however,
" are but ordinary men."
In some nervous diseases, the patient appears to mani-
fest one or more faculties in perfection, while the others re-
main inactive. In the Journal General de Medecine,
vol. xl. p. 155. the case of a young Englishman is related;,
who " had an attack every other day, during which, al-
" though he absolutely saw and heard nothing, as was re-
" peatedly verified by experiment, yet he occupied himself
" particularly with mathematics, arithmetic, and loga-
" rithms, which were his favourite studies. His operations
" were rapid and just, although they required the most
" minute attention, and a strict sequence in the combina-
" tions. Every day new problems arose, which he resolved
" for the first time." I had frequent occasion to see a lady
who suddenly became insensible from a nervous attack.
After several hours she began to shew signs of returning
sensibility, and at last began to speak. The first use she
made of her tongue, was to give a very correct imitation of
the favourite tones and expressions of her most intimate
friends, many of whom at that time stood around her, la-
menting her early fate, for they believed she was dying.
dr Barclay's objections considered. 423
She was still insensible to any thing that was said to her,
but yet imitated so perfectly the voice and expressions of
each friend in succession, as to force laughter in the midst
of tears. To her friends it was matter of no small asto-
nishment to hear her mimick, as, when in health, she was
never known to exhibit that power in any perceptible de-
gree. I was aware, from a previous examination of her
development, that she possessed the organ much above
an average degree, but other faculties prevented any open
manifestation of the power in the form of mimicry. On
recovery, she retained no recollection of the exhibition she
had made, but appeared to think it possible enough.
It would be easy for me to multiply such instances as
these, of the partial affection of the mental faculties ; but it
is needless to occupy your time with more, and the above
are amply sufficient to shew the nature and bearing of such
cases. Here, again, the difficulty recurs, of reconciling such
facts with the idea of one organ executing all the functions
of the mind. How comes that organ to be able to manifest
one, but not all the faculties ? or, How does it happen that
these affections retain the same characteristic features
throughout ? That the patient who labours under religious
melancholy, is found the same to-day as yesterday, and
will be found the same to-morrow, for a month, or for a
year ; or how does it happen that a person may be insane,
and yet aware of being so ? If the single organ were af-
fected, surely all the faculties of mind, of which it is said
to be the instrument, ought in every case to be equally de-
ranged, and the patient ought, to pass in one moment from
an abyss of despondency to the abodes of bliss, from the
state of listless apathy to that of demoniacal furor. We
may be told that this is sometimes found actually to be the
case, and no doubt it is so ; but it is far more rare than the
other state, and is easily explained on the phrenological
424 Dit Barclay's objections considered
principles ; for, in such cases, the whole brain, including,
of course, all the organs, is diseased. This state, therefore,
affords a true picture of the nature of insanity, such as it
would necessarily be in every instance, if the organ of mind
were single. It must strike every one who has been at all
in the habit of seeing eases of insanity, or of reading histories
of them in books, that there is scarcely a single case to
be met with, which is, I do not say explained by, but
even consistent with, the division and functions of the facul-
ties assigned by the metaphysicians. Pinel, Crichton, and
many other very eminent and very philosophical men, have
laboured to reconcile some species of insanity to the meta-
physical systems, which they had severally adopted ; but,
with all their genius, and with all their unwearied industry,
they have hitherto laboured in vain. Whereas, not a sin-
gle instance will be found, which is in contradiction with the
principle of a plurality of organs, nor even, as far as I am
aware, with the existence of such organs as we consider al-
ready ascertained.
Besides the phenomena of idiocy and insanity, there is
also another class of facts (to which, however, I shall only
allude) equally at variance with the supposition of a single
organ of mind, viz. partial injuries of the brain, which are
said to have occurred without injury to the mental facul-
ties. Having in a former communication to the Society
examined these cases in detail, I need not repeat them, but
merely observe, that if every part of the brain is concerned
in every mental act, it appears strange that all the proceses
of thought should be manifested with equal success, when
a great part of the brain is injured or destroyed, as when
its whole structure is sound and entire. If the fact were
really as here stated, the brain would form an exception to
the general laws of organic structure; for although a part
of the lungs may be sufficient to maintain respiration, or a
dr Barclay's objections considered. 425
part of the stomach to execute digestion, in such a way as
to support life, there is no instance in which these functions
have been as successfully performed by impaired organs,
as they would have been by lungs and stomach in their
natural state of health and activity. The phrenologists are
reduced to no such strait, to reconcile the occurrence of
such cases with their system, for as soon as the principle of
a plurality of organs is acknowledged, they admit of an
easy and satisfactory explanation.
From the preceding considerations, then, it appears, that
any theory, founded upon the notion of a single organ, is
uniformly at variance with all that is ascertained to be fact
in the philosophy of mind ;' and that, on the other hand,
the phrenological principle of a plurality of organs, while it
satisfactorily explains most of these facts, is consistent with
all of them. Its truth is thus almost demonstrated, not by
far-fetched, or pretended facts, which few can verify, but
by facts which, to use Dr Barclay's own expression, daily
" obtrude themselves upon the notice of the senses." This
principle, indeed, bears on the face of it so much greater
a degree of probability than the opposite one, as to have
long since forced itself on the minds of many inquirers.
Foderl' himself, a very zealous opponent of Phrenology,
after recapitulating a great many reasons similar to those al-
ready mentioned, which had been employed by philosophers
antecedent to Gall and Spuhzheim, for believing in a plura-
lity of mental organs, is constrained to admit, that " this kind
" of reasoning has been employed ' par la plupart des ana-
" ' tomistes,
1
from the time of Galen down to those of our
." own day, and even by the great Haller, ' qui eprouvait
" '
le besoin d'assigner une fonction a chaque department du
" cervcau,' " &c. Pinel also, (in the article " Manie,1'
in the Encyclopedic Methodique,) after relating some cases
of partial insanity, asks, " si tout cet ensemble dcfails pent
426 dr Barclay's objections considered.
" se concilier avec Topinion (Tun siege ou cTun principe
" unique de VentendementT If, then, the majority of ana-
tomists, for the last 2000 years, and such illustrious phy-
siologists as Haller, and the others above referred to, were
led to the belief of a plurality of mental organs, by a per-
ception of the contradiction and inconsistency existing be-
tween the phenomena, and the supposition of the whole
brain being the single organ of mind, I cannot be far
wrong in saying, that the latter notion, although it may be
adopted by Dr Barclay, so far from being self-evident,
appears so improbable as to require even stronger facts to
prove it than the phrenological view.
Truth alone can always be consistent. No wonder, then,
that Dr Barclay, in his zeal to overturn our system, not
unfrequently runs counter to his own tenets ; for, after tell-
ing us that ' c
the phrenologists, in forming their system,
" seem to have forsaken nature entirely, and to have taken
" their model from art, and from art too in its most rude
" and incipient stages," he adds, that " to the observations
" made by phrenologists on the forms of the head, as in-
" dicative of the several powers and capacities of the ani-
" mating principle, if made with sufficient caution and ac-
" curacy, and iff the relations which they wish to demon-
" strate can be fairly established upon the broad principles
" of induction, there can be no rational objection" Would
it not, then, I beg to ask, have been much more philoso-
phical on the part of Dr Barclay, instead of endeavour-
ing to upset the evidence of facts by a priori reasoning,
and inconclusive analogies, to have tried, whether the
" observations made by phrenologists on the forms of the
" head as indicative of the several powers, and capaci-
" ties of the animating principle, were fairly established
" upon the broad principles of induction " or not ? The
phrenologists are well aware, from their own experience,
DR BARCLAY'S OBJECTIONS CONSIDERED. 427
that no man can form an adequate idea, cither of the solidi-
ty of foundation, or richness of superstructure of Phreno-
logy, without having gone particularly and carefully over an
extensive field of inquiry, and verified the results obtained
by the founders of the science. They, therefore, cannot
but regret that Dr Barclay, a gentleman remarkable
for his learning and liberality, should have allowed himself
to speak so decidedly on the merits of a subject with which
he was obviously very imperfectly acquainted, and still
more, that he should have done so, without having a
single fact or solid argument to support his objections.
They believe, that if he had kept in view the two leading
principles ; 1st, That dissection alone is insufficient to reveal
the functions of an organ ; and, 2J, That consciousness does
not reveal even the existence of the brain, much less the
functions of its parts ; he would have felt, that if he did not
chusc to refute by facts the doctrines of Phrenology, the on-
ly other way to produce conviction in the minds of such of
his readers as were acquainted with that science, was to es-
tablish the ordinary theory of unity of organ, by a reference,
at least, to such undisputed facts as were inconsistent with
the opposite principle of a plurality of organs.
Notwithstanding his never having repeated " the obser-
" vations made by phrenologists,
1
'
with a view to ascer-
tain their truth, Dr Barclay, in a passage immediately
subsequent to the above, proceeds to assure us, that ** their
" supposed organs rest upon a quite different foundation ;
n
and that " not being demonstrable in form or in structure,
" they must ever remain the mere offspring of a hypo-
" thesis ; and of a hypothesis, which may be disproved by
" a reductio ad absurdum? Keeping in view that the
phrenologists employ the word " organ
11
to denote any cor-
poreal part, (whatever its form and structure), which serves
as the instrnmcjit, " or is necessary for the due manifes-
3
4?28 DR bakclay's objections considered.
" tation of a mental faculty," it is difficult to perceive the
consistency between this observation and the preceding.
When the phrenologists assert, that a large projection
caused by the brain, in the middle of the parietal bones, is
indicative of a strong sentiment of caution, the Doctor sees
" no rational objection " to the fact being so, and only re-
quires evidence of its truth to believe it. When, however,
in conformity with the above meaning, the phrenologists
use the phrase " organ of cautiousness" to denote thefact
of that connection between the feeling and the particular
part of the brain, which observation has proved to exist,
he objects to this, " as a hypothesis which may be disproved
" by a reductio ad absurdum P'
To me it appears a ques-
tion of very secondary importance, whether the word " organ"
is rightly used in this sense or not, since the phrenologists
clearly define what they mean by it. If Dr Barclay, how-
ever, as there is much reason to suppose, applies thatterm only
to parts connected or divided in a particular way from other
parts, he is not on that account entitled to transfer his own
meaning to the word as used by the phrenologists, and then
accuse them of inventing what they had observed to exist in
nature.
On perusing Dr Barclay's observations, I at first
thought they required no answer, but on reflection I was
satisfied, that the authority of his name is justly so great as to
induce many, especially of his numerous pupils, to rely impli-
citly on his judgment, without examining the subject for
themselves; and it occurred that respect to him, as well as
to the cause of truth, and the interests of our science, ren-
dered it highly proper to prepare an answer to his objections.
I was encouraged the more to 'undertake this duty, from the
Doctor's professed respect for the phrenologists, while he
opposes their views. He expresses his conviction, " that
" they will not be offended at these remarks made upon
DR Barclay's objections considered. 429
" their system, but will acquiesce in them where they are
" just, and where they are otherwise, will be able to refute
" them, or be able to shew that he has misapprehended their
" meaning ;" from which, and from his well known candour
and liberality, I conclude, that he will be pleased rather than
offended with an examination of his opinions. The high
respect which I have long felt for him, increased by every
succeeding attendance on his lectures, would have effectually
deterred me from entering the lists with him in a controversy
on a question of mere opinion. But as Phrenology is not a
matter of opinion, but of fact, and one of high importance,
and as Dr Barclay"^ object and ours must necessarily be
the same, the discovery of truth,—I have ventured, with
much deference to his superior abilities and knowledge, to
submit to the consideration of the Society, such remarks as
appeared to be necessary, for forming a proper estimate of
the value of his objections. One acknowledgment the phre-
nologists owe to Dr Barclay, and I sincerely pay it. He
has displayed a truly manly and independent spirit, in fair-
ly committing to the press his objections, and publishing
them with his name ; instead of resorting to anonymous
abuse, which he would be ashamed to acknowledge, as has
been the practice of many of our opponents. His objections
have been publicly offered to us for consideration, or refuta-
tion ; and he fairly trusts to the merits of his arguments for
their success, and invites his reader to decide according; to
the preponderance of reason and of fact. Such conduct
towards Phrenology is as rare as it is honourable.
( 430 )
XIII. On the Phrenology ofHindostan.
By Dr George Murray Paterson.
(Read 1st May 182SJ
JL HE human brain, considered as the instrument of
mind, whether performing its functions within or without
the Tropics, is assuredly one of the most astonishing mira-
cles of creation, and one of the sublimest objects which Na-
ture presents to the contemplative faculties of man. By
the laws of induction, the comparison of cerebral develop-
ment with mental manifestation clearly demonstrates, that
diversities of faculty and feeling, among the same as well
as among different races of the human species, must posi-
tively be referred to diversities of cerebral organization.
The following memoir purposes to point out the differ-
ences between the cerebral developments indicated by the
crania of that ancient and peculiar people the Hindoos,
and those indicated by the crania of civilized Europe.
UN THE PHRENOLOGY OF HINDUSTAN. 431
(t
The form of the cranium," says an eloquent zoologist *,
" differs no less than the colour of the skin, and one par-
" ticular contour will run by gentle and deceiving grada-
" tions into another ; however, there is an undeniable con-
" stancy of character in the skulls of different nations."
" The cranium varies,
11
says that excellent practical anato-
mist Mr Fyfe, " according to the original form of the brain
" upon which it is moulded*}-.
11
The superficies of the
cranium, therefore, is the page from which we are to read
the varied development of the human brain ; and it may
be considered as the eloquent page of Nature, teaching us
" as one having authority.
11
The Hindoo cranium varies from the figure of a plane
oblate, indicating only negation and imbecillity, to that of
an irregular elliptic sphere, exprec-sive of mental activity.
In making sections of the skulls of this nation, irregulari-
ties in point of density of the plates frequently occur ; but,
for the most part, both plates on each side the diploe are
tolerably parallel in direction. The bones are more deli-
cate and brittle, and the absence of suture more frequent,
than in the European cranium. It is true, that adventi-
tious irregularities are occasionally to be met with, both
internally and externally, but are not easily confounded
with true cerebral development, by fingers habituated to
phrenological taxis. Such fortuitous excrescences or de-
positions, when they do occur, can no more hide the real
development of the brain from the phrenologist, than those
terrestrial inequalities, the Himalayan chain of mountains,
conceal the rotundity of this planet from the recognition of
the astronomer.
• Mr Laurence, Lectures on Physiology, &c.
•f System of Anatomy, vol. i.
432 ON THE BHRENOLOGY OF HINDOSTAN.
The norma verticalis of M. Blumenbach, furnishes a
most advantageous mode of viewing and contrasting crania,
inasmuch as it commands almost all the aspects of the
skull, and at one glance offers the most interesting points.
To facilitate this examination, we shall consider the organs
as they lie, under one or other of the bones composing the
cranium.
Those which chiefly concern the phrenologist are the
frontal, the parietal, the temporal and the occipital.
The portions of the frontal bone, which hang over the
facial regions of the head, are, in the Hindoo, neither so
high, nor so much expanded laterally, as the same portions
in the European. All the organs, therefore, comprehended
by these portions, are less powerfully developed, and ap-
pear much more crowded in the former than in the latter.
The superior-lateral and anterior- vertical portions of the
frontal bone, have not that bold curve and free expansion
in the Hindoo, which they enjoy in the European fore-head
;
but as the bone mounts to vault the brow, there appears as
if some few thin slices had been dexterously removed,
—
and yet this so very carefully, as if it had been done to
save appearances.
The parietal bone, where it meets its fellow at the sa-
gittal structure, and just as it begins to dip posteriorly, has
its vault less capacious in the Hindoo than in the Euro-
pean skull : where it unites with the petrous portion of the
temporal bone, and about the middle of the lambdoid su-
ture, its convexity is less in the former than the latter ; but
in its anterior-lateral, medial, and posterior portions, the
parietal bone in the Hindoo far exceeds the parietal of tlie
European in point of convexity.
The occipital is similar in the Hindoo to the same bone
in the European cranium in every respect, excepting that
the plenitude of the organs is more constant and uniform
ON THE PHRENOLOGY OF HINDOSTAN. 433
in the former than in the latter. The temporal bone has
its squamous plate more delicate and less convex, and the
temporal wing of the sphenoid bone is more concave in the
Hindoo than in the European cranium.
I found that length and breadth measurements, taken
from both my European and Hindoo skulls, accorded with
the differences of the respective bones, which I have just
described, and the norma verticalis of M. Blumenbach
proved the truth of these differences very decisively. I
placed upon a table, in a row, one Hindoo skull between
two European skulls, and one European skull between two
Hindoo skulls, alternately, with their zygomas perpendicu-
lar ; and I contemplated them a tcrgo, for several weeks,
for the space of an hour at a time. The inferences drawn
from these repeated comparisons coincided with those al-
ready deduced from the special shape of the respective
bones, and also with the length and breadth measure-
ments.
It is not my intention here to enter into the inquiry, how
far the Hindoo skull approximates in shape to, or diffei'9
from, the Caucasian, Mongolian and Ethiopic varieties of
man,—distinctions which the industry and genius of M.
Blumenbach have laid down ; for I consider these distinc-
tions by far too general to be of much service to phrenolo-
gical science. To discriminate, among vast varieties of
formation, the peculiarities which characterise the cranium
of a distinct race, is a task of consummate labour and nice-
ty, and perhaps it is better in the infancy of any science to
shun as much as possible all attempts at artificial classifi-
cation. Decision, and consequently generalization, ought
to pause till crania from every race of every nation on
the globe be diligently collated and attentively perused.
I proceed, therefore, to inquire, negatively and positive-
ly, how far the cerebral developments, indicated by the
e e
434 ON THE PHRENOLOGY OF HINDOSTAN.
bones of the Hindoo skull, accord with the mental manifes-
tations of the Hindoos * ; and, for this purpose, to avoid
" The Committee take the liberty of mentioning, that Dr Paterson
presented to the Society twelve Hindoo crania, in illustration of the present
Essay. They all appear to have belonged to adults, and were selected by
Ram Mohan Roy, a native of distinguished talents, and extensive informa-
tion, as affording, as nearly as possible, an average specimen of the Hindoo
skull. The'history of the individuals, and the castes to which they belonged,
are not known ; so that they are illustrative only of the general qualities of
that variety of the human species. On placing them in juxtaposition with
the skulls of Europeans, their inferiority in size is very apparent ; and as
size in the brain is (ceteris paribus) a measure of natural mental energy,
the national deficiency in the latter quality is equally conspicuous. The de-
velopment of the particular organs, indicated by these skulls, coincides very
closely with that specified in the text, as characterising the Hindoo in ge-
neral. Plate III, Fig. 3. represents a medium of the twelve skulls; and its
dimensions are as follows
:
Inches.
From centre of Philoprogenitiveness to Lower Individuality, 6£
Occipital spine to Lower Individuality, . 6*
Do. to meatus auditorius externus, . . 31
Meatus to Lower Individuality, . . 4
Ditto to Firmness, » . . 4 ?
Destructiveness to Destructiveness, . . 4&
Secretiveness to Secretiveness, . . 5
Cautiousness to Cautiousness, . . 51
Ideality to Ideality, , 4,
'
The letter of Ram Mohan Roy to Dr Paterson, with the skulls, is in
English, and to the following effect
:
" To Dr George Murray Paterson.
" Dear Sir,—I regret that I should have forgotten the commission with
which you honoured me, some time ago, and feel ashamed of myself for such
an omission. I now have the pleasure of sending you the ten accompanying
skulls ; and if you find them calculated to answer your purpose, I will, with
equal pleasure, send you as many as you may think sufficient for your pre-
ON THE PHUENOLOGY OF HINDOSTAN. 435
resting in any case merely on probability and conjecture, I
shall make use only of the twenty-four organs, which the
experience of Phrenology has established.
Knowing Faculties.—When speaking of the frontal
bone, I observed, that the development of its most anterior
portions was less powerful in the Hindoo than in the Eu-
ropean skull, and that the organs in the former appeared
more crowded. I consider, therefore, that all the know-
ing faculties are less active, while I maintain, from an im-
mense mass of observations, that the organs of individua-
lity, number, and language, are comparatively the most
fully developed in this genus of faculties. It is by indivi-
duality that a Hindoo is always so consciously alive to the
objects around him; that is to say, to their mere existence,
not to their relations. It is by this faculty that we chiefly
lead him ; and by means of this faculty, conjoined with his
constitutional sensibility, we are enabled to excite his other
faculties, and many of his propensities and sentiments. A
Hindoo frequently takes notice of the existence of objects
which escape the observation of his European master ; but
he never marks their relations. By his faculty of number,
how active, and, at the same time, correct his calculation
of simple numbers ; but how rare his progress in algebrai-
cal or geometrical computation ! What an active memory
of arbitrary signs he enjoys ! The prominence of the eye
sent researches. If you wish me to procure you skulls of different descrip-
tions, you will have the goodness to particularise them, that I may seek an
opportunity of meeting your wishes.
" Owing to a variety of engagements, I have not hitherto been able to fulfil
my intention to pay you a visit, an honour which, I hope, I shall be able to
do myself, without much delay. In the mean time, I have the honour to re-
main, dear Sir, yours most obediently, (Signed) Bam Mohan Roy."
« 10th March 1922." *
E e 2
436 ON THE PHRENOLOGY OF HINDOSTAN.
is characteristic of the Hindoo ; and his native language
abounds in signs, which he very easily remembers ; while
we see that these signs are more communicative of propen-
sities and sentiments than of ideas. In complex ideas, and
philosophical expression, the Hindostanee language is ex-
ceedingly poor.
The organ of form is but very slightly developed ; and
although we teach them to form the letters of the English
alphabet, and to write pretty well, their memory of forms
is very bad. When they wish to point out resemblances
in form, they must always lay hold of something, and keep
it before their eyes, for the assistance of their memory of
forms.
The organ of locality is also but slightly developed, and
their memory of places is very treacherous. Europeans
are well aware of their mental deficiency in this point, when
they order their bearers (the servants who have the care of
the wardrobe) to bring them certain parts of their dress.
They wait, perhaps, an hour, before they get the article ;
during which time, the bearers have been digging into
every drawer or trunk, having totally forgotten where they
had laid it, perhaps not an hour after they had put it aside.
They are not at all addicted to travelling.
The organ of time is, in general, even less developed
than those of locality and form ; there are, however, fre-
quent exceptions. They are fond of hearing fine music,
nothing being so grateful to them as listening to the airs
of a regimental band ; but their own songs are destitute of
melody, and are a mere monotony of recitation ; the subject
being generally love, or money, or a medley of both. Mr
Southey remarks, and, I think, with great justice, " that
" persons who are incapable of conceiving harmony, are
" affected, by music in the same way as brutes are.
1'
1
Reflecting Faculties.—That portion of the frontal
bone winch indicates the size of the organ of Comparison, is
ON THE PHRENOLOGY OF HINDOSTAN. 437
generally the most fully developed in this genus of faculties
in the Hindoo. It is mentally manifested by them, in their
strong propensity for similitudes, not in their powers of point-
ing out differences. The largeness of this organ, with a small
development of causality, is the reason why the Hindos-
tanee language abounds so much in metaphor, and is so
sparing of philosophical expressions of discrimination.
The organ of causality is most slightly developed. We
observed before, by his faculty of individuality, the Hin-
doo takes notice of the existence of phenomena, and this fa-
culty empowers him, moreover, to note their association,
yet he has a poor conception of causation. This defect
appears to be one of the reasons why he manifests the feel-
ings of surprise and astonishment upon so many occasions.
It is a vulgar saying, " Surprise is ignorance ;" but Phre-
nology proves its truth.
That portion of the bone which indicates the organ of
wit, slopes off; a Hindoo frequently laughs, not from any
thing wittily said by himself or others, but from something
said or done which agreeably affects some of his predomi-
nant propensities or sentiments. He seldom laughs invo-
luntarily. Now, involuntary laughter is that species of
laughter which the sallies of wit irresistibly generate.
The organ of imitation is moderately developed. I have
not met with many natives who excelled in mimickry ; but
several of my brother officers in India have assured me,
that, in the upper provinces, they have seen many Hin-
doos surpass any actor they had ever witnessed on the
London boards, both by gesture and intonation, in point of
mimickry.
Sentiments.—Benevolence.-—Where the frontal bone
mounts to vault the forehead, I have said that it is manifestly
deficient in the Hindoo. There is a wide difference between a
passive, peaceable forbearance, and an active percussive zeal
438 ON THE PHRENOLOGY OF HINODSTAN.
for the interests of others. Now, I maintain, that the Hin-
doo possesses the former, while he is wholly destitute of the
latter. We must be always on our guard to discriminate
between the mere constitutional sensibility of the Hindoo
and genuine charity. Mr Southey judiciously remarks,
" that there is a vast gap betwixt mere sensibility and true
" benevolence ;""
and he also gives us a touchstone, by
which we may distinguish them ; for he adds, " the latter
" always involves the idea and practice of self-dcnial.
,1
A
Hindoo cannot comprehend the meaning of the words,
" disinterested action j
11
and if, at any time, by beating it
into his head, he arrives at the cold, theoretical conception
of the phrase, he would smile, and consider the person
who practised such actions as a bura pag, hid, a great
ninny. A Hindoo rarely denies himself any thing for the
comfort of another, unless he sees it will ultimately affeet
agreeably his propensities of amativencss, pliUoprogemtivc-
faess, secretiveness, and covetlveness. His passive mildness,
then, is the effect of the attenuated activity of the organ
under consideration, combined with his love of domestic
tranquillity, and his deficiency of the organs of combative-
ncss and destructiveness, as will afterwards be more fully
detailed.
Veneration.—I was first led to pay attention to the Phre-
nology of India, by one day accidentally observing in one of
my bearers, a Hindoo of genuine descent, a very large promi-
nence on the coronal superior surface of his head, the loca-
lity of this organ. His name was Adam, a native of the
province of Bahar. This man was more devoted to open acts
of worship than any disciple of Vishnu I had ever seen.
In his long recitations of adoration, he stood quite erect,
muttered his words very fast, and his eyes were in per-
petual motion ; now shutting them and squeezing them hard
together, now casting them upon the ground, now upon
ON THE PHRENOLOGY OF H1NDOSTAN. 439
the sky. This man was my under-bearer for the space of
four months ; and I seldom went out of my budgeerow (a
boat), when on duty on the Ganges, or out of my bungalo
(cottage), when in cantonments, without seeing or hearing
Adam at his devotions. However, the full development of
this organ is by no means a national peculiarity. The Brah-
mins, who are the clerical part of the Hindoo community,
have this organ more fully developed than the inferior
castes ; but, indeed, the head of a Brahmin is altogether
superior in organization to the other castes. The more
constant degree of development of this sentiment, drawn
from the sum of my inductions, is very moderate, through-
out all the provinces of Hindostan.
Hindoos believe in transmigration ; their mythology has
some resemblance to that of the Egyptians. They believe
water to be the element of Avhich the world was formed,
though not exactly according to the Wemerians ; they in-
flict severe punishments upon themselves to appease their
gods ; and they pay a peculiar veneration to the cow, and
have abundance of idols.
Ideality.—This organ is rather more than moderately
developed in the Hindoo. How is it mentally manifested ?
I have observed in the course of my extensive manipula-
tions in the bazars, that there is a relation between the de-
gree of development of this organ and the mental manifes-
tation of credulity *. Their poetical effusions are highly in-
flated, florid and allegorical; but devoid of any sentiment to
affect the heart. They are not sufficiently moral for the pro-
When Dr Paterson left Europe, the faculty of " Wonder" was not ascer-
tained ; and, as the organ lies next to, and immediately above, that of
Ideality, it might not be distinguished, in his observations, from the latter.
" Wonder" and Hope are now discovered to give a natural tendency to
credulity.
440 ON THE PHRENOLOGY OF HINDOSTAN.
duction of good poetry. I am exactly of Strabo's opinion,
that a good poet must first be a good man. " Ovx. otov oy«t-
n dov ytnaSxt Tcowtf, {Ml 7T£ori£ov yiVY)&ivTx xvogcc ecyxdov."
Firmness.—I have frequently found this organ little de-
veloped, frequently fully developed. I am at a loss, there-
fore, to fix its constancy of size in the Hindoo. I must,
therefore, wait the result of farther experience. The Hin-
doo character on this point, as far as my knowledge extends
at present, is that of fickleness.
The organs of self-esteem and love of approbation are
generally very fully developed in this nation. External
circumstances are totally inadequate to explain why this
people have such a high opinion of themselves. They have
no secular or titular rank among them*. The pride of
caste, however, is a sentiment quite catholic throughout
every district of Hindostan. " There is scarcely a crea-
" ture,
r>
Mr Hamilton remarks, " so wretched or so igno-
" rant, but who, on this account, holds in the utmost con-
" tempt many persons in easy circumstances, and respect-
" able situations." All the motions of their body are in the
direction of this organ ; and their deportment clearly im-
plies self-importance. They are greedy of adulation, and
have a passionate desire for gaudy trinkets to adorn their
bodies. Their love of approbation, however, generally
aspires only to things of frivolous moment ; and, as Lady
Irwin says, truly, " their heads are toy-shops, filled with
" trifling wares.
1'
Cautiousness.—The portion of the parietal bone situated
over the region of this organ, is uniformly very protuberant;
and indeed, if the head be uncovered, this peculiar angularity
of shape may be perceived at a great distance. I conceive
• Veneration, which Dr Paterson calls moderate in the Hindoo, seem*
to !>p essential to the establishment of titles, at least of hereditary titles.
ON TIIE PHRENOLOGY OF HINDOSTAN. 4-11
it is to this superior development that the national timidity
of this people must be attributed.
Propensities.—Amatlvencss. —The Hindoo cerebellum
is uniformly well developed. How is it manifested in the life
and character of the people ? The well knownjealousy of this
nation originates merely in a disagreeable affection of their
amativeness; the great activity ofwhich, conjoined with large
self-esteem, Jove of approbation, and acquisitiveness, all of
them highly selfish propensities, is well known to give the
tendency to jealousy in love. Polygamy and unnatural
desires abound. The swarms of children in the villages
and towns, strike every stranger with astonishment. I
could here enumerate many hundred anecdotes on the hor-
rid abuses of this propensity; but we shall cease to be
alarmed or surprised at the voluminous catalogue, when we
recollect, that the poor Hindoo is not blessed with Christian
Revelation, and that, from what we have already said on the
development of the frontal bone, he has not much reflecting
power to control the innate fury of this sometimes irresis-
tible propensity.
Phihprogenitiveness. — This organ is uniformly very
fully developed in the Hindoo. According to my obser-
vations, males and females possess it in the same propor-
tion. It is manifested by the Hindoos in their predilection
for domestic quiet ; the happiness they seem to feel when
surrounded by their children ; in their terms of endear-
ment ; in the spirit of their lullabies ; and in their frequent
and ardent embraces. A group of native children, quite
naked, running and jumping about, full of play, sensibility,
and innocence, is a most interesting sight. Childhood is
with them undoubtedly the heyday of their contracted span.
On seeing such a group, I have often exclaimed with
"Rogers :
—
442 ON THE PHRENOLOGY OF HINDOSTAN.
" Ah ! who, when fading of itself away,
" Would cloud the sunshine of their little day.
" Now is the May of life, careering round,
" Joy wings their feet, joy lifts them from the ground."
Constructiveness.—At the assigned localities of this or-
gan, the bones are convex in the slightest degree. This is
the most constant degree of development which the organ
possesses. I have manipulated many Hindoo heads, where
this organ was more than moderately developed. Indeed,
during my earlier phrenological studies in India, I was in-
duced to look upon this organ as generally well developed.
In the course of my researches, however, I found my er-
ror ; and, at the same time, a beautiful confirmation of the
functions of the organ being perfectly ascertained. I be-
gan my phrenological manipulations in India, at a small
town on the banks of the Ganges, called Fort Monghyr ;
and, from the heads of the inhabitants of that populous
town and neighbourhood, I took my first phrenological
notes. My observations in this town, tended to prove that
the organ of constriiciivencss was more than moderately
developed ; and, in my first report to the Asiatic Society at
Calcutta, I mentioned its degree of development according-
ly. It is a very singular fact, that this town of Monghyr
has been long noted for its superiority in cutlery, gun-
making, tools, and a great variety of utensils and articles
that are the result of mechanical construction. I was not
aware of this being the case, till a long time after I had left
Monghyr. I mention this circumstance, because it is use-
ful to the interests of the science. When this organ acts in
binary concert with the sentiment of veneration or super-
stition, then temples and idols, though very simple in them-
selves, are their most complicated performances.
Combativeness and Dcstrvctivcncss.—The bone at the
locality assigned to the organ of combativeness is near-
ly flat ; while at that assigned to the organ of destructive-
ON THE PHRENOLOGY OF HINDOSTAN. 443
ness the bone is cither quite flat, or indicates a slight degree
of concavity. In consequence of the high situation of the
cars of this nation, some art is required in order to obtain an
accurate idea of the development of the last mentioned organ,
in the living subject. A Hindoo is averse to fighting except-
ing it be with his tongue. He is seldom attaeked, and there-
fore he seldom exercises the little combativeness he possesses.
Pugilism is rare in Hindostan. The organ of language
appears to excite this weak organ the most powerfully. A
Hindoo is not naturally inclined to destroy animal life ; he
is scarcely a carnivorous animal ; and he has a tender and
delicate care over the life and feeling of the most insignifi-
cant insect, or animalcule.
Acquisitiveness and Secretiveness.—The parietal bone
is most fully developed in the regions which are the lo-
calities of the organs now under consideration. How, then,
is this greater cerebral development manifested by the mind
of the Hindoo ? I might answer this question in a verv few
words, by replying, that Hindoo was only another term for
falsehood, and that love of money is his darling propensity.
But I will particularise.—A Hindoo will gratify his love of
scerecy and his desire of gain at the same time. How does
he pilfer from his European master ? If a servant wishes to
aggrandise himself at the expense of his master's sugar-
candy, his tea, or his money, he will not steal and secrete a
pound of sugar, or a pound of tea, or twenty rupees. No
!
he will filch a small bit of sugar-candy at tea, a second at
tiffin (Indian lunch), and a third at dinner; these he will
secrete till they accumulate, and then he will sell them. In
the same way he will treat the tea, and the pice (copper
coins), and any other article that will admit of a similar in-
sensible mode of abstraction. A Hindoo is even proud of
his accomplishment in the art of deceiving. Sir William
Jones has been heard to say that in the bazars of Calcutta
444 ON THE PHRENOLOGY OF HINDOSTAN-
he could purchase affidavits cheaper than asparagus. Like
Iago, who ever made his fool his purse, a Hindoo is now
assigning one motive, now a second, now a third, for his
conduct, all the mere fictions of his hypocrisy. All this de-
ceit and covetiveness is thickly covered over with a smooth
flattering tongue, and the utmost suavity of address. In
walking through the bazars, and observing this traffic of
dissimulation, I used to repeat the following lines of Milton
in the second book of the Paradise Lost
:
" But all is false and hollow ; tho' their tongue
" Drop manna ; and can make the worse appear
" The better reason, to perplex and dash
" Maturest councils ; yet their thoughts are low,
" To vice industrious ; but to nobler deeds
" Tim'rous and slothful."
Guided by a sense of anatomical and phrenological truth,
and by a love of freedom from the servitude of the schools,
I have thus endeavoured, as briefly and clearly as possible,
negatively and positively, to point out the concordance of
the mental manifestations of the Hindoos with their cere-
bral developments, and I have assigned to each organ, its
appropriate sphere of action. But as Paul in his beautiful
Epistle to the Corinthians writes, " As the eye cannot say
" to the hand I have no need of thee, nor the head to the
" feet I have no need of thee," so no organ of the brain
can say to another I have no need of thee. In other words,
we must not only allot to each organ its appropriate but
also its relative share of action. But, it is evident there
can be no fixed rules laid down for ascertaining the mutual
action of the feelings and faculties, on account of the end-
less variations of circumstance. The just discrimination of
reciprocal influences and modes of reaction must be left to
the sound judgment of the observer.
Lastly, There is no field so ample for an inquiry into
Oriental Phrenology as the Bazars of Calcutta, where na-
ON THE rHRENOLOGY OF HINDOSTAN. 443
lives from all the provinces of Hindostan, and from all
quarters of Asia, are to be found. I have manipulated
Hindoos of every province from Cashmere to Cape Como-
rin, and from the banks of the Indus to the forests of Ara-
can ; and the sum of my inductions from the immense mass
of observations I have made tends to prove, that the brain
is superiorly organised in those provinces of Hindostan that
have been longest subjected to the invasions of Maho-
medans.
Hindostan Proper has been longest subjected to the
Mussulmans, and the brain in the provinces of this division
enjoys a superior organization to the provinces of the other
divisions. In the provinces of the Deccan of India, the
brain is less perfect in organization, still less perfect in the
provinces of the Mysore, while the cerebral organization of
the natives of northern Hindostan is the least perfect of all.
If then, superior cerebral organization, and consequently ci-
vilization, has been acquired in a great part of Hindostan by
the presence of the disciples of Mahomet, with all their over-
bearing insolence, superstition and sensuality, what may
we not expect in the lapse of centuries from the impartial
administration of justice, and the annihilation of tyranny ?
The processes of Nature are slow, but sure. Generations
are necessary for such great innate changes as those of cere-
bral organization, and our period of existence on earth
being so limited is unable to trace them ; and the real
causes of such alterations are too apt to be overlooked, nay
are frequently altogether denied. From the administration
of British justice, and I fervently hope from the light of
the Gospel, Hindoos in British India will change in cere-
bral organization, and consequently in mental manifestation,
and will be very different from Hindoos subjected to the
caprices of a native power. In a province contiguous to
Bengal, the province of Orissa there is now a living ex-
446 ON THE PHRENOLOGY OF HINHOSTAN.
ample of the truth I have been urging. In one part of
this province, where there never have been many Mussul-
mans, and where there are no British, the organization of
the brain is very imperfect, and here we find Hindoo man-
ners in primitive purity ; whereas in that part of the pro-
vince possessed by the British, and inhabited by many
Mussulmans, the organization of the brain is very superior,
and the manners so much improved and civilized, that the
Hindoos in this part seem a distinct variety. If the pre-
judices and superstitions of the Hindoos were rooted out,
their temperate life is well adapted for the reception and
practice of the Christian Religion, as affording that healthy
and peaceable organic idiosyncrasy, which has the best in-
fluence over all the faculties, sentiments, and propensities
of Man.
Insane Hospital.
An Indian madhouse is rather a picture of passive im-
becillity, than a heart-rending scene of raving mania, or of
moping melancholy. During my residence in Calcutta,
there were very few acute cases of derangement in the
Asylum. Many of the patients had been sent from the
streets and roads, labouring under temporary fits of insanity,
from drinking toddy and smoking bang. These were dis-
charged whenever their temporary alienation subsided. The
house is built in the fonn of an oblong, and besides com-
modious cells, has three large courts, kitchen-garden, and
spacious lawn, for exercising the patients in the cool of the
morning and evening. My excellent friend Mr Pemble
Strong, the Surgeon of the Twenty-four Pergunuahs, was
doing duty at the Institution, and he was extremely zealous
for the comfort of his patients, and very attentive to their
distribution, according to the different degrees, shades, and
ON THE PHRENOLOGY OF HINDOSTAN. 447
peculiarities of their malady. This gentleman, under whose
hospitable roof I lived during the major part of my stay
in the Indian metropolis, afforded me every assistance in
his power in forwarding my phrenological studies. On my
recommendation, Mr Strong adopted a plan of noting down
in the diary of the institution any peculiarities of develop-
ment, whether positive or negative, in the different aspects
of the skull, which he might observe when he examined a
patient for admission. This is a plan which I would seri-
ously recommend to be adopted, by all those who have the
management of Lunatic Asylums in the British Empire.
It is a knowledge easily obtained ; at all events it can do no
harm ; as for my own part, I am confident such knowledge
will often lead to a successful method of treatment ; for I
am decidedly of this opinion, that, as indigestion and dys-
pepsia to the stomach, cough or asthma to the lungs, so,
mania and melancholia, to the brain. From experience I
speak, and I firmly believe not in the efficiency of medical
and dietetical aid alone, nor in the efficiency of moral ma-
nagement alone (which consists in addressing their faculties,
sentiments, and propensities, so as to change their combina-
tions, and their reciprocal influences and modes of reaction),
but in the combined powers of medical, dietetical, and phre-
nological influences ; which influences I maintain, if judi-
ciously directed, are certain antidotes to many cases of de-
rangement now in the cells of many of the asylums of this
Empire. But ere long I ardently hope, that all those who are
placed in the management of these useful institutions, will
see the necessity of never separating medical and dietetical
from phrenological influences.
It is foreign to the limits of this memoir to particularize
all the different peculiarities in the shape and contour of
the skull, which presented themselves in the Insane Hospi-
tal of Calcutta. Suffice it to say, that it was impossible to
448 ON THE PHRENOLOGY OF HINDOSTAN.
walk through the apartments of the house, without being
struck by the truncated foreheads of the idiots,—by a large
protuberance above the ear in a Mussulman, who had mur-
dered all his family in a fit of phrenzy,—and by a concavity
in that part of the parietal bone assigned for the organ of
self-esteem, in a Malay girl, who was the very emblem of
bashfulness and slovenliness, and who had no more regard
for her person and habits than a brute.*
• The Committee think it proper to mention, that Dr Paterson derived his
knowledge of Phrenology from Dr Spurzheim'9 octavo work, '* The Physio,
gnomical System," without the benefit of any additional instruction. The pre-
ceding memoir not only harmonizes in principle with the general doctrines
of the science, but contains several new and important suggestions, founded
upon observations made by the Author in Hindostan, which coincide with
conclusions drawn by other phrenologists, from similar phenomena observed
in Europe. This, probably, is the first instance, in the history of the Phi-
losophy of Mind, in which such an accordance has occurred ; and, while it
affords presumptive evidence of the truth of Phrenology, it adds an example
of the vast superiority, in respect of consistency and practical application, of
philosophy founded upon observation over hypotheses, however ingenious,
derived from imagination.
PLATE II. I ,;,,,,.!. ti,;,., ofitu //,!,, „-l,,„..,l X'.-i.lx
. //„;,, . //' €t#uA
/:,.,, 1#6 Page 32].
f ,
ys/ '//
/;„,. .
/"
//,,:< //'. //. Ls. ?t*Lfa*t
.
PLATE III. Tranta. u. nt /t/„ Pbrau I aical '.
£ t,/, .
Page Pagt 434.
Drawn 1
i.
LUKE O'NEIL & SON,
Statuaries anti artists
(by appointment)
to t&c ©ftrenologtcal^octetp,
No. 125. CANONGATE,
EDINBURGH,
Respectfully intimate to the Public, That they sup-
ply Casts of the Human Head, indicating the situations of
the different Organs ; and that they have prepared Casts
from some of the Skulls delineated in the Work of Sir
G. S. Mackenzie, Bart., who has put a large collection of
Casts into the possession of L. O'N. & Son, for the pur-
pose of enabling them to supply collections as they may
be ordered. The following is a Catalogue of the Collec-
tion, which may be seen at 125. Canongate, and at Mr
Galletti's, 10. Nelson Street, Glasgow,
CASTS OF HEADS FROM NATURE.
i. Dr Gall, founder of the Phrenological System.
2. Burke, procured by Mr Donkin of London.
3. A French M. D.
4. Pitt, from a Bust by Flaxman, procured by O'N. and
Son.
5. Mr Hume, F. R. S. and M. P.
6. James Cardinal ; an Illustration of Hydrocephalus.
7- A Lady ; Organs of Conscientiousness large, Firmness
small.
8. Deans, executed at London, for ( hild Murder ; this
individual was insane.
9. executed at York, for Robbery and Murder.
10. Mitchell, executed for Murdering his Sweetheart.
11. Haggart, executed for Murdering Mr Morrin, Dum-
fries Turnkey.
12. Dempsey, executed for shooting a Policeman at Green-
ock.
13. Maxwell, executed for Stouthrief, at Edinburgh.
14. Rev. Mr M., late Baptist Preacher, London.
15. An amiable character, native of West of Scotland.
16. A contrast to the above, who, after several irregulari-
ties, drowned himself.
17. An Idiot, from Dr S.
18. A ditto.
19. Miss Clara Fisher, a celebrated Juvenile Actress.
20. Napoleon, Organs marked.
21. Head, Organs marked by Dr S.
22. Thomson the Poet.
( 4 )
23. New Phrenological Busts, Organs marked. See Note
below *.
24. Mary Macinnes, executed at Edinburgh for Murder.
25. Dr D., executed at London, for Forgery.
26. Head of a virtuous character.
27. Head of a Brazil Indian Chief.
28. Head of Francois, Cordonnier, Author of the Tragedy
of Zenobia, &c. Ideality large.
29- Dr Spurzheim,
* Extracts from the Minutes of an Ordinary Meeting
of the Phrenological Society,
c
6d January 1821.
" A new Phrenological Bust was presented by Messrs Luke
O'Neil & Son to the Society, for their inspection, previously
to offering it for sale to the Public. The Society having ex-
amined the Bust, and found the Organs to be correctly de-
lineated, expressed their approbation of the manner in which
it is executed, and instructed the Secretary to return thanks to
Messrs O'Neil & Son for their present.
(Signed) « PETER COUPER,
" Secretary Phrenological Society."
CASTS OF MASKS FROM THE FACE.
1. The Companion of Dr Gall, whose Configuration led
to the discovery of the Phrenological System—Dr S.
2. A specimen of Language—Dr S.
3. Mental Calculating Boy of Bath—Dr S.
4. Mental Calculating Boy of Vienna.
5. Mental Calculating Boy, Master Zeroh Colbourn
C. Mental Calculating Boy, Master George Bidder
7. Sir Isaac Newton, Astronomer.
8. Sir William Herschell, Astronomer.
9. Sir James Edward Smith, President of the Linnean
Society, London.
|
O.N.
(
5 )
10. Edwards, an Engraver.
11. Toussaint, who pretended to be the Son of the St D<j
mingo Chief; Secretiveness large.
12. A Frenchman; Individuality large.
13. An Artist.
14. Haydn, Musical Composer, taken from a Bust at
Vienna-
15. Humboldt, Brother of the traveller; Number and
Language large.
1G. Mr Roscoe, late of Liverpool.
17. Oliver Cromwell.
18. Brunei, the celebrated Machinest.
19. Fraser, a Scotchman, resident in London ; Individu-
ality large.
20. M. De Voltaire ; Language and Wit remarkable.
21. John Wilkes, late of London.
22. Alderman Wood, of London.
23. His late Majesty George the Third.
24. His present Majesty, when 30 years of age.
25. His Royal Highness the Duke of Sussex.
26. Haydon, Historical Fainter.
27. David Wr
ilkie, Artist.
28. Wordsworth, Poet of Cumberland.
29. John Hunter, Anatomist, late of London.
30. Benjamin Franklin, from a Bust by Oudon of Paris,
31. John Nelson, Itinerant Pandean Musician—O. N.
32. Professor Young, late Greek Professor of Glasgow
College.
33. Henry Quatre, taken 10 years after death.
34. Illustration of Colour large.
35. Illustration of "Colour deficient—Mr M,
36. A Musical Amateur—O. N.
37. J. P. Curran, M. P.—Dr Abell.
38. Mr Newenham, Artist—ditto.
( 6 )
39. Burke,
40. William Shakespeare.
41. Laurence Sterne.
42. Illustration ; Size deficient.
43. Illustration ; Locality remarkable
44. Mr Pitt, taken after death.
45. Dr Samuel Johnson.
46. Sir Joshua Reynolds.
47. Dr Buchan, M. D.
48. Scott, shot in a duel.
49. John Home Tooke.
50. Mrs Siddons senior.
51. Mary, Queen of Scots.
52. Charles Edward Stuart.
53. Alexander Pope.
54. M. Haye of Paris.—Hope large.
CASTS OF SKULLS.
1. Skull of King Robert Bruce, as discovered at Dun-
fermline Abbey.
2. Skull, having Veneration well marked, from Dr Spur-
zheim.
3. Skull of a Milliner of Vienna ; Constructiveness large
—Dr S.
4. Skull of La Fontaine, French author—Dr S.
5. Skull of Raphael de-Urbino, Italian Painter.
6. Skull of Dr Hette, remarkable for Benevolence, Con-
scientiousness, and Love of Approbation, large;
Amativeness, small.
7. Skull of a Mummy -\
8. Skull of a Mummy Vail from Dr Spurzeheim.
9. Skull of a Mummy J
10. Skull of an American Indian.
( 7 )
11. Skull of an American Indian.
12. Skull of a Brazil Indian.
13. Skull of Hippolite, a Charib Chief.
14. Skull of a ditto.
15. Skull of a ditto.
16. Skull of a ditto.
17. Skull of a ditto.
18. Skull of* a New-Hollander.
19- Skull of a ditto ditto.
20. Skull of Carnimbeigle, a New-Holland Chief, described
by Sir George Mackenzie, Bart.
21. Skull of an Esquimaux.
22. Skull of a Negro.
23. Skull of a ditto.
24. Skull of a Turk.
25. Skull of a Gentoo,—Hindoo Tribe.
26. A Long Skull ; Celtic Tribe.'
27. Skull of an old Woman ; Shape remarkable.
28. Skull of a German ; remarkable Shape.
29. Skull of a cunning Debtor,—See Dr S.'s works,
30. Skull of Gordon, Murderer of the Pedlar Boy at Esk-
dalemuir.
31. Skull of Haggart, Murderer of the Dumfries Turn-
key, Mr Morrin.
32. Skull of Hussey, a Murderer.
33. Skull of Nesbit, a ditto.
34. Skull of Bellingham, who shot Mr Percival.
35. Skull of Lockey, a Murderer.
36. Skull, executed at Nottingham for murdering a Child.
37. Skull of Buchanan, executed at Glasgow for Murder.
38. Skull of Clydesdale, ditto ditto ditto.
39. Skull of Rotherham, Murderer, shewing Interior and
Exterior of the Skull.
10. Skull of a Buffoon to Emperor of Austria ; Wit large ;
a person of superior talents.
( 8 )
41. Skull of a Caffrc.
42. Cast of outside of a Skull i , ,, ,
.. ., . .. I shewing the correspondence,
43. Cast of inside of a ditto > .
l
44. Skull of Christian Sinclair, executed at Edinburgh
for Child Murder,—from Mr Blyth, Surgeon.
45. Skull of an Idiot of Suabia, see head of ditto, No. 18.
46. Skull, Organs marked by Sir George Mackenzie, Bart.
47. Skull, a contrast to No. 46., having Organs large,
where No. 46. is deficient.
48. Skull of an Idiot of Vienna.
49- Cast of the Brain, shewing the Convolutions.
50. Madeline Albert, of Moulins, in France.—Murdered
her Mother and several other Members of theFamily.
51. Brain of an Idiot Girl.
Additions will be made to this Collection from time to
time ; and such Gentlemen as possess Skulls of remarkable
characters, or authenticated Casts, or who have opportuni-
ties of taking Casts either before or after the death of indi-
viduals eminent for their talents or characters, or of persons
convicted of crimes, will confer a benefit on the science by
communicating with L. O'N. and Son, and permitting them
to take casts or copies.
Single Casts of any of the above supplied.—Prices from 2s.
to 5s. each, according to the size. Sent in boxes to the
Country, when required.
Masks taken from Living or Deceased persons, and Busts
and Statues modelled and cut in Marble or Freestone. A va-
riety of Statues, Bustos, Bass-Relievos, Vases, Urns, &c. for
Chimney-Pieces, Staircases, Halls or Gardens, neatly executed
in Plaster of Paris or Metal.
*** Figures mended, Gill or Bronzed, in the neatest manner.
