{"name":"Controversy Of The Spirit With The Worldly Wise","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1811__southcott___controversy_of_the_spirit_with_the_worldly_wise.pdf","mytitle":"Controversy Of The Spirit With The Worldly Wise","mylang":"de"}
CONTROVERSY
OF TH E
S P I R I T
‘A
/ / ’■
/
W ITH
/
the Worldly Wise, ;
AS G IV E N THROUGH
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT,
' : ■
- ■
•.IS-'v-r— ■-d
-===============^ \ . :
• i< ;.<•
'<* Here is Wisdom ; Jet him who hath greater answer it;
let it not be answered by a Fool: for, in so doing* he will expose
l.is Folly”
m ■- • ■
LONDON:
/ V'- *
Printcdby GA jin& Marcliant, Ingram-Court; and^fcd by hf. Joues, No. 5,
NewgateStreet; W. T oze r , Chapel-Place, Duke-Street, St.George’s Fields*
Also byW. Srmonos,Gandy-Lane; and the Miss Evulkiohs, St. Sidwell'lp
'F.xeter ; S a m u e l H ir s t , Leeds;J. M id d leto n , York ; and J am es Light,
Coventry Street, Stourbridge, Worcestershire.
* . »
E N TE R E D AT STA TIO N ER S’ H A LL. .
THE
CONTROVERSY*
«r
fyc. fyc.
</*■*'*■"
H a n n ’S remarks oh the history of my life.
He begins with saying, “ Joanna Southcott was
“ born at Getsham, a small town in Devonshire,
“ in the year 1753. According to Joanna’s own
“ act^ at, at a very early period her mind was
“ susceptible of religious* impressions, and was
“ much influenced by the truths of the Gospel.
“ This is her own account: “ From my early age,
the fear of the Lord, was deejdy placed on my
“ mind and heart; reading the^Gospel of Christ,
“ ..and all the persecution he went through, made
\,m e love;him, and fear to offend him; and I
•
“"felt my.heart burn with indignation against
“ his accusers; and that as I grew in years I
“ grew in grace, and in the fear of ithe Lord.”
“ Under these impressions, we may naturally
“ suppose, that Joanna exercised herself very
“ much in reading the Bible; and the more so
“ as her mind was not diverted from it by other.
“ pursuits; for it is evident that she received but
“ a very illiberal education. Thus given up to
“ the reading and study of the Scripture, she of
“ course became very conversant with the Bible,
“ and retained a great deal of it in her memory.
“ This was a good* beginning; and, when I
“ compare such a. beginning with the present
Digitized by Google
“ state of her religious pursuits, and the history
“ thereof, since her religious phrensy took pos-
“ session of her mind, it fills me with surprise,
“ with pity, with indignation, and with horror.
“ To Joanna may fitly be applied St. Paul’s ad-
“ dress to the Galatians: “ Ye did run well;
“ who did hinder you, that ye should not obey
*
* the Truth?” It was in the year 1792 that
“ Joanna first gave herself up to the spirit of
“ delusion.”
I answer: as he began without knowledge
where I was born, or what year I was. born in,
so without knowledge he hath went on in every
thing concerning me, from his own suppositions^
I do not understand the meaning of his words,
saying I had a very illiberal education ; without
he means, that I had not a learned education;
and this is true, I was not brought up to leaM-
ing; yet I was brought up in the strictest reli­
gion, to be taught my duty towards God and
man. But as Hann hath simply supposed, that.
T spent my time in reading the Bible, not having
other pursuits, he is greatly mistaken; for I was
brought up to industry, from my early age; and
had so much employment, that I had but little
time for reading; neither did I give my mind to
study the Scriptures. But the love of God in
Christ Jesus, set forth in the Gospel, made a
deep impression oh my mind and heart, in my
«arly age; and which was deeply explained to
me from my mother; so that what I did not un­
derstand myself,.I was instructed by her, as to
what belonged to my own salvation; and that
was all my knowledge, or thoughts concerning
the Scriptures, and. what I set my mind and
heart upon as to what I should do to be saved.
Tor the thoughts of death were always before
m e: when I saw the young die, I thought J
Plight be cut offj as well as them ; and when J,
a 2
3
Digitized by Google
saw the aged die, though they had lived to .a*
great age, yet their sands ran out at last; so that
whether I was cut off a flower in its bud, or
whether I lived- to old age, *1 well knew death
must put a stop, sooner or later, to my life in
this world. As this is no continuing city, there­
fore my heart was fixed on a better world, where
jpoys will never end, and where sorrow can never
come. If I had a building *%itb God, eternal
in the heavens; these were my pondering thoughts,
without having much time to read the Scriptures,
which I meditated upon in my employment, and
made me earnest in prayer to' the Lord for some
assurance, that I had found favour with the
Lord. My petition and answer may be seen in
the 205th page of the Strange Effects of Faith.
This was in the year 1772 ; and from that time I
,had always' directions for myself, in every time
of trouble and difficulty, which is already pub­
lished. So that the visiting Spirit, which Hann
calls a delusion, that came to me in ninety-two,
had been my guide and guard from the year
1772 to that time; but then it came with power,
to warn me of what was coming upon the whole
earth; and from the past, that I have mentioned,
never being deceived by the Spirit, and the holy
tear that seized me, when the visitation came
with power to call all the past to my remem­
brance, it fully assured me, that the visitation
was from the Lord. But as many religious peo­
ple strove to persuade me, that none of the
things I was warned of would take place, and that
Satan was come as an angel of light to deceive me,
and that I myself was not ignorant of his de­
vices, this filled me with fear mixed with my
faith, fearing that Satan might deceive me ;
therefore my earnest prayer was to the Lord,
that he would be my guide, guard, and keeper,
and not suffer the devil to deceive, by coming
4
Digitized by Google
■in his name; as I could not be a judge of invi­
sible spirits, if they came in the name of the
Lord, as an angel of light, to deceive; but as
all knowledge was iu the Lord, and all power
was in his hands, in him was all my trust, and
to know his will, and obey it,,was the desire of
my soul, earnestly praying, that I might not be
deceived by the 'subtlety of Satan’s arts. To my
petition I was answered, — the Lord would set
signs before me, whereby I should know, that
the visitation was from the Lord ; and various
signs of trifling things, as well as those of great­
er consequence, what should happen in all na­
tions, were then foretold me; which may be
seen in the book of the Trial; and which Mrs.
Taylor gave evidence of) 60th page. When she
was questioned, if any particular circumstance
took place, according to my predictions, she
answered, — “ There was scarce any thing hap-
“ pened to the nation, or to particular fami-
lies, or individuals, with whom she was ac-
u quainted, that she, Joanna, did not inform
me would happen before it'did ; and all were
“ fulfilled, as Joanna predicted; and this con-
“ tinued for two or three years.”
But as Hann hath brought forward my being
deceived concerning my father's death, as a proof
of my being led by the devil, I shall here give the
account concerning my father; and at what time
I was deceived by the devil; and the reasons as­
signed to me, why the Lord permitted it, as I have
now my writings open by me, that were written
at the time. As Hann hath said, that I predicted
my father’s death would take place in ninety-nine,
I shall pen the particulars from my writings. In
July, 1799, my father came to my sister’s at
Plymtree, when I was there.; he was taken very
ill at that time, and we judged him dying. I was
Answered—“ In all thy writings, I have compared
4
Digitized by Google
$
thy father to the nation in his life, and so he must
end in his death; but the end is not yet.” After
this my father grew better, arid I was shewn, jn
a dream, a length of ehain, that went across -a
large field, which was compared to my father’s life.
My sister inquired, if the length of chain lasted a
month; as we judged he could not recover; to
her inquiry I was answered—
u The type is deep what lies behind,
Beyond the reach of human eye,
Or what your wisdom can discern,
When I from types and shadows warn.
When I explain this simple thing,
That I from types and shadows bring,
Doth she discern how I do warn ?
Or know what's hastening on ?
Thy father's death, thou know'st I've said,
Must like your nation come. \
The type that's deep would make some weep,
If they could see it plain:
One month thy sister doth allow,
Before she judge the end;
One month you'll see your destiny,
' What will befall your land,
From every step thy father takes,
And how his end doth copie;
For suddenly I say to thee, . / c
I'll take him unaware;
And like your land he now doth stand—
Let sinners all take care!"
•v,. This Communication did not explain at what
*Wr/ttme my father would die; but I judged, from
£ ,the words, that he would die at that time. My
^sister said, if the answer' was from the Lord, he
3 * y W rou,d not then. But the following year,
^v—
1800, in July, I was ordered to go to my fa-
ther’s house, and stay with him some time, which
I did; and then was the time that the devil was
permitted to deceive me concerning him, and
told me, that my father would die on St. Swithin’s
day, and there would be thunder, lightning,
apd floods of rain. After the time was past, and
Digitized by Google
I found I had been deceived by the devil, I was
in the greatest distress of mind, and said I was
punished for my sins. I penned my feelings in
the following manner: My only hope and trust is
in the Lord, that he will take me out of this world,
that I have been so many years weary of; and I
hope to go down to the cold chambers of the
grave, where the wicked cease from .troubling, and
where the weary are at rest; and I trust, the Lord
will pardon my offences and forgive my sins; for
it is against him, and him only, that I have trans­
gressed ; as to man, I can wa^h my hands in in-
• nocence; no man can lay any thing to my
charge. When I had penned the distress of my
mind, on being deceived, and determined to go
home and burn my writings, I was answered in
the following manner:
u Now thou hast ended FH begin
To justify thy written hand;
For where’s the man that can appear
To prove that wrong thou’st written here ?
N o: earth and hell may now combine,
I'll justify the heart of thine;
For I have tried thee to the^end.
'The arts of hell must now be penn’d : *
lie said, if I did thee disgrace,
Thou soon would’st curse mto to myja c e ;
•Therefore I tried thee alllilong,
To shame the tempter's lying tongue; *v
Because thy heart I well did know,
That with no lies thou home would’st go;
Nor neither curse me to my face;
But if from hell thou judg’dst ’twas plac'd,
Thou then would’st curse the tempter’s art,
That on thee cast such fatal dart;
If thou didst judge it came from hell,
Thy written hand the truth will tell.
But here the tempter thou hast foil’d,
To say if I have thee beguil’d, '
To break thy heart, that I am just;
Then here the tempter’s arts are cast.
Another way he did appear,
.And said thou’dst hate thy father here>
A-
Digitized by Google
s
if he should live, and did not die,
No more would’st thou regard of he ;
Therefore I tried thee to the end,
To see how then thy heart would bend;
Still for thy father thou’dst provide.
So here the tempter thee belied,
For to thy God thou’dst still complain,
That thou hadst sinned in my sight.
I’ll bring the mysteries all to light:
He said if I deceived thee here,
There was no way I could appear
To make thee to believe my word,
And judge thy writings came from God.
But’now thou seest another way;
Thou knowest, like Job, 1 first did say,
That it would prove thy every cost;
For so the tempter’s arts were plac’d :
The field is wide, thy heart is tried.
The tempter must stand mute.
For now to men 1 mean to come,
And with them all dispute;
I’ll make it clear, I’ve spoken here—
Your Harvest now is come
More fatal than it was last year;
* The truth will soon be known,
That men appear like Satan here,
And all did boast too soon;
But when you see your harvest clear,
Your sun will cloud ere noon.
Like Satan stands I say your land;
The end will make them mute.
But thou sayest thou art deceived in whom thou
hast believed. Hitherto Was my permission, to
give Satan the advantage over thee,.concerning
thy father’s death; but my words I shall fulfil,
concerning the harvest, and they will find, that
this boasted plenty will bring a scarcity; for ye
do not discern, that man cannot live by bread
alone: your pastures are dried up; your green
fields are become white; the heart of the earth is
i\na ior iny iamer sun inou ast i
So here the fiery darts of hell
Are cast against thee all in vain;
Digitized by Google
become as dry and unfruitful as the hearts of
men. Last year I sent rain to make the grain as
soft as men, to judge thou couldest foretel what
was to come of thyself; and now I have sent the
scorching sun, to make your land as dry as the
hearts of men. Yet, I said' I would preserve my
Wheat; but as I told thee before, that Satan’s
arts were strong against thee; therefore I tried
thee to the utmost, in thy father’s house, to
see what was in thee, and to see if thou wouldest
proceed, if thou judgedst thy writings were not
from God; and when I saw the sorrows of thy
heart, when thou hadst room to judge thyself de­
ceived, and thy resolution fixed to go home and
destroy all thy writings; if thou couldest judgf
them not of God, thou wouldest not invent any
cunningly-devised fable to deceive mankind ; nor
'proceed, to say the Lord saith, if thou hadst
room to believe the Lord had not spoken; I then
told thee what Satan had said concerning thee;
and the reason why thy father’s days were pro­
longed— —
In the beginning"Satan came,
Now in the ending 'tis the same;
And let them judge thy written hand,
How his temptations there do stand;
And now the ending doth appear, (
I tell thee plain he did tempt thee here, ^ ,
When he did tell thee such a lie, v !
To say thy father he would die, ^ v '
Before that August did appear, ‘ .
On Swithin’s day, now thou seest clear ; ' 1' *'
But all his arts proved there in vain ;
Thy hand will prove how great thy pain,
When thou didst fear thoif w,astmisled,
And by the tempter wast betray'd.
In the beginning it was so—
The heart of Eve no man doth know,
When she saw plain she was betray'd,
And by the serpent so misled,
How much her heart within did bleed ;
And in the ending this is said,
9
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
JO
The woman’s conqueror shall appear,
To wound the he^d of Satan here;
% And now the ending it is come*
My promise great I#
ll now perform:
For great iny promise was at $rst,
And ril fulfil it at the last/'
The above communications I have bad copied
■from my waitings, written in 1799 aBd the 1800,
that every one may judge for himself, from
the reasons assigned, why.the Lord permitted
Satan to deceive me concerning my father’s death.
After this was copied off, I had the following an­
swer given me, February 6th, 1811.
J ' TH E ANSW ER OF TH E S P IR IT .
“ Let him that improves answer, how Satan,
that had no knowledge to speak the truth con­
cerning a man, that appeared dying daily be­
fore you, should have a knowledge of all the
•events that have taken place since 1792* Had
one spirit told thee the whole, in one likeness
all would have come; hut it was to shew thee
in what likeness men and devils stand together,
where Satan’s working is strong in mep, that
ye may see his arts in them, that I ordered thee
to go to thy father, to be tempted of the devil,
that thou mayest be a clear judge, that no
. truth comes from him, and to shew thee, from
✓ ,iv.*Jhis arts, what his working is in mankind; but
r^ J w w let all men discern, where I permitted the
devil to deceive thee, it was in atning that was
p6sgj£oF~no consequence to mankind, and wherein
j^^Hthey could he no judges, that thy visitation
was from the Lord. If thou hadst prophesied
of thy father’s death, and he had died at the ,
time, know, thy father was old and stricken in
years, judged to be on a dying bed; had I told
thee that that sickness was unto death, that he
would die within a month, I ask thee, what
prophecy that would have been, to convince
Digitized by L,ooQle
any '? Would not men say, thou judgedst by
appearance; bat now discern what I told
thee*—
He was in a chain, like the nation; and
now discern hqw. thy father went on in that
chain: did not his weakness increase? his sor­
rows increase ? his burden increase? Call to
thy remembrance what be went through; and
how the dearth began that year; how it
increased the following year.. So that like
the nation thy father’s sorrow's in creased h e
was but raised from a sick bed to go through
greater sorrows than he experienced before;
so now discern your nation, when they were
freed from 'one1sorrow of the war, ‘that brought
distresses upon them at, first, see how tl)eir bur­
dens have increased to rise greater by the last.
This ye may discern, from what followed thy
father, and what followed the nation; hut now
I ask thee, what type could I 'have .brought
round of thy father, to be deep and weighty
to the nation, if I had taken him at that time?
But know, I told thee in the beginning, that
it would be in a day unknown; and perfectly so
it happened to thee. But when I ordered thee
to put the Bishop’s death in Pomeroy’s hand,
as a sign to him, that thy visitation was from
the Lord, -I told'thee he would die at the end
of the year, though he was then in perfect
health, when I ordered thee to put it into his
hands; but at the end of the year he died; and
•so thou knowest, concerning the war, what
I ordered thee to put in his hands, that was
Unknown to all men, what the event of that
year would be, yet thou knowest, it followed as
I had revealed it to thee; the same thou knowest
of the harvests, that I warned thee of (the 1799
-and 1800) the one to be hurt by rain;, the
' other by sun, -and the greatest injury would he
-done by the sun. These were perfectly fulfilled
11
Digitized by
,Google
to my words; and let them discern, in the
time of peace, what I told thee was hastening
on, of the war, and how it hath hastened on,
as I told thee. Now let him that reproves an*
swer, how all these things, that appeared so
unlikely to men, that they had no knowledge
of, what the harvests would be, or how the'
war would break out, and how Buonaparte
would go on to eonquer; let them answer, how
this knowledge came from the devil, which they
see and feel, before'their eyes; when they see
:that the devil had not knowledge enough to
tell thee one truth concerning thy father: yet
that was a thing they would not have discerned,
or felt, if the devil had had knowledge enough
to have told thee the time of his death; but
this, thou knowest, he could not do; and
therefore I permitted him to tempt and try thee,
to prove to mankind, that there is no truth nor
knowledge in the devil; but if thy visitation
had been from him, all would have been like
thy father’s death, without any truth to fol­
low; for when Satan assured thee he would die,
my wisdom was to prolong his life;' because I
told thee it would be in a day unaware. So
let not men boast any more, that knowledge
is in Satan, or in thee, as the case of thy fa­
ther proves the contrary, that Satan could not
tell thee one word of truth concerning him.
So what happened concerning thy father is to
prove the folly in mankind, to place knowledge
and wisdom in the devil, who could not fore-
tel what would happen in a thing that appeared
likely: let them answer, how he could foretel
what appeared so unlikely.”
The communications concerning my father,
and the answer that is now given me, 1 was or­
dered to put in print, and leave every one tojudge
for himself. As it is the Spirit that visits me
12
Digitized by G o o g l e
° v
is
Hann hath condemned, it is the answers given by
the Spirit I am ordered to publish: my own
thoughts I shall conceal.
Hann hath brought forward these words in
mockery, from the 1 19th page, Second Book of
Sealed Prophecies:—
“ In the green tree this was done:
Thou must suffer like thy Master,
For the stubborn sons of men;
Their chastisement is laid on thee,
By thy stripes they heal'd must be,
If they will be heal'd at all:
Now is the time to stand or fall."
T H E A NSW ER OF TH E S P IR IT .
“ Now I shall explain the meaning of the
words, saying, By thy stripes they must be
healed, if they will be healed at all—because
it is by the persecution, and by the enmity
that is worked in man, so strongly kindled by
the devil. Those that will be healed at all must
now see their Bibles clear, that I am coming to /
fulfil the promise made to the woman in the fall,
that the enmity is kindled between Satan and the
woman, between his seed and her seed. THiv;,„,
they must discern, was ToretoItTin the beginning,
what enmity would be kindled when I come to
bruise his head, and cast out the prince of this
world, that the kingdoms of this world might
become the kingdom of the living God. This
they must discern from the first; and then let
them come to the last, which is the Revelation
shewn to John: how the enmity would be kindled,
and what floods Satan would work in man to cast
out in malice against the woman, when 1 come to
bripg in the redemption of man. These scriptures
men must discern, in what manner they were first
spoken, and then they mustaiscerninwhatmanner I
warned thee, that men would act, when thy writings
Went out in the world; how I warned tnee, when
Digitized by Google
the* living water gashed out, the dirty water
would froth and foam, and thou wouldest see
the fury appear; and how I warned thee of the.
believers, and shewed thee, from the different
fruit, what would- be the different conduct in;
them—that would appear in true believers and
pretended believers; that some would act like,
my followers of old, that went back and walked
‘ho more with me, while others would be like my
faithful disciples, that stood stedfast and un-
shaken to the end; some 1 shewed thee would .
come in like Judas, with a black veil round them,
while others would remain on the trees to ripen
and be good. These things I shewed thee, be­
fore they appeared; and then I brought them to
my Gospel, of the net being cast into the sea,
gathering in good and bad ; and some coming in
without faith, which I told thee were thieves and
robbers. Now let man discern in what manner
my Bible stands, and what visions I;shewed thee,
to prove that the likeness would appear; then let
men discern in what, fiianner' every likeness is-
come together, and how thou hast went through
all the persecution, that is spoken of in the fall,
where the promise stands of my bruising the head
of the adversary, that betrayed the woman. Let
them weigh it with my Gospel, and the vision^
shewn to John; then they may discern the meaning
of my words, saying, By thy stripes they must be
healed, seeing, according to the Scriptures, as all is
foretold, and all tire visions I have shewn thee, be­
fore thy writings went out in the world, to have
the truth tried and proved; and now they see the
truth appear according to my Bible, and the visi­
tation of my Spirit, that thou hast went through
the whole, it is these stripes that must convince
them, that I am coming to fulfil the promise; as
all these persecutions were foretold in the Scrip­
tures, what the woman had to go through, when
14
Digitized by Google
IS
I come to avenge her of her adversary, and bring
in the redemption of man. Therefore, I said
thou must suffer, like thy m a s t e r , the tempta­
tions of the devil, and the persecutions of men,
before they would be convinced, that the fulfil­
ment of oiy Bible was at hand. Now, from all
these, things, they must be convinced, if they
will be convinced at all, that I suffered my heel
to be bruised, for the transgression of man, to
fulfil the premise, that was made to the woman;
therefore it is by men’s discerning in what manner
I visited thee at first, and what I warned thee
would go from nation to nation, and What thOu
hadst to go through thyself, seeing the truth of
all fulfilled, and how it Was spoken in the: creation
of m an; these things they must discern, before
they will look unto m e to the ends of the earth
to Be saved. Therefore the persecution thou
hast went through must convince them, to turn
«unto m e , and look for their redemption, to be
redeemed from the fall; for though they are not
healed by thy stripes, but m i n e ; yet, bv thy
. going through what was spoken in my Bibfe, and
what I warned thee of, it must convince them ofthe
promise being petitioned for, before I shall come
to fulfil it; afid they must be convinced of the
truth of my visitation, that I am come to warn
of the eiid, and grant men their petition at last,
as 1 gave up my life by man's petition at first.
Thus, by thy stripes, that thou hast suffered,
through the persecution Of men, they must have
the- eyes of their understanding opened, to dis­
cern the promise, how it stood, how it must be
pleaded, and how it will be fulfilled. This is the
meaning of my words; and they.,must discern
from my Gospel, that I bid them ask, to receive
in m v n a m e , that their joys might be full; and
now I will tell thee why 1 bade them ask in my
name, to have their joys to be full; because I
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
took man's nature upon m e , to suffer for the
. transgression of the fall, and have my heel
bruised, that I might bruise the Serpent s Jiead;
therefore it is my sufferings must be pleaded, that
through them I might destroy your adversary.
And let them discern, I taught them toprayfo r
my kingdom to come; all I promised in my Gos­
pel to fulfil I ordered men to petition for. I pro­
mised your redemption; and the prayer I taught
then was to prayJor my kingdom to come, and my
will to be done on earth, as it is in heaven; then
it must be a kingdom of righteousness and peace;
and I have revealed to thee what they a$e to ask
for — to have their adversary cast out, that my
Gospel may befulfilled,'that your redemption may
take place. Here I have shewn thee the meaning
of my words, how by thy stripes they must be
healed, seeing the truth before them, that they
could not see another way.* Hadst thou not
went through a life that the Scriptures foretel,
and I warned thee of before, to give eyes to the'
blind, ears to the deaf, and understanding to
those that never understood the meaning of my
Gospel, any more than Hann understood the
\ meaning of the words he hath brought forward
to upbraid thee with, men might be filled with
unbelief: yet I do not tell thee, that men like
him will ever have the eyes of their under­
standing opened to discern the promise that
was made in the fall, or my Gospel, how men
can be healed by my stripes, anymore than he
understood how they were healed by thine; and
yet I tell thee there are thousands, that do not
understand the meaning of the words, but they
will see it clear hereafter, the way they must be
healed of their unbelief, by comparing the whole
together. But these things were never thought
of by th.ee, before the visitation of my Spirit
came, to order thee to prophesy in my name —
15
Digitized by
17
it was never a thought of thy heart what was
coming upon the whole earth, before I revealed it
to thee — it was never a thought of thy heart,
that my kingdom was at hand, before it was re­
vealed to thee by m e — it was never a thought
of thy heart, that the promise made in the fa ll
should he pleaded, before it was fulfilled, of cast­
ing out the serpent, that betrayed the woman —
this was no more in thy thoughts than others,
before I revealed it to thee — neither hadst thou
a thought in thy heart, that, as men pleadedfo r
my death, before I gave up my life, for the trans­
gression of man, so in like manner men must
plead fo r Satan's destruction-, and his power to be
cut off.—but these thoughts never came into thy
mind, before my will was revealed unto thee —
neither was it a thought in thy heart, that tofu l­
fil the Scriptures, and prove I. was the desire of
nations, that that desire should be made manifest
by men's petitions and request, that my sayings
might be fulfilled — ask and receive, that your
joys may befu ll— but these were no thoughts of
thine, before they were all revealed by m e . Then
now I ask men, who they make the impostor,
thee or m e ? In thy heart thou answerest, it is
the Spirit that visits thee is made the impostor
by mankind; then now let them discern, that
they are doing despite to the Spirit of God, and
crucifying the Lord afresh ; because it is the
Spirit they are condemning— and in thy heart
thou answerest, it is the Spirit they must condemn,
if thou art deceived, in whom thou hast believed;
and the thoughts of thy heart thou canst not
conceal; for all thy ponderings are known to
m e . Thou hast pondered deeply in thy heart of
all the truths that have followed my words, and
how the signs, that were set before thee to prove
it came from the Spirit of Truth, were placed by
wisdom beyond the understanding of man, far
B
Digitized by Google
.beyond any wisdom that could ever be in thee,
from the way it was placed and fulfilled ; and
thou hast discerned from my Gospel how I pro­
mised to send the Spirit of Truth in the end; that
the Comforter should come to warn you of the
end; that I was to come to bring in the redemp­
tion of man, to those that believe in m e , that
in the end I shall overcome the world that is full
of sin and sorrow, and then in me ye shall find
peace; because I shall establish my kingdom in
pedce; and thou hast discerned, from my Gos­
pel, how strong was the command given by Paul,
that ye should not quench the Spirit, nor despise
Prophecies; and how often the Apostles spoke
of my being revealed in the end; that the testi­
mony of Jesus is the Spirit of Prophecy. These
things thou hast been pondering in thy heart,
since Hann’s books came to thee; therefore thou
sayest within, if thou art deceived, tire scriptures
cannot be true, for the eye of the Lord to be
every where present, arid for every thing to be
open to his view, to be a strong tower .and rock
' of defence unto them that trust wholly in him,
and to have all power in his hands; this thou
sayest cannot be, if I have permitted Satan to
deceive thee, by giving him knowledge to fore­
know and power to fulfil, and to come according
to my Gospel; this thou sayest thou canst not
believe, that he hath power to accomplish, if the
scriptures be of God, as thy heart and thoughts
were known to him, that to know the will of the
Lord and obey it was the earnest desire of thy
heart. But if Satan, by arts, had tried to hiu-
der thee from running well, by setting sigus be­
fore thee to deceive thee, the Lord would never
put it in his power to accomplish them, but soon
convince thee of the whole, as he convinced thee in
tbe lies, that Satan told thee of thy father’s death.
This thou wast soon convinced of by th$ truth not
16
Digitized by Google
following; for which reason thou wast determined
in thy heart to destroy thy writings, before I
told ,thee for what reason I permitted Satan to
deceive thee ; and my truth of the harvest imme­
diately followed, which truth thou judgedst in
thy heart would not have followed, if the words
had been spoken by the devil; and to convince
thee if it was so, the Lord would not have ful­
filled his words. Thus thou hast been pondering
in thy heart, that all would have come like’thy
father’3 death, which did not take place as it was
spoken by the father of lies; in like manner thou
hast judged of the whole'; for which reason thou
sayest in thy heart, thou canst not fear death,
if there is a possibility for thee to be de­
ceived : for then the Prophets and Apostles must
he deceived the same, as their words are not yet
fulfilled, but in partNlike thy prophecies. . Now
to thy thoughts I shall answer, and let men an­
swer, what they judge of the Scriptures, what
they judge of my Gospel, and what they judge
of their Creator, if they judge thou art deceived
by my giving knowledge to the devil, that h$
may come as an angel of light to deceive thee.
For I now tell thee, it is perfectly like Hann’s
judgment, in the creation—that I gave a com­
mand to man, and what should befal him if he
broke my command; and then gave wisdom and
knowledge to the serpent, and gave him a speech,
that he might betray. In this judgment what
doth he make of his Creator, in the beginning;
but in such judgment he is going on to judge
his God; because, in reading thy writings througcf-
he must have discerned the truths- that have .fed-’
'
lowed. And now, out of his own mouth, will
I condemn him, as he hath owned, that thou
didst run well from fifty-three to ninety-two,
before some spirit deceived thee; then let him
discern, thou nadst nine years to prove that spirit
b 2
19
Digitized by Google
LStf*
before thou publishedst to the world, and what
truths followed in that time; then let men an­
swer, what a man like him must judge of his
Creator; for was he to be called to my feible,
that he hath mocked thee for ‘saying it is a
“ Sealed Book,” sealed up from the knowledge
and wisdom of man, to point out the way that
, I shall fulfil it; was this demand to be made of
him, he would be more at a loss to explain the
Scripture, and make it true, how it can be ful­
filled, without the visitation of my Spirit, to make
the crooked paths straight'before them, to bring
men to the knowledge of their God, to know my
ways and my decrees, that the whole eatth may
be filled with my goodness,- that all may know
the Lord, from the greatest to'the least. This is
impossible for Hann to explain, or the Bishop that
he hath sent to; they cannot explain so clearly
the truth of the Scriptures, in the part that stands
• for the end, as thou canst explain the truth of
thy writings, that hath been fulfilled since ninety-
two.
' Now come to the words that Hann hath mocked
as my severity, in giving a command to thee:
and so have the Atheists mocked the Scriptures,
where my threatenings stand; for I now tell thee,
there is not any thing that Hann hath brought
forward in mockery against thee, or thy Pro­
phecies, but what is brought forward by man­
kind against the Scriptures, from the beginning
to the ending; and as he hath brought forward*,
the prophecies that are not fulfilled, and left
those that have been fulfilled, perfectly so have
the Atheists brought forward the Scriptures ; for
which reason they are so fast increasing; and
there are many, that have good hearts, that are
blinded and deceived by such artful writers,
Avhom Satan’s arts stir up at the first. But now I
ask the worldly wise men, how they will convince
20
Digitized by Google
&C U S O '
such men from the Scriptures, before the day
Comes upon them unaware?‘Let them see Hann’s*
remarks on thy writings, how he hath mocked
my saying, that the end of all things was at hand,
that my kingdom of righteousness and peace
should be established. This I warned thee of •
but as it is not fulfilled already, he hath mocked
thy visitation, judging it will never be, without
discerning what I said should first take place, to
awaken all nations. Now, as he hath mocked,
that there is no fulfilment, because righteousness
and peace are not established in the earth in so
few years, what must men like him judge of the -
Scriptures, that are not yet fulfilled in so many
years? For men like Hann oyerlook the progress of
the Bible, in whatmanner the prophets prophesied
of my coming, first to sufferfo r the transgression
of man, before I come in power to destroy the
■power of evil, and to be the Prince of Peace to
all men. . This they do not discern from the
Scriptures, nor how the days were placed in the
beginning, of the six days labour, before it came
to the day of rest; but the days of labour I said
should bp shortened, as men shortened my life, by
the malice of the deoil. Bht these things men do
not discern, who draw their judgment as Hann
hath drawn his; and so, from the Scriptures,
no man upon earth can convince these men of
infidelity, which is fast increasing, because the
Scriptures being spoken some thousand years
hack, what the end should be, from the prophets
^hat have not yet been fulfilled ; from the Scrip­
tures they never will be convinced, that they will
be fulfilled. So marvel not m thy part, that I
have spoken in the same manner to thee, as I
spoke to the prophets of old; and that, men
should have the same room to mock, from dreams
ana visions, types and shadows, that I h av e
placed in thee, and to thee, as^they have from
21
Digitized by Google
/ y v y
eg
the prophets of old; .because, in the end, when
they see thy prophecies come round, to their own
shame and confusion, in a way they never discern­
ed, and things go oh to be fulfilled perfectly to the
words that I have spoken to thee, but not as hasty
as men expected; then thousands and tens of
thousands will be as brands plucked out of thet
burning, and know the Scriptures to be the word
of God, that what I spoke by the mouth of my
prophets was spoken for the end; but if I had
never spoken by the mouth of my prophets, that
old things should be done away, and all things
should become new; that there should be new
heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righte­
ousness ; and the rebuke of my people should be
taken away from off all the earth; and tears be
wiped from off all faces; if I had never spoken this
by the mouth of the prophets, then there Would b<jr'
room for Satan to plead in men, to prove clearly
that this visitation was not from tne Lord; be­
cause they were promises that never were made
before, then they might plead it was not the word
of God to say, that the power of evil should ever
be done away, and righteousness and peace esta­
blished on the earth; but as it was foretold by
the prophets, before my coming into the world,,
and I told them I came to fulfil their words, that
I should come again in power to destroy their
adversary, and bring in the redemption of man ; .
yet, as years have rolled on and the fulfilment hath
not yet taken place I now tell thee, from tl&
Scriptures, men will nevCr ' be convinced, wl\tP
judge of them as Hann hath judged of- the pro­
phecies given to thee; and therefore' it is the
prophecies, that I have given thee, that will con­
vince thousands in the end, when they see they
have been mocked by unbelievers, in the safme
manner as the unbelievers of the Scriptures have
mocked the Bihje through; and when they see
Digitized by Google
from believers, that they have drawn a wrong and
hasty judgment, as the believers in the Scriptures
have drawn from them; so that in one likeness
men will discern hereafter both will appear,
the Atheists with the Scriptures like the unbe­
lievers in my visitation to thee; and the wrong
judgment in the believers will prove the wrong
judgment, hereafter, that the believers in the
Scriptures draw from them, from my saying,
it xvasfinished, without discerning the meaning
of my words, that Satan’s power was then
finished over m e , when I gave up my life a
sacrifice for man; for he could have no power
over m e , when I come, in might, majesty, and
glory, to claim the kingdom I died to redeem.
But this men do not discern, and therefore they
draw their judgment wrong, as the believers drew
theirs, without discerning how I had ordered thee
to mark what was hastening on, of wars and
tumults, to fulfil the sign of the ten years. This
they did not discern; and yet, in the end, they
will see it clear; but if I had given all things in
a straight line to thee, that believers could not
be stumbled thereby, then it could not come
round like my Bible, in a way and manner men
did not understand ; therefore I knew, as the
Atheists had mocked the Scriptures, because they
were not plain for men to understand them, so the
unbelievers in my visitation to thee would mock
my words and sayings the same. Therefore I said
the mock of fools they first must bear, as 1 bore
the mock of-fools, when I became flesh, and
dwelt amongst them : for as Satan worked in the
Jews to point out a light to them, what I-must
do, if I was the Messiah; .come to be the Prinee
of Peace, they judged, ai^that time I must have
shewn my power to be* as a prince and a king
amongst theny and to have redeemed them from
the power of all their enemies. This was a light
Digitized by Google
that shined in darkness amongst the Jews; they
discerned the ending, but not the beginning, what
was prophesied of m e , that I had first to go
through. And know I told thee, that the same
light would now shine in darkness; that Satan
would work in the minds of men to point out
such light as to deny the whole; and now thou
seest what light he hath pointed out, to say, if
thy visitation was from m e the living Lord, the
promise I have made of man’s redemption, to be
freed from the power of death, hell, and sin, that
I have said my visitation was to warn you of my
coming to do it at the last, Hann hath drawn his
judgment, that it must be done at the first, with­
out discerning all the other prophecies, that I
said should be fulfilled, to bring the nations low;
that I might be the desire of nations; that men
may be looking and waiting for my coming, to
free them from all the miseries they are surrouuded
with; and to cut off those that are hardened,
.that would not that I should come and r^igri over
them. But this Hann hath no more discerned,
what is to go on. from nation to nation, before I
.come to make an end of sin, and establish ever­
lasting righteousness on the earth; this is no more
discerned by him, than the Jews discerned at my
first coming, that I should be rejected of them,
.and be 'wounded for the transgression of man.
But had it come to their wisdom, the words of
the prophets could not have been true, neither
could the words of David have.been true; but this
the Jews will never discern, before thy prophecies
come round to befulfilled in a more clear andpower­
fu l manner than any thing that hath happened
already. Yet in the end, by the visitation of
my Spirit, and the fulfilment of thy prophecies,
I shall convince the Jews and Gentiles of the
truth.of my Gospel and the Scripturest that I
came to fulfil' them as I said. This I shall do
24
Digitized by Google
-S''
where the hearts are not hardened in sin, so that
they have no desire of the knowledge of my ways,
or to be delivered' from the power of evil. Such
there are amongst mankind, that will stand out
to the end, and be cut off, having no desire to be •
convinced ; but where the hearts are good in men,
when they see the truth come on brighter and
brighter, like the noon-day sun, they will have a
desire' to know whether I the Lord have spoken
by thee.
And now I shall answer thee further of Hann.
He hath went on to make the Scriptures appear,
as he said of thy writings, low and silly; as he
saith, that my dealings with the prophet were
according to his capacity, of what men w
rere in
his days; but was it now that I was to visit, he
judges it would be in language more adapted to
the wisdom and understanding of this present age.
Here thy thoughts are right, to inquire if I did not
know what this present age would be, as my Bible
stands for the end: here lie hath condemned the
Lord for want of knowledge. To thy thoughts
I answer: it must be for want of knowledge in
the Lord, to speak by the prophets what stood
for the end, if it was designed for the succeeding
generations to understand it before the end;
then knowledge must be wanting in the Lord, of
what those generations would be. So he must
charge God for want of knowledge, or want of
wisdom to know how to adapt the Scriptures to
the capacity of men, that should -arise in this
present age. But now I shall call thee back to
the age that was in the time of the prophets; and
let men discern how the prophets were persecuted
and put to death; and let them discern the pro­
phets that prophesied of my coming: did they
understand, in their days, in what manner I should
come to fulfil Iheir words? If they had under­
stood this, then the Jews would not have sought
25
Digitized by Google
tty life; had it been spoken plain for men to
understand it, then they must have sinned against
light and knowledge, and my coming must have
been for man’s destruction; for their hurt and not
for their good. But what was spoken by the
mouth of the prophets was no more adapted to
the wisdom of men in their days, for them to
understand all the words of the prophets, than it is
adapted to this present age. For, if all the bible*
and all that was spoken by the mouth of the
prophets had been plain and easy to be under­
stood, it would have given Satan greater advan­
tage over them, to fill them with murmuring, and
complaining, that they were not fulfilled—all the
promises that stand for the end, to remove the
evil and establish the good. This, I tell thee,
like Satan’s working in Hann, of its not being
fulfilled, would have been his working in all ages;
and so the Scriptures would be despised; there­
fore it was my wisdom to conceal from the un­
derstanding of men the meaning of the Scriptures,
that stand for the end ; for which reason, various
things of blessings and judgments are mixed to­
gether, in a manner that men do not understand;
and therefore they draw different judgments, ac­
cording.to the different minds of men. But how­
ever simple the Scriptures may appear to the weak
judgment and understanding of men, and how­
ever foolish the types and shadows may be, let
them know, as I began I shall go on. If I acted
simply with the ages past, I shall act simply with
the age that is present, that all men may discern
in the end, that in one likeness I have ■went on.
But I ask thee and all mankind, how I could be
a God, the same to-day as yesterday and for ever,
in whom is no variableness, nor a shadow of
turning, if I turn from the types and shadows
that I began with man at first? This wisdom in
tnan, that Hann hath brought forward, is from
26
Digitized by Google
the devil/ who worked in the hearts of men to
have my ways appear foolishness to them; but had
my visitation been to thee in a different way, and
different language, in the highest learning that
could be, without placing any types or shadows,
any signs or landmarks, for men to walk by, itt
more eloquent language than ever was spoken by
man, or ever spoken by the mouth of the prophets;
then Satan would have worked another way in.
man, and brought forward the very scriptures I
have mentioned to thee, to say, if it was of God,
it would be in the likeness of the prophets of old,
as Xspoke to them from types and shadows; and
the gospel would be discerned, that I spoke by
parables, and the likeness of parables I compared
the kingdom of heaven to; but what likeness of
the scriptures, would be men’s reasoning, was there
now in all my visitation to thee ? If it was to his
judgment adapted to this present age, and inwords
and widom like the learned, then the judgment
which men would draw would be, that from the
learned all proceeded; for I now tell thee, that
Satan will work every way to deceive mankind :
and when the arts of Satan are joined with the
wisdom of-men, that their working is together,
there is more subtlety and art; and, according to
the wisdom of men, it shines brighter to deceive
than Satan’s wisdom when it shines alone. Look
to thy Disputes with the powers of darkness, and
Hann’s Books, and then discern which of the two
is most adapted to deceive the human race: and
yet, from the folly of Hann, I shall shew plainly
to mankind in what manner they wrest the scrip­
tures, and how Satan blinds the eyes and darkens
the understanding of men, that give theirselves
up to be led by his. will. This I shall prove by
the judgment he hath drawn of the creation, and
the Fall. Let his words appear.”
Hann’s remark.' He says, “ The claiming the
27
Digitized by Google
promise claims our first attention. This promisor
is found, Gen. iii. 15. ‘ I will put enmity be­
tween thee and the woman, and between thy seed
and her seed ; it shall bruise thy head, and thou
shalt bruise his heel.’ This is the promise that
Joanna pretends to claim, and the court with up­
lifted hands joins her in so doing. A few
thoughts on the subject will evince, that only a
literal meaning can be drawn from the text. First,
the Lord was addressing himself to the serpent,
and not to the woman ; therefore what was said
or intended was directed immediately to the ser­
pent, and not to the woman; and to say other-
wavs would be to charge the Lord with that dis-
order that man would blush to be thought guilty
of, I mean directing his discourse^ to one person,
and intending what he said for another. I would
ask the advocates for this promise, if they (on
mature deliberation) can suppose that Eve and
the serpent thought as they do ? That is, whe­
ther they understand, that while the Lord was
apparently denouncing a curse on Satan, he was
in reality giving a most gracious promise to the-
tyoman ? This is certainly too great an absurdity
to be admitted. Secondly, that the serpent, ana
not the devil, is here intended, is evident, from
his being called a beast of the field; from which
it is also clear, that prior to his punishment he
was a beast of the field and not an angel, as some
have supposed. Thou art cursed (not above every
angel or devil, but) above every beast of the
field; his going on his belly also is applicable to
the serpent,, but not to the devil; unless it be
supposed, that the devil goes on his belly: for
the curse is, upon thy belly shalt thou go. His
punishment being to eat the dust also corroborates
the same sentiment; unless we suppose, that Satan
feeds on dust. The term of the sentence also unites
in support of the same: all the days of thy life; not
<
2
8
Digitized by Google
/ . j
for ever and ever, (which would have been most
proper, if it had been Satan) but for the term
of-life. The remaining part of the sentence also,
in the 15th verse, is very applicable to the ser­
pent, but not to tbe devil: I will put enmity be­
tween thee and the woman, and between thy seed,
and her seed ; it shall bruise thy head, and thou
shalt bruise his heel. This, between the woman
and the serpent, is most literally fulfilled ; there
is a'settled enmity between man and the serpent;.
the serpent bites the heel, or endeavours so to do,
and the man turns and treads upon his head.”
In another pamphlet, speaking of the prophe­
cies, he says, ‘* Was I not angry at such blas­
phemy I believe God would be angry with me.”
TH E A N SW ER OF T H E .S P IR IT .
“ Out of his own mouth hath he condemned
himself; because it is the Gbd of this world, that
hath blinded his eyes, whose anger he fears and
dreads ; but the greatest blasphemy, that can be
spoken against the Creator of mankind, is spoken
from his judgment of the fall, to dishonour God,
and free the old serpent, which is the devil. Now
come back to the creation, in what likeness man
was created at first—In the image of God created
he him; male and female created he them; and
God blessed them; and God said unto them, Be
fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and
subdue it, and- have dominion over every living
thing that moveth upon the earth. And God saw
every thing that he had made, and behold it was
good. Then now let men answer, from whence
comes the evil ? But thou sayest in thy heart,
.Hann hath placed the evil to be in the serpent,
whom I created for man to have dominion over.
Then now I answer, from' a judgment like his he
hath condemned his Creator with lying, with art,"
gn4 deceit, with unjust dealing,* and unjust sen-
Digitized by G o o g l e
ISO
ience; first tcf give, a command to man, to pro­
nounce -death upon him if he broke my com­
mand, next to give wisdom to the serpent, and
wake him a mouth and voice to betray, and then
to pronounce a curse upon him for the very thing
that I myself had done in him. So marvel not
in thy heart of any thing he hath condemned
thee with, or the Spirit that visits thee; because,
J tell thee, it is a thing impossible for any being
to be made worse, or condemned with more
cruelty, more injustice, art, and deceit, than he
hath condemned his Creator, in the beginning:
•for then my curse upon the serpent must be for
doing the thing that I myself had done in him ;
and to man I must act deceitfully with him, and
gave him a command with a design to betray.
Then I ask thee what salvation any man can de­
pend upon, from such a God as he hath repre­
sented ? What dependence, or what trust of his
justice, mercy, and truth, can he rely upon from
such a God, who betrayed man in the beginning,
and then cast the blame upon him for being be­
trayed ; who spoke in the serpent to act with de­
ceit, and then pronounced a curse upon him
through hypocrisy, to screen that deceit from the
man, that he might not know the Lord had done
it ? I tell thee, he judges God to be another such
as himself.
Here thou sayest, my answers are harsh; but I
tell thee, it is the perfect judgment he must have
drawn of his Creator, in the beginning; then
what trust can be put in such a God, to be saved
by him ? Now I shall answer his own words. It
js the old serpent, called the devil, who is the
God of this world, that hath blinded his eyes,
and hardened his heart against his Creator, whom
he must judge will be angry with him, if be
•casts the blame on the devil, to use the subtlety
and art to betray iu the beginning. And I shall
Digitized by b o o Q l e
St
answer thee farther, from his saying, if it was
meant the devil, he must go on his belly as the
serpent does. To this folly I shall answer; the
shadow was to the serpent, as it was in that form
the devil betrayed ; but the substance is in hirii,
that in the end I shall cut off his power, to have
no more footing upon the earth, than the serpent
had feet to walk upon. But I now tell thee,
like his judgment of the creation and the fall,
mockers and despisers of the scriptures have
drawn theirs, to bring them into contempt; and
it is through hypocrisy, with the subtlety of Sa*
tan, that he hath made any profession, that it
is for the honour and glory of God, that he is
now come forward to write against my visitation
to thee; therefore let him boast no more, that
he is speaking for the glory of God, or the good
,of mankind, in what he is now coming forward
to do; for an atheist, that denieth the scriptures,
doth not dishonour God as he hath done; but
was I to demand of him what he judges of hi3
Creator, in the beginning, from what he hath
asserted concerning the fall, what answer could
X receive'1Thou answerest thou canst not tell,
without he answers, it is to free the devil, that
he hath drawn ,such judgment: and to free the -
devil such judgment is drawn, to cast the blame
on the Creator; for in one likeness as he began
to condemn his Creator, just so he hath went on.
Let his words appear.”—
Hann, in his letter to the bishop, condemns
me for saying, the word of God is as a book
that is sealed, so that neither the learned nor the
unlearned can read, (that is to say understand
it.) These are his words.—
“ Whoever b.elieves this doctrine, my Lord, is
an infidel; for infidelity is a belief, that, the
scriptures do not contain the revealed will of
G od; which they cannot do, if the bible is a
Digitized by Google
sealed book; for to be sealed and revealed is a
manifest contradiction. But the doctrine, my
Lord, is also big with blasphemous reflections
on the wisdom of the Deity; for it must be very
absurd for God to have the scriptures written,
if none could understand them. The absurdity
' therefore and blasphemy of this doctrine deserves
the severest treatment. This, my Lord, is not
destroying the word of God by piece-meal, but
is laying the axe at the root of the tree. In a
late publication, Joanna complains, with much
pretended concern, against a certain society, for
expunging from the bible certain parts of it.
But, however just and commendable such a com­
plaint may be in Christians, it is in infidels no­
torious hypocrisy ; for, while those are only prun­
ing the tree, these are destroying it root and
branch. And this is done by every one who says,
or believes the bible is a sealed book. This ts
not all; Joanna, in saying the bible is a sealed
book, is much worse than an open infidel; for
while he reflects only on the blindness of man,
she casts an odium on the Deity, and indirectly
charges him with the greatest absurdity.”
After the above was brought to me, I was
ordered to write to Hann, and to point out dif­
ferent passages of scripture, and demand his ex-
•planation of them. A friend of mine carried the
letter to Hann; and, in conversation on the bible,
he pointed out a passage therein, and asked him
to explain it. Hann said he could n o t; he did
not understand the meaning himself; but others
might. My friend desired he would tell him of
any person likely to explain it. Hann answered,
that he did not understand it himself; neither
did he know any one that did. Three weeks
after, iny friend called upon Hann again, for his
answer to my letter. He said, it wasnot ready ;
but he would read to him as far as he had gone.
32
Digitized by Google
it contained very little else but a repetition of
things he formerly asserted; arid my friend-told
Hann, that that was not what was wanted: His
opinions and assertions; were nothing; it was his
answer to the scriptures'that was demanded. He
replied* that he did not understand them;
neither would he give any answer to them.
•T H E ANSWER OF THE S P IR IT .
“ Now, from his answer, he bath ackndwledg-
ed, that he cannot understand the scriptures;
and to try and prove, that he went on to con­
demn m e , I ordered thee to make a demand of
him* to know, whether he could explain the
scriptures, or whether he condemned God with
absurdity. Now, as he hath owned, that he
cannot do the one, he must acknowledge he hath
condemned God with the other; for after the
manner of his words is my speaking to thee.
And now out of his own mouth will I condemn
him, that it is he and not thee, that is cutting off.
the scriptures root and branch ; because the root
of the scriptures is in the beginning, when I laid
the foundation of the earth, and created man in
it. Know what I said tot Cain, after the fall: if
thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted ?
and, if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door.
Here was the root in the beginning, that I laid
for man; but this Hann hath cut off. and laid
' the axe to the root, that the Creator of man was
the root of the evil, and from that root tire evil
branches sprang, which he is now cutting off, as
all to be evil, that proceed from God. Then now
I ask thee, where a man like him will fly, to find
mercy, -justice, or truth? For, in a judgment
like his, the evil must come from the Lord.
Therefore he hath turned the things upside down:
he hath putdritter for sweet, and sweet for bitter:
he .hath called good evil, and evil good j but
e
Digitized by Google
/ A /
what will such a man do in the eud, if he do not
repent before it is too late? Can he expect to find
mercy or favour with a God he hath so disgraced,
so dishonoured, and wrongfully condemned?
Therefore marvel not in thy heart at any artful
invention, or subtlety of working, that he hath
brought round to condemn my visitation to thee;
because, from his own words, he hath condemn*
-ed the Lord throughout the scriptures; calling it
absurd in the Lord, from the manner they are re­
vealed ; for he owns that he cannot explain them;
neither can he point out a man to do it. There­
fore his words I shall turn back upon his own
head, that he is much worse than an open infidel,
to cast an odium on the Deity, and indirectly
charge God with the greatest absurdity, from the
manner the scriptures are revealed, as he allows'
they are sealed up from his knowledge to under­
stand them; and thou knowest from the learned,
that .they have owned they are beyond the un­
derstanding of men. But dost thou marvel that
a man like him should come forward to condemn
thee,when he hath with such blasphemy condemn­
ed mb? But this proves the truth of my words
to thee, that the rage of hell is bursting in man.;
and therefore I ordered thee to contend with the
powers of darkness, .and pen his words against
the Lord; for I well knew thou wouldest see his
fury break out in that likeness, in men that he
could gain to join with him; but all will find, in
the end, that that old serpent was the devil, who
tempted Eve in that form; and he well knew
there was a curse pronounced against him ; there­
fore it is said in the Gospel, when I became flesh
and dwelt amongst men, and cast out devils, as
a type and shadow of the end, they knew that a
time would come, when they should receive their
punishment, as well as man; and therefore they
answered, Art thou come to torment us before
34
Digitized by Google
V ' /
our time? Know what I said in my Gospel—the
devil was a liar from the beginning; because it
was with lies he betrayed; and this they will all
find in the end, that it was the devil that spoke
. in the serpent, to betray the woman; and then
worked upon Cain to destroy his brother; be­
cause he was at enmity against God, and worked
enmity in Cain against his brother, that feared
the Lord ; and so he hath went on to this day.
But let men consider, though Satan’s reign hath
been long, to prove my justice in the end, to
cast him out of heaven, and cut off his power in
the end; yet men who sought my favour and
obeyed my commands had not long in this life to
bear with his temptations, nor the persecution
that sin hath caused; but those that were harden­
ed, and joined with their master, let them not
lament that they must suffer with him. Now
come to his other observations.”
Hann says in his book,— “ Joanna and the
“ sealed are to chain down Satan, when the mil-
*
* lennium commences.”
He likewise brings forward the words of the
Spirit — “ I am in the woman’s form.” From
this he says, “ Christ has changed his sex, and
“ is made a woman.”
I shall here insert the passage he hath drawn
this judgment from.
“ But all shall see the mystery:
The w o m a n here I'm made,
That Heirs of God you all may be—
Oh men, be not misled1
When first I came it w as as m a n ,
An<J o f a w o m a n b o r n ;
But as the swordwent through her soul,
I NOW AM IN HER FORM, -
For to fulfil my Father's will,
, And make your bliss complete;
I am the h e l p m a t e h e d id mean—
i The mysteries all are.great."
c 2
35
Digitized by Google
THE ANSWER OP THE SPIR IT .
*
* Now I will shew thee the folly that is in
mankind, where they give themselves up to Sa­
tan’s will and working; by him they are led away'
captive and blinded, that, in seeing, they can­
not see, and, in hearing, they cannot under­
stand; therefore, as I said by the prophet, they
stumble at thie noon-day sun; so at the noon-day
suu he is stumbling here. For now I ask thee,
where is the man, that can explain the words
which he hath mentioned ? Doth he riot say, that
thou and the sealed people are to chain down
Satan ? This is the judgment he hath drawn from
thy writings, and the manner that he hath under­
stood them. Now, from his judgment, the
whole power must be in thee and the sealed peo­
ple, to accomplish this great work, which he
hath said of man’s redemption; then now, from
a judgment like ,this, what needf of my power,#
or my visitation, or my saying I was made the
helpmate to accomplish the whole, if he gives’
the power to thee and the sealed ? A power thou.
.. hadst never a thought of; but a power I have
told thee that I shall ’do for. them in the end;
therefore I said it was my power, not thine, that
must be the helpmate in the end, to fulfil ,the
promise made in the fall. But had I not spoken
in that manner, then, I tell thee, as weak and as
foolish a judgment, as Mann hath, drawn, might
be drawn by the sons of men; but when I have
told them it was.me and! not thee, they can as­
cribe no power to thee; and therefore out of his
own mouth is he now condemned. H qw will he
answer, to prove the thing is to be done by thee,
when be hath, brought forward my words and
my saying, that, it is to be done by m e ? Now,
if he cannot understand the meaning of words,
that are so plain before him, he can never under-
36
Digitized by Google
iSiaml the meaning of the scriptures. — Now coroe
-to the scriptures: l Corinthians, vi chap, “ Know
yC, not, that your bodies are the members of
Christ ? Know ye not, that your body is the tem­
ple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which
ye have of God, and ye are not your own ? For
ye are bought with a price': therefore glorify
God in your body, and in your spirit, which are
God’s.”
Ezekiel iii. iv. chapters.
“ Where is the man who can answer, in a tem­
poral sense, how my body can be divided, and
placed into so many members ? Yet, in a spirit­
ual sense, all are members of Christ, that are in
Christ; now perfectly so is my saying, I am
made the w o m a n , and come in her Jorm: not in
a temporal seme am I e i t h e r , but in a spiritual
sense I am b o t h . In the Spirit I have visited
thee, and in the Spirit I have spoken within thee;
and I now tell thee, it was my Spirit speaking so
powerfully at lkistol in thee; it was I that gave
strength within thee, when thou feltest power
and strength beyond thyself: but where was thy
strength when my Spirit left thee? In tby heart
thou answerest, none, Then now I ask, where
is thy accuser, that can prove my sex was alter­
ed, by my visiting thee in the Spirit ? My Spirit
is one, my power is one, whether it be to a man
or a woman ; but the reasons 1 have told thee of
the end, why all my powerful visitation shall be
in the w o m a n , to make known my coming in
glory, that no man may be placed as the m e s s i a h ,
for the redemption of man; and, as the promise
was maid to the .
w o m a n , in the w o m a n it
must.be pleaded. But however great is the foljy
of this mao, and however foolish is his dis­
cernment, I have brought it to the scriptures, to
confound such reasoning in others; for in like
manner is the reasoning of the atheists: all that
57
Digitized by Google
is spiritual is made temporal by them; for which
reason the scriptures are turned to ridicule; there­
fore I directed thy hand to scriptures where the
mdckery of man is great* and where no man can
understand the meaning, why it should be said to
a prophet, “ Eat the roll, and go and speak to the
houseof Israel.”—“ Ofwhat use,”say they, “ could
eating a roll be to a man r or what knowledge could
he derive from that ?” Here are reasonings strong in
men, to mock the prophets, without having any
knowledge of my ways, or my decrees, that, by
my commanding him to eat the roll signified, that
my Spirit should be within him, thy words should be *
within him, my directions should be within him,
when I sent him to the rebellious house of Israel,
to warn them to repent, or I should destroy them.
And all the signs I set by the prophet, were signs
to the house of Israel, what, should befal them
hereafter.—“ Son of man, take thee a tile, and
lay it before thee, and pourtray upon it the city,
even Jerusalem, and lay siege against it, and build
a fort against it, and cast a mountain against it.”
Here were types and shadows, that I commanded
the prophet to set signs to the Jews, to shew them
plainly what should follow them and their city,
if they went on hardened and were rebellious:
and let men discern, how they went on rebellious,
-and what followed them: and now let them look
to the present time, and discern the standard in
the Jews, that however greatly men mock the
scriptures, and do not believe, in the days that are
1past, that things happened as recorded therein,—
of the miracles I wrought in Egypt, and all the
miracles I wrought by the prophets; yet, now let
them look to the Jews, and discern the prophet’s
words, how the siege was laid against them, and
what mountains were cast against them, that they
havenever yet hadpower to surmount and get over.
J^et them discern, how the siege was laid with
38
Digitized by ^ . o o Q l e
trifling things, by the prophet, of an iron pan,—
“ And set it for a wall of iron between thee and
the city; and set thy faqe against it, and it shall
be besieged, and thou shalt lay siege against i t :
this shall be a sign to the house of Israel.” Now,
as men mock my ways and my directions to the
prophet, in dealing with men after the manner of
men, and setting signs according to the wisdom ,
of men, to place them plain before them; let these
despisers and mockers look and wonder, how these
signs, that were set by the prophet are now made,
manifest, and fulfilled in the Jews: and let them
answer, what words, or what signs could be set
plainer before them, to compare the likeness to­
gether,—how they were besieged by their enemies,
as strong as the strength of iron, that when made
strong no man can break; and a mountain cast so
high, that they could never get over. But, as
the prophet, for types and shadows, was ordered to
bear the iniquity ofthe house of Israel and ofJudah,
so was the iniquity and transgression of menxast.
upon m e , whenI gave up my lifefor their transgres­
sion. So, what was done as a type and shadow,
in the prophet, was afterwardsfulfilled in m e , when
I suffered, the just for the unjust; and died, -the
innocent for the guilty. Now, perfectly as I was
made the p r o p h e t , to suffer the whole, to bear
the iniquity and transgression of man, that by my
stripes they may be healed in the end, perfectly
so I must be made the w o m a n , to avenge you of
the adversary, that betrayed in the beginning.
And men may as well say, that I was the p r o p h e t
E z e k i e l , as to say, that I am the w o m a n . All are
but types and shadows. And let men answer,
where is the woman, that hath strength and .power
to destroy her adversary ? Where is the man, or
where is the woman, that had a knowledge of the
promise, how it was made, or how it would be
fulfilled ? Is it not said, I will put enmity between
39
Digitized by Google
& r *
thee and the woman? Then, if I put it, I must
fulfil it: if I spoke it, I must accomplish it;. and,
as the woman’s right, I must come in power and
glory to avenge her of her adversary* and bruise
his head. Because the power is not in her to fulfil
the promise I made; and, therefore, it is I the
Lord, that spoke the word at first, must fulfil it*
at the last. But, as the promise was made to the
w o m a n , in her form, as her right, it must be
pleaded and fulfilled; for, as I have placed all
things after the manner of men, that is placed
amongst mankind, so, in like manner, I have placed
•the scriptures. But let no man exercise himself
in things that are too high for him; nor think
more highly of himself than he ought to think ;
therefore I told thee of the title of the book—
Here is wisdom; let him that hath greater answer
it; but what wisdom canst thou see in him, that
is thy accuser?
And now I shall answer thee further, from his
saying, if I permitted Satan to deceive thee once,
he'might deceive thee often; and be deceiving'
thee now. Here is folly in the man, to suppose
I should permit Satan to go on to deceive thee,
because I permitted jt to try thee, and to con­
found men and devils in the end. Know what
I told tbee—
-Satan was the great accuser of the
. brethren; and so, in like manner, he accused thee ;
that when I justified thee, Satan condemned thee;
and therefore I permitted him to try thee. And
go I have told thee of Job; when I justified him,:
Satan condemned him; and in like manner were
his accusations against Abraham; that if he was
put to the trial of what was not for his own hap­
piness, he would not obey my commands; there­
fore I said I would tempt Abraham, to try him if
he would ob.ey. Here I have shewn thee con­
cerning the just, why I permitted them to be tried
- \n various manner: Jacob was tried by lm bro-
"K-
40
Digitized by Google
' J V M
flier, and by his father-in-law, and by various
ways; and Joseph was tried: and, I have told
thee, that Satan is by-all in accusations, as he was
by Job, saying, Let them be tried, and they would
departfrom m e , or murmur against m e . There­
fore, to confound the adversary, in all ages the
best of men have been tried in various ways.—•
But now I know the thoughts of thy heart.: thou
sayest within, a man like Hann will condemn my
ways*- in suffering the just to be tried, to please
the adversary of mankind. To thy thoughts I
answer: it is not to please him, but to shame and
confound him, when I come to make up my jewels
in man; for Satan’s pleading would be like the •
angels that fell; and this hath been his pleading,
— Let men be tried, and they would rebel. There­
fore I have permitted the best of men in all ages to
be tried by various ways and temptations; some
by afflictions and disappointments in this life, to
prove the love of men, that, though they suffer
for a while,' they do not rebel in heart against
m e . And now I tell thee, it is impossible for any
man of true wisdom, that hath any belief in the
scriptures, to condemn my ways and my wisdom,
in trying thee to prove thee, before I ordered thee
to publish to the world. And now I ask thee, to
what use was my trying and proving Abraham?
Was not the heart-of the man-known to m e , be­
fore I tried him? But could his adversary be con-
founded, before I had proved,him? Now perfectly*/
so was Satan’s working to condemn thee, when I
justified thee; and so is his working in mankind?
and^his was known to m e before; therefore, to
confound thine accusers, I permitted Satan to try
thee. But he that condemns my followers, that
I have permitted to be tempted and tried, must
condemn every just man upon earth. IJttle do
men know in what manner-was Satan’s working-
concerning the prophets; or what made Jeremiah
41
Digitized by Google
cry out in the bitterness of his soul, that I had
deceived him, and he wished for death; little
dost thou know what made Peter sink, when he
launched into the great deep: he saw m e walking
upon the sea; and, had not Satan worked fears in
him, his faith would have kept him up, knowing,
if I had power to walk on the sea, I had power
to keep him from sinking. And now I ask thee,
what power tempted Peter to deny m e , after he
had said, If I die with thee, I will not forsake
thee? Aiid yet, thou knowest, he denied m e , when
I suffered Satan to tempt and try him. Therefore
let no man say I do not suffer the just to be tried :
for the type of Job is deep for all. And let men
discern to whom I spoke, when I rebuked Peter,
and said; Get thee behind m e , Satan; for thy
words are an offence unto m e : thou savourest
not the things which are of God, but of men.
Did I speak this to Peter, as a man, or to the
adversary, that was tempting him? Was-not my
fraswer to the devil, that he should tempt him no
more, but leave Peter to submit to my will?
Could men understand, from my gospel, the man­
ner I rebuked the tempter, when working upon
Peter, and how I spoke to him on the seas, and
how all the holy men of old were tried, they
would not marvel, that I tried thee; neither by
wisdom can they condemn my ways; for whe,re
is my servant, or where is my chosen, that was
never tried, and tempted by the devil ?■
And now come to the scriptures, that I have
answered and explained to thee. Where is the
man, by wisdom, that can explain why all these
types and shadows were placed, and why the
knowledge of the scriptures was concealed from
the understanding of men? This by wisdom they
cannot do. But was all put in a straight line
for men to understand, then Satan’s words
would have been true in the temptations of the
42
Digitized by Google
fall, that men were placed as earthly gods, to have
all knowledge given them; but this, I have told
thee, will not be, till I come to destroy his power,
and reveal the mysteries, that are concealed from
m an; then will the words of the prophets be ful­
filled, for the knowledge of the Lord to coyer
the earth, as the waters cover the sea;' and then
will my wisdom and my decrees be made manifest
and.known unto all men; and what now shineth
in darkness will then be made bright as the noon
day sun; because darkness will be done away,
and the true light will shine to man. And now
come to Hann’s remarks on my severity.”
He says, “ If Joanna is to .be believed, her
visiting Spirit, which is her husband, is a very
hard master, and exceedingly severe. —
-What
I wish the reader to notice is the severity of
Joanna’s husband.”
The above remark Hann hath made on the
command given to me concerning my trial, in the
book called What manner of Communications are
these, pages 5—10.
TH E ANSW ER OF THE S P IR IT .
“ My inquiry is first to thee, whether thou
judgedst any severity in m e , from the com­
mand that I gave thee ? Didst thou not judge it
right in thy heart, if thou disobeyed, for m e to
take from thee the promise of blessings, that I
had made to thee, and for ever to be lost to the
great happiness, that I said I was coming to es­
tablish, if perfect obedience was found to do my
\yill ? Didst thou judge my commands were
harsh, or severe, in what I had commanded ? In
■
thy heart thou answerest, no; but thought thou
shouldest justly merit my displeasure, and lose
the blessings I had promised, if thou wouldest
not obey my command in so trifling a thing. This
was thy judgment, that stands in print; but thou
43
Digitized by Google
hever saidst that thou judgedst mb harsh, or a
hard master, or severe, in giving a command to
thee. Then now let him that reprpves answer,
whose heart, or whose spirit is most likely to be
fed by the Lord, to be willing and obedient to
his commands, and condemn themselves, if they
break it; or who is most like the devil, hr his
temptations in the beginning, and the hardened
manner that men have went bn to commit sin,
and condemn the Lord for punishing them for
the evil of their sin r And from a judgment like
his, the scriptures have been marked with con­
tempt by the Atheists and Deists; and in their
likeness is his heart; for, it is impossible for any
man to mark my giving a command to be hard
and severe, as he hath marked it, without-con­
demning his Creator, in the beginning, as Hank*
hath, condemned m e; for, whether a man coo-
derrineth by parables, or whether he condemneth
in plain terms, the condemnation is the same.
Know, in parables I spoke, when I condemned
the Jews; and so in parables hath he condemned
the scriptures throughout. Now come to hia
other observation.” ;
Hann says, “ If we read the I4th and 15th
pages of What manner of Communicationsjutre
these, we shall find the bridegroom Changed
with leaving his bride,; and that without any
provocation, and suffering the devil to throw her
into the greatest agonies and torments imagina­
ble ; and it was a long time before he returned,
and then not without vollies of prayers and floods
of tears: this is a little repugnant to conjugal
affection.” . -
44
THE ANSW ER O F THE S F IR IT .'
“ Now I shall shew thee plainly, from his own
words, as I told thee of parables, that stand by
the prophets, to shew the iniquity of the hbUse of
Digitized by Google
Israel, so by parables they were condemned; a»’
a treacherous woman departing from her husband,
so was the bouse of Israel compared, as departing
from their God. And now I tell thee, in that
perfect likeness -Hann hath brought forward his
parables, to condemn the scriptures. Let men ,
discern how I compared myself to a Husband and
to a Bridegroom; and what were my promises
made, to the house of Israel, if they obeyed my
command, in the chapters that I directed thee to
send to him, .where my promises stand great, and
mythreateningssevere. .This, in like manner, ,is
mocked by the Atheists, as he hath mocked my
sayings to thee; that I forsook them, as Hann 6ays
I had forsaken thee; .for in like manner as he hath
mocked, so in like manner have the Atheists
mocked the scriptures, that I demanded of him
to explain.-—
* Thy Maker is thine Husband, the
Lord of hosts is his name; and thy Redeemer
the Holy One of Israel, the God of the whole
earth shall he be called.’*
*
* From these words the same observation is
made by the Atheists, as Hann hath made by
thee, or my visitation to thee. AfteB the pro­
mises were made, what love, or what affection
did I shew to the' Jews ? is the inquiry of the
Atheists, who see them as an outcast nation; and
all the scriptures, that I pointed out to thee, to
demand an explanation from him, are in like
manner mocked by the Atheists; and so in like
manner they are mocked by him. Eor, I ask
thee, how he, or any man, can explain these
scriptures, to believe them the word of God, and
not discern, that I forsook them, and did not
fulfil my promises at that time ? Therefore, if
he doth not allow, .that these scriptures will be
fulfilled in the end, he must mock the scriptures,
and my savings to the prophets, much greater
* Isaiah, l x v . H.
45
Digitized by Google
than he can mock my leaving thee for a short
time; because thou knowest, it was but as it were
for a moment, that I left thee, to be tempted and
tried by the devil; but how soon was my loving
kindness turned unto thee, to free thee from his
Eower, arts, and temptations! But know what I
ave told thee before, he that condemneth my
ways, in permitting the devil to try my friends,
must condemn theScriptures throughout,ashe hath
done; therefore I shall turn back his words upon
his own head; for his discernment of the scriptures
is no better than his discerning of my visitation
to thee. For, as he saith, as soon as thy writings
,are united with the scriptures, they quarrel with
one another; perfectly so. is his observation of the
scriptures, where he condemns m e in my visitation
to thee, in giving a command, or in leaving thee
for a while; and perfectly so he must quarrel with
the scriptures, and condemn my ways and my
decrees, because I have told thee, that in one like­
ness both stand together: and where is the
Christian that was never tried and tempted by the
devil? But I ask mankind, why it should be said
in the scriptures, that he should be cast out? Why
did I die to redeem man from the power of death,
hell, and sin, if the devil had no power to tempt '
any, but such as were willingly led by him, and
give themselves up to his will? If the followers
of the Lord, and thqse that have the desire in their
hearts to be freed from evil, were never tried and
tempted by the devil, then my casting him Out,
to cut off his power, would be unjust; and my
sentence must be unjust, to say, that the rebuke'
of my people should be taken away from offall the
sarth, which I have told thee is the devil; and
not only their rebuke, but the disturber of their
peace and happiness; for which reason my sen­
tence is just: therefore I said, hell should tremble,
for I should chain the rebel down,* But how
46
Digitized by Google
couldest thou be a judge of the different spirits
working within thee, and the different feelings of
thjr own heart, if I had never permitted Satan to
try thee, that thou mayest be a clear judge? And
fanow, without m e thou couldest do nothing;
and without m e thou hast no knowledge of any
events that should take place. But here, I tell thee,
in Hann is Satan’s working, as an angel of light,
to condemn my ways, through hypocrisy; be­
cause he hath made a profession of religion, in
bringing forward my saying, “ What is a man
profited, if he gain the whole world, and lose his
soul?” This is being a wolf in sheep’s clothing,
that I ordered men to beware of; for 1 said,
Within they were ravening wolves: and this I
.shall plainly prove before thee; because the sub­
tlety of the devil, when he worked in the serpent
to betray Eve, was not so greatly to my dishonour,
or to disgrace your Creator, as the subtle manner
this man hath worked round, to make my ways
appear contemptible. For there is not an infidel
nor an atheist in the world, that ever wrote against
the scriptures in so artful a manner, to condemn
my ways and my decrees, as the arts of Hann
have done; for, in a judgment like his, the whole
bible is condemned throughout; and for that end
it is designed ; for here is Satan’s working through
hyprocrisy, which is worse than an open enemy;
because it is a cunningly-devised fable, and doc­
trine of devils; for it was a cunningly-devised
fable, worked on by the devil to cast the blame
of the fall upon your Creator; and it is a cun­
ningly-devised fable to condemn the scriptures,
from the very thing that he hath condemned in
my visitation to thee; for as thou ponderest in
thy heart, that, as I gave commands to thee, I
had given commands through the scriptures, just
50 will every one that hath a knowledge of the
scriptures discern, that they are condemed by this
cunningly-devisedfable; because the likenessstands
Digitized by Google
47 •
together; and'whoever supports and ehcoilrage*
a man like Hann, must be an enemy to God, aftct
all his ways and decrees, and be another such as
himself, however great may be his profession of
religion; for here the tree is known by its fruifci
and what but thorns and thistles can be proved
from his works ? Now come to his sayings of the
bible, and I shall answer them.”
Hann says, “ The writings exclaim against the
bible, and the bible condemns the writings.”
“ I answer : where will he find thy writings
exclaim against the bible? Have I not told thee
the scriptures are the written word of God ; that
what I have said I shall fulfil; that not one jot
or tittle shall fall to the ground, till all be fulfil­
led, which I told thee I am coming to fulfil?
Then where is the man who can prove that asser-r
tion, that in any of my visitations to thee, or any
' judgment thou hast drawn of thyself, that thou
hast spoken against the scriptures, when I have
asserted them to be true, and that the whole shall
be fulfilled? Where is the man who-can prove
the bible is against thy writings, if I come to
fulfil them, ias I have told thee? This -cannot be
done by man. Now come further to his words.”
Hann says, “ The bible says the writings are
a cunningly-devised fable, and the doctrine of
devils; the writings say, the bible is full of con­
tradictions.”
“ I answer: In a judgment like his, full of
contradiction the bible must be; because, from
the beginning, he hath freed the devil from being
the author of any evil; and so his judgment is
the doctrine of devils. But now come to my
answers, and what I have revealed .to thee, that
there is no contradiction in the scriptures; be­
cause it is the scriptures I shall fulfil, and cast out
devils, with all their doctrine, that they have
worked in the hearts of men to despise and look,
upon as cunningly-devised fables; but I shall
48
1 Digitized by Google
49
make the fables true, and all the crooked paths
I shall make straight in the end, and fulfil the
scriptures that I have demanded of him to explain;
but, without the fulfilment, contradiction must
stand in the scriptures; nevertheless, this contradic­
tion is in men, that deny the fulfilment thereof.”*-*
Hapn says, “ The bible professes to be light,
tbe light of life; the writings declare it to be
total darknesp, unintelligible, and not to be un­
derstood.”
“ I answer: The bible not only professes to be
light, the light of life, but in reality it is so. The
prophets were a light to the people of old, to set
before them good and evil, and to teach men
what they should do to be saved. But the myste­
ries, that stand for the end, would have been of
no use to them; for it would have been of no use .
to them to see a light, that was not to. shine-
in their days; neither was it designed fo r
their days; but the light, that was required of
them, woeplaced before them, if they would walk
in that light. And, so the light o f my Gospel,
my coming to puffer fo r man, to bear the trans­
gression of the fall, was given by the prophets ;
and, to them that believed I was a true light o f
salvation, to give them a greater light than they
had seen before ; for as I came to fulfil the one, I
promised tocoine again in power to fulfil the other,
as I have explained it to thee already. So that the
scriptures have been a light to all them that walked
in the light, and a light that led them to life
everlasting. Thus there is no contradiction in the
scriptures; but the contradiction is in mankind,
who often wrest them to their own condemnation,
as Hann hath done: and contradictory men must
make them, if they say they will never be ful­
filled; because the knowledge of the end, in
what way they will be fulfilled, is sealed up from
the understanding of men; neither were they
designed to be revealed, till the time drew near
^ .Digitized by Google
that I should •come in power to fulfil them. For '
as all the mysteries of the Gospel, and the
way that the words of the prophets would be'
fulfilled, concerning my birth and death was
concealed, before I came to make it clear befiire
them, perfectly so stands the end, the way the
words of the prophets will be all fulfilled ; and
the meaning of tneir words, that stand for the
end, and the meaning of my saying, the woman
had wrought a good work on me, and what I
likened the kingdom of heaven to, from the pa­
rables placed in my Gospel; as this was sealed up
from the knowledge and understanding of men,
before I come to make it clear, and point out a
way I shall fulfil the promise made in the fall,
when I come to cast out the adversary that be­
trayed the woman at first.: all these things were
sealed upfrom the knowledgeand understanding o f
men; but every crooked path shall be made
straight before them, and what is darkened to '
the understanding of men I shall enlighten and-
make clear to them; so 'that. the scriptures will
he no darkness to men irt the end; for, what is
congealed from their knowledge is for the end. *
But, from the judgment; and wisdom of mankind,
whosuppose the scriptures will never be fulfilled,
that all was finished when I died ou the cross;
such judgment makes the scriptures unintelligible
to thousands,-who read and discern that they
have not yet been fulfilled, according to the
words spoken by the prophets, or my sayings in
my Gospel, and what was spoken by my disciples
'after m e , have never yet been fulfilled. There­
fore those who judge all was finished, and the
scriptures were closed, darken council'without
knowledge, and make the scriptures unintelligible .
to mankind, that are led away by such errors in
men. But let them know this is not done by my
visitation to thee ; because I have told thee1the
scriptures are true, they were spoken by the God
of truth, who hath power to.fulfil, and will ac-
r * vigr zed by f
50
Complish according to his promise. Therefor? it
is impossible for all the arts of men and devils to
cause unbeliefin every mind; for then Me scrip­
tures could not befulfilled, fo r men to be waiting
fo r the coming of their Lord, or for me to be the
desire of nations; all my parables must fall to the
ground, if unbelief was found in all. But, from
the shadow that is be^un, they will find the sub­
stance to hasten on, till all my sheep are brought
into my fold; and then they will find the good
Shepherd to appear. But were not the days to be
shortened, as I said in my Gospel, no flesh living
would be saved, when I come in power at the
end; fotf then the world would be like the ante­
diluvian world of old. Infidelity is fast increasing
in this nation, and all other nations ; for ye know
not the thinds and hearts of men, nor what has
been their minds from this war; the Romans, that
put their trust in the pope and priests, seeing
their power is cut off, that they have not power
to save themselves, this worketh upon the minds
of thousands not to believe in their power, as they
were taught to believe; and having no other re­
ligion taught them, they turn to infidelity, qpt to
believe in any superior power at alL For here
Satan hath power to work; and so his working is
strong in the nations abroad, and at home; and
were things to remain as they are, and all to be
settled according to the wisdom of men, all lands
would be filed with infidelity, and become, as I
have told thee, that no flesh would be saved.
But, as I said the days should be shortened, they
shall be shortened; for I have begun, and will
make £n end. But -what redemption could come
to man, from the fall, to be redeemed from the
power of death, hell, and sin, if unbelief was placed
in all?' From Hann’s observations I shall fcon-
found gainsayers, and condemn thy accusers. For,
without the visitation of my Spirit, they cannot
prove the scriptures true; because the fulfilment
must begin before I come in power tqe make an
51
crtQ; fkfti the ttyjpga Ihave raveled to thee, an<}
the weaning of.tne scriptures^ that I have e?T
plained to thee, is the beginning qf the fulfilment
of my words, ap<J the words pfthe prophets,”
. to Haim returned no answer to my letter,seai
him, January 21, I was ordered to send the fob'
lowing letter- , ; : ,; .
Mr. ilami, Fy*Uary SB, l$ li,
( ( Whether you will hear, or whetljer yop wili
forbear, whether you wiH answer, or whether you will noil* thif
Is a command of ttie Lord given to me, to demand of ^ou an
explanation of the scriptures I sent you 4n fpy last *
letter; and
if you cannot explain them yourseH, point out to amany man
earth that can explain th?m. And a further demand if
made ,of you, where you will prove it is said in roy writings,
that the sword, plague, and famine, should go through tbii latu^, <
in 18101 and where it is said, that<the millennium wouldtake
place in 18LI ? or where it was food to take place in,l807i ror
•wherebyep will prove, frpnr ipywjritipgs, any tittle fixed that tjbp
jOillennjum woujd lake.placpi This demand is made of yon to
phave you* Assertions, from my writings, or acknowledge yourself
fee*inventor of ttiose*falsehoods,r wrongfully to accuse whatever
iptait ypd judge me to be led hy.' if it heiof Qod, then you
jfeye invented them to oast an odium on the Deity;bjLit whatever
^pirij I am.led by, you have wrongfully accused and condemned
rt/‘ A&lihmediate answer is required of you>— .
‘ <
: *
*■ -From : - r‘ - 1 - ' '
1
$8
clCth ffQANNA SOUTHCOTt.
' ’ril^'fohowin^' passages'of scripture were pointy
<fdout for him to answer-: Isaiah, chapters ix, xi,
Xxv,‘xxxv, xli, xlii, lii,-lui, liv, Iv, lx, lxv, lxvi;
■
fiattiei, :vii, •ix ^ H ; Jertmiah, iii, 14th’verse;
fftadiah,' SlitvW&se; •Joel,-$ iii ; Hagffah ii ;
VMkah iv; 0ahk/n, ivj M atthew v; St. John,
'X'vi;-xxv> l' . .................... - ''
?vA fur&er explanation will he given in another
JHioli'catiob.
This taken from Joanna Southcott’s niquth by
me, ANN UNDERWOOD.
Witness, Ja n e T own le v . .. * . ..
M arch I, 1811. . ,
Price One Shilling. •• - ’
, jBaJabin and Marchant, Printers,
lafra>
*
C
o
ttrtpL
o
n
tto
a. Digitizedlay
,.an > •
CONTINUATION
» ,
OP .TBB /\>
CONTROVERSY ■
• r':T
’
‘
*
' " *
-
,v
WITH .THE ' ■
'R7
'V ^ S 1
^
WORLDLY WISE.
' V
T h e wbrld by wisdom know not God*
neither do they know his ways, or his decrees j
* for his footsteps have been hid in the great
deep, and his paths past man’s finding out.
And, as the professors of religion have brought
I forward the Scriptures, affirming that they are
already fulfilled, which strengthens the Atheists
in their unbelief, who clearly discern they
are not fulfilled; by these errors thousands are
stumbled, as some do not believe there is a God
to reveal his will to man ; others believe there fe >
*
a God, and that the Scriptures contain his written
word, and yet they deny the fulfilment thereof;
others say they are already fulfilled, that all was" .t
’ finished when our Saviour expired on*the cross,
and deny any further revelation to be given; and
it is to convincer^ankind of these errors, that^'
the controversy of the Spirit is held out to man.
But, as a professor of religion hath advised •.
me to contend only for that faith, tvhich teas
once delivered to the saints? ! answer, that is the
A
Printed by Gniabtn and Marcbnnt, Tnjram-Court, London.
Digitized by.
faith I was brought up in, and relied upon. Th«
love of G«dv Vhich was in Christ Jesus, was
deeply impressed upon^my mind %
,nd heart, to
trust in him for my Salvation; but when visited
by the Spirit of Truth, according to our Savi­
our’s .words in his Gospel, that he ‘said should
come to guide us into all truths, and to teach
us things to come, which' is the Comforter spoken
of, /to come in the end to call all things to our
r&membrahce, that was delivered to the'saints, and
t6 warn of the fulfilm^pt of 'the Scriptures, that
the time was drfuvind'near when the Lord would
fulfil hi^ Gospel, and what was delivered by the
holy rath of old, both fjrom the prophets and the
apostles; and being warned that the time was
hastening on for the Lord to fulfil their words,
this opened a greater light to me, to contend
fbr the faith delivered to the saints, than I had
before; because, at first, I saw no further than
my own salvation, before the revelation of the
Spirit of the Lord came to reveal his will con­
cerning our redemption, to fulfil the promises
delivered to the saints. Now I shall come to the
Scriptures, thatshew what weare to contend for.
2 Epistle of Peter Hi.2.—“ That yebemindfulof
the words, which were spoken before by the holy
prophets, and the commandment of us the apos­
tles of the Lord and Saviour.” The same exhor­
tation is,given by Jude—“ Beloved, when I gave
all .diligence to write unto you, of the common
‘salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you
and exhort you, that ye should earnestly contend.
for the faith, which was once delivered unto the
.saints.” Now I shall come to what was delivered
to the saints, spoken by the holy prophets—tha.t
MESSIAH,
traiisgres-
sionof man; and, if trace the prophets through,
%
and the Psalms, we shall find they agree together,
■
2 ‘
our-Saviour was prophesied of as the
"that was to come first to suffer for the
Digitized by Google
/ /
concerning our Saviour’s first coming, to be des- -
pised and rejected of men; and likewise of .bis
■second coming, in power and great glory, to be
the prince of peace, to have the heathens for his
inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth
for his possession, when h e cometh according to
the words of the prophets.
Daniel vii.—Zechariah xii.— They shall look
upon m e whom they have pierced.”—-xiv. “ And
the Lord my God shall come and all the saints
with thee.” These scriptures, and what was
pointed out in my last Book, shew us what is the
faith, that we are now earnestly to contend for*
that was delivered to the saints by the holy pro­
phets, and what our Saviour in his gospel taught
us to be looking for—that he should come again.
Therefore h e warned them to watch for his
coming,—“ For in such an hour as ye think not
the Son of Man cometh. Blessed is that servant
whom his Lord when he cometh shall find so do-
big.” .
Luke xii. “ Let your loins be girded about, and
your lights burning, aud ye yourselves like unto
men that wait for their Lord when he will return.”
xxi. Chapter.—“ They shall see the Son of Man .
coming in a cloud with power and great glory.”
. In this chapter we are warned what his coming is
for—to bring in the redemption of man, and what
are the sighs prior to his coming; ofthe distresses
and perplexities of nations; and, that men might
know when the end was near, our Saviour said
, the Spirit of Truth should come to guide us into
all truths, £nd shew us things to come. Now, as
our Saviour commanded us to be like men waiting
, for the Lord, and said they wore blessed whom
the Lord, when he cometh, shall find watching
for him; this slieweth us, in the end, what we are
earnestly to contend for, when the Lord hath warn­
ed by his Spirit, that his coming draweth near.
▲2
Digitized by Google
. The apostle Paul, in his exhortation to
the Hebrews, warned them to be looking for the
coming, of the Lord Jesus Christ; and saith—
“ Unto them that look for him shall he ap­
pear the second time, without sin unto salvation.”
2. Thessaloniam i.—“ The Lord Jesus shall be
revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in
flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know
not God, and that obey not the Gospel of our
Lord Jesus Christ, when he shall come to be glo­
rified.in his saints, and to be admired in all them
that believe.”
The same exhortation is given by St. Pe­
ter— ’“To be looking for and hastening to
the coming of the day of God.” This we may
find through the apostles; then, if we compare
together the words of the Prophets and our Sa­
viour’s sayings in his Gospel; then we may see
how the three agree together in one likeness, what
we are exhorted earnestly to contend for in the
end, to awaken mankind to the fulfilment of the
Scriptures.
Now the time is drawing near, that the Reve­
lation will be fulfilled, that the old serpent, which
is the devil and satan, shall be bound for a thou­
sand years, and cast into the bottomless pit, and
shut up, and a sealset upon him,, that he shall de­
ceive the nations no more, till.the thousand years
are fulfilled.
But, from the different opinions of men, that
are now writing concerning the Fall, the follow­
ing inquiry was made of me:—Did the Lord give
Satan a permitted power to enter into the serpent,
when he tempted Eve with the forbidden fruit?
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT.
“ I shall answer thee concerning the Serpent,
and my permission to the Devil to use his arts to
tempt and try the m a n . Had I given him no
permission to try, but kept him by a restraining
Digitized by C
4
power, that he could never tempt mankind, what
o f his reign could I shew upon the eartK? or how
could I prove liis guilt and cruelty, what his
having' power would do ? Therefore a permitted
power was given to him, and to his own inven­
tion? he was left; and therefore I have told thee,
i t was in the serpent that he worked by arts to
betray; and as that was his beginning, when I
sent Moses unto Pharaoh to free the children of
Israel from his power, I shewed Moses, by turn­
ing his rod into a serpent, what likeness was in
^Pharaoh of a hardened heart and cruelty, at en­
mity against God; in the likeness of the devil,
was the man I sent Moses unto; apd, when hfe
paw the likeness, he feared and fled from before
the serpent. But then I took his fears from him,
and ordered him to take it up by the tail, when
it became a rod in his hand : and so the head was
destroyed; and that head I destroyed in Pha­
raoh. Bpt now let men discern, when Moses
shewed the likeness before him, to turn the rod
into a serpent, Pharaoh’s magicians used arts by
their enchantment, and their rods became ser­
pents in like manner. But this power was not
done by man; for, I now tell thee, of their own
selves, as men, they had no more power to turn
their rod into a serpent, of the form and likeness
thereof, than Moses, as a man, had power to
turn his; but know, it was I as a Goa shewed
their enchantment to Moses, what were their
arts, and what was their working, through the
subtlety and art of the devil, who worked with
them in all these enchantments, till I by power
destroyed the whole; for fheii enchantment was
worked by the devil; and by him I have told
thee all witchcrafts are worked. Now, from this,
let men discern how Satan had power, by his arts,
to make a rod become a serpent j therefore let no
man marvel at his arts in the beginning, that be
5
Digitized by Google
had power to make use of the Serpent, and be*
come as a life in him, of mouth and, voice, to betray
the w o m a n . Thus let men discern from the rod,
there was no life in that, nor any form of a ser­
pent in it, before it was worked by Satan’s power
to turn it into that form; now perfectly so I tell
thee of the beginning, there was no knowledge
given to the serpent, of any command that was*
given to man ; neither was tnere any understand­
ing in the serpent what man was created for above
him; he was as ignorant of knowledge, and as
void of understanding, as the rod was void of
life, before the subtlety of Satan’s working was
in him, to be life, knowledge, and understanding,
and by him he used the arts to betray, as he used
the arts by Pharaoh’s magicians, to Harden Pha­
raoh’s heart, and make him believe there was no
power superior to the power that Pharaoh wor­
shipped before, from his wise men and soothsay­
ers. Know, their arts I shewed to Moses, be­
fore I sent him to Pharaoh, and then I shewed
him my power, how I should destroy them ; apd
so I have told thee, in the end, I shall destroy
the;whole. , Now, if men have wisdom to discern
what I have explained to thee concerning the Ser­
pent, and how Satan went on by arts, and what
power he had to form the likeness of a serpent,
where there was none, then the eyes of men’s
understanding would be clearly opened to discern,
that in the form of a serpent he had power to be­
tray ; and from the power that was shewn by the
magicians, to turn the waters into blood, it shew-
eth what power the devil hath had, in all ages, to
work in the hearts of mankind, to cause war and
bloodshed in every nation; for, though by my
power I have often gained the victories in the
war, for my people to overcome their enemies in
the end, yet great power hath been in their ene­
mies to go on and conquer for a while. So that
<
s
Digitized by Google
as the water, that was clear at first, became as
blood, by my power, and the same power was
shewn by the enemy, so have the nations went on
by wars and tumults in dll ages; and in like man­
ner they had power to raise the evil creatures, by
their enchantments. Thesethings are to shewman­
kind, that Satan hath a power to work many mi­
racles in evil; and this was shewn unto Moses,
• when I gave him a Law to go and delivermy peo­
ple ; but when I began to restrain the powers of
evil, 'they could go no further; for all their power
I desteoyed.—And now come further to the Law
given to Moses.”
St. John, Chapter i. 17* “ The Law was given
to Moses, but Grace and Truth came by Jesus
Christ.”
7
THE ANSWER OF THE S P IR IT .
“ From the Type and Shadow of Moses being
sent to deliver my people, and bring them into the
promised land, it was a Type and Shadow of the
End. For now 1 shall shew thee what were the
laws given to Moses, that I shall fulfil in the end,
and that I came to fulfil. Know my command of
the Lamb's being slain, and I came to be the
Lamb that was slain; but this let men discern,
when’ the Lamb was slain, and the blood was
sprinkled on the door-posts, Pharaoh's destruc­
tion came on, and the deliverance of the Israelites
from his power took place. This .was a shadow
to them, which I came to fulfil; but that fu lfil
ment hath not yet taken placeneither is the
grace and truth come to mankind, that I died to
establish in the end. Is my Gospel fulfilled,
for grace and truth to be established on the earth,
by my coming to die as the p a s c h a l l a m b , when
they see there are but few, when compared with
the whole world at large, that do believe,(or
rely upon m e or my Gospel ? Do not the nations
Digitized by G o o g l e
go bn as bardcnfed in -sin* and still to provoke and
distress my people, that Relieve in me -and nay
Gospel, as the enemies went on to afflict the
JeWs, after they were delivered, from the bands
of Pharaoh ? Oid they not meet with many
enemies afterwards, to waT with, to war against ?
And did they not murmur in their own hearts*
and bring evil upon their own heads, after they
were delivered from the land of Egypt ? They
•went ohf in the wilderness to provoke me to an­
ger to Cut them off, never to possess the land t
had promised them, though I gave it to their
children. Here is_a shadow of the end, and here
Is the likeness of my Gospel, . which ye. may now
discern. Do the professors of my Gospel act
according to my commands ? Do they not at*
like the Jews of old, that disagreed in the wil­
derness, at a discord with one the other, and
condemning the prophet by whose hands I
wrought their deliverance ? This likeness of the
Jews ye may all discern, hem the likeness now ap­
pears in this nation, where my Gospel is made
known unto all: some thousands are become Ari-
ians, and like the Jews off old, who condemned
MoSes, skying they knew dot what was become
of him; when he staid in the mount from them,
they made gods like calves, to go before them,
and put no trust that they shduld be delivered by
him. frow perfectly so are -thousands turned
aWay from believing in six, that I shall work
their deliverance in the 'end, as the Jews were
turned from believing in Moses; and as the con­
tention was amongstthe people concerning Moses,
so is the contention aafongst -mankind concern­
ing my Gospel* which thou mayest see from the
different sects and parties.. By some m
>y death
is made of no effect, nor of any use to mankind?
who say, it was>only to save them.that were sewed
from the foundation of the world, Prom such
s
Digitized by Google
p
judgm ent I have already told thee I died in 'cam.
N ow if men look to the contention of the people
o f old, after \ delivered them by the hand of
Moses, and gajjjj laws to him concerning them,
to bring them into the land of Canaan, which
was the promised land to them, let them discern
w hat was their contention and disputes, through
the wilderness, and how they departed from the
laws'; then let them look to my Gospel,* in what
manner is. the contention of mankind now, in
those that profess to believe my Gospel; and how
many, like the Jews of old, are departed from
i t ; then they itfay see the likeness to stand to­
gether. Then now 1 ask mankind how they will
prove the fulfilment of my words, if I do not
establish that grace mid truth in the earth, that
is said must come by m e? Let them discern, Mo­
ses, as the shadow, brought the children of Israel
to the promised land, to fulfil the words 1 had
Spoken by him ; then know, to be the substance, I
must fulfil the promise made by the prophets, and
the words I spoke in my gospel, to bring in the
promised rest for man; and, as Moses freed them,
by my power, from the hands of their temporal
enemies, and redeemed them from the hands of
Pharaoh, so must I free men from their spi­
ritual enemy, and redeem them according to
my promise, to give them the kingdom, as de­
signed for man at first, and establish the truth
of the Words upon, the earth, to prove to mankind
that grace and truth came by m e , which is righte­
ousness to be established with peace on the earth,
and my spirit poured out upon all, to free them
from evil, and establish good. Then will the
truth of my words be fulfilled, because I have
promised to fulfil them; and thus let men discern
. from my Gospel, what deliverance I have pro-
' znised shall be in the end, of a promised rest to
pian;for, as theshodm wasfulfilled byMoses,soshall
Digitized by Google
the substance be established by m e . But these
things men do not discern, what judgment they
draw of the Gospel, nor what are my promises,
to make the truth appear, that I came to seek
and to save that which was lost; that I came to
be the Saviour of the world;(that I came to cast
out the prince of this world ; that I shewed them
the shadows in the days of the Flesh, when I cast
out the devils, that were in men, which I pro­
mised to cast out in the*end .from all; that I gave
sight to the blind, and ears to the deaf; that I
healed men of the leprosy, and so In the end l
have promised to heal men of the leprosy of
sin. Here let men discern how different was
my wonderous working, when I became flesh
and dwelt amongst men, than the power that was
given to Moses; and so, they will all find in the
end, is my power and working, to give a promise
first to man, different from the promised land,
that was given by Moses, which was not establish­
ed in righteousness nor truth ; because they kept
not my commands, nor the laws that were given
to them; therefore their enemies had power to
afflict them ; and by their wars and tjumults, and
the power of their enemies, their waters became
as Mood to them at last, as I had made them at
first, when I cast out their enemies before them.
This let men discern followed the Jews—the like­
ness of the miracles I wrought by the hands of Mo­
ses, and the same likeness was shewn by their ene­
mies; and this went on by the power their ene­
mies gained over them, when they broke all the
laws that Were given them. But now let men
come to my Gospel. When I worked miracles at
the marriage of Cana, know I turned the water
into wine. Here let men men discern the diffe­
rence, what was my working to shew the end,
that the best wine was reservedfor the last, which
no enemy could accomplish. There was no pow-
10
Digitized by C j O O Q l e
er, that could make the water wine, to work with
m e , as they worked with Moses; neither was
there any evil power that could turn the wine to
become water when I turned it into wine. Thus
let men discern the difference between the miracles
that were wrought by Moses and the miracles I
wrought in my Gospel; then they may discern
the difference that will take place in the end,
when I establish my kingdom in every heart, of
truth, righteousness and peace; then it will not
be like the law that was given by Moses, but a
law written in every heart. For this is the best
wine, that is .reserved to the last, which was not
established when I became flesh and dwelt amongst
men. •
But now come to types and shadows from the
beginning, as the unbelieving world mock my
ways and my decrees concerning the s e a l i n g ,
because they judge it is not a command given
fiom the Lord, without discerning, that, in all
ages of the world, when in a powerful manner I
visited mankind, for any particular change, that
should take place, some command, or other was
given to man : Noah had a command to build
the Ark ; Abraham had a command of Circumci­
sion; Moses had a command of Burnt Offerings.
But know from my Gospel what was the com­
mand given by m e , when I became an offering
for all—to take the Bread and Wine, in remem­
brance of my Body and Blood that was shed for
the transgression of man, which I commanded
them to do in remembrance of m e , till I came a-
gain, in power and great glory, to bring in the
Redemption of Man. But this let men discern,
what was done by roy enemies,—they put a Seal
upon my Tomb, that I might not rise again. Now,
when this was done at my death, for men to put
a Seal upon my Tomb, let them not marvel that
this command is given in the end, after the man-
ii
Digitized by Google
net of men, toput a Seal upon my adversary, and
the adversary of mankind. Thus, if men had wis­
dom to discern in what manner types and shadows
have stood through the scriptures, and what was
the malice of my enemies, by setting a watch,
and putting a seal upon my tomb, they would not
marvel, that a Seal should be made for Satan's
doom; for, as the creation began by types and
shadows, and the command being given in the
beginning, so, in like manner, from types and
shadows, and a command, will the ending be.
And let men ,discern, from my Gospel, what was
done by man, worked on by the malice of hell;
then let men discern from the Revelation, what
was shewn to John in the Visiohs, how Satan was
bound, and the Seal set upon him, as man before
had placed it to h e . Thus, if the eyes of men’s
understanding were opened, to discern what men
did at my death, they would clearly discern the
Sealing must take place' against the adversary o f
mankind, before 1 come to cast him out. Now, if
men discerned, from the Scriptures,’ all that is
spoken of things that are Spiritual, there is first
a shadow in things that are temporal; and what
is spoken of things that are heavenly, thereds first
a shadow iu things that are eartidy; then they
would discern from being ,said—The l a m b slain
front thefoundationi f theworld, andmy beingcalled
the l a m b of g o d , to takeaway the sin i f the
world, these are heavenly and spiritual. But the
.shadow began Jjrst with what was temporal and
earthly, of tht%Mmb being slain and offered up,
before I came to'be an o f f e r i n g for ah. If men
clearly understood these things, and what is said
of the s e a l s in heaven, and how it was seen by
John, whose revelation was to shew him the end;
if men had wisdom thus to discern, they wopld
clearly discern, that the s e a l i n g must take place,
before the ending can come to mankind. For
N Digitized by Google
the Apostles themselves did not understand the
m eaning of their words or visions ; neither is the
m eaning of Paul’s words understood by mankind
—
-** <5 rieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby
ye are sealed unto the day of Redemption.”
This, thou knowest, all men have judged to have
no other meaning than a spiritual scaling; neither
were the words understood by the Apostle, that
iny temporal sealing would be commanded by the
Spirit of God to be done, before the day o f re­
demption took place; neither did the Apostle
discern or understand the meaning of his words,
any more than thou understoodest the sense and
meaning of the Sealing, when I warned thee of it
in the beginning,,which thou understoodest nofur-
ther than my promises being sealed up,-what I,
should do in the end for them that believed.
But thou hadst no knowledge of the Sealing
going out, for man’s redemption, or Satan’s de­
struction, for men to be redeemed from his pow­
er, before I made it clear unto thee how I should
go on in the manner Satan had begun, to say he
Would gain the kingdom, or lose it, after the man­
ner of mert, by election; and so, after the man­
ner of men, I orderec^ the Sealing to go out, to
try and prove the hearts of men, and to con­
found the enemy in his own wisdom.
But now I shall come to the Spiritual Seal­
ing. This mearieth the heart being given up to
God, to be saved with jn everlasting salvation,
knd halving a witness within, as Abraham had,
that they are heirs of the promise, which isfaith
unto salvation, to be saved in the hour of death;
and this spirituatsealing is to those that are Saved
in the end, who rely upon Me for salvation. But
however men may judge this is the meaning of
the Apostle’s words, to go no further than a spi­
ritual sense, I now tell thee, they go to both
temporal and spiritual; for now is the time the
13
Digitized by Google
H
Command is given by the Spirit of God, fo r m ete
to be sealed with a temporal sealing unto the d a y
o f redemption. But know, all that belieVe are
redeemed fr6m the power of death, hell, and sin,
when they die and go to glory; but that is th e
redemption o f the spirit, and not o f the body ,*
but it is the redemption o f the body that the A -
?
ostle told them to be looking for. These things
have shewn to thee, in what likeness the things
that are spoken of in heaven must have a resem­
blance here upon earth, before the end cometh,
to fulfil the Scriptures and my Gospel. Know
what I told thee of the Roman Pozvers, how they
would be shaken, when the Revelation began to
break; which meaneth, the truth of the words j
to be fulfilled; and so I tell thee and all mankind,
the visions John saw in heaven must take place
U^on earth, which never can be accomplished,
or fulfilled, before the sealing hath taken place
upon the earth. Therefore marvel not in thy heart
that blasphemy is spoken by man against it; be­
cause Satan’s working is strong in man to con­
demn it. But now let him that reproves answer,
how all these things, that I'have mentioned to
thee, of things that are heavenly add spiritual,
should have a resemblance upon earth in things
that are temporal—that all these types and sha-
d9ws should first take place, and the sealing,
that was seen in heaven, spoken of in the Scrip­
tures, never designed to take place upon earth?
Let them answer, for what ends, or for what use,
it was shewn to John?
Now come to my Birth : Luke ii.—“ And the
angel said unto them, Fear not: Behold I bring
you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to
all people. For unto you is born this day a Sa- i
yiour which is Christ the Lord* And this shall I
he a sign unto you; ye shall find the babe wrap-.
J>ed in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger.
Digitized by Google
s jr
IS
A nd suddenly there was with the angel a multi­
tu d e of the heavenly host praising God, and say­
ing, Glory to .God in the highest, and on earth
peace, good will towards men.” •
Now from these words, spoken by the angels,
m en must discern what I was born for; but let
them discerp further, what was said by Simeon,
when I was carried into the temple.—“ This Child
is set for the fall and rising again of many in Is­
rael ; and for a sign which shall be spoken against:
(yea a sword shall pierce through thy own soul
also) that the thoughts of many hearts may be
revealed.”—Here let men discern in what manner
my .Gospel stands mixed together. No sword
could have went through my mother’s soul, if the
words of the angels had then been fulfilled, fdr
peace then to be established on the earth, and all
to give glory to God in the highest; but from
the words spoken by the angels, it sheweth
what I was born for in the end ; and from the
words spoken by Simeon, it shewed what I bad
first to go through ; and how men would fall by
my gospel, before they would rise in the end.
Now, to shew men in what manner the scriptures
stand, I have placed thy writings together in the
like manner. Now come to the communication,
that I gave thee, after thy writings had been out
in the world one year to try men, and my com­
mands had been obeyed by them, but a persecu­
tion began to arise in some; therefore I shewed
thee, from these different men, what would go
on amongst mankind.”
The following communication was given to me
in February, ]802.
“ Now the mystery Til explain:
Lift up your, heads, you sons of men:
For your redemption now draws near—
Convulsions in your land appear;
, , And fast convulsions will come on,
As on thy father they did come;
Digitized by O o o Q l e
And so in man they will appear;
For Satan's arts will some ensnare,
To be convuls'd in words from hell;
By*Satan's arts will men rebel,
Until I do convulse the whole,
And sudden shake the hearts of all.
For 1 shall sj>ake the earthly grounds*
The hearts of men convuls'd are found,
Tempted by malice and by word,
And mock the coming of the Lord;
And like thy brother do appear—
“ We cannot judge that it is near,"—
'
But they are all mistook like he;
The hand of death, you all might see,
That day did to thy father come ;
The five days he did linger on,'
In strong convulsions to appear,
And then his death thou didst see clear.
So now these days I'll turn to years:
The hand of death,doth now appear*
And strong convulsions here are found ;
From heaven and hell I hear the sound ;
For some are strong convuls'd fo r m e ,
And wish toy kingdom for to see;
And so my kingdom shall appear,
In glorious triumph, in five years;
That is to say, I'll make this land
To judge my coming nigh at hand i
For in the hearts of men I'll reign,
And they my kingdom shall obtain;
A perfect peace within five years,
A happy nation shall appear, '
To such as a re couvuls'd for m e ,
My happy kingdom wish to seeC v
For I shall now convulse the whole,
And death shall .make the mockers fall,
And I'll bring in a glorious peace,
And make your jarring discord cease;
For of one heart and mind you'll be;
A happy nation you shall see,
That I shall give unto my friends;
The heavenly music shall descend;
For here must come the first redeem'd,
The living witter and the stream."
“ The meaning of these words I shall answer,
from what was said by the angels at my birth,
that they told the shepherds I was born for t<
*
Digitized by G o o g l e
b rin g peace and good will to mankind; and,
w ithout my being born for man, the promises
th a t stand on record could never be fulfilled. But
How let men discern, from my gospel, what shat
dow of the words was fulfilled by my disciples,
who gave glory to God in the highest, when they
saw the miracles wrought by me, and the faith
they had in believing, from, what they had seen
and heard through my Gospel. Thus let men
discern what shadow was in a few, of giving
glory to God, and what was their faith, that I
should establish peace in the end. Here the sha­
dow began in them, of what the substance will
be in the end, when all will give glory to God in
the highest j when I come to establish peace and
righteousness on the earth, and fulfil the promises
made in my gospel. But let men discern from the
other,.that I ordered thee to bring forward, of
Simeon’s words, that my Gospel would be the fall
to many in Israel, as they would be cut off in
unbelief; and now in the perfect likeness of the
chapter stands the communication, that I or­
dered thee at this time to put in print. Let men
discern the promises made to true believers, and
the faith they are established in ; but how differ­
ent are the words spoken of the unbelieving
world !
These things were but shadows placed in the
five years, of what the end should b e; but when S S €
the end cometh, for me to fulfil roy promises,
j|nd establish my kingdom according to my pro­
mises, and what I was born for to do in the end ;
then will come the substance to the believers;
and those £hat mock will then be cut off; and
these divisions in men will cease. But did I tell
thee they would cease, and the end would be es­
tablished, in the five years ? Did I not teU thee
that? unbelief would abound, and men would
Judge no. second coming was near? This I plainly
B
17
Digitized by G o o g l e
told thee would be in the hearts of men, In the
five, years, where these shadows would begin, of
the different minds and hearts of men; but when
I come to fulfil the will I made in the time, and
put in execution my just decrees ; then the sha­
dows will be past, and the substance will come,
and unbelief will be done away; for then the
ends that I was born for will be fulfilled unto all
that trust in m e . for their salvation and redemp­
tion, according to the promises made in my Gos­
pel. But as I have told thee, as a will, that is
made unalterable, that is fixed, perfectly so was
my will made, in the five years, to true believers,
what the end shall be for them, to enjoy a happy
peace with m e , either in time here upon earth, to
see my kingdom established, or those that die be­
fore the time, they shall then come with m e in
triumph and glory, as mv disciples^will, in the
end. Now come to the decrees that were made
iiT the five years, and what was the faith in be­
lievers ; and then discern what Samuel said unto
'Saul— This day is the kingdom rended from
thee, and given to a neighbour of thine, that is
better than thou.” But this did not take place
till many years after, though my will was made
that day. . Now come to my will, that was made
in the fiveyears; my will was made known to be­
lievers, concerning the Sealing, and in what
{manner I fixed the bounds! Know how the pe­
titions were made by true believers, how they
were signed and sealed up; and what was my
firm decree, that was fixed, to cast out the au­
thor of evil; how the believers were called to­
gether ; and how all were united in one voice,
fof my kingdom to come, and Satan’s power to
be cut off. These were promises made in the five
years, that were unknown to men, and concealed
from, their knowledge, before it was revealed to
them, that these were but shadows; but all will
18
Digitized by G o o g l e
find I shaft come to bring in the substance ; theft
they will find my will to be accomplished in power
and great glory, to the comfort and consolation
o f all true believers, that are longing for my
■coming. But now I ask thpe and all mankind,
to what purpose would my revealing my coming
be to man, if I meant to come and bring in my
kingdom of righteousness and peace, to cut of
«ll those that Would not that I should come and
rule over them, in five years after the warning
was given ? How could the hearts of men be tried
and proved r How could it come to the know-
ledge of men in so short a time as five years?
How could the nations be warned for m e to be
the desire of nations ? Or how could men prove
the visitation was from m e , in so short a period
after I sent out to warn this nation ? This could
not be done at home; then what knowledge
could, there be given to the nations abroad ? So
that my warning could have been of no use to
mankind, if I meant to come in power to destroy
your adversary, and bring in my kingdom, within
five years after the warning was given. This was
never my design: but what should happen in a
five years to come was all made known and re­
vealed ; and my will signed and sealed in the five
years, that I mentioned at that time; but, wheti '
the time will come, that I shall go on after the I
manner of thy going on, in the five years, and I fij-,
bring in the glory of my kingdom at the end; f
this, I tell thee, will never be made known before \
I come suddenly and unaware. But this let all
men discern and keep in remembrance, thy dis­
pute with the powers of darkness, that I ordered
thee to pen; .then the Sealing, that went out
with thy petition .for men to sign, and the man­
ner it was sealed; then let them discern what thou
went through at Bristol, and the fury I worked
in thee, of breaking the earthen ware; then let
b 2
1$
Digitized by Google
*•'
them discern how strong was Satan’s temptations
to thee, and how strong was my powerful work­
ing in thee, and the answers I gave thee—all
Were types and shadows of the end. My power*
' ' ful working in thee,, and the words1
1 spoke with­
in thee, acre what 1 told thee 1 should come to
fulfil ; and all the parables I ordered thee to bring
forward are for the end, which ye will see the
likeness of in all nations. All these signs were sot
for the end, as types and shadows, placed in the
five years. So, from these shadows, when men
begin to see the substance, that I begin to break
yj the nations in pieces, as thou didst break the pot-
ter’s clay, and see signs appear, like thy power-
£. ful walking in the room, to shake the fabrick of the
'i <:<... ^ earth, as thou didst shake the house of clay; when
/^XJthey see *hese things begin to go On powerfully
. "A- ^ k n d strongly; then they may Judge that a five
[■ years will bring a glorious change to mat. But
then the time, day, or hour, will not be known,
till; my coming suddenly and unaware. Now
come to the end of the Communication ©f the
five years—
%
My kingdom they have publish’d here* :
That hastily it will appear;
And some will say then, “ It is soon
And'so their sun will cloud ere noon*
For like thy father it will he,
^ Out run the tiipe was judg’d hy the# i
' And so they’ll say., “ It does not appear t.
What truths and errors w6, see here 1 .
As other things we find are true:
< His kingdom lies,before our view y
And we may see it u n a q r a f e j ♦
1 And so the wise wilt 6tand and fear f
But for the fools they soon will
“ No second coming we see nigh”“ ’ ‘
And like thy brother give it up; *
Then unaware I sure, s^ )i dr#p»
So here's the type, and if gyes deep* ,_
*A glorious type for some ‘ ‘
" That wish for m e ’ my kingdom see/ *
And wish to have ft tome;
Digitized by Google
’ \ j.
. iiI
i t
But thole that mock my every stroke
M ty tremble at the sound*
Deep are tbe words thpt thou hast penn’d.
And so will all rebound.
• So thou hast penned the final end, -
That will be in five yeafrsj /***♦«.*
And joy will be my fi&wwfefto see */++**..
What wiU to them appear. r
This communication I ordered thee to niake
public among the believers, to try and prove
their own hearts, who had faith to ‘beliete the
glorious promise I had made, that I should fillfil
in the end1
; who WCre the wise virgins, that
thought I tarried for a While, yet their faith still
continued, knowing I shall fulfil my words in the
end ;1'or who are: like" the foolish virgins, Whose
feith is gone Out, believing that no second com­
ing 'wifi appear, to bring in a glorious harvest to
mankind. Thus I shall leaveevery man tojudge for1
himself, concerning the communication that I gave
theC ; but the world at large, that had no know-'
ledge of what went on, what promises I made,
what types and shadows were placed to let them
knoW what the end Would be; those, that’have
no knowledge of what'happened, can draw no'
elear judgment from' the communication; because
they would expect- some extraordinary' events
must'have happened, of joy unto the believers,
Without discerning I spoke of no fulfilment of my
kingdom being established' in the time, but of
the1joy they would have in believing, seeing the
things go on as I had Warned thee before, and
the strong promise- that I had made tb them of
what the end should be to believers. This
filled them with joy id believing, to have a per­
fect jjeace of mind, relying upon my words and
promise^ that What I had said I should fulfil,
and make this a happy nation in the end.
And1riow come tb.the Scriptures I ordered the*
to send to Hadn. Itaiah ix. chapter. Now let
Digitized by Google
nien discern from the words I have spoken te
thee, and the words spoken by the prophet, in
what manner they stand together, at the time the
child is said to be born; let them discern what he is
to be born for; but had that been fulfilled then*
for m e to be the Prince of Peace, how could the
following words have been fulfilled ?—“ The peo­
ple turned not unto him that smote them, neither
do they seek the Lord of Hosts; therefore the
Lord will cut off from Israel head and tail, branch
and rush, in one day.” Now had my kingdom
been established in righteousness and peace at
my birth, and I had then taken the government
of the people, they must then have sought unto
the Lord, and the leaders of the people could
not have made them to err. Therefore let men
discern in what manner the words are spoken to­
gether, that destruction, instead of peace, would
follow the Jews at my birth: and what hypocri­
sy was used by them, and what folly was seen in
them, to judge that my miracles were wrought
by the devil. Thus men must discern of the
first, what would happen when I became flesh
and dwelt among men; but from the other chap­
ters I ordered thee to point out, and what was
spoken by the prophet t)anid, that my coming
must be in the clouds of heaven, in power and
}*reat glory, to have all people, nation?, and
anguages, to serve me ; then the judgment will
be set, and the greatness of the kingdom under
the whole heavens shall be given to the people of
the saints of the Most High. This is to shew what
I was born for in the end; now perfectly so stands
the communication I gave thee, my promise that
was made, in the five years, \ shall fulfil, toestablish
a happykingdom for my faithful friends and follow*
ers*and there isjoy in believing; but how could the
words he fulfilled, for the foolish to flyand to say,
theysaw no kingdom soestablished, nor ipy coming
I ,
Digitized by Google
I J
did not appear? These things could not be
fulfilled, if all had been finished,, and righteous­
ness and peace established on the earth. Then
none could have given it up ; neither could any.
have fallen back, if all had been established in so
short a time. But in that manner I spoke to thee*
to bring men to the scriptures: and know I said
the five years was a type that goes deep, and a,
glorious type for them that wish my kingdom
near; but a type is a shadow ofa substance that is
to come; but when the substance is come, types
and shadows are~done away. So if the substance
had coine. in the time, it Could not be placed as a
type of what should be hereafter. But know I ,
told thee, what should happen in the five years '1 / '
was a sign of the glorious end, that should be to
true believers, when I have cut off all that mock
the warning and ray invitation. Then will be
.fulfilled, the words of the prophet. Isaiah, xi—
In righteousness shall I judge the poor, and
slay the wicked, that despise my warning. Then
will the wolf lie down with the lamb, and the
leopard lie down with the kid. These are types
of men that are now as wolves to devour; but
when they are convinced and brought into my
fold, then they will dwell as lambs together; and
those that are as leopards, by sin, when they are.
^cleansed from all unrighteousness, and turn unto
M£, I shall turn unto them; then they will lie
down with the*kid and the calf, and the young
•lion and fatling together. From these beasts be­
ing spoken of to unite together, that are so fu*
nous one against another to become so tame and
united, that a little child may lead them, is to w *
shew mankind, from types and .shadows, what /
the fury of man is compared to, and how the na-r /
lions .arp compared to beasts that would destroy
one the other; yet in the end they will hecome as
one sheep under one. shepherd, and ail lie down
Digitized by Google
O’
M
as lambs (together: so that they will not hmt M r
destroy m ail my holy mountain; because febe
earth will be holiness unto the Lord, andbefbU
of the knowledge ;of the Lord as the waters co­
ver the sea. And this will be established! upon
the earth, when I fulfil all the promises that we*«
made to thee and the faithful believers, tin the five
years that I have mentioned. Now let them dis*
cent from this chapter, it was dot fulfilled'whem I
I was born for man, to become flesh, and dwell
amongst them ; for then the :Jews were, ailseal­
tered ; bnt, when I come to fulfilthe end, I shflH
recover the remnant of my. people, which shall
be left and turn unto m e. And let men discern
the following' words: “ Hb sball set up antftSigd
for the nations, and shallassemble the emtcastS'Of
Israel, and gather together the dispersed' ofJiidah,
from the four comers of the earth.” Now, front
these words of the;prophet,•let them see lioW
<the
Jews are scattered and how they stand ;*and h i
them discern mypromises to gather them' together
in the end, when they- begin* to look'unto .tire
whom they have pierced. Bub now I dsk the
worldly wise men, what ensign was thenset up
fbr the nations, to gather them together, <and
bring all the earth to that-happy peribd here-spot
ken of by the prophet, when I became iltehwwd
dwelt amongst men ? Was I then an ensign to
gather them together*
at that time, when ye knew
they were scattered asunder? But I now tell
thee, it is from the visitation of my Spirit; the
warning I have given of my coming, and the
Signs I have set before thee, that must be sign
to the nations in the end; and*signs to’the*Jews;
to convince them of thei? foHy in expecting, that;
if Lhad bee# the Messiah, whom they- locked
for, these words of the prophet would: love been
fulfilled when I became flesh and dwelt*amk>ng8t
them ; like Hahn’s judgment, from ;the coma
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
wwbiaatioii given'to thee, that afift w
ta(3 of the
L»<rrd, wy kingdom inasfe be;established in right**
©waneis-and peafceiinfroe years, without discern*
iirg the-otherwords- that were spoken, to prove rt
w as not sd; because! I said many would fly
through unbehefyand itiwould not' be established
art the time ; batyliifce the death of thy Father;
b e unaware; but 'tbis the hath hflt discerned!
amid perfectly so<‘stand the Jews ; they discerned
onepart, and noi the ether; and therefore, with*
out the' visitatiori' of my Spirit, to set -signs for
them Of'the end, what'isballfdfeow on fromna*
tionbo nation, and the signs that I have set, and
Ate truth o f my' word*' that must follow, to con-*
viheefoem of the 'end, or the days would come
wpon them unaware* For it is impossible, by the
Wisdom dfroan, to convince theJews; theAtheists,
er tile Arians; because they discern the scriptures,
as £fatm discerned the communication, that if it
W&s of the Lord dll must have been finished in the
flee years: and yet, my promise made in the time
shall he fulfilled ; and then will the Words of the
prophet be fulfilled, that I ordered thee to send
tp HarrU) for him to explain: Ismeh xxv.-—“ And
he willdestroy #n- hisi mountain the fitted Of the
Cowering’cast over all:people, and the 'veil that it
speadoverall nations ; ue williswalldw ropi death
ih;victory; andi theLorel God- wifi wipe away
tears from off all faees-; and the rebuke of bis
people<shall be fcakien away from off allthe earth;
for the Lord hath spoken it.” ,
These are the words u f the prophet, that tbou
knotvest I have revealed unto thee I am coming
to fulfil; and these are my promises that were
made ami sealed by thee and the believers^ which
tneeneth, revealed to thee, and sealed up by:them;
With faith, like.th& following- words-: “ This is
out >Qod>; we hade waited forhim, agd he will
tayeus; we will be glad and rejoiceJn bis salvd*
J*
Digitized by Google
tion.” This was it rejoicing through faith; i be-*
Jieving the promise will he fulfilled; but this faith
is but like the faith of Abraham, to believe before
they see the thing accomplished: Abraham belie­
ved in my promise, that he should have a son*
and my promised fulfilled; and,' it was. by faith
the ^promise was made to Abraham, which I have,
told thee shall be. fulfilled to the.children*of faith,
as Abraham was. And: now according tp the
words of the prophet.was my sign set* and, the
standard fixed, to. swallow, tip death ir. victory,
to wipe away tears from off all faces, and. to,take
away, the rebuke, of my people from .off all thfe
earth. This, I have told thee is the devil, <
that I
shallcast out, and.come,andsave’my people, that
trust in m e for their salvation; and then 'will .be
fulfilled the words of theprophet, in the xxxv
chapter:—“.The wilderness and; the solitary, placet
shall be glad for them, and the desart shall rejoice
and blossom as the rose; they shall see the: glory
of the Lord, and the excellency of our God: be?
hold, your God will come with vengeance, even
God with a recompence; he will come andsavo
you.” With vengeance to those who despise my
name,, but a recompence of reward to save those
that trust in h e and my salvation, to believe and
rely upon all my promises^ that they shall obtain
joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall
flee away, Tim chapter slieweth you the end,
how the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and
come to Zion with songs and everlastingjoy upon
their beads,•
; xli Chapter—■
“ Keepsileuce before
m e , O islands, and let the people renew their
strength ; let them come near; then let them speak:
Let us come near together to judgment.” The
nations must keep silence, and renew their strength
in the Lord, when I come near to judge the earth
Then they,will know, “ it is I the Lora have dons
it, calling the. generations from the beginning*
36
Digitized by Google
I the Lord the firsts and with thela&t, I $m he.*
From the beginning I have called the generations,
for what ends I created man at first, and what is<
m y will to accomplish at the last. Then will the;
isles see it and fear, the ends of the earth will be
afraid when I come near to judgment with man.
But then discern my promises to all them that
look for my coming: “ Fear not* for i am with;
thee; be not dismayed, for I am thy God, and
'will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; vea,;
I willuphold thee with the right band ofmy righte­
ousness.” Here aremy promises to supportall them
that trust in me ; but they that are incensed against,
them shall be ashamed and confounded. These are
promises that stand for the end, when I cOme to;
destroy all my enemies: “ And the wind shall carry
them away, and the whirlwind shall scatter them;
and thou shalt rejoice in the Lord and shale glory,
in the Holy One of Israel. I will open rivers in;
high places, and fountainsin the midst ofthevallies;
I will make the wilderness a- pool of water, and
the dry land springs of water.” These are words
spoken by the prophet, that I am coming to ful~
fil: for though the good tidings were brought
to Jerusalem of my Birth, yet those tidings
Were not believed; therefore no fulfilment of
my promises came to the Jews, to see the
Messiah as they expected; because the fulfil­
ment of scattering their enemies, and bringing
salvation and deliverance unto Israel and Jacob,
the seed of Abraham my friend, was expected by
the Jews to take place atmycoming as the Messiah.
This they expected.at first without discerning the
Other chapter, liii—“ He was wounded for our
transgressions; he was bruised for our iniquities;
the chastisement of our peace was upon him ; and
with his stripes we: are healed; all we like sheep
have gone astray.” Thus the Jews did not dis­
cern what 1 had to go through, when. I became
57
Digitized by Google
ss
flesh a»4 dwelt amongst them; and therefore like
sheep they went astray, looking to the ending,
hut not the beginning; expecting to see my power
to destroy their enemies, and establish the bles­
sings that I bad promised, without discerning,
when I fulfil the words spoken by the prophets,
it is not only to the Jews and Gentiles, but to1
all nations, kindred and people, xlii chapter—
"Behold the former things are come to pass,
and new things do I declare; before they spring
forth I tell you of them. Sing unto the Lord w
new song, and his praises from the ends of the'
earth.” From these words of the prophet, let
men discern,' it is from the ends of the earth* that
all nations, kindred, and people shall be brought'
to praise the Lord. These are the new things I'
have declared unto thee that 1am coming in power;
to f ul f i l *- i t is the former things, spoken from
the beginning and by the mouth of all my pro-'
phets, that I have said shall now come to pass to:
be'fulfilled; and yetiitis a new thing to mankind,-
the; manner I have warned, and the way I ;have’
rdvtaled unto> thee* 'that 1 shall fulfil the words of
the prophets, as I said in my Gospel I came tBf
fulfil them. This is anew thing t;0 man* that the’
former things should come to- pass to be fulfilled,
in a way no man'ever expected, nor a way they1
ever understood-? but know.! said, “ Twill bring
the blind by a way1that they know not; I will lead'
them in paths that they have not known; I will
make darkness light before them, and crooked
tilings straight.” These things will I douUtotHem*
and not forsake them. "
Now I shall answer thee from these words, a*
men boast of-their'know ledge of the scriptures,
tliat there is enough already reveafed to man, that?
no forther revelation will’be given of the Lord
let: such:answerhew theycan- fulfU'tliem;■or Wh*tl
way theywdlleadthe Mind to'siee ; of lCadthem
Digitized by O o o Q l e
in to paths that they have not known. Dp not
th e scriptures stand open for all in this nation?
A n d yet, thou knowest, it is out of the power of
m an to make the blind to see; whioh meanetb,
those that are spiritually blind, as I have told thee
concerning the Jews, and those that are like them,
the way they understand the words of the prophets,
th a t way tney go on in blindness; but when I
com e to bring them out of darkness into my
marvellous light, to make that darkness light be­
fore them, it is by a way they never knew, nor
understood; and this is a way which was never
knpw n by man, the way I am bringing round
prophecies that are new in the likeness of the old,
to make the crooked things straight before them,
that, they may discern hereafter, when 1 begin
to work with power, to fulfil the words I have
spoken to thee, and then eall them to the scripr
tores to open the eyes of their understanding,
that they, may discern, that in the like manner
was my speaking by the prophets of old. But
without thus dealing with mankind, those that
are blinded in] unbelief; would so remain .till the
day came Upon them unaware; and then my pro­
mises made to the. Jews could never be fulfilled;
hot they are not the. only blind ; for there are
thousands, besides the Jews, who stumble at the
Gospel and the words of the prophets; because
they compare together what w.as spoken by the
mouth of the prophets concerning my coming to
he their Deliverer; and therefore my sayings con­
cerning the. Jews, which thou hast pondered in
thy heart; ought to .be a convincing proof to
.them of the tfttth of my words, in my Gospel.
Yet this,they oompare with the words of the pro­
phets, judging, if I was the messia>
h, I must have
Come to redeem them at that time; and from this
discernment thbuisanda depart from the Gospel;
because they do not weigh the whole together ;
99
Digitized by Google
but they trill find in the end, I shall fulfil tint
words of the prophets, according to my Gospel;
and then they will find the truth of the prophet’s
words, that I shall magnify the Law, and make
& to it honourable to all men, and fulfil the Law and the
Gospel together. The L aw meaneth the W il l
of G od revealed to the prophets, which I said
in my GospeTl came to fulfil.
Now come to the lii. Chapter—“ How beauti­
ful upon the mountains are the feet of him that
bringeth good tidings; that publisheth peace; that
bringeth good tidings of good ; that publisheth
salvation; that saitn unto Zion, Thy God reign-
eth ” Now let men come to my Gospel, and dis­
cern what tidings I brought to man—that I came
to seekand to save that which was lost; that I came
to bring in the redemption of man, and to cast
out the prince of this world; thatl died to over­
come the world in the end ; that in me they might
have peace. Let men trace my Gospel through,
and discern what were the tidings I brought to
man, and what was my promise of coming again
to fulfil them; then they may see, I brought good
tidings of salvation to them that believed; that
where I was my faithful followers should be also;
•nd I brought them good tidings of their redemp­
tion in the end; that I died to triumph over death,
Jbeil, and the grave, to conquer all for man that
relied on ms and my promises. These were the
good tidings I brought at first, and these I shall
accomplish at the last—“ Then will the watchmen
lift up their voices together and sing for joy; for
they shall see, eye to eye, when the Lord shall
-bring again Zion,” Now I shall explain the mean­
ing of the words; seeing eye to eye, is one light
against another, one sight against another, that
ye may see both together in one likeness; and
perfectly so will the end be, when I come to fiil-
fil my Gospel, and the words I have revealed t«
Digitized by
Ihee. Then, as ye may see eye to eye, when the*
ed to look at one the other, so will the light ap*
pear, that ye may see the whole together. But
then discern what foHoweth: when these two lights
come to man—“ Break forth into joy, sing toge*
ther, ye waste places of Jerusalem; for the Lord
hath oomfortea his people; h e hath redeemed
Jerusalem; the Lord hath made bare his holy arm
in the-eyes of all nations; and all the ends of the
earth shall see the salvation ofour God:” But men
.must discern from this chapter, I must first come
to suffer; as it is said by tne prophet— His vis­
age was so marred more than any man, and his
form more than the sons of men.” Let men dis*
cern, from these words and the following chapter,
what I had first to go through; then they must
know, according to my-Gospel, I must come
again to fulfil the good tidings I brought to man,
and redeem Jerusalem, and my people that trust #
in me. But, J erusalem doth noj mean barely they
spot where it once stood. These were by types and
shadows of Jerusalem’s being called a blessing to '
the people, and holiness to the Lord; but when
the arm of the Lord is made bare in the eyes of
all nations, and the salvation of the Lord is made
known to the ends of the earth, that the nations
are sprinkled, which meaneth to be 'redeemed
through my blood that was shed for man; then
will the waste places become as a Jerusalem unto
man. But the place ofJerusalem was not a bless­
ing in their days: the meaning of the word is,
the n e w J e r u s a l e m that comes down to men,
which signifieth the paradise they were created in
at first; and so will these blessings come to man
at the last. But let men discern in what manner
the threatenings and promises stand together, in
these chapters, that I have told thee stand for the
end. In this they must see how my visage was
marred by man, and more cruelly treated tha»
31
Digitized by Google
se
th£ aims ofmen; but as I suffered the^rst, I jfatii
epme to.fulfil the last.’?
—
Thus far is the explanation given to me, by th e
Spirit, of the Scriptures that are pointed out at;
the end of my last Book; but as the worldly wise
tnock the explanations that are given to me, I am
ordered .to require their explanation of the fob*
lowing chapters,:that remain to be explained, that
believersmay see whose wisdom, and whosejlirigv-
ment, is the’greatest, for men to rely upon; t©
prove the truth of the'Scriptures, how. they will
befulfilled. f -
Isaiah liv’
-r+-'tSing, O barren, .thou that didst
not bear; break forth into singing, and cry aloud,
' thou that didst not travail with child; for more
are the children of the desolate, than the children
©f the married wife, saith the Lord. For thy Mac
leer is thine Husband, the Lord of Hosts is his
Name, and thy Redeemer the Holy One of Israel,
the God of the whole earth shall he be called.
And: all thy children shall be taught of the Lord,
and great shall be the peaoe of tty children."
■ Iv. C h a p te r For my thoughts are pot your
thoughts, neither are youn \fcays my ways, saith
the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than
the earth, 'so are my ways.'higher than your ways,
and my thoughts than your thoughts: for as 'die
vain csometh down from heatfen, and returneth
not thither; but watereth the earth, and maketh
it bring forth and bud, that it may give seed
to the sower, and bread to the eater; so shall my
word be that goeth forth out of my mouth; it
> shall not return unto u s void, but it shall accom­
plish that which I please, and it shall prosper in
the thing whereto I send it.”
' lx. Chapter—“ Arise, shine, for thy light is
come, and the glory of the Lord is risen upon
thee. For behold, the darkness shall cover the
earth, and gross darkness the people.: but the
Digitized by Google
Lord shall arise upon tbee, and his glory shall be
seen upon thee. Thy people also shaFl be all righ­
teous : they shall inherit the land for ever, the
B ranch of my planting, the work of my hands,
that Xmay be glorified. A little one shall beqome
a thousand, and a small one a strong nation. 1
the L ord will hasten it in his time.”
l*v. Chapter—“ For behold, I create new hea­
vens, and a.new earth: and the former shall not;
be remembered nor come into mind. But be you
glad and rejoice for ever in that which I create:
for behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and
her people ajoy. And I will rejoice in Jerusalem,
and joy in my people, and the voice of weeping
shall be no more heard in her, nor the voice of
crying.”
lxvi. Chapter—“ Thus saith the Lord, the hea­
ven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool:
where is the house that ye build unto m e ? and
where is the place of my rest? For all these
things hath mine hand, made, and all these things
havebftea, saith the Lord : hut to this mau will
I look, even to him that is poor and of a contrite
spirit,.and trembleth at my word.—For I know,
their works, and their thoughts: it shall come
that I wifi gather all nations and tongues, and
they shall come and see my glory.”
Daniel vii—“ I saw in the night vision, and
behpldv one like the Son of Man came with the
clouds pf heaven,. and came to the Ancient of
Days, andi they brought him near before him: and
there was given him dominion, and glory, and a
kingdom, that all people, nations, and langua­
ges should serve him.”-- .ix Chapter— Seventy
Weeks,are determined upon thy people, and upon
tl\y holy city, to finish (the transgression, and to
make an end of sin, and ;to make reconciliation for
iniquity, and tp, kriqg in everlasting righteous-
Digitized by G o o g l e
ftess, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and
to anoint the most holy.”
xii. Chapter—“ They that be wise, shall shine
as' the brightness of the firmament, and they
that turn many to righteousness, as the stars for
ever and ever. But thou, O Daniel, shut up
the words, and seal the book, even to the time
of the end: many shall run to and fro, and know­
ledgeshallincrease: many shall be purified and made
white and tried; but the wicked shall do wicked­
ly ; and none of the wicked shall understand, but
tne wise shall understand.”
Obadiah, 21 verse—“ And saviours shall come
upon mount Zion to judge ■
the mount of Esau,
and the kingdom shall be the- Lord’s.”
Joel, ii chapter, 28 verse, to the end. iii Chapter,
16 verse, to the end.
Haggai ii—“ I will shake all nations, and the
desire of all nations shall come, and I will fill his
house with glory, saith the Lord of Hosts.”—
Micah iv chapter, 4. 5. 6. 7. verses. Maldchi,
iv—“ Unto you that ferar my name, shall the Sun
Of Righteousness arise Vith healing in his wings;
and .ye shall go forth, and grow up as calves of
thestall: and ye shall tread down the wicked;
for they shall be as ashes under the soles of -your
Jfeet, in the day that 1 shall do this, saith the
Lord of Hosts.”
. Matthew v—“ Think not that I come to des­
troy the Law, or the Prophets: I am not come
to destroy, but to fulfil.”
St. John xvi—“ When h e is come, h e will
reprove the world of sin, and of righteousness,
and ofjudgment: of sin, because they believe not
on m e; of righteousnessy because I go to my
Father, and ye see m e nb more; of judgment,
because the prince of this world is judged.”
xx Chapter—“ Jesus'saith-unto him, Thomas,
because thou hast seen m e , thou hast believed:
34
Digitized by Google
blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have
believed.”—
T h e above are the Chapters, that were pointed
o u t in my last Book, for Hann to explain; but
as he hath acknowledged he cannot explain them
himself, yet others may; and as the explanations
given by the Spirit are condemned by others, as
well as him, and say they cannot understand the
prophecies given to me, it is required of them
that reprove to explain the scripture prophecies,
that I have pointed out, which I am warned the
Lord is hastening on to fulfil. But as I have
brought the promises together, and left out the
threatenings, on what conditions they stand, no
man can draw any judgment from what I have
brought forward, without applying to the scrip­
tures, where the words are taken from ; perfectly
so stand my writings; no man can draw any
judgment of them from the pamphlets that are
brought forward by men, without having my
books to refer to, to know on what conditions
they are placed.—
And now I shall answer the enquiries that are
made of me.
First, I am desired to point out where the pro­
phecies stand in my books, that have received
their fulfilment. 1 refer such enquirers to the
First Book of Strange Effects of Faith, printed in
1801; they will find at the end of the Seventh
Book, printed in March 1802, the pages marked
from the first Books, what was hastening on to
be fulfilled concerning the war that hath taken
place.r—
Warning to the World, page 25 to the 36,
the readers may see what was fulfilled; and con­
firmed by the witnesses, which may be seen in the
Book of the Trial. These books I have pointed
out; but those who have a desire to search into
the truth will find .the fulfilment of many other
things have taken place in others. Ana I am
eg
35
Digitized by Google
also desired td prove the dates wlien they wdl%
printed; in answer to this I must refer them to
Stationers Hall, as all my bdoksare entered there
when printed, and the date is put upon the hooks*.
Secondly, how I know the Spirit of Trdth ftorti
the Spirit of Error. To this I answer—
-from the
power and WiSddm Of God, Which I cOuld not
have known from the wisdotn of mah, had' not
the Lord by his.wisdom permitted, me to have' k
knowledge of the two different spirits, and their
Working, that I might be d judge of them both.
•Thirdly, to knoW in what manner mV comhiu-
hidations are given, whether in an audible Voice,
or an impulse on the mind. I answer,1
1neither;
for though I have often heard biy name balled*in
ah audible voice, yet my communications ate not
given in that manner; but the Words coine tome
is distinct to mv hearing, as1though1they were
" spoken in an audible'voice. BO'tno man eaii-un­
derstand in What manner the visitation of the
Lufd is, by his Spirit, to speak within add to be
distinctly heard by the outward ear, but thosO
that have experiehcecl it ; none could understand
how the Spirit of the Lord came to the Disciplef,
but. them self j neither could they understand
how the Word Of fhe Lord carhe to the Prophets^
Jni what manner it came i add when it is Said tHO
Spirit of the- Lord cable upon the prophet, to an­
swer the enquiry made by. Jehbsafphat, no one
Saw the Spirit! Of heard" hiS;voice, but the prophet
himself. Therefore fhe things of the Spirit atk
Spiritual, Which no man cabknoW or understand,
. but those to Whom It is sent; because it is past
*
e~‘ftian’s finding out. A
S*to awimpulse On the mind,
t\£-y that is not a Visitation from the Lord; for every
fa. S3 One. hath impulses on the mind, either gbod of
evil; and there is an influence on the wind, both
good and evil; to work upon the hearts of fne»,
way dr the’other ; if it be good,' to ihfluenqf
i *_ ‘
$6
Digitized by Google
m
itbem do good; hut if e<vil, to work upon their
•hearts ,to do evil: hut this.is not the visitation of
-tlae .Spirit of the ford, whereby his will is made
.k now n or revealed. No one can prophesy from
•th a t; yet men may be under.the influence of the
(Spirit.of the Lord, to believe and rely on his words;
on, th e other band, they may .be under the influ­
ence of the devil, to be filled with unbelief and all
m anner of evil; and it is by this influence the
world is .filled .with Atheism, and the fear of the
Lord is rejected by .men. Thjs I have explained
for the sake of the Public, that they may know
the difference between the impulse, or influence
on the .mind, and a visitation from the Spirit of
jtfhe.Lprd.
There is also another enquiry made—how it is
I seal those that do not continue stedfast and im­
moveable in the cause/ bjut destroy their seals,
and become opposers. This I shall answer a's our
Saviour answered the scribes of old, when they
spake unto him, saying, Tell us by what author­
ity doest thou these things ? or who is he that
gave .thee this authority ? And he answered and
said unto them, I will also ask you one thing,
and answer me: The baptism of John was it from
heaven, or of man ? And in like manner I answer
such, enquirers; and let. them answer me, how
Moses came to be sept .to deliver the children of
Israel, that ^ftorwards rebelled in the wilderness,
/and were there destrpyed? how our Saviour came
to suffer one amongst his disciples to come in,
that afterwards betrayed him ? Were these things
done for want of knowledge in the Lord? Let
this he,answered, and then I will answer the ques- •
tipn put to m.e, how I came to seal those that did
not pHabide in the faith they professed.—In like
manner I.shall answer another enquiry: How I pre-
tendtojiossess a power of sealing persons as heirs
qf Gpaapd.jointne.irs with Jesus Cnrist. ThisI ap*
Digitized by Google
13 A
swer like the former: tell me, from the prophets
and the apostles, by what authority they did the
things which were commanded them, without dis­
puting the wisdom ofhim that gave the commands,
or made an enquiry, why it should be done. L et
this be answered by them that reprove, why all
these things were permitted and commanded to be
done. I am answered by the Spirit, but shall leave .
them to explain it by their wisdom, who say there
is no occasion for any further revelation, or
knowledge of God, to explain the Scriptures, or
how they will be fulfilled.
Now I shall give the answer of the Spirit to
those who profess they are writing against the
visitation, pretending that they are doing it in
real for the honour and glory of God, and the
good of mankind.
“ I have ordered thee to bring forward the
' Scriptures in this book, to- demand of those who
4 despise Prophecies, and judge there is no occa­
sion for a further revelation, or knowledge of
God, to explain them. The demand is made of
such, for them to explain, what is the meaning,
and how they will be fulfilled; and let them know,
that no man can have a right faith of his Creator,
or a right faith of the prophets, that the word of
. God came to them, or a right faith of my Gospel,
that I,came to fulfil them in the end; no man can
•have a right faith in the Scriptures, without be­
lieving in the fulfilment, that they are spoken by
the God of truth, whose words are Yea and A-
men. What I have said I will fulfil; and these
are the promises men must now look to, that I
ordered thee to bring forward. And let them
know my answer to their hypocrisy, that if it
was out of zeal to God, or for the good of man­
kind, their endeavours would be to convince men
.of the infidelity that is so fast increasing: for
these are the dangers that men are in ; but this
38
Digitized by
is not regarded by those who profess to come
forward out of love to God and condemn the vi-
sitation of my Spirit. Therefore I tell thee of
such, they are like the Scribes and Pharisees of
old, who strain at a gnat and swallow a camel:
became they can easily pass by the mockers of the
Scriptures and swallow the Blasphemy that comes
from them, without being wounded and grieved,
or try to pluck them as brands from the burning,
when they see them go on in infidelity; but this des­
truction m men does not awaken their*conscience,
or feeling,' to warn such men of the dangers they
are in ; but, when I come to warn by my Spirit,
that the Scriptures are true, that 1 shall fulfil
them, and prove from the truth of prophecies,
that there is a God of knowledge and power, to
convince such men of their infidelity, who judge
all things came by chance; but to shew them there
is no chance, as they vainly suppose, that could
have given knowledge to thee or what was hasten­
ing on, when no appearance was before thee;
therefore, it is to convince men of the error of
their ways, that I hold out this controversy with
mankind: for like fuel added to the fire is every
pamphlet that hath been printed against thee, to
strengthen the fire of unbelief and infidelity a-
mong mankind; and there is not one, that hath
published against thee, if I bring them to the
Scriptures, and demand their answer, how men
can be brought to the knowledge of the Lord,
without the visitation of my Spirit, to bring
men to that knowledge and understanding; there
is not one who can answer his assertions, or prove
;how it can be done. And, from Hann, I shall
condemn such men; because, like the Atheists,
he hath brought forward his arguments against
thy writings.—Come to his remark on thy Trial.”
Hann says, “A promise was claimed of the
Judge pf all the earth, who, it is said, gave a
39
Digitized by Google
promise to the human race, at the fall; hot we
iiiid was never faithful enough to fulfil it.”
“ Now I ask thee where is the man who can
bring forward an observation stronger, to con­
demn the Scriptures, or to condemn the unfaith­
fulness of God, than what he hath done in this
remark. Doth not the promise stand from the
beginning? Was the serpent’s head ever bruised,
which is the old serpent called the devil, that he
hath had no power over man ? Doth he net go
on deceiving the nations to this day? But was
not the promise for the end? Was it made >to be
then fulfilled ? Did I not set the Sabbath for
a sign, as a day of rest for man? Do not
the six days stand as I have told thee of the six
thousand years? Did I hot say in my Gospel the
days should be shortened ? That my faithfulness
and truth should be made manifest? And now
I have warned by my Spirit,' that I have begun and
will make an end, that 1 shall go on till my faith­
fulness and truth be fulfilled: and is not my warn­
ing now mocked by him, saying, I shall never be
faithful enough to fulfil the promises I have made?
And now, from all the Scriptures that I have or­
dered thee to bring forward, the Same unfaith­
fulness of their fulfilment will be pleaded by men
like him; for like him will their reasoning be; i f
G od was never fa ith fu l enough to fu lfil the pro­
mises when they were made, he never w ill be fa ith ­
f u l enough to fu lfil them in the end. This will
be the reasoning of such men, without consider­
ing, if the promises had never been made, then
men had none to expect; but as it was my de­
crees to fulfil them in the end, that mankind
might know my reign, when I take the great
power to myself, that they may know the Lord,
and that I might judge of man alone, what he n
without a tempter. These were my decrees for
•the end; and therefore, from one age to- another,
40
Digitized by
promisee "were made to the prophets; I con-
firmed them in my gospel; and the fulfilmen tl
inspired my,Apostles with, that 1 should fulfil
them in the end;; and that I should visit by my
Spirit, to have iHpen be looking for M£, according
to my Gospel, which I have told thee could not
take place, according to'the parables I spoke of
the end, without a warning to he looking for my
cooling. But marvel not that a man like Hann
Viould give no answer concerning the Scriptures;'
because, in so doing; he would have condemned
himself; for he .must so clearly have discerned
these promises were not fulfilled, as he hath dis­
cerned the words I have spoken to thee of tire
end, and my promises to them that are faithful
servants to enter into the joy of their Lord, with
'the promised blessing 1 have in store for man.
■This he hath discerned is not yet fulfilled, so
that in one likene$6 both 6tand together: there­
fore in discerning the one he must nave condemn­
ed himself in the other; hut these promises, that
stand on record, -they atand as witnesses a-
gainst mankind,' who profess to believe the Scrip­
tures, and deny the visitation of ray Spirit, to
Wamoftheir fulfilment; and he that says they will
mot be fulfilled .must condemn the Scriptures, as
•Hann hath condemned thee, and say the prophet*
•were never visited by the Lord; and so in like .
manner must my Gospel .be condemned, as not
.being true, without its fulfilment. Now come to
another-of his remarks.”
Hann says, “ I recollect indeed, that something
was said of. Satan; viz. that he knew he was cast,
and therefore would eoroe down in great wrath,
and stir up the people to come against her. The
naturaLpurport of which words is, that a very
heavy persecution would immediately take place,;
but it is very certain, that this prophecy, like
most u fthe others, hath fallen to (be ground, and
41
Digitized by Google
the poor devil was never more belied than in this
one thing.”—
“ I shall answer thee. Whether the devil be the
author ofthe evil, working in the hearts of men, or
whether the evil be in their own hearts, to be at
enmity against God, to reject the warning of my
coming; from whence the persecution proceeds,
I now appeal to men’s consciences, whether the
persecution did not begin, and whether it hath
not went on ? Let them look to the books of
controversy ; let them look to the newspapers,
that have been filled with malicious lies and envy,
as they could not justify theirselves with truth
to come against thee; let them look to the false
inventions, that have been made through malice
in men; were the whole brought together, what
hath been the persecution by words, what ridicule
the believers have met with, and what abuse they
have received, through believing in my visitation
to thee; if all that have been published; and all
that have been spoken in malicious words and
persecution; that have not been published; were
the whole brought together, they would see, that
that prophecy hath not failed. So, whether it
springs from men or devils, the persecution hath
went on, as I warned thee before that some would
be strongly convulsed for hell, and some for m e ;
which meaneth, the hearts of men being strongly
influenced by the devil, to set their hearts against
my coming: and this hath been publickly shewn
by mankind; their malice and envy, like the Jews
of old; for in like manner they said I cast out
•devils through Beelzebub, the chief of devils; so
hath been men’s saying in this present age, that
it is through the devil I have warned of the ful­
filment, This thou knowest is said by Hann,
that Satan would plead his own destruction if he
could deceive mankind that way ; and this is his
Working in the minds of men; therefore it is
42
.Digitized by Google
Icnow n to thee and the believers, that great en­
m ity and persecution have went on against thee,
'w hile true believers, that are longing for my com­
in g , have went on in love to m e : and this I warn­
ed thee of before. Let the words appear, from
th e communication given in 1802, of the five
years
For those will fight that know my name.
And those that do not know, nor fear,
To fight for Satan they'll appear; ♦
And so you'll find it is begun,
And fast I say 'tis hastening on.
W hen these words were given to thee, how
trifling was the shadow of any persecution! But
let men discern how great it hath risen since; for
it is known unto thee and to all, it was then begun
”by believers to search into the truth of wbat they
had heard, to know if thy visitation was from
the Lord; but let men discern, what spiritual
fight, contending with men, who were filled with
fury against my visitation, hath increased and
went on, as Lwarned thee: but the end is not
yet, of the perfect fulfilment of what I told thee
the end would be. But a strong likeness hath
went on; on both sides; and this is impossible for
any man to prove, that it hath not been true; for
out of his own mouth will I condemn him and
all thy accusers, that deny the truth ofthe words;
and all the shadows went on in the years I set for
signs of what the end should be, to my enemies,
and my friends; and so they will find the end to
be. And let men discern what were the signs set
to your nation* what were the signs to believers,
what were the promises, and what were the
threatenings, that were placed in five years: then
they may know what the end will be, when I begin
tomake an end in jive years : but that is a time
which will not be known to man ; because I have
told thee, that suddenly and unaware will the sub-
43
Digitized by Google
stance o f all things come. Yet befievefs may
discern, from the signs I placed in thee, in thp
-five y earsth is the wise will see and understated
4;o draw some judgment, when the end drawetfi
near; but the wicked, that are hardened agpipsjt
my kingdom of righteousness and peace, wifi oojfc
see, nor understand, but be like Harm: for
though he hath heard of the persecution ofothers,
and hath joined in the persecution himself, yet he
hath affirmed there is no truth of the words, of
any fulfilment in this persecution. Then now I
ask thee, how a man like him can draw any judg­
ment from prophecies, or discern the .progress
thereof, before sudden destruction comefo upon
him? This sheweth you all what the end will be
to those who are hardened through unbelief. In
this thy enemies are thyjudges, and Ijis pwn con­
duct is witness against himself. And now oojpe
:to another of his sayings.”
Hahn saitb, “ Azeal for God and truth is aduty
enjoined aU men, even by nature; and can no
imore be neglected with impunity, than foe duties
of justice and mercy/*
“ From his words I shall answer {thee. A zeal for
iGod is neglected by him. What truth doth fie
support? or what zeal for foe honour apd glory
of God hath he come forward to maintain.? what
scriptuseS hath he brought;forward, to speak tofoe
.honour and.glory of God ? or wfiat truths hafobe
supported, from them, or from my gospel? Is not
alias a dead letter to him, that lie owns he.never
professed to understand ? Then ifhe dpth not,un­
derstand foe scriptures, to prove the truth of my
words from them, how shall a man like him eouae
forth for foe zeal of God, and foe truth of my
Words ? When I demanded ofhim, thou knowest
he could not answer me one word of a thousand,
foemeaningof my wordsdelivered to foe.prophets;
-w what!required frommy guspelfor him to answer-
• 4 4
Digitized by G o o g l e
N ow , as lie caubot understand the one, howcana
m an like him profess to have any understandingin
th e other ? Both alikeare past his finding out; and
therefore it is through hypocrisy, like the Scribes
a n d Pharisees of old, that ne is come forward; with
a pretended zeal for the honour of God, or truth,
tvhese name he hath despised from the beginning,
to dishonour God in the fall, and free the author
o f evil, and cast the blame on his Creator; there*
fore out of his own mouth will I condemn him, as
every duty that he says is incumbent on man is
neglected and despised by him. And discern
through hie pamphlets; the false assertions he hath
tirade, and tne manner he hath wrested words, that
fheiflith may ftdtbe seen. This Sheweth the
SWOfld lit its true colours, what art and subtlety
the devil works round in men, to pretend a zeal
to t God, through hypocrisy, when in their hearts
they have none." <
And now! shallanswet formyself, concerningthe
4igns put in Mr. POmerOy’s hands; which Hann
days Were concerning my Father’s death, and were
hot fulfilled; and therefore he says I broke the
VoW that I made.
To this I answer, the Sign concerning toy Father
was on conditions, and nad nothing to do with
the promise I made. A communication was given
to me, at the beginning of the year 1801, that if
no ode regarded the warning, or searched out to
know whether the Lord had spoken or not, the Lord
would begin hisjudgroents, by threeyears faminein
this land,and then he would takemy father by death
before, the 22d of September; and then my sister,
seeing the judgments begin, would meet me at my
fathei’s.grave, and be convinced that it was of
God. This was a sign if the Lord began by judg­
ments, to bring a famine in the land, which I put
m Mr, Jones’s hands, the .lOth of April, 1801,
Thus w%
$ the sign set upon conditions, if no one
Digitized by Google
w -
r
l m u .
# £ y
w
searched into the truth. The latter end ofMay*
I received a letter from the Rev. Stanhope'Bruce,
likewise from the Rev. Thomas Webster, and the
Rev. T. P. Foley, and from other gentlemen, to
enquire into the truth. At that time I was dis­
tressed for want of money to carry on my printing;
then the following signs were set before me, that
I should proceed, and not fear ofassistance; those
friends, that had written to me, would assist me.
to carry on the work; and they were the feathered
fowls, that had been shewn to me before in a
dream, that, as the birds were changed, so the men
were changed from them I had been writing to be­
fore ; and they were the men I had been warned of
before, that would come to Mr. Taylor’s, to enquire
into the truth; and for their sakes the Lord would
stop the rain in the time of harvest, and bring in
the promised blessings of three years plenty. These
were the signs given to me without any conditions,
hut were to be fulfilled that year; and these were
the signs I called heaven and earth to witness for
me or against me; to witness for me, if the signs
came true, that it was of God; but if they did not
come true, to witness against me, if I persevered
any further.
Now these signs were all fulfilled; and these
were the given signs I put in Mr. Pomeroy’s
hands, with this promise, the beginning ofAugust,
and at that time there was an appearance of. its
being a bad harvest, from the continued wet wea­
ther ; and I knew none but the.Lord could change
the weather, and work in the hearts of people to
fulfil his words.
' Two days after I had put these signs in Mr.
'Pomeroy’s hand, the rain peased; the latter end of
August the other sign was| fulfilled, of the Lord’s
jwprk'ing,in the hearts of those friends that wrote,
to assist me; '.and at the end of the year they came
4$
Digitized by L . o o Q L e
to Mr. Taylor’s to enquire into every truth. So all
these signs were fulfilled, according to the words
that were spoken to me, which I called heaven and
earth to witness it was of God, if they were ful­
filled; and to which I wasanswered, “ If the signs
set before thee come true, heaven and earth are'
witness for thee.”
To the above I am now answered—“ It was a
weakness of thy own judgment to expect thy fa­
ther would die that year, without discerning the
weirds I had said to thee—If I began with a famine
in the land. Here the conditions were fixed to
him. But now come to the other signs, that I told
thee without any*conditions; and to them thy
promises were made, to persevere, as I directed thee,
if I fulfilled the signs according to my promise;
therefore I told thee, heaven and earth were witness
for thee, if it came true. And now discern what
was the sign: it was for the heaven to stop its rain
in the time of harvest, which was a power belong­
ing to God only. This was a sign fulfilled by
heaven; and my working in the hearts of friends,
that were upon earth, fulfilled the other signs: so
that the signs went deep of heaven and earth to
thee that year; and so in like manner have the
signs went on to thee. Know the signs I placed
abroad without conditions, and how they have
went on; know the signs I placed at home, of
faithful friendsto assist thee. Therefore my signs,
both in heaven and earth, have went on as wit­
nesses for thee; and to thy own solemn promise
and vow, that thou ,calledst heaven and earth to be
witness for, thou hast faithfully kept and obeyed,
in the midst of all the persecutions thou bask
went through. So all men shall find I am thy
God, aud thy guide, thy counsellor, and thy keep­
er, and the judge of the truth of thy words; and
thou art a judge of the truth of mine; therefore
reflect no more on thy own folly, in the simplg
47
Digitized by Google
manner them wrote thy letters, without,eaplamingr
clearly how* the signs stood ;, because I tell thee,
in thy foolishness was- my wisdom, to. .shew
mankind in what manner my Bible stands, th at
men by my wisdom cannot find out; .and,, like,
thee, it must be explained by h e . Therefore it
is I the Lord must explain these mysteries, a*
thou hast explained concerning thy father, and
the other signs; and therefore 1 ordered thee to
bring forward the communication of the five
years. And let men answer, what they ;would'
judge of believers, if they should say.the whole
was fulfilled in them, of the promise I had made
for the end ?> If men would condemn the one^.
in like' manner I condemn the other, who say m y
Gospel is already fulfilled; which is as much-im~
possible for men to prove, as it & impossible to
prove my kingdom was established in righteous­
ness and peace, -to fulfil the joy of. believers, ja
the five years when the signs were set: and, they
rnky as well prove this faith was given to All, that
was in a few, as prove my Spirit .waspoured out
upon all, in the day of PenteoOst; for in one like*
Hess both stand together, And let men look to
toy Disciples; What was their, faith and joy. in.be*
fieving, to go through all the persecution they
met1
with, and to suffer death fop my sake ? Was
it not for the joy set before them, of everlasting
happiness, that they should be rewarded, with its
in glory ? What made the martyrs go through ,
all the fiery trials they .met with, and give up their
fives, to be burnt for my sake ? All this .wasdone
through faith, .strengthened and supported ,by.my
Spirit; arid their'eye was to fheeiid, that, likemy
Disciples and all iny faithful followers, theyabould
meet tbelr reward in glory. ;■therefore they-lfiveid
hot their lives unto* death, but gave thiern up.to
the malice of men, knowing the tfixiy -must,die,
but that their spiritshould enjoy a glorious.reward
48
Digitized by L . o o Q l e
With m b and allmy1followers. In this they had
,|oy in believing;’ and' so in like manner thereWas
jOyin believing, that, as the others*were redeemed
from: the power of death, hell, and sin, that death
could have no more dominion oVer them, When
they had killed the body they could go no farther;
so in Bke manner was* the faith in believers, Who
relied upon my promises^ that 1 am coming to
fulfil my gospel, and bring in the redemption of
man ; ana then thepower of death, hell, and sin,
Will be swallowed up in victory to them. Here,
if mendiscernedaright,they would seein one like*
nesb how the faith of both stand together;- the
one believing in my promises given to ifiy disci-
plfas; at that time, that Where f was they shbuld
be also, to have their reward in glory ; the other
believing in the fulfillment ofmy gospel^ that m
y*.
coming1drew near to bring m the redemption of
man r and this was the faith that enabled them
to run the hazard of all persecution they might
meet with. But nO more than men can prove my
kingdom was established in the five years wheti
my promises were made, of wbat the end should be
to all faithful believers, that were longing for my
coining, no more can men prove my gospel was-
fulfilled when I expired on the cross, because I
said it was finished. The meaning Of my words
men do not understand—that I gave up my life
according to the promise, to finish transgression,
«hd; make an end of sin: but sin was not made an
end (fiatthat time\ bnt I died to fulfilthe one, that
Im ight come again in power to fulfil thelast. This
ltoentdo' riot discern; neither do they understand
my sayibgs, any more than they understand the
sensb arid meaning of t*he communication I gave
to thee, and have ordered it now to he brought
forward,- to confound Such who boast of their
kriowhad&e; saying, the scriptures are fulfilled, and
Want nri further revelation from the Lord; y4t
*9
Digitized by Google
jnefi cansupjfcorefprovethd!fMfihn£nt ofmy gospel
than thtiycan prove the.fulfilbienfc of that promise ;
for both aupnelikteness; stents together $i!arid ;it. is
$he grg&ffcstifolly, pient cdn be guilty of, to pre-
tend to(plesds that the; scriptures are: fulfilled. I t
only .sjtjreagthens men in unbelief as.! it would
^trepgthPP the unbelieving world now, if believers
jvere to pleads that my kingdom of righteousness
andpeacpwas established id them, that evil had
no more pptwer over, them, and that their redemp­
tion had already taken place; that all wasfulfilled
in them,, that they were [delivered from;all the ef­
fects, of sin and sorrow. Was this pleaded by be­
lievers, what would the unbelieving worldisay, to
see their) surrounded like; other men with trials,
and temptations, and various distresses; stillhaving
the storyi to,go through?, Would not their plead­
ing;, that they were freed.fjrOm all, strengthen un­
belief among mankind ? -In thy- heart:.thou an-
swere&t, yes::now perfeptly 'sp I tell thee'of men
who plpad my gospel is already fulfilled, .and the
words of the prophets, !that<-I,feaid; I should 'fulfil.
This1 pleading amongst tkoen: strengthens in­
fidelity .and unbelief-amongst mankind fi and,
to shrew tbejr folly, I have:.brought (M>upd:*hy>
writings .in this manner,'which rtenwiil ifiridiinr
the end, that, from one Spirit came both;' however
low, and simple my words mayappear to.meta; as’
the meanhe^s and plainness of the language is de-'
spiked,hy -themi without considering my gospel,
that, it ia to confound the,wisdom of then, and-
their boosting pf.learning,, that l.chused; weak and
foolish instruments, tn,confound the Wisdom' o f
the world., ilhrt wn$tmy, visitation to the learned/,
then after;the wisdom oftthe world, iafad their;
boasting of learning, Ihnst allappear; because my’
visitation ,to men/.in every ;ag& of.rthb world, is
according to the wisdpfti.andilanguage that is*in;
themselves.; and. according tor the simpleness’oft
thy language is my visitation to thee.”
Digitized by Google
f Trom the •above:communication Answer, that
i t is notall the wisdom of the wise and learned
m.en, that could have brought round? a communis
cation,in this manner, given in l802, and now-
explained, to shew in what manner the scriptures
stand, and the folly of men to judge, they are
fulfilled* . , : i
And now I shall come to Hann’s assertions, that,
there is no such thing as conditional prophecies..
I n this, he, denies,the scriptures throughout; for
when the Lord sent his prophets to .warn the peo­
ple of threatened judgments, because of theirsins,,
there 'were- always conditions,placed, if they
^repented; for the .Lord always dealt as a tender:
father, that threatens because he isloath to punish \r
and bearetbfor a while to .try men if they will
repent. This.we may find throughout the pro-,
phets; and so in like manner conditions were fixed'
for this nation* What use would it be,of to warn*
men to repent, jf no offers of mercy were held out:
on condition of their repentapee? But to speak
o f the,tender mercies and long-suffering, of the.
Lord, not to entes hastily into strict judgment ,
with men, before he gives them space for repent-;
amce, as Hann hath done, by placing this as muta­
bility in the Lord, is speaking blasphemy against,
hife xpercy apd goodness. But from the false
assertions, which Hanrv hath .made in his pam­
phlets, and the manner he hath placed things
together, no mancan draw any judgment from
'm y Writings, , . 4, . .• : .
Yet he nath been the meaps ofbringing in many *
true believers, who sftw his pamphlets were written
in malice; they, lik e't^ Bereans of old, applied/
for my Prophecies to judge for theirselves, know­
ing that no truth could comefrom an enemy who
acted' like the Jews of old,; .when our Saviouf a- *
rdflp from the dead, they bribed the keepers to :
tpll lies, because the truth should hot^be known ;
and they wanted *to put Lazarus to death, that
'I ' '
91
i k Digitized by C3o O ^ ! c
h
i&SJP3 4 +t
r
I
H
our Savioui^ miracle might not be made know*
thathe had raised' him from the dead ; and in lik e
manner was their malice concerning the man th a t
was born blind ; they would not suffer him to say he
received his sight by the power of God,- but cast
him out of the synagogue for his belief;- and other
miracles that our Saviour wrought which they
could not deny, the Jews said they were wrought
by the Devil. So that where malice and envy are
strongly rooted in the hearts of men, no truth1can
be known from them. This I can prove from the
pamphlets printed against me.
I shall here g£ve Hann’s answer to'the demand
made of him, Where he collected front my writing^
what he said was to take place in 1810 and 1811.
His answer was—“ I appeal to your own consci­
ence, whether it was not the judgment of the
believers.” Now as Hann hath imposed up­
on the public, -so in like manner another man-
hath imposed upon the public, concerning the
Sealed "Letters, saying, “ Providence has confer­
red upon me the honour of breaking the Seals, in or­
der that the'contents may be made known;” which
lie says was concealed, even to the person that had-
it. To this I answer, the contents of the Sealed
Letters were put in print in 1803, which were never
concealed from theknow-ledge of any; and likewise-
what they signed to is put in-'public print. So ribho­
nourcould be conferred upon him,to make known in
1810, what was published*in 1803.
The contents of this Book taken from Joanna
Southcott’s mouth by me,
Ann U nderwood.
Witness, J ane T ow nlet?
April 30. 1811.
Entered at Stationer s Hall.
LONDON: ""
Printed by Galabin& Merchant, Ingram-Court; and soldby M. Jones. No,g,
NewgateStreet, Chapel-Place, Duke-Street, St.George's Fields;
Also byW. Symcvds, Gundy-Lane; and the Miss E veeeiohs, St<Sidwell’s,;
Zocetn Sam uel H ir st, Leeds ; J. M iddleton, York; and J ames Lioar,
Csreutt j Street, Stourbridge, Worcestershire.^)- 1C
[PRICE ONE SHILLING.}
5 f
