{"name":"A Continuation Of The Controversy With The Worldly Wise","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1811__southcott___a_continuation_of_the_controversy_with_the_worldly_wise.pdf","mytitle":"A Continuation Of The Controversy With The Worldly Wise","mylang":"de"}
4 f
/ - • >■ '
CONTINUATION
OF TUB
CO N TR O V ER SY
WITH THB
WORLDLY WISE.
T h e . World by wisdom know not God,
neither do they know his ways, or his decrees;
for -his footsteps have been hid in the great
deej), And his paths past man’s finding ou|.
And, as the professors o f religion luve brought
-forward the Scriptures, affirming trot they are
, * .already fulfilled, which strengthens the Atheisms
in their unbelief, who clearly discern they
are not fulfilled; by these errors thousands am
stumbled, as some do not believe there is a Goa
\ to reveal his will to man; others believe there is
a God, and that the Scriptures contain his written
word, and yet they deny the fulfilment thereof;
others say they are already fulfilled, ;that all was
finished when our Saviour expired on the cross,
‘and deny any further revelation to be^gjyqg;; and
it is to convince mankind. of these errors,
the controversy o f the Spirit is held out to map.
k ■ But, as a professor of religion hath advised
me to cointend only fo r that faith, which was
<
once delivered to the saints, I answer, that is the
P
rir.e
tlb
yG
a
lab
btadM
a
r
s
b
a
n
t^
In
g
n
iin
-C
Q
T
jr
t,L
o
n
d
o
n
.
^ Digitized by b o o g i e
!
faith I was brought up in, and relied upon. The
lov» of God, which was in Christ Jesus, was
deeply impressed upon m y mind and heart, to
trust in him for my Salvation; but when visited
by the Spirit o f Truth, according to our Savi­
our’s words in his Gospel, that mb said should
come to guide us into all truths, and to teach
us things to come, which is the Comforter spoken
of, to come in the end to call all things to our
remembrance, that was delivered to the saints, and
to warn o f the fulfilment of the Scriptures, that f
the time was drawing near when the Lord would *
fulfil his Gospel, and what was delivered by the
holy men of old, both from the prophets and the
apostles; and being warned that the time was i
hastening on for the Lord to fulfil their words, . '
this opened a greater light to me, to contend
for the faith delivered to the saints, than I had . *
before; because, at first, I saw no further than
my own salvation, before the revelation o f the
Spirit of the Lord came to reveal his will con­
cerning o u t redemption, to fulfil the promises
delivered ta the saints. Now I shall come to the t
Scriptures, that shew what we are to contend for.
2 Epistle of Peter iii. 2.— “ That ye be mindfulo f
the words, which were spoken before by the holy
prophets, and the commandment o f us the apos­
tles of the Lord and Saviour.” The same exnor-
tation is given by Jude— “ Beloved, when I gave •*
all diligence to write unto you,. of the common
salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you
and exhort you, that ye should earnestly contend
for the faith, which was once delivered unto the
saints.” Now I shall come to what was delivered
to the saints, spoken by the holy prophets— that
our Saviour was prophesied of as the Messiah, t
that was to come first to suffer for the transgres- v '
sionof man; and, if ,we trace the prophets through,"
and the Psalms, we shill find they agree together, A-
y
r
Google
concerning our Saviour’s first coming, to be des*
pised and rejected of men; and likewise of hia
second coming, in ^>ower and great glory, to be
the prince o f peace, to have the heathens for his
inheritance, and the uttermost parts o f the earth
for his possession, when he.cometh according to
the words of the prophets.
Daniel vii.— Zechariah xii.— “ They shall look
upon me whom they have pierced.”— xiv. “ And
tne Lord my God shall come and all the saints
with thee.” These scriptures, and what was
pointed out in my last Book, shew us what is the
faith, that we are now earnestly to contend for,
that was delivered to the saints by the holy pro­
phets, and what our Saviour in his gospel taught
us to be looking for— that he should come again.
Therefore he warned them to watch for his
coming,— “ For in such an hour as ye think not
the Son of Man cometh. Blessed is that servant
whom his Lord when he cometh shall find so do­
ing-
Luke xii. “ Let your loins be girded about, and
your lights burning, and ye yourselves like unto
men that wait for their Lord when he will return.”
xxi. Chapter.— “ They shall see the Son o f Man
coming in a cloud with power and great glory.”
.In this chapter we are warned what his coming is
for— to bring in the redemption of man, and wnat
are the signs prior to his coming, of the distresses
and perplexities o f nations; ana, that men might
know when the end was near, our Saviour said
the Spirit o f Truth should come to guide us into
all truths, and shew us things to come. Now, as.
our Saviour commanded us to be like men waiting
for the Lord, and said they were blessed whom
the Lord, when he cometh, shall find watching
for him; this sheweth us, in the end, what we are
earnestly to contend for, when the Lord hath ward­
ed by his Spirit, that his coming draweth Utah
•. V . < > 2 '
.8
Digitized by b o o g i e
The apostle Paul, in his exhortation to
the Hebrews, warned them to be looking for the
coming of the Lord Jesus Christ; and saith—
“ Unto them that look for him shall- he ap­
pear the second time, without sin unto salvation.”
2. Thessalonians i.— “ The Lord Jesus shall be
revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in
flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know
riot God, and that obey not the Gospel o f our
Lord Jesus Christ, when he shall come to be glo­
rified in his saints, and to be admired in all them
that believe.”
The same exhortation is given by St. P e­
ter— To be looking for and hastening to
the coming of the day o f God.” This we may
find through the apostles; then if we compare
together tne words of the Prophets and our Sa­
viour's sayings in his Gospel; then we may see
how the three agree together in one likeness, what
we are exhorted earnestly to contend for in the
end, to awaken mankind to the fulfilment o f the
scriptures.
4 Now the time is drawing near, that the Reve­
lation will be fulfilled, that the old serpent, which
is the devil and satan, shall be bound for a thou­
sand years, and cast into the bottomless pit, and
shut up, and a seal set upon him, that he shall de­
ceive the nations no more, till the thousand years
5
are fulfilled.
But, from the different opinions o f men, that
tire now writing concerning the Fall, the follow­
ing inquiry was made of me :
■— Did the Lord givfe
TStitan a'permitted power to enter into the serpent,
when he tempted Eve with the forbidden fruit? ’
T H E A N S W E R O F T H E SPIR IT.
“ I shall answer thee concerning the Serpent,
’arid iny permission to the Devil to use his arts to
tempt arid try the man. Had I given him -no
permission to try, but kept him by a restraining
4
Digitized by G o o g l e
power, that he could never tempt mankind, what
o f his reign could I shew upon the earth? of how
could I prove his guilt and cruelty, what his
having power would do ? Therefore a permitted
power was given to him, and to his own invent
tions he was left; and therefore I have told thee,
it was in the serpent that he worked by arts to
betray; and as that was his beginning, when I
sent Moses unto Pharaoh to free the children of
Israel from his power, I shewed Moses, by turn­
ing his rod into a sprpent, what,likeness was in
Pharaoh of a hardened heart and cruelty, at en?
mity against p o d ; in the likeness of the devil,
was the man I sent Moses unto; and, when he
saw the likeness, he feared and fled from before
the serpent. But then I took his fears from him,
and ordered him to take it up by the tail, when
it became a rod in his hand : and so the head wa?
destroyed; and that, head I destroyed in Phar
raoh. But now let men discern, when Moses
shewed the likeness before hipa, to turn the rod
jnto a serpent, Pharaoh’s magicians used arts by
their enchantment, and their rods became ser­
pents in like manner.; But this power was not
.done by man; for, I now tell thee, of their, own
selves, as men, they had ho more power to turn
their rod into a serpent, or the form (
and likeness
thereof than. Moses, as a man, had power to
turn h is; but know, it waS I as a Goa shewed
. their enchantment to Moses, what were then
arts, and what was their working, through, the
subtlety and art of the devil, who worked with-
them in all these enchantments, till 1 by power
destroyed the whole; for theii enchantment was
.worked by the devil ; and by him I have told
thee;all witchcrafts are worked. Now, from this,
let mien djscern how Satan had power, by.his arts,
to make a rod become a serpent; therefore let no
man marvel at his arts in the beginning, that be
5
Digitized by b o o g i e
had power to make use of the Serpent, and be­
come as a life in him, of mouth and voice, to betray
the w om ak. Thus let men discern from the rod,
there was no life in that, nor any form of a ser­
pent in it, before it was worked by Satan’s power
to turn it into that form; now perfectly .so I tell
thee of the beginning, there was no knowledge
given to the serpent, of any command that was
given to m an; neither was .there any understand­
ing in the serpent what man was created for above
him ; he was as ignorant of knowledge,, and as
Void o f understanding, as the rod was void o f
life, before the subtlety of Satan's working was
in him, to be life, knowledge, and understanding,
and by him he used the arts to betray, as he used
the arts by Pharaoh’s magicians, to harden Pha­
raoh’s heart, and make him believe there was no
power superior to the power that Pharaoh wor­
shipped before, from his wise men and soothsay­
ers. Know, their arts I shewed to Moses, be­
fore I sent him to Pharaoh, and then I shewed
him my power, how I should destroy them; and
so I have told thee, in the end, I shall destroy
the whole. Now, if men have wisdom to discern
what I have explained to thee concerning the Ser­
pent, and how Satan went on by arts, and what
power he had to form the likeness of a serpent,
where there was none, then the eyes o f men’s
understanding would be clearly opened to discern,
that in the form of a serpent he had power to be­
tray ; and from the power that was shewn by the
magicians, to turn the waters into blood, it shew-
eth what power the devil hath had, in ill ages, to
work in the hearts of mankind, to cause war and
bloodshed in every nation ; for, though by my
power I have often gained the victories in the
war, for my people to overcome their enemies in
the end, yet great power hath been in their ene­
mies to go on and conquer for a while. So that
6
Digitized by b o o g i e
as the water, that was clear at first, became as
blood, by my power, and the same power was
shewn by the enemy, so have the nations went on
by .wars and tumults in all ages; and in like man­
ner they had power to raise the evil creatures, by
their enchantments. These things are tpshew man­
kind, that Satan hath a power to wot£ many mi*
racks in evil; and this was shewn untoMoses,
when I gave him a Law to go and deliver m y peo­
ple; but when I began to restrain the powers of
evil, they, could go no further; for all their power
I desteoyed.— And now come further to the Law
given to Moses.”
St. John, Chapter i. 17- " The Law was giveii
to Moses, but Grace and Truth came by Jesus
Christ.”
7
THE ANSWER OF THE SPIRIT.
“ From the Type and Shadow o f Moses being
sent to deliver my people, and bring them into the
promised land, it was a Type and Shadow of the
End. For now I shall shew thee what were the
laws given to Moses, that I shall fulfil in the end,
and that I came to fulfil. Know my command o f
the Lamb's being slain, and I came to be the
Lamb that was slain; but this let men discern,
when the Lamb was slain, and the blood was
sprinkled on the door-posts, Pharaoh's destruc­
tion came on, and the deliverance of the Israelites
from hjs power took place. This was a shadow
to them, which I came to fulfil; but that fulfil*
ment hath not yet taken place; neither is the
grace and truth come to mankind, that I died to
establish in the end. Is my Gospel fulfilled,
for grace and truth to be established on the eartfi
by my coming to die as the paschal lamb, whin
they see there are but few, when compared with
the whole world at large, that do believe, or
rely upon me or my Gospel ? Do not the nations.
Digitized by b o o g i e
ko on as hardened in sin, and still to pttovoke and
distress my people, that believe in me and my
Gospel, as the enemies went on to afflict the
Jews, after they were delivered from the hands
Of Pharaoh ? Did they pbt meet with many
enemies afterwards, to war with, to war against ?
And did they not murmur' in their own hearts,
and bring evil upon their own heads, after they
were delivered from the land o f ISgypt-? i They
went on in the wilderness to provoke'Wa ko; am­
eer to cut them off, never to possess the land I
had promised them, though I gave -it'to their
children. Here is a shadow of the end* and here
is the likeness of my Gospel; which ye may now
discern. Do the professors o f my Gospel act
according to my commands ? Do they rtetact
like the Jfjvs o f old, that, disagreed .in the wil­
derness, at a. discord with one the other, and
condemning the prophet by whose hands I
wrought their deliverance? This likeness o f Che
Jews ye may all discern, koto the likenas new ap­
pears in this'hation, where my Gospel-Is made
kno'wn unto all: some thousands are become A li­
ens, and like the Jews of old, Who condemned
Closes, saying they knew not What was become
o f him ; when he staid in the mount ftwtostbera,
Ithey made gods like cekfeVv4£%*i heftrffe them,
and put no tmstthatthey'&fbeuld-be delivered by
him. Now perfectly iso are thousands turned
away from believing in Me, thfet I shall work
their deliverance in the end, aS
s the Jews Were
turned from believing in Moses; and as the -con­
tention was arfiongst the people concerning Moses,
SO is the contention amongst mankind concern*
ftgjfjrhy Gospel, which thou mayest see from the
Wirerent and parties. By some my death
$s made of no effect, nor-of any use to mankind,
Who Sky, it was only to save them that Were saved
from the foundation o f. the world. - -From -speb
Digitized by L i O O Q L e - x
judgment I have already told thee I died in vain*
Now if men look to the contention o f the people
o f old, after I delivered them , by the hand o f
Moses, and gave laws to him concerning them,
to bring them into the land of Clapaan, which
was the promised land to them, Jet th^m discem
what, was their contention and disputes^ through,
the wilderness, and how they departed .Irgm. the
law s; then let them look to my Gospel, inTjrhat
manner is the contention of mankind ap>y,.ip
those that profess to believe my Qospel japdfaow
many, like the Jews of old, are,departed from
it j then they piay see the likeness to stand to­
gether. Then now I ask mankind how they will
prove the fulfilment o f my words, i f I do not
establish that grace and truth in the earthy that
is said must come by me ? Let them discern, M o­
ses, as the shadotv, brought the children o f Israel
to the promised land, to fulfil, the words I had
spoken by him ; then know, to bethe substance, I
must fu lfil the premise made byihe pvophetst and
the words I spoke in my gospel* to, bring in the
promisedrestfor man; and, as Moses freed them*
by my power,: from, the. hands of their temporal
enemies, and redeemed :tbem from the hands ;,pf
Pharaoh, so must'. I free -me»j
ritual enemy, and redeem them according to
my promise, to,give them .the kingdom,.as. de­
signed for m anat firsts and establish the truth
o f the words upon the earth, to prove to mankind^
that grade and truth ,came by me, which is righte­
ousness to be established with peace on the earth,
and m y spirit poured out upon all, to free them
from evil, and establish good. Then wiU the
truth of m y words be fulfilled, because I have
promised to fulfil them ; and thus let men discern
from nay Gospel, what deliverance I have pro­
mised snail be in the end, of a promised rest to
snan; fQr,astheshadowWasfulfilledbyMoses}soshall
9
Digitized by b o o g i e
the substance be established by me. But these
. things men do not discern, what judgment they
draw o f the Gospel, nor what are my promises,
to make the truth appear, that I came to seek
and to save that which was lost; that I came to
be the Saviour o f the world; that I came to cast
out the prince of this world ; that I shewed them
the shadows in the days of the Flesh, when I cast
out the devils, that were in men,/ Which I pro*
mised to cast out in the end from all; that I gave
sight to the blind, and ears to the deaf; that I
healed men of the leprosy, and 60 in the end I
have promised to heal men of the leprosy o f
sin. Here let men discern'how different was
my wonderous working, when I became flesh
and dwelt amongst men, than the power that was
given to Moses; and so, they will all find in the
end, is my power and working, to give a promise
first to man, different from the promised land,
that was given by Moses, which was not establish­
ed in righteousness nor truth ; because they kept
sot my commands, nor the laws that were given
to them; therefore their enemies had power to ^
afflict them; And' by their wars and tumults, and
the power of their enemies, their waters became
as blood to them at last, as I had made them at
first, when I cast out their enemies before them.
This let men discern followed the Jews— the like-
ness of the miracles I wrought by the hands o f Mo­
ses, and the same likeness was shewn by their ene*>
mies; and this went on by the power their ene­
mies gained over them, when they broke all the
laws that were given them. But now let men
come to my Gospel. When I worked miracles at
the marriage of Cana, know I turned the water
into wine. Here let men men discern the diffe-
.rence, what was my working to shew the end,
that the best wine was reservedfor the last, which
s o enemy could accomplish. There was no powr
16
Digitized by b o o g i e
l i .
er, that could make the water wine, to work with
me, as they worked with Moses; neither was
thete any evil power that could turn the wine to
become water when I turned it into wine. Thus
let men discern the difference between the miracles
that were wrought by Moses and the miracles I
wrought in my Gospel; then they may discern
the difference that will take place in the end,
when I establish my kingdom in every heart, o f
truth, righteousness and peace; then it will not
belike the law that woe given by Moses, but a
law written in every heart. For this is the best
wine, that is reserved to the last, which was not
established when l became flesh and dwelt amongst
men. '
But now come to types and shadows,from the
beginning, as the unbelieving world mock my
ways and my decrees concerning the sealing,
because they judge it is not a command given
from the Lord, without discerning, that, in all
ages of the world, when in a powerful manner I
visited mankind, for any particular change, that
should take place, some command or other was
given to man: Noah had a command to build
the A rk; Abraham had a command o f Circumci­
sion; Moses had a command of Burnt Offerings.
But know from my Gospel what was the com*
mand given by me, when I became an offering,
for all— to take the Bread and Wine, in remem­
brance of my Body and Blood that was shed for
the transgression of man, which I commanded
them to do in remembrance o f me, till I came a-
gain, in power and great glory, to bring in the
Redemption of Man. But this let men discern,
what was done by my enemies,— they put a Seal
upon my Tomb, that I might not rise again. Now,
when this was done at my death, for men to put
a Seal upon my Tomb, let them not marvel tnat
this command is given in the end, after the man-
Digitized by < ^ . o o Q l e
It
ner o f men, toput a Seal upon my advertary, and
tike adversary of mankind. Thus, if men had wis­
dom to discern in what manner types and shadows
have stood through the scriptures, and what was
the malice of my enemies, by setting a watch,
and. putting a seal upon my tomb, they would not
marvel, that a Seal should be made for Safaris
doom; for,, as the creation began by typea and
shadows, and the command being given in the
beginning, so, in like manner, from types and
shadows, and a command, will the ending ,be.
And let. men discern, from my Gospel, what was
done by man, worked on by the malice o f hell;
then let men discern from the Revelation, what
was shewn to John in the Visions, how Satan, was
hound, arid the Seal set upon him, as map before
bad jdsced.it to me. Thus, if the eyes of men’s
understanding were opened, to discern what men
did at my death, they would clearly discern the
Sealing must take place against the adversary o f
mankind, before 1 come to cast him out. Now, u
men discerned, from the Scriptures, all that is
spoken o f things that are spiritual, there is first /
ft phadow in things that aae,temporal; and what
spoken of things that aTe heppmly, there is first
a shadow jn things that i then they »
.would dipcern frqpa b e i n g l a mb slain
from thcfoundatiodp/fhfpriri^ W
Ubeing called ^
■ the LAJftP ^ ;<tqnw. faJake away the sin of the
world, .these are: mawejfly and spiritual. But the
{shadow began first with what was temporal and
3
9, .of' the Lamb being slain and offered up,
I came to be an offerin g for all. I f men
j understood these things, aind what is said
'.of the seals in heaven, and. how it. was seen by
John, whose revelation was. to shew him the end;
jif men had wisdom thus to discern, they would
^clearly discern, that the sealin g must take:place,
.before the ending cap come to mankind, J?qr
t>
Digitized by L mO O Q L e
is
the Apostles themselves did not understand the
meaning o f their words or visibns ; neither is the
meaning o f Paul’s words understood by mankind
-r—“ Grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby
ye are sealed unto the day o f Jfedemption.’’
This, thou knowest, all ftien have judged to have
no other meaning than a spiritual sealing; ^neither
were the words understood by the Apostle; that
any temporal sealing would be commanded hf'th*
Spirit of God to be done, before the day o f rdt
demption took place; neither did the ApodU
discern or understand the meaning o f his wofrUf
any more than thou understoodest the sense and
meaning of the Sealing, when I warned thee of it
in the beginning, which thou understoodestnofur-
ther than my promises being sealed up, what I
should do in the end^fcr them that believed. *
But thou hadst no knowledge of the Sealing
going out, for man’s redemption, or Satan’s de­
struction,-for men to be redeemed from his pow­
er, before I made it clear unto thee how I should
go on in the manner Satan had begun, to say hi
would gain the kingdom, or lose it, after the man*
A ner of men, by election ; and so, after the man­
ner o f men, I ordered the Sealing to go out, td
try and prove the hearts of men, and tp con-
. found the enemy in his own wisdom. ;: • ’ ?
<
v But now I shall come to the Sp ir it u a l S®Atr*
in g . This meaneth the heart being given up td
God, to be saved with an everlasting salvation,
and having a witness within, as Abraham had,
that they are heirs of the promise, which isfaith
unto salvation, to be Saved in the hour of death;
and this spiritual sealing is to those that are saved
in the end, who rely upon me for salvation. But
however men may judge' this is the meaning o f
the Apostle’s words, to go no further than a spi*
fitual sense, I now tell thee,; they go to botH
t&aporal and spiritual; for now isthe time the
0
Digitized by b o o g i e
edmmand is given by the Spirit o f God, f o f me*
to be scaledieith a temporal sealing unto the day
Of redemption. But know, all that believe are
redeemed from the power o f death, hell, and sin,
when they die and go to glory; but that it the
redemption o f the spirit, and not o f the body;
but it is the redemption o f the body that the A-
postle told them to be looking for. These things
I have shewn to thee, in what likeness the things
that are spoken o f in heaven must have a resem­
blance here upon earth, before the end cometh,
to fulfil the Scriptures and my GospeL Know
what I told thee of the Roman Pozcert, how they
would be shaken, when the Revelation began to
break; which meaneth, the truth o f the words
to be fulfilled; and so I tell thee and all mankind,
the visions John saw in heaven must take place
upon earth, which never.; can be accomplished,
o r fulfilled, before the sealing hath taken place
uhon the earth. Therefore marvel not in thy neart
1»at blasphemy is spoken by man against it ; be­
cause Satan’s working is strong in man to con­
demn it. But now let him that reproves answer,
how all these things, that I have mentioned to
thee, o f things, that are heavenly and spiritual,
should have a resemblance upon earth in things
that are temporal— that all th$$e typesand sha­
dows should first, u ke place, and the sealing,
that was seen in heaven, spoken o f in the Scrip­
tures, never desurned to take place upon earth?
Let them answer, for what ends, or for what use,
it was shewn to John? *
:: Now come to my Birth : Luke ii.— “ And the
angel said unto them, Fear not: Behold I bring
you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to
all people. For unto you is born this day a Sa­
viour which is Christ the Lord. And this shallr
be a sign unto you; ye shall find the babe wrap­
ped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger.
14
Digitized by G o o g l e
And suddenly there was with the angel a multi*
tude o f the heavenly host praising God, and say*
ing, Glory to God in the highest* and on earth
peace, good will towards men.”
Now from these words, spoken by the angels,
men must discern what I was born fo r; but let
them discern further, what was said by Simeon,
when I was carried into the temple.— “ This Child
is set for the fajl and rising again of many in Is*
rael; and for a sign which shall be spoken against:
(yea a sword shall pierce through thy own soul
also) that the thoughts o f many hearts may be
revealed.”— Here let men discern in what manner
my Gospel stands mixed, together. No sword
could have went through my mother’s soul, if the
words o f the angels had then been fulfilled, for
peace then to be established on the earth, and all
to give glory to God in the highest; but from
the words spoken by the angels, it sheweth
-what I was born for in the end; and from the
words spoken by Simeon, it shewed what I had
first to, go through; and how men would fall by
my gospel, before they would rise in the end.
Now, to shew men in what manner the scriptures
stand, I have placed thy writings together in the
like manner. Now come to the communication,
that I gave thee, after thy writings had been out
in the world onp year to try men, and my com*
mands had been obeyed by them, but a persecu­
tion began io arise in some; therefore I shewed
thee, from these different men, what would go
on amongst mankind.”
The following communication was given to me
in February, 1802.
" Now the mystery I’ll explain:
Lift up your heads, you sons of men :
For your redemption now draws near—
? Convulsions in your land appear;
* And fast convulsions will come on,
A* ©
u thy father they did come $
15
Digitized by Google
And so in man they will appear;
For Satan's arts will some ensnare,
To be convuls'd in words from bell;
By Satan's arts will men rebel,
Until I do convulse the whole,
And sudden shake the hearts o f all.
For I shall shake the earthly ground—
The hearts of men convuls'd arc found,
Tempted by malice and by word,
And mock the coming of the Lord ;
And like thy brother do appear—
We cannot judge that it is near,"—
But they arc all mistook like be;
The hand of death, you all might sec,
That day did to thy father com e;
. The five days he did linger on,
In strong convulsions to appear,
And then his death thou didst sec clear.
, So now these days I’ll turn to years:
. The hand of death doth now appear,
And strong convulsions here are found;
From heaven and Lell I hear the sound ;
For some are strong convuls’d for m e ,
And wish my kingdom for to sec; .
And so my kingdom shall appear,
‘ In glorious triumph, in five years; '
That is to say, I'll make this land f
To judge my coming nigh at baud; j
• For in the hearts of men I'll reign,
And they my kingdom shall obtain; "
A perfect peace within five years,
A happy nation shall appear, -
To such as are couvuls'd for m e, „ ;
• i M y happy kingdom wish to see. * ,
. For I shall now convulse the whole,
i And death shall make the mockers fall,
And I'll bring in a glorious peace,
■ And make your jarring discord cease;
, For of one heart and mind you'll be; ,
, % A happy nation you .shall see,
‘ That I shall give unto my friends;
The heavenly music shall descend;
• For here must come the first redeem'd.
The liyjng water and the stream/'
“ The meaning of these words I shall answer,
from what was said by the angels at my birth,
that they told the shepherds I was born for to
. 16
Digitized by Google
bring peace and good will to mankind; and,
without my being born for man, the promises
that stand on record could never be fulfilled. But
now let men discern, from my gospel, what sha­
dow of the words was fulfilled by my disciples,
who gave glory to God in the highest, when they
saw the miracles wrought by me, and the faith
they had in believing, from what they had seen
and heard through my Gospel. Thus let men
discern what shadow was in a few, of giving
glory to God, and what was their faith, that I
should establish peace in the end. Here the sha­
dow began in them, of what the substance will
be in the end, when all will give glory to God in
the highest; when I come to establish peace and
righteousness on the earth, and fulfil the promises
made in my gospel But let men discern from the
other, that I ordered thee to bring forward, of.
Simeon’s words, that my Gospel would be the fall
to many in Israel, as they would be cut off in
unbelief; and now in the perfect likeness o f the
chapter stands the communication, that I or-
dered thee at this time to put in print. Let men
discern the promises made to true believers, and
the faith they are established in ; but how differ­
ent are the words spoken of the unbelieving
world !,
4 These things were but shadows placed in the
five years, of what the end should b e ; but when
the end cometh, for me to fulfil my promises,
and establish my kingdom according to my pro­
mises, and what I was born for to do in the end;
then will come the substance to the believers;
and those that mock will then be cut off; and
these divisions in men will cease. But did I tell
k thee they would cease, and tbe end would be es­
tablished, in the five years ? Did I not tell thee
that unbelief would abound, and men would
judge no second coming was near? This I plainly*
17
*
Digitized by Google
a
toki thee would be in the heart* o f men, 7
a tW
five years, Where these shadows would begin, o f
the different minds and hearts of men; hot when
I come to fulfil the will I made in the time, and
plit in execution my just decrees; then the sha­
dows will be past, and the substance will corner
and unbelief will be- done aw ay; for then the
ends that I was born for will be fulfilled unto all
that tirust in ME' for their salvation and redemp­
tion, according to the promises made in my Gos­
pel. But as I have told thee, as a will, that it
made unalterable, that is fixed, perfectly1so wot
my will made, in the five years, to true believer*,
what the end shall be for them, to enjoy a happy
peace with Me, either in time here upon earth, to
See my kingdom established, or those that die be­
fore trie time, they -shall then come with me id
triumph and glory, as my disciple* will, in the
end. Now come to the decrees that were made
in the five years, and what was the faith in be­
lievers’; and then discern what Samuel said unto
Saul— “ This day is the kingdom rended fforft
thee, and given to a neighbour o f thine, that ie
better than thou,* But this did not take place
till many years after, though my will was made
that day. Now come to my will, that was made
in the five years; my will was made known to be­
lievers, concerning the Sealing,- and in what
manner I fixed the bounds. Know how the pe­
titions were made by true believers, how they
were signed and sealed u p ; and what was my
firm decree, that was fixed, to cast out the au­
thor of evil; how the believers were called to­
gether ; and how all were united in one voice,
Fo» my kingdom to come, and Satan’s power to
be cut off. These were promises made in the five
years, that were- unknown to men, and concealed
From their knowledge, before it was revealed to
them,,that these were but Shadows; but all will
Digitized by b o o g i e
« r
fo d -T shall oome tp bring in thesubsAwiPfU the*
they will find my will Ip be.accomplished in,power
Pad great glory, to thecomfoft and consolation
^o( all true believers, that are loftggig for m y
coming. Bat iww l ask thee and Jail,flwokind^
dto what purpose would my revealing.jpyt-poming
•be to man, if I meant to come and pfiug jn ,my
kingdom o f righteousness and p£ace,tfcuBu^(S*
all those that would not.that I should
eule over them, in five years after the
(Was given ? How could the hearts of M tsifljL
and proved? How could it come to the kitowp
ledge o f men in so short a time,as five years?
H ow could the nations he warned for u£ to be
•the desite of nations? Or how could men proye
ithe visitation was from me, in so .short a period
after I sent out to warn this nation ? This could
not he done at home 4 then what knowledge
joould there be given to the nations abroad ? $0
.that n»y warning could have been o f no use tp
mankind, if I meantto come in nowor to destroy
grout adversary, and bring in my kipggfom, witfcm
X five years after the warning was given, th is \yae
never my design: but what should happen in a
five years to come was all made known and re­
vealed ; and my will signed and sealed itjf the five
years, that I. mentioned at that tim e; but, when
<
* the time will come, that I shall go on after the
manner of thy going on, in the five years, and
bring in the glory of my kingdom at the end;
this, I tell thee, :will never be made known before
I come suddenly and unaware.. But this let all
men discern and keep in remembrance, thy dis­
pute with the powers o f darkness, that I ordered
thee to pen;.then the Sealing, that went out
with thy petition,for men to sign, and the man­
ner it was sealed; then let them discern what thou
* went through at Bristol, aqd the fury F worked
.in thee, o f breaking the earthen ware; -then let
, • .
Digitized by G o o g l e
them discern how strong was Satan's temptations
to thee, and how strong was my powered work-
ing in thee, and the answers I gave thee— all
were types and shadows of the end. M y power­
ful working in thee, and the words I spoke with­
in thee, are what I told thee 1 should come to
fulfil; and all the parables I ordered thee to bring
forward are for the end, which ye will see the
likeness of in all nations. All these signs were set
for the end, as types and shadows, placed in the
five years. So, from these shadows, when men
begiu t6 see the substance, that I begin to break
the nations in pieces, as thou didst break the pot­
ter's clay, and see signs appear, like thy power­
ful walking in the room, to shake the fabrick of the
earth, as thou didst shake the house o f clay; when
they see these things begin to go on powerfully
and strongly; then they may judge that a five
years will bring a glorious change to man. But
then the time, day, or hour, will not be known,
till my coming suddenly and unaware. Now
come to the end of the Communication o f tba
five years—
M y kingdom they have publish’d here,
That hastily it will appear;
And some will say then, “ It is soon
And so their sun will cloud ere noon.
For like thy father it will be, > »
Out run the time was judg'd by thee;
And so they'll say, “ It does not appear:
What truths and errors we see here!
As other things we find are true:
His kingdom lies before our view ;
And we may see it unaware
And so the wise will stand and fear;
But for the fools they soon will fly-*
* No second coming we see nigh"—* * •
And like thy brother give it up;
Then unaware I sure shall drop. - * »
So here's the type, and it goes deep,
A glorious type for Some
That wish for me, my Kingdom set,
Add wish to have it ck>me;
60
Digitized by ^ . o o Q l e
tv
B ttt those A&t mock my every stroke
May tremble at tfee sound.
t)eep are tbe words that thou hast penn’d,
And so will all rebound. ,
So thou hast penned the final end,
That will be in five years;
And joy will be roy friends to se$
What will to them appear.
This communication I ordered thee to make
public among the believers, to try and .prove
their own hearts, who had faith to believe the
glorious promise I had made, that 1 should fulfil
in the end; who were the wise virgins, that
thought I tarried for a while, yet their faith still
continued, knowing I Shall fulfil my words in the
end; or who are like the foolish virgins, Whose
faith is gone out, believing that no second com­
ing will appear, to bring in a glorious harvest to
mankind. Thus I shall leave every man tojudge for
himself, concerning the communication that I gave
thee; but the world at large, that had no know­
ledge o f what Went on, what promises I made,*
what types and shadows were placed to let them
know what the end would be; those, that have
no knowledge of what happened, can draw no
clear judgment from the communication ;*because
they would expect some extraordinary events
must have happened, of jo y unto the believers*
without discerning I spoke o f no fulfilment of my
kihgdom> being established in the time, but o f
the joy they would have in believing, seeing the
things go on as I* had warned thee before, and
the strong promise that I had made to them of
what the end should be to believers; Thie
filled them with, joy in believing, to have a per*
feet peace o f mind, inlying upon my Words1and
promises, that what I bad said I should fulfil,
and make this a happy nation in the endi' "
And now come to ithe Scriptures I ordered thee
tp scad $o H&un. Itaith ix<. <ihapter. Now.Ict
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
men discern from the words I have spoken to
thee, and the words spoken by the prophet, in
what manner they stand together, at the time the
child is said to be born; let them discern what he is
to be born for; but had that been fulfilled then,
for me to be the Prince of Peace, how could the
following words have been fulfilled ?— “ The peo­
ple turned not unto him that smote them, neither
do they seek the Lord of Hosts; therefore the
Lord will cut off from Israel head and tail, branch
and rush, in one day.” Now had my kingdom
been established in righteousness and peace at
my birth, and I had then taken the government
o f the people, they must then have sought unto
the Lord, and the leaders of the people could
not have made them to err. Therefore let men
discern in what manner the words are spoken to­
gether, that destruction, instead of peace, would
follow the Jews at my birth: and what hypocri­
sy was used by them, and what folly was seen in
them, to judge that my miracles were wrought
by the devil. Thus men must discern o f the
first, what would happen when I became flesh
and dwelt among men ; hut from the other chap­
ters I ordered thee to point out, and what was
spoken by the prophet Daniel, that my coming
must be in the clouds of heaven, in power and
great glory, to have all people, nations, and
languages, to serve m e ; then the judgment will
he set, and the greatness of the kingdom under
tire whole heavens shall be given to the people of
the saints.of the Most High. This is to shew what
X was born for iu the end; now perfectly so stands
the communication I gave thee, my promise that
was made, iq the five years, I shall fulfil, toeatablish
a.happy kingdom for my faithful friends and follow­
ers, and there isjoy in believing; but how could the
words be fulfilled, for tire foolish to fly and: to s'ay,
they saw no kingdom soestablished, nor my coming
22-
I
Digitized by b o o g i e
*
did not app$K? Tbeae things could not he
fulfilled, if, aU had.been fipifhfd, fnd righteous­
ness and peace established, bn §(*rth. ‘ Then
nope could have given it up ; naMfef could any
have fallen back if all bad qeen‘*sta§fcghed in sp
choft a time,; But in.that mannqr l ^ i $ t o thee,
Jo.bring mep tp the Scriptures: a»<Hjfo^ T paid
the fivft. year* >vas a.type that goe* d e % ffid a
glorious type for ,them that wish m yT w u gp ^
jfieat; .but a type is a shadow of a substance
$p comp; ,h»t when ffte. substance is come, f r y
and shadows are done away. So if the substance
had epinein the tipie, it ppuld not bejdaced aVa
type p f what sfipyId be hereafter. But know I
(told, theft what should happen in the five years
'Was a sign of the glorious end, that should be to
true believers, .when l have cu toff all that mock
(the warning and my invitation. Then will be
fulfilled the WQrds of the prophft. Isaiah, x i-y
X*:righteousness shall I judge the poor, y ijg j
/day the wicked, that d esire my warping. M
.wijl the wplf Ue down with the'Jamb, aijd. tflp
Jeopari he down with the kid. These ore types
o f men that are now as wolves to devour; but
i*hen they are, convinced and brought into my
ibid, then they will dwell is lambs together; and
Ithose that aee as leopards, by sin, when they are
tnleansed from ail unrighteousness, and turn unto
*MK* ;I shah turn unto them; then they will fie
idpwn with the kid and the calf, and the young
Jfion ond fatling together. From these boasts be-
dtllg (Spoken' o f to unite together, that are so fii-
iflpusone against another to become so tame and
tpnit£d, Jtbat aiitt)# child may lead them, is to
,abew mft0kind,'r,frpm> ytypes and shadows, w hft
Uhefi/ry pf man.is compared to, and how the n§-
taiou9 are fcompaned to beasts that would destroy
3
«ac the other;; ;yet in die end they will become as
sheep upde^r one ehepb?rdi and all lie dojjftt
Digitized by L i O O Q L e
as lambs together: so that they will not hurt no#
destroy in all my holy fountain; because the
earth will be holiness unto the Lord, and be full
o f the knowledge o f the Lord as the waters co­
ver the sea. And this will be established upon
the earth, when I fulfil all the promises that were
made to thee and the faithful believers, in the five
years that I have mentioned. Now let them dis­
cern from this chapter, it was not fulfilled when I
I was born for man, to become flesh, and dwell
amongst them; for then the Jews were all scat*
tered ; but, when I come to fulfil the end, I shall
recover the remnant of my people, which sbaU
be left and turn unto me. And let men discern
the following words: “ He shall set up an ensign
for the nations, and shall assemble the outcasts-of
Israel, and gather together the dispersed ofJudah,
from the four corners o f the earth.” Now, from
these words o f the prophet, let them see how the
Jews are scattered ana how they stand; and let
them discern my promises to gatlier them together
in the end, when they begin to look onto Mfc
whom they have pierced. But now I ask .the
Worldly wist men, what ensign was then set up
for the nations, to gather them together, and
bring all the earth to that happy p£d6d-hbre spd-
-ken of by the prophetj_wft©i^ffeotmfe''flesh and
'dwelt amongstr itien ? ’Wijd:I tHfeh an ensign to
gather them together time, when ye know
they were scattered asiinder? But I now tell
thee, it is from the visitation of my Spirit, the
^warning I have given of my coming, and the
•signs I have'Set before thee, that must be sigilf
'to the nations in the end; and'signs to the Jews,
-to convince them o f their folly in expecting,'that,
"if I had been the Messiah, whom they looked
’'for, these words o f the prophet Would have been
‘ fulfilled when I became flesn and dwelt amongst
‘them ; like Hann’s judgment, from, the con^t
Digitized by Google
ss
Vtiunication given to thee, th a tif it was o f the
Lord, my kingdom must be established in righte­
ousness and peace in five years, without discern­
ing the other words that were spoken, to prove it
was not so; because 1 said many would fly
through unbelief, and it would not beestablished
at the time; but, like the death of tby Father,
he unaware; but this he hath not'decerned :
and perfectly so stand the Jews; they discerned
one part%and not the other ; and therefore, with­
out the visitation of my Spirit, to set signs fof
them o f the end, what shall follow on from na­
tion to nation, and the signs that I have set, and
^the truth of my words that must follow, to con­
vince them of the end, or the days would come
upon them unaware. For it is impossible, by the
wisdom o f man, to convince theJews, the Atheists,
or the Arians; because they discern the scripture^
as Hann discerned the communication, that if it
was o f the Lord all must have been finished in the
five years: and yet, my promise made in theJjjiie
shall be fulfilled; and then will the words oftlw
prophet he fulfilled, that I ordered thee to send
toHstofnvfor him to explain: Isaiah ix v .— ‘‘ And
he witl destroy in his mountain the face of the
covering cast over all people, amdtb o veU-thatw
spead over all nations ; he wilt swallBwfiop death
in victory; and the Lord God will.wipe away
.tears from off all faces; and the rebuke of h»
people shall be taken away from off all the earth;
For the Lord hath spoken it;”
These are the words o f the prophet, that thou
knowest 1 have revealed unto thee I am coming
to fulfil; and these are my promises; that were
made and sealed by thee and the believers ; which
meaneth, revealed thee, and sealed up by them,
.with faith,.like ’the following w o r d s “ This is
our< G o d ; we have waited for him, and he will
<ggve us; we w ill4>e'glad and rejoice in his salya-
Digitized by Google
t c
tie®.” This was a rejoicing, through faith, to?
tieving the promise will be fulfilled; but this fa&p
w but like the faith of Abraham* to believe before
they see the thing accomplished : Abraham belie­
ved in my promise, that he should have a spot,
and my promise I fulfilled; and, it was by faith .
the promise was made to Abraham, wbioh I have
told thee shall be fulfilled to the children of faith,
■ A
s Abraham was. And now according to the
words of the prophet was my sign set,,and the
Standard fated, to swallow up death ir., victory*
to wipe away tears from off all faees, and to take
awav the .rebuke of my people from off aU.thf
earthv This, I have told thee is the devil, that !
•hall cast out, and come and saye my people, that
A uustin xx foe their gaivation; and tben w*tt fc
f®
fulfilled the wordo Of the prophet, in the *xxy •
•banter-— The wilderness and the solitary places
Shall be glad for them, and,the desart shall rejpicp
mod blossom as the rose; they shall see the glory
•ftfehe Lord, and the. excellency of our God : be-
•hold,, your God will come with vengeance, even
G od with a seepmpence; he! will eome and save
b«u.” -W ith vengeance,to those who despise mjr (
•warn*, bwt:aiwcompence.iofreward to save .those
dhat-trust in x x and my salvation, to.feebfiWia»d
upon all. my promises* tfrefctfreyisbwohbdg
ja y and gladness,4nd,»ojt-Q# tandsighing shall
d ue,aw ay,:>Tbht chapter., f&eweth you the end, '
hbwtbeirattNlliedofi th*/La«i shall return, and
Come to Zion with songs and everlastingjoy upop
Abeir hedris,; xli Chapter -rr‘lKeep sileuoehfsfore
$sb,. G islands, and let :the people renew their
aferengtk; let them pome near;then let them speak:
1 s t us;««ne near together to judgment.” The
jmdionaAnptikeep silence, and renew their strength
dmibe Lord, when 1 come near to judge the. earth,
{TlK»tthey ;wiH.kn0w, ' ‘ it is I the Lord have done
calling the generations from, the beginning*
Digitized by b o o g i e
the Lord thefirst, and with the last, I am he.*
From the beginning I have called the generations,
for what ends I created man at fir»|, and what is
my will to accomplish at the last. Then will the
isles see it and fear, the ends o f fcb«t €&rth will be
afraid when I come near to judgoftift;faith mail.-
But then discern my promises to alt' them that
look for my coming ; “ Fear not, fo r ,i* 4}<witk
thee \ he not dismayed, for I am thy God*
will strengthen thee: yea, I will help thee; yeaa
I will uphold thee with the. right hand of toy tfgbte*
ouaness.” Here feremy. promises to Support all then*
that trust in m e : but they that are incensed against
them shall be ashamed and confounded. These are
promises that stand for the end, when I come to
destroy all my enemies: “ And the wind shall carry
them away, and the whirlwind shall scatter them;
and thou aha!t rejoice in the Lord and shalt glory
in the Holy One of Israel. I will open rivers in
high places, and fountains in the midst ofthevallies;
I ‘will make the wilderness a pool o f water, tad
tme dry land springs of water.” Theseare woods
spoken by the prophet, that I am coming tberat
fil : iftr.though the good tidings were, brought'
to Jerusalem of my Bird), yet those tiding*
were not believed; therefore no fulfilment of
iny promises came to the Jews, to see'the
Messiah as they expected; because the fulfil­
ment of scattering their enemies, and bringing
Salvation and deliverance unto Israel and Jacob,
the seed of Abraham my friend, was expected by
darJews to take place atmycoming as the M
essiah.
XMa they expected at first without discerning the
otn^tdiapter. liii— " He 'was wounded for our
OMSMeastons; he was bruised for our iniquities ;
tafiphastisement o f our peace was upon him ; and
wbh ltis atripca we are healed; all we like sheep
ba^e.gane astray.” Thus the Jews did not disi
ffiexnvtfttt i had to go through, when L became
Digitized by Google
flesh and dwelt amongst them; and therefore like
sheep they went astray, looking to the ending,
but not the beginning; expecting to see my power
to destroy their enemies, and establish the bles­
sings that I had promised, without discerning,'
when 1 fulfil the words spoken by the prophets, -
it is not only to the Jews and Gentiles, but to
all nations, kindred and people, xlii chapter—
“ Behold the former things are come to pass,
and new things do 1 declare; before they spring'
forth I tell you o f them. Sing unto the Lord a
new song and his praises from the ends o f the
earth.” From these words of the prophet, let
men discern, it is from the ends o f the earth, that*
all nations, kindred, and people shall be brought
to praise the Lord. These are the new things I
have declared unto thee that 1 am coming in power
to fulfil:----- it is the former things, spoken from*
the beginning and by the mouth o f all my pro--
phets, that I have said shall now come to pass to-
be fulfilled; and yet it is a new thing to mankind,
the manner I have warned, and the way I have
revealed unto, thee, that I shall fulfil the words o f
the prophets, as I said in my Gospel I came -to.
ftilfil them. This is a new thing to man, that the-
former things should come to pass to be fulfilled,
in1a way no man ever expected, nor a way they,
ever understood: but know, I eaid, “ I will bring,
the blind by a way that they know not; I will lead,
them in paths that they have not known; I will
mdke darkness light before them, and crooked
things straight.” These things will I do unto them,
Hid not forsake them.
. Now I shall answer thee' from these words, aa
men boast o f their knowledge of the scriptures,
that there is enough already revealed to man, that
no-further1 revelation will be given o f the Lord ?
letisuch. ansSverhowjthey can fulfilthem ;.oe whad
way they. willlead t}ie blind to see;' or lead/them
28
Digitized by Google
into paths that they have riotf known. Do not
the scriptures stand open for all in this nation ?
And yet, thou knowest, it is out of the power of
man to make the blind to see; wlfiok meanetb,
those that are spiritually blind, as Ih a^ to ld thee
concerning the Jews, and those that ah^nke them,
the way they understand the words of the ^ftmhets,
that way they go on in blindness; but Whc^J!
come to bring them out of darkness into m y
marvellous light, to make that darkness light
fore them, it is by a x
way they never knew, nqr
understood; and this is a way which was never
-known by man, the way I am bringing round
prophecies that are new in the likeness of the old,
to make the crooked things straight before them,
that they may discern hereafter, when I begin
to work with power, to fulfil the words I have
spoken to thee, and then call them to the scrip­
tures to open the eyes of their understanding,
that they may discern, that in the like manner
was my speaking by the prophets of old- But
without thus dealing with mankind, those that
are blinded in unbelief would so remain till the
day came upon them unaware; and then my pro­
mises made to the Jews could never be fulfilled-;
but they are not the only blind; for there are
thousands, besides the Jews, who stumble at the
Gospel and the words o f the prophets; because
they compare together what was spoken by the
mouth of the prophets concerning my coming to
Be their Deliverer; and therefore my sayings con­
cerning the Jews, which thou hast, pondered in
thy heart, ought to be a convincing proof to
them of the truth of my words in my Gospel.
Y et this they compare with the words of the pro­
phets, judging, if I was the messiah, I must nave
come to redeem them a,t that time; and from this
discernment thousands depart from the Gospel;
because theyd o not weigh the whole together;•
*
*9
•
*
Digitized by Google
fc tttfc y -will find in the end, I 'shall ftilfiltbe
Words of the prophets, accordiog to my Gospel;
and then they will find the truth o f the prophet's
.words, that I shall magnify the Law, and make
k honourable to all men, and fulfil the Law and the
" Gospel together. The Law meaneth the W il l
o f G on revealed te the prophet*, which I said
in my Gospel I came, to fulfil.
Now come to the lin Chapter— " How beauti-
-fiil upon the mountains are the feet o f him that
bringeth good tidings; that publisheth peace; that
bringeth good tidings o f good ; that puhlisheth
•salvation; that sakh unto Zion,‘ Thy God reign-
etb.* Now let men come to my Gospel, and dis­
cern what tidings I brought to man-—that I came
*toseekand to save that which was lost; that I came
to bring in the redemption of man, and to cast
nut the prince o f this world; that I died to over­
come the world in the end ; that in me they might
have peace. Let men trace my Gospel through,
hod discern what were the tidings I.brought to
ktah, and What was-my promise o f coming again
to fulfil them; then they may see, 1 brought good
•tidings of salvation to them that believed; that
Where I was my faithful followers should he also;
and 1 brought them gopd tiding* of their redemp­
tion in the end; thaVidiecNktrfamph over death,
hell, and the graye, to- conquer all for man that
'relied on me and rrty promises. These were the
good tidings I brought at first, and these I shall
•accomplish at the last— "Then will the watchmen
toft up their voices together and sing for jo y ; for
they shall see, eye to eye, when the Lord shall
■ bringagain Zion,” Now I shall explain the mean- * *
ing of the words; seeing eye to eye, is. one light
against'another, one sight against another, that
ye may see both together in one likeness; and
perfectly so will the end be, when I come to fu l­
fil my Gospel, and the words I have revealed to
Digitized by Google
Jhee.T Theh, iis’y e m y tee Cye toeye,' when
ed to look at one the other, iso will the light ap*
peir, that ye may see the whole rfagether* But
theta discern what folioweth ; whenftltjM (too light!
Come to man— “ Break forth into lj^pf|jfafr'toge*
then, ye waste places o f Jerusalem; cfwtitt:Lord
bath cditifoited his people; n s fathuj^pteihed
Jerusalem; the Lord hath made bare irisrlaqj|pMtai
in the eyes o f ail nations; ‘and all the ends oflu^
earth shall see the salvation oftrar God;” But a m
must discern from this chapter, I must first -come
to suffer; as it is said by the prophet-^-4
4His vie-
tageWas so marred mote‘than any -man, and his
form mohe than the sons o f men.” Let met! dw*-
cent, •from these words and the following chapter
what I had first to go through; then they rnuBt
know, according to my Gospel, I must come
again to fulfil the good tidings I brhtagbt to man,
and redeem Jerusalem, and my people that trust
in fee. But, Jerusalem, doth not mean burehf tht
Spot tuhete if once stood. These were by types and
shadows o f Jerusalem’s being called a blessing to
-thepeople, and holiness to the Lord; but wbeta
the arm of the Lord is made bare in the eyes of
all nations, and the salvation of the Lord is made
known to the ends of the earth; that the nations
are sprinkled, which meaneth to be redeemed
through my blood that was shed for man; then
will the waste places become as a Jerusalem unto
man. But the place o f Jerusalem was not a bless*
tng in their days: the meaning o f the. word is,
the new J erusalem that conies down to men,
-which signifieth the paradise they xecre^created fa
at j 9rst; .mid so will these blessings come to man
at the last. But let men discern in wfaat maimer
th<? threatenings and promises'stand together in
khese chapters, that I have told thee:st*ud for the
t»d. In this they must see how my yisfage was
smarted by Qian, anfl more cruelly -treated than
81
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
did solid o f men; but as I suffered the first, I shall
come to fulfil the last,”—
Thus far is the explanation given to me, by the
Spirit, of the Scriptures that are pointed out at
the end of my last Book; but as the worldly wise
mock the explanations that are given to me, I am
ordered to require their explanation o f the fol­
lowing chapters, that remain to be explained, that
believers may see whose wisdom, and whose judg­
ment, is the greatest, for men to rely upon, to
S
rove the truth of the Scriptures, how they will
e fulfilled.
Isaiah liv— “ Sing, O barren, thou that didst
not bear; break forth into singing, and cry aloud,
thou that didst not travail with child; for more
are the children of the desolate, than the children
o f the married wife, saith the Lord. For thy Ma­
ker is thine Husband, the Lord o f Hosts is his
Name, and thy Redeemer the Holy One of Israel,
the God of the whole earth shall he be called.
And all thy children shall be taught o f the Lord,
and great shall be the peace of thy children.”
lv. Chapter— “ For m y thoughts are not your
thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith
the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than
the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways,
and my thoughts than your thoughts: for as the
cain cometh down from heaven, and retumeth
not jjiither, but watereth the earth, and maketh
it bring forth and bud, that it may give seed
to*‘the sower, and bread to the eater; so shall my
•word .be that goeth forth out of my mouth; • it
shall not return unto me void, but it shall accom­
plish that which I please, and it shall prosper in
the thing whereto I send it.”
lx. Chapter— “ Arise, shine, for thy light is
-come, and the gltiry of the Lord is risen upon
thee. For behold, the darkness shall cover, the
earth, trad gross darkness the p e o p l e h u t the
52
Digitized by Google
lo rd shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be
seen upon thee. Thy people also shall be all righ­
teous: they shall inherit the land for ever, the
Branch o f my planting, the work of my hands,
that I may he glorified. A little one shall become
a thousand, and a small one a strong nation. I
the Lard will hasten it in his time.”
Ixv. Chapter For behold, I create new hea­
vens, and a new earth: and the former shall not
he remembered nor come into mind. But be you
glad and nqjoice for ever in that which I create:
For behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and
her/people a joy. And I will rejoice in Jerusalem,
and joy. in my people, and the voice o f weeping
shall be no more heard in her, nor the voice of
crying.*
lxvi. Chapter— “ Thus saith the Lord, the hea­
ven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool:
where is the house that ye build unto m e? and
where is the place of my rest? For all these
things hath mine hand,made, and all these things
have beep, saith the Lord : hut to this man will
Jlook, even to him that is poor and of a contrite
spirit, and tremhleth at my word.— For l know
their works, and their thoughts: it shall come
that I will gather all nations and tongues, and
they shall cpme and see my glory.”
Daniel vii— “ I saw in the night vision, and
behold, one like the Son o f Man came with the
clouds of heaven, and came to the Ancient of
Days, and they brought him near before him: and
th ye was given him dominion, and glory, and a
kingdom, that all people, nations, and langua­
ges should serve him.”—— ix Chapter—*u Seventy
Weeks are determined upon thy people, and upon
thy holy city, to finish the transgression, .and to
make an end of sin» and to make reconciliation for
iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteous-
• -fi
Digitized by v^oosle
, , 1
ness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and
to anoint the roost holy.”
xii. Chapter— “ They that be wise, shall shine
as the brightness of the firmament, and they
that turn many to righteousness, as the stare for
ever and ever. But thou, O Daniel, shut up
the words, and seal the book, even to the time
of the end: many shall run to and fro, and know-
ledgeshallincrease: many shall be purified and made
white and tried; but the wicked shall do wicked­
ly ; and none of the wicked shall understand, but
tne wise shall understand.”
Obadiah, 21 verse— '* And saviours shall come
upon mount Zion to judge the mount o f Esau;
and the kingdom shall be die Lord’s.”
Joel, ii chapter, 28 verse, to the end. iii Chapter,
16 verse, to the end.
Haggal n— “ I will shake all nations, and the
desire of all nations shall come, and I will fill his
house with glory, saith the Lord o f Hosts.”— -
' Micah iv chapter, 4. 5. 6. 7. verses. Malachi,
hr— “ Unto you that fear my name, shall the Sun
o f Righteousness arise with healing in his wings;
and ye shall go forth, and grow up as calves o f
thestall: and ye shall tread down the wicked;
for they shall be as ashes under the soles o f .your
feet, in the day that I shall do this, saith tht
Lord of Hosts.”
■ Matthew v— **Think not that I come to des­
troy the Law, or the Prophets: I am not come
to destroy, but to fulfil.”
St. John xvi— “ When he is come, he will
reprove the world of sin, and o f righteousness,
and of judgment: of sin, because they believe not
on h e; o f righteousness, because I go to my
Father, and ye see me no more; o f judgment^
because the prince o f this world is judged.”
xx Chapter— " Jesus saith unto him, [Thopias^
because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed t
34
Digitized by b o o g i e
blessed are they that hare not seen, and yet have
believed.”—
The above are the Chapters, that wer,e pointed
out in my last Book, for Hann to explain; but
as he hath acknowledged he cannot explain them
himself, yet others m ay; and a$ the explanations
* 'given by the Spirit are condemned by others, as
well as nim, and say they cannot understand the
prophecies given to me, it is required of them
that reprove to explain the scripture prophecies,
that I .have pointed out, which I am warned the
. Lord is hastening on to fulfil. But as I have
. brought the promises together, and left out the
threatenings, on what conditions they stand, no
man can draw any Judgment from what I have
brought forward, without applying to the scrip­
tures, where the words are taken from ; perfectly
so stand my writings; no man can draw any
judgment o f them from the pamphlets that are
brought forward by men, without having my
books to refer to, to know on what conditions
they are placed.—
., And now I shall answer the enquiries that are
made of me.
First, I am desired to point out where the pro-/
phecies stand in my books, that have received
their fulfilment. I refer such enquirers to the
u . First Book o f Strange Effects of Faith, printed in
1801; they will find at the end of the Seventh
Book, printed in March 1802, the pages marked
from the first Books, what was hastening on to
be fulfilled concerning the war that hath taken
place.— Warning to the World, page 25 to the 36,
the readers may see what was fulfilled; and con­
firmed by the witnesses, which may be seen in the
\ Book of the Trial. These books I have pdinted
o u t: but those who have a desire to search into
the truth will find the fulfilment of many other
.things have taken place in others. And I am
cS
3$
Digitized by ^ o o Q i e
H6
felbo desired to prove the dates when tbev wWe
,printed; in answer to this I must refer them to
Stationers Mall, as all my books are entered there
when printed, and the date is put upon the booki.
Secondly, how I know the Spirit of Truth from
the Spirit of Error. To this I answer— from the
power and wisdom of God, Which I could not
nave known from the Wisdom df man, had not
the Lord by his wisdom permitted me to have %
knowledge o f the two different spirits, and their
Working, that I riiight be a judge of them both:'
Thirdly, to know in What manner my comma-
mentions are given, whether in an audible voice,
dr an Impulse on the mind. I answer, neither ;
ibr though I have often heard my nlthe ctflledih
an audible voice, yet my communications ath hdt
S'ven in that manner; but the words coitte tomb
distirifct to my hearing, as though they Were
Spoken in an audible voice. Biit no man can un­
derstand in what manner the visitation o f tli!e
Lord is, by his Spirit, to speak Withih and to bfc
distinctly heard by the outwafd 'fctrfr, but thodt
that have experienced It; ttbhb Cbuld understand
how the Spirit of the Lord came to the Disciples,
hut themselves; neither could they unctecstand
how the Word of the Lord cartieto the
In what manner it came: and when it is Said the
‘Spirit of the Lord came upon the prophet, to aif-
swer the ehqriiiy made DydehoSaphat, no one
lSa\v the Spirit drheard his vdffte, but the prbphdt
himself. Therefore the things o f the Spifit irtfe
‘spiritual, which no man can krioW dr hhtf&itarid,
viit those to whom it is sent; because if is pa&
Irhan’s finding out. As to an impulse oh the mind
"that Is not a Visitation from the Lord; for every
one hath impulses bn the mind, either good or
dvil ; and there is ah’ influence on the mind, b6th
Vdod and dvil, to work upon the hearts or "men,
hfie V&y or the other; if it be good, tb ’influence
Digitized by G o o g l e
to M Q .d o good ; hqt if evil, to work up<m their
peart? to do evil: but this 13 not the visitation o f
thp Spirit of the Lord, wbereljyfyi? will is made
Ipaowp or revealed. No one can prophesy front
u ja t; yet men may be under the influence o f the
Spirit o f the Lord, to believe and rely Qj^to w°rds;
on tlpe other hand, tqey may bo u n aerjw infloc
epee of the devil, to be filled with unpejmpai^
inanpejr o f evil; and it is by this influence
g
rlfi/ if filled with ^.thpism, and the jf^r o f i c.
by w p . ;ThU X h a y e ^ m M
the sake of the Public, that they may know
£be difference between the impulse, or influence
.on the mind, and a visitation froth the Spirit o f
the Lord.
* There is also another enquiry made— how it is
I seal those that do not continue stedfast and im­
moveable in the cause, but destroy their seals,
and become opposers. Tins I shall answer as our
.Saviour answered the scribes o f old, when they
gpake unto him, saying, Tell us by what author-
ity |d$est thou these things ? or who is he that
gave thee this authority ? And he answered and
aaid unto them, l will also ask you one thing,
and answer me: The baptism of John was it from
^egveo, or o f man ? And in like manner ! answer
iph enquirers; and let them answer me, bow
loses came to be sent to deliver the children o f
Srael, that afterwards rebelled in the wilderness,
.^md were there destroyed? how opr Saviour came
' suffer one amongst .his disciples to come itj,
fterwards betrayed him ? Were these thing*
for want of knowledge in the Lord? Let
^/answered, and then I will answer the ques­
tion pqt.to me, bow I came to seal those that did
.jnpt in die faj,t,h they p ressed.— Jn like
answer another enquiry: How I pre-
tendtopgasess a power o f sealing persons as .
uoifGod and joint peirs w i$ Jesus Cppst. Thi^
♦
Digitized by Google
swer like the former: tell me, from the prophets
and the apostles, by what authority they did the
things which were commanded them, without cHs-
puting the wisdom ofhim that gave the commands,
or made an enquiry, why it should be done. Let
this be answered by them that Teprove, why all
these things were permitted and commanded to be
done. I am answered by theSpirit, but shall leave
them to explain it by their wisdom, who say there
is no occasion for any further revelation, or
knowledge of God, to explain the Scriptures, or
how they will be fulfilled.
Now I shall give the answer of the Spirit to
those who profess they are writing against the
visitation, pretending that they are doing it in,
seal for the honour and glory o f God, and the
good of mankind.
“ I have ordered thee to bring forward the
Scriptures in this book, to demand o f those who
despise Prophecies, and judge there is no occa­
sion for a further revelation, or knowledge o f
God, to explain them. The demand is made o f
such, for them to explain, what is the meaning,
and how they will be fulfilled; and let them know,
that no man can have a right faith o f his Creator,
or a right faith of the prophets, that tftfe word o f
God came to them, or aright faith of my Gospe^
that I came tofulfil them in the end; no man can
have a right faith •in the *Scriptures, without be­
lieving in the fulfilment, that they are spoken by
;the God of truth, whose words are Yea and A -
r5men. What I have said I will fulfil; and these
are the promises men must now look to, that I
'ordered thee to bfing forward. And let them
‘know my answer to their hypocrisy, that if it
was out of zeal to G od,' or for the good of man-
‘kind, their endeavours would be to convince men
o f the infidelity that is so fast increasing: for
these are the dangers that men are in ; bnt this
38
Digitized by b o o g i e
is not regarded by those who profess to come
forward out of love to God and condemn the vi­
sitation of my Spirit. Therefore I tell thee o f
such, they are like the Scribes and Pharisees o f
old, who strain at a gnat and sSvallpy -a cam el:
because they ban easily pass by the 'moc&tfts o f the
Scriptures and swallow the Blasphemy thdtfcomes
from them, without being wounded and g^^ced,
or try to pluck them as brands from the burning,
when they see them go on in infidelity; but this des­
truction in men does not awaken their conscience*
or feeling, to warn such men of the dangers they
are in ; but, when I come to warn by my Spirit»
that the Scriptures are true, that 1 shall fulfil
' them, and prove from, the truth of prophecies,
that there, is a God of knowledge and power, to
convince such men of their infidelity, who judge
all things came by chance; but to shew them there
is no chance, as they vainly suppose, that could
have given knowledge to thee o f what was hasten­
ing on, when no appearance was before thee ;
therefore, it is to convince men of the error o f
their ways, that I hold out this controversy with
’ mankind: for like fuel added to the fire is every
pamphlet that hath been printed against tbee,, |p
strengthen the fire o f unbelief and; infi^dj^y&r
naong mankind; and there is not one, that hath
\ published against thee, if I.bring them to the
Scriptures, and demand their answer, how men
can be brought to the knowledge o f the Lord,
_yithout the visitation of my. Spirit, to bring-
men to that knowledge and understanding; there
is not one who can answer his assertions, or prove
how it can be done. And, from Hann, 1 shall
condemn such men; because, like the Atheists,
\ he hath brought forward his arguments against
thy Writings,— Gome to his remark on thy Trial.’*
ivH aim says, “ A promise was claimed of the
jfed geo f all the earth, who, it is said, gave a
39
Digitized by b o o g i e
pftttttfse to tlte human mcei at thfc foil; but we
flhd was never faithful enough to fulfil it ”
“ Now-I ask thee where is the man who can
bring forward an observation stronger, to con­
demn the Scripture^, Or to condemn the unfaith­
fulness of God, than wbdt lie hath done in this
remark. Doth not the promise stand from the
beginning? Was the serpent’s head ever bruised*
which is the old serpent balled the devil, that ho
hath had no power over man ? Doth be not go
on deceiving the nations to this day ? But was
not the promise for the end? Was it made to be *
then fulfilled ? Did I not> bet the Sabbath, for
a sign, as a day of reel for man? Do wot
the six days stand as I have told thee o f the sin
thousand years? Did I not say in my Gospel the
days should be ishoitened? That m y faithfulness
and truth should be made manifest? And how
I have warned by my Spirit, that I have heghn and
WiH make an end, that 1 shall go on till my faith*
fulness and truth be fulfilled: nod is not my w a»- *
ing tioW mocked by him, asying, I shall never be
faithful enough to fulfil the promises I have made?
And now, from nil thfe Scriptures that I have or*
dered thee to bring forward, the. sa te unfaith­
fulness of their fulfilment will be pleaded W-men
like him; for like him will ;tbesr reasoning be; i f
G o v was ndcwfttitfyiil enmt&h 4* ftdjH the pro*
foists when 4Hty Wertettitd^ he newer will hefaith*
ftd enough to futfU thefoiw the end. Tbis will
the reasoning of such men, without coDasder*
mg, if the promises had- never been made, then
men had none to expeet| bat as it was m y dee
trees to fulfil them m the end, that mankind
might know pry- reign, when I take the great
power to tfcVifcHf. that they may know the Lo«b
and that 1 wgNf-^udge of man alone, what bods
without a wSfoefou These were my decrees for
the end; and ^ntrofopfr fiftim one agetoiauettafc
49
Digitized by C a O O ^ l C
U*ypromise* were made to t^ jo p p h et*; I,con­
firmed them in my gospel; ana toe fulfilmeti t1
inspired my Apostles with, that X should fulfil
them in the end ; and that; I should visit by my
Spirit* £o have men be Jookiflg for M
Jp, ^ cording
to my .Gospel, which I have told theejRqqld not
take place, according to the parables I s p o t e o f
the end* without a warning to be looking rotJM
ttv
coming. But marvel not that a man like Hm ^
would give no. answer concerning the Scjipturesj
because in so doiqg, he would nave condemned
9 himsielf;.for he must so clearly have discerned
these promises were not fulfilled, as he hath dis­
cerned the words I have spoken to thee o f the
end, and my promises to them that are, faithful
servants to enter into the joy o f their Lord, with
the promised blessing I have in store fop man.
This lie hath discerned is not yet fulfilled, so
that in one likeness both stand together: there­
fore m discerning tjie ope he mustbavecondemn-
* ed himself in the .other,; hut these promises, that
stand .fun record, they stand as. witnesses ji-
% gainst mankind, who profess to believe the Scrip-1
tures, and deny the visitation of my Spirit, to
, warn o ftheir fulfilment; and he that sa^s^h^yjfp
not be fulfilled must condemn th e.
Hann hath condemned thee, and say tlteproph^t*
^ were never visited by the L ord; and so in lik£
lft&mer must uw Gospel be condemned, as not
being true, withoutits fulfilment Now come to
gnotner o f bis remarks.” ; ;
r ^iHann says, “ I recollect indeed, that something
dkjfeasutid of Satan ; viz. that he knew he was cast,
therefore would come down in great wrath,
and stir up the .people to come against her. The
v # natural purport p f which words is, that a very
heavy persecution would immediately take place;
but it is very certain, that this prqphecy, lik6.
mosf o f the others, hath fallen to the ground,
41 '
Digitized by Google
the poor devil was never more belied than in this
one thing."—
“ I shall answer thee. Whether the devil be the
author oftheevil, working in the hearts o f men, or
whether the evil be in their own hearts, to be at
enmity against God, to reject the warning of my
Coming; from whence the persecution proceeds,
I now appeal to men’s consciences, whether the
persecution did not begin, and whether it hath
not went on ? Let them look to the books of
controversy ; let them look to the newspapers,
that have been filled with malicious lies ana envy,
as they could not justify theirselves with truth
to come against thee; let them' look to the false
inventions, that have been made through malice
in men; were the whole brought together, what
hath been the persecution by words, what ridicule
the'believers have met with, and what abuse they
have received, through believing in my. visitation
to thee; if all that have been published; and all
that have been spoken in malicious words and
persecution, that nave not been published; were
the whole brought together, they would see, that
that prophecy hath not failed. So, whether it
springs from men or devils, the persecution hath
went on, as I warned thee before that some would
be strongly convulsed for hell, and some for me j
which mean'ethf, the hearts of men being strongly
influenced by the devil, to set their hearts against
my com ing: and this hath been publickly snewn
by mankind ; their malice and envy, like the Jews
o f old; for in like manner they said I cast out
devils through Beelzebub, the chief of devils; so
hath been men’s saying in this present age, that
it is through the devil I have warned of the ful­
filment, This thou knowest is said by Hann,
that Satan would plead his own destruction if he
could deceive mankind that w ay; and this is his
forking in the minds of men; therefore it «•
45
Digitized by
known to thee and the believers, that great en­
t i t y and persecution have went on against thee,
while true believers, that are longing for my'com­
ing, have went on in love to m e : and this I warn*
,ed thee of before. Let the' words appear, from
the communication given in 1802, o f the five
years:—-
For those will fight that know-my name,
And those that do not know* nor fear,
' To fight for Satan they’ll appear;
And so you’ll find it is began,
And fast I say ’tis hastening on.
"When these wo'rds were given to thee, how
trifling was the shadow of any persecution ! But
let men discern how great it hath risen since; for
it is known unto thee and to all, it was then begun
“
by believers to search into the truth of what they
had heard, to know if thy visitatiou was from
the Lord; but let men discern, what spiritual
fight, contending with men, who were filled with
4ury a’gainst my visitation, hath increased and
went' on, as I warned thee: but the end is not
yet, of the perfect fulfilment of what I told thee
the end would be. But a strong likeness hath
went on, on both sides; and this is impossible for
any man to prove, that it hath not been true; for
out of his own mouth will I condemn him and
all thy accusers, that deny the truth of the W'ords;
and all the shadows went on in the years I set for
signs of what the end should be, to my enemies,
and my friends; and so they will find the end to
be. And let men discern what were the signs set
to your nation, what were the signs to believers,
what were the promises, and what were the
threatenings, that were placed in five years; then
they may know what the end will be, when I begin
to make an end in five years: but that is a time
which will not be known to man ; .because I have
told thee, that suddenly and unaware will the sub-
43
Digitized by b o o g i e
stance o f $1 thing* come. Yet believers may
discern, from the signs I placed in thee, in the
five years; this the wise will see and understand,
to draw some judgment, when the end drawetfi
near; but the wicked, that are hardened against
my kingdom of righteousness and peace, will not
see, nor understand, but be like Hann: for
though be hath heard of the persecution of others,
and hath joined in the persecution himself, yet he
hath affirmed there is no truth of the words, o f
any fulfilment in this persecution. Then now I
ask thee, how a man like him nan draw any judg­
ment frpim prophecies, or discern the progress
thereof, before suddeu destruction cometb u#
him? This sheweth you all what the §nd Wj
to those who are hardened through unbelief
this thy enemies are thy judges, and his owncojaf
duct is witness against himself. And now cptpf
to another of his sayings.” . < .[(
‘rt
., Hann saith, “ A zeal for Gpd and truth is a duty
enjoined all mem even by nature; and can. np
more be neglected with impunity, than the dutf$S
4$justice and mercy,” . ' ...
., “ From his words I shall answer thee. A zeal for
G od is neglected by him. What truth doth ho
support ? or what zeal for the honour and glory
o f Mod hath he opme forward to maintain ? what
afiripturew hath hebrought forward, to speak to the
honour and glory of God ? or what truths hath he
supported, from them, or from my gospel ? Is not
,a)l as a dead letter to him, that he owns he never
professed to understand ? Then if he doth not un­
derstand the scriptures, to prove the truth o f my
wprds from them, how shall a man like him name
.forth for the zeal of God, and the truth of iny
.words ? When 1 Remanded of him, thou knowest
b e ic<wld not answer me one word o f a thousand,
^ m e a n in g of my words delivered to the prophets;
qrwhat I re tire d from niy gospel for him to answgf.
44
Digitized by
jNoW,' a& he catftiot understand the one, liOWcanSt
fnan like him profess to have afiy understanding ih
the other ? Both alike are past his fin in g out; amt
therefore it is through hypocrisy, like ®e Scribds
and Pharisees o f old, that tie is come fhPjh^d with
a pretended tek1 for the honour o f God, Wvtfuth,
Wnose name he hath despised froili the begihMug,
to dishonour God in the fall, and free the Utkra<|f
o f evil, and cast the blame oh his Creator; there*
fore out o f his own mouth will I condemn him, as '
ievery duty that he says is incumbent on man is
heglected and despised by him. And discern
through his pamphlets, the false assertions he hath
made, and the manner he hath wrested words, that
the truth may not be seen. This sheweth the
World in its true colours, what art and subtlety
the devil Works round in men, to pretend a zeal
for God, through hypocrisy, when in their hearts
.they have none.*
And noWI shall answer formyself, concerningthe
signs put in Mr. Pomeroy’s hands, which Hann
says were Concerning my Father’s death, and were
i hOt fulfilled; and therefore he says 1 broke the
Vow that I made.
To this I answer, the Sign concerning my Father
‘was on conditions, and had nothing to do with
the promise I made. A communication was given
1 to me, at the beginning o f the year 1801, that if
ho one regarded tile warning, or searched out to
lcnow whether the Lord had spokenor not, the Lord
wo^ld begin hisjudgments, by threeyears faminein
‘thiS Utad, and then hewould take my father by death
before the 22d o f September; and then my sister,
/seeing the judgments begin, would meet me at my
f&thei’s grave, and be convinced that it was of
God. This was a sign if the Lord began by judg­
ments, to bring a famine in the land, which I put
in Mr. Jones’s hands,' the 10th of April, 1801.
Thus was the sign set upon conditions, if no one
4ft
Digitized by le
searched into the truth. The latter end of M ay
I received a letter from the Rev. Stanhope Bruce,
likewise from the Rev. Thomas Webster, and the
Rev. T. P. Foley, and from other gentlemen, to
enquire into the truth. At that time I was dis­
tressed for want of money to carry on my printing;
then the following signs were set before me, that
I should proceed, and not fear of assistance; those
friends, that had written to me, would assist me
to carry on the work; and they were the feathered
fowls, that had been shewn to me before in a
dream, that, as the birds were changed, so the men
were changed from them I had been writing to be­
fore ; and they were the men I had been warned of
before, that would come to Mr. Taylor’s, to enquire
into the truth; and for their sakes the Lord would
stop the rain in the time of harvest, and bring in
the promised blessings of three years plenty. These
were the signs given to me without any conditions,
but were to be fulfilled that year; and these were
the signs I called heaven ana earth to witness for
me or against me; to witness for me, if the signs
came true, that it was of G od ; but if they did not.
come true, to witness against me, if I persevered
any further.
Now these signs were all fulfilled; and these
were the given signs I put in Mr. Pomeroy’s
hands, with this promise, the beginning o fAugust,
and at that time there was an appearance of its
being a bad harvest, from the continued wet wea­
ther ; and I knew none but the Lord could change
the weather, and, work in the hearts o f people to
fulfil his words. ’
Two days after I had put these signs in Mr.
Pomeroy’s hand, the rain ceased; the latter end of *
August the other sign was fulfilled, of the Lord’s
working in the hearts of those friends that wrote,
to assist me; and aj the end o f the year they came .
46
Digitized by Google
to Mr. 't'aylor’s to enquire into every truth. So all
these signs were fulfilled, according to the words
that were spoken to me, which 1 called heaven and
earth to witness it was of God, if they were ful­
filled; and to which I wasanswered, “ If the signs
set before thee come true, heaven and earth ar«
witness for thee.”
To the above I am now answered— u It $vas a
yveakness o f thy own judgment to expect thy fa­
ther would die that year, without discerning the
words I had said to thee— I f I began with a famine
in the land. Here the conditions were fixed to
him. But now come to the other signs, that I told
thee without any conditions; and to them thy
promises were made, to persevere, as I directed thee,
if I fulfilled the signs according to my promise ;
therefore I told thee, heaven and earth were witness
for thee, if it came true. And now discern what
was the sign : it was for the heaven to stop its rain
in the time of harvest, which was a power belong­
ing to God only. This was a sign fulfilled by
heaven; and my working in the hearts of friends,
that were upon earth, fulfilled the other,signs: sat
that the.signs went deep of heaven and earth to
thee that year; and so in like manner have the
signs went on to thee. Know the signs I placed
abroad without conditions, and how they have
went on; know the signs I placed at home, o f
faithful friends to assist thee. Therefore my signs,
both in heaven and earth, have went on as wit­
nesses for thee; and to thy own solemn promise
and vow, that thou calledst heaven and earth to be
witness for, thou hast faithfully kept and obeyed,
in the midst o f all the persecutions thou hast
went through. So all men shall find I am thy
God, and tny guide, thy counsellor, and thy keep­
er, and the judge o f the truth of thy words; and
tfipu art a judge of the truth of mine; therefore
reflect no raorp op thy own folly, in the simplp
Digitized by
manner thou wrote thy letters, without explaining
clearly how the signs stood; because I tell thee,
in thy foolishness was my wisdom, to shew
mankind in what manner my Bible stands, that
men by my wisdom cannot find out; and, lika
thee, it must be explained by me. Therefore it
is I the Lord must explain these mysteries, as
thou hast explained concerning thy lather, and
the other signs; and therefore I ordered thee to
bring forward the communication of the five
vears. And let men answer, what they would
Judge o f believers, if they should'say the whole
was fulfilled in them, of the promise I had made
for the end ? I f men would condemn the one,
in like manner I condemn the other, who say my
Gospel is already fulfilled; which is as much im­
possible for men to prove, as it is impossible to
prove ray kingdom was established in righteous­
ness and peace, to fulfil the joy o f believer^ in
the five years when the signs were set: and, they
may as well prove this faith xoaogiven to all, that
was in a few, as prove my Spirit was poured out
upon all, in the day of Pentecost; for in one like­
ness both stand together. And let men look to
my Disciples.; what was their faith and joy in be­
lieving, to go through all the persecution they
met with, and to suffer death for my sake ? Was
it not for the joy set before them, o f -everlasting
happiness, that they should be rewarded with me
in glory ? What made the martyrs go through
all the fiery trials they met with, and give up their
Jives, to.be burnt for my sake ? All this-was done
through faith, strengthened and supported by my
Spirit; and their eye was to the end, that, like my
Disciples and all my faithful followers, they should
meet their reward in glory; therefore they loved
not their fives unto death, but gave them up to
the malice of men, knowing -the body must diet
but that their spirit should enjoy a glorious reward
4*
Digitized by Google
with me and ail my followers. In this they had
joy in believing; and so in like manner there was
joy in believing, that, as the other&jwere. redeemed
from the power of deatfy hell, arnffim that deatlji
could have no more dominion oye^mem, when
they had killed the body they could gWwlfnrther;
so in like manner was the faith in ben^vwii, who
relied upoii my promises, that I ami CQmmg^t.9
fulfil my gospel, and bring in the redei^pnoB^af
man; and then the power of death, hell, and su£
'will be swallowed up in victory to them. Here)
if men discerned aright, they would seein one like*
ness how the faith of both stand together; thy
one believing in my promises given to my discr-
ples at that time, that where I was they should
be also, to have their reward in glory; the other
believing in the fulfilment ofiny gospel, that my
coming drew near'to bring in the redemption of
man: and this was the faith that enabled them
to run the hazard of all persecution they might
meet with. But no more than men can prove my
kingdom was established in the five years when
my promises were made, of what the end should be
tS
6
' alllmmful believers, that were longing for my
coming/ no more can men prove my gospel was
fulfilled when I expired on the cross, because I
said it was finished. The meaning of my words
men do not understand— that I gave up my lift
according to the promise,to finish transgression,
and make an end of sin: but sin was not made an
end ofat that time; but I died to fulfil the one, that
I might come again in power to fulfil the last. This
men do not discern; neither do they understand
iriy1sayings, any more than they understand the
Sense and meaning of the communication I gave;
to thee, and have ordered it now to be brought
forward, to confound such-who boast of their
knowledge, saying, the scriptures are fulfilled, and
Vant no further revelation from the. Lord; ye$
' ■1
.**•■
■
■
■ * ' ■* : V -'rk
,49
/
l Digitized by Google
men can no taore prove the fulfilment o fmy gospel,
than they can prove the fulfilment of that promise;
ror both in one likeness stand together; and it is
the greatest folly men can be guilty of, to pre­
tend to plead, that the scriptures are fulfilled. It
only strengthens men in unbelief, as it would
Strengthen the unbelieving world now, if believers
•were to plead, that my kingdom of righteousness
and peace was established in them, that evil had
no more power over them, and that their redemp­
tion had already taken place ; that all was fulfilled
In them, that they were delivered from all the ef­
fects of sin and sorrow. Was this pleaded by be­
lievers, what would the unbelieving world say, to
fcfec them surrounded like other men with trials,
fciid temptations, and various distresses, still having
the storm to g o through? Would not their plead-
hiavthat they were freed from all, strengthen un-
b$»vf among mankind ? In tby heart thou an-
Severest, yes: now perfectly so I tell thee o f men
who plead my gospel is already fulfilled, and the
words of the prophets, that I said I should fulfiL
This pleading amongst men Strengthens in-
^Jfelity and unbelief amongst mank'nd; and,
to shew their folly, I have brought round thy
writings in this manner, which men Will find in
the end, that from one Spirit Came beth, hoWever
low and aimplomy wordsfilk^appCarto men; as
the meanness and pftuhheSsdf the language is de­
spised by them, without considering my gospel,
that it is to confound the wisdom of men, ana
their boasting of learning, thatl chased weak and
fbolish instruments to confound the wisdom o f
the world. But was my visitation to the learned^
then after the wisdom of the World, and their
boasting of learning, must all appear; because my
visitation to men, in every age of the world, is
according to the wisdom and language that is in
themselves; and according to the simpleness o f
tby language is my visitation to thee.”
5°
Digitized by L j O O q I c
Fiona the above communication I answer* that
It is fiotall the’ WiSdom o f the Vide add learned
ihCn, that could have brought round a commuhh
cation in this mariner* given in lb09, and now
explained, to shew in What manher the scriptures
stand, and the foHy of men to judge they aft
fulfilled.
And hour I shall Come to Hahn’s assertions, that
'there is no such thing as conditional propheCiCSi
In this he denies the scriptures throughout ; for
When the Lord Sent his prophets to warn the peo­
ple o f threatened judgments, because o f their sins*
there Were alWays conditions placed, if they
repented; for the Lord always dealt as a tender
father, that threatens because he is loath to puhish;
mid heareth for a While to try men if they WiH
repent. This we may find throughout the pro­
phets’: and so in like manner Conditions were fixed
f&t this natron. What use Would it be Of to Ward
fnCn to repent, if no offers o f mercy were held Out
on condition of tlieir repentance? But to Speak
o f the tender mercies and long-suffering or the
lo rd , not to enter hastily into Strict judgment
With men, before hs gives them SpaCe for report-
tace, as Hann hath done, By placing this aS muta-
bility ih the Lord, is speaking blasphemy against
his mercy and goodness. But fVoto the false
assertions, which Hann hath made in his p'adr-
phlets, and the manner he hath placed things
together, no man can draw any judginertt front
thy writings.
Yet he hath been the means o f bringing in many
true befievers, who saw his pamphlets were writtep
in malice; they, like the Bereans o f old, applied
for my Prophecies to judge for theirselves, know­
ing that no truth could come from ah enemy who
acted like the Jews of Old; when our Saviour a-
rose from the dead, they bribed the keepers to'
teH lies, because the truth should not be. known;
and they wanted to put Lazarus to death* that
k
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
Saviour’s miracle might, not be made known
Ifeathe had raised him from the dead; and in like
manner was their malice concerning the man that
was born blind; they would not suffer him to say he
received his sight by tlje pov^fer of God, but cast
him out of the synagogue ftfr his belief; ahd other
miracles that bur Saviour wrought which they
' ponld not deny, the Jews said they were wrought
by the Devil. So that where malice and envy are
strongly rooted in the hearts of men, no truth -can
be known from them. This I can prove from the
pamphlets printed against me. i -t .
, I, shall, here give Hann’s answer to the demand
made of him, wbeje he collected from my writings
wha^he said was to take place in 1810 and 181 h
pi? answer, ^as— “ I appeal to your own consci­
ence, whether it was not the judgment o f th$
M fevers.” , ;Now as Hann hath imposed, up-r
ow the pnb|ic, so in like manner another
hath imppsed upon the public, concerning th$
Sealed Letters, •saying, “ Providence has confert
red upon me the honour of breaking theSeals, inopy
der that the contents may he;madeknown which
he says was concealed, even to the person that
it. To this I answer, the contents; of the Sealed
Letters were put in print in 1803, whiph weifc nevep
concealed fropi the knowledge of a n y a n d likewise
What they signed to is put in public print. So no bo.
pour could be conferred upon him,to make known in
J810, what was published in 1803. .. - oi
The contents of this Book taken from Joanhn
Southcott’s mouth by me, '
, , A n n U n p e k w o o j ^
Witness, J a n e T o w n l e t ,
April 30. 1811.
Entered at Stationer’s Hall.
~ ; “ L O N D O N : — ;
printedby Galabin&Marchant, Ingram-Court; and soldby M. Jones* No. 5,
NewgateStreet; W .T oeer, Chapel-Place, Duke-Street, St. George’s Fields%
Also byW. SyMONDs.Gandy-Lane; andtheMiss Eyeleighs, St. SidwelTs*
Exeter ; Sa m u e l H ir s t , Leeds;J. M iddlbton, York j and J a Us s Light*
- Coventry Street, Stoufbridge, W
orcestershire. , / ,
{PRICE ONE SHILLING.}
Digitized
i by Google
