{"name":"Chrysal Or The Adventures Of A Guinea","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1783__an_adept___chrysal_or_the_adventures_of_a_guinea.pdf","mytitle":"Chrysal Or The Adventures Of A Guinea","mylang":"de"}
C H R Y S A L;
ts. .-.-»-Jl-t,v-M *e- ■
;.y, eft»»—
OR’ ^
T H E A D V E N T U R E S
O F
A G U I N E A .
WHEREIN ARE EXHIBITED
VIEWS OF SEVERAL STRIKING SCENES
WITH
CURIOUS AND INTERESTING ANECDOTES,
O F T H E
MOST NOTED PERSONS IN EVERY RANK OF LIFE,
•WHOSE H A N D S I T P A S S E D T H R O U G H ,
IN AMERICA, ENGLAND, HOLLAND,
GERMANY a n ,d PORTUGAL.
B Y /A N a A D E P T.
-----Hold the Mirror ^to^itureV
To ihew-Vice its own Image, Virtue its own Likened»
And the very Age and Body of the Times,
His Form and Preflure. S h Ak s p e a r f .
Q ui cavity ille fac'tf•
A N E W E D I T I O N .
. V O L . I.
LONDON:
PRIN TED FOR J. F. AND C. RIVINCTON ; G. ROBINiO.V;
T. CADfiLL J T. EVANS ; AND R. BALDW IN.
M DCC LXXXJ1I.
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
Digitized by Google
Prefixed to the Second Edition.
A D V E R T I S E M E N T
T
H E very favourable reception, which
the former edition of this work, mu­
tilated and imperfed as it was, met with
from the public, has encouraged the editor
to ufe every poflible means, for the reco­
very of the reft of the manufcripc.
Such an attempt was neceftarily tedious,
troublefome, and expenfive, in going to
all the cuftomers of the chandlers ihops,
where it was firft met with, prevailing upon
them to fearch cup-boards, holes, and cor­
ners, wherever they might pofiibly have
laid up any thing that was wrapped in it,
and purchafing the feraps which could be
found ; for fuch an enquiry made them
naturally imagine, that the papers were
of fome confiderable value, and of courfe
demand an extravagant price for them.
His own trouble and expence he thinks
well rewarded by the many moft curious
and interéfting parts of the work, which
he had the good fortune to recover -
, and
he hopes the public will excufe the una-
A 2 voidable
yGoogle
voidable delay of this impreifion, on the
fame account.
The parts thus recovered, he has in-
ferted in their proper places without any
oftentatious mark or note ; and tho’ they
amount to very near a third part of the
whole, as it now itands, and would have
been amply fufficient to have made another
volum e} to evince the fincerity of his
grateful defire to give pleafure to his
readers, and acquit himfclf of all fufpi-
cion of mercenary defign, he has added
them to this edition, without enhancing
the price.
He had flattered himfelf, that the can­
did account of the manner in which this
work came into his hands, which he pre­
fixed to the former edition, would have
obviated every infinuation of its being le­
velled at particular characters ; but every
puny critic was fo fond of (hewing his
fagacity, by finding out refemblances, and
fo zealous in fupport of his conjectures,
that the editor’s honeft intention was in a
great meafure difappointed.
The difingenuity and abfurdity of this
is evident! In painting a numberof faces,
tho’
iv , A D V E R T I S E M E N T .
Digitized by C j O O g l C
V
tho’ merely from the artift’s imagination,
if he defigns well, and imitates nature
with judgment, it is impofiible but many
features will have a likenefs to many per­
fons, whom he may have never feen or
thought of, as they are all drawn from the
fame prototype with theirs.
This is the reafon of the refemblance
between particular perfons; and asjuftly
might it be faid, that, wherever this ap­
pears, the parties muft be brothers, as that
in a general defcription of nature, every
feature that happens to refemble any par­
ticular perfon, was drawn from him.
Between thefe accidental refemblances
of nature, and the defigned ones of art,
there is always this difference, that the lat­
ter bear in every part, whereas the others
hit only upon one or two particular fea­
tures. Thus H o g a r t h , or H o n e * fhall
take off fuch a likenefs, not only of the
features and fhape, but alfoof the air and
fentimental expreifion of the whole face
and perfon, that the nicefteye fhall not
find the lead difference, between the work
of the pencil, and that of the hand of na­
ture ; whereas there never was fuch a re>-
femblance in any two inftances of the lat­
ter*
A D V E R S I S E M E N T .
yGoogle
ter, that there was not fome difference,
that immediately and efientially diftin-
guiihed them from each other.
This, invariably juft, obfervation will
to every candid mind, vindicate this work
from the moft diftant imputation of aim­
. ing at particular characters as in the re-
femblances, which have been moil: confi­
dently alledged, there are many features
fo utterly unlike, many differences fo ef­
fentially irreconcileable with the fancied
originals, that the injuftice of fuch a
charge muff inftantly appear.
There is alfo another proof of this per­
formance’s being a work of mere imagin­
ation, which will fcarce be diiputed by
thofe who may not attend to the force
o f this reafoning, juft and conclufive, as it
is i which is, that it was publiihed a con-
fiderable time, before many of the events,
which it feems moft particularly to de-
fcribe, happenned j fuch for inftance,
as the attempt of the Dutch in India, the
forbidding to attempt influencing parlia­
mentary elections, and many others, which,
the judicious reader muft be fenfible,
there was not the leaft reafon to direCt the
moft diftant expectation of.
M(ir(h i, 176*.
vi A D V E R T I S E M E N T . .
yGoogle
T O T H E
R I G H T H O N O U R A B L E
W I L L I A M P I T T , E s q j
' & c. & c. & c.
S I R , .
H E Publiiherof thefe papers is fen-
fiblc, that .the time devoted to the
care of nations is too valuable to be fpared
to the perufal of them, yet he ihould think
himfclf guilty of a breach of the general
gratitude, which, at this time, fwells every
honeft heart, in B
r
i
t
a
i
n,if he omitte
lay at your feet a work, in which every
occaiion o f difplaying the blefiings of a
good adminiftration appears to have been
fought with pleafure, and dwelt upon with
judgment.
The genius of my author was evidently
fo averfe to adulation, that it would be
doing him the fevered injuftice, to join any
thing to his work, which even envy could
pofiibly pervert to fuch a motive, by in-
finuating, that the pi&ures he draws, in
many places, of national good conduct, and
A 4 the
Digitized by Google
viii D E D I C A T I O N ,
the happy efFefls of it, are a panegyric on
prefent, not a reprefentation of imaginary
fcenes.
A fenfe of this precludes me from the
pleafure of illuftrating his remarks with
particular inftancesj but, in return for that
painful felf denial, I mud be indulged in a
profefiion of the joy, with which I (as mull
every Briton whofe heart feels for his coun­
try) congratulate myfelf, on my happy fate
in living under an adminiftration in which
the flights of imagination of a vifionary
reclufe, dead fo many years ago, may be
taken for a relation of the real events o f
the prefent times.
Here my addrefs to Mr. Pitt muft
flop ! But nothing can ever flop my pray­
ers to Heaven for the prefervation and
happinefs of a life, on whofe labours, the
welfare, not only of this mighty empire,
but alfo of the greater part of Europe, do
now fo eminently depend.
A
April 20, 1760.
yGoogle
P R E F A C E
TO THE
F I R S T E D I T I O N ,
BY THE PUBLI SHER.
T
O acquit myfelf of the fufpicion
of prefuming to aim at particu­
lar characters in the following work,
fliould any fancied likenefs, be thought to
direCt an application; as well as to do
juftice to the real author of it ; I think
it my duty to make known the manner
by which it happened to come into my
hands.
. As I was walking one morning, lail
fummer, along Whitechapel, I was ob­
liged to take fljelter from a ihower of
rain in a cottage near the turnpike. The
family were at breakfaft, at their tea,
and, as the rain continued, I had lei-
fure to reflect on the advantages of com­
merce, which thus, in a manner, joins
the oppofite extremities of the earth, by
bringing their products together; at the
fame time, that the variety in the equi­
page of the tea-table, or indeed, ftoof,
on which ‘ there was nothing of a piece/
A 5 fug-
Digitized by C j O O g l e
x P r e f a c e .
fuggefted a juft ridicule on the vanity of
luxury.
This Iaft reflection was extended to all
the purfuits of man, on the fight of a piece
of written paper, that ferved inftead of a
plate to hold their butter,— ‘ Who knows
* (thought I) but the writer of this be­
* (lowed time and care upon it, and pro­
* mifed himfelf both profit and fame, in
‘ reward of his labour ?’
This thought raifed a curiofity to look
at the paper, which; by this time, was
fcraped quite clean. 1 therefore, after a
few words of converfation, to introduce my
requeft, defired leave to lee it, which was
readily granted; when I was furprized to
find my conjecture, as I imagined, confirm­
ed, by its appearing to be part of fome re­
gular work.
\
Curiofity had now a ftronger m otive;.
than idle gratification! I aiked where they
had got that paper and on their telling
me, at the chandler’s (hop next door,
though this difcouraged me a good deal, I
refolved to purfue my enquiry, and went to
the (hop, as if for fome fnuff, which as I
expefted,
yGoogle
XI
expelled, was given me on a piece of the
fame paper.
The rain ltill giving me a pretence for
delaying there, I entered into difcourfe
with the woman, and among other idle
queftions, afked her where lhe ufually got
paper to wrap her wares in, to which lhe an­
swered, * Sometimes from the public of­
* fices, and fometimes from the bookfellers
* and printers ? and, when lhe was difap-
* pointed at thofe places, lhe was forced to
* buy brown paper, which was much dear­
* er; though, at prefent, lhe made ufe o f
* fome old fluff that had lain a great while
< lumbering her garret, having belonged
* to a lodger of her mother’s, who died
* many years ago.’
I then changed the difcourfe, for fear lhe
Ihould perceive my defign j but prefently
feeing her going to tear more, for fomebo-
dy elfe that came in, I could not forbear
any longer, but offered her brown paper
for all the written paper lhe had, as that
was moft proper for fome work I defigned,
which lhe readily agreed to, and fold me
her whole ftock for eighteen-pence.
P R E F A C E.
This
yGoogle
This adventure put an end to my walk,
fo I took the firft coach that went by, and
hurried home to examine my purchafe,
■ which I found to confift of a number of
fragments, upon various fubje&s, whether
originally left unfinilhed, or torn thus in
the chandler’s ihop, it was impoflible to
fay : and, among the reft, the following
work, which feemed to have undergone a
different, though not much better fate,
being blotted in many places, often para­
graphs, and fometimes whole pages being
erafed j and, what was worft, this havoc
was made in the moft curious and enter­
taining part of the whole, the
the nature and agency offpirits.
The oddity of this colledtion, made me
refolve to try. if I could learn any thing of
the author, from the woman of the ihop,
where I had made my purchafe j accord­
ingly, 1 called upon her one evening, as
if merely accident, and fending for a
pint of wine, to fet her tongue a going, I
no fooner hinted my defire, than ihe di-
re£Uy gave me the following account,
which 1 ihall repeat as nearly as pofiible, in
her own words, ihortening it only of exple­
tive exclamations and repetitions.
Xii P R E F A C E .
* M y
yGoogle
« My father (faid Ihe) dying young, and
* leaving his family but poorly, my mo*
‘ ther took this Ihop to help her to bring
* up three children, of whom I, the eldeft,
* was but five years old. The times be­
* ing hard, ihe was obliged to make every
* honeft ihift, and therefore took in lodg-
* ers, and, among the reft, an elderly man
* who rented the garret to deep in, and a
* little turret in the garden, which he fit-
< ted up for himfelf for a workihop: but
* what bufinefs he followed ihe neverknew,
* as he let no-body fee him at work; nor
‘ did ihe trouble herfelf to enquire, as he
* always paid her punctually: butiheima-
* gined he was a imith of tome fort, from
« the quantities of charcoal he burned, and
* the conftant blowing of his bellows.
* In this place he fpent all his time, oP­
* ten not quitting it for whole days and
* nights together, till hunger has forced
* him to crawl like aftarved rat out of his
* hole, to get a bit of victuals.
* A t firft my mother was uneafy at this,
* and imagining he muft be of ,
f or troubled in confcience, ihe fpoke about
* him to a worthy gentleman, a clergyman,
‘ that
P R E F A C E . xiii
yGoogle
* that lived in the neighbourhood; but he
* coming to fee him at a time when he had
c a clean ihirt on, and had eat his viduals,
* and flept regularly for fome time before,
* his difcourfe was fo fenfible and pleafant,
* that the doctor could not help telling him
‘ the caufe of his vifit, as a joke at my
c mother, to whom he faid, when he was
* going away, that, fo far from being mad,
* he believed her lodger was the beft fcho-
* lar in the whole parilh.
‘ M y mother’s good nature had like to
* have loft her her lodger, for, as foon as
* the doflor was gone, he gave her warn­
* ing, but upon her promiling never to be
.* guilty of the like indifcretion again, nor
* to trouble herfelf any farther about him,
* than juft to give him what he ftiould call
* for, he confented to ftay.
* From that time he lived among us as
* unnoticed as he could defire, following
* his bufinefs without difturbance from any
* one, nor appearing to give himfelf the
* leaft trouble about that of any other per­
* fon living, except it was me, whom he
* taught to read, and faid he would make
* his heir. An unhappy heirihip, I am
* fure, for me •, for it hindered my marry-
‘ ing
xiv P R E F A C E .
yGoogle
ing Jack Twift the rope-maker, who is
the toppingeftman in all ,
and then offered to take me in my fhift.
* But there’s no help for that now!
Luck is all ! to be fure we thought he
mufl be fome extraordinary man, for he
never wanted money, and then we ufed
to hear him talking to himfelf fometimes,
as if all the world was his own, of build-,
ing c
o
l
l
e
g
e
s
, and c
h
u
r
c
h
e
s
, and , an
altering St. Paul's, and I do not know
what great things j and, one day in par­
ticular, I remember he faid, before us alf,
that before feven years, he would hire,
an army, that fhould drive the Pope and
the Devil (Lord blefs us) out of Rome j
for to be fure, he would talk before us,
as if we could not hear him, as we would
alfo do any thing before him, as freely
as if he was a cat or a dog ! W ell, as I
was faying, it was no wonder, to be fure,
that fuch ignorant poor folks as we,
fhould think much of him, efpecially af­
ter what the doftor faid, and accordingly
built great hopes upon his promifes.
* He went on thus for near twenty years,
no foul ever coming near him, nor he
going out, above once or twice in a year,
. ‘ and
P R E F A C E .
yGoogle
xvi P R E F A C E .
c and then not ftaying above an hour or
* two at a time.
* A t length his health began to break
* very much, which made my mother of-
c ten fpeak to him, not to work fo hard,
* for,he had been with us fo long, and
' was fo quiet, and paid fo honeftly, that
* we all loved him as if he was our father.
* But her advice was all to no purpofej
* he ftill went on, bidding her not trouble
* herfelf, nor be afraid about him. But
« this did not fatisfy her; and one day,
* when he had been locked up, from the
« morning before, without having any vic­
* tuals or going to bed, (he refolved to
* break through his orders and call him to
* dinner.
* When ihe came to the turret, which
* he called his laboratory,
Ihe tapped
* ly at the door; but receiving no anfwer,
* nor hearing any noife within, ihe was fo
* frighted, that ihe called me, to fetch the
* kitchen poker, with which we made a
* ihift to force it open, when we found the
* poor man ftretched at his length upon the
* floor, to all appearance dead *.
* See Vol. II. Page 299.
* This
yGoogle
* This (hocked us greatly; but we did
not alarm the neighbours, as we imagin­
ed there were things of value there, that
might be mifplaced, or taken away in
the confufion : we therefore raifed him
upourfelves, and after a little while, per­
ceiving figns of life, carried him in, and
laid him in our own bed, and, pouring
fome drops into his mouth and nofe, at
length brought him to himfelf; when his
firft care was to enquire for the key of
the turret, and whether any one elfe had
been there, nor any thing in it ftirred :
our anfwers fatisfying him, he feemed
quite eafy, and in a little time recovered,
to all appearance as well as ever.
* From this time, he changed his way of
life a good deal; and though he was
much in the turret, which we obferved
he ever after called his , and not his
laboratory, he never fat up whole nights
in it, as before, nor bought any more
charcoal, nor even oil for his lamp, but
went to bed orderly when we did.
* But this change came too late; for
about fix months after, we found him
one morning dead in his bed; though he
‘ had
P R E F A C E . xvii
yGoogle
* had been as cheary in the evening before,
* as he had for a long time.
* This was a great furprize and concern
‘ to us! But what avails grief? W e mult
* all die, and he was a very old man. As
* foon as we were certain that he was dead,
* the firft thing my mother and I did, was
* to go to the turret, impatient enough to
' take pofiefiion of our heirihipj where,
5 Lord help our poor heads ! did we find
1 only a few great old books, and thofe pa­
* persyougotj the very bellows and tools,
c and pots that we faw there before, being
c all gone, and no more fign of a work­
* fhop to be feen, than if it was not the
* fame place we had been in fix months
* before. What he could have done with
* his things we could nôt imagine, for we
* never obferved him to carry them out,
* fo that we concluded he muft have burn­
* ed them. '
; * This was a fore difappointment to me,
, * not to mention the lofs to my mother, to
‘ whom he owed a quarter’s rent, befides
* an account of near twenty (hillings in thé
* (hop; and feven (hillings and two-pence
* half-penny was all the money iij his poc-
* ket*
xviii P R E F A C E .
yGoogle
XIX
* ket, nor did we ever find one penny more
* after him, tho’ we fearched clofe enough!
* —— W e ll! patience is a remedy for all
‘ things, but death ; we were forced to
* fubm it; though 1 cannot help grieving,
* when I think of it, to this day, efpeci-
‘ ally when l fee PeSprout, th
‘ woman’s daughter from Wapping, that
* Jack Twijl married out of defpair, when
* I refufed him, ride by, in her chaife, like
* a lady j and it is now thirty years ago!
-— No ! let me fee ! it will be exactly
* twenty-nine years come next
* I am fure I have reafon to remember it
1 well, for my poor mother took it fo to
* heart, that ihe never held up her head
* after, till it finifhed her, in about nine
c years j tho’ I cannot fay but fomething
c elfe might have helped, for file took cru­
* elly to drinking drams, tho’ as Ihe began
* it, to comfort her for this misfortune, it
* was all owing to that; that poor After
* Bet, too.’- —
I was obliged to interrupt her here, by
aiking her, what kind of a perfon he was,
or Ihe would have gone on to give me
the hiftory of her whole family, to which
(he anfwered thus: * What fort of a man ?
* I’ll
P R E F A C E .
yGoogle
XX P R E F A C E .
I’ll tell you then, for I think I fee him
before my eyes, this minute. He was a
tall thin man, above fix feet high, and
no thicker than a watchman’s ftaff, as I
may fay; then his conftant leaning over
his work bent his long back like a bow,
efpecially as he had no belly to keep it
up, for he lived almoft upon nothing,
fo that, when he walked, the length o f
his legs, and his great (loop, made him
look as if he had no body at all. As for
his face, it was as long as my arm, and
not broader than the edge of my hand;
his eyes were funk half a foot into his
head, and always covered with fpeita-
cles: his nol'e was hooked over his
mouth, as his chin turned up an handful
to meet that: and the conftant toafting,
over the charcoal, had ihriveled up his
ikin, fo that his whole face looked as
if it was coveered with fcorched parch­
ment.— His drefs (for I never knew him
have but one) was a black coat, with lit­
tle buttons all over it: which being made
for him while he ftood upright, now that
he (looped fo much, hung down to his
ancles : a broad leather belt, that kept
his coat about him ; a cloak, which he
hung upon his (houlders,but was fo worn,
* that
yGoogle
XXI
* that it Ihewed his fkeleton through every
* part of i t ; and an old high-crowned hat.
* In Ihort, he had fo little of the appearance
* o f a creature of this world, in his looks
* or drefs, or whenever he went out in
* the day- time, the mob all gathered about
* him, and hooted him home, juft as the
* little birds do an ow l: and fome of our
* wicked neighbours, when any accident
* has happened, have often threatened to
* take him up, and dip him for a witch,
* tho’ I am perfuaded that was nothing but
‘ wickednefs and malice, and that he knew
* no more harm than a baby.’
M y curiofity being thus fatisfied as to
the author, there was but one thing more
that I defired to know, and that was, how
thofe papers came to have fo many blots
made in them, which, by the difference of
the ink, I could fee was done long iince
the firft writing ? T o which ftie anfwered,
that, fome time after the old man’s death,
her mother let his apartment to one that
called himfelf a clergyman, and was a great
fcholar, and ufed to make almanacs, and
other books j that he had looked over thofe
papers, and, ihe believed, taken out fuch
as he liked, and done what he pleafed with
the reft, for they fet no regard on them
and
P R E F A C E .
yGoogle
and particularly ihe remembered to have
heard him fay, that he would make fome-
thing ofone of them; but ihe believed he
found it would not do, for he foon after
left their houfe, and, joining with thofe
methodifts that were juft then come up,
went away with them, preaching about
the country.
I thought it but reafonable to reward the
good woman’s expence of breath, with
half a crown, and fo took my leave, though
with a fecret refolution to give her half
the profit, if there arifes any, from the fale
o f the books; not thinking that fitch a
purchafe, as I had made from an ignorant
woman, could give me a juft title to the
whole beirjhip,as ihe called it, that had
coft her fo dear, as the lofs of her old
fweetheart Jack Twiji.
This good woman’s account explained
to me, in fome meafure, the nature of this
work, for the circurriftances of the author
who, I could fee, had been a fchemer, who
had wafted his whole fortune, in the fearch
after the pbilofopber’s J
l
o
n
, and ha
eyes at length opened tq his folly, though
too late to remedy it, yet was able to di­
vert
xxii P R E F A C E .
yGoogle
XXIH
vert the grief of his difappointment, by
writing thefe papers, in ridicule of fuch no­
tions, and from the fale of which he might
alfo expeft fome relief to his wants.
How juft this expeftation might have
been then, it is now very hard to fay, in
their prefent mutilated condition; or what
could have moved any man to make fuch
havoc in them j without it was, that the
orthodoxy of the clergyman was offended
at the author’s notions, which he wanted
judgment to fee, were only a delicate ri­
dicule o f thofe wild, idle dreams which
fome men, who call themfelves philofo-
phers, have thought proper gravely to ob­
trude upon the world, as learning and
knowledge.
But, whatever the motive was, the lofs
is now irreparable, and has reduced the
work to the appearance of a novel or ro­
mance, almoft the whole philofophical part
having been erafed ; for, as to the perfonaf
application of any thing in it, to the pre­
fent times, the leaft attention to this ac­
count of the author will Ihew the abfurdity
and injuftice of fuch an attem pt; as it was
wrote fo long ago, and by a perfon fo little
acquainted
P R E F A C E .
yGoogle
acquainted with the world, that all the
(lories in it muit neceflarily be the mere
creatures of imagination.
For the manner in which they are pub-
liihed, I (hall only fay, that it is ftri&ly
agreeable to the faith o f the text; not one
of the many alterations and interpolations,
which were in another hand, being given j
but wherever I could not clearly make out
the very words of the author, I honeftly
omitted the whole, not thinking it allow­
able or juft, to palm my own words or
fentiments upon the world, or the credit
o f another.
How fcrupulous I have been, in this
point, will appear to any one, who (hall
take the pains of confulting the original
manufeript, which (hall be depofited in
the public library of one of the univerfities,.
as foon as the work is.printed : The only
liberty I have taken, being in a few notes
in the margin, and fupplying a connection,
where it was broken by any of the above-
mentioned accidents.
xxiv P R E F A C E .
yGoogle
C O N T E N T S of V o l . I.
B O O K t h e F i r s t .
C H A P I.
- H E apparition o f C hrysal to an adept, in
the very moment o f projection. H is account
o f himfelfy and the caufe o f his appearing to the
author. . Page I
C H A P . II.
C hrysal gives an account o f the perfon who dug
up his body in the mine. The particular manner
o f his acquiring the knowledge o f his life, with
an explanation o f the nature o f memory and con-
feioufnefs. . 6
C H A P . III.
The hifory o f T raffic. H is father's advice to
him ; containing fome general obfervations on the
nature and end o f trade 5 with rules to enfurefu c -
cefs in it. IO
C H A P . IV.
# # A
The hifory o f T raffic continued: H is father's
death. H e continues in trade, and turns fchemer.
V ol. L a H is
yGoogle
His variousfehemes endin bis ruin. The rife and
progrefs qfbis pajjion for A melia. The bofe
abufe of her confidence, by which he cheated her of
the greatejl part of herfortune* and afterwards
formed dijhonourable dejtgns againji herfelf 16
C H A P . V.
Continued: He cheats A melia of the refidue of
herfortune, and marries another woman. Ame­
lia fues him at law9 is cafl^ and goes for Ja-
MAICA. He is ruinedj andfollows her. 22
C H A P . VI.
Conclufson of the hijiory ¿/“T r a f f i c . He arrives
in Jamaica, where he learns that A m e l ia had
been taken by the Spaniards. He turns buccanier,
and ravages the Spaniih coajls, where hefinds
A m e l i a , fu fi as he is going to feize her, he
is taken prifoner by her hufband. He is condemned
to die. Hefues to A m e l ia for mercy ; Jhe re­
jects him with abhorrence. His punijhment is
changedfrom death to the mines. 27
C H A P . VII.
C hrysal-purfucs the hijiory of his adventures. He
explainsJome difficulties in his own nature. He ¡S
offered at confejjion to a priefi. The confcjfion and
creed of a native Pe r u v i a n . The penance en­
joined him by a Jefuit. 35
C H A P . VIII.
The holy father9
s tendernefs to another penitent,
who baa ravijh:d> murdered, and robbed his own
brother's
xx vi C O N T E N T S .
yGoogle
CONTENTS, xxvii
brother's w ife H e accepts the fpnls as a recom-
pence to the church. H e hints a method o f pre~
venting the danger o f his brother's rcfentment%
and difmijfes him with ghojily advice. 41
C H A P . IX.
The father's rage on hearing that his penitent had
jecreted fome o f the jewels. The officer is purfued
by his brother to the convent, whither he flies fo r
fanftuary. H is reception from thefather, and the
terms o f their reconciliation. The father fends
away the judge in afrig ht. The officer is received
into the Jociety. . 46
C H A P . X.
C hrysAL changer his fervice, and embarks fo r
Europe in an Engliih man o f war. The caufe
and manner o f his coming that way. The occur­
rences o f his paffiage. On his arrival in England
he is fent by h ismaßer to fettle fome miflakes in the
voyage. 52
C H A P . XI.
The good conftquences o f a right underflanding be­
tween certain perjons. C hrysai.'s reflections on
bis firfl feeing the public offices in London. H is
mafler vifits a gentleman, who, in the vehemence
o f his rage againfl certain abufes, bits himfelf a
violent flap on theface. The neceffity of decency,
and the methods o f fupporting it, injlanctd in the
biflory o f a pretty fellow . 58
a 2 G H A P.
yGoogle
xxviii C O N T E N TS.
C H A P . XII.
Chrysal’j maßer gives bis frien d feme bints, that
‘ make him lower bis note.' An uncommon piece o f
generoßty returned more;politetly than could be ex-
pettedfrom the parties. An oddjlory o f an un­
'faftyienableß ew a rd . The fuccefs o f C hrysal’i ‘
mediation in favour o f his late maßer* 65
. C H A P. XIII.
C hrysal explains fome farther properties o f bis
nature. H e changes his appearance fo r the mode
of the country ; and enters into the fervice o f a
noble lord* The jagacity o f M r* Poundage, and
his addrefs in bufmefs*, 69
C H A P . XIV.
The hißory of Mr* Thomas Poundage. H is lord-
Jhip goes to bts appointment. An evening*s enter­
tainment in high life* C hrysal changes bis
Jervice: his reftttions on the ruling pafftons of
the times. 74
C H A P . X V.
The company reprefented in perfpettive* Set a beggar
on horfeback and hey
ll ride U the devil* A new
way o f parrying a dun, andpaying debts o f honour*
A commiffton brokerftung* A connoijfeur deceived
by his own judgment and eminent taßefo r virtu .
H ißory o f a noble breeches-maker* 78
C H A P .
yGoogle
CONTENTS. XXIX
C H A P . XVI.
The charaßer o f a Virtuoso. The hiflory o f an
horned cock ; w ithfeme curious philosophical
remarks on cornuted animals. * 91
C H A P . XVII.
M ore mortification to human vanity. A reafen fo r
fubm itting to be pillaged byJharpers. , IVhat's got
over the devil's back, is fpent under his belly.
F ilia l piety remarkably rewarded. 99
C H A P . XVIII.
C hrysal gives a farther account o f his late lord*
The methods by which he had been initiated in the
tnyfleries o f polite life. SomeJketches o f the cha­
raßer o f his next maße r f who gives him to an,
extraordinary perfen. 106
C H A P . XIX.
The hißory and charaßer 0/Chrysal,i new mafe
ter. H is adventures at a coffee- houfe. The fu n
o f a modern g en iu s retorted upon h im felf by
the grave rebuke o f ateßy veteran. 110
‘ C H A P . XX.
Some fu rther account o f C HrYsa 1/j maßer. H is
converfation and engagement w ith two bookfellers*
Some o f the fecrets o f the trade. C hrysal
changes his fervice. 116
a 3 B O O K
yGoogle
( XXX )
*
B O O K t h e S e c o n d .
C H A P . I.
C hrysal enters into thefervice of the gentleman o f
a general Gratitude in high and low life. The
modern way of rifmg in the world, and the happi-
nefs of depenaance. Influence of Chrysai/jmaf-
ter9with his curious manner offupporting it. 123
C H A P . II.
' The hijlory of M r. W illiam. Some oddcircum-
fiances in his conduit accountedfor. By a pro*
grejfton equally polite and frugal, Chrysal
comesfrom his pojjcfflon into that of a celebrated
female. 129
C H A P . III.
The manner in whifh C h r y s a l ’j new mijirefs re-
ceived and took care of her friend. How Jhe em-
ployed herfelfwhile he was aficep. Her manage­
ment of him next morning. 134
.
C H A P . IV. '
The hijlory and charalter of C hrysal’j mijirefs.
She gives him to a noted matron. Some account
of his new mijirefs, and her manner of managing
herfamily. 139
C H A P . V.
C hrysAl’j mijirefs pays a vif t to the la jlplace Jhr
could havs beenfujpeftedfor going to. She meets
a young lady, with whom, by an artifice, fhe goes
borne* Her fdernes to enfiare the lady. 143
C H A P .
yGoogle
C H A P . VI.
The hifiory o f the young lady. She is critically in­
terrupted by the arrival o f an unexpected p e r fon.
She is reconciled to her fa th er, who rewards the
woman o f the homfey and refolves to punijh the
bawd. 149
C H A P . VII.
The addrefs o f C hrysalV m firefs, and civility
o f a conftable. She arrives at the jufiice's, and
is fifted and foftened by his clerky and terrified
by his worjhip. C hRYSAL changes hisfervice.
*55
C H A P . VIII.
She is difcharged on proper hail. The labours o f
C hrysaiSs new majler, in the fervice o f the
public, with fome o f the various myfieries o f his
office. i 6z
C H A P. IX.
An highwayman, improperly taken, faves his life, by
lofmg his reafon. Judicialfagacity, eloquence
.triumphant over cemmon-fenfe, matter offaCl.
This myfiery explained. 168
C H A P. X.
A n injlance o f his worjhip'1 exemplary juftice on a
Jhop-lifter. The unfajhionable companion and ge­
nerafity o f a failor. difpute about fuperiority
o f Jkillj between his worjhip and his clerk, opens
. new myfieries in the profeffion. 175
C H A P . XI.
The breach happily made up by the arrived o f com­
pany. The evening concluded in character. ///j
worjhip
CONTENTS. axxi
yGoogle
CONTENTS.
worfhip goes next morning to hear a charity fermorr,
end from thence to eat a charity fiqfty where
C hrysal enters into a new fervice• Some ac­
count o f the nature o f a charityfe a ji. 180
C H A P . XII. .
A reprefentation o f the company. The hijiory o f one
o f the principal members. The modern method o f
bribing Heaven with the wages o f HelL 184
C H A P . XIII.
Continued: The hijiory o f a general almoner. H is
method o f making charity begin at home. H e con-
vet ts a noted bawd9 but difappoints his defigns%
by too great confidence in his own Jkill. The cha­
racter o f a clergyman. 191
C H A P . XIV.
Continued: The hijiory o f a bear-leader. H is me­
thod o f making his pupil*s majiers earn their mo­
ney. The general confequence o f clofe friendships
between the different J'exes. He modejily offers
his pupil*s mother a nut almoji too hard for her li-
quorijh tooth: but Jhe fw allows it whole, tofave
the trouble o f mumbling, and meets a ju ji return
fo r her untimely pajfion. 196
C H A P . XV.
Continued: Some reflexions that may appear imper­
tinent to many> and unprofitable to more, butftill
are neither improper nor unjuji. The hijiory of
an honeji attorney. More wonders ! The way of
the world reverfed: Right triumphant over might;
and gratitude Jhewn in high life. 206
. C H A P.
«xxii
yGoogle
C O N T E N T S . X X X I«
C H A P . XVI.
t .
Continued : The happyfru its o f unequal marriages.
A Jhort way to pay long debts. The pleafures o f
v polite life. A boldf ir oke o ffem ale genias trium+
phant over law and relrgiyp: an unlucky m ijlake
' brings on' improper vijitor into too genteel company.
a n
C H A P . X VII.
Continued: Confufion worfe confounded, rout on
ro u t: the transformation o f a conftable into a de­
v il introduces a Jlory o f the D ev il's dancing in
mafquerade, and frightens a polite ajfembly into a
fit o f devotion, w hich lajls an whole night w ith
mofi o f them. A glimpfe o f the courage o f a mo­
dern man o f honour. 220
• C H A P . XVIII.
Continued: M aternal tendernefs o fan uncommon kind•
Arnojl magnificent wedding difappointed,by an un­
happy inflam e o f fem ale fra ilty . A new method
o f calculating general opinion. An unlucky accident
changes a jcene o f joy into g rief, and affords an
ufeful caution to. old age and infirmity, to guide
their Jleps w ith proper care. A drawn battle.
A n inflam e o f fe ll revenge makes room fo r a
f ir anger, who reflores general harmony. 229
C H A P . XIX.
M ore happy fru its o f fem ale government. The h if-
tory o f an eminent patronefs o f the polite arts.
H er peculiar method o f fhewing a diflinguifhed
tqfle
yGoogle
VXxiv CONTENTS.
tajle andjudgment. An extraordinary charge in
a bill at an inn• 238
C H A P . XX.
A n irremidable defeat in human policy. The hijlory
. o f a moft eminent p eon a g e. A new way o f pay-
. mg the debts o f guardianjhip. A daughter's d if-
abedience in refuftng to comply w ith more than pa-
ternal love. The hero o f the tale extracts profit
from charityy and afferts the right o f agency, in
defiance o f public opinion and Jhame. * 245
C H A P . XXI.
The reprefentatioti concluded w ith an eminent man-
m idw ife. H is motivesfo r taking up that profeffion,
w ith fome unfortunate anecdotes o f his praflice.
253
C H A P . XXII.
Some account o f the officers o f the charity. Their care
- o f themjelves. They fa ll out about the divifion o f
the fp oil. A terrible uproar is appeafed by a de­
mand o f general concern• The concife manner o f
faffing public accountst C h r y sa l changes bts
■ fervice. 259
yGoogle
C H R Y S A L:
OR, THE ADVENTURES OF
«
A G U I N E A.
C H A P . 1.
The apparition ¿/Chrysal to an adept, in the
very moment o f projection. H is account o f
h im felf and the caufe o f his appearing to the
author.
O
N a day, when long and drift abftinence
had purified my body from every terrene
incumbrance, and intenfe contemplation
Wound upmy mind toan enthufiafmfitfor empyreal
converfation, as I flood with my eyes riveted
on the obfietiic flame, in ftrong expectation of
Vol. 1. B the
yGoogle
the birth of the myflic child, thefirjl born o fth i
mornings ready to feize the happy moment, when
the earthfufficiently impregnated with the water, af-
cendeth white andfplendenty that 1 might compound
the pure elements, before they fly from thefire, and
foferfeft the great work ; my eyes began to daz­
zle, and the power of imagination overwhelmed
my foul.---- -I faw a blue effulgence break from
the liquid gold, and play about the genial vafe !
‘—I was aftoniChed ! I thought it thefubjlantial
form of thefon of the fu n ! I thought the happy
moment was come, when the rofeofthe eajlJhould
bloom in the defert> and mine the favourite hand to
cultivate its growth! I indulged the- pleafing
thought! I melted in the virtuous joy ! and, in
obedience to the divine impulfe, I kneeled to re­
ceive the reward of all my labours, the radian
crown of wifdom and glory9 from the hand of na­
ture, with every fenfe and faculty fufpended, for
fear of interrupting the myfterious procefs*
As my foul hung in this extafy, the flame
Which wrapped thefacred birth in the bed of puri-
ficationy arofe with the glory too ftrong for mor­
tal fenfe, and filled the room. My fcnfes funk
under the preffure, and I was diffolved into a
trance, when a voice, celeftiaJJy harmonious, en­
couraged me to raife my eyes, and I beheld the
body of the effulgence condenfe into an incorporeal
fuhjlance in the form of a fpirity while a placid
ihade fofiened the fiercenefs of the radiance, and
. made it tolerable to human fenfe.
An holy horror curdled all my blopd ; but
the melody of the fame voice, which had be­
fore emboidened me to loc k up, re-affured my
fainting hear: with thefe words : 4 Son of pains
4 and votary of fcience ! thy unwearied perfeve-
, * ranee
» CHRYSALj OR, THE
yGoogle
* ranee has prevailed, and I am font to crown
** thee with the virgin rofe ! I am C h r y sa l %
* the fpirit of that incorruptible mafs now glow-
4 ing in that vafe before thee, who in reward
4 o f thy noble conftancy in offering this thy
4 laft mite, on the Ihrine of knowledge, am
4 come to reveal tor thee the myfterres of na-
4 ture, and fatisfy that raging thifft for wifdom
4 which has fo long excruciated thy foul, and
4 thus emaciated thy body ! And that thou
4 mayeft the better comprehend the greatnefs of
4 this honour vouchfafed unto thee, I ihall trace
4 the operations of nature through her moft fe-
4 cret receffes, and illuftrate the truth of what
4 I fay, by a detail of the various incidents
4 of my being, in my prtfent ftate, to prepare
4 thee for the reception and proper ufe of the
4 grandfecret) which I ihall afterwards comma?
4 nicate !
4 I can fee your thoughts; and will anfwer
4 every doubt which may arife in your mind at
4 the wonders of my relation, without the inter-
4 ruption of your enquiries, as aw fulftlenceis the
4 e£'ence o f my converfe, the leaft breach of which
4 puts an end to it for ever! liften then in mute
4 attention, nor let a breath difturb the myftic
4 tale !
*
■—
The works of nature are infinitely various,
and her methods of operation infcrutable to the
curiofity o f that vain intruder Reafon$ which
B 2 has
ADVENTURES 0 E A GUINEA. %
* This name is evidently derivedfromX p i d o v G o ld , and may
probably fignify G olden , from her animating a piece Of G o l d ;
or, by the univerfal authority of the occult philofophy, fpiritf
«re alwaysdenominated from their office.
yGoogle
has of late prefumed to pry into her ways, and to
doubt if not deny, the reality of al) effe&s, which
her ihort-fighted eye cannot trace to their caufes!
a preemption that has juftly ihortened the line
of human knowledge, and condenfed the mill
of ignorance which overfpreads the world ! Some
noble efforts though I fee the nature of man pre-
,paring to make, to recover that eminence of con-
jeftu re aud credulity which alone can merit fucli
a communication of extraordinary knowledge as
is now indulged to you. Some of the mod hidden
truths which I fhall here unfold, has unaffifted
geniusdifcovered already; and more (hall curious
penetration make learned guefTes at, even in this
fceptic age
Know then, that in the oeconomy of nature,
to eafe the trouble, and keep up the (late of its
great author f, a fubordination o fm in ijlerialfpirits
executes the fyjlem o f his government in a ll its de­
grees ; one o f whom, fo r the greater order and ex­
pedition^ is made to actuate every divided particle o f
matter in thisimmenfe univerfe. In this diftribu-
tion, that portion of gold was afligned to my
charge, upon its firft feeling the influence of the
\etherialfire o f the fu n , the general m inifier o f the
divine commands. This happened in P eru, where
that body of which I then became the fpirit, was
- torn
4 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
* Sec allthe modern hypothetical philofophy.
■f*Eflayon fpirit.
J Siris. '
- Would not thefe, and many other paflages of the fame
nature which fupport the fyftems of thofe celebrated works, al-
moft tempt u* to think, that the writers of them muft have
had acommunication with this orfome fuch fpirit, to come at
knowledge fo fupernatural.
yGoogle
torn from its peaceful bed two hundred fathoms
deep in the bowels of the earth.
I ihall not ddcribe my furprize, at my firft
plunging into thofe realms of darknefs, nor ihall
Ifatisfy the curiofity l fee rifing in you* whe­
ther that period was the beginning of my exif-
tance, or whether I was, either as a puniihment,
or reward for a pait, or a preparation for a future
life thrown into this. Thefe are myfleries not
yet difcovered,thoughoften moil learnedly guefled
at. All I (hall unfold to you are points already
known, or fuch as I fee ready to be found out by
human induftry, as it would put an end to learn­
ing to make a revelation of the obje£ts of its en­
quiries! Such matters, I fay, I (hall explain to
you, and farther relate fome occurrences, the
knowledge of which will be equally ufeful and
entertaining, which happened to the feveral per­
fons with whom I have had intercourfe, in the
various itages of my prefent (late.
And as you may be at a lofs, to know how I
could arrive at the knowledge of fuch fails,
many of which happened long before my con-
verfe with thofe perfons, I (hall inform you, that
befides that intuitive knowledge common to all
fpirits, we of fuperior orders, who animate this
univerfal monarch G old, have alfo a power of
entering into the hearts of the immediate poflef-
fors of our bodies, and there reading all the fecrets
of their lives. And this will explain to you the
caufe of that love of gold, which is fo remark­
able in all who poflefles any quantity of that me­
tal* * For the operation o f every material caufe is
B 3 in
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 9
* EflTay on Spirit.
yGoogle
in proportion to the firength o f the fpirit actuating*
that caufe > as theJirength o f the fp ir it is reciprocally
in proportion to the quantity o f his material body:
and confequently, when the mighty fpirit of *
Jarge m
afs of gold takes pofleflion of the humane
heart, it influences all its aitions, and over­
powers, or baniihes the weaker impulfeof thofe
immaterial, uneflential notions called virtues.
And this intuition, and power of tranfmigration^
I have thus explained, to remove every (hadow
of doubt ofwhat I (hall relate.
« CHRYSALs OR, THE:
C H A P . II.
C h r y sa l gives an account o f the perfon who dug
u f his body in the mine. The particular manner*
o f his acquiring the knowledge o f his life, w ith
an explanation o f the nature o fmemory and con*
feioufnefs,
T
H E firft objeft that ftruck me, when I
darted on the power of a fun-beam, into
thofe infernal regions where my body was juft
dug up, was the perfon into whofe hands it was
when 1 took pofleflion of it. <
Dark as the gloom of fuch a place muft be, a
melancholy, that doubled all the horrors of it, fafc
upon his brow. He gazed a moment on
in filent grief, and then groaned out thefe words
with
• Cbryfal muft here mean the G o ld which now became her
body ; as the does not fay that theappeared in the fpirit to any
one before the author. /
yGoogle
with a vehemence that feemed to burft his heart;
0 Damned, damned, pernicious, damning gold !
* how dearly do I purchafe this momentary pof-
* feflion of thee ! But let me acknowledge the
* juftice o f my fate ! I wiihed only for gold, and
4 now, this equivocal grant of that wiih, is the
4 juft punifhment of the folly, and the wick-
4 ednefs of it.’—
~Grief here choaked his utter­
ance! he could fay no more, but fobbed aloud,
while all the dreary cavern« echoed to his an-
guiih.
Curioiity prompted me to learn the caufe of
his diftrefs : I therefore immediately entered into
his heart, to read the events of his life, which I
doubted not but I ihould find deeply imprinted
there : But I was furprized to find that room in
it, which, I could plainly fee had been poffeffed
by the love of gold, fo filled with fenfe of pain,
with grief, and remorfe, that I could Scarce gain
admiffion.
Upon this I mounted into thefenfortum of his
brain, to learn from the fpirit of confcioufnefs,
which you call s e l f , the caufe of fo uncommon
a change, as it is contrary to the fundamental
rules of our order, even to give up an heart of;
Which we once get pofleffion.
I found the fpirit very bufy, though I thought
fomewhat odly employed : (he was running over
a number of niches, or impreflions, on the fibres
of the brain, fome of which I obferved (he re­
. jiewed Wrth fuch force, that ihe almoft effaced
others, which ihe paffed over untouched, though
interfperfed among them. The fight of me feem­
ed to fufpend her works a moment; but as if
that paufe was only to recover ftrength, ihe in*
ftantly renewed her labour with great afliduity.
B 4 I looked
ADVENT HRES OF A GUINEA. 7
yGoogle
I looked at her, my defire to know the meaning
of what ihe was doing, and to fignify thecaufe '
of my vifit, to which ihe returned me this anfwer
in a glance, that interrupted not her work.
(I fee you wonder, that 1 fpeak of this fpirit,
though the self of a man, as if it was a fe­
male ; but in this there is a myftery: every
fp irit is o f bothfexesy but asthe female is the wor­
thier with us, we take our denomination from
that.) .
You are furprifed {lookedJhe) to find me io
earneftly engaged in work which you do not
underftand$but in this work confijls my very ejfence.
This place where we are, is thefeat o f memory ; and
thefe traces^ which you fee me running over thusy
are the imprejjions made on the brain by a communi­
cation o f the tmprejjions made on the fenfes by exter­
nal obje&s,— — Theje fir jl impreyions are called
ideas, which are lodged in this refofttcry o f the
memory in thefe marks, by running which over, /
can raife the fame ideas, when 1 pleafcy which differ
from their fir jl appearance only in thisy thaty on their
returny they come with the familiarity o f a form er
acquaintance*.
How this communication though is made I
cannot fo well inform you ; whether it is by
the ofcillation o f the nervousfibreSy or by the opera­
tion o f a certain invifiblefluidy called animalfpiritSy
on the nerves; no more than I can explain to you
how my touching thefe marks, on this material
fubftance the brain, can raife ideas in the imma­
terial mind,and with the addition of acquaintance
befide ; for thefe are matters not yet fully fettled
among the learned.
° All
j ~ CHRYSALj OR, THE
* Seeall the modern philofophy.
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 9
All I know is, that the thing is agreed to befo
by fome, or other, or all of thefe means; and
that my whole employment, and end of being, is
to touch them over, and acknowledge their ac-'
quaintance thus; withoutmy doing which,a man
would no longer continue the fame perfon, for in
this acquaintance, which is called confcioufnefs,
does all perfonal indentity confift*.
As for the work, I am juft now particularly
engaged in, you muftknow, that this man whom
as I am hisfelf\ I ihall henceforth, for concife-
nefs and perfpicuity, call myfe/fi was once pof-
fefled of, or in power of pofleffing, every real
happinefs of life, till an infatiable defire of riches
hurried him into meafures which overturned all
that happinefs, and in the end plunged him into
this gulph of mifery.
The traces of that happinefs are thofe which
you fee me pafs over without renewing; by which
means he forgets that he was ever happy, except
fometimes, when the trace of any particular un-
happinefs comes fo near that of any inftance of
happinefs, as unavoidably to touch it ; which
touch,'by the renewal of the idea of fuch happi­
nefs, only aggravatesthe fenfe of the prefent want
of it. And thus / make memory either a blef-
fing or a curfe, according to the nature of the
trace which I renew.
I fee you are aftoniihed, how a perfon who
was ever happy, could poffibly fall into fuch mi­
fery as I am now in ; but I ihall remove that
aftoniftiment, by the hiftory of my life, in which
I Ihall accommodate my account of places and
things to the circumftances of my prefent ftate,
B 5 with-
• Lockc.
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
without regard to the universality of our Spiri­
tual nature : and call them by their names
among men, without the delay or trouble of
description.
10 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P . III.
T h eh iftory of T r a f f i c . H is fath er's advice U
him $ containing Jome general observations on the
nature and end o ftrade ;w ith rules to infure afu c-
cefs in it,
MY name is Traffic j I was the only fon of a
wealthy merchant in London, who bred me
to his own bufinefs. There was nothing remark­
able in my youth, except that the characteriftic
paffion of my heart, Shewed itfelf, in the very
dawn of reafon, in my eagernefs to ingrofs and
hoard up the bawbles of my play-mates, and the
far fetched Schemes, I laid to over-reach them
in all our little bargains. ^ ^
My father was at firft delighted with this
cunning, which his fondnefs took for the firft
eflays of a great genius; but, when he Saw me
perfift in it after I grew up, and attempt to prac­
tise the fame arts, in the courfe of my bufinefs, it
gave him Serious alarms for my future conduct;
for he had ever been averfe to thefe artifices which
are called the myjleries o f commerce, and owed his
fuccefs Solely to clofe application in the plain
way of a fair trader. 1
But this caution I looked upon with contempt,
as timidity and want of genius, and, undifcou-
raged by his conftant repulfes to all my bold
Jlrokes
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OP A GUI NTA. ir
ftrokes and deep fcheipes,which I was continually
iuggefting to him, I refolved, when I ihould be
at liberty, to indulge my own inclinations, to
ftrike out new ways, that ihould afford me op­
portunities of exerting my abilities in their full
ftrength,a id fhewing them in theirproper lufture.
The vanity which prompted avarice to form
thefe defigns, would.fooften break out in boafl­
ing, that my father was fully acquainted with
them; and, a fenfible decline in his health quick­
ening his apprehenfions for me, his tendernefa
would omit nothing which might ihew me my
error, in its proper light* and prevent my falling
into fo deftru&ive ways.
Calling me therefore into his clofet, one morn­
ing, he addreffed me in thefe words; words which
dear experience has now printed deeply on my
heart, though then they had no- weight with me,
‘ My fon (faid he) the day approaches faff,
4 when you will be in poffeffion of the fruits of
4 my honeft induftry. I leave you a good for­
* tune; and have the happinefs to be able to-
4 tell you* in this trying moment* that no wil-
4 ful private wrong, or public fraud, makes me
* wiih. it were, by one penny lefs.— As there-
4 fcire it was acquired in the fear of God, if not
4 abufed, it will wear with his blefling. Habit
4 had fo wedded me to my bufinefs, that I could
4 not leave it off myfelf; and 1 bred you to it,
4 to indulge, as I thought, the bent of your ge-
4 nius, and to prevent idlenefs from tempting
4 youth to folly— — But now, that dangerous
4 feafon is paft with you ; and the labour of my
4 life has taken away all neceflityof labour from
4 yours. Be wife then, my fon, and enjoy the
4 happinefs which Heaven offers you, without
4 tempting
y
Goo le
€ tempting a reverfe! You will have riches, more
4 than enough, for every natural want, for every
4 rational wiih ; and it will fweeten your enjoy-
4 ment of them,* and draw down the blefiings of
4 Heaven on your head, to employ the fuper-plus
4 in adls of private benevolence and public fpirit;
4 in which beft of employments, the abilities,
* with which you are fo liberally blefled, will
c find ample room for their exertion; and your
4 pious endeavours be rewarded with a fuccefs,
4 that will be an happinefs to your life, and an
* honour to your name.
4 As for the profeffion of a merchant, to which
4 you have been bred, Heaven points it out to
4 theinhabitantsof this country, by our fituation,'
* nor can any other be more advantageous to
4 it; but (till, even that advantage may be pur­
* fued too far, and the extreme of induftry may
4 fink into avarice, and fo difappoint its own
4 end.
4 For I muft tell you, my fon, that though
4 trade adds to the wealth, yet too eager a pur-
4 fuit of it, even with the greateft fuccefs, di­
c miniihes the ftrength of a nation. I am fen­
* Able, that this is againft received opinion ; but
‘ truth when properly difplayed, will force con-
‘ vidtion. .
‘ The real ftrength of a nation confift in the
* prevalence of diiinterefted fpirit, which, re-
4 gardlefs of ¡elf,\ throws its weight into the
4 public fund ; as may be proved by many ex-
4 amples of fmall poor ftates conquering large
4 wealthy ones. Whereas the lpirit of com­
4 merce centers all infelj\ difcouraging and de-
4 fpifing, as folly, every thought which does not
4 tend that way ; and fo breaking that unanimi-
‘ ty,
it CHRYSALs OR, THE
yGoogle
4 ty, which is the very effence of power, and '
4 only can give it fuccefs.— A reflexion this, my
4 fon, which observation confirms too ftrongly
4 at prefent, and which feems to overcaft the
4 profpeifc of this happy nation.
4 My advice therefore to you is, to retire
4 from bufinefs, though not to idlenefs. You
4 will have a fortune that will make you of con-
4 Sequence in the $ate, and give you Sufficient
4 employment in the conduit of it, without em-
4 barraffing your mind with anxiety for more.
4 And, to enable you to follow this advice with
4 the greater eafe, I have fettled all my affairs,
4 and Shall leave you free from every entangle-
4 ment of life. This is the advite, the requeft
4 of a fond father, who defires compliance from
4 his dear fon, and would not force unwilling
4 obedience, by any adt of authority or com­
4 mand. But fhould the love of bufinefs have
4 taken fuch a hold of"your heart, as habit
4 gave it of mine, and not permit you to comply
4 with this requeft, take, my fon, the advice of
4 experience, and hold faft the clue it offers to
4 guide you through the labyrinths of trade, in
4 which the vivacity of your genius may, other-
4 wife, lofe its way. Nor are the rules, I ihall
4 hint to you, many to be remembered, or diffi-
4 cult to be obferved. '
Be juft myfony in all your dealings j wrong not
individuals ; nor defraudthe public.
4 Thefe are all the rules I recommend; but
4 in them is comprized more than, perhaps, ap-
4 pears at firft view. D o not, therefore, think
%them too obvious to have been neceifary to be
4 repeated! nor let the mention of them give
. 4 offence,
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. i|
yGoogle
4 offence, by any feeming implication of perfonaf
4 doubt. v ,
4 In the builnefs of a merchant thefe rules
4 comprehend a great extent of meaning, though
4 I ihall mention but a few inftances of it at
4 prefent.
4 As for the firft, every mifreprefentation to m if-
4 lead ignorance, or abufe credulity, every taking ad-
4 vantage by Juperior knowledge, is a wrong to the
4 partyfo deceived; as every artifice to evade the in -
4 tention o f the legiflature is afra u d againfi the pub*
4 lie, nay againfi yourfelf and every individual
4 who claims the benefits provided by the ordinances9
4 fo defeated o f their fupport.
4 This indeed is fo obvious that it were an
4 affront to reafon to infill on any proof of it*
4 The moft eager purfuer of illicit trade will
4 not vindicate a general indulgence of it ; and
4 if it is npt lawful for all, how can it be for
4 him $ or with what colour can he claim a pro*
4 fit, which he is confcious arifes only from de-
4 ceit, and from the benefit of thofe very law«
4 which he thus defeats ?
4 The temptations to this breach of honefty*
4 I own, are many and great, and fome of them
4 perhaps plaufible; particularly inthofebranches
4 of trade, which feem to bear a more than equal
4 (hare of the weight impofed for general ad-
4 vantage. But, in oppofition to this, it mufl
4 be confidered, that it is impoffible to provide
4 fo exa£Hy for a thing, of fo flu&uating a na-
4 ture as trade, that the balance ihall not in-
4 cline, in fome one inftance; and that it mull,
4 by the fame motion which oppreffes one, be
4 favourable to fome other; and fo preferve the
4 equi poife in tbe whole; and this obviates
4 the
*4 CHRYSAL* OR, THE
yGoogle
* the only fhadow of an argument, that can be
4 brought in defence of this too common prac-
* tice.
4 Aa for the former, ofavoiding private wrong*
c that is more difficult, and lefs defenfible, if
4 poflible, than even this. For where all the
4 powers of the mind are turned to make advan-
4 tage, it is very hard to refrain from taking it,
4 where we ought not, and bringing the great
4 bufinefa of life into common pra&ice, in its*
4 minuteft concerns.
4 The man, whofe foul is on the ftretch to*
4 take advantage, in a bargan for thoufands, on
4 the Exchange, will be apt perhaps infenfibly to
4 overlook an error that is not to his difadvan-
4 tage, in a tradefman’sbill, or to take no notice
4 of a guinea giveti inftead of a ihilling in
4 change at the tavern, though either is as great
4 difhonefty, as if he took them in a manner pu-
4 niihable with death by the laws : not to men«
4 tion the innumerable little inftances of temp«
4 tation to this kind of wrong, which occur in
4 every moment’s dealing. That we may avoid
4 temptation^ is one of the petitions of the divine
4 prayer, and never more neceflary to be offered
4 up than in thisprofeffion, whofe conftant prac-
4 tice opens innumerable inftances of it upon
4 us.
4 In a word, my fon, there are fo many and
4 ftrong arguments of this nature, to be given
4 againft all trade, that the general advantage
4 of the common-wealth alone can, in any way,
4 fupport it againft them. This therefore ibould
4 be written in the deepeft chara&ers, on the
4 heart of every merchant, that heJhould never let
4private interej^ tempt him to engage in any trade or
4Jcheme
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ij
yGoogle
€ fcheme that can interfere w ith the public interejlyor
1 isforbidden by the laws of his country. ■ ■ I (hall
* fay no more $ nor burthen your mind with
* farther advice. Obfervethis and be happy/
„ I was obliged to hear him ; but his words, at
that time, made no more impreffion on my mind,
than the.whiftling of the winds, nor in the lead:
altered my intentions ; though 1 feit no fcruple
in prominng obedience, the breach of which
could never be upbraided to me, as I could not
think of pra&ifing it, before his death fliould re­
move the only perfon who had fuch an autho­
rity*
i* CHRYSALs OR, THE
C H A P . "iV.
Tbehijtory o f T b affic continued : H is father's
death. H e continues in trade, andturns fchemer.
H is variousfcbemes end in bis ruin. The rife and
progrefs o f his pajjion fo r A m e l ia . The bafe
abufe o f her confidence, by which he cheated her o f
the greate/l part o f her fortune, and afterwards
form ed dijbonourable dejigns againjl herfelf.
TH E opportunities which I had long panted
for, arrived too foon : my father dying,
juft after I was of age, and leaving me poffefled
of wealth fufficient for me to exercife my talents
on, as I was not bleffed with prudence to take
his advice, and put it to its proper ufe, in rational
enjoyment.
I was immediately a man of confequence,
and that, not only in my own eyes. I made
' a figure
yGoogle
a figure upon Change; I figned among the foremoft
Jn the public fubfcriptions. But all this did not
fatisfy me. I fickened at the thought of having
an equal, not only in wealth, the darling obje£k
of my foul $but alfo in the reputation of acquiring
it by methods of my ownJlrik'tng out^ as I looked
upon the known courfe of bufinefs as too flow
for my advances, and too limited for my genius.
I therefore immediately became a Schemer,
and entered into every projedfc which my own
brain could invent, or artful impofition fuggeft
to me, blindly, wilfully giving up the ferenity
of an open mind, for the vain appearance of
rtiyfterious confequence and defign : and making
my fortune a prey toevery fharking projector who
flattered my vanity with promifes of fuccefs,
in the very attempts which had been his own
ruin.
The perplexity in which this infatuation foon
involved my affairs, far from opening my eyes,
only fet me upon deeper fchemes. Sporting upon
private adventures, taking in unwary confidence,
flinging the fair trader, by eluding the reftridtions
of law, were now too fmall a game for me : I
was entangled, and muft cut the Gordian knot by
fome bold ftroke.
I therefore threwoff all reftraint, and entered
into meafures the moft injurious to my country,
which was then engaged in a juft and extenfive
war. I infured the effedts of its enemies, and
of confequence gave them information how to
avoid its forces : l carried on their trade with other
countries: I fetpplied them with provifions from
ours ; and at length went fo far, as to lend^ and
procure them money to fupport the war againft our-
felves,
But
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, rf
yGoogle
But all mv fchemes met theirjuft fate. Thougfr
I could give their ihips information how to avoid*
©
ur fquadrons, yet they fell into the hands of
unjiationed privateers. My fubterfugcs for carry -
ingon their trade were feen through, and a flop­
put to them before I could receive the ftipulated-
profit. The {tores I bought for them were inter­
cepted byour fleets,,and* to conclude all, the tne-
'iny, by one ftretch of arbitrary power, refufed to
pay any debts, and appropriated thefunds provided”
for thatpurpofe to theprefent fupport of thewar.
T his finiihed my ruin: I had not only lent
them all my own fortune, but had alfo borrowed
much more to fupply them,on confidence in their
promifes, than l was now able to pay.
‘ In this fituation the advice of my father re­
turned full upon me, and aggravated my diftrefs^
But I had no time for refle&ion ; the horrors of
a jail flared me full in the face, which I had no
way to avoid but by flight,, the equivocalnefs of
my character having made every honeft man, who
was able to aifift me, afraid of being concerned^
with me.—
~I therefore immediately raifed all the
money I poflibly could, and embarked fecretly
,in a ihip of my own for "Jamaica ; Heaven, to
make itsjuftice the more fignal, ufing my blackeft
guilt as a chain to draw me to the vengeance I
deferved. #
1 muft flop here, and'look back, to give you an
accountof an affair,which the precipitancy ofmy
twin prevented my mentioning in its properorder*.
Much as fuch a complicated fcene as I have
defcribed, muft have taken up my time and en-
groffed my thoughts, I had ftill found leifure
for guilt of another nature, though ultimately
fpringing from the fame catife.
I have
«t CHRYSALi OR, THE
yGoogle
I hade told you, that my father had acquired
his own fortune by induftry y but as the greateft
induftry requires a foundation to work upon, his
had beeivailiftedby the perfon to whom he ferved
hisapprenticeihip, who knowing his abilities, and
confiding in his honefly, upon the decline of his
own health, eftabliftied him in partnerihip with
his only fon, whom he thought too young to con­
duit fo extenfive a bufinefs.
My father faithfully executed this great trufl^
and continued the partnerihip, till his obfervation
of my unfortunate difpofition determined him to
make me quit trade \ when it wa9diffolved, with­
out the leaft breach in that real friendihip which
had fo long fubfifted between them. Though-
I did not obey my father’s defire, yet my vanity
would not admit a thought of recommencing the
partnerihip, as it would have been but a curb
on my favouritefchemes, and have implied a want
of aififtance, which, in my own opinion, I was
far above. On the contrary, I rather declined
too clofe a connexion with him in bufinefs ; as
I feared he might have taken upon him to inter-
pofe his advice againft any thing, which his#**-
rowy fea rfu l temper might difapprove in mygreat
defigns; but as I kept up every other appearance
of regard, and even refpeit for him, this ihynefs
was not obferved, nor any coolnefs occafioned by
it, in the intercourfe of intimacy between us.
But for this conduit I had another motive,,
befides regard for him. He had an only daugh»
ter, enriched with every beauty and virtue that
could mark the favourite work of heaven: ihe
was about four years younger than me, which
difference of age had given me an opportunity
cf treating her with fuch a foudnefs, from hen
very
ADVENTURE'S OP A GUINEA, i*
y
C ■ [e
very infancy, as raifed a real love in her gratefuf
heart, as her beauties did the ftrottgeit one ie
was capable of feeling in mine. Our fathers
had feen this growing attachment, with the great-
eft pleafure, from the beginning, and encouraged
it between us, (our mothers both died in our in­
fancy) joining in the general opinion, that the
union which had always been between their fa­
milies would becompleated by the intermarriage
of their children : an opinion that was then my
pride, and feemed a pleafure to the youngAmelia*&
boneft heart that was above difguife.
But my father's death, before (he was of an
age to undertake the cares of fuch an awful ftate,
and a long illnefs of her father’s after, during
which her filial piety and love would not admit
a thought of any thing that (hould interfere with
her tender regard for him, prevented my happi-
nefs from being accompliihed, while there was
any obftacle that could hinder my evil genius
from defeating it.
At length, after languiihing five years, her
father died, without a moment’s more immedi­
ate warning, having been on the Exchange ihat
day as ufual.
In the tumult of this lofs, I was fent for; and
no will being found, for he unhappily had not
imagined his end fo near, nor made any fettle-
ment of his affairs, in the confidence of our
attachment, Amelia gave every thing into my
hands,andrequefted meto makeup all her father’s
accounts, and conclude her dealings, with the
world.
This happenedjuft as myfcheming had begun
to embarrafs my affairs. My heart therefore,
never proof to much temptation, yielded to fuch
an
lo CHRYSALi or, t h e
yGoogle
amopportunityof recovering the lofles ofmy folly
at her expence, by finking the greateft part ofher
fortune to my own ufe ; never confidering that
I might have the whole in a juft and honourable
way, enhanced with the greater bleffing of her-
felf.
T o accompliih this defign, and prepare her
for what was to follow, I pretended to Amelia,
that I found many difficulties in her father’s af­
fairs ; and having fecreted as much as I thought
proper, and could with fafety, and deftroyed
every memorial that might deted me, for all
which her unbounded confidence gave ample op­
portunity, I at length gave her in an account,
with the ftrongeft expreffions of concern, 4to
4 find that what I had long apprehended was
4 too true, and her father’s affairs in a very bad
4 fituation ; that I had however, with great dif­
* ficulty, got together fomethirig above ten thou-
4 fand pounds, and was convinced, that thi3per-
4 plexity in his affairs, was the occafion of his
4 long illnefs, and had not left him fpirit enough
4 to enquire into them and make a will.’
This reprefentation had the effeft I defigned;
Am elia's confidence in me would not admit a
thoughtof my deceiving her; as pride,too power­
ful in the pureft human heart, prevented her re­
vealing her circumftances to any one elfe, who
might have attempted to difprove what I faid ;
though indeed it was fcarce natural to fufpedt me
of a deceit, that according to the opinion which
•then prevailed concerning Am elia and me, could
•only affe<ft qiyfelf.
She therefore, with an appearance of fur-
prize rather than doubt, or even concern, acqui-
cfced, and figned a receipt in full, defiring me
to
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. %t
yGoogle
to deftroy all her father’s books and papers, at
they could be of no farther ufe to her.
This compleated my deiign beyond a poffibility
sif deteflion, and even raifed a new one againft
the.poor pittance I had left her, though it was
not quite a fourth part of what was really her
tight : for I had now thrown off all thoughts of
marriage with one fo fa r beneath me in fortune^
-looking upon it as a reproach to my wifdom and
icnowledge of the world, to make any bargain in
which I ihould not have the advantage: for
what I had fo bafely defrauded her of, I con-
iidered merely as an acquiiition of my fuperior
(kill in bufinefs, and absolutely my own, with­
out any manner of obligation to the perfon from
whom I had obtained it: not that I had loft my
defire fo* her perfon, (the only degree of love '
my heart was capable of feeling) but the ad­
vantage I had it now in my hopes to obtain over
her made me look upon her, as a fure prey to
my pleafure. '
S t CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P. V.
'Continued. H e cheats A melia o f the refidue o f
her fortune, and marries another woman. AME*
lia fues him at lawy is cafi, and goes fo r Ja­
maica. H e is ruined^ andfollows her.
TH O U G H my whole life was one con­
tinued fcene of villainy, yet in all,* there
was a gradation, a regular defcent from bad to
•worfe ; each fuccefsful crime opening new op­
portunities and fuggefting fchemes which never
entered into my thoughts before.
This
y
Goo %
TThrswas exa&ly my cafe with regard to Arne*
Hia. While (he was in pofleffion of her whote
fortune, the higheft wifh of my heart was to mar­
ry her ; but no fooner had an unhappy accident
given me an opportunity of defrauding her of far
the greateft part of it, than that refpeitful love
iifimediately funk into loofe defire, and my fuc-
cefs in my former fchemes againft her, let my
thoughts at work to accompliih the gratification
of this paffion, on my own bafe terms.
T o bring this defign to perfeflion, it was ne-
'Ceflary that I (hould get her fortune intirely into
my power ; which I accordingly formedSchemes
to accompliih without delay ; for the fuccefs of
my former attempt, fo far from fatisfying my
avarice, or railing any fenfe ofcompanion in my
breaft, for her wrongs, had made me look upon
herfelf, and all that belonged to her, as my pro­
perty, which I was as impatient to poffefs as if
it was detained from me by injuftice.
I therefore took occafion one day, when we
were alone together, to drop fome words of con­
cern, at Yny not having, immediately by me, a
fum of money to lay out on moft advantageous
terms, which had been that very morning pro-
pofed to me.
She diredUy took the hint, and faid, her little
fortune was Hill in her hands, in the fame bank
notes I had given her ; and if the ufe of it, for
any time could be of advantage to me, ihe
lhould feel a greater plealWe in my taking ir,
than in any profit ihe could make of if, any
other way. ^
This was juft what I wilhed ; and though I
could fcarce refrain from laughing, at the eafirrefs
with which ihe took the bait, I would not ac­
cept
ADVENTURES OR A GUINEA. *)
yGoogle
xept of her offer but with this reftridUon, that t
would confider whether the terms propofed to
me might not fuit her> and be more advantageous
than the intereft I could afford her if I ihould
make ufe of it myfelf. I faid this with an equi­
vocal fmile, which Ihe underftood as I would
have her, and immediately, with an affenting
bluih, put the notes into my hand, without re-
quiringa receipt,or any kind of acknowledgment
for them.
Having thus gained that which I reckoned
the better part of Amelia, and fure as I imagined,
of herfelf, when neceffity ihould humble her to
my defigns, as I had her whole means even of
fubfiftance in my power, I diredlly refolved to
clofe with an offer, fome time before made me
by a wealthy merchant, of a large fortune, with
his daughter, whom I accordingly married, a
few days after I had got poffeifion of Amelia's
money.
I ihall fpare myfelf the pain of any farther de-
fcription of my wife, than that ihe was the very
reverfe of Amelia, in foul and body; and my
marriage confequently as unhappy as I juftly
deferved.
But I comforted myfelf with hopes of happi-
nefs in the enjoyment of Amelia, whom I looked
upon as my own, and only deferred making my
bafe propofals to, till her refentment at my mar­
riage ihould cool, and I could devife fome plan
of privacy to elude the vigilance of my wife.
Not but I dreaded the firft emotions of her anger,
which I expeiled to break out inloud complaints.
But I was miftaken, in meafuring her foul thus
by my own. She fcorned to complain ; nor did
1 hear a word from her to interrupt the riot of
my
•4 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
iny wedding. A greatnefs of foul, fo far above
my comprehenfion, that 1 attributed it to fear of
giving offence to one, in whofe power (he muft
be fenfible (he was.
But, at the end of the month, I was awoke
from thofe dreams, by a meffage from her, de­
livered by a relation of her’s, to defire I fhould
pay in her money to him, for which he would
give me her receipt. As I was not prepared for
this, I believe it threw me into a confufion too
vifible; but I foon recovered prefence of mind
enough to anfwer, that* 1 could not but befur-
4 prized at fuch a demand, as Amelia muft be
4 fenfible, that I had paid her all the money of
4 her’s that was in my hands, for which I had
4 her difcharge in full/
The gentleman replied in aftoniihment, 4Her
4 difcharge, Sir ! that was when you fettled her
< affairs; but fhe fays, that ihe, fince then,
4 gave her whole fortune into your hands, to
4 lay out for her. And, Sir, my coufin is
4 known to be neither a fool or a liar $ though
4 I fear fhe has fuffered feverely for her ill-placed
4 confidence.’— 4 Perhaps fhe fays fo, Sir, (faid
4 I) but I know nothing of the matter, and am
4 not accountable for what fhe fays or you
4 think, Sir; and I fuppofe, if your coufin is
* not a fool, fhe has not given her money with-
4 out fomething to (hew for it. But you muft
4 excufe my talking any longeron fo idle a fub-
4 je£t; and fo, Sir, your fervant.’— — The mine
was now fprung, and I waited with impatience
for the event. As to her demand, I knew fhe
could never fupport ir, as there was no perfon
prefent when fhe gave me the notes $and I had
Y ol. I. C nego*
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, sj
yGoogle
*6 CHRYSALï OR, THE
negociated them in a manner, beyond all poiE-
bility of their being traced.
While I was hugging myfelf in this fecurity^
the friends of Amelia perfuaded her to bring a
bill in chancery againftme, in which tfie whole
affair was fet forth without any exaggeration.
But this I made light of. as I had my lawyer
ready, under whofe dire&ions I fwore fuch an
anfwer as fet her charge entirely afide.—-Elate
with this fuccefs, I thought this the time to
purfue my vi&ory, and wrote her a letter, in
which I attributed every thing of my conduct of
Jate, that might have furprized her, to love, and
defpair of obtaining her by any other method::
and offered her a fettlement above the demand
(he had made to me, if ike would confent to my
defires. This I wrote in fuch general terms,
that my letter could not be brought in «evidence
agaihft me, and the largenefs of the offer wa#
only to decoy herdnto a treaty, there being no*
thing farther from my thoughts than ever to
make her independent of my pleafure.
This infult only .added new fewel to her re«
fentment; and all the anfwer I received, was
by another bill; but this met the fame fate, by
the fame methods with the former.
After this, I heard no more of Amelia for fome
time : but what wa3 my aftoniihment, when l
was informed, that (he had fold off her jewels,
and other little effeds, and was gone to a rela­
tion of her’s who lived in Jamaica l This broke
all my defigns 5 and defpair of ever obtaining
her awoke my love, and aggravated my remorfe
for my ill ufage of her, almoft to madnefa.
From this time the hand of Heaven feemed t*
be upon me; every thing I had any concern in,
. mifcarried ;
yGoogle
mifcarried ; and, to haßen my ruin, my houfe
was a perfeft (Ink of riot and debauchery : my
wife, asflie had noCharms to excite defire, in a
manner, publickly purchafing the gratification
of her lufts at the rooft extravagant expence, and
living in a profufion that muft dcftroy even a
royal fottune.
Mine, great as it had been, funk under (a
many diflipations of all kinds ; and I had no re-
fource left as I faid before, but in precipitate
flight, which Heaven made my pafficn for Jmelia
«lire# to Jamaica, to markthe judice of its veil*
*
geance the more plainly*
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. *y
C H A P. VI.
*
Conclufion o f the hifiory o f T rAYFrc. H e arrives
in Jamaica, where he learns that A meXia had
been taken by the Spaniard*. H e tirns buccanier,
' and ravages the Spanifh wafts* where he finds
A m e l ia . Juft as he is going to ¡erze her, he is
taken prifoner by her hujband. H e is condemned
to die. H e fues to A m e l ia fo r mercy ; fix re­
jects him w ith abhorrence. H is punijhment is
changedfrom death to the miner.
IHad hitherto varniihed over my villanies with
hypocrify and drove to preferve fome ap­
pearance, at lead, of virtue. But this was a re­
straint no longer podible, nor indeed profitable
to me now, when my flight took oflF the veil,
and alarmed all mankind againd me; fo that
mine was really a date of war with all the
world*
C 2 On
' Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
On my arrival in Jamaica, I had the additicm
to my grief to find, that Amelia had been taken
in her palTage thither by a Spaniih privateer.
This drove me to defpair: I was wearied of
life; but refolved not to die unrevenged on thofe
who had thus, as I thought, robbed me of my
hopes ; never refle&ing on the improbability of
her hearkening to my Tuit.
Burning with this proje£t,l fitted out my ihip,
and manned her with a crew as defperate as my-
felf} refolving, though the war was at an end,
to purfue my revenge upon the Spaniards, on the
defencelefs coaft of their American dominions, ¡a
which my other paffions were urged to hafte, by
fear of my creditors, the news of my failing hav­
ing come to Jamaica almoft as foon as myfelf.
We therefore fet out upon our cruife, or rather
piracy, without delay, of which I {hall not raife
your horror with any further particulars, than
that we went dire&ly into the Spanijb M ain,
where we not only rifled all the ihips we met,
but alfo made defcents on the coafts, and ravaged
with a barbarity that was a reproach to human
nature.
The tumult and hurry of this life kept my
Spirits in an agitation, that gave a kind of refpite
to my griefj and the fpoil we made in our firft
enterprizes was fo great, as to awake hopes of
reftoring my affairs, fo as to enable me to rec­
tum to England with all the.credit wealth could
five.-*----And could J have known when to flop,
was foon rich even beyond my moil fanguine
hopes : but urged by avarice, and encouraged by
fuccefs, I dill went on headlong to m j fate,
which I met in an attempt upon a town, fome
way up inthe country, the convenience and plea-
iantneii
tS CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
fentnefs of whofe fituation had made it the refi-
dence of the richeft families in the whole pro­
vince : as its diftance from the coaft made them
live in a ftate of perfeft fecurity, without any
fortification or guard.
T o this place we dire£ted our march, one
evening, and arrived at it a little after midnight,
with an intention to furprize the inhabitants, and
return to our (hip with the fpoil, before the
country could rife to intercept us.
The firft part of our defign fucceedcd, and we
got pofleffion of the town without any refiftance ;
where we committed all the outrages, and roam­
ed about with the licentious careleflnefs of free­
booters under no command.
While every one thus prowled about for prey,
fate goaded me to an arbour in a garden, whi­
ther I followed the cries of women ! I was juft
jufhing in among them, inflamed with brutal
defire, when— what was my aftonilhment to fee
Amelia in the moft magnificent undrefs, throw­
ing heaps of gold and jewels into a vault that
opened by a trap door into the arbour ! I flood
motionlefs at the fight for fome moments, in dif-
truft of my fenfes, but two fuch obje&s as ihe
and her riches, foon awoke me from my trance,
and I advanced to take poflefiion of both, re-
folving not to difcover myfelf till a more proper
time; the ftrangenefs of my drefs, that was de-
figned to flrike horror, and the blood which,
from fcenesofcruelty and murderjuft committed,
Hill reeked upon my hands and face, making it
impoifible that ihe mould know me.
At the fight of me, the women all Ihrieked,
and Amelia, as 1advanced to lay hold on her, fell
into a fwoon. This embarraffed me greatly, as
C 3 1had
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. »»
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
I had notime to loofe; for our centinels juft’their
founded a retreat. However, I thought I would
wait a little, to fee if Ihe recovered, and ftoop-
ing to raife her, to give her air,. I received fuch?
a blow from behind, as deprived me of all fenfe
for feveral hours; when, on my recovering, I
found myfelf chained on the ground inadungeon.
I was fome time before I could believe my
fenfes,. or conceive where I was ; till the jailor
coming to fee if I was alive, gave me to under*
ftand, that my companions had gone offwithout
me, and left me in the hands of a nobleman*
who had himfelf knocked me down, as I was
E
' to commit a rape upon his- ladvr while
y in a fwoon ; and that I had been thrown«
into this dungeon, that if 1 recovered, I might
fuffer the punifhment due to the outrages we-
had committed both here, and in feveral other
places of their dominions.
I wanted no further information to (hew m
et*
the horrors of my fituation. I faw them all, and;
aggravated ad hundred fold* by the accufations
of my own confcience, that could now trace the
hand of Heaven in the [uftice of my puniih-
ment, which had thus overtaken me, in the pre­
fence, and on the account of Amelia. 1 wifiied*
for death, as my only relief, and determined to,
feek it : but, alas! my resolution failed me; and;
I feared to die. ^n this mifery I was dragged'
defore a magiftrate, who enumerating the crimes,
we had been guilty of, condemned me to imme­
diate death. ,
This fentence, fo much milder than my fears*
awoke an hopeof further mercy, to obtain which,
my evil genius fuggefted it to me, to apply to
Ameliayabfurdly flattering myfelfthatfome¡(parks,
of
*> ' CHRYSALi OR, THE
yGoogle
o f her love for me might yet remain alive, or at
Ifeaft, her goodnefs take delight in ihewing it-
felf fuperior to my ill-treatment. Bafe hope,
that met its juft reward !
I therefore waved attempting a defence of
other crimes, as I was confcious that I could not
make any, but aflerted my innocence, as to the
particular charge of a bafe defign upon Amelia,
at the time I was taken, adding, that 41 had the
* honour of being nearly related to that lady,
* and that, if I was indulged with a few words
* with her, in the prefence of all there, I hoped
4 I might be found to merit a mitigation of my
* fentence.V
On my mentioning the name of Amelia, I ob-
ferved one of the principal perfons in the court,
whom I foon understood to be her hufband,
kindle into rag& He did not however interrupt
fne; but as foon as I had concluded, he ftarted
up, and exclaimed'with the moft furious indig­
nation * Amelia, thy relation ! No more than
* angels are related to deviis, by fpringing from
* the fame Creator ! Her virtues are difhonour-
* ed by. the claim ! But (he fhall appear and dif-
*
■ prove the odious calumnly/— Saying which
Words, he initantly went for her, while an hol­
low murmur of furprize and deteftation made
the filence of the court the more dreadful, and
heightened the horrors of my fufpence.
But I waited not long : Amelia foon appeared,
led in by her hufband, and being feated by the
judge, * Where (faid (he, looking round with
the ferenity of confcious virtue) 4Where is
*' the perfon who fays he is related to me i* .
, The fight of her threw me into fuch a con-
ftidt of paffions, that without rcfle&ing where
C 4 I was,
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. St
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
I was, or how neceffary it might be for me to
raife her companion by fome moving addrefs, that
might foften the feverity of her refentment for
my former treatment of her, as well as allure he»
of my innocence of any bafe defign againft her
perfon, in the condition ihe was in when I was
taken, I could not forbear crying out in Englijh,
for I had fpoken before in Spanijby in which I
expreffed myfelf but badly, 4 O A m elia! haft
* thou then forgot me ?'
At the found of my voice ihe ftarted, and
looking earneftly at me for a moment, fell upon
her knees, and lifting her hands and eyes to
Heaven, ihe faid aloud in Spanijh, 4 O God,
4 how fignal is thyjuftice! Let me, let all the
4 world acknowledge and adore it !*— And then
riling and turning to her huiband, who {food in
amazement: 4 This, my lord, (faid ihe) this is
f the man of whom I have informed you : This
4 is that Traffic whofe bafe diihonefty obliged
4 me to leave my native country $ and fo, by
4 that providence which is able to turn the
4 greateft misfortune into a blefling, was made
4 thecaufe ofmy prefent happinefs with you. I
* abjure all kindred with him ; I defire he may
4 be examined as to my ftory; and if he can
4 vary in the leaft from what I have told you, let
4 me be condemned to the fevcreft puniihment,
4 but that of Haying longer in his fight, or ever
4 feeing his face more.’ #
On this (he withdrew, without deigning a
look at me : but her words had a proper effect
upon my heart, and I refolved to do her juftice.
I therefore prevented her hufband’s command,
and, in as few words as poflible, related the
black affair with the ftrideft truth. When
~ I had
3« CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
I had concluded, her lord declared, that I had
not only confirmed every thing (he had told
him, but alfo added many circumftances of my
own guilt, which (he had omitted, or perhaps
not known.
So complicated guilt feemed to require confi-
deration to find out proper puni(hment,fo I was
remanded to my dungeon, but without the lead
encouragement to hope. The next day I was
again brought into the court, where my former
fentence was changed into that of being broke
alive upon the wheel; and this feverity was
faid to be in juftice to Amelia.
When I had flood fome moments ftupined
with fear, the judge addrefled me again in thefe
words: 4 Thou haft heard, O wretched man,
4 the fentence due to thy crimes; but great as
4 they have been, mercy extends her hand to
4 thee. The virtues of the illuftrious Donna
4 Amelia over-balance thy guilt, and have pre-
4 vailed for a mitigation of thy punifhment, in
4 gratitude to that divine providencewhich made
4 thee the caufe of her coming among us.
4 Thou ihalt not die, becaufe we would not
4 kill thy foul, before thou haft had time to
4 repent of thy crimes; nor (halt thou fuffer
4 torture, that thy ilrength may not be impaired
4 for the labour to which thy life is doomed ;
4 for this is the laft day that thou (halt ever be-
4 hold the light of Heaven : Thou (halt im-
4 mediately defeend into the mines, there to
4 workout the refidue of thy unhappy days, in
4 raifing that gold for the ufe of others, the
4 infatiable defire o f which was the caufe of all
4 thy guilt. -
C 5 I would
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. M
yGoogle
I would have fpoken, in the agony of my fouT,.
to defire death $ but I was flopped by the judge,
who fternly faid, that to hear a word from me
would be an infult upon juftice. On his faying
which, I was hurried away to the mountains over
us, and precipitated into this gulph, where I
have now been near ■ ■
Juft as he faid this, I was obliged to fly away
to my body, which the unhappy Traffic had-
thrown from his hand, into the veflel in which
it was to be raifed from the mine.
The length of thisftory will make you won­
der, when I tell you, that the fpirit of Traffic
JheweA it to me in a moment, for no longer did
the gold remain in his poflfeiflon : and I am al­
ways obliged to attend my body whenever it
changes its mafter. But to underftand this, you
muft be informed, that we/pints do not diftinguijb
our exi/ience by time or a fucceffion o f parts, as men
d o; with us, there is nothing paß or to come, but
tv try thing is preftnt in one view , fo far as the na­
tural courfeof caufes and effe£ts is preferved free
from interruption by fuperiör power.
14 CHRYSALs OR, THE
C H A P ,
yGoogle
a d v e n t u r e s o f A G U IN EA 35
C H A P . VII.
C h r y s a l purfues the hiftoryofhis adventures. H e
explains Tome difficulties in his own nature. H e
is offered at a confeffton to a priejl. The tonfef-
fion and creed o fa native P e r u v i a n . The pe­
nance enjoined him by.a Jefuit..
T
H E R E iano^crifne, however black in its
own nature, that does not receive an ag­
gravation from hypocrify;, but the higheft exer­
tion of this vice is, when it makes a pretext of
the beft inftitutions, to promote the pra&ice of
the worft adtionsi O f this I have feen innume­
rable inftan<;es, in the adventures of my prefent
Rate y tho’ none fo flagrant as what 1 fhall now
relate.
You may imagine I felt pleafure at emerging
from that infernal abyfs into light. There was
nothing remarkable in the three or four firft
Rages I went through, my temporary owners be­
ing only the refiners and other tradefmen, who
purified me from mixtures of mineral drofs.
I fee you are defirous to know howl could pre­
fervc my identity, when melted down with large
quantities of the fame metal. B utvyoumuft<
know, that fpirits have a power o f expanding or
contrasting themfelves into what dimenjims they
pleafe \ and that their life is not confined to any par*
ticular parts, as the heart or head, as in man,
but is diffufed through their whole bodies, fo that any
part being feparated frem the rejli does not d ie ; *
yGoogle
but that portion o f fp irit which was in it, at the
time o ffuch feparation, ferves as a life fo r it, and
becomes a diflinft fp irit, to inform that diflinft body,
andfo on, ad infinitum * : for as it is agreed upon,
that bodies can be infinitely divided, upon the
fame principles,fpiritmuft alfo ; for it would be
moft abfurd and impious to deny of the fuperior
any perfection which we attribute to the inferior.
— The enlarging of my body, therefore, by the
addition of more matter or the leflening it by -
ever fo many divifions, makes no alteration in
my famenefs, fo long as my confcioufnefs re­
mains f : The former only increafing by energy, by
the acceffion o fJo much fp irit as informed the addi­
tional matter J ; fo r we fpirits embody ourfelves en­
tirely in commixtion, and refolve into one H; as the
latter feparates us again into diftinCl beings, to
animate our feparate bodies.
The firft abfolute owner to whom I belonged,
'was a native Peruvian, who had found means to
purloin a confiderable quantity of gold, part of
which I was, and who prefented me, as a peace­
offering to an ecclefiaftic at confeffion.
I fee you have a curiofity to know my fenti-»
ments on religious matters ; but I have told you
before, that I am not allowed to make revela­
tions. Sufficient on this head have been already
made toman, did not his preverfenefs diftort them
from their original perfpicuity and perfection.
As there was fomething in the tranfaCtions
which palled, when I was offered to this eccle-
ftaffic,
3* CHRYSALt OR, THE
• Eflayon Spirit,
•f*Locke.
$ Eflay onSpirit!
g Milton.
yGoogle
fiaftic, that may be new to you, I (hall repeat
fome particulars of them.
You muft have heard of the authority of the
clergy, in all the countries which profeis the re­
ligion of the Roman pontiffs and particularly thofe
under the Spanijh monarchy. O f all the feveral
orders which compofe this political hierarchy,
thofe who call themfelves t h e c o m p a n i o n s o f
t h e i r G o d *, have acquired the greateft
power. .
Though this title may appear profanely great
to you, yet they feem to fupport it by the (hare
which they afiume, in fome of his mod facred
prerogatives.
T o a reverend father, of this order, was I pre?
fented, on the feftival called Eajler. He was
feated in a retired chamber of his temple, in the
exercife of one of the fun£lions of the Deity
hearings and punijhingy orforgiveingftns^ according
to his fovereign pleafure. It is not poflible to
give you here an idea of the folemnity of this ce­
remony, in a country where all religion is eva­
porated into ihew. Be it fufficient to fay, that
the pageantry was fuch a mockery of the Deity,
as no other of his creatures but many would
dare to commit.----- The man who brought me
into this myfterious fane, advanced with fear and
trembling to the apparent Deity of the place, and,
kneeling before him, confeiTed himfelf guilty of
feveral heinous crimes, in the admtjjion of involuntary
thoughts and indulgence of the appetites o f nature,
contrary to the rules laid down for him by his
fpiritual guide----- But this will be bell explained
* by
* T h e Jefoitj call thcmfclve« Socii Je/u, the Companions o f
J e fw ,
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. jar
yGoogle
by inftances. The firft crime which’' the peni­
tent revealed, was having tailed asmorfel of flefli
on a day when it was prohibited^. The father,,
with a fevere frown, told him,,‘-That was a great
« fin,'which he muft atone for, by working two
« Jays for the church, without hire, and abftain-
« Jng from flefti, at the fame time, though it was
• generally allowed.*
He next confefled, that he had beaten a dog
belonging to a prieft, which had broke into his
hut, and eaten the pottage prepared for him, by
which means he had been obliged to go to deep
without his fupper. At this, the prieft knitting
his brow into tenfold aufterity, exclaimed, 4This
« is rebellion! rebellion againft your God ! Do
e you not know, that the dog of an ecclefiaflic
< is above the greateft (even white) layman
t much more a wicked native! you muft make
« amends!— you muft!— or*— — The tone and
gtfture with which he fpoke thefe words, fo ter*
rifted the trembling wretch, that he inftantly put
his hand into his bofom, and, pulling me out,
preferited me to make his peace. As foon as /
appeared the prieft*s features foftened, the tone
of his voice fell, and receiving me, with a gra­
cious fmile, c You have not faid (fays he) that
« the mailer of the dog was a jefuit! the crime,
4 therefore, though great, may be forgiven ! but
4 beware for the future, and remember, that
4 the world, and all in it, belongs to us ; and
4 that to be guilty ojf the leaft difobedience,
4 even in thought, is treafon, and deferves the
4 fevereft punifliment. Proceed! unburthen your
4 confcience ! I knowyour thoughts, but would
“ 4 have
)C CHRYSALs OR, THE£
yGoogle
* have you fpeak them, that I may prove your
* fincerity. Proceed ! I am in hade P
The penitent then went on— 4O father, be
4 merciful, and I will confefs all ! Returning
* from my labour one evening late, I found my
4 door fattened, and* no one anfwering when I
4 called, I burft it in, when behold, I faw father
4 Ignatius in the very a£
fc of carnality with my
4 beloved wife M ootaw ! I was amazed ! and
c though fear prevented my ftriking him, I could
4 not forbear thinking in my heart, that he who
€ does thofe things, can be no god, he mutt be
4 only m an; and I curfed him in the bitternefs
* of my foul; but he was drunk with wine, and
4 did not hear me/
4 Wretch! devil! heretic! (exclaimed thefa-
4 ther in a rage) thou intrude upon the pri-
4 vacy of a J e fu it! thou fay, he was but a man ?
4 thou think, he could not know thy very
4 thoughts, becaufehehad drank wine! auda-
4 cious flave! Art not thou, and thy wife his?
4 had he not a right to ufe his own ? was it not
4 an honour to thee, ungrateful wretch ? and
4 dareft thou to think a Jefuit is but a man ? But
4 it is enough, the inquifition (hall teach thee
4 faith and obedience ; the inquilitioh—’
At that tremendous word, the wretch, half*
dead with fear, fell at his feet, crying out,4O
4 father, O God, O King* forgive, forgive !
4 (and pulling out of his bofom the reft of his
1 gold) take this, O lord, from your poor flave,
4 and forgive.— Take this, which I got at the
4 peril of my life, and faved to buy the liberty
4 of my dear child, whom my matter took from
U me3 take it, and forgive) let her ftill beaflave;
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. &
yGoogle
4«
4 let me never fee her more ! But O the inquift-
4 tion ! O forgive, forgive !*
The pried, molified at the fight of the gold,
replied, 4 Thou knoweft my companion, but
4 thou abufeft it, and thy crimes are almoft too
4 great for mercy. In hope thou wilt amend,
4 and tranfgrefs fo no more, I will forgive thee
4 now: but thou muft be puniihed : Haft thou
4 no more gold?’----- c O, father no more, no
4 more ! and this I faved to redeem my dear
4 child : O let me get my child !----- 4W h a t!
4 infoltnt ! dofl thou prefume to capitulate ? Thou
4 ¡halt bepunijhed: Inßead o fgetting back thy daugh-
4 ter, thou foalt bring me thy fony whom Ifa w yef-
4 terday, when 1 bade thee come to confejjion. The
4 boy IbleJfedj andkijfed upon my k n e e ‘ O father,
4 father, take all the gold, and let my daughter
4 remain : But fparemy fon ; he is teo young,
4 O father, too young for thee *— 4 The inqut-
4fition !*-------- 4O take him father, take him,
4 take all but fpare me; I fly to bring my
4 child to thee; O fpare me from the inquifi-
4 tion !’— — 4*Tis well, be comforted; thyfinsjhall
4 beforgiven; perhaps, i f thou behavefl well, thy
4fon may alfo be reßored. 1 fea r thou haß fo r -
4 gotten thy Chrißian fa it h ; let me hear thee re-
4 peat thy creed.*— T h e man, fomewhat reaflured,
to hear that he ihould efcape the in<}uifition,and
comforted with the hope of having his fon re-
ftored, began thus— 4 I believe that God
4 made the world, and all things in it, for my
4 lords t h e J e s u i t s $and that I muft worfliip
4 him, by obeying them, and faying the prayers
4 they diredt me to the faints, and the bleffed
4 virgin, the mother of God, and above all,
£ to the great faint Ignatius Loyola, But
CHRY8AL: OR, THE
* i
*>°gl
0 if I difobey their commands in any thing, or
4 repine at their fervice, or think, that I muft
* obey the viceroy before them, I (hall be burned
* to death in the inquifition, here and the great
€ devil will burn me for ever, after I am dead.*—
* Well, fon, remember and practice thy creed, and
c thyftns Jhall be forgiven thee : Go and bring tha
€ boy when it is dark,*
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. 4*
C H A P . VIII.
The holyfather*s tendernefs to another penitent, whu
had ravijhed, murdered, and robbed his own bro
ther*s w ife. H e accepts the fpoils as a recompence
to the church. H e hints a method o f preventing
the danger o f his brother's refentmenty and dif-
miffes him with ghojlly advice,
T
HE feverity with which the Jefuit required
fatUfa&ion for the imaginary faults of the
poor Peruvian, may, perhaps, lead you to think,
that his zeal would be inexorable to real crimes;
but the following account will (hew you, that
it was no fuch thing, and that he looked upon
nothing as a crime, which was not detrimental
to the power, or temporal intereft, of his fociety.
— The next penitent who approached the mercy-
fea t, was a commander in the army. He ad­
vanced with a military intrepidity, and kneel­
ing down in form, 4 Father (faid he) 4 1 have
4 a long reckoning to make, and fome of the ar-
4 tides are rather heavy.’ 4My fon,’ (replied the
prieft) 4 you have had experience of the inr
* dulgencd
yGoogle
4 diligence of the church, and that no crime*
4 are too black for her mercy^on»proper peni—
4 tence. Proceed then, and open your ailments
* to your phyiiciannor fear the efficacy-of hi*
4 medicines.
4 You know then, father^ffaid the penitent);
4 that I have long burned with a paffion for the^
4 wife of my brother thejudge.. I t was the fub-
4 je£k of my laft confeffion/-----4 I remember
4 it right well* (replied the father/‘ and you-
€ may remember alio what ghoftly, yet com-
c fortable advice F gave you, to ftrive* againft
* and fupprefs it if you could/— '5True, father ;
1 but I told you then* that I knew it would
4 be in vain for me to drive, as I was re—
4 folvedto enjoy her, though at the hazard of
4 life’— 4 But, fon, did 1 not comfort you,
* by faying, that if you found it in vain to
4 drive and could not live without her, as
4 life was the greateft good in this world, it was
4 juft that you fhould preferve yours, by obtain-
4 ing what you was fo violently fet upon, but
4 always to be careful that you conduced matters*
4 fo, as not to give offence by your fuccefs’.......
4 Ah ! but, father, that was not in my power :
4 She was deaf to all my entreaties ; and that
4 threw me into fuch defpair, that,.not able to
4 wait any longer, I have, this very morning,,
4 had recourfe to force/— *That was really bad,
4 if itcould havebeen avoidedj.but as you would
4 not have forced her, if ihe would have com­
4 plied willingly, that alters the cafe very much
4 in your favour, and perhaps ihe put you to
4 that trouble, only to fave the appearance of
4 her ownvirtue, an
d if fo,jo u have both afled
.* right,
CHRYSALt OR, TH^
yGoogle
\
AD YEfîTtrR E& OP A OÜTNEA.
• right, and there is no harm done, provided the
4 affair is not difclofed/
c O, father that is the thing ; I was afraid of
4 that ; and as her huihand had always been a fa-
4 ther to me/ and all my future hopes depend*
4 ed on hinl* I fo greatly dreaded her telling him*
4 that, to prevent it, as foon as I had enjoyed
4 her, I cut her throat/ *
4 Murder, O fie ; it is an heinous crime z
4 blood calls for blood : your cafe is terrible/—
4' I feared fo, father : but 1depended on your
c tendernefs ; and I did not think it reafonable,.
4 that I ihould have all the pleafure of the crime,
4 and you only the trouble of forgiving, I firipped
4 her of theftjewels, which give me leave to offer
4 you/
4 You are a prudent man* my fdn; I thought
4 you would adt with diferetion* I accept the
4'jewels, as a peace offering to the holy churchy
4 for your fins y and as the value of them (in-.
4 deed they are coftly gems) proves the fincerity.
4 of your repentance, I (hall not hefitate to pro?
4 nounce your fins forgiven/
4 * For though adultery is a great fin, and’
4 in this cafe aggravated by rape and indeft, yet*
4 as you fay, it was not becaufe file was the
4 wife of another man, and elpcciall.y your bro-
4 ther, that you defire to enjoy her, but merely;
4 as (he was a beautifùl woman, therefore the'
4 adultery and inceftcome in but by accident \ and"
4 then as you raviihed her only becaufe ihe.
4 would not comply, the fin of the rape is cer-.
4 tainly her’fc, as I faid before, for if I force a
4 man to commit a crime, l am guilty of that
4 crime,
• See the cafuiftical D ivinity o f the J efuits>.throughout.
yGoogle
4 crime, and not he : And again, though mor—
4 der is a moil heinous iin, yet as you killed
4 her* not merely to indulge a murderous in«
4 tent* but to prevent her difcovering your hav—
4 ing forced her* and fo ruining you, the mien—
4 tion quite alters the nature of the fad, a n i
4 makes it but felf-prefervation, which is the
* firil law of nature. And lailly, As you tookt
* the jewels, not with a defign to rob her, but
* to offer them to the churchy and accordingly
4 have brought them* that conclufion fandines
4 the whole adion, and makes your peace with:
4 Heaven.
c For know, my fon, that crimes which re-
4 fped man only, as in your cafe, rape, adultery%
4 inceit, murder, and robbery, though bad in*
4 themfelves, *tis true, yet are a pleafure to the
4 church to forgive* to a faithful and penitenft
4 fon, who believes all_ her do&rineey and pays dut
4 obedience to her clergy, the vicegerents o f God on
4 earth, the receivers o f her revenues, and difpenfers
4 o f herfavours and vengeance; to whom all earthly
4 power is fubfervient, who are the kings o f kingsf
4 and lords o f the world.*— — This, my fon, is
4 the dodrine of our^holy church, as delivered
4 by the moil learned fathers of our order, in
4 the belief of which you will be fafe from all
4 the powers of hell: do what you will, while
4 you pay faith and obedience to the church, (he
4 will pardon all your fins.*..........>
When he had concluded his inftrudions, with
this pious exhortation, and fealed his abfolution
with a bleifing, the purified faint arofe, and faid*
4 Holy father, thou hall fet my foul at eafe*
4 with regard to hereafter, but ilill I fear for
5 this world, It unfortunately happened, that
4 1 wa&
4* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
* I was feen *nthe faft by a fervant who efcaped
* me, or I ihould have charmed her dlence
* too 5 and now I apprehend ihe will inform my
* brother.*— 4 This is unlucky, mod unlucky,
* (replied the pried) I know not what to advife:
* I am utterly at a lofs : if you ihould prevent
* her malice, and accufe her of the faft.*--—
* O , but father, the rape ; there may be ap­
* pearances of that, which would difprove my
* charge againd a woman.*— — — 4 Miftakeme
^ * pot my fon, I do not advife any fuch thing !
* Heaven forbid that I ihould advife to bear falfe
* witnefs againft an innocent life; I am utterly
* at a lofs.*— 4 Suppofe, father, I ihould dill
* drive to prevent my fears, by taking off*my
* brother, as I cannot find her : this is the only
4 way to make me eafy ; ha, father; is not
4 that anhappy thought? Iwiihedit had occurred
4 fooner, and then I fbor,J L-----'— 1 ‘
ADViB-NTURES OF A GUINEA. 4j
4 dead neither make nor receive difcoveries, and
* felf-prefervation will certainlyj udify any thing,
4 as I have faid before: but I mud not advife
4 you; your own genius is ready, and can im-
4 prove an hint; I mud know nothing, till the
4 affair is done : all I can fay is, that work un-
4 finiihed had better never have been begun.
* Adieu, my fon, my bleffing waits on all
4 your undertakings. But be fure to hold the
4 indulgent mercy of the church in grateful re-
4 membrance.*—
The officer went away, happy in having
lightened the burthen that was upon his confci-
ence, and big with the pious proje&of making
the murder of his brother the iird fruits of his re-
4 the one trouble,
generation
Digitized by Google
generation. He was the laft penitent of that
morning, and, as foon as he was gone, his |ho(U
ly dire&or retired to mortify his appetites in the
refe&ory of the convent.
4t CHRYSAL* OR, THE
C H A P . IX.
5H e father9s rage on hearing that bis penitent bad
fecreted fome o f thejewels. The officer is purfued
by bis brother to the convent, whether heflies for
Janfluary. H is reception from the father, and
the terms o f their reconciliation. The fatherfends
away thejudge tn a frig ht. The officer is received
into thefociety.
T
H E great value of the jewels, which the
officer had prefented to my matter, took
up fo much of his thoughts, that as foon as he
had finifhed his collation, he retired to his cell,
to mediate on the farther advantages he might
make of this affair.
While he was in this pleating employment,
another ecclefiaftic entered, to acquaint him with
the murder and robbery of the judge’s wife, and,
among other particulars of the ftory, faid, that
her crucifix, thought to be the richeft in lay pof-
feffion in all Peru, had been taken from her.-— -
4Thatcrucifix !’ (exclaimed my matter, ftarting,
for he knew it well, having long paid his devo­
tions to it, and now to be cheated thus of it,
when he thought it fo juflly his due, provoked
him almoft to madnefs.) ‘ That crucifix taken
c too*
yGoogle
«* too4 Damned ! murderous! deceitful villain J
** villain, on dll fides ! but I will be revenged 1*
The other prieft underftood notwhat he meant,
~and was juft going to enquire, when in rufhed
the captain, all aghaft, 4 O father! father (
1 ffaid he, as foon as he could fpeak) fanduary!
€ lan&uary ! my brother is at the gate, with all
* the officers of juftice — At this the father
^rin’d an infulting fmile, and beckoning to the
other prieft to withdraw, ‘ Wretch (laid he)
% thou facrtUgious wretch ! how could’ft thou
* dare to enter thefe holy walls, violated by thy
* guilt ? Did’ft thou not fear the fate of Ananias
4
1 and Sapphira /— — As thou did’ft deceive me,
* with thy feigned penitence, and haft ly’d to
4 the Lord, in concealing what thou had’ft moft
* juftly devoted to him ; I revoke the abfolution
* I gave thee, and will deliver thee too juftice,
* to receive the puniihment due to thy crimes,
* thefe holy walls afford no fan&uary to Jacri-
‘ lege r
The poor criminal flood confounded at re­
proaches, which he dared not interrupt, though
he could not comprehend the caufe or meaning
of them. At length, when the prieft had exclaim­
ed hhnfelf out of breath, the trembling wretch
replied, * O father! what can have kindled thy
* wrath againft me ? I have committed no crime,
4 iince thy abfolution purged my foul ! I was
4 only going towards my brother’s houfe, when
* I met him, and the iervant with him, with all
* the officers of juftice, in fearch of me, on
4 which I fled dired^ly to you for fan&uary.’
4 I grant no fan&uary to facrilege.’----- 4What
* facrilege, O f a t h e r — 4 The crucifix, de­
* ceitful wretch ! Where is thy fifter’s crucifix?
4 Haft
ADVENTURES UP A GUINE A. *7
yGoogle
* Haft thou not defrauded the church of her due?
* Did’ft thou not fay, that thou tookeft thy fif-
4 ter’s jewels, only to make a peace-offering
4 for thy fins, and then to fecret, thus, the moft
4 valuable part of them ! This is defrauding the
4 labourer o f bis hire ! This is defrauding the
4 church of her right, without making the pro-
4 per compensations ! And what can be greater
4 facrilege !*
Juft at thefe words, a knocking at the gate
awoke the penitent from bis amaze, and made
him apprehend that he had not a minute to lofej
he therefore, with the readied prefence of mind,
replied,— 4 The crucifix! father ! you aftonifti
4 me ! did I not give it to you ■■ -And then
putting his hand into his bofora, and pulling it
out with a look of furprize, he reached it to him«
— 4Forgive, O father, (faid he) the crime of in-
4 advertency ! I meant not to have kept it front
4 you, but only overlooked it, in my confufion !
4 accept it ! accept all I am mafter of, and fave
4 my life/
4 Son (replied the father, Softening his voice,
4 and taking the crucifix) I am glad thou waft
4 not intentionally guilty of fo unpardonable an
4 offence ! I believe, and accept thy excufe. Be
4 comforted, therefore, my fon, thy fins are for-
4 given/ 4 O but, father, the officers ofjuf-
4 tice/— — 4 What officers, what juftice dares
4 attempt to (hew her face within thefe walls ?
4 Thou art my penitent, I have abfolved thee,
4 and I will defend thee. Sit down, and com*
4 pofe thy fpirits, while I repel'this bold intru-
4 fion on the peace and privilege of thefe holy
4 walls/
Saving
CHRY8AL: OR, THE
yGoogle
Saying thus, the father went to the gate of
the convent, where flood the judge, displaying
the guilt of the fugitive to the holy fathers, to
engage them to refufe him fan&uary, and give
him up tojuftice. But my matter foon flopped
him, 4Ceafe (faid he, with a low voice, and
c down caft meditative look) difturb not the
4 peace of thefe holy walls. The man you feek
4 is my penitent. He has made fatisfa&ion to
4 the church, and reconciled himfelf to Heaven.
4 I come this moment from giving him the feal
4 of abfolution. Difturb not the raptures of
4 his foul, that is now joining with the angelic
4 choirs, in the hymns of joy raifed in heaven
4 for his repentance. Depart in peace/
4 How, father, (exclaimed the judge) can a
4 wretch, guilty of fuch crimes, fo foon have
4 made his peace ( He hasdec ived you, father ;
4 he has not told you half his guilt: rape, inceft,
4 adultery, and murder! can they be thus for-
4 given ? So eafy pardons but encourage vice/-—
4 And who art thou, prefumptuous man ! (re-
4 plied the father, raifing his voice, and putting
4 on an air of authority) and who art thou,
4 that da eft thus to call the power of God’s holy
4 church inqueftion? What faith, or rather
4 what herefy has taught thee this preemption?
4 Doft thou meafure the divine authority of our
4 unerring tribunal by the weak rules of thy
4 blind law ? Are not the keys of heaven ours ;
.4 and have we not the power to loofe as well as
4 bind ? but I fliall not argue more with thee
4 here\ there is a tribunal proper for fuch opinions
4 as thine; there try if thy knowledge of the
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 49
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
The fifft mention of herefy had iruck fecit a
terror into the heart of the poor judge, that he
was for fome momentsunable to reply» At l« ty
recolleairig Wmfelf a little, ‘ l fubmit, O father
‘ (laid he) lam no heretic ; I have no opmtom
* but what I learn from the holy church, wbefe
« power I acknowledge in all its divine pleni-
« aide.’— '‘ ’Tis well, (replied the peieft) ’ws
< ]] • depart in peace, and to triorrow I will
« yjfit thee, and examine the ftate of thy coa­
* feience.* , '
The judge then making a profound reverence,
withdrew without a murmur, and the triumphant
father returned to his penitent. • My fon, ((hid
< he) thine enemies are defeated. 1 hy ten is
« fecure here. But fuch is their power, and fo
« ftrong the general abhorrence that purftws thy
* late guilt, that it will not be fafe for thee ever
* to leave this fanauary.’— ‘ O father, mult
* I be confined for ever here ?’—*— * I f*»id not
* fo, my fon : there is a way for thee to in
* triumph out, above the power of thy prefent
* perfecutors.’————‘ O name it, ^ h ?1
"- —
< Take our vows, Heaven has bleiled thee
‘ with a fertile genius, and Heeled thy foul with
« fortitude. Thefe talents muftnotbe buried j
« an account will be required of them and
* where can they be put to proper ufe, except
* in the fervice of the Donor, in his church .
< there they wi.l raife thee to that rank and
‘ power, which thou feed us enjoy. I fee thou
t yielded. Refill not the motions of the holy
* fpjrit. I receive thee into the fold. 1 falute
« thee, brother. From this moment of thine
< election mayeft thou date thy entrance into the
* higheft honours of this world. The day ap-
6 ‘ proaches,.
jo CRKYSAV OK, T t l Z
yGoogle
‘ P^ches, when thy military knowledge and
l i f T may a,robeca,led into atfion. "Great
event« are ripening in the womb of time '___.
t I j l9l<,’ .° ’ fa^ er» (replied the penitent) I re­
S ,hine ° f er with due fubmiflion and re.
ipeft; and from this moment dedicate mv
« w T * ’ ft' i* a,?derery P°wer of my foul anS
c t ° A lr > -T,P 'C |. fe
/ V
ic/ of th;ne holy
c Vk i ^ ,s ^an(^ Heaven, that
• itf?S hCe’ "° 0Jlge,r fon>but brother. I will
€ goan q u ain t our brethern with thy miracu­
lous converfion and eleflion. Thou haft no
more to do but to make thy will, and bequeath
• £ £ j g A £
€ brother to live with us/— — «j$ut I h a i^ *
‘ thing to bequeath.’-.^ .« Leave thL to us6 Do'
you only give all your fortune, in the hands '
o
°
ff r rbr h
£r’ t0our^ciety, in confequence
of your admiffion; and let us find that fortune!
I go. The bell rings for I /hall fend
• « " ¡« ..o d L
- J n a w° rd’ a
,J ^'ngs were executed, and the
new brother admitted in proper time inm ,k
the'h’ 0!, W
ft'Ch he haS fince r‘ien to he one of
the bnghteft ornaments. And the judge to a
void the imputation of herefey, which8»,;.
* * «f i « «>«"*■ >
my mafter the hint of, was glad o pay haff his
««l.h .0,b. focitty, .h .W ^ h i.p io “
Soon after this affair was thus happily com
pleated, my mafter, that he might openly ib!Tw
D * his
ADVENTURES op a g u in e a . s,
yGoogle
his adoration of me to the world, had me made
into a crucifix, in which ihape I was fattened to
his rofary, and there publicly received that ado­
ration from the knee, which before was paid me
only in the heart.— A repetition of all theoccur-
rences I faw in the fervice of this mailer would
be unneceflary, as the two I have related gave a
general idea of them.
5* CHRYSALî OR, THE
C H A P . X.
C h r y s a l changes his fervic*, and embarks for.
Europe in an Englifh man o f war. The caufe
and manner o f his coming that way. 7 he occur­
rences o f his pajfage. On his arrival in England
he is fent by his majler to fettle fome mijlakes in
the voyage.
IW AS heartily tick of fuch a feene, when the
time came for fending me into thefe parts of
the world, where fcarcity enhances my value,
and makes my power more extenfive. There
being a war between Spain and England at that
time, about the liberty o f cutting fticks upon a de-
fert fhore, it was neceflary to fecure a fafe paflage
for the treafure, by eftabiifhing a right under-
{landing with the commander of an E glijh man
of war, which was cruizing in thofe Teas. It
fell to my lot to go on this errand in the fhape
of a doubloon, into which I was cafl, to fave the
profanation which a crucifix mufl fuffer in the
hands of heretics.
There was feme lit Je addrefs requifiteto con­
duit this affair with the captain, in fuch a man­
ner
yGoogle
ner as to keep it fecret from his officers, to gain
all of whom would have been too expenfivej be-
fides that he would never truft hisfacredhonour
to the fidelity of fo many. But this was readily
fcdjufted. The refinements of modern politeneis
having foftened the natural ferocity of a Bate
of war, and admitting an intercourfe of cour-’
tefy between parties who profefs to feek each
other’s deftru&ion, the Spanijh governor fent out
a boat with his compliments to the Engiijhcap­
tain, with a large fupply of freih provifions, fruits,
wine,
This neceflarily produced a return of civility
from the well bred captain; and in this inter­
courfe were the terms of his connivance fettled,
as the feal of which I was delivered to him
among a very large number of my fellows, whOj
honourably pun&ual to his-promife, at the ap­
pointed time, failed away from that ftation in
quejt offomeJhips o f the enemy*s which he expeftedt9
meet elftwhere^ and did not return till the Spanijh
treafure was beyond his reach. ,
As this was a compliment ofgreat confequence
to the Spaniards, the captain had been fo hand-
fomely confidered for it, that his deiires were fa-
tisfied, and he only wifhed to be fafe at home*
to enjoy the wealth he had fo happily acquired.
Often would he take me our, (for the beauty of
my new impreffion had ftruck his Eye, and gain­
ed me the honour of being kept in his purfe)
often, I fay, would he take me out of his purfe,
and, gazing on me till bis eyes watered,
4 O thou end of all my toils and dangers !
4 (would he fay) thou crown of all my hopes !
4 now I have obtained thee I am content! Let
4 others feck that phantom, glory, Ihave in thee
D 3 4the
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. &
54
4 the more folid reward, for which I always
* fought, nor (hall any thing tempt me to ha-
4 card being fcparated from thee.’ A refolucrott
which he had an opportunity of (hewing in aU
its ftrength a few days after, when a mip ap­
peared, which he thought to be a Spanijb man of
war.
As ours was a (hip offorce, and all the officers
(except the captain) were very poor* and as the
Spanijh (hips are always richly laden with trea*
fure in thofe feas, the crew was in the higheft
fpirits at this*fight, and made every thing ready
U> attack herewith the moil eager alacrity. But
tne cafe was quite different with the captain»
fie was now as rich as he defired, and dreaded
the lots of that wealth which he bad fo long 1»*
boured for» He, therefore, retired into his cab­
bin, while the lieutenants were clearing /Up,and
taking me out of his purfe, with a look of ten«».
dernels that brought the tears into his eyes*
* And íhall I hazard the loft of thee {he cried)
* the obieft, the reward of a life of toil and
4 dangerr Shall I facrifice the only good of life
* to thatchimera, honour ?to that bubble lighter
4 than air, and more variable than the wind, the
4 intereft of my country ? What is honour with*
4 put wealth r What is a country to him who
4 has nothing in it? Let the poor fight for mo-
4 ney, 1 have enough ! Jet the ambitious fight
4 for glory, I defpife the empty name. Let
4 thofe who have a property in their country
4 fight for it, I have none, nor can have^ nor
‘ any of its bleffings, without thee •
, and there-
4 fore will not venture ahylofs for any iufch vain
4 canfiderations»’ *
' _ As
CH&YSALt OR, THIS
yGoogle
AD VtH TtJR fiS Gtf ACVINTEA, 5$
A* foon as be had formed this prudent rtfb*
lotion, he clafped me to his heart, kifled me, and
returned me into his purfe, juft as the lieutenant
came in to tell him, they could now make the
lhip, which fnuft be vaftly rich, fee was fo dfep
In the water. My m.vftcr made no reply, but
taking a telefcope in his hand, he went upon
the quarter-deck, and viewing her for fometime,
with great apparent earneftnefs, 4You are all
* miftaken (/aid he) in that feip ! rich indeed]
4 and fo fee may remain for us. That fcip is
4 a firft rate man of war by her fize: and as for
4 her depth in the water, fee is only brought
4 down by her guns, which are fifty-two poun-
• ders at leaft. P u t about the (hip, and make ail
4 fail poffible from her. I am anfwerable for his
4 majefty*s feip committed to my care, and will
4 not facrifice her againft fuch odds. Her weight
4 of metal would blow us out of the water. Re-
4 fides, 1 have a packet on board, and muft not
4 go Out of my way : about Jhip, and away di-
4 *e£tty, l iay.
The officers ilood aghaftat this fpw h , that
difappointed all their golden hopes. They urged,
they befeeched, they remonflrated, that it was
impoilible fee could be what he raid: they im
*-
filled that the colour of her fails, and the heivi*
nefs of her going, proved her to be a feip of
trade that had been long at fea 5 and as for her
hulk, it only encouraged them to hope fee would
prove the better prize, as all the feips that carry
the treafure are very large ; that they had ob­
served they wronged her fo much, they could go
round her if they pleafed ; and begged only that
they might be permitted to take a nearer view of
Jier, Which they were confident would prove her
D 4. to
yGoogle
io be what they faid. They aliedged the op­
portunity of making all their fortunes; the ho^
nour, the intereft of their country. They begged,
fwore, ftormed, and wept; but all in vain. The
captain had taken hfs refolution ; and would
vouchfafe no other anfwer than a repetition of
what he had faid before, *That he was account*
4 able for his majefty’s ihip, and would not ha*
* zard her, to gratify them ; betides, the delay
4 of the packet he had on board, mjght be of
* worfe confcquence than the taking of fuch a
( ihip (foould ihe even be what they faid, though
4 he was certain to the contrary) would make
4 amends for. And that, as to going nearer to
4 her the length of her guns would enable them
4 to drive every (hot through and through hia
4 ihip, at a diftance that his could never reach
4 her from ; though, if they ihould be mad
4 enough to engage her, his jm all foot could
* never pierce fuch mountains of timber as her
4 fides were barricaded with.9 And fo, as hia
power was abfolute, they were obliged to fubmit,
and o ff heJheered,
It is impoffible to deferibe thediftrailion which
this affair threwour ihip into. The officers afied
all the inconfiftent outrages of madnefs. The
men chewed the quid, damned theireyes and limbs
for their bad luck, and went to work as ufual ;
while feveral poor fickwretches, whofe fpirits had
been foraifed by thehopesoffuch aprize, that they
had forgot their complaints, and exerted all their
llrength, to affift in the engagement, now funk
under theweightofthe difappointment,and crawl ~
ed back, many of them to die in their hammocs.
But the captain had carried his point, and re­
garded nothing elfe: though indeed he was fome-
what
|f CHRV3AL: OR, THR
yGoogle
what d¡(concerted a few ¿ays after, when he
learned from another (hip, that ihe really was a
regijltr fhip of immenfe value, and fo weakened
by hard weather and licknefs, that (he could not
have attempted any refiftance, but had prepared
to ftrike the moment lhe faw us. This infor­
mation added fuch fuel to the rage that inflamed
the officers before, that all intercourfe between
them and their captain was entirely broke off,
fo that I became his foie companion.
This lafled all the while we were at a diftance
from England; but as we drew near home, the
captain’s ftiffnefs began to bend, and he made fe-
veral advances to a reconciliation and general
amnefty, as he could not but feel fome appre-
henilons for his condudt from his fuperiors. But
all was in vain. The thought of returning in
poverty, inftead of that wealth which he had dif-
appointed them of, kept up their refentments,
and they determined to complain, if only for the
fatisfadiion of revenge.
This convinced my matter, that methods muff
be taken to obviate their attempts, or he might
run a greater hazard at home than he had in­
- tended to avoid abroad. He therefore prudently
concluded, that the fame argument which had
been fo powerful with himfelf, would be the mod
effectual to vindicate what he had done with
others, and that it would be better to ihare the
fpoil, than rilk the lofs ofall.
For this intent, as foon as he arrived in E ng-
land, he took me from his purfe once more, and
looking earneftly at me for fome moments,
4 We mutt pftrt faid he, (with a figh) we mufl
4 part! but I hope to good purpofe. Thou
4 only waft the caufe of that conduit which
D 5 ‘ now
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA* 57
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
** tfftfcYSAfc* t>Tt» Tftt
* n&w gives me fear; exert tfcfefcfbfe thy in—
* ftuence Equally, where I new fend thee, and
* thea wilt excuie my fatilt, if it is one.* Tears*
*t the thought of fefing me, here cheated hfe
titterrance. He gaveme a laft kifs, and font me
diredtly away* in company with a considerable
number inore, to mediate his peace.
C H A P . XI.
T^he good confequences d f a right underflanting be ­
tween certain perJons- C HRysa l/s rejleflions on
'hisfirjifeting the public offices in London. H is
majìer vifits a gentleman, who in the vehemence o f
his rage againji certain abufes, hits himfelfa violent
Jlap on the face. The neccffuy o f decency, and the
methods o f fupporting /V
, infianced in the hijlory
w fMpretty fellow .
A
1> the delicate nature of this tranrfa&ion re­
quired fome addrefs, he entrufted the ma­
nagement of it to his purler, who had convinced
him by many inftances, of his fagacity in the
methods *of obtaining an influence over the
great.
As fotfn asmy new mailer arrived in London9
d
h
fls full care was to execute the commiflion for
which we had been given to him ; but the per­
son, to whom his application was to be made,
happening to be out of town for a few days*
ithdt he might not lofe any time, he proceeded
to fettle fome affairs of his own ; in the courfe
•of which, I had an opportunity of feeing into
iomejpart ofthe feorets ofhis mysterious bufinefs.
yGoogle
The profeffed motive forhis coming to town,
*va$ to fettle his own, and pafs his captains ao
counts, between which there was a connexion
not neceflary to be known toany other: for'
though my late mailer did not think it confident
with his dignity to be too familiar with his of­
ficers, and generally flighted their opinion, if
only to ihew his own fuperiority and keep them
a proper didance, with him and his purfetr
the cafe is quietotherwife, the beft undemanding
•always fubfifting between them, and every affair
being concerned with the greateft harmony, to
their mutual advantage : an agreement, which,
.i>efide the comfort and convenience of it to
themfelves, had this happy influence over the reft
of the fhips company, that it kept them, if not
eafy, at lead quiet, from all murmurings, and
complaints of bad provifions, ihort weights, and
Juch-like imaginary grievances, which the reiHefs
temper of feamen is too apt to make the caufe
of much trouble to the purfer, and didurbance
to the captain, when tbefe happen not to agree
between themfelves. But, as the contrary was
the cafe here, their common intered animated
the affiduity of my matter, and made him go di-
ireftly to the feveral officers and contra&ors, with
whom his bufinefs lay, to prepare every thing
»in proper order for public infpe&ion.
On my firft going to thefe public offices, every
4hing gave me pleafure. There was fuch an
appearance of regularity in all the proceedings, of
eafe and affluence in the officers, that I could not
help faying to myfelf, 6 Happy ftate, whofe
6 meanett fervants are gentlemen! whofe bufi­
* nefs is reduced to a fyflem, above danger of
4 confufion or abufe !* But a nearer view
iliewed
ADVENTURES Of A GUtNEA. &
yGoogle
*» CHRYSALt OR, THE a
fhewed things in another light. The firft perfoti
my mafter went to, was the gentleman who fup-
plied him with thofe kind of cloathing for the
feamen, which are by thefe merry poor fellows
emphatically calledyfopr. As he was juft going
to dinner, my mafter accepted of his invitation,
and fat down with him. A round or two of loyal
toafts to thefuccefs of the navy,and continuance
of the war, having waihed down their fare, and
refreihed their fpirits after the fatigue of a full
meal, they proceeded tobufinefs. 41come, Sir,
4 (faid my mafter) to fettle the account of the
4 laft cruize. Here it is: you fee moft of the
4 articles are gone off pretty well : but I muft
/ tell you, that you are more obliged to fome of
4 your friends for that, than you are aware of
4 perhaps ; for if I had not prevailed on the cap-
4 tain, to let the alehoufe-keepers and gin-wo-
4 men come on board, and keep the flop-fellers
4 off, when the men received their pay, on go-
4 ing out, you would have had but a blank lift
4 of it. Bur, by this management, the fellows
4 fpent all their money in drink, and then ne­
k ceflity drove them to me for cloaths.’
4 Hereis tothe captain’s good health, (anfwer-
4 ed the other) and that I may foon fte him at
4 the head of the navy : I am very much obliged
4
. to you and him, and fhall confiJer your friend-
4 ihip properly. But is there no way of prevent-
4 ing thofe pedlars from intruding thus uport
4 us t I am refolved I will try : I believe I can
4 make an imereft, (you underftand me)-that
4 will procure me an order to exclude them :
4 at lead if I cannot do that, I will infift on
4 raifing my terms; for every branch ofbufinefs
# is now fo loaded with prefents and perejuifites,
4 that
yGoogle
« that there is fcarce any thing to be got. A
c man who goes to a public office, to receive
c money, runs the gauntlope through fo many of
« them, that, if he does not make up his ac-
« counts in a very mafterly manner indeed, he
€ will have but little to (hew, for his pains, in
* the end/— * Very true (replied my matter)
« I have had experience of what you fay, this
« very morning. You know it is fome years
« fince I have been in town before: I was there-
« fore quite furprifed at the gay appearance of
* every clerk in the offices. Our midfhipmen
« on the paying off o f a fhip, are nothing to
« them! fo, thought 1 to rnyfelf: this is very
« well! Such fine gentlemen as thefe will never.
« ftoop to take the little perquifites which their
« ihabby predeceffors were fo eager for: they
* cannot want them. Accordingly, as foon as
«.I had done my bufinefs, I was preparing to
* make an handfome fpeech, and a leg, and fo
« walk off; but I was foon undeceived; and
« found, to my no fmall aftonifhment, that, if
* the cafe was altered, it was no way for the
* better, for me : the prefent fine gentlemen be­
* ing to the full as rapacious as the former (hab­
* by fellows, and with this addition to the evil,
c that their expedations were raifed, in propor-
« tion to their appe.arance, fo that they muft
* have a crown, where the others were fatisfied
* with a (hilling/
‘ And how can it be otherwife, (returned the
c other) while the principals fet them fuch an
* example of extravagance, and inforce obedi-
* ence to it in the manner they do: for though
€ their own exorbitant falaries enable them to
* live with the luxury of aldermen at home,
* and
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *r
yGoogle
4 and make the appearance of courtiers abroad*
4 how can they think, that their hackney under-
4 lings {hall be able to change their drefs with
* the court, and appear withlril the precife fop-
4 pery of pretty fellows, if they have not clan-
4 deftine ways of getting money:: and that this .
4 is the cafe, I can give you an inftance not to
4 be contradi&ed.
4 Perhaps you may remember a little boy that
4 ran about the houfe here, when you were
4 in town laft. His mother was fervant to my
* firft wife : you cannot forget black-eyed Nan :
* .who was the father is nothing to my ftory,
4 but I took care ot the boy. When he grew
4 up, I thought the beft thing I could do for
4 him, was to get him into one of the public
4 offices, for he was too foft for my own buii-
4 nefs, and this I imagined would (harpen him,
4 and 501. a year keep h-im from being an ex-
4 pence to me. Accordingly* I got him ad-
4 mitted as an additional cierk, in this bufy
4 time; and, that his appearance ihould not
4 (hame my recommendation, i added a London-
4 made fuit to his country wardrobe, which I
4 «thought good enough for him to wear every
4 day.
4 We ll thus equipped, to the office he went,
4 as good-looking a lad as ever came from a
4 YorkjkWe Academy, which had been the height
4 of his education. But I foon found that I had
4 been out of my reckoning; for, going with him
4 to introduce him to the head-clerk, whom I
4 had before fpoken properly to in his behalf, I
4 found the whole office in deep mourning,
4 which, as it bad been ordered only for the'
4 court, and was to hold but for a fortnight
4 longer,
ft CHKYSAL: O*, TfflS
yGoogle
4 longer, I had never thought of dreffing him in5
4 but I foon found that I had not a proper opi-
4-nton of the confequenceofthe place.— For the*
4 head cleric gave me a Friendly hint, that it was*
4 exptded, that all the clerks in his majefty’s
4 offices ihould ihew the decent refped or con-
4 forming to the drefs of the court on thefe fo-
4 lemn Occafions.— I could not help exclaiming,
4 I believe a little too ihortly, What, Sir, upon
4 a falary of 50I. a year ?— Sir (replied he) no-
4 body is forced to take that falary,; and they
4 who do not like the rules of the office are at
4 liberty to leave itr and then turned off upon
4 his heel/*--4 I beg your pardon, Sir, (faid Is
4 feeing my error) it was an overfight of mine ;
4 but it (hall be amended/“ — —4The fooner
4 the better, Sir (anfwered he) for his lordihip
4 will be in the office to-morrow, and he muft
4 not fee any thing fo irregular ; and, pray, Sit
4 (turning to the lad?) get that fleece on your
4 head (horn a little (his hairJlowed down, in
4 modeft ringlets, on his ihoulders.^and ftrive to
4 appear fomething like a gentleman*
4 I faw it was in vain to fay any thing,
4 fo took the boy away with me.; and had him
4 equipped, next day, in all the faihionable trap*
4 pings of woe, with his hair (horn indeed,
4 and tied up in a bag, by a French barber,
4 for I would not ftand for a trifle when my hand
4 was in, and then went with him myfeif, he-
4 ing defirous to fee how he would be received
4 in his new appearance; but, alas ! I had for-
4 got that indifpertfable article of a gentleman’s
4 drefs, a fword, which I was therefore obliged
4 to fend out for direftly. In a fortnight's time*
4 the order for the court’s going into fecond
4 mourning
ADVENTVltEfc O f A GUINEA.
yGoogle
• mourning put me to the fame expence over-
4 again; for the rules of decency were not to be
4 difpenfed with; and then, in a month after,
* it was as neceflary to trim his light grey frock
4 with a filver edging of coxcomb, that he might
4 not appear worfe than his fellows; all which,
4 with many other as neceflary et cateras, by the
4 end of the firft quarter, confumed his year’s
4 falary.
4 This enraged me to that degree, that I was
4 going to take him away dire&iy ; but the boy
4 had by this time got fome infight into the
4 ways of the place, and prevented me, by fay-
4 ing, that if I would try, but for another
4 quarter, he was fatisfied. that his perquifites
4 would more than defray all fuch expences;
4 and fo I find they do, for though he is now as
4 fmart well-drefled a young fellow as any about
4 town, he has never iince troubled me for a
4 (hilling: nay, more than all this, allures me,
4 there are fome of his fellow-clerks who keep
4 footmen and horfes, and have routs and con-
4 certs at their houfe9, as regularly as people of
4 the firft rank \ and all by the perquifites of a
4 place of fifty pounds a year.
. 4Now as all thofe perquifites are draw-backs
4 upon us; as I faid before, we cannot carry on
4 the bufinefs on the ufual terms, if we do not,
4 bring up our lofs in the quality of the goods,
4 for it would be abfurd to expeft, that wq
4 fhould lower our living to let fuch fellows run,
4 away with the profit of our induftry. Ia
4 (hort, my wife’s chariot (hall not be put down*
4 nor will I deny myfelf a bottle of claret to
4 give you, or any other friend, to fave all the
4 feamen in B ritain from perilling with cold ;
4 Charity
C+ CHRYSALi OR, THE
yGoogle
* Charity begins at home; I will ibfift upon
* having thofe pedlars prevented from interlop*
4 ing upon our trade; and fo, 6ir, my fervice
4 to you.*
ADVENTURES DP A GUINEA. €g
C H A P . XII.
C h r y s a l ’ j majier gives his frien d fom e hintsy that
make him lower bis note. An uncommon piece o f
genet ofity returned more politely than could le ex*
petted from the parties. An odd Jlory o f an un•
fajhtonable Jlew ard. T h) fuccefs ^ C h r y s a x / *
mediation in favou r o f bis late m ajier.
M
Y mailer had heard him out, though not
with thegreateft patience, and now taking
the opportunity of his flopping to drink, 4 All
4 this may be true (faid he) and what you pro*
4 pofe might poffibly have been done, and with
4 the effe& you defire, fome time ago: but
4 matters are altered a good deal, at prefent,
4 both among the gentlemen of the navy, and
4 here too, as I am told : and indeed, in refpe£i
4 to this affair, thofe things are made fo infa*
4 moufly bad, and rated fo high, that no-body
4 can fpeak in the defence of them : nay, it
4 even goes almoft againft my own confcience
4 to utter them ; for, only think with yourfelf,
4 what a barefaced impofition it is, to make a
4 poor wretch pay feven (hillings for a coarfe
4 rotten jacket, when even a Jew (hall fell him
4 a found one, and of finer fluff, for four and
4 fixpence; and every thing elfe at the fame
4 rate*
yGoogle
rate. f ft bent, this point is fo overtrained,
that it will probably overturn the whole trade,
in the end) for feveral of the captains are fo
provoked at it, that they take every method
they can to prevent the men from taking up
any thing frtron us : particularly that which I
hinted before, of keeping off the alehoufe«
keepers, and fuch people, and encouraging
flop-fellers to come on board, when the mea
are paying, by which means they buy good
comfortable cloatbs, at half the price of our
Totten trafh: Indeed, one of them went fo far,
as to buy in a parcel of good ihoes, at his own
expence, and make a prefent of a pair a piece
to all his top-men^ when they were going out
on a cruize, as they had fpent their money*
and could not buy for themfelves, and oor
ihoes were fo bad, thatthe firft time they went
aloft with them, after they were wet, the ratt-
lings tore them all to pieces, fo that it was a
common thing to fee a man come down bare­
footed, who had gone up with a new pair of
Ihoes on. Though it is but juft to comfort
* . • C H f c Y b A L * OR , T H E
you. with an account of the return which he
met with for his kindnefs, which was no lefs
than a round-robin * to the lords of the admi­
ralty, for his refufing to let them go afhore,
and fpend their money, in the fame manner,
next time they came in/
4 And fuch a return may their ofticioufnefe
always meet (replied the other) for meddling
with matters which do aot concern them:
4 cannot
• T h e name that featften call their complaints agfcinft their
{Nptain; it is taken from the manner o f their figning them ,
-which is in a circle, fo that there is no know ing who figns
firft.
yGoogle
* cannot they fee ootf&ttt With ‘their own lltrgfc
€ gams,withontHtt»Hiermgt6hwi<terothers?But
* I fee how it «is; the fpwitof patridtfflrn ha$
* got into them too, forfooth, and they tiroft bfe
* ihewmg their «regard to the public! What aA
4 w ii «ffeft will the bad example off one maA
4 have! There was a time, when they would not
c have dared to do this. To fay the truth* tny
4 friend, this is not the firft alarm we have re-
4 ceived on this head ; though what to do about
4 it, we cannot tell; indeed, I believe we mufl:
4 e’en mend wit hands $ which, as half a loaf
4 is better than no bread, hard as it is upon us,
4 is preferable to -tefing the trade quite ; in the
c meantime,! am obliged to you andyour cap­
* tain for your frien&hip, and hopeycra will ac-
* cept of this return.* They then proceeded to
fettle their accounts, as foon as which were
finidled, my mafter took his leave, and went on
with his buiinefs, which was exa&ly of the fame
nature, and concluded in the fame way, with
every perfon whom they dealt with.
As foon as-theft trauiaAions were ended, his
next care was to pal's his captain’s accounts,
which he alfo fuooeeded in, without any diffi­
culty, tbo’ for this he was mere indebted to the
chance of a lucky minute, than he had appre­
hended. For they were no fconer doled, than an
affair happened that gave a turn, entirely new, to
the whole coutfe of buftnefs, in that channel.
When theaccounts of the next captain came
to he examined, the clerk glancing his eye cur-
forily over them, in the ufual manner, on look­
ing at the amount, «There muft be fome mif-
‘ take here* (faid he)— <How fo, Sir ffaid
4 Che captain, who was prefectj let me look at
. « the
ADVEttTTtJfcfc« O f A
yGoogle
< the account, if you pleafe. No, Sir, there fa
a no miftake I believe.— Pray where do you
« mean?’—— '1 In the calling it up, Sir, (an-#
« fwered the clerk) you fee, the amount is made
« to be but 8ool/— — *Nor ihould it be more
« (replied the captain) I fummed up the account
« myfelf, and thefe figures are of my own writ-
« ing/—-How can that poffibly be, Sir (returned
* the clerk in a furprize) but 8001. for all the
« repair», wear and tear9 of a man of war, o n
« fuch a ftation, for four years! 1 fuppofe then,
« Sir, the fhip had a thorough repair going out,
« and wants the like now I To be fure, it can be
« done better and cheaper here, than abroad, and
« therefore you were in the right to bring her
« home to get it/-—c Not at all, Sir, (added the
« captain) that was not the cafe : (he had no
• thorough repair going 01$, and iscome home in4
« better order thanThe went, as this return of the
♦ officers of the yard (hews/— * Good G od! Sir,
« how did you manage ?’— —* To the beft of my
• judgment, Sir; i laid out nothing but what i
« thought neceflary, and I charged nothing but
* what 1 laid out: i mean not to arraign the
* conduft ofothers : I only fpeak for myfelf. Ii*
« thefe cafes, I look upon a man as a iteward to
« the public! and I ihould think it as great dif-
« honefiy to betray, or break that truft, as ta
« wrong a private perfon/
This fpeech was heard with aftoniihment, and
returned with a cold compliment, as it came
too home to many» to meet general approbation;
however, the aifair neceflarily had an effeil not
very agreeable to fome prefent; for, the next
captain’s accounts arifing to near four times the
(tun of the laft, fuch an immediate precedent
. made
S t CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
made the difference fo glaring, that it was im-
poffible to avoid putting a flop to them, and fo he
was mulded his whole four years pay: though
ours, which had been ffill higher, had gone off
fmoothly, and without the leaft remark.
My Mafter having concluded this affair fo
happily, proceeded next on the great caufe of
his coming to town, in which, with our affift-
ance, he laboured fo fuccefsfully, that the cap­
tain’s mifiake met only a gentle reprimand,
I here came into the poffeffion of a new maf­
ter, and immediately after changed my Spanijb
appearance for the faihion of the country, and
in the (hape of a guinea, entered into the moft
cxtenfive ftate of fublunary influence, becoming
the price of every name, that is refpefted under
heaven.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 69
C H A P . XIIL
C h r y s a l explains fome farther properties o f his
nature. H e changes his appearance fo r the mode
o f the country ; and enters into the fcrvice o f a
noble lord. The fagacity o f M r . Poundage, and
his addrefs in bufmefi.I
IAM now entering upon a ffage, where the
fcenes are fo various, and fo quickly changed,
that ¡twill require yourftri&eft attention to keep
pace with my relation. But to make this the
eafier to you, and to difincumber your furpris&e
from doubts, at my repeating the paft lives of
perfom, in whofe pnfleffion I have been but a
few moments, I mult premife to you, that our
know-
yGoogle
7*
kowdedge is very diflferoQt from that of mem
I have told you, that we know all things, in tu it
tively* without the trouble* delay* and errors of
difcourfe or reafoning. I muft b o w further Inform
you, that this intuition extends not only to the
prefeat face of things, but alfo has a ret>rofpe<5i
to the whole feries of their exiftence, from its
iirft beginning: the concatenation between, cauie
and effect being fo plain to our eyes* that let us
but fee any one event of the life of a mail, and
we immediately know every particular that pre­
ceded it. '
As tofu tu rity indeed, it is not yet determined
how far Forward we can look into that; fome al­
lowing us to have the fame power o f fo refight a&
we have ofretrofpefl ; which was the opinion that
fupported the credit of oracles in former days»
But that notion is now exploded, and men argue
that our forefight extends only to natural caufes
and effeiU : but in the a£tions ofman, his free­
w ill fo often breaks that order, that it is impoffi-
ble for us. to know this moment how he will a&
the next, from any obfervation of the paft; and
they think they prove their argument by this*
that if fpirits could fore-know all a man’sa&ions,
it would fpare them the trouble of tempting bioi
to any particular one.— But this by the bye ! for
as I dial] coniine my narrative to matters already
paft, without ever foretelling any thing, it is not
neceflary for me to determine a queifion, that
opens fuch a field for the guefles of the learned.
— But to return to my ftory. .
From the M in t, where 1 pur on the fhapc of a
fuinea, 1was tent to the Bankywhere the pleafure
had felt at the beauty and convenience of my
new figure was confiderably cooled* at my being
thrown
CVKYSA'li OR; TfcB
yGoogle
thrown into fo large a heap, as took away all my
particular eonfequence, and feemed to threaten
along ftate of ina£Hvi*y, before it might comer
to my turn to be brought into a&ion. But I faon
found royfirlf agreeably raiftaken, and that the
circulation there was too quick to admit of fuch
delay : for I was that very day paid out to a no«
ble lord» in bis perifion from the miniftry.
It was about two in the afternoon, when I was
brought to his lordfoip’s levee, where the gran­
deur of his looks* and the magnificence of every
thing about him* made me fo pleafed with my
fituajtion* that I thought I could be fatisfied to
£x my abode with him for fome time.
He wasjuft arifen, and feated at the fits, lean­
ing on a writing table covered with green velvet*
on which bty fome books open, and federal letters
which he had juft broke the feajs of, and was be­
ginning to read, while a female fervant, beautiful
as Hebe* poured out his tea at a fide^board, and
a page, like Ganymede, handed it to him.
In this eafy indifference he fat, carting an eye
upon a book, Ur reading a paragraph in a letter,
between every fip of his brqakfarty when I was
laid upon his table, by his fteward, with thefe
w o r d s , T w o hundred, my lord.’—'-4Tw o
4 hundred, (replied his lordihip) the order was
4 for five hundred I’—4But, my lord, the butcher*,
4 the baker ! ■^^IVhat are thofe wretches to me?
4 Is not my whole ejlate fujficient for them ?* M y
4 lord, there is not aihiliiog to be got from your
4 tenants, the times are fo bad, and the taxes fo
4 high ! and an ounce of provifions could not
4 be had.’—<
— 4Then you might have all fajled! /
4 mu/l have moneyfor this evening y l am engaged in
4 a Pa k t y , and-wnnat be o ff.'----- 4 My lord,
4 your
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, 7»
yGoogle
* your lord(hip’s taylor defired me to fpeak to
4 you ; he is to appear before his ccmmiflioners
4 to-morrow, and begs*----- 4W hat can 1 db9 1
.4 would relieve him i f I could, but I have no money
4fo r m yfelf: I cannot, w ill not do without fiv e hun-
4 dred more this evenings get it where or how you
4 w ill* — 4My lord, l was thinking to apply
4 to Mr. D ifcount, the fcrivener, but he faid the
4 laft time, that he would lend no more on that
4 eftate, without the immediate power of cutting
4 the timber/— 4 W elt9 damn him9 let him have
4 r/, tho9it w ill not befit to cut thefe ten years \ and%
4 do you hear, get me a thoufand to-day.-------- 4A
4 thoufand, my lord ! you faid five hundred: I
4 am afraid he will think a thoufand too much !’
4 Then hefhall never have i t ; let me do as I w ill;
4 do not 1 know that the timber is worth twice as
4 much this moment, if I could wait tofet it toJale ?
4 I willnot be impofed on by the rafcal: I 'll go myfelf
4 to my neighbour Worthland dire¿fly ; he is a man ,
4 of honour, and w ill be above taking advantage;
4 though I did oppofe his electio n '— — — 4 As your
Vlordfhip pleafes for that. But then, perhaps,
4 Mr. D ifcount will call in all his mone\, if he
4 faw you put yourfelf into other hands; befid.*, I
4 am not certain that he will refufe, and there-
4 fore I ihould think it better to try him firft ;
4,you may do this after. Though I muft take
4 the liberty to fay, I (hould be forry to fee your
4 lordfhip (loop to Sir John W orthland, after
4 all the expence you have been at to give him
4 trouble. For to be fure he would boait of it in
4 the country, if it were only to make you look
4 little, and prevent youroppofing him again/—
4 W hy there may be fomething in th a t: and there-
4 fore fee what is to be done with D iscount j
4 but
7* CHRYSALi OR, THE
yGoogle
* but 1 muß have the thoufand at anyrate, five hun*
* dred of which give to poor Buckram, and bring
€ me the other asfoon as poffible^for I am in hafte
4 out.9— 4 Then your lordihip had better fign
n this deed firft, tofave the time of coming back
* again, if he (hould do it/—— 4Aye, let m
e_fee
f it \ there : and make h a fte — -{And then turn­
* ing to his page) Reach me that paper, this pen h
'* fo goodit tempts me to write a letter, while I wait
* for Poundage’* return 9 And fo humming a
3
4 new tune, he went on with breakfaft without
the leaft concern,
Yöti areTogreat a ftranger to the ways of that
.part of the world which deals in money-nutters*
that you will be furprized when I tell you, that*
while this Mr. Poundage brought me from the
Bank, he had called upon Mr. Difcount, and
brought him to his lord’s to do his buiiriefs-. *
But you muft not imagine this was to lend his
lordihip money. Nothing lefs. It was only to
'appear as the nominal lender of his lord(hip'sown
money* which Poundage had that very morning
received from fome of his tenants in the country*
and which, if he could not bring it in better, he
meant to replace with part of the price of the
timber, which he was to buy in Difcount9s name*
who was a creature of his own.
-So remarkable a tranfattion gaveme acuriofity
to take a view of Poundage's life, the main lines
of which I will juft touch over, while you may
think him gone for the money* and his lordihip
dreffing for his engagement.
ADVENTURES O f A GUINEA« 73
E
yGoogle
V O L . I . C H A P .
fa CHRYSALi OR, THE
C H A P . XIV.
The hijiory o f M r. Thomas Poundage.
Jhip goes to bis appointment. An evening’s -
. tainment in high life. C h r y s a l
vice: his reflexionson the ruling pafion of
times.
M
R. Thomas Poundage was the offspring of a
gypfy, who had left him in the ftraw he
was born on, in an old barn near his iordihips
father’s, his weaknefs and deformity making her
pot think him worth the trouble of carrying
sway*
, The old lord himfelf happening to be the firft
who heard his cries, as he was riding by, took
companion on the little helplefs wretch, and or­
dered him to be taken care of at his own ex­
pence, and not fent to the parifl).
Such an uncommon inftance of charity was
immediately attributed to a tenderer motive : a
fufpicion, however injurious to his lordihip, fo
advantageous to thefoundling, that it doubled the
care and attendance on him, and made him ap­
pear of fuch confequence, that Mr. Thoma\
Poundage himfelf, his lordfhip’s lleward, conde-
fcended to Hand god-father for him, and gave
him his own name. , As M
Tom
m
ygr
he {hewed all the iharpnefs and cunning of his
race, which old P
o
u
n
d
a
g
er
eprefentingtohislord,
as a capacity for learning, he was put to the
heft fchools j and being of the fame age with
yGoogle
his lordihip’s eldeft Con, his prefent matter, was
fettled as an humble companion and attendant
upon him * in which ttation, the pliancy of his
temper foon gained him his mailer’s favour,
as his fecrecy and difcretion did his confidence*
no fervice appearing too difficult or mean for his
undertaking, to pleafe his matter, efpecially in
the myfteries of intrigue j nor a look ever be­
traying his fuccefs.
Thefefervicesnaturally produced an intimacy,
that opened to him all his matter’s fecrets, and
gave him fuch confequence with him, that, upon
the death of his father, o ld Poundage wasfuperan-
nuated upon a penjion, and the place given to him,
in which he hadfbehaved himfelf fo judicioufly,
that, in about ten years, he had amafled fo large
a fortune, as to be able to fupply his'matters
wants (with the affiftance of his own money
fometimes) without the fcandal ofexpofing them
to any other : a fervice that amply recompenfed,
to his lordihip’s honour, whatever prejudice it
may be fuppofed to do his affairs.
. ’Tis true, his fupplanting his godfather and
benefa&or old Poundage had not met with the
approbation of fuch as were not well acquainted
with the world, and particularly, as the old gen-
tlerran in his rage, had accounted for all his
lcindnefs to him, by owning a relation, which
be had before drove to fi?c upon his lord, by
manv plain insinuations, though he now faid he
bad long before revealed to his ungrateful fon
the fecret of his birth. .
However, if he had communicated his fecret,
our fon of fortune had kept it fo well,' that he
could now deny it with fafety ; nor had he pro­
fited fo little by his father’s example, as to be
• t 2 moved
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 7S
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
CHRYSALj o r , t h e
moved with afuggeftion that evidently appeared,
however true it might be in itfelf, to fpring at
that time from refentment. And as he could not
expe& to reap any great advantage from being
acknowledged for'the fpurious fon of "one whe
had many legitimate children to inherit his for«
tune, he thought it better to confirm the former
opinion, by his flights of the claim o{Poundage*
and, fince he muft be the baftard of one of them,
chufe the lord before his fervant.
But to return to my matter. He was drefled
by that time Poundage came back with the mo­
ney, when taking the five hundredfo r bis own
ufe9he went to his appointment.
As to the other five hundred, which he had
ordered to be paid to his taylor, for fear of the
wretch’s applying to the lord himfelf, in his def-
pair, Poundage did fend forhim, and, in companion
to bis difireffes, advanced him 400I. of hisown mo­
ney, fo r be had not a Jhilling o f his lord's in his
bands j fo r which piece offervice he defired no other
eonfideration9 than a receiptfo r 500I, though it might
befo long before he could get it back, that he expeSt-
id to be a loofer by his friendjhlp, which Mr. Buck­
ram need not, as he could bring it up in bis next bilL
—------O f this I came to the knowledge fome
tiine after, in the courfe of my circulation.
It was five o’clock, and dinnerjuft ferving up,
when my lord joined his company. At dinner,
and during the reign ofthe bottle for a couple of
hours after, the conversation turned upon all
the polite topics of the times, wherein there
could be no long difputes, asevery difference in
opinion was immediately determined by a£*/,the
fupreme decifion of peace, war, religion, and
law.— But this diffipated pidling foon gave way
t9
yGoogle
to the ferious bufinefs of the evening, to which
they all adjourned, with an intention and anxiety
worthy of the confequence at flake.
It is impoffible to give you any idea of this
fcene, inwhich every moment produced fuch fud-»
den tranfitions from defpair to exultation, from
ihouts of joy to the moft blafphemous execra­
tions of their very being, on the viciflitudes in the
momentary fortunes of the adors, that the very
recolledion of it is a pain even to me.
However, it made no fuch imprefiion upon
them : but they continued at it till about fix in
the mornings when they retired for the night.
^In thecourfeof the evening, I often went the
^rcuit of thewhole company round, and at length
Was carried home by a new mafter. But, before
Irfay any thing of him, 1 muft give you a few
flight (ketches of the charaders of feme others of
the company, and particularly of my late lord,
in whofe whole appearance and behaviour there
was fomething fo extraordinary.
There is fcarce a ftronger inftance of the ty­
ranny of avarice over the heart of man, than the
paflion for play9 which now is fo general and
prevalent, as to feem in a manner to have drown­
ed every other. The tendered, the ftrongeftcon-
nedions of friendihip and nature, yield to the
force of this refiftlefs infatuation. The perfons
who efleem each other moft in the world this
moment, no fooner fitting down to this decifion
o ffate* than they labour for each other’s ruin,
with all the afliduity and eagernefs of the moft
inveterate hatred and revenge.
Nor is this pradice confined to tfy>fe alone
whom neceffity may feem to ftimulate to fo def-
perate a refource* the richeft ate often the moft
E 3 infa-
A ©VENTURES OF A GUINEA. r7
yGoogle
infatuated with this pafiion, who, pofleffing al­
ready more than they can enjoy, hazard that, and
give themfelves up a prey to anxiety, and often
to defpair, to indulge a fruitlefs defire for more*
Of this laft clafs were moil of the company,
among whom my late lord had fpent this even­
ing : iome few indeed there were whom this folly
had reduced to the former, and neceflitated to
live by their experience in the art which had'
been their ruin. *
7* CHRYSAL* OR, THE
C H A P . XV.
The company reprefented in perfpeftive. Set a beggar
on horfeback, and h e'll ride to the devil. A new
way o f parrying a dun, andpaying debts o fhonour*
A commijjton-brokerflu n g . A connoijfeur decei-
ved by his own judgm ent and eminent tajle fo r
VIRTU. H ijlory o f a noble breeches-maker*I
ISee your curiofity rife at the mention of fo
ftrange a fcene as this muft be. It is natural,
and therefore (hall be indulged. But, as all de­
scription muft fall (bort of it, I (hall reprefent it
to you in perfpi&ive. Do you therefore refolve
fenfe into imagination, a praftice not uncommon
w ith the philofophic mihd, and to pure abftra&ed
attention fliall my words become things, and ap­
pear as vifible to your eyes, as if they were
purged with euphrafy and rue.
Obferve now, at the head of the table, that
heavy looking figure,whofe faturnine complexion
gives a folemnity to his appearance, even beyond
hit
yGoogle
bis declining years. This man wore out the
prime of his. life in indigence and hardihips, till
chance, by one fuccefsful ftroke in his bufinefs,
gave him fuch a fortune, as was deemed fuffici-
ent merit to deferve nobility, and entitle him tQ
one of the firft employments in the ftate.
Sudden elevation makes a weak head giddy ;
the plain, good-natured, chearful man, is loft
in the folemn proud peer; who is harder of ac­
cess than his fovereign, and feems to value him-
felf on having all the hours, he has fpent in
cringing to the great, repaid tenfold in attend­
ance upon him. As to the bufinefs of his office,
the whole fyftem of human politics is in general
fuch a jumble of blundering and villainy, that
I can feldom bring myfelf to beftow a moment’s
coticé on ft, fo can fay no more of his, than
that the little attention, and lefs capacity he has
for it, may moft probably give juft occafion for
all the murmurings that are againft him.— But
this was not the motive of my pointing him to
you* It was his infatuation to the love of play,
which makes him hazard that wealth which he
fo long felt the want of, in hopes of acquiring
more, though he has already more than he can
enjoy. . . . •
This has been an unfuccefsful night with him.
Obferve how ftupified he looks at his lofs! exr
tend the view but a few moments farther, and fee
how he fits down in the common hall of the tar
vern, among fervants and chairmen, infenfible of
the impropriety of fuch a place, and unable to
order his fervants to carry him home: nor is it
improbable that the fcene he has j uft quitted may
remain foftronglyon his imaginationto*morro
that
* '
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
yC gle
that he may write down the rules of the game hfr
has been playing at, inftead of the orders of hie
office,'¿i^he has done once before.
/ Next to him, you fee a fttort, ruddy, chearful
looking man. That is one of the deplorable in«
fiances of the evil of this prepofterous paflion.
With every advantage of rank, abilities, and for­
tune, did that perfon fet out in life. But,, alas
loon was the profpeft of his future happinefs an4
grandeur overcaft 1 foon did gaming reduce him
Hot only to a neceffity of proftituting his abili­
ties to the prejudice of his country, but alfo of
defcending to every iniquitous myftery of the
art to fupport his pra&ice of it ; for fo bewitch­
ed is he to it, that he cannot refift, though he
now can fcarce get any perfon to play with him*,
his want of money and his ikill in the whole art
are fo well known.
This has been a fuccefsful evening with him*
as you may fee by his extraordinary now of fpi«.
rits: not that his natural vivacity ever fails him
to the worft reverfe of fortune. He has woo a.
confiderable part of the great loiings of the per«
fon we have juft been taking notice of; and
though he has many demands upon him for eve­
ry (hilling of it,, yet, far from thinking of pay«
ingoneof them, he is this moment planning
new fcenes of pleafure to confume it all, chu«
fing to let his creditors all be bankrupts, or even
to compound with them as a bankrupt himfelf,,
rather than deny his appetites their full gratifi«
tation. #
: It is impoffible to convey a juft notion of fuch
a complicated chara&er, by any defcription ; I
(hall therefore juft mention one or two of his
' a&ions^
tb CHRYSAL: OR, TH*
yGoogle
aCtions, from which you may* in fome meafurc*
form ajudgment of the whole.
' Having a preffing occafion, fome time ago,
for an hundred guineas, he applied to one of
thofe neceflary attendants of the Great, who, at
the moderate intereft of five hundred per cent. are
always ready to fupply them with money to dif-
charge their debts of honour. This friendly
gentleman, being well acquainted with the cha­
racter of the borrower, made many fcruples to
comply with his requeft, till at length he fuffered
bimfelf to be prevailed upon conditionally, that,
if the principal and premium were not paid in a
week, he fhould receive a guinea as a further
gratuity then and every time after, that he ihould
demand his money, till it was paid. According­
ly, at the end of the week he made his de­
mand, and, as he expeCted, received his guinea, *
from which time he took care to call upon hiifi
every fecond or third day, till he had received his
money more than twice told, thus in fingle
guineas, for forbearance ; always timing his ap­
plications, when he faw his debtor engaged in
company with perfons, before whom he would
not even enter into an expoftulation, for fear of
having the affair known, fo that as foon as ha
faw him approach, without waiting to be afked*
he ufed to pull out his purfe, and calling him to
him, gave him a guinea, to go and buy fome-
thing for him; an errand the other fufficiently
underftood.
The conftant repetition of this could not al­
ways efcape obfervation, nor was the caufe of it
unfufpe&ed by mod of his acquaintance ; fome
of whom happening to hint it to him one even­
ing, when wine had taken away all referve, he,
¿ 5 . who
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. tt
yGoogle
Who was above being afhamed of any thing,
honeftly owned the whole tranfadion, andjoined
in the general laugh at his own folly: however,
as the fecret was now out, he refolved fo fubmit
to the impofition no longer ; and the next time
his friend came to wait upon him, inftead of
hurrying him away, as before, he publicly en­
tered into a difcuffion of his demand, and as he
could not attempt to deny his having received
more than double what he had lent, the debt
was adjudged by the company to be fufficiently
di(charged, and he was literally fent off, without
his errand.
This ftory (hews only the levity and inconfi*
xleratencfs of his temper, and the diftreffes, in
which they entangle him : but the following is
of a blacker hue, and will prove, that he is ca­
pable of doing any thing to extricate himfelf
from thofe diftreffes, and provide for the grati­
fication of his paffions.
* Not very long ago, a young gentleman, who
had a military turn, collected the whole o f his
fmall fortune, to purchafe himfelf a commiflion
in the army. Having lodged his money in the
hands of his agent, who, for the convenience of
making ufe of it, and to enhance the price of his
own trouble, was in no hade to difpatch the
affair, he made an excurfion to the country town,
in which this gentleman’s feat was, and where
be happened to be at that time.
As the hofpitality of his temper made his
houfe open to every ftranger, who had the ap­
pearance of a gentleman, the young foldier Toon
became acquainted with him, and in return for
the friendlhip for which he miftook the general
affability of h « .convention, and to difplay his
ow*
ii CHRYSALt OR, THE
yGoogle
ewn importance, told him his prefent fituation*
and the method he had taken to procure fuccef*
to his hopes of a truncheon. His friend exprefled^
the ftrongeft approbation of his fpirir, and en­
couraged his hopes, but told him that he had
chofen the wcrit way of entering into the army,
as the fum of money, which he had given the
agent, to purchafe him only a pair of colours*
applied properly to fome of the perlons in office,
and backed by good intereft, would not only pro­
cure him a cornetcy of horie, at prefent, which
was of three times that value, but would alfo efta-
bliih fuch an intereft for him, as fhould great*
Jy accelerate his rife to (till higher promotions.
Struck with fuch a promifing profpedt as this
fpeech opened to him, the young gentleman anr
fwered, that he was fcnlible of the truth of what
the other faid, bur that it was his unhappinefs to
have had no friend to diredt him how to apply
his money properly, much lefs to back him af­
terward. ‘ That’s very hard (repl.ed his friend)
* 1wiih I had known you fooner.*— This hint
.was enough ; the young gentlemap, tired with
,fuch flattering hopes, flew directly to town, and,
.finding that his agent had not yet concluded the
purchafe for him, took his money out of bis
ihands, and returning to the country, in the cor—
.fidence of his heart, went and prefented it to
his friend, throwing himfelf entirely upon Ivi
patronage and protediion. ,
, It is probable, that, when this gentleman be
gan the difeourfe which gave occafion to this
action, he meant no more by it, than to difplay
his own judgment and inteiefl, without any fat-
ther defign; but the fight of five hundred pounds
. was a temptation he could not refift. He there-
•
• , * Lie,
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
yGoogle
fore, with feeming furprize and relu£tance,.re~
Ceived the money, and took the young gentle­
man into his care.
For fome time he fed him with hopes of im­
mediate fuccefs; but, his impatience beginning
to grow troublefome, upon his return to town*
for the winter, he gave him to underftand ( that
* he was offended at his importunity,:—— that*
* fince he had undertaken to ferve him, he
* would do it as foon as he could but that
c he need not give himfelf the trouble of calling
* upon him any more, as he would receive fuffi-
4 cient notice of his fuccefs in the public papers.*"
— Saying which words, he left him. Thun-
der-ftruck at this fpeech, the young gentlemaa
withdrew, and, meeting one of his acquaintance*
informed him of what had happened. This
’perfon, who was perfeflly acquainted with the
gentleman’s charter, faw immediately into the
whole affair, and explained, the impolition to*
him. This made him mad; he returned di-
xe&ly to demand his money, but was denied ad­
mittance, nor would his letters even be received
by the porter. His cafe was nN
ow defperate;
while he had paid attendance upon his patron*
he had exhaufted his means of fubfiftence to the
'Jail mite, fo that he now was in want of a morfel
of bread. In this fituation a moment was not
to be loft; and luckily, his defpair fuggefted
to him the only means that could pofKbly have
procured him redrefs. He drew up a ftate of his
cafe in a-very few words, and* putting on the
beft fuit of cloaths he had left, went the very
next day to court, where, in fight of his patron,,
he bent his knee to his fovereign, and prefented
it to him. Something particular in his air and
« manner
t4 CHfcVSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
manner ftruck the monarch’s notice; he read the
petition ; and then reached it to this gentleman»,
in whofe altered countenance he foon read the
truth of the.contents r turning therefore from,
him» with a look of ineffable reproof and con­
tempt» he ordered the fecretary at war to make­
out a commiffion for the young gentleman that
very day» and from that hour has never held the
other in the leaft degree of efteem, or favour *
but he is infenfible to fuch d¡(grace» and while
he can gratify his paffions, in the manner yoti
fee at prefent, cares not what the world thinks
or fays of him.
Oppofite to him, on the other fide of the ta<*
hie, obferve an uncommonly large-boned bulky
man: this is one of the inftance&of the infuffil
ciency and weaknefs of human laws, which
ftriving to remedy one evil» often make way for ,
a greater.— That man is now advanced to the
foremoft rank of the militia lift, merely by fen i-
$rity! A grievous abufe of that inftitution,.
which to prevent favour from advancing its mi­
nions over friendlefs merit, ordains, that na
fen¡or officer fhall ferve under his junior; but
now, by the natural force of human perverfion,
this well defigned regulation is made a pretext
for giving command to fuch as have no other
claim to it, than (what ihould indeed incapaci~
tate them) old age, and fo keeping back the ad­
vance, and damping the ardour of youth.
As there is no man without fome particular
ambition, his has taken a turn, which perhaps*
you may think the moft remote from his profef-
fion of a foldier. Figures ! painting is the folt
. obieft of his admiration, the only knowledge he
valúes bimfclf upon. Tell him of a liege, or a
' battle,
ADVENTURES OFA GUINEA.
yGoogle
battle, an attack or a retreat, conduced with
the greateft fkrll, and he hear» you unmoved,
nor will interrupt your account with a fingle
queftion: but name Rembrandt or T itian, and he
immediately gives you a differtation on their ex­
cellencies, and the difference of their fchools {
Tell him but of a fale of piflures, on the day
fixed for a review, and, if he is forced to feign
ficknefs to excufe his attendance in the field, he
will be at it.
Such abfurd pa(Hons are always theobjedls of
artifice and impolition. An ingenious painter of
this country, not very long fince, whofe work»
would have been a credit to^tbe beft of foreign
fchools, but were defpifed at home, bethought
himfelf of a way to turn this perfon’s foible to
fome advantage. He made fome defigns, land­
scapes, and other drawings, in the manner of
fome of the greateft of the ancient Italian maf-
ters, whofe names he marked upon the backs of
them, in the chara&ers of their times, and giving
them the cajl of age, made them up in an Italian
cheft, and by the affiftance of a captain of a (hip,
bad them entered at the Cuftom-houfe, as di-
yedHy from Italy >and configned to a ftranger, as
from a friend there, to be difpofed of in London;
The report inftantly reached this lover of
virtu , who was fo ravifhed with the thought of
gaining fuch a treafure, that he flew to the place»
and, being convinced by bis judgment o f the authen*
ticity o f them, bought them all together, for a
very large fum, but far ihort of their real valuer
had they been to be difpofed of by a perfon ac­
quainted w 'tfh'xt, .
Though this fuccefs was very pleafing, and
ufeful to the painter» he did not itop here. This
, perfon
If CHRYSALs OR, THE
yGoogle
perfon had fome way taken a diflrke to him,;
which he indulged by running down his work.
This therefore was an opportunity for revenge
not to be miffed. He let him boaft of his acqui-
fition in all companies, and difplay his judgment
in proving them to be the genuine productions
of thofe great mailers, by criticifms which none
but a connoiffeur could make : but then, as foon
as the whole affair was fo public, that there was
no denying it, what does the incenfëd artift but
produce the counterparts of them all, which he
had kept for the occafion, fo like as not poflibfy
to be known afunder, and unravelled the whole
affair, taking care only to keep himfelf clear of
the law, by laying, that he had fold thofe things
as of no value, at a very fmall price, to a J e w !
This was a fevere ilroke ! It overturned the
only reputation which he had even an ambition
»of, and robbed him of a large fum of money
befide ; to recover which lofs and divert the
chagrin of the whole deceit, he has recourfe to
play, which he follows with the eagernefs you
lee.
But his is not the only abfurd paflion that
flrikes the notice of an accurate obferver of man­
kind. The perfon on his right-hand was born in
the firft rank of the ftate, but by fome unlucky
miftake, the qualifications which fell to his (hare
belonged to one of the lowed claffes of mecha­
nics. While others of his rank are marlhalling
armies, and planning conqued, correâing thé
abufes, or Audying to rife upon the ruins of the
"date, his utmod ambition is to cut out a buck*
fkin to advantage, and be reckoned the beft
breeches*maker of his time, Harinlefs as fuch
■A ' . an
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ff
yGoogle
an humble turn may feem, it involves the noble
artift in many whimfical diftrefles.
His paffion for breeches-making is fo ftrong,
that he never fits near any perfou, but his hand
is immediately and unpremeditatedly, applied
to his thigh, which he has no fooner ftroked
down two or three times, than he thinks he
Conceives the fize and ihape of it fo exa&ly, that
he can completely fit it, without the trouble of
taking any other meafure^ and accordingly never
fails to introduce a differtation on the art, which
he concludes with the demonftrative proof of his
(kill, of offering to make a prefent of a pair of
bis own making. The advantage of fuch an
offer, and the pleafure of encouraging (b illuftri-
ous a medianick, make his prefent always ac­
cepted, fo that he has generally the moft bufi-
nefs of any one of the trade, though fome
accidents have happened, that have almoftmade
him afraid to purfue fuch an indiscriminate me-1
thod of foliciting cuftom.
Happening fome time ago, in a very large
company, to fit near a young gentleman, whctfe
delicate complexion had brought him, though
moft unjuftly, under a fufpicion of indulging
unnatural paflions, he applied his hand to the
gentleman’s thigh, and began to feel it all over*
to take meafure of it, according to his cuftom.
The gentleman, who was not ignorant of,the
Imputation he lay under, and therefore was more
quickly fenfible ofevery thing that might poffibly
feem to allude to it, thought this application t<x
his thigh was meant either to tempt, or infulfc
him, for he had been informed that thofe
wretches often make their infamous addrefles in
¿bis manner, and was enraged at it to fuch a.
degree*
St CHRYSAL: OR, THE
j C [e
degree, that, forgetting all refpe& to the com«
pany prefent, and to the rank of his fuppofed
hover, he felled the poor breecbea-maker to the
ground, and, Aarting from his chair, drew hia
(word, and would have run him through the
body, had not his arm been happily feizcd by
the gentleman who fat next him.
It is not eafy to defcribe the aAonifhment of
the company at fuch an outrage, which they
could attribute to nothing but phrenzy; but the
gentleman foon undeceived them. ‘ Infamous*
*
»unnatural wretch ! (exclaimed he, as foon ae
* rage permitted him utterance) Pll make you
* know, that I am not an obje£t for your brutafc
4 paifions. I have expofed you here $
. but your.
* infamy (hall not be confined to this company*,
c I’ll publifh it to all the world. Unhand me»
* gentlemen, and let me waih off the difgrace
€ of fuch an attempt with the monAer’s blood !:
* PH gladly pay my own life as a forfeit to the
* defeat of the law, that has provided no puniQi«
4 ment for fuch odious crimes/-«--To the great«
er part of the company this fpeech was quite
unintelligible, and only confirmed the fufpicion
of his madnefs ; but one of them, who had ob-
ferved the gentleman change countenance upon
the noble mechanic’s applying his hand to his
thigh, foon cleared up the myfiery. ‘ I be«
4 lieve, Sir (faid he) you have been too haAy*
4 and miAaken an intention, not only harmlefs
* in itfelf, but generous.alfo, for one of a very
* different nature! Have you any other reafon
*
*
• for accufing his lordQiip of unnatural defigns
4 upon you, befide his laying his hand upon
4 your thigh, and feeling it ?-««* No, Sir, but
f that I think enough y, too much for him to
offer*
ADVENTURES O T A GUINEA. tf
yGoogle
* offer, or for me to bear; nor will I bear it/
“ 4 I do not pretend, Sir, to tell you what you
* muft bear, but this I can tell you, that you
* have entirely, and moft injuriouily, miftaken
4 his lordihip, who meant no more by that
4 a£Hon which gave you fuch offence, than juft
4 to take your meafure for a pair of breeches*
4 which, if you had not been fo hafty in your
4 refentment, he would have made you a prefenc
4 of.’—-4Death, Sir, do you make a jeft of me»’
•—His lordihip, who had heard their difeourfe,
and was by this time fo far recovered of his fright
as to be able to fpeak, interpofed here, or the
affair might probably have taken another turn;
4 No, indeed, Sir (faid he) he does not jeft! I
4 meant nothing more: and all the company
4 prefent knows, that I never had any pafliori
4 in my life, but for breeches-making ; and, if
4 you apprehended any thing elfe, you were very
4 much miftaken.’—
This fpeech, and the manner in which it was
delivered, were not to be refifted. They dif­
armed the gentleman’s rage inftantly, and his
only concern was how to make up the matter,
fo as to avoid the ridicule of fuch a miflake.
He therefore told his lordihip, that he was very
forry for his error, and hoped that he would at­
tribute the confequences of it to that delicate
fenfibility, which every man of honour muft
have under fuch an apprehenfion. This was
fufficient: his lordihip, inflead of harbouring
refentment, was glad to get fo eaiily rid of the
affair; And to convince the gentleman, both of
the iincerity of his reconciliation, and that he
had no other deftgn, than what he faid, in the
a&ion that gave him the offence, he undertook
V to
§4 CHRYSAL* OR, THE _
yGoogle
to make him* a pair of buckikin breeches, only
from the meafure he had taken, that ihould fit
him better than any he had ever worn in bit
life.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ft
C H A P . XVI.
The charafler o f a V i r t u o s o . The hijicry o f an
h o r n £ D C O C K \ w ith fome curious philosophical
remarks on cornuted animals.
OPPOSITE to him fits one of thofe philofo-
phers who build their pretences to fcien-
tific fame, on making colle&ions of the ano­
malous frolics of nature, without ever attempt­
ing to inveftigate the wifdom and power dis­
played in the regular procefs of her works. In
the courfe of this ftudy, a whimfical adventure
lately happened to the noble Virtuofo before us.
A man that bought poultry round the country,
to fupply the markets of this great city, having
got intelligence of his Iordihip’s tafte, refolvea
to turn it to his own advantage. He according­
ly procured a moft beautiful game cock, and
Jawing off the fpurs of another cock that had
very long ones, contrived to fix them firmly
with wax on the head of this bird, on each fide
of the comb, with the points turned backwards,
and inclining from each other, like the horns of
a goat, in fuch a manner, that they appeared t»
have grown naturally there.
As foon as he found that he could bring his
fcheme to a probability of fuccefs, he waited on
the Virtuofo, and giving notice, that he had fome-
; thing
yGoogle
thing curious to communicate, was immediately
admitted to an audience, in his mufaum%where
he informed him,, that he had received intelli­
gence, from a particular friend of his, a Scotch'
pedlar, that, in the fartheft part of the Highlands,,
there was a mod remarkable cock, with two fur-
prizing horns growing out of the back of his
head, in the pofleflion of an old woman, who
was famous for the fecond fight ; that upon his
admiring the creature, the woman had offered
to fell it to him for a pound of tobacco and a
bottle of brandy, but he was afraid to meddle
with it, as all the, country faid it washer fa m i*
lia r, though he had feen it himfelf fcrape the
dunghill and tread the hens, like any other cock:
and that, upon hearing the new3, he was come
to inform his lordihip of it, and to offer hie
fervice to go all the way himfelf for the bird*,
and bring him up,, if he would promife to re-
imburfe him the expences of his journey, and.
give him fome little confideration for his trou^
ble ; and to convince his lordihip, that he had
no defign to impofe upon him, he would go, at
his own hazard, and defire nothing if he did
not fucceed.
The firft mention of fuch a curiofity threw
th e Virtucfo into the higheft rapture : he em­
braced the fellow, conjured him not-to lofe st
minute, nor drop the leaf! fyliable of the affair
to any perfon Jiving,, till hie brought him the
cock: and, to fecure his fidelity, pulled out his
purfe, and gave him ten guineas, with a pro­
mife of fifty more, the moment he ihould re­
ceive him. The man promifed every thing he
required, and wenr away, hugging himfelf in
the fuccefs of hisfcheme..Accordingly, he left
that part of the country diredly, and, taking
care
9* CHRYSAL: OR^ THE
yGoogle
.tare to keep beyond the reach of his lord(hip's
enquiry, followed his bufinefs, as ufual, for the
time that he might be thought to have fpent in
Ais expedition. Iti the mean while, the V irtuofi
could not conceal the pride of his heart, on the
profpeA of Togreat an acquifition ; but in all his
letters to his philofophical correfpondents gave
myfterious hints of Something immenfely fine,
rare, and unnatural, and aifumed the importance
due to the pofleifion of fuch a treafure.
At length, the moment arrived that he was to
compleat his happineG. About ten o’clock at
night the man alighted at his lordihip’s gate, and
Tending in his name, was immediately {hewn
into the mufaumy where his lordihip flew to
meet him, in the utmoft impatience. As foon
as the man entered, all over fpattered with dirt,
and putting on every appearance of fatigue,
* Well, my good friend (faid the Virtuofo, with
* the greateft eagernefs} what fuccefs? Where is
* the dear creature? Shall I beTo happy as to fee
c him in my poffeffion ?’— 4My lord (anfwered
* the man) I muft beg your pardon for a mo-
y ment, 1 am not able to fpeak: I am quite
€ worn out’— and then dropping upon a chair,
as if he was juft ready to faint, his lordihip im-
4nediately rung for fome cordial for him, which
he took from the fervant himfelf at the door,
(for he would not admit any one living) and gave
him with his own hand. When he was a little
recovered,4 Lbeg your lord(hip’s pardon (con­
* tinned he) but 1 could not hold out a moment
* longer: what with travelling all day, and
* watching ail night, I am quite worn out.’—
But where is the bird }’— — 4And then fuch
* offers as I have refufed ! Well, to be fure. I
4trufted
AD VENTURES O f A GUINEA. n
yGoogle
* trufted to your lordfliip's generality, fori (haH
* never have fuch another opportunityof making
* my fortune: for behold the thing had taken
c wind, and there was my Lord Duke’s and Sir
* Tbumas's men, and twenty more, riding for
* life, to try who ihould get him, but 1 had got
* the (tart of them, and was coming back, with
c the pretty creature in my bofom; but I let
c them all go on their fool’s errand, and did not
c fay any thing to them; for how did I know
f but they might kill me to get him away from
€ me?’— Having finilhed his fpeech, which the
other did not cbufe to interrupt, though he lif*
tened to it with the utmoft impatience, the fel«*
low opened his horfeman’s coat, and with the
greateft caution produced the wonderful crea­
ture, the bead and neck of which had been
carefully thruft into a box made on purpofe, for
fear the coat ihould rub off the horns.
His lordihip’s rapture at the fight is not to be
defcribed. He inftantly pulled out his purfe, and,
paying down the promifed price, took pofieffion
of him, and bid the man go and refrelh himfelf
for that night, with the beft in thehoufe, and in
the morning he would confider how he might
make him a return more equal to his fervice, by
procuring him fome handfome place at court.
But the fellow had other deitgns in his head
than ever to fee his face more. However, he
kept that to himfelf, and retiring with many pro-
felfions of gratitude, left his houfe dire&ly, and
took his leave of that country for ever.
In the mean time, his lordihip had notice
that fupper was ferved up; but, though be had
company of the hift rank in his houfe, he was
fo wrapt up in the contemplation of his new ac-
quifition,
*4 CHRYSALt OR, THE
yGoogle
^uifition, thathe fent word he was taken fuddenly
ill» and could not poffibly attend them : he then
difpatched feveral feryants exprefs to his learned
friends, to delire their attendance next day to fee
the moft aftonidling and beautiful compolition
nature had ever made in the animal world, and
devoted the reft of the night to the drawing upa
proper delbfiption of this^furprifing homed cock*
with a phyfical enquiry into the fubftance of his
boms, and a philofophical attempt to account for
fuch an extraordinary produ&ion. When this
work of uncommon learning was finiihed, he
indulged himfelf with taking another view of his
darling bird, and then put him in a beautiful
cage, from which he diflodged two Chinefe phea*
fants, and placed him in his mufaum next to his
favourite horned owl.
. it was fix in the morning before he retired to
reft; when his head was fo full of his new acqui-
fition, that he lay dreaming of cows with wings,
and cocks with horns, and fuch like wonderful
works of nature, till the arrival of his learned
friends at noon. As foon as their coming was
announced, he arofe diredly, and, without wait­
ing to viiit his cock, to whom he had given a
fufficiency of provifions before he left him, went
to meet them. After feveral impatient enquiries
into the caufe of fo fudden and peremptory a
fummons, the Vhtuofo, in all the myfterious im­
portance, which fo ineftiaiable an acquifition
gave him, produced his own learned labours of
that morning, and, when they had diffidently
ftudied and examined them, introduced thek
m to
a fight of the unparallelled iubjeft : 4 There,
4 gentlemen ,(faid he, in confcious exultation)
* there, my friend*, behold the moll uncommon
. 4 unna-
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
yGoogle
* unnatural, and ineftimable curiofity, that ever
* enriched the colle&ion of a philosopher. There
f behold an indifputable proof of their error,who
* aflert that nature has placed an immoveable
4 boundary between the quadruped and winged
4 creations. There behold a fufficient encou­
ragem ent, to urge your indefatigable fearch
s for monfters, and to mix the whole animal
* creation in coition, for the produ&ion of mer-
€ maids, griffins, centaurs, harpies, and horned
4 cocks, and ail that beautiful confulion which
* yield fuch inexpreffible delight to an inquiii-
f tive, philofophic mind/» ■
While he was making this harangue, the com«
pany approached the gilded cage, that contained
this ineftimable prodigy* and ftooping down, to
contemplate him, were furprized to und one of
his horns fallen off, and the other moved conft-
derably from the fituation, in which it had been
described to them; for, doleful to relate, the
cock, which was of the right game bleed, had
unfortunately taken offence at the vifage of the
owl his neighbour* and in his ftruggles to come
at him, through the bars of the cage, had rubbed
off one, and difplaced the other of his horns.
When this deplorable misfortune was mention­
ed to the owner, it is impoflible to defcribe his
aftonifhment and confufion. He ftooped haftily
to be fatisfied of the truth of it, and beholding
the irreparable ruin of his pride, gave one dif-
mal groan, and fell at his length on the floor*
inafwoon.
While his fervants, who were fummoned upon
the occafion, were fetching him to himfelf, one
©f the philofophers opened the cage, and taking
out the bird, they all entered into a difeuffion
f6 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
of fo ftrange a phenomenon. After many learn­
ed and ingenious folutions, one of them declared,
that it had always been his opinion, in which the
prefent cafe abundantly confirmed him, that all
cornuted animals call their horns every year,
like the flag, and that the prefent cafe was no
more than that; of which he was perfectly con­
vinced, as he could plainly ftel, with his finger,
the growing horn* which had thus thrutt ofF the
old one; fo that, my lord (faid he, addreffing
himfelf to the owner, who, by this time was re­
covered, and attending to their remarks) 4 In-
4 ftead of being vexed at fuch an event, you
4 have reafon to rejo’ce, as it explains a very
4 difficult point, and you will now have an op-
4 portunity of tracing the growth of this beau­
* tiful prodigy.*
tThe fage folution adminiftred fome confola-
tion to the Virtuofo> who immediately took the
bird in his own hands, and feeling the lump of
wax, which had fattened on the fi&itious horn,
was convinced of the truth of his friend’s accu­
rate obfervation, which he himfelf farther con­
firmed, by taking notice, that, as no blood fol­
lowed the avulfion, it was evident that the horn
was of itfelf ready to fall off, without the affift-
ance of the cock’s ftruggling (for they had caught
him at that work) as tne diflocation of the other
horn (hewed that that was not in the fame ftate
of ripenefs, and, therefore, it had refitted that
force. Confcioufnefs of the fagacity of this re­
mark, in fome degree, reftored his fpirits, and'he
was going to proceed, when one of the cpmpany,
who had taken up and examined the fallen horn,
and had not given any opinion on the matter,
interrupted him dryly, and faid* that the hypo-
V o l . I. • F • thelis
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. $7
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
thefis was certainly very ingenious, but he be­
lieved the affair might be folved a readier way i
forv upon examination of the fuppofed horn, he
found it was only a cock’s fpur, which had been
fattened upon the creature’s head with wax, as
appeared evidently by the remains of the wax,
upon the end of the fpur in his handj and, if
they would let him pull off the other, he would
undertake that the impofture would be too plain
to admit of any doubt.
The mention of this threw them all intocon-
fufion, as they had all given their opinions poll*
tively, of the honour of which it deprived them,
and cut fhort many more, which they were rea­
dy to offer: they therefore ftood looking at each
other, till he ftretched out his hand to pull off
the other horn, when they all interpofed, parti­
cularly the owner, and infilled that they muft
be better fatisfied of what he had advanced, before
they could permit fo raih an experiment. But
the bird himfelf cut (hort the difpute; for fome
of the company happening to have fnuff in their
fingers, it got into the cock’s eyes, and made
him (hake his head, with fuch violence, that off
flew the horn in his owner’s face. The perfon
who had made the difcovery, immediately took
it up, and ihewed fuch plain proof of the trick,
that it could no longer be denied.
It is impoffible to defcribe the fhame and vex­
ation in every philofophic face prefent, at this
lamentable event. The abufed purchafer, in
particular, was almoft mad: however, after ma­
ture deliberation, it was agreed upon, for the
credit of philofophy, to bear the deceit in iiience,
rather than expofe themfelves to the ridicule of
the unlearned, by feeking fatUfe£Hon from the
cheat»
9* CHRYSAL: OJt, THE
yGoogle
cheat. As for the cock, he was immediately fa-
crificed to Mfculapius^ to avert the confequences
which fuch a disappointment might have upon
the health and underilanding of the companyf
and to remove fuch an evidence of their difgrace.
But all their caution was in vain : the perfon,
who firil dete&ed the deceit, could not deny his
vanity the .pleafure of making his fagacity
known; and the fellow, finding his trick paf-
fed over thus with impunity, could not avoid
.boafting of it; and to this day diverts his cuf-
tomers with thehiftory of the horned cock.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 9r
C H A P . X VII.
M ore mortification to human vanity. A reafon fo r
Juhm itting to he pillaged hy Jharptrs. W hat's got
truer the d evil's haek, is Jpent under bis belly.
F ilia l piety remarkably rewarded.
ISee you are fliocked at the inconfiftency,
vice, and folly of mankind; but this ¡sowing
to your reclufe life, and want of acquaintance
with the world? T o an accurate obferver, things
appear in their.prpper colours; and, if the piihire
ihould be unpleaiing, the fault is in the fubje&,
not in the painter, who honeftly reprefents na­
ture as he finds .her. As to thofe, of whom I
have given you thefe (hort (ketches, they are
wealthy, and wealth,is an excufe for all things$
the nobility of their birth not yielding a greater
fen&ion to their perfons, than their money does
to their vices and follies. And where thefe tend
10 the diflipauon of that wealth, they only en-
F a hance
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c ’
103 CHRVSAL: OR, THE
hance their welcome, in every place of polite
refort: indeed, the fociety, in which you fee
them at prefent a(Ternbled, fubfifts entirely by
thefe, as by the inftitution of it, no perfon can
be admitted, who has not wealth to diifipate; as
no perfon will defire to be admitted, who has
not a vicious avarice for the wealth of others,
and folly enough to hazard his own for the ac-
quifition of it.
But, though folly is, in the ftri&nefs of truth,
thus effential to this afTociation, there are many
of the members, who, in the general meaning
of the word, are intirely above the imputation
of it: yet fo prevalent is the infatuation of
gaming, that they will bear the grofleft imper­
tinences, and mix with the outcafts of huma­
nity, for its gratification, as if the dice, like
death, levelled all diftin&ions.
Obferve that perfon, who feems to be abforbed
in thought, in the midftof the hurricane around
him. Reafon takes the advantage of his being
for a moment difengaged, and forces him to be­
hold, in a proper light, a fcene fo contrary to
THE OECONOMY OF HUMAN LIFE, a$ that in
which he is involved; but wait till the dice-box
comes round to him, and you will fee all his
philofophy vaniih, and his pailion for gaming
hurry him as deftruflive lengths as the moft
thoughtlefs of them all.
Every ability, every virtue that could adorn
and exalt the human mind, confpired to throw
the brighteft luftre around his youth,, and mark
him as a bleffing to fociety. Nor did he difap-
point the general hope, but filled, with dignity
and honour, the high employments to which
his merits raifed him, till this pernicious paffion
. infcnfibly
1 Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
infcnfibly unbent his mind, and turned hi?
thpughts from every nobler purfuit. The fal­
ling off was moil unhappy: his time, every \
moment of which is precious to the public, is
wafted in idle diflipation, or devoted to plea •
fures, deftru&ive to his fortune, which thus
falls a prey to iharpers, while the induitrious, a
honeft tradefman calls in vain for payment, at
his door.
Yet, even in this improvidence, the natural
virtue of his heart fometimes appears, in a man­
ner that fofte'ns the feverity of cenfure. Some
years ago, when he filled one of the moft im­
portant places of the (late, in a neighbouring ;
nation, he had notice given him, that a fet of ,
Iharpers, difguifed with the moft delicate and fpe-
cious art, had entered into a combination againft
him ; but inftead of profiting by the friendly cau­
tion, and avoiding them, he feemed to throw .
himfelf, on purpofe, into the fnares laid for him,
till tiny pillaged him of fums of money, fuffici-
ent to diftrefs the greateft fortune.
,A ß it was known, that he had been forwarded,
of their fchemes, his conduä was aftonifhing to
all: but he vindicated it, by faying, that .the
wretches had put themfelves to a confiderable
expence* and travelled a great way to accompliih •
their defign ; if he had difappointed which, they
muft either have ftarved or robbed, perhaps
from thofe who might not be able to bear the
lofs, and then have been hanged : fo that he
looked upon it as charity, in a double fenfe, to
fubmit to be cheated by them, and in the fame
manner does he ftill vindicate his gaming, with
perfons fo notorious for their villainies, that it
is almoft infamous to fbeak to them.
* 3 A*
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, ioi .
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
At liîs left hartd, voir fee a perfbn, With art
heap of gold before him, which he diflipates
\#ith fuch eagernefs, that he feems defirous to be
poor. His father heaped up that wealth, with an
avidity that was a difgrace to human nature. The
groans of the diftrefled, the tears of the orphan
and the widow, which he hoarded with his
riches, now eat them like a canker; and the
gold, that he wrung from the hard hands of the
poor, melts in the poffeffion of his fpendthrift
heir, like fnow before the fun. Nor was the for-
didnels of his heart, in abftaining from the moil
neceflary ufe of his riches, inferior id his iniqui­
ty in acquiring them. Hedenied himfelf the very
neceffaries of life, and literally lived in the mbit
abjedt poverty, for fear of being poor. T o this
perverfe difpofition does the perfon you fee, in
a great meafure, owe his inheriting his wealth ;
for he had an elder brother, whom the mifer had
always defigned to be his heir, till an ill-timed
adt of filial piety loft him his favour.
The old man had an ailment in his leg, which,
fot Want of proper and timely care, had grown
to fuch a degree of malignancy, that it at length
became abfolutely neceffary to cut it off, in or­
der to fave his life. Terrible as the appreheit-
fiori of fuch an operation muft be, the expened
of it gave IV
irti Hill greater concern. To have it
done, therefore, in the cheapeft manner, he mader
h s eldeft fob dWgurfdhimfelf in a‘ mean drefs, and
take a lodging for him in a garret, in one of thd
obfeureft corners of the town, whirher he remo­
ved himfelf by night, and under the charadter
of a poor tradefman, fent for a furgeon who*
lived in’ that neighbourhood, and advertifed his
ikill at the loweft pried. His fon, whofd near
‘ profpeft
io# CHkYSALï 0% THÉ
yGoogle
profpe&of fuch an immenfc inheritance did not
efface his filial duty and affe&ion, was (hocked at
fuch an inftance of avarice, and, though he dared
not contradift, was refolved to counteradt it.
Accordingly, when he was fent for the furgeon,
for his father had not revealed his retreat to any of
his fervants, for obvious regions, inRead of going
to the quack, as he was diredted, he went to one
of the moft eminent furgeonsof the age,and, re­
vealing the whole affair to him, prevailed on him,
for a large gratification, to difguife himfelf, and ,
undertake to perform the operation, for whatever
trifle (hould be offered him; and then told his fa­
ther, with an appearance of joy, that, as he was
going for the advertifing furgeon, he had luckily
met, in an aleh ufe where he was dire&ed to
inquire for him, a perfon who had been many
years a furgeon’s mate on board a man of war,
who'he was fure would cut off his leg, not only
much better, but cheaper alfo, as his appearance
(hewed that he was flawing,, and muif be glad
to take whatever he could get.
. Such a lucky hit raifed the old man’s (pints,
fa that: he fubmitted to the operation without
fartherconcern, which was performed in fo maf-
terly a manner, that, in a fit of unwonted gt-
nerofity, he gave the furgeon half a guinea,
though he had bargained with him for a crown ;
but then he comforted himfelf, when he began
afterwards to refleft upon bis extravagance, that
he could flop it out of the fees for his attendance.
In the fame manner as he had impofed a good
furgeon upon him, did his unfaihionable fon fup-
ply him with all things neceflary for his condi­
tion, by making a woman, in whom he could
confide, bring them every day, as if from a lady
F 4 of
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA, ioj
yGoogle
of fortune, a patient of the furgeon’s, to whom he
had reprefentcd him as an object of charity; for, "
if he bad had no other fupport but what he al- "
lowed himfelf, he mijft have periihed for want
of proper nouriihment. When his cure was com­
pleted by this management, and he came to dif-
charge thefurgeon, after lamenting his inability
to make a more fuitable return, he offered him a
couple of guineas; but the furgeon not thinking
it neceflary to carry on the deceit any longer,
now the end was anfwered, told him that he need
make no apology, for his fon had already given
him two hundred.— 4My fon, Sir ! 1do not un- *
4 derftand you (anfwered the wretch, in the moft
4 violent agitations of furprize, confufion, and
4 rage’). 4Yes, Sir (replied thefurgeon, addref-
4 iing him by his name, and tefling his own)
• your fon,'to whom you are indebted for your
4 life more ways than one; for, it was he that
• fupplied you with the things which you ima-
4 gined to have been fent you out of charity.
Shocking as this difcovery was, the old mifer ’
recovered prefence of mind to carry it off in
an admirable manner. 4 Sir (faid hé) I have ,
4 a projpor fenfeof my fon’s duty, and of your
4 ikill in your profeflion; though you nave
4 prevented my making an acknowledgment of
4 them in the manner I intended : For you
• muft not think that 1have been deceived; I
4 knew you all along: and I removed to this
4 place, and took this method of concealing my-
4 felf, both to avoid the trouble and imperti-
4 nence of vifitors and complimentary mef-
• fages, and to make trial of my foh*s duty ;
4 of which I have now had a fufficient proof/
— Saying this, he took the furgeon by the
hand,
164 C H R Y S A t : O R , ' T H E '
yGoogle
hand, and accepted his offer of continuing to at­
tend him till his wound (hould be quite healed,
with the greater readinefs, as he was paid already ;
butto his fon he behaved in a different manner,
for he dire£Hy made a new will, by which he
bequeathed his immenfe fortune to the next bro­
ther, the perfon before us, ‘leaving the other to
pine out his days in poverty, on a poor annuity,
in reward fo r his obedience and duty, (in thé very -
words of his will) an injuftice that was farther
aggravated, by his having made him relinquiih
the mod promifing hopes of riftng in the army,
and refign his commiflions, fome time before,
merely to attend upon him. Such a ihock was
almoft too great for humaif fortitude : the in­
jured gentleman funk under it; happy in efca-
ping foon from a world, where the higheft Vir­
tues are defpifed, if deftitute of wealth.. .
As for the heir, tr was his good fortune to be
bred at fuch a diliance from his father, that he
had no opportunity of making any obfervations
on him, and therefore, as the mifer could not
carry his wealth with him out of the world, he
even left it to him ; though, could he have fore­
seen the feene before us, he would fooner have
bequeathed it to charitable ufes, to enrich over-
feers, and ftarve the poor, than given it to fuch
a fpendthrift.
I fee your fenfes fail under fuch an extraor­
dinary exertion, I ihall therefore clofe this feene
with obferving that the whole company may be
charaâerized under the few I have pointed to
you. In this view of them, I chofe to take
the filent moment, when their bufinefs was near
over : for, in the height of it, the agitation of
r 5 lucU
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i©5
yGoogle
fuch eortipïicatetf priions wouW hare beér* too
horrible for reprefentatrort.
t6i CHRŸSAL: Oft, THfe
C H A P . XVIII.
¿HRYSAL gives a farther account of his late lord^
■ The methods by which he had been initiated in the
myferies of polite life. SomeJketches of the cha­
racter of his next majler, who gives him to an
extraordinary perfon.
T Promifed to give you fame account of my late
lord. He was the fon of one of the itioft
diftinguiihed perfons of his age, who had ac­
quired a fortune in tjit fervice o f his country,
fufficiertt to fupport* with proper dignity, the
nobility with which his faithful zeal was re­
warded by his grateful fovereign.
The youth of his fon opened with fuch pro­
filin g hopes, that it was expeded he would ad­
vance, in the fteps of his father, to the higheft
rank of a fubjed. T o facilitate thcfe hopes,
at his return from his travels, in which he had
not only gone to fee, but had alfo taken time to
confider the principal countries of Europe, with
thofe of A frica and AJia, whofe interefts might
any way affeft thofe of his own, or whofe hiftory,
illuftrated thus by obfervation, might teach him
to improve the advantages of his own country,
and avoid the evils which had been the ruin of
others, he was placed in the lower houfe of the
fcnate, with every advantage of fortune, intereft,
yGoogle
and opinion, to fupport the exertion of his abi­
lities. v . .
He had fcarce made himfelf known here, in
his proper light, when the death of his father
railed him into the upper houfe, where he (bon
eftabliihed a weight that made him of real con»
fequence .to the nation, and alarmed the fears of
the minilhy, who, as they could not confute,
refolved to corrupt him, if pofllble$ for which
end thedeepeft fchemes were put in pra£tice, to
relax his morals, and embarras his fortune., as
the prefent fituation of both raifed him above
their attempts.,
It would require uncommon virtue to refift
the temptations to vice, in an age whefe refine­
ments have taken off every groiTnefs^ and ai*
moft every horror o f its appearance. His re­
gard was won, by a moil delicate application to
that vanity, which j
l
s too ofien the ihadow of
merit, efpecially in youth y the very perfons
who defigned to change his principles, Teeming
to give up theirs to the fuperior force of hisrea*
ion.
Such artifice foon won the confidence ©
f his
unguarded heart, and inclined it t©receive theitf
opinions and advice, without farther examina­
tion : as the heat of youth and a vivid imagi­
nation a{Tided their de&gns againft his fortune,
the fuecefs of which was in itfelf a fuificicnt re­
ward.
He had always exprefled a. diflike to play, nor
ever gave into it, but in cotnpiaifaoce to com­
pany« T o conquer this averfion was therefore
their laft labour, to which they found tafier
foccefe than they could have even hoped for*
The affluence of his Toutone made him above
c ap,pre-
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 107
yGoogle
apprehenfion oflofs, andadifdain to be excelled,
even in an art he disapproved, engaged him with
a keennefs, that foon made his advances in the
art a pleafure to him.
The work was now done; and a few years of
his own induftry, with the affiftance of his
friends, and the management of his faithful
ftcward, made him willing to enter into the pay
of £ miniftry, which he might, in lefs time,
have overturned.
This was his fituation at that time; but fome
fecret itruggles, which I faw reafon and virtue
making in his heart, make me think he medi­
tates a revolt from his infatuation, which the
Jeaft liberty to his natural good fenfe could not
fail toaccompliih ; an event, which the rapacity
of Poundage muft haften, to his own ruin.
The perfon in whofe poflefiion I left the fcene
you have juft beheld, was one of thofe who had
been fo fuccefsful in initiating my late mafter in­
to all the myfteries of pleafure. Indeed, he
feemed defigned by nature to extend its empire
over all mankind, making it the foie objedt of
abilities equal to the moft exalted purfuits, to
invent new, to improve the old methods of gra­
tifying fenfe, and enforcing his precepts, by an
example fo keen, and a conversation fo capti­
vating, as not to be refifted.
Appetites fo extenfive required a large fup-
port; to provide which, for fortune had fo far
frowned upon his birth, that hewas but a younger
brother, he was compelled to fteal fome moments
from his darling pleafures, and facrifice them to
bufinefs.— — The intereft 6f his family and his
owti abilities had raifed him to the firft employe
«icnt» in theftate; but as the foie motive of
* his
10« CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
his fubmitting to thercftraint of any application, '
was to acquire a fund for the gratification of his
pleafures, his hade to arrive at that end precipi­
tated him into the mod dedruftive mcafures, and
made him re^dy and eager to embrace every op­
portunity of facrificing, or rather felling the in-
tered of his country for prefent private gain.
The proper application of the gifts of Hea­
ven makes them a bleffing. This cad of his
difpofition made thofe abilities, which under a
right dire&ion, would have been of the higheft
fervice to himfelfand his country, a real preju­
dice to both, making him the ready and dange­
rous indrument of the mod enormous crimes,
that could promife prefent gratification to his
paffions.
In fuch a life, there mud neceffarily be many
difagreeable occurrences, but they made no im­
preffion on him; for his whole foul is fo devoted-
to pleafure, that upon the lead mifcarriage in
bufinefs, he finds immediate relief in the return^
to that, which he can fly to, without any diffi­
culty, the natural vivacity of his temper, that'
makes his converfation fo bewitching to others,*
never yielding to a fecond moment’s vexation at'
any one event. .
As the viper bears in herfelf the antidote of
her poifon, this diffipation of temper prevents
his abilities from doing all the mifchief he other-
wife might, by pulling off the mafk, and (hew­
ing his deiigns too foon fortheir accomplidiment.
The very perfons, who would gladly avail them-
felves of the venality, not daring to truft to the
ittcondancy of his difpofition ; fo that he foon
loft his greated power of doing evil, otherwife
than by oppofing, and impeding the meafures of
thofe,
ADVENTURES OFA GUINEA. Id*
yGoogle
thtfe» whoie facce&fttl hfcnefijf difropointed ht*
defigfts, and Ihewcd the danger of them in its
proper light.
You will not imagine, that my ftajr could be
long in his poffeifton. He that very day gave me
to an author, for throwing dirt on the chara&ers
of thofe who had dete&ed and defeated his
fchemes of leading his country into ruin*
ila CHRYSAi* OR, TRI
. C H A P . XIX.
The bijlory and character o f C h r y s a l ’ i new mo-
J ler. H is adventures at a coffee-boufe. Thefu n
o f a modern g e n i u s retcried upon bim felff ly
the grave rebuke o f a tejiy veteran.
M
Y new mailer was a votary of Apollo> in
the double capacity of phyfic and letters :
for, the former not affording fcope enough for
his genius, he ufually dedicated hisleifure hours
to the gentierentertainment of the latter, through
theextenfive circle of which he had occafionafly
ran ; there not being a branch in the wide world
of fcience which had not felt his pruning: the
loweft rudiments of the moil vulgar aits being,
in his opinion, no more beneath the philofophic
pen, than the moft abftrufe heights of fpecula-»
tion.
It muil be owned, that, in fuch a latitude of
fitidy» he often was obliged to proAirute bis la«
bouts; but for this he had the folid confolatioO^
that his gain generally rofe, in proportion as his
fkrHe& funk, the caprice of the world paying
befty
yGoogle
btft> that is, baying mofreagerly,what isaffefted
to decry raoft. Nor is this to be wondiefed at* »
locrfe tale, or a receipt for cooking a new difit,
being better adapted to general tafte, than a mo«
ral effay, or metaphyfical fpeculation.
From his patron's levee, my mailer went di­
redly home, and, undrefling into his cap and
flippers, afcesided to his ftudy, and took a me­
ditative turn or two, revolving in his mind ther
many grievances that called upon him fo t re-'
drefs, from the fuccefs of that morning.
At length burfting into a rapture, he cried,
4 I'll think no morel Be the wants of ycfter-
4 day forgot 1 thofe of to morrow will come too1
* foon, without the anticipation of thought! I
4 cannot pay all I owe ! I cannot provide all I
• want! Hence then, vain care! I'll depend
* on fortune, and myfelf, for a greater fupply
4 another day, and indulge my genius with the
4 prefent.'----- Big with this heroic refolution,
he gave orders for dinner, and then, fending for
his beft fait home, hedrefied himfelf in all his
pride, and went to a coiee^houfe to look at the
papers.
The pleafure of my company had given inch
a flow to his fpirrts, naturally high, that he foon
drew the attention of the coffee room, the greater
part of the company gathering in a circle round
him, to hear his remarks on the publications of
she day* which he threw out with the confidence
of one* who thought his opinion the eftablifhed
ftand&rd of all writing ; and at the fame time*
with a fprightlinefs that made his very impu­
dence and abfurdity entertaining.
While he was thus running on, in the tor-
x*ftt of harafigut* a w tfran, whofc only em*
• ployment,
ADVEHTURES OF A GUINEA, in
yGoogle
pjoyment, for many years, was talking over the
actions of his youth, and comparing them to the
miftakes and loiTes of the prefent times, *no
longer able to contain his rage, at having his
audience drawn from him, in the midd of his
daily tale, rofe up with an execration that fhook
the room, and Called for his cloak and cane,
4 This is,not to be borne (exclaimed he).
* Here, waiter, take for my coffee ! I (hall flay
4. in fuch a place no longer : is this the land of
4 freedom, forfooth ! that a man mull be dif-
4 turbed in his difcourfe, and not have liberty
4 to fpeak where he fpends his money ? Had
4 I but the command here, Pd fettle other or-
4 ders ; every prating puppy ihould not prefume
4
; to interrupt his betters : things are like to go
4 well with us, when matters of the higheft
4 confequence can be broken in upon by noife
4 and nonfenfe, This is freedom with a ven-
4 geance.*
The look and accent with which thefe words
Were pronounced, were tooterrible for my mailer
to encounter ; both;nature and experience.hav-
ing given him fo lively an apprejienfion of dan­
ger, that his readied prefence of mind was. not
always able to conceal it. He was, therefore,
cut fhort at once, and could fearce mader fpirits
to throw a wink at fome of thofe about him, as
the man of war looked) another way.
But the triumph was not fo abfolute over all
the company, one of whom, refolving to haye
fome funy cries out, 4 Pray, doftor, proceed ;
4 you; are jud in thè mod iotereding part of
4 your dory : the colonel could, not mean to
4iinterrupt ypy $ he is too fond of telling his
4 own dory to givte¿OQthe* fuch pain : go on,
, 4 you
li* CHRYSALr OR; THE
yGoogle
( you ihould not be frighted at a flafh in the
* pan.*
4Frighted indeed* (replied thedo&or, gather-
4 ingcourage when he faw himfelf fupported) at
4 what, 1 wonder ! at the fight of what old age
1 can fink to ; no, no ! Iam not fo eafily fright- *
* ed ! I leave that to your antiquated heroes, the
4 exploits of whofe youth have exhaufled their
4 courage : I mean no offence but to go on,
4 as I was faying, the difcowery o f theJlcep o fplants
4 accounts in the clearejl manner.'*— ' Hold, doctor
4 (cries the other) that was not as you werefay-
4 tngy you were telling us of the nobleman, who
4 caught his coachman in bed with his lady, one
4 morning, when he came home, fooner than
4 ufual from the tavern ; pray how did (he bring 1
4 herfelf of?*
4 Oh, was that it? (replied thedo&or) faith
4 I had forgot; the fury of Mars had like to
4 have made a gap in the annals of Venus: ha!
4 ha! ha! why (he made nothing of it, but
4 laughing in his face, moil heroically, tit for
4 taty my dear, is but fair play (faid (he) while
4 I fay nothing at your flaying out night after
4 night with Kittyy you cannot in confidence
4 blame my comforting myfelf a little with
The colonel flood all thiswhile convulfed with
rage, too big for utterance ; but the univerfal
laugh, that followed the doitor’s laft words, rouf-
ing him, he advanced to him, 4 Whom do you
4 dare to laugh at, poultron ? (fays he, taking 4
4 him by the nofe) whofe courage is exhaufled,
4 but you are beneath my notice or refentment,
4 farther than this*— (then fpitting full in hi6
face, he turned to the gentleman who had fet the *
do&or
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 113 t
yGoogle
do&or on, and who began now not to like the
joke any farther) 4But for you, Sir ! you perhaps
4 may be a gentleman, and worth calling to a
4 further account ! will you pleafe to walk up
4 ftairs with me, and let me know, what you
4 mean by a flafh in the pan ?’
The ceremonies of attending him, on fuch an
expedition, would not have been much more
agreeable to this gentleman than to my matter,
but he had more command of his fear, and was
Well ufed to bringJiimfelf off with a joke. 4Sir
4 (fays he) you need not give yourfelf the trou-
4 bleof going up ftairs, for what I can as well
4 do here! By bidding the doctor not be fright-
4 ed, I mean at the circumstances of his own
4 ftory, for juft as you interrupted him, he had
4 faid, the lord fnapped a piftol at his lady,
4 which had flatbed in the pan ! That was all,
4 Sir ! I could never mean it to offend you, or
4 foew a doubt of your courage, which I have
4 heard you relate fo many furprifing inttances
4 of, fo often, and always fo invariably alike,
4 that they muft be true/
4 Sir ! Sir ! have a care (replied the colonel:)
4 I do not defire to be troubled with fuch a
4 gentleman as I perceive you are ! But let me
4 tell you, Sir, that I have feen a man’s face
4 broke before now, for wearing fuch a fheer !
4 As to the ftories I tell, 1am fatisfied they will
4 be of no fervice to you, nor raife the leaft emu-
4 1ation in a man- who can flay lounging about
4 town, when his country has occafion for him.
4 I was younger than you when I went a voliin*-
4 teer with Lord Cutts> under the duke of M a rl-
4 borough ; nor was I urged by want, I had a
4 good eftate, Sir, fuf&cient to fupply me with
4 what
tt* CHHYSA Li OR, TB£
yGoogle
4 what you call the pleafures of life, if I could
4 have thought any thing a pleafure that was not
c attended with honour* Sir, I loft this hand at
4 BUnheimy and this leg at M alplaqutt! But why
4 do I tell you I you will preferve your hands
4 to take fnuffj and your legs to walk the Park,
4 the proper feene of your campaigns/— With
which words the doughty hero marched away to
his chariot.
Though this le&ure was rather too grave for
the tafte of the perfon to whom it was addrefled, it
gave great pleasure to the unconcerned part of the
company, and to none more than my mafter, who
hadwiped his face, and began to come to himfelf,
as foon as he faw the danger diredled anotherway.
Before the gentleman could fpeak, the do&or
came up to him, and faid, 4I am forry, Sir,
4 that you fhould have drawn this ftorm upon
€ yourfelf, upon my account! But I bore the
€ worft of it! You heard but the whiftling of
4 the winds, the ihower fell on me! ’tis well
4 though, that what fuch dotards do is not
4 efteemed an affront!’— — - 4An affront, Sir
4 (replied the other) I do not underftand you !
4 I hope you do not in.finuate, that there wa$;
4 any affront offered to me, or that I was in the
4 leaft concerned in what was faid, only to you !*
— 4 Not at ally Sir (returned the dodlor) not
4 at all’, Sir ! the colonel’s difeourfe was all di-
4 refted to me, to be fore ! and I hope to profit
4 by it, thus far, that 1 will never interrupt him
4 again p— —And with thefe words he left his
former friend the field, not caring to enter into
any farther altercation with him, for fear he
might take it into his head to vindicate hischa-
ralter on him, as he knew bis man,
Such
ADVENTURES OF A GUI NBA. trf
yGoogle
Such flight rebuffs made not a moment’s im*
preffion on the temper of my matter ; he was
ufed to, and/made nothing of them ! A good
dinner, and a bottle of wine, fent him in the
evening, in a critical enthufiafm, to the theatre,
where all a£tion fell ihort of the fublimity of his
conception, all expreflion, of the warmth of his
feeling, as he fully explained to every company
in the coffee-houfe, while he fat at public fup-
per, after the play was done.
ii6 CHRVSAL: OR, THE
C H A P . XX.
Some fu rth er account o f C h r y s a l ’j majler. H is
converfation and engagements w ith two bookftilers.
Some o f the fecrets o f the trade. C hrvsax.
changes his fervice.
EX T E N S IV E as thefe fcenes were, they
(hewed not my matter in his proper light.
His peculiar fphere was his ftudy, where the in-
cònfiftency of his work, (hewed the chaos in the
brain, from whence they fprung. Chaos, did I fay!
Chaos is order to the confuficn there. For furely
the difcordant feeds of luch ill matched things
were never jumbled together before. An auc­
tioneer’s library is a regular fyftem, in compari-
fon to his head. Such an heap has neither be­
ginning nor end. No fixed point to commence
a defcription from. I (hall ‘therefore wave fuch
an attempt, and only ftrive to convey fome idea
of it, from its effects.— At five the next morn­
ing he arofe to his labours, the firft of which
w
as
yGoogle
was to confider, what he fhould begin the day
with, fuch was the multitude he had in hanrd.
But what reafon could not determine, chante
muft, and he took them as they happened to lie,
panegyric) libel, phyftc, divinity, cookery, criticifm ,
politics, ballads, botany, &c. &c. &c. In all 'of
which he indefatigably worked the talk of the
day, changing his fubje& with as little concern
as he did his paper : and though fuch rambling
prevented his ever getting deeper than the fur-
face of any fubjed, yet it ihewed the extent and
volubility of his capacity, and that it wanted
only regular application to any fcience, to be
eminent in it.
As foon as he had finiihed, and the devils had
carried away his labours, he was juft defeending
. to go out, when a bookfeller came to pay him
a viftt. After much ceremony on one fide, and
little civility on the. other, Mr. Vellum thus ac-
cofted my mafter: 4Well, Sir, I fee there is
8 no dependence on the word of an author ! I
4 thought I was to have the anfwer to yefter-
4 day’s pamphlet laft night: Somebody eife will
c do it, and then I ihall be finely off.’
4'Upon my honour, Sir (replied my mafter)
c I aflure you I ihould have done it, but fome
4 bufmefs’— — 4What bufmefs can you have, that
4 jbould interfere a moment with your engagements
4 with me?*— 4Dear Mr. Vellum, do but hear
4 me! There is a noble lord going to be divorced
4 for impotence; I juft got a hint of the matter,
. 4 the night before iaft, and fo waited upon his
4 lordibip’s gentleman yefterday morning, with
4 whom I had a particular intimacy, having
4 ferved him in my profeflion more than once $
4 and from him I have learned the whole ftory,
- 4 and
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 117
yGoogle
* and now leave me to fet it out! I’ll engage to
* make a noble eighteen-pennyworth of it, at
4 lead, by to-morrow morning/ 4W hy, there
4 may be fomething in th a t; but in the mean tim e
4 ym Jhould not let other matters cool /’■ -
-
■ ■■■* Ne-
x ver fear, pray how did yefterday*s pamphlet
4 do?’— 4W hy, tolerably w ell; but.thefcandal was
4 fo grofs, that I w as almojl afraid/— 4Aye ! ay !
4 never fear me for an bomecut; never fear me 1*
h
**-4 B u t 1 bear nothing o f the extrcitations /*—«
*
■ ■
4 N o ; I font away the (heet above an hour
4 ago !’ ■ ■ -»
■ -—4Then there's that hook you pro•
4 mifed .to re-w rite fem e one elfe w ill do it, and
4 prevent you/— 4 Never fear, I have juft laid
4 down a fcale for the ftylej befides, I have
4 altered the title already, and that you know is
4 the principal thing/ 4That is right ! N ew
4 you fpeak o f titles, l want h a lf a dozen direfily !
4 this very day, i f pojfible/’— 4 It is rather too late
4 now, but where are the books ?*— 4 In the
4 lumber garret, where they have lain thefe feven
4 years.*-— - -—That’s w ell; they are forgot by
4 this/ 4 Forgot! why they were never known !
4 the author was a man offortune, who printed them
4 at his own expence, but I prevented thefa/e, andfo
4 had themfo r the publijhing ! H a l ha! ha! befide
4 a good confederation for buying up at a double
4 price, what 1 had (n o t ) fold of them; fo that it
4 was not a badjob \ and, now he is dead, they may
4 fafely erne out, under new titles f— lt w ill be too
!4 great a delay to wait to fee them, but here are the
4 old titles, which I fuppofe may do*
— — ' Why,
4 aye ; they may do ! but I cannot poflibly
4 write them this evening; you know I muft
4 anfwer that pamphlet I wrote laft week, be-
4 fore it is forgot j I have an anfwer ready,
4 that
Ml CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A XHJJNE A. u*
* that will make a noife ; I oxpe£t it will raife
4 a curioiity, .that will fell another edition of
4 the pamphlet. lieft opening* for fuch retorts
* upon the characters I praifed in that, and have
€ fuch pieces of fecret hiftory to hit them off
4 with, that lil engage for the fuccefs/- ....... ■
* Aye, fa r tt hißory, andß o r ie so f fam iliar m isfor-
4 tunes*, andfuch like, may do jomething. B u t I bad
4 like to haveforgot the main hufinefs o f my coming•
1 ¿There is an account o f the death o f an eminent d t-
4 vine*, this morning: could we notvuam pup .a vo~
4 bime or two o f fermons fo r him, think you P H e
4 was fufpeEted o f herefy and atheifm , and you know,
4 that w ould make any thing in his name go. o ff *
4 Egad, a good thought! andparticularly lucky
4 at this time : for, as I have been engaged 4a
4 divinity lately, 1 know the weak Tides of the
4 queftion, ana a little infidelity will be a re-
4 freihment to me. It Ihall J>e done ! the fer»
4 mons (ball be ready without delay! Have not
4 you got fome by you that did not go off: let
4 me have one of each, and PH interline them
c to fave time; but will you publiih them your-
4 felf ?— I thought you had given up fermons P
4 M y filfl no! no! T il fen d them inio M r .V ampe:
4 I 'l l referve the confutation o f them to tnyfelf!—•
4 Egad, another good thought; the confutation
4 will do better ! and Fll take care to make it
4 a fmart one, and play the devil with the
c author; ha, ha, ha.......—»But, Mr. Vellum,
4 your coming here this morning prevented my
4 waiting on you : it is a great while fince you
c promifed to fettle with me. You ihould con-
4 fider, Sir*—— 4W hat pray, good S ir, ß o u ld 1
4 confider ? that I have fupported you ! — 4 Sup-
* ported me, Mr, Vellum j Sir, 1 have a pro-
4feffion
yGoogle
1*0
4 feffion/— — / know you have9 M r . D o fto r; m
4 frofejfeon indeed, in which his M ajcflys fu b jefls
4 may blefs God that nine in ten o fyou w ouldJlarve9
4 i f they had no other way o f getting bread9 btftde
4 that*— 4Mr. Vellum9you know thisway of talk-
4 ing fignifies nothing. It is a long time lince
4 we have fettled any account, and there are a
4 great many articles ! Let me fee: aye, here
4 they are! and along lift it is! N ineteen
4 PAMPHLETS, with ANSWERS to FOURTEEN
4 of them; NINE RAPES, SIX MURDERS, FIVE
4 FAST and FOUR FUNERAL SERMONS, THIR-
4 TY-SIX ESSAYS, TWENTY-TWO TITLES,
4 FOUR QUARTO VOLUMES RE-WRIT, SE-
4 VENTEEN WILLS, TWENTY-FOUR*-...... ........
* Go on9 Sir9 go on ! hut when p u have done9 look
4 at th is, and then talk to me o f an account; here
4 is your bondfo r 15/. which is due thefe two yea) s ;
4 and it is very lfa ly 9 to be fu re9 that you Jhould
4 leave it outstanding fo long9i f you had any account
4 to fet o ffagainjl it ! but la m glad l know you; and
4fence you talk ofaccounts9obferve that / demand my
4 money, due on this bond9 which J w ill have9 and9
4 when you have paid that9it w ill be time enoughfo r
4 me tofettle accounts w ith you;fo 9S ir9your[ervantd
4 ~ 4 Mr. fellu m 9good Mr. Vellum9 do not.be fo
4 hafty ! I did not mean to give ycu offence/
4 — 4
Accounts indeed ! have I not fupplied you w ith
4 paper above the weekly allowance we agreed f r 9
4 and yet you w ill talk to me /’-----4 Mr. Villum 9
4 I may be in the wrong ; let matters ftand as
4 they are: but you have not told me whatiiae
4 you would haye this affair of the divorce,
4 that I mentioned to you juft now*— «
—■*There
4 it is now ; that is your way abunyt $ you know my
4 eafy temper, and that you can bring me down when
‘ 4 you
CHRYSALs OR, THE
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUTNEA. m
* you pleafe: why, i f theJlory w ill bear much print-
€ ing, and the circumjlances are very Jlrong and
c plain, I believe you may draw it out to two Jhil-
‘ j and to encourage you, and Jkew you that I
4 mean generoujly by you% when you have finijhed
4 that, and the Anfwer, and the Sermons, and the
4 Confutations, and the Titles, and the Exercita-
4 tions, 1 w ill give you up your bond, and then we
* w ill begin an account on fa ir even terms. B ut I
* am in hajley I have three or fo u r other gentlemen
4 to call upon; I Jhall depend upon your promife9and
4 fo good morning.-----4 Good morning to you,
4 good Mr. Vellum— Damned, impofing, grind-
4 ing fcoundrel; but Fll be quit with you, for
4 all your tricks (faid the Doctor, as foon as
4 Mr, Vellum was out o f the room) and teach
4 fucb ftupid rafcals to attempt outwitting men
4 of genius/ ;
When I confidered the nature and importance
of my mailer’s demand, I could not but won­
der at the eafe with which he took a denial,»
and the joy he exprefied at Mr. Vellum’ s depar­
ture; but the myftery was foon cleared up, by
the arrival of Mr. Pamphlet, another of the trade,*
almoft the very moment Vellum went down flairs, .
and whom, 1 faw by his reception, my mafler
expe&ed.
If I was before fhocked at the cruelty with
which 1 thought Vellum treated my mailer, I
was now no lefs fo, at the part he a£ted with
Pam phlet, with whom he bargained over again
for the very fame ware which he before promifed
to Vellum , and flattered him with an aflurance
of having his bufinefs done, that is, the an-
fwers and re-writing, before Vellum poflibly
could, for they were mortal enemies.
V ol. L. G The
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
J
The difcourfe between thefe was much the
fame as the former, only that it was concluded
in a different manner; Pam phlet giving my maf-
ter a couple of pieces, to keep him in mind of
his engagement.
I was utterly at a lofs to think how be meant
to a£t between thefe two; when he put an end
to my doubts by this foliloquy. ‘ So, now I
4 have difpatched you two, the day is my own ;
4 keep my engagements! I will, with both alike.
4 Let me fee, there is nothing in it, but a little
4 trouble of writing : I can divide the hits be-
4 tween both anfwers, according to the opens I
4 have left on purpofe, and fo fend them to both
4 at the fame time; only to divide the altera*
4 tions in my fcale of ftile, and make a fecond
4 title, and fo it is done. This method that I
4 have found, of ufing a feigned name, makes
4 it all eafy. Well, let thofe who were born to
4 fortunes, fpend them in iloth and ignorance,
4 I have an eftate in myfelf, that can never be
4 exhaufted. I am obliged to nature only, for
4 my abilities, and carry the fountain of honour
4 and fortune in the fluency of my genius..
He then defcended from his aerial citadel, and
going out to v lfit his patients, changed me at a
coffee-houfe, where I was immediately borrowed
at the bar by an officer, who was going to dine
with his general, and wanted money to give his
fervants.
*** CHRYSAL: OR, THE
B O O K
yGoogle
«
A D V E N T U R E S O F A G U I N E A . » 3
b o o k II.
CHAP. I.
C hrysal enters into the o f the gentleman
o f a general. Gratitude in high and low life. T h e
modern way o f riftng in the , and the bapbi-
nefs o f dépendance. Influence o f C hrysal’j maf-
ter, w ith his curious manner o f fupporting it.
Y
O U may judge that my flay with this
owner was but ihort : he gave me direaijr
to the general’s gentleman, with a letter to be
prefented to his excellency next morning, as he
could not find courage to fpeak to him in per­
fon.
The cafe of this perfon, though not uncom­
mon among men, I own affeéted me. He was
the fon of an officer of diftinguilhed merit, the
fervices of whofe life had, in the 80th year of
It, been rewarded with the command of a regi­
ment, and the hopes of his fon crowned with a
pair of colours ; which, on the death of his fa­
ther, in fix mouths after his elevation, he found
to be his whole inheritance; the fees of office,
and the equipage for his new rank*, having ex-
G 2 haufted
yGoogle
haufted all the favings of the old man’s fubalterr*
frugality.— The moil exemplary duty, in five
warm campaigns, had advanced the fon to the
rank of a lieutenant, when the exaltation of the
perfon towhom he now applied, raifed his hopes
to a company, which was vacant in the regi­
ment, and his right by feniority; for fuch was
his ignorance of mankind, that he built fanguine
expectations on the very rcafons thatihould have
deprived him of any, the obligations o f the perfon
to whom he applied, to his fa th er, who had taken
him up, the poor friendlefs orphan of an enfign,
educated him at his own expence, procured him
his firít commiilion, and afterwards lent him the
money with which he had purchafed his compa­
ny : a debt which the fon was weak enough to
expe& a friendibip from, though it, and much
more, had long fince been cleared at play.
But, though the character of the fon, and the
general’s known intimacy with the father, in a
manner obliged him to promife him his friend-
ihip, yet nothing was farther from his thoughts
than ever to do him any real fervice; as he ima­
gined that would be acknowledging the obliga­
tions which his very attendance feemed to up­
braid him with : a dinner now and then being
the only favour he ever had, or ever meant to
give him. You may, perhaps, have experienced
the mifery of a dependant’s dining at the table
of his patron, where the tortures of Tantalus aré
aggravated by anxiety of giving offence. I (hall
therefore haiten over this, and the other fcenes
of that evening, which were but the common
occurrences of military greatnefs, and ended in
* a deep debauch, as foon as all but the chofeh
fe w had retired, to come to the conclufion of
•my *
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
my late matter's {lory, in which my prefent bore
a confiderable part.
As foon as the general had fiept off the fumes
of his wine, and awoke next morning, my maf­
ter’s hour of influence arrived, which he never
failed to improve. After a prelude of coughing
and fpitting, the fcene opened thus : 4IVbo's
4 there? W illia m /’— 4 Sir’— —4 W illiam , was
4 not I very drunk laß night / my head achs mofi
4 confoundedly.’— 4Your excellency was a little
4 cut, but you broke up much the ftrongeft of
4 the company.— — 4Aye> 1 wonder at that, I
4fpend m yfelf w ith talking, when I begin to go,
4 and that helps a man on damnably: thatßory o f
4 the battle, where 1 was taken prifoner, is a bottle
4 in my way a lw a y s-----4That foreign gentle­
* man, who never fpeaks a word, has a great
4 advantage then.’-----4Aye, Jo he has j but he is
4 a damned honeft fellow , and a very good compa-
4 nion; he always fills a bumper, and neverfpeaks a
4 w ord,— B ut my bead?—-4 Perhaps your excel-
4 lency had better take fomething.— 4 N o, /
4 taken too much already; though that*s rig h t;
4 give me a glafs o f the old geneva \ 1 am to go to
4 council to-day, and m ußfettle my head— Aye, that
4 w ill do, I am much better now $ there is nothing
* like a hair o f the old dog,9
This converfation continued till he was feated
to breakfaft, when my matter turned to a new
topic. 4 I was very forry (faid he) that your
4 excellency happened to fit in laft night, as Mrs.
4 M otherly was to call.’----- 4W hy, that's tru e ;
4 William, / did not think o f one engagement when
4 I made the other; and, when Jhe called me out, 1
4 was not in cue \ I was too fa r gone. W e oldfe l-
4 lows are notfparrow s; thefp ir it is often w illing,-
G 3 *w
h
en
A D V E N T U R E S O F A G U I N E A . I t s
yGoogle
* when the flefly is weak\ ha9 ha9 h a 9— 4 Your
4 excellency is pleafed to be merry, but, to my
4 thinking, the youngeft fellow of the age has
« not more vigour.*— — 4Aye9 William, do you
4 think fo indeed ? B u t why do you think fo 9 W il-
4 Ham ?*— — '1 Becaufe your excellency always
4 chufes fuch green things: now I fhould think
4 a ripe woman would be betterj I am fure ihe
4 would give lefs trouble.*------- 4 H a 9 ha9 ha9
4 why tbat9
s your ta ß e; hut youth is mine9 and
4 w hile I have powers ( and I do not think mine quite
4 gone yet) I w ill pleafe my taße. B u t what had
4 M rs. Motherly laß night ?9— 4 A very fine girl
4 as your excellency could wiih to fee.*— 1
4 H ow
4 old?9— — 4 About fixteen.**— — 4P ß a 9mellow
4 pears 5 I loath fu ch trajh.*— — 4 But Mrs. M o -
4 tberly faid ihe could fwear ihe was untouched.
4•She came from the country but yefterday, a
4 relation of her own : the poor thing knew
4 nothing of the matter, and thought ihe came
4 to be hired for a laundry maid.*— 4W hy9 that
4 is fomethingj hut I wifl) Jhe were younger.9-* 4 If
4 your excellency pleftfes but to wait a little, I
4 have one in my eye, that will fuit your tafte
4 exaflly; a fweeter child is not in all E ngland9
—
4 Aye9good W illiam (fpitting once or twice, and
* wriggling in his chair) Aye9 that is fomething9
4 hut how old ?— 4 Juft ten, and finely grown.*
— 4 R ight, the right age. That9
5 tru e! riifp ca k
4 this very dayfo r that placefo r your brother. T ell
4 him to come to-m orrow : I w ill not be refujed.*—
4 We are both obliged to yöur excellency for
4 your favours.*— 4n u t when fh a ll 1fee this g irl?
4 G ive Motherly fome excufe w ith her ripe fr u it.
4 Sixteen! fix ty ! p ß a !9— 4 Sir, I ihall go about
4 it this very evening. A letter from captain
4 Standard i
■ •
i i 6 C H R Y S A L i O R , T H E
yGoogle
• Standard; will your excellency pleafe to read it?*
— * Dam n him and his letter: throw it into thefire f
4 W hat would the unreafonable fcoundrel have ? D id
4 I not give him bis D inner yefterday ? H as he not
4 been introduced to good company at my table ? I f
4 he had any induflry or fp ir it, w ith thefe advan-
4 tages* he would have learned to play and made his
4fortune as others do. Since he grows troublefome
4 on encouragement, T il ftarve him into better man-
4 ners. B id the porter Jlrike him o ff the dinner lift•
— 4I beg your excellency’ s pardon, for mentioning
4 him ; but the manner I have heard you talk to
4 him made me imagine you really did deiign
4 to provide for him; and he fays there is a va-
4 cancy in the regiment juft now.’----- 4 Dam n
4 his impudence ! a vacancy indeed! 1 Jhall never
4 think there is a good one till he makes it ¿7/Tyburn/
— 41 beg your excellency** pardon : I (hall never
4 mention him more. Would you have me go
4 about the child this evening ? It isalittlje angel
4 to be fuTe/— 4This moment, i f you think you can
4fucceed/— 4 I ihall try at any rate: but there
4 is one obftacle,— 4W hat is that ? you know I
4 never grudge money on thefe occafions. H ow much
4 w ill d o?’— 4That is not the difficulty here;
4 money will not do, and I hardly know what
4 will/— 4Money not do ! why what the devil can
4 it be9 that money w ill not do — — 4I fcarce
4 know how to mention it to your excellency,
4 but the little cherub is niece to captain Stan-
4 dard9 his lifter’s daughter, and while he is in
4 the way, there will be no poffibility of getting
4 at her/— 4Is that all ? Then he Jhalljoin the re-
4 giment to-m orrow *— 4But then he will leave
4 fuch an impreffion of your unkindnefs upon
4 his filler, if there is nothing done for him,
G 4 * after
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 117
>og!e
lit CHRYSALî OR, THE
4 after waiting fo long, that it will be impoffi-
4 ble for any perfon belonging to you to gain.
4 accefs.’——— 4W hat would you have me do ? I
4 never w ill bear to have thefellow get a company in
4 my regiment: that would be acknowledging the ob-
4 ligations he has the impudence to fay I receivedfrom
4 his fa th er ; 1 never w ill bear i t — 4I beg your
4 excellencyys pardon ; I did not prefume to point
4 out any fuel) thing, and indeed the pofleffion
4 o f fuch a baby (though my eyes never beheld
4 her fellow) is not worth your giving yourfelf
4 fo much trouble about; (he is quite too young,
€ though fo well grown.’----- 4 You fay Jhe it
4 but ju jl ten ! andfuch a beauty ! — 4I wiih your
4 excellency could but fee her, for I am unable to
* deferibe her.’— 4B u t cannot fome way be fou n d
4 out, beftde fixin g this fellow under my nofe
4 That was juft what I was going to take the
* liberty of hinting to your excellency. There
4 are feveral gentlemen of fortune, in the troops
4 juft ordered to America,, who have no liking to
4 the voyage. Now I think, with fubmiffion,
4 that you would oblige fome of them, with an
* exchange into your regiment, and let captain
4 Standard go in his place. And this will oblige
4 him too; for I have often heard him wiih to
4 go there, in hopes of rifing, when they come
4 into a&ion.’----- 4A good thought, and jo I wilU
4 L et the fellow go to America and get fealped; bis
4 hot head wants to be cooled: fuch poor wretches as
4 he are jv jl fit to be tranfported there. T ell him
4 to prepare direftly ! 1 long to be rid o f him. B u t
4 when Jhall 1 fee the dear little creature ? y— 4 In
4 twenty-four hours after he is gone, I’ll under-
4 take to have her eating fugar plumbs, and.
4 fobbing in your bofom. It cannot poffibly be
4 fooner,
yGoogle
4 fopncr, for you know the captain's fpirit, and
4 that he would cut the throat of a prince, who
4 ihould difhonour his family, as he calls it.’—-
4 Aye, damn his fp irit* that is true 5 that is what
4 has kept me civ il to the fellow fo long: I know be
4 has a ll the romantic madnefs about honour, and
4fuch flu ffs that made bis fo o l o f a father live and
4 die a beggarS
By this time his excellency was drefled to go to
council, for which another dram fettled his head.
1 fee your furprize, at the brutal behaviour of
the mailer, and the infamous defigns of the man.
The former is beyond aggravation •
> but the latter
were only an houeil artifice in favour of his
friend, who had no fuch niece in the world.
ADVENTURES OEA GUINEA.
C H A P . IL
The H iflory o f M r. W il l ia m . Some odd circum-
fiances in his conduit accountedfo r . By a progref*
fton equally polite and frugal, C h r y s a l comes
from bis pojjejjion into that o f a celebrated f e ­
male.
r r r lL L J A M was
* ' horn nf o n e O
a fon of the regiment,
born of one of the general wives that
followed it. He was about the fame age with
Standardt who had taken fuch a liking to him,
when they were boys, that he (hared his allow­
ance with him, gave him his old cloaths, and
taught him what he learned at fchool. A natu-
jal acutenefs of genius improved thefe advantages
fo well, that W illia tn co M read and write enough
for a gentleman * dance, fence, and fcrape on
' G 5 * the
yGoogle
the violin, before his friend’s power of ferving
him was put an end to, by the death of his fa­
ther, and his fpirit and appetites were too great
to accept of his offer, of the beft fupport an en-
Jign could fpare him, to maintain him as a cadets
till his merit ihould get him a commiffion. But,
though he would not accept, he did not forget
the offer, nor make his obligations a caufe of
hatred, now that it was in his power to make
Tome return; a way of thinking that proved the
meannefs of his birth; for, quitting the barren
paths of military honour, he had turned his ge­
nius to the more thriving profeffion of a foot­
man ; through the various afeents of which he
had rifen to his prefent rank of his excellency*s
gentleman ; in which he had the unfafhionable
gratitude to return the favours of his former be-
nefa&or in the above manner, which his expe­
rience and knowledge of his mailer’s temper
convinced him to be the only one he could hope
ro fucceed in. As to his promife about the
child, he was in no pain about that, there being
ho perfon who could contradid whatever excufe
he Ihould pleafe to give.
There is one circumftance, which I fee puz­
zles you, in the charader of this man, and that
is his taking me from his friend, when he muft
be fenfible how badly he could fpare fuch a fum.
But you muft confider the power of nature when
ftrengthened by habit.
From his mother, W illiam had inherited vena­
lity, which the bribery of vails, in his prefent
profeffion, had confirmed beyond all poffibility
of correftion; fo that it was no more in his
power to refufe a guinea when offered to him,
than to change his ftature or complexion. An
attention
tSo CHRYSALs OR, THE
yGoogle
attention to this obfervation would take off the
wonder, and eafe the world from the trouble of
the exclamations that are daily made againft the
rapacity of perfons in office; for, as fuch are ge­
nerally taken from the clafs of W illiam .
, it can­
not be expeded but they muft ad from the fame
natural principles with him.
I fee the depravity of human nature, when
itripped of difguife and ornament, affeds your
unexperienced heart too ftrongly. But confi-
der, that we fee things as they really are, and
to reprefent them otherwife to you would invert
the delign of my million, and confirm, rather
than remove the prejudices that lead affray the
mind of man.
However, this confolation I can give you,
that the vices I have already drawn, and may
hereafter draw to your view, are not particular
to this age or country : they are the weeds
which, in every age and clime, have always,
and always will, over-run the human heart.
Nor is it juft to cdl them vices (though in
compliance with the language of men I do call
them fo) which perhaps are but * neceffary parts
of this univerfal fyftem ; and though in a parti­
cular inftance, and viewed by themfelves, they
may appear deformed, yet, when thrown into
the general reprefentation of things, they may
have their beauty and ufe, if only to diverfify
the fcene: and, with refped to men in particu­
lar, be as f advantageous to the community as
they are prejudicial to individuals,
But
••F ro m hence it (IiouM feem , the hint o f a late treatlfe on
the O rigin o f Evil, was borrowed, or elfc dictated bythe fame
fjpirit.
+ Fable o f the bees. „
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. f*i
yGoogle
But to return to my matter W illiam . Bettde
the advantages of education, he had fuch from
nature, that he was notonly the moft accoroplilh-
*edgentleman^ but alfo the handfomett fellow of
his time; an happinefs, or which he availed
himfelf fo well in thz polite world, that he was
the favourite of all the compliant fair, who ihared
with him the pleafures they only fuffered from
his fuperiors for hire.
O f this I faw fufficient proof that very even­
ing, when he went to an affignation with the mod
celebrated courtefan of the age, who, facrificing
avarice to pleafure, gave orders to be denied to
every body, and ihut herfelf up with him, to
give a loofe to joy for the evening.
This was a feene too fenfual for a fpirit to de-
feribe: I (hall therefore only (ay, that their fa­
tigue and watte of fpirits were recruited with the
higheft delicacies and richeft wines, and the
paufes of joy enlivened with the recital of the
adventures of their profeilions, heightened with
the moft poignant ridicule of thofe whofe folly
was their fortune.
Before fatiety could pall their pleafures, time
fummoned them to bufinefs. The fair, to pre­
pare for the reception of her-frien d i and my
matter to wait on bis\ when, to conclude the
evening with proper gallantry, he prefented me
to the maid at the door.
I was a good deal furprifed, at being received
with lefs emotion by the portrefs of Venus than I
had ever found before; the light of me having
always raifed joy. But this was foon explained,
when, on returning to her miftrefs, ihe threw
me on the table, and received a (hilling in ex­
change. An inftance of that methodical cecono-
my,
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
my, which by many (mail favings makes up for
one large expence, and extracts profit even from
pleafure.
The joy of the miftrefs feemed tomake amends
to my vanity for the indifference of her maid,
and promifed me the full poffeftion of her heart;
but I foon found myfelf miftaken, and that her
love for me was only while I was.the property of
another; for no fooner did I become her own,
than (he threw me carelefsly into her purfe, and
turned her thoughts immediately to the acquifi-
tion of more. But, though I loft the greateft
part of ray power over her, by coming into her
poffeftion, I ftili found ample room in her heart
for my abode.
The apartments were fcarce got in order, and
my miftrefs new dreffed, 'when her frien d , ap*.
peared, to whom fhe flew with all the appear­
ance of rapture. But, however he might be de­
ceived, the difference was plain to me, between
the joylefs careffes fhe fold to him, and the exta-
fy fhe (hared with my late matter, the glow of
whbfe kiffes yet reeked upon her lips. Nor was
this ftrange : the ardor of her lover met her half
way, and communicated as much fire as it receiv­
ed : but with her keeper the cafe was quite other-
wife: all the advances were to come from her;
all her careffes were a duty; nor were the ten­
dered (he could beftow, able to warm him to
the leaft return. .
You wonder, that a perfon in fuch circum-
ftances ftiould be at the expence and trouble of
keeping a miftrefs, whofe extravagance was to be
equalled only by her infolence. But this is
only a fmall inftance of the tyranny of fafhion :
and how will your aftonifhment be increafed,.
when
ADVENTURES OFA GUINEA. 1*3 r
yGoogle
when I tell you, that this very man, in the prime
of life, was remarkable for the coolnefs of his
conftitution, and now in its decline was married
to a beautiful young lady, whofe refentment at
' his conjugal negledt rofe fo high, as to charge it
to inability.
Whether this was resilly the cafe, and that he
kept my miftrefs to hide it, as a failing tradefman
fets up a coach, or whether the paffion remained,
but fo feebly fupported, as to require the lafcivi-
ous blandifhments of a proftitue, I cannot deter­
mine, as I was never in his poiTeffion, to take a
view of his heart.
i3t CttRV^ALt OR, THE
C H A P . III.
Themanner in which C h r y sa l ’j new miftrefs re-
ceivedand took care ofherfriend• Howfie em
**
ployedberfelf while he was afleep• Her manage-
jnent of him next morning.
IT was about two in the morning, when my
miftrefs received him drunk and ftupified
. with play, at which he had loft deeply that night.
On his coming into her room, he threw him-
felf into a chair, without faying a word, or
ihewing the leaft feniibilky of her carefles; where
after fome time he fell faft afleep, which my mif­
trefs no fooner perceived, than calling her maid
to undrefs and roll him into bed, ‘ Here, Janey
« faid file, take my place by this heap of mor-
« tality. n ifte p to --------- ftreet; perhaps the
«
* company may not be all gone. Never fear,
5 I’ll infure you froma rape! He wants nothing
“ ! in
yGoogle
c in a bed fellow but to keep him warm, and you
‘ may do that, while I pafs my night better thad
4 in nurfing his infirmities : I’ll be home before
4 he ftirs.’
fa n e obeyed her miftrefs, who flipped into si
chair, and went away d¡redly to an houfe, where
{he ufed to piddle away her leifure hours with
any chance cuftomers, rather than be idle.
About five ended this fcene, in the rites of
which my miftrefs bore a diftinguiihed part. I
lhall not attempt todefcribe thcfe myfteries : they
were too grofs for my relation, as well as your
conception, in your prefent mortified habit. She
then returned home, and laying her pure body in
her maid’s place, befide herfrien d , who had not
ftirred yet, her fatigues foon threw her into a
fleep, as found as his.
- It was noon before thefe fond lovers awoke :
the firft was my miftrefs, who, enraged that any
thing which bore the name of man, ihould ihew
fo little fenfibility of her charms, refolved to teize
him with endearments, which, as he was feldom
in a humour to return in kind, he never failed to
pay for in a more fubftantial manner.
When ihe had awoke him with her toying,
the fyren thus began her fong: 4 How can my
4 deareft deep folong, when his little girl lies
4 langufthing by his fide ! O turn, and let me
4 lay my head on that dear bofom.’-—4H a ! what
4 is it o'clock? (replied the lover yawning, and
rubbing his eyes)— >
4Alas, I know not! I have
4 told fo many tedious hours, that I have for«
f
' rot them ; but what is time to us, who only
ive to love 4 P aft tw elve ! I muft be gone /
4fom e b u f in e js 4Bufinefs ! leave that for duller
f fouls, who have no tafte for pleafure : can you
J leave
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. fjj
yGoogle
4 leave love an<ime for bufinefsP—-4 la m firry
4 1 happened to overßeep myfelfi my dear; 1 believe*
4 1 was bewitched to drink fo much : but w e'll make
4 it up another tim e.'— * So you fay always; but
* that other time will never come: but I
€ will not be ferved fo; I am fleih and blood,,
4 whatever other people may be; and you
4 yourfelf know, it is not for want offrien d s I
4 keep myfelf up, thu9 like a nun, for you ;
4 and all, I do not know for what V— 4Is the
4 g ir l m ad! D o not 1 give you every thing you
4 w ant, every thing you defere ?9— 4 No, nor any
4 thing I defire! I defire now— So you will get
4 up and leave me: I will not be ufed thus :
4 you have got fome other woman : but I here
4 give you a fyir warning, that I will be even
4 with you! Sir George was here yefterday;
4 and fo was the young lord— but I would not
4 fee either of them : and I am well requited
* now; but I know where to fend to them : I
4 will not be made a fool of every way, for no-
4' thing ; and fo you mayfleep where you pleafe,
4 I care not/—— 4Come, my dear, let us notfa ll
€ outfo r nothing ; you have not fiew n me the dia~
* tnond ear-rings you got laft w e e k No, my
c dear, they are not come home/— 4 1 thought
€ you told me they were fin ified when l gave you the
4 money to pay fo r them.9
— * They were fo; but,
4 when he brought them home, I did not like
4 them. The jeweller told me, they were not
4 fo fine as thofe he made for your lady, fome
4 time ago ; fo I fent them back, and ordered
4 him to make me a pair that ihould be as good
4 as her’s at leaft/-—4 N ot good enough, ch ild !
4 were they not to coß 1501. ?’— 4 And what is
J 1501. ?-—Sir R ichard gave his girl a pair that
" 4 colt
f)S CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
4 coft 500k; but, if you think thefe are too dear,
4 you are not obliged to pay for them : there ¡9
4 another, who will be glad to do it.'— 44 n&
4 pray what are thefe fine ones to cofi ? ’— 4Why—
4 only— butkifs me firft— only 2001. But then I
4 have befpoke a necklace with them’.— 4Zounds,
4 a diamond necklace!’ ----- 4 And what mighty
4 matter is a diamond necklace ? Pray has not
4 your w ifeo n t i But I fee how it it; you think
4 any thing good enough forme; and nothing
4 good enough for her: but every one does not
‘ 4 think fo : I am not at a lofs’— — 4W ell, you
4faucy little m inx ; and what do they come to ? ’—
4 Another kifs, and I'll tell you why, don’t
4 frown ; or I won’t tell you at a l l o n l y 500I.
— 50©d evils; that’s more than my w ife’s cofi by
4 iool i4 And do not you love me a hundred
4 times better than your wife l I have given up
4 thoufands for you. But, as I faid before, you
4 need not pay for them, if you do notchufe it;
4 there are others who w ill: I fee I am flighted;
4 and I deferye it, for flighting fo many good of-
4 fers: but I will not always be a fool !’— 4W elly
4 my dear, fo r this onetime I w ill humouryou: g ive
4 me the pen end in k: but you mufi not expeft that
4 I Jhall evergratify your extravagancefo fa r again
— 41thank you?my lord; I fliall not trouble you
4 again this great while. But what is this? 250I.!
4 you have made a mitlake, my lord ; I told
4 you 5001,’— 4 W ell, child, did not I give you
4 150 to pay fo r the other pair — 4 Yes, my
4 lord; but that was not to pay for this pair
4 though, you know thefe are dearer.’— 4 B u t,
4 that and this w illy — 4I am afraid not.’— 4H ow
4f i 9 ch ild ; do not 150 350 make 500?—
4 Indeed I am a poor accountant; but I know it.
4 will
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA,
yGoogle
4 will not do/— 4No ? whyfo y l da not underjtand
4 you:9— 4 1*11 kifs you nrft, and then I’ll tell
4 you/— 4 PJha; ceafefooling y I am in hajle y I
4 muf go to court y and have fcarce time to drefs :
4 where, is the jco7. ?9
— 6There, (kiifing him;—
4 W here?*— ' Gone, as that kifs is; all gone, and
4 only the reliih left behind, to give an appetite
4 for more/— 4Infernaljade!*— (afide)— 4What
4 do you fay, my lord ?’— 4 That I cannot, w ill
4 not bear fuch extravagance/— — 4 I am glad 1
4 know your mind, my lord: then if you do
4 not, fomebody elfe will, who will not make
4 fuch a ftir about trifles/— 4W ell, give me that
4 bill/— 4 No, thank you, my dear/— 4 W hy
4fo ?*— — ' For fear you fhould be a bold boy,
4 and not return it. If you pleafe to give me
4 the other 1501. I’ll get the necklace and ear-
4 rings, if not, this will ferve for fome other
4 ufe/— 4 Dam nation ! and then I muft give it to
4 her a ll over again, (afide) 4Well, my lord ;
4 you faid you were in hafte, and fo am I/—
4 G ive me the pen and in k : there it is, you little ter-
4 magant : but once more let me caution you againjl
4 fuch extravagance fo r thefu tu re/— 4 And once
4 more, let me tell you, my lord, not to give
4 yourfelf fuch airs: extravagance! they that
4 will have delicacies muft pay forx
them: and
4 if you think the price too dear, there are more
4 cuftomers in the market; and fo, my lord,
4 like it, or like it not, I will be fupported: and,
4 more than that, what I want in pleafure, fhall
% be made up in profit: let wives fave, who
4 may be the better for the favings, our bufinefs
€ is to make hay while the fun fhkies/— —
€ Come, my dear ylet us have no difputes y you have
‘ the money nowy next time we w ill dear o ff the
4 other
jjt CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
* other jco re: give me a kifs, T il call in the evening
€ and take a dijh o f tea w ith you: fa rew ell 9
— —
* Good morrow--------{after he is gone) for an
* old impotent, poor fpirited letcher, that mull be
* treated like a dog to make you know your duty.
* What fool would ever be at the trouble of be­
c having well to any fellow when (he can, fo
c much better, mould him to her pleafure by ill
* ufage !*
ADVENTURES O
F A GUINEA« 139
C H A P . IV .
The htflory and character o f C hrYsal’j m ijlrefs•
She gives him to a noted matron. Some account
o f his new m ijlrefs, and her manner o f managing
her fam ily.
T H IS principle (he ailed up to, for two
days that I was in her poffeffion, without
any other variation in her conduit, than juft
what was neceiTary to work on the various tem­
pers of her lovers, making no real difference be­
tween them, except it was, thatfhe always ufed
tbofe word, who ufed her beft.
I have often told you, that fenfuality is difa*
greeeble to afpiritual being. I thereforcnonged to
quit this miftrefs, thefitcceifion of whofe amours
was fo conftant and quick, that I was aftonifhed
how nature could afford a fund of love for them
all, in fo young a creature, for ihe was not
twenty years old.— I fee you have a curiofity to
know the hiftory of this young votary of Venus,
in which you thinkthere muit be fomething ex-
traordinaryj
yGoogle
tràordinary ; but you are deceived ; it contains
nothing but common occurrences. -
She was the daughteiof tradefpeople, in mode­
rate circumftances, whofe fooliih fondnefs, be-
caufe Ìhe was a pretty, fmart child, gave her an
education above her rank, in hopes of her mak­
ing her fortune by marriage. '
This raifed the vanity, natural to, the female
heart, fohigh, that ilie defpifed herown ftation,
and not being fo fortunate as immediately to
climb to the one (he deilred, by the way propof-
ed, ihe fell an eafy vitìim to the firft feducer
who promifed it, in any other.
Thus the accomplishments, by which the inju­
dicious tendernefs of her parents meant to raife her
into a rank higher than their own, became the
caufe of her falling into that of the lowed of all
human beings : a fall, though deplorable in itfelf,
yet unaffe&ing to her, as the time, in which her
mind ihould have been formed to virtue, was
given up to the nouriihing that vanity which
Ì
roved her ruin ; fo that (he is abfolutely infenfi-
le of the wretchednefs of her condition, and ne­
ver has the purfuit of her moil infamous profef-
Con difturbed by a moment's remorfe.
I told you of her fpendingthe hours that were
unemployed at home, at an houfe in — ftreet,
where ihe was always fure of builnefs. Though
this venerable manfion was dedicated to the my-
fterious rites of unreftrained love, yet, as the
priefls of all temples expe£l to live by the offer­
ings made at them, her confcience would not per­
mit the prieftefs of this to break through an ordi­
nance fo long eftabliihed,and iheexa&ed fees from
the votaries of her’s: not indeed a tythe 9 indis­
criminately from all, whether they receivedbenefit
from
*4-0 CHRYSAL: OR, THÈ
yGoogle
from their devotion, or not; but always in pro­
portion to the fruits they reaped.
At this ihrine was I offered, the third night
of my being in the poffeffion of this young devo­
tee, when the plenteoufnefs of her gain, from a
multitude of lovers, feemed, to her piety, to me­
rit fo rich a return.
' I now entered into amuch more extenfive fcene
than my laft, the proftitution of which made but
a fmall part of the bufinefs of the profefiion. But
what I have related, in the hiftory of my late
miftrefs, fhall fuffice for that branch, nor (hall I
give more than fome outlines of the horrors of
the reft.
My new miftrefs had originally been of thé
fiflerhood of my laft, who having fallen a prey
to luft, almoft in her infancy, and having no
beauty, nor any thing but extreme youth to re~
commend her, as foon as that was worn outi
negleét obliged her to apply to other bufinefs for
bread, and her natural turn determining her to
this, as well as the outrageous virtue ofthe undifi
covered part of her own fex, excluding her from
every other, (he changed her occupation, from
yielding to providing pleafure, in which her fuc-
eefs was fo great, that (he foon became the moft
eminent of her profeflion.
It was near five in the morning when I chang­
ed my fervice; and, bufinefs being ended, my late
miftrefs having reigned foie m ijlrefs of the night,
and feen out all the company, there remained
nothing to do, after ihe went home, but to fee
the inmates to their truckle-beds in the cock­
lofts, where ftripping off every part, not only
of thé finery, but even of the comforts of drefs,
they were crowded three or four together, to
A D V E N T U R E S OF A G U I N E A . 14«
yGoogle
keep etch other warm under a ragged coverlet,
upon a bare mattrefs, where their (hudderings
and groans made a juft contrail to the fpirited *
wickednefs of their converfation fome hours
before.
This was always the fate of thofe who were
not fo fuccefsful in the evening as to earn the
price of a better bed, above the fees of the houfe,
and hire of cloaths.
Thefe happy few were treated with fondnefs,
while they Squandered their poor peculium in a
drop of cordial to fettle their heads, and were
lodged in apartments fuited to their purfes;
though the night before perhaps thev had expe­
rienced the fame fate with their lifters above
flairs, and knew they mull expe& it again the
next, if unfuccefsful in their bulinefs.
When matters were thus fettled, this happy fa­
mily difpofed themfelves to take the bell repofe
which difeafe in mind and body would permit.
An a&ive fpirit difdains reft. Though de­
bauchery had anticipated old age, in the confti-
tution of my miftrefs, yet her application to buli­
nefs made her refufe nature even neceflary in­
dulgence. She was ready to go out before ten
that morning, when the modell decency of hex
drefs and appearance were fuch as drew the gene?
ral good opinion, and would almoft deceive the
devil himfelf, on whofe moftfavou rite fervice (he
was going.
t+t CHRYSALt OR, THE
C H A P
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. 14J
C H A P . V.
Chrysal’j m tflrefs pays a v ifit to the la ß place fie
could have beenfufpefted fo r going to. She meets
a young lady w ith whom, by an artifice, fie got*
home. H er fchemes to enfnare the lady.
IF a judgment were to be formed for the whole
day, from the manner of beginning it, my
miftrefs (hould have fpent her’s moft happily; her
firft vifit being to church, where the piety ofher
behaviour was an edification to the devout ma­
trons, who, having nothing to do at home, meet
there regularly, to compare their achs and
dreams of the night before, and enjoy the inno­
cent amufement of a little gofliping over the af­
fairs of their neighbours.
But her devotion wailed not itfelf fofruitleily:
her induilry had formed expectations of drawing
confiderable advantage from it, and fo antici­
pating futurity, and making fare of the reward
here, which others waited for in another world.—
The immediate motiveofherdevotion, this morn­
ing, was to fee a young lady with whom ihe had
commenced an acquaintance at this church, and
who conftantly attended divine fervice there.
You are furprized how he could think of going
to fuch a place, on fuch an errand; but the
wolf roams about for prey every where, and is
often moft fuccefsful, where his attempts are leaft
fufpeCted : though I muft rob her induftry of the
merit of defign in the firft introduction to this
affair.
Going
yGoogle
«44
Going through St. M artin9s-Lan e, one morn­
ing about a month before, (he was fo ftruck with
the appearance of a lovely young creature, in wi­
dow’s weeds,who was going into the church, that
lhe followed her; where the fervency,with which
lhe poured out her foul in devotion, gave fuch a
a luftre to her beauty, and made it ihine folovely
through her grief, that my miftrefs immediately
marked her for her /¿/?, not doubting but fhe
lhould be able to turn her diftrefs to fuch advan­
tage, as ihould bring her into her meafures, and
make her beauty yield her a rich return for her
pains, from fome of her cuftomers. If you coir-
lider the nature of woman-kind, you will not
wonder at this inftance of the profligacy of my
miftrefs. They are ever in extremes; either the
beft or worft of human creatures.— From church
lhe dogged her to her lodging, in a little court,
where ihe lived with a poor, but honeft family,
in fuch privacy, that no one in the neighbour­
hood could give any account of her.
Real virtue ihines with a luftre, that dazzles
the moft confirmed vice, and keeps it at an aw­
ful diftance. My miftrefs, harden’d as ihe was
in all the ways of fin and impudence, dared not
to go dire&ly to her, without fome bufinefs or
introdudiion : but, as ihe had not either, her
ready genius prompted her to win her good opi­
nion, under an appearance of religion, and then
an acquaintance would come eafily.
She was not deceived in her expeditions: a
few mprnings conftant attendance at church,
and the exemplary warmth of her devotions,
ftruck the eye, and opened the heart of unex­
perienced innocence to the acquaintance ihe
wiflaed
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
wifeed for, which (he did not fail to improvet
by the fame arts, to fome degree ofintimacy.
In this fituation they were, when Ihe went,
but without any appearance of defign, to meet
her this morning at church, as trfuaL As they
came out together., my miftrefs, turning with
her fair frien d,
, faiJ (he had fome bufinefs into
Long-Acre, and aiked her, if (he went that way,
to which the young lady innocently anfwered,
that ihe did, and ihould be glad to walk with
her.
As they walked together, my mtflrefs turned
her converfation on the wicked wavs of the town,
and particvilarly the many bafe defigns that were
laid to infnare unwary innocence, adding, that
all the pleafure which fenfuality could give the
mod luxurious heart, muil fall infinitely ihort of
what ihe felt at that very moment, in the defign
(he was then going upon, of relieving the dif-
trefles of a worthy family.
She had timed her difeourfe fo as to fay thefe
words, jufl as ihe came to the entrance of the
court, in which fee knew the widow lived,
when, feigning to flip, fee fell all along, crying
our, as in the urmoft agony, that ihe had
wrenched her ancle.
The lady raifing her with the greateft tender-
mefs, exprefled her concern for the unhappy acci­
dent, and defired (he would fubmit to be helped
into her lodgings, which fortunately were at the
next door, where, though ihe could be but poor­
ly accommodated, fee might be more at her eafe
lhan in a more fumptuous place, and ihould have
©
H the care in her power. This was juft what
my miftrefs had fchemed for, who, courteoufiy
V ojl. I. H accepting
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i45
yGoogle
accepting the offer, made a ihift to limp in*
without any other afliftance than her’s.
It raifed my indignation to fee the tendernefs
with which the beautiful young creature pulled
off her (hoe and flocking, and chafed her ancle*
thrown away upon fo unworthy an objeft, as it
did my abhorrence to hear the counterfeit Ibrieks
and groans of my miftrefs, and the affurance with
which (he attributed the fwellings caufed by de^
bauchery to this immediate accident.
This affiighted the young lady fo, that (he in
a manner forced her to fend fora furgeon, which
with much intreaty fhe yielded to do; but it muft
be for afrien d of herown,a gentleman who lived
a confiderable way off, at the polite end of the
town, for (he could not think of letting any com-
mon low -lived fellow come near her.
Upon this a porter was dire&ly difpatched for
her own furgeon, and in the mean time, as fhe
began to grow eafier, fhe recovered her fpirits,
and renewed the converfation that had been
broken off by this accident.
4 I was telling you, my dear friend (faid fhe)
4 for fo I ihall ever call you from this moment,
4 yourkindnefs having compleated the conqueft
4 which your beauty* had before made of my
4 heart, I was telling you, that I was going
4 to vifit a family this morning, where 1 pro-
4 mifed myfelf the higheft joy that a human
4 heart is capable of feeling, in lightening the
4 diftrefs of the virtuous, by fharing with them
4 fome of that wealth which Heaven has abun-
4 dantly blefled me with, and which can juftly
4 be applied to no other ufe, than making this
4 grateful return to thatgoodneis which beftow-
c ed it.
‘ But
,4-6 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
4 But my heart was too elate with the thought*
* and I received this accident as a caution frcm
4 Heaven not to flatter myfelf with any thing fo
4 ftrongly for the future. But, though I could
4 not have this pleifure myfelf, the benefit (hall
4 not be delayed to them. I will make you my
4 alm oner; an office that I know will fuit the
4 goodnefs of your heart. You fhal1give this
4 packet, whxb will put an end to all their
4 diftrefles.
4 Oh, madam1 your good opinion is the
4 greateft honour to me (replied the lady) and I
4 hope I (hall never forfeit it, efpecially itTthis
4 commiffion, which I (hall undertake with the
4 moil fincere joy 4 but pray, dear madam, who
4 are the perfons to whom I mull difpenfe your
4 goodnefs?*
4 That’s true, my dear (returned my miflrefs)
4 I ihould give you fome account of them, that
4 you may be the better able to judge of the
4 joy I feel in ferving them. It is the widow
4 of an officer, who has been killed in this war,
4 and left her with three poor babes, deftitute of
4 every fupport but the allowance of the go*
4 vernment, which, wretched as it is, and only
4 aggravating mifery by barely prolonging life
4 under it, is often gafped for by the hungry
4 mouth in vain, where intereil is wanting to
4 procure the immediate relief of it, as was her
4 unhappy cafe, fo that they mud have actually
4 perifhed for want of food, had not Providence'
4 brought them into my knowledge, feemingly
4 by the greatefi accident, about fix months ago,
4 fince when, I have myfelf afforded them the
4 neceflary comfoits of life, and have alfo made
4 fuch intereft for them, with fome of my friends,
H 2 4 that
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 147
yGoogle
* that I have here got them a grant of a penfion
4 on tht Irijh ejiqblifhment, fufficient to bring up
4 the children, and make the remainder of the
4 mother’s days happy; for, my-dear, I never
4 do any thing by halves— Good God ! child,
4 what is the matter with you ? \Yhat do you
4 weep fo for ?#
4 N othing, dear madam (replied the lady) n&-
4 thing ; 1 only fym pathize in the diftrefs o f the poor
4 widow.*— — — ** But, my dear, that diftrefs is
4 now at an end ’-— 4 O madam,. let me carry
4 her the hlefjing ! let me not delay her happinefs a
4 moment! W ho knows but her heart is this minute
4 hurfing w ith the dreadful apprehenfions o f w ant
4fo r herfelf%and her dearer infants /’— ‘With all
4 my heart, madam ; but you will pleafe to
4 order a chair to be called to.carry me home,
4 when you go; for I cannot flay here alone.’
•—4D ear madam, forgive my m denefs; 1 beg your
4 pardon, pray forgive me : the diftrefs o f the widow
4 put every thing out o f my head; indeed.it did ; pray
* excufe me.’---- 4 Excufe you, my dear, I ho-
4 nour the heart that feels another’s woe; you
4 fhall go direflly; you (hall be the meffenger
4 of glad tidings to them. JBut, my deareft
4 young lady, give me leave to tell you, that I
* fear you have not anfwered me fincerely; I fear
A your tears flow frpm fome other caufe, than
4 mere fympathy; fpeak, my child ! does any
4 thing affedt your own heart ? Can I any way
‘4 be ferviceable to you ? Command me freely,
4 and make me happy in ferving one for whom
4 my heart has conceived fo tender an efteem f
4 Speak as you would to vour own mother, and
•* wrong not my friendinip with a doubt.’— —
* O madam^ madam! (replied the mourner, as
4 foon
t48 CHRY6AL: OR, THR
yGoogle
4
1 foon as fobbing permitted utterance) I have
•"no mother to make my complaint to ; I am the
4 wretched widow you have defcrihed! A w idow ,
§Aw ithout fupport, w ithout frien d s, or any other
4 hope than ju jl in Heaven / — 4 And heaven will
4 raife you friends, my deareil child ! Heaven
4 has raifed you a friend in me! You iball be
4 my child ! 1 look upon you as my own ! as a
4
~giff from Heaven, frtm this moment! You
r*mall leave this place this very day ! it is not
4 fit for my child ! I will take a lodging for you
4 near myfelf, till my nephew, who is lately come
* to town to fee me, goes home5 and then you
* ihall live with me for ever/
Saying thefe words, (he threw her arms round
herdeftined victim* and wiped away the tears that
flowed down her cheeks, while a variety of pafr
fions filled her tender heart almoil to buriling.
ADVENT UR ES OF A GUINEA. 149
C H A P . VI.
5
The hiftory o f the young lady. She is critically in ­
terrupted by the a rriva l of'an unexpected perfe n .
She is reconciled to herfa th er, who rewards the
woman o f the boufe> and refolves to punijh the
bawd.
W
HEN ¿he had recovered herfelf, a little,
my miftrefs thus refumed her lore,*
*
*
4Weep
4 not, my deareil child, all will be well. And
4 have you any dear little infants too?’— 4O h
4 no ! my wretchednefs, thank heaven, is a ll my own f*
— 4 But may I, my dear, aik your name, and
4 the circumftances ofyour ilory! I would know
H 3 * all,
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
• all, that nothing may he unredrefTcd.’ ■
• You arc all goodncfs, madam! M y Jh ry, alas, has
4 few circum¡lances, and they are all dijlrjjes! I oji
4 my mother while I was yet a child: my fath er left
4 me in the country to the care o f a gave' nefs, the
4 ivife o f his chaplain. who educated me in the fen -
4 timents o f piety and virtue. W hen I was fcarce
4 fourteen I returned the Lve of her fon, the mofl
• deferving and mojl lovey o f his fex , who w as tvj$
4yean older than me : but,young as w e w ere, w e
4 cm ceahd our paffton, till my fath er obtained him
4 a commijjion in the army ; when, on the regiment's
4 being ordered to America, I yielded to his fear of
4 loftng me, and confented to a private marriage,
4 which wasfoon discovered by a letter's fallin g in-
4 to my father's hands, who, in his rage, turned my
4 hufband's father and mother, tf/rr/ /«*, ^
4 ¿wri, would ever fee us more. fm a ll vt*
4 carage afforded us a prefentfu port, M y mother-
4sin law foon died; the fufpicion o f her having be-
4 trayed the confidence o f my fath er, *#// in -
4firum ental in my marriage breaking her h ea rt;
4 as did the account o f my hujband's deaths his f a -
4 ther's. I then was left quite defiitute; and have
4Jince fupported a wretched being by my w ork,
4 which the honefi woman o f this houfe takes in fo r
4 me, without the lea f hope o f relief in this w rid,
4 till your goodnefs has, this day, taken compajjion
4 on me,*------4And what is your father’s name,
4 my dear ?’—4That 1 have never yet revealed, as
4 1 would willingly hide the difgrace my difirefs
4 may be thought to him \ but w ith you I need not
4 ufe that caution ; his name is*---------
Juft at this word, the furgeon, who had been
fent for to my miftrefs, entered, and prefented a
new feene. •
At
i5« ’ ellRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
Adventures of a guinea. *5*
At the firft fight of this perfon, the young lady
gave a great fhriek, and fwooned away. The
gentleman flood amoment ftupified with aftoniih-
ment, when turning haftily to my miftrefs, 4 Is
4 this the lady ?! (laid he)— ’ Aye, and a lovely
4 one (he is (anfwered ihe) but help me to raife
4 her up* when you will fee her better ; ihe has
4 been juft telling me her ftory, and the grief of
4 it has overcome her ! it is a moving one; and
4 ihe muft be our own.’-----
4 O my child! my child!9 (exclaimed he in
a tranfport) and, fpurning my miftrefs from her
with his feet, raifed her himfelf, and leaned her
head upon his bofom, killing her, and almoft
fmothering her with his tears. 4 Oh, my poor
4 child! w hat have you efcaped! what have you
4 endured!
It is impoflible to defcribe the fituation of my
miftrefs at this fcene. She faw the error ihe had
been guilty of, in introducing a woman to whom
ihe was a ftranger ; and was aware of the dan­
ger with which the horror of fuch an interview
cm fuch an occafion threatened her. While
therefore, the father feemed wrapped in an ex-
taly that made him as infenfible as his daughter,
ihe thought it the beft way to retire from the firft
burft <f his anger, and, forgetting her fprained
ancle, was going dire£Uy away; but he perceiv­
ed her intent, and calling her with a voice'that
nailed her to the grou d. 4 Stir not, upon your
4 life (faid he) I will have this whole myitery
4 cleared up.*
His daughter, juft then, opening her eyes, and
finding herlelf laid upon htr father’s bofom, love,
refpedt, duty, fear, and joy, filled her heart with
H 4 fuch
yGoogle
fuch a variety of paflions* that (he funk under
their weighr, and fwooned away.
This embarraiTed the father almoft to diffrac­
tion, till the woman of the houfe coming in,
with her affiffance flic was at length recovered*
for my miftrefs was fo terrified, that (he did not
dare to approach her.
As foon as the lady had lightened her heart by
a flood of tears, (he threw herfelf at her father’s
feet,' unable either to look up, or fpeak to him.
Moved with the mute eloquence of her grief, and
melting in the warmth of nature, he raiftd her
from the ground* and fpoke to her in thefe words::
4 Be comforted, my child ! Iam! I will be your
4 father! But tell me what has pafled between
4 you and this vile woman !’— 4 O h, S/r, is Jbe
4 not my heji^ my only frien d ? Has fbe not rejlored
4 me to your l o v e 4 Have a care, child ! (he
4 your friend? then you are loft beyond recovery
4 indeed ! She is a reproach to her fex ! to hii-
* man nature P......—4O b9 S ir / how can that be?
4 did Jhe not bring you here to me ? does not that
4 Jhtw her virtue and companion to my d ijh e f
4 Compofe yourfelf a little, child ! it is true*
4 (he brought me here; but tell me, I charge
4 you, on what terms (he told you I was to
4 come ; and how (he came to intereft herfelf in
• your affairs ! Fear net, but fpeak the truth.’
On this (he told l*im the whole of her acquain­
tance with my miftrefs, and by what accident
and in what charader (he imagined he had been
fent for; but that, as foon as (be faw him enter
the room, (he thought my miftrefs muft have
been acquainted with her ftory, and had taken
this method of introducing her to him, in hopes
*5* CHRYSAE: OR, THE
yGoogle
the furprize, and fight of her diftrefs, might ope­
rate on his companion.
Truth forces convision. He was fatisfied
with the account (he gave him ; and taking her
again in his arms, 4I have found you again, my
4 child (faid he) and I will never lofe you more !
4 Be the errors of your youth, be my feverity
4 forgotten! From henceforth you are my child,
4 and I will be your father? as to that vile wretch,
4 know, that her whole acquaintance with you
4 was fought with a premeditated defign of be-
4 traying you to ruin. She told me the wholtf\
4 nearly as you have done: and encouraged by
4 your diftrefs, of which file had gotten fome
4 general hints, but ignorant who you were,
4 lhe laid the lcheme of this pretended accident,
4 to get admiffion into your houfe ; for (he well
4 knew where you lived, and then fent for me
4 to a place I had appointed, that I might come
4 and fee you, under the appearance of a fur-
4 geon ; that if I liked you, I might have the
4 preference of her intereft in you ; for fo deep
4 had (he laid her fcheme, that you could not
4 have efcaped her: the trial would have been
4 too great for human fortitude ! and this flioft
4 execrable myftery of iniquity did (he undertake
4 for the paultry reward of 50/. which I mull
4 take the ihame upon myfelf to own, I had pro-
4 mifed her, little imagining that I was bargain-
4 ing for the fedu&ion of my own innocent cht!d.
4 But I fee, I acknowledge the hand of Heaven
4 in this whole affair, that has thus opened my
4 eyes to the danger of fuch a licentious courfe
4 of life, and made the recovery of my child the
4 means, and the reward of my converfion ?*
H 5 4 Weep
ADV ENTURES OF A GUINEA. 155
yGoogle
4 Weep not, my dear ; juftly may you turn
4 your eyes with deteftation from fuch a fiend:
4 But I ihall take care that fhe meets ajuft re-
4 ward ; while you prepare to go home with me,
4 for I will not leave you a moment in this fcene
4 of horror*.— 6Oh, mercy, mercy, my lord !
4 (cried my miftrefs) have mercy on me ! nor
4 overwhelm with your anger a wretched crea-
4 ture, whofe remorfe is a load too great to
4 bear.*— — 4Away, vile wretch (replied he in a
4 rage) nor dare to fpeak another word ! and
4 here fellow (calling to the porter who had di-
4 re&ed him to the houfe) bring me the pariih-
4 conftable.’ . .
While the porter went for him, my miftrefs,
wretched now indeed, her guilty fear magnifying
her danger, flood trembling, but afraid to affay
his pity with another word.
After he had walked a turn or two about the
room, his daughter entered, and with her the
woman of the houfe with her little effe&s, which
were foon packed up; at the fight of them his
countenance foftened : 4 Well, my dear (faid
4 he to his daughter) I fee you are ready to
4 come with me; but I muft wait a moment to
4 do juftice to the wretch who brought me hi-
4 ther. Plead not for her! I would not have
4 you ever fue to me in vain, again; and to any
4 thing in her favour I cannot yield ! But my
4 juftice ihall not only be fevere, nor confined
4 to her alone. You have faid that this honeft
4 woman has been a friend to you ! (he ihall be
4 rewarded. Here, good woman, is the fum of
4 money I was to have given this vile creature
4 fc r my daughter in another fenfe. Take, it as
4 the reward of your honefty and kindnefs to her;
4 and
i54 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
4 and call on her every year of your life for the
4 fame fum.*
The poor woman took it with reverence, but
was unable to fpeak her gratitude, her heart
was fo full, while his daughter dropped fuddenly
on herknees, and, raifing her hands and eyes to
Heaven, exclaimed in rapture, Oh pout' thy blef-
fings, Heaven, on his head, who thus difptnjcs hap-
pinefson all who merit it.— As {he faid thefe words,
the confiable came, into whole charge his lord-
ihip gave my m
iftrefs to be taken to a juftice of
the peace, whither he appointed to follow her ;
and then handed his daughter into a coach, in
which he took her dire&ly home. *
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 155
C H A P . VII.
The addrefs o f C h r y sal’j mijlrefs, and civility
o f a conftahle. She arrives at the juftice’s, and
is Jifted and joftened by his clerk^ and terrified
by his worjhip. C hrysal changes hisfervice.
AS foon as this happy couple were gone,'my
miftrefs recovered her fpirits, and fouled
with contempt at a danger ihe had often gone
through before, without harm. *
*
*
4 And fo (fays
4 file) mafter conftahle, l am given in charge to
4 you ! and for what pray ? But I am no iuch
4 novice as to yield myfelf a prifcner, tillT fi'e
4 proper authority to hold me 5 therefore, Sir, I
4 ihall wiih you a good morning: if you pleaft,
4 you may go tell his lordihip, that 1 was not at
• leifure to wait for him at the jufties’s •
, and,
4 becaule
yGoogle
4 becaufe you may be dry after your walk, herr
4 is a crown to drink mv health.*
41 thank you,millrefs (replied the magiftrate,
4 taking the money) but, in the mean time, you
4 muft come ! I am forry I cannot let you go/—
4 Cannot let meg o? fra y , S ir, where is your autho-
4 rity to keep m e?9— 4 Here, miftrefs !* (pro*
ducing his ftaff)— — 4 B ut your w arrant/* >—
• Oh ! as for that, 1*11 make bold to do with-
4 out one this time, and take you to the juliice
4 on my own authority, and his lordihip’s re-
4 queft j and fo, miftrefs, you had better come
4 along, for 1 am in hade : you may have a coach
4-if you pleafe/----- c Jye+fo I w ill, to carry me
4 hom e! and here's fometbing fo r you to pay the
4 coachman* (putting a guinea in his hand..)—
, 'Tis very well, miftrefs, I will fee you fafe
4 home, to be fure, if you delire it, and the
4 juftice gives you leave; for to him we muft
* go diredtly/ — Then give me my money; and
4 te offered you Jhqll anfwer fo r this fa fe im pri-
4fonment/— 4Your money, miftrefs! why, aye !
4 fo 1 will, if I do not earn it/— 4 Then let me
% go borne this moment/— 4No, no, miftrefs ! that
4 I cannot do till you have been to vilit his
4 worlhip; and then I will fee you fafe home, if
4 he gives me leave, and drink your health into
4 the bargain j and that was what you gave me
4 the money for : come, come, miftrefs J one of
4 your trade Ihould know better things than to
4 aik for money back again ! Have I not (hewed
4 you all the civility in my power ? Do you think
4 i would ftand preaching with you here this
4 hour for nothing! come along, the coach is at
4 the door/
I fa w
15* CHRr¥SAL : OR, THE
yGoogle
I fa w you were furprized at the addrefs and
turn of expreffion in mymiftrefles’s converfatfort
with this young lady, before the arrival of her
father, as above her fphere* but nature had given
her a capacity equal toany thing, and her inter-
courfe with the polite world had gained her an
eafe of behaviour, and elegance of expreifion, v
that made every condition of life feem natural to
her. As to theftory of the family, whom ihe
was going to relieve, (he had aétually prepared
one of her confederates to have a&ed that part,
fo that the lord might juftly fay, her defign was
laid fo well, that it was next to imponible for
her to mifs of fuccefs. For, by this deceit, ihe
would have gained the. young lady’s confidence,
to receive favours from her, and, when (he had
her in her debt, (he thought ihe could make her
own terms.
As foon as my miftrefs and her condu£tor were
come into the antichamber of juftice, the cleric,
recognizing her, addreffed her thus : • Good-
4 morrow, miftrefs— pray what has got us the
4 favour of your company ! You have been fo
4 great a firanger of late, that I was beginning
4 to think we had loft you.— 4Pray, Sir (faid
4 ihe) let me fpeak a word with you in the next
4 room.’— On which he ordered her to be fliewn
in, and only waited to aík the confiable, by
whom, and for what ihe was fent there, who was
able to give him no other anfwer, than that the
lord had ordered him to bring her, and laid he
would follow bimfelf directly.
Having got this fu ll information, the clerk
came into the room to my miftrefs, and told her,
with a look of importance and concern, that he
was forry to fee her on fo bad an account.— 4 So
4bad
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
yGoogle
c bad an account, Sir! (faid (he) why f pray
4 what do you think I am brought here for ? no-
c thing in this world! they can charge me with
( nothing but intention ; and I hope that is not
4 punifhable by the law !’— 4I hope it will ap­
* pear fo (replied he) but (ihrugging up his
4 (houlders) my lord has fent a meflage here,
4 that has another appearance !’— — 4And pray,
c Sir, what does my lord charge me w ith ■-
4 You’ll excufe my revealing the fecrets of a
c privy-counfellor ! He will be here too foon, I
4 am afraid, to tell you himfelf.’
Verfed as my miftrefs was in all the wiles of
man, the look and manner of his faying thefe
words alarmed her confcious fears. 4 Pray, Sir
4 (faid (he) what has his lordfhip faid ? or, if
« you do not think proper to tell me that, at
« leaft, you can diredt me how to make the beft
♦ defence againft his defigns ! I (hall not be un-
4 grateful ! you know I never was.’— 4Why
4 that’s true, madam (replied he) and indeed I
4 fhould take great pleafure in ferving you, and
4 getting you out of thts hole, but my lord, you
4 know, is a great man, and can, in a manner,
4 do what he pleafes with poor people.’— 4Pray,
4 Sir, can IJpeak a word to the ju jlice ?*------—
c I fear he is engaged juft now; beiides, it is
4 fo long fince he has teen or heard from you,
4 that 1 believe you muft expedt but little favour
4 from him.’— —— 4Why that is the very thing I
4 wouldJpeak to him about \ and believe me, it was
4 my bufinefs outJo early this mornings till I was de-
4 layed by this unlucky accident * ■ ■■4 As for that
4 matter, you know you may fay any thing to
4 me, as well as to him, and I can tell him.’—
4 That is true, wiy, a ll I have to fay to him9 at
4 prefenty
15* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
c prefent, is to beg his acceptance o f thefe five guineas
4fo r his pafi favours, and his advice bjw to get oitt
4 o f this f i r ape ; and pray do you take thefe threefo r
4 your trouble. 1 am firry 1 have no more to offer,
4 but really the times are very bad, and little or no
4 moneyfiirrin g among the gentlemen; befide, all my
4 ladies have been very unlucky o f late, and the do¿lor,
4 you know,> muß be always paid in band’— ‘ I am
4 forry things go fo badly with you; I will (peak
4 to the juftice, and let you know what he fays,
4 and you may depend on my friendíhip, and rn-
4 tereft at all times ; though I am afraid this is a
4 very bad affair. I will go to him direftly, and
4 return to you as foon as poffible/
I here left my miftrefs to her meditations, ha­
ving been one of the pieces ihe h idgiven to the
clerk. You may imagine l was glad to leave
fuch a fervice, though I could not promife my-
felf much pleafure; befide variety, in the ex­
change from what i had already feen of that,
which I was entering into.
The juflice was in his office, bufied in exa­
mining the informations of fome qf his people,
who had made fome lucky hits the evening be­
fore. On a wink from his clerk, they were all
ordered to withdraw, when reaching me, and four
more of my brethren to his woiihip ; Here,. Sir
(faid he) is five guineas from ‘Vlrs. —
—
— - 4So then (replied he) fie has thought proper
4 to come at la ß ’ — 4To come? no, no, Sir! ihe
4 has been brought, or elfe I believe you would
4 have hardly feen her.*— 4The ungrateful jade\
4 but what is the matter now ?'—----41 really can-
4 not well tell; nor does the confiable know
4 any more, than that my lord — — — ordered
f him to bring her, and faid that he ihould
4follow
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 159
yGoogle
■<follow himfclf.— ‘ M y lord ! then I muß be
* ready to receive him properly: H e is a great man :
4 quick ! reach me my green velvet cap, redflippers,
« and new gown, and open h a lf a /core o f thofe books,
4 the largefl o f them, and lay them on that great
4 table^ as i f 1 had been referring. There ! now I
4 look like a juflice ! and bid thofe gentry, I was
4/peaking to, £0 backwards till my lord is gone : H e
4 muß not fee fitch fates ; they might prejudice him
4 againft us ; and he is a great man: fo ! now 1*11
4 open the n e w J u s t i c e , and his lordfiip may
4 come as foon as he pleajes*
Juft as all things were thus prepared for his
lordihip’s reception, in proper formality, a fer-
vant brought a note from him, to let his worfhip
know, he could not come himfelf that morning,
but defired H
e would take proper care of the wo­
man he had ordered to be taken before him, who
kept an houfe of bad fame in fuch a ftieet, where,
upon the leaft enquiry, he would not fail to
find fufficient matter againft her,from her neigh­
bours.
Though his lordihip’s not coming was a dif-
appointment to his worihip, after the prepara­
tions he had made to receive him ; and balked
him of an important advertifement for the next
morning $ yet the general wording of this note
gave him fome confolation, as it might feetn to
authorize any meafures he might pleafe to take,
to fqueeze the criminal before him— 4This may
4 do (faid he to the clerk) this may do fome-
4 thing : but we muft proceed with caution, for
4 M rs.-------- is an old hand: let herbe called
4 in ; I’ll Joften her a little firft, and then you
4 may work upon her after as you pleafe/
A#
U o CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA, ift
As Toon as (he came in, his worlhip accofted
her t h u s 4So miftrefs; this is a fine affair;
4 I knew what your doings would come to, at
4 laft; I have often warned you ; but you would
c take no advice 5 and now you fee the confe-
4 quence !— Do, make her mittimus! I muft
4 wait upon his lordihip'; and I cannot go till
4 (he is committed !— Committed! dear your
4 worjhip, fo r what mujl / be committed ? I bavt
4 done nothing.*— * No ! to be fure, you have done
4 nothing! his lordihip would profecute you fo
4 feverely for nothing: Look at this letter! do
4 you know this hand-writing ? His lordihip has
4 here given me an account of the whole affair,
4 and defired that I wouM proceed againft you
4 with the utmoft rigour of the law ! I haveal-
4 ready fent to fearch your houfe *
Thi3 word completed the terrors, into which
the fight of his lordlhip’a well-known hand had
thrown her; and deprived her of all tefolution
and prefence of mind. She burft into tears, and
throwing herfelfon her knees, 4 Oh, good your
4 worfhip ! dear Mr. Clerk (faid (he) advife me 1
4 affifi me to get over this misfortune! here is
4 my watch; it coft 501. at a pawnbroker’s but
4 a month ago; it is a repeater ! take it, Mr«
4 Juftice! Mr. Clerk, here are my rings ! they
4 are the only valuable things I have: take them,.
4 and help me out at this dead lift: fend, and
4 ftop the people from going into my poorhoufe ^
4 I (hall be blown up : the gentlemen will all de^
4 fert me: I (hall be ruined, jult when I have
4 brought things to a little bearing : help me but
4 this once, and I never will give you caufe icy
4 complain of me again ; I will always be punc-
4 tual to my promife/
C H A P .
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
*6»
C H A P . VIII*
She is difcharged on proper bail. The labour's o f
C h r y s a l ' j new majler, in the fervice o f the
public^ with fome o f the various myjleries o f hit
office.
T
HE work Was How done, and a wink hav­
ing fettled the ¿«¿between thejuftice and
his clerk, the latter began thus: 4If I may pre­
fume to advife your wnrihip, though this is a
very bid affnir to be fure, yet as it is not quite*
felony^ by thiftaiule, l am hu nblyof opinion,
that if bail could be got/—*
* Dear M r , Clerkv
I am obigel to you.9
— * But then coolider, my
lord is a great man.’— 4That is true, pleaief
your worm p ; but the law is greater than any
man, and the law is verv tender of the liberty
of the fubjeft, and favs exprefsly in the Jlatute
in favore iibe*tis9 that no perfon fha’l be con­
fined that can get bail ; and befide, who
knows, if (he was at liberty, but fhe might
find means to be reconciled to his lordihip j
and fo all would be well.*— — — * D ear, M r ,
GUrk* .that is true; 7 w o'di eaftly be reconciled
to him ; I know how to gain his favour, when
his anger is a little c > o l e a 4 W hy, Miitrefs,
if you are quite fure of that, I believe we
may venture to bail you : but, Where are your
friends ?’— — — 4D ear your worjhip, I have no
friend s; I have nothing to make friends with \ 1
throw rnyfelf upon you, gentlemen /*— — 4 Why
really this is a nice cafe, but if you’ll ftep into
cthe
yGoogle
* the next room, we will confider what can be
4 done for you.’— 4O h ! but fend andflop the meti
4 that went to my boufe !*-----4 Never fear, they
* were not t> go without further orders.’
When (he was gone out, 4 Well ffaid the
4 juftice) this has been a good hit^ it makes up
4 for the bad week : but cannot you guefs what
4 this matter is f’— — 4Not a word of it (re-
4 plied the clerk) (he has not dropped a fyllable
4 herfelf, that could let me the leaft into it, and
4 I would not difcover my ignorance by afking
4 her any queftions. But I fuppofe it is only
4 fome trick (he has played my lord about a girl*
4 for you know ihe has often told us, that he
4 was one of her beft cuftomers, and boafted of
4 his protection ; and if it is no more than that,
4 as 1 imagine, he will think no more of it, and
4 fo the beft way is to let her go, far indeed we
4 cannot keep her, if we would ; though, to keep
4 up the form, for fear ihe ihould jm ell us out,
4 Ihe muft have fome bail; and therefore I’ll go
4 and fill a bond, and make a couple of our peo-
4 pie put on their b a i l i n g c l o a t h s , and come
4 and fign with her, though I do not think ihe.
4 has money left to pay for the bond, or make
4 the fellows drink : but ihe has done pretty well
4 already, that is the truth.*
Saying this, he went out, and in a little time
returned with my late miftrefs, and two of the
fellows, the ihabbinefs of whofe appearance had
made his worihip order them out of the lord’s
fight juft before, now drefled out like reputable
houfekeepers, who gravely figned with my mif­
trefs, without ever-afking what; and, upon her
returning a negative ihrug, to a wink from the'
clerk, went out, without a word.
The
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
yGoogle
The bufinefs was now over, and my late mif-^
trefs difmifled to follow heroccupation, and make
up, by double diligence, for the misfortunes of
that morning, only with an aiTurance to the
clerk, that (he would remember his kindnefe^,
.and be punctual for the future.
I was now entered into a ferviee, where Iliad ?
an opportunity of feeing into the whole myttery
of juftice: but you mutt not expeft that I mould
jreveal all the fecrets of fo venerable a trade
though I may give a few general hints for'
your information, in fo abftxufe and intricate a
icience.
The affair of my Tate miflrefs was the lad of'
that morning; my worfhipful matter putting me
into his purfe, and going diredtly to dinner,
which had waited for him fome time. But, tho’~
his fare was good* his care for the public would'
not permit him to make long meals, or debauch
.away his time* After a fhort. refrefhraent ok
«only two hours* he returned to his office, where
he reaflumed his labours, in all the various
branches of his extenfive employment.-,----The.
rfirft thing he looked into was the' informations,
which the affair of my mittrefs had interrupted,
.in the morning, as I told you before: when call­
ing his people, one after another, before him, he
went through them regularly, in this manner :
* John Gibbety you here inform me that you have
€ found out the perfon who took the gentleman’s
* hat, in the quarrel in Chelfea fields, laft Sunday*
* evening, which you think tomake arobbery of::
* let me hear thecircumftancesof that affair, for
c you are fo keen a blood-hound, when you get
* upon any fcent, that you are for making every
*
■ thing robbery, be the cafe what it will.’
« Pleafc
2*4 CHRYSAE: OR, THlTr
yGoogle
ADV’E'N’TU RE6 0P A GUTN72A,
4 Pleafe your worlhip {replied Gibbet, turning
** the quid in hi« cheek, and fquirting out the
^ juice; I do all things for the beft, and that you
4 know; and that I have brought many things to
‘ bear, which nobody elfe would undertake, a«
4 witnefs that affair on S h u te r 's -h ilithat got
4 you fo much credit, and money too/— 4fPfy*
4 that’ s true, JOHN ; but then YOU fhould remem-
4 ber alfo the curfed fcrape you brought me into
4 about the young fellow who wrote the threatening
*f letters 4o the farm er, about burning his barns:
4 you undertook to prove that too : but you know hew
4 you left me in the lurch, after I had gone fuch
4 lengths, as had like to have ruined me. Plain
4Jwearing w ill not always do, though never fo
4 home; you Jh&uld remember that: you Jhould at-
4 tend' to circumftances alfo: but, as to this affair^
4 let me hear what you can make o f it.9
4 Your worihip muft know, that /, and two
4 or three more of our people, having nothing to
4 d o, Jbammed a quarrel, in which a gentleman,
4 who was coming by, loft his hat. It was a
4 large hat, with a very broad gold lace, fuch
4 as your foreigners wear; it was I that (hoved
4 off the hat, and feeing a fhabby, idle-look-
4 ing young fellow (landing by, without one,
4 I took it up, and, afking him if it was his,
4 reached it to him, and faw him make off with
4 it direftly. Now, if this is not a plain robbe-
4 ry, I do not know what is! a fellow runs
4 away with a gentleman’s hat, who advertifes
4 it, with a reward for taking the thief, whom
4 he will profecute! now I have found out the
4 fellow’s haunts, for indeed I dogged him, and
4 will have himfelf whenever you pleafe, and
* can clench the profecution, by fwearing that I
4 faw
yGoogle
CHRYSAL* OR, THE
*5«
4 faw him carry off thé hat ; and you know I
4 need fay no more, nor take any notice who
4 gave it him.* _
4 W hy, J o h n , there may he femething in this
4 affair. I like it very well, John ! andJ o , clerks
4 you may enter him on the lift for next fejjtons. T h is
4 affair has a good look ; nor is there any thing u n -
4ju ft in it : fo r , tho* you gave him the hat, as he
4 knew it was not his own, and yet carried it off,
4 he is guilty o f the thefts and that is the fam e as
. 4 robbery, in ju ftice, tho' it may not in la w ; and
4juftice is the thing to go by, with a fa fe confcience.
4 A nd fo you may go, J o h n , I w ill let you know
4 when it is proper to have him taken up, only have
4 an eye to him, fo r fe a r any one elfefeouldfnap him
4 out o f our hands.— W ho comes next ! Rich abd
4 Sl y , y.u fay you have found out the knot o f
4 young fellow* that have begun to in feft theftreets
4fo r feme nights paft .*— 4Aye, pleafe your wor-
4 ih'p (fays Sly, ihrugging up his flioulders,
4 and grinning) I have found them out, to be
4 fure $ and well I might ; for it was I firft fet
4 them on the lay.9----- 4 How, Richard ! take
4 care o f what you fa y * Oh, your wor-
4 fliip, never fear D ick Sly for a flippery trick !
4 I know what 1 fay very well : I have known
4 for fome time that thefe youths have been
4 playing a fmall game, cribbing from the////,
4 and build[nyfeonces, and luch-like tricks, that
4 there was no taking hold of j I therefore
4 thought it would be right to bring them to
4juftice, at any rate, and fo laid the plan of
4 this gang, and entered them into the bufinefs
4 myfelf, and now, whenever you have a mind
4 to nub them, you need only take me up, and
4 1 can peach them all, which will be no bad af-
4 fair,
yGoogle
* fair, there are fo many of them.’— — 4 Why9
4 that is true, Richard ; but they have done no-
4 thing yet that dejerves fo fevtre a remedy as the
4 gallows! therefore let them alone; perhaps they
4 may mend; or, i f they do not, it will be time
4 enough to take them up when they deferve it more
4 than now To be fure, your peaching them> who
4firjl drew them in, is not fo very juft ; but then
4 the law will fuptort you in it, and, while a man
4 has the law on his fide, he may laugh at the gaU
4 lows. And fo, Richard, have a good look-out
4 till thefe youths are ripe for T yburn, and then
4your harvejl will come !*
It would be endlefs to go through this whole
hufinefs particularly. Be it fufficient to fay, that
there was no breach of the laws, which fome of
his people did not give him an information of,
and almoft all, as accomplices, while his whole
care was to confider, which could turn moft to
his advantage, in the conviftion, and to fettle
the evidence againft them, fo as it might be fure
Dot to mifcarry.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 167
CHAP,
yGoOgl
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
è+»
C H A P . IX.
A highwayman, improperly taken^fiv es his life, by
lejing his reafon. Judicial figacity, eloquence
triumphant over commonfenfe9 and matter o ffafit.
’This myjlery explained*
W
HILE he was in the midft of this buff-
nefs, he was furprized with the news of
an highwayman, that moment brought in by a
gentleman who had taken him, in the very at­
tempt of robbing him on Turnham Green. This
threw the whole houfe into an uproar.*-«— 4An
4 highwayman taken, and by the very party ! (ex-
< claimed thejuftice in an agony of rage and
4 vexation) This is mojl unfortunate; there is 401*
4 dead lofsy befides the Jhame o f it 2 how Jhall I fu p -
4 port my confequence, i f other people can ferve the
4 public without my ajjtjlance ?*
4 I wonder who it can be (faid the clerk) I
4 fuppofe the man on the white mare, or the
4 malic, from Putney Common / but, whoever it
4 is, fomething muft be done ! H e muft be faved
4 this time, to fave our credit, and we may
4 have him the next ourfelves ! Here they
4 come: do you keep the gentleman in difcourfe
4 while I fpeak to the priloner, and fee how he
4 can come down* I (hall readily give you your
4 cue.9 ^
Juft then entered the gentleman with his pri-
foner, whom they dire&ly knew to be an old
offender, who had long baffled their purfuit:
a cir-
yGoogle
« circumftance, that heightened the vexation of
his being taken by another; and was not a little
favourable to him at this time.
His worihip received the gentleman moft po­
litely, and defired him to fit down a moment, till
he ihould finifh a letter he was writing to the
fecretary o fftatey and then he would attend to his
btifinefs, ordering the prifoner to be removed in­
to another room for the mean time.
He then fat himfelf down to write with great
deliberation, and hadju ft finijhed, when his cleric
'tame to deliver him a letter from the lord mayor,
which he read over attentively, and faying it was
very well, he then turned to the gentleman, and,
a(king his pardon for making him wait fo long,
ordered the prifoner to be brought in.
The highwayman appeared now a quite dif­
ferent perfon from what he did, when he was in
the room a few minutes before; his looks,which
were then clouded with the gloom of liillefs de-
je&ion and defpair, being inflamed into the
Jierceft agitations of phrenzy.
The gentleman ihewed his furprize at this
change, as did his worihip his uneafinefs for his
own fafety, from the fury of fooutrageous a mad­
man. As foon as he was fecured, the juftice
addrefling himfelf, with the height of judicial
folemnity, to the profecutor. * Pray, Sir (faid
• he) will you pleafe to inform me what you
4 have to alledge againft this unhappy perfon ?*
— 4 Sir (replied the gentleman) all I have
4 to fay, is, that he (topped me this after-
4 noon, upon Turnham-green9 and, preCepting a
4 piflol at me, bid me deliver my money; but
4 being well armed, and having more about me
* than 1 chofe to Jofe, inftead of my purfe, I
V o l . I, I 4 drew
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 169
yGoogle
' CHRYSAL; OR, THE
4-.drew a piftol too, and, his miffing fire,. I grap^
Spied with, and toolchim on the fpot, and from
* thence brought him cliredlly here: that is all
. 4 1have to fay, Sir!’
4 And pi i?y, Sir, what did he fay when you had
4 taken him ?'— c Not a word, Sir, nor has he
Vfpoke a fyliable fince ; nor anfwercd any one
* queftion he has been afked.*~~— 4 Aye, *tis fa ,
* poor gentleman , it is fo r>
— And pray, Sir, did. he
4*make much refinance when you took hint ?%—— —
f
c The utmoft he was able; but being better
mounted, and much ftronger than him, I foon
4 overpowered him, though not without great
V danger ; for, after I had him down, he drew
this knife, and very narrowly miffed plunging
4 it into my body ! You/ee what a cut ikmade*
4 in my coat and waiftcoafr!’— 6Aye,' poor man,
4 madnefs is always defperate : I fea r9 Sir, you
4:have been too hajly in this ojfaird— — 4How, •
4 Sir, too hafty, to take a man in the very ac-
4' tion of highway robbery i 1 do not underitand
* you, Sir!’
. 4 Sir, I mean that this perfon is no robber, but
4 an unhappy gentleman o ffam ily andfortune, who
4 has beenfo r fame time out o f his mind: I have been
4 applied to by his relations more than once, to try to .
4.have him apprehended, that he might be oonfined \
4 and, now he is fecured, they w ill take proper care
4 o f him, that he jhail not frighten any bodyfo r the*
4'fu tu re; fo r I am fatisfied, Sir, that was all he*
* meant j that he would not have taken your
4 money, had you offered it to him : 1 fuppofe you
4Jearchcd him, when you had overpowered him, poor
4 termed i t ! Pi'ay, Sir, did you
4find any thing upon him, to make you think he was
1 -an highwayman ? A ny watches ! jew els! or d if-
4ferent
yGoogle
AtfVENTtrRBS OB A-GJIINEA. 17¿ x
^ferent purfes of money ? or%
more money than you
^ might think it probable a pcrfon of his appearanee
' might commonly carry about him,9 ‘
4 No really, Sir, I did not find any thing
4' like what you mention! tfyrs putie which
4 feems to have about thirty or forty guineas *
4 in it (for I have not reckoned'¿hern ) was the/
*• only thing in all his pocket, extèpt the knife*
r which he drew on me ; his piftols were open-'
* ly in his faddle, as gentlemen commonly wear
‘ them/ r* .................]
4Very welly and does not his prefent behavioury*
r and whole conduit in thisaffhiry convince you%
4 that the unhappy matt couldfoa^e no felonious in-
x~tenty in his triad attack updhyou' ? for* rpehy mad
4 as he isy have no intention at all \ and, without -a
4 felonious intenty there can be no robbery: but I
^ prefumey you may undirjlandfomething of the law
4 y°urfelfy Sir?y ‘ \ *
4 No, indeed, Sir, I cannoífáy 1know,any *
x' more law, than juft nbt to wrorig any petfon^
4
' nor let them wrong me, if 1 can help ié, ás\
4 far as common-fenfè will direft me : 1 thank/
4 God, I have fpent my days quietly in thé couit-*
4 try, and never had a difpute with any man in
4*my life/ ^
4Common fenfeydear Sir! common-fenfeis abliiß,
€' guide in matters of law/ law and common-fenfe aire
4 quite different things ; but as Í was fayingy S/r,^
4 where there is rio felonious intenty there can be ho^
' felony ; now'robbery is piihijhed only becaufe it is*
4felonyyfar fa the indictment muß be laidÿ Felo­
« nice, Siry j
Fei¡.onice, or it will not do! The'
4 indictment will be quajhed without that word ; and
4*who can charge a man w th afelonious intenty who
* is difordired in windy and xah have nç intention
t I 2
r ' at
r '■ . k ■
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
4 at all ? yTis true, the appearnce was bad, and
4fufficiently terrifying, to authorize your apprehend-
4 ing him : hut, w jw#fuffered neither lojs nor hurt,
4 I cannot fuppofe, that a,gentleman o f your humane
4 appearance would deftre to add to the mifery o f bis f
4 pre/ent unhappy condition, that o f imprisonment till
4 the nextfejftons, when he muß be acquitted o f courfe,
4 as that would certainly make his madnefs for ever
4 incurable.— Whatever expence you have been at in
4 bringing him here, I w ill take upon me to reimburfe
4 you out o f the money in his purfe, beftde what gra-
4‘tification you pleafe sto require, fo r your own time
4'and trouble! This? Sir, is what / would recommend
4 to you as afihrißian anß, a gentleman^as you ap-
4[pear to he: but, i f you are o f another opinion, you
c muß onlyfw ear to your information, and enter into
V <
7recognizance,ofproficution, while Ifign his MIT-
4 t i m u s , and fend word to his friends, who are
4,people o f condition•
4 Indeed, Sir, you judge very rightly of me ;
4 I would not aggravate the diftrefs of any hu-
4 man being! If you know the unhappy man,
4 and that he is under fo fevere an affliction, as
c the lofs of reafon, I have nothing farther to*
4 fay, than that I am forry for his misfortune,
4 and would not for the world be the caufe of-
4 heightening it, a$ I had no motive for appre-
4 bending him, but the duty which I and every
4'memberowe the public. I thank Heaven for
4 my own efeape fron* him, and do not de-
4 fire to make any advantage of it. As to
4 the people who aififted me in bringing him
4 hither, they are ftill unpaid, and you know
4 befl: how to deal with them: So 1 leave the
* whole affair to you, and am Your humble,
4 fervant.* \ . ■
I have
17* CHkYSALs OR, THE
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
1 have not interrupted this account with any
notice of the behaviour of th$ criminal, as it
confifted only of the molt outrageous imitation
of madnefs, with imprecations and blafphemies,
too horrid for repetition. .
As foon as the gentleman was gone, and the
room cleared of all but the juftice, his clerk,
and the madman, who was left bound to keep up
the farce, his worihip thus addrefled him, 4 So,
4 Sir, you thought to reign for ever; but you
4 fee what your fates have come to ? 1 fuppofe
4 you are furpfrized at the pains I have taken to
4 bring you through this affair !* 4Not at all*
r Sir (replied the criminal)‘, the bank-note
4 for 2001. which I had concealed in the fleeve
4 of my coat, and gave your clerk/— 4 How,
4 Sir (faid the juftice in a rage) do you pre-
4 tend to fay if was upon any fuch account;
4 But you judge of others by yourfelf. How*
4 ever, I (hall not Hand to argue the matter
4 with you now ; you have efcaped for this
4 time, and may be glad of it; but take care
4 for the future ! your luck ma| not always
4 fo good/-—*
—4W ill your worjh'ip pleafe to order
4 your people to return my horfe and arms ? and*I
4 hope you w ill give me my pnrje ;f o r life without
4 fomething to Jupport it is no great obligation*^
4 What, Sir 1 do you pretend to capitulate#
4 your horfe you {hall have, not th&t you have
4 any right to expeft him, but becipfe it would
4 not be proper to keep him, aftef the1repre-
4 fentation that impofed upbri tjhe^f&M who
4 took you; and here are half a fodf/eguineas to
4 carry you to fome place whete you are not
4 known, and to maintain you till you can get
4 into fome honeft way of earning your bread.
* I 3 4 The
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 173
yGoogle
, *
" The reftls little enought o give the people in­
J‘ ttead of your horfe, and to flop their mouths.
* You may ftay here till the croud is difperfe^,
c* when you may go where you pleafe.’----- As
there was no remedy, the criminal was forced ¿0
fubmit ; nor indeed did he feem much difl'atisfied
--at the heavinefs o f,his compofuion.
1, ’ ■■ ■ ■ ■ *
■ ■ ■ ■ m 1i
wi
i1 1 ■ » . ,
C H A P , X, *
'A n inflame o f bis worjhlp's exemplary juflice on Jet
/bop-lifter. The un/ajhionable compajjion andgq-
uerafity o f a failor. A difpute about fuperiorify
* o f/k ill, between bis wtr/hip and bis clerky open's
. new myfleries, in the profe/flon. ;
I
T was now pretty late, and my matter W
93
iuft retiring to fupper, pleafed with having
made fp good a day, when he was flopped by
more bufinefs, A woman who kept a chandlers
ihop, in the next ftreet, had dragged before hitn
one of her poor neighbours, whom (he h$d
caught in the very fail of ftealiog a pound pf
cheefe off her counter, as fee was reaching, a
-two-penny iQaf from the feelf: a crime that w*s
heightened by ingratitude too, as fee was giviqg
lier the loaf pn truft ; the thief having owned jo
‘ her, that fee pad not a farthing in the world to
pay far it, .pork morfel to give her three fm^l
children, , pad been fatting the whole day.,
Enraged at. fee heinoufnefs of the crime, and
at being Jcept frQtn fupper, while the chickeps
and ^papgus.^ie pooling on the table, his
/ " < • ‘ 1 worfeip,
174 ' * CilfcYSA*L* OR, THE ‘
yGoogle
'worihip, knitting his brows, and putting on all
the magiftrate, alked the trembling wretch, with
a voice that pierced her foul, — 4 What fhe had to
4 fay for herfelf, and whether ihe was guilty of
4 the crime laid to her charge, or not.’—
. The poor creature almoft dead with wretch-
ednefs, want, and fear, threw herfelf at his feet,
artd pouring out a flood of tears, that for fome
moments choaked her utterance, 4 O mercy!
4 mercy !’ (faid file) 4 for the love' of the fweet
4 Jefus, have mercy on a poor wretch: whom
4 want alone compelled to this firft offence, to
4 fave the lives of three poor infants, who are
4 this moment periihing with hunger. Oh !
4 fend and prove the truth of what 1 fay ; fend
4 and learn their mifery, and it will move yoa
‘ 4 to relieve them, and then I care not what b^-
• comes of m
fe.*— 4Very truly /" i f we ad-
4 mit -fetch excufes for /hop-liftings there'will be
' 4 enough ready to plead them. Herey make her mit-
4 timus; fee confefjes thef a f t ; as for her brats%
:x bajlarch too, / juppofes let them be fent to t\e
4 w o r k h o u fe 4 Oh the poor creatures ! they
I4 are not baftards; and they have no pariih \o
4 be fent to. My hufband is a feilor, who
4 pfeiTed on board a man of war fix years ago,
4 and has been in the fVefe-Indies ever fincc, ti)l
4 the fummer, when the ihip was ordered hon^e
4 to be laid up. Poor foul ! he thought fye
4,(bould be paid off, and fo wrote me word to
4 Corke to come to him, for he meant to go
4 and fettle in Scotland, his own country; but,
4 the moment he came to Pcrtfmouths he was
4 turned over ioto another {hip, without getting
4 a {hilling of his fix years wages or prize-
*
c rrioney, and fent away dire&ly to America \
I 4 4 fo
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
yGoogle
* fo that after fpending every penny I had in (he
4 world, to come to him from Ireland, as hede-
( fired, I am left here with my poor children to
* ftarve in a ftrange place, where nobody has any
4 companion for me, though my hufband wrote
4 me word, that he had above 300 1. due to him
* for wages and prize-money ; here is his letter !
* I never go without it; it is all the comfort I
€ have in my diftrefs/
4 Aye, 1 thought fo I I though you w e n one o f
4 thofe Irifli thieves that came to rob us9 and cut our
4 throats; but / Jhall take care o f you ! I Jhall make
4you wijh you bed continued eating potatoes at home•
4 1 wijh I couldprovide as wellfo r every one o f your
f country ! we Jhall never be well till we have
4 banged you all.9
— * Oh good your worihip! '
4 lam no thief, I never ftole any thing before,
4 and this woman, who has brought me before
4 you, knows the truth of every thing I have
4 told your worihip; and that I have always
* paid her honeftly while I had a penny in the
4 world, for I have dealt with her ever fince I
4 came to London; but hunger, and the cries of
* three ftarving children, forced me to this ! Oh
4 my children my children V— * Peace, woman !
4 all you can fay ftgnifies nothing \ you were taken
4 in thefaft+ and to Newgate you Jhall go direflly.
4 A nd as fo r your brats, *it is better fo r them to die
4 o f hunger now, than to live to be hanged like their
4 motherJ-----
By this time the mittimus was ready, which he
ftgned without the leaft hefitation or pity, and
then hurried away to his fupper, having almoft
fitted his bowels out, to think it was fpoiled by
waiting fo long.
But,
i7* CHRYSAL: Oft, THE
yGoogle
But though the juftice’s compaflion could not
be moved by fuch a poor wretch, his clerk was not
fo inexorable, but yielded to the perfuation ofan
boned ter, who feeing a crowd at the door, had
given iixpence to go in, and fee thefu n \ andfor
two guineas, which barely paid hisfees, ventured
to make up the affair, and let her go about her
bufinefs, though he did not know what might be thg
tonfequence, i f it Jhould come to hit worjbip’s know -
ledge.----- Jack took no notice of what he faid, but
taking the poor creature, who was juft finking
under the agitations of fear, joy, arid gratitude*
by the hand, *Chear away, filter, After,’ (faid he/
• chear away $ we’ll bring up all this lee way,
• next trip. Damn my eyes at)dlimbs if I’lf fee
4 a brother featnan*« family at fhort allowahce,
• while I have a (hilling! Come,heave a-head^
f I’ll rig and visual you and yolrr children*
• againIt your huiband comes, to man you for a
4 voyage home. I’ll fwing my hammock in the
4 next birth, and you (hall cook the kettle* while
• I ftay aihore,----- Saying which words he
led her off in triumph.— — This the clerk tolcl
his worihip, when he came in to fapper, giving
him one of the guineas, as his fhare of the'com­
petition.
I now thoght the butinefs of the day over,
and was preparing to take a view of my new
mailer’s heart, while he and his clerk were en­
joying their’fuccefs over an hearty bottle. But I
was prevented by an accident, which difturbed
fofa while, and had like to have entirely broken
off this harmony between them y a difpute, like
thofe between all conquerors’, arifirig about the
divition of the fpoil, and the merit in the acqui-
fitioh of it.
I 5 • Thi*
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. tff
yGoogle
V» ‘ efifthsAi'i ö«, tîîè
r and the highwayman in the afternoon, we have
f made a noble day of it ! But what have you
,4
, ordered about that fellow ? I hope you have
4 taken care that we .may have him ourfelves
} next.’ c Never*feap/ (replied the cleric) 4I
* have dorie for him. I have fent people to lay
4 all the roads he can go, from the inn where he
* ordered his horfe; and plaufible Tom is fixed
f there, to fcrape an acquaintance with him,
4 fo that be cannot efcape.*
c 4 Ayf^ Jet Tom alone, to manage him $ many a
4 tunning fellow 's heart has ihat Torn crept into,
4 till he had weedled him to Tyburn ! Not a law *
^ y r ° f them,all has. a fmoother tongue But did not
4 J improve the hint o f his madnefswell? bow quietly
4 the gudgeon [wallowed it ! i f I were to fi t about
4 it9 1 believe in myfoul-y 1 could have perfuaded him
4 out of h^s own jet. fesy and made him think him jelf
j4 madly as well as the highwayman ! ha ! ha ! ha !
V though you . yjire not quite clear enough in yqur
y no{e y you jhould have told me all the particulars ;
4 I was often at a lofs; but upon the whoky I think
4 I did pretty w Jly pretty well 1 think ! r ‘
4 Why aye, you did lo manage it pretty well
4 when I had given you the cuey and fo might
4 3ny one have done. But how would you have
4 contrived to/bring him off, if I had not made
4 that hit!’— 4 H o w !—why eafily enough /
■ —■«
■»
4,l would have-— — But what have you done wi\h
4 the bank-note ! let me fee that !’— 4 The note!
1 it is fafe enough. But you do not tell me,
4 how would you have managed to have earned
4 it $ I think you fiiottld do that' before you
4 aik
Digitized by Google
* aik for it.— c How 1 would have earned it P
* zvhy pray, good Sir, do you know whom you
* talk to in this manner?*— * Whom I talk to”
?
* _ _ I talk to the worihipful juftice----- whole
4 betters I have talked to before now ; and who
4 would not have aiked me that queftion fome
* years ago* when he applied to me to inftru£fc
4 him in the bufinefs of his office'!’----- 4 h f e -
4 lence ! infiruft me ! m make you kn^w^ Siry that
4 1 under/land my bufinefs without your injlruftion l
4 FI! take another clerk io-morrowS— 4 With all
4 my heart, good mailer juftice, with all my
4 heart; and fee who will be the lof<?r by that.
4 If you donor know it yet, you will foon fee
4 then, whether the bufinefs cemes to the juftice
4 or his clerk ; for 1 give you notice, that I
4 ihall take all the people with me; you ihall
have the credit of making up a new fet for
4 yourfelf, *
1allure you.’-'-------4Feryfine^ Very
4fine treatment th is !’ — ----- 4Why do you de-
4 ferve it then, Sir, if you do not like it ? I fay
4 very fine treatment too ! that you (houfd take
4 upon you to undervalue my /kill, and alllime
c the cr-rditof it to yourfelf ; you, whom I firft
t4 t. light, and ftijl fuppprt in your office, in de-
4 fpite of all your blunders !----- As for the
4 bank note, here it is, and here it fhall be,
4 till we have fettled the account of the lait
4 feffions, when you were fo* clever upon me,
4 lending me on a fool’s errand out of the
4 way, while you took up the reward. Per-
4 haps you thought X did not fee through yopr
4 defign, or that I was afraid to fpe;.k of ^t,
€ but you were quite miftakeny I only waited
4 till the remedy ihould come into my own
4 hands, and now it has, be aiTured 1 ihall
4 make
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. j7*
yGoogle
4 make ufe of if, whatever you may think, Sir ?
4 and farther let me tell you, that if you fay
4 much more, I will think of parting in earneft,
4 if you do not think proper to come to a new
* agreement $ for I fee no reafon why you (hould
c carry off two thirds of the profit only becaufe
4 you artjuftice indeed, though I do all the bufi-
« nefs !’-----
sto CHRYSALi OR, THE
C H A P . XI.
The breach happily made up by the arrival o f com*
Pony. The evening concluded in charafter. H is
%vcrfl)ipgoes next morning to hear a charity fermon%
and from thence to eat a charity feq ft, where
C h r y sa l enters into a new fervice• Some ac­
count o f the nature o f a charityfeqft.
M
A T T E R S were now atfuchan height»
that I every minute expefted they would
have proceeded from words to blows, when a
pull at the bell brought them both to themfelvea
in an inftant.
4Ah! that is true! this is quarter-night»9
(faid the juftice) <and here the ladies are come!
4 Give me.your hand: why ihould we fall out
4 about our ikill» when the bufinefs goes on
4 well ? here's my fervice to you \ arid let there
4 be no more of it.9
— —
4 With all my heart (replied the clerk) but
4 why will you urge me on thus, when you know
4 that I cannot bear to have my ikill called in
.* queftion.9
By
yGoogle
By this time the ladies entered, whom I dire£U
ly faw to be the commode matrons, and compliant
fair, of his diftrirft, who came duly to compound
with him, for the breach of thofe laws he was
appointed to fupport.
The very mention of this fcene fufficiently ex­
plains the nature of it, and makes a more parti­
cular defcription unneceffary. All parties behav­
ed properly on the occafion. They paid their
fubfidies, for which hereturned them very whole-
fome advice, to behave with diligence and difcre-
tion in their profeffions j-and efpecidlly thofe who
lived in his neighbourhood, he cautioned to avoid
all riots, and caufes of offence, which might
bring his connivance' and proterftion into fu^>[-
cion j then: relaxing from the feverity of his mo­
rals, he gave up the reft of the night, and a good
part of the next morning, to mirth and good-
feilowlhip, in the company of a few of his par­
ticular favourites, and beft cuftomers of this
motly fet, having difmiffed the reft to the pur-
fuit of their occupations. ’ '
^The bufinefs of the day, and pleafures of the
night, had fo far exhaufted his fpirits, that na­
ture required along paufe: accordingly, no bufi-
nefs coming in to difturb him (for fuch was his
Vigilance in his office, and care for the public,that
every thing gave way to that) he made a late
morning, not waking till he was called to attend
a fermon and dinner, which were to be thatday,
for the benefit of a charity, to which he was a
conftant beriefadlor; as indeed his public' fpirit
made him, to all that were already effabliihed,
and prompted him to ftrike out many new; in
which,'as theauthor of them, he hoped to have
the
ADVENTURES OTA GUINEA. ,Sf
yGoogle
the management,'while novelty (hould make is
the faihion to fupport them. ‘
But in this he was always difappointed. For
{hough, in the multitude of hisfqhemeSjhp fome-
times (tumbled upon a good one, yet his head
Was Toconfufed, and his notions Towild and im-
methodical, that before he could digeft his plans
into any regularity, fome one elfe took up the
hint, and ran away with the credit of the defign^
At church he edified greatly, by a comfortable
nap%during the fermon, which fipiihetf his rej-
jreftunent, and fent him with a clear head, and
keen ftomach, to the feaft, where every perfoil
feemed to vie, in demonftrating his attachment
to the caufe of their meeting, by the quantity
|ie eat and drank. ,
- I changed my fervice once,more, being
given by his worihip in the fubfeription, and
came into the pofleflion of a community iq gene­
ral, which gave me an opportunity of feeing the
human heart in a more complicated view, than
perhaps any other feene of its adtions could af­
ford j as there was hardly a profeflion?degree,
or rank of life, which had not a reprefeptaVive ¡p
this meeting, nor a mqtive of adfion, however
apparently contrary to its defign, or contradi¿lory
to each other, which did not contribute its influ­
ence to the bringing them together.
While I lay in the hands of the treafurer of the
charity, unafligqed to any particular ufe, or per­
ifon, 1 enjoyed a Hate of liberty ; foroething like
that of living in a commonwealth, having it in
piy power tofenter into the hearts of all the go­
vernors (who were now my owners) as I jiked
and to make any obfervations, without r'eflraiat
to any particular perfon, time, or place.
Charity
is* CHRVffÁLs OR, THE
yGoogle
AD VE N tU R FS OF A fctt& E A . sig3
Charity is a moft amiable and moll halted q f
the human virtues, and that which rites to the
neareft imitation of the divine. Nor can any
thing be a ftronger proof of the beneficence q f
the authorof the human nature, than his placing
this virtue, which is the perfection of it, within
Che reach of every individual.
For charity is a difpofition to think well of,
and do well to every other human being, with­
out partiality, prejudice, or refpeft to any oth^r
motive, than this univerfal duty; giving of almjs
being no more than one, and that perhaps the
very meaneft effedt of it.
But this extenfivenefs of the nature of charity
Is the reafon of its being generally mifconceiv-
ed, and moft erroneoufly confinedto this effeft by
minds unable to comprehend its greater excel­
lence ; and, from this miftake, have proceeded
tnany of the extraordinary inftances of this effect
q f charity, which diftinguifhes the prefent age.
This is a moft dangerous error ; it is too like
thinking to bribe Heaven with the -wages-^f
Hell; and vet, profanely abfurd as fuch a no­
tion is* daily obfervation fhews the e?xteu
five
prevalence of it. !
* A charity is fuch a refinedand exalted virtue,
and purely fpiritual,it muft appear ftrange to you
how it fhould enter into the head of man, to
make fo grofs, dyll, and fenfual a paffion, as
eating the foundation 6/it! indeed fo unnatural
is the thought to pure fpeculation, unacquainted
with the perverfions of life, that a charity feaif,
in the literal meaning of the phrafe, muft be
taken for a meeting of the poor, to eat the proy]-
fions fupplied for them by the rich;- iftflead of
the rich meeting tq gorge their own appetites.
yGoogle
But a little obfervation of the prefent bias of
the world will folve this difficuhy. O f all the
natural appetites and paffions, which poflefs that
part of mankind, whofe age has enabled them
to amafs money enough to give away, eating is
the mod univerfal. I fay natural paffions, for
fraud, avarice, or ambition, or even luft, at the
. time of life, are not the paffions of nature.
T o gratify this therefore, was the mod pro­
bable fcheme for drawing them together ; ancT,
when that is fufficiently done, the full heart
opens eafily, and ihures its abundance with the
empty.
« CHRYSAL: OR, THE
- C H A P . XII.
Areprefentation o f the company. The hiflory o f one
' o f the principal members. The modern method o f
• bribing Heaven w ith the wages o f H ell.
Z T * H E Y hadfeajledy nor did their minds y d re-
^ quire fuck another banquet*, when I became
a member of their fociety ; you muft not expeft
a particular account or defcription of fuch a
fcene. A few general hints muft fatisfy your cu-
Xiofity, as I have told you on other occafions.
Let your imagination reprefent to you a num-
1ber of people, whofe higheft pleafure is eating,
feated at a large table, covered with all the delf-
cades, all the rarities of the feafon, in a plenty
that promifed fatiety to the keeneft appetires.—
But I muft flop ! I fee the very thought has ah
effcft upon you, that favours too ftronly of fen-
fuality,
.. ' • H
o
m
e
r
. ..............
yGoogle
fuality, and might, if not checked, put a flop to
-our converfation, by fome human hankerings*
Let us therefore pafs over fuch a fcene, and turn
our obfervation to the company, as they fat, af­
ter the fragments of the feaft were removed.
And here it will be proper to have recourfe to
the expedient we made ufe of before, and, hold­
ing up the mirror to imagination, view the whole
fcene as if a&ually prefent.
; Obferve, then, that enormous bulk of fleib,.
Hhat fits at the head of the table, with his waift-
coat. all unbuttoned, and gafping for breath; the
^liftenfion of his ftomach having left his lungs
fcarceroom to perform the animal fun<Sions,and
fat almoft choaked thepaflages of vital air.
He is one of the principal fupporters of this,
, and every other public charity, founded on the
modern method of a feaft ; the natural avarice of
his heart outwitting itfelf in this inftance; .for as
he is fureof fatiating his appetites with more and
better vi&uals and wine, at thefe meetings, than
he could have at homej for much more than the
price of the ticket, the advantage of that bargain
always tempts him tojgo; and then the happinefe
of his heart, in the fufneis of his ftotiiaCh, opens
his purfe, and he ftibfcribes with a liberality that
arifes almoft to profufion.
But look into his heart, and read the reft of
his life : the very money which he beftows with
fuch an appearance of virtue, on this beft of
ufes (for no error in motive, or (banner, muft
take off the merit of an a&ion that does good)
this very, money (I fay) has perhaps been He-
quired by vices the mpft oppofite to the virtues
it is applied to. .............
. T l
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 1S5
yGoogle
', i
. T h e greateft frugality, application, and (kill
in the myllerious bufinefs of a fcrivener, have
yfaifed this perfon, from the moll abjeil poverty,
. to affluence, above tfye moderation of a rational
.wiih. But fo powerful is the force of habit,
.that, though the caufe.has been long ftnce re­
m oved, the eftedt ilill remains, and he perfifts
to fave and heap up money, by all the mean and
iniquitous ways which want firft fuggefted to
him» One inftance, and that not Angular in
him, will give you a fufficieut iufight into his
L
chara£er. . , ,
A gentleman whom indiferretion and indolenct
*of temper had involved in fome pecuniary dif-
trefles, bad th? greater misfortunes, fome years
ago* to.be recom.rqended.-to 4hjs^perfop, to bor-
jrpw.Aiph a furri of money as, {hpqld. extricate
■ him trom hi^ immediate dl^cu)tye$, op * mort­
gage of his eftate. , ,
As his fecurity W3sgood, his bufinefs was foon
done ; but the convenience of his*eft*teto.ano*-
•therwhich the,perfon hpd lately purchafed in hi|S
meighbaurhopd, and an, acquaintance with the
unwary eafinefs o f;his difpofitior>, made him eaft
£ vvjihful eye upon it, and form fchemes-for getf-
jpfjg it ahfolqtply into hi? poffeffion.' r ,
A t firft he drove to tempt his indiferetion by
ibe'offer of moremoney to fupply his plcafures ;
but finding that would not take, and that the
¿enfe of jhi$ former extravagances dyyelt fo
Arongly pn him» 4s tp give his mind a kind o f
.turn tp induftry, did he^kqow hQW to apply
Jbds ready genius firuck out, a method, thM kp
imagined could not fail of fuccefs. .' * ,
He therefore cultivated an intimacy with thp
gentleman, in which, upon all occafions, he af-
fedted
t%6 CHRYSALi OR, THE. .
yGoogle
fc£ted to boaft of his own fuccefs in life, and
attribute it to his having always a command of
' money, to take the advantage of any bargain
that might offer. •
! As this turn of converfation feemed to flow
bnjy from the fulnefs of his heart, and to be free
'from alldefign, it had the effeft he propofed, apd
^raifed a defire'in his friend to follow a method
* which had been fo fucccfsful with him. He
^therefore, one day,, communicated to himV ^ “
lolution which he had formed of felling his eftatp,
’ and applying the money to bufinefs; and deiired
'Tiis friend’s affiance to execute his defign. A/­
" ter an appearance of furprife, the fcrivener tefii-
Red his pleafure and approbation of his pru­
dence, by the readinefs with which he undertook
to ferve him. ^
The.eafe with which the firff part of t^is
fcheme had fucceeded, made him form further
hopes, and think of getting the eftate he defireid,
' even at a cheaper rate than purchafing it.
After fome time fpent, as he faid, in fruitl^fs
enquiries for a purchafer, he moft artfully dre.w
1 his friend to defire that he would buy it him­
' felf: at firft he feemqd to,hetitate, but then, jas
it were yielding to the impglfe of his friendihip,
he concluded a bargain for it* on terms evidently
advantageous to the feller. "
' All things being agreed upon* the parties met
to conclude the affair, when the writings being
read over, and the money lying on the table,
while the fcrivener told it, the gentleman ex$-
cuted fhe deeds of conveyance, and receipt, be­
fore proper witneffes, who withdrew as foon as
they had figned them.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA» *7
yGoogle
In the mean time the fcrivener continued to tell
the money, till a fervant entered haftilv with a
letter, as from a lord, who was one or his beft
clients, and defired to fee him that moment*
The difficulty this threwhimintowas loon folved,
by his friend’scompliance to defer his bufinefs for
a few hours, as the lord’s urgency would not ad­
mit the leaft delay. Accordingly, he put up both
the deeds and money in all the apparent confu*
lion of hurry, and went away to his lordihip.
Next morning the gentleman called to receive
' the price of his eftate, but his friend was not at
home, nor to be fpoken with in the afternoon,
*for his turn was now ferved, and he neither de-
fired, nor perhaps thought it fafe, to keep up any
farther acquaintance with him.
As fuch things might happen to a man in bu­
finefs, the gentleman took no notice of them,
but quietly fwallowed the fame excufes for fome
days fucceflively. At length his patience began
1 to be exhaufted, and his fears alarmed at a be­
haviour fo ftrange, and contrary to that height
of intimacy that had'been between them, even
were there no bufinefs in the cafe.— — In this
‘ perplexity he went one morning, refolved hot
to quit the houfe till he ihould fee him, and
when a meflage to that purpofe was, after long
attendance, complied with, upon a warm ex-
poftulation, he received for anfwer, from his
frien d , that, 4He had been of late too much
4 engaged in affairs of confequence to attend
* compliments, and knew not any bufinefs he
4 could have with him/
4Not know my bufinefs, Sir (replied the gen-
4 tleman in aftoniihment) I come, Sir, for my
c money,
tff C H R Y S A L : OR, T H E
yGoogle
4 money, and ihall hereafter never trouble you
c more with bufinefs, or compliment.’— 4 Your „
4 money, S ir! 1 do not underjiand you : P ray, Sir9
4 w hat money do you mean V — * What money !
* the purchafe money of my eftate, Sir; which,
4 you were to have paid me above a week ago,
4 when I tigned the deeds of (ale/— — — 4 Poor
4 Gentleman; it is fo ! as 1 was informed, and
4 always feared. H e has lojl his reafon; and I
4 Jhould not feem much better, to trujl myfelf longer
4 w ith a man in his condition— 4 Take care, Sir,
4 this is too tender a point to be trifled with: you
4 almoft make me mad !’— 4Aye, there it is :
4 he is mad', poor m an: tind is even fenftble o f it
4 bim felf!9— 4 Death, Sir, do not dare to dally
4 with me a moment longer! anfwer me di-
4 re£Hy ! pay me my money ! and do not really
4 provoke me to a madnefs that may be fatal to
4 us both/— 4 Sir, your madnefs, or reafon, is
4 nothing to m e: however, I w ill anfwer you direfl-
4 ly, that I owe you no money, and none w ill I pay
4 you. As for the purchafe money ofyour ejlate, your
4 parting w ith which 1 fee has turned your brain,
4 when you come to your[elf, you w ill recolhft that I
4 paid it to you when I executed t%e deeds of fale ;
4 or i f you do not remember it, your own receipt, pro-
4 p<rly witneffed, w ill prove it fo r me, and 1 de-
4fire no more: and therefore, Sir, let me have no
4further trouble w ith you, i f you do not chufe to
4 take up your lodgings in M o o r field s.’
4This i? too much ; jaft heaven ! this is too
4 much : too much for human patience to en-
4 dure ! or wait the law’s delay for remedy ! I
4 will avenge myfelf, aiTert the caufeof juftice,
4 and rid the groaning world of fuch a monfter !’
(exclaimed the unhappy gentleman) now realltr
irritated
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 1*9
yGoogle
irritated into the extremity of that phrenzy which .
the other only wanted to impofe upon him, and
drawing his fword, before the wretch could call
for help, or take, any method o f defence., he
Plunged it through his body.
#His fhrieks foon alarmed his fervants, "who,,
milling in, found him weltering in hfs blood, and 4
the madman fmiling* in the aofence of frantic
extafy, over him, and incapable of attention to
any other circumftance, though fome of them*
dragged him before amagiftrate, while the reft,
Mfere bufied in procuring relief for their matter..
. The madman was committed to prifon, to>
wait the event of the wound he had given, which
Heaven, to let the meafure of the fcrivener’S
;.
iniquity be full, had directed to a part where it,
was not mortal. .
In a word, he recovered, though not to a fenfe
ofjuftice or humanity, but perfifting in-his ini-,
quity, which now was (harpened by a fpirit of re­
venge, for what he had endured, the firft effort of,
his health, was to have the unhappy fufferer con­
fined in Bedlam, where he ftill languiihes under,
all the horrors that attend a total lofs of reafon,.
without relief, or even compaflion, from his bafe.
undoer 5 who, this very morning, as he was ftep-
pinginto his chariot, to come to this charityfeofl^
fpurned from him with his foot, and refufed the
fmalleft alms to the wretched wife of the ruined
madman, who begs in the common ftreets, and
was driven, by mifery and defpair, to throw her-
felf even at his feet, to implore relief,
I fee your abhorrence rife at fuch a monfter,
but how will wonder even heighten it, when I.
tell you, that this oppreffor has neither ghild,
«}or kinfman to inherit his wealth : for he was
. himfcir
t»* r CHRYSAL: OR, THE ; ,
yGoogle
AD;vmttoK&B OF GUISM
S’A. i*%
htmfclf a foundling) and reared at the public ex­
pence, without the knowledge or tendernefs of a
parent, to foften his rugged foul; nor would the
felfifhnefs of his heart ever permit him to marry, *
for fear of the expence of a family; but he is
this moment mediating 01* fome oftentatious
fcheme of charity, to the foundation of which,'
hedefigns to dedicate the wealth; which be has:
amafled by fuch vilkaies. ' *
. C H A P . XIII. '
Continued: The ht/lory of n general almoner. His
method of making charity h
tegin at home. He con­
verts d noted bawd, but difappoints his defigns/
by too gnat confidence in his own/kill. The cha-
' raster of a clergyman. :
M
OVE your eye to the left, and view that
demure-looking picture of devotion,, who;
fits there in ftlence, lifting up his,eyes to Hea-V
ven, and fighing in fpir.it, at the fcftivity and'
fenfual cpnverfation round him. ............... .
' Who, that can fee no deeper than outward ap-
pearaoces, would not think that man fincere in
his profeilions of religion,and virtue? whereas*,
in truth, he is the moil abandoned contemner of
bpth \ anil deepens the dye of his blacked crimes
by the moil hardened hypocrify, fecretly1living
on the praflice of thofe very vices, of which he
profiles the greatefl abhorrence. '
With all that confequence, which he aflumes
iq ti|e dire&ion of this charity, on the merit of
the‘largenefs of his fubfcription to it, in reality,
, he
yGoogle
he is but the difpeofer of othex people’s benefac­
tions, into wbofe good opinion he fo infinuates
himfeJf, by his pretended piety, that they intruft
their charity to his difpofal, who always pays
himfelf for his trouble, by fubdu&ing largely,,
from the fums confided to him. For, as red
charity vaunteth not itfelf^ they never divulge
the fecret, completely impofed on by his addrgis,'
that never lets one half .of his.contribùtors Jtbow.
of the other; by which management, as the fums
he gives are always mad&public, for example and
imitation, each chinks that he adds moil liberally
to his own donation.—.----But this is nor the
only method by which he turns his piety to ad­
vantage. The accefs which the reputation o fAt
gains him in almoil every family, opens him an
opportunity of carrying on thedeepeft intrigues,
and becoming a pander, for vices both natural
and unnatural, which the intereft of the parties
concerned makes them itili keep feeret.— As for
the former, the nailery of that trade has been in
part explained already; and the latter is too hor­
rible for explanation. I (hall therefore pafs over
tbofe feenes, and conclude my account of this
extraordinary perfonage, with one inftance of
his addrefs, in finding out and managing the
weak fide of fuperitition and vice.
In the courfe of his love negotiations, he had
made an acquaintance with a woman wh i kept
a public hagnio% or houfe of proftitution, which
acquaintance mutual intereft cemented into an
intimacy. In this mod infamous trade had this
woman amaiTed confiderable wealth, the difpofal
of which (after her deach) took up much of her
thpughts, in thofe moments, when the confe-
quences
**i CHRYSALi OR, THE
yGoogle
quences of her debauched life forced her to think
of dying.
As the fecrets of their trade had removed every
referve from between them,ihe often ufed to con*
fult him on this head ; when he always comfort­
ed her with diflertations upon religion and vir­
tue, Jlripping them o f the vain incumbrances o f
priejlcraft, and bringing them back to tb eir genuine
principles o f benemlente arid charity*
Frequent inculcation of this do&rine had the
effe£t he defigned; the matroniwas pieafed with
the thought of having all the benefit of religion,
without the trouble of the pra&ice, and immer
diately began to exercife her donations to public
charities, which, as it was not quite fo much in
charafter for her to offer in ptrfon, while flie con­
tinued her profeffion, and ihe faw no neceiEty,
nor felt inclination toquit that, ihe always con­
fided/to.the diftribution of her fpiritual guide.
Nor did his fuccefsftop here.5 be improved his
influence on her fuperftition fo far, that he pre­
vailed on her to compound with Heaven for the
vices ofiher life, "by bequeathing the earnings of
them to its ufe, after her death.
For this purpofe he himfelf drew her will,
which pious application of her fortune, fet her
confcience at eafe; and (he continued her ufual
bufinefs to the hour of her death,which happened
three years after, with fuch care and induftfy,
that fome inftance of negligence in one of her
fervants adminiftring to the pleafure of her
gueft:?, gave her fuch uneafinefs in her laft mo­
ments, that, with her dying breath, (he la­
mented the ruin her houfe muft come to, after
ihe ihould quit the care of it, for the joys of
Heaven.
^ Vol. I. K You
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ijj
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
*94 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
You mud not think that his defign extended
no farther, than to prevail on her to make fuch
a will; he had drawn it himfelf, as I have told
you, and took care to word it in fuch a manner,'
as he thought fhould give him, under the ap­
pearance of her executor and truftee, as ihe de­
signed him, a real property in her wealth; as it
was immediately to come into his hands, on her
death, and there was no time appointed for the
fulfilling her pious intentions.
But here his fagacity difappointed itfelf; for
negle&ing to take proper advice, or afraid of
making any perfon privy to his defigns, he had
committed fuch material errors in theform of the
will, as gave rooty to learned counfel to fet it
afide, in favour of the heir at law, her nephew,
who, from cleaning (hoes under a gateway, was
enriched with at leaft a third part of his aunt’s
fortune, which remained to him* after the cofts
of the fuit that had been carried on for him, in
form a pauperis^ while her executor had the vexa-*
tio# of difappointment aggravated by a decree to
pay a ll the This was a fevere ftroke : but
it did not break his fpirit, though it obliged him-
to return to his former occupation of an almonert
which you fee he purfues with that attention'
which always infures fuccefs.
I fee you fink under the pain of finding the
beft actions debafed, by fpringing from fuch
motives; but be careful to avoid an error, fa­
tally too prevalent, of concluding from the abufe,
againfl the ufe of any thing that may, in its
end, be'conducive to good.
Tbefe inftances I have given ; and I could
add many more; not to depreciate the cuftom
of
yGoogle
•ofgiving to public charities, which is the nobleft
ufe of wealth ; but to caution you againft the.
dangerous error*of thinking, that fuch giving
alone, without reformation of life, andtheaftive
practice of the other virtues, can be acceptable
in the fight of him to whom it is offered, or effi­
cacious to procure his favour: and to ihew the
abfurd impiety of perfifting in vice, with a vain
hope of bribing Heaven with the wages of Hell*
But to relieve your pain, behold thatvene-.
rable perfon .who fits oppofite to him; the fere-
nity of whofe looks (hews the happinefs of his
mind. Read his heart, and you will not find*
one difcontent, or forrow there, but what hu­
manity imprints for the diftreffes of his fellow-'
creatures, which his beneficence, his real charity,
is for over finding methods to relieve, not only
by pecuniary benefaftions, though tothefe is de­
voted the far greater part of his ample fortune,
but alfo by his advice, inflruftion and good
offices, the judicious application and fincerity of
which makes them very rarely fail of fuccefs.—*
He is a real fupporter of charity, in its moft ex-
tenfive fenfe! his example giving a fanftion, a
feal of virtue, to every thing he appears in, which
puts wicked wit out of countenance, and flops
the tongue of calumny; and is (even were it
alone} fufficient to counterbalance, all the in-
ftances whifch could be brought againA it. His
long life, which has been extended by Heaven,
as a bleffing to mankind, ha6 been a conftant
illuftration of the religion he teaches ; not one
inilance of his aftions ever contradifting hi$ .
profeflion, as near as human weaknefs can aft
up to divine perfeftion.
K .2 Such
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 195
yGoogle
Such is the clergyman ! fuch ihould all clergy«*
men be, to preferve the purity* the dignity of a
funâion, whofe rules are drawn trom perfection,
and calculated to prepare the human for a parti­
cipation of the divine nature ; to accomplit
which greateft end, all profeifion, not inforced
by praâice, mud be ineffectual.
T o mention anyone infiance ofhis good work«
would be doing injuflice to the reft, and contra-
diâing the deure of his heart, which next to
doing good, is to conceal what he does* his ac­
tions being fo far from oftentation, that to Hea­
ven only, and the parties themfelves, are they
revealed ; nor to thefe even is the hand that
reaches them the bleffing always known.
l9* CHKVSAL: OR, TH«
C H A P . XIV.
Continued: The btjlory o f a bear-leader• H is me­
thod o f making bis pupil*s majlers earn their mtb*
ney. The general confequence o f dofe friendjhips
between the different fexes. tie modejlly offers
his pupil's mother a nut almojl too hardfor her li-
quorifl) tooth: but Jhe fw allow s it whole, tofa vq
the trouble o f mumbling, and meets a ju jl return
fo r her untimely paffton. .
OPPOSITE to him, you fee a man, whofe
rich drefs and fupercilious carriage give
him the appearance of a fuperiority over all the
reft of the company 5 but fuch artifices impofe
only upon the ignorant and vulgar; to a judi­
cious eye they aggravate the defeCts they are
meant to difguife; and the low-bred avaricious
wretch
yGoogle
AD^ENTUE ES OF A G0INEA.
wretch appears doubly contemptible, through
the unnatural veil of pride and munificence.
There is fomethingfo whimfically fingular it»
the ftory of this perfon, that I will gratify yout
curiofity with a Ihorf (ketch of it.
He was born in the loweft clafs of the people,
in a poor village, in one of the moft remote
parts of the kingdom $but the delicacy of his con-
ftitution making him unfit for a life of labour,
the common lot of hiscondition, his poor parents
denied themfelves almoft the necelTaries of life to
fend him to fchool, to qualify him for fome em­
ployment better fuited to his natural imbecilli-
ty. The mailer of the fchool, who was a per­
fon of difeernment and good nature, foon per­
ceived that the weaknefs of his body was amplv
made up by the abilities of his mind, and took
a pleafure in giving inilrudtion which he faW
received with advantage. Nor did he flop here;
but, when his pupil had made the ordinary pro­
gress of the fchool, he ufed the perfuafive at«
gument of teaching him for nothing, and evefi
/applying him with books at his own expence,
to prevail upon his parents to let him purfue h h r
fhidies«
When he had advanced by this affiftance, con-
fiderably beyond the ufual boundaries of fchool-
cducation, being not only critically {killed in the
learned languages, but alfo well grounded in the
' principles of the liberal fciences, his kind mailer
erowned the benefits he had conferred upon him,,
by recommending him warmly to a widow lady,
of large fortune, to educate her only fon, whom
female fondnefs would not permit her to truft
out of her light at a publick fchool. '
K j la
yGoogle
»9*
In this employment he behaved himfelf with
fuch circumfpe&ion and care (for the weaknefs
of his coniTitution faved him from all danger of
excefs, and the horrors of returning to his former
poverty and diftrefs, fixed his attention, invari­
ably, to every poilible means of advancing his
fortune) that he won the confidence of his pu­
pil’s mother fo far, that (he ventured to (end her
darling fon to the univerfity in hi9care > and
when he had finiihed his ftudies there, with cre­
dit gave him a genteel ftipend, to accompany
him in his travels to the different courts of Eu­
rope, to complete an education fo happily be*,
gun, and enable him to make a figure in life,
iuitable to the affluence of his fortune.
The unbounded confidence with which thi*
truft was committed to him, gave him fufficient
opportunities of gratifying the ruling pafflons of
his heart, vanity and avarice, as it enabled him
to fecrete, to his own ufe, as much as he pleafed
of his pupil’s fortune, fatisfied that his accounts
would never be examined ; and to acquire, late
as it was, the ornamental parts of education,
which his original poverty, and the neceffary
gravity of his literary life and employment had
precluded him from.
Accordingly, as foon as he arrived in P a rh 9
the firft place where he defigned to make any
delay, he fuffered himfelf to be prevailed upon
by his pupil, to remit fomething of the ftrift-
nefs of his authority, and, feemingly, winked at
his plunging into all the levities and excefles of
unguarded youth, that he might have the more
convenient opportunity for executing his own
ichemes. Thus, while his abufed charge threw
away the time he ought to have fpent in recetv-
CHRYSAL: DR, THE
yGoogle
tng profitable information and improvement, in
idle expence and vicious pleafures, 'the prudent
tutor took the advantage of his abfence, to attend
the mailers he retained for him, and learn dan­
cing, fencing, mufic, and all the other acconi-
fdiihments of polite education ; a condu£l which
feecarefully obferved, in all the different ffages of
their travels. But ftill his labour, as you fee,
was for the moil part, in vain, the ruff of his
mean original being too ftrongly confirmed, to be
Wornoffby folate application, fothat his aukward
affectation only makes defe&s, which would
©therwife have patted unnoticed, become more
vifible, and expofes him to contempt and ridicule.
^ But, eager as he was ih thefe favourite pwr-
fuits, he did not let them divert his attention
from the main point, of continuing to cultivate
the good opinion and confidence of his pupil's
inother, to whom be conftantly wrote in fuch &
itrain of piety, and gave fuch pleafing accounts
of her fon’sconduct, expatiating on his good qua­
lities, and palliating his failings, with the tender
titles of youthful levity, and the frailty of nature
(for fear fee feould receive information of h ii
txceffes from any other perfon) that fee thought
herfelf happy in having placed him under a man
of fuch virtue andgoodriefs; heropinion of which
was not a little heightened by the care he took
of his parents, to whom he conffantly remitted,
through her hands, fuch a portion of his ilipend,
as enabled them to live with comfort; and With
his former mailer he kept up a regular correfpon-
dence, informing him of every thing he faw in
his travels, that he thought would be agreeable
and entertaining to him, and cxpreffing his grati-
K 4 tude
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. 19?
yGoogle
900
tude for the friendihip which had advanced hid»
fo happily in life.
When his pupil had finilhed his travels in this
manner, they returned home, where the fond
mother received them with the higheit joy, her
citeero for the tutor almoft equalling her love fot
her fon. But this natural affeXion d
idnot long
maintain the pre-eminence! Her eftabliihed opi­
nion of the underiianding, learning, a
n
dvirtue
of the fqrmer, levelled the height from which
difference of condition had made her look down
upon him before, and fhe admitted him into all
the intimacy of friendlhip. There is nothing
more deceitful than connexions of this kind be­
tween the different fexes. Let them be formed
with whatever resolutions they will, at firft, na­
ture will infenfibly take the alarm, and force the*
execution of her moft powerful laws.
This intimacy had not been long cultivated^
before the lady begaq to fee perfections in her
new friend, which ihe had never perceived be­
fore, and to feel a pleafure in his converfatku*.
which her heart had long been a Granger to.
She knew not how it was, but nothing pleafed her
except what he faid, or did : Even her fondnef9
for her Ton began to cool, and her eyes to open
to faults in him, which Ihe had always beets .
blind to before, Chough he had never taken any
pains to conceal them from her. This did not
efcape the penetration of her friend a moment
jior was his judgment at a lofs how to improve it
to the befl advantage. He immediately began to
sriTumc a timid tendernefs in his looks and man-
mcr, and took every occafion of difplaying the
genteel accompliihments he had acquired in his.
tra-
CHRY1AX: OR, THE
yGoogle
travels, While her unhappy fon, as if he had en­
tered into thefchemeagainftHimfelf, feldomcame
near her, and when hedid, behaved with a carelefs
indifference, fcarce (hort of rudenefs and infulc.
^Such a contraft was too ftriking to pafs unno­
ticed : nor did her friend fail to aggravate the im^
preffions of it, bydoubling his aflfiduity and tender
complaifance, whenever his former pupil with­
drew, and lamenting the unhappy turn he hacf
taken, in terms of the deepeft concern, but with-*
out ever offering a word in his excufe.
This fubtle conduft had the deiired effedl;
The love of themother was entirelydiverted from
her fon to her friend; and as the foolilh fondnef?
of her deceafed huffeand had left much the greater
part of his large fortune in her power* the im­
provement of this change was an obje£t worthy
of his higheft attention. But flill the difficulty
upon both was, how to open the affair y for,
powerful as the different motives that urged then)
to bring it to a conclufion were, a fenfe of thp
impropriety of fuch an a£tion, made them equally
at a lofs how to mention it.
But here again the evil genius of the fon pre­
vailed, and he did that for them which they knew
hot how to do themfelves. For fome of his
friends obferving the intimacy between his mo­
ther and his former tutor, defired hrm to, be
upon his guard, and ftrive to prevent the confe-
quences of it, by a change in his behaviour to
her. Such prudent advice, if properly followed,
might probably have had effedl. But inftead of
that, he flew immediately to his mother, and in-
difcreetiy charged her with a defigri of betraying
the confidence of his father, and ruining him, to
gratify a ridiculous paffion for a mean unworthy
K 5 objeifc*
A t *VENTtTRESr<5TfA GUINEA. tot
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
obje£t ; and then turning to him, who happened
to be prefent, he told him fiercely, that, if he
did not that inftant quit his mother’s houfe, he
would treat him as the villainy of fuch a defign
deferved, in the next place he ihould ever meet
him; and fo Hung out of the room in the higheii
rage, leaving them Raring at each other, and
almoft petrified with aftonifliment.
But a fewmomentsreflored themto themfelves!
the affair was now revealed, and fo the greateft
difficulty over, € I wiih (faid the tutor, as if he
« fpoke to his former pupil, though he took care
* to wait till he heard him out of the houfe) I
c wiih no other perfon befide me had reafon to
* fear your refentment; or that I had no other
€ obftacle but that, to prevent the happinefs my
* heart languifhes for.’— And then turning to
the lady, as if he did not know that (he had heard
what he had faid, « I am mod unhappy, madam
* (proceeded he) to find myfelf the caufe of your
c being treated in this manner, and (hall imme­
c diately withdraw, to prevent a repetition of it;
c as for me, fince I am to lofe the happinefs of
c your converfation, it matters not what becomes
< of me "Saying which, he made her a
moil refpedtful bow, and with a look of the
fiigheft tendernefs and grief, feemed to prepare
to leave the room.
‘ Hold, Sir (exclaimed the lady, the warmth of
« whofe refentment at her fon’s behaviour made
c her the more readily melt at the diftrefs of her
-* lover) Hold, Sir! what are you going to do i
« Will you defert me in this danger and diftrefs ?’
•"And then foftening her voice and looks into the
greateft tendernefs, * I thought (continued ihe)
c lihouldnever wantaprotector while my friend
«lived.’ .
10* , CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
* lived/— ‘ Nor ihjall you, madam (anfw£red
he with an appearance of warmth that banifhed
* all referve) Mylifeihall prote& you from every
* danger and affront. But,— oh, that 1 had ar
‘ tie to juftify fuch an attachment to the worlds
* which elfe will cenfure it feverely/— And
then, taking her hand, he bent his knee, and-
prefled it to his lips.
Such an a£l of gallantry was not to be refitted,
in the condition me was then in ! She bent for­
ward to meet; him, and laying her head upon
his bofom as he arofe, ‘ Let it be juftified (flic
c murmured in a broken, faultering accent) by
‘ every facred tie of love and truth ; of honour
‘ and religion !’----- This was all he wanted !
He feized her in his arms, and preffing her to
his breatt, fealed the contract on her trembling,
withered lips. •
The impatient love-fick fairnow thought every
obftacle to her wiihes removed, and therefore
diftantly propofed fending for a prieft dire&ly, to
tie the facred knot, and prevent any defigns her
undutiful fon might form todifappoint her hap*,
pinefs. But her prudent lover was in no fuch
hafte ! He now had her fecure, beyond danger
of retreating 5 but as her perfon was not the only
object of his defires, he wifelyjudged it be1} to.re­
frain, a few moments, from the poffeifion of that,
to fecure the more folid enjoyment;of her for­
tune ; a&he was not certain, but this-fit offond-
nefs might wear off, and her natural affe&ion
for her fon return, when her untimely paffion
ihould be gratified. He, therefore, reiolved to
improve her prefent difpofition beyond thedanger
of repentance, and fent for the prieft dire&ly,
paifing
ADVENTURES O F A G;UINEA* 1*3
yC le
poA$g the intermediate moments, till his arrivaf,
1» the moft paftoitate, endearing dalliance.
But, juft as fheMuflnng, baftftil bride was
going to approach the altar, he flopped ffaovt, as
i f upon a fudden thought, a?nd turning to her,
4 This, madam, feearesour prefent happinefs,
4 (faid he) but how are. you to be revenged upon
4 your bafe, ingrateful (on ? What certainty
4 have I, that a return of your former fondnefs
4 for him may not faferifice me to his implacable
4 refentment? Some fettlement fliould firft be
4 made; and then anxiety and fear won’t damp
4 the ardour of our joys.’— * I underftand you
4 not! (anfwered (he in confufion and aftonifh-
4 ment) What fettlement can you mean ? D o 1
4 not give you the pofleffion of my fortune with
4 myfelfr— - * True, madam (replied he) you
4 do! And could I be fure of having them for
4 ever, 1ihould be fatisfied! But death may rob
4 me of you, and then your fortune will defeend
4 to your ungracious fon, while 1 am thrown
4 upon the world, deftitute of every means of
4 felf-defence and fupport.’— 4And can you
4 doubt my love ?' (added ihe, not a little fur-
prized, and flartled at his caution)— 41 doubt
4 it not! nor would I doubt i t ! (returned he)
4 and therefore will remove all room for doubt/
*—1
4 What muft I fettle their? (faid ihe) How
4 much of my fortune will remove your fears,
4 and fatisfy your wiflies ? Here ! take this pa-
4 per, and write down your terms!’— 4That i$
4 foon done!’ (faid he, and taking the paper, di­
redly wrote the word* ALL, and reached it to
her.)— It is not eafy to deferibeher aftoniihmenb
a n d indignation, at the affurance and unrea-
. fonableogir
«<4 C H * r » A L s OK, T H t
yGoogle
fonaM
enefb.offuchademand. * Whati ALL)*
(faid flie, with evident emotion) *Will no lefil
* do? Is nothingtobeleft tomy difpofal? Thtt
* is too hard The lover inftantly perceived
bis ticklifk fituation! However,'he Was reeved
to try the utmoft, allured, that even if her refo«<
iution held, be was in no danger of lofirig her
quite. ‘ Madam,’ (faid he, throwing his armd
around her, and embracing her tenderly) *I give
‘ you myfelf, and all I have j and 1 expedt the
* like return: I' pretend not to compare the vau
4 lue of the gifts ; but love-is delicate, and will
* bear no abatement.*—
If the paflions of youth are impetuous, thofeof
old age are filly! The ardour of this addrefs,
with ihameof being refufed upon any account,
thus in the very crifis of her hopes, made her
comply, and ihe betrayed the confidence of her
hufband, and figned away the inheritance of
her child, to gratify a prepoftcrous, untimely;
ridiculous love. 1
The return ihe met with was juft! Her new
hufband, now all his fchemes were accompliih-
ed, fcorned to preferve even the decency o f ap­
pearance, but threw off the mafk direftly, and
treated her with fuch indignity and contempt,
that (he broke from him in defpair, in the firft
Week of her marriage, and threw herftlf upott
the mercy of her bafely ruined fon; whofe re-
fentment was not proof to fuch a trial, but,
yielding to filial piety, he fhared, with her, the
poor pittance which he happily had independent
of her, till ihe funk under the weight of misfor­
tune, fliame, and remorfe.
Nor did her hufband treat his firft benefa&or,
t>rhis parents,better. With the former he direitly
dropped
ADVENT0 RE8O#A <3IffW
EA. t # f
yGoogle
dropped all correfpondence; and, giving die lat­
ter an allowance of twenty pounds a year, juft
to kpep.them from ftarving, he pofitively forbid
their ever letting him hear from them more, ort
the penalty x)f forfeiting that, and every other
in(lance of his favour.
Far from being fatisfied with thefuccefs of his
villany, or enjoying the fortune he had fo bafely
obtained, his whole life has been fpent, as you
fee, in anxious attempts to hide the meannefs of
his original, under the fplendor of his appear­
ance; and the iniquity by which he acquired
his wealth, by vain oftentation of charity ancb
munificence.
CHRYSAt: OR, THE
C H A P . XV.
Continued : Some reflections that may appear imper*
tinent to many, and unprofitable to more, b u tflill
are neither improper nor unjuft. The hiftory o f
an honefl attorney. M ore wonders ! The way o f
the world reverfed: R ight triumphant over mighty
andgratitude Jhewn in high life.
M
O V E your eye towards the lower end of
the table, and behold that perfon whofe
afoeCl and appearance command veneration and
elteem. He was bred in a profeffion, the very
name of which is become a reproach, from the
abufc of unwo'rthy profeilors. Nor can it be
otherwife, while every low-bred perfon, who is
juft* able to give a fon the firft rudiments of edu­
cation, and ambitious of feeing him in the cha­
racter of a gentleman, is admitted to bleed him
. an
yGoogle
an attorney; and as foon as he has ferved a time,
as to the moil illiberal mechanic trade, to turn
him loofe upon the world, to live by the pradice
of the very crimes and iniquities which his pro-
feffion was originally inftituted to fupprefs, with­
out any fortune to fave him from the neceffity of
having recourfe to fuch bafe means 5 and with­
out being inftru&ed in the principles of probity
and virtue, to fupport him againft the tempta­
tions of the many frauds and villanies which his
buiinefs brings him to the knowledge o f: Nay,
fo far from giving any attention to this indifpen-
fible duty, of forming the mind by proper in-
itrudion, fuch is the perverfenefs of man, that
if a child betrays an early propenfity to chicane
and fraud, by fetting his play-fellows together by
the ears, ana cozening them of their toys, he is
immediately marked for this profeffion, and, in-
ftead of being correded for fuch a difpofition,
and having it nipped in the bud, is encouraged
in it, by hearing it made the omen and ground of
his future fuccefs in life, till it is confirmed be­
yond the fenfe of fhame or remorfe, and becomes
the ruling principle of his life. The condu&,
consequent to fuch education and principles, has
brought the profeffion into fo great difrepute, that
icarce any perfon of chara&er or fortune will
breed a ion to it $ by which means the evil is
daily aggravated more and more, and threatens
to .become abfolutely irremediable at laft. For,
at prefent, fo many are the opportunities th^t
tempt to iniquity in the pra&ice,and fo univerfal
the reproach affixed to the very njme of an at­
torney, that all regard to reputation, that power­
ful perfervative of virtue, feems to be in vain,
and it requires an uncommon rectitude of heart
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. «#;
yGoogle
4ft éDfRtr&Ái: 0$, t rite
to iu p p o tt the córíftiX: btít that theré afe foririr
#ho areéqtral to tins trial, and that the fault is*
not in the profcffion, but in th e abufe of it, the
perfon before as is zti eminent inftance.
A nabijan', who died fome time fince with­
out legitimate iffue, thought proper to bequeath^
riot 6nly bis owtf great acquWitionSy but alfb the
imtn£nfe pófleffióhs of bis ánceftors, to a fpurrótiír
fon,without ever confrdering whetherthere might
not poffibly remain'fome diftarft branches of his
family, capable of inheriting what they muí have
ajuft and legal title to, though the direX line of
it failed in himfelf, accordingly the heir took
pofTeffion of his adventitious fortune, and, at
Wealth hides every defeX, entered into alliance,
and made conne&ions with perfons of the moft
exalted rank, whófe friendihip ancHntercft, fup-*
ported by the immenfe riches he pófleíTed, feemed*
to hold every enquiry into the jufticé of his title
to them, in defiance.
But a generous heart is not eafily terrified in y
juft caufe : the perfon before us, by his know­
ledge in his profeflion, and the uprightnefs of his
praXice, had acquired a fortune, and eftablifhed
a charaXer, that placed him above the reach of
itandef, and the frown of power. He had been
bbfn under the patronage of this nobleman*»
hoüfe, and in the coürfe of his bufinefs, had
happetied to get fome infight into the fettlementb
of his family, by wbidh he found, that it was
not in his power tb alienate the acquifttions df
his illuftrious anceflors, and give them to b
ftiranger to théik blood, while any of their dé-
Ifcendants were in being. Such an aX of injuf-
tide; therefore*, raifed the indignation and pity of
his honelt, generous heart, and he rdblvcd to fet
yGoogle
itafide, notwithftandir.g the trouble andexpence
that mull neceflarily attend fuch an attempt. .
The greateft difcouragement to his undertak­
ing, was the difficulty of finding out, and afcer-?
taining the real heir, for the family was apparent­
ly extin&. But upon examining into the many
alliances it had formerly made, which his known
attachment gave him an eafy opportunity of do­
ing, he found, that fome generations before, a
daughter had been married to a nobleman of a
neighbouring dependent kingdom; the ¡flue of
which marriage, if any remained, was the true,
and only reprefentative of this noble houfe.
Having made this difcovery, he went dire&ly
over to that kingdom, where, after a long and
painful fearch, he had the mortification to find,
that the family was reduced, by the revolutions'
of government, and the calamity of the times, to
two poor, low-bred, illiterate women, who had
been married to mechanics of the meaneft rank*
and, being left widow», and without children,
npw drove to procure a wretched fubfiftence, by
joining their poor ftocks to keep a khandler’a
(hop, in a city, in the remoteft part of the king-^
dom.
So melancholy an inftance of the inftability of
human grandeur only raifed his compaffion, and
confirmed his refolution to vindicate the blood of
the ttluftrious patrons of his family, from fuchr
injuftice and difgrace. Accordingly, he inftant~
ly relieved their immediate diftreffes, and, taking
all the proper methods for ascertaining their de^
{cent, brought them over to this kingdom, lodg­
ed them in hia own houfe, and treated them witfr
the refp*& due to their noble blood and better
bopea* . ,
. A *
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. »**
yGoogle
As fcon as every thing was prepared for the
great attempt, he regularly demanded a reftitu-
tion of their right from the unjuft pcfleffor, and,
upon his expe&ed refufal, inftituted afuit at law
for the recovery of it, in the profecution of which,
neither difficulties nor dangers, neither threats
nor promifes, could flacken his ardour, till* fie
had obtained the juftice he demanded for them;
A detail of the proceedings, in fuch an affair,,
muft be diftreffing to any humane heart. It is*
fufficient to fay, that every method which the art
of man could invent to impofe ujpon judgment,
and defeat juftice, was exerted againft him, for
feveral years, in hopes of exhaufting his fortune,
and wearing out the lives of his injured clients;' ’
(the elder of whom aftually did die during the
Aiit) andTo difappointmgbis hopes. But juftice
at length prevailed, and he recovered, for them,'
the inheritance of their anceftors, leaving their
antagonift only the imhiediate acquifitions of hrr
reputed father, which, large as they are, fifeeager­
ly labours to inereafe* by every artifice of fordid
avarice.
As for the heireis, the exalted gratitude (he
fhewed, proved her noble blood. As foon as fhe*
had executed all the forms of law neceffary to
give her an abfolute power over her fortune, and'
juiHy paid the expence, and rewarded the trou­
ble of recovering it, as every branch of her fa­
mily was extin<Si, (he thought it but juftice to
fettle her great fortune upon the .generous re-
coverer of it. Nor was (he content with leaving'
it to him, when (he could no longer make ufeof
it herfelf, but obliging him to quit the bufinefs k
of his profeffion, ihe gave the greater part of it
into his immediate polfeffion, and, retiring toone*
o f
xio CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
of the principal feats upon her cftate, fpent the
remainder of her life in happinefs and efteem :
thegoodnefs of her heart, and the liue noble-
nefs of her foul, drowning her want of early
education in the fuperior radiance of innate vir­
tue. '
The abfolute poffeffion of her entire fortune,
which her death gave him much fooner than hie
wiihed, has made no alteration in thecondud of
' this worthy perfon, who invariably purfues the
didates of juftice and behevolence in all his ac­
tions, making hrs wealth a blefling to all, whofe
wants and virtues marked them asobjeds woiV
thy of his regard and afliftance.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *ti
C H A P . X VI. ■
Continued: The happyfr u its o f unequal marriage&
A Jhort way to pay long debts. The pleafures o f
polite life . A boldJiroke o ffem ale genius trium ­
phant over law and religion: an unlucky mijlake
. brings an improper vijitor into too genteel company*
IM M ED IATELY below him, you fee one
of thofe inftancesof inconfiftency which di-
verfify the motly charader of man. In the deep
funk lines of his face you may read learning and
intenfe thought, as the placid ferenity of his eye
fliews an heart warmed with piety and moral
virtue; what pity, that a liftlefs indolence'of
mind throws a (hade over fo bright a charader,
2nd fubmiffion to the capricious yoke of female
tyranny, make him paffively guilty of the very
t follies *
yGoogle
follies and vices moft immediately oppoiite to hi*
©wn virtue and good fenfe !
The pious care of a good father had fo im­
proved the eminent abilities with which nature
had blefled this gentleman,, by the moftjudicious
education* that the promife of his youth gave
hopes of his being an ornament and advantage
to his age and country ; but one indifereet ac­
tion overcaft this pleafmg profpe& * and in its
confequences, has brought him to be the infig-
nificant thing you fee.
This was a marriage of meer inclination, with
a perfon, who had neither fortune, beauty, nor
merit, to juftify his choice; and who yet has
taken the unjuftifkble advantage of this indolence
of his temper, to ufurp as abfolute an authority
over him, as if (he pcfleiTed them all, in the moftr
eminent degree, and conferred upon him the be­
nefit and obligation file herfelf received.
This makes his life one feene of the moft ir-
reconcileable inconfiftency, between the wifdon*
and virtue of the very few a£tfon$, in which he
is admitted to follow the di&ates of his own
judgment* and the follies and vices, into which
ihe wantonly leads him every moment of his life.
When I (ay vices, I mean thofe of diffipation»
luxury, and extravagance, which, though the
moft injurious to fociety, and produ&ive of the
worft conferences to particulars, are yet toe
often looked upon in another light, and thought
harmlefs at leaft, if not even commendable ex­
ertions of greatnefs, and generofity.of fpirit, and*
the proper ofe of affluence of fortune; for, not
content with the rational enjoyment of the for«
Kune to which he raifedher, in her proper fphere»
file has aflumed the abfolute difpofal of the
whole»
* i z CHRYSAL: OR, T K &
yGoogle
whole, which (he difiipates in every kind of
faihionable folly and profufion, fo as utterly to
xlifable him from exerting the natural generality
and benevolence of his hearty in the extent and
manner fuited to hie apparent wealth, and, too
often from difcharging the moral obligations of
honefty, in the payment of hisjuft and neceftary
debts. .
Such an ungrateful abufe of obligation and in«
Ruence may appear ftrange to you, who have
been fo little converfant in the ways of man; but
to a more extended view of life, conftant obfer-
vation (hews, that conferring a great benefit a£tu-
alfy extinguifhes gratitude, inftead of railing it
higher, and that the meaner the hands into wbich
power is entrufted, the more exorbitant and ty*
rannical the ufe they make of it. Whether this
arrfes from a confcioufnefs of inability to pay fo
great a debt, and a confequent defire to cancel it,
by an abfolute breach, that may, at the fame
time, alfo fupport the debtor’s pride, and feem to
hide the obligation, by an implied difavowal in
the former cafe, and from a defire of returning
the tyranny felt before, in the latter, would be
a curious, and not unprofitable difquifition, but
lhall be referved to another place, where the oc-
cafion will illuftrate it more forcibly ; and only
the juftice of the obfervation, as to the prefent
cafe in particular, proved by a few, out of innu«
merable inftances of the fame kind.
O f all the methods of diifipating wealth, and
precipitating ruin, themoft fpeedy and efte&ual
is gaming. The prefent prevalence of the paf­
fion for this vice (for to call it by any other
name would be a falfe tendernefs) among all
rinks and fexes, has been ahFeady often obferved,
as
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, st*
yGoogle
as it Isthe chara&eriftic of the times. However,
to foften the horror, with which the barefaced
prailice of it, by the fairer fex, muft ftrike every,
rational mind, it is blended with matters of meer
amufement, and reprefented only as an innocent
method of relieving converfation, when a num-,
ber of perTons meet in public company, which,
muft otherwife languid* and grow tireforae, or
elfe fall upon improper fubjefls. The ingenious
expedient has given rife to thofe meetings at the'
houies of the greateft faihion, which, from the
noife, buttle, and confufion, infeparable from
fuch crowds, are emphatically called Routs. In
thefe, the miftrefs of the houfe always prefides,
and, confequently, attendance at them is looked
upon as a compliment peculiar to her, and in
which her huiband has no fhare. For this rea-
fon, the greater the crowd collected, the more
important the entertainer appears, and therefore
no pains or expence is fpared in inducing them
to attend.
From the chara&er already given of the wife
of this gentleman, it may be concluded, that (he
exerted all her efforts, to make a figure, by the
frequency and greatnefs of her own routs, and by
the profufion with which ihe gamed away her
money at thofe of others. However, the mode
was become founiverfal, and fo eagerly purfued*
that ihe foon found it was impofiible for her to
diftinguifh herfelf in the manner ihe defired, if
ihe could not ftrike out fome new way $ but in
this (he was not long at a lofs, the boldnefs of
her genius prompting her to try an expedient,
which no one before her had dared to venture
upon. . /
This '
tti* CHRYSALj OR, THE
yGoogle
This was to fix her routs upon the day fet
apart, by laws, human and divine, for the duties
of religion, and which till then had been held
(acred to thefe alone, from every kind of bufinefs
and recreation. So bgld a ftroke neceflarily at­
tracted the notice of the public, and the remif-
nefs of the legiflature overlooking it, the crowds;
who, from an infenfibility to thofe duties, were
utterly at a lois how to get rid of fo much time,
gladly embraced fuch an opportunity, and flocked
to her in numbers^that amply fatisned her ambi­
tion. Such fuccefs and impunity foon made her.
example imitated ; but, as ihe had led the way,,
the merit of that fecured her from being fup->
planted by any rival, and having her company
decoyed from her.
Thecircumftances of her hu(band’sbirth, and,
the principles in which he had been educated,,
made him at firftlook upon fuch an infult upon
religion, with the ftrongeft horror: but (he made
light of his fcruples, and over-ruied all his objec­
tions, with fuch an abfolute authority, that, fo
peace fake, he was obliged to fubmit, and join
in what he dared not contradidt ; till he has at.
length forfeited the acquaintance of every ferious,
rational, and religious perfon.
. He was, at firft, greatly affe&ed at this falling
off, and much diftreiled to think what it could,
proceed from, as he was not fenfible of any devia- ,
tipn, in his own fentiments, from the principles ,
which had made his acquaintance fought by every
man of fenfe and virtue; but an accident foon
opened his eyes to the abfurdity of his flotation.
The acquaintance, upon which hejuftly fet the ,
greateft value, was with a prelate of diftrnguiihed
merit and virtue, an intimate friend of his de- .
. . ceafed
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. u s
yGoogle
ceafed father. With him he fpent the happieft
hours of his life; and, in the wifdotn and piety
of his converfation, found relief for the lick
heart, from the follies, and riotous exceiTes which
be was a Have to at home. Though he always
met with the moil benevolent and friendly recep­
tion from this worthy perfon, yet the coolnefs
With which he found himfelf treated by fome
others, made his apprehenfton fo ready to take
alarm, that, upon his grace’s not returning a vifit
or two, with the exa&eft punctuality, either
from ficknefs, or fome neceffary engagement, he
could not help expreffing his uneafinefs, with
fuch warmth, when he went to fee him next,
that his grace, who, tho’ he defpifed ceremony^,
would not give pain or offence to ajiy perfon,
efpecially one for whom he had fo iincere an
eAeem, accounted for his late omiflion, by giv­
ing the real reafon of it, and told him that he
would do himfelf the pleafirre of going to fee
him any day, when he might be fure of finding
him at home.
The gentleman anfwered, that, if his grace
would appoint any day agreeable and convenient-
to him, he ihould gladly break through all en­
gagements, and attend to receive him. This was
a ftrain of complaifance which the prelate would
not agree to, but infilled upon knowing what
day he was ufually at home, when he would call
upon him, in a friendly manner, without put­
ting him to the trouble of waiting for him in
particular.
The affeClionate, fincere manner inwhich this
was faid, was fo pleafing to the gentleman, that
it put him entirely off his guard, and he anfwered
eagerly, and without everconfidering that the next
day
«i6 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
day was Sunday, when he was always at home.
This was ftridfciy true; he was always at home
on that day, becaufe it was his lady's day for fee­
ing company, if he had in the leaft refle&ed on
which he would never have appointed his grace
to come, as he was fenfible, that he ihould for
ever forfeit his acquaintance by it.
Though that was a day which the prelate de­
dicated to employments of avery different nature
from paying complimentary viiits, there wag
fomething in the earneftnefs of the manner in
which the gentleman appointed it, that made
him apprehend he had fome fecret uneafinefs up­
on his mind, which he wanted to communicate,
for afliftance, or advice, wherefore he complied
without hefitation, nor did the other ever recoi­
led the impropriety of what he had done, till it
was too late to be remedied.
For his grace going the next evening, as he
had promifed, was not a little furprifed to find a
crowd of coaches before the door, for he had
never heard of, nor fufpeded the fcene that was
adting; but, however, being informed that his
friend was at home, he thought it beft to pro­
ceed, and fo lighting from his chatiot, was {hewn
up, into a room, where there was a mixed mul­
titude ferioufly engaged at cards.
The very mention of fuch a fcene would have
ilruck him with horror, judge then what his fen-
timents muft be at the fight; and particularly to
be betrayed to it, as he imagined, on purpofe
to infult him, by a man whom he efteemed, and
whofe Father he had iincerely loved. As foon as
he had recovered himfelf from his aftoniihment,
he dire&ly turned about, and departed, juft as
he was perceived by the matter pf the houfe,
V ol. I, L /whofe
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 217
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
whofeconfufion at his own indifcretion, in ap­
pointing fuch a time, which he inftantly recol­
lected, is not to be deferibed. He ftarted from
his chair, and exclaiming, ‘ Good God ! what
* have I done ?’ ........ would have followed him
direCtly, if his lady, with whom he was playing;
and who was juft then dealing, had not Hopped
him, and infilled on knowing what was the
matter.
‘ Good God ! madam (faid he in the utmoft
( confufion and diftrefs) did not you fee his grace
* come to the door this moment ? I was to pay
* him a vifit yefterday, and unfortunately en­
* gaged him to return it this evening, without
€ ever confidering that it was your night?—*And
* is that all (anfwered (he, who had gone on
« with her dealy and juft turned up an ace) then
€ pray fit Itili, and play your cards; you fee
* clubs are trump / His grace may come at a pro­
* per time, if he pleafes
Great as the huiband^s diftrefs was, the accent
with which thefe words were fpoken, nailed him
to the chair ; fo that he was, forced to let his
grace go home, and remain that night in an opi­
nion fo painful and injurious to him. But he
laid not his head at reft, till he had written his
grace a letter of apology for his miftake, which
he candidly acknowledged, and conjured him to
forgive, in the mod earned manner.
The imaginary infult, of being trepanned into
fuch a feene, had at firft provoked his grace be­
yond the ufual evennefsof his temper; but he had
had time to cool before he received the letter
(for he never lay down in anger, nor arofe but
in charity with all mankind) and, reading it dif-
paflionately, was fo moved at the fituation into
.. which
k i t CHRYSALj or, the
yGoogle
which he found his friend fallen, that all thoughts!
of perfonal refentment vaniihed, and he anfwered
it with the greateft humanity and tendernefs,
drawing the folly and danger of fuch a complai-
fance in its proper ftrength, and urging his re­
turn to the pra&ice of his own principles, with
every argument of reafon, virtue, and religion,
promiftng to renew his acquaintance with the
fame, or greater intimacy than before, as foon
as he ihould defift from fuch an impious profa-
tion and abufe of a day made facred, to piety
and devotion, by every civil and religious law ;
till he ihould do which, it was inconiiftent with
his chara&er and principles to keep up any fur­
ther intercourfe with a perfon in fuch circum-
ftances.
The juftice of this reafoning was acknow­
ledged by the perfon to whom it was addrefled,
and the lofs, which followed the negleft of it,
feverely felt, but he wanted refolution to refume
the authority that was neceflary for putting it
in execution, and fo poorly fubmits againft his
better judgment, to all the impolitions of a ty­
ranny, which was firft erefted upon his folly,
and itill fubfifts, by his indolence.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, it»
L a C H A P .
yGoogle
CHRYSAL* o r , t h e
12«
C H A P . XVII. «
Continued: Confujion worfe confounded^ rout on
ro u t: the transformation o f a conjlable into a de­
v il introduces a Jlory o f the D ev il's dancing in
mafquerade9 and frightens a polite ajfembly into a
fit o f devotion, which lajls an whole night w ith
moJ l ° f them. A glimpfe o f the courage o f a mo­
dern man o f honour.
B
U T , though fuch meetings as thefe are held
in apparent defiance of the laws, you muft
not imagine, that thofe who go to them are in-
fenfible of the impropriety, or unapprehenfive of
the danger of fuch a conduit. By danger, I mean
the immediate one, from the'fecular power, for
that of the divine wrath they never gave them-
felves the trouble of thinking about. *
O f this a remarkable inftance happened at this
place, not very long.after, the affair of his grace*
A gentleman of humour, as well as reafon, who
was intimate in this gentleman’s family, attd had
often ftrove in vain to convince his lady of the
difagreeable confequences that might attend
fuch an avowed difregard to decency at leaif, re- .
folved to take another method, and try what ef-
feit ridicule and ihame might have, where every
argument from reafon had failed.
Accordingly, one night, in the midftof the
riot, he contrived tq have it whifpered in the com­
pany, that a neighbouring cbnjlabley remarkable
for puniChing every offence, for which he did
not receive a proper compofition,' intended to
come
yGoogle
come with the church-wardens, and all the pa-
riih officers at his heels, and interrupt their diver-
fion; and dreffing himfelf exa£lly like the con-
ftable, whom he nearly refembled in fize and
figure, and buckling on a wooden leg, like him
he ftalks among them, juft as the fervant an­
nounced his coming, by the name of the confta*
ble, whom he perfonated.
It is impoffible to defcribe ¿he aftonifhment
and confufion of the whole company at fuch an
attack ! Tho’ there were feveral prefent, whofe
rank placed them above his authority, furprife
and confcioufnefs of their guilt fo far deprived
them of all refolution and prefence of mind, that
they joined in the juft fear of the reft, and at­
tempted to make an ignominious efcape with
them. The candles were all inftantly put our,
the windows were broke open, and ftars and rib­
bons were feen among the crowd that leaped into
the court, and ran through the ftreets, without
regarding dirt or cold, while the more timorous
fex flood petrified with fear, uncertain which to
face, ihame or danger. .
In the mean time, the pretended conflable took
the advantage to flip off his wooden leg, tye-wig*
and long cloak, juft as the fervants had taken the
alarm, and come in to fee what was the matter,
and fo had an opportunity of enjoying the whole
fcene, without danger of being fufpe&ed for the
author of it.
The firftqueftion which the lady of the houfe,
whofe a&ive fpirit firft recovered itfelf, afked,
was, What was become of the conflable, and
who let him in ? At the mention of a conflable,
the fervants all ftarted, as not one of them knew
any think of him $ and the very fervant, who had
" JU 3 announced
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ai?
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
announced his entrance, declared he had Tiever
heard a word of him, for, as he had not told his
office, not one of them had the leaft notion of
fuch a perfon’s prefuming to come among them.
But upon telling his name, and defcribing his ap­
pearance, their furprize was changed the other
way $ they all remembered his entrance, but eve­
ry one of them poiitively infiiled that he had not
gone back; fo that the queftion now was, What
could have poffibly become of him ? as his leap­
ing out of the window, as the others had gal­
lantly done, was neither neceflary, nor indeed
poffible for him to do, maimed as he was.
While they were forming fagacious conjec­
tures, on fo ftrange and unaccountable an affair,
the metamorphofed conftable, who hadjoined in
the converfation, faid to an old lady, who Teemed
more ftrongly affe&ed than any other of the com­
pany, that the oddnefs of this affair put him in
mind of one, not very unlike it in many circum-
ftances, which he had read, in accounts of good
authority, to have happened in France during the
minority of Lew is XIV.
This railed the curiofity of all who heard him,
who immediately crouded round him, and defired
him to tell it. At firft he feemed rather unwil­
ling, and very gravely prefaced his ftory with de­
claring, that for his part he believed nothing of
the matter, tho* he owned it was related by wri­
ters of undoubted veracity, and nttefted in a man­
ner almoft beyond any fa& he had ever read in
hiftory. Having thus prepared them, for fome-
thing extraordinary, he proceeded thus : 4 You
‘ know, Madam,* (addreffing himfelf to the
old lady, to whom he h id firft mentioned it, and
whom he knew plumed herfelf not a little upon
as» CHRYSALi OR, THE
yGoogle
her knowledge in fecret hiftory, every thing that
bore the name of which fhe had read, and im­
plicitly believed every word of) 6 that, in the ini­
* nority of Lew is the Greats M azarine, who
* governed the kingdom, took every method of
4 diverting the attention of the young monarch
4 from ftate affairs, by all kinds of pleafurable
* entertainment, that could be devifed.*----- —
4 True, Sir, (anfwered the old lady, who could
not poffibly reftrain her defire of (hewing her
knowledge.) * And that is faid to have influ-
4 enced the conduit of his future life, in that
4 expenfive pomp and vain magnificence, which
* attracted the admiration of foreigners, while it
* exhaufted and ruined his fubjedts. Hem!
4 hepi! but I beg pardon, Sir! pray don’t let
4 me interrupt you.’-----
* As this M azarine was an Italian, you know,.
* Madam/ (continued he, to which fheaflented
with a nod, as (he conftantly did) c it was natu­
ral for him to have a fondnefs for the enter­
* tainments of his own country, he therefore in-
4 troduced the Italian opera into France. The
€ firft time it was prefented, one of the princi-
4 pal parts of the entertainment confided of a
4 comic dance that was performed by fix of the
4 nimbleft caperers in all Italy. At firft they
*
■ went on expertly, and with great applaufe; but:
4 immediately found themfelves at a Jofs, and
4 were unable to proceed any farther, being put
4 out by the intrufion of a ftrange dancer, who
? came among them no body could tell how,
4 and difconcerted the entire fcheme of their
4 dance, which had been calculated only for
4 their own number. This at length threw*
them into fuch confufion, that they were*
L 4, 4-obliged.!
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, «j
yGoogle
obliged to Hand itili! when the manager of
4 the entertainment coming to them, to fee what
§ was the matter, perceived the caufe of their
4 confufion, and obliged them all to unmaik,’
(for they were drefled exactly alike, and wore
rnaiks) 4 that he might deteft and fcize the im­
* pertinent intruder, when, to his, aud the utter
* aftonifhment of every one prefent, he vaniihed
4 as unaccountably as he had come, though the
4 eyes of the whole houfe were upon him, and
4 there appeared to be no more than the original
4 number, and the fame perfons, who began the
4 dance. I believe. Madam, you may recolleft
4 the other circumftances of the ftory, which I
4 do not chufe to mention, on this occafion ;
4 they are told in thefecret memoirs of cardinal
4 M azarine.’— 4I do, Sir,’ (returned fhe, with
great emotion) 4 remember fomething of it,
4 But really,’— 4Dear Madam, (interruptedano-
4 ther, whofe curiofity was raifed too high to
4 bear a moment’s delay) pray let the gentleman
4 proceed ! When he has ended, if he omits any
4 thing, you may then inform us farther ! -Pray,
4 Sir, do proceed.’— —
Why, really, Madam, (continued he, under
fome apparent confufion) 4I am at a lofs how to
4 aft, and had much rather be excufed ; howe-
4 ver, I muftbeg leave to obferve, that for my own
. 4 part, I do not believe a Angle fyllable of the
4 holies of ghofts, and apparitions, and devils,
4 and fuch like fluff, that ever were told, though
4 this ftory in particular is told in a manner, and
4 confirmed with circumftances, not ealily to be
4 contradifted.’-----
This folemn prefaceraifed the curiofity of them
all to a torture, and alarmed apprehenfions, that
would
294 CHRYSALs OR, THÈ
yGoogle
would not admit ofa moment’s fufperjce. 4Dear
* Sir, pray proceed’ (echoed from an hundred
mouths at once, as they prefled clofer to him :)
The gentleman bowed and continued ; 4 The
4 whole company was now thrown into a con-
4 fuñón, as great as that of the dancers : they -
* had all reckoned a feventh perfoñ, and the
f connoifleurs* in particular, had obferved that
4 one of them had fliewn greater agility, and ,
* cut higher, than any onethey had ever feen be­
f fore, and indeed than they thought it poflible
4 for any human perfon to do. This hint alarm-
4 ed the whole houfe, and it was immediately
4 concluded that the devil had malicioufly join-
4 ed in the dance, on purpofe to fpoil their
4 fport; an opinion, which one or two unlucky
4 circumftances feemed to give weight to, which
4 were, that all the dancers had been drefled
4 like devils, the opera being The F all o f M a n r
4 and the dance exhibited, as a triumph of the
4 devils upon the occafion, and that it was afted
4 on a Sunday evening. Trifling as thefe circum-
4 flanees really were,, they threw the whole au-
4 dience into a conflernation ; fomédireflly fan­
* cied the candle burnt blue, others that the place
4 fmelt ftrongly of fulphur; and one more impu-
* dently fooliih than all the reft, infifted that he
4 had obferved the cloven foot; but what is moft
4 furprifing of all was, that the cardinal, who
1
4 could not be fufpe&ed of fuperftition, was fo
4 afFe&ed by it, that he ordered the houfe to be
4 difmifled direitly, and that opera never to
4 be performed again, nor anyother on a Sunday,
4 which was obferved during his life, and for
4 fome time after/— ¡
— *
^It is impofliblefor words to deferibe the fitua-
tion of the company, ¿t the conclufion of this
L 5 ftory^
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C ' ‘11 , ' ‘ > J
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ia5
flory. At the mention of the candles burning
blue, all turned their eyes about, and fancied the
fame ; as to their fmelling fulphur, it was more^
than imagination, the pretended conflable having
taken an opportunity, while they were all in con-
fufion, to throw, unperceived, a compofuion
which he had brought with him on purpofe, into
the fire, which had filled the room with a moft
fulphureous fmell, and more than one of the com*
pany declared, they thought they faw a cloven
foot, or fomething very like it, fly out of the
window.
The fcene was now changed to an appearance
really frightful. Every lengthened vifage was as
pale as death, every haggard eye flaring in wild
affright. The old lady, to whom the tale had
been particularly addreffed, confirmed every fyl-
lable of it, and added many circumflances from
fecret hiftories, of her own immediate invention:
and every one prefent had fome fimilar flory to
tell in fupport of it, till they at length terrified
one another to that degree, that they were a­
fraid to look around, or even raife their voices
to bid their fervants prepare for their departure.
The gentleman, pleafed at the fuccefs of his
artifice, refolved to improve it to the utmofl,
and take advantage of their prefent fituation, to
work them up to fomea&ion, that fhould make
them afhamed, at leafl, ever to be guilty of the
like profanation of that facred day again: ‘ De-
( fend us, Heaven !’ (exclaimed he,' fixing his
eyes with horror, on one of the windows) *What
r can that be?* This compleated the terror:
they all believed the devil was returning to de-
ilroy them, for the boldefl of them all had not
the fpirit to turn her eyes, to fee what he looked
at>
¿i6 CHRYSALi OR, THE
yGoogle
at, and joined mod devoutly in his ejaculation to
Heaven for defence.
He faw this was the proper moment for what
he intended, and fo dropping fuddenly upon his
knees, in which they all followed his example, he
repeated aloud the confeffion in the fervice of the
church, adding, with particular emphaiis, to the
fins of commiffion, this of breaking the fabbath,
and to thofe of omiffion, the negleS: of the duties
of religion, to which it was devoted ; and con-.
eluded with a folemn vow, never to be guilty of
either again, if Heaven would remit its wrath, .
and fpare them for the prefent.
All the while he hadJbeen performing this ce­
remony, he had kept his eyes fixed upon the
window, and, at the end of it, exclaimed in a
rapture, 4 Our vows are heard ! it vanifhes !
4 the danger’s over !’— Upon which he arofe,
as did they all, and fell into the moft ferious and
devout conversation, upon fo iignal an inftance
of divine favour and mercy, while their coaches
and chairs were getting ready to carry them
home, when they retired with thoughts very dif­
ferent from thofe which they ufually brought «
-
from fuch places.
Though every lady in the company had been
frightened into a fit of devotion, b^ what had
happened, none fuffered fo feverely by it as the
iady of the houfe, who notwithftanding the
public contempt ihe ihewed for religion, was fo 1
fearful of ghofts and hobgoblins, that after hav*
ing perfuaded her hufband to lay out a large
fum of money (much more than prudence would
have permitted) in repairing and fitting upr in
the modern tafte, a beautiful antique caftle that
was upon his eftate, upon hearing that a parti«
cular:
ADVENTURES OP A GUINDA. 1i f
yGoogle
cular apartment in it was haunted by a fpirit
quitted it dire&ly, and never could be prevailed
upon to deep a fecond night in it. As foon
therefore as the company was all gone, and Ihe
left to her own meditations, her fears recurred
fo fad upon her, that ihe fell into fits, which
feemed to threaten her with the total lofs of her
reafon, raving of devils and damnation, and
railing againd cards, and fabbath-breaking,
with all the vehemence of a modern enthufiaft,
among his mad brethren in Moorfields. But this
did not laft long ! the gentleman, to avoid de-
teflion, had been obliged to leave his tye-wig,
cloak, and wooden leg behind him. Thefe,
which were found upon clearing out the apart­
ments, unravelled the whole mydery of the af­
fair, and (hewed that it had been all a trick;
nor was the lady long at a lofs for the author of
it; (for the firft mention of the difeovery bad
put an,end to her fits of fear and devotion) the
pains he had often taken to perfuade her againft
thefe meetings, on this particular day, and the
zeal he (hewed in the late affair, convinced her it
was all tranfafled by him. This threw her into
the mod violent rage againd him; but as it was
impoflible to prove, and he denied the fa£t when
charged with it, (he could have no other fatis-
fadtion of him, than that of difappointing his de-
fign, by returning to her former pra&ice with
double eagernefs, and aggravating the fcandal of
it by every a&of irreligionand profanenefs, that
(he could devife, in which hopeful courfe (he dill
perfid8.
As, for the male part of the company, who
had to manfully leaped out of the windows, and
made their efcape through the cold and dirt of the
night;
t i t CHBYSALt OR, THE
yGoogle
night; fome of them caught cold, that coft
them their nofes, and one or two lod their lives
in duels, which they fought in vindication of
their chara&ers, from fo fcandalous an afperfion,*
for it was thought proper to deny the whole
dory.
ADVENTURES OPA GUINEA. M*
C H A P . XVIII.
Continued: M aternal tendernefs o f an uncommon kind.
A m ojl magnificent wedding dtjappointedt by an un­
happy injlance o f female frailty. A new method
o f calculating general opinion. An unlucky accident
changes a feene o f joy into g r ie f and affords an
ufeful caution to old age and infirmity, to guide
their Jlep with proper care. A drawn battle•
A n injlance o f fe ll revenge makes room fo r a.
Jlrangery who refores general harmony.
N O R is ihe content with offering this fla­
grant infult to religion and law ; the ten­
dered feelings of nature are alfo wantonly made
the obje£ts of her eroded ridicule; in the abfur-»
dity of which, to mew her matrimonial power in
its utmoft plentitude, (he obliges her pailive
mate to bear his fooliih part, and facrifice com«
mon fenfe, as he had before done conference, to
her capricious tyranny.
As ihe-has no children, upon whom ihe caa
difplay maternal care and love, (he aiFe&s hold«
ing the important and inexpreffible tendernefs
and duty of thefe in the lowed contempt: and,
to ihew this, in the mod glaring colours, pro-
ditutes
yGoogle
dilutes them upon fome infignificant animal, in
all the folemn pomp and parade of ceremony,
ufual on fuch occafions, to make the ridicule
more ftriking.
The prefent worthy objed of her affedion is
an civl9 which (he careifes and treats with all
the endearments of a darling child ; calling it the
fondeft names, talking to it for hours together,
every Sunday morning, and entertaining her moft
intimate acquaintances with a particular detail g f
its engaging qualities and fenftble a&ions ! nor
does her humour flop here, -Die dreiTes her fa­
vourite in all the fantaftic extravagance of the
mode, makes a complimentary enquiry after its
health, part of the .ceremonial of her acquaint­
ance, and celebrates the anniverfary of its birth,
with the expenfive magnificence of a public en­
tertainment, when the dear creature is produced,
with all the ceremony, and ftate of a royal babe,
to receive the praife and careiTes of the company ;
and, to finiih the farce, her hufband is obliged to
a6fc his part, and join with her in receiving the
congratulations paid upon the happy occafion.
Perhaps you will imagine that fuch an unac­
countable caprice is meant to expofe the fervility
of complaifance, and to ihew to what an height
it is capable of being drained, to gratify the hu*
mours of the rich. Suchaconclufion is not un­
natural, nor the general fatire implied in it, un­
juft; but here, in refpeft to her, it does not
hold, for (he has no fuch aim in view, nor thinks
of any thing beyond the immediate gratification
of her own whim ; on the contrary, (he would
be as ready to pay the fame compliment to any
of her acquaintaince, if they required it: indeed
the (hare (hemakes herbuiband take in the cere­
. mony,
•1# CHRVSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
mony, bears a different conftrudion, and is
plainly feen tobe defigned as a moft fevere and
infolent ridicule upon him, as it is no fecret, that
ihe imputes her want of children to his fault; a
charge, which his blind fubmiffton to her will,
makes not improbable.
, But this is not the firft inftance of the extra­
vagance of her humour, nor he the only one
who has been made the obje& of public ridi­
cule by it : though he has never miffed of his
lhare.
Before her prefent favourite, a cat engrofTed
her fondnefs in as eminent a degree, but unhap­
pily loft that and her life together by a flip of
female frailty: for flighting the example of her
miftrefs’s chaftity, fhe had taken an opportunity
to carry on an intrigue with a cat in the neigh­
bourhood, whom fhe ufed to meet in the evenings
upon the leads of the houfe, while her miftrefs
was abroad, and her own attendants engaged in
parties of pleafure below ftairs.
This unfortunately broke through all her mif­
trefs’s great defigns, who was juft then in treaty
for a marriage between her and the male fa­
vourite of a lady of quality in Parts, the preli­
minaries of which were all fettled, and nothing
remaining, but to determine where the wedding
ihould be celebrated; fhe, for the honour of the
fex, demanded that the gallant ihould wait
upon his miftrefs, and the other infifting upon
the example of all royal marriages, where the
bride goes to the bridegroom; a reafon fojuft,
that the heroine of our tale difputed it Only for
form-fake, and was preparing to fet out for P a risy
with her hufband and a grand retinue, to folem-
nize the w
edding, as foon as the proxy, which
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, tfi
yGoogle
bad been propofed to be fent by the other party*
jbould arrive.
Upon the firft difcovery of it, therefore, by
apparent fymptoms of the frail one’s pregnancy*
the whole houfe was in an uproar, every fer-
vant turned off, and a council of her moft inti«
mate friends direftly fummoned, to confider what
. was to be done in fu6h an emergency, and how
the treaty of marriage could be broke off, with«-
out giving offence to the other parties, or ex*
pofing her own difgrace. After much and ma­
ture deliberation, it was refolved to (end an ex*
prefs immediately to Parisn to prevent the proxy’s
Jetting out, and to apologize for breaking off
the marriage, on account of a pre-contra#, into
which madam Grimalkin had inconfiderately en­
tered, without the knowledge of her miftrefs y
and, to make this embaffy the more refpe&ed and
effectual, the perfon thought moft proper to be
fent upon it, was her huiband, who accordingly
was obliged to fet out on his journey dire&ly,
but was refeued from the ridicule of it, by a fit
of the gout, which arrefted him at his firft ftage;
fo that hewas forced to transfer the honour of the
employment to his gentleman, who acquitted
himfelf of it with great reputation. ,
But this was not the only diftrefs in which thia
unfortunate miibehaviour of the favourite in­
volved her miftrefs. In the firft tranfports of
her rage, ihe had ordered her to be taken out of
her prefence, and publickly vowed that ihe would
never fee her more: but, when her refentmeni
cooled a little, her former fondnefs returned, and
file could not bear the thought of abandoning
her, for a firft fault, to the low life of a com­
mon cat* or depriving herfelf of the pleafure ihe
enjoyed
*3« CHRYSALt OR, THE %
yGoogle
enjoyed in her company. But the difficulty was
how to receive her again into favour, confiftently
with the purity Of her own charaiter, and with­
out feeming, in fome meafure, to countenance
the incontinency (he had been guilty of, by fuch
lenity. While (he was in this perplexity betwetn
delicacy and love, her initru&or in the important
fcience of gaming mod luckily happened to pay
her a morning viiit, to give her a le&ure, and
inform her of fome new difcoverie? he had made
in his myflerious art. As (he knew that he was
a nice cafuift, the moment he approached her
toilet, (he informed him of the whole affair, and
defired his advice.
After taking fome time to deliberate upon the
cafe, 4 Madam/ (faid the fage, ihaking his
hoary head, and extending the fore finger of his
. right hand) ‘ this is a very difficult point to de-
4 cide : however, I have calculated the chances
4 on each fide, and have found that the odds
* are as feven, one fourth, and two fifteenths to
* five, nearly (for it would be too great a irou-
4 ble for you to examine the proof of it in
4 more minute fra&ions) in favour of your re-
4 ceiving the offender into your good graces a*
4 gain, which I prove thus: All the ladies in
4 the world are liable to fome failing or other;
4 now as from weaknefs of conftituticn, derived
4 from the goodnefs of their families, or bfpught
4 on by their own intenfe application to the plea-.
4 fures of polite life, there are not above five
4 who are guilty of this particular foible ( I mean.
4 among people of fafhion, fuch as you converfe
4 with) to eight who are not, it is evident that
4 there will be almoft eight who will not con-
4 demn your conduit, for five who w ill; it be-
4 ing
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
yGoogle
34 CHftYSAL : OR, THE
« ing the general maxim, always to exclaim
4 againft the faults of which we are guilty our-
€ felves, to deceive the generality of the world,
c and make an appearanceof our being innocent
* of them» If this reafoning does not appear
€ plain, I will draw it out at length, and adapt
* the calculations to the general rules of W htfty
€ fo that they may be proved by the cards, as
c the method molt familiar, to you, to fatisfy
c your own fcruples, and anfwer the objections
* of your friends, for ladies cannot be too cir-
* cumfpeft in affairs of this kind, where fo deep
€ a flake is played for. The fcheme will not take
c up much time to draw ; nor be attended with
c much expence, not above twenty pieces, or
4 fome fuch trifle; for you know I never am in
c the leaft unreafonable with my friends.*-----
This judicious folution was fo agreeable to
her, that fhe faw the juftice of it dire&ly, and
embraced it without a moment’s delay, ordering
the poor delinquent to be immediately brought
to her, and, after a little gentle chiding, almoft
killing it with her carefles. As to the fage ca-
fuifi,fhe thanked him for his decifion, and, hav­
ing received his lecture, defired him to reduce
his arguments into the form he propofed, as foon
as he pleafed, as fhe never had any obje&ion to
his demands, and then difpatched cards imme­
diately to all her acquaintances, to inform them
of the reconciliation, and invite them to an en­
tertainment which fhe gave upon the happy oc-
cafion.
According, they all attended, and poured
out their compliments in the moft polite pro-
fufion $ but, in the height of their joy, an unfor­
tunate
yGoogle
(unate accident happened, that changed their
congratulation into condolance.
As the dear creature was handed about, to
receive the careiles of the company, an elderly
gentlewoman, to ihew her extreme fondnefs for
it, by keeping it as long as ihe could upoo her
bofom, would needs carry it herfelf to a lady of
quality, who fat on the other fide of the room,
and defired to have it brought to her; but,
ftriving to be more alert than her paralytic tot­
tering would permit, ihe fell at her length upon
the floor, and almoft cruihed the poor animal to
death.
You may conceive what a confufion this threw
the whole company into : the cat fcreamed, the
old lady roared, and the voice of all prefent
echoed a general exclamation : and, to heighten
the diftrefs, they all got up at once, and, rufliing
together to raife the falling pair, hindered each
other fo, that they lay flruggling in no very a­
greeable fituation, or decent pofture, on the floor5
for the cat enraged at the injury Ihe had received,
exerted all her ftrength for revenge, and fixed her
claws in the face and neck of her fuppofed ene­
my, growling with the moft envenomed fpite,
which made the innocent author of her difafter,
roar, kick and fprawl, with all her might, as
Ihe was unable todifengage herfelf from the claws
of her furious adverfary, or even rife from the
ground where file lay.
At length, fome of the company made a fliife
to raife and part the combatants; when the poor
gentlewoman was hurried to her chair, with her
face and neck all in a ftream of blood, the at­
tention of the company being entirely taken up
with
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. **5
yGoogle
with the fright of the lady of the houfe for the
danger of her favourite.
The fpirit and ftrength which ihe had (hewed
in revenge of the injury ihe had received, was
fome confolation to her miftrefs, as it Teemed
to (hew that (he could not have been very much
hurted ; but one of the company happening to
mention her condition, renewed her fright, and
made her refolve inftantly to fend for one of the
molt eminent male praóHtioners of the obftetric
art, to enquire into thecircumftances of her cafe,
and adminifter any affiftance that might be necef-
fary upon the unhappy occafion.
Accordingly a fervant was inflantly difpatched
in the miftrefs’s name, to the do&or, who, attend­
ed without a moment’s delay, imagining, from
the urgency of the meffage, that fome lady of dif-
tin&ion might be taken ill in her houfe, as he
knew the lady herfelf could have nooccafion for
him, and the footman could give him no farther
information, thanthat fome accident had happen­
ed in the company of which there was the ufual
croud. As foon as he arrived, he was (hewn di-
reóìly into the drawing-room, whither the lady,
with a few fele& friends had retired, where one
of them leading him up to her, and lifting up an
handkerchief, that covered the poor dear creature
in her lap, opened the cafe to him, for the miftrefs*s
grief was fo great, that ihe was not able to fpeak.
It is impoffible to defcribe the rage into which
this threw the do£tor : he looked upon it as an
infult, not to be forgiven; and, as he could not
wreak his refentment upon ladies, by any aét of
violence upon their perfons, refolved to (hew it,
by his treatment of the creature* for which they
implored
•*6 CHRYSALj OR, THE -
yGoogle
implored his ai&ftitance. Accordingly, he Hooped
very gravely, and taking it out of the miilrefs’s
lap, laid it on the ground, and fetting his heel
upon its head, cruihed it to death, before any one
had time to interpofein its behalf; then turning
io the lady, whofe aftoniihrnent was fo great,
that ihe had not power to fpeak, 4 There, ma*
4 dam V (faid he) your favourite is delivered
4 from all danger of abortion; but take care how
4 you provoke another time the refentment of
4 a man, whom nobody provokes with impu-
4 nity/— -Saying this, he turned about and
marched away, leaving the whole company, and
particularly the miftrefs of the innocent viaim of
his vengeance, in a condition not to be expref-
fed : ihe wept, beat her bread, ftamped with her
feet upon the floor, and vowed the bittereft ven­
geance ; nor is it eafy to fay, how far her paffion
might have tranfported her, had not a gentleman
entered the room that very moment with a young
owl in his hand, which he had taken out of the
neft that morning.
The fovereign remedy for a woman’s grief, for
the lofs of any favourite, whether a cat, a fpar-
row, or an hufband, is a new one. The fight
of the owl inftantly firuck her : it had fuch a
gravity and wifdom in its looks, that (he refolved
to make it the confident of all her fecrets, and
the only counfellor from whom ihe would take
advice that ihould contradict her inclinations.
Accordingly, poor Grimalkin-was ordered to be
taken away, and the new favourite received in
her place. This reftored the general harmony
and good humour; and the entertainment that
was defigned to celebrate Mrs. Pufs’s refloraticn
to her miftrefs’s bofom, ferved for the reception
‘ of
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 4*7
yGoogle
of thcftranger. However, though a new fa­
vourite confoled the miftrefs for the lofs of the
former, (he did not negleft to pay proper ref-
peft to its remains : the oody was carefully laid
up till next morning, when an eminent under­
taker was fent fer, and ordersgiven for her decent
interment.
%%t CHRYSALt OR, THE
C H A P . XIX.
M ore happyfru its o f female government. The hif-
tory o f an eminent patronefs o f the polite arts9
H er peculiar method o f fbewing a diftinguijbed
tajle andjudgment. An extraordinary charge in
a hill at an inn• .
T
URN your eye now to the other fide, and
obferve that fuperannuated figure of fop­
pery, at the upper end of the table, who plumes
himfelf like a peacock upon the gaudinefs of his
drefs, and gives his contribution with an often-
tation and affefted dignity that would difgrace
a prince. He is another inftance of the happy
fruits of woman's government. With all the
importances he afTumes here, in his own houfe
he is a perfeft cypher, of no confequence in him­
felf, but as he adds to that of his wife.
So infignificant a charafter may be thought
incapable of affording either inftruftion or im­
provement, fufficient to reward the trouble of
difplaying it; but then it introduces another, to
which it ferves as a ihade to ihew the glaring
colours of it in a proper light, and illuftrate the
vanity,
yGoogle
vanity, as the former did the vice of female ca­
price and ambition.
He had the folid advantage of entering into
life with a very affluent fortune ; but inftead of
making it a means of happinefs to himfelf, and
benefit to fociety, by a rational and benevolent
ufej to gratify the moil abfurd avarice, he gave
up every enjoyment of it, by marrying an heir-
efs, the known vanity, imperioufnefs, and extra­
vagancy of whofe temper fo far over-balanced
the greatnefs of her wealth, that no man of rea-
fon or fpirit, who had any other poffible way of
earning a morfel of bread, would have linked his
fate to her.
The confequence was juft what he deferved.
The moment he became her hufband, ihe aflum-
ed the moft abfolute authority over him, and all
he pofleiTed, as if the words of their connexion
had been inverted, and he had made the cove­
nant of duty and obedience to her, and inftantly
fet'up for the patronefs of merit in the fine arts
and fciences, to (hew her fuperioiity of genius
over the reft of her fex.
Such an ambition direflly marked her out for
a bubble to all the needy (harping adventurers,
who, under the pretence of fuch merit, fly like
locufts to this fantaftic people, from every part
of the globe, in fwarms, that literally devour the
fruits of the land in fuch a manner as to ftarve
the natives who are engaged in the fame pur-
fuits, and thereby difcourage and prevent their
rifing to that excellence, the want of which is
objected to them.
For though there may not perhaps be any na­
tural difference between the fexes in the abilities
of mind, neceflary to form a proper judgment of
anv
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ijf
yGoogle
any faience, yet the female laboars under fuch
¿¡(advantages from a wrong education, that it is
hext to impoflible for a woman to exert the fa­
culties of reafon in any diftinguiftied degree;
the time when the feeds of knowledge (hould be
fown being devoted to trifles or abfurdities that
deferve a worfe name, which by thefe means take
fuch1poffeflion of the mind, as to influence the
conduCt of the whole life. Some rare inftances
indeed there are, of women, who break through
this oppreffion, and* rife above the prejudices
of fuch an education, to a degree of eminence
equal to the foremoft of the other fex; but
this requires fuch uncommon ftrength of ge­
nius, as is indulged to a very few ; and was* by
no means the lot of this perfon : All her preten-
fions to taReand judgment being founded on her
ability to reward them liberally in others. But
even in this, her injudicious vanity has always
marred the good effeCts of her generofity and
wealth ; for, not being able herfelf to difcern
real merit, and difdaining to follow the opinions
of others, for fear of paffing unnoticed among
the crowd, ihe blundered upon themoft unlucky
method of diftinguiihing herfelfthat ever entered
into an human head ; for, as if her opinion was
of more weight than that of all the world befide,
ihe fets up to contradict the voice of the public,
and always patronizes thofewhom they rejeCt
and decry.
Such a conduCt, as I faid, naturally lays her
open to the impofitions of flattery and fraud :
Though ihe profefles a tafte for all the finer
arts, mufic is the particular objeClof her favour,
and encouragement: As foon as a new perfor­
mer arrives* if he. is in diflrefs, as is almoft
always
*4* C H R Y SA L s OR, iH E
yGoogle
w
always the cafe, he immediately waits upon thiar
lady, to implore her patronage; this neceflarily
introduces a difplay of his abilities, which flic
never fails to reward munificently, and profefs her
, approbation of, but cautioufly, and in general
terms only, that ihe may retra& it afterwards,
Ihould the public unluckily join with her, for
her opinion is always in the oppofite fcale to
that of the reft of the world. But if he is dif*
approved, (he takes him under her immediate
prote&ion; (he invites him conftantly to her
table, ihe fupplies him with money, with the
moft boundlefs profufion, and makes parties a­
mong that croud of company, which her wealth
and turn fbrexpeniive pleafure conftantly colle&
about her, to fupport him againft the favourite#
of the public; and to fhew, that ifhe does thiar
merely from a fpirit of contrad¡¿lion, ihould the
moft eminent of thefe fall off, or be eclipfed by*
the fuperior merit of a rival, ihe inftantly forget#
the animosities with which ihe purfued his fuc-
cefs, and receives him into her prote&ion and
patronage, admiring his grofleft faults, and praif-
kig the very defers ihe decried before; while
her gentle mate is obliged to fubmit to this diffi-
patron of his darling wealth, and to be the hum~
ble echo of her opinions, in all their various?
changes, without daring to interpofe a word if*
vindication of his own judgment or authority »
but thinking himfelf happy in being permitted ta
'make ufe of the pittances of his fortune, whick
he thus contributes to public charities, to give
him the opportunity of aflimung the momentary
confequence you fee.
The many impofitions which ihe has fuftered
from thofe rapacious i ants, would be fuT-
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. Mr
Vol. L ficienc
Digitized by Google
ficient to make any perfon fee the folly of fuch a
conclude, who had not wilfully refolved againft
conviction. I (ball juft mention one inftance,
for the groffnefs and fmgularity of it, and fo con­
clude the di(agreeable reprefentation.
T o ihew her elegant tafte in this molt pleaf-
ing entertainment, and raife an opinion of her
importance in the polite world, among her te­
nants and neighbours in the country, whither
ihe retires for the fummer, (he always takes with
her fome of her favourite performers, who can­
not fail to pleafe perfons who never had an op­
portunity of hearing any better; and fometimes
even will condefcend, upon very particular occa-
iions, as when Ihe gives public entertainments,
to comply fo far with the tafte of others, as to
fend for fome of thofe who are the higheft in ge­
neral repute; though her country-feat is almoft
at the extremity of the kingdom; which makes
the expence of fuch a compliment very confider-
able j for (he defrays all the charge of travelling,
befides giving a very genteel gratification for
the trouble.
Upon an occafion of this kind, fome little
time fince, (he fent for a mufician of note, to
conduCi a concert, which (he defigned to give
her neighbours, in the higheft tafte. The man,
finding he had nothing to pay, an unlimited cre­
dit being eftablilhed for him at every ftage upon
the road, travelled down in the higheft luxury
to her houfe, where his performance was alfo
rewarded with a very handfome prefent. But,
whether he thought it unequal to his merit and
trouble, or imagining that he ihould never be
fent for thither again, refolved to make the mod
of the prefent opportunity; upon his return he
took
Hi ‘ CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
i
took up money at every inn he flopped aton the
road, upon the credit given him ; and, where he
lay, conftantly prevailed upon one of the com*
pliant females, who attended, to fleep with him,
for aconfiderable gratification, which he alfo or­
dered to be charged to the bill, and left for this
lady to pay.
t €uch an infult.might be thought to merit her
refentment; but as the punifhing of it would
open feenes, which mull lay her under a necef-
fity of difeontinuing her favourite pradice of
fending for fuch perfons, and expofe her extra­
vagance and tafte to public ridicule and cenfure,
(he thought proper to overlobk it as unnoticed,
and pay the bills, without feeming to examine
into the particulars of them ; and to prevent the
ftory’s receiving credit, ihoiild it happen to be
made known, continued to countenance the man,
and even invited him into the country, with her
the next fummer, when he played her many
tricks of the fame kind, finding he efcaped fo
«eafy after this.
1 have dealt fo long upon the chara&ers of
this and the former lady, to fave myfeif trou-
bleupon other occafioris, as their aftlons afford h
general reprefentation of female life.—*I mean the
lives of thofe females, who, looking upon them-
felves as raifed above the reft of their fex, by
rank or fortune, think it neceffary to (hew their
fuperiority, by breaking through all the rules
which reafon and religion have eftablilhed for
their condudt.
How prevailing the force of fuch examples,
the- intlances juft given fufficiently fhew. In*,
deed, fuch is the implicit adoration paid to
wealth, fuch is the reigning paffion, for joining in
M 2 what
A D V E N T U R E S O F A G U I N E A .
yGoogle
what is called good company, and partaking of
their luxurious entertainments, that, let the rich
and great propofe any folly and vice, however
j^rofs and abiurd, as the means of introdu&ion
to their tables andparties of pleafure, they will
be fureof finding perfons enough to comply with
their humours. Thtfeinftances are taken from
Che mod licentious caprices, and abfurd vanity
of this ambition. The former admit of no ex-
cufe ; and though the latter may be lefs blame-
able in themfelyes, and even bear a kind of re-
femblance to virtue.in many cafes, the fuccefs
is not much better, nor ever fuificient to juftify
this ambition in females, to quit the fub-ordi*
nate fphere allotted them by nature, and drive to
make a figure in the bufier and more extenfive
province of man.
Nor is this the only ufeful inftru&ion that may
be drawn from a difplay of thefe chara&ers. i t
ihews alfo the ridiculous and unhappy fituation
into which man falls when he poorly gives up
the reins put into his hand by Providence, and
fubmits to the government oi a woman, whom
jkc was born to command.
•44 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C HAP a
yGoogle
A d v e n t u r e s o f a G u i n e a , m
C H A P . XX.
A n irremidabie defeft in human policy. The bifhry
o f a mof) eminent perfonage* A new way o f pay-
xng the debts o f guardlanjhip. A daughter's dij-
obedience in 9efufmg to comply with more than pa­
ternal love. The hero o f the tale extrails profit
from charity% and ajprts the rights o f agency, in
defiance o f public opinion and Jhame. .
T A K E notice of the perfon immediately
below him* whom I have juft given yo*
an account of. By his large athletic make,.na^
ture feemed to defign him for fome of thd moft
laborious employments in life; but his genius led
him toother purfuits, and made him depend upoa
the (harpnefs of his mind, rather than the ftrength
of his body, for his fupport and advancement ¡4
the world. . .
The depravity of man makes'many employ-?
ments neceflary in a community, for public fafe-
ty and advantage, the execution of which is at­
tended with fo many circumftances of horror it*
the puniihment of unhappy delinquents, that nq
man, who is not deftitute of that fympathetic ten-
dermfs which is the higheft honour of his nature,
can bear to undertake them. This throws them
upon perfons, fpeculativfely fpeaking, the mo$
unfit for fuch offices; whofe povertyobliges them
to pra&ice every iniquity of the profeffion, intp
which they werefirft initiatedd>y vice, and whofe
hearts are hardened by habit, againft.every femi-
menf
Digitized by Google
24* C H R Y S A L ; O R , T H E
ment of virtue and honour, every finer feeling 6f
nature. Thus the hangman, whofe crimes firft re­
duced him to take up the horrid trade, continues
it from diftrefs, and puts to death wretched of­
fenders, for fafts which he is hourly guilty of h m-
felf, without compaffion orremorfe, till he isde-
tc&ed, and fuffers the fame puniihment from ano­
ther hand. But this is oneof thofe defers of hu­
man policy, which no human heart can remedy.
In an employment not very diflimilarjin its na­
ture, though dignified by alefsopprobrious name,
has this perfon difplayed his abilities, for many
years, to the aftoniihment of all who have been
witnefles of his exploits. There is a myfiery in
fuch fcenes too horrid for reprefentation ; I (nail
therefore pafs them over, and barely relate a few
anecdotes of his private life, which will fuffici-
cntly enable you to form ajudgment of his whole
character.
A man who, from one of the pooreft employ­
ments by which a wretched life can be honeftjy
fufiained, came unexpededly to the pofleffion of
a confiderable fortune, by the death of a relation,
who would have fuffered him to pcrifh for want
of a morfel of bread, had fome way conceived fuch
a confidence in this perfon, that upon his own
death, in a very little time after his elevation, he
entrufled his orphan daughter to his care, toge­
ther with what he had been able to fave for her,
duringfhis (bort polTeifion of his eftate, the inhe­
ritance of it pafling away, for want of his having
male ¡flue, to another branch of the family.
During the minority of his ward, he took
'tare to educate her according to the direflion of
her father, in a decent but frugal manner, as the
fortune (he had a right to expe&, was not fuffi-
cient
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUTNEA. 247
cient to place her above the neceflity of induftry
and ceconomy ; but upon her coming of age, he
was obliged to a¿1another part: Pie had fpent
the greateft part of her fortune in his pleafures ;
for, ftrange to think ! even he had a paffion for
the pleafures of polite life, and was admitted into
the genteeleft company, to enjoy them, without
any enquiry into his chara&er or ftation, while
he was able to bear the expcnce. Such a (itua-
tion mud have been diftrefling to any other man ;
but the bufinefs of his profeffion foon fuggefted
a method of difengaging himfelf, which his ex-
tenfive principles made no- objection to his put*-
ting in pradtice.
On the day before {he was to receive from
him the fortune which was the whole founda­
tion of her future hopes in life, he (hewed no
figns of uneaiinefs, but confidently gave her no­
tice, that he defigned to pay her the moment (he
was entitled to receive it, and even appointed the
other truftees of the will to meet at his houfe,
and be witneffes to his pundual execution of his
trufl. Such a conduit naturally gave fatisfac-
tion to every perfon concerned, and entirely re­
moved fome apprehenfion which they had enter­
tained before. But they foon found reafon to
change their fentiments again. For, that very
evening he took an occafion to go through a bye
ftreet, juft after it became dark, and when he
thought himfelf in no danger of being taken
notice of, where he rolled himfelf in the kennel*
battered his head againft the (tones, as if he had
received feveral fevere ftrokes, and Scattered fome
paper he had in his pocket for that purpofe, about
the ftreets; and then, in that abufed appearance,,
and with a)l the fymptoms of affright and defpair
M 4 in
yGoogle
in his looks, run into a neighbouring coffee*
houfe, where he told the company, that he had
been juft knocked down and robbed of a confi-
derable fum of money, which he was to pay thft
next day.
Some of them inftantly went to the place if*
which he faid this had happened, vvheie they
found his hat and wig, and the papers he had lefr
for them, which at firft gained credit to the ftory?
but when the general tenor of his charader, and
|he circumftances of bis being to pay that fum
the next day, came to be confidered, the whole
artifice was feen through, efpecially as he neve»
offered to prove where he had received the mo*
ney, nor gave any reafon for his carrying fuch st
fum about him, the very bulk and weight of
which, (for he faid it was all in fpecie, to prevent
too particularan enquiry about bank notes) muft
have been a trouble and incumbrance to him $
but barely aliedged, that he had always kept the
money by him in caih, ever ftnee he had re*
ceived it: and if any one exprefled the lead
doubt of what he faid, or deftred to have tbefe*
particulars betterexplained, he dire&ly charged
them with making infinuations injurious to his
chara&er and credit, which he threatened to vin*
dicate by law.
Such a menace, from fuch a man, was not in-
cffe&ual ! The injured lady was abfolutely de*
prived of every means of doing herfelf juftice ;
and, as the poor are ever friendlefs, no uncon*
cerned perfon cared to enter into a difpute with
one of Bis known experience, and who was ac»
quainted with methods of putting.his menaces
in execution, which the moil innocent might
not find it eafy to guaid againft$ befides, it was
univerfalJy
44* CHRYSALj OR, THE
yGoogle
a ffv en th iieso r a gtjinba.
univerfally and well known, that even if the
whole affair could be detected, he was*not able
to make fatisfadion. Thus every circumftance
concurred to give fuccefstohis fcheme, tho* not
quite fo fmoothly as he could wi(h> and the poor
young lady, having no redrefs, was obliged to
return to the low ftate from which (he had fo-
Jfctcly been raifed,, and in which ihe ifill lives a*
life of fervitudehappy had (he never been flat­
tered with better hopes*
But though he could efcape the reach of manv
divine juftice was*nor to be defeated fo, whofe-
vengeance attacked him in fo iignal a manner, a»
«
plainly (hewed the juft retaliation of the unerring:
hand of Heaven.
Seared aa-his heart mull be by fitch a life,, to*
the moregeneral feelings of humanity, naturewaa*
not quite debauched, and he felt the tendernefs
and fond anxiety of paternal love in all its force,,
for an only daughter, on whofe education, in all>
the polite accompliihments of the more exalted*
ranks of life, he (pared neitherpains nor expetice^
fupporting and adorning her in the genteeleft;
manner, and taking evident delight in lavifhing,.
on fuch ufes, all that he could acquire by every
poffible means.
Such a conduit, though carried to an excefs,.
had fometbing fo amiable in it,, that, in ibrae
meafure, it palliated the blacker partsof his cha­
racter, and even weakened the credit of many oft
the ftories told of him.. But juft as he was be­
ginning to enjoy the fruitsof his care, by feeing
his daughter’s eminence* in th& accomplifhment$»
he had taken fuch pains to teach universallyac^
knowledged, an event happened, that not only
deprived him of that pleafure, but alfd turned
M 5 th*
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
the merit of all his former fondnefs into the fod-
eft reproach.
His daughter was obferved, for fome time, to
bear the appearance of the mod poignant diftrefs.
Whenever ihe was aiked the caufe of it, by any
of her friends, (he would melt into a flood of
tears, nor would give any other anfwer, than that
ihe was the moft miferable of human beings.
This raifed avariety of conje<Stures,fomeof which
were far from being advantageous to her. But at
length the fecret was revealed. She flew one
day, in the utmoft agony of diftrefs, to a lady
of her acquaintance, who had feemed to (hew the
livelieft fenfe of her grief, and begged her pro-
teftion from the cruelty of her father, which,
ihe faid, was too great to be borne, ever fince ihe
had refufed to gratify an impious paffion which
he had long entertained for her, and which had
been the motive of all his care and expence in
her education.
Such ftories are fofhocking to human nature,
.that they are generally doubted; but his charac­
ter gave fuch weight to any charge againft him,
,that this was univerfally believed. At firft he
made fome efforts to induce his daughter to re­
turn to him; but (he was deaf to his felicitations,
and being deftitute of every other means of fup-
port, threw herfelf upon the favour of the pub­
lic, and lives by her fkill in the accomplifhments
which he took fo much pains to have her taught.
This was not only a feyere mortification to his
pride, but alfo made him be looked upon with
. fuch horror and deteflation, that he has been
ever fince fecluded from thefociety of every per-
foo of virtue or reputation.
I fee
t5e CHRYSALs OR, THE
yGoogle
I feeyou wonder at the inconiiflency of fuch a
perfon’s appearing in the iituation you fee him at
prefent, contributing toa public charity, for the
relief of the calamities of the poor. To one who
can look no farther into man than as he appears
at the prefent moment, fuch a conduct juftly ap­
pears unaccountable; but confider, that thefeare
the only places now open for him to mix with per­
fons of character and fortune: for inftitutioiis of
this kind make no didin&ions of perfons, but re­
ceive, inoiicriminately,thebenefa&ionsof all who'
offer. Befides, a genius, fo ready as his, can turn
every thing to advantage, and extraft profit even-
from giving charity. One indance of this kind;
of addrefs will prove the jufticeof this reflection,-,
and (hew, that in every action of his life, he re-*
ally preferves a confiftency of character. •
Some years ago, the fea broke over its banks, in
a diftant part of the kingdom, and not only laid'
the country wade for a great extent, but alfo*
threatened the ruin of the whole, if fome means *
were not immediately applied to put a flop to it.
Such an exigence required inflant care ; the go­
vernment fent workmen dire&ly to repair the*
breach, who were obliged to druggie with all the
feverities of the feafon, in a mod inhofpitable cli-**
mate to effeCt their work, it being the depth of-
winter, and the danger admitting of no delay.
So fevere a fervice naturally excited the com­
panion of this people, the mod humane and ge­
nerous under Heaven. Accordingly, a public fub-~
fcription was opened, to buy warm cloathing for
the labourers, thus employed for the advantage
of the public, which met with fuch general ap­
probation, that a fund fufficient for the purpofe
was immediately raifed. This perfon, from the
reafon
ADVENTURES OT A GUINEA. *51
yGoogle
reafon hinted above, was one of the firft fubfcri-
bers, and appeared moft adive in promoting the
fcheme, offering frequently to undertake the moft
troublefome part of the condud of it ; But fome
of them who were acquainted with his charac­
ter, abfolut^ly refufed to let him interfere in any
manner that fhould give him the leaft power over
the fund. However, as they did not think pro­
per to make the motives of this caution public,
he took an opportunity, one day,when they were
indifpenfibly obliged to be abfent, to renew his
offer, which his afliduity and fuccefs in folicit-
ing fubfcriptions gave fuch weight to, that it was
received, and he was appointed to purchafe and
fend down fome particular articles, that appeared
to be immediately wanted, to pay for which,
five hundred pounds were diredly given into his
hands.
This was what he had all along laboured for;
afccordingly, as foon as he received the money, be
remitted of his affiduity, and came no more to
their meetings, never taking the leaft care about
the things, for the purchafe of which it had been
given to him. So flagrant an a& of injuftice
raifed the refentment ofevery one concerned; but
that he was prepared for, and defpifed ; and,
when they required him to return the money, he
gave them a bill for his own trouble, in which he
charged every ftep he had ever gone, to folicit
and promote the fubfcription, and fees of agency
for every (hilling he had received and paid in the
courfe of it, by which means he greatly oveiv
balanced their demand.
Bare-facedas fuch an impofiticn was, they had
no redrefs ; for he had carefully made his charge
according to the rates of his profeffion ; and,
though
*5* CHR YSAL t OR, THE
yGoogle
though it had been always the intention of every
one to beftow their labour as well as their m
o««
ney, without any lucrative view of return, yet,
as he had never entered into an adual engage*
ment to that effeft, there was now no poffibility
of defeating his charge.
Such an attempt can never be made with fuc<-
cefs a fecond time, as the fird inftance raifes a
general alarm. However, he itili perfida tojpin
in every thing of the kind that is propofed, in
hopes of feizing fome fuch lucky opportunity as
he did before. But it is eafy to forefee that he
will bcdifappointed, for though he exerts himielf
fo firenuoufly, and takes upon him to offer his
advice and dire£tion, as you fee, the prejudice
againd him is fo ftrong, that every thing he fays
is fufpe&ed of defign, every thing he proposes
reje&ed, even without examining. Nay, fo
drong is the detedation of him grown, fince this
affair of his daughter, that fome fòcieties have
refufed him admiffion, and others even gone fo
far, as to expel him, in .the mod ignominious
manner, from among them.*
I
ADVENTURES ORA GUINEA. *5J
C H A P . XXL
The representation concluded with an eminent m an*
midwife. H is motivesfo r taking up that profejfion^
with Jorne unfortunate anecdotes o f his praflice.
ISHALL now prefent you with a chara&er,
the folly of which is a (hade to its virtues,
and lhews them through a medium of ridicule
and.
yGoogle
*54 CHRVS AL: OR, THE
and contempt, more humbling to human vanity
than the moil atrocious vice.
Obferve that ikeleton, that figure of famine,
who even after a feaft looks as if he had failed
for a month, and was juft ready to periih for
want. That is another of the principal promot­
ers, and indeed, fupporters of public charity, from
the beft of motives: his benefa&ions always flow­
ing from the benevolence of his heart, though too
often qualified in the manner by circumftances
that throw both the gift and giver into ridicule.
For fuch is the vehemence of his temper, that,
not fatisfied with providing for the wants of the
poor, he will fee that the fupplies which he be­
llows are applied in the manner he dire&s, which
introduces him too familiarly into the domeftic
diftrefies of the unhappy, many of whom would
gather periih for want, than make the circum--
llances of their wants known : nor is his fortune
only devoted to thofe ufes, his very perfonal fer-
vice is always ready, particularly in fome cafes,
where, unfortunately, amptive of a very different
nature from his real one is liable to be miftaken
for it, by the malignant temper of the times.
There is no lituation of human diilrefs that
calls fo ftrongly for compaifion and relief, as
child-birth. How fevere then mull the cafe of
thofe unhappy creatures be, who are left to
druggie thro’ fuch pangs, unaffifted, unprovid­
ed with any of the comforts, fo neceflary to fup-
‘port nature in fuch a conflict.
A fenfeofthis ftruck his humane heart! He
felt the diilrefs, and liberally fupplied the relief.
Well had he flopped here ! But fearing that fuch
•relief fliould be mifapplied, or infufficient, he
would attend himfelf, to fee that nothing was
. wanted $
yGoogle
wanted; and at length, to make his affiftance
complete, learned the obftetric art, and now ne-
ceffarily has more bufinefs in it, as he pavs for
being employed, by the benefa&ions he beftows,
than any one member of the profeffion.
Laudable as this care, and the motive of it are,
it would have been much better, had not the fan*
guinenefsof his temper hurried him fo far ! Had
be been content to fupply their wants, and let
others, whofe profeffion it more immediately is, 1
adrainifter relief. For now, what a field does it
open for ill-natured ridicule, to fee a man of his
confequcnce defcend to offices, in the ordinary
acceptation of the world, fo far beneath him ?
How eafy is it to fay ! How eafy to be believed,
that idle curioiity, or fome grofler motive,
prompts to fuch uncommon affiduity ?
Nor is the evil of this indifcretion confined to
him alone; it refledts a kind of ridicule upon the
very virtue it would ferve; and make lefs fan-
guine minds refrain from the good, for fear they
fhould alfo {hare in the reproach. For it is not
fufficient for a man to have the teftimony of his
own confidence for the redtitude of his inten­
tions ; there is alfo a debt of appearance due to
the public, to avoid offence, and inculcate virtue
by example.
One inftance will i11uftrate this, and ihew the
inconveniences of his inconiiderate zeal.
A poor woman applied to him for relief fome
time before the moment. According to his cuf-
tom, he fupplied her neceffities, and took a di-
redtion where to call and fee her. The woman,
either miftaken herfelf, or tempted by diftrefs to
deceive him, told him a wrong time, which
made him come top foon $ and, as he always
made
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. $55
yGoogle
made her Come charitable prefent whenever he
came, (he ftill found fome complaints to induce
him to repeat his vifits.
At length, the frequency of his coming toolt
the notice of the alley in which (he lived, who
could not conceive any honeft bufinefs that a
gentleman of his fine appearance could have with«
fuch a poor woman, in fo obfcure a place ; and,
as fuch remarks are always improved,, fomefr ie n d ’
hinted to the woman’s huiband, a labouring man.
who was out at his work all day, and therefore
could not be witnefs of his difgrace, that hi»«
wife had many improper vifitors come to her, an<£
muff certainly have taken to bad courfes, to en—
courage fuch doings, ^
The cuckold in imagination went direAly
home in the greatcft rage at his diihonour, but
the name of the viiitor, and an aflurance that
there came no other, foon pacified him, efpe—
cially as a ready thought (truck himy that he
might turn the good man’s humanity to an ad­
vantage, of a nature very different from what hr
defigned y for the fellow was welLfupplied with
what is called mother-wit> which want had (hap­
pened, and freed from every reflraint of honefty-
He therefore fullenly told his wife, that it might
be fo as (he faid* but he would have a better
proof than her word for it, and therefore (he mult
let him fee her viiitor the next time he came, and,
as (he valued her life, aflfent to every thing which
he, her huiband, ihould do or fay.
The peadinefs of her confent encouraged him
to open his defign toher, which her nuptial obe­
dience, and hopes of gain, made her not only
give into, but (he alfo improved the icheme to a
certainty of fuccefc..
The
m
5
6 CHRV8AL: O K , TH
TB
yGoogle
a d v e n t u r e s of a qui nea. *$7
The huiband accordingly, having prepared
fome of his aiTociates, placed them properly, the
next time the gentleman went to viiit his wife9
who immediately, upon his coming into the room9
began to cry outy and implore his affiftance.
Though the bufinefs came a little inconveni­
ently upon him, as he was full drefled, he would
not deferther in her diftrefs, but directly fet a­
bout giving her the neceflary affiftance, in the
hurry of which, fome unluckly ftoop burft the
firing that tied his breeches behind, and down
they fell about his heels.
Though this difafter dlfconcerted him a good
deal, the cries of his patient would not give hint
time toadjuft himfelf, but he was proceeding in
his bufinefs, with the moft anxious afladtiity i
when in rufhed the huiband, with his gang, and
rewarded his care with a ftroke that felled him9
fettered as he was in his breeches, to the ground.
The fcene was now changed ! the woman
no longer in labour, cried only for revenge, on
the bafe man who bad attempted her virtue, a9
the witnefles prefent attefted they had heard her
before, and now caught him in the very fait £
which the poilure he was in, and, above all, the
circumilance of his breeches, too ilrongly con­
firmed, to the crowd whom the noife had drawn
together.
Terrified almoft to death at the threats of the
enraged huiband, who could hardly be held from
taking perfonal vengeance that very moment, and
feniible of the confequence, ihould public fame
catch hold of fuch a tale, the poor criminal threw
himfelf on his knees, and, convinced that all
vindication of his innocence would be in vain9
befought only a compofition for his offence.
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
a5S
This was juft what the parties wanted; but
ftill to increafe his terrors, and inhance the price
of his efcape, fuch difficulties were raifed, as
made him glad to yield to any terms they could
impofe; and, accordingly, he not only purged
himfelf of having done any a&ual diihonour to
her huiband, for the intention they would not ad­
mit him to controvert, but alfo made fatisfaftion
to his refentment for the attempt, with 100/. for
which, as he had not a furr. immediately about
him, he gave a draught on his banker, and wait­
ed in durtjfe, till the arrival of it releafed him.
This misfortune made him more cautious for
fome time; but he begins to forget it now, and
goes on with his bufinefs as before. Qne thing*
indeed, he takes fufficient care about, and that
is, that the waift of his breeches is properly fe-
cured : for fo ftrong is the impreffion, which that
accident made upon him, that he never walks a
dozen fteps without pulling them up.
You fee moft of them begin to nod, I (hall
therefore draw the curtain here, and leave them
to their nap, with this observation, that a few
fuch examples as the clergyman, and many of
the kind there are, particularly eminent in this
exalted, virtue of charity, in both the fexes, are
fufficient to take off the prejudice which the
others muft excite, and to pre/erve the proper re-
fpcSt to principles they propofe to imitation*
C H A K
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *5*
CHAP. xxir.
Some account o f the officers o f the charity. Their care
o f them]elves. They fa ll out about the divifion o f
the fpoil. A terrible uproar is appeafed by a de­
mand o f general concern. 7 he concife manner o f
paffing public accounts# C h ry sal changes his
fervice. ,
WH E N I had taken a fufficient view of
the governors, I had Jeifure to turn my
obfervatipns to the fervants of the fociety, whole
behaviour raifed an indignation too ftrong to be
exprefled by words.
If the governors feafted, they paid for their
feafting; but the fervants feafted no lefs, and
were paid for it ! Nor was this enormity con­
fined to this day ; their whole time was one con­
tinued fcene of it, and much the greater part of
the contributions of the public was proftituted to
this abominable abufe: while the poor, for whofe
relief they were given, too often languifhed in
want of the meaneft neceflaries, the fund being
infufficient for their wants, and the luxury and
wages of their fervants.
1 was diverted from thefe reflexions, by an
uproar, in one of the private apartments of the
houfe, where fome of the fuperior fervants had
got together over a bottle of wine, to fettle their
refpe&ive dividends of the fubfcriptions of the
day. I call them fervants, for that is the proper
appellation of all who ferve for hire. As I was
yet undifpofed of, to any particular perfon, I had
it in my power, as I have told you before, to
rang*
yGoogle
range through the whole territories of the focietjr
to which I belonged, and therefore flew to fee
what might be the caufe of this riot, in fo im­
proper a place, where I was witnefs to fuch a
fcene as almoft tranfcends belief.
At the upper end of the table fat the treafurer
(for it would be a reproach to the pooreft fociety
to have fewer officers than the ftate) with his
accounts before him. After a bumper to the
fuccefs of the charity. 4 Mr. Steward (faid he)
4 our fubfcriptions have been fo good this year,
4 that I think we may venture to enlarge our
4 falaries, a little; for laft year they were really
* fcarce worth a gentleman’s acceptance.
* That is true freplied the Reward) and I be-
* lieve we may enlarge the houfe allowance too,
4 for, upon theprefenteftablilhment, itis hardly
* enough for the days we meet here, and wifi
4 not afford any thing to carry home, to enter-
4 tain a friend with, as a gentleman would de-
4 f i r e i t is but fwelling Tome of the fu k arti-
4 r/tt, which at prefent are fcarce above the
4 confumption. When I was overfeer of the
4 parifh, we managed things better. W e then
4 lived like gentlemen : nay, I remember when
4 I was church-warden, that we fpent the whole
4 fummer, jaunting about the country, in purfuic
4 of a gentleman, who had a child fworn to him;
4 for fifty-ihillings, which he had been ordered to
4 pay, till the bill of our expences came to 15 /•
4 and yet no-body could fay againft it: fo that it
4 is our own fault, if we do not live well.
4 Right (joined the apothecary) nor was the
* appointment for medicines any way fufficient.
4 Had half what the phyficiahs preferibed been
4 given, there would have been nothing to be
4got
«Co CHRY8AL* OR, T H f
yGoogle
* got by the contrail.’— 4 How, Mr. Apothe-
* cary (returned the cook with a fneer) nothing
* to be got! pray, was not all you got cleat
* gain ? I am fure, from the benefit received by
* the patients, there did not appear to have been
* any thing above brick-duft, or powder of rot»
* ten poft, in any of the fluffs they took!
* Pray S— S— Sir (fluttered the apothecary^
* in a rage) wh—wh—what’s that you fay ? Who
* m —m— made you a judge of medicines
* Not you, I thank God, Sir, (faid the cook) as
* my health (hews. But I have a good reafon
* for what I fayj for tho’ I put double the quan­
* tity of meat in my broth, I could not prevent
* the people’s dying, nor make the few who re­
* covered, able to go out in twice the ufual time*
« — S— S— Sir, ’tis all a d— d— darn’d lie.
f Their d— d— dying was occafioned by the
*
'■ p— p— poornefs of the b— -b broth, and
* the badnefs of their p— p»—
provilions, and
* not by the w— w— want of medicines j and
* 1*11 p-—p— prove it, Sir: and how you fup—•»
* p 'p '"orted your family on the m— m— meat
* that Ihould have been d— d—drefled for the
« ficki* ■ »>
' «You’ll prove it, Sir! Take care
•* that you do! Gentlemen! take notice.of
* what he-fays ! This ¡slinking at my charac*
* ter; and muft affeii my bread.’
* That is true, Mr. Cook (faid the (ecretary,
* who had beenjin attorney’s clerk) and what«
< ever (trikes ataman’s chara&er, foas to affe£t
* his bread, is aitionable.’ — 4 B— b— but,
* Sir, he attacked my ch— cha— charaSer firft,
* and I’ll b— b— b— bring my a&ion t?tr.’ i
‘ So you may, Sir, (replied the lawyer) the ac­
* tion will lie on bow m
n
*
The
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. s«t
yGoogle
The difpute had hitherto been kept up with
fuch heat, that the company could not interpofe
a word to pacify them, but the mention of the
law made it every one’s concern in a moment.—
4 Silence, Gentlemen (faid the treafurer, railing
4 (lcwly his auguft bulk, and ftriking his hand
4 upon the table) Silence, I fay, and let me hear
4 no more of this brawling. Mr. Cook ! Mr.
$ Apothecary ! what do you both mean? To
* difcover the fecrets of our fociety, and to blow
4 us all up at once? You both heard me fay,
4 that every thing, which was wrong ihould be
4 adjufted ! Could you not wait for that, with-
4 out falling into this indecent, this unprofitable
4‘wrangle ? As for you, Mr. Secretary, the leven
4 of your profeffion will break outj it is fuf-
* ficient to infed the whole mafs ! Is this your
* protnife, your oath ? to follow your bufiriefs,
« and do as you are ordered, quietly and impli-
4 citly, without meddlingany farther, or perplex­
* mg us with the tricks of your former trade?
< But it was in vain to exped it. A lawyer
* can as well live without food, as without fo-
4 menting quarrels, and fetting his neighbours
4t together by the ears : bring an «¿lion indeed 1
* and fo betray our myftery, to the impertinent
* remarksof counfellors, and the feoffs of Tem-
4 piers and attorneys clerks. Let Hie hear one
4 'word more of the kind, and this.moment I «de-
4 clare offall connexion, and leave every man
4 to ihift for himfelf. Our general oath of fe-
crecy, attefted* urider our hands, fecures me
4 from information, as it would invalidate the
4 teftimony of us all/
With thefe words, he turned about, to leave
the room, when the fteward, catching him by
the
iti CHRYSAL* OR, THE
yGoogle
the bread, pulled him into his chair, and hold­
ing him down, by main force, addreffed him thus ;
----- 4 Good God, Sir ! what do you mean ! to
* take notice of the warmth of madmen, who
4 kuow not what they fay : you Mr. Treafurer,
4 have moved in an higher fphere of life, and
c ought to be above fuch things. You were not
4 railed from,the cleaning the fhoes of a petti-
4 fogging attorney, in whofe drudgery you loft
4 your ears! from being fcullion in a nobleman’s
4 kitchen, or fervant of a mountebank, to dif-
4 penfe his packets to the mob; you were not
4 raifed, 1 fay, from any of theie flations to
4 the rank of a gentleman, by this office, and
4 ihould be above taking offence at the low-
4 lived behaviour of fuch creatures, who know
4 no better.’ ----- 4 Nor w— w— w— was I a
4 full-handed ten-times b— -b— b— bankrupt
4 (interrupted the apothecary, as he would have
4 done fooner, had rage left him power of ut-
4 terance) that b— b— b— being unable to get
4 credit any 1— 1— 1— longer, came from cheat-
4 ing the p— p— p— public, to cheating the
4 p— p— p— poor ! nor a c— c— c— caft off,
4 worn out p— p— p— pimping footmai^ whofe
4 dirty fervices w— w— were rewarded with (his
4 place.’
This made the madnefs general, and they were
juft going to proceed to blows, when the porter
entered haftily, and told them the committee
were adjourned to their chamber, and fent for
their accounts, to fit upon them dire&ly.
This brought them all to their fenfes, and
made them friends in a moment. 4 Gentlemen,
4 (faid the treafurer) we have all been too hot,
4 all to blame$ but let there be no more of it !
4 let
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 2*3
yGoogle
y
C H R Y S A L
O F
A G U I N E A .
WHEREIN ARE EXHIBITED
VIEWS OF SEVERAL STRIKING SCENES,
WITH
CURIOUS AND INTERESTING ANECDOTES
O T T H E
MOST NOTED PERSONS IN EVERY RANK OF LIFE,
WHOS E H A N D S I T P A S S E D T H R O U G H , .
IN AMERICA, ENGLAND, HOLLAND,
GERMANY, a n d PORTUGAL.
B Y A N .
■ Hofd tbe^irrc^Trup 1
A N . A D E P T .
1the l^irrcryfrup to Nature,
To fliow Vice its own Image, Virtue hisown tikenefs.
And the very Age and Bodyofthe Times
His Form and Prelfure. S h a k s p e a r e .
SIm
ì captiy tile facit•
A N E W E D I T I O N .
V O L . II.
L O N D O N :
P RI N T E D FOR J. F. AND C. R I V I N G T O N \ G. ROBINSON }
T . C A D E L L } T . EVANS ; AND R. B A L D W I N .
M DCC LXXXIII.
,
yGoogle
Digitized by Cj O O Q 1 C
• C O N T E N T S of V ol.II;
B O O K t h e F i r s t .
C H A P . I.
S o m e remarks on language. Character o f
C hrysal’j new majler. Chrysal attends
his majler*s w ife on a vifit to a fuperior lady. P o ­
lite reception. P. i
C H A P . II.
A genteel evening. A dream, bet^ and a
fam ily f upper. Conjugal tendernefs. The Bijhop's
dejettion at the death o f the Dottor^ and danger'0r
the Archbifhop is diverted by another dream. ’ g
C H A P . III.
A differtation on dreaming. The dream purfued to the
akonijhment, and almojl converfion o f the Bifeop’s
Lady. H er veracity in recounting feme circum-
fiances relating to it. She and his Lordjhip perfuade
each other to dream that it is true. 13
C H A P. IV. .
Hijlory o f the dreamer. She lofes her wager, which
fee pays w ith pleafure. H is Lordjhip waits upon
her Grace. H is knowledge o f the world promotes
a noble infance o f charity. Chrysal enters into
the fervice o f her Grace. 2o
C H A P. V.
The Bifeop obtains the honour o f a private audience.
H is extenjive charity. H e makes her Grace
his almoner, to relieve his fellow Protejlants in
A 2 G ermany.
Digitized by Google
. G ermany. H e is Jìrangeìy afféfied at the
news o f the, Archbijhop's recovery. H er Grace's
character. 25
C H A P . VI. .
The true ufe o f court-favour• The B iter bitten.
A n eafy way to obtain a fine feather fo r afool's
cap, The infolence o f office, in hindering an houfe
to be built injlcad o f a hen-coop ; andfpoiling her
Grace's dairy. H ow to make the mojl o f a com­
mon, A beau Lord beaten by a BailiJ}\ f o r walk­
ing in the fields in an undrefs. 29
x C H A P . VII.
A n odd vifitor to a lady. The myficry o f flock*
jobbing. Charity begins at heme. H er Grace's
kind intentions fo r honejl Aminadab. Another v i­
fitor. The worth o f honour. The befl fa lve fo r
a broken character, 37
C H A P . VIIF.
The colonel puts the oldfoldier upon her Grace, H er
rage and refentment f a ll upon her agent. H er ju ­
dicious application o f the Bijhop's charity, w ith her .
tender concern fo r her friends abroad^ 45
C H A P . IX.
C hrysal changes his fervice, fo r that o f an ufual
attendant upon the great. The hiflory o f the un­
fortunate glyfier-pipe maker, who was like to be
hangedfor dirtying his fingers. A n humlde imita -
tion o f high Ufe. Another change brings Chrysal
into the pofjeffion o f a perfon o f an extraordinary
charafter. Converfation between him and a very
noted perfon. L et thofe laugh that w in. 50
C H A P . X.
C hrysal’j mafier filarts at his own apparition.
■ Interview between the D efter and a noted ballad-
finger
C O N T E N T Ò ,
,
yGoogle
finger. The hifiory o f afamous ballad. A ll trades
alike. 5S
C H A P . XI.
A venerable M atron completes the company. T he
curtain lifted up, and feveral unexpected difco-
veries made. Momus playsfucceffively upon DoCior
Hunch-Back, and M other Brimstone. A f ­
ter various difafiersy the evening is concluded in
character* 63
C H A P . XII.
The DoCior pays a vifet to an ufeful frien d . The *
myfiery o f controverfy. H e waits upon her Grace-
w ith a pious exhortation fo r her friend . Chry-
sal enters into the Jervice o f her Grace. ' H er
difappointment, in her vifit to the Prifon. H er
• Grace's character* 76
C H A P . xin.
. C O N T E N T S .
Hifiory o f a lady o f fajhion> Defcriptlon o f a route•
C hry-SAL changes his fervice fo r that o f a lady^of
enterprife. A boldJirokefo r a hujband. . 83
C HAP. XIV.
C hrysal, by a natural progrejfion, comes into the'
pojfejfion o f a knight o f the indufiry, who brings
him to a horfe race, where he has an opportunity
o f feeing a noblejockey pradife part o f the myfie-
rious fcience o f the t u r f w ith other common oc­
currences. GL
C H A P . XV.
C hrysal’j mafter pays his court to a great perfony
who feems not much to relijh his humour, and ex -
prejfes fame iinfajhionable fentiments concerning
polite pleafures. In the courfe o f a regular
. circulation. Chrysal comes into the p offcf
fion o f a m infier o f Jlate, who refufes a friendly
A 3 offer
,
yGoogle
*ffer fa r very odd reafons. H is Jirange notions
o f fome affairs. 96
CHAP. XVI.
C h r y s a l V fentiments o f his majler's majier, who
fives a remarkable reafon fo r his approbation o f
is m inified s meafures and manner o f doing bu-
Jinefs• The minijler s charge to a general, on
appointing him to a command. C h r y s a l
miters into the fervice o f the general. Confii£i
between maternal tendernefs and glory, in which
the latter is triumphant. Strange advice from
a mother to herfon. 102
C HA P . XVH.
Anotherfcene o f tendernefs. Love and honour in the
old fajhioned romantick Jlyle. C h r y s a l quits
the fervice o f the general, and\ after fome fe w
common changes, enters into that o f honejl A m i-
nadab. Gonclufon o f Aminadab*s agency fo r her
Grace. 100
C H A P . XVIII.
They arrive at the Hague. Political converfation
between a Dutchman and a Jew. They d if­
f e r in opinion. A minadab leaves his fr ie n d
Van Hogan in great dijlrefs. 115
C H A P . XIX.
Aminadab bids adieu to her Gracey and fa ils
w ith his Jon fo r Africa. Chrysal remains
w ith a Dutch banker. The principles and
confcience o f a good D utchman. C hrysal
is fen t into G ermany. H is opinion o f the
Dutch. i24
C H A P . XX.
CtfltYSAL’i remarks on -military glory in his jou r­
ney. Two Jirange paffengers taken into the boat.
National
C O N T E N T S .
,
yGoogle
N ational prejudice and pride break out in perforrs
not likely to be fufpeCted o ffuch pajftons. 129
C H A P . XXI.
The hißory o f the Bulgarian foldier. C h r y s a l i s
carried to his defined maficr. 136
C H A P. XXII.
H ow C h r y s a l foun d his maßer employed. T he
grandeur and happinefs o f abfolute power H is
cares fo r the augmentation andfupport o f his re­
venues. H is rage at the infolence o f libertyy
punctuality to his engagements, and resolution to
maintain the confequence o f his rank. 143
C H A P . XXIII.
M ore cares offovereigniy, and confequences o f gran­
deur. C h r y s a l is fent to market, where he is
given to a J ew fo r bacon. 150
CHAP . XXiy. *
Comparifon between two dealers in fie f t . The
celebration o f the P a s s o v e r in the traditional
way, and the method o fprocuring ( human) lambs
explained. *5+
C O N T E N T S .
B O O K II.
C H A P . I.
The rites are interrupted, and the victims changed.
This cleared up without a miracle. The fe w
furvivors o f the fir fi fu ry brought to publick
jufiice. 159
CHAP.
,
yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
C H A P . II.
A breach o f neutrality properly refented brings
C hrysal into a fervice which he had long
been ambitious o f H ow hefound his new majler
employed. The King o f Bulgaria's reception o f
the humbled magijlrates. H is appropriation o f
money to his own ufe. H is reflexions on the fight
^/'Chrysal. 164
C H A P . III.
The King takes a view o f his camp in difguife.
, The exalted pleafure he received in the various oc­
currences o f his walk. H e gains a great vidtory.
H is conduct in and after the battle. 169
C H A P . IV.
The happy fr u its o f victory. C hrysal finds new
• reafon to admire his m ajler. A flranger throws
him felf at his fe e t, to implore jujlice. The Jlory
o f thef ir anger. 174
C H A P . V.
The King fends fo r the General, and orders the
f l r anger to be confined till his arrival. Con­
tinuation of the flory o f the flranger. A new
tryal o f the King's fortitude and activity o f
foul. , 180
C H A P . VI.
Conclufion o f the flory o f theflranger. H is w ife
arrives and acquits the general. The king'sfpeech
' to him, and generofity to the flrangers. Chry­
sal changes his fervice, and goes w ith them.
Some general remarks on the character o f the king
o f Bulgaria, and the probable confequences o f
the w ar. 186
. CHAP .
,
yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
C H A P . VII,
C h r y s a L arrives at V i e n n a , where he meets an
old acquaintance. The hiftory o f his majler*s bro­
ther. H is mijfton, labours, andfuccefs in E n g ­
l a n d . H e is fent to P e r u . H e disapproves o f
the precipitancy o f the meafures carried on there,
and returns to E u r o p e , to prepare matters
better. 192
C H A P. VIII.
Continuation o f the Jefuit's difcourfe. H ejhow s the
promijing jttuation o f his affairs at prefent. The
concife method by which Spain and Portugal
are to be brought into the war w ithE ngland.
H e propofes to his brother to join in the general»
that he may accomplijh his particular de/tgn. 197
C H A P . IX.
The Jefutt proceeds to Jhow the rife o f the war in
G e r m a n y , and explains the motives o f the feve*
ral parties engaged in it, as alfo o f the neutrality
obferved by fome particularfa te s . 20i
C H A P . X.
Conclufton o f the fe fu if s difcourfe. H is fy/iems o f
morality and religion. H is brother yields to his
arguments, w ith fome particular exceptions.
C hrysah .changes hisfervice. 206
C H A P . XI,
C hrysal propofes a politicalfcheme, that w ill never
take place, to fettle the peace o f G ermany. A
Jhort view o f the war between the French and
English, w ith the motives o f the form er fo r
transferring the feat o f it into G ermany. In-
fidious ambition meets a ju jl difappoint?nent. 210
CHAP.
,
yGoogle
C H A P. XII.
A deep-laidfcheme difconcerted by an accidental vic­
tory. Treachery fa lls into the p it it had dug fo r
another. The true way to fatisfy English Jol-
diers. The difgraced commander*s motives fo r
appealing from the w ill o f hisfovereign to a publick
- tryal. lii s hopes are again difappointed, and he
confirms his own ruin, 219
C HAP . XIII.
C hrysal arrives at Brussels. The great fource
o f fefu itica l influence. Anecdotes o f a man o f
pleafure and a lady o ffajhion, Their hifiory CGn-
eluded in character* , 226
C H A P . XIV.
The confeffor entertains C hrysal’j mafier w ith
another not uncommon character. The tnodern
method o f repairing a broken fortune. The general
confequence o ffem ale ambition. A curious amour
commenced in an odd manner, and carried on in as
odd a place. 232
C O N T E N T S .
C HA P . XV.
Continued. H is lordfhip*s fcheme to fling his rival
unluckily difappointed. A difagreeacle meeting oc-
caftonsf i r ange difeoveries. W m a n never at a lofs.
L a w often fpoils fport. 237
C H A P . XVI.
C hrysal’j mafier meets an -old acquaintance, zoho
relates the hifiory o f his life. Curious anecdotes o f
a great man• 244
CHAP.
,
yGoogle
C H A P. XVII.
Continued. H e comes to England, where his
fervices are rejetted by theJlate, and he is obliged
to exert his abilities in a lowerfphere. H e gains
the confidence o f his landlord^ from whom he bor­
rows all he is worthy and then Jlrives to pay the
debt w ith a halter. A good retreat is better than
a badJland. 252
C O N T E N T S .
C H A P . XVHL '
Continued. H e launches again into the troubled ocean
o f politicks, and fuffers a fecond Jhipwreck in
E ngland. He that will not when he may,
& c .-------------- It is often better to play a poor
game than Jland out. C hrysal arrives at
L isbon. 260
C H A P . XIX.
C hrysal comes9 at L isbon, into the pojfejfion o f
a form er acquaintance. H is majler makes the
great attempt without fuccefs. Several o f the
nobility are facrificed to other motives, on pre­
tence o f being guilty o f this fa t t . C hrysal’j
majler is at length taken up9 and he changes his
fervice. 264
C H A P . XX.
C hrysal meets another acquaintance at his new
majler*s. Conclufion o f the hijlory o f honejl A m i -
NADAB. Adventures o f his Jon. H e enters into
bufinefs at L isbon, in which C hrysal fuffers a
great misfortune. H is ingratitude to his uncle
ju jlly rewarded. Chrysal enters into a new
fervice. 270
C H A P ,
,
yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
C H A P , XXI.
A n uncommon,criminal appears at the tribunal o f the
holy office. A love-fcene in aJlrange place-. The
hijlory o f P h e r o n and I l i s s a . 277
C H A P . XXII.
The love-adventure continued. The inquiftor vifits
P h e r o n , and obtains his confent. t ie employs
an E n g l i s h failor^ whom he fcts at liberty, to
affitjl him in his.defigns. 285
C H A P . XXIII.
The failor goes to L o n d o n , buys a Jkip, and re­
turns to L i s b o n , where he takes his pajfengers
an board. H is behaviour on ?neeting a P r e n c h
Jhip. H e lands his pajfengers at A l e x a n d r i a ,
returns home> and marries. C h r y s a l quits his
fervice. 288
C H A P . XXIV.
C h r y s a l arrives in L o n d o n ,, where he comes into
the poffieffion o f a pawn-broker, by whom he is
given to the author. A mojl unhappy inftance o f
human infirmity. The xondufion. . 297
C H R Y S A L ;
,
yGoogle
C H R Y S A L
OR, THE ADVENTURES OF
A G U I N E A.
B O O K T H E F I R S T .
C H A P . I.
Some remarks on language. CharaS Ier o f C hrysA i/r
new majler. C h r y s a l attends his majler's w ife
on a vijit to a fuperior lady. Polite reception.
I H A V E often been appreheniive that
the manner in which I exprefs myfelf may
lead you into fome miftakes of my meaning,
the fignification of words, in the language of
men, being fo unfettled, that it is fcarce poffible
to convey a determinate fenfe, without fuch a
periphrafis as would take up too much time
in fo complicated feenes as thofe I deferibe;
for where different, or perhaps contrary, mean­
ings are fignified by the fame word, how eafy
is it for a mind prone to error to take the wrong
one !
Vol. II. B For
,
yGoogle
* CHR YS AL ï OR, THE
For inftance, the character of a good man may
be thought to be as fafe from mifapprehenfion,
from the immutability of the virtues which Con-
ftitute it, as any that can be attributed either by,
or to human frailty : and yet how varioufly, how
contradictorily, is it applied! v
On the Royal-Exchange, he is zgood man who
is worth ten thoufand pounds, and pays his bills
punctually, by whatever private and public frauds
and injuftice he has amafled that fum, and main­
tains his credit. At the politer end of the world,
goodnefs allumes another appearance, and is at­
tributed to him who entertains his company well,
pays his play-debts, and fupports his honour with
his fword, though heisguilty of the bafeit breaches
of every civil and moral virtue, and lives in pro-
fefled violation of all laws human and divine:
while, in the ftrictnefs of truth, and propriety of
expreffion, no greater abufe of words can be con­
ceived, than that of proftituting this charaftef
on either, except it were in compliance with thé
modern, modilh way of fpeaking by contraries.
I do not give this as the only inftance : they are
innumerable, and occur in every moment’s con-
verfation. The horfe that wins the match, goes
dam n'd faft ; as the one that lofes, goes damn'd
How. The weather in fumiser is hell-fire hot,
in winter hell-fire cold.
Now, what fenfe can the very D e v ilh im itlf, to
whom you refer all difficulties, make of fuch con­
tradictions? Though, indeed, thefe particular
phrafes give him pleafure, as they (how the inclina*
tion which men have to his empire, by making the
very terrors of it familiar to their minds in their
common conversation.
But
,
yGoogle
But I am not at leifure to prefcribe rules for
avoiding this confufion, one of the moft extenfivc
caufes of human error. I ihall only give you fome
cautions to prevent your falling into it, in refpeét
to what I fay to you.
You are to obferve, then,that whenever I fpeak
in the ‘perfon of another, 1 always would be un­
derwood in the fenfe which that perfon would be
underftood in at that time, without any further
regard to moral, or phylical truth, or propriety of
fpeech. But, when I fpeak my own fentiments
(which indeed I very rarely do) I ihall always de­
liver them with perfpicuity and precifion, as far
as the jargon I am obliged to ufe will allow, and
•would have my words taken in the fenfe ufually
given to them, in the particular fubjeâ I may be
then fpeaking of ; as the barrennefs of language
has not been able to afford diftinâ terms to them
all, but is forced to wreft known ones to different,
and often unknown meanings; a proof of the in­
j uftice of thegeneral complaintagainft theverboiity
of the moderns; whereas, if (by many) diftinét
words are meant, their fault is dire&ly the reverie.
M y new matter was a perfon of fome learning,
and what was of more ufe, of thorough knowledge
of the world ; but wanting friends and intereft to
advance him to thofe dignities which he thought
due to his merit, he had follicited this place, in dif-
charge of the duties of which he was indefatigably
diligent, not merely for the paltry confideration
of a poor falary (for, as he was not in the fecret,
he had no ihare of the fpoils) though his circum-
ftancesand knowledge of thevalue of money could
not let him refufe it, but to place his abilities in a
more confpicuous light, where they mighttake the
notice of his fuperiors.
B 2 ' As
A D V E N T U R E S O F A G U I N E A . 4
,
yGoogle
C H R Y S A L : O R , T H E
4-
As foon as he had received his ftipend, he went
home, where he found his wife dreiTed in all her
belt clothes, and expe&ing him with the utmoft
impatience! 4My dear (faid ihe) how could you
4 ftay abroad fo late ? 1 have been waiting for you
* above thefe two hours, and wasjuft going with-
4 out feeing you/— 4 So latey my dear ! it isfcarcely
4 fix o'clock/ . B u t where are you going in fuch
* 4 ha jle?'— 4To the Bifhop’s ! the Reftor of — —
4 died of an apople£ick fit as he was taking his
4 nap after dinner this evening, and you know,
4'my intimacy with the Biihop's lady intitles me
4 to afk any thing from her/— 4But> child^this is
4 not in her power to give^ and, even i f it was, it is
4 too muchfo r a common acquaintance toexpeft! ’—
4 1 his diffidence has been your ruin ! You are
4 always afraid of afking, as if there was ruin in
4 being refufed; but that is not my cafe! AJk
4 and you Jhall have, is my text ! Now-adays,
4 nothing is got without it/— 4Tes, child, but
4 toofrequent or improper ajking brings contempt.
4 The manner— the manner of alking is the
4 thing! And you cannot think I want to be
4 taught that now, after having lived fo long
4 among the Great! Often have I known, a re-
4 queft properly made gain a man a place, for
4 which he was never dreamed o f! As to the
4 greatnefs of this living, never mind that! the
4 greater it is, the greater will be your obli-
4 gaiion to the perfon who gets it for you! What
4 money have you got about you i Weihallmake
4 a party perhaps. And let me have the five hun-
4 dred pound note ! 1 may have occafion for that
4 too, to make a bett/
4 There, my dear, is the money I received to-day /
- 4 I 'll Jlep up fo r the note; but, pray> my deareft,
4 take
,
yGoogle
A D V E N T U R E S O F A G U I N E A . $
4 take care what you do ! It is our a ll! A nd be fu r e
4 you are not tempted to any thing like Jimony / It is
4 a great crime, and makes a man incapable o f ever
4 rifing, i f it is detected.*— * And the fool that is
‘ detected deferves never to rife ! You may call
4 a thing by what nonfenfical name you pleafe ;
4 but, if knowledge of the world were to prevent
4 people’s rifing in it, I do not know who would
4 be uppermoft now-a-days ! Bring me the note,
4 and leave the reft to me. You ftiaH know no-
4 thing of what I intend till it is done, and then
4 the fault, if any, will be all mine !— Here, Janey
4 fettle the furbellows of my fcarf, and, John,
4 call a chair to the door dire&ly.’— c Well^ my
4 dear, here is the note: I leave all to you ! I do
4 not defire to know w hat you intend: but remember,
4 my dear, this note is our all T — 4Never fear !
4 The chair is come, and I muft lofe no time! You
4 will divert yourfelf with your children, or
4 books, I fuppofe; or go to the coffee-houfe.
4 Perhaps I may not return till it is late.’— 4 I
4 w ijh you fuccefsy my dear, and pray be cautious *
W ith thefe words the Dodor retired, but to
which of the amufements his wife mentioned I
cannot fay, for he had given me to her, who
carried me away to the Biihop’s.
When ihe came there, the footman anfweredr
that it was not his lady’s nighty and ihe was not
at home: but my miftrefs had lived too long
among the Great, to take his words in their literal
meaning, but putting half a crown into his hand,
told him ihe had fome earneft bulinefs, and muft
fee her. The doors inftantly flew open, his lady
was at home, and my miftrefs ihown up without
any further difficulty.
B 1
,,Google
TRe
6
The Biihop’s Lady was fitting at a (hug party,
with three or four fele£t friends, and feemed not
much/ pleafed at the intrufion of my miftrefs, to
whom ihe fcarce deigned a nod, but turning tothe
footman, 4I thought, firrab (faid ihe) that I
4 was not to be at home this evening ! I fuppofe
4 1 fhall have all the mob of the town let in upon
4 me.’— 4Dear madam (replied my miftrefs) the
4 man is not to blame! He told me you were not
4 at home; but, having fome very earneft bufi-
4 nefs, I made bold to break through your orders ;
4 but I hope for your pardon when you know
4 the caufe of my intrufion.’— 4 O madam (re
4 turned the Lady) you know I am always glad
4 of your company. I only chide the fellow for
4 not obeying my orders. Pray, be feated,
4 madamj as Toon as the rubber is up I fhall
4 wait upon you.’----- 4 Dear madam (added
4 my miftrefs) you need not give yourfelf that
4 trouble; now 1 am with you my bufinefs can
4 wait your leifure.*
CHRYSAL: OR, THfc
C H A P . II.
A genteel evening. A dream, and a heir an& a
fam ily fupper. Conjugal tendernefs. The & ¡flop's
dejection at.the death o f the D oflor, and danger o f
the Archbiflop, is diverted by another dream,
W
H E N the rubber was finiihed, my mi-
flrefs was aiked to cut in, one of the party
being taken fuddenly ill, which ihe did, and fat
out the whole evening, her fuqcefs at cards keep­
ing up her fpirits, and giving her hopes of the
t . like
,
yGoogle
Tike in the greater affair (he came about; but her
patronefs had very different fortune, having loft
every rubber; and, what was fRll worfe, feveral
iy-bett) which ihe made to bring h trfelf burnt.
This put her into fuch a temper, that the mo*
ment the reft of the company was gone, ihe turned
to my miftrefs, who faw them all out— 4And now
€ pray, madam, may I aik you what was the great
4 bufinefs thatbrought you herethis evening? (faid
4 ihe.) Unlucky bulinefs it has been for me, I
4 know; for I have never held a card fince you
4 came: but I ihall take care that rafeal who
4 let you in ihall never ferve me fo again ! He
4 ihall ftrip and turn off, without his breakfaft, the
4 moment I am up in the morning.,<
— 4 Dear ma-
4 dam (replied my miftrefs, unabaflied at fuch a
4 falute) have patience a moment, and I hope to
4 make you amends for all! W ill you pleafe to lit
4 down to/ one fober party of piquet ? You are
4 always too hard for me, yet I’ll venture all my
4 winnings, and perhaps what I have to fay in
4 the mean time may compenfate for my intru»
4 Hon/
The lady could not imagine what ihe meant,
but the thought of fo good a match brought her &
little to her temper, and, though it was near ten
o’clock, ihe fat down to cards with as much
keennefs, as if fix hours drudging at them had-
only whetted her defire for play.
As foon as a repique or two had confirmed her
good humour, my miftrefs fays to her, ‘ Dear
4 madam, that is right! Have you heardof the fad
4 accident thathappened this evening ?’— 4Not I,
4 (replied the other) pray what was it?’— 4Why
4 poor Dr, — , was taken ihortly after dinner,
4 and djed in his chair.! 4Jyei then^ I fupptfe he
- v B 4 4 had
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. T
,
yGoogle
4 had plum-porridge, and over-eat h im felf! andfo
4 hurjl a pudding, as we fay to children. H a , ha,
4 h a !9------4 Ha,• ha, h a !— But, pray, madam,
4 have you any faith in dreams f W hat do you
4 think ? I dreamed laft night that I faw you at
4 court, on fome^ratf occafion, with juft fuch a
4 diamond necklace on as the Countefs’s, which
4 you had bought with five hundred pounds that
4 you won from me on a b e t; you laying that
4 my hufband would, and I that he would notj
4 get the Do&or’s living ! W ell, to be fure, there
4 muft be fomething more than ordinary in it ; for,
4 can you believe it ? this very morning. I put a
.4 bank-note for five hundred pounds in my pocket,
4 here it is; though I did not think of the poor -
.4 man’s death till I heard it as I came by this
4 evening, when the dream ran fo ftrongly in my
4 head, that I could not forbear breaking in upon
4 you, a rudenefs I never fhould have been guilty
4 of on any other occafion.’— 4D ear madam, you
4 need make no apology to m e! You know your company
4 is always welcome, la m always at home toyou ! ’—
4 But, madam, what do you think of my dream ?*
4 / don't know. I only wijh it were to prove true !
4 For five hundred pounds could never come morefea -
4fonably.*— 4 Then you muft win i t ; for my heart
4 is fet upon making the b et; and I allure you, I
4 have fuch a regard for you, that I do not even
4 wiih you tolofe! and that is what few gamefters
4 can fay.’— 4 You are a pleafant creature! but as
4 fo r the B e t , it Jhall be upon condition that my
4 Lord is not under any engagement to the M in ijler,
4 or her Grace who got him his bijhopric. I f he is
4 difengaged, I w ill lay you, and you Jhall lofe, my
,4 g trl, i f it was ten times as much, and there's en-
4 couragementfo r you to hold. The bell rings ¡ W i l l
* CHRYSALt OR, THE
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *
4 you walk down and take a bit o f /upper ? There is
4 nobody but my L ord and /; but do not take theleajl
* notice o f any thing about the matter, nor even feem
* to have heard o f the D o ¿tor's death>Jhould my L ord
4 mention it\ but mujler all your fp irits, and be as
4 entertaining as you can^for I alivays work him up'
4 bejl when he goes to bea in a good humour,9 -
T h e piquet match being thus at an end, I was
paid away to the biihop’s lady, whofe winnings*
and expectations fent her to fupper in high fpirits,
where fhe found his Lordlhip already feated in a'
very thoughtful mood.
After the ufual complimentary expletives that*
ulher in every polite converfation, 4Pray, my
4 Lord (fays my new miftrefs to her hufband)’
4 what w ill you eat ? Shall 1 help you to a bit of'
4 this fricaflee ? I believe it is very good/— 4 N o,.
4 my dear, I thank you (replied his Lordihip) I
have not theleaft appetite ! W hat is it pray ?*— *-
4 Sweet-breads and cock’s-combs (returned his
4 lady) you ufed to like them, and they are very
4 nice! O r will you help yourfelf to a bit of that
4 fowl before you? Something you muft eat/— -
4
‘ No^ my dear, I am obliged toyour care ; but I do not
4 choofe any. thing to-night: I am not very w e lll W e-
4 all eat too much ! Repletion kills h a lf the people o f
* England ! IVe eat too much ! 9
— You are going*
c to be hipped, my dear ! John, give your mafter a
4 glafs of M adeira ! Fill the glafs ! Eating never*
4 hurted any one, who waihed down his victuals*
4 with a glafs of good wine; horfe-meals, indeed,.
4 are enough to choke human creatures. So ! do
4 not you find yourfelf better now ? Tafte this
4 fricaflee; you cannot think how good it is P— L
4 W ell) you w ill have your wayy you make me do as-
4you pleafe, though never fo contrary to my inclina--
B 5 4 tionst
,
yGoogle
19
c tions! D o you call this africajfee? I thoughtfricaffeef
4 hadfpiceput in them ! This is as injipid as chopped
4 hay ! Lord deliver usfrom fuch cooks ! The badnefs
4 o ffervants, in general, feems to be a judgement on
4 the vices o f the age Well, my dear, tafte
4 that fowl, it looks like a good one, and the
4 cook could not fpoil that. Pray, madam, ihall
4 I trouble you to hel»p his lordihip to a leg and a
4 wing, and a bit of the breail/— 4You give me too
4 much ! I Jhall never be able to eat all this ! befide,
4 you know, my dear, I choofe a bit o f the rum p*—
4 Eat that firil, my dear, and then you ihall have.
4 the rump : but what has happened to make you
4 fo low-fpirited' this evening f’— 4O childy who
4 can be other than low fp irited , when fu ch injlances
4 o f mortality happen before our eyes every hour? W ho
4 can tell but the misfortune may be his own next mo-
4 ment ? There*s D o ftor —
— , poor man ! was
4 taken o ff this evenings without a minute*s warning
4 to prepare fo r fuch a tremendous change, ju ft after
4 he had made an hearty dinner ! H ere, John, take
4 away my plate ; I w ill not eat a bit more, nor ever
4feep after dinner again-!*— 4And, John, g ive
4 your mailer another bumper of M adeira \ that
4 was what the Do£tor wanted, he eat a great
4 deal, anddid not allow himfelfany drink. Drink
4 good wine, and never fear that eating will hurt
« you/—
— 4 Ah ! but that was not the cafe o f his
4 Grace o f— ------, who lies this moment in the
4 agonies o f death ! his phyftcians left him two hours
4 ago ! The lord prepare us all, ana give us notice o f
4 his coming! H e did notflin t him felf o f wine\ he
4 took his bottle chearfully, good man ! ’— 4 Chear-
4 fully, did you fay t I ihould have faid fottiihly $
4 for he hasdone nothing but drink for thefe many
4 years pail! He has run into the oppofite extreme
. 4 from
CHRYSAL: or, t h e
,
yGoogle
A D V E N T U R E S OF A GUINEA. s*
- %
• from the Do£tor, drinking too much, and not:
4 eating enough to fupport nature. And I hope
* you do not fay he is gone without warning at
* fourfcore ? He has had time enough to prepare
4 but, why feould thefe examples affect you par-
4 ticularly? You do not eat like the Do&or, nor
4 drink like his Grace, and are young enough to
4 be fon to the youngeft of them \ why then fcouldi
4 you fear their fate? Here, Johnr give me a
4 pint glafs half full of M adeira, and reach me
4 three or four of thofe jellies- Now, my dear,*
4 if you are afraid to eat or drink, fup this with at
• bit of bread, and 1 will anfwer for its agreeing.
4 with you/
M y late miftrefs fat all this time ather fupper^
without being able to join in the converfation j*
but as foon ashis Lordfeip’s taking the jellies made*
a paufe in his lady?s tendernefs, fee called for a*
glafs of wine, and, bowing to the Bifeop, drank,
to him by the title of bis Grace very gravely..
His Lordfeip ftarted, and his Lady flared^,
while fee finifeed her glafs without any emotion,,
and feemed quite unconfcious of having faid any­
thing unufual or improper. This behaviour fell,
embarrafled them more$when the Lady, unable-
to contain her furprife, ‘ Dear madam (faid fee) ;
4 what have you faid ?r Or how came you to ad-
4 drefs my Lord by that title ?’— 4I hope, madam,.
4i (replied the other) 1 have not faid any thing im-
^ proper! You really frighten me! I hope I have
4 not been failing in my refpeft, or addreffed his*
4 Lordfeip by any improper title ?’— 1cannot
4 fay an improper one, indeed! but one that does*
** not belong to him, at leaft as yet,’ (returned the
Lady.j— ‘ Dear madam, what do you mean ?
4- Pray, do not diftrefs me ! but you muft divert.
B. 6. 4 yourfelf-
iyGoogle
4 yourfelf furely! It is not pofiible that I could fail
4 in any refpedt to his G r a c e !'— * Ha, ha, ha!
4 Inhere it is again! Fail in your refpe& ! No.
* You only raifed your refpedfc too high ! You
* called him his Grace, that’s all/----- 4And is
4 that all f Thank heaven that I did ! and long
4 live his Grace, I fay again,’ (faid (he dropping
on her knees, and eagerly killing his hand) 4long
4 live your Grace ! There is, there muft be truth
4 m dreams, and infidels alone can doubt it.’ j
At the mention of dreams, the Bifhop, who
had hitherto continued to fup up his jelly without
feeming to take any notice of what they were fay­
ing, could not forbear ihowing fome emotion; for
he had the ftrongeft faith in them, and always fan-
guinely defended their credit, efpecially fince his
prefent elevation had confirmed thofe of his grand­
mother : 4W hat dreams ? pray, good madam,? (faid
he, addreffing my late miltrefs with a vifible
anxiety) 4W hat dreams do you mean ? Thofe which
* were thought to have refpeft to me are underjiood
4 to be already acccmplijhed.’— 4Pleafe your Grace,
4 the impulfe of the fpirit is upon me, and 1 can-
4 not call you by any other title! Pleafe your
4 Grace, I fay, I dreamed 1aft night, as I told your
4 Lady butjuft now, that I met her at court, on
4 fome verygreat occafion, as fine as hands could
4 make her (I told her this juft now, before I
4 knew one fyllable of his Grace's death) and that
4 ihe came up to me fmiling, and thanked me for
4 the caufe of her coming there, for it was I who
4 had made you a great man!— Now, what could
4 this polfibly mean, but what has happened here
4 this moment, when, by giving you this title firft
4 (and,Lord knows, I did it without the leaft de-
4 fign, or even being fenfible of it when I did it)
ii CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
4 I may in fome manner be faid to have made you
4 the great man it belonged to: let the world fay
1 what they will, I do believe there is truth in
4 dreams, and I think mine is out now/
She had run onwith this rant at fuch a rate, that
it was impoifible for the Biihop to interrupt her,
even had he been fo inclined; but that was far
from being the cafe : he heard her with attention,
and what lhe faid made fuch an impreffion on him,
that he fat fome time mufing on it, after ihe had
flopped, before he had power to fpeak a word.
■ As for his Lady, lhe at once took it to be all a
fetch, calculated merely to forward the fcheme of
the wager about the do&or’s living, and as fuch
refolved to humour it, and not interrupt his medi­
tations, butaddreflingherfelfto theother, 4Indeed,
4 madam (faid lhe) I do not know what to fay to
4 this affair ! When you told me your dream juft
4 now,I made nothing of it, but this account ofhis
4 Grace s deathalmoft flaggers me! Well, if this
4 fucceedsv and who knows what may happen, I
4 lhall ever hereafter have more faith in dreams !’
ADVENTURES Ot1 A GUINEA. 13
- C H A P . III.
A dijfertation on dreaming. The dream p urfued to the
. aftonijhment, and almoji converjion, o f the Bi/hop's'
Lady. H er veracity in recountingfome circum-
,fiances relating to it. She and his Lordjhip per-
fuade each other to dream that it is true.
BY this time his Lordihip had confidered the
matter, and addreffing himfelftothe dreamer,
4 Pray, madam (faid he) what time had you this-
4 vifion
,
yGoogle
\
4 villon pr dream ? In the night, or towards the*
4 morningi*-*«-4Aithe mornings my L ord (replied
4 ihc) at the Conelufion o fmyfecondJleep : and¡indeedr
4 it made fu eh an imprejjion upon my m ind, that t
4 could not go to Jleep a fter: fo r it w as not in the
4 confujion o f common dream s! Ifa w every thing
4-diftinB ly and regularly, as i f 1 w as in the very
4 place*, and particularly your Lady appeared as-
4 plainly to me as Jhefits there, L ord blefs us ! and
4 by the fam e token,Jhe was dreffed in w hite damask,
4Jpick and fpan new, iW the mofi beautiful
4 diamond necklace on that ever my eyes beheld ; and
4 charmingly Jhe looked I thoughtJ
, * I really do not know what to fay to this mat-
4 ter (replied hisLordihip with great deliberation)
4 the vifions of the morning have ever been held-
4 in moft repute \ for then the mind has recovered
4 from the fatigues of the preceding day,, and is
4 able to exert its abilities, and look forward into
4 the time to come. There are fome good cir-
4 cumftances Town in this dream! I am glad that
4 my wife was not drefled in colours; that woulcf
4 have been an ill om enbut white is the peculiar
4 garment of fuceefs, angels are clad in white!
4 and in this cafe particularly, it may prefigure
4 the epifcopal lawn, as that is an emblematical
4 type of the purity of the epifcopal fun&ion; and*;
y the epifcopal and arch¡epifcopal differonly inde­
y gree. As for the necklace, there maybe more im
4 that alfo than is apprehended. Precious ftones are
y the infigm a of dignity, and in the JewJJk prieft-
4 hood,particularly,were fymbolical of the higheft
4 order; for none of the priefts wore them but the
4 fupreme or high prieft, whofe dignity anfwered
y «early to that of Prim ate with us; and if fuch
* further bleffings fliould be the divine will, it
* r 4 were
14 CHRYIAL} OR, THE
,
yGoogle
adventures op a guinea.
4were impious and ungrateful torefufe its favours.
4 Perhaps 1fpeak unintelligibly to you ; but the
4opinions of the learned mult be delivered in their
4 phrafe/— 4Pray* my Lord, proceed; l could hear
4your Lordjhip for ever; I am always the w ifer and
4the better fo r bearing your Lordjhip
4 Then, as to the credit to be given to dreams,
*
4 (refumed his Lordihip) though the foepticifm of
4thefe unhappy times may deny it, yet the piety of
4 wifer antiquity was of another opinion, ofwhich
4 numberlefs inftances might be given out of the
4holy fcriptures. And among the Gentiles, the
4 greateft of their poets fays, Ovaf ut $io$tn, that
4is, in Englijhy Dream s proceedfrom Jove, that is,
4 from the fupreme Deity, whom they erroneoufly
4 called by that name. And though the heathens
4were guilty of great fuperftitions in this particu-
4 lar^of dreams, it was not in the credit they gave
4 them, but in the methods which they ufed to
4 procure them ; fuch as offering facrifices, and
4lleeping in the Ikins of the viftims, and many
4others $whereas the dream that comes from hea-
4ven, comes unfought and unexpe&ed, and ihould
4 be received with reverence ! And if this is fuch,
* and I own it has much of the appearance, Thy'
4will be done, O Lord 1Thy fervant fubmiti as'
4 it is" his duty/
Greatly as they muff have been edified by this
elaborate differtation, the ladies had much ado to
refrain from laughing inhis face while he delivered'
it, efpecially his wife, who knew not which to ad*
mire moft, the readinefs of the thought, or the cafe
with which it was received. But the dreamer had a
further fcheme in her head, to carry on which ihe
now got up to go away; and bending the knee to
the Biihop, 4My Lord (faid ihe) may I beg your
4 Lord-
yGc . k
«6 CHRYSAL! OR, THE
♦
4 Lordihip’s bleffing ! I hope, and I am confident
4in that hope, that mine wasnot a common dream,
4 from the impreflion it made on my mind, which
c could not have been ftronger, if I had a&ually
4 been prefent at your Lady’s kiffing the King’s
* hand on your promotion ; but, if my zeal has
* hurried me too far in my expreffions of it, I rely
4on your goodnefs to forgive my fault, which was
4rather an enthufiafm than a defign ; and fo, my
4 Lord, I beg leave to wiih you a good night.’
With thefe words (he withdrew; and her pa-
tronefs wondering fhe had not thrown her a wink,
and defirous to have a laugh with her at her huf-
band’s credulity, went as to fee her to her chair ;
when turning with her into another room, 4That
4was an excellent thought (faid ihe) and will
4 make our affair quite eafy, if he is not engaged/
— 4I do not underjlandyou, madam (replied the
4other) pray what thought doyou mean ? ’— 4Why,
4 child, that of the dream; what elfe ihould I
4 mean ? ’— 4A thought, dear madam ! W hy do not
4you think I wasferious, and the dream real ? ’------
4 Not one word of either, I affine you; and Iwon-
4der at your aiking me that queition here, where
4no one is prefent to obferve us.’— 4D ear madamy
4you have quite miftaken me, I ajjure you. It is
4true, I can jeft Jometimes; but in this, give me
4leave to Jay, that I was mojl ferious ; and what is
4 more, that I am Jure the event w ill confirm it.’—
4 You aftoniih me, madam; I declare, I looked
4upon the whole as a merefineffe to promote our
4fcheme about the Do&or’s living for your huf-
4 band !’— 4/ amfirry , madam, that youfiou ld have
4fu ch an opinion o f me, as that I could invent fuch a
kJlory on any account.’— 4Well (as I faid before,
4 though in another fenfe) I know not what to
• . , 4 make
,
yGoogle
4 make of the whole ! But as you are fo pofitive,
* and my Lord feems inclined to believe you, per-
4haps there may be more in it than I can fee; and
4 therefore I ihall fufpend my opinion till I fee
4 the end of it. This though I promife, that my
4aififtance ihall not be wanting to either part of
4 the dream/— 4A nd I promife you that 1 w ill make
4good all I faidy particularly about the wager and the
4 necklace; and fo y madam, Iw ijh you a good night.
4 1 Jhall do myfelf the pleafure to call and fee how you
4 are in the morning/ . *
This gave the whole affair a new face; and
threw the Biihop’s Lady into a meditation as pro­
found as his Lordihip’s. 4Can this be poflible ?
4 (faid ihe to herfelf) and yet how could ihe have
4 the face to ftand it out fo, if it was not true ?
4 But then it was but a dream! Aye, but my huf-
4band fays dreams are not to be flighted; and he
4ihould know more than I, at leaft of thofe things
4 that are to be found in books. And what if it
4ihould be fo after all l and that I ihould takeplace
4 of M rs.----- , and Mrs. — —, and M rs.— ^
— ,
4 and all the reft of the Biihop’s Ladies !------
4 That would be charming! and I believe in my
4 foul I ihall; for 1 have always looked upon them*
4 with a contempt that ihowed 1 ihould beone day
4 their fuperior. W ell, Happy come lucky, fays the
4 proverb ; my endeavours ihall not be wanting,
4 as I promifed Mrs. — r— , whofe five hun-
4 dred pounds will be a pretty earneft of the arch-'
4 bifhoprick.’ !
Having thus argued herfelf into a kind of belief
of the dream, ihe went in to his Lordihip, whom
ihe found abforbed in thought about the vijton
4 W ell, my dear, faid ihe (fitting down by him)
4 what is your opinion of this ftr^nge matter ? I
4own
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 17
,
yGoogle
4own it is above my comprehenfion ! At firft, T
4imagined (he might have been only in jeft, and
4have invented the whole ftory merely to divert
4your lownefs of fpirits ; but when I went out
4 with her into the next parlour, and put it home
4 to her, iheftill perfifted in it, and confirmed the
4truth of what ihe faid by fuch afleverations, that
4 1 could not avoid believing her/ •
4Buty my dear (replied his Lordfhip) Jhe faid\
4Jhe told you her dream before Jhe came in here, or
4had heard a word o fhis Grace’s illnefs ! ’----- 4 She
4 moft certainly did, my Lord; and with other
4circumftances, that make the whole ftill more
4furprifing ! Pray, what time did the Doctor die,
4 my dear r’— 4About h a lfan hour afterfo u r /—
4 T hat is moft wonderful! And pray, my dear*
4 who is to have his living i or are you under any
4engagement about it ? N o , childy la m not\
4 nor have I yet determined whom to give it to* B u t
4why do you ask thefe quejlions f W hat are they to
4the purpofe o f the dream ? 4I ihall tell you, my
4 Lord. You muft know then that ihe came here
4 about four o’clock, juft as I had got up from din­
n e r , all in the greateft hurry ; and with a kind
4of wildnefs, I do not know how, in her looks,
• told me her dream; but with fome circumftances
4that I know her baihfulnefs would not permit
4 her to mention before you; and thefe were, that
*1 had bought the diamond necklace^ ihe thought
4 I had on at court, with five hundred pound*
4 which I had won from her, on a wager that you
4 would give her huiband the Do£fcor*s living.
* Now, as be was not even fick at the time of her
4 telling me this, there could be no defign in it i
4 and this ia what makes me take the more notice
4of the m
atter/
4But
i* CHRYSALt DR, THE
,
yGoogle
4 B u t are you Jure, chiIdb that foe told you this fit
4early asfo u r o'clock ? * --■ ■ »
4Rather before it, my
4dear j and what makes me fo politive about it is,
4 that a little after ihe had finiihed her ftory, fhe
4 happened to look at herwatch, but it was down,
* and fo ihe aiked me what o’clock it was by mine,
4that ihe might fet by it ; and I remember it
4wanted exa£tly fix minutes of four/— 4Pray, let
4me look at your w atch; have you not altered i t
4fince ? ’— 4No, my dear! but why do you aik *
4Becaufe it is nine minutes f a ß er than mine, and it
4wasj u ß h a lf an hour paßfo u r by his watch, as they
4told me, when he died, ana his and mine were exactly
4together \ fo that the fix minutes which your watch
4wanted offo u r, and the nine minutes it isfa fler than
4mine.) make a quarter before fo u r, which was three
4quarters before he died. This is mofl w onderful!
4fo r there could be no defign or art in it. This is m oß
4w onderful! B u t there have been many revelations'
4made in dreams, even in, our own times \ asfo r in-
4fiance, that in D r e l i n c o u r t $ fo r it could be
4no other than a dream ; and that other o f the great
4 D u k e o f B u c k i n g h a m ’ * rife, and afterwards
4 o f his death, as it is moß judtcioufly andfa ithfu lly
4 reprefented by the Reverend H ißorian * , not to men-
4 tion many more. As to the Doctor's living, my dear,
4./ make you a compliment o f it \ you may give it to.
4 whom youpleafe: though the curate is a very learned'
4 and good man, and has a largefam ily ; befide that
4 he has been recommended to me by. the whole parifo,
4 whom his long refidence among them, fo r he has been
4 there above thirty years, has made love and refpeSt
4 him as a fa th er/ — 4 Then let them provide for
4 him, like dutiful children. What affuranee ! to
4pretend to di&ate to you, as if you were not the
4 proper
* #Ecbard. .
a d v e n t u r e s OF .A GUINEA. I»'
,
yGoogle
4 proper judge of fuch matters ! If it was for no
4other reafon I would not give it to him, to teach
• them their duty and diftance another time.’
4There may be fomething in th a t: I do not like
■4fuch interfering in my conduft neither; and therefore
4you may give it to whom you pleafe. A nd her huf-
4 band is a ?nan o f learning and good character too,
, 4who w ill not difcredit any preferment ; but take care
4that you do not any thing improper. A s to your
4 wager, there is no harm in th a t; but even fo< it
4ß o u ld be kept afecret; I muß know nothing o f th t
4matter/— 4I thank you, my dear Lord ; I fliall
4be fure to obferve your directions; and the ac-
4compliihment of this part of the dream 1 take as
4 an happy prefage of the reft; but you muft not be
4 wanting to yourfelf; you had better, I think, go
4 to her Grace, and fee what may offer to promote
4our hopes/— 4That is not a baa thought, my dear ;
4 but it grows la te; in the morning we Jhallfee what
4is tobe done/ Saying this, they withdrew, whi­
ther we muft not follow them ; for of the genial
bed 4with moft myfterious reverence I deem/
to CHRYSAL; OR, THE
C H A P. IV.
H iflory o f the dreamer. She lofes her w ager, w hich
Jhe pays w ith pleafure. H is Lordjhip w aits upon,
her Grace. H is knowledge o f the w orld promotes a
noble injlance o f charity• C hrysal enters into
* the fervice o f her Grace.I
IHave obferved your furprife and admiration at
the ready prefence of mind and confidence of
my late miftrefs, who could* in a moment* invent
fuch
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA; si
fiich a ftory, and perfift in it fo fteadily, as not
only to impofe upon the Biihop’s eafy credulity,
hut even upon his wife alfo, whowas, in amanner,
in the fecret of herdelign, but could not interrupt
my ftory to fatisfy it fooner, by giving you her
hiftory.
She was a diftant relation to a noble Lord, on
whom the extravagance of her father left her de­
pendent. This occafioned her being taken into
his family; where ihe lived feveral years as an
humble companion to his Lady. As ihe was hand-
fome, his Lordihip hada mind for a nearer relation
with her; but an unfaihionable virtue prevented
her compliance, which turned his love into the
ftrongeft hatred, for fear iheihouldinform his lady,
to whom ihe was not more agreeable, and upon
the fame account; as her obferving temper had
given her an opportunity of feeing much more
than her Ladyihip defired to have her tell. '
This made her fituation very unhappy in the
family ; andinclined her tohearken to the addrefles
of the Chaplain, to whom his Lordihip gave a
fmall vicarage with her, as did his Lady five hun-
dered pounds, that they might part decently, and
not provoke her to fpeak. As for herfelf, you
have feen that nature was liberal to her in the en­
dowments of her mind, which the ftate which ihe
was bred in improved, or rather iharpened into a
thorough knowledge ofthe world, that enables her
to take the advantage of all its follies. But to
return to the Biihop and his Lady. This affair
had made fuch an impreflion pn their minds, that
they could dream of nothing elfe all night but
pomp'and precedence, which effe&ually fecured
the grant in favour of my late miftrefs from all
danger of revocation.
' They
,
yGoogle
They were fcarce ieated to breakfaft, when
.word was brought them that ihe was below; upon
which (he was Immediately invited up, her com­
pany being too agreable to admit of any diftance
o r neferve.
The compliments of the morning being paid on
all iides, his Lordihip, with a look of great bene­
volence, afked her for her huiband, and if he was at
home; to which iheanfwered that he was, and
ready to pay his duty to his lordihip, if hehad any
commands to honour him with. 4None that will
4 be difagreable I hope (replied his Lordihip)
4 andif he is at leifure.’— 4At leifure, my Lord!
(replied ihe in a kind of rapture, for a wink from
the Lady had explained the matter to her.) 4He is,
4 he mull be at leifure! No bulinefs can interfere
* with his duty ! I’ll ftep for him this moment.’—
4 You need not giveyourfelf that trouble, madam
4 (returned his Lordihip.) Jobn9do you goand tell
4 Mr. — that I ihould be glad to fpeak with
4 him. For,madam, I think I cannot do lefs than
4 reward his learning, piety, and good life, with
4 the living of the poor Do&or. It is what I have
4 long refolvcd,though I never mentionedit before,
4 becaufe I would not torture him with expe&a-
4 tions ; and I give it to him now, thus early and
* unasked, to fpare his modefty, and to fave myfelf
4 from the felicitations of others.’— c Long live,
4 God blefs youx G r a c e (faid ihe, throwing her-
felf at his feet, andembracinghis knees inextacy)
4 for fo 1 fee it will be, every thing will come out
4 juft according to my dream! I could not forbear
4 fending to the late Archbiihop’s, juft before I
4 came here, and the porter (for I would ndt fend
4 a fervant,for fear my known attachment toyour
4 Lordihip ihould make it taken noticeof) brought
* 4 me
** CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
* me 'worA^tbathewas atpeaee.9
— -This completed
the Biihop’s faith,and preventedhis fending toen­
quire, for the fame delicate reafon that ihe gave.
‘ Imuftwifh you joy, madam (faid the Bi-
4 (hop’s Lady) of this advance in your fortune!
4 Though I am almoft angry that my Lord did
4 not let me into the fecret. I have loft fome
4 hours happine& by his rcferve; fori always
4 make the happinefs of my friends my own.’—
1 D ear madam, I thank you; on my knees I thank, I
4 Pray f or y°u give me leave, madam,
4 to saijh Y O U jo y o f his L ordship’s promotion, and
4 o f your ju ft advance in rank, as w ell as o f all the
4 ornaments belonging to i t ! 9
— '1 The necklace, I
4 fuppofe you mean i Ha, ha, ha !’—■ ■■ 4Id o , m-
4 deed, dear madam, and o f every other happinefi
* that can attend fo elevated a ftation 9
Her hufband nowentered,in the utmoftagitation
of fpirits between hope and fear j for he was not a
ftranger to his wife’s fcheme; (indeed he had fug*
gefted the firft hint of the bet himfelf, but with
an addrefs that made her think it was her own,
he fpoke fo diftantlyj for he always preferved
the appearance of charader, even with her) and
the ladies not thinking it proper to be prefent at
the myftcrious ceremony of the Bifhop’s figning
the collation, which he did direiHy, to avoid
giving ^>ffenfe, by refuiing other applications,
they withdrew, when my millrefs was paid, her
bett, with as great pleafure, by the lofer, as ihc
felt in receiving it.
The dream being thus far happily accomplished,
the fucceftful dreamer and her hufband went home
in the higheft joy, at being at length relieved from
the anxiety of dependence, and the fears of want;
While my Lord prepared to pay his duty at her
G r a d s
ADVENTURES OT A GUINEA. tj
,
yGoogle
Grace's levee, and fee whether any thing ihould
offer that might promote his part of it.
When he was ready to go, he called to his Lady
to receive heradvice, and, recollefling that he had
forgot his purfe, delired to borrow her’s, in which
I was, and thus I changed my fervice once more.
When his Lordihip entered her Grace's levee,
and had paid hismoft humble refpe£ts,hefound the
conversation turn on a melancholy accident that
had lately happened to a village in his diocefe,
which was entirely burnt to the ground by an ac­
cidental fire. There were many circumftances fo
moving in the account of this misfortune, as to
raife the compaffion of the whole company, and
particularly of her Grace> who faid, that ihe would
moft willingly contribute to the relief of their dif-
trefs, but that unluckily ihe had not lefs than a
bank note for twenty pounds about her.
All the company, who knew the worlds under-
ftood her Grace, and dropped the fubjeft $ but my
new matter, who had his knowledge of mankind
moftly from hooksj was fo far from taking the hint,
that he thought he fhowed his refpedt to his pa-*
tronefs, by offering to change her note, or lend
her whatever money ihe wanted. •
Hee Grace was furprifed, as the company were
confounded, attheignorant infolenceoi fuch anoffer*
However, as this was not an occafion for ihowiqg
her refentment, ihe coldly told him, ihe would
trouble him for the change, and having received it,
gave two guineas to the perfon who had mentioned
the affair, and carelefly threw the reft, among which
I was, into her pocket, not caring to pull out her
purfe, as it was full of money. ,
My late matter, pleafed with the thought of ha*
ving been inftrumental in fo meritorious a bene­
* volence
*+ C HR YS A Li OR, THE
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *5
volence, difplayed his eloquence in thanks to her
for her eminent charity tohis poor flock, and then
gave a guinea himfelf; (for refpeft to her Grace
would not permit him to exceed the half of her
bounty) as did the reft of the company, who all
laughed in their fleeves, to think how my mafter
had ruined himfelf with her Grace by his blunder.
But his mind was too full of the dream to ob-
ferve their looks, and he was fo far from being
fenfible that he had done amifs, that when her
Grace was going to retire, he boldly ftepped up to
her, and begged leave to fpeak a word or two
with her in private.
Though the affurance of this requeft greatly
aggravated his former oftenfe, yet ihe could not
decently refufe fuch a favour to his rank, and
therefore flightly nodded to him to follow her.
C H A P . V.
The Bijhop obtains the honour o f a private-audience*
H is extenfive charity. H e makes her Grace
his almoner, to relieve his fellow Proteftants in
G e r m a n y . H e is jlrangely affected at the
news o f the Arcbbijhop’s recovery. H er Grace9
s
character*
T
HE great honour of this private audience,
at firft, put him into fome confufion, but,
recolle&ing the confequence at ftake, he, after
much helltation, made a ihift to tell her, that,
c fenfible of hex Grace9* great humanity andcom­
4 miferation for the fufferings of the diftrefled, of
4 which ihe had juft given fo noble an in­
V ol, I I .. C . 4 ftance’—'
,
yGoogle
4dance’— 4Pray, my lord, no compliments,’ (faid
.her Grace, interrupting him with a look and ac­
cent not very encouraging) 4 I am not at prefent
4 at leifure for them, and if you have no other
4 bufinefs’— cMay it pleafe your Gracey (replied
4 the Bifhop) Your virtues are above compli-
4 ment! and I come to give you an opportunity
4 of exerting them, not folely to praife them.’—
4 I do not underjiand you, my L o r d ! and I am in
4fome hajl$ / ------ 4J moft humbly beg your
4 Grace's pardon, I ihall not delay you long !
4 To come then briefly -to the purpofe, I mult
4 inform your Grace, that out of the income
4 which it hath pleafed the Divine Providence,
4 through your Grace's means to give me, I
4 have thought it my duty to lay by fome little
4 matter, to make a return with, to the Divine
4 beneficence, in charity to his diftrefled crea-
4 tures., Now, as your Grace's kind intereft
4 was the means through which this ability was
4 conferred upon me, I have made bold to trouble
4 you with the diftribution of my mite.----- 4M e %
4 my L o rd ? You ajlonijh m e! I cannot compre-
4 hend you ! ' ----- 4 I beg your Grace's indul-
4 gence for a moment. You will forgive this
4 boldnefs, when you know the motive!--------
4 hem ! hem !
4 The fufferings of my Protejlant brethren in
4 Germany (I fay brethren, for men ihould know
y no diftm&ion, but religion) their fufferings, I
4 fay, in this calamitous time of war and rapine,
4 when the ambition of princes works the ruin
4 of their people, has made fuch an impreflion
4 upon my heart, that I come to offer this fmall
4 matter to your Grace^ to be applied to their
4 relief, as your better knowledge ihall fee moft
. 4 proper:
*6 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
4 proper; a trouble which I ihould not have pre-
4 fumed to give your Gracey did not I know
4 that fuch works of charity are a pleafure to
4 you; and that the better information, which
5 in your high rank you mufl neceflarily have,
4 will enable you to apply it more effe&ually to
4 their relief than I, in the darknefs and igno-
4 ranee of my humble Ration, poflibly can. I
4 am almoft aihamedof the lmallnefs of the futn
4 (it is but two thoufand pounds) but it is all
4 that I have yet been able to fave; though I
4 hope to give a better account of my Reward-
4 ihip another time; and that I fliall be found not
4 to have buried my talent, efpecially if it ihould
4 pleafe the Divine Providence to raife me to a
4 higher Ration, and thereby put the means more
4 liberally into my power.
4I moR humbly beg your Grace’ s forgivenefs of
4 this intrufion of your time. I am your Grace’s
4 moR humble fervant.*----- 4Stay, my Lord (re-
4 turned her Grace, with alook and accent foft-
4 ened into the moft engaging aflability.) Pray,
4 do not go: I fee you fo feldom, except in the
4 croudy that I cannot part with you fo foon. I
4 thank you for the confidence you place in me;
4 and fliall apply your charity to the befl of my
4 judgement. Poor people ! they greatly want re-
4 lief, and if the invincible fortitude of the B u U
4 garian monarch does not extricate them foon,
4 they will be entirely ruined. But every thing
4 is to be hoped for from fuch a hero ! ,
4 You are very good to confider the diflrefles
4 of the poor people! there are few now who
4 think of any thing but themfelves; fo their ap-
4 petites are fatisfied, they have no feeling for
4 what others fufter. But, my Lord, is there
C 2 4 any
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. %
r
,
yGoogle
C HR Y SAL: OR, THE
2 t
4 any thing that I can ferve, you in ? You may
4 depend upon my intereft at all times/----- 4I
4 am much beholden to your Grace* (replied his
Lordihip, elevated at fuch an offer, and now*
1‘
ecure as he thought of his hopes ;) 4I am much
4 beholden to your Grace ! I have had too much
4 experience of your Grace9
s goodnefs to doubt
4 it. Nothing that I know of at prefent: if
4 any thing fhould happen, I (hall bemoft grate-
4 ful to your Grace for your kind remembrance.
4 We are all defirous of having our power to do
4 good enlarged/-----
4 Tesy my L o r d ; all good meriy like your Lord-
4 Jhipy are. It is a duty to dejire fo . Buty have
4 you heard any thing o f the Jirchbijhop o f ---- —
4 lately?9— 4Not very lately, pleafeyour Grace/
■
— 4 1 believe that old man w ill never die ! H e was
4 taken w ith a f t yeferdayy and it was thought he
4 would expire every moment, but he has got over
4 ity and is abroad to-day as w ell as he has beenf o r
4 many years/ ----- 4In— d-e-e-d!’— 4W hat is the
4 mattery my L ord? Something fee?ns to ail you.9—
4 A— a— fud-den— f— aint-—nefs has— --come
4 — o— o-ver— me; I — mu-ft— beg— y— our— ,
4 Grace— 9s — p-ardon— . I — am y — our—
4 Grace— ’s— m— oft— h— h---- umb— ble fer-
4 vant-----/ with which words he made a bad
ihift to crawl out, muttering to himfelf— 4 Q my
4 moneyf my money. O this curfed dream ! my
4 money! my money!9-----
Her Grace looked earneftly after him for a few
minutes, as if loft in thought, and then burfting
into a loud laughter, 4And is it fo, my good
4 Lord ? does the wind fit that way ? Then 1can
4 account for your charity ; Ha ! ha! ha!— -
4 But
,
yGoogle
‘ But you are difappointed this time, and, I
€ fear, will be the next too, if you do not bid
€ better. Two thoufand for five^hundred a year !
« Is that your confcience ? But it will never
« do/--- ^
I was now at the fummit of human grandeur,
the favourite of the favourite of a mighty mo­
narch. For curiofity tempting me to take a view
of my new miftrefs’s heart, as ihe fat at her
toilet, I found myfelf eftabliihed there without
a rival, in the moft abfolute authority, every paf­
fion being fubfervient to my rule ; even the love
of power, which had, in every other inftance,
difputed the empire with me, being here my moft
abjeft flave, and encouraged for no other reafoij
than folely to promote my intereft; the mighty
fpirit of the immenfe mafs of gold which my
miftrefs had accumulated having taken entire
pofleffion of her foul.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. t?
C H A P VI.
The true ufe o f courtfa v o u r. The B iter bitten.
A n e f y way to obtain a fine feather fo r afool's
cap. The infolence of office, in hindering an houfe
to be built injhad o f a hen-coop ; and fpoiling her
Grace9
s dairy. H ow to make the mojl o f a com­
mon. A Beau Lord beaten by a B ailiffs fo r w alk­
ing the fields in an undrefs.
W
H IL E my late mafter retired, to me­
ditate on the expofition of dreams* and t<
*
pleafe himfelf with the virtuous reflexion of f<
^
Angular an aft of charity, her Grace fat down to
C 3 her
,
yGoogle
3«
her toilet, where I faw art triumph over the de~
predations of time, and create a beauty denied
by nature.
W hen this ferious work was fo far completed
thatfhe could attend to other buiinefs, one o f her
moft favoured domefticks told her, that fhe had
that very morning received an offer from a man
who kept a noted beer-houfe, and (hufile-board,
for the place of a tapfter to the Lord-M ayor,
which ihe was fure her Grace’s intereft would
readily obtain. 4 Tapfter! (anfwered her G race)
4 what is the value of that place? Reach me the
4 lift of employments, with their falaries and
4 perquifites, out of that drawer. Let me fee !
4 Tapfter t® the Lord-M ayor! aye, here it is !
4 W ell, and pray what does he offer for it?’.......-
4 A thoufand guineas, pleafe your Grace (replied
4 her woman) which i really think enough for
4 it, confidering everything’— 4Do you, indeed !
4 But I do not. W h y, it is rated to me here, as
4 worth five hundred pounds a year; and is that
4 worth no more than a thoufand guineas! Does
4 the fellow value his own life only at two years
4 purchafe ?--------- 4Five hundred pounds a year !
4 How can that be? T h e falary is no more than
4 fix ty; there muft be fome miftake in your
4 return.’------4 T h e falary, the falary fignifies
4 nothing; it is the perquifites ! T h e perquifites
4 are the thing ! D o you think any place is va-
4 lued by the falary ? T h e perquifites of this
4 place are very considerable ! Let me fee ! W h y,
4 he buys in all the beer and gin himfelf, for
4 which he can charge what price he pleafes ; and
4 then his own account is taken for the quan-
4 tity that is drunk. Aye indeed : there muft be
4 a miftake in my return to be fure; but not of
4 the
CHRYSAL: OR, T H E
,
yGoogle
4the kind you mean. The place is rated too»
* low ; for, with fuch opportunities, it muft be
4worth twice the fum ; and I ihall enquire into
• that matter before I difpofe of the place. A
* thoufand guineas for fuch a place ! I wonder
4 at the fellow’s confcience to make fuch an
4offer ! ’— 4 A ll this is very true ; but then there
4are fome circumftances that mufl be confidered
4on the other hand too. You know the Lord-
4 M ayor’s year is almoft ended ; and then, wha
4 knows whether his fucceffot will continue all
4 the fervants or not ? T his one it certainly is
4 moft likely he will not j for as he is a known
4 enemy to gambling, and has publickly declared
4 that he will put the laws in execution againft all
4 fuch praâices, it cannot be thought that he
4 will permit a fellow who has kept an houfe
4 that has been fo notorious for it, and where
4 fo many men have been brought to the gal-
4lows, and their families to beggary, to hold a
4 place of fuch profit under him ; befides, he has
4 people of his own to provide for, who have
4 ferved his father and himfelf in fuch a man-
4 ner as to deferve his confidence and regard,
4 fo that every chance (to fpeak in his own
4 way) is againft this man, which is fo well
4 known, that nçbody elfe would bid for the
4 thing at all j wherefore, if I may prefume
4 to fpeak my opinion, his offer fhould be im-
4 mediately accepted.’------ 4 There may be fome-
4 thing in what you fay ; but then, if it was
4 fo very precarious a place, do you think fome
4 of his cuftomers would not inform him of it !
4 they certainly muft know it.’------ 4 W h y, the
4 very reafon of my defiring your Grace to clofe
• with him. dire&ly is, for fear they ihould tell
C 4 4 him*
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. j#
,
yGoogle
4 him, as they undoubtedly would, if they fuf- :
4 pedled his intention in the leaft; but he con-
4 ccals it from them ; for the principal motive 1
4 of his quitting the bufinefs he is in, and feek- !
4jn g this place, is, becaufe the greateft part o f ■
4 his cuftomers have got deeply into his debt,
4 which he can never expedfc them* to pay, while
4 he continues his bufinefs; whereas, he thinks,
4 if he can get this place, it will be a good 1
4 excufe for his calling in his money, and then '
* the Lord-M ayor's power will protedl him from
4 their refentmcnts. T h is is the true fecret of
4 the matter; for, if it was not on this account,
4 he has a much better opportunity of getting
4 money where he is, than in any place/ — - '
4 W ell then, be it fo! make the moil you can
4 of i t ; and I care not how foon the fellow is '
4 turned out after. — W hat is the matter ? what 1
4 do you laugh at ? ’ ------4 I beg your Grace’s •
4 pardon, an odd thought juft came in my head, *
4 but it does not fignify.’------4W hat is it? Com e; ;
4 1 muft know it.7
— 4 W h y, lam almoft afhamed '
4 to mention it ; though it is but a trifle nei- >
4 ther, as fuch matters go now. Your Grace
4 knows that my hufband has a place under the ‘
c Lord-Mayor ! N ow , it juft came into my head, -
4 that when his Lordfliip comes to wait upon
4 the K ing,, to be knighted, it would be no bad •
4joke, if his Majefty could be prevailed on to
4 knight 'my hufband aifo.’------4 Ha ! ha ! ha ! 1
4 And fo madam has a mind to be a Lady.
4 W h y, with all my heart. There is no great
4 matter in it, to be fure ! and I fee no reafon
4 why you Ihould not have that title as well
4 as a chandler, or ihoemaker’s wife. Indeed,
4 the candidates for knighthood have run fo very •
4 low
*2 C^RYSALs OR, THE
yC k
* low of late, that a man of honour (hould be
c aihamed to accept of it But that is no con-
4 cern of mine ! I got the money, and where I
4 can do that, I care not if it was from Jack
4 K etch: let others'look to that. W ell: fince
4 you have taken a fancy to flick a fool’s fea-
4 ther in your cap, tell your good man, when
4 he kneels by his mafter at the important cere-
4 mony,' not to be too hafty to rife, and I’ll take
4 care your ambition (hall be fatisfied; though
4 I do not know what we muft do then. Your
4 Ladyjhip will never condefcend to put on my
4 fhocs, or take away the bed-pan ; fo that I
4 believe I muft look out for another fervant.’—
4 Your Grace is pleafed to jok e; but you are
4 very well convinced, that 1 have no ambition
4 above your fervice; and {hall ever be proud
to perform the meaneft offices about you. In-
4 deed, in this affair, I have more refpedt tQ
^
4 your Grace’s honour, than to myfelf. W hile
4 I wait upon you (and I would not give up*
4 that, to be made a countefs) I am but your'
4 fervant, let me be called by what title I will :
*- but, then, I think it is not proper that you
4 fhould be waited on by common fervants, like
4 any other perfon of your apparent rank. A s
4 you are the fountain of all honour and no-
4 bility,, you ihould have Nobles to attend you*,
4 as well as Knights, if I could have my wiib.-
4 And it was this tendernefs of your Grace’s
4 honour that made me fo particularly affe£ted,>
4 at what happened yefterday.’----- 4Yefterday !
4 I do not underftand you!— W hat happened--
4 yefterday?’------4 Your Grace may remember
4 that you were fo kind fome time ago as to*
4 obtain leavefor me, from the Lord of the
G 5 4“Manor,.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. si
iyGoogle
34- C H R Y S A L : O R , T H E
4 Manor, to build a little poultry-houfe in a
4 corner of ycnder common field. I accord-
4 ingly fet the mafons to work, and, liking the
4 fituation, thought it was no^great trefpais to
4 enlarge the yard a little, and build a lodge,
4 with a room or two, where I could have my
4 clothes waihed, and drink a diih of tea with
4 a friend at any time I might have a mind to
4 be retired; but, behold, after the wall of the
4 yard was built, and the lodge railed as high
4 as the firft ftory, the Bailiff of the manor
4 happened to come by, and, feeing what I in-
4 tended, had the infolence to fly into a paflion,
4 and, faying it was an encroachment beyond the
4 leave I had obtained, obliged the workmen to
4 pull down every flone they had laid, though
4 I myfelf, on receiving notice of it, went there,
4 and told him it was by your Grace’s order,
« and for your own ufe, and alledged the ex-
4 penfe you had been at; but it was all to no
4 purpofe, forhew'ould not leave the place till
4 his orders were executed : nor was this all ;
4 he has had the aflurance alfo to fend me word
4 this very morning that he would diftrain the
4 cows, that you defired me to put to graze in
4 that field, if I do not dire&ly pay for their pa-
4 fture, according to the rate he is pleafed to
4 charge; which is more than I have been able to
4 make of the milk ; though, by your Grace’s re-
4 commendation, I have had fo good cuftomers for
4 it; fo that inftead of the profit I expected to
4 make for you of your Dairy, your Grace is
4 like to be a lofer.’— 4 Infolent, unreafonable
4 fellow ! Not to be content with his own ex-
4 travagant profits, without hindering every body
4 elfe of coming in for the leaft advantage with
. 4 him:
,
yGoogle
c him : but he has neither (harne, nor confci-
4 ence, or elfe he would be fatisfied with plun-
4 dering the ponds, and felling the fiih, and
4 hiring out the grafs as he does, without put-
4 ting the pariih to the expenfe of fencing in
4 the common, to prevent the people even from
4 w alking over the grafs! But, I may, fo.ne
4 time or other, find a way to be even with
4 him. He ftands but badly in his matter’s fa-
4 vour, who defpifes fuch avarice, and would
4 turn him out of his place directly, but that
4 unluckily he has it, under his hand, for life;
4 however, I ihall watch every opportunity to
4 return him the compliment; that I can allure'
4 him. Let him take fuch liberties with his
4 equals! I ’ll have him to know, that he (hall-
4 treat-me with more refpeif.’
4 T h a t is true! has your Grace heard how
4 cavalierly he behaved lately to the young
4 L o rd --------- ? I forget his name. T h e great
4 beau that made fuch a noife by dangling
4 after the gentleman’s wife.’— — — 4 1 know
4 whom you mean : N o ! 1 have heard nothing
4 about him, what has been the matter-?—
4 Ha ! ha ! ha ! I do not believe I ihall be able-
4 to tell it for laughing. W h y, your Grace
4 mutt know, that the Beau was walking, one
4 morning, in a very plain drefs, acrofs the upper
4 part of the common, where happening to meet
4-a farmer’s maid, going to drive home her cows, .
4 he entered into chat with her, and prevailed
4 upon her to quit the path, and walk with him'
4 into an unfrequented part of the field, where*
4 they fat down under a dump of trees, for
4 the fake of a little very innocent converfation,
4 to be fure. W e ll; they had not been there*
C 6 . 4 long
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 35
,
yGoogle
4 long, when one of the Under-bailiffs, whom
4 this infolent fellow keeps to watch the grafs,
4 feeing them go out of the road, followed them ;
4 and coming upon them in a very unfeafonable'
4 minute, not only interrupted their convcrfa-
4 tion, but alfpaiked the Lord (whofe quality he
4 never fufpefted) in an imperious manner, how'
4 he dared to trample the grafs, and threatened
4 to take him and his whore before a juftice,
4 and have them dire&ly fent to BtidewelL
4 This infult aggravated the offenfe of his in-
4 trufion to fuch a height, that the Lord, in a
4 rage, bade the fcoundrel inftantly get out of his
4 fight, or he would break his head. Such
4 words, from a perfon of his appearance, railed
4 the infolence of office fo high, that the Bailiff,
4 without any more ado, lifted his ffaff, and'
4 knocked his Lordihip down, where he bela-
4 touted him feverely, repeating the word Scoun-
4 drel, between every blow, till the poor battered'
4 Beau was in a moil doleful plight, though he had
4 often told him who he was, and roared out his .
4 quality with all his m ight; but the enraged
4 fellow either did not, or pretended that he did
4 not, believe him.
4 W hen he had beaten him as much as he
4 thought he could, without danger of the gallow s,'
4 he dragged him along to the highway, where
4 fortunately a coach happened to come by, the
4 owner of which knew his Lordihip, and took
4 him up, ordering his fervants to apprehend the
4 Bailiff, but he was too nimble for them, and
4 made his efcape ; and now finding his miftake,
4 and the danger into which he had fallen, he'
4 went direftly to his mafler, and telling him the
4 ftory in the moft favourable manner for himfelf,'
• 4 prevailed
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
4 prevailed upon him to promife to Hand bv him ;
4 particularly, as he alledged that the affair had
4 proceeded from his great care of his mailer’s
4 grafs, which could never be kept, if he fliould
4 be left to fuffer for defending it.
4 In the mean time, the poor Lord was in fo
4 very bad a taking, that all the phyficians and
4 furgeons in town were, gathered about him ; by
4 whofe afliilance he was confined to his bed for
4 near a week. As foon as he was permitted to
4 fpeak, and fee his friends, he fent direitly to the
4 head Bailiff, to let him know how his man had
4 ufed him ; but all the fatisfa&ion he could ob-
4 tain, even when he went and applied in peribn,
4 was to have the fellow removed to another part
4 of the common ; nor could he obtain this, till
4 he declared that he would make his complaint
4 directly to the Lord of the Manor, if he had
4 not fome redrefs. It is faid, he talked of chal-
4 lenging him ; but he is one of the grand jury of
4 the court-leet, and therefore cannot be called
4to an account that w ay.’
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 3
.7
C H A P . VII. x
An odd vifitor to a lady. The myjlery of'/lock-,
jobbing. Charity begins at home. H er Grace’s
kind intentionsfo r honejl Aminadab, Another v i-.
fitor* The worth o f honour. The bejlfa lve fo r
a broken charaSler.
B
Y this time the myfteries of the toilet were
over, and my miilrefs’s face finifhed for the.
day, When a perfon entered to her, whofe appear­
ance
)ogk
3» CHRYSAL: OR, THE
ance was far from promiling fuch an intimacy
with a lady of her rank.
The moft ihabby, fqualid drefs covered a di-
ftorted carcafe, not much above four feet high,
but fo grofs, that, laid upon his back, he would
have caft a ihadow near as long as when he flood
upright, A deep olive complexion, an aquiline
nofe, and a mouth from ear to ear, fringed round
with a greafy, curled beard, made the beauty of
his face correfpond with the elegance of his
figure.
This extraordinary perfon approached her
Grace without introdu&ion or ceremony, and,
entering immediately upon bufinefs, told her,
4 that he came to know if ihe meant to buy in •
4 that day, for the report raifed in the Alley, by
4 their>exprefs from abroad, had given fuch a
4 ftroke to the funds, that they had tumbled to
4 the ground j but would moft certainly rife again
4 the next day, as foon as the news which had
4 arrived that morning ihould be known ; which-
4 could not be kept a fecret as the people want-
4 ed fomething to keep up their fpirits, among
4 fo many mifcarriages, and divert them from
4 making too clofe enquiries into the conduit of
4 affairs/
4 W hy, my honeft friend Aminadab / (replied
4 her Grace) I muft be directed in thefe matters
4 by you. I f you think there is any thing to be
4 got by buying in to-day, with all my heart :
4 though, I muft own, 1 cannot conceive why
4 you ihould fe ll out the very laft week to
4 buy in this/
4 Ah ! my Lady (returned Aminadab) there is
4 a myftery in all bufinefs, and in none greater
4 than our’s. The Bulgarian King’s fuccefslaft
4 week
,
yGoogle
week raifed people’s fpirits fo high, that they
thought the world was to be all their own,
and therefore bought at any price. Now, that
was the time for a prudent perfon tofe ll, as
I advifed your G race; which we had no fooner
done, than inftantly comes an exprefs ( o f our
own) with an account that the enemy had turn­
ed upon him in their retreat, and entirely van-
quiihed the vanquiibers.
4 This news quite overthrew the fpirits raifed
by the former, and made every one eager to fell
out at any lofs, for fear the enemy flhould get
wings andfly over, to take all they had. Now,
as this was but a terror raifed by ourfelves, we
take the advantage of it, and fo buy in, when
others ate felling out, 20 per cent, cheaper than
we ourfelves fold out laft week, when the mad-
nefs bent the other way, and may perhaps fe ll
again the next, when another packet fhall fet
things right, and bring the people back their
fenfes. For the fenfes of the people of this coun­
try are as inconftant as the fea, depending entire­
ly upon the winds that blow them news.’
4 B u t, is it really pojjible that any people can be
fu ch fools ? 9— 4 O , pleafe your Grace, they are
only too rich ! they have more money than they
know what to do with ; that is all.’— - 4 Then
Aminadab, we w ill eafe them o f fome o f the bur­
then. A nd would it not be better to conceal this
news fo r another day; might not that make them
f a ll f i l l low er? 9----- ----- 4 But, my Lady, the
people want the good news.’---------- 4 The people
may hang themfelves in defpair ! I care not, fo I
get money.9
-------4 The government though.’-------
W hat ts the government to me ? I w ill get all I
can, and then leave them to themfelves, tofink or
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 3
9
,
yGoogle
40
4fw im as they w ill; it is all one to me ? ’ ----- cT h a i
4 is true ; your Grace fays right. A people who
4 do not know, or, at leaft, will not follow their
* own intereft, are not worth any perfon’s care,
4 longer than while he can make fomething of
4 them. But we muft referve that ftroke for an-
4 other time. This news has got into the officesj
4 and nothing there is a fecret, you know. Be­
c fides, the Panick was too violent to laft ; it be-
4 gins to wear off already : in another day they
4 would recover their fenfes ofthemfelves. I think,
4 therefore, with your Grace's approbation, to buy-
4 in all I can to-day; without you had rather lay
4 out your money in the fupplies for the Pro-
4 tenants of G erm any— — —4 W ith all my hearty
4 i f you can make as much o f it that 'way as in the
4fu nds \ but not otherwife. I would not lofe one
'4Jhilling fo r any people under heaven /’
4 Your Grace has ajuft notion of the world, and'
4 of the value of money that governs it. Indeed,,
4 I muft fay, that the terms for thefe fupplies are
4 very unreasonable, confidering how fuch things
4 have been done for fome time paft., It is ex-
4 pe<fted that people ihould bring in their money*.
4 without any premium, or other advantage, than
4 what was publickly calculated for, at the grant-
4 ing them. But thefe oeconomifts will find them~
4 felves miftaken. The world is wifer now a­
c days, than to give up advantages which they
4 have once gotten poffeffion of. As to that affair,
4 therefore, J ihould think it .better to let it ftand
4 a little longer, till the neceffity becomes more
4 urgent, and then they will be glad.to come into
c our terms, if it were not that the poor people
4 may be ruined in the mean time 5 fo that indeed:
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
)ogk
* I am at a lofs what to advice your Grace to do,
4 in fo nice an affair/
4 W hy, let them be ruined then : it is not myf a u lt ;
4 nor is it my bufinefs to fa ve them ; nor w ill I part
4 w ith a Jhilling to do it. Befides, i f they do fu jfer
4 by the delay, thofe who gave them this fupply to pre-
4 vent their ruin, may give them another to repair
4 it,9
— 4 I cannot but admire your Grace's judge-
4 ment in all things. You are above the fooliih
4 Weaknefs of nature, and have the noble refolu-
4 tion to fee your own family periih, rather «than
4 injure your own intereft to relieve them. I
4 £bal 1 obey your Grace in all things. I go now
4 to the- Alley, where bufinefs will foon begin/-----
4 D o , honejl Aminadab, andfea r not, though I could
4 not procure an ejlablijhment fo r your whole nation,
4 as I would have done, I certainly w ill fo r your
4fam ily, and that is enoughfo r you. Your fon Jhalt
4 be made #BA R O N E T at le a f ; you have riches
4' enough tofupport tin title 9 '
4 Your Grace is very good; our people are all
4 fatisficd of your kind intentions : but, alas, that
4 was a fevere difappointment to us, after coiling
4 us fo much money. The children of the Lord
4 weep over it in their fynagogues, and the daugh-
4 ters of Sion lament it in their fongs; but m y
4 houfehold ihall rejoice in thy favour, and the
4 labours of my life prove my gratitude for i t /
Honeil Aminadab was no fooner gone, than
there entered an agent, feamingly of another na­
ture, this dealing in honour as the other did in
money; but the difference between them was only
in appearance, the end of both being ultimately
the fame. '
4 M ay it pleafeyour Grace (faid he, advance-
4 ing with due reverence and ceremonyJ I come
4 to
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 41
,
yGoogle
4 to wait upon you about that place in the ■
■
■
— ■
■:
4 that gentleman,will not, indeed cannot, give one
4 (hilling more for it.’— — 4 Then, let the other
4 have i t I w ill not lofe five pence9 much lefs fiv e
4 hundred pounds, fo r h i m 4 But, pleafe
4 your Grace, you know what grounds he has
4 to expect it on y befides your promife which can-
4 not well be broken through, it was fo pofi-
4 tive.’— —
4 M y promife was only conditional (in
4 my own intention) that he Jhould give me as much
4 as another, and in no other fenfe w ill I keep it.
4 A s fo r his grounds o f expectations 1 regard them
4 not: let him make the mojl o f them where he
4 can.y------ 4 Juft as your Grace pleafes; 1 only
4 took the liberty of fpeaking my own opinion,
4 but always in fubmiffion to your’s. Not but I
4 muft own I am apprehenfive of $his gentleman's
4 refentment, though not immediately formyfelf,
4 f© much as for your Grace"s chara&er, with
4 which he may be provoked to make too free
4 upon fuch an affair.'-------4 A y e! that is liberty,
4your hoajled Englijh liberty, tofpeak difrefpeClfully
4 o f your fuperiors. B u t I defpife whatever he cart
4fa y : nor w ill I give up my own way fo r fe a r o f h ir
4 im p e r tin e n c e — 4 Very right, your Grace is
4 very right. It were by no means fit that you
4 ihould : but then it is to be confidered, whether
4 this breach of promife may not be attended with
4 inconveniencies that may overbalance the ad-
4 vantage, as it may make others afraid to deal
4 ‘with you at another time.'------ 4 I w ill venture
4 th a t: none come to me but fo r their own advantage,
4 and while they can fin d that they w ill fcarceJlay
4 away fo r punctilios. So, let me hear no more o f
4 this, but clofe w ith the other direCtly
4 W ill
4* CHRY3AL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
c W ill not your Grace pleafe to abate of your
demand for that place in Ireland? I really fear
you rate it too high.’----- 4N ot a Jbilling/ I w ill
not abate a Jhilling ! furely I ought to know the
value o f things in I r e l a n d by this time ! I have
hadfujfcient dealings there to teach me \ it has
been my privy purfe fo r many years ’----- 4 But
what 1 fear is, that if your Grace does not fix
upon fome one dire&ly, the Lord Deputy may,
and that would difappoint you; for this place
has ever been immediately in his gift, and it
would reflect a kind of diihonour on him to
give it up.’-------- 4 Dijhonour, indeed! 1 am
much concernedfo r his honour certainly ! And as
fo r his naming any one to contradict me, 1 believe
he w ill be cautious how he does that. The example
o f his predeceffor w ill teach h im -------- 4 How­
ever, if your Grace pleales, to prevent any dif-
putes, I will wait on him, and tell him that
you have a friend, whom you defign to recom­
mend.’-----4 W ith all my heart; you may i f
you w ill. B u t, as to the price, I w ill not abate
one Jhilling, as 1fa id before. D o not I know that
places in that country are either merepenftons^ w ith­
out any thing to do; or even necejfity o f ever go­
verning there at a ll: or where that cannot bedifpen-
fe d w ith from the nature o f the place, that no
learning, no abilities are requifite. I f it was here
indeed, where knowledge in a profejjton is abfo-
lutely necejfary to a place in itythere might be fom e-
thing in higgling about the price, but fo r a coward
to fcruple paying fo r being made a general, or a
blockhead a judge, there can be nothing more un-
reafonablc ; and I w ill not hear another word about
i t ----- B u t what have you done about thofe titles
which I gave you to difpofe o f ? '-------- 4 Really*
* 4 1 do
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 4j
,
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
44
c I do not know what to-fay to your Grace about
4 them : the bent of the people does not feem to
* incline to honours of late/— — 4N o ! I thought
4 they were always as good as ready money ; efpeci-
* ally w ith thofe who have more money than fenfe,
4 and think it eafter to buy, than earn honour by
4 merit. An I r i s h title was the conjlant refuge o f
4 thofe fons o f fortune, who not being born in the
4 rank o f gentlemen, or having forfeited it by their
4 villainies, were deftrous o f changing their names
4fo r fonorous titles, to hide their difgrace, as it were,
4 under an heap o f honours, which in reality only
4 make them the more expofe d to the view , ¿*0
/z-
4fequently to the cenfure, 0
/* world.-------- Zfaf /
4fin d even that imaginary fenfe o f honour is gone
4 out o ffajhion, fA*Jhad:w is in no more requejl
4 than the fubfiance, at prefent. B u t, fince they are
* grown fuch a drug, ¿w/z the moft you can o f
4 : fe ll them to whoever w ill buy \ I Jhall take
4 no exceptions to perfons.*
4 I (hall certainly do the beft I can for your
4 Grace, though they have been fo oddly given
4 away of late, that I verily believe people are
4 aihamed oftaking them, for fear ofbeing laughed
4 at. Rattles are given to children, but titles to
4 old men, to divert them 5 to fome, in reward for
4 not doing the very worft poflibly in their power ;
4 and to others, fordoing nothing at all.---------- -
4 But, pray, has your Grace feen the old Colonel
4 yet i he got his commiilion yefterday : 1 wiih
4 he may mean your Grace fairly/-------- 4W hy?
4ju re, you do not imagine he can have the ajfurance
4 to think o f playing me a trick?'-------- 4 I do not
4 pofitively fayfo : but his behaviour has been
4 very myfterious/
* . Juff
,
yGoogle
. Juft then a fervant let her Grace know, that
the very Colonel, of whom they were talking, de-
fired leave to wait upon her. 4I thought fo (faid
4 ihe) ihow him up: I thought hewould not dare
4 to trifle with m e!
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 45
C H A P . VIII.
*The Colonelputs the oldfoldier upon her Grace. H er
rage and refentmentf a ll upon her agent. H er j u ­
dicious application o f the BiJhop9s charity, w ith her
tender concern fo r her friends abroad.
T
H E Colonel advanced to her Grace with the
affuranceof confcious virtue fparkling in his
eye, though fharpened by a caft of indignation.
4 I come (faid he) pleafe your Grace, to return
4 you my thanks for your favours : I have got my
4 com million, and had the honour, juft now, to
4 kifs his majefty’s hand upon it. A s your re-
4 commendation was more effe&ual to procure
4 me {his reward than the labours of a life which
4 has not been undiftinguiihed in the fervice, I
4 thought it my duty to make your Grace this ac-
4 knowledgement, and to offer you any fervice in
4 the power of an honeft heart, and no bad hand*
4 in return.’— 4Colonel (replied her Grace) I am
4 glad it has been in my power to ferve a man of
4 your character, and I do not defire any fuch re-
4 turn.’ ■ ..... 4 I am much obliged to your Grace
4 for your good opi nion (returned he)which I hope
4 I ihall never forfeit. I thank God, my cha-
f ra&er w ill not difgrace your recommendation;
t n©c
,
yGoogle
4
6
4 nor fhall you ever have reafon to blufh at the
4 mention of my name. I have the honour to be
4 your Grace s moft humble fervant.’
4 But, Colonel (faid the gentleman, the agent,
4 who flood by) though her Grace has no occa-
4 fion for fuch a return as you offer, having no
4 quarrels to be fought, there is a return of an-
4 other nature which you ihould not forget, efpe-
4 cially as you promifed it too/............ — -4 W h y
4 look you, Sir (replied the colonel) as to that
4 matter, it is moft certain that I did, fomething
4 like, promife fome fuch thing,but when I have
4 told the whole affair honeftly to her Grace, I am
4 fure fhe will be above demanding it/ ----- —
4 Sir (faid her Grace) I do not defire to hear any
4 thing more about it! And I muft tell you, that
4 you have behaved like an old knave/---------—
4 Say an old foldier, rather, madam (replied he,
4 with fome warmth) the other is a term I am not
4 ufed to/---------4A nice diftinCtion truely, and
4 well worthy of a man of honour’ (faid the
4 agent with a fneer.)— 4 Have a care, Sir, guard
4 yourexpreifions ; my refpeCt, my obligations to
4 her Grace will make me bear any thing from
4 her; but I muft be fo free as to tell you, that
4 I have not the fame fentiments for you/-------
4 W hat are you going to make a riot in my apart-
4 m ents!'------ 4 Not in the leaft, madam \ my
4 refpeCf for your Grace is a fufficientfecurity from
4 that. I would only hint it to that gentleman,
4 that he may not always have the protection of
4 your Grace's prefence\ that is all, madam.’—
4 You are a knavijh old ruffian. B u t I Jhall take
4 care tb it you do not coinè o fffo .’------4 As your
4 Grace pieafes for that. By the laws of my coun-
4 try I cannot lofe my commiffion while I do my
4 duty,
C H R Y S A L : OR, T HE
,
yGoogle
4 duty, nor will my gracious mailer be influenced
4 to do me wrong, though, in the multiplicity of
4 greater affairs, my fervices, my hardihips could
4 not reach his eye. But as I would not bear the
4 imputation of any crime, much more fo black
4 ones as diihoneily or ingratitude, you mull
4 give me leave to fet this affair in a juft light to
4 your Grace now, efpecially as I may never have
* another opportunity of doing myfelf thatjuftice.
4 Enraged almoft to defperation to find, that
4 thirty years fervice, the merits of which were
4 often written in my blood, and Hand recorded
4 in thefe fears, were not fufficient to procure
4 me the regular advances of my rank, without a
4 merit of another nature, I refolved to quit the
4 barren paths which I had fo long purfued in vain,
4 and try thofe methods which I faw pra&ifed
4 with fuccefs by others : I therefore applied my
4 felf to your Grace, who feemed flruck with my
4 hardihips, and promifed me your favour, re-
4 ferring me, for more particular information, to
4 this gentleman, who would have lowered my
4 fenfe of your goodnefs, by loading it with terms
4 which were notin my'power to fulfil.
4 Had your Grace mentioned them to me your-
4 felf, I Chould moil certainly have owned my in-
4 ability ; but, coming from him, I looked upon
4 them as thefineffe of his own art, which it was
4 not unjuilifiable to return with afeint of mine ;
4 and therefore 1 gave an equivocal acquiefcence
4 with his propofal, for he dares not fay I made a
4 particular or pofitive promife of any thing.
4 I f I have done wrong in this I am millakcn,
4 and forry for it, but ilill it is not within the
4 article of war, that makes an error injudgment
4 criminal, becaufe it was not againil an enemy;
4tu t
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. 47
,
yGoogle
4
« C HR Y SAL: OR, THE
4 but by all the rules of war, and that is my pro­
* feffion, and the only one I have ftudied, it is al-
•4 lowable to oppofe art to art, and try to foil the
4 devil at his own weapons. This is what 1 have
4 done; and the fuccefs of this^ ftratagem, which
4 has effe&ed by a Coup de Main what 1 had been
4
- making regular advances to fo long in vain,
c proves the juftnefs of my plan, and mull ex-
4 tort your Grace’s approbation, when the paffion
4 raifed by this gentleman’s mercenary influence
4 ihall cool.’
Saying this the veteran marched off in triumph,
leaving my miftrefs and her agent flaring at each
other in the ftrongeft furprife.
Her Grace found utterance firft, and having no
other obje& ofher rage, turned all its violence upon
her agent: 4So then (faid ihe) after all, I find the
4 old ruffian"has outwitted you, with a generalpro-
4 mife, or no promife at all, it feems, for you did
4 not dare to*:ontradi£t him. I thought, Sir, that
4 I had cautioned you before againfl: this very
4 thing, and given you pofitive orders to take no-
4 thing but the money. But you ihall pay for your
4 negleft ! you ihall make good the lofs to me. A s
4 for theold ruffian, I will fpeak tohis general, and
4 have him broke for a cheat. T alk to me o f his
4 fervices! what are his fervices to me ! but I
4 will have him broke ; his example ihall terrify
4 others from attempting to abufe me fo again.’
4 I wiih it were proper or poffible,’ replied
her agent, as foon as want of breath made her
flop, 4 for your Grace to have him puniihed for
4 his infolence; but fuch a tongue as his might
4 lay matters too open, if once fet a-going, for
4 you fee he is not to be over-awed to any thing.
4 for bis commiffion, there is no lofs in i t ;
4 for
,
yGoogle
4 for it was ordered for him before I applied;
4 though I made him think it was obtained by
4 your intereft, to try what I could bring him
4 to. Y our Grace may be allured that I would
4 not have taken any promife, had it been other-
4 w ife; and I was juft going to tell you this,
4 when his coming prevented me.’ — 4It may be
4 fo (returned ihe;) but I (hall be better fatif-
4 fied of it, before I give up your making good
4 the lofs.’
T h e agent was relieved from further p e rfe c­
tion for that time, by the entrance of a mejfenger,
who was going to Germany, and called to know
if her Grace had any commands for her friends
there.— 4 None but my good wiihes and prayers
4 for their deliverance (replied ihe, with a deep
4 drawn figh) which are conftantly offered up
4 for them. I am forry I am not able to fend
4 them any relief from m yfelf; but I have no-
4 thing in my power, no places, no opportunities
4 o f getting any thing: thefe few pieces’ (taking
about a dozen.guineas from her pocket, where
ihe had thrown the Bifhop’s change of her
note) are all, at prefent, in my pofleffion ; give
4 them to my dear mother, with my duty, and
4 tell her I w ill fend her the clothes ihe wrote
4 for, as foon as poffible: and aflure the reft of
4 my friends of my conftanr attention to their
4 intereft.*
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 4»
V ot. II. D C H A P .
,
yGoogle
C H R Y S A L : OR, T H E '
C H A P . IX.
C hrysal changes his fervice fo r that o f an ufual
attendant upon the great. Th- hijlory o f the un­
fortunate glyfer-pipe maker, who was like to be
hangedfo r dirtying hisfingers, An humble im ita­
tion o f high life. A m t her change brings L hry sal
into the pojjejfion o f a perfon o f an extr aordinary
charafter Converfation between him and a very
noted perfon. L et thofe laugh thatt w in.
I
W as, by this time, fo fick of H igh L ife , that
I was very glad of being one of the number
her Grace gave to the mejfenger, as I faw no
profpedf of pleafure in fuch a fervice. He had
no fooner received her Grace’ s commands, than
he immediately went to the office for his difpatch-
es, where he was fent on another errand, while
they were getting ready, „
T his was to apprehend a poor wretch who fold
glyfter-pipes about the ftreets, but being unable
to get bread in his profeffion, had fallen upon a
icheme that he imagined might raife him to the
notice of the world in the light of affate crimi­
nal, and get him his hunger well fatisfied, while
he ihould be an happy priioner for offences which
he imagined could not be attended with any bad
confequences.
Big with this projeft, he had entered into a
correfpondence with fome perfon abroad, o f
equal confequence with himfelf, and to him com­
municated the fecret intelligence which he daily
picked up at coffee-houfes, or found in the pub-
,
yGoogle
lie news-papers, which his great friend was to
forward to fome great perfon in the fervicc o f the
enemy.
He had long continued this trade unnoticed, as
he thought, though all his letters had been opened
at the poft-office, but the ituff contained in them
was thought below regard; fo that he began to
fear that this fcheme would turn to no account.
But now fome mifearriages in publick affairs,
alarming the refentment of the people, making
it evident that the fecrets of the nation were be-
^ trayed, this infignificant creature was thought of,
and ordered to be taken into cuftody.
Though this was the thing winch he had al­
ways propofed by his undertaking; to keep up
the farce, he counterfeited the ftrongeft terrors,
and put on every appearance of confcious guilt,
fo far, that he had like to have over-a&ed his
part, and fallen a facrifice to the law, which he
only meant to illude: a juft judgment on the bafe
depravity of foul, that could defeend to fo iniqui­
tous a fcheme, as to trifle with his facred duty to
his country, to fupport an anxious, burthenfome %
being. •
For his counterfeited fears not only gave
weight to the appearances, which were before
fo very ftrong againft him, but alfo made it pro­
bable that he was guilty of more than he was
at firft even fufpe£led o f: this juftified the pro-
fecuting him with the utmoft feverity, and facri-
ficing him to the indignant rage of the people,
who called aloud for lome vidtim, to atone for
their reproachful lofles.
T h e criminal foon perceived his error, and
Would have recanted all he had faid; but this
D z was
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 51
,
yGoogle
5* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
was ndt admitted him; his own confeffions had
confirmed the charge againft him, and he was
given up to the laws ; to which, on the evidence
of fuch ftrong appearances, though no intelligence
could be proved againft him, but what he ihowed
the publick authority mentioned before for, his
life was declared a forfeit.
But the contemptibility of his ftation and be­
haviour proved his fafetv, and mercy was ex­
tended to a wretch beneath vengeance, after he
had ferved the turn, and amufed the people for
his day.
I did not then ftay in England, to fee the event ,
o f this affair, but having learned it fince my re­
turn, I thought it better to conclude the ftory in
this place together, than to interrupt my narra­
tive with it, at another time.
It would be doing injuftice to my naafter, to
imagine that he had profited fo little by his fre­
quent intercourfe with perfons in genteel life, and
particularly by her Grace’s late example, as to
think it necefl'ary to apply the money (he had
given him to any other ufe than his own : ac­
cordingly, when he was fetting out, he gave me
to his wife, for the fupport of his family in his
abfence.
But this fpirited lady had a politer way o f
thinking, than to obey his directions, or deny
herfelf any of the genteel pleafures o f life, for the,
fake of fuch a mean, domeftick duty, as the care
o f a family. A s foon therefore as his back was
turned, ihe put on her hat and cardinal, and
pofted away to one of her moft intimate ac­
quaintances, a lady who kept a chandler’s ihop
in the neighbourhood, to advife with her, about
fettling
,
yGoogle
fettling a party, at her houfe, for the next
evening.
A n affair of this importance required deli­
beration; accordingly, after tea, they retired into
the bed-chamber, the parlour they lat in being
open to the (hop, fo that they were liable to be
overheard by every one who ihould come in,
and there, over a comfortable glafs of right HoU
lands, fixed upon the company, and fettled the
ceremonial, and fare o f the entertainment. T h is
great bufinefs being difpatchcd, my miftrefs re­
turned home, and getting a gentleman who lodged
in her houfe, at the expence of the ilate, to write
cards for her, fent them by her huiband’s ailiftant
to the company, to invite them to play a game at
cards, and fpend the next evening with her, and
then proceeded to put every thing in order for
their reception*
Her great anxiety, and the preparation ihe
made, raifed my curiofity not a little, to fee the
vanity and vice of the higher ranks of life mi­
micked by fuch a fet; but I was difappointed at
that time, being paid away to a tavern-keeper,
next morning, for wine and brandy for the occa-
fion.
M y new mailer was a ftriking inftance of the
inconfiftency of life, and the hypocrify o f the
human heart: he had for many years kept one
o f the moft notorious brothel-taverns in the
tow n; but not content with this publick infults
to the laws, in defiance of every fenfe of ihame,
he at the fame time profefled himfelf a reformer of
religion; and while the groffeft feenes of riot and
debauchery were carrying on openly in his
houfe, was chaunting hymns in a conventicle,
and groaning in fpirit, for the wickednefs of the
D 3 times*,
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA- j?
,
yGoogle
„ times, with a face as meagre and mortified as
the picture of famine. 1 fee you wonder at fuch
a palpable contradiction, but that proceeds from
ignorance of life, every view- of which (hows
inflances as grofs as this; the gaming devotee,
the penfioned patriot, and the drunken priclt, be­
ing equally o/renfivc to common fenfe and reafon.
'A s for my mailer, he had as powerful motives
for his conduct as the grcateil of them all.
Poverty made him, in his early youth, turn
pandar to luch an houfe as he now kept, when
the demure fanciity of his looks fereened him fo
effectually from fufpicion, that he was able to
make acquaintances in families, and accompiiih
fedudtions, which no other of his trade dared to
attempt. By thefe means, he foon acquired a
fum of money fuflicient to fet up this houfe for
himfelf; when his character immediately brought
him into bufinefs that in a little time made
his fortune; but, for this fuccefs he was chiefly
indebted to a mailer-ffroke of fuperior genius; for
having obferved in the myftery of his profeflion,
that there is no private finner like a publicic
faint, as foon as he thus rofe above the drudgery ,
of bufinefs, and, from porter, became mailer o f
a tavern, he afiociated himfelf with a fet of re­
formers, who went preaching up and down the
town, at whofe meetings he had an opportunity
of finding out new faces for his beft cuftomers,
and making acquaintances with the leaders^ who,
obferving his diferetion, foon admitted him into
their myftery, and made his houfe the feene of
their fecret meetings, to fettle their bufinefs,
laugh at the follies they lived by, and pradtife
the vices which they preached againft. Such
fuccefs might be thought to have fatisiied his
avarice,
5* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
avarice, but the habit has taken fuch hold of him
that he cannot defiil, and he now does from in­
clination, what was at firit the elfe£t of ne-
ceifity.
I ihould not have dwelt fo long upon his
character, but that it ferves to explain the ways
of the world, and prove the folly of an opinion,
generally received among men, that they can
change their courfe of life whenever they pleale;
and as foon as their eftd is anfwered, and they
have heaped up a fortune, by the iniquity of a
profeffion, quit it at once, and live virtuouily
upon the earnings of vice.
T h e evening after I came into his poffeilion,
the high prieit of the conventicle called upon
him, to fpend an hour in fpiritual converfation.
After examining into his progrefs in grace, and
the increafe of his faith, and affurance of election
(for fuch is the power of cuftom, and thepleafure
o f cheating the. world, that they pra&ife the art
even upon each other) he told him that he had
a moil particular occafion, for his moil private
room that evening. 4 F or(faidh e, ihaking him
4 by the hand) my friend, as I have found, by
4 experience, that the only way to foil the D evil,
4 is at his own weapons, I have appointed Momus
4 the ballad-finger, whofe attack upon me has
4 made fuch a noife, to meet me here this evening,
4 and makeup the affair over a glafs of wine.’—
4 In truth (anfwered my mailer, a good deal fur-
4 prifed) your reverence’s meeknefs and patience
4 mull needs be very great; or you could not
4 bear ever to mention him, in any degree of
4 chriftian charity and benevolence, after fo out-
4 rageous and grofs an attack as he has made
4 upon you, without the leail perfonal provoca­
D 4 4 tion *
r
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 55
,
yGoogle
* tion ; for what was that to him, what you faid or
4 did to the reft of the world, his morals or reli-
4 gion werp in no danger! But you were born to
4 be an example to the age, and a Alining light,
* to guide the fteps of the faithful/
4 A truce with this canting now, my friend,
4 (replied the Do&or) and let us talk a few
4 words like men of the world. Your proved
4 fidelity and prudence making me not fcruple to
4 reveal the whole myftery of the miniftry to you,
4 I will let you into the fecret of this affair.
4 Y ou muft know, then, that I have, for fome
4 time, perceived the humour of the people be-
4 gin to waver greatly, and the fervency of their
4 devotion to cool, in fpite of all I could do to
4 keep it up, by preaching, failing, prayer, and
4 lamentation, by crying up my own piety, and
4 the wonderful effect of my fpiritual labours;
4 it was neceffary, therefore, to have recourfe
4 to fome expedient, to prevent their falling
4 off entirely, and accordingly I pitched upon
4 this, which has exceeded my expectations : for,
4 inftead of making my people afhamed of com­
4 ing to me, it has piqued their pride, and now
4 they refolve to ftiow, that they fcorn as much
4 to be laughed, as preached, out of their own
4 way. T h is, my friend, is the way of the world,
4 which, fince we cannot in reality mend, we
4 muft only ftrive to make the beft of. I f I could
4 carry on my bufinefs without this affiftance, I
4 moft certainly would never have entered into
4 fuch a confederacy, any more than you would
4 keep a brothel, and entertain whores and rogues,
4 if you could .make equal profit by any other
4 company.*
. %
4 1 am
s< CHRYSALs O R , T H E
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 57
4 I am much obliged to your reverence (re-
4 turned my mafter) for putting me in any de-
4 gree of comparifon with yourfelf ; but it is
4 too great an honour ! I ait in a low fphere ;
4 but I (till have the pleafure to think, that, even
4 in my poor way, I contribute fometbing to-
4 wards your great work ; as there could not be
4 fo many converts to refort to you for fpiritual
4 comfort, if there were no places of this kind
4 to encourage vice and debauchery. You fee,
4 Sir, that I enter into the fpirit of your de-
4 iign, and deferve your confidence, by this re-
4 turn of mine. There are fecrets in all pro*.
4 feffions ; and as you have entered into a league
4 with your profefled enemy, that you may be
4 able to play into each other’s hands, fo I, not-
4‘ withftanding the probity of my profeifion, have
4 a private underftanding with all the ladies of
4 pleafure who refort to this houfe, who* in re­
* turn for their being brought into good com­
4- pany, never fail to enhance expence^ and -
1
4 countenance every impofition of falfe meafures,.
4 falfe charges,- and a thoufand others,. by whicli^
4 a prudent man turns the folly of the worlds
4 to his own advantage. As to this confede-
4 racy between you and the ballad-finger, I own
4 I never fufpe&ed the leaft of it; and, indeed,*
4 I ftill am at a lofs to think how you could ~
4 bear the perfonal refle&ions, efpeciallv, which
4 he has thrown upon you. W hat was the mif-
4 fortune of your form to him, that he ihould*
4 call you D r. Hunch-Back ? ’— * W h y that
4 is true enough (anfwered the D o & e r:) in that*
4 he exceeded my dire&ions; and to call him- to
4 account for it, is part of the bufinefs of this
4i appointment. Every thing was fettled between >
)ogk
5* C HR Y S A L : OR, THE
4 us. W e have hitherto met at our friend M rs.
4 Brini/lone's, w h ojirft negociated the affair be-
4 tween us, and con Tented to take her lhare of
4 the ridicule, to advance the common caufe.
4 She will be here to-night too, fo that we (hall
4 have an agreeable let. I believe I hear him
4 juft come in. 1 directed him to enquire for
4 number one 5 do you {how him into the pri-
4 vate room, and when the coaft is clear I ’ll
4 join you.’
C H A P. X.
C hrysal’j maßet fla rts at bis own apparition.
Interview between the D o ¿tor and a noted ballad-
finger. The hißory o f a famous ballad. A ll trades
alike.
T
H E perfon my mafter was fent to meet
had fomething fo uncommon in his ap­
pearance, as inftantly ftruck my attention. Every
pailion of the human heart was printed in his face
fo ftrongly, that he could at pleafure difplay it in
all its force, while his every look and gefture
turned fome vice or folly into ridicule. 4 Y o u
4 enquire for number one, Sir !9 (faid my mafter,
bowing with the profoundeft refpeö.) 4 Ido, Sir >
(anfwered the other, returning his bow, affuming
his look, and imitating his voice, in a manner
that would have extorted laughter from defpair)
4 enquire for number one.’
Though my mafter was no.ftranger to his
talents, which he had often feen him difplay at
the expence of others, this perfonal application
o f
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 59
o f them to himfelf threw him into fuch confufion*
that, in fpite of his long-pradtifed ailurance, abluih
broke feebly through his unimpailioned, lifelefs
face, and he had fcarce power to ihow him into '
the room. The ballad-finger feeing that he had
him at command, would not purfue his advantage
'any farther, at that time, for fear of frightening
him away ; but putting on thè exa£t countenance,
and mimicking the voice andmanneroftheDodlor*
4 I am come, my friend and brother in the Lord
4 (faid Jie) to enquire into thy fpiritual eftate, ta
4 give thee ghoftly advice, and commune with
4 thee, for a ihort fpace, for our mutual edifica-
4 tion.’-------- The furprife and manner of this-
addrefs had fuch an effedt upon my mailer, that he
could not refrain burfting into laughter; and im­
mediately recovered from the confufion. into
which the ridicule of himfelf had thrown him..
They were fcarce feated, when the Do&or
entered* and addrefling himfelf to the {franger*,
4 I am glad tQ fee you, Sir,’ (faid he, taking him
by the hand) 4 and heartily congratulate you on.
4 your fuccefs. You fee, 1 was not miftaken in.
4 my judgement. 1 knew what would take with>
4 the tafte ofthe public. There is nothing pleafes.
4 them fo much as a little profanenefs, and ri—
4 dicule of Religion : a fling at the Clergy never
4 fails to raife a laugh.*-------- 4 I aeknowledge-
4 yourjudgement, Sir, (anfwered the other, raif-
ing up his ihoulders, rolling his eyes, and echo­
ing every cadence of the Doctor’s voice) 4and.
4 thank you for your congratulation ; but I muft
4 beg leave to differ in opinion with you, as t<*
4 the caufe of my fuccefs, for I have never had
4 the leali fling at the Clergv, nor been guilty
D à * 4 off
,
yGoogle
to CHRYSALi OR, THE
4 of profanenefs, or ridiculing religion, in my
4 ballad ; the abufe of religion by hypocrify,
4 and making the profeflion of virtue a fan61ion
4 for the pra&ice of vice, vtere the obje&s of my
4 fatire; and the reception it has met with from
4 the publick (hows that the people have a proper
4 fenfe of fuch vices.’
The Do6for was fo ftruck at the refleftion of
himfelf, when the other began to fpeak, that he
ilarted, in the utmoft aftoniihment, and was un­
able to interrupt him till he had finiihed his dif-
courfe, which elfe he certainly would have done,
while my mailer flood a1moil convulfed with
laughter. But his triumph was not long; for the
ballad-linger turningihort upon him, and inflan-
taneouily aifuminghis cadaverous appearance, and
bowing in the fame manner, 4And you, Sir (con-
4tinued he, addreifing himfelf to him) muft have
4had ample experience, in the courfe of your bu-
4finefs, that the taile of the town inclines quite
4another way, the moil profligate in praitice
4 being the moil pious in profeflion.’
This fudden tranfition from the Dodlor re-
ilored him to his fpirits, who in his turn could
not avoid pointing with his finger, and laughing
moil immoderately at the filly look of my mailer,
though he was not quite fo much abaihed as he
had been before.
As foon as the Do&or could fpeak, 4 How-
4 ever I may doubt your opinion (faid he to
4 the ballad-finger) I acknowledge the irrefift-
4 ible force of your powers of ridicule, and beg
4 a ceflation of them for a moment, till we
4 talk of our bufinefs. I will not difpute about
4 the caufe of your fuccefs, but I think you need
4 not
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ti
4 not have fallen upon my perfon. M y profeffions
4 and pra&ice furely were enough, with your own
c exaggerations ! W h y, then, need you give me
4 the opprobrious nick-name of H unch-Back,
* which has fpread fo, that Tihall never get rid
4 of it? T h e very children haunt me with it,
4 as I go along the ftreets/
4Good Heavens (anfwered the other) how fub-
4je£fc are the wifeft men to the weaknefs of vani­
* ty ! I ihould have thought that you were long
4 lince proof to any thing the world could fay
4 of you, or you would have given up your trade
4 before now. As to my. calling you this name,
4 you muft know that the whole fuccefs of our
4 fcheme depended upon it; for if I had not
4 turned the ridicule againft your perfon, the
4 tafte of the publick is fo grofs, that I might have
4 laughed alone at your opinions. But what
4 fuccefs have you had ? Do you find your flock
4 gather upon this attack on their fhepherd
4 W hy, pretty well (replied the Do&or) pretty
4 well. They feem to (how a proper fenfe of
4 it. As for me, I appear affe&ed at it in a
4 very extraordinary manner, that is folely upon
4your account; and to convince them and all
4the world of the ftrength of my charity, I de-
4 fign to-morrow to offer up prayers for your
4 converfion, as being in a dangerous ftate of
4 falvation, and then, on the merit of that, to
4 propofe a fubfcription for the relief of two or
4 three families, whom your example has led into
4 ruin.’--------- 4 Bravo, Do&or (interrupted the
4 other) tell me of profanenefs again ! But I hope
4 I am to have a (hare in the fubfcription, as it is
4 to be propofed on my account; at leaft, you
4 will let me affift in the diftribution of it/— — •
4Take
Digitized by Google
4 T ake care, my friend ! (returned the D oflor :)
4 another word of that kind* and I declare off
4 the connexion. I will have nobody pry inta
4 my conduél, or interfere with my buímefs. I
4 did not afk any part of your gains, though you
4 got fo much in every company where you fung
4 your ballad ; nor did I fpeak a word in behalf
4 of the other poor ballad-fingers you picked up
4 about the ftreets, and fettofing for you, though
4 the wretches complained that you ftarved
4 them/
The ballad-finger perceiving that he had touch­
ed upon a ténder point, thought proper to wave
it, as he did not ehoofe to break off fo ad­
vantageous a conne&ion. c*As to that (faid he}
4 I did but jeft. I never interfere with any
4 man’s matters. But that’s true ! 1 have bad news
4to tell you ! The clerk o f the parijh fent me
4 word yefterday, that, underílanding I fung my
4ballad to a pfalm-tune, he let me know, that
4 I mull change my note directly, or he would or-
4der the beadles to whip me out of the parilh, if
4ever I prefumed to ling there again; and to
4 mend the matter, at the fame time ordered me
4to make ufe of an old, black-guard tune, which.
4he fent me, the vulgar ftupidity ofwhich blunts.
4 the edge of the ridicule, which has never turned
4againfl the tune itfelf, but folely againlt the pro-
4 ftitution of it ; which can never be fo effec-
’ 4 tually attacked* as by repeating the manner ex-
4 a£Uy in which it is fung. But, where is our
4 friend Brim jlone ? I expedled to have met her
4Jiere.’
Juft as he faid this, my mailer was called out,,
where he found a venerable Matron, fupported
' . by
6 z « CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoC
by two chairmen, who enquiring in a feeble voice
for number one9 he diredlly ihowed her in to the
company.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 63
C H A P . XI. .
A venerable M atron completes the company. The
curtain lifted up, and feveral unexpected difco-
vey'ies made. M o m u s plays fuccejftvely upon
D r. H u n c h - B a c k , and M other B r i m s t o n e .
A fter various difajlers, the evening is concluded
in character• . '
THE Matron, whom my mailer was hand­
ing in to his friends, difplayed one of thofe
figures, which lofe by the moil forcible descrip­
tion. Her face, though broken by debauchery
and difeafe, preferved the remains of a moft
pleafing fweetnefs and beauty ; but her body was
bloated by intemperance almofl out of every re^
fernblance of the human form. She wore on her
head a richly laced cap, over which, half a dozen
fine handkerchiefs almofl concealed a piece of
greafy flannel. Her gown, of the richefl iilk,
flowed loofely round her, under a velvet cloak,
lined with ermine ; while her legs and feet, fwoln
out of all fhape, and too tender to bear any liga­
ture, were wrapped up in flannels.
My mailer received this amiable creature from
the chairmen ; and ilooping under as much as
he was .able to bear of the burthen of her body,
aflifled her to limp into the room. The con­
trail between her and the ihabby ikeleton of her
fupporter was fo ilrikingly ridiculous, that the
I moment
,
yGoogle
moment they appeared, M om us burft into an im­
moderate fit of laughter; and turning to the
Do&or (who was not much lefs affe&ed, though
practice had given him fuch a maftery over the
mufcles of his face, that they never betrayed-the
paflions of his heart) ‘ Behold (faid he) theblef-
4fed fruit of thy miniftry, and rejoice ! See how
4the fpirit affifteth the flelh to ftruggle with the
4 infirmities of nature/— —-And then, waddling
up to her, in her own gait, ‘ Dear mother
4 (addreffing himfelf to her) give me your other
4 arm ; reft a little part of your weight, an hun-
4dred or two, upon me ! Come ! Let me help
4you into that great chair ! * Oh ! oh! oh!
4my poor bones ! (exclaimed (he.) How you pull
4 me along! You will tear me to pieces ! Oh !
4oh ! ‘ Never fear, mother ! Never fear that!
4 (anfwered he.) Crazy as your carcafe is, it will
4fticka little longer together. Your friends are
4 not ready for you yet/--------4G o ! go ! you’re
4a wicked creature, a profane wretch/-----
4Dear Do&or ! I thought I ihould never fee you
4more ! I had a fad night of it; a moil fad one,,
4indeed. But the Spirit comforted me. Oh! if
4 it were not for the comforts of the Spirit, there
4 would be no bearing the pains of this life ! I
4was purely when, you left me ! Your pious
4 converfation had comforted my heart; and the.
4 other bottle we cracked together raifed my fpi*
4rits fo, that I forgot all my pains. But 1
4was not to be fo happy long! Satan envied
4 me, and threw temptation in my way!——
4 This wicked imp, and half a dozen of his
4roaring companions, came in upon me, juft
4 as you went out at the back-door! Well !
4to -
*4 GHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGc k
c to be fure they have a great deal to anfwer for !
* I was juft beginning to read my pious exhorta-
4 tion you left me, when in they came, fnatched
4 the book out of my hand, and, calling for
4 the Ladies, infilled on my fitting with them 5
4 fo, as you know I always loved innocent mirth,
4 I could no. refufe. But, alas ! I paid dearly for
4 it.this morning! My poor bones ! And then
4 my head ! My poor head is quite gone, quite
4 gone ! I can bear nothing !-------- Oh, what
4a difference there is between fpending an
4 evening in edifying converfation over a fober
4 bottle, with a pious friend or two, and thefe
4 ranting riotous fcenes ! though they behaved fo
4 like gentlemen, and were fo good company,
4 that there was no leaving them ! But, it is all
4 folly ! all vanity ! 1 am refolved I will leave it
4off! I will not follow it much longer, I am re-
4 lolved ! I’ll wean myfelf from this world, and
4 think of nothing but a new life !-------- 1 hope
4 the Baronet won’t ufe poor Betfey ill ! I did not
4like his refuting to tafte the ratafia! I ihould
4 be ruined if any thing ailed her! She is more
4enquired for than all the ladies in the houfe.—
4And my Lord— He is fweet company. But
4 it is a pity he is fo wicked ! He was going to
4 burn my book of devout exercifes; and then,
4that profane fong of your’s ! what need he fing
4 that! I wonder what pleafure people can find
4 in profanenefs ! Where there is any enjoyment,
4 it is another thing; but this is' being wicked
4 for wickednefs fake. It is a great pity, for he
4 is a very generous, fine gentleman ! He gave
4 P o ll ten guineas this morning! He is very fond
4of P o ll \ he always has her when Betfey is
4engaged. Oh ! oh ! oh ! ihall I ever get rid of
4 thefe
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. «5
,
yGoogle
4thefe pains ! When ihall I be happy in Hea-
4veil ? ’---------
While ihe was running on. thus, the Do&or
was bulled in writing a letter tohimfelf, as from
a family in diftrefs, for whom he intended to
foilicit a fubfcription the next day from his con­
gregation ; and my mailer was laying glaffes on
the table, and drawing the corks out of feveral
bottles ; fo that M omus alone attended to her, by
the fignificant archnefs of whofe look it was eafy
to perceive, that he was laying up a fund for fu­
ture entertainment, and would not have inter­
rupted her, had ihe continued her difcourfe never
fo long ; but the Doctor’s turning to the bottle
put a flop to her, and introduced a gefteral con­
vention.
4 I am forry, my friend (faid he, addrefling
4 himfelf to her) to hear you complain fo*! I left
4 you in a bleffed temperature of mind and body
4 Jaft night, but I much fear that the intemper-
4 ance you mentioned muft have equally diflurbed
4 both. T he moft pious man knoweth not what
4 folly he uttereth when he is full of wine ! A
4 little is good, andrejoiceth the heart; but too
4 much marreth the underftanding, and letteth
4 loofe the fecrets of the wife.’ ------4 As for
4 that there, dear Docftor, never fear me! Since
4 the bleffed hour of my call, I have never dif-
4 clofed one fecret about the matter: I never
4 mention a word of it.-------- But, Do&or, what
4 did you do with the young Lady whom you
4 would fee home laft night ? 1 would not refufe
4 you, to be fure ; but 1 hope you have not put
4 any more idle notions in her head ! She is very
4 young, and likely to do a great deal of bufinefs>
4there-
6* CHRYSALi OR, THE
,
yGoogle
4 therefore her call need not come this great
4 while ! It will be time enough Tome years hence!
4I had a great deal of trouble to bring her to ; and
4now, if you have fpoiled her, I lhall have all
4the work to do over again. Nobody knows the
4 trouble and expenfe 1 am at for the fervice of
4 the publick— Nobody knows ! If it was not for
4 me, gentlemen would be forced to take up with
4common fervant-maids, and fuch low-lived crea-
4 tures ; but I provide gentlewomen for them :
4 Ladies of birth and education ! and yet I am
4 not regarded ! Nobody thanks me ! This is poor
4encouragement to ferve the publick, very poor,
4indeed ! But virtue is its own reward ! that’s
4 my comfort. 1 do the beft I can ; and if I do
1 not receive a proper return, that is not my fault!
4 Let the world anfwer for it! I do my part j and
* fo my mind is at eafe.’—■
—
4 That you do ! (faid M om us, while (he flopped
4 to drink) that you do ! Your diligence never
4 ilackens ! Come, fill your glafs. Here’s to the
4reformation of manners, a work that we all la-
4 bour in alike.’ ----- 4 By your leave, good Sir
4 (interrupted the Dodlor, with a look and tone
4of offended importance) not all alike, I prefume!
4 I believe you will allow, that there is fome dif-
4 ference between your profeifion and mine, at
4 leaft.’-----4 So then (anÍwered M om us) you aré
4returning to the old point! I thought I had faid
4enough to you on that head before! Difference!
4aye ! that there is indeed ; but perhaps you are
4not fenfible in whofe favour that difference is !
4 I fing a fong that makes people laugh ; and put '
4 vice and folly out of countenance, by ihowing
4 them in a ridiculous light, and this only for a
, 4trifling
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 67
,
yGoogle
4trifling pittance of that money which they de-
4vote to mere pleafure. But you, by drawing hor-
4 rours that never exifted out of your own ima-
4 gination, and preaching up doétrines impofi-
4fible topraâife, frighten your poor deluded fol-
4lowers out of every enjoyment of their lives,
4and pillage them ofthemoney thatihould fupport
4their families and pay their debts, under pretence
4 of imaginary charities ! This is the difference
4between us/-----4Good lack ! good lack ! (in-
4terrupted the fage matron) how can people be
4 fuch fools as to fall out thus, about nothing?
4 What fignifies it where the difference lies, fo
4you can both do your bufinefs ? It is juft the
4 fame thing as if my landlord here, and I, ihould
4enter into a difpute about the reputation of our
4houfes. I thought 1had made you both promife
4never to mention this matter any more ! Come,
4 Do£k>r ! here’s profperity to all our bufinefs,
4 without any fuch fooliih diftin&ions/—
The judgement of this mediation was too plain
to admit of any difpute. Thé competitors filled
their glaffes, and, ihaking hands very cordially,
drank their friend’s toaft. 4 Well, now there is
4 fome pleafure in this (continued ihe:) things are
4 like to go on well, when all parties agree ; but
4when fome people fall out-------- you know the
4reft of the faying-------- But, my friend M o -
4musy I have news for you ! That ftory of the
4young Lady, that you putin your ballad, has
4 anfwered juft as I faid. The world thought it
4would blow me up ; but I knew better ! 1 ne-
4 ver had a greater run of company in my life than
4 to enquire into that affair; and they all of the
4right fort— your fecret, grave, old, rich culls,
4juft fit to do bufinefs with. At firft, I always
4deny
«S CHRYSALï OR, THE
iyGoc k
r
9
k
4 deny it with the ftrongeft oaths and impreca*
4 tions, and rail at you for inventing fuch a fcan-
4 dalous ftory ; but afterwards, as if I am put off
4 my guard by the liquor, I feem to place a
4 confidence in their profeffions of fecrecy and
4 friendlhip, and, with many tears, own the
4 whole; that is, fo far as to my having the
4 Lady in my power; and then the confequence
4 is, that they all intreat me to let them fee her
4 (that is, fingly, for fuch chaps always come
4 alone;) when, fuch is the pleafurein debauch-
4 ing virtue, that, befides making me a handfome
4 prefent for my klndnefs, they leave no tempta-
4 tion untried to prevail upon the Lady, whom
4 they generally take to themfeJves upon a gen-
4 teel fettlement; by which means I have got a
4 pretty fum, and have befides had ah opportuni-
4 ty of providing for near a dozen of my women,
4 who were too well known upon the town to
4 do any thing in the publick way; for this kind
4 of cuflomers have tocy great a regard for their
4 charaders, ever to mix in company that might
4 undeceive them! So, you fee, Do£tor, that I
4 do not forget your inftru&ions of doing all
4 the good in my power; and fure it is no fmall
4 matter to refcue fo many poor women, who
4 were no longer capable of getting a genteel
4 livelihood for themfelves, from want and mi-
4 fery, and getting them a comfortable fettle-
4 ment for life, fo that they have nothing to
4 do now, but attend „to you, and make their
4 peace with heaven.-------- Come! here’s my
4 fervice to you, my friend M om us; and if you
4 can think of any other ftory of me, that can
4 ferve your turn, and get off another ballad,
never fpare me! I’ll forgive you.’— •—4And
4 fo
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. $9
,
yGoogle
C H R Y S A L : OR, T H E
70
4 fo will I too (added the Doftor) though he
4 lhould call me a worfe name than Hunch-back !
4 Let them laugh who win. While our railing at
* each other in publick anfwers our own ends,
* we were fools to drop it; as to the deceit in
4 it, it is a virtue; for lure it is better to live
4 thus in friendihip and charity with all mankind,
4 than to be the real enemies we feem; and fo,
4 Sir, here’s my hearty fervice to you. And let
4 us purfue our works in concert, without any
4 more of thefe broils. So let us drink about,
4 for an hour or two; for I muft leave you early,
4 being obliged to write an exhortation for the
4 old Duchefs, which I muft carry h£r early in
4 the morning, when (he defigns to vifit her
4 coufin, the Colonel, who is under fentence
4 of death in Newgate, for murther; not that I
4 think either that, or her preaching, will have
4 any effecft upon him ; but ihe will try : and I
4 do not care to difoblige her, as ihe is not only
4 a good fubfcriber on all occafions, but alfo a
4 credit, to our conventicle, which would never
4 have rifen into fuch efteem with the people, if
4 fome perfons of quality had not brought it into
4 faihion.’----- 4Why, ayetobe fure, there is a
4 great deal in that (added the Matron :) faihion
4 is a powerful thing. If it was not for that, 1
. 4 could never do the bufinefs 1 do. But, fince the
4 nobility have made it a failiion to marry their
4' miftrefles, there is no great difficulty in bring-
4 ing a private gentleman’s daughter into our
4 way of life, as it gives her the only chance ihe
4 can poifibly have, of making her fortune, and
4 becoming a Lady; for, as to the example of
4 thofe few, who married Ladies of virtue for
4 mere love, it was too old-fajQtuoned, and ro-
4 mantick,
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OE A GUINEA. 7*
c m antick, to have any influence. But that’s tfue,
4 D o& or, 1 forgQt to mention fomething to'you
4 laft night, that has given me great concern !
c How could you be fo indifcreet as to accom-
4 pany that highwayman to Tyburn the other
4 day ? And then to take his hand, and kifs ir*
4 before all the people ! Fie ! it turns my ftomach
4 to think of it ! 1 do not know how you canex-
4 pe£t any lady will ever let you kifs her lips after
4 fuch a filthy affiori. Befides, it is a fcandal to
4 all your congregation, that you ihould appear
4 fo familiar with fuch low-lived creatures, and
4 feems a kind of encouragement to their crimes.
4 I f you had heard what remarks two or three
4 ladies, who called at my houfe yefterday even-
4 ing, made upon ir, I am fure you would never
4 do it again.’-------- 4 Go to, woman ! Go to !
4 (anfwered the Do&or, with a contemptuous
4 look) take thè beam out of thine own eye be-
4 fore you find fault with the mote in your neigh-
4 bour’s. What highwayman’s crimes are equal
4 toyour’s! The greateft danger of fcandal that
4 I ever ran has been in condefcending to keep
4 company with you. In that, indeed, 1may be
4 faid, with too great an appearance of truth, to
4 encourage the bafeft crimes.’— —
The Matron, who, with all her prudence,
was of a warm temper, could not brook fuch an
infult as this, even from her fpiritual guide, but
catching up herglafs, in the madnefs of her rage,
which had deprived her of the power ofutterance,
ihe flung it at his head with all her ftrength, and
with fuch an unlucky aim, that it felled him to
the ground----- 4 Woman ! (fputtered ihe, as
4 foon as her paffion permitted her to articulate a
4 word.) Woman! Call your women about you !
,
yGoogle
7*
c I fcorn your words, you canting, hypocritical,
« vicious wretch, who, under the appearance of
* fandlity and religion, cheat the credulous fools
* that mind you. You condefcend to keep me
c company ! you ! a creature who would never
* have been taken notice of had it not been for
* me ! Did not I point you out the perfons pro-
€ per for you to work upon ? Was iknot I that
* introduced you to thofe very people of quality
€ that now make you give yourfelf fuch airs ?
c Were they not matt of them my acquaint­
* ances, ana even indebted to me for the rank
€ they now enjoy ? I’ll make you know your­
* felt, you fcounarel, I will! I’ll expofe you to
* the world, and then fee who will go to your
€ conventicle, or fubfcribe to your iham chari­
* ties! I’ll make you know how to treat your
* fuperiors for the future.’----- #
While the enraged Matron thus vented her fu­
ry, M omus and my mailer raifed the Dodtor from
the ground, in a pickle not to be defcribed. T he
glafs had been thrown with fuch ilrength, that,
’had not his ikull been of a comfortable thickness,
his labours would have been at an end. However,
it had made fuch a gaih upon his temple, that he
was in a moment in a gore,of blood. The.fight
of this terrified them all! The Matron fainted
(or pretended to faint) away; my matter ran to
get a napkin to wipe off the blood, while M om us
fupported the Dodtor in his chair; but the firft
fight of the wound convincing him that it was
not dangerous, he refolved to increafe the acci­
dent to that diverfion which was the great purfuit
of his life*
C H R Y S A L : OR, THE k
* Good
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES O
F A GUINEA. 7j
." # # ■
4 Good Heaven ! (faid he in a low voice, as if
4 fpeaking tohimfelf, and with all the Appearance
4 of diftrefs.) What will become of us all! W e
-4 (Hall all be ruined by this unfortunateaffair, even
4 if we efcape the death which inevitably awaits
4 the wretched murtherefs.’— 4 O Sir! (dud t^
le
4 Doitor, alarmedalmoft todefipair^What do you
* think i Am I a dead man ? Speak, I conjure
4 you ; give me fome hopes ! ’----- 4 Alas, my
4 friend! I wifh I could; but I mufbnot flatter a
4 man in your condition! If you have any con-
4 cerns in this life to fettle, delay not a moment.
4 This horrid fra&ure in your fkull threatens im-
4 mediate death. Heavens! ({looping, and pre-
4 tending tol^^^neftly) how hisbrain works!’
— 4 O whatlmaTr i do ! (exclaimed the terrified
v^s^h.) I cannot die ! I am not fit to die F
o u r that I had followed fome honed trade, and
never taken to this of preaching ! I might then
hii^pamed honed tread as my forefathers did,
dn^^aped this miferable death, and the more
horrid fhie that awaits me ! What (hall I do l
What w&Ujtecome of me ? How can I even pray
to that God, whom I have fo often provoked by
my hypocrify and crimes !’--------
Mj&mafter, by this time, had wiped the
wound; and feeing, that though it bled fo vio­
lently, from the number of little veifels that are
r in that part, there was no fra&ure of the fkull,
and therefore no danger in it, 4 Be comforted,
4 Sir (faid he) you have time enough to prepare
4yourfelf for death ! I’ll infure you from any
4danger this time V— 4 How, my deared, bed
4 friend ! (faid the Doftor, catching his hand,
<and killing it in extafy) Is my life fafe ? Is not
4 the wound mortal f ’— 4Mortal 1no ! nor even
V ol. II. E 4 dangerous -
9
,
yGoogle
74 C HR Y S A L : OR, THE
4dangerous, if the furgeons do not make it fo !
4 Give me leave to put a plaifter to it, which I
4 always have in readinefs in the boufe, in cafe v
4 of .accidents, as gentlemen often quarrel for
4their women in their liquor; and Til engage
4 that it ihallgive you no further trouble. Many
4 a guinea h&tre I got by it; for, when any fuch
4 thing happens, 1 immediately flip on a full
4 trimmed fuit, a bag wig, and a fword, which
4 a furgeon gnee pawned to me for a debt of two
4guineas, anA up I go, do the job, take my
4 fee, and come away as good a furgeon a§ the
4 beft ! Never fear, Sir: Til infure you from
4 this fcratch.'
The confolation which this news gave the
Dodlor is not to be exprefled. He hugged and
killed his dear friend, till he made him in as
bloody a condition as himfelf, and in the joy of his
heart even forgave the caufe of his fears, who had
all this time counterfeited a fwoon. But M om usy -
who faw his fport with the Dodlor thus cut ihort,
foon brought her to herfelf; for taking a glafs of
brandy, as if to hold to her nofe, in the affedted
aukwardnefs of his hurry and confufion he fpilled
it all over her face, and then taking a bit of burnt
paper, to try what'that would do, he defignedly
negle&ed to blow it out, and fo, holding it to
her nofe, fet the brandy he had fpilled upon her -
face on fire. This inftantly awoke her from
her fwoon. She £hricked out, when he, in the
fame afFedted confufion, flung the bafon of
bloody water, in which the Dodfor’s wound had
been waihed, full in her face. This, indeed,
quenched the flame, but then it put her in a
condition as dirty and difagreeable as that of my
mailer or the Dodtor * the confrquence of which
was,
,
yGoogle
was, that the Doflor c&uld not refrain fromburn­
ing out a laughing. 4Well, my friend (('aid he,
4 talcing her by thehand) it is but juft that you
4 ihould ihare in the effects of your own rafhnefs.
4 But, let there be no more of it. We have both
4 been in fault perhaps; and fo let u$only be more
4 cautious for the future. What I have differed
4 was done ,by dfcfign, and had like to have been
4 attended w^th dreadful confequences ; yotir’s is
4 all acciden|aLand trifling.’— — *
While thFDodor was thi$ pioufly making
peace, my mailer was cleaning himlelf, and fetting
the ro$m £ 0 rights. Momus aflifted the Matron
to cram half a dozen napkins down her bofom,
to dry^Jie water- he had bathed her with, which
he performed with fo well a£ted an anxiety and
^care, that even ihewas decayed, and attributed
all .that had happened to her to |}is confufion;
.and beipg glad to get fo well off an affair that
might have ended fo much w$ife, ihe complied
with the Do6k>r’s advances to ^general reconci­
liation, and fo all things were' reftored to their
former harmony. As to the Do£tor’s wound,
by a ready prefence o f mind, he found away to
make an advantage of it, by telling his congrega-
• tion ne£t day, that he had received-it from fome
of Momusx$ gang, who had attempted to aifafli-
nate him, in revenge of the contempt into which
hfrhad brought their matter.
Matters being thus happily fettled, the reft of
the night was devoted to mirth, and concluded
with a fong in character by each of the com­
pany, of which M omus9
s was the moft humorous,
- my matter’s the grofleft, the Matron’s the loofeft,
and the Doctor’s the moft daringly profane; per­
haps to obliterate the remembrance of his late re­
E % 'ligious
ADVENTURES* OF A GUINEA. 75
,
yGoogle
76
ligious qualms. After this, the company broke
up, when the Db&or, having occafion for fome
money early in the morningr borrowed a cq^ple
of pieces from my matter, among which I was,
who lent them very unwillingly, and then re­
turned to bed to his bar-maid j for he had too
genteel notions of life to marry.
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P . XII.
The D o¿for pays a vijit to an ufeful frien d . The
myjiery o f controverjf H e waits upon her Grace
w ith a pious exhortation fo r her friend , £ hry-
s a l enters into the fervice o f her Grace. H er ,
disappointment in her vifit to the Prifon. H e r **
T H O U G H it was late when the company
broke up, my new matter, who never ne-
gle<Sed bufinefs for pleafure, did not forget the
Exhortation which he was to carry to her G race
the next morning. N ot that he was at the trouble
o f compoiing it himfelf j his time was too pre­
cious to be employed fo : the more important cares
o f his flock, which he could not entruft to any
other, as vifiting his great profelytes, receiving
and diftributjng charity, and his incedant exercife
of all the facerdotal fun&ions, fcarce allowed him
time for the neceflary refreihments of nature, and
would have been deemed an intolerable burthen,
had they been enjoined by the moft exprefs reve­
lation of the divine will, though ambition, avarice,
and the pleafure of deceit, made him undertake
them.
,
yGoogle
them voluntarily ; but ftill, to fecure to himfelf
every degree of religious merit, he kept a'm oft
laborious author, a degraded clergyman, in con-
ftant employment, whofe works he paffed upon
the publick for his own, when he did not immedi­
ately direft them againft himfelf.
T o this learned perfon, therefore, he went
upon the prefent occafion 5 and having him called
from a night cellar, where he was holding forth
on religion and politicks to a company of chair­
men, he told him his bufinefs, and defired him to
fet about it direflly. 4 Good God, Sir (faid the
4 author) this is a very unfeafonable time to fet
4 me upoirfuch a work. From five this morning,
4 tilldeven at night, have I laboured inceflantly;
4 and now, when I have juft ftepped out to take a
4 little neceflary refreftiment’ — 4 Refreihment!
4 (anfwered my mafter.) T ell me not of refreih-
4 ment, or any thing elfe ! Either do my bufinefs,
4 or fay you will n o t! I can get enough to under-
4 take it, and gladly too, for lefs than I give you/
4 — T h at is impoflible (replied the author) if
4 they are to live by i t ! 1 am fure what you give
4 me fcarce keeps me from ftarving !*------ 4Starv­
in g .! (returned my mafter.) So it appears, in-
4 deecf! when you this moment have been indulg-
4 ing in riot and luxury, and fmell fo ftrongof fpi- .
4 rituous liquors, that it is offenfive to fobriety to
4 ftand near you. I wonder you are not aihamed
4 to be guilty of fuch intemperance, it ill becomes
4 a man of morality and religion/— — 4 Sir, Sir !
4 (interrupted the author, provoked beyond his pa-
4 tience.) Have fome regard to truth and reafon
4 in what you fa y ; and look at home, before
* you accufe me of intemperance ! I laboured the
E 3 4 whole
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 77
,
yGoogle
c whole day, without any other refrcihment, or
4 fuflenance, than a mouthful of bread and cheefe,
4 and a draught of fmall beer; and now have had
c only a quartern of gin in a pint of warm por-
4 ter, to waih down half a pound of faufages, and
‘ you call this intemperance. If I may judge by
4 appearances, you have not fpent' your evening
* on fuch fare/— 4How I have fpent my evening
4 (returned my mailer, who, in lpite ofhimfelf,
4 felt thejuilice of the reproach) is nothing to the
4 purpofe ! I am anfwerable for what I do ! But
4 this manner of talking fignifies nothing !
4 have this Exhortation by eight in the morning !
4 It will not take you up much time ! You are
4 fufficiently pra&il’ed in the ilyle : the matter is
4 of little confequence ! If you choole to drink a
4 glafs of wine, here is half a crown, which l
4 make you a prefent o f! I would by no means
4 have you ilinted of any thing that is pro-
4 per.’ ----- 4 Sir (anfwered the author) 1 am
4 much obliged to you 1 I will take care that it
4 ihail be ready at the time. You are fenfible
4 that I never think much of any labour to ferve
4 you. I have finiihed all the pamphlets you
4 ordered, about the ballad-finger’s affair! Here
4 they are ! This is a letter from you to him,
4 that lays him flat ! 1 have quoted half the fa-.
4 thers of the church againft him !-------- Thefe
4 two are letters to you, upon the fubjecl ; one
4 as from a great lord, the other from a reverend
4 divine, fetting forth the great benefits of your
4 miniftry, and exposing the profanenefs and im-
4 morality of his ballad.----- This here is a filly
4 vindication of his ballad, in a letter to the au-
4 thor, from one of his ranting companions ; and
* 4 this
7« C M Y S A L i OR, THE
,
yGoogle
* this laft W an addtefs to the publick againft all
€ thofc irreligious and profane*amufements of b*l-
*
• lads, balls, routs, &c. This is a mailer-piece !
4 Y ou fee it is as from myfelf, if you do not
4 choofe to own it; though I do not know but it
•
4 may have more weight wi;h your enemies if it
$ appears as from another, bo you fee I have
c worked "hard to-day ; and now I believe we have
4 done with Mr. Mounts and his ballad/— 4 W h y
* aye! pretty well, 1 believe (faid my matter) —
* But hold, I have a thought juft come into my
4 head ! You muft know that the Parfon of the
4 parifh has fent for that reprobate, that M om us,
4 and ordered him to alter the tune of his ballad,
4 as it happened to have feveral of the fame notes
4 with the Pfalm tunes ! Now, as this is known,
4 what do you think of writing a letter to me, as
4 from the Parfon, fetting forth what he has done,
4 and infinuating that it was the diredlion of the
4 ’Squire ? This will clinch the affair! After fuch
4 an authority no one will dare to fay aword in its
4 behalf: befides, it will have a good look to be
c taken notice of by fuch people/— 4 That is true
4 (anfwered the author) it will be fo, and the Par-
4 fon’s notice ihall not be thrown away ! I’ll do
4 it to-morrow morning, as foon as 1 fend you
•
4 the Exhortation,’— My mailer then wiihed
him a good night, and left him to return to his
company, while he hrmfelf went dire&ly home*
to prepare for the duties of the next day.
He had fcarce flept oft' his debauch, when he
was called to chaunt his mattin fong; after which
he did not fail todifplay the wound in his temple,,
the occafion of which he promifed to unfold to his
congregation in the evening. This he did to raile
a curiofity that.ihould gather his whole fjock, to
^ £4 hear
*
. A d ^ n t u r e s of a g u i n e a . 79
,
yGoogle
So
hear fo extraordinary an affair, as he defigned to
propofe a fubfcription, when their paffions ihould
be warmed by fuchan horrid attempt upon their
paftor.
By the time he had finiihed this firft work o f
the day, ttae Exhortation was brought him from the
author, with whick he went diredly„to her Graqp.
He found her (unfafhionably early, as it was for
a perfon*ofher rank to be even up) drefled, and
waiting for him. 4 Pleafe your Grace (faid he) .
4 here is the Exhortation your Grace defired of pie,
4 and I pray Heaven it may prove fuccefsful! I am
4 afraid I have made your Grace wait, but I came
4 the moment I had finiihed the firft duties of the
4 morning. If your Grace pleafes, I will do my-
4 felf the honour to accompany your ,Grace ! Per-
4 haps my perfonal Exhortation and prayer may
4 have more effect ! M y M iniiiry has often been
4 blefled with aftoniihingiuccefe.’— 4I am fenfible
4 of that, Dod\or (anfwered her Grace) but this
4 unhappy man is of fuch arrange temper, that I
4 apprehend he might be guilty of fome '¿.St o f
* rafhnefs, that might be dangerous to your per-
c fon3 if you were to go to him without his con- .
4 fen t; and that I am much afraid 1 fhall hardly
4 obtain. N o longer ago ttian yefterday, near as
* the dreadful hour of his execution approaches,
* did I find him engaged at cards with his gaoler*'
4 and when I expoftulated with him on the danger
4 of trifling away his few remaining moments in
1 fo idle.a manner (for I was apprehenfive of ex-
4 afperating him if I fpoke with greater feverity)
4 he only fmiled, and anfwered me with a paflage
4 out of fome play.’— 4 Y es, pleafe your Grace .
4 (replied my mafter with a lifted eye, and a deep*
4 fetched groan) cards and plays are th? bane
' * 4 of
CHRYSALs OR, THE
,
yGoogle * 4
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 8
t
Fv. .
c t>f half th£ w#Hd : religion is quite negle&ed
4 for^tKem. T h e great work of reformation will
4
; never be completed till they are utterly abolifh-
4 ed. As your Grace does not think,it meet that
4 I fliould vifit this unfortunate gentleman in per-
4 fon, I am obedient^ to your G raced pleafure ;
4 however, I will oft^r up my prayers for him ;
4 and my (pint {hall ai#ft your Grace’s pious en-
4 deavours ! N ot that I fear what man can do
4 unto me : the angel of the Lord watcheth over
4 me,' or the ftroke that made this wound had
4 given me reft from my labours.’—
He then difplayed the mark of Mother B rim *
Jlone’ s rage, and told her Grace fomoving and cir~
cumftantial a ftory of his having been waylaid, and
attacked by fome of Mo?nus9s riotous companions,
that ihe implicitly believed hiiff, and fympathifed
in his fufferings. He then gave her the Exhorta­
tion which (he was to deliver to her unfortunate
couiin ; and feeing heruneafy at being obliged to
wait till the bank ihould be open, to get money to
diftribute among the poor wretches in the prifon,
he accommodated her Grace with change for a
twenty pound note, having (as he told her Grace)
juft fo much about higi, which he was carrying to
relieve a poor induftrious family in great diftrefs.*
It was a great pleafure to me that I changed
my fervice upon this occafion, as I was heartily
fick of my matter; though, from a view I took
of his,heart, I faw that I had not been witnefs to
halfthe myfl£ry of his iniquity.
JVfy new tftiftrefswent dire&ly to the prifon, to
her coufin, where ihe had a fufficient opportunity
for the exertion of her charity among his unhappy
fellow-prifoners, while ihe waited for his rifing,
which was not till very late, as he had fat up the
E 5 whole
yGoC *
whole night before, at his beloved“diverfipn of
¿ardrplaying. When at length, ihe got admit­
tance to him, her reception was far from being
worthy of the trouble ihe had taken, and the
piety of her intentions. He aiked her if ihe had
procured him a pardon ; and when ihe anfwered
in the negativ^ and aff^ed him.that all fuoh
hopes were va$?, he then told her that he would
difpenfe with the continuance of her vifit, and
the repetition of any more, and in a manner forced
her away, fcarce permitting her.to mention the
motive of her coming., O
r to enforce the Exhorta­
tion o f my late matter, which ihe with difficulty
perfuaded him to take, though, from the manner
of his receiving it, there was little probability of
his ever taking th£ trouble to read it.
My miftrefs, fw I had the good fortune to re­
main in her pofleifion, was fo ihocked at this
infenfibility, that ihe went dife&ly home, and
fought relief from the fplid comforts of religion,
pouring out her heart in unfeigned prayer for the
converfion of him, and every other objedt of the
divine diipleafure ; for though a mifguided fer­
vency of devotion had made her, in fomemeafure,
a dupe to the hypocritical zeal of my late matter,
nothing could lead her from the pureft tpaths of
true piety and virtue; nor did ihe fuffer the ex­
travagance of his pretended^nthufiafm fo far to
blind her better judgement, as to make her avoid
the entertainments frequented by perfons of her
fex and rank.
~ -*4*
8z C H R Y S A L : OR, T HE
C H A P,
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A ^GUINEA. *3
, C H A P. Xllh
*
H ijh ry o f a lady offaftnon. Defcription o f cr
rout, Chrysal ¿changes his jervice fo r that
* o f a lady o f enterprjfe, A bald Jlroke fo r _a
hujband- / * «
SHE, accordingly, went that afternoon to the-
-houfe of a lady of quality, where a great
concourfe of the beft copapany ufually afTembled
on fet invitations, to fpend the evening at the
favourite amufement of cards. The lady of the
houfe^was/yne of thofe children of fortune, who
rife by the mefrns that ruin thoufands. In her early
youth fhe had facrificed her viftue-ip vanity, and
yielded to the loofe deiires ofthe nobleman (he was
now married to, over whom her humble obliging
temper, and particularly her complaifant blindnefs
to his other amours, gained her fuch an afcend-
ancy, that in a fit of uncommon fondnefs he
made her his wife. But the method he took to
fecure himfelf the eafe and conveniences he en­
joyed with her, dire&ly overturned them ; for her
humility and complaifance were all feigned y and*
vthe neceility of counterfeiting them being thus re­
amoved, (he immediately affirmed all the import­
ance of her new character, and exerted the ufual
prerogatives of it in as high a manner as if (he
had never been in a meaner rank. The infatu­
ated hufband foon faw his error; but it was too*
late to remedy it he therefore is forced to com­
pound with her for the indulgence he defires, by
Submitting to let her gratify her paffion for vaiiir
‘ - £ 4 pomp*
iyGoogle
pomp"and expenftve ceremony, under the parade
of which fhe ftrives to hide her obfcure original,
as fhe attempts to obliterate the remembrance of
her fall from virtue by a moft rigid profefiyjn of
religion. Thus, her routs are the moft fplendid,
and difficult of accefs, of any in the town, no
perfon being invited but thofe of the firft*rank,
nor any who are not invited feeing admitted, be
their rank what it w ill; and ihe profeffes herfelf
a ftri£t follower of my late matter, in his moft
extravagant opinions, where they do^not imme­
diately interfere with her own vanity. '
It is impoffible to* convey any notion to you
of fuch a fcene as this, to which my miftrefs car­
ried me, it is fo different from that fphere in which
you have a&ed. Suppofe you fee feyeral hundred
people of bctth fexes, and of every age, dreffed
in all the profefion and elegance of expenfe, and
wearing diffipation and happinefs in their looks,
affembled together to fpend the evening in mu­
tual entertainment. This is the face of the pic­
ture; but turn the reverfe, and you fhall behold
a fet of people who have facrificed their real in­
tereft, and the peace of their, minds, to the gra­
tification of this, and fuch-like pleafure, and who
come purely to prey upon each other: accordingly,
the whole is one continued fcene of fharping, mu­
- tualdiftruft, envy, dander, and malevolence; the
very few, who like my miftrefs come there for
mere amufement, and are untainted with fuch
vices, being forced to fubmit in feeming acqui-
efcence to the torrent they are not able to ftem.
In the courfe of the evening, it was my fortune
often to change my fervice; but as the ftay J.
made with my momentary poffeffors was fo very
, ihort,
,
yGoogle
ihort, I fhall wave giving any account of them,
efpecially as the two moft remarkable of the fet,
and under whom all the reft who launch out of
the common road of life are in a great meafure
charaâerifed, have been fufficiently defcribed on
a former occafion, though the hiftories I read in
many of their hearts would afford much enter­
tainment, and haften to the lady in whofe pof-
feffion I left the company.
My new miftrefs was the young widow of a
perfonof great diftiuâion, who in the decline of
life had over-looked the difparity of age and rank,
and married her, folely to gratify his paffion for
her beauty. During the few years he lived, his
care and prudence kept hef indifcretion within
bounds, but as foon as that guard was removed,
ihe plunged into all the fafhionable follies of the
times, with a keennefs that courted ruin.
But, though ihe eagerly followed every purfuit
that bore the name of pleafure, vanity was the
ruling paffion of her heart. Thé rank into
which her huiband had lifted her placed her
upon a level, in point of fociety, with the beft
company, and •the fortune he left her was fuf-
ficient to fupport that rank. But ftill, as there
were many degrees above her, her heart pined
for precedency, and (he could not enjoy the ho­
nours (he had, while ihe was obliged to give place
to fo many.
She had formed a variety of fchemes to obtain
this delired object, but ftill without fuccefs. At
length, the very night I came into her poffeffion,
an accident fuggefted one to her, which ihe im­
mediately put into execution, with the moil fan-
guine hopes. There had been a nobleman of
the firft rank in the company, the weaknefs of;
- 1 ' ’ whofe
ADVEÈMyjRES OF A GUINEA. *5
,
yGoogle
« whofe reafon had obliged his friends to put him
under the government of a perfon to whofe fide­
lity they thought they could entruft fo impor­
tant a charge. As private misfortunes are always
an agreeable topick for publick converfation, aiv
elderly lady, who was acquainted with this noble­
man's family, entertained the company with fe-
veral melancholy inftances of his wcaknefs. M y
miftrefs regarded this,only asit was meant, as com­
mon chat, till fome time after, the nobleman hap­
pening to fix his eye with fome carneftnefs upon
her, a fudden thought da, ted into her mind, that,
if ihe could any way bring about a marriage with
him, all her dear views of ambition would be gra­
tified at once.
The moment this thought took pofleflion of
her head, it drove out every other. She loft
deal! She revoked ! She miffed reckoning her
honours ! In ihort, ihe was io abfc nt, that ihe-
was obliged to pretend a violent head-ach, and
leave the company. As foon as ihe got home
ihe went to bed, where ihe fpent the night in
forming numberlefs projects for accompliihing
herdefign; but ftill the account which the old
lady had given of the vigilance of the perfon to
whofe care the nobleman was entrufted diCon­
certed them all. At length ihe refolved to at­
tempt corrupting his fidelity, as ihe could not
expe£fc to elude his vigilance. * She had often
heard that the greateft honefty was not proof
againft a proper price, and her knowledge of her
own heart did not contradict that opinion. How­
ever, not to be too raih, nor betray her defign
before ihe had fome profpedt of fuccefs, ihe re­
folved to found the perfon, before ihe applied di-
*re<
5Uytohim.
• Accordingly,
8* CHRYSAL: OR, .4 1 H E
,
yGoogle
Accordingly, as Toon as (he got up, ihe wrote
him an-anonymous letter, letting him know, that
a perfon had a certain affair to propofe to him,
for his concurrence, in which he fliould receive
immediately a thousand guineas, and an annuity
of five hundred pounds a year, befide feveral
other confideruble advantages ; and that what he
was defired to do could be effected without any
poinble lofs, or danger, to himfelf. This letter
ihe fentbythe penny-poft, and defired thcanfwer
might be returned in the fame manner, under a
feigned direction, to the houfe of a perfon in whom
ihe confided. •
Such a letter neceflarily furprifed the gentle­
man to whom it was fent. Though the greatnefs
of the offer convinced him that fome extraordi­
nary piece of villainy was defigned, yet, as he
knew himfelf above temptation, he refolved to
humour the fcheme, till he fhould difcowr the
whole of it, for the honeft revenge of punifliing a
bafe attempt tofeduce him intodiihonefty. Ac­
cordingly, lie anfwered the letterdirectly in fuch;
terms as he imagined would tempt the writer to be
more explicit, expreffing his readinefs to embrace
any propofal that ihould be fo advantageous*
when he ihould be fatisfied that the perfon who
made it was able to perform it, and worthy of
his confidence.
This-bait took, as he defireij. My miftrefs,.
whofe eager imagination was too full of the de­
fired object to let her ufe anyv^aution, thought
her work done, and immediately wrote him an­
other letter, to which ihe figned her najne, and
in it explained her whole fcheme of marrying
the nobleman by his afliftance, :enforcing her
formeroffer,. by a promife of continuing him in
x the
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. «7
,
yGoogle
the agency of the eftate, or, rather indeed, of
iharing it with him, and deiiringto meet him that
evening, either at her houfe, or any other place he
pleafed, to confer upon proper means for bring­
ing it into immediate execution.
The gentleman was not a moment at a lofs
how to aft on fuch an occafion; he immedi­
ately waited upon the nobleman who was next
heir to his unhappy charge, and, fhowing both the
letters, deiired his direftions how to aft. Though
this nobleman was ftruck with horrourat apiece
of villainy that did fuch diihonour to the fex,
refpeft for the memory of the worthy man whofe
name ihe bore would not permit him to expofe
her to publick infult, however, to. prevent her
making the like attempt elfewhere, he refolved
_ to ihock her, by a perfonal deteftion: accord­
ingly, he made the gentleman write her word,
that it was improper for him to be feen going to
her houfe, but that, if ihe pleafed, he would meet
her, at eight that evening, at a certain tavern,
where ihe ihould enquire for him, by the name
of Mr. Trueman. Suchaprofpeft of immediate
fuccefs made herblind to every appearance of de­
ceit or danger, and, accordingly, ihe prepared to
attend the appointment, with the moft fanguine
expeftation.
. But his Lordihip had prepared a reception for
her which ihe never fufpefted. A litile before
the time he went to the tavern, with the gentle­
man, and fixing upon a room in which there
was a clofet large enough*for him and another
nobleman, whom he took with him, left word,
that, if any lady ihould enquire for Mr. Trueman,
ihe ihould be £old that he was above alone, and
the gentleman called down to her. As theyjudged,
88 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yG oogle
her impatierice brought her rather before the
time, when her imagined confederate ihowing
her up into the room, and placing her fo that
every word ihe faid might be heard in thé clofet,
he entered into a converfation with her, on the
fubjeft of their meeting,, in which he led her to
repeat her whole propofal, and by ftarting difficul­
ties, to enforce it with every iniquitous argument
in her power.
As foon as his Lordihip thought ihe had faid
enough, he iffued from his concealment, and,
*looking her full in the face, calmly thanked her
for the care (he was taking to preferve the noble
family of his relation, which ihe had whimfically
given as one of the reafons of her defiring this
marriage. It is impoffible to defcribe her fitua-
tion at the fight of this nobleman, whom ihe well
knew, as well as his intereft in defeating her de-
iign. AftoniAiment, ihame, and confufion, ftruck
her motionlefs and dumb. She was juft able to
turn her eye to her betrayer, and then fell in a
fwoon upon the floor. Such diftrefs naturally
foftened the refentment of the generous noble­
man to whom ilie had defigned fuch an injury :
he afliftçd toraife her from the ground, and having
with difficulty brought her to herfelf, inftead of
- aggravating her diftrefs by reproaches, mildly ad-
viledher todefift from fuch unjuftifiable fchemes,
and promifed her, that he would take no notice
of what had happened, if he found that her future
conduct merited fuch tendernefs. . •
This treatment had the wiihed effeâ. That
falfe fpirit, which would havebor’n her up againft
any feverity, funkbefore fuch unexpefted delicacy
and compafiion. She melted into aflood of tears;
and, unable too utter a word, fell upon her knees,
and
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. S?
*5. K
'■V
and kHTed the hand of the nobleman, in a rap»:
ture not to be exprefled; who immediately railed
her from the ground, and telling her, that he
imagined it muft be difagreeable to her to flay
there any longer, ordered a chair, and handed
her to it himfelf, with the utmoft politenefs and
refpe#.
Her fituation, when ihe got home, was truely
pitiable. The affurance of her late hopes doubled
the diftrefs of her difappointment, and the fear
pf ihame made the thought of her guilt into-
Jerable. She curfed her own folly, the perfidy of
her betrayer, and all the ways of faithlefs man ;
and, in the agony of her grief, refolved to leave
this detefted town next morning, and bury her-
felf for ever from the world, in her country-
feat.
This refolution fhe held in till next morning,
when fhe a&ualiy fet out for the country; but I
have reafon to believe it did not hold very long,
as I haveTrequently feen her fincein all publick
places, as gay and unconcerned as ever. As for
me, 1 was given to her coachman, to pay the
farrier who took care of her horfes ; but he
thought it more necefTary to give me, in payment
of adebt of his own, to a man who kept a beer-
houfe, who gave me to an attorney, to defend him
againfta profecution for entertaining a gang of
ftreet-robbers, and buying their booty. By the
attorney I was given, in the courfe of bufinefs,.
to a knight of the port, whofe evidence was to
acquit the the publican. From this confcientious
perfon, as he was on his way to a country-aiiifes,
where the lives of many depended on his good-'
nature, l was taken by a highwayman, who
C HR Y S H L r OR, T H E -
,yC^
loft me that evening to a nobleman, at a horfe- -
race.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 91
C H A P . XIV.
Chrysal, by a natural progreffton, comes into the
pofjsjjion o f a knight of the indujiry, who brings
him to a horfe-raa\ where he has an opportunity
o ffeeing a noble jockey praóìife part o f the myjìe-
rious fcience of the tu r f w ith other common oc~
currences. ’
IN the three or four laft changes of my fer-
vice there was nothing remarkable. The
progreilion was natural, and the events com­
mon : but Imuft òwn, I was a good deal fur-
prifed at feveral occurrences in my prefent fta-
tion, which were, in the proper courfe of things,
fo Arance and unaccountable, that the moil whim-
ficai devil could never have thought of them,
without information. '
The gentleman who had acquired me foeafily
on the road, and brought me to the meetings was
a native of a neighbouring nation, who, on the
credit of his ikiil in the myfterious fcience of
chance, fupported by a good (lock of aflurance
and perfonal courage, had coinè over to make his
fortune, in which deiign he had really fo far fuc-
cceded, that he had lived for feveral years in
the higheft life, and maintained the appearance of
the citate he talked of in his own country, by
the foie force of his genius, the fertility of which
was not confned to one refource ; but, when for­
tune frowned upon his labours at play, was
ways
,
yG oogle
9*
ways ready to redrefs the effefts of her malice,
by the method in which I came into his poffef-
fion. 1
The roads had been bad that morning, which
kept him a little later than ufual, fo that the
company were at the poft when hejoined them.
By their noife and appearance as we rode up to
them, I took them for a croud of their own fer-
vantsj their drefs being exa&ly the undrefs uni­
form of that party-coloured tribe; and every
voice being exerted with the fame vehemence,
and in the like ftyle of oaths and imprecations,
with which thofe gentry receive them, at the
door of a play-houfe or palace ; fo that I fcarce
knew how to believe my fenfes, when I recog-
nifedthe faces of feveral perfons of the moil ele­
vated ftaticn, and, particularly, moft of thofe
among whom I had fpent the evening I defcribed
to you at the club, on my firft coming to this part
of the world.
As foon as the bets were made9 and the noife
began to fubfide a little, my mailer prefTed through
the mob of pick-pockets, bubbles, lords, and
jockies, and came up to the poft juft as they were
preparing to fta r t, when calling to one of the
grooms, ‘ W ell, my‘lord’ (faid he.) *W ell, Jack,
4 (replied the other) where have you been all
c day ?’ This was all thedifcourfe they had time
for, the horfes going off that moment: but, on
the ftrength of this my mafter backed his lordihip
deeply.
It is impoffible to defcribe to you, who have
never fee|i any thing of the kind, a fceneof fuch
confufion as the field was during the running, the
whqW mob, high and low, riding headlong from,
plape to place, and driving againft each other,
•/
, without
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yG oogle
without any refpeCt to rank, or regard to fafety,
and roaring out their bets, and ihouting for joy,
at every viciflitude in the running. At length
the heat was ended, but fo contrary to my ma­
iler’s expectation, that he loft to a noble duke
who was in the fecret, not only all the fruits of
his morning’scampaign, but a large fum, befides,
more than he was able to pay him.
This was a fevere ftroke. He rode dire&ly up
to the poll, and addrefling the fame groom, juft as
he came out of the fca le s; c ’Sblood, my lord
« (faid he) how could you flin g m s fo\ I am quite
« broke up : his Grace has touched me for five
« hundred $ and the devil of the thing is, that I
« have been fo torn down by a bad run of late,
« that I am quite out of caih, and have not a ihil-
« ling to pay him.’-----* How could this be ? (re­
« plied the groom) did I not give you the w ord?
«But you are fuch a carelefs lbrf^of a bitch.’—
« The word with a vengeance (anfwered myma-
« fter) you returned myw//, but I have found it
« very ill.’— ‘ Aye, I gueffed it was fo (added
« the groom) you were ignorant that we were
* fmoaked, and found it neceffary to change the
« lay. Where the devil were you all this morn­
« ing ? Taking a ride, I fuppofe. You will never
« leave off, till thefe rides bring you a ride in a
« cart to Tyburn. But, keep out of his Grace’s
« way till the horfes ftart, and we will bring you
« homey I will engage. He-thinks he has all the
4 fecret, but he is miftaken this bout, and {hall
« pay for his enterance before we admit him to be
« one o f us.9 ■ - This difcourfe palled as they
were walking together to a booth, where the groom
was to ruby andfettle the next heat.
You
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 93
,
yG oogle
94 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
You are furprifed at this familiarity between
my mafter and the groom. When he firft ad^
drafted him by the title of, M y lord, 1 own I
thought it no more than a cant, which, in the
freedom of this intercourfe, where lords and lac-
quies are upon a level, is common : but what was
my aftoniihment at a nearer view, to fee that he
' really was the thing he was called ; and that a
laudable ambition of excelling in every, the
meaneft art, had induced him, and many others
of his rank, who were riding againft him, to take
the place of their fervants in this fatiguing and
dangerous employment; ennobling, by this con-
defcenfion, the moft abje<3 and vile offices with
the honours earned by the merit and virtues of
their anceftors. Strange ambition, at a
> time
when the intereft and glory of their country
called for their affiftance ! r
* x As foon as ^the noble groom and my mafter ‘
i i were alone, 4Now, 'Jack, what think you of my
* littlz jh m -o rfe? (fays his Lordihip.) You muft
4 know that I have meafured the foot of them
4 all in this heat, and find that I have the heels
4 by a dijlance at leaft; but the weights are above
4 my trim . However* we have a remedy for
4 that : look at this cap (taking one out of a
4 cheft, in which his running drefs had been
4 brought to the ground) this is a leadenJkull,
4 and weighs above twoJlun\ put this on your
4 head, the thicknefs of your own ikull will pre-
4 vent its giving you the head-ach: aye, it fits
4 you very well. Now, I will wear this to the
4 poft, and, juft before we ftart, complain that
4 my cap is too wide, and borrow your’s to ride
4 in ; and then when I alight at thefcales, after
4 the heat is over, I will pull off your’s, as if to
- 4 wipe
iyGc. le
*- wipe my face, and give it you to hold, who
4 can return me this, to weigh in, and as I wear
4 the fame truffes, fluffed with handkerchiefs, in
4 which I carried the weight laft heat, they will
4 never fufpedt us.----- Ha, Jack, what fay you to
4 this ! match me this, among all your H iber-
4 nian tricks, ifyoucan. Go your way! double
4 with his Grace, andlay all you can, V l\go with
4 you 5 but be fure to meet me at the poft be-
4 fore, and at the fcales after the heat, and not
4 to blow the bufinefs, by being in too great a
4 hurry.’
I fee you wonder how his Lordihip ihould put
fuch confidence in my mailer, as he feemed to
know him fo well ; but the truth was, .my maf-
ter’s character for courage was fo well eftabliihed,
that it bore him through things every day of his
Jife, unconvidted at leaft, if not unfufpedted, for
which a more ttfrrorous villain would have been
pilloried: ah<Ì' this made the other think him the
fafeftperfon to entruft with the execution of fuch
a fcheme, as no one would dare to attempt exa­
mining the cap, or prevent his reaching it to
his lordfhip.— —The fineffe fucceeded; his lord-
fhip beat every tail hollow; and my matter not
only cleared #ith his Grace, but alfo won con­
siderably for himfelf, and his confederate befides.
Things were carried on in thè fame genteel
rimaner for the remainder of the meeting, at
which there was a vaft concourfe of the beft com­
pany, the weather being very delicate, the turf
in choice order, and the fport very fine, and fo
Fair that the knowing ones were all taken in ; and, to
make the pleafure complete, though the croud
was fo great, there was no unlucky accident hap­
pened, except to two of the noble grooms, one
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ‘ 95
,
yG oogle
SS
of whom was bor*n down in the crojjing by
the fuperior ftrength of a fervant, who rode
againft him, and flipped his fhoulder; and the
other broke his neck, by his horfe’s falling in
the running.
It was on a fporting bet, on one of the by
matches, that I was loft that evening, to the no­
bleman, as I faid, in whofe pofleffion I happened
to remain to the end of the meeting. The next
morning after my new matter’s return to Lon­
don he went to pay his court to the heir of
the crown, who was then at one of his country-
feats. -
CHRYSALs OR, THE
C H A P. XV. .
C h r y s a l ’ s mafler pays his court to a great perfon,
whoJeem s not much to relifl) his humour, and ex-
prejjes fome unfajhionable fentiments concerning
polite pleafures. In the courfe o f a regular
circulation, C h r y s a l comes into the poffef-
flo n o f am inifler o f fla te, who refufes afriendly
offer fo r very odd reafons. H is Jirange notions
c f fome affairs.
SO M E publick occafion h^id brought a con-
courfe more than ufual in thofe retirements,
to pay their duty to the prince that morning. As
my matter was one of the laft who came, as foon
as his devoirs were ended, fome of the company
accidentally afked him, what had kept him fo
late ; on which, with an eafy air of pleafantry,
he anfwered aloud, that 4He had been detained
4 by a very whimlical affair: a certain nobleman
4 (faid
,
yGoogle
4 (faid he) went into company laft night fo im~
4 menfely drunk, that having fet in to play, and loft
4 five thoufand pounds, he quite forgot it this
4 morning, and refufed to pay the money, till
4 fome perfon of honour, who was unconcerned
* in the matter, ihould vouch his having loft it
4 fairly ; on which it was referred to me, andforry
4 I am, that I was qualified to give it againft
4 him.’-----4 Howi my lord, by being a perfon
4 of honour !’ (fays the gentleman he fpoke to.)—
4 No (replied my mafter, with a fignificant
4 fmile) not fo neither, but by being unconcerned
4 in winning it.* — And then, turning ihort to
another, 4 But have you heard the news, my lord ?
4 (faid he.) M r.----- - caught his wife yefterday
4 taking a ferious walk in Kenfington-gardens,
4 with the gentleman Whom we all know he for-
4 bade her keeping company with fome time ago/
----- A fmile of general approbation encouraged
him fo much, that he concluded with faying, 4He
4 wiihed he had himfelf been the happy delinquent
4 fo taken, as he doubted not but the graveft
4
' biihop on the bench would, were he to fpeak
4 his mind honeftly/ .
The Prince had heard him without interrupt *
tion ; but as foon as he had ended, turning to a
nobleman who flood near him, 4 There can be
no greater infult (faid he, with a determined
4^5ook and folemn accent) to a perfon who is ap-
4 pointed to put the laws of a country in execu-
4 tion, than for any one to boaft of a breach of
4 thofe in his prefence. For my part, if I am
4 ever called by Providence to that ftation, it is
4 my invariable refolution, that no man, how ex-
4 alted foever in rank, who lives in open violation
4 of any law, human or divine, ihall ever hold
V ol. II. F 4 employ-
ADVENTURES OF A OUINEA. 9
T
,
yG oogle
C HR Y SAL-. OR, TH E
M
4 employment under me, or receive countenance
4 from me.’
This rebuke damped my mailer’s fpirits, as it
ftruck a reverential awe into all prefent. He
hung down his head, and in a few moments with­
drew, quite abaihed. But he foon recovered ; and
to filence the jefts of his companions, and fhow
that he was not to be brow-beat out of his own
way, he made one with them to fpend the even­
ing at a brothel-tavern, where he gave me to a
pimp, who gave me to a whore, who gave me to a
bully, who gave me to a pawn-broker, who gave
me to a beau, who gave me to a tavern-keeper,
who paid me into the bank, from whence i was
fent, in the change of a note, to the firft minifter
of ftate.
The notion I had hitherto entertained of hu­
man politicks made me enter into this fervice with
relu&ance ; but my prejudice was foon remov­
ed. My new matter was juft coming from his
clofet when I was delivered to him : he ftopped
to count the money, then putting it into his purfe,
and turning to a clerk, who followed him with
a huge bag of papers in his hand-------- 4 I
4 mutt have all thefe finilhed againft morning
4 (faid he) that I may be able*to read them over,
4 before they are figned. I know they are a
4 great many, but thebufinefs requires defpatch;
4 and diligence and method overcome the great-
4 eft difficulties.’ ----Saying this, he went into
hisydrawing-room, which was filled with feveral
of the moft eminent members of the community,
who came, fome to eonfult, fome to advife (for
he refufed not the advice of the meaneft) and
all to congratulate him on the fucoefs of his mea-
fures.— When the bufinefs and formality of this
fcene
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 9*
fcenc were over, the company withdrew, all but
one gentleman, who defired fome private conver-
fation with my mailer. As foon as they were
alone, 4 I have done myfelf the honour to wait
4 upon you this morning (faid the gentleman) to
4 inform you, that there is a vacancy in my bo-
c rough, and to know whom you would have me
4 return ; for, as I fee that all your meafures are
4 evidently calculated for the good of your coun-
4 try, I am determined to fupport you.’
4 I am much obliged to your good opinion
4 (anfwered my mailer j) but I am refolved never
4 to interfere in matters of this nature, nor to at-
4 tempt influencing the ele&ion or vote of any
4 perfon by any other means than reafon : all,
4 therefore, that I have to afk is, that you will
4‘return an honeft man; while he approves of
4 my conduit he will certainly fupport me, and
4 no longer do I wiih to be fupported/
4 What, Sir! (replied the gentleman inaftonifli-
4 ment) not defire to have your friends returned !
4 W hy, Sir, is it poflible that you can be a ftraiv*
4 ger to the intrigues that are forming againil you,
4 by a faition, who, when* they had reduced the
4 ilate to a mere wrecks like a cowardly, mutinous
4 crew, flew in the face of their mailer, took the
4 boat, and made their efcape to fliore; and now,
4 when you have not only brought her fafe into
4 harbour, but alfo fitted her out for another
4 voyage, with every profpeil of fuccefs, are ca-
4 balling to undermine, and turn you away from
4 the helm : not that they even pretend to arraign
4 your conduit or (kill, but juft that they may
4 have the pillaging the fruits of your labours. As
4 this, Sir, is notorioufly the cafe, you mufl ex-
4 cufe the warmth of my honeft zeal when I tell
F 2 4 you,
,
yGoogle
100 C H R Y S A L : OR, T HE
* you, that I think you mull be guilty of very
4 ftrange, very blameable remifTnefst if you ne­
* gle£t any poffible method of difappointing their
* pernicious defigns.’
' 4 My friend (returned my mailer) I am too
4 fenfible of the truth of all you fay, but hope
4 there is no neceility for my having recourfe to
4 methods which my ffc|ii dilapproves* Without
* the afliftance of anyYuch did I (to purfue your
4 mode of fpeech) nrft point out to our mailer,
4 and the reft of thefhip’s company, the errors in
4 their fleering, the rocks they were ready to run
4 upon, and the way to avoid them. W ithout,
4 any fuch did I take the helm in that dangerous
4 time, when they fled from the wreck, and
4 worked her out of the breakers they left her
4 among ; and without any fuch will I fupport
. 4 my place at the helm, or refign i t ; for, in my
4 opinion, no end can juftify improper means.
4 Shall I own to you, my friend, that your offer
4 gives me pain ? Do not miftake me : I am
4 fincerely obliged to you for that good opinion
4 which didated it to your honeft heart; but the
4 truth is, that any member of the *' * '
4 proves fuch a degeneracy in our conllitution,
4 as threatens its overthrow in the end. A par-
4 liament ihould be a reprefentation of the people;
4 but how can it be faid to be that, if the people
4 are not at liberty to choofe whom they pleafe
4 to reprefcnt them f Belides, fuch a manner of
4 nominating difappoints the end, as well as it
v 4 deftroys the cHence of a parliament; as it is too
4 probaole that the nominator ihall ftipulatecon-
4 ditioris with his member, that may not only take
4 away the power of his voting according to the
4 having the power of making
4 didates
Digitized by G oogle
4 diftafes of his judgement and confcience, but
4 alfo enjoin fuch as may be direftly oppofite to
c both, and injurious, if not deftruftive, to that
* country, which he thus nominally reprefents. A
4 parliament, therefore, to befr e e , ihould befreely
4 chofen, no man having it in his power to do
4 more than give his own vote $ and fuch a par-
4 liament, to keep up to the excellence of its na-
4 ture in its firft inftitution, ihould not continue
4 longer than one fellion, but a hew one be called
4 as often as the occaiions of the ftate ihould re-
4 quire it, once in every year at leaft, for fo often
4 does the intereft of a nation demand that its
4 guardians ihould meet Such a parliament, fen-
4 fible of the ihortnefs of the duration, ancLna-
4 ture of the tenure of their power, would take
4 care never to aft againft the intereft of their
4 conftituents \ or, if human frailty ihould err,
4 their time would be too ihort toeftabliih the evil,
4 and, as it would be impolfible for them to be
4 chofen again, the next parliamenfwould remedy
4 the mifchief.— Such ihould aBritiih parliament
4 be ! Such I hope it will be ! It is every honeft
4 Briton’s duty to hope fo ! and not only that,
4 but to endeavour to make it fo ! Not ihall any
4 aft of mine ever feem to countenance a praftice
4 that contradifts this principle. By fpeaking and
4 afting in ftrift conformity to the diftates of my
4 judgement and confcience, have I hitherto fuc-
4 ceeded, contrary to the apprehenlions of many,
4 beyond the expeftations, of a ll; and the fame
4 means, and none other, will I ever purfue.*—
4 Heaven blefs your pious intentions !’ (faid the
gentleman, taking his hand, and killingit in a rap­
ture, tears of joy running down his face.) 4 Hea-
4 ven will\blefs them. Happy fovereign in fuch a
F 3 4 fervantj
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, ids,.
,
yGoogle
102 C H R Y S A L : OR, T H E
4 fervant! Happy Britain in fuch a guardian !’—
Saying this, he took his leave of my mailer, who
went diredtly to wait upon his.
C H A P . XVI.
C h r y s a l ’ j fentiments o f his majler's majler, who
gives a remarkable reafon fo r his approbation o f
' his m inifieds meafures and manner o f doing bu-
ftnefs. The minijler*s charge to a general, on
appointing him to a command. C h r y s a l enters
into the fervice o f the general. Conflict between
m aternal tendernefs and glory, in which the latter
is triumphant. Strange advice from a mother to
her fon .
TH E firft view of this auguft perfon ftruck
me witR a reverence which I had never
felt for man before. Man may be deceived in
the looks of man; but we fee through all dif-
fuife, and read the real'chara&er, in the heart.
[oneft, benevolent, and humane, the focial vir­
tues brightened the royal in his breaft.— 4Sire !*
(faid my matter, addreffeng him with the moft re-
fpe£tful fincerity) 4here are the defpatches which
4 you ordered me to draw up yefterday. Since I
4 had the honour of your commands then, I have
4 received fome further intelligence, that confirms
4 the juftice of your refolutions. Difappointed,
4 but not deterred by the repulfe which theyjuftly
4 met with from you, thofe people have the con-
4 fidence to make a new attempt, and think to
4 obtain
,
yGoogle
4 obtain by menaces what Wasrefufed to their in-
4 treaties ; but the event will convince them, that
4 it is more difficult to a generous mind to deny
4 the fuppliant, than repulfe the infolent. Strong
4 in the natural ftrength of your dominions, and
4 ftronger in the love of your people, you are
4 able to affert your own caufe againft all the
4 powers of the world, on that element which
4 nature has pointed out for the fcene of your
4 triumphs ; nor will you permit any other to in-
4 terfere with you on it. All you require is a
4 neutrality, where you are intitled to affiftance.
• This ihows your confidence in your own
4 ftrength, and your contempt of them. But
4 even this contempt will not overlook any dif-
4 refpe& to yourfelf, any partiality to your ene-
4 mies. Let them either behave themfelves as
4 friends, or profefs themfelves foes.------— This
4 choice is indifferent to you. As to their com­
4 plaints, their own unjuft actions are the caufe
4 of them ; and, when this is removed, they will
4 ceafe of courfe. T ill then, to feek a remiffiort
4 of the punifhment, and ftili perfift in the crime,
4 is an infult upon juftice and mercy; and for
4 their menaces, they are beneath the notice of
4 an anfwer.’
4 Be it fo,’ (replied the reverend monarch, the
indignation of his honeft heart flaihing from hiS
eyes) 4 be it fo : you fpeak the fentiments of my
4 foul.*--------Then turning to a favoured fub-
je<3:, who flood near him, 4 It is a pleafure ttf
4 me to tranfadt bufinefs with this man (conti-i
4 nuedhe;) he makes me underftand him, and
4 does not perplex my foul with a vain maze of
4 timorous wiles, but fpeaks and adts with operf
4 honefty and bolducis/----- The honour of thii
F 4 teftimony
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 10%
,
yGoogle
CHRYSAL* OR, THE
teftimony warmed the heart of my mailer with
a joy that overpaid his labours, and added new
fire to the affiduity of his foul. As foon as he
went home, ,he found a perfon waiting for him,
whom he had appointed to meet him, on an affair
of the greateft importance.----- c I have fent for
4 you, my friend (faid my mailer) on an oc-
4 cafion, which, I am fenfible, will give joy to
4 your heart. You are to command a feparate
4 body of the troops, which have been fent to pro-
4 fecute this neceffary and juft war in America,
4 I need not put myfelf, nor you, to the pain of
4 repeating the caules of the mameful inaâivity,
4 to give it no fevérer name, by which this war has
4 been drawn into fuch a length : you know, and
4 will avoid them. You will not wear out op-
4 portunity, in making unneceflary preparations
4 for improbable occafions ; you will not damp the
4 ardour of your foldiers by delay, nor prolong a
4 burthenfome war, to enrich yourfelf with the
* fpoils of your country. You are young, aitive,
4 and brave : fuch ar commander only do Britiih
4 foldiers want, to lead them to victory. You
4 have no fenior, no fuperior here, toreftrain the
4 efforts of your fpirit by timid caution ; at the
* fame time that your judgement will fupply thé
4 place of experience, and prevent your falling
4 info the misfortunes which feif-fufficient, bru­
* tal rafhnefs has made fo fatal toothers. Your
4 inftruâions are comprifed in a few words—
4 Mâke thebeftufeyourj udgement ihall direct you
4 of the forces entruftçd to your command, to de-
4 fend the property, and avenge the wrongs of
* your fellow-fubjeéts ; and to vindicate the ho­
* nour of this abufed nation.----- 1know whom I
* fpeak to, and therefore I fay no more. Proceed,
* tny
,
yGoogle
Ad v e n t u r e s x>f a g u in e a . to5
4 my friend, my foldierj anfwer my expedations,
4 and you will fulfil the wifhes of your country*’
— ■Saying thus, he embraced him. tenderly $
and as he went with him to the door, happen­
ing to look into the ftreet, he faw a number o f
difabled foldiers, who had placed themfelves be­
fore his window, to foilicit relief for their mi-
feries.-------4 O , my friend! (continued he, grafp-
4 ing his hand) behold thofe vidims of the un-
4 juft ambition of that enemy againft whom you.
4 go ; and let the fight add the wings of an eagle
4 to your hafte, to tear down a power which has
4 been thus fatal to fomany of your brave country-.
4 men, to prevent any more from fufiering the
4 like evils, from the fame caufe. The man who
4 does not life, to the left advantage, the means en-
4 trujied to him by his country to defray its enemiesy
4 is guilty of all the evils which thofe enemies may
4 afterwards do to his country,-------Shall I beg a’
4 favour of my friend ? Diftribute this monejr
4 {giving him a handful of guineas) among thole
4 men, as from yourfelf. I f it is not enough to
4 give each a guinea, I will be your debtor for
4 what is wanting; if it is more, keep the re-
4 fidue in your hands, to apply to the fame ufe
4 on the firft occafion you meet. This much w ill
4 relieve their real wants, and more might only
4 tempt them to excefs* The invidioufnefs of my
4 ftation makes it improper for me to do event
4 an ad of virtue, which may be miftaken for;
4 oftentation. Adieu, my friend. Heaven guard.
4 you in the day of battle, and guide your fword
4 to vidory.’
I here quitted the fervice of this great man**
the instances of whofe condud, which I have
• F 5 given»'
. )ogle
I
given, make any further chara&er of him unne-
ceflary.
The regard with which the minifter had ad-
dreffed himfelf to my prefent matter raifed my
curiofity to take an immediate view of his heart,
as I knew not but that I might leave his pofleffion
dire&Iy: but my fears were agreeably difappointed ;
for the number of guineas given to him by my
matter exceeding that of the objefts to whom we
were to be diftriouted, it fell to my lot to remain
a little longer with him. -
The honour of his new command, and the con­
fidence with which it was entrufted to him, warm­
ed his heart with the nroft exalted joy. He exe­
cuted his charitable commiflion, and then went
dire&ly home, where, bending his knee to his
beloved mother, and killing her hand in rapture,
* O , madam ! (faid he) congratulate your happy
€ fon. M y prayers at length are heard • and I
4 am Wetted with an opportunity of proving to
4 the world my attachment to the fervice, my ar­
* dour for the glory of my country. I am ho-
4 noured with a feparate command in America,
4 where Heaven fires my foul with an aflurance,
4 that I ihall have the happinefs of cruihing the
4 injurious power of our enemies in the very
4 place where it firft attacked my country; where
4 it has too long triumphed in its wrongs.’
, 4 Heaven blefs my fon,’ (replied the matron,
as foon as a guih of tears of joy and tendernefs
permitted her tofpeak.) 4 Heaven guard myJon,
4 and blefs his pious hopes. Let me only live
4 to fee him return with the honour of having v
4 done his duty, and I ihall die contented. But
4 why do I fay this, as if my heart felt a doubt.
** for hftn ? M y fon will never fail to do his duty;
5 4 he
x«6 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
he w ill never fall from the paths ofhonour, how­
ever dangerous, nor feek to colour over with
fpecious arguments the lofs of his honour. He
will not make his mother afhamed of having
bor’n him, nor bring her grey hairs with dif-
grace and forrow to the grave. I know the
inftru&ions which have formed his youth ; I
know the principles of his heart; I know my
own blood better.— But, O my fon ! remember
alfo, that prudence didinguilhes true courage
from rafhnefs ; that your country has now a
peculiar intereft in your life; and that you be­
tray its truft, if you lofc it by any unneceiTary
boldnefs. Remember your aged mother, who
hangs weeping over her grave till you return.
Remember your’----------
* O , my mother, no more ! Recal not ideas,
which myprefent fituation requires me to forget.
Fear hot; your fon will not be a difgrace to the
honed race from which he isYprung. He will
do his duty as a foldier, a Britiih folder, and
as a man fenfible of the obligations of reafon
and religion. Whether I (hall ever have the
happinefs of killing this hand again is only
known to Heaven; but it is in my power to pro-
mife, that the name of your fon fhall never raife
a bluih in the face of his mother, nor his
a&ions require the palliation of excufe from his
friends. I f life is tobe ihort, let it be well filled :
one day of glory is better than an age of idlenefs
of diihonour. Adieu, my mother ; your blef-
fing is a ihield to the head, a fupport to the foul
of your fon ; one tender parting more, and then
my heart mud be refigned to other cares.’—
„Bsayenblefs! Heaven guardmyfon!’ And then,
^ F 6 as
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 1*0
7
,
yGoogle
as he went from her, c O Glory, what a tribute
4doft thou exa& from wretched mortals !’
My matter paufed a moment to wipe away the
pious tear which filial duty owed to fuch a part­
ing, and then hatted to another fcene of equal
tendernefs. ,
Mutual merit had improved the inftin&ive liking
of youth between my matter and a young lady,
whofe elevated rank and large fortune were her
leaft recommendations, into the ftrongeft attach­
ment of real love. As reafon could make no ob-
je<ftion on either fide, parental approbation gave its
ianftion to their happy choice, and hadencouraged
Virgin timidity to appoint the day that was to teal
their blifs. Hard taik upon a favoured lover to
communicate to the chofen of his foul the order
which was to damp rifing expe&ation, by this
delay ; and tear him from the inftant hope of that
happinefs which he had fo long been fuing for.
But honour, and the fervice of his country, de­
manded this fiery trial, to prepare him for that
height of glory to which his foul afpired.
i*l C H R Y S A L : OR, THE
CHAP«
,
yG oogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. io>
C H A P . XVII.
Another fcene o f tendernefs. Love and honour in the
old-fajhioned, romantick Jlyle. C hrysal quits
the fervice o f the general, and, after fome fe w
common changes, enters into that o f honejl Am i-
nadab. Conclujion o f AminadaVs agency fo r her
Grace.
AS foon as he had recovered from the foft-
nefs into which his mother’s tendernefs
had melted him, he went dire&ly to his miftrefs.
She received him with the freedom proper in
their prefent fituation, but fopn perceived an al­
teration in his countenance, that lhowed her his
heart was not at eafe. This alarmed her tender
fears:4What (faid ihe, looking earneftly at him)
4 can make a troubled gloom overcaft that face,
4 where hope and happinefs have, for fome time,
4 brightened every fmile! Can any thing have hap-
4 pened to diiiurb the profpeft fo pleafing to us!
4 Can you feel a grief that you think me unworthy
4 or unable to (hare with you! It muft be fo i
4 that faint, that laboured fmile betrays the fick-
4 nefs of your heart.’
4 O deareft wiih of that heart,’ (replied he*
taking her hand, and killing it in extafy) 4how
4 {hall I merit fuch perfeftion! It is impoffible:
4 I am unworthy: but let my foul thank Heaven
4 for bleffing it with this opportunity of riling
* nearerto alevel with your virtues y a hope that
4 will
,
yG oogle
O CHRYSALî OR, THE
«
will foften the feverity of abfence, and makethe
delay of happinefs feem ihorter.>
4 W hat canfl thou mean (faid ihe, a jealous
doubt alarming her delicacy)— c Delay— I un­
der¡land thee not-*-— I urge not *----- * Miftake
not, O my love, the inconfiftencies which an-
guiih extorts from my bleeding heart.------ How
can I fay it !------ O ur happinefs is delayed------
delayed but to be more exalted.— Honour, the
fervice of my country, call’--- ^ A nd am I to
he le ft?9---- -4 But for a time, a little time, the
pain of which ihall be overpaid by the joy of
meeting never to part again.-----O fpare my
heart, reftrain thofe tears ; I am not worthy, I
am not proof to fuch a trial.— The intereft, the
glory of my country demand my fervice, and my
gracious mafter has honoured me with a dation,
in which my endeavours may be effeétual toac-
complifh his commands—-— nay, muft be effec­
tual, where love urges duty, where you are the
ineftimable reward.’----- 4I f that reward is a ll
youfeek, why do you flyfrom i t ? M y fortune is
amply fujflcient ! £htit then the dangerous paths o f
ambition, and let us retire, and feek true happinefs
in content.’-----* O fpare my ftrugglinjg heart ;
what can, ihall I do !— The tryal is too great'
for human fortitude! A H
ift me, glory! help,
O my country! fupport me through this conflict,
and I ihall triumph over every other difficulty*
and danger. I go, my love, but to deferve
thee:— ’ Go ! go / and Heaven guidé and guard
yourfleps /’ (waving her hand, and turning from
lim to hide her tears.) I Jhàll no longer flruggle
w ith the facred impuife that leads you on to glory, ^
— Then turning to him, 4B u ty remember how you
leave me /— T hink what I feel till you return !
4- W hat
)ogk
c — W hat mufl I be, Jhould’ — — •The horrour
of this thought made her unable to fay more: he
flew into her arms, and mingling his tears with
her’s, as her head reclined upon his bofom, in the
tendernefs of a chafte embrace, 4This is too
4 much (Taid he ;) this is too much! ----1 never
4 can repay thisexcefsofgoodnefs.’— Then break­
ing from her arms, in a kind of enthufiafm.—
4 Heaven^gives rtiy foul (continued he) this fore-
4 tafte of happinefs, as an earneft of fuccefs : I go
4 to certain vi£lory: the prayers of angels muft
4 prevail.’----- Saying thefe words, he rufhed out
of the room, leaving her half dead with grief. Nor
was be in a much happier ftate: the thought of
parting from her damping the ardour that had
enabled him to give that proof of his refolution,
and obliging nature to pay the tribute of a flood of *
tears to fuch a facrifice.
But glory and the intereft of his country foon
diflipated this cloud; and his mind, freed from the
dread of fuch painful fcenesof tendernefs, refumed
its wonted vigour, and entered upon the cares of
his great undertaking with the moft indefatigable
afliduity. But I continued not.in his pofleflion to
fee the effe&s of thefe cares ; fuch objects as I
wasdefigned for occurred too frequently, to the
firft of whom it fell to my lot to be given. I told.
you: that I took a view of his heart. Never was
honour more firmly eftabliflied on the principles
of virtue than there. To fele<Sf any one inftance
would beinjuftice to the reft. All was uniformly
great and good.
My next mailer was one of the pillars of mi­
litary glory, who had contributed a leg, an arm,
and the fcalp of his.head to raife the trophies *
of the French in America. Though he was d.e-
ftitute
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. m
,
yGoogle
m CHRYSALî OR, THE
ftitute of almoft every comfort which nature really
Hands in need of, his firft care, on the acquifition
of fuch a treafure as 1 was to him, was to gra­
tify the artificial wants of luxury. He went di-
re£Uy to a gin-fhop, where he changed me for a '
quartern of that liquid fire; thetafte of which was
too pleafing to his palate, and the warmth too
comfortable to his heart, for him to be fatisfied
with fo little. Quartern followed quartern, till
every fenfe was intoxicated, and he fell dead drunk
on the floor, when his good-natured hoft had him
kindly laid to fleep off his debauch on the next
dunghill, firft taking care to prevent his fellow-
inhabitants of the ftreets from robbing himof the
reft of his treafure, by picking his pocket of it
hlmfelf.— The fcenes 1faw in this fervice were all
of the fame kind, but I was foon relieved from the
pain of them, my matter giving me as a prefent to
an officer of the cuftoms that very night.----- By
this faithful fteward of the publick, I was next
morning given to thefaflor to a gang of fmugglers,
to be laid out for him in lace in Flanders, whither
he was juft going on the affairs of his profeflion*
With this induftrious trader I went as far as H a r-
w icb, where, while they waited for the tide, he
loft me, at a game of cribbage, to a perfon who
was going over with him.
My new mafter was hcnejl Jm inddah, her
Grace’s agent, whom I have mentioned to yoi*
before. As foon as they had done playing, my
matter took a walk upon the beach with a per­
fon who ftrongly refembled hfm, and whom I
found to be his fon. 4 I wifh (faid the father)
4 that we were fafe at our journey’s end; for,
4 though I have planned matters fo well that I
4 think there can be no danger, the immenfe con-
4 fequenc*
,
yG oogle
* fequence at ftake muft make me anxious.’— —
* I do not underftand you (replied the fon:} I
4 thought this was but fuch a journey as I have
c often known you take, and that you were going
* no farther than Holland, on fome bufinefs of
4 her Grace’s . 4 She thinks fo indeed (re-
4 turned the father ;) nor would I have her think
4 otherwifeas yet: but I do not defignever to fee
4 hei; face more. 1 am now, my fon, arrived at
4 theheight ofmy wiihes,being poiTeffedof wealth
4 beyondmy moft fanguine hopes. Foryoumuft
4 know, that having gained the confidence of this
4 woman by many íervices, I at length fuggefted
4 it to her, that the beft way for her to make the
4 moft profit of the great wealth ihe had amaffed,
4 would be to fend it to Holland, by fome trufty
4 perfon, who ihould bring it over again from
4 thence, to fave appearances, and fubfcribe it
4 here, in fome fi&itious name, to the fupplies
4 given for the defenfe of Germany, now that her’s,
4 and the intrigues of fome other great perfons, ,
4 had baffled the fchemes of ceconomy which
4 the managers had attempted in vain to eftabliih,
4 and obliged them to come into our own terms,
4 -------- She took the hint, for it was a moft
4 plaufible one, and immediately infilled that I
4 ihould negocíate the affair for her, giving me
4 one hundred thoufand pounds for that pur-
4 pofe.
4 This was what I wanted, and had been al-
4 ways fcheming for, having ever remitted my
4 money, as fail as I could make any, into H oi- ,
4 land) that I might be abletofeife fuch an happy
4 opportunity as this, at a moment’s warning.
— -----4 B u t you cannot think, fa th er, o fflaying in
4 Hol-
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 113
,
yG oogle
4 H o l l a n d . Y ou w ill be immediately purfued
4 thither.’------c In Holland, fool ! no, nor in the
4 fmoke of Europe at a ll! I dcfign to fet out for
4 Africa without a moment’s lofs ; and hope to be
4 far enough out of her reach', or that of any Chri-
4 ftian power, before ihe can fufpedt any thing of
4 my flight. And it will heighten the pleafureof
4 my fuccefs, to think, that, while I am failing to
4 a land of circumcifion, ihe will fit in anxious
4 expe£tation of my return.’
4 B ut) fa th er, is it not injujlice to deceive her
4 confidence, and rob her o f j'o great a fu m o f
4 money ?*
4 Injuftice, fool! injuftice to a Chriftian! Say
4 fuch another word and I difcard you, difclaitn
4 you for ever! Thy converfe with thefe Gentiles
4 has debauched thy faith. W hat dowe mix with
4 them; what do we ferve them; what do we
4 bear their abomination, their infults for, but
4 to make our own advantage of them ? Fools!
4 vain prefumptuous fools ! to imagine that any
4 benefits, any gratitude can bind us to them ; or
4 change the innate hatred of our fouls to a fe£fc
4 that has been the caufe of our difperfion and
4 ruin. But, to filence thy weak fcruples about
4 injuftice with a word, have I not the authority
4 of our holy Scripture, the example of our great
4 prophet Mofes himfelf, for what I do, whobor-
4 rowed the wealth of the Egyptians, without a
4 defign of ever returning it, to pay the children
4 of Ifrael for the labours they had been put to
4 by their oppreflors, and enrich them when they
4 fhould arrive at the land of promife?------A na
4 is not :his my cafe? have I not laboured hourly
4 for this Gentile woman without payment ?
4 Did not ihe join to defraud our people of a
4greater
U4 C H R Y S A t : OR, THE
,
yG oogle
* greater fum than this, to which my mite was
4 added too, under the pretence of procuring us
4 a fettlement! and did ihe not refufe to returri
4 it, when the attempt failed of fuccefs ! What
4 then is this but a juft retaliation? a fulfilling
4 of our law, that fays, An eye fo r an eye> and a
4 toothfo r a tooth? And do I not want her wealth
4 to make my fettlement happy, in the land of my
4 forefathers V ---- T he fon had too high a re­
verence for the judgement of his father, to offer
any reply, but yielded to the conviction of argu­
ments fqconclulive. By this time the wind and
tide ferved for us : we arrived in H olland without
any thing remarkable, except I ihould take notice
to you of the fordid hypocrify of my mafter as
fuch, who, not to violate the cuftoms of his race,
made a pretence of poverty, to get his paffage
without expenfe.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. iij
C H A P . XVIII.
They arrive at the H a g u e . Political ConverfatioA
between a D u tch m an and a J ew . They d if­
fe r in opinion. A m in a d ab leaves his fr ie n d
V a n H ogan in great dijlrefs.
AS foon as we arrived at the Hague, my mafter
fet his fon to prepare for their immediate
departure, while he went himfelf, for a moment,
to fpeak to one of the principal members of the
States.
There was little ceremony between a Dutch­
man and a Jew, but entering direCtly upon bufi-
nefs, 4My frind Aminadab> (faid his m ightinefs)'
4 I am
,
yG oogle
4 I am glad to fee you; I hope you have brought?
c us good news ; and that there is a ftop put to
4 the infolence of thofe Englijk pirates, who, in a
4 manner, block up our ports, and have almoft
4 ruined our trade. .
4 Really, my friend Van Hogan, (replied my
4 matter) Lam forry tha: l cannot give you any
4 fatisfadiory account of that affair. For fuch is-
4 the perverfenefs of people in power there
4 atprefent, that they will not liften to any ar-
4 guments.*".....4W ill they not take money ?!— —*
4 No, indeed; nor does the boldeft of us all
4 know how to offer it with fafety, it was re-
4 je£ted with fuch indignant rage the laft time;
4 though in truth the offer was a tempting one.
* 1 have feen the day, and that not very long
4 fince, when half the fum would have done
4 twice as much. But matters aremoft ftrangely
* altered of late. They have got a manager,
4 who neither drinks nor games, keeps running
4 horfes, nor whores, npr lives above his private
4 fortune, and therefore has not fuch prefling de~
4 mands for money, as ufed to make our nego-
4 ciators go on fo fmoothly with others for-
4 merly/
4 D eath ! what Jhall wc do ? Is the whole court
4 corrupted by this example ? are they all infetted
4 w ithfuch ajlrange madnefs ?9
4 No, it is not gone fo far as that yet; and it
4 is to be hoped that the example of a few will
4 not be able to do fo much ; and that, when the
4 novelty of this humour wears off a little, it will
4 go out of fafhion infenfibly, and things return to
4 their old courfe. This is fuppofing the worft,
4 that the engines now at work to overturn this
4 newfe t ihould mifearry.
ix6 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
4 iBut
,
yG oogle
< B u t what muß we do in the mean time ? W e
■ * fia ll he ruined before that may happen. W e m uß
4 declare w ar, and do ourfelves ju ß ice .y
4 But may not the remedy there be worfe than
4 the difeafe ? Are your affairs in fuch a condi-
4 tion as to entitle you to take fuch a ftep ? Con-
4 fider what a mighty naval force they have at
4 this time ! Confider how you will be able to
4 refift it.*
4 That is the thing, the only things that has kept us
4 quietfo long / B u t fomething muß he done; another
4 A mboyna affair, orfome fuch ß rok e, m uß bring
4 us fa tisfafiiony and revenge too *
.4 Take care, my friend $be cautious what you
4 do : this is no time for fuch ftrokes; nor are
4 the prefent governours fuch people as thofe whd
4 fuffered them fo tamely: they will be apt to re-
4 turn the ftroke, in a manner that may be at-
4 tended with confequences too dreadful tobe ha-
4 zarded. I hate thofe haughty I(landers as much
4 as you; except fome few particulars, the fenfe of
4 the whole nation has ever been againft us ; nor
4 would they fuffer us among them now, but that
4 we have availed ourfelves fo well of the favour of
4 thofe few, as to get the command of almoft all
4 the money in the kingdom into our own hands,
4 fo that now they dare not provoke us too far ;
4 though 1 own, 1 do fufpedfc that thedefign of the
4 prefent rulers is to get out of our power as foon
4 as this war is over, if our old friends do not
4 counteract their defigns.*
4 B u t all this time this talking fignifiss nothing to
4 our a ffa irs; what do theyfay to them ? W hat rea-
4font ao they give fo r encouraging thefe outrages, in
* breach o f treatiesy and contempt o fjußiee ? ’
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, ity
4 In
,
yG oogle
4 In truth, my friend, a great many, that are
4 more juft than agreeable; moreeafily exclaimed
* againit than refuted. In anfwer to your al-
4 ledging the faith of treaties, they infift, that
4 they ftrkSHy obferve the fenfe and fpirit of them,
4 while you only cavil about the words, it being
4 abfurd to think, that any nation ihould bind up
4 its own hands in the manner you pretend; or,
4 even if that was the meaning of the treaty, at
4 the time when it was made, that your abufe of
4 the indulgence given by it makes it neceffary to
4 retra<ft it now: and they exprefs the moft indig-
4 nant furprife at your infilling fo ftrongly upon
4 one article, which, at belt, is but doubtful, and
4 would be in itfelf abfurd, in the fenfe you wreft
Vit to, while you break through fo many, the
4 meaning of which you do not even pretend to
4 difpute/
4 Then we w ill difpute no longer about them ; we
4 w ill enforce their obfervation by the fam e methods
4 that originally obtained them/----- c Aye, if that
4 could be; but, my friend, I cannot flatter you ;
4 I am afraid thofe means are out of your power;
4 you were then really mighty Jlates, refpe&able
4 for your power, and dreadful for your valour :
4 but the cafe is now altered— I need not fay
4 how/ -
4 Ungrateful E n g l i s h ! toforget how we r e fcued
4 them from popery and flavery, but the other day;
4 had it not been fo r us, they would, at bejl, have
4 been but Jlaves to F r a n c e / • '
4 The very charge they make againft you,
4 who, they fay, could never have refilled the
4 power of Spain, or eftablilhed your liberties,
4 if their queen Elifabeth had not hearkened to
4 the cries of your poor, dijlrejfedJlates. As for
4 the
nS CHRYSALi OR, THE
,
yGoogle
the affair you mention, though they do hot
deny the benefit, they take off from the obli­
gation, by attributing it to felf-interefted mo­
tives, as, they fay, you were convinced that, if
any thing happened to them, you muft fink of
courfe; befides, that you have been amply paid
for this, by the immenfe expenfe of blood and
treafure with which they eftabliflied your barrier
in the late wars, which they evidently entered
into on your accounts, to the negle£t of their
own intereft.
4 In a word, my friend, there is fo much truth
in what they fay, that I would not advife you
to infift upon thefe points any more.’— — '6Con­
fou n d the points ! and the memories that rip them up
fo ! W hat f a l l we do ? I myfe lf loß afitip laß
week, worth fifty thoufand ducats ; though a ll the
precautions pojfible were taken, as fending her pa­
pers by another Jhip9 fupplying her w ith fa lfe bills
o f ladings fa lfe clearances, fa lfe confignments ; in
Jhort, every thing that human art could devife.9
4And I know fhe was as well fworn for to pre­
vent her being condemned, as human confcience
could fwear; but nothing could elude the cap­
tors, or deceive-or influence the judges j but
was fhe not infured
4 N ot a d u cat; there is nothing to be got by i n f r ­
inge except the Jhips are to be cafi away. Ö my
f i p ! myfloip / I w ill have w ar.’ ----- c And then
all your ihips go at once/----- * la m d iß ra fted !
what f a l l we d o? 9
4 My friend, the beft, the only advice I can
-give you, is to put a flop to this trade, and
open your eyes to your true intereft. I hate
the E n g lifi as much as you^poffibly can ; but
4 that
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, 119
,
yGoogle
« that ihould not make me ruin myfelf to be re-
4 venged on them : they are your only natural
^ allies ; they firft delivered^ they ftill fuftain you,
4 nOr can you fupport the very name of an inde-
4 pendent ftate without them. Provoke them not,
4 therefore, too far; I wonder how they havebor’n
4 fo much already; prefervea fair neutrality; they
4 defpife your afliftance, and defire no more : nor,
4 by your avarice, force them tomeafures thatmuft
4 end in your ruin. Jf you breakwith them, whom
4 will you apply to ? The French have given you
4 many proofs, that they only wait for an opportu-
4 nity to enflave you : Spain has at length learned
4 its own intereft, and will not break with the only
4 power whofe friendihip can be of real fervice
4 to it : and this very war gives a fufficient de-
4 monftration of A ujlridn faith and gratitude.
* 4 This is the obvious fituation of things, and
4 muft ftrike a perfon at the firft view: but a
4 moment’s thought will ibow them even m a
4 ftronger light. For, to grant that France and
4 A ujiria both may be fincere in their profeffions
4 to you; does not reafon ihow you the impru-
4 dence of trufting to promifes, which it is more
4 than probable they will not be able to perform ?
4 For, if you would but diveft yourfelf of paffion
4 and prejudice for a moment, you will fee that
4 the meafures entered upon, and the means ufed
4 to carry them on, by the Bnglijh, at this time,
4 muft, in all human appearance, difappoint the
4 fchemes of their enemies, and retort, upon their
4 own heads, the ruin they meditated for others.
4 Indeed, the profpefl is fuch, that it is impoifible
4 to fay where things will end : every interior
4 fund is exhaufted ; every external refource cut *
4 off j their own trade is abfolutely ruined ; the
*io CHRVSAL: OR, THE
,
yG oogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i n
4 treafures of Spain, which fupplied them in their
4 laft wars, are no longer at their command ; fo
4 that I can forefee nothing lefs than their be-
4 coming bankrupts, not only to themfelves, but
c alfo to every foreign ftate and individual, whofe
4 avarice of prefent gain has made them fupply
4 their wants.
4 Nor is this diftrefs the effe& of chance, or of
4 an unfortunate campaign, which the fuccels of
4 another, or fome lucky hit, may reftore: It is
4 the natural confequence of a fyftem of meafures,
4 planned withjudgement, and profecuted with vi-
4 gour, by a minifter who will not fail to improve
4 it to the moil folid advantage. And this I fay,
4 not folely from my own opinion. You know I
4 have haa connexions with perfons able to give
4 me thebeftinformation, by theafliftanceofwhich
4 I have traced the progrefs of thefe affairs with
4 aftoniihment: and therefore, asEngland hasthus
4 at length ihown a fuperiority in council, theufual
4 refource of patching up a good peace at the end
4 of an unfuccefsful war, feems alfo to be pre-
4 eluded from them.
4 As for the houle of A uftria, it has ever been
4 a dead weight upon its friends ; though its in-
4 fatuated ingratitude to England, which has been
4 in a manner its foie fupport for near a century,
4 will, probably, prevent any other ftate from
4 undertaking fuch a burthen, fo that it muft
4 fink back into its original obfeurity and bar-
4 barifm.
4 Thus, you fee, my friend, that depending
4 upon France is leaning on a broken reed; and
4 trufting to Aujlria^ going for ihelter under a
4 falling wall. What, then, can you do, if the
V o i. II. G 4 Englijh
,
yGoogle
U* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
c Englijh fhould take ofFenfe at your behaviour,
* and exert that power which is in their hands, to
4 puniih your avaricious partiality to their ene­
* mies ?
4 Your power is, in every inftance, contemp-
4 tible; your navy is gone abfolutely to decay j
\ your land-forces are filled with old men andchil-
4 aren ; your officers who might have ferved you,
4 have been obliged to enter into other fervices for
4 bread, to make room for ignorant, indolent, pu­
* fillanimous burghers, who barter their votes for
4 fuch a ihare of the fpoils of the publick. Your
4 finances are in the loweft ftate ofembarraffment;
4 your publick fpirit, your valour, your virtue, all
4 fwallowed up by felfiihnefs, and fordid love of
4 gain ; every thing in the fituation that feems
4 to invite ruin, if it is not fpeedily prevented,
4 and that can poffibly be done no other way than
4 as I have mentioned; for, as I have faid, and
4 muft again repeat, things are now on a footing
4 there that you do not feem to be properly aware
c of. The people arefenfible oftheirown ftrength*
4 governoursexert it properly; andthereisamutual
* confidence between them, that in a manner en-
c fures fuccefs to their attempts. Confider this
4 fair, this friendly reprefentation of real fa&s,
4 and you will foon fee the improbability of their
4 bearing with you any longer; or fuffering you
4 to defeat the ends of their military efforts, by
* carrying on the trade of their enemies, and fo
c enabling them to continue the war.’
4 Is it come to this ? Are the friends on whom we
4 depended mojl turned again]i us ? Are you an ad-
4 vocate fo r our enemies, and would perfuade us to
4 give up the tnojl advantageous branch o f trade we
4 havef -
4 Why
,
yGoogle
c W hy will you let your paffion blind you thus ?
4 I have told you before, and I repeat it again,
4 that of all Chriftians I hate the Englijh moft, be-
4 caufe they refemble us leaft; as 1 love the D utch
4 moft, as you come neareft to ourfelves both in
4 practice and profeffion. But my paflions never
4 blind me ! and therefore I fpeak the di&ates of
4 reafon. I plead not for them, nor will I flat-
4 ter you.*
4 NotwithJIanding all their boaftedpower, we have
4 oneJlroke left to humble themy and we w ill make it
4 direftly ; we w ill draw all our money out o f their
4f u n d s '
4 Will you fo, at a third part lofs ? O, M ofes!
4 what fools are thofe Chriftians ? Do you not
4 fee that even this ftroke, as you call it, is guard-
4 ed againft l that, apprehenfive of fuch an at-
4 tempt, they have lowered the particular funds,
4 in which your money chiefly lies, fo far, that
4 the lofs of felling out now would be intoler-
4 able ? And whofe is this money which you
4 would draw out ? The property of private peo-
4 pie ! Abfurd thought ! If it was the money of
4 the publick, it would not be ftrange to fee it fa-
4 crificed to private intereft; but there is no in-
4 ftance in all your ftory, of private property be-
4 ing given up voluntarily for the redrefs of pub-
4 lick wrongs.
4 Friend Hogan, I am in hafte; my affairs call
4 me elfewhere. When I fhall fee you again is un-
4 certain ; but my regard would not permit me to
4 mifs this opportunity of giving you my advice,
4 which I know to be of importance to you. I
4 can no longer undertake your affairs in London ;
4 nor would I have another amufe you with hopes
G 2 4 that
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i»3
,
yG oogle
* that mutt deceive you in the end. While it was
4 in my power to ferve you, I did ; I abufed their
4 confidence, I betrayed their fecrets to you: but
4 I can do it no longer, nor can any other to
4 effedf. Meafures, as well as men, are changed.
4 ----- Adieu.* -
With thefe words my matter went to feek his
fon, leaving his friend Van Hogan in the higheft
dittra£tion, between the oppofite impulfes of the
ftrongett pafiions that could agitate his foul, ava­
rice and fear. ~
i»4 CHRYSAL: O R , T H E
C H A P . XIX.
A m in ad ab bids adieu to her Grace, and fa ils
w ith his Jon fo r A f r ic a . C h rysal remains
w ith a D utch hanker. The principles and
eonfcience o f a good D u tch m a n . C h r ysa l
is fent into G e r m a n y . H is opinion o f the
D u tch .
TH E young Ifraclite met his father punc­
tually, and gave him fuch an account of
his preparations for their flight, that Aminadab
blefled the God of his fathers) and to complete
the fullnefs of his harveft with whatever gleanings
he could pick up, he went diredtly among his
D utch friends, and, in pious imitation of the ex­
ample he had quoted before, borrowed, if not
jew els o f gold and jew els o ffiv e r , as much coined
gold and filver as he could, and then going with
his fon to the fea-fide, they embarked for their
native
,
yGoogle
native country, in all the exultation of fuccefsful
villainy, ,
But I went not with them ; my B ritijb fhape
being of more value in Europe than where he was
going, my mailer left me with his banker, in ex­
change for the more faihionable coin of Spain,
which neighbourhood made better known there*
—— — My Hebrew mailer had fcarce left the
banker, intowhofe hands he had g*en me, when
in came his Belgick friend Van Hogan, all aghaft
at the news he had received from him, and fome-
thing elfe, which had come to his knowledge
iince.
4 O , M ynheer! (faid he) we are all blown
4 up and undone ! The flood is pouring in upon
4 us.’-------- 4What is the matter now, Mynheer
4 (replied the banker) that throws you into this
4 itrange conilernation ? The worms have not
4 deilroyed the dams ? nor an earthquake fwal-
4 lowed up the Spice-iflands V
4 fVorfej worfey i f pojjtble^ than even thefe ! Thofe
4Jlubborn, proud, felf-fufficient E nglish have re-
4fu fed to releafe our Jbips that were taken carrying
4 ammunition and provifion to their enemies, fo that
4 we are like not only to lofe thofe Jbips^ but alfa,
4 the advantage o f the trade fo r the fu tu re. W hat
4 can be done to divert this blow ?* — — 4 Really,
4 Mynheer, I cannot tell; the cafe is bad enough,
4 to be fure; but it is no rfiore than was to be
4 expected; it was not to be thought that they
4 ihould always remain fuch paifive fools as tame-
4 ly to lookf on, while we fupplied their enemies
4 with neceffaries to carry on the war againft
4 them, without endeavouring to put a ilop to
4 us/
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. n*
G 3 4 Death!
,
yG oogle
4 Death ! I am almojl nmd ta hear you talk thus !
4 but, fay what you w ill, my P r o v i n c e Jhall never
4 bear it ! W hy, I have received advice this minute,
• that a ll our flip s, which were freighted fo r their
4 enemies, w ill be condemned ; and that they are as
4 little moved at our menaces, as they were at our en-
4 treaties, i f f his continues, we fla il not have a flip
4 left in the T e x e l . ’
4 Nay,,mMI& ihall efcape, I am refolved/—
— ----- 4W hat w ill you do to fa ve them — —
4 Not run them into the danger, Mynheer/—■ *
■
4 H ow , give up the trade /,— 4 Moil certainly,
4 fince it cannot be carried on with fafety any
4 longer, and glad that I have come off fo well/
■4 I do not underjland you ! * ——4 You are too
4 warm, Mynheer ; too fanguine in the purfuit of
4 your projeéts. While the furprife or fright of
4 the late managers in England gave me reafon to
4 think that they would not venture to interrupt
4 us, I carried on as large a trade in this way
4 as any other : but, as foon as I faw the people
4 recover their fenfes, and the reins put into other
4 hands, I made a timely retreat with what I had
4 acquired.’-------- 4A nd what do you intend to do
4 now ? ’ -------- *4 Keep fair with thofe whom £
4 can get nothing by breaking with, and throw
4 my bufinefs into another channel ; by which
4 management I have already fucceeded fo far,
4 that Î have got the B r itifl remittances to the
4 parties engaged in the prefent war.’----- 4 W hy,
4 there may be fomething in this ; and, i f onefcheme
4fa ils , I believe I w ill even follow your example *
-------- 4 And pray what is that, Mynheer ? 9
------
4 No more than the old cry o f piracy ; but this is f i
4 laid\ that it can hardly f a il o ffuccefs : we have
4 bribed
126 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
bribed the captain o f an Englijh privateer to rifle a
Jhip that we prepare properly fo r the purpofe, and
then to come into the way o f one o f our men o f w ar,
which is to take hi?n and bring him in, where he is
to infult the government, and vindicate his outrages
on the pretence o f authority
‘ And pray, Mynheer, what can you propofe
from all this, befide having the fooiiih villain
hanged?’
‘ IVhy the Englijh, in detejlation o ffuch villainy,
w ill give up the point o ffearching our Jhips, when
they fee their authority abufed in Juch a manner,
andfo we Jhall gain our end that way \ or, i f
they do not, our own people w ill befo enraged at
the infult and injujlice ( as they w ill believe) o f
their proceeding, that they w ill immediately de­
clare w ar againjl them ; andfo we Jhall obtain it
the other. The pirate, when he has ferved our
turn, 'we are to let efcape, and it w ill be no great
lofs to the world, i f h a lf a fcore o f his crew art
hanged
‘ A very juft and public-fpirited fcheme indeedj
to hang wretches for a crime you hire them to
commit, and engage your country in a war that
muft be its ruin, to fupport your pretenfions ta
an unjuftifiable trade.
c Mynheer Van Hogan, I am a Dutchman as
well as you, and attached to my intereft, as
every Dutch?nan is; but that is, when my in­
tereft is not deftrudtive of itfelf in the end, as
1 muft tell you I think your prefent fcheme is,
in which I will be no farther concerned, than
to try to prevent the evil confequences of it
to the ftate: the reft may lie upon your own,
head.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ti7
G 4 ‘ Any
,
yG oogle
4Any thing in the way of trade my confcicnce
4 complies with without fcruple j I can take every
4 oath that every officer of the cuftoms in Europe
4 can impofe, and not think myfelf bound by any
4 of them, further than they agree with my in-
4 tereft ; I can fupply the enemies of my country
* with arms to fight againft ourfelves, provided
4 they pay a price extraordinary, that will defray
4 my taxes towards the fupport of the war ; I can
4 receive cireumcifion, ftroke down my beard, and
4 fwear by Mahomet, to avoid a tax at Smyrna ; I
4 can trample upon the crofs, deny C hriji, and call
4 myfelf a Dutchman, to obtain leave to trade in
4 Japan \ but I will not cut the dykes to drown a
4 rat at home. .
4 I am not at leifure to fay more on this fub-
4 jc<5f, as lam this minute going to remit a lub-
4 lidy to one of the German princes, whom E ng-
4 land keeps in pay, to fight for their own prefer-
4 vation, frotn the lame principles that it hasjong
4 fought our battler, and would again, if we did
4 not provoke it too far. And when this is done,
4 I amto meet the French ambaffador, to fettleterms
4 with him, for remitting the money that is to
4 pay the army which fights againft thé allies of
4 England. So that you fee I am engaged, as you
4 may be, if your warmth, unnatural to the cool
4 temper of your country, will let you open your
4 eyes to your true intereft.* 4
Mynheer Van Hogan departed rather filenced
than fatisfied with the reafoning of my matter,
who fat down to negociate the hire of ^ princi­
pality with as much unconcern as he would that
of a turnep-field j and bought and fold the inhabi­
tants with as great indifference as he would have
bar-
iftS CHR Y SAL: OR, THE
,
yG oogle
„ AD VENTURES OP A G UINTA. 119
bargained for a cafk of herrings in which fer-
vice it fell to my lot to be employed. .
Greatly as I mult have edified by the examples
and principles, mercantile, moral, civil, a 'd reli­
gious, of my late mailer, I mult own there was
fomething fogrofly reprobate to every fenfe of real
virtue, even in him, that I Was pleafed to leave
him, and, indeed, to be candid, the country in
general, where the very profeifion of virtue was
defpifed, their only pfetenfion to it being the ab-
fence of one vice, hypocrify, which they rejedled
as an unneceflary incumbrance, and adled their
grofleft enormities without referve, or appearance
of ihame. .
I now entered on the great theatre of the world,
where the fovereign adtor gave a dignity to the
fcenes, and the concerns of individuals were over ;
whelmed and loft in the confufion of nations..
C H A P . XX. .
C h r y s a l ’ j remarks on military glory in his joitr~
ney. Two Jlrange pajfengers taken into the boat•
N ational prejudice and pride breakout in perfons
not likely to be fufpetted o ffuch pajftons.
WH I L E I was travelling to my deftined
mailer, I had frequent opportunities of
feeing the fruits of military glory in the mifery of
the people, and deflation of the countries through
which I went.
G 5 Such=
,
yGoogle
*50
Such fcenes as thefe cannot be made known by
defcription to an inhabitant of this happy Ifland,
whofe fituation defends it from the fudden inroads
of foreign enemies, as its natural naval ftrength
does from the more deliberate devadations of re­
gular invafion ; and the excellency of its laws,
from the yet feverer outrages of arbitrary power.
But, amid all this unhappinefs, fuch is the in­
fatiate ingratitude of the human heart, that, not
content with thefebleffings, you areevercomplain­
ing, ever grafping at more, till, in the end, you
lofe the enjoyment of what you poHefs, infenfible
that your fevered wants would be abundance to
millions, who dare not even utter a complaint.
It has been faid that there is a certain degree of
madnefs requifite to make a great man ; that is, to
enable humanity to conquer its fird principle of
felf-prefervation, to flight the mod terrifying dan­
gers, and feek the mod fevere evils that interrupt
its purfuit of an imaginary good.
The lud of power, and the intoxication of glo­
ry, may feem to animate the great to this contra­
diction of nature $but madnefs alone can fupport
the mafs of mankind through it, who are infen-..
Able to thefe fantadick motives, or at lead cannot
delude themfelves with the fainted hope of ever
obtaining them.
O f this I faw many indances in my journey
through the countries that were the fcene of the
prefent war; but one more particularly that hap­
pened in one of the D utch travelling boats, early
in our journey, made the dronged impreifion on
me, and deferves relation mod.-------- There had
been an obflinate battle fought feme time before
between the parties then at war, in which the lpfs
was
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yG oogle
was fo fevere, and fo equal on both Tides, that, as
Toon as night covered their retreat, each withdrew,
concluding itfelf vanquiihed, though next morn­
ing, when they Came to a better knowledge of each
other’s fituation, they both claimed the vi&ory,
while neither thought proper toreturn tothecharge
to aflert that claim.
This uncertainty aggravated the mifery of the
unhappy wretches, who were left wounded on
the field of battle, as it prevented their receiv­
ing relief either from friend or enemy. How­
ever, as this dreadful fcene was a&ed in the neigh­
bourhood of a neutral city, as Toon as the firft ter*
rours of it were a little cooled, the common feel­
ings of humanity moved fome of the inhabitants
to go, and try to relieve as many of the deferted
AifFtrers as had not periihed for want of more
timely afliftance, without diftin&ion, or refpedt
to any party.
Two of thofe victims of ambition, who had
been enemies in the day of battle, but had fince
founded a fricndihip on their common calamity,
having been fupported by the fame charity, and
cured of their wounds in the fame bed, were now
ftriving to get the mangled remains of their muti­
lated carcaiies carried, like other worn-out inftru-
ments of the war, to their refpe£live countries.
In their journey they happened to be brought to
the water-fide, where we had juft taken boat,
where they begged in the moft moving terms to
be admitted, but w^re abfolutely refufed, till one
of the pafl'engers, an Engiijh gentleman, took
companion on their diftrefs, and paid their fare.
We were all feated in the equality ufual in fuch
vehicles, in which, as in agrave, all conditions
G 6 are
ADVENTURES OF A GUIÑEA. 13t
,
yGoogle
*3*
?ire thrown promifcuoufly together, when, the con -
verfation happening to turn upon the war, which
then reigned in moft parts of Europe, and every
one fpeaking varioufly, as prejudice or opinion
dilated, the Englijh?nan chanced to fay, that he
thought fuch a combination of the greateft powers
of Europe, as, at that time, laboured to opprefs
the King of Bulgaria, was, to diveft it of the intri­
cacies of ambition, and bring politicks to the rule
of reafon and juftice, the moft injurious, and even
bafe abufe of power, that could be inftanced in
the Chriftian hiftory ; and he hoped, and indeed
doubted not, but that glorious prince, and the
bravery and attachment of his fubjefls tohis caufe,
that is, really to their own caufe, would rife ftu
perior to all the attempts of his enemies, and re­
tort upon them the ftroke which they had perfi-
dioufly aimed at his ruin, to their diihonour and
confuilon.
The rage into which this reflexion, fo injurious
to the glory of the Grand Monarque, threw one
^of the paflengers, who thought it levelled parti­
cularly at him, though no names had been men­
tioned, was fo great, that he could not fupprefs
it till the gentleman ihould conclude; but in­
terrupting him, without the leaft refpeft to his
perfonal obligation (for he was one of the two
whom I mentioned to have been admitted into
the boat on his charity) 4What do you mean, Sir
* (faid he) by faying that this war will end in the
4 diihonour of the King of France ? Was not
4 his motive for entering into it the moft dif»
* interefted and glorious ? To fupport the rights
4 of fovereignty, and bring valíais to a proper
4 fenfe of duty and obedience ? And has not the
4 fuccefs been anfwerable to the greatnefs of his
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yG oogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. »33
f defigns ? Have not his forces been every-where
c victorious by land and fea ?*
The tone of voice with which thefe words were
fpokendrew the eyesofall prefent uponthefpeaker,
alittle, old, withered creature, who wanted both
his legs, and fcarce feemed tô have fkin enough,
not to fay fleih, to cover the remainder of his
fhattered bones, and keep them together. But
his fpirit fupplied all thefe difadvantages, and ena­
bled him to raife himfelf upon his ftumps, and caft
a look of thé moft ferocious rage around him, as
if he meant to deftroy whoever dared to difpute his
words.
But his triumph was not long; his fellow-tra­
veller immediately taking him up with equal fury,
4 How (faid he) the army of France ever viCto-
4 rrous over Bulgaria ! What aflurance can dilate
4 fuch afalfehood ? 1Where havethey obtained one
4 victory? where have theyefcaped defeat, except
4 when the fuperiority of their numbers have ex-
4 ceeded all proportion! and, even then, their
4 (lain have generally equalled the whole amount
4 of the forces whom they fought with. What
4 armies have they loft already ! how few of thofe
4 which remain will ever return to their native
4 home,eveninthewretched cohdition thatyoudo !*
Thefe laft words railed a general laugh at the
perfon who fpoke them, he being, if poifible, in
a more maimed and helplefs condition than the
one to whom they were addrefled, having loft both
his arms, and one of his eyes.
He perceived the motive of their mirth, and
fubmitting to the rebuke with a manly fortitude
of mind, 4I fee, gentlemen (faid he) that you
4 laugh at my mentioning the wretchednefs of
4 any other living creature with contempt, who
^ 4 am
i
,
yGoogle
4 am fuch a fufferer myfelf! but what abfurditieS
4 will not pailion hurry trien into! and how could
4 human patience bear to hear this Frenchman
4 boaft of the vi&ories of his monarch, whofe
4 forces I myfelfhave aflifted to route, at every
4 place where I have ever met them.
4 You route the forces of my mailer! (replied
4 the other) my mailer’s forces would eat up all
4 your mailer’s fubje&s for a breakfafl.’— 41 do
4 not deny their number, nor their appetites (re-
4 turned the Bulgarian) they leave fufficient evi-
4 dence of both wherever they go; cruelty and ra-
4 pine lead forth their armies; famine and defola-
4 tion mark their marches. Shake not your head
4 at me, nor lift up your hand, as you regard your
4 life; elfe, loth'as I am to make mifery ridicu-
4 lous, by a quarrel between two fuch wretches as
4 we are, though I have not a hand to ilrike, with
4 my foot will I fpurn out your life, and trampl*
4 on your carcafe.’
4 M orhlieu! compare the mighty M o n a r q u e
4 o f F r a n c e w ith a little G e r m a n king.9
4 You miHake me greatly; I never meant to
4 compare them : the greatnefs of your monarch I
4 do not deny, were it not abufed to purpofes that
4 make it a di(honour to him, and a misfortune to
4 his fubjedts; whereas, our fovereign is the father
4 of his people, and never exerts his power but to
4 their advantage*
4 Gentlemen, you muft forgive my warmth;
4 anything againft myfelf I can defpife; but my
4 king, my father, I cannot, I will not hear fpoken
4 of with difrefpeil, while I have even a voice left
4 to aftert his caufe: I have fought for him— I
4 have fought with him: for he does not fit riot-
4 ingin the debaucheries of a court, while his
/ 4 fubjefts
134 CHRYSAL* OR, THE
,
yGoogle
c fubje&s are encountering hardihips and dangers
* to gratify his vanity or revenge. His quarrels
4 are the quarrels of his people; and he fights
4 their battles with them ! and the only regret I
4 feel for the lofs of my limbs, is, that I can em-
4 ploy them no longer in his fervice, for which I
4 would lay down my life this minute with joy,
4 could it gain him the lead advantage, or was it
4 neceflary to prove my attachment to him.
4 But, fince 1 can no longer have the happinefs
4 of being of fervice to him, all 1 have now to
4 do, is to retire to my native country, where his
4 paiernal care has made fuch a provifion for my
4 wants, that I (hall wear out my days in content,
4 without ever having my prayers for his welfare
4 and fuccefs difturbedby one repining wifh, one
4 juft complaint.
4 But afk this vain-glorious knight-errant if he
4 can fay fo ? Did he fight for the prefervation of
4 his family,hiscountry, and his religion, as Ididf
4 Did he fight under the conduit of his fovereign
4 who perfonally provided for the neceilities, the
4 comfort of his men, as 1did f Is he lure of a
4 peaceful retreat at hpme, fafe from the additional
4 diftrefs of want, as I am?
4 Not at all: he fought for he knew not what,
4 he knew not whom. At a diftance from his
4 king, who was infenfible of his dangers, and
4 revelled in delicacies, while his fubjedts, the
4 victims of his'ambition, were deftitute of the
4 common, indifpenfable neceffaries of nature ;
4 nor has he any other hope of prolonging his mi-
4 ferable days when hegets home, but thewretch’s
4 laftrefource of begging, inacountry foexhaufted
4 by the vain tyranny of his mafter, that charity
4 is almoft an ineffe&ual virtue, for want of means
5 4for
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 135
,
yGoogle
C HRY $AL * OR, THE
136
* for its exertion.*----- All prefent were ftruck
with the force with which the foldier delivered his
fentiments, nor did his antagonift attempt any re­
ply $ but opening their common wallet, in which
the Bulgarian carried all their wealth, he took out
what belonged to himfelf, faying, with a fneer,
4 that fince his feet were fogood, he might here-
4 after ufe them inftead of hands, for he would
4 feed him no longer.*
This poor-fpirited farcafm was received by the
perfon to whom it was applied with a fmile
of difdain, though it raifed the idle laughter of
the greater part prefent. But the Englijhman
received it in another manner, for, drawing out
his purfe, he took twenty dueats, and putting
them himfelf into the pocket of the B ulgarian:
4 Accept of thefe, my brother foldier (faid he) ^
c to make your journey into your native country
4 more convenient, where you cannot meet
4 more tender regard from your fovereign and
4 country than your fenfible attachment to them
4 merits. As far as I lhall go your way I will
4 take care of you myfelf, and that will defray
4 the expenfe of the reft of your journey with
4 comfort.*
C H A P . XXI.
The hijlory o f the Bulgarian foldier. C hrysal is
carried to his defined majler.
T HE Bulgarian was unable to exprefs his
gratitude for this charity, the manner of
prefenting which doubled the obligation of it.
But the big tear that ftole in filence down his
manly
,
yG oogle
manly cheek, as he bowed his head to his be-
nefa&or, fpoke it with a moreaffecting eloquence
than any words could do; and influenced every
perion prefent fo much in his favour, as to make
them vie in offering him their afliftance.
As foon as he recovered utterance. 4Such (faid
4 he) ijs the noble benevolence that diftinguiihes
4 the fons of liberty! fuch the generofity of heart
4 that always extends the ready hand of a Briton,
4 with relief to the diftrefled. May heaven pre-
4 ferve, to your happy nation the bleflings which
* enable it to exert its virtues, to make them a
4 blefling to all who want their afliftance. And
4 though envy may malign, and ingratitude re-
4 turn benefits witja evil, beneficence finds its re-
4 ward in its own exertion, in the certainty of a
4 retribution fromthofe treafures which neverfail.*
The turn of this foldier’s difcourfe, and parti­
cularly the laft part of it, feemed fo much above
his prefent appearance, that it raifcd acuriofity in
his benefa&or to aik him, 4if he had beenbred to
4 arms, or how long he had profeffed the military
4 life, and in what Ration.J
4 O, Sir,’ (replied hewithafigh, that feemed
to tear his heart) 4 your queftion recalls to my
4 memory fcenes that I would willingly forget for
4 ever, and obliges me to relate fuch things as
4 would draw tears from Tartars, Pandours, or the
4 crueller foldiers of the king of F r a n c e -
4 I was not bred to arms, nor have I followed the
4 military profeflion long, or in any other rank
4 than that which rage and defpair firft placed me
4 in, when I offered myfeIf to my fovereign, to
4 repel the invaders, and revenge thedefolation of
4 my bleeding country. My unhappy ftory is no
4 more than this—
4 I ana
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 137
,
yG oogle
4 I am a native of Bulgaria, the fon of a mi-
4 nifter of the gofpel, who, obferving adefire of
4 knowledge in my youth, encouraged and im-
4 proved it by his own precepts and example, and
4 led my ftudious mindthrough the fublhneft paths
4 of fcience.
4 As foon as he faw my refolutions fuffieiently
4 eftabliihed to be proof againft the levity of
4 youth, and temptations of fenfe, he yielded to
4 my intreaties, and I was admitted into the
4 facred order of which he was a member, and
4 made the perfe&ion of human wifdom, the
4 pra£tice of piety and virtue under the dire&ion
4 of the divine word, the bufinefs of my happy
4 life. Happy then, indeed ! but now therecol-
4 ledion of that happinefs aggravates myprefent
4 mifery in the irrecoverable lofs of it, almoft to
4 defpair.
4 As the religion of the benign Redeemer o f
4 mankind does not enjoin impoffibilities, by re^
4 quiring us to eradicate paflions, which are the
4 eflence of our nature, and whofe indulgence,
4 under the direction of reafon and virtue, is the
4 end of our creation, and the bafis of our being,
4 and fulfils the firft divine command, by conti-
4 nuing our fpecies, and increafmg the number o f
4 his adorers, I obeyed the impulfe of virtuous
4 love, and married the daughter of a neighbour-
4 ing divine, who completed to me, as I vainly
4 thought, the fum of human happinefs, by a nu-
4 merous offspring, which grew upon the knee
4 of their aged grandfire, my father, now become
4 too feeble for the a&ive duties, while my la-
4 bours fupplied the necefiaries of life to my con-
4 tented family, in which I thus flood the happy
i centre of filial and paternal love.
4 In
*3* C f t R Y S A L : OR, T HE
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 13,
•
* In this blifsful ftate did I advance toward
heaven, when envy of his glory, and fear of his
virtues, brought this deftru&ive war upon the
dominions of our fovereign. O , my father!
my children! my wife! in one day did I lofe
you all. Thefe eyes beheld my habitation re­
duced to aihes, my children maflacred in the
Wantonnefs of cnjelty, in defpiteof the prayers
of my aged father, whofe fnow-white hairs,
whofe whole appearance would have ftruck
the ruthlefs hearts of the ancient heathen Gauls
with reverence, in defpite of the cries of my
beauteous wife, who both begged to draw their
fury on themfelves, from the defenfelefs inno­
cents; but all in vain; the murtherers, deaf
to their cries and intreaties, infenfible to the
beauty of the babes, who flood fmiling at the
fworas that hungover their heads, firft butchered
them as in fport, then abufed the perfon of
my wife to death, and mangled my father’s
breathlefs body, whofe tender heart the grief
of fuchafight hadburft, while I, unhappierfaf
than any, flood looking on bound to a tree,
with my jaws diftended with the head of a
fpear, and my cheeks cut open thus from ear
to ear, a Bible being placed before me, and a
French P r isjl ftanding by, encouraging their
cruelty as meritorious againfl hereticks, and
infultingly bidding me preach now to my con­
gregation, at the lame time refuting me the re-
leafe of death, which I befought by all the
ligns defpair could fuggeft, and making them
leave me naked; and whipped till my body
was all one wound, to periflx by famine and
grief.
« But
,,Goc le
14
0 CHR Y SAL: OR, THE
4 But heaven had ordained otherwhe for me;
4 fome of my neighbours, who had efcaped their
4 fury, came, as foon as night favoured their fears,
4 to learn our fate, and offered any afliftance in
4 their power. They unbound me; they buried
4 the remains of my flaughtered family, and forced
4 me from the grave, to their retreat in thewoods,
4 where they healed my wounds, and ftrove to
4 comfort my diftrefs. But all their arguments
4 would have been too weak to make me fuffer
4 life, had not a defire of revenge taken pofleffion
4 of my foul, and filenced every other thought.
4 As foon as I had recovered ftrength, I hafted
4 to the army of my fovereign, where I threw
4 myfelf at his feet, and told him all my diftrefs.
4 He heard me with pity; he ihed tears at my
4 fad ftory, and railing me with his own hand,
4 B e comforted, my brother* (faid the mighty mo­
narch to his meaneft fubje<5t) 4be comforted, the
4 Ioffes o f the ju fl w ill be repaid in heaven ; there
4 thy happy fam ily expcft thine a rriv a l; there thy
4 virtues w tll be rewarded^ thy joys complete; when
4 the evils o f this world, which endure but fo r a
4 moment, Jhall be at an end. The horrours o f w ar
4 agree not w ith the innocence o f your paß life, or
4 the humane tendernefs o f your difpofition, and would
4 but aggravate your griefs^ by the unhappy, una-
4 voidable repetition o f likefcenes o f ruin. R etire,
4 therefore, to my capital, where all the comforts o f
4 life jh a ll be provided fo r youy to alleviate your di-
4ß r e fs , while yout prayers afjiß us in the day o f
4 battle.*
4 I heard his words with reverence, but his
4 virtue was too fublime for my imitation. I
4 fell again at his feet, and wringing my hands,
4O Sir,
,
yGoogle
4 O Sir (faid I) this goodnefs is too great for
4 man ; alas, I am unable to obey its diflates;
4 my foul languifhes for vengeance : O, bear with
4 human infirmity, and permit me to fight under
4 thy command. Heaven heard not my prayers,
c or it would have prevented my ruin 5 let me
c then have recourfe to other methods for redrefs ;
4 let me contribute my poor help to thy vi&ories,
4 to the deliverance of my country: I die this
4 moment if my prayer is refufed/
4 B e thou my companion in this j u ß w a r j (faid
my fovereign, raifing me up again) 4and>fince thy
€ facred function muß not he difgraced w ith any
4 other rank, fight by my fide, and lead me to fu c -
4 cefe.9
4 From that day have I followed his fteps in
4 the field of battle, at an aweful diftance; and
4 been witnefs to all the wonders of his conduct
4 and valour; till in the late a&ion a cannon
4 fhot took off both my arms, as I had the ho-
4 nour of holdingmy own horfe forhim to mount,
4 his having been killed under him as I fought by
4 his fide.
4 He expreffed concern at my misfortune, and
4 commanded me to retire to his own tent; but
4 an A ußrian huffar, the moment after, cut me
4 down with his fabre, though in the unpreme-
4 ditated inftinft of felf-prefervation I had held
4 up both my bleeding flumps to ward the blow.
4 Here I lay among my fellow-fharers in the
4 common calamity, in fubmiflive expeftationof
4 the ftroke of fate, from the horfes feet, or the
4 pillagers of the field, But heaven had other-
4 wife ordained; and, after two days weltering
4 in my blood, I was relieved, and recovered by
4 charity, to the condition in which you fee me,
4 and
ADVENTURES -OF »A GUINEA. *4
.1
,
yGoogle
14*
4 and am now ftriving to go and avail myfelf
4 of my mailer’s humane offer, which your bene-
4 volence enables me to do with comfort.
4 This fellow-fufferer, whofe arrogance firft
4 prompted me to fpeak, has been a iharer with
4 me alfo in the charity which relieved us;
4 where our common calamity created a kind of
4 friendlhip between us, and our neceffities fug—
4 gelled it to us to combine the remains of our
4 limbs, for mutual affiftance, he preparing our
4 vi&uals, and feeding me, while I have carried,
4 not only our poor baggage, but him alfo, .upon
4 my back.
4 But that alliance is at an end; not becaufe
4 the relief which you fo generoufly have bellow- '
4 ed upon me may feem to free me from the ne-
4 ceffity of his affiftance, for I mull beg your leave
4 to divide it with him, as half is fufficient forme,
4 but that my foul abhors the principle which firft
4 led him into this diftrefs, and which even fuch
4 fufferings cannot (how the impiousabfurdity of;
4 and difclaims connexion with the enemy of my
4 gracious fovereign, who would thus malign his
4 glory, when he cannot deny nor longer refill
4 the virtues that have raifed it.’
By this time we arrived at the place where I
was to be delivered to the minifter of my deftined
mailer, who immediately carried me to him.
CHRYSALi OR, THE
C H A P .
,
yG oogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 14*
C H A P . XXII.
H ow C hrysal fou n d his majler employed. The
grandeur and happinefs o f abfolute power > H is
cares fo r the augmentation andfupport o f his re­
venues. H is rage at the infolence o f liberty,
punctuality to his engagements, and reflation ta
maintain the confequence o f his rank.
WE found him bulled in reviewing fome new
levies, which he had juft railed, to hire
out to the bell bidder of the parties then engaged
in war, without ever examining the juftice of the
caufe, or confidering any other motive or confe­
quence, than juft the immediate price he was to
receive, out ofwhich he bounteoully allowed them
a pittance to fupport the lives fo ufeful to him.
As foon as the men were ordered to their quar­
ters, his highnefs retired with his minifter, who,
prefenting the bag in which we were, with a
bent knee, 4 The fubfidy, may it pleafe your
4moll ferene hignefs, from E ngland9 (faidhe.)
■■ ■ ■ 4It is w ell (replied the fovereign) but upon
4what terms ? ’ ■■4 The fame your highnefs had
4 laft year.’----- 4N o more ! They Jhall not have my
4men ! I can have more elfewhere ! F r a n c e offers
4better/ -----4 Then I mull return this money,
4 pleafe your highnefs/----- 4Return i t ! N o ;fo r
4what ? ’ -------- ‘ If your highnefs does not like
4the terms, you will not keep the money, I pre-
4fume/-------- 4Fool, but I w ill! Such laws may
4 bind you fu b jeft wretches $ but fovereign princes
- 4 are
,
yG oogle
144-
4 are above them ; laws are not made fo r us.9-----*
* I humbly implore your highnefs’s pardon for
4 my ignorance; then you will give thofe troops
4 to F r a n c e . ’ ----- 4Yes, when F r a n c e pays me
4fo r them 9----- 4But in the mean time, as Eng-
4 land has already paid your highnefs, they
4 will depend upon them, and confequently Suffer
4 by the disappointment.’— 4 Then let them p rize
4 m7 friendjhip properly another tim e; I am not
4 obliged tofupport kings upon their thrones fo r no-
4 thing ; I may invade as w ell as guard againjl in-
4 vafton. They Jhall know whom they dare offend.9
4 Something, has provoked your highnefs’s
4 wrath, which I am afraid my ignorance Should
4 aggravate.’
4 I w ill teach the refpeSl that*s-due tofovereignty•
4 / am not king ¿ / E n g l a n d , curbed in my w Aly
4 and limited in pow er; my fubjefts are m yfaves ;
4 they dare not think o f any other law befides my
4 plcafure. D eath ! can you think i t ! M y minifter
4 at the court o f E n g l a n d writes me word, that a
4 bafe plebeian merchant has had the affurance to de-
4 mand payment fo r the goods hefen t me lajl year>fo r
4 the fupport andfplendour o f my court; and^ on its
4 not being deduced from the fubftdy, to refufe fu p -
4 plying me this year, and even to threaten complain-
4 ing to their parliament.
‘ N ow , judge you i f a fovereign prince, whofe
4forces are their fecurity in time o f danger, can
4 brook fu ch infolence. A nd, to conclude the whole^
4 what did the E n g l i s h minifler fay, when my m i-
4 nifter remonjlrated w ith him upon this affair, but
4 that, by the laws o f E n g l a n d , no man could be
. 4 compelled topart with^ his property againjl his w ill,
4 or hindered to cotnplain, i f he thought hitnfelf ag-
4 grieved:
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
iy
Gc • [e
g riev ed : and that the laws were facred, and mujl
not be infringed, "Thinks now, i f I can w ith honour
keep an alliance w ith fuch people, till I have re­
ceived fatisfaction : /, whofe fubjeSis have no
property nor laws but my w ill, to be treated in
fuch a manner by a vile trader— it is not to be
bor'nd . •
4 I am.very forry to hear of this affair, and
particularly at this time ; becaufe, if your high->
nels fhould break with the Englijh now, when
they think they want your men, they may be
provoked never to deal with your highnefs for
them another time, when they have no other
occafion for them, only to do your highnefs
a fervice.,
4 W hy, there may befomething in that; and there­
fo re, i f they w ill fena me the merchandife I want,
and raife the fubfiay, perhaps I may not refufe them
theJuccours they defired
4 How much does your highnefs require to have
the fubfidy raifed V
4 I have not thought o f that yet. B u t furely they
cannot be fo unreafonable as to expert my men at
the fam e rate, now in time o f danger, as they had
them in peace, when there was nothing at all fo r
them to do, but they could work at their trades at
home, and maintain themfelves without wearing out
their uniform, or any other expenfe to me ?*—
T hat is very true $ if your highnefs was not to
confider at the fame time, that even then they
paid you as much as if it was a time of war,
and indeed more than any other nation will, or
can, pay you now \ for, as to the promiles of
France, they are not to be depended on at all,
whereas England always pays w ell.’
V o l . II. H 4 I do
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ^5
,
yG oogle
4 I do not care ! W hat I have gotten here 1 w ill
4 keep, by way o f reprifal fo r the infult offered to
4 my honour ; and, Z
/'they w ill have my troops, they
4Jhall pay me over again fo r them : fo , »0 tfwr*
4 0» that head.' '
4 I fubmit j but how will your highnefs fubfift
4 them at home in the mean time ? There muft
4 be an immediate remittance made of fome o f
4 this money to Holland, to buy provifions, for
4 your magazines are quite exhaufted, and the
4 conftant demand for men, to fupply the troop9
4 you have agreed for, and recruit the Ioffes they
4 have fuftained in battle, have not left fuificient
4 to cultivate the land.*
4 Then let themJ la rv e! I Jhall not expend a penny
4 to fupport them. Could not the women and children
4 work ? I wonder you Jhould dare to mention fuch a
4 thing. I f I lay out this money, what is toJupport
4 the Jplendour o f my court, fence this E n g l i s h m a n
4 has refufed to fupply me ?*
4 I humbly beg your highnefs’s pardon, but
4 what anfwer am 1to fend to the Englijh, who
4 have demanded that the troops ihould march
4 dire&ly V
4 W hy, that I am fo enraged at the infult offered
4 to me by that merchant, that I w ill not let a man
4 o f themfe ir till 1 have fatisfaftion, and a new fu b -
4jidy ; and that I keep this one in the mean time, to
4 make up the deficiencies in form er yearsS
4 Deficiencies ! I do not underhand your high-
4 nefs ; the fubfidies have been always regularly
4 paid.’
4 Obey my commands ! I fay there have been de-
4ficiencies, which 1 am not at leifu r e to explain in
4 this emergency, but I juppoje- my word w ill be
< taken fo r it S v
4 I
x46 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yG oogle
• I fear your highnefs does not. attend to the
4 change which has lately been in England. The
4 people who might have taken fuch an anfwer '
4 are now out of power; and their fucceffors
4 are the very men who have always been againft
4 dealing with your highnefs, and may now take
4 the advantage of this breach of faith, for fuch
* I well know they will call it, to throw off your
4 alliance forever: for the people begin to fee
4 their own ftrength, and their governours to
4 exert it properly, and {how them that they
4 want no foreign affiftance. And, as a proof of
i this, at this very time, when their enemies not
* only talk of invading them more confidently
4 than ever, but alfo have gone fo far as to njake
4 preparations for fuch an attempt, fo far from
4 being diffident of their own ftrength, or in-
4 timidatedto call for help, they have ä&ually
4 fent a powerful body of their troops abroad,
4 and are carrying on the war with vigour and
4 fuccefs in every quarter of the world ; fatisfied
4 that the inhabitants who remain at home are
4 able to defend their country, and repel every
4 attempt that may be made againft it. And
4 this change in their meafures ihould give a
4 caution how the perfons who effe&ed it are
4 provoked/ .
4 I care not \ I w ill make the experim ent; but
4 do you draw up your defpatches in fuch a manner,
4 that we may have it in our power to explain .
4 them to whatever fenfe fia ll fu it us befl. In the
4 mean time, we muß keep up our appearance o f
4 treating ivitb F r a n c e , to give a weight to our
4 defigns/ ,
The minifter was prevented from replying, by
the enterance of the mufter-mafter, who had been
H 2 juft
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 14
iyC • >gle
248 vCHRY SA L: OR, THE
juft making a furvey, and taking an account of
every man, able to bear arms, in his highnefs’s
territories, ,
4 W ell (faid his highnefs) how do your muf-
* ters anfwer? Shall I be able to enl
c pleale your moft ferene highnefs (replied the
4 officer) here is the return, in which I have taken
4 down every man from twelve to feventy, accord-
4 ing to your commands.’----- 4A nd how do they
4 anfwer ? Better than laß year, I hope: there m uß
4 be a great many boys have groivn up fince.*— 4The
4 lift, indeed, looks almoft as full as ufual; but the
4 late battles have fo drained us of men to fill up
4 the troops, that there are fcarce any but boys
4 left at home ; and thofe have been fo badly fed
4 of late, that their fize does not anfwer their
4 years, and they look wretchedly befides. So that,
4 upon the whole, I fear your highnefs will find it
4 very difficult to complete the forces already efta-
4 bliihed, much more to raife any new.’
4 I m uß, I w ill raife them ! T ell me not o f d if-
4 ficulties ! W hat I commandfliall be performed ! I f
4 there are not men, the women Jhallput on the men*s
4 clothes and go ; I w ill not be foortened o f my reve-
4 nue \ they f a l l fight tbemfelves,fince they have not
4 bredfoldiers fo r meI
4 This, pleafe your highnefs, is a lift of thedif-
4 abled men, who are not able to fupport them-
4 felves by any kind of work, having loft their
4 limbs in the wars.’
4 D ifabled men ! I thought I ordered you not to
4 exchange them. They might have remained in the
4 hands o f the enemy \ fuch o f them> I mean, as are
4 not able to breed foldiers fo r me, and cultivate the
4 lands: or, fuch as were not prifoners might have
4 number of my troops this year?’
4 keen
Digitized by G oogle
* been let perijh o f their wounds ; it would have been
4 a mercy to them to Jhorten their miferyd
4 M ay it pleafe your highnefs, I obferved your
4 orders, and left a number of fuch wretches
4 unexchanged ; but the enemy faw into my de-
• fign, and lent them home, to be rid of the trou-
4 ble of them : and now they are crying for fub-
4 fiftence, and demand the arrears of their pay*
4 which was flopped while they were prifoners.
4 T h e others our furgeons took proper care of.’
4 Infolent Jlaves ! Demand pay* when they are no
4 longer able to earn it ! AndJ'ubJiJlence too ! They
4 learned this impudence from their converfation w ith
4 thofe Englijh ! It is much they did not demand roajl
4 beef and pudding too ! » Hang up h a lf o f thei?iy '
4 the next zuord o f the kind they dare to utter, to ter-
4 rify the other h a lf toJlarve in quiet. And at your
4 peril let me hear no more o f them.
4 A s fo r the muflers, I w ill have them completed j
4 man, woman, and child Jhall go ! I w ill make my
4 dominions a defert, before I lejfen my confequenc?
4 among the fovereign powers o f Europe*
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i4f
h 3 c h a p .
,
yG oogle
J|0 CHRYSALî OR, THE
chap, xxirr.
M ore cares offovereignty, and confluences o f gran­
deur. C h r y s a l is fen t to market, where he is
given to a f e w fo r bacon.
HIS highnefs had juft declared this magnani­
mous refolution, when the fteward of his
houfehold entered to let him know, that the
butchers and bakers of the next H ans-town, from
whence his table was fupplied, had refufed to fend
him anymore provifions till their bills were paid,
as they had heard that he was to receive no more
fubfidies from E ngland; and there was fcarce
enough to make out dinner for that day, for the
court was very numerous and brilliant, all the
princes and princeffes of the various branches of
his highnefs’s moft illuftrious houfe having come
to pay him a vifit of congratulation upon the birth
of the moft ferene prince his fon and heir: and
that his purveyors had been able to find nothing in
his owndominons fit for his table, but bear’s flefh
and venifon; nor even afufficientquantity ofthefe,
the mifery of his people having made them venture
to break through his laws, and hunt in his forefts,
to fave themfelves and their families from peril­
ing by famine.
His highnefs had hearkened to him without any
emotion, or even concern, till he mentioned this
outrageous infult upon his fovereign authority and
pleafure; but then burfting into a rage, ‘ H unt in
4 771y f oref ls / (faid he.) Audacious flaves 1 Dearly
4Jhall they pay fo r their preem ption ! O rder my
4 troops
,
yG oogle
* troops to march that way direIlly ! I 'l l lay the
4 country wajle ! ’— 4 Pleafe your highnefs (re-
4 plied the iteward) that will coft you the trouble
4 of marching your troops : the country is a de-
4 fert already.’
4 JVho told you that they have been guilty o f this
4 infolence ? You ß o u ld havefeifcd the author o f the
4 report, fo r not apprehending the crim inalsI
4 May it pleafe your highnefs, they took one
4 wretch in the very fa&, and have brought him
4 here, to receive the fentence of your pleafure 5
4 and the flag with him alive, which he found in
4 a pit, and borrowed a gun to (hoot. He pleaded
4 hunger, and the cries of a ftarving family of
4 grand-children, for he is an old man, and his
4 three fons have been killed in the wars; but,
4 though I own he moved me, I did not prefume
4 to let him go.’
4 It is w ell you did not, or youß o u ld have fujfered
4 in hisJlead. Go^flrip him naked, bind him on that
4fla g , and then let him loofe w ith him upon his back
4 into the woods, proclaiming, that no one, upon pain
4 o f death, prefume to give him the Jeaß relief: he
4ß a l l have hunting e n o u g h .
4 But what will your highnefs have me to do
4 about provifions for the entertainment of the
4 princes ? I believe they defign a long vifit, for
4 they havebrought all the young princes andprin-
4 ceffes of their llluitrious familieSvwith them.’
4 I care not ! I am not to be dißurbed on fuch
4 trifles now, when thefa te o f nations depends on my
4 refolutions. L et them go home again I
4 Not failing, 1 prefume ; for they have already
4 fignified, fome of them, that they have come
4 without their breakfails, by calling for refreih-
4 ment themoment they arrived^ and, indeed, I fear
H 4 4 the
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 151
,
yG oogle
15* CHRYSAXî OR, THE
4 the principal motive of this vifit of their high-
4 nefles was want of any thing to eat at home.’
4 Confufion ! W hat can I do ? H erey take this
4 money, and fend fo r victuals fo r them *
T he fight of a handful of guineas was an
agreeable furprife to the Reward, who had not
heard of the arrival of the fubfidy from England„
He received them with evident pleafure, and I felt
no lefs in being delivered from this feene of fo-
vereignty, of which I was fincerely fick; though,
by the change, I fell from being the price of
armies to the domefiick office of going to market
for a morfel of bread, from the glory of caufing the
Daughter of thoufands to the virtue of fupporting
the lives of a few.
The Reward, as foon as he withdrew from the
prefetice of his highnefs, called the other officers
of the houfehold together, and told them, with
joy in his countenance, that there was no foun­
dation for the report of their mafler’s breaking
with England, fo that they might look famine in
the face for another year ; and confirmed the glad
tidings, by fliowing thermthe gold.
The pleaiing fight raifed univerfal jo y ; they
licked their lips, feafted in imagination, and pre­
pared things for getting dinner ready, with all the
alacrity of willing minds and keen appetites ;
while the Reward, not caring to trufl a commif-
fion of that importance to any inferior officer,
waited only to wafli down a mouldy cruR with a
draught of four wine, and then went to market
for them himfelf. -
The appearance of things changed as foon as I
left the hereditary dominions of his highnefs, and
entered into the little territories of a free Rate.
Plenty
,
yG oogle
Plenty was the reward of induftry, and content
fupplied well the place of grandeur.
As hishighnefs’sminifter had preffing motives to
accelerate his négociations, he went dire£Uy tothe
feveral dealers in provifions, and, ordering acotn-
fortable fupply on the credit of our appearance,
returned with thegreateft defpatch to the difcharge
of the offices of his high employment, in the ce­
remonials of the court.
In the courfe of thefe tranfaâions it fell to m y
lot to be paid to a Jew, for bacon and faufages,,
the butchers of his religion being held to make the
beft of the latter, as they never cut out the nicer
hits to eat themfelves^
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA.
H * CETA p;
> Google
CHRYSAL* OR, THE
C H A P . XXIV.
Compartfon between two dealers in flefo. The
celebration o f the P a s s o v e r in the traditional
way, ayd the method o fprocuring ( human) iambs
explained.
I Now entered into a fervice, the moft diame­
trically oppofite of any in nature to my laftj
my prefent mafter denying himfelf the very necef-
faries of life, to hide his riches under the appear­
ance of poverty, as my laft lived in the moft vain
oftentation of fplendour, to conceal his poverty
under the appearance of riches.
It is difficult to fay which hypocrify was moft
abfurd, and contradictory to the immutable laws #
of moral juftice : the former bafcly Healing, as I
may fay, from the publick, that wealth which
was ordained to be of advantage to it, and
whofe value arifes only from its being ufed, by
thus fecreting it in his coffers; and the latter,
in gratification of a vanity as unjuftifiable as that
avarice, committing every kind of aCtual violence
to fupply the want of it.
I here was foon initiated into all the myfteries
of that lower fpecies of trade called redling,
,
which is in a manner engrofled by thofe people.
FalTe weights and meafures, adulteration of wares,
lying, perjury; in a word, every fpecies of de­
ceit that can impofe upon ignorance and credu­
lity, were here reduced into a fcience, taught by
precept, and enforced by example, from the ear-
lieft exertion of reafon, to w
ear off every he-
Station
,
yG oogle
iitation of confcience, and make the pra&ice na­
tural and expert.
The beauty of my appearance, for I had hi­
therto efcaped mutilation, made my matter, who
was an adept in that art, think it improper to
throw me among his diminiihed heap, as 1 ihould
but make their lofs the more remarkable. He,
therefore, put me into his purfe, to make a ihow
with uponoccafions, and appear as a proof of his
innocence of that practice, of which he was too
ftrongly fufpefted.
The evening after I came into his pofleffion
happened to be one of their moft folemn feftivals.
M y matter, therefore, who was one of the tribe
of L ev i, retired frombufinefs early, to purify and
prepare himfelf for the celebration of the moft
fecret and myfterious ceremony of their re-
• ligion. '
This was the facrifice of the Pajfover, which,
by a fecret tradition, never committed to writing,
for fear of being betrayed, was changed from
the typical offering a lamb, to the real immola­
tion of human blopd ; for which purpofe the moft
beautiful children were purchafed at any expenfe,
and under any pretext, from the ignorance of
neceflitous parents, or the perfidious avarice of
fervants, if they could not be obtained by ftealth,
and brought from all parts of Europe to thefe
ceremonies: it being a long-received opinion,
that the original facrifice of a lamb was defigned
only for that one occafion, to conciliate the fa­
vour of Heaven to the efcape of their fore­
fathers out of Egypt; but that, to render it pro­
pitious to their reftoration to their country, and
to .the confummation of their promifed happinefs
H 6 and
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 155
,
yG oogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
15S
and glory, the type rauft be changed for the thing
typified, and human blood, in the pureft ftate of
infant innocence, be offered inftead of the inef­
fectual blood of a brute.
But, as fome traces of natural affection might
remain, even in hearts diverted of the feelings of
common humanity, to remove every obilacle to
this practice, and ftimulate fuperftition by hatred
and revenge, the children of Chriftians were ap­
pointed for this facrifice, and thofe efpecially of
the fuperior ranks of life, whofe pride might be
too apt to make them treat the people of the Jews
with feverity and contempt.
As to other points, the rules laid down in the
inftitution of the Pajfover were literally obferved,
in refpedt to the victim, who was to be without
hlemijh, a male o f thefir jl year, that is, the firft-
born of his mother, and to be kept fourteen days
before he was facrificed, during which time they #
fed him with the richeft food, to raife him to the
higheft perfection of his nature.
The place chofen for the celebration of this
ceremony, was a fummer-houfe in a garden be­
longing to one of the rulers of their fynagogue,
v/here they all met at the appointed time. As
foon as they were placed in order, one of the
elders flood up, and in a long fpeech declared the
©ccafion of their meeting, and read the original
inftitution of the Paffover^ and then recited the
tradition which changed the facrifice to be of­
fered, as I faid before ; concluding with an oath
of fecrefy, which all prefent joined in and con­
firmed with the moft dreadful imprecations, and
which was to be fealed by the participation of this
horrid myftery.
W hen
iyG oogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *57
W hen he had ended, thevi&ims of that night
were produced, their bodies examined for fear of
blemiih, and their primogeniture proved by thofe
who had provided them,and who werere-emburfed
their expences before the facrifices began, by the
general contribution of all prefent.
This method was ufed, that every perfon might
have an equal ihare in the merit of the facrifice,
as it would be dangerous and tooexpenfive to pro­
vide a lamb for every head of a family in the con*
gregation.
The E nd of the F ir st Book.
,
yG oogle
yGoogle
C H R Y S A L:
O
R
,' TH
E AD
VEN
TU
RES O
P
A G U I N E A .
B O O K II.
C H A P . I.
i
The rites are interrupted, and the victims changed»
This cleared up without a miracle. 'The fe w
fu rvivors o f the fir jl fu ry brought to publick
ju jlice .
I
See your aftoniihment how fo abfurd an opi­
nion could ever take pofleflion of a rational
mind, as that the Deity can be pleafed with the
breach of his moft ftridl command, and rendered
propitious by an aftion againft which his fevereft
vengeance is denounced ; yet, fuch are the errors
which the leaft deviation from the ftraight paths
of reafon lead to, when ceremony is made the
effence of religion, and human inventions fub-
ftituted in the place of immutable, eternal
virtue*
The
,
yG oogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
i6d
The D e v il, whoever is meant by that moft
comprehenfive name, has long been charged
with being the author of this and every other
vice and folly, which men are afhamed of own­
ing themfelves; his temptation being a conve­
nient and comfortable excufe. But, if man
would conlider a little, he muft blufh at fo unfair
and ridiculous a charge, and give the poor D e v il
his due, who, among all his failings, has never
been fufpected of being a fool, and nothing elfe
could have devifed fuch grofs enormities, fuch
contradi&ions to the plaineft rules of common
reafon.
But of this ftrange inftitution of human facri-
fices we need fearch for the original no farther
than in the heart of man,, who, obferving, that
to inculcate the duty ofgratitude, the firftof mo­
ral virtues, the divine will had dire&ed- returns
of its bleflings to be made, in the way of obla­
tion or facrince, foon perverted the original pu­
rity of the inftitution to his own depravity, and
meafuring the divine beneficence by his capricious
avarice, concluded, that the richer the oblation,
or the dearer to the offerer, the greater would,
the merit of it- be* and thus he arofe from a lamb*
to an hetacomh, from brute to human blood ; his
eagernefs to obtain the end, for which he thus,
ftrove to bribe the favour of Heaven, hindering,
him to fee the abfurdity of the means he ufed.
All things being prepared* the .vi&ims 'were
brought to the altar naked and bound,, the in-
llruments for flaying, and the fires for roafting^
them (for, horrour to human thought! they were,
to have feafted on their ffeih) in readinefsv and
the butchers, of whom my matter was one,, juft.
going *
,
yG oogle
going to begin their work, when the doors of the
houfe were burft open, with an outcry that
heightened the terrors of the guilty wretches, and
a band of foldiers ruihed in, and feifed them, as
they Rood ilupified with the fright.
The horrour of the fight gave a refpite to their
fate, ftriking the very hearts of the foldiers,'
though hardened by all the cruelties of war, with
an aftoniihment that deprived them of power to
ftir for fome moments. But this was only aihort
calm, that, as it were, gave time to the ftorm to
gather ; for, as they flood thus gazing at each
other, one of the children cried out, O, father ! *
fa th er ! come and untie my hands ! thefe ugly cords
hurt me ! •
T he voice no fooner ftruck the ear of the of­
ficer, who commanded the party, than, ftarting
in a frenzy, he ran to the child, whom he had
not diftinguiihed before, as he lay naked on the
ground, and fnatching him up in his arms, € O
* my child ! (faid he, in an extafy) have I fou n d ,
* you ! have I r e fcued you in ihe very moment when
4 you are going to be facrificed by thefe wretches» O
4 my child ! my child !
Thefe words awoke the fury of the foldiers,
which burft upon the wretched Jews with a vio­
lence not to be reftrained. The houfe was in a
moment a feene of horrour beyond defeription.
Moft^of them fell inftant facrifices to this refiftlefs
rage. HappieT far in having fo fpeedyan end put
to their fufferings, than the few furvivors, who
faved their lives for that moment, by throwing
themfelves among the dead, or taking hold of the
children, whom, even in this hurricane of paflion,
the foldiers took all care not to hurt.
The
ADVENTURES OF-A GUINEA. 161
yG oogle
The little refpite, which this caution gave, the
officers improved to pacify the foldiers, who
would not be perfuaded to fpare the reft, by any
other argument, but a pofitive afluranceof having
them put to the moftfevcreand infamous publick
death. .
When the ftorm was a little calmed by thefe
means, and the living ft parated from the dead,
the pillage of the fcene was given up to the men,
who rifled all, living and dead, with the moft
unrelenting feverity, and retaliated their wicked
intentions, with exemplary juftice, on the mifer-
able criminals, iiripping them quite naked, and
binding them with the very cords which they
took off* their deftined vi&ims, who were un­
bound with the tendercft care, and carried away
till their parents ihould be difcovered, or, in cafe
that could not be, to be educated at the publick
expenfe, as the children of the ftate, while their
intended murtherers were thrown into prifon, till
- a puniihmcnt ihould be appointed fevere enough,
for their guilt.
In theconfufion of this affair, I fell into the
hands of the officer who had found his child,
whofe paflioris were raifcd fo high by the reco­
very of him, that, as foon as the plunder was over,
he*left his charge to another, and retired to ihare
his joy with his difconfolate wife.
The tendernefs of this meeting was a juft re-
verfeof the former part of the laft fcene, where
the helplefs infants were led forth to be flaugh-
tered.
As the Jews were fome ofthe wealthieft of the
inhabitants, and carried on a great part of the
trade of the city, the magiiirates, to prevent the
impu-
ii% CHRYSAL: OR, 'THE
,
yG oogle
imputation of injuftice, and to fet the whole affair
in a proper light to the world, convened the peo­
ple early the next morning, where therefcued in­
fants were produced on one fide, and the few
that remained alive of their intended butchers on
the other, when my new matter, who bore a
confiderable office in the ftate, befides his mili­
tary command, unfolded the whole affair, in a
ihort, but moving fpeech. He told them, 4that,
4 having loft his only child, the infant there pre-
4 fent about a month before, and having been
4 informed, when he ferved in Poland, in his
* youth, that the Jews had a cuftom of fteal-
4 ing and facrificing, or murthering infants, on
4 the night when they celebrated their Pajfover,
4 he made no fearch for him, but feemed to be-
4 lieve a ftory which he had invented himfeJf, to
4 appeafe the deftra&ion of his wife, that he had
4 been killed and devoured by a tame wolf, that
4 was kept in the garden of his country-houfe,
4 from whence he was ftolen, watching, in the
4 mean time, every motion of the Jews with
4 fuch exadtnefs, that he had pun&ual informa-
4 tion of their meeting at the place where he
4 had feifed them the evening before : where it t
4 was to be lamented, that the juft refentment
4 of the foldiers had anticipated the fevercr hand
4 of juftice, and faved them from the laws, the
4 judgement of which he now demanded againft
4 the remaining few, forhimfelf, and for the un-
4 known parents of the innocent victims whom
4 they faw before them.’
A roar of univerfal indignation purfued his
words, which had inflamed the rage and detefta-
tion of the people fo high, that they were with
difficulty
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. i6j
,
yG oogle
difficulty reftrained from tearing the wretches in-
ftantly to pieces by the fame arguments which
had faved them from the foldiers before: nor
were the Jews admitted to fay a word in their
own defenfe, for, though none of the infants had
been actually murthered that night, yet the in­
tention was beyond controverfy, and, befide, many
of the people, who had formerly loft their chil­
dren, now charged them with their murther,
with the ftrongeft appearance of juftice.
They were therefore dragged back to prifon,
where they lay loaded with chains, till the day of
their execution, when they were all publickly
burned alive on the very fpot where they were to
have perpetrated their guilt, the houfe being rafed
to the ground for that purpofe, and all the effects
of fuch as were taken in this fa£t confifcated to
the ufe of the ftate.
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P . II.
A breach o f neutrality properly refented brings
. C hrysal into a fervice which he had long
been ambitious o f H ow he foun d his new majler
employed. The King o f Bulgaria's reception o f
the humbled magijlrates. H is appropriation o f
money to his own ufe» H is reflexions on the fig h t
o f C h ry sa l.
T H IS affair was fcarce ended, when I
changed my matter again. The city in
which I was, had profeffed a neutrality in the
prefent war, but whether yielding to inclination,
or biaffed by private intereft, the magiftrates had,
on
,
yG oogle
on many occafions, fhown the ftrongeft partiality
to the enemies of the King of Bulgaria.
O f this that heroick prince over-looked many
inftances, in compailion to their folly; but, in-
llead of infpiring them with proper fentiments of
gratitude, this moderation only raifed their injudi­
cious pride fo high, that, attributing it to fear,
they at length proceeded fo far, as to refufe him
thofe good offices, which, by the univerfal laws
of mankind, he had a right to demand, and treat­
ed his meffengers with difrefpeCt.
This drew on them a refentment that was never
raifed in vain. The king, without deigning to
wafte time in complaints, fent a body of forces
dire&ly to their gates, and obliged them to buy
their fafety with contributions, and deprecate his
vengeance with fubmiifions, which humbled their
pride, and terrified their neighbours from being
guilty of the like folly.
As thefe contributions were too large to be im­
mediately difcharged by the ftate,they were obliged
to be levied on the fubjefts; by which means I
came into the fervice of this monarch, to whofe
treafurer I was paid, by the humbled magiftrates
of the city on their knees.
The many great things which I had heard of
this prince had long made me wiih for fuch an
opportunity of feeing him, and of having a know­
ledge of his heart, that I might be able to j*udge,
whether he really was the great man he appeared
to the world, by all his aCtions, to be. How my
expectations were anfwered cannot be explained
juftly, without a particular account of everything
I faw, while I was with him ; but, as that would
be too much for my time, which begins to grow
fcort,l
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 165
l
,
yG oogle
ihort, I ihall only give you a few of the moft re­
markable particulars, by which you may form a
judgement of the reft.
The king was walking in his camp before the
enterance of his tent, after having finiihed the
bufinefs of the morning, converfing with the moll
engaging affability with his officers, and even
the private fentinels of his guard, redrefling their
complaints, and relieving their wants, when the
magiftrates of the city 1 had juft left arrived to
pay their contributions, and make fubmiflion for
their miibehaviour; for, to humble them the more
effedtually, he had ordered, that they fhould attend
himfelf.
As foon as they approached him, they fell oil
their knees, and, delivering the money to his
treafurer, implored his pardon, in the moft ab-
jeft terms of fubmiflion. 4Arife (faid the mo-
4 narch) and ceafe your fupplications ; the pof-
4 ture and addrefs are both improper to be offered
4 to a man ; but the paflions of the fooliih are
4 ever in extremes; and your fear'finks you now
4 as low, as your vain infolence raifed you high
4 before. Depart in peace and fafety; and let
4 this teach you, not to miftake moderation for
4 fear, another time.. But, beware that you of-
4 fend not fo again. Mercy, that is amiable in
4 the firft inftance,degenerates to folly, if extend-
4 ed to a fecond.’
The magiftrates, unable to fpeak before him,
retired in confufion from his prefence, when
turning to his treafurer, 4Take (faid he) fomuch
4 of that money as will repair the Ioffes fuftained
4 by the innocent inhabitants of the country
4 around their city, and fee that it is given to
5 4 fufterers,
3*6 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yG oogle
x fufferers, to be applied to that ufe, and none
4 other, for I war not with the poor, nor would
4 I have my fteps marked by defolation, when
* it can poflibiy be avoided. And of the re­
* mainder leave the ufual fum upon my table, for
4 my private occafions/
Then addrefling himfelf to the officers-around
him in general, 4How abjeCt (faid he) is the
4 fubmiffion of the proud ! how does guilt humble
4 the confcious heart! Thefe unhappy men, who
4 dared not now meet our eyes, but hafted with
c down-caft looks from the flaih of juft indigna-
4 tion, when laft we faw them, looked us in the
4 face with the aflurance of friendly refpeft, and
4 feemed happy in the marks of our regard. Let
4 this teach us to preferve the adamantine Ihield
4 of a clear confcience, and terrour can never
4 ftrike a dart through it, to our hearts/
When the treafurer went to divide the money,
among which I lay, according to his mailer’s
orders, I was greatly alarmed, for fear I ihould be
torn fo foon from the prefence of this prince; but
my anxiety was relieved, when he took that bag
in which 1 was, and gave it to one of his mailer’s
pages, to lay upon' his table.
The many things I had heard of this prince’s
greatnefs, had, I own, deceived me into expecta­
tions of pomp and grandeur in his court, and par­
ticularly about his perfon. This made me fur-
prifed to find every thing infa plainnefs far greater
than v/hat I had in many inilances obferved in
private life. But I inftantly perceived my error,
and that his greatnefs was his own, eftabliihed
on the virtues of his foul, and independent of,
and fuperiour to every adventitious circumftance.
1 had
, ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 167
,
yG oogle
I had not long lain upon his table when he
entered alone, and, walking a meditated turn or
two acrofs the tent, kneeled down, and offered
up his foul in the moll ardent devotion to
Heaven.
He then arofe, with a ferenely chearful coun­
tenance, and, coming to the table, poured out
the money, and viewing it earneftly for a mo­
ment, 4O thou fource of every evil which di-
4 ftra&s this wretched world (faid he) let me
4 not be infeited by thy poifon; let not my
4 heart conceive afondnefs for thee, further than
4 what thy native value of enabling it to do
4 good, juftly intitles thee to: 1 am yet free
4 from thy infatuation; nor have ever fuffered
4 avarice to tempt me to defire thee, by impro-
4 per means, nor vain luxury, or pride, to abufe
4 thee by profufiort. This pittance only do I call
4 my own, which I devote to the divine author of
4 all the benefits and mercies of my life, in grateful
4 return, by fupplyingwithit theneceffitiesof my
4 diftrefled fellow-creatures.’
Then taking an handful of it, to put into his
pocket, and happening to obferve my ihape, he
took me up, and looking attentively at me, 4Is
• there no corner of the earth (faid he) where
f the wealth of Britain is not difperfed ? If its
4 commerce colleflsthe produce of every climate
4 under heaven, its munificence does alfo diffufe
4 its riches as far. Great and happy nation!
4 wer’t thou but fenfible of the bleflings of thy
4 condition— but the time is come, when thou
4 openeft thine eyes to thine own interefl, and
4 feeleft the mightinefs of thy ilrength. How
4 great is the power of true wifdom ! how happy
the
168 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yG oogle
c the people who have a good man for their
4 guide.’
Saying this, he put us into his pocket, and, a$
foon as it was dark, wrapped himfelf in a cloak*
and went out privately to take a view of his
camp, in a difguife that fecured him from mifin-
formation or deceit.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 1*9
C H A P . III. -
T he King takes a view o f his camp in difguife.
The exalted pleafure he received in the various oc+
currences o f his w alk. H e gains a great victory.
H is conduct in and after the battle.
f T 'H E notion I had formed of a camp, from
the effects which I had feen of war, made
me expert a fcene of tumult and confufion. But
how was I furprifed here find every thing as re­
gular and tranquil as in the beft governed city in
the midft of peace !
My matter had not walked far, when fome
converfation, that feemed to be carried on with
warmth in one of the tents, catching his ear, he
flopped to liften what might be the fubjeB: of it;
* I imagine (faid a voice within) that we (hall have,
* a battle foon : the chearfulnefs of the king’s
4 looks, and the more than common fpirits he has,
4 been in for thefe few days, are certain figns that
4 he has fome great things in view. I always ob-
4 ferve him fo before a battle.’
. 4 The fooner it comes the better (replied an-
4 other) I only wifh that our forces were not fo
. V ql. II. I c over-
,
yG oogle
4 overmatched in numbers ; not that I fear fuccefs
4 when he is with us ; but that we may be able
* to give them a total defeat at once, and fo pre-
4 vent their making head again. Por fuch is the
€ inequality at prefent, that while we are killing
* half of them the other half efcape; and, though
* what we deftroy exceeds the number of our own
4 army, yet another army of the runaways ftill
4 remains to give us more trouble. But, however,
4 wemuft only do our duty, and kill them all one
* after another/
* And fo we will, brother (continued the
‘ other) if it pleafe God to preferve our king to
4 us; for while we have him we can fear no-
* thing. The number of our enemies only in-
4 creates the glory of vanquiihing them. Indeed,
* 1 wonder how they can ftand before us even as
* they do; wretches that are dragged to the war
4 againft their inclination, who have no intereft
4 in the event, no attachment to their leadersI
4 But what attachment ihould they have to fuch
4 leaders, who fhow no regard to their diftrefles,
4 nor make any provifion for their wants, butjuft
4 drive them to battle, like oxen to the flaughter,
4 and, when it is over, take no further care about
4 them, but let them periih by famine, if they
4 cannot relieve themfelves by plundering the
4 unhappy countries, friends or enemies alike,
4 through which they go!*
4 Well, brother (returned a third voice) thank
4 God thatxi$ not our cafe; we follow a leader
4 who is a father to his foldiers, and provides for
4 all their occafions. We fight for ourfelves and
. 4 our families, for our laws and religion, and are
4 fure that he will fupport us in.the enjoyment of
4 them, when he has disappointed the defigns of
. 4 his
t 7o 'cHRYSALi OR, THE
,
yG oogle
* his enemies, and reftored peace to his people :
4 but if we are to fight to-morrow we had better
4 take our reft to-night, to make us freih and
4 ftrong for the battle. *God blefs and preferve
4 our king ; whilft his care watches over us, we
4 can ileep in fafety in the midft of our enemies.*
This genuine tribute of praife melted the
heart of the King with the fublimeft delight, and
drew the tear of tendernefs from his eye. 4 O
4 my God ! (faid he, when the voices ceafed)
4 enable .me to proteft this people, and to bring
4 this juft war to an happy end, that they may
4 enjoy the fruit of their virtues.’— He then con­
tinued his progrefs, in which he met many fuch
occafions of confcious pleafure. When he faw
that all things were in proper order in the camp,
his next care was to vifit the quarters of the
wounded and fick, for he would not truft them
to any perfon, where he could poifibly attend to
them himfelf.
The manner in which all things were ordered
here, for the relief and comfort of the evils in-
feparable from war, were alone fufficient to raife
the higheft idea of the tendernefs and humane
care which dire<5ted and fupported it. No riot
or diforder; no negligence or abufe among the at­
tendants ; no mifapplication or embezzlement of
the provilions made for the patients : all was or­
der and harmony between them. How unlike to
Other fcenes of the fame nature which I had feen
before !
If he was delighted with the fpirited attachment
of his foldiers in health, his delight was almoft
raifed to extafy, by the behaviour of thefe victims
of the madnefs of the great. The thought of
. 1 2 having
ADVENTURED OF A GUINEA. 17«.
,
yG oogle
having fuffered in his caufe the extreme!! anguiih
of pain, not even the agonies of death ever making
them utter a fyliable to his difadvantage, or forget
him in their prayers, in which hisprefervation was
always joined with their own relief, and his hap-
pinefs recommended with their fouls to Heaven.
This was too moving to be long bor’n ; he
joined in the general prayer, and hafted from the
tender fcene, as foon as he had fulfilled the motive
of his going, by taking a ftri<ft view of every
thing in which his orders might be difobeyed,
and thefe his particular family, as he called them,
fuffer.by negleft.
His tour was now finiihed, and he returned to
his tent, to take his neceffary reft, having diftri-
buted, on the various occafions that had occurred
in his walk, all the money he had taken with him
except me, w ho happened to flick in the corner of
his pocket.
Temperance, exercife, and ferenity of con-
fcience infured his repofe ; he fell aileep the mo­
ment his head touched the pillow, nor awoke till
his ufual early time of rifingnext morning, when
he returned to the fatigue and perplexity of fuch
a multiplicity of affairs with a clear head and
undifmayed heart, and foon reduced the confufion
of them into l'uch order, as made their execution
eafy.
As the foldier had judged, the hour of battle
was at hand. The King had fcarce finiihed the
bufinefs of the morning, when an officer brought
him an account, that the forces of the enemy
were in motion. 4I expe&ed it (faid the King
€ coolly;) I knew they could not remain long in
* the fituation they were in. But let us obferve
‘ their
C H R Y S A L : OR, T HE
,
yG oogle
€ their motions, that we may regulate our’s by
c them/
Then, ordering fome of his generals to follow
him, he went to the top of a neighbouring houfe,
from whence he could view them diflinCtly,
where, having obferved them attentively for fome
conliderable time, * It is done, my friends \p
(faid he, with a lmile of joy that enlightened
all his face;) 6 it is done ! That laft motion is
.4 what we wanted. Let us hafte, and embrace
4 the opportunity which Heaven has put into our
4 hands. *— Then, descending with an alacrity
that infpired every beholder, he made his difpo-
fitions for the battle, and, putting himfelf at the
head of his forces, marched direCtly againft the
enemy.
Defcriptions of battles are never fatisfaClory;
the confuiion is too great, and thebufinefs of the
feene too complex to be brought into the regulari­
ty of any one defign. I ihall, therefore, only fay,
that my mailer was completely victorious : and,
to raife his own glory the higher, the victory was
entirely gained by that part of his forces which he
commanded in perfon; the excellent difpofition he
had made of the reft rendering it unneccflary for
them to do more than ftand fpe&ators of the ac­
tion from the fituation in which he placed them,
while they prevented him from being furrounded
by the enemy.
' This victory was not gained without refift-
ance. The field was long and obftinately diffuted,
and my mailer often obliged to lead his men to
the charge: but numbers were at length forced
to fubmit to fuperiour valour; and the evening fun
tew his banners wave in triumph, where thofe of
\ 13
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. in
,
yG oogle
his enemies had menaced his deftru&ion in the
morning.— If the intrepidity with which he flew
from rank to rank, and expofed himfelf to every
ihape of death in the a&ion, had ilruck me with
aftoniihment, I was not lefs affefted by his conduit
•after it was over, when, cooling inflantly from
that enthufiafm of courage, he gave his orders for
fecuring the glorious advantage he had gained, for
taking immediate care of the unhappy fufferers,
both friends and enemies without diftinition, and
for refrefhing his own laboured foldiers* with all
the ferenity of peace.
174 CHRYSALs OR, THE
C H A P . IV.
The happy fr u its o f v i¿tory» C hrysaL finds new
reafon to admire his maßer. A fr a n g e r throws
him felf at his fe e t to implore jufiice* Theßory
o f thefr a n g e r ,
TH E tranfaitions fucceeding this event
were but the common occurrences on fuch
Occafions, in which there is ajways fomething fo
cruel in the triumphs of the viitors, and fo T
e­
vere ih the fufferings of the vanquiihed, that, to a
being free from the contradiitory frenfies of man­
kind, theverythought ispainful.— — Hismajefty’s
nexteare, after returning pubiick thanks toHeaven
on the very fpot where its favour had been fo fig­
liai, was to reward the behaviour of his foldiers.
He praifed, he promoted, he gave money to them,
according to their different ranks and difpofitions.
Nor was his juftice more bounteous in the reward
,
yG oogle
©f merit, than fevere in the puniihmeht of the
want of it.
Under fuch a leader, what forces could with-
ltand his foldiers l Under the difcerning eye of
fuch a prince, who was not actuated with am
-»
bition to diftinguifh himfelf in the execution of
his duty, to obtain his favour; who dared to
be guilty of difobedience or negleCt, to incur his.
wrath ?
From the field of battle the victorious army
was direCtly marched away to a fiege, their fuc
cefs in which was to open them ail opportunity
of attacking another army of the enemy with ad«
vantage.
Such a round of carnage was fo {hocking,
that the virtues of my mailer were not a balance
to the horrours of his fervice, and*I began to wiflx
for a releafe from fuch a fcene of glory^ when an
unexpected occafion ihowed me his character in
a light that raifed my admiration of him ilili
higher.
As he was riding along the lines of his camp,
the morning after the battle, reviewing a body of
forces which he was detaching on a particular
expedition, a man, in the habit of a private
foldier, threw himfelf proftrate acrofs his way,
crying, 4 Mercy / O great King ! H ave mercy on
4 the fufferings o f a wretch in defpair9 and jfhow
4 yourfelf thefubjtitute o f H eaven, by impartialju f t
4 tice.’— The guards and attendants on the King
would have fpurned the fuppliant out of the way,
but his Majefty, {truck with the ftrangenefs of the
addrefs, and imagining it muft proceed from fome
extraordinary caufe, interpofed, and bidding him
arife, 4 What is the grievance you complain off*
(faid he, with a placid look and encouraging ac-
1 4 cent)
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i7S
,
yG oogle
cent) 4 or againft whom do you fo folemnly itn-
4 plore juftice?’
4O great and good K ing !’ (replied the ftrangerj
with an air that befpoke fomething above his
prefent appearance) 4 my griefs are too many to
4 be told fo concifely as your prefent fituation
4 demands ; and the juftice 1 implore will require
4 time to divert nature of its ftrongeft paeons/—-
4 W hat can this mean ! (faidthe monarch in fur-
4 prife.) Meet me direclly at my tent, andexpedfc
4 that juftice which the fimplicity of truth fhall be
4 entitled to, without thefe laboured exclamations/
-----The bufinefs which his mind was intent
upon prevented the King’s thinking any more of
this affair, till he faw the man at his return to his
tent; when calling to him,*4 Now (faid he)
4 fpeak vourgriefs with theboldnefs, but alfowith
4 the guard of truth, and doubt not the redrefs of
4 juftice.’— Encouraged by thefe words, theftran-
ger, bowing his head, and paufing a moment, as
if to fupport his grief, began thus : 4 So may the
4 ear of Heaven be ever open to thy petitions, O
4 gracious King, as thou haft readily vouchfafed
4 to hear my cries ! So may its juftice redrefs thy
4 wrongs, as thou (halt deal with mine ! Thou
4 feeft before thee the moft wretched of mankind,
4 whom defpair has reduced to the neceflity of
4 flying from the defenfeof his country, and im-
4 ploring juftice for his private wrongs, from the
4 declared foe of my fovereign. But let me not
4 wafte your time with fruitlefs complaints. My
4 name, though fpoken with fome refpeft in my
4 native country, is too obfcure to have reached
4 your ears, as my anceftors wifely confined their
4 virtues to private life, nor ever laboured to em-
4 blazon
i j 6 C H R Y S A L : OR, T HE
,
yG oogle
4 blazon their names with titles, that too often
4 marr the happinefs of their owners.
* In their fteps I trod, till the wrath of Heaven
4 kindled the ambition of princes, and my coun-
4 try became the theatre of their contention. I
4 then thought it my duty to arife in its defenfe,
* and the juftice of my motive drew fuccefs on
4 my attempts. But, while I vainly indulged
4 the hope of being inftrumental in delivering my
c country from the horrours of war, a foe broke
c into ¿my houfe, thus deftitute of its defender,
c and rifled all the treafure of my foul! O my
4 unhappy wife ! my newly wedded, beauteous
4 wife! In vain didft thou call upon me inthehour
of thy diftrefs ! when the hand of theravriher
4 was twifted in thine hair, and the horrours of
4 immediate ruin took pofleflion of thy foul !
4 Thy prote&or was away, bufied in the defenfe
c of others, while the wolf was ravaging his de-
4 ferted fold.
4 But whither does my diftra&ion hurry me ?
* O pardon, gracious monarch, theinconfiftencies
c of defpair ! I will be brief; I will not trefpafs
4 on thy precious time.* — He paufed then amo­
ment, till a flood of tears eafed the fulnefs of his*
heart, and then proceeded thus :
4 In the irruption of thy troops into Bohemia^
« about fix months ago, my unhappy fortune led
4 a party of them to my houfe, where the induf-
* try of my anceftors, for ages of peace, fell a
‘ facrifice to the wantonnefs of unreftrained de­
c vacation in one moment. But I complain not
< of this. It was my ihare of the indifcriminate
* calamity, Alas ! my woes are of another na-
4 tu
re
^
^ IS 4 The ,
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.J i77
,yC le
• The beauty of my wife ftruck the very hard* 9
4 ened hearts of the ioldiers with fuch reverence,
4 that, in the fury of their outrage, they dared
4 not to lay a facrilegious' hand on her : but this
4 fafeguard that prote&ed her from rapine, only
4 raifed the more audacious rage of luft againft her.
4 The officer who commanded the party no fooner
4 faw her, than, inflamed with brutal defire, he
4 hurried her away with him to the camp, where
4 imagination finics in horrour from the thought
4 of what flie may have fuffered.
4 The news of my misfortune foon reached
4 me. No rellraints of military duty were of
4 force to hold me a moment; I flew to the feene •
4 of my ruin, where, having learned what I
4 have related to you, the greatnefs of my grief
4 ftupified me for a time, till the thought of my
4 wife’s being ftill alive,, and in the pofleffioji of
4 her raviiher, roufed me to a refolution of la-
4 bouring for her relief. I, therefore, immedi-
4 ately entered in difguife into thofe very trdbps
4 which had perpetrated my ruin, as I defpaired
4 of eluding the vigilance of thy officers by any
4 other means. My ftratagem had fuccefs; I
4 foon learned that the officer, who had brought
4 my wife from my houfe, had been obliged to
4 give her up to his general, who had demanded
4 her as foon as ihe had been brought to the
4 camp,
4 A dawn of hope broke in upon me; though
4 I could not gain any account of her after this:
4 I thought that a man honoured with your par-
4 ticular efteem muft be poflefled of virtue $ and
4 this, I knew, muft be her prote&ioiu4
X7g CHRYSAL: OR, THE
4 Big
, )ogle
€ Big with this hope, I found means to rejoin
my own corps, where my abfence was eafily
excafed to a general who was my friend, and
who readily yielded to my requeft of fending
a'trumpet, with a letter, to enquire for fuch a
lady, and to defire that ihe might be treated
with the tendernefs and refpeit due to her fex
and beauty, till ihe fhould be reftored to her
friends.
4 But all my fond hopes fell to the ground,
when an anfwer was returned, that the general
knew not of iuch a perfon. Defpair now*
flared me in the face I faw all the horrours of
my condition 5 and would that inftant have
returned in mydifguife and ftabbed theraviiher
at the head of his forces, had I not refle&ed
that my Theodora might be only expofed by
fuch an a&ion to new infults, and her life,
perhaps, facrificed in torture and ignominy to
revenge.
4 While I fluctuated in this diftrefs, Heaven
infpired me with the thought of having recourfe
to your juftice. Though he is the enemy of
my fovereign, faid 1, he is a man who feels the
tender impulieof humanity; he is a king who
delights in juftice ! I .therefore reafliuried my
difguife, and entered into your camp as a de-
ferter, the night before this battle, in which
inftinitive abhorrence of cowardice urged me
to the duty of a foldier, and I happened to fight
near your perfon; where, though 1 was fen-
fible of my crime, in affifting the enemy of mjr
fovereign, I had this palliative confolation, that
the forces I engaged were not myfellow-fob-
je£fs, but thpfe of a perfidious ally, who en­
tered into the war only to take his own ad­
. 16 4 vantage,
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i 79
,
yGoogle
4 vantage, when a proper opportunity fhould
4 offer.
4 This, O gracious K ing! is my unhappy
4 ftory. This is the grievance for which I im-
4 plore thy juftice ; for which I fought againft
4 the allies of my fovereign yefterday; for which
4 I threw myfelf before your horfe’s feet this
4 morning; for which I now call upon you by
4 that Power who has placed you as his fubfti-
4 tute on earth, and will require an account
4 of thy ftewardihip. O juftice! juftice ! ju-
tSo CHRYSALj OR, THE
C H A P. V.
The King fends fo r the General, and orders the
Jlranger to he confined till his arrival. Con­
tinuation o f the ftory o f the Jlranger. A new
tryal o f the K ing's fortitude and activity o f
f o u l
TH E King heard out the ftranger’s ftory
without interruption ; and then, addrefling
himfelf to his officers and attendants round him,
4 How unhappy (faid he) is the condition of
• princes, who muft be anfwerable for the crimes
4 of their fervants, as if every man’s own were
4 not more than he can bear !
4 I thought this man as upright as I knew him
4 brave : I thought juftice ana mercy attemper-
4 ed valour in his breaft. But perhaps he is
4 wronged; let us not judge too haftily. G6
i (turning to one of his officers) bid him come
5 Mo
,
yG oogle
4 to me dire&ly, nor tell him a word of the oc-
4 cafion. If he is guilty, he has forfeited my
4' efteem forever; but, if this complaint is only a
4 calumny devifed to exafperate me againft one of
4 my beft friends, feverely ihall the author of it
4 feel that juftice which he fo Solemnly implores.
4 Let him, therefore, be taken into cuftody till the
4 event decides the doubt; but let him be treated
4 with that humanity which his apparent diftrefs
* Hands in need of; nor let any hardihip or indig-
4 nity give juftice the appearance of prejudice, or
4 feem to intimidate his resolution.’
• He then retired to enjoy thofe few moments of
his life, which privacy enabled him to call his
own.
His Majefty’s commands were fo punctually
obeyed, that the General arrived at the camp the
very next day, where he immediately waited on
his matter, who received him with his ufual fa«
miliarity ; and having conferred with him for
fome time, on the Situation of the affairs under
his care, he led him to the door of his tent,
where he had ordered the ftranger to be brought
to confront him, and then Spoke thus, as if in
continuation of his former diScourfe : 4It has ever
4 been my ftrongeft wiih, my moil pofitive com­
4 mand, that the calamities of this neceflary war
4 ihould fall as li-ght as poffible on the innocent
-4 Subjects of tho*e powers who have provoked
4 it; particularly, I have always enjoined the
4 ftricteft care to avoid eve ry unnecefl'ary devaf-
4 tation of private property, every appearance of
4 cruelty or ill treatment to the defenfelefs weak-
4 nefs of the aged,ofwomen, and children. What,
* then, mult be njy grief to find thefe orders dif-
4 obeyed! to find that the ruins of the poor mark
‘ 4 the
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, fft
,
yG oogle
4 the marches of my armies, and the cries of
c private anguifh arife to Heaven againft me i
4 But thefe enormities ihall not lie on my head
4 for negleft of puniihing them, nor be perfifted
4 in on the hope of impunity. Were my righthand
4 guilty of fuch crimes, I would cut it off with my
4 left, rather than it ihould infeft my mind.*
The folemnity with which the King fpoke thefe
words ftruck all prefent with terror for the accufedy
who alone was ignorant of their defign. ¡The
King faw the general concern, and, to let the im­
preffion fink the deeper, he paufed fome moments
before he proceeded ; then, turning ihort upon the
General with a determined look and aweful voice,
4 Tell me (faid he) where is the woman whom
4 thou hadft from the officer who brought her to
• the camp, when the forces under thy command
4 entered into Bohemia ? the woman whom the
4 Bohemian general fent to enquire after in vain j
4 and whom, I fear, thou.didft deny, and ftill
4 detaineft for purpofes too bafe to mention i*
The unexpe&edrtefs of this charge deprived
the uphappy criminal of all prefence of mind : he
flood abaihed, and the confufion of his looks too
plainly betrayed his guilt. The King faw his di-
ftrefs with the greateft concern; but, fuperiQur to
every private regard that could interfere with his *
fublimer character, 4 Tell me where ihe is this
* inftant ! (faid he) nor aggravate, by falfehood,
♦ crimes already too flagrant ; for I will know the
* whole of this Mack affair/
4 O , Sir! (replied the General, throwing him-
4 felf at his feet) I acknowledge m y crime; but I
4 cannot bear thy wrath. Let me die this mo-
4 ment; /let that punifhment. expiate my guilt;
4 but affli& me no longer with thy difpleafure,
^ 3 4 which
I«* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yG oogle
€ which is heavier than I can bear.’— 4 W here it
* the %voman ? Speak.*— 4 Safe and inviolate in my
4 tent. My entreaties have not been able to prevail
* on her virtue; and my paffion was too delicate
4 to feek gratification by force/— 4This moment let
4 her be Centfo r ! and let the caufe o f her coming be
4 concealed from her : I w ill learn the truth o f this
4Jlrange affair from herfelf. In the mean time9 let
4 her hufband be treated w ith tendernefs and refpeft•
4 H is misfortunes deferve companion.*
The King had fcarce faid this, when an exprefs
arrived from another of his armies, which guarded
his own dominions from the calamities of war, to
inform him, that they had been repulfed with
great lofs, in an attack upon the army of the ene­
my, which was now in full march to his capital.
-----4 Thy w ill be done9 O G o d ! (faid the King.)
4 Thy w ill be done/ - And then, without any ap­
pearance of furprife or alteration in his looks, he
inftantly gave orders for a ftrong detachment of
the army under his own command to march to the
re-enforcement of that which had fufFered this
lofs; and retired to confider of the alterations
which this évent muft neceffarily occafion in the
operations of the campaign, and write his (everal
orders accordingly, for he was his own fecretary.
But, though his looks were thus eafy, his heart
feverely felt this misfortune. 4O God ! (faid he,
4 as foon as h#was alone) when will thy wrath be.
4 appeafed ?*When fhàll this people have reft i If
4 / am the unhappy objeft of it, O let it fall on
4 my head alone, but fpare them ! There is no-
4 thing certain in this life ; nothing worth a wife
4 man’scare or regard. The victory with which it
4 pleafedthee to biefs our arms fo lately, raifedmy
4 hopes to aprofpeit of peace. But the feene is
*
* t a w
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. iS)
,
yG oogle
4 now changed ; and this advantage will raife the
4 pride and malice of our enemies ftill higher, and
4 make new deluges of blood neceffary to bring
* them to a fenfe of reafon and juftice. T hy will
4 be done, O Lord ! But, as it is not yet decla-
4 red, it is our duty to make ufe of the means which
4 thou haft put into our power to accompliih that
4 end which appears tous moft juft and advanta-
4 geous. The horrours ofthewar are ready toburft
4 upon my country, afterall myendeavours to fave
4 it, and divert them elfewhere. But they (hall
4 not unoppofed j I myfelf will ftand in the
4 breach, and defend my native country/
The ferenity in the looks of the King had de­
ceived the fears of the army, and every one pre­
pared to obey him with the greateft alacrity: and,
though this affair put the whole camp in motion,
it occafioned neither diforder nor confufion.
Aâive as light, the King was every-where,
ordered every thing, fa w every thing prepared, as
well for the convenience of his foldiers as for the
greateft poffible expedition of their march. His
armies might be vanquiihed, for they were but
men ; but to dejeâ or diforder bis mind was not
in the power of any event.
sS* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P .
,
yG oogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 1*5
• C H A P . VI.
Conclujlon o f the Jlofy o f theJiranger. H is w ife
arrives and acquits thegeneral, The king*sfpeech
to him, and generofity to the Jlrangers, C h r y -
sa l changes his fervice, and goes w ith them.
Some general remarks on the character o f the king
o f B u lg a r ia , and the probable confequences o f
the w ar.
BY this time the Bohemian lady arrived, whom
the king ordered to be brought diredtly to
his tent. The firft fight of this woman raifed
emotions in his heart which it had long been a
ftranger to. A beauty that exceeded imagination,
and a fweetnefs and expreflion in her looks be­
yond defcription, foon made him fenfible that
all his'heroifm could not eradicate the paflions of
nature, and raifed his pity both for the unfortu­
nate general and for her hufband.
He flood fome moments gazing at her in filent
aftoniflimentj but recolledting himfelf foon, he
addreiTed her thus with the higheft complacency
and refpedt in his look and accent: 41 have fent
* for you, madam, to this improper place for the
4 delicacy of your fex, to learn from yourfelf the
* manner of your having been brought away
4 from Bohemia, and the caufe of your being
‘ lince detained by the general of my army.
4 Speak, madam, have you fuffered any violence,
* any ufage improper for your fex and merit ?
4 Speak
,
yG oogle
4 Speak with the affurance of truth, and expe<ff
• juftice and redrefs/ /
4 O mighty king, (faid the lady, proftrating
r herfelf at his feet) oft have I heard of thy won-
4 derous virtues; but never till this moment could
4 I think that you could ftoop fo low as to take
4 notice of my wretchednefs. My fad ftory is
f no more than this— I was torn from my houfe
4 by an officer of your army; I was hurried away
4 to the camp by him, and there infulted by the
4 bafe offers of his love; but Heaven delivered
4 me from him. Your general heard of my di-
4 ftrefs, and refcued me from his power: fince
4 which time I have had no perfonal caufe of
4 complaint, befide the indiscriminate calamity of
4 the wars, which have robbed me of my huf-
4 band, and left me a friendlefs widow in the
4 hands of my enemies/— A flood of tears here
flopped her utterance.
The king, raifing her from the ground, proceed­
ed thus': 4A widow, madam, did you fay ? How
4 long fince have you loft your huiband, and by
• what means did you hear of his death
4 O fire ! (replied ihe) as foon as I was freed
4 from the horrours of brutal violence by the ge~
4 neral, I wrote to my huiband, with his perm it
• fion, but received no anfwer to many, very ma-
4 ny letters. This fufpence was worfe than death,
4 and almoft drove me todefpair; till the general
4 at length, in compaffionto my mifery, wrote
4 himfelf to the commander of the army in which.
4 my huiband had ferved, who returned him for
4 anfwerthat he had been killed about the time X
4 was taken prifoner. O ! happy had been my
? lot had I ihared his fate!’
4 I h<?pe:
CHRYSALs OR, THE
,
yG oogle
€ I hope, madam (faid the king) you have
received na injuries, that make you weary of
life : I hope my general has not misbehaved him-
felf to you/
4 O, fire! (replied ihe) I have received no
injuries befides the irreparable lofs of my huf­
band, after which I can have no defire to live.
As. for the general, he has always treated me
with the greateft companion and tendernefs.
But now', will your majefty hear the voice ofaf-
fli&ion ?will you grant the only wiih ofan heart
in defpair ? let me be conveyed to fomereligious
houfe, where I may devote the fad remnant of
my days to the Service of Heaven, far from the
knowledge of the general and every other perfon
who has ever heard of my name. I am fenfible
of the prefumption of troubling you with this
requeft; but to whom Should we fly in the mo­
ment of diftrefs except to Heaven, or its vicege­
rents, efpecially thoie whofe virtues give its feal
to their authority/
4 You may depend (returned the king) upon
every endeavour of my power to make you
happy. But, madam, what meant the particu­
lar mention of the general, in your defire of
beingwetired from the knowledge of the world ?
Pray, be ingenuous; I hope he has nottranf-
grefled the limits of his own virtue and my
command.9 •
4 O, fire! (replied She) miftake not the in­
coherencies of diftradtion: the general has al­
ways treated me with refpedl and tendernefs:
tendernefs in excels, for nothing can be hid
from you, was the only thing my foul could
difapprove of his behaviour. He offered me
honourable love; but, alas, my huiband! my
4 dead
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 1*7
,
yG oogle
* dead hufband has pofleflion of this heart! there
4 he is buried ! nor ever ihall another Ipve difturb
4 his dear retnemberance., ‘
4 Madam, be comforted (returned the king $
.)
* fuch virtue as your’sis the peculiar care of Hea-
* ven; you may be happy yet; your huiband may
* be ffill alive: in the diforders of thefe unhappy
* times many ftrange things happen: many who
4 are thought to be alivearelong fincedead; many
1 who have been long thought dead are found to
4 be alive.’— 4O fire ! what can your words im~
4 port? you would not je jl w ith mifery ! you cannot
4/peak in vain A 0, am I yet to hope after fo long
4 dcfpair ?~
—4Hope! always hope! but 1 ihall
4 fend a proper perfon to explain my words.’
Saying this, the king went to the door of his
.tent, and,feeing herhufband burfting v/ith anxiety
and impatience, he called, 4Go (faid he) in
4 there, and fee what bleffings Heaven referves for
4 virtue ; go in alone; fuch meltings of the foul
4 as muft attend your meeting are too delicate to
4 be expofed to other eyes.’
Then turning to the General, 4You have be-
4 haved nobly, my friend (faid he) in fuch
4 temptation, which was almoft too great for hu-
4.man virtue! had you injured fuch excellence,
4 dear as you are to my heart, your life fhould have
4 expiated the crime. But you have behaved
4 nobly; in fuch a tryal it is virtue to refrain from
4 vice; the errors you have fallen into are but the
4 weaknefles of nature; for to have been infen-
4 fible to her beauty and perfe&ions would have
4 argued a deficiency inhumanity.— But,beware,
4 my friend, of indulging thofe paifions; theyener-
4 vate the heart, and wean the foul infenfibly from
4 virtue; the example is before thine eyes; fee
* 4how
i3t CHRYSALi OR, THE -
yGoogle
c ft>w the violence of love has been able to urge
‘ the noble heart of this woman’s huiband to de­
* fert his charge, to enter into the fervice of his
4
- enemies, to fight againft the di&ates of his own
* cenfcience : think of this, and be more cautious
* for the future : the heart of a foldier has not
4 room for love.’
The general, unable to reply, threw himfelf at'
his feet, and embraced his knees. 4I underftand
4 you (faid the king, fmiling) your pailion is
4 not quite cured ; but you fhall have employment
c to wear off this ruft of idlenefs : return to yout
4 command this moment, and expeft my further
4 orders/
The general obeyed, and the king addrefling
thofe around him, 4 To be without fault (faid he)
4 were not to be a man; he is the belt who has
4 the fmalleft ; and allowance is to be made for
4 human frailty, where the temptation is too great
4 for human virtue.’
As the king faid this, the ftranger and his wife
came out together, and, throwing themfelves at
his feet, bedewed them witji tears of grateful ex-
tafy: 4A rife (faid the monarch) and be happy
4 in each other. I have reftored you to your wife,
4 (faid he to the huiband) and am ready to do you
4 every further inftanceof juftice which you can
4 demand.’
4 My foul is Satisfied, O gracious king; my
4 foul is Satisfied (replied he:) I aik no more of
4 Heaven, but to reward your goodnefs, your ju-
4 ftice, and companion.’
4 But there is one thing more to be confidered
4 (faid the king;) your eftate was wafted; vour
4 houfe burned by my Soldiers; I do not know
4 the lofs you may have Suffered: take this (giv­
ing
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i%9
,
yG oogle
4 ing him a large purfe of gold) if that is not fufi-
* cient to repair it, when Heaven, in mercy to
4 mankind (hall bid thecalamites of war toceafe,
4 if my life is fpared, come to me and I will re-
4 move every caufe of your complaint. I do not
4 aik you to enter into my fervice in this war, but
4 if your honour, your confcience, oppofe it not,
4 you may expeft every encouragement due to
4 your merit.’
4 O lire ! it is too much! your goodnefs over-
4 whelms me! I will retire from the feat of war !
4 I will implore Heaven for your happinefs apd
4 fafety; and though I cannot, may not, fight for
4 you, my arm (hall never more be raifed againft
4 you/
His wife and he then withdrew to prepare for
their departure, leaving the king no lefs happy
in being the authourof their happinefs, than his
goodnefs and bounty had made them.— I here
quitted the fervice of this great prince, being in
the purfe which he gave to the ftranger. The
happinefs which this pair experienced, in being
thus unexpe&edjy reftored to each other, is not
to be expreffed; the delicacy of their love being
as much too fublime for defeription, as the fen-
fuality of other feenes is beneath it. In a word,
they wanted, they wiflied for nothing more,
and, to fecure the pofleilion of what they en­
joyed, they refolved to go and live privately with
his brother, an ecclefiaftick in Vienna, till the war
ihould be at an end, and they might with fafety
return into their own country. This refolu-
tiop was foon taken; they applied for paflports
that evening, and left the camp the next morn­
ing*
Sick
190 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yG oogle
Sick as I was of fuch a fcene of blood, I own I
could not leave this prince without reluctance.
1 fee you are defirous that I ihould give you a
character of him; but I muft not gratify yotir
curiolity; what I havetold you of his aCtions may
convince you, that he is the greateft of men :
but humanity is too frail to be able to form any
definitive judgement from his paft, for his future
life. Succefs may elevate; misfortune may four
his mind ; and fo overthrow that equality of it,
which now raifes him almoft above man. His
enemies are numerous and inveterate ; his friends
few, and hardly Heady enough to be relied on :
fo that his dependence is folely on the attachment
of his own fubjeCls, and the ftrength of his own
foul.
What will be the event of his fortune is not
permitted me to conje&ure : this only I muft fay,
that, if he falls, it had been better for his country,
for Europe in general, that hehad never been born;
as his ftruggles will exhauft their ftrength, and
leave them an eafy prey toa foe ( the Turks) whofe
filence makes them not apprehenfive of him, but
who laughs in his heart to fee them thus do his
work, and deftroy againft each other the forces
which might prevent his adding themto the num­
ber of the nations which already groan under his
yoke. A defign which he certainly meditates,
and will not lofe a moment to put into execution*
when the opportunity he watches for is ripe.
A D V E N T U R E S OF A G U I N E A . i * t
C H A P ;
Digitized by Vj O O Q L C
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P . v ir .
C hrysal arrives at V i en n a , where he meets an
old acquaintance. The hißory o f hism aßer’s bro­
ther. H is mijßon, labour's, and fuccefs in E ng­
la n d . H e isfen t to P er u . H e disapproves o f
the precipitancy o f the meafures carried on there9
and returns to E urope to prepare ?natters better.
IF the immediate fcene of the war was block­
ing, the appearance of the countries around
it was rather worfe. In the former, the hurry of
a&ion kept the mind too bufy to attend to every
minute diftrefs: but here a difmal defolation open*
ed a field «for melancholy reflexion, which every
objeft added horrours to. The lands laid wafte ;
the villages in afhes; the inhabitants periihing
in the fields and high roads,- of wounds, ficknefs,
famine, and every various kind of mifery, which
the madnefs of human nature can infli£t upon
itfelf.
Through fuch monuments of military glory
did we travel to Viennaf where my mafter and
his wife were received with open arms by his
brother, who infilled on their living in his houfe.
The* fcene was here changed from the tumult?
and wants of war* to all the luxury and eafe of
peace.
The moment I faw this ecclefiaflick, I knew
him to have been a member of the convent, to
the head of which I belonged in Peru. This
junexpe£ted meeting, at fuch a diftance, raifed
a
- )ogle
ft curiofity to know the caufe of his removal from
a place where I thought I had left him fettled in all
the happjnefs which riches and fenfual pleafureS
could afford.
It was not long before this curiofity was grati­
fied ; for, the very evening after my matter's ar­
rival, he led him to a walk' in his garden, and, fit­
ting down under a tree on the brink of a fountain,
addreffed him thus :
4 It is many years, my deareft brother, fince
* I had the happinefs of feeing you laft. Various
4 have been the climates I have gone through ! va-
4 rious the viciflitudes of my fortune fince that
4 day! from defpair to exultation ! from royal
4 affluence and power to apprehenfion ofperiihing
4 by famine, or in aprifon. Wonder not at my
4 words ; I will explain them to you in a ihort
4 view of my life, which it is neceffary I ihould
4 give you, to prepare you for the participation of
€ fecrets, in which your afliftance maybeemployed
4 in eftabliihing the moftextenfive and firmpower
4 which ever yet was raifed upon this globe.— You
4 may remember*» though you were then very
4 young, that the reprefentations of x h e je fu it, to
4 whole care our education was committed, made
4 fuch an impreflion on.me, that, indefpite of my
4 father’s threats and entreaties, I renounced my
4 patrimony in your favour, and, taking only a
4 fmall fum of money to defray the expenfes of
4 my journev, w?
ent directly to Rome with my
4 tutor, wrhere I readily obtained admiffion into
4 the Society o fje fu s , as foon as I had gone through
4 the ufual preparatory forms of education.
4 Nothing remarkable happened to me during
4 the firft vears of my being profeiled, my ft udies
V o l . Ii. . K 4 en-
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 193
,
yG oogle
4 engrolfing my whole time and attention; in
4 which 1 made fuch a proficiency, that the ge-
4 neral of the oçder thought it proper to fend me
4 into the world, in the fervice of the fociety.
4 The firft ftage of my million was to England\
4 whither I went, to counteract the poifon which
4 was difpenfing againft us, by an apoftate of oujr
4 order, who, under the pretenfe of employing hie
4 abilities in the fervice of the fociety, had been
4 admitted to all the libraries, and fuffered to take
4 extracts from all the records of the church. But
4 no fooner had be made fuçh a collection as ho
4 thought fufficient for his purpofe, than he fled to
4 England, his native country, where, renouncing
4 his vows and religion, he turned the weapons
4 which had been entruftçd in his hands for the
4 defertfe of the church againft her, employing
4 the abftraCts be had made to the defamation of
4 the character, and fubverfion of the powçr, of
4 the Holy See,
4 My fuccefs in this my firft négociation (for,
4 in defiance of truth, reafon, conscience, and
4 common fenfe, by plaufible#infmuations, by
4 forged certificates, or, which was the fame
4 thing, by certificates from people who would
4 certify any thing in their own favour, againft a
4 man who attacked the very fundamentals of*
4 their power; by bribery, fubornation, perjury,
4 and every kind of artifice, I, in agreat meafure,
4 defeated his defign, andoverturned the authority
4 of his work ;) my fuccefs, I fay, in this difficult
4 undertaking, for he had gone out from among
4 ourfelves, and was verfed in our whole fcience,
4 encouraged the order to continue me in that
4 million, but in an higher office.
< The
,
yG oogle
* c The laws, religion, and government of the
4 nation were now the objedts affigned to my at-
4 tacks, in which I laboured with various fuccefe
* for fome years, in eveiw chara&er which ho-
4 man volubility could afuime. I was a quaker;
4 amethodift; adeift; I wrote for the miniitry,
* or againil the government, as the prevailinghu-
4 mour of the day promiled attention to my wri-
4 tings. The fea which flows around that ifland
4 being not more unfteady than the minds of the
4 inhabitants, nor more liable to be ruffled by the
4 winds of heaven, than theyare by every breath
4 of popular rumour.
4 I proceeded thus for fome time, with various
4 fuccefs, till, happening to difclofe fome fecret
4 tranfa&ions, which were known there only so
4 the perfons concerned, and had beencommuni-
4 qated to me from abroad, inorder to fowdiffen-
4 £on between the people and their governours,
4 to the Alin of_both, the confcious parties were
- 4 alarmed, and my intelligence traced lb fecretly,
4 that I had difficulty to efcape by flight from an
4 ignominious death, which the refentment of
4 thofe, whofe ruinous machinations I had thus
4 difcovered to their country, would certainly
4 have brought me to.
4 My failing in this attempt, in which thou-
4 fands had failed before me, was no prejudice to
4 my chara&er, nor in the leaft leflened me in the
4 opinion of the order. On the contrary, the ef-
4 forts I had made were fo daring, fo deeply laid,
4 and fo well conduced, that I was now judged a
4 proper perfon to be employed in greater matters.
4 I was therefore fent, the next year, to what
4 is called the Spanijb world, but is really the J e -
K 2 , 4Juits
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. it5
,
yG oogle
* futts heaven in America, where matters of the
* higheft moment were juft ripe for execution.-—
4 'When I came there, I foundthings ina forward-
* nefs too great for their foundation j the eagerncfs
4 of fome of our people hurrying on events before
* proper preparation had enfured their fuccefs.
4 In ihort, they wereready torevolt from Spain and
4 Portugal, before they had made provifion to fup-
* port themfelves in fuch an attempt. They
4 wanted European officers, foldiers, arms, and
4 ammunition, for on the natives there is no de-
4 pendence ; but, above all, the time was un-
4 favourable. The powers they meant to attack
4 in this vital part were at peace with all the
4 world, and consequently at liberty to turn their
4 whole force againft them.
4 I, therefore, counfelled them to moderate their
4 zeal, and wait till better preparations, and a
4 more favourable minute, ihould make their fuc-
4 cefs more probable. But they would ifbt hearken
4 to my advice, but attributed it to envy, or want
4 of refolution : on which I left them to their
4 own ill fortune, and hafted home to provide a
4 remedy for evils which I could not prevent.
*$6 ' CHkYSAL: OR, THE
,
yG oogle
C H A P .
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA* 1*7
C H A P . VIII.
Continuation o f the Jefuit's difcourfe. H e Jhows the
promijing fituation o f his affairs at prffent. The
concife method by which Spa in and P o r t u g a l
are to be brought into the war with E n g l a n d .
H e propofes to his brother to join in the general,
that he may accomplijh his particular defign.
e n p H E event has confirmed my opinion ; by
6 JL ftriking too foon, the blow nas been inef-
4 fe&ual. However, things, though difconcerted
6 by this precipitancy, are not quite ruined ; and
4 care may yet repair the effects of their folly.
6 In this caufe I now labour, in concert with
4 others of my brethren in every court of Europe $
* and I have the fatisfa£tion to think that we have
• a profpe£t of fuccefs. The only obftacle that
4 retards us at prefent is, the difficulty of making
4 the courts of Spain and Portugal enter into the
4 war againft England. Could we bring this to
4 bear, our work would be eafy. The mighty na-
4 val power of England will not only prevent their
4 fending over forces to opprefs us before we can
4 eftablilh our power, but will alfo affift us to
4 carry on the war, to ihare in the fpoil, and di-
4 ftrefs our enemies.
4 But, while the prefent kings are on the
4 thrones of thofe kingdoms, it will be fcarcely
4 poffible to bring our defigns to perfe&ion, they
4 are fo utterly averfe to hazarding the confe-
4 quences of a war with a nation from whofe al-
4 liance they receive fuch advantages.----- The
K 3 4 firil
,
yG oogle
4 firft thing, therefore, which we do, muft be to
4 remove them. The former hasalready fwallowed
* his death, though the procefs will be fo flow as
-
4 to efcape fufpicion. With the other fuch caution
4 is not neceflary, nor is there time for i t : the
* arm is already lifted up againft him, for aftroke
4 that will terrify the world.
4 When thefe obftacles are removed, the exe­
* cution of our defigns will meet with no further
4 delay. The fuccefiors to thefe princes we have
4 feeured fuch an influence on, that we can work
4 them to whateyer we pleafe, and have already
4 poifoned their minds with prejudices againlt
4 England *.
4 To provide officers of approved fidelity and
4 experience to command our forces, is the next
4 objedt of our care. Shall I candidly own to
4 you, that fuch a length of time and multiplicity
4 of affairs had a!moft obliterated all my remem-
4 berance of my family; but, the moment I heard
4 your name mentioned with the refpeft due to
4 your merits in the prefent war, a flood of infant
4 fondnefs melted my heart, and tears of tendereft
4 joy acknowledged that I had a brother. I im-
4 mediately gave notice to our general, and by his
4 order am empowered to treat thus with you.
4 On my engagement for your fidelity (foryour
4 abilities areknown tobe far fuperiour to any that
4 fhalloppofe you) I am commiffioned toofferyou
4 the fupreme command of all our forces in this
4 great undertaking. With what joy I make this
4 offer, the pleafure that you would feel inferving
4 your brother can belt enable you to judge.
4 Though
* T
h
ec
o
n
d
u
£
lofth
*p
r
e
fe
n
t K
ing of Spain, h
ith
e
r
to
,
th
o
w
s th
a
tth
eJ
e
fu
it h
a
dfo
*m
e
daw
ro
n
g o
p
in
io
no
fh
im
at le
a
ft. *
j$t CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
c Though I will tell you further, that mine is
€ faifed higher than common feelings can convey
• a notion of. I have hitherto only unfolded the
* general deiign of our order, in which I am but a
4 party, though a principal and material one. But
4 ihall I tell you alfo, that my defigns terminate
4 not with their’s : as your command will make
4 you matter of all their force; and, as power is
c the confequencc of that, you will be able to con­
* ferit where you pleafe j or, indeed, rather tore-
4 tain it in your own hands, while I ihall only eafe
4 you of the trouble of conducing and eftablifli-
4 inffthe policy of an infant ftate.
4 This was my motive for writing to you fo
c preflingly to come to me to Pientta. This is the
4 end which I have been labouring for all rfty life.
4 I am advanced in years, and ihall never marry to
4 beget an heir $ you are young, and will have
4 many. Aflift me, therefore, to acquire a throne
4 which mult defcend to your poftcrity—a throne,
4 which, by holding it at firit as under the fove-
4 reignty of the order, will foon be eftabliihed by
4 them, even beyond their own power toihake.
4 I have now unbofomed myfelf to my brother,
4 with all the confidence of fo near an alliance.
4 You will, perhaps, wonder at my opennefs with
4 one whom I have not feen fince he was a child.
4 But I know your chara&er in life ; and, above •
4 all, I know myfelf fafe from being betrayed, be-
4 caufe the information would not be received.
4 Confider, therefore, whether you will embrace
4 this offer; whether you will reign in afplendour
4 that will dazzle the eyes of the greateft prince
4 in Europe, or live here in flavery and depend-
4 ence ! The alternative will not admit a mo-
4 meat's hefitation : I fee you yield. I will ac-
K 4 4 quaint
ADVENTURES Of A GUINEA, i**
,
yGoogle
200
* quaint our general with it; you and your wife
4 ihall remain here with me, till the proper time
c for all our departure comes, which will depend
4 on circumftances not yet fettled. In the mean
4 time we ihall have an opportunity of conferring
4 on thefe fubje&s together, and preparing all
4 things for our undertaking in a manner that
4 ihall enfure fuccefs.’
Though my mailer made no reply to this pro-
pofal that teftified the lead difapprobation of it, I
could eaiily fee that many parts of the fcheme af-
fe&ed him with the ftrongefl abhorrence ; at the
fame time that the offer of royalty was a tempta­
tion which ihook his refolution, and almoil van-
quiihed his virtue.
His brother faw the conflict in his heart with
pleafure: had he yielded readily, and without re­
luctance, he ihould havewithdrawn his confidence
from fuch a depravity of foul; and the ilruggle
convinced him that he was his own, as he knew
that the man, as well as the woman, who delibe­
rates between virtue and vice is loft.
CHR Y SAL: OR, THE
C H A P ,
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, aoi
C H A P . IX.
*rhe yefuit proceeds to Jhow the rife o f the war in
G e r m a n y , and explains the motives o f the fev e-
ra l parties engaged in zV, as alfo o f the neutrality
obferved by fame particularJlateu
THE Jefuit the next evening refumed the
converfation, and, to remove every doubt
of fuccefs that might deter his brother from join­
ing in his defigns, proceeded thus :
4 My brother ! (faid he) there is nothing fo
4 difgufting to a rational man as the miftakes and
4 blunders which pailion, prejudice, pride, and
4 ignorance produce in the condudt of all the
4 courts in the world, even our’s at Rome notbe-
- 4 ing quite exempt from them, though the freeft
4 of all others. As for this of Vienna, it is, at
4 prefent, a fcene where every abfurd, evety de-
4 ilru&ive pailion rules.— Among thefe muft you
4 feek for the fources of the prefent war that
4Jays all Germany wafte : Female pride, picqued
4 by fome flighting expreflions from one efteemed
*4 inferiour in rank, and ftimulated by a defire of
4 recovering by furprife what had been yielded,
'4 or ratherextorted, by treaty, influenced this fa-
4 gacious court, in conjun£tion with that of Sax~
4 ony, to form defigns againit theKingofjB«/^7rz<?.
4 But the vigilance of that monarch prevented
4 their defigns, of which he had timely notice ;
4 and, before their fchemes were ripe for execu-
4 tion, he boldly attacked them, and fo antici*
4 pated the blow meditated agau^l him.
K 5 « S o
,
yG oogle
SM
4 So daring aftep furprifed all Europe, and in-
4 fluenced many who were unacquainted with the
4 motives of it to take part againft him, while
4 more did for private advantage.— — O f thefe
4 France was the firft; who, concluding a league
4 with her ancient enemy, in defpite of familyani-
4 mofity, has entered into a war that feems not
4 to concern her at all; nor, indeed, does it in the
4 obvious confequences of it. But (he has further
4 defigns in view ; and, in return for the aifiifance
4 (he gives tocrufh this prince, is to receive from
4 the Houfe of Auftria thofe dominions in the Afa-
4 therlands, which have coft the greateft part of
4 Europe fuch deluges of blood for above a cen-
4 tury to keep out of her hands: while this
4 court, inattentive to the confequences that muft
4 attend France's getting pofleffion of thefe long
4 contefted places, has blindly, bafely entered into
4 a league with a family that has been labouring
4 her ruin for fo many ages, and betrayed the
4 confidence of all the ftates who have fupported
4 her in them. — The other nations who have
4 acceded to this alliance have a&ed from motives
4 merely mercenary in the firft view, fighting for
4 the pay promifedthem by the Imperial and French
4 courts, the latter of whom has ftretched her ge-
4 nerofity fo far, as to undertake fupporting her
4 new ally with money as well as men.
4 But it is not improbable that they may all
* be disappointed, and the King of Bulgaria not
4 only elcape the ruin meditated againft him, but
4 alfo retort it on the machinators * one of the
4 principal of whom, the 8axon> has already had
4 abundant caufe to repent of his undertaking. As
4 for this court, it now fights pro aris & fo cis, as
4 may be faid j for jf that hero is viflorious, no-
4 thing
CHRYSAL: OR, THE _
,
yG oogle
«
4 thing lefs is to be expe&ed here, than the total
* lofs of the imperial digni'y, of whofe authority
* there want not many inftances of the moll fla-
4 grant abufe, to vindicate fuch a revolution.
4 But, of all the effe&s of this unnatural com­
4 bination, there is not one morebafe than the in-
4 gratitude with which this court has behaved to
4 that of England, whofe blood and treafure have
4 often fupported it againft the very power of
* France, when every other human affiftance had
4 deferted it; and eftabliihed it in itsprefent gran­
* deur, almoft at the price of its own ruin.— —
c But now all thofe benefits are forgot; and be­
c caufe England will not tamely look on (if not,
c perhaps, aiHft) to fee the fabrick, which ihe has
4 eredted at fo vaft an expenfe, overturned to gra-
4 tify a blind caprice, and a prince, allied to her
4 by blood and intereft, facrinced by avarice and
4 pride, all her former fervices are held as can-
4 celled, and herfelf treated with the rancour of
4 the greateft enemy.
4 While England thus fupports her character of
4 generofity, and ails with prudence, the D utch,
4 as if infatuated, Hand quietly to fee the barrier>
4 which coft themfelves even fo much in eredling
4 for their defenfe, thus given away to the very
4 power againft whom it was eredled; and who,
4 they cannot be infeniible, means nothing lefs
4 than their ruin, as foon as it can ftrike the blow,
4 to effedl. But, fuch is the degeneracy of that
4 people from every fentimentof virtue, publick
4 and private, that they will not give up the op-
4 portunity of prefent gain, to iave their ftate
4 from foevident, fo imminent ruin; vainly, per-
4 haps, expedling that England will ftill purfue the
4 fchemes of knight-errantry which have fo long
K 6 4 made
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. **3
,
yG oogle
4 made her fight the quarrels of her neighbours,
4 while they themfelves looked on almoft as if
4 unconcerned in the event; and will be moved
4 by the cries of the dtftrejfed Jlates to remedy
* the miftakes, and repair the Ioffes of their
* H 'tgh-M ightinejfes.
4 While every other ftate in Europe is thus
* employed, Spain and Portugal enjoy all the ad­
* vantages of peace, prudently taking no part in a
* war which does not in the leaft concern them.
.* O f thefe, the former, like the old lion in the fa-
4 ble, is only terrible to ignorant apprehenfion on
* account of what it hasbeen, and is now pacifick
4 and harmlefs, becaufe it no longer has the power
4 of doing harm. Senfible of this weaknefs, it
4 ileeps in the ihadow of a mighty name, andmixes
4 not in difputes which muft onlydraw it intodif-
4 Acuities, without any profpeft of advantage to
4 engage it in the attempt. But it muft not be
4 let to enjoy this ftate of tranquillity, fo contrary
4 to our defigns, any longer; and, as the prefent
4 government there is determined to perfift in the
4 meafures that fupport it, it muft be overturned to
4 make way for thofe who will be more obedient
4 to our advice. A method which we muft alfo
4 purfue with P o rtu g a l; for, though its ftrength
4 is almoft beneath the rank of an independent,
4 much lefs a royal ftate, yet, upon the account
4 of its wealth, which might hire forces to op-
:4 prefs us, it muft be worked up to take the
4 fame ftep, and break with England, as I have
4 faid before, to which it has already made large
4 advances, by feveral moft unjuft and injudicious
4 encroachments on the trade of that nation.
»
0
4 CHRYSALt OR, THE
4 As
iyC >gle
4 As for the war between France and England,
4 it arifes folely from the contradictions between
4 theintereft of the two nations, which nature
« has fet in an oppofition impoflible to be recon-
4 ciled. But the feat of this war is fo remote
4 from hence, that it would have no influence on
4 the affairs of JEuropey did not thefuccefles of the
4 E nglijh prevent France from giving the afliftance
4 that was expe&ed, a/id might be effectual to the
4 defigns of this court, for they have fo abfolutely
4 ruined her trade, that file is no longer able to
4 fulfil her engagements with R ujfia particularly,
4 and the feveral courts of Germany, whom in c
4 undertook to pay, for fighting the quarrel of her
4 ally y fo that the former, who had no other mo-
4 tive but the money for entering into the war at
4 firft, will of courfe, and the latter muff of ne-
4 ceflity, defers that caufe, not having any in-
4 terrial fupport of their own, fince this has failed
4 them. Indeed the RuJJianSy finding all the
4 mighty promifes which were made them vanifh
4 into air, begin to be fick of their bargain al-
4 ready, and long again for the folid advantages of
4 their alliance with England. As for this court,
4 it is now making its laft effort, and, if this is
4 eluded or defeated, it has no other refource,
4 than ihamefully to receive the law from a prince,
4 upon whom it made fo unjuft an attempt.’
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. »05
C H A P .
,
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
fto6
C H A P . X.
Conclujion o f the J efu it's difcourfe. H isJyJlems o f
m orality and religion. H is brother yields to his
arguments, w ith fom e particular exceptions•
C hrysal changes hisferv ice.
4 n p H I S ihort but diftinft view of the pre-
* X fent iituation of the affairs of Europe muft
4 convince you, that a general peace muft foon be
4 concluded, the parties thatwould not being able
4 to continue the war much longer; and therefore
4 w e muft be fpeedy in the execution of our de-
4 ligns, or the opportunity will be loft, forit would
4 be impofiible to make even the pride of Spain,
4 or the avarice of Portugal, take the meafures we
4 want at a time when England is difengaged
4 from other enemies. I have drawn this iketch
4 to ihowyou, that our defigns are not raihly un-
4 der taken, but the refult of the deepeft know-
4 ledge and infight into things. This muft re-
4 move every fcruple that may arife from doubt of
4 fuccefs.— —But there is one thing more, which
4 muft be explained, to remove prejudices of ano-
4 ther nature, which may perhaps reprefent our
4 undertaking in awrong light to you; and this
4 is to evince the juftice of it, and of the means
4 deilgnedto accotnpliih its fuccefs.—
4 O f this matter you muft not pretend to judge
4 by the vulgar rules obtruded by defign upon
4 the ignorance of the world, and which no wife
* man obferves, who has it in his power to break
, 4 them
,
yGoogle
€ them with impunity.— Man is thrown into
*. this world by nature, to obtain his own happi-
4 nefs by every means within his power : this is
4 too fublime a truth for vulgar knowledge, as it
4 would put an end to the delufion by which the
4 wife few keep the herdof mankind in ignorance
4 and fubje&ion.
• 4But that it is really the truth, and as Rich
4 made the rule of adion by all the Rates and
• princes in the world, will not be denied, nor
• even doubted by any one who hasconfidered the
4 fyftems of policy and government which are,
• and ever have been, eftabliihed by them.
• For if it was not an undoubted maxim, that
€ power conRitutes the rule ofj uftice, how incon-
c fiftent would be the adions of all mankind ?
• How could a Rate devife laws to puniih the man
• with death, who goes into his neighbour's field,
4 and Reals his ox, and, at the fame time, fends
4 armies to invade, fpoil, and depopulate the ter­
ritories of their neighbours? How could a poor
4 pirate be hanged for robbing a fingle (hip, and
4 fleets immediately after fent avowedly to deflroy
4 the whole trade of the fame nation ? If a Rate of
4 war is alledged, that is the very impofition of
4 which I fpoke. Every man has as good a natu-
4 ra l right to declare war with his. neighbour, as
4 the Rate he lives in has with another Rate 5 and
4 every right that is not natural is an ufurpation,
4 and void. This is the true philofophy of life,
4 Rripped of the idle dreams of enthufiafm, and
4 felfifli mifreprefentations of defign.
4 As for religion, look over the whole race of
4 mankind, and try if you can find one who prdc-
4 tiles what he profefles : this is an inconteflible
4 proof, that none believe it* as it is alfo, that
4 there
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. «97
,
yGoogle
* there is no neceffity they fbould,,elfe would the
4 want of faith and obedience be punifhed by that
4 power which is thought to enjoin them; where-
4 as, on the contrary, it is always moft fuccefs-
4 ful, as it affords means which thofe reftraints
4 forbid. I obferved, that in the beginning of
4 our converfation on this fubjeCt, you feemed
4 fhocked at my mentioning the neceifity of re-
4 moving the perfons whooppofe our defigns, and
4 particularly when I faid the Spaniard had Twal-
4 lowed his death. But this is all prejudice, and
4 want ofextending your view beyond the furface
4 of things.
4 For how much better is the method we take,
4 of ftriking the fingle perfon againft whom our
4 defign is levelled, than that purfued, not only
4 without reproach, but even encouraged by ap-
4 plaufe,of involving the innocent with the guilty
4 (innocent I mean in refpeCt to us) and laying
4 wafte whole nations to bring a prince to death t
■ 4 How much better would it have been for this
4 court to have removed the king, of B ulgaria by
4 poifon, or a dagger, than to have deftroyed mil-
4 lions, as they have done, in the purfuit of his
4 death, by this deftruCtive war l This is demon-
4 ilration! this is conviction to him who dares
4 open his eyes to fee it 1Judge n ow oi our under-
4 taking by this invariable fyftem, and ihow me
4 one objection to it.’
, This long diflertation was not delivered at one
time; it was the fubftance of many converfations,
by which the Jefuit fo wrought upon his brother,
that he refigned himfelf wholly to his difpofal, and
entered fincerely into his defigns. The only ob­
jection he made (and that was not urged againft
him) was, to being any way concerned in the
' compendious
20* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
[e
compendious warfare of the fociety, the prejudice
of education being fti11fo ftrong with him, that
he could not yet abftradt things fo nicely, as to
coniider affaffination in any other light than as a
crime.
I had been in this ftate of fpeculation about a
week, for my matter never ftirred out, as he made
iicknefs his excufe for quitting the fervice, when
his brpther havingoccafion forTome money to fend
to Lijbon, on the grand defign, the bag in which
I was, was ordered for that fervice; the brothers
.having joined their fortunes, as well as their en­
deavours, in the promotion of it.— I now changed
my matter again, and fet out for Lijbon, in the
pofleffion of one of the fociety, who was to deli­
ver us to a particular perfon there.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *o§
CHAP.
,
yG oogle
*ÏO CHRYSAL: OR, THS
C H A P - XL
C H R Y S A L propofes a politicalfcheme, that w ill never
take placey to fettle the peace o f G e r m a n y , A
jkort view o f the w a r between fA * F r e n c h and
E n g l i s h , w ith the motives o f the form er fo r
transferring the feat o f it into G e r m a n y , / « -
ftdious ambition meets a jn fi difappointment.
IN fo complicated an undertaking* there necef-
farily muft be a great number of engines at
work, and in many different places, upon the re­
gularity and agreement of whofc motions depends
the fuccefs of the whole.' The perfon by whom
I was fenc to Lifbon^ was not to godire&ly thither.,
but to take a large circuit, and call at feveral
places in his way, to feethat all moved in concert,
and every thing was properly prepared for the
main a&ion, that precipitancy fliould not defeat
the defign a fecond time.
It is not neceffary to recount all the circum-
ftances of this tour, which, for the moft part,
were no more than the common occurrences upon
fuch occafions; I ihall, therefore, take notice only
of fuch few, as, for their Angularity, and import­
ance, may deferve attention. As to the fecret
motive of the journey (for that alledged was only
to tnfpe&, as ufual, into the private concerns'of
the order) it has been already fo well explained,
that it is fufficient to fay every thing exceeded
expectation,
,
yG oogle
ADVENTURES O V A GUINEA. six
expe&ation, and gave the ftrongeft affurance of
foccefs.
As the war had overfpread all Germany, it was
impoffible for my mailer to avoid falling in with
fome of the armies, which were then in the field $
but this gave him no concern: he was bleffed with
one of thofe ready geniufes, that can put on any
appearance fo naturally, as to deceive fufpicion
k-felf; betide, that he had paffports, under one cha­
racter or another, from every power engaged in
the war.
The firft event worth remark that occurred
to us (for the nature of war and its operations
in general have been fufliciently explained be­
fore) was in the army of the allies of the king
of B ulgaria, into which my mafter entered, in
the character of a Jewiih agent. This army was
compofed of the forces of feveral of the fmaller
Germ an ftates (who were hired by the EngHjb>
to defend their own liberties) a fmall number of
Bulgarians^ and a oonftderable body of E n g lijb
troops.
You are furprifed to hear, that -people fbould
require to be paid to fight for them(elves in fo
interefting a caufe; but fo it is; and fo it will
continue to be, while anumberof little fovercigns
aflume the ftatc, and live in the luxury of the
greateft kings; for, as their own revenues are in­
sufficient to fupport the expenfe, they will be ready
to fell tbemfelves to the firft that offers, for an
immediate fupply, without looking forward to, or
regarding the confequencesof; fuch inconfiderate,
fuch 'wretched venality. They have, indeed, this
excufe, which the general depravity of mankind
feems to juftify their^alledging, that, as their ruin
would involve greater ftates in fome inconve-
niencies,
>gle
niencies, they find thefewill rather fubmit tothis^
grofsimpofition, than fuffer them to be fwallowed
up by others, who would grow too powerful.by
this accretion.
Bafe as fuch a proftitution of principle muft
appear, it has been fo fuccefsfully pra&ifed (and
this not by thofe poor princes alone, the A uftrians.
and Spaniards occafionally, and the D u tch con-
ftantly availing themfelves of it) that England in
particular has been drawn in to bear a part,
from which, by her fituation, ihe feemed exempt­
, cd by Heaven, in every war that has diftra<fted
Europe for fome ages, to an expenfe of blood
and treafure, which is already feverely felt, and
muft, if purfued much farther, involve it in the
very ruin it thus drives to avert.
There is one, and one only remedy for this;
but that is attended with difficulties, which will
prevent its being applied, till the evil itfelf (hall
work its own redrefs— a period, that, to human
forefight, feems not far diftant at prefent. This
is taking away the power of thefe petty tyrants,
who diigrace the name of fovereign, and uniting
their territories into one ftate,of ftrength fufficient
to fupport itfelf. For, while thofe princes have
any power left, they will, confidently with their
prefent fyftems of policy, oppofe this; but the
manner in which they have conduced themfelves
in this war, if not fpeedily altered, will fo effec­
tually reduce that power, that they will be no
longer able to refill, but muft paffively fubmit to
the dominion of whoever will undertake their fup­
port: an event as much to bedefired by their own
immediate fubje<5ts, as by the other ftates, which
thus fufferby their abfurd and iniquitous condudl;
as the fevereft form of one government is prefer-
5 able
*1» CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
able to thecapricious rule of feveral tyrants, whofe
poverty and pride put them upon every method
of making the moft of their wretched people,
without any regard to the eftablifhed rules of
juftice, or even the common rights of humanity.
The ufuai obje&ion to this expedient, of its
overturning the liberty of Germany, which they
make fo great a noife about, is of no weight;
that boafted' liberty being, at prefent, no more
than the power of thofe fovereigns to treat their
fubje&s as they pleafe, with impunity, the re-
ftraining of which within juft bounds would
really be eftabliihing, not overturning, the liberty
of mankind.
As to the war in which the E nglijh were at
this time engaged, it was not be afcribed folely
tb this caufe. The infatiable ambition of the
:
French had prompted them to ftrive for the en­
largement of their territories in Am erica, where
they already poflefled an hundred times more than
they were able to make any ufe of. The pof-
feffions of the E nglijh in that part of the globe
Werealfo ufelefsly extenfive ; however, the boun­
daries having been fettled between them, ufur-
pations were notto be tolerated, coniiftently with
the honour of the ftate; befide, if they were taken
no notice ofinthe beginning, they might, in time,
pofiibly be extended to the profitable and inha­
bited parts of their dominions. On this account
a war v/askindled between thofe powerful andjea­
lous neighbours, the feat of which was pro­
perly transferred, by the E nglijh, to the place in
which theattack hadbeen made upon them; where
the fuperiority of their naval force gave them fuch
advantages, thatthey not only recovered the places
' which
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *,*
,
yG oogle
which had been taken from them, but alio abfo*
lutely overturned the French power in thofe bound*
lefs regions, andpurfued their conquefts in every
other part of the world where the French had made
fettlements, to the utter ruin of their naval power
and trade.
As it was impofliblc for the French to recover
thefe lofles direcSUy, and the ambition and ava*
rice which firft gave occaiion to the war was
now ftrengthened by pride, to prevent their ma­
king the conceflions on which they might have
obtained peace, they removed the feat of the
war into Germany', and attacked certain powers
there, with whom England was fo infeparably
conne&ed, that it could not avoid flying to their
afliftance, in expe&ation of having all their own
lofles reftored, in return for thefe territories, if
they could get poffeflion of them, which the num­
ber of their own land-forces, and the alliances
they knew they could make among the venal G er-
mans*) gave themhopesofaccomplilhing; a fcheme
not ill-founded, as every motive of honour and
juftice obliged the E nglijh to proted and indem­
nify an innocent people, attacked thus folely upon
their account. As the French, at the fame time
that they made this attack, had alfo entered into
the confederacy againft the king of B ulgaria, as
has been already mentioned, this necellarily ce­
mented the alliance between him and England
Hill clofer, and made him join as many of his
troops as he could pofEbly fpare to the army
raifed by the Enffijh^ upon this indifpenfable oc­
caiion ; from which condudt he received this im­
mediate advantage, that his army engaged the
attention qf the French, and prevented their join-
*j4 CHRYSAli ait, THE
,
yG oogle
ADVENTURES' QF A GUINEA. «**
ing their forces to the number of his enemies $
beftde a confiderable affiftance in tponey, to en­
able him to fupport his own troops.
It was neceflary for me to give you this fhort
explanation of the nature of this war, though fuch
digreffions are contrary to my defign and inclina­
tion, that you may be able to form a properjudge­
ment of the extraordinary occurrences 1 am going
to relate to you.
The army through which my mailer was obli­
ged to pafs, as I have faid, though paid by Eng-
Jand9 and the flower of it compofed o f B ritons, was
commanded by a German general, in difgraceful
acknowledgement of the want of military merit
equal to fuch a charge in the natives : though,
io palliate the difgrace, and fatisfy the jealoufy
of the EngUJby they had the imaginary privilege of
being immediately under a commander of theic
own, and fubje& only to their own laws, in all
things, except the operations of the war, when
they were of neceffity to obey the German com­
mander in chief.
Such diftin&ions create animoiities, often more
prejudicial than the inconveniences they were
meant to prevent. Accuftomed to live in the moft
luxurious plenty and eafe, and valuing themfelve9
upon the riches of their country, which fupported
the whole army, the E n g lijb found fault with the
vi&uals and accommodations provided for them,
and treated the German troops, with whom they
werejoined, with contempt; who, in return, af-
feéted to defpife their delicacy, and took the ad­
vantage oftheir want ofknowledgeofthe language
of the country to give fuch impreffions of them,
prevented the people from bringing them in
I provifions,
,
yG oogle
provifions, with that care and chearfulnefs which
their prompt and generous payment deferved; by
which means they fuffered the inconveniencies of
fcarcity and dearth, while the others abounded.
Though fuch feuds among the men threatened
the moft dangerous confequences, thofe whofe au­
thority ought to put a flop to them were far from
lfriving to reftore that harmony, which alone
could give fuccefs to their deiigns. The com­
mander in chief either overlooked, as beneath his
notice, or was prevented, by his attention to the
military operations of the campaign, from taking
notice of thofe mifunderttandings; and the E nglijh
commander, ambitious probably of the fupreme
command, which he imagined he might eaiily
obtain, if he could make the other fufficiently ob­
noxious to the Engltjby inflamed them by every
artifice he could ufe.
Nor did he flop here: whenever he was fum-
moned, in consequence of his high Ration, for
he was fecond in command iri the whole army,
to attend councils for concerting the operations
Of the war, he made it his conftant practice to
. contradict whatever was propofed by the com­
mander, and to treat all his fchemes with con­
tempt, without ever attempting to offer any thing
himfelf in their place; and this he did the more
effedtually,as he was a ready and powerful fpeaker,
and perfectly verfed in the theory of war; whereas
the commander was a thoughtful, referved man,
of few words, whofe whole life had been fpent in
aCtion, and who could more eafily have executed
than explained his defigns.
The
lift CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yG oogle
The confequences of this difagreement were
very detrimental while it lafted, and muft, in the
end, have proved fatal to the army, had not the
German^ without ever attempting to difcufs the
affair with his wordy antagonift, written directly
to the B ritijh fovereign, to inform him that he
was fo conftantly oppofed in all his defigns by the
E n glijh general, that it was impoffible tor him to
do any thing of moment; wherefore he defired
either that he might have leave to refign his com­
mand, or have his authority freed from this vexa­
tious and dangerous oppofition, concluding his
letter with thefe remarkable words : * Though
c in a multitude of counfellors there is faid to be
c much fafety, yet, in the operations of war, if
• many are privy to the councils which diredfc
€ them, there never can be that fecrefy, agree­
* ment, and defpatch, which are indifpeniably
* neceflary to fuccefs.’—
The monarch, who was no ftranger to the cap­
tious and unquiet difpofition of the E nglijh general,
was fenfible of the juftice of the Germ an's com­
plaint, and immediately removed the caufe.of it,
by giving him an unlimited power to carry on the
war as it ihould appear beft to his own private
judgement, without confulting with, or being li­
able to be oppofed by, any other perfon.
It may be thought, that the entire removal of
the E nglijh general would have been a readier and
more effedtual method 5 but the nature of the
E n glijh government made this not quite fo pro­
per, as he was defcended from one of the moft
illuftrious and powerful families in the kingdom,
and a member of the fenate, in which his talent
for fpeaking gave him fuch weight, that it was
judged beft to avoid giving him caufe for ex-
Vo l . IL L erti-ng
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *17
)ogk
CHRYSALi OR, THE
siS
erring his abilities in oppoiltion to the meafures
of the government, by removing him from an em­
ployment which he had follicited with all his power
and intereil; efpecially as the immenfe expenfe
of this army began to make the people uneafy, and
ready to receive any impreflion againft it. But the
event ihowed that this caution was ineffe&ual,
and produ&ive of greater evils than that which it
was made ufe of to avoid.,
Accordingly, from the time the Germ an ge­
neral received this enlargement of his authority,
he planned his fchemes without ever confulting
any perfon, or even communicating the leaft hint
of them, till the very moment of their being put
in execution, when he fent his orders with the
peremptory precifion of an abfolute fovereign.
This was a fevere ftroke upon the E nglijh gene­
ral, who had been accuftomed to canvafs the very
commands of his king, and, therefore, could badly
brook fuch fubordination to a perfon whom he
affefled to hold in contempt, for the inferiority
of his underftanding. However, as it was in
vain to difpute, he obeyed in fullen iilence, re-
folved to feife the firft opportunity of defeating
his meafures, lince he could no longer difconcert
his councils ; and to take hold of the leaft mif-
carriage, to attack him in the B ritijb fenate at
the end of the campain, where he doubted not
but he ihould be able to reprefent things in fuch
a light, as to have him removed from the com­
mand, which muft of courfe devolve upon him-
felf.
This account my matter received from a Je-
fuit the very night he arrived at the camp, who,
to ingratiate the fociety the more effedtually with
the
,
yG oogle
the French king, and fecure his intereft and pro-
tedfcion, ihould anyunforefeen accident defeat their
defign, had entered into the fervice of the E nglijh
genera], as his valet de chambre, for the better
opportunity of difcovering the fchemes of the al­
lies, which he gave conftant intelligence of to
their enemies.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *i9
C H A P . xir.
A deep-laidfchem e difconcerted by an accidental v ic­
tory, Treachery fa lls into the p it it had dug fo r
v another. The true way to fa tisfy E n g l i s h foU
drers. The difgraced commander's motives fo r
. appealing from the w ill o f hisfovereign to a publick
tryal, I iis hopes are again difappointed, and he
. confirms his own ruin.
T H E very morning after my matter’s ar­
rival in the camp, an event happened that
aftoniihed all Europe. The French army was fo
greatly fuperiour to that of the allies, that the
general was obliged to be entirely upon the de-
fenlive; nor had his confummate experience and
indefatigable afliduity been able to prevent their
taking feveral advantages by their numbers, and
forcing him to a retreat that feemed to threaten
the lofs of the country he was to defend. But*
through all thefe difficulties, he perfifted fteadily
in his own plan, and preferved his attention cool,
and ready to take any advantage that might
offer.
L 2 Accordingly,
,
yGoogle
Accordingly, that morning,upon notice of fome
motions of the enemy that indicated a defign of
attacking him, he ordered a fmall, but feledt body
of forces, almoft all of them Engltjh> to advance
towards them, and receive their charge, while he
ihould make a proper difpoiition of the reft of his
army to give the enemy battle, or make a fecure
retreat, as he ihould fee expedient; but the un­
exampled behaviour of thofe few brave troops
foon changed the face of the affair; for, not fa-
tisfied with repelling the attack of the main body
of the enemy’s army, they intrepidly advanced to
charge them in their turn, which they did with
fuch irrefiflible valour, that the Frtncb were
thrown into confufion, and obliged to abandon
the field of battle.
I have faid before, that the tranfa&ions in a bat­
tle are fo complicated, and confounded with each
other, that it is impoffible to reduce them into
the regularity of a fatisfa&ory defcription; I ihall,
therefore, enter no farther into the account of
this, than juft as it concerns the conduCt of the
E nglljh general, which I had a fufficient oppor­
tunity of obferving, my mailer having placed
himfelf near his perfon, in company with his
friend.
The moment the commander in chief re­
ceived an account of the unexpected effeits of
the valour of the troops which he had ordered
to march toward the enemy, he fent to the
E ngltjh general, who commanded all the horfe
in that wing, to advance and fuftain them. It is
impoffible to defcribe his fituation, when a mef-
fenger from the general informed him, that a
part of the army was engaged in the plain that
jay before him, and ordered him to march the
cavalry
*io CHRYSALi ©R, THE -
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, itt
cavalry under his command to their affiftance#
Surprife and refentment at fuch a meafure’s being
taken, without his having the leaft previous notice
of it, almoft deprived him’of his reafon y but he
recovered himfelf in a moment, and drawing his
fword with an air of indignation and difcontent,
was juft preparing to obey the orders he had re­
ceived, when another meifenger. arrived, and de­
livered them, but with fome variation.
This the general inftantly perceived, and re-
folved to take advantage of, to juftify his obeying
neither, in hopes, by that means, to accomplifh
his fcheme of defeating the meafures of his com­
mander, without any regard to the corrfequences
that muft attend fuch a conduit. Accordingly,
inftead of advancing, as he had before prepared to
do, he entered into a debate with the mefiengers
about this difference in their orders, and, finding
each pofitive in thofe he delivered, he coolly de­
termined to go himfelf to the general for an ex­
planation of them \ by trifling away the critical
moment in which manner he expeited that the
part of the allied army which was engaged
would be beaten for want of a proper and timely
fupport, when he might have the glory of covering
their retreat, and faving the whole army from a
defeat, and the pleafure of effectually ruining the
character of the general, by attributing the whole
misfortune tohis not taking the advice ofhis coun­
cil, or even communicating his defigns to them,
in proper time.
Such a fcheme wasbut toolikely tofucceed, had
not the unparalleled bravery of the troops, whom
he thus defigned to have facrificed to his ambition
and refentment, difappointed it beyond all human
L 3 probability,
yGoogl
Ill CHRYSAL: OR, THE
probability, as I have obferved before, and a&ually
beaten the whole army of the enemy, though ten
times their number, out of the field, while he was
taking advantage of a pretext to abandon them to
ruin. .
The fituation of his mind, when, upon his
coming up to the general* he heard the victory
was won, may be better conceived than defcribed.
The cool diftant reception he inet with gave him
notice of the itorm which was ready toburft over
his head ; and he faw that the fcheme he had laid
fo deeply to perpetrate the ruin of another, had
inevitably worked his own, as the very accufa-
tions which he had intended to bring againft his
general would now recoil upon himfelf with terv-
fold force.
According to his fears, the general next morn­
ing publickly pafled animplicit cenfureonhiscon-
du£t, which he faw received with*fuch univerfal
approbation, that he thought it proper to refign
his commapd, for fear of perfonal infult from the
incenfed foldiers, and return home, where he did
not doubt but the intereft of his family, and' his
own eloquence and addrefs, would vindicate his
chara£ier at leaft, if not ftill accompliih his de-
figns againft the general.
Though I loft fight of him at this time, yet, as
I had an opportunity afterwards of coming to the
knowledge of the whole affair, I think it better,
and lefs trouble to us both, to continue the ac­
count here, than break my narrative with it in
another place.
The firft conftru&ion which was put upon his
conduift was, that it proceeded from cowardice;
an opinion, which the cruelty of his temper to
thofe under his command gave no foall weight
to,
,
yGoogle
to, from this generally juft maxim, that the cruel
are always cowards \ and which many infignificant
parts of his former conduct were alledged to con­
firm : but I have ibov/n that it fprang from ano­
ther much lefs juftifiable caufe; I fay, lefs juftifi-
able, as cowardice is a natural infirmity, which a
man is no more accountable for than for his being
born blind or lamej but fuch a fcheme as his Was
a premeditated crime, and aggravated with the
blackeft circumftances.
The firft confequence of his quitting the army
was a perfe£t harmony between the E nglijh and
G erm ans; the glory they had acquired upon
this occafion railing the fpirits of the fiormer fo
high, that they thought no more of the incon-
veniencies they had complained of before, but
readily followed the example of their new com­
mander, whom they all loved, and entered into
friendihip with their fellow-foldiers, as if there
had never been any jealoufy between them; who,
on the other hand, were fo ftruck with their gal­
lant behaviour, and fo fenfible of the advan­
tages gained by it, that they no longer accufed
them of improper delicacy, or ftrove to do them
ill offices with the natives of the country, as
before. But what completed the happinefs of
the E nglijh, was the commander in chief’s in­
dulging their natural thirft for glory under their
prefent commander, by giving them the poft of
honour upon all occafions, and taking publick
notice of their valour, the honour of which they
efteemed a fufficient recompenfe for the fevereft
fatigues and dangers: an indulgence which it
was not in his power to give before, as their late
commander had always oppofed their being ex-
L 4 . • pofed
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ***
,
yGoogle
pofed to danger, out of an affe£ted regard to them?
as if they were of greater confequence than the
j'eft of the army, or joined it only to make a fi­
gure, and not to do any fervice.
As foon as the late general arrived in Eng-
land, his lovereign, who had been informed of
the whole affair, immediately deprived him of
his many very lucrative and honourable em­
ployments, and difmiffed him his fervice; an
inftance of clemency which few other princes
would have ihown, and which regard to the
merits of his illuftrious anceftors alone procured
for him.
But fo far was he from having a proper fenfe
of this lenity, or acquiefcing in the fentence of
his fovereign, that he loudly afferted his being
wronged, and demanded a tryal, to vindicate his
character, with all the affurance.of confcious in­
nocence.
This was the higheft infult that could be of-'
fered to a prince, as it impeached his juftice,
and queftioned his power in the tendereft point.
However, he fcorned to take any advantage of it,
but, waving every perfonal refentment, con-
defcended to grant the tryal demanded 5 but
with this exprefs declaration, that, as it was at
the inftance of the party, and without any legal
jneceftity, he fhould abide by the fentence of his
judges, be it what it would, as he would never
interfere further. But this declaration was of
little weight, for the general was well advifed,
be'fore he follicited the tryal, that, according to the
laws of the country, he was exempted from the
danger of it, by his being deprived of all his
military employments, as they only made a J5r/-
ton fubjefl to military law, by which he muft be
. tried \
X2+ CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES' OF A GUINEA. 225
tried ; and this exemption was the real reafon of
his being fo eager for a tryal.
But, though his life might be out of danger by
this fubterfuge, the tryal completed the ruin
of his charaéter beyond all poflibility of reco­
very, as, upon the moft impartial examination,
bis negleft of the orders of his commander, and
the pernicious confequences of it, by the lofs of
fo favourable an opportunity of entirely ruining
the army of the enemy, and, perhaps, putting an
end to the war, by that means appeared fo plain­
ly, that the juftice of his being difmifled the fer-
vice was not only aflerted, but he was alfo declared
incapable of ever being admitted into it again :
and thus he fell, a fecond time, a vi&im to his
own fchemes* As to the viftory which had been
the immediate caufe of his ruin, as foon as the
circumftances of it, as related Jiere, came to b?
known to the world, the general loft the glory
which, in'the firft emotions ofjoy and admiration,
had been fo lavifhlydieaped upon him for it; and
it was juftly afcribed to accident, as human fore­
fight could not poflibiy have formed any plan for
fuch an improbable inftance of bravery as thar
which, obtained iu ’
L 5 C H A P,
,
yGoc' le
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
axf
C H A P . XIII«
C hrysal arrives at Brussels. The great fo u rce
o f Jefu itica l influence. Anecdotes »of a man o f
S
ire and a lady o ffajhion. T heir hijlory con-
i in character.
S foon as the confufion of fuch an event
was a little over, and my matter thought
he could travel in fafety, he quitted the camp of
the conquerors, and throwing off the chara£ter
of a Jew, which, as I faid, he had bor’n there*
purfued his journey to Bruffels in his own, where
he was to receive further inftruftions; for, though
the great deftgn was carried on by every member
of the fociety, yet the real fecret of it was known
only to a few of the heads, whofe orders the reft
obeyed with an implicit exa&nefs, fidelity, and
zeal, never equalled by the fubjefls of any fove-
reign upon earth, fince the days of the old man o f
the mountain.
It was fome time before thefe inftru&ions ar­
rived ; which gave me an opportunity of learn­
ing the intrigues of that debauched, gaudy, in-
iignificant court, by my matter’s intimacy with
the confeffor of the governour, who, befides the
advantage of that character to gain information,
was himfelf a man of pleafure in the moft exten-
five fenfe of the phrafe, and utterly free from every
rettraint of principle that could oppofe its gratifi­
cation; though he had theaddrefs to maintain the
dignity ofhisftation, by hisfecrefy and regard to
propriety of appearance.
There
Digitized by G oogle
There is nothing that contributes fo much to
the influence which the Jefuits poflefs over the
minds of the people, as their knowledge of the
fecret hiftory of their lives. To acquire this,
they ftop at nothing ; they affume all characters,
mix in all companies, and enter into every fcenq
of vicious pleafure, where referve is thrown off,
and the whole heart appears without difguife.
Such anopportunity of information, therefore,was
not to be miffed. Accordingly, the evening after
my matter’s arrival, he went with his friend
to court, where they had a liberty of placing
themfelves in a convenient fituation, to fee all
the company, and make their remarks without
danger of being overheard ; fuch as were mere­
ly political I fhall omit, as I am fick of fuch a
ftupid fubjeft, and only take notice of thofe
which may extend your knowledge of the human
heart.—
— c Obferve that little mean-looking, ill—
4 favoured perfon9 (faid the confeffor, continuing
a converfation, the beginning of which I need not
repeat) * who a&s as matter of the ceremonies..
4 You fee his feeble frame is quite worn out with-
4 debauchery, and he nods over the grave in an­
* ticipated old age, yet ftill he affe&s an air of
4 levity and youth, and ftrives to inflame others,,
4 by his difcourfe, to vices which he is no longer
4 able to participate of himfelf: but this is all
4 grimace ; and he aflumes this appearance of
4 gaiety, to hide the gloomy difcontent and re—
4 morfe that prey upon his heart.
4 There is fomething fo particular in the ftory
4 of this man, that it may be worth while to give
4 you a ihort iketch of it. He is anative ofaneigh-
4 bouring country, where hisfather, from thelow-
4 eft ftate of poverty, amaffed fuch wealth in trade,
L 6 4 that
ADVENTURES O f A GUINEA. 227
,
yG oogle
4 that his vanity prompted him to get his family
4 ennobled, to hide the meannefs of his original.
4 There is fomething fo abfurdly wrong in pur-
4 chafed nobility, that it always turns the heads
4 of thepurchafers, perhaps in juft retribution for
4 fo flagrant an abufe of an inftitution meant as
4 a reward for merit. The ennobled man Jived
4 not to ihow the truth of this obfervation;
4 but his Tons, abundantly made up for that, the
4 elder laviihing his wealth on every kind of ex-
4 penfive vanity, and the younger, the perfon you *
4 fee, glorying in every kind of debauchery, as
4 if vice and folly were the prerogatives of their
* honour.
4 In the courfe of a life of pleafure he con-
4 traded an acquaintance with that lady, whom
4 you fee at the upper end of the room. Though
4 nature had never meant him for a man of in-
4 trigue, and debauchery had exhaufted even the
4 little powers foe gave, he thought it would
4 have been inconfiftent with his charader of a
4 man of pleafure, not to commence an affair of
4 gallantry with fo defireable a perfon. Ac-
4 cordingly, as foe happened to be married, he
4 diredly cultivated an intimacy with her huf-
4 band, into whofe unguarded confidence he
4 fo far infinuated himfelf, as to receive many
4 ads of friendfoip from him. T o a man who
4 had any fenfe of honour or honefty, this would
4 have been an irrefiftible reafon for defifting from
4 his bafe defign $ but he was above fuch vulgar
4 reftraints, and genteellv took the opportunity
4 of the huiband’s friendihip to debauch the vir-
4 tue of the wife.
4 Nothing but the moft abandoned profligacy
4 in the woman could have given fuccefs to fuch
4 an
*zS C H R Y S A L s OR, T H E
,
yGoogle
4 an attempt, as the huiband exceeded the par-
4 amour in very natural endowment of mind
4 and perfon, beyond every degree of compari-
4 fon; but the caprice of vicious inclination is
4 not to be accounted for; it will loath the molt
4 exquifite delicacies, and fate itfelfon garbage.
4 They had not continued their commerce
c long, when their indifcretion betrayed them.
4 It is imponible todefcribe the aftoniihment and
4 rage of the injured hufband, at^the difcovery !
4 Had it been poffible, he would have doubted
4 his fenfes, which were witnefles to his difgrace.
4 In the firft emotions of his rage, he was going
4 to break in upon them, and take the revenge
4 "which his fuperiour ftrength amply put in his
4 power; but a moment’s reflexion ihowed him
4 the folly of fuch an adion, and determined him
4 to take the fafer and more fevere revenge of the
4 law.
4 Accordingly,he withdrew without being per-
4 ceived by them, and bringing fome of his fer-
4 vants to teftify their crimes,#as foon as he had
4 fecured the proof necefláry to obtain his fatif*
4 fad ion, entered the room, in the height of their
/ dalliance, and coolly telling them that it would
4 be proper for them to choole another fcene for
4 their pleafure, befide his houfe, retired, and left
4 them to their meditations.
4 This condud convinced them of his deiign,
4 and that they had not a moment to lofe, to
4 avoid fome of the moft difagreeable confe-
4 quencesofit: as foon, therefore, as they re-
4 covered from the firft impreflions of their
4 aftoniihment, they diredly departed together,
4 and concealing the place of their retirement,
4 for
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
,
yGoogle
4 for fear of a purfuit, quitted; the territories of
4 the ftate as foon as they poffiblv could.
* But they might have fpared themfelves that
4 trouble; the revenge which the huiband fought
4 was of another nature: he diredUy inftituted a
4 fuit at law againft them, by which, as he
4 had fufficient proof of their guilt, he obtained a
4 divorce from his wife, and fuch damages againft
4 the violator of his bed, as made it impoilible
4 for him ever to return to his country, without
4 he defigned to languilh out the reft of his days
4 in a prifon.
4 The lovers, in the mean time, were far
4 from being happy in the uninterrupted enjoy-
4 ment of each other. Variety and the myftery
4 of intrigue were all that tempted them to the
4 correfpondence at firft; and now that thefe
4 were loft, reflexion opened their eyes to the
4 confequences of their folly, and made them
4 look upon each other as the authours of their
4 mutual ruin. Such thoughts foon cool themoft
4 ardent love; what effect then muft they have
4 upon perfonsin their fituation ? However, ne-
4 ceflity obliged them to conceal their fentiments;
4 and, as foon as the divorce gave them liberty,
4 they married, to preferve the appearance of a
4 paiflon they never felt, and obtain a fupport
4 from their families, which they could not have
4 expe&ed on any other terms.
4 When this was done, and that neceflity re-
4 mpved, the averfion which they had long enter-
4 tained broke out in the moft violent man-
4 ner. They lived in a ftate of eternal warfare,
4 in which the wife threw off all regard to de-
4 cency, even fo far as to take advantage
4 of her fuperfour ftrength, and frequently beat
4 her
,
yG oogle
4 her feeble hufband. Obferve that fear on his
4 upper lip! the third day of their happy mar-
4 riage, he received that mark of her rage from
4 the heel of her flipper, with which ihe alfo beat
4 out two of his teeth, whofe place he now fup-.
4 plies with artificial ones. „
4 But the vicioufnefs of her inclination, which
4 firft brought him into this wretched fituation,
4 releafed him from it fooner than he deferved.
4 T hey had-fixed their refidence here, where the
4 prince foon happened to take a liking to her,
4 the firft overture of which fheeagerly embraced$
4 and completed the infamy of her chara&er, by
4 quitting her fecoftd hufband to become his mi-
4 ftrefs; in which ftation you behold her at pre -
4 fent.
4 Though fuch adifgrace feemed to be a judi-
4 cial retaliation upon the hufband, for his own
4 bafe crime, he was infenfible of it; and inftead
4 of taking advantage of his deliverance, and re-
4 tiring to fome place where his Ihame was not
4 known, meanly accepted of the employment in
4 which you fee him, and fubmittedto be the Have
4 of her vice and infolence.
4 But though his hatred for her, and paflion for
4 the pomp and diflipation of a court, make him
4 brave the infamy of fuch a lituation, ficknefs,the
4 conflant confequence of debauchery, the faith-
4 ful monitor of guilt, has awoke his confcience
4 to a fenfe of the crime that has funk him fo low,
4 and raifed a remorie that waftes his life, though
4 he thus abfurdly ftrives to drown its voice ia
4 the noife of vanity and vice/
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 131
C H A P .
,
yG oogle
CHRYSALi OR, THE
C H A P . XIV.
The confejjor entertains C hry sa l’j mafter w ith
another not uncommon character. The modern
method o f repairing a brokenfortun e. The general
confequence o ffem ale ambition. A curious amour
commenced in an odd manner, and carried on in as
odd a place. *
M
Y mafter was beginning to makft fome
obvious reflexions on this account, but
his friend foon diverted his attention to another
objedf. 4Obferve’ (faid he, pointing to aperfon
who bore all the external marks of nobility in
his habit and appearance) * a ftriking proof of
the infignificance of being born to wealth and
honours ! Who that fees the defpicable figure
which this man makes here, a voluntary exile
from his own country, where his rank and
fortune placed him in the moft exalted and
advantageous light, can ever throw away a
moment’s thought on heaping up riches, or
obtaining honours to perpetuate his name, and
aggrandife his family, the folly and profufion
of a fingle member of which may thusdifappoint
his hopes, and make his very virtues an aggra­
vation of his own degeneracy and reproach ?
4 In a rank fcarce inferior to that of a fo-
vereign, and poflfefled of a fortune fufficient to.
fupport it with dignity to himfelf, and be­
nefit to the community, did this man enter
4 into
,
yGoogle
into life; but a few years of the diffipation of
what is falfely called a life of pleafure diftreffed
his fortune, and debafed his principles, to fuch
a degree, that he was obliged, and not aihamed,
to have recourfe to the mean method of a mer­
cenary marriage, to retrieve his affairs, and en­
able him to fupport the external appearance of
his character.
4 The conftant confequences of thefe marriages
might be fufficient to open the eyes of the un­
happy victims of them to fuch a dangerous folly;
but vanity pofftffes fo abfolute an empire over
the female heart, that nothing can prevent the
gratification of it.
4 The female whom this perfon pitched upon,
as proper for his purpofe, on account of herim-
menfe wealth, was deftitute of every charm of
mind and perfon, to attraft or preferve love or
efteem. But few are fenfible of their own de­
ficiencies, or can bear to be informed of them.
On his making the firft overture to her, all her
real friends took the alarm; they drew his cha­
racter in proper colours; they mowed her, that
necefiity, not inclination, was the motive of
his addreffes, and they laid the inevitable confe­
quences of a connexion with fuch a perfon
before her in the ftrongeft light: but all was in
vain ! Her heart was fixed upon rank and pre­
cedence, and, fo ihe could obtain them, ihe left
the reft to chance.
4 Accordingly, as ihe was abfolutely her own
miftrcfs, the match was foon made, to the pre-
fent fatisfaCtion of both parties. He got her
fortune, to pay his debts, and purfue his plea-
furcs ; and (he rode in a coach, with coronets,
and was called her Grace•
c But
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *33
,
yG oogle
4 But this mutual happinefs did notlaft long
4 the moment he got pofleflion of h er fortune all
4 his wifhes were fulfilled, and, as he had nothing
4 further to expedt, he did not think it neceflary
4 for him to continue any appearances of love,
4 or even complaifance, for an objedf really dif-
4 agreeable to him. A ccordingly, the very morn-
4 ing after his marriage, he fet put, upon a party
4 of pleafure, with fome of his former compa-
4 nions; and Ipft the bride by herfelf, to receive
4 the compliments, and go through the' farce
4 ufual on fuch occafions. -
4 Though fuch behaviour muft appear bafie and
4 ungenerous to the laft degree, yet fhe had no
4 right to complain of it, as fhe could notexpedfc
4 any other from his known chara&er, and mo-
4 tives for marriage; fhe, therefore, put thebeft
4 face on the matter, and, whether from intoxi-
4 cation at her elevation, or indifference to him,
4 feemed to be infenfible of the flight, and went
4 through the ceremony and parade with all the
4 appearance of pleafure and content, leaving him
4 to purfue his own inclinations, without moleft-
4 ation or complaint. *
4 But this calm did not hold long. As foon as
4 her new dignity loft the charms of novelty, na-
4 ture awoke, as from a dream, and convinced
4 her, that fomething more than empty.fhow was
4 neceflary to human happinefs: but, alas ! this
4 convidfion came too late; and all her expoftu-'
4 lations were asineffedtual to induce the tender-
4 nefs or efteem of her hufband, as thofe of her
4 friends had been with her, to prevent her mar-
4 lying him. On the contrary, they turned his
4 indifference into averfion, and made him treat
• 4 her
*3* CHRYSALs OR, THE
,
yGoogle
4 her with indignity and contempt, infulting her
4 deformity, and ridiculing the vanity that had
4 prompted her to facrifice her fortune for a bare
4 title.
4 Hard as fuch treatment was to be fubmitted
4 to, ihe had no redrefs, but was obliged to bear
4 it in filence, without even the poor confolation
4 of compaflion to mitigate her fufferings. At
4 length a further aggravation of her wrongs gave
4 -her the pleafure of revenge, by driving him again
4 into the diftrefles from which her folly had re-
4 lieved him.
4 In the purfuit of pleafure, to which he had
4 facrificed his character and fortune, he never
4 had even the excufe of a refined tafte, or par-
4 ticular pafiion, to palliate -his folly, but blindly
4 followed' the example of his companions, or
4 was a Have to every grofs, impulfe of his own
4 caprice, without the leaft notion of delicacy,
4 or even decency, to direct him. As he was
4 ftrolling alone about his houfe, one unhappy
4 evening, when he had no company to divert
4 his thoughts, he happened, juft as it grew dark,
4 to overhear two perfons, a male and female,
4 in earned conversation. Curiofity prompting
4 him to liften, he foon discovered, that love
4 was the fubjedt of their difcourfe, in which the
4 man, whom, by his voice, he knew to be one
4 of his huntfman’s helpers, was fo fuccefsful,
4 that he perfuaded the fair-one to promiie him
4 a meeting, half an hour after, in the dog-
4 kennel. .
4
‘ Though the place of affignation might have
4 deterred any perfon, whole feftfes, as well as
4 his inclinations, were not totally debauched,
. 4 from
APVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *35
,
yGoogle
C H R Y S A l : OR, T HE
*36
4 from attempting to fupplant the happy lover*
4 the novelty of fuch an adventure made his lord-
4 ihip overlook that, and refolve to fupply his
4 dog-boy’s place. Accordingly, he retired un-
4 perceived, and going to the {tables, ordered him
4 to be called, and fent him dire&ly on a meflage
4 forne miles off, without giving him an oppor-
4 tunity of letting his miftrefs know any thing of
4 the matter.
4 As foon as the time appointed drew near, his
4 lordfhip went to the agreeable fcene, where the
4 punctual fair one did not let him wait long.
4 As he was about the dog-boy’s fize, and the
4 place was quite dark, ihe never perceived the
4 change put upon her, but laviihed her carefTes
4 upon him with the greateft t*ndernefs, vowing
4 never more to have any cbrrefpondcnce with
4 the pantry-boy or fcullion, who, it feems were
4 the dog-boy’s formidable rivals, but to be always
4 conftant to him alone; and took her leave of
4 him, with a promife to meet him there at the
4 fame time, next evening.
4 Difgufting as every circumftance of this af-
4 fair ihould have been, the oddity of it, with the
4 pleafure of fupplanting another, even fo mean
4 a perfon, and in fo unworthy an obje&, made
4 him determine to be punctual to her appoint-
4 ment. But then the difficulty was, how to pre-
4 vent his rival’s traverling bis defign, for his
4 delicacy was not in the leaft alarmed at the
4 thought of his participating in her favours. He
4 was alfo at a k>fs to know, who the obliging
4 female might be, for the darknefs that con-
4 cealed him was equally favourable to her, and
4 he was a ftranger to her voice ; nor did he care
4 to aik any queftions, as that would betray his
4 own
,
yGoogle
* own impofture, and bring on an explanation
* that he did not deiire, both as his greateft plea-
4 fare was in the cheat, and the difcovery might
4 be attended with circumftances he ihould choofe
4 to avoid, in cafe the female was difagreeable to
4 him.
4 T o obviate all thefe inconvenifcncies, he order-
4 edhis rival to attend him the moment he return-
4 ed, when he gave him a letter to carry that in-
4 ftant to a gentleman who lived about twenty
4 miles off, with dire&ions to be back early the
4 next day with an anfwer. This he faid aloud,
4 in the hearing of all his fervants, that, if his
4 miftrefs fliould happen to hear ofher lover’s be-
4 ing fent from home, (he might alfo have reafon
4 to expe& his return time enough to keep the ap-
4 pointment; but, to prevent this, he had deiired
4 the perfon to whom he wrote, to keep the mef-
4 fenger, as if for an anfwer of the letter, two or
4 three days; in which time heconcluded he him«
4 felf ihould be tired of his amour.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. »37
C H A P . XV.
Continued : H is lordjhip’s fcheme to fling his riva l
unluckily ¿¡/appointed. A difagreeable meeting oe-
ca/ions/range di/coveries• fvom an never at a lofs•
L a w often fpoils fporU4
4 TJ L E A S E D with the fag^city of this fcheme
4 JL he waited for the next evening, with an
4 impatience that he did not often feel on fuch
* occafionsj
,
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
»1*
4 occafions; but anunlucky accident difappointed
4 his defigns. The gentleman to whom he wrote
4 the letter happened not to be at home, nor was
* expe&ed for a day or two; wherefore, as his
( lord had ordered him to make hafte back, he left
4 the letter, and returned without any delay, per-
-
4 haps not more in obedience to his orders, than
4 from his impatience to retrieve the difappoint-
menthis defires-had met, by his abfence, the
* evening before.
4 As foon as he alighted, therefore, hisfirit
4 care was to find out his miftrefs, to tell her the
4 reafon of his difappointing her the evening be-
4 fore, and to make a new aflignation for that;
4 but what was their mutual furprife when they
4 came to compare notes ! As he infilled on his
4 not having attended the appointment, ihe flew
4 into a rage, and accufed him of having betrayed
4 her bafely to fome of his companions; and, as
4 ihe pofitively aflerted her having metfome perfon
4 there, he accufed her, with equal warmth, of
4 inconilancy, and facrificing him to fome of his
4 rivals, on whom he vowed the fevereft ven-
4 geance, if he fhoukl ever find him-out.
4 As this altercation was not carried on with
4 much delicacy on either fide, it foon produced
4 an abfolute rupture between the lovers, who
4 feparated with, fentiments for each other very
4 different from thofe with which they met.
4 The dog-boy, in an hour or too, when his
4 refentment cooled a little, recolleAed that it
4 might be proper to let his lord know the fuc-
4 cefs of his meflage, who fent for him into his
4 prefence dire&ly; and being freed from his
4 apprehenfions, by hearing that he was but that
I * 4 moment
,
yGoogle
\
*' moment returned, ordered him to fet out again
4 inftantly, and deliver the letter to the gentle-
4 man, wherever he was, and not returnwithout
4 an anfwer.
4 His orders were fo urgent that the fellow did
4 not dare to make the leaft delay; but fortune,
4 that feemed refolved to crofs his lordfbip’s de-
4 iigns, contrived it fo, thathe met the gentleman
4 on his road, without having called at home, or
4 received the letter that had been left for him.
4 Upon the dog-boy’s informing him of it, he
4 concluded, as he was much nearer to his lord-
4 ihip’s than to his own houfe, that it was the
4 readieft way for him to wait upon him dire&ly,
4 without minding to fend the man for the let-
4 ter. Accordingly, he bade him turn back, and
4 ride on before him, to acquaint his lordfhip of
4 his coming.
4 Though it was late when he had fet out the
4 fecond time, he made fuch hafte, that hereached
4 home juft at the time of his lordihip’s appoint-
4 ment; when it unluckily coming into his head,
4 that his perfidious miftrefs might pofiibly have
4 taken theadvantage of his abfence, to make an-
4 other affignation in his dog-kennel,the firft thing
4 he did, the moment he difmounted from his
4 horfe, was to go there, to fee if any one had in-
4 vaded his territories.
4 Nor was his fufpicion difappointed ; for the
4 fair-one was fo uneafy to unravel the myftery
4 of the adventure of the evening before, that ihe
4 pun&ualJy attended her appointment, where Ihe
4 had not waited many minutes before her un-
4 known lover arrived. The fcene of their
4 meeting was fo dark, that it was impoflible for
4 either of them to know the other. However,
4 ihe
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
,
yGoogle
4 ihe foon thought of a method to remedy this,
4 which was, to purloin fomething out of his
4 pockets, by which ihe might difcover who-he
4 was, without betraying herfelf $ for ihe foon
4 found, that he knew no more of her than ihe
4 didof him.
4 She had juft executed her defign, and was
4 taking her leave of her lover, when his jea-
4 lous rival came upon them unawares, and, over-
4 hearing their expreffions of fondnefs, was fo
4 enraged, that he refolved to take immediate re-
4 venge : accordingly, he approached them with-
4 out anynoife, and, turning the but-end of his
4 Whip, aimed a ftroke fo unluckily, though at a
4 venture, that it felled his lordihip to theground.
4 The female, who inftantlygueffed what was the
4 matter, took advantage of the darknefs to make
4 her efcape, which ihe happily effefted without
4 any difafter, the dog-boy iiumbling over his
4 fallen adverfary, the firft ftep he advanced to
4 purfue her.
4 His lordihip, half recovered from the blow,
4 laid hold of his antagonift, who grappling with
4 him dire£My, a battle enfued, in which nobility
4 was fo rudely handled, that his lordihip was
4 obliged to declare himfelf, andcry out for quar-
4 ter. It is eafy to conceive the confufion of the
4 conqueror upon this difeovery; heinftantly ftrove
4 to difengage himfelf, and make his efcape 5
4 but his lordihip held him faft, promiiing to for-
4 give him, though, if he would have the difere-
4 tion never to mention a fyllable of the affair,
' 4 and inform himwho the female was with whom
4 he had made the aiEgnation to meet in this place
4 the evening before. '
' 4 Thefe
<
4
0 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
4 Thsfe conditions were tooeafy not tobeim-
4 mediately complied with. He accordingly fworc
4 eternal fecrefy, and readily told his lordihip that
4 the girl was no other than the kitchen-maid’s
4 daughter, whoferved as afcullion-wench under
4 her mother.
4 This difcovery of his miftrefs’s quality was
4 almoft as difagreeable to his lordihip, as the
4 effed of the dog-boy’s jealoufy. However, he
4 fmothered his vexation, and dealing fecretly into
4 the houfe, that he might not be feen in fuch a
4 condition, retired to his own apartment by him-
4 felf, to change his clothes, and waih off the blood
4 and dirt with which he was all over plentifully
‘^daubed. •
4 As foon as he had fet himfelf fomewhat to
4 rights, he rang for his valet de chambre, who
4 was his ufual agent upon fuch occafions, and
4 ordered him to bring the kitchen-maid’s daugh-»
4 ter up to him. The valet, who was fufficiently
4 acquainted with the capricioufnefs of his ma-*
4 fter’s tafte, was not in the leaft furprifed at his
4 choice of fuch an objed, but obeyed him di-
4 redly.
4 The fortunate female, who had found out
€ the quality of her new.lover by his fnuff-box,
4 which ihe had picked out of his pocket, was
4 almoft afraid to obey the glad fummons, for fear
4 ihe might be fufpeded of having defignedly oc-*
4 cafioned the outrage his lordihip had lately met;
4 however, her ambition getting the better of her
4 fear, ihe fuffered herfelf to be prevailed on, and
4 went trembling and bluihing, in all thebaihful-
4 nefs of virgin innocence, to know his lordihip’s
4 commands.
Vol, II. M 4 If
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. a+t
,
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
*4*
4 I f he had been furprifed at the difcovery o f
4 her condition, he was much more agreeably fo
* at the fight of her ; for, though ihe was far
4 from being handfome, there was fomething in
4 her face, which, with her extreme youth, and a
4 glow of health that her confufion heightened
4 not a little, ftruck his fancy in an uncommon
4 manner. He, therefore, without giving her the
4 leaft hint of what had happened, as he imagined
4 (he knew nothing of him, made no ceremony
4 of propofing love to her. But, young as ihe
4 was, flie had too much woman in her foul to
* comply fo eafily, though there was nothing (he
4 defired more ardently. Accordingly, ihe refufed
his lordfliip with the moil refpe&ful modefty ;
4 and, on urging his requeft further, threw herielf
€ at his feet in a flood of tears, and begged him to
4 have compaflion upon her friendlefs youth and
4 innocence. '
4 Such behaviour would have made him doubt
4 the dog-boy’s information, did not the found
4 of her voice convince him ihe was the perfon.
4 He, therefore, laughed at her artifice, and told
4 her, that, as foon as the farce was ended, he
A ihould expert another anfwer, as he knew ihe
4 had granted to others the favour he aiked o f
4 her. , '
4 T h is convinced her that he had difcovered
4 her, and that it was neceflary for her to en-
4 large her fcheme, to accompliih the defign ihe
4 had formed, of eftabliihing a lafting intereft
4 in his affe&ions. Accordingly, upon his fay-
4 ing this, ihe embraced his knees in a feeming
* agony of diftrefs, and, conjuring him to have
4 mercy on her folly, owned that ihe had tranf-
4 grefled with one, and one only, who had made
4 fuch
,
yGoogle
fuch an impreflion upon her heart, that though
fhe had taken him for another, and knew not
even who he was, ihe had made a vow never to
repeat her folly with any other.
* T h e candour of this confeflion, the greateft
part of which he thought he knew to be true,
completed her conqueft over him. He raifed her
from the ground, and, embracing her tenderly,
difcovered himfelf to her. T h e confequence is
Obvious. She immediately appeared inpubliclc
as his miftrefs, and had the addrefs to accom­
modate herfelf fo entirely to his caprices, that
ihe foon gained the abfolutc maftfcry of his heart.
As for the poor dog-boy, he was turned off, of
courfe, as an offenfe to her fight, though not
without a confiderable gratuity, to purchafe his
filence ; but that was impoflible ; the moment
he left the houfe, he looked upon himfelf as freed'
from the neceility of concealing it any longer,
and made it the common fubjeit of his difcourfe,
till it became as publickly known as his lord-
ihip’s name.
4 T h is happened juft as his affairs became
again fo diftrefled, that he was forced to with­
hold the fupport he had allowed his wife; She,
therefore, direilly took the advantage of it, to
fue him for a feparate maintenance, on the plea
of his thus living in avowed adultery. T h e
fa il was too flagrant to be denied ; and his
infatuation was fuch, that he would not re­
move the caufe, to avoid the confequence of
the fuit, but chofe to quit his native country,
and come here with his miftrefs, to live in the
difefteem and contempt you fee him treated
with, on the poor pittance of his fortune, which
the law allows him for his fupport j the reft,
M 2 4 much
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
,
yGoogle
*4 4 C H R Y S A X : O R , T H E
«
c
A
much the greater part of it, being affigned for
the maintenance of his wife* and payment of his
debts/
C H A P , XVI*
C h rtsa l’j mafler meets an old acquaintance, who
relates the hijfary o f his life. Curious anecdotes o f
a g rea t man*
MY matter’s friend proceeded to give him an
account of feveral other perfons who were
prefent; but as his remarks were confined to their
political chara&ers, I ihall omit them, as I faid
before. On thefe I have dwelt fo long, becaufe
they difplay a juft, however difagreeable pidture
of human nature.
The day after my mailer's being with his
friend at court, he went to fee an old acquaintance
of his. The principles of the foul are fometimes
fo ftrong, as to baffle hypocrify, and mark the
chara&er of a man, in the lineaments of his
vifage, to every common eye. The fifft view
of my matter’s old friend and acquaintance ftruck
me with horrour; every vice that can deform the
human foul appeared triumphant, and unallayed
with any the leaft tinfture of virtue, in his face*
Though I was no ftranger to the latitude of my
mailer’s principles, the intimacy of fuch a per­
fon blackened my worft opinion of him. They
flew to each other’s arms, and, embracing with
the tendernefs of long-parted friends, afked each
other a thoufand queftions, almoft in a breath,
concerning their mutual welfare, and the adven-
i tures
,
yGoogle
tures they had met with, fince they had feen each
otherlaft. n
In the account given by my matter there were
none but common occurrences5 but the hiftory o£
his friend had ftfmething foftrik;ingly lingular in it,
that, for the curiofity of fuch a charaiter, I’ll give
you a ihort iketch of it, as drawn by himfelf, with
this difference only, that I ihall omit feveral fa<
5ts
too grofs forrepetition, and foften the colouring of
the whole, as the glaringnefs of it would over­
power human fight, and ftrike imagination with
horrour too ftrong to bear.
4 You have often expreffed a curiofity, my
4 friend (faid the ftranger to my matter) to learn
4 the particulars of my life. That I did not gra-
* tify it, was not owing to any diffidence or dif-
4 inclination to oblige you; but becaufe I had not
4 arrived at any fixed period, to make a proper
* paufe at, and therefore an imperfe£fc account
* could give you but little fotisfa&ion. But that
4 objection is now removed: 1 am here fettled in a
4 fituation, which, though far below my. former
4 hopes, I ihall, ftrive to be contented in, and not
4 launch out any more into the fatigues and perils
4 of the world, at this late feafon of my life. One
4 caution only I mutt hint to you, which is, that
4 in the account I am going to givef, I ihall throw
4 afide all prejudice, and represent every thing in
4 the unadorned fimplicity of its firft principles,
4 without any regard to the received notions of
4 felf-deluded man.— —
4 I was born in France, of poor parents, who
4 were fcarcely able to give me the firft rudiments
4 of a liberal education. T o avoid a life of la-
4 bour, I raftxly entered into the monaftick, before
M 3 I had*
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, 245
,
yGoogle
C H R Y S A L î OR, T RE
*4.6
4 had experience enough to fee the folly of fuch
4 'aftep: but my flay here was not long: to a’
4 man of fenfe the obligation of a vow ceafes*
4 with the motive that induced him to take it. I
€ made my efcape from the convent, and as I was
4 deftitute of money to fupport me, ani as yet
4 too ignorant of the ways of the world, to be
4 able to live without it, was driven by neceility
4 to inlift myfelf for a foldier. But I foon found
4 that I had not gained by the change, the flavery
4 of a foldier’s life, being ftill more intolerable than
* that of a monk. I therefore had recourfe to my
4 -former expedient for relief, and deferted the very
4 firft opportunity. 1 then threw myfelf at ran-
4 dom upon the world, without any particular
4 point to direil my courfe to; but this did not
4 difeourage m e: I had boldly thrown off the
* fhackles which fooliih marThad forged for him-
4 felf, to prevent his rifing in life, and regulated
4 my conduct folely by my convenience. T h is
4 gave me a fuperiority over the reft of mankind*
4 which I never failed to avail myfelf of. I look-
4 ed upon their follies as my inheritance, and foon
4 found abundant opportunities of turning them
4 to my advantage.
4 For fome years I lived a life of ramble, in
4 the courfe of which I met with many adven-
4 tures.— A t length, I thought my own country
4 too narrow a fphere to confine my adlivity to,
4 and f o l went to Spain, where I expedled an
* ample harveft from the ignorance and fuper-
4 ftition of the people; but their poverty difap-
4 pointed my hopes, and almoft ftarved me into
4 repentance o f my expedition. However, I pro-
4 ceeded to M adrid, where the credulity o f a
" 4 countryman
Google
* countryman of my own made me amends for
* thereferve of the natives. He not only relieved
4 my immediate wants, which were too prefiing
4 to be bor’n, but alfo entrufted into my hands
4 fome valuable materials for a literary work, from
4 which he expe&ed both reputation and profit.
4' But I difappointed his hopes ; for, being tired of
4 Spain, I took the firft opportunity of going to
* try my fortune in fome other country, and car-
4 ried all his papers with me. Nor was this all
4 he fuffered by his confidence. 1 had before ex-
4 perienced the inconvenience of depending upon
4 charity, in a country where there is fcarce fuf-
4 ficient for the neceffrties of nature. I, there-
4 fore, thought it proper to take all the money and
* valuable effeSs in his pofleflion, to defray the
4 expenfes of my journey. As to the diftrefs this
4 might throw him into, I never regarded that a
4 moment, no more than I did his being my coun-
4 tryman. I defpifed the narrownefs of thought
4 that made fuch accidental circumftances of any
4 weight, when they claihed with my own parti-
4 cular defigns; and I efteemed the leiTon I had
4 taught him, to be more cautious whomhe placed
4 his confidence in, a fufficient recompenfe for his
4 lofs.
4 From Spaing I direeled my courfe to G er-
4 many) where the political knowledge I acquired
4 from my late friend’s papers, made me fo much
4 taken notice of, that after fome time, notdif-
4 agreeably fpent among the great, I was recom**
4 mended to the prime minifter, and favourite of
4 the king of Polandy as a proper perfon to be
.4 ehtrufted with the education of his only fom
4 Not to difgrace this chara<3er, I aflumed a fic-
4 titious name and title, and gave out, that I had
* M 4 4been
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *47
,
yGoogle
4*
been obliged to leave my own country for air
affair of honour. My employment gave me
frequent opportunities of converfing with the
father of my pupil, in which i difplayed my
ikill in politicks to fuch advantage, that I foon
was admitted into his efteem and confidence.
In this intercourfe 1had the honour of ftarting
the firft hint of that projeft, which has fince
kindled the prefent war in Germany, and will
immortalife his name (for he has had the un­
generous meannefs to affume it to himfelf) to
all ages.
* Such a fituation was fufficient to fatisfy the
defires of any other man*; but my ambition
knew no bounds: I thought my patron did not
reward my merit as it deferved 5and, in revenge,
I refolved to work his ruin. For this purpofe,
I entered into a correfpondence with feveral no­
blemen, who were his enemies, and, taking ad­
vantage of the opportunities his confidence gave
me of feeing his papers, copied fome, and coun­
terfeited others, that I thought neceflary to my
defign, which was no lefs than to raifea civil
war, in which the minifter fhould be facri-
ficed, and the matter dethroned. But, juft as
my plot was ripe for execution, it was difco-
vered, and I hurried from a palace to a prifon,
where I was condemned to languifh out the reft
of my days; my life being fpared in compliance
with a delicacy of my patron’s, who thought it
Would be adifgrace to him to have his fon’s tu­
tor hanged.
4 When I had lain here fome time, a happy
thought procured me my liberty: I wrote a
moft penitential letter to the pope’s nuncio, in
which I difcovered my true name, and my hav-
. 4 ing
C H R Y S A L : OR,
,
yGoogle
€ irig fled from my vows; and pretending a tho-
4 rough fenfe of my guilt, and defxre of returning
4 to my order, begged his intcrceffion in my fa-
4 vour. My fcheme fucceeded ! He claimed me
4 as an ecclefiaftic, and the king, whofe mind was
4 too intent on greater matters, to think of me,
4 readily complied. I was accordingly releafed
4 from my prifon, but inftead of being fet abfo-
* lutely at liberty, as I had hoped, was Tent under
4 a guard of ecclefiafticks to Rome> where all the
* favour I could obtain, was to be ordered back:
* to my convent.
4 T h is was a great difappointment tom e; but
* I was obliged to fubmit. I accordingly fet out, .
4 guarded as before, but determined to take the
4 firft opportunity of making my efcape; which I
4 at length affedted, after many vain attempts.
4 T o fruftrate the purfuit of my guards, I fled
4 into Switzerland^ where the name of liberty
4 flattered my hopes of doing whatever I pleafed.
4*The firft thing I did there, was to abjure my re-­
4 ligion, and profefs their’s, to conciliate their
4 good opinion. This was no difficulty upon me, .
4 as I had long looked upon all religions with
4 equalindifference. As I had no money,! immedi-
4 ately commencedauthour. But, though Igain-
4 ed reputation, my profits were fo inconfiderable,.
4 that I was obliged to have recourfe to other me-
4 thods for my fupportr fomeof which happening
4 to contradidfc their prejudices, I was obliged to
4 leave their dominions with circumftances of
4 difgrace. You will laugh at the narrow notions
4 of mankind, when I tell you, that the affair
4 they made fo great anoifeabout, was only my
4 denying a debt which I was unable to pay, and -
4 the creditor did not even want.
M s
ADVENTURES OF A' GUINEA. 24*
,
yGoogle
4 There
*5
o CHRYSAL: ÖU, THE
4There were fome other particulars, indeed, of
4 my condu&, which would have met with a fe-
4 vere fate, had I not taken prudent care to ob-
4 viate it. 1 had entered into an intimacy w ith
4 a perfon of fome fortune, who had an agree-
4 able wife. The connexions of the wife are
4 always made with a view to fome particular
4 end. 1 had more than one in this acquaintance:
4 the fupply of my neccifities, by the generofity of
4 the hufband, and the gratification of my plea-
4 fure, by the enjoyment of the wife.------1 fuc-
4 ceedcd in both, but was prevented by an accr-
4 dent from enjoying my fuccefs long. The huf-
4 band furprifed us one dayin afituation that did
4 not admit of doubt. He drew his fword, to
4 have revenged his wrongs with my death; but
4 I difappointed his defign, by prefentinga piftol
4 at his head, which I always carried about me,
4 forfearofaccidents. Upon this, he ran out of the
4 houfe in a kind of frenzy. I faw the delicacy
4 of my fituation, and that my fafety depended
4 upon the proper ufe of that moment. The wife
4 had fwooned away at the firft fight of her huf-
4 band. I ran and fetched a glals of water, as
4 if to recover her, but conveyed a few drops into
4 it, which I never went without, for any fuch
4 emergency, that delivered her for ever from all
4 fear of her hufband’s refentment. 1 had many
4 reafons for doing this. It was in her power to
4 make difeoveries to her hufband, which I did
4 not choofe; befide, as the fufpicion of her death
4 would inevitably fall upon him, I thought that
4 a good way to efcape his revenge. 1 then quitted
4 the houfe without being perceived. All things
4 happened as 1could wiih. The hufband was
4 obliged to fly from his country, to avoid an ig-
4 nominious
,
yGoogle
nominious death, for the murther of his "wife;
and all his effe£fs were confifcated to the ftate.
It is true, I did not entirely efcape fufpicion i
He had laid open all he knew of the affair, by
letter, to his friends ! but, though they be­
lieved him, he had no evidence to fupport his
charge; fo that I defpifed his impotent accufa-
tions.
4 From Sivitzerland I once more turned my face
to Germany, where my name was fo famous for
my political knowledge, that, a war being juft
ready to break out, I received confiderable offers
from moft of the parties concerned, to engage
me in their fervice; but, though l refufed none,
I refolved not to engagemyfelfabfolutely to any*
till I could know which might prove moft ad-»
vantageous to me/
• ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA* 251
M i C H A P .
,
yGoogle
*5* CHRYSALî OR, THE
C H A P . x v n .
Continued. H e comes to E n g l a n d , where his
fervices are rejected by thefiatey and he is obliged
to exert his abilities in a lowerfpbere. H e gains
the confidence o f bis landlord, from whom he bor-
rows all he is worthy and then Jlrives to pay the
■ debt w ith a halter. A good retreat is better than
a badJland.
* A S England was likely to,bear a confiderable
4 ¿ \ part in the war, I thought it proper to go
4 over, and found the inclinations of the miniftry
4 there alfo. The riches and credulity of the in­
* habitants of that country have long made it
4 be efteemed the inheritance of needy adventu-
4 rers. Thethought of difplaying my abilities in
4 fo fertile a foil infpired mewith an ardour I had
* never felt before. I already grafped all the
4 wealth of the nation, and looked upon myfelf as
4 the oracle of the people, and the terrour of the
4 miniftry, who would not fail to purchafe my fi­
* lence with apenfion, that fhould enable me to
4 fpend the reft of my days, wherever I liked,
4 wiih d-ignity and eafe. '
4 Full of thefe flattering hopes, I arrived in
€ London, where I foon found, that, juft as the
4 notion I had formed of the people in general
4 might be, the government would not take the
4 bait I had prepared for them, and treated me
4 and my proposals with equal contempt. This’
* threw me into the neceffity of proftituting the
4 abilities
,
yGoogle
abilities, which I fondly hoped would have been
employed in embroiling nations, to the decep­
tion of individuals, for the fupport of life; for
all the wealth I was mailer of confifted folely in
the proje&s of my brain.
€ My fuccefs in this under-plot made me fomt
amends for the mifcarriage of the other. I no
fooner fixed my habitation, than I was crouded
to by tradefmen of all kinds, to follicit my cuf-
tom for things which I had not the leaft proba­
bility of being ever able to pay for. But that
gave me no concern 5 I accepted their offers to
fuch an amount, that I was immediately able to
procure confiderable fums of money for other
occafions, by the fale of commodities which, fb
far from having occafion for, I Scarcely knew
the ufe of.
‘ FluQied with this good fortune, I threw off
all referve, and gave a loofe to every paffion
which luxury could raife in a temper naturally
warm \ never refle&ing, that the day would foon
come, when my inability to pay my prefent
debts would not only put a flop to thel'e artifi­
cial refources, but alfo probably plunge me
in the horrours of a gaol for life. I profeffed
myfelf a man of pleafure ! I drefled, gamed, and
intrigued with people of the firft rank ; and,
for fome time, was lb intoxicated as to forget
my purpofe in coming over, and think I coufd
fupport this life for ever. Not that I was ever
fo intent upon my pleafures as to mifs any
opportunity of procuring the means.immedi-
ately neceffary to obtain them. On the con­
trary, the moment I threw off my defigns
upon the government, 1 doubled my applijja-
.. 4 tion
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
,
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
*5+
4 tion to turn the follies of particulars to my own
c advantage, flopping at nothing, howeveriniqui-
4 tous in the opinion of the world, to accompliih
4 my defigns.
4 Such a life muft neceffarily involve me in
4 a variety of adventures, many of which, it is
4 true, 1 got not fo fmoothly over as I could
4 wiih ; but I had learned philofophy enough to
4 take the bad with the good, without repi-
4 ning at what it was not in my power to re-
4 drels. .
4 It would be endlefs to enter into a particular
4 detail of every thing I did and fuftered in the
4 courfe of this life; I (hall, therefore, only juft
4 mention one or two affairs, which may ferve to
4 give you fome notion of the reft.
4 As I particularly valued myfelf upon my li-
4 terary chara&er, there was no kind of acquaint-
4 ance I was fonder of cultivating, than with men
4 of letters ; for which I had alfo a further mo-
4 tive, that, as their attention to books generally
4 made them ftrangers to the ways of men, they
4 were mod eafy to be made the property of any
4 mercenary defigns.
4 On both thefe accounts I had taken lodg-
4 ings in the houfe of a clergyman, who, befides
4 the chara&er of a man of learning, was alfo
4 reputed to be in good circumftances. I foon
4 found that he was a perfon exaftly fitted for
4 my defigns, and therefore loft no time in ma-
4 king a proper impreflion on him. The firft
4 ftep towards acquiring confidence is to place it
4 yourfelf. I immediately made him my banker,
4 lodging every fum of money I won at play, or
4 railed by the means I mentioned before, in his
4 hands.
,
yGoogle
4 hands. As my fuccefs made thefe funis very
4 confiderable at firft, he conceived an opinion of
4 my being a perfon of confequence and fortune
4 above my appearance. This infpired him with
4 fuch refpedt for me, that if at any time I even
4 hinted an occafion for more than I had in his
4 hands, he not only offered to fupply me, but
4 even looked upon my acceptance as an honour.
4 T o confirm him in this way of thinking, I fre-
4 quently accepted of his offers when l had no
4 occafion, only that the pun&uality of my pay-
4 ment might make him ftill the readier whenever
4 I ihould.
4 Nor was it long before I was obliged ter avail
4 myfelf of this fcheme. A bad run at play ftrip-
4 ped me of all my money, and my tradefmen
4 brought in their bills, fo that my former re-
4 fources were at an end. In this difficulty I ap-
4 plied to my landlord, who readily fupplied me
4 with all the money in his poffeffion ; and, that
4 not being fufficient, borrowed as much more as
4 he could, till my remittances ihould arrive from
4 my eftate.
4 This fupply might have extricated me from
4 the difficulties of the prefent moment. But I
4 was awoke from my golden dreams, and faw
4 that this was the laft money I could any ways
4 expefi: to raife, as my practices began to be
4 fufpe&ed, and every body had taken the alarm
4 againil me ; fo that, if I parted with it, I
4 ihould only gain a momentary relief, as my
4 landlord would foon expedl to be paid alfo. I,
4 therefore, refolved to ferve all my creditors
4 alike, and go back to Germany with the mo-
4 ney in my poffeffion, leaving them to curfe
3 4their
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
,
yGoogle
4 their credulity, and be more cautious for the
4 future.
4 As I had ftill a confiderable quantity of valu^
4 able effeds in my poffeffion, I knew it would
4 be impoffible to remove them without giving
( the alarm to my landlord, and I could not think
4 of leaving them in his hands, though they were
4 far ihort of the debt I owed him. In this di-
4 lemma my ready genius prompted a fcheme that
* would not only fecure me from him^but alfo give
* me time to prepare for my decampment with
* more convenience. Upon my firft coming to
4 his houfe, I had contrived, by taking the im-
4 preffions inwax, to get falfekeys to all his locks.
4 This is a piece of precaution, which no man of
4 prudence will ever negleft. In purfuance of my
4 fcheme, the morning after I received the money
4 from him, and before I was to pay it away by
4 appointment, I took the opportunity, while he
4 was at church, to convey into his clofet feveral
4 things of value, my property in which I could
4 clearly prove, taking away, at the fame time,
4 the obligations which I had given him for the
4 money he had lent me, which his confidence in
4 my honour had prevented his taking the precau-
4 tion of having witneffes to.
4 As foon as I had done this, I went direflly
4 to a magiftrate, before whom I made oath of my1
4 being robbed of a large fum of money and many
4 of my moft valuable effects, among which I
4 particularly named the things I had left in his
4 clofet, and required an authority to apprehend
4 my landlord, and fearch his houfe, as I had rca-
4 fon to fufpe& that he had ftolen them, having
4 caught him often coming out of my apartments
4 in
*S6 C H R Y S A L j OR, TH E
,
yGoogle
in evident confufion, and at times when my
being abfent deprived him of every honeft reafon
of going into them; and this charge I had con­
firmed by the teftimony of my valet de chambre9
and another perfon, whom I had prepared pro­
perly. '
4 Though the execution of fentence is not
quite fo fudden in England as in Turkey, an ac-
cufation of this kind, however groundlefs, is,
in many refpe&s, not much lefs dreadful; the
harpies of the law never lofing their hold of the
accufed, till they have devoured every thing in
his poffeffion. The warrant I demanded was
readily granted for this reafon ; and away I
refolutely went, in company with the officers,
to execute it. We found my landlord, in the
fecurity of innocence, in his parlour, waiting
for my coming in to dinner. It is impoffible
to exprefs his aftoniihment, when they laid
hold of him like a thief, and told him it was
on my accufation. All the refolution and pre­
fence of mind I was matter of were requifite
to bear me through the feene! At firft he was
unable to fpeak a word, which the candour of
his accufers did not fail to conftrue into a filent
acknowledgement of his guilt; but, recovering
himfelf in a few moments, he firft raifed his
eyes to heaven, and then turning them upon
me, gave me a look that almoft froze the blood
in my veins ^but never deigned to fpeak a word
to me.
4 He then addreffed himfelf to the officers, and
mildly defired that they would execute their duty
with lenity, nor offer any indignity to the fa-
cred chara&er he bore, till a proof of his guilt
4 Ihould
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. * * 7
,
yGoogle
c Ihould make him appear unworthy of the fane-*
4 tion of it,
* Such behaviour had an effe£l not to be deferi-
4 bed upon all that wereprefent. The very offi-
c cers forgot their hardened nature for a moment,
4 and the tear of pity fell from eyes that never
4 wept before at human mifery. Even I began
4 to feel the fooliih infection, and was obliged to
4 charm up other paflions to prevent my betraying
4 myfelf, though my ruin was at flake. Accord-
4 ingly, I raifed my voice, and, with a ftern ac-
4 cent, commanded the officers to do their duty,
4 and fearch the houfe, before his accomplices
4 ihould have time to.convey away the things we
4 came in quell of. This word put an end to a
4 compaifion that was contrary to their nature,
4 and they proceeded to their bufinefs with their
4 ufual keennefs j though ftill with refpedl, till
4 they came to fearch his clofet, where the fight
4 of things, which I had fworn to have been flolen-
4 from me, appeared fo plain a proof of his guilt,
4 that they treated him with all the indignity of
4 the vfleft malefa&or.
4 Secure in his innocence, he had hitherto pre-
4 ferved a fteadinefs of temper that feemed fupe-
c riour to the power of fortune; but at this fight
4 his refolution failed him. He fell upon his knees,
4 and raifing his hands and eyes to heaven, Juft
4 God! (faid he) thy will be done! Thouknoweft
4 my innocence, and art able to defend me ! —
4 And wilt defend me (faid he, rifing, and reco-
4 vering his former fpirits.)
4 In the mean time, I feemed encouraged, by
4 this fuccefs, to hope for the recovery of the
4 money which I pretended to have loft alfo,
4and
*5* CHRYSAL* OR, THE
,
yGoogle
and ceafed not to urge the officers to make the
ftri£teft fearch. But this was not neceffary ;
they ranfacked every place, and toffed about
every thing that was too large for them to con­
vey away, till they made his whole houfe one
fcene of defolation. They then dragged him
before the magiftrate, where the finding of the
things gave fuch weight to the charge which l
pofitively fwore againft him, that he was on the
Verge of being hurried to prifon, and would cer­
tainly have fuftercd an ignominious death, had
it not been for fome unlucky prevarication in
my valet de cbambre’ s evidence. This, with
fome fufpicions that were fuggefted againft my
own chara&cr, by the pawnbroker to whom I
had fold the goods I took up from my tradef-
men, and who unfortunately happened to be
prefent, gave the affair fuch a turn in his favour,
that he was admitted to bail, till his innocence,
or guilt, (hould be proved by a publick tryal.
c But it was far from my intention to wait
for this. The moment I left the magiftrate,
I went to the houfe of an acquaintance, whither
I had ordered my effefts to be removed before,
where I refolved to prepare for my departure
with the utmoft expedition. As to my credi­
tors, when they called upon me next morning,
as I had appointed, for their money, I told
them the ftory of my having been robbed the
day before by my landlord, and therefore that
they muft wait till I fliould receive another re­
mittance from my own country; and though I
faw that few of them believed me, or were in­
clined to grant me that indulgence, I was un­
der no concern, as the habitation of my friend
4 was
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 259
,
yGoogle
4 was in a place privileged from the immediate;
4 power of the law.
4 However, it was impoffible^to be eafy in fuel*
4 a lituation, where every eye that faw me re-*
4 proached me withwhat 1 had done! I, therefore,
4 took the opportunity of going off, in which
4 I was fo fuccefsful as to elude the vigilance of
4 my purfuers, and efcape to Holland^ where I
4 had the vexation to learn thathalf of my fcheme
4 was difappointed, my landlord being difcharged
4 without tryal, for want of my appearing to pro-
4 fecute him. But, though he efcaped death, his-
4 affairs were fo effeftually ruined by the lofs of
4 the money he lent and had procured for me,
4 and the expenfe and damage he fuffered by my
4 accufation, that he was obliged to fly for refuse
4 to the favages of America>from the power of hi*
4 more favage creditors*
3 *0 CHRYSALj or, t h e
C H A P , x
v
i
i
r
.
Continued. H e launches again into the troubled ocean
o f politicks, and fuffers a fecond Jhipwreck in
E n g l a n d . He that will not when he may,
& c . ........ — It is often better to play a poor
i ame than Jland out. C h r y s a l arrives a£
jIS B O N .
4 T No fooner arrived in Holland, the general
4 X rendezvous of politicians, than I realTumed
4 that charaSer once more, and that with fuch
4 fuccefs, that the minifter of a power in alliance
4 with;
,
yGoogle
* with England conceived fuch an opinion of my
4 abilities, as made him offer to recommend me to
4 that court, for an employment of the higheft
4 confequence in one of the principal courts of
4 Germany.
4 Though I was fenfible that my return to E ng-
4 land muft be attended with difagreeable, if not
4 dangerous circumftances, from the general pre-
4 judices that were entertained there againftme, I
4 boldly refolved toaccept of his offer. Theform-
4 er, which could confift only in impotent marks
* ofdiflike, I difregarded; and the latter I judged
4 my recommendation would enable me to defeat.
* Accordingly I fet out with the utmoft privacy,
4 and was fafe in London before1my leaving H oU
4 land was even fufpefled by thofe who would
* have lain in wait for me.
• The very morning after my arrival I waited
4 upon the minifter to whom I was recommend­
* ed, with my letters, who received me very po-
4 litely, and, upon the credit of the charafter gi-
* ven to him of me, entered into a familiar con-
4 verfation on feveral fubje&s of intricacy and
4 importance, in which I iupported the chara&er
4 he had received of me fo well, that he difmifled
4 me with an affurance of his prote&ion and fa*
4 vour.
4 I now thought myfelf fecure of my hopes :
4 but the pleafure of this thought was of a very
4 fhort continuance. The very next morning I
4 received a meffage from the minifter to attend
4 him dire&ly, which, you may think, I obeyed
4 in the higheft fpirits. Inftead of the affability
4 with which I expe&ed to be received, upon my
4 advancing to him, he darted a look at me, that
, 4 feemed
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. *fx
,
yGoogle
CHRY6AL: OR, THE
*61
4 Teemed defigned to Tearch my very foul. After
4 viewing me fteadily thus for Tome moments,
4 You are recommended to me (faid he) as a
4 man of abilities, and fuch I have found you
4 to be; but you have impofed upon the per-
4 fon who recommended you, and concealed
4 your real character from him, or he would ne-
4 ver have entertained fo favourable an opinion
4 of fuch an abandoned wretch!-------- But I
4 have unravelled the myftery of your iniquities,
4 and am guarded againft your wiles.----- Your
4 crimes call loud for vengeance, and the ilroke
4 of fate hangs over your head. But, in hopes
4 you may repent and amend your life, and in
4 refpe£t to the recommendation you brought (of
4 which I cannot give you a ftronger teitimony
4 than this) I will give you an opportunity to
4 efcape, for this time, the ruin that threatens
4 you. Fly this country diredtly ! If you are
4 found in this city an hour hence, or make the
4 Icaft delay in any part of the kingdom (and
4 all your fteps are watched) you are to expe*& no
4 favour or protection. And, that you ihould not
4 plead inability toobey this injunction, take this
4 purfe of gold, and let me never fee your face
4 more.’
4 I need not tell you the effeCt this fpeech had
4 upon me. 1 took the purfe, and retired, with-
4 out making any reply; nor did I clofe my eyes
4 in fleep, till I had bade adieu to that inhofpitable
4 ihore.
4 On my rettlrn, I went to wait upon my for-
4 mer patron, but was denied admiilion, and or-
4 dered never to go there any more ; the account
4 of my difgrace in England having,' as I learned
4 after-
,
yGoogle
* afterwards, been tranfmitted to him in the very
* fliip that brought me over.
4 Though thefe mifcarriages mortified my pride»
c they did not dejeét my fpirit. The gold given
4 me by the Englijh minifter enabled me to fup-
4 port myfelf in a ftate of independence for
4 fome time ; during which, I fucceflively offered
4 to accept every propofal that I had formerly re-
4 je&ed ; but I had miffed my opportunity, and
4 was nowrejefted myfelf in my turn. At length,
4 when I was almoft reduced to defpair, the em-
4 ployment I hold here was offered to me, which,
4 though far beneath my former hopes, I thought
4 it not prudent to refufe, efpecially as it opened
4 me an opportunity of venting my rage with
4 impunity upon all who had ever offended me.
4 lam literally hired to wage open war with truth,
4 honour, andjuilice, by inventing falfe news,
4 to fupport the exhaufted fpirits of the people;
4 — by defaming the enemies of my employers,
4 to give a colour to the iniquitous defigns of the
4 latter ; and by varniihing over the moil flagrant
4 acls ©
f oppreflion, cruelty, and deceit, with the
4 fpecious colours of authority, juftice, and re-
4 ligion.
4 To a man who retained any of the prejudices
4 of the world, and did not examine things in the
4 fimplicity of nature, fuch a talk muft be moft
4 difagreeable. But to me all things are indif-
4 ferent, as I know all things are alike.’
Here my mailer’s friend concluded his hiilory ;
the enormity of which would prevent its obtain­
ing credit, had it been related by any.body but
himfelf ; though, as I told you before, I have
omitted the blackeft particulars, and foftened the
colours of the reft. .
In
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. %S%
,
yGoogle
»6+
In a few days after this interview my mafter left
Brujfilsy and proceeded on his journey to Ltjbon;
during the remainder of which, nothing occurred
worth relating.
CHRYSALt OR, THE
C H A P . XIX.
C hrtsal comesj at L isbon, into the poffejfton of
a former acquaintance. His majler makes the
great attempt without fuccefs. Several of the
nobility are facrificed to other motives, on pre­
tence of being guilty of thisfait. C hrysal’j
mafter is at length taken up, and he changes his
feroice• *
IF I was formerly furprifed at meeting a Pe­
ruvian acquaintance at Vienna, I was no left
fo, when I found that the perfon to whom he
fentme in LiJbonywas the very captain, of whole
miraculous converfation, after the rape and mur-
ther of his brother’s wife, I gave you an account
in the beginning of this relation, whom I found
to be a man chofen for the great attempt; the
proof of which he had given of his capacity in that
affair having raifed their opinion of him fo high,
as to make them think him the only proper perfon
for this.
I did not remain long in a ftateof fpeculation
in the poffeffion of this mafter; the orders, which
were brought along with me, were all that was
waited for, toaccelerate the execution of/A*defign.
Accordingly, the blow was ftruck a few nights
after; but, in theconfufion infeparable from fuch
attempts, without effeft.
,
yGoogle
The king was (hot in his coach, as hereturned
one night from a love aftignation, at fome diftance
from his palace, by my mafter, who had way-laid
him at a proper place, and fired a blunderbufs,
loaded with fmall balls, at him, through the back
o f the coach.
By an inftantaneous ftupefa&ion of fear, which
is often taken for refolution, and prefence of mind,
the king fell down in the coach, and fpoke not
a word ; which made my mafter conclude the
work done, and fo prevented a repetition of the
blow.
But what was his confufion the next morning,
when he found that the king, though feverely
wounded, was likely to recover I Theopportunity
was loft, nor was it probable, that another ihoula
offer^till it would be too late. However, he at­
tended the event, fo far fafe, that no one could en­
danger his fafety by betraying him, there being
no perfon there, not even of the order, privy to
the aition : for fecrets of this importance are al­
. ways entrufted to as few as poilible.
While he thus calmly looked on as an uncon­
cerned fpeifator, it is impoffible to defcribe the
diftra&ion that reigned all over the city, where
every perfon fufpetted his neighbour, and was al-
moft afraid toconverfe with his brother, for fear
of being fufpeiled of a participation in a crime,
of which he knew not the perfon guilty.
At court, in the mean time, the moft mv-
fterious filence was'obferved, and all converfation
on the fubjeit difcouraged. This was thought
to be the moft probable way of coming to the
knowledge of fo dark an affair $ as their fpies
could thereby mix with the people with lefs fuf-
picion, and make their obfervations with the
V ol. II. N greater
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. %6$.
,
yGoogle
greater certainty, when they ihould be off their
guard.
Not that they were at a lofs to think from-
whence the blow had come : but by whom it was
ftruck was the difficulty to find out, that fo they
might found their proceedings oh an evidence of
juftice, for the Jefuits were too mighty a body to
be attacked upon an uncertainty.
The reafon for fufpedling them of this fail
was, that, upon the mifcarriage of their prema­
ture attempt in America, the king was foincenfed
againft the whole fociety, that he difmiffed them
from the direftion of his confcience, and every
other place and employment about his perfon ana
court.
Such an indignity he was fenfible muft alarm
the refentment of a fet of men not remarkable
for patience, or forgiving affronts; he had, there­
fore,taken every precaution toguard againft them, %
as far as human prudence could dire& his fears,
which was only againft difturbances in the ftate,
for of fuch an attempt as this hecould notfufpeifc
them. ,
While things hung in this fufpence, I had an
opportunity of feeing into the chara&er of the
people I was among; but human language wants
force to defcribe them.
I have already given you the genuine charafler
of the D u tc h ; to that let us add poverty, pride,
fuperftition, bigotry, and its infeparable atten­
dant, cruelty, and they will give you fome idea
of the prefent Portuguefe. A people of whom it
is hard to fay, whether to abftradted fpeculation
they are more ridiculous or execrable, the itruggle
between their follies and vices is fo unremitted and
fo ftrong.
A little
*66 C H R Y S A L : OR, T H E
,
yGoogle
A little before I arrived there, the city had been
reduced to aihes by lightening; and, before they
. had recovered from the confternation which fuch
a misfortune threw them into, they received an
account of the capital of their American domi­
nions being lwallowed by an earthquake.
Such fignal inftances of the wrath of Heaven
might have been expedted to alarm their confci- .
cnees to look for the caufes of it in their vices,
and to try to avert it by repentance and amend­
ment. But, inftead of that, the firft proof they
gave of coming to their reafon (or, I ihould rather
fay, of coming to themfelves, for reafon it was
not) after their fright, was, to attribute thefe
misfortunes to a relaxation in fuperftitious feverity,
and to demand, as vi&ims to it, the only people,
under heaven, whofe good nature had given
effe&ual relief to their diftrefs.
At length, after a calm fo long, that people
began to think the ftorm was quite allayed, it
broke out with a fury, that amazed not only the
unhappy heads on which it burft, butalfo the
whole nation befide.
I told you, that the attempt had been made
upon the king, as he was returning from a love­
meeting. The perfon with whom he had been
was defeended from the firft, and related or allied
to all the greateft families in his kingdom.
Iii acountry, whofe charadteriftics are pride and
revenge, fuch an intercourfe muft be dangerous
even to royalty, as the honour of all thofe fami­
lies feemed to be wounded through her. Accordr
ingly, a rumour of her being with child having
extorted fomc inadvertent, illative, general me­
naces from fome of her relations, as the fadt was
really fo, the confcious apprehenfions of the king
N 2 were
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i$f
yGoC
were alarmed j and, as he could not declare the
true reafon of them, he made a pretence of the
aflfaifination ; the charge of which received fome
appearance of probability, from the very circum-
Ifance which now occafioned its being brought
againft them, it being known that hewasreturn-
ing from that lady, at the very time when the at­
tempt was made upon him.
Thus, to the fear of danger ariling from areal
crime were the greateft fubjefts in the kingdom
to be facrificed, on a pretence of guilt, which
their Very accufers believed them innocent of.
For, before they were apprehended, their ruin was
refolved on, winch was not a little forwarded by
the opportunity which it gave the king, of feif­
ing all their vaft pofleffiorrs, and thereby repair­
ing the lofles he had fuffered in the late calami­
ties.
Accordingly, after fufferingevery torture which
human ingenuity could invent, to make them
■ confefs a guilt of which they*were not even fuf-
pe£ted, they were publickly executed in the moft
ignominious and cruel manner, in the fight of an
aftoniihed people, without any proof being given
of their guilt, befide the bare affirmations and
ftrained inferences of thofe who were both ac­
cufers andjudges, and alfo reaped the profits of
their ruin.
Such feenesas thefe are too horrid to be dwelt
on : I ihall, therefore, return to my mafter, with
whom I had an opportunity of coming to the
knowledge of every tranfa&ion relative to this
myfterious affair, the mifearriage of his attempt
having made it unneceffary for him to difburfe
the money among which I came to him, and
' h7
*6S C H R Y S A L j OR, THE*
,
yGoogle
6y that means continued me fo long in his poflef-
fion.
Could any thing have heightened the opinion
my firft knowledge of him gave me, it muft have
been to fee him an unconcerned fpe&ator of the
fufferings of thofe unhappy victims to his guilt,
and to hear him argue for the juftice of their pu-
nifhment.
But his triumph was not long; fecret and in-
fcrutable as the Jefuits imagined they had laid their
fchemes, the king either received, or pretended to
have received, fuch information of them as, con­
firmed by a multitude of fails not to be denied*
gave an appearance of probability and juftice
to their being charged as accomplices with the dn-
happy nobles, and treated with the utmoft feverity.
A ftep that could not have been taken on fuch
grounds, while thefe nobles were alive and at li­
berty, or the people in fplrits to exert the influence
of theirprejudices in their behalf. But the favour­
able minute was come to ftrike at the root of
ecclefiaftical tyranny, and deliver both king and
people from a yoke, under which they had fo-long
blindly groaned, that, at length, they thought it
juft and naturalr
Accordingly, in the midft of his fecurity my
matter was feifed, and hurried away to a prifon,
with the reft of his brethren 5 and all his papers
and effe&s fecured for the government. O f,the
former they could make but little ufe, as it is an
invariable rule with all the order, never to keep any
by them, whofedifcovery may endanger them, or
their defigns j but the latter were turned to' ready
account. „
In this diftipation I fell to the lot of one of the
officers, who, in his fearch, took an opportunity
N 3 to
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *69
,
yGoogle
% T CHRYSALï OR, THE
to fecrete the bag in which I was, and that very
night lodged his acquilition with a banker, for fear
of deletion.
C H A P. XX.
C hrysal meets another acquaintance at his new
m a fery
s, -Conclufion o f thehijiory ofhoneji A m i-
n a d a b . Adventures o f his fon. H e enters into
bufmefs a t L isbon, in which C hrysal fujfersq,
great snisfortune. H is ingratitude to bis uncle
ju jily rewarded. C hrysal enters into a new
fervice,
IWas fcarce fettled in the poiTeflion of my new
mailer, whom I found to be a concealed Jew,
when I faw aperfon enter his compting-houfe,
the fight of whom made me almoft diftrufl my
fenfes. Nor was the furprife of my mailer lefs:
* GJ God of Abraham (faid he) is not this the
* fon of my brother Arninadab ? Where hail thou
• been? And where is thy father ? He has been
‘ fought from D an to B eerjhela! His fpoiling that
* Gentile, that Egyptian woman, has been a joy
• to all the brethren ! but I am amazed tQ fee thee
c here: I hope he is fafe out of the reach of every
• Chriilian power.*
• O ! brother of my father (replied (he fon of
* Aminadab) mention not that unhappy affair,
• if thou hail not a mind to kill thy wretched
4 nephew with grief. My father is dead!*-----
4 But where is the wealth, nephew (interrupted
. 4 mY
,
yGoogle
Adventures op a o u in ea . *71
€ my mailer haftily) where is the wealth ?’
c All loft ! all buried with him in the bottom of
4 the ocean V (replied the nephew.)— 4A ll loft !
4 The wealth all lo jl! O my brother ! O Aminadab,
* my brother ! my brother ! Since the dejlruttion o f
4 jerufalem y there f e ll not fuch a misfortune on our
4 tribe ! the wealth all lojl ! O Aminadab, my bro-
4 ther! my brother !*— 4Alas, my father, I faint
4 through wearinefs, weaknefs, and hunger; I
* have not eaten bread this day; let us retire into
* the inner chamber, and when my foul is refreih-
* ed with a morfel of bread, and a drop of water,
4 I will put aihes on my head, and ungird my
c loins, and then unfold the whole unhappy ftory
4 to thee/
The repaft was literally what he had aiked ;
and, as foon as it was ended, and the young A m i­
nadab and his uncle feated on the floor together,
in the pofture of mourning, the former proceeded
thus: • ,
4 By the letters which my father wrote to thee
* from England, in the facred cypher of our fa­
* mily, thou wer’t informed of his intended return
4 into his native land of A frica, and invited to
4 meet him at Tetuan, and- ihare in his fortune*
4 This he told me while we were upon our'voy-
* age; but thy better angel prevented thee, and
4 faved thee the labour and lofs of fuch ajourney
4 in vain.
4 The Ihip, on board'which we unfortunately
4 embarked, was a Dutchman, bound for the coaft
4 of Italy, but was to land us at Gibraltar, from
4 whence we knew we could get an immediate
4 pafiage over. But, behold, when we were juft
4 in view of the port; when the fight of his na-
4 tive land made the foul of my father rejoice,
N 4 4 and
,
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
*7*
4 and we thought of nothing but fafety and con-
• tent, a Sallee rover gave chafe to our ihip. The
4 Dutch captain immediately crouded all the fail he
4 could toefcape; but, the wind dying away, and
4 the pirate gaining upon us with his oars, he came
* to my father with tears in his eyes, and told him
4 that we were all ruined, for he had negle&ed to
4 bring a pafs.
4 This news was like a clap of thunder to my
4 father, who too well knew the confequence of
4 their finding fuch a mafs of wealth in his pof-
4 feffion ! 4Wretch that I am (exclaimed he) why
4 did 1 venture w ith one o f thy fordid nation ? Jlaves
4 to M am m on, who would hazard liberty and fo r -
4 tune to fave fuch a tr ifle ' Then turning about,
4 and going into his cabbin, he ftood fome mo-
4 ments, as if loft in thought, when burfting into
4 an extatick rage, he fnatched. up the coffer, in
4 which his gold andjewels were, from under the
4 head of his bed, and embracing it eagerly, I have
4 gained thee (faid he) I have earned thee w ith an-
4 xiety and to il; and I w ill not lofe thee now /—
4 O Jonas, fen d thy whale to receive me, and hear
4 me to the land o f my fathers. 1 w ill not be a
4 laughing-flock to the Gentiles, nor a by-word in my
4fat/:er9
s boufe.9
— Saying which words he ruih-
4 ed upon the deck, and, before any perfon could
4 poffibly prevent him, he plunged into the fea,
4 with the coffer in his arms, and was never feen
4 more.
4 While we ftood amazed at his rafhnefs, the
4 heavens, as if appeafed with the facrifice, im-
4 mediately fent a wind, that filled our fluttering
4 fails, and foon bore the ihip, delivered thus of
4 its Jonas, out of the reach of the enemies.
4 You may better conceive than I can deferibe
4 the
,
yGoogle
c the fituation I was in at this event: I proftrated
‘ myfelf on the ihore, when we landed at G lbral-
4 tar, and bewailed my misfortune with tears and
* lamentations. But this afforded no relief to my
* diftrefs, and fomething I muft do to earn a
x morfel of bread. I, therefore, fold all my fuper-
* fluous raiment for four ducats, for all our money
* was in the coffer, and with thefe did I purchafe
* fome eggs and fruits, which I fold again in the
4 garrifon, to fupport my life, till I fhould have
* an opportunity of coming to thee, my father,
* for advice and ailiftance in this diftrefs ; and
* now behold thefe four ducats are become twelve
4 ducats in my hands, and that is all my worldly
4 wealth/
The uncle covered his face with, his hands,
and remained filent fome time. At length he
fpoke to his nephew in thefe words : 4It is in
4 vain, O fon of my brother, to mourn for what
4 is not to be remedied; holy D a v id wept no
* longer for his child after he was dead: - let us,
‘ therefore arifeand think of fomething that may,
* if not retrieve thy mighty lofs, at i^aft admini-
4 fter relief to thy diftrefs. Thou haft been initi­
* ated in the myfterious art ofleffening theweight,
‘ without defacing the image, on the golden coins*
4 of thefe idolaters. This was the firft rife of
4 thy father, who began the world as poor as thou
4 art now, till his unwearied induftry in this prac-
4 tice raifed him from want. Follow thou, there*.
1 fore, his example; and may the God of thy fa-
4 thers give thee the fame fuccefs, but with an
* happier bleffing than he found. '
* And lo ! fortunately it has happened, that I
Jiave this very hour received a large quantity of
* N,5 ? the
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 173
yG c [e
* the coin of B ritain, all new from the mint.
* On that; therefore, thou mayeft begin thine en­
* deavours, and the fourth part of the produce of
c this labour ihall be thine : I was juft going to
* have fent for another, who always works for
c me, for a fifth ; but I am willing to give thee a
1 profit extraordinary, to encourage thee.
4 Thine earnings in this bufinefs will foon pro*
4 duce theeaconfidcrable fum, with which thou
4 mayeft go privately to London^ and purchafe old
4 clothes, which will bring great profit in G er-
4 many, as foon as this war ihall be at an end.
4 T ill thou art able to provide for thyfelf, thou
4 mayeft eat bread here, and fleep under the fha-
4 dow of my roof: be not deje£ted; honeji indu-
4 ftry never fails of fuccefs.*
The young Aminadab was no fooner introduced
thus into a way of honeji induftry, than he feemed
to forget his lofs, and fettled himfelf moft in*
tently to work. I fell one of the firft facrifices.
to his arts, which deprived me of a fourth part of
my weight, and of all my beauty; nor did my
companions fare much better; fo that from a
thoufand of us who were in the bag, his (hare
of the fpoil was a treafure, on which he immedi­
ately commenced merchant, flocking a box with
all the gaudy trinkets that could allure the igno­
rant, and give him an opportunity orexerting his
talents of impofition.
You have often heard me mention the beauty
©
fmy figure with pleafure ; but, alas, vain boaft,
it was now no more \ I came from this fiery tryal
with aH the marks of age and infirmity fo ftrong
upon me, that I could not forbearcomparing my-
fidf and my companions to a number of n ritijh
foldiets* *
a;4 CHRYSAL OR, THE
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *75
foldicrs, juft come from Soup M aigre and
ftraw, in a French prifon.— In this mutilated
condition I was made up in a parcel, to be fent
to Englandy againft whdm this trade was moftly
carried on, there being no other nation who
would receive their own coin, under the difgrace
of fuch diminiihing. But, before I could be fent
off, an accident happened in the family of my
mailer, the banker, which gave me a longer delay
in Lifbon. "
I have told you that in fecret he was a Jew,
though the.profpeft of gain made him profefs
Chriihanity, indefpite of the horrours of the In-
quifitron. But, happy had it been for him that he
had not made fuch profeifion, or that his nephew
had been drowned with his father.
For no fooner had his gains, in his art of di-
miniihing, reftored him a little to his fpirits, than
thinking his portion of that profit too little, and
inefficient befides to raifc him to opulence fo fud-
denly as he defired, he caft about how to acquire
the whole* or at leaft a large part of his uncle’s
wealth, at once.
He, therefore, took a proper place to work in*
for his merchandife did not interrupt him in his
main bufinefs, at fome diftance from his uncle’s
houfe; andj having conveyed a large fum of mo­
ney thither to work upon, he direflly informed
. the holy office of his uncle’s "Judaifm, with direc­
tions how to dete& him in it, concluding, that
when he ihould be feifed, there would be no en­
quiry made after the money that was in his own
hands, as he knew it was impoflible he ihould
everefcape from thence. And though this was
but a poor pittance, in comparifon of the fums
which he knew would be forfeited, yet he com­
. N 6 forted
,
yGoogle
CHRYSALî OR, THE
276
forted himfelf with the thought"that it was more
than he could any other way hope to obtain from
him.
But he was deceived by his avarice, and juitly
involved in the ruin which he drew upon his be-
nefa&or. For when the officers of the Inquiii-
tion took poifeffion of his uncle’s efieds, finding
an entry in his books of the money in bis hands,
they went dire&ly in queft of it, and that fo un­
expectedly, that they caught him at bis work, be­
yond a poffibility of evafion or efcape.
This is a crime never forgiven in any ftate.
He was, therefore, immediately delivered up to the
civil power, from which he received a death not
lefs cruel than that of his uncle from the Inqui-
fition.
O f all the human fufferings I had yet feen,
except in the cafe of the facrifices, this gave me
the greateft pleafure, as there is no crime that
can deform the heart of man more than ingrati­
tude.
I here changed my fervice of courfe, and en­
tered into that of the holy office, to the judge of
which I was delivered the day I was taken out
of the poffeffion of the unfortunate Jew.— — I
have before given you my fentiments on the ab-
furdity of thinking to pleafe the Deity? by cruelty
to his creatures, in the inftance of the human
pqffiver of the Jews. The fame arguments will
hold here; and with this additional force, that
cruelty of every kind is, if poffible^ more abfurd
under the Chriftian difpenfation than any other,
as, beiide the general laws of nature and reafon,
the particular laws of Chriftianity doevery-wliere
clearly andexprefsly command brotherly love,ten-
dernels, and companion, forbidding every appear- .
ance
,
yGoogle
ance of cruelty, under the fevereft denunciations-
of wrath. *
But there has been fo much, and that fo well
faid, on this fubjed already; and the nature of
the fufferings of thofe unhappy wretches who are
brought before this tribunal is fo well known,
that I (hall fpare myfelf the pain of the repeti­
tion, and only mention one affair, the circum-
ftances of which appeared Angularly affeding to
me.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. %7r
C H A P . XXI.
A n uncommon crim inal appears at the tribunal o f the
holy office. A love-fcene in aJlrange place. The
hijlory o f P heron anil Ilissa .
THE next day aftfer I came into thepofleflion
of the inquiiitor, there appeared at his tri­
bunal a perfon of a moft auguft prefence, though
©vercaft with all the melancholy which his un­
happy fituation could infpire. He feemed to be
advanced in years, but not paft the vigour of life,
and was diftinguifhed from the national look of
the Pdrtuguefe, by an uncommon turn of feature,
which fhowed him of another people. .
As foon as he was brought to the place ap­
pointed for him, the inquiiitor, with an aweful
iblemnity in his voice and manner, addrefled him
thus : * Thou art once more brought to this tri—
4 bunal, to try if the ftubbornnefs of thine heart
* has yet relented, and thou wilt confefs thy
f guilt,*—«■ ■* I told thee before, 0 judge of the
3 * faith
,
yGoogle
4 faith of Chriftians ! (replied the prifoner, with
* a compofed look and determined voice) I told
€ thee before, and I repeat it again, that I am
• not confcious of any thing that ihould incur
4 the cenfure of this tribunal: nor fhall ail the
4 tortures which the inventive cruelty of man can
4 infiidt upon this wretched body make me lie
4 againft mine immortal foul, or acknowledge
4 guilt to which I am a ftranger. But tell me of
4 what I am accufed, and my confcience fhall
4 dire# my lips to anfwer thee the truth. Perhaps
4 I may unwittingly have erred thou knoweft
4 that I have not always profefled the Chriftian
4 faith, according to the laws eftabliihed here:
4 pardon, then, the errors of mine ignorance, and
4 inftru& me to avoid the like for the future.
4 And, O ! I adjure thee, by thy Chriftian faith,
4 to relieve my heart from the anxiety that tears
4 it, for the fate of my daughter I O ! let me -
4 know’-----
His adjuration was broken off* at thefe words
by the officers of the court > and, his anfwer not
being fatisfaSory, he was remanded back toprifon,
without any further queftions, with the ftrongeft
menaces of feverity ^ though, in fecret, the judge
ordered him to be treated with tendernefs and re-
fpe&, and fupplied with every comfort and con­
venience of life, that could mitigate the horrour8
of a prifon.
My matter then withdrew, and, changing his
judicial robes for a more convenient and fplendid
drefs, retired to his own apartments, where, afi»
ter the refpe&ful ceremony of fending to delire
admiifion, he went into a particular chamber, in
which was a young female, whom he approached
with all the timid tendernefs of love. ‘ 1 have
4 feea
*7T CHRYSALi OR, THE
,
yGoogle
4 feen thy father, my deareft llijfa (faid he) and
4 he is well; nor fhall any humair means be want>
* ing to preferve him fo/
4 Why, then, may I not fee him ? (replied the
* lady.) How can I truft thy words, who haft al-
4 ready deceived me ?* ■ ■■ -4 Thou knoweft, my
4 love (returned he) that thy requeft is impof-
4 fible; and if 1 have deceived thee, by pro^-
4 mifing compliance with it, it was only to calm
4 the transports of thy paffion, that in a cooler
4 moment thou mighteft hearken to the voice of
4 love and happinefs/— 4 M ention not happinefs to
4 me in this place ! Can happinefs be without li~
4 berty ? Is aprifon the proper fcene fo r love? B u t
4 1 w ill be deceived no longer ! I w illfee myfa th er,
4 or I w ill not live. Grant me this requejl, and ex-
4 pelt my gratitude. Thou knowejl that fo r m yfelf
4 I fea r not thypower ! Thou knowejl that immediate
4 death is ever in myreafh. Trifle not, therefore, w ith
4 me any longer; reflore me to myfather ; reflore us
4 both to liberty; and then9 then only, fpeak to me
4 o f love,9----- 4 Thou haft conquered, ray llijfa ,
4 thou haft conquered ! Your father fliall be re-
4 ftored to you; and we will all fly together to thy
* native land, where we ihall live in happinefs :
4 but this cannot be compafled on a fudden; it
4 will require both time and addrefs to fecure our
4 retreat. But when I have done this for my
4 llijfa , can I be fure of her love ? Will her
4 heart return the facrifice I make l*----- 4 I have
4 told thee that my heart is g ra tefu l; I tell thee now
4 it is not infenjible to fofter pajfions. Urge me no
4fu rth er. W hen I am freed from this prifon, and
4 myfather is prefent to give the fanftion o f his an-
4 thority to my attionsy I promife thee to become thy ,
4 w ife.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, n *
,
yGoogle
* w ife .--- :
— A nd my inclination, which has never
€ yet contradicted my duty, w ill not find it difficult to
€ pay the love Iprom ife at the altar/
Thefe words railed my mailer’s heart into an
cxtafy; he proftrated himfelf at her feet, he killed
her hand, and fwore eternal love.
The reft of the day was fpentinforming fchemes
for their efcape, and planning fcenes of future
happinefs $in the profpeif ofwhich, their unequal
years feemed to raife no cloud. The lady ap­
peared to be about eighteen : her beauty, though
very great, was rather majeftick than foft; diffe­
rent from the Bohemian lady I mentioned before,
an air of grandeur kept every one around her at
an aweful diftance, and the flalh of her eye, like
lightening, terrified the heart it warmed. Her
lover was juft paft his meridian, but ftill in all
the vigour of his life, and far from difagreeable in
his appearance or converfation.
There was fomething fo extraordinary in this
affair, that it raifed my ftrongeft curiofity to
know the circumftances of it ; nor was I long at
a lofs. In the happinefs of his heart that even*
ing, my mafter prefented a jewel of immenfe va­
lue to the lady, from whom, in the way of gal­
lantry, he afked a tablet, cafed with gold, as a
return. *
The lady refufed not his requeft, but, at giving
it, defired that he would be careful of it, as ihe
efteemed it much beyond its apparent value, it
having been given her by her father.
The moment I heard her fay this, and faw
him put the tablet in his pocket, I knew my cu­
riofity would be gratified by thefp ir it o f the golden
ccfe. As foon, therefore, as my mafter retired
to reft, I entered directly into his heart, and,
fummon-
t t o CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
fummoning,byourfympathetickimpulfe,thefpirit
I wanted, I Jhowed him my curiofity, which he
complied with, by a look which fignified thefe
words :— 4There is fomething fo extraordinary in
4 the whole hiftory of the perfons who have raifed
4 your curiofity, that it will be neceffary to trace
4 it from the beginning, to give you the fatisfac-
4 tion you defire.
4 The father of the young lady, who gave me
4 to our matter, is the perfon whom you law this
4 morning at his tribunal. His name, in his own
4 country, was Pheron ; he is a native of Abyjfihia,
4 where his anceftors have poflefTed ample terri-
4 tories for many ages, being defcended from the
4 race of their kings.
' 4 From the firft dawn of reafon in the mind
4 of Pheron, he ihowed the ftrongeft defire for
4 knowledge, and the fteadieft attachment to vir-
4 tue. The advances of human knowledge have
4 not been fo great in thofe countries as here; yet
4 natural reafon has been able todifcover the fub-
4 lime truths of morality, the praftice of which
4 is called wifdom, and the time confumed here
4 in fruitlefs fpeculation devoted to it ; by which
4 means, if men are not fo knowing, they are
4 certainly more wife.-------- In this happy em-
4 ployment pafled the firft years of the youth of
4 Pheron, till, riper manhood calling him fo the
4 fervice of his country, he went, at the headof
4 his father's vaflals,'to repel the invafions of the
4 Ethiopians. '
4 His fuccefs was fo great in this firft eflay of
4 his arms, that he not only repelled the invaders,
. 4 but alfo carried the war into their.own country,
4 where, after many victories, he compelled them
4 to fue for peace,
4 The
iyGoogle
4 The fame of his aflions foon reached the ear
4 of his fovereign, whofent for him to his court,
4 and rewarded his fervices, by giving him his
4 fitter in marriage. Dignities, in thofe countries,
* are not proftituted to the fupportof luxury and
• idlenefs. Pheron returned home with his bride,
4 to govern and prote£t his people, who, fafe in
4 his care, purfued their ui’ual occupations $ war
4 not being there, made a conftant profefiion, nor
4 the gratification of the wortt paifions of human
4 nature reduced into a fcience, and pra&ifed by
4 rule.
4 The peace which Pheron had made was n o t
4 injurious to his enemies, and therefore was pre-
4 ferved by them, which gave him leifure to at~
4 tend to the improvement of his country, and
4 inftru&ion of his people.
* He had lived in this happy ftate fome years*
4 when there arrived a perfon in his country, who
4 gave an unexpetted turn to his affairs. The
4 fituation of thofe nations is fuch, that the inha-
4 bitants themfelves rarely ever travel y nor is the
4 face of a ftranger feen in an age among, them.
% This made the arrival of this man* the more
4 taken notice o f; he was immediately introduced
4 to Pheron, to whofe friendihip his knowledge in
4 feveral branches of fcience foon recommended
4 him. -
4 When the ftranger had thus eftabliihed an
4 intereft with him, heat length difclofed to him
4 the motive of his coming into a country Co ro-
4 mote from, his own he told him that he had
4 undertaken this hazardous and painful journey
4 in pure obedience to the divine command; of
4 inftruding the ignorant in the knowledge of
4 falvation. He explained to him the myjleries
*%z C H R Y S A L : O R , T H E
,
yGoogle
* of the Chriftian religion ; the hierarchy of Rom e;
* the divine foundation of its power; and the
c feveral orders in its government, in fo for-
c cible a manner, that he foon made a convert of
4 him.
c Pheron had always adored the name o f C h rijl,
4 hut never till now knew what it was to be a C hri-
4Jlia n . One only book of his Gofpel had he ever
4 feen, and from that he could underftand no
4 more, than that fa ith in the death o f C hrijl
€ fo r the redemption o f mankind, in obedience to the
4f*lf-evident laws o f morality, w ith the pious wor~
4Jhip o f the one G o d alone, was the whole reli-
c gion taught by him.— It is not ftrange, there-
4 fore, if the glorious fabrick of the church, as
4 reprefented by this Jefuit, for fuch he was, had
4 all the effe£t he could delire upon him, the na-
4 turally inquifitive turn of his mind making him
4 liften with eagernefs to every thing which feem-
4 ed to open a new profpe£fc to it.-------- Nor was
4 he content with his own knowing thefe fublime
4 do&rines; he alfo inftru&ed his wife, whom
4 he tenderly loved, and their example convert-
c ed the greateft part of his people; for nothing
4 could prevail upon him to attempt forcing their
4 aflent.----- But this did not fatisfy him; the
4 defcriptions which he had heard of the learn-
4 ing, piety, and glory of Rome, had filled his foul
4 with an ardent defire to fee that metropolis of
4 the world, that he might learn its virtues, and
4 tranfplant them into his own country. He com­
4 municated this thought to his inftru£tor, who,
4 fired with the glory of fuch a profelyte, en-
4 couraged him in it by every argument he could
4 ufe.----- This determined his refolution to make
4 an attempt, the hazards of which would be re-
4 warded
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. » 13
,
yGoogle
4 warded with fuch happy confequences. He*
* therefore, prepared all things for his journey, in
* which his wife would bear him company, and
c alfo bring her only child, the lady whom yoii
* faw to-day, to receive the benedi&ion of his
€ Holinefs\ and, committing the government of
* his people to his brother, and taking jewels and
4 gold to an immenfe value, to defray the expenfes
4 of his journey, he fet out with a company fuf*
c ficient to protect him from the dangers of tra-
4 veiling through fuch inhofpitable countries,
4 and arrived without any accident at the R ed
4 Sea, where he embarked on board a ihip for
4 Alexandria. -
4 While he waited here for a ihip bound to
4 Italy, the plague deprived him of his inftru&or
4 and his wife. He was at firft inconfolable for
4 his lofs ; but virtue foon awoke reafon to his
4 guard, and his care for his daughter made him
4 careful of himfelf.— His attendants would have
4 perfuaded him to return direSly home, as he had
4 loft his guide; but the lofs of his wife made the
4 thought of home a torture to him. He, there*
4 fore, fent them back, and refolved to fettle his
4 daughter in a convent/ and enter into the mo*
4 naftick life himfelf at Rome.
4 With this defign he embarked in the firflr
4 ihip that failed for Europe, not being able t o
4 bear the fight of a place which had been fo fa*
4 tal to him. The ihip was bound to this place*
4 but, for a large fum of money, the commander
4 engaged to land him at Leghorn; but,, happen-
4 ing to come to the knowledge of his wealth on
4 thepafl'age, he broughthim dire£ily hither, where
4 he was no fooner landed, than he informed the
4 inquifitor, who is his brother, who immediately
4 feifed
C H R Y S A L j OR, THIT
,
yGoogle
* feifed both Pberon and his daughter, fo r errors
* in their opinions, and confined them in the pri-
* Tons of the holy office, where they have now been
4 above a year.
‘ The firft motive of this outrage was the
€ ftranger’s wealth, an unpardonable crime in that
* court, and which would foon have brought them
4 to an unhappy death. But the beauty of the
4 daughter has hitherto deferred their fate, and,
4 by what you have overheard to-day, m|y pro«*
4 bably prevent it entirely.*
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 4*$
C H A P . XXII.
T'he love-adventure continued. The inquifitor vijits
P h £ R o n , and obtains his confent. H e employs
an E n g l i s h fa ilory whom he fets at liberty, to
■ afjift him in his deftgns.
^Tp H E inquifitor’s heart was too full of love to
■ *
* let him fleep long; he arofe about midnight,
and taking the keys of the prifon, which were every
night depofited with hiqp, he went dire&ly to vifit
the father of IUJfa.
He found him wrapped in fo profound a fleep,
that his approach did not awake him ; a fight fo
unufual in thofe manfions of defpair aftoniihed
him ; he paufed a moment in admiration, gazing
at him, to try if he could trace that virtue in his
face, which made his heart fuperiour to fuch ter-
rours.
Juft then a fmile of indignation flaihed over
the face of Pheron \ and, in the illufion of ima­
gination,
,
yGoogle
agination, he cried out, 4 It is in vain! My con-
4 fcience is fecure, and I defpife your tortures/—
As he faid thefe words, the working of his mind
awoke him, when, feeing my matter Handing-at .
the fide of his bed, the fcene ieemed to him, in his
furprife, to be continued y and he proceeded thus :
c 1 have told thee, that thy tortures^ ihould not
c bend my foul to falfehood, and now thou fhalt
4 find it fo/ ,
4 O father of llijfa ! (returned my matter,
-* meltld into tendernefs at fuch a fight) 1 come
* not to give thee torture ! I bring the balm of
4 comfort to thy foul!’— 4A rt tbou not the inqui-
4ftto r ?'— 4I am, O Pheron ! and thy friend/—
4 Am I aw ake? Is this, or was the form er, but a
4 dream ? G uard me, good Heaven ! L et me notf a ll
4from virtue !’— 4Such virtue ever is the care of
4 Heaven 1 Pheron, behold thy friend ! the pro-
4 felyte ofthy virtues.--------The time admits not
4 many words; I come to offer thee liberty, and
4 concert with thee the methods for our obtaining
4 happinefs. Thy I l i f a 9---- 4Heaven guard my
4 ch ild !'— »----- 4Thy llijfa is well, and happy in
* her father’s welfare !’— 4O my ch ild ! my ch ild !
4 B u t Jhall I ever fee her again ? ' ■■■■4You ihall;
4 file fliall be reftored to your bofom, and never
4 torn from it more/-------- 4Good gracious judge !
4 0 ! w hen? O ! h o w ? — M y child ! my c h ild !'
4 — Supprefs yoqr joy a moment; the beauties
4 of llijfa have triumphed over the malice of her
4 fate ! She has found alover, who offers happinefs
4 to her and you/— 4Does my child love h im ? Is
4 he an honejl man ?9
— 4His li/e will prove him
4 fuch ! He offers to reftore you and your llijfa to
4 liberty, and to accompany you both to your na-
4 tiye country, for there can be no fafety in Europe
4 for
tS6 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
* for you, after you leave this place; your efcape
4 from whence, and every circumftance relating to»
4 your return, ihall be his care. Nor will he de-
4 mand the reward his heart pants for, till your
4 fafety ihall remove every fear, every doubt of his
4 fincerity.’
4 O name the generous m a n !’ — — 4 Behold him
4 at your feet ! Receive me for your fon.* ■ ■
4 Thee ! the inquijitor ! who threatened me w ith
4 torture !*-----4 But treated thee with tendernefs*
4 treated Ilijfa with refpeft/— — 4M ake me know
4 th a t!7— —4
. I aik no favour but on that con-
4 dition. If I procure liberty for you and your
4 Ilijfa ; if I rettore you to your native land, and
4 accompany you thither ; if your Ilijfa acknow-
4 ledges the fervices of my love, and aiks your
4 content to reward them, will you confirm my
4 blift, and own me for your fon V-------- 4 I
4 w
illy and thank fond Heaven that gave me fu ch a
4f o n 7
Saying this, he embraced my matter, who, in a
few words, let him know the fcheme he had formed
for their efcape, and then left him to his happy
reflexions while he went to profecute it.
In one of thè cells of the Inquifition there
was confined an Englijh feaman, who had been
feifed and fecretly conveyed thither for fome dif-
♦ fpecftful expreflxons againft the divinity o f Saint
Dom inick.
The manly, modeft refolution with which he v
had refuted to own the authority of their tri­
bunal, and his firmnefs under the firft tortures,
marked him out to the inquifitor as the per­
fon proper for his defign ; for he would not truft
any one of his own country, not even his bro­
ther,
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. aSr
,
yGoogle
«*S CHRYSAL: OR, THE
ther, whofe treachery to Pheron he now ab­
horred.
As foon as he opened the door of his cell, the
failor, whofe forenefs prevented his deeping very
found, perceived him, and, imagining it was a
fummons to a repetition of the torture, he fprang
up as far as his chains would admit him, and cried,
4H allo, who comes there ?*----- The inquiiitor, ad­
vancing, anfwered, 4 A f r i e n d . 4Aye ! damn
4 allfu ch friends (replied the failor.) Ifuppofeyou
4 come to give me another toajling; but t f my hands
4 were out o f the bilboes^ V d fen d you o ffw ith a fa it
4 eel for yourfupper.*—
4 Moderate your rage a moment, my friend;
4 I come to let you free, if you defire, and will
4 deferve it.*---- 4A vafi hailing, brother! I do not
4 underfiandyou!*—<
■— 4Why, do not you defire
i to be free V -------- 4 Defire ! Aye9 that I do !
4 B u t I may whifile fo r that w ind long enough be-
4fore it will blow.* ■ — — 4Perhaps not; perhaps
4 that wind, as you fay, is nearer blowing than
4 you imagine. What would you do to be free i*
4 D o ! P d burn tk * *'*'* J ’ ri-
4 fitor s throat !----------------------------------------------- a­
4 p ifij orfight againfi O ld England *----- 4 Honed:
4 Briton! But, fuppofe I Ihould fet you free,
4 would you ferve me faithfully in one thing,
4 that is neither againft your country nor you*
4 religion ?’— — 4Belay that, and V l l warrant
4 you9 i f I fay it, V l l do it, without more words.
4./ am no landfman^ nor Portuguefe.* ■-»
-
»
■ — * Well,
4 then, I’ll take your word; and fo come with
4 me/-------- The failor was fo furprifed, he
fcarce knew whether he was afieep or awake;
however, as foon as the inquiiitor had unlocked
his
Digitized by G oogle
his chains, he fhrugged his ihoulders, and followed
him, without more queftions.
When they were come into my matter’s apart­
ment, he made the failor fit down, and giving him
fome wine to chear his fpirits, ‘ You are now a t'
4 liberty, my friend (faid he) without any fur-
4 ther condition, and may go where you pleafe:
4 but, if you will ferve me in an affair I(hall men-
4 tion to you, you (hall have reafon to think of
4 this night with pleafure as long as you live.’—
4
‘ Serve you, matter ! (replied the failor) that I
4 w ill! name but what you Would hav.e me do ;
4 that is, as I faid before— you underftand me-^
4 and I’ll do it, though it was to hand themain-
4 top-gallant fail, in a ftorm, at midnight, when
4 the yard was broke in the flings, and it was not
4 my watch ; for if it was a man’s watch, do you
4 fee, it would be but his duty; and there is no
4 merit in aman’sdoing hisduty— I atn noflincher.
4 I never fay aye when I mean no: though I fay
4 it, I am a gentleman; my father was a lieutenant
4 of a man of war, and I have been at fea thefe
4 five and thirty years man and boy, and never
4 was once brought to the gang-way in all that
4 time. If the noble captain that rated meamid-
4 ihipman twenty years ago, had lived to be an ad-
4 miral, I fhould have been an officer before now.’
The honeft opennefs of heart that appeared in
the failor’s giving his own charafter made my ma­
tter hear him with pleafure, and place an entire
confidence in him. As loon as he had finifhed,
therefore, he opened hisfeheme to him,and the Tail­
or undertook to goto London^ buy a good fhip, and
freight her for Alexandria, and to call at Lifion in
his way, and to take my matter and his friends
V ol. II. O on
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 289
,
yGoogle
CHRYS AL: OR, THE
«90
on board ; to do which he gave him money and
jewels to a great amount ; the latter he was to dif—
-pofe of in London, and account with theinquifitor
for the furplus, after the purchafe of the Ihip and
cargo, which were to be his own, in reward for his
trouble, as foon as he had made this voyage.
All things being thus fettled, the failor was
juft departing, when, on a fudden thought, he
turned ihort on the inquifitor : ‘ Steady (faid
* he) fteady ; fo far go right before the wind,
4 and all's yrell. But whom do you mean to
4 clap aboard me when 1 come ? If it is thé
* Pretender, or the French king, here take back
* your trinkums \ Til be damned before I’ll help
4 either of them to make his efcape/----------- —
4 Never fear, my friend/ (replied theinquifitor,
fcarce able to contain his laughter at the ftrange-
nefs of fuch a thought) ‘ Ipromifeyou itisnei-
4 ther of thefe ; I promife you not to do any
4 thing againft your king or your religion.'-----
4 But lhall we not have one daih at this dam-
4 ned place? (added the failor.) Shall we not
4 fet it on fire, and cut the inquifitor’s throat ?
4 I'll bring a gang of jolly boys that would (hoot
€ the gulf of hell, to have a ftroke at D e v il
4 Dominick $ ihall not we fee the inquifition on '
4 fire, and cut the inquifitor’s throat/-----4 We
4 willconfider about thofe things: but you had
4 better lofe no time ; and let me once more
4 caution you not to be feen in Lijbon at prefent,
4 and to be as expeditious as poilible in your
4 return/----- 4Never fear, matter $ never fear,*
replied the failor, and fliaking him heartily by the
hand, away he went.I
I here
,
yGoogle
I here quitted the fervice of the inquifitor,
' being among th£ money which he gave to the
failor.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 291 "
. CHAP. xxru.
The failor goes to L ondon, buys a Jhip, and re­
turns to L isbon, where he takes his pajfengcrs
on board. H is behaviour on meeting a French
Jhip. H e lands his pafjengers at A lexandria,
returns home, and marries. C hr ysal quits his
M
Y new mafter no fooner found himfelf at
liberty, than hehafted away to the fca-fide,
without ever flopping to look behind him, and,
luckily finding the packet juft ready to fail, he
was out of fight of Lifbon before morning.
Never was an heart fo intent upon executing
a commiffion faithfully as his; he thought of
nothing elfe all the paftage, and the moment he
arrived in London he fold the jewels, bought a
(hip, manned her well, and, having laid in a
proper cargo, fet fail for LiJhony and was there
before his employer imagined he was arrived in
London.
I had been an idle fpeftator of thefe tranfac-
tions, for young Aminadab had made fuch de­
predations on me, that no one in London would
accept me at my original value; and my matter’s
honour would not think of parting with me for
lefs, without acquainting the perfon from whom
he had received me."----The moment he arrived
O 2 in
,
yGoogle
CHRYSAL OR, THE
292
in Lijbon, he gave notice to his friend, whofe joy
at his fidelity and expedition isnot to be expreiied.
He immediately had the treafures, which he de­
igned to take with him, conveyed fecretlyon
board, and, as foon as the wind ferved, em­
barked himfelf with his friends in the night, and
obliged my mailer to fail diredlly, though greatly
to his diflatisfablion, becaufe he would not con<-
fent to his firing the prifon of the inquifition, and
cutting the inquijitor’s throat.
Heaven feemed to approve of the undertaking,
fending a fair wind, which foon carried us out of
the fear of our enemies.
It is impoifible to conceive an happier com­
pany than were now together; nor did the blunt
feilivityof my mailer add a little to the pleafure
of the voyage, which met but one cloud, that
feemed at firit to threaten a good deal, but foon
blew over. .
When we were about half our voyage, my ma­
iler entered thecabbin hafiily one morning, and,
with a kind of fierce delight flaihing in his eyes,
fays to the inquifitor, whom healways called owner, .
c Well, owner, you {hall now fee what Englijh
* boys can do; there is a large Frenchman bearing
* down upon us, but, if you do not fee him iheer
* off as ihort as if he had got foul of a lee ihore, I
€ will never take the helm again, if he is not even
* obliged to drop anchor to bring him up along
‘ fide of us; and, as I expe£led fome fuch thing,
* I took a letter of marque, fo that you need not
* fear being hanged for a pirate, if the worft
‘ ihould happen.*
But, delighted as 'my mailer was, his paflen-
gers did not feem fo well pleafed with the news,
efpecially
,yC 1
C
efpecially his owner, who was not t^fed to fighting,
and befide was too anxious for his efcape with
his fair prize, to think of any thing with pleafure
which could poflibly deprive him of her.
They all went direöly, therefore, upon the deck,
and, feeing theibip really coming toward them,
the inquifitor went into the cabbin, that heihould
not be cbferved by the men, and, fending for my
mailer, accofted him thus : 4Surely, my friend,
4 you cannot mean to wait for that (hip,’ (for we
were lying-to) 4fhe certainly means toattack you.*
-------- 4And fo let her, ownerJ (replied my ma­
iler) 4I’ll warrant ihe gets as good as fhe brings/
-------- * Rut, confider, my friend / (returned
the inquifitor) 4confider we are on board you/
-------- 4 Welly owner, and what then; you are
4 not afraid: the lady may be ß o w ed fa fe below ;
4 and youy
ll ß a n d as good a chance as another; you
4 are not afraid/-------- 4 My good friend, I
4 have not time now to explain my reafons to
4 you; but if you have any regard for me, you
4 will inftantly crowd all the fail you can, and
• get clear of this affair— I defire it— I beg it/
— ----- 4 W hyy look you, owner, what needs all thefe
4 words ? Iffo be you order us, we muß put abouty
4 to be fure* fo r the floip is your*s; but then the
4 honour o f O ld England, confider tha t; the ho-
4 nour o f O ld England/--------4Ü, my friend, I
4 can confider nothing but my defire to avoid
4 this danger ; fo once more I beg*----- 4 Enough
4fa id , enough fa id .9 Then going upon the deck,
4 Well my lads, our owner does not choofe this
4 brufh, while the lady is on board ; fo we muft
4 about fhip : but, as we come back, Soup-maigre
4 (hall pay for it ’----- 'And, fayingthis, heobeyed
the defire of his owner as faithfully as if it had
O 3 been
ADVENTURES OF A 'GUINEA. 193
,
yGoogle
*9 4 CHRYSALs OR, THE
been his own, only not with the fame appearance
of pleafure, not being able to avoid ejaculating
damnfe a r , at every turn of the tune he whittled as
he walked the deck the reft of that day.
He had fo pun&ually obferved his owner’ s in-
ftru&ions in getting a good ihip, that we were
ioon out of fight of the Frenchman ; nor did we
meet with any thing difagreeable during the re­
mainder of the voyage.
The day after this affair, when they had all
recovered their good-humour, my matter addreffed
his owner thus :----- c Now, owner, while the
* iky is clear, and we have nothing elfe to do,
4 I had better give you an account of your mo-
4 ney. Here is the log-book, which you may
4 overhaul at your leifure, though the fooner
* the better. This is the time; there is no taking
* a good obfervation in aftorm, as may hap-
4 pen by and by; you’ll find all as fair as a new
4 cable: but I mutt give you one point to dire£
4 your reckoning by, and rhat is this ; you bade
4 me buy a ihip and freight her, and fo forth,
4 and ihe and the cargo ihall be my own, after
4 I had done your job this trip. Now, owner,
4 it is very true that a lefs veffel than this might
4 have made the run; but then you feemed fo
4 defirous to be iafe, that 1 thought it beft to take
4 a bargain in this ftout ihip, which I knew to
4 be as good a fea-boat as ever turned ,to wind-
4 ward, and able to go, hank for hank, with
4 any thing that fwims the fea, as we ihowed
4 when we run the Frenchman out of fight yefter-
4 d&y, though it went againft my heart to do
4 it; but no matter for that now; the ihip is
4 your’s, and you have a right to be obeyed,
4 However, there is the account, and here is the
5 4 reft
,
yGoogle
4 reft of your money, of which I did not lay out
4 a ihilling that I could avoid, but one guinea,
4 which I gave W ill Crojftree, to repair bis rig-
4 ging, and one I gave Black M o ll of Wapping, to
4 heave down ; and I could not well avoid thofe
4 neither, for W ill was-an old mefs-mate, and I
4 owed M o ll for many a good turn in her way.
4 But all this fignifies nothing to you; they can
4 be flopped in the account; and here is a damned
4 guinea too, that would not go; I believe it
4 has been in the hofpital till it was flu xed off its
4 legs.
4 And now, owner, as you may think this
4 ihip coft too much, and that the cargo is too
4 good, I will not keep you to your bargain;
4 lhe is your own, and all that is in her, only
4 pay the men; as for me, I am fatisfied with
4 having got out of that damned inquilition, and
4 leave the reft to yourfelf. If you think that
4 I have deferyed any thing, well and good; if
4 not, I do not fear bread while the fea flows
4 round O ld E ngland; all that grieves me is, that
4 you would not let us fet fire to the inquifition,
4 and cut the inquifitor’s throat.’— If my matter’s
bluntnefs, in the affair of the French ihip, gave
offenfe to his owner, the honefty of this fpeech
reftored him to his warmeft efteem ; and made
Pheron, who was prefent, cry out in a rapture,
4 Thank Heaven, there is ftill fomehonefty among
4 mankind.’-------- 4 Honefty, aye (replied my
4 matter) a little among the tars of O ld England!
4 a little.’
The inquifitor having, by this time, recover­
ed from the aftoniihment into which fuch noble-
nefs of foul threw him, returned the account
unopened,
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ±9S
,
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
*96
unopened, with thefe words, 4 I am convinced
4 your account muft be juft.; and I freely make
4 you a gift, not of this ihip and cargo, for
• they are juftly your own already, but of the
4 reft, of the money which is in your hands/----- ‘
4 JVhat, all, owner ! a ll!9-------- 4All, my friend;
4 if it were many times fo much, you juftly merit
4 it/----- 4B u t then, owner, had you not betterfign
4 the account, i f you pleafe, fo r fea r o f after-reckon-
4 ings w ith your executors;fo r I hate the law damn-
• ably, ever fence 1 lofe a year's pay fo r hindering
4 our boatfwain s mate's brother to beat his w ife.
• The brimfeone fw ore I beat her hufband, and fo
4 I paid fo r meddling ; but it was the lawyer's fa u lt
4 that fet her on. Dam n all lawyers, fay 1/--------
4 Well, then, my honeft, worthy friend, there
4 is a receipt; and I wiih you fuccefs equal to
4 your merit; and you cannot have more/-----
4 Enough fa id , owner, enough f a i d : I thank you;
4 1 thank you.9
The remainder of cur voyage was one con­
tinued fcene of happinefs. My mafter landed his
paflengers at Alexandria, from whence they foon
fet out for Pheron's country, and, at his taking
leave of them, advifed them to be Gareful how
they ventured in any of the (hips of thofe coun­
tries, which, he aflured them, were not better
than bumboats, nor did their mariners know any
more of the lea than a Thames water-man.
Having finifhed this his firft bufinefs, he pro­
ceeded to difpofe of his cargo, for which he met
fo good a market, and made fo profitable a return
from thence home, that, as foon as he arrived,
his landlady’s daughter at Gofport, whom he had
been in love with for many years, but never dared
to fpeak to till now; readily confented to marry
,
yGoogle
him. One thing, though, I muft not omit, and
that was, that he kept a conftant look-out all the
voyage home, for that Frenchman whom he had
fled from fo fore againft his w ill; and was greatly
concerned that he could not meet him, to have
one bruih for the honour of O ld England.
I did not remain with him to be a witnefs of
his happinefs ; he gave me to a Jew pedlar for a
pair of fine fleeve buttons, to prefent to his miflrefs
the morning before his marriage.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ^97
C H A P . XXIV.
C hrysal arrives in London, where he comes into
the pojfejfion o f a pawn-broker, by whom he is
given to the author. A mojl unhappy injlance o f
. human infirmity. The conclufion. .
TH E diminution of my fize, which had
made my late mailer carelefs about me,
did not prevent the pedlar, though with many
apparent fcruples, from giving him a great bar­
gain, worth about a third part of my prefent value,
for me.
I did not remain long in his pofleflion : he
pafled me off* as foon as he arrived in London,
whither he was going when he received me, to
a pawn-broker, at a divifion of the lofs, in the
purchafe of old clothes, which he was going to
carry abroad.— — Strange were the feenes, and
unexpe&ed the faces, which I faw in this place,
where every neceflary utenfil of life, every or­
nament of luxury, was depoiited, as in a place
yGoogle
19&
of fecurity, by their refpe&ive owners : but your
own experience makes any particular defcription
of this place, or its manifold myfterious trade,
unneceflary to you.
This misfortune of my iize kept me a prifoner
here till Saturday night, when my mailer always
puts o ff his light coin, juft before he (huts his
ihop, to the poor people, whofe neceility requir­
ing an immediate fupply, for the fupport of life,
cannot wait to return it on Monday, and fo muft
even bear the lofs.-----Such a perfon did he think
you, and accordingly gave me to you : but the
moment I came into your pofleftion, and found
that you were the chofen o f ten thoufand, the fir jl-
horn offcience, whom wildom had inilru£led, and
art led by the hand, through the dark labyrinths
of nature, till the coy fugitive, unable longer to
elude your purfuit, had been obliged to confent
to a revelation of her moft occult wifdom, and to
entruft you with the command o f that chain
which links the animal and material worlds to­
gether ; the moment, I fay, that I perceived who
you were, and that I was the intelligence appointed
to convey this favour to you, I entered your heart
with the greateft pleafure, and waited with impa­
tience for the moment when I fhould confer this
completion of human happinefs and honour upon
you ; a pleafure that was heightened by the noble
conftancy you ihowed, when the fmell of the hot
ox-cheeks, as you came by the cook’s {hop, raifed
that conflidt between nature and knowledge, whe­
ther you fhould purchafe iome of it to fatisfy
your hunger, or preferve me for this laft ex­
periment, in which the latter was lo gloriouily
triumphant.
The
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 299
The aufpicious moment is arrived ; nature la -
fours in the throws o f the myjlick birth ; and lo !
the philofophick king arifes in all the glory o f the
morning ! Attend to my words ; receive the con-
fummation of human knowledge.
T o apprehend this fecret caufe, you muft
know ' * * * * *
* * * * * *
* * * * * *
* * * * * *
* * * * * . *
* . * * * * *
* * * * * *
* * * * * *
0 doleful and deplorable event! never to be told
without wailing; never to be read without tears.
Juft as the fpirit had arrived at this moft intereft-
ing point, human weaknefs, unable to fupprefs
the impulfe of internal vapour, which the men­
tion of the fatal ox-cheek fet in motion in my
empty bowels, by the longing it raifed in my
ftomach, emitted an explofion that filled the
room with a fetid fteam.----- The fpirit ftarted at
the unpardonable oftenfe to his purity ; and look­
ing at me with ineffable contempt, indignation,
and abhorrence, vanifhed from my fight, without
deigning a word more.
The misfortune was more than I could bear ;
1 funk under its weight, and fwooned away
upon the floor*, where officious humanity found
me, and reftored me to a life that was a burthen
under fuch a difappointment. The labour of
my life being loft, the one moment in a thoufand
years
* S
e
eth
eP
r
e
fa
c
e
.
:y( >gk
years flipped away in vain. But fuch is the con-
fequence of human weaknefs; fuch the end of all
the works, of all the expe£tations of man.
3oo C H R Y S A L : OR, T HE
C O N C L U S I O N .
And new» O my brother in disappointment*
who readeft this moftlamentablecataftrophe,whe­
ther thou art a tailor, whofe principal debtor is
made a lord— a phyfician, whofe nojirum is disco­
vered— a cobler, who ileepeft over thy laft, in
vhopes of dreaming of hidden treafure— a poet,
whofe play is refufqd— or a Senator, who haft
mortgaged thine eftate to purchafe a feat in par­
liament, juft before its diflblution, attend to the
inftruftion of my words, and learn from my ex­
ample. Seife the prefent moment, nor depend
upon the future; let reafon curb expectation;
reduce imagination to common fenfe; and bring
your wiihes within the bounds of your real
wants: fo fhall Induftry banifh neceifity from
your habitation, and Content turn all your pofe
feffions into gold. -
E N D O F V O L . IL
,
yGoogle
C H R Y S A L;
O
E
’ 3J L U -L
T H E A D V E N T U R E S
O f
A G U I N E A .
WHEREIN ARE EXHIBITED
VIEWS OF SEVERAL STRIKING SCENES,
WI TH
CURIOUS AND INTERESTING ANECDOTES
or THE
MOST NOTED PERSONS IN EVERY RANK OF LIFE,
WHOSE HANDS IT FASSED THROUGH,
IN AM ERICA, EN GLAN D , H O L L A N D ,
GERM ANY, and PO R TU G AL. .
, f B Y A N A D E P T .
Cktut.¡Lrft i.
— Hold thftAiirrour up to Nature,
To ihow Vice itsown Image, Virtue itsoWnLikenefs,
And the very Age and Bodyofthe Times
His Form and Preflure. Sh a k s p e a r e ,
Qui capti, tile fau t.
A N E W E D I T I O N .
V O L . III.
L O N D O N ;
PRINTED FOR J. F. AND C. RIVINGTON } G. ROBINSON,
T , CADELL j T. EVANS j AND R. BALDWIN.
M DCC LXXXIII.
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
Digitized by Google
A D V E R T I S E M E N T .
#
"T"' H E circumftances in which ‘The -
ventures of a Guinea fell into the
hands of the Editor, as explained in the
General Preface, account for this, and the
former additions to that work.
The uncommon favour with which the
firft edition, imperfect as it was, was re­
ceived, encouraged him to fpare no pains
for the recovery of the reft of the manu-
fcript: though his fuccefs, however, in this
attempt exceeded his expectations, fear
of the prejudice, in general too juftly, en­
tertained againft C
o
n
t
i
n
u, prevented
his publishing, in the Second Edition, any
more of what he had recovered, than could
be added without enhancing the, price.
But as the fale of fo many numerous im­
preilions, fince that edition, has entirely
removed every lhadow of fuch fear, he
thinks it would be injuftice to the pub­
lick to with-hold the reft from them any
longer.
. A 2 A s
Digitized by C j O O g l C
As to the obje&ion made to -
tions, that they are written after the firft
defign is completed, and when the imagi­
nation is exhaufttd, it can by no means
afToit the following iheets, which are really
a Refiitutionof the O
, not an
tion of any thing new ; as will plainly ap­
pear to the judicious reader, who will find
the fame l'cope of imagination; the fame
fpirited freedom, and depth of remark in
every period of thefe volumes, which fo
eminently diftinguilhed the former •
, and
trace the genuine connexion through the
whole.
For one great difadvantage, which thefe
volumes lie' under, candour will make the
juft allowance, when the occafion of it is
confidered.
This is the printing of thefe parts, thus
detached, and by themfelves, with only re­
ferences to the places where they follow
in the context of the former volumes; by
which means they lofe the advantage o f
the general fable, or, as I may fay, ,
which fo happily introduces and fupports
the whole, and of which no more could be
recovered} all but what was at firft publiih-
ed
A D V E R T I S E M E N T .
Digitized by C j O O g l c
A D V E R T I S E M E N T ,
cd being cancelled by the orthodoxy of
the pretended clergyman, into whofehands
the manulcript unfortunately fell, who
fpared no more than was indifpenfably ne-
ceflary to open the deiign*.
Had the Editor attended folely to his
own intereft, it would have fuggeftedtohim
to have publiihed this, ashe did the former
addition, inl'erted regularlyaccordingtothe
connexion; as theeftabliihed reputation of
the work would enfurethefaleof the whole,
even to thofe who had before purchafed
the former yolumes. But this was an arti­
fice he was incapable of ufing; andhechofe
to publilh thefe volumes, in this manner,
rather than incur the leaft fufpicion of fo
mercenary a defign. He hopes, therefore,
that a difadvantage occafioned by fuch a
delicate difintereftednefs will not belooked
upon as a defeat; and that the whole will
be viewed together, before any part is ac-
cufed of abruptnels, or want of uniformity
to the general defign.
The abfurdity and injuftice of levelling
the general reproofof vice againft particu-
A 3 lar
*
#See the General Preface•
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
A D V E R T I S E M E N T .
lar perfons, and tracing to real characters
a work ofmere imagination, aretoo glaring
to require proof. Mrin the in
, ftance hehas given, inoneof his
of the whole D uty o
f
«M a n , has fh
the belt book that ever was written (hu­
manely fpeaking) is liable to be conftrued
into afcandalous libel, by fuch a
The Editorof this work has the fatisfac-
tion to fee, thatwhatever injuriousattempts
of that kind were at firft made againft it,
they have not been able to prejudice it in
the opinion of the publick, as appears from
the great and continued demand for it, for
fo many years. Defamation may pleafe the
malignancy of man for a day ; but it muft
be merit that can ftand the teft of time.
Such infinuations are long (Ince forgot, be-
caufe unfupported by truth; as will all of
the fame nature, which may be madeagainft
the volumes now offered to the publick,
while the merit of them fhall remainforthe
entertainment and inftruCtion of ages.
C O N T E N T S
yGoogle
C O N T E N T S ©f V o l . III
B O O K t h e F i r s t .
C H A P. I.
N T R O D U C T I O N . C h r y s a l enters into a
new fervice. H is m ajier finds an ingenious
excufe fo r returning borne j but is unexpectedly
flopped Jkort by the way. In the common courfie
ofbufinefsy C h ry sa l changes his ferv ice: Cha-
M otives o f the cnterprife in which O h r y sa l 'x
majier was engaged. *fn a private conference
between him and his agent, fome curious fecrets,
in a bufinefs not generally underflood, are laid
open, and a feem ing contradiction naturally
reconciled. 8
The behaviour o f C h r y s a i / x m ajier on hearing an
interejling piece o f news, w ith his concife method
o f conducting an enterprife, C h r y s a l changes
his fervice fo r that o f a perfon o f a very different
character. An eloquent fpeech produces the ufual
fffeCTs o f eloquence. 13
rader o f his new m afier. Page i
C H A P . II.
C H A P . III.
C H A P .
Digitized by Google
C O N T E N T S .
C H A P . IV.
The Generalprofeffes an uncommon motivefor military
ardour. An officer deftres toJpeak with him, the
mention of whofe name opens fome fecrets in the
fervice, Account of the officer. An extraor­
dinary injlance of ignorance o f the world. He
Jignalizes himfelf at the expenfe of his fuperi-
oursy who reward him accordingly, The befi
qualifications for rifing in the army, with reafons
why things were otherwife under another com­
mander; Page 18
C H A P . V.
Chrysai/j mafier makes fome clofe remarks on
certain matters, The method which the General
took to parry the officer, Chrysal’j mafier
makes up the affair, The General gives the
officer an opportunity of difiinguijhing himfelf,\
which he does in a fignal manner, 23
C H A P. VI.
C hrysal accounts curioufiy for fome interefiing
points of policy. He fupports his reafon for not
entering into the particularj^jf the fiegCy byfome
• remarks on war, morejujl perhaps than popular 5
and afjigns a motive for courage, not likely to be
meant by thofe who give it, 30
C H A P . VII.
One of the Captains under C hrysal’j mafier be-
• haves in an extraordinary manner, and vindicates
himfelf
yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
himfelf as extraordinarily. His crime is over­
looked for prudential reafons, which he mißakes,
anddemands a tryal. He meets his deferts. Page 3
4
.
C H A P . VIII.
Chrysal accounts for the peculiar animofities
which fome nations floow in war. A noble
Spaniard is taken prifoner in a fally. He
makes a propofal to the General, which is accept­
ed, and opens a profpeft of peace. A brutal out­
rage difappoints his defign% and embroils matters
more than ever. 39
C H A P - IX.
C hrysal’* attention is agreeably diverted by the
appearance of a young Spaniard, who throws
himfelf at thefeet of his maßer, to prefer an ex­
traordinary requeß. The H iß ory of D on Al-
phonso G uzman, the young Spaniard. 44
C H A P . X.
Continued. O livia’* father is taken up by the
Inquifitiony and herfelfput into a convent; on an
English battery’s firing upon which Don
Alphonso comes in defpair to Chrysal’* ma­
ß er , to make a very odd requfi, which he grants
at length, and alfo promifes him his ajfißance to
obtain his mifirefs. 52
C H A P . XI.
Thefortunate effect of C hrysal’* maßer’*/paring
the convent. The mutual advantages to viflors
and vanquified of articles of capitulation.
C hrysal’*
Digitized by Google
C O N T E N T S .
C hrysal’* maßer performs bis promife to Al-
phonso, into whofe fervice C hrysal enters.
A lphon so recovers bis mißrefs^ whofe fa th er is
fc t at liberty by a piece o f fun offom e E nglish
fa ilors. Conclufion o f the ßory o f A LPHONSO.
C hrysal changes bis fervice. Page 59
C H A P . XII.
C hrysal makes fom e ß r iking remarks on a
ß a te o f abfolute liberty. Difappointm ent o f the
hopes o f the conquerours, w ith the natural ccnfe-
quences. C hrysal’s maßer going to take a
taße o f the pleajures o f affluence, is flam m ed out
o f his treafure by a, fu tlery into whofe fervice
C hrysal enters. 69
C H A P . x m .
Character o f Chrysal’* new m aßer. The right
way not to fuffler by making m ißakes, A cu­
rious conversation between C hrysal’* maßer and
tiuo perfons o f confequence lays open the fecrets
o f fome intereßing. affairs. H e makes up a
foolift) difpute by a fenftble toaß. 73
C H A P . XIV.
Continued. The myßeries o f agency; and conve­
nience o f a m ilitary government, w ith fome curious
notions o f the genteeleß ways o f rifing in life. 79
C H A P . XV.
A jfeftin g confequences o f carrying the foregoing fchemes
into execution \ w ith the conclufion o f the charac­
ter and hißory o f C hrysal’s maßer. Chry­
sal changes his fervice. 86
- C H A P.
yGoogle
C H A P. XVI.
C h r y sal’j majlerJwallowsa pill, and pleads an
important caufe without fuccefs. A curious me­
thod ofparrying one falfe oath by another, with
thejirjl oath taken bythe majler of a merchant­
man. HeJhows another inflance of his Jkill in
fleering clear of perjury, but without his former
fuccefs. His notion of conference. C h rysal
changes hisfervice. Page 91
C H A P . XVII. .
C h r y sa l makes fome reflexions on the policy of
impofmg oaths ofexculpation. The proper method
ofpreferving the validity of oaths, with theconfer
quences of their being adminijleredindiferiminately
to allperfonsy andon all occafions. An uncom
m
on
le6lure from a Captain of a man of war to his
Officers reprefents fome polite amufements in an
oddlight. 1 0 9
C H A P . XVIII.
The folly of a perfoWs proflituting his.character to
pleafe his com
pany aggravated by the dangerous
mijlake of ridicule for applaufe. C h ry sal’j
majler changes place with the Chaplain, and
preaches him an interefling fermony in which,
am
ong remarks morejufl than polite, he gives an
uncom
m
on reafon for the particular deformity of
vice in women. 106
C H A P . XIX. *
C h r y s a l deferibes true companion ; and Jhows
thegeneral confequence of a man's acknowledging
diflrefs%
C O N T E N T S .
yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
di/lrefs, w ith the reafons o f it. C h r y s a l ’ j
iftafter is prevailed upon by his captain to tell him
the caufe o f his melancholy, which is removed by
an a ft o f uncommon generoftty. C h r y s a l en­
ters into a new fervice. Page i l l
C H A P . XX.
H ijlory o f a lieutenant o f a man o f w ar. A compa-
rifon between the rewards o f merits in the land
andfea fervices; w ith a remarkable injlance o f a
great marts remembering an old frien d . The
confequence o f attempting to fe t up fo r a mender
o f manners, and o f a mans not meeting an oppor­
tunity o f making him felf remarkable. 1 18
C H A P . XXL
An uncommon method o f carrying on a vear; w ith
the danger o f fpeaking the truth too plainly, at an
improper tim e. C h r y s a l ’j majler meets his
brother. Some account o f him. H e reprefents
certain matters in an odd light. C h r y s a l en­
ters into his fervice. Conclufton o f his chcirafter.
C h r y s a l quits his fervice, on an uncomtnon oc-
cafton, for onefrom which he' pajfes, in the ufual
courfe o f bufmefs, into that o f the General. 125
:yC - le
B O O K
C O N T E N T S .
B O O K II.
C H A P . I.
C h R Y S A L ’ j m ajler makes fome charafter¡/tick re­
flexions. H e is furprifed at the officer's refuftng
to make up matters * and gives a particular reafon
fo r .fom e people's riftng in the world. An extra­
ordinary perfonage enters to him. Defcription o f
him. H e gives a character o f the native A m e ­
ricans ; and offers fome interejling remarks on
the return they make to the treatment they meet
w ith ; and on the practice o fform ing in the clofet
plans o f operations fo r armies in the field. Odd
reafon why the A m e r i c a n s are deftrous o f gold.
C h r y s a l changes hisfervice. Page 133
C H A P . ir.
The manner in which C h ry sa i/ j majler was re­
ceived ly his fu bjefts. Antiquated principles on
which his authority was founded. H is odd
opinions and conduct in fome important matters,
w ith the confequences. *45
C H A P III.
C h r y s a l defcribes his m ajler's habitation and f a ­
mily. H e makes an uncommon progrefs. The
manner in which he found thefem ales o f his houfe-
hold engaged. Remarks on f i n e r y . Account
o f their amufementsy w ith the "manner in which
they ufually ended. The method by which CHRY-
s a l ’ j majler kept peace in his fam ily. 149
C H A P *
5
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
C O N T E N T S .
CHAP. IV
.
ChrysAL’j majler is honourably rewarded fo r his
fervices. An unexpected meeting w ith one o f his
country-women introduces an uncommon remark
on a common m atter. The lady gives an odd injtance
o f conjugal love ; and refufes the civil offer o f
Chrysal’jmajler^ fo r a natural reafon. Chry-
sal changes hisfervice. Page 156
CHAP; V
.
C h r y sa l\? mi/lrefs gives fom eJlriking injlances o f
fem ale confifiency. She is cured o f her g rief by a
perfon of accomplijhments as extraordinary as her
own. The advantage o f comparative excellence.
G h ry sa l’j mijlrefs marries, and he changes his
fervicefo r that o f an old majler• 163 1
C H A P . VI.
C h ry sa l arrives in E n g la n d . H is majler is
faluted by afight not very pleafmg. The hijlory of
the unfortunate hero o f the day opensfome myjle-
rious fcenes. T he obvious use o f councils
o f w a r . 167
C H A P . VII.
Continued. Confequence o f the foregoing conduct.
An extraordinary fentence attempted to be reverfed
in an extraordinary manner, and by as extraordi­
nary perfans• The reafon o f this ; and why it
mifcarried. M ore myjleries. Ju ft fa te of the
b u n g l e r s , who left their poor to ol in the
lurch; w ith the confequences o f this affair to a
certain corps. 174
C H A P .
yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
C H A P . VIII.
Ch ry sa l changes his feruice. H e gets a vieiv o f
a court o f c iv il ju d ic a t u r e , on an extraor•
dinary occaflon. Some reflexions out o f the common
cant on the delay* o f the law . A whimflcal ap­
plication o f an old) lory produces the Jlrange effeCl
o f putting a counfellor out o f countenance. The
necejflty o f ahfolute power infome governments; w ith
a common decifeon^ by which nothing is decided.
Page 182
C H A P IX.
Ch r y sa l5* mafler joins a remarkable fe t o f com­
pany. Their characters. C h ry sa l changes his
fervice. Account o f the enterprife on which his
late mafler*s companions were going; w ith the
com incing arguments they ufed to procure obedience
to their commands. 188
C H A P . X.
The ruinous appearance o f the fcene o f aSlion fupplies
matter fo r mirth to thofe whofe trade it is to laugh
at every thing. The point carried againfl law and
reafon. Enquiry into the caufe o f this. The rife
o f the prejudice againfl the profejjion o f an aClor.
*93
C H A P . XI.
Continued. The common confequence o f excefs o f
%eal. The profejfed intent o f theatrical
reprefentations defeated by this abfurd pre­
judice againfl aCiors. The vices againfl which
4his prejudice is levelled, in reality the effects
o f
yGoogle
o f i t ; w ith the means fo r remedying this, and
other abufes. Page 197
C H A P . XII. "
The fyßem o f policy, by which C h ry sa l’j maßer
governed his ß a te • Account o f his methods o f
parrying poets. The reafon why fo few new
plays are afted. Enquiry into the prefent ß a te
o f genius. The general motives fo r w riting plays
preclude them from fuccefs. M anagers and
Poets equally in faulty in their dealings w ith each
other. 202
C H A P . XIII.
C h ry sa l’j maßerfits in judgement on fome pieces
offered to him . A poet o f fa flio n enters. The
arguments by which he fupports his work againß
the obje£iions o f C h r y sa lY maßer^ who makes
fome curious dramaticalß rittu res. The poet, driven
from his laß retreat, ¿A* intereß o f his great
frien d s, by the common cant o f the houfe’s being
f u l l y*r /A*feafon, departs in a rage, denouncing
their refentment, which C h r y sa l V maßer flow s
his reafon not tofea r the effects of. 207
C H A P . XIV.
Continuation. C h r y sa l’j maßer rejeSis the work
o f a poet fo r his ignorance o f the laws o f the
drama. M ore dramatical firiftu res The poet
modefily infifls, that his play is refufed only becaufe
it wants the intereß o f the g rea t; o ff in
« A«^. Another poet repulfed fo r his attachment
■ to
C O N T E N T S .
yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
to the laws of the drama. Arguments againjl
thefe laws. The poet refufes to conform to the
prefent tafte; and makes an appeal. One more
poet refufedj onlyfor wanting every poetical talent.
Remarks on fomething that affefts more than care
to own it. C h r y sa l changes hisfervicey on an
occajion not common. Page 212
C H A P . XV.
C h r y s a l ’j majler engages in a genteel amour, a
delicate way of refining pleafure. His mijlrefs
perfuades him that Jhe has poifoned him and her-
felf. His fituation on hearing this. Striking
proofs of medical Jkill, with the advantage of a
■ regular courfe of practice. An exemplary infiance
o f charity andforgivenefs diverts the debtors' at­
tention to the murtherefs• 220
C H A P . XVI.
The recovery of the murtherefs opens a newfeene. She
clears up the myftery, lefs to the fa tisfaction of the
doftors, than of their nolle patient, who rewards
her liberally for her good news ; and fends them
off without their errand. Reflexions on feme
genteel matters. C h r y sa l changes his fer-
vice. 226
C H A P . x v ir .
C h r y s a l ’j majler goes to be admitted into an ex­
traordinary Society. Some reflexions notfuited to
the tafie of the times. Rife of this fociety. A
defeription of a monaflery, with an account of its
members, and offome o f its rules. 232
V ol. HI, a C H A P .
yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
C H A P . XVIII.
C h r y sa l’j m ajier arrives at the monqftery. The
manner o f his being admitted into the focisty.
Charatier o f his competitor. The method be took
to revenge the fociety9
s injujiice in preferring
C h r y sa l’j majier to him . The mirth o f the
company dijiurbed by the enterance o f THE DEVIL,
ju jl as he was invoked by C h r y sa l ’j m ajier.
The effeft o f fu ch a vifttor upon the company•
The d ev il fixes upon C h r y sa l ’j majier in par-
ticular, and makes him fqueak. Page 238
C H A P . XIX.
The D ev il is degraded to « B aboon, and his
appearance w ell accounted fo r , which rejlores the
m irth and courage o f the company, and particu­
larly o f C h ry sa l’j majier, who exerts him felf
to recover his character. The appearance o f the
be-deviled Baboon is traced next day to his in­
troducer, who at the injiance o f C h r y sa l’j majier
is expelled thefociety, fo r prefuming to ridicule their
rites. Further confequences o f this affair make
the fuperiaur break up his monaftery, and build a
church. 24C
C H A P . XX.
A fu rth er account o f the rules o f the convent; w ith
Jome firiking injlances o f ceconcmy. A feeming
inconfiftency accounted fo r from a principle not
fuffciently underjlood. *Some remarkable effects o f
vanity. Reafon o f the abufe o f wealth• 251
C H A P .
yGoogle
C H A P . XXL
Account o f the members o f the fociety. The hiflory
o f the fuperiour. The p a rtic u la r qualifications
by which he arofe in life. Succefs in a private
infiance encourages him to try his talents in an
higher fphere, from which he foon defcends w ith
difgrace. A flrik in g inconfißency in his character.
256
C H A P . XXII.
Continuation o f the H ifiory o f the fuperiour. The
inconfißency in his character accounted fo r • The
reafon o f his being fen t early to travel fo r educa­
tion. P olitical principles a ll necejfary to be at­
tended to in a tutor. The method and effeft o f
his tutor's care to in ß ru fi him in religion. A
frig h tfu l ßory gives rife to a fr ig h tfu l dream,
which is interrupted ß i l l more frightfully. A
tremendous apparition terrifies him into a fivoon.
Account o f the apparition. 260
C H A P . XXIII.
Continuation. Behaviour o f the tutor onfinding his
pupil in afw oon. H e recovers; and terrifies his
tutor, by m ißaking him fo r a fa in t. Charity be­
gins at home. The tutor fagacioufiy guejfes at the
meaning o f the miftake ; and pioufiy refolves to im­
prove it. The pupil's fu ll and true account o f the
apparition, w ith th tutor's honeft addition to it•
H is repentance and converfion. H is tutor moded
rates his zeal, fo r weighty reafons. H e relapfes ;
and bis tutor^ fo r private reafons, divulges the
whole
C O N T E N T S .
yGoogle
whole affair. The method he took to invalidate
theJlory• Page 266
C O N T E N T S .
C H A P . XXIV.
Account o f the members continued, H ijlory o f one
who turned libertine in fpeculation9 after he had
loji the power o f being fo in p ra lik e• H ow this
happened ; the force o f literary vanity ; and the
reafon why it is Jlronger than any other; In -
Jlances o f the advantages reaped from encourag­
ing genius. A new method o fflattery is fuccefsful
where a ll others had fa iled 9 and by a m afler-
Jlroke makes vanity gain a flg n a l triumph over
virtue. 273
C H R Y S A L :
yGoogle
C H R Y S A L:
OR, THE ADVENTURES OF
A G U I N E A .
C H A P. I.
Introduction. C hrysal enters into a new fe r -
vice. H is mafeer finds an ingenious excufe fo r
returning home ; but is unexpectedly flopped
Jhort by the way. In the common courfe o f bu-
fenefs C hrysal changes his ferv ice : Character
o f his new m ajler.
S C T * H E R E being a W ar between Spa in and
( E n gla nd , C h ry sa l, in the Jhape o f a
„ D oubloon, is prefented by a Span ish governor to
the captain o f an E nglish man o f w ar cruifing o jf
the coaft o f M exico, in return fo r his quitting
his feation to give him an opportunity o f fending the
treafure to E u ro pe.)
<
c As this was a compliment of great confe-
€
C quence to the Spaniards, the captain had
V ol. Ill, B “ been
yGoogle
c< been fo handfomely confidered for it, that
<
{ his defires were fatisfied, and he only wiihed
46 to be fafe at home to enjoy the wealth he
4€ had fo happily acquired.”— Pol. I. Page 53.
However impatient though he might be to
return, it was neceflary for him to find fome
pretence to juftify a conduit fo contrary to his
duty, the time appointed for his continuing on
that Ration not being near expired«
But a proper knowledge of the world is never
at a lofs for expedients. He immediately came
to a right underftanding with the matter of the
ihip, who alarming him fuddenly at midnight
with an account that her Jlern~poJl was loofe*
and the reft of the officers between fleeping and
waking formally figning his report without ex­
amining, he bore away direitly for home with an
happy heart, anticipating in imagination the
enjoyment of all thofe pleafures, which he had
hitherto looked at with a longing eye. from a
diftance.
When man, confiding in his own wifdom*
quits the ftraight path to ftrike out a nearer to
his wiihes, he generally blunders into that
which leads dire&ly to their difappointment*
My matter had not proceeded many days on his
voyage, when he fe ll in one morning, juft at
the dawn, with a mighty fleet, from which it
was impoffible for him to efcape. His anxiety
made him inftantly conclude them enemies*
He curfed hit fate in the bitternefs of his foul,
and
s CHRYSAL* OR, THE
yGoogle
and leaving the care of the (hip to his officers,
pretended to be (ick, and threw himfelf on bis bed,
in agonies little (hort of defpair. 4
4Was it for
4
4 this ? (exclaimed he wringing his hands and
4
4 gnafhing his teeth) was it for this I betrayed
4
4 my truft, and favoured the enemies whom I
4
4 was fent to diftrefs ?— For this did I put my
4
4 honour in the power of a venal wretch, and
4
4 defert my ftation in dire& difobedience to
4
4 my orders ? But I am juftly rewarded ! I have
4
4 (lopped at nothing to gather wealth, and now
4
4 1 lofe «that and my liberty together. May
4
4 every villain meet the fame fate !”
But the feverity of his diftrefs lafted not
long. As foon as it was clear day, the fleet
which caufed hip fears was found to be Englijh ;
the moment he was informed of which he reco«
vered from his ficknefs, and, putting the beft face
he could upon the matter, went to wait upon the
Admiral.
Though the fleet which the Admiral com­
manded was irrefiftibly fuperior to any that
could poffibly be oppofed to it, he was fo de-
firous of every addition of ftrength, that he re­
ceived my mailer with evident pleafure; and,
never enquiring what had been the caufe of hi«
quitting his ftation, informed him whither they
were going, and congratulated him on the op­
portunity he would have of making his for­
tune.
B 2 Bfat
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 3
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
4
But this opportunity, promifing as it might
appear, had no temptations for my mailer, whofe
thoughts were turned another way. However,
to carry off the chagrin which he could not con­
ceal, he exprefled his concern in the ftrongeft
term6 at not being able to bear a part in fo glo­
rious an enterprife, and produced the report of
the condition of his (hip, by which fhe was re-
prefented to be incapable of fervice, the reafon,
as he alledged, for his having quitted his proper
ftation. This inftantly changed the whole fcene.
The Admiral, affuming all the confequence of
his unbounded authority, anfwered, with a fuper-
cilious look, that he would order the ihip to be
furveyed by the proper officers, and then turned
away, without deigning to take any further notice
of him.
As this was no more than my mailer had ex-
pe&ed, his knowledge of the world, which
brought him into the fcrape, foon fuggefted the
proper means for preventing any difagreeable
confequences from it. Accordingly, when the
furvey was regularly made next morning, he was
honourably acquitted ; but the mailer of the ihip
was broke fo r his errori and the other officers
feverely rebuked, for not having examined his
report before they figned it.
In the courfe of thefe tranfa&ions, I changed
my fervice for that of the Admiral’s fecretary,
who dire£lly gave me to the Admiral in fome
dealings between them.
When
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
When I entered into the pofleffion of my new
mailer, he was lolling in a 1idlefs manner on a
fofa, in his Jiate-room , where every art was ex­
erted to counteradl nature, and elude the mid-,
day heat, in one of the fierceft climates of the
Torrid Zone. A gown of thinned filk hung
loofely over his large limbs ; the radiance of the
fun was foftened by ibades of linen drawn before
the open windows, and kept condantly wet, to
cool the air as it entered through them; and
every difagreeable favour was drowned in the
moil delicate perfumes.
The contrail between fuch magnificent luxu­
ry, and the condition of thofe, whofe numbers
made his ilrength, ihowed in the mod glaring
light the infatuation of vanity, in difplaying fuch
temptations to its own deilru&ion, as the moil
implicit obedience to the laws could hardly be
fuppofed proof to.
The aukwardnefs with which my mailer bore
his date ihowing that it was not natural to him,
I looked back to his pad life, to fee by what
rlludrious a&ions he had rifen to fuch an exalted
Ration ; but, to my furprife, discovered that the
foundation of his fortune had been no more than
a phlegmatic indolence, and fervility o f foul? which
induced, his fuperiors to entrud powe^ in his
hands, without apprehenfion of its railing him
to a confequence that might claih with their de-
ftgns on any future occafion.
B 3 I fee
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. $
yGoogle
I fee you are aftoniihed that a perfon of fuck
aturn ibould ever engage in adive fcenes, or be
entrufted with the condud of an enterprife fo
oppofite to his difpofition, as to make fuccefs
improbable. T o unexperienced reafon fuch
things muft feem unaccountable; but the leaft
acquaintance with the ways of man would foon
reconcile you to greater abfurdities. The con-
venience of the parent, not the genius of the child,
is in general the only thing confidered in the
choice of a profeffion on which the fuccefs of
life depends; and this is the reafon why fo few
are eminent in things fo eafy to be eminent in ;
and when at length a perfon may have it in his
power to quit a profeflion which he did not
choofe, it is too late for him to choofe another,
and therefore he plods on with habitual indiffe­
rence, not knowing what elfe to do with him-
felf. -
This may remove your furprife as far as it
concerns my matter's firft entering into, and con*»
tinuing in fuch a way of life. As to his fitnefs
for fo difficult and important a command, that
was the thing leaft thought of when it was en­
trufted to him. The injignificancy of his cha­
rade r, and his Jervility to his fuperiors pointed
him ou^ as the perfon proper for their purpofe,
as they not only made them fecure that he would
not go beyond their orders, but would alfo put
it in their power to arrogate to themfelvés the
merit of fuccefs, or lay the blame of mifcarriage
upon
« CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
upon him; and for thefe great qualifications
only did they choofe him on this occafion to exe­
cute the deftgn o f anothery who had been guilty of
the unpardonable crime of ihowing that he knew
more than themfelves, and whofe penetration
and aftivity of foul might too probably have
made him fee through their defigns, and puih
matters farther than was conliftent with them.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. f
B 4 C H A P .
yGoogle
f CHRYSAXi OR, THE
CHAP. IT
.
M otives o f the enterprife in which C h r y sa l ’j
m ajler was engaged. In a private conference be­
tween him and his agents fome curious fecrets9 in
a bufmefs not generally underJlood9 are laid open9
and a feem ing contradiction naturally reconciled•
H E N E V E R England is at war with
any of her neighbours, the effe&s are
felt to the extremities of the globe. The ar­
mament which my mailer now commanded was
fent againft one of the moft important and
wealthieft fettlements of the Spaniards in that
part of the world ; not indeed with ah ambi*
tious defign of annexing it to the ftate, or re-
emburiing any part of the expenfes of the war,
but merely to diftrefs the enemy by its deftruc-
tion, and enrich thofe immediately employed in
the conqueft $ the profpedt of which, and the
confequent fchemes to accompliih it, fo entirely
engroffed the attention of them all, except my
mailer, that they difregarded the difficulties, and
ran fo eagerly into the dangers of the attempt,
though fuch and fo many as were fufficient to
have damped the ardour of any beings dire&ed by
reafon, and not infenfible to the firft principle
of human a£lion, that his phlegmatick difpoii-
tion was no impediment to their fuccefs, as it
left them at liberty to purfue fuch meafures as
the
Digitized by Google
5
the inftant occafion ihould ihow to be expedient,
without the delay of confulting him.— I fay,
4
4 except my mailer for not all the cares of fo
extenfive a command, all the hurry and buftle
around him, could ever ruffle the charadleriftick
ftagnation of his mind.
He was juft awoke from his noon-tide nap,
when his Clerk laid the bag, in which I was9
' upon the table, along with fome papers. 1 he
chink of the gold immediately attra&ed his at­
tention. 4
4 Eh !” (faid he, rubbing his eyes
and yawning) 4
4what is it o’clock ?”— And being
told, 4
4 Aye! ('continued he, ftretching and
4
4 yawning again) I thought I had overflept my-
4
4 felf— I am fo heavy ! This climate is fit for
4
4 nothing but fleeping.” — Then rifing languid­
ly, 4
4 What papers are thofe ? (faid he) Did
44 I not fay, I would not be troubled about bu—
4
4 finefs ?”
4
4 The furvey o f that Jhip, and your own ac-
4
4 counts for the out-fets of this expedition,
4
4 (anfwered the Clerk) which, if you pleafe,
4
4 you had better look over now, as wç (hall
4
4 have others to attend to foon. I am forry to
4
4 fay, it does not anfwer your expectations, but
4
4 the people alledged, that they had been made
4
4 to pay fo extravagantly for their contraéis,
4
4 that it was impofiible for them to fink the
4
4 qualities of the flores fo low, as to be able
4
4 to give you any thing worth your accept-
44 anee.”
. . £ 5 4
4 Not
\ •
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
10
<
c Not able to give me any thing !99 (laid the
Admiral, who had been roufed from his le*
thargick indifference by the firft mention of his
own affairs) 4
6 They lie, the fcoundrels ; and
4
4 I’ll make them know it. The fick-lijis ihoW
4
4 that they have funk them with a vengeance,
4
4 and beyond every degree of reafon $ and if
c< they think that Til connive at their,murthering
4
4 the men, without having any fhare in the
4
4 profit, they fliall find themfelves damnably
4
4 out in their reckonings and therefore do you
4
4 go dire&ly to every Purfer in the fleet, and
4
4 order them to have afurvey privately made o f
4
4 their worft ftores, to produce when I call for
4
4 it. I’ll make them come down9 and hand-
4
4 fomely too, or they {hall repent it.”— —
4
4 But, Sir, is there not danger of their be-
4
4 ing provoked, by fuch an attack, to fay fom e-
4
4 thing im properi and that they who made the
^ contract with them may do you an ill office
4
4 on another occafion ? There are wheels w ith-
4
4 in wheels.”-----
4
4 Let them, if they can ! (anfwered the
4
4 Admiral, clapping his hands arkimbo) I ihall
4
4 trouble them no more. If I mind my hits
4
4 this trip, I {hall be as rich as the beft of them,.
4
4 and will ftay at home, and take my eafe, as
4
4 well as they ; and as to their fpeaking, whom
4
4 are they to fpeak to? Tell my brother that
4
4 I am a knave !— No ! no ! we ihall hardly
4
4 hear tales of each other. Things hang too
4
4 clofe
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
cc clofe together for that. Do you, therefore,
c< mind your bufinefs, and leave thefe matters
c< to me/3
-----
4
C But may not they fpread ftories abroad,
c< which may injure your chara&er with the
4
4 publick ?■■
4
4 My chara&er! Not in the leaft. Such
44 ftories affeft only the Clerks, and fuch low
44 people, whofe perquijites thefe things are rr-
4
4 puted to be, and who only appear in them:
4
4 but that can’t be faid to injure them nei-
4
4 ther ; fo r what Clerk ever had a charafter that
4
4 xould be injured? Ha! ha! ha t So that
4
4 your care for characters, forfooth, is quite
4
4 unneceflary. Do what you will, you can-
4
4 not fuffer in that.. All you have to do is to
4
4 mind your bufinefs; and when you have got
4
4 money no one will enquire about your cha^
4
4 rader.”—
Saying this, he waved his hand to the Cleric
to withdraw, and then walking a turn or two
about his great cabbin, opened the money-bag,
and telling the contents, put a few pieces, among
w hich I w as, into his pocket, and locked up the
reft in his ftrong box, after which he threw him-
felf again on the fofa, to reft after the fatigue of
1o much bufinefs.
You feem at a lofs how to reconcile the fen-
timents which my matter difeovered in this con­
ference with the luxury and magnificence of:
every thing about him. But they contradid not
B 6 each;
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. it
yGoogle
each other in the leaft. In the tranfa&ions with
his Clerk, he ihowed the genuine motions of
his heart; but with the other he has nothing to
do. They are entirely at the expenfe of the
publick, though in a manner not obvious to
every eye, being a kind of tax eftabliihed by
cuftom on the Purfers of men of war, under the
appearance indeed of a prefent to their com­
manders, but in reality as a bribe for conniving
at their impoiitions; and this tax it is that enables
thofe commanders to live up to their rank, which
their juft pay would never do— a ftriking in-
ftance of that wife ceconomy, which, to fave a
penny, lays a man under the necejfity o f Jlealing a
pound.
i* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P .
yGoogle
a d v e n t u r e s OF A GUINEA. 1*
C H A P . HI.
The behaviour o f C h r y sa l’j majier on hearing an
interejling piece o f news*, with his concife method
o f conducting an enterprife. C h ry sa l changes
his fervicefor that o f a perfon o f a very different
character. An eloquent fpeech produces the ufucd
effects o f eloquence.
Y new mailer had not palled his time
long in this agreeable manner, when the
Officer next to him in command entered hadily,
and told him, in a tranfport of joy, that the man
at his mad-head had made the land.
What land ?” (faid my mader, unmoved at
the news, or the manner m which it was de­
livered by the other, whofe eyes flaihed fire as he
fpoke) 4
4What land does he make ?”
« The place of our dedination ! (replied
« the Officer:) I had jud then taken an ob-
4
4 fervation myfelf, and am convinced I am
4
4 right.”—
4
4 Well then, (returned my mader) if yon
4
4 are fure it is the place, here are your indruc-
44 tions. You are to lead the van, and cover
4
4 the landing, about which proper direftions
4
4 will be given by the General: when that is
4
4 done you ihall have further orders.”— Then,
fwelling with the thought of his own confe-
quence, and refolving to (upport his dignity by
Digitized by Google
an uncommon effort of generality. 44Has the
4
4 fellow (faid he); been rewarded for his
4
4 news?” .
4
4 Not yet (anfwered the Officer:) the
4
4 moment 1 heard it, I ran up myfelf to the
4
4 mail-head, and, as foon as 1wasconvinced he
44'was right, flew to acquaint you. But I ihall
14 remember him when I go back.” ■
4
4 And, pray, when you do, give him this in
4
4 my name,” (replied my mailer, putting his
hand into his pocket, and reaching me to him $)
4
4 the men’s fpirits mull be kept up. We ihall
4
4 have warm work of it— warm work!” — — f
4
4 Glorious work! (added the Officer) the
4
4 trophies of your fame will now be eilablifhed
4
4 in the oppofite extremities of the globe. Few
4
4 attain to fuch happinefs.” *
4
4 Aye ! (faid the Admiral, puffing and fweat-
4
4 ing with the fenfe of his great achievements)
4
4 I have done fomething to be talked of in more
•4 places than one. I have endured the feveri-
4
4 ties of various climates. But we mult bear
4
4 every thing in the fervice of our country !—
4
4 We muft bear every thing without complain-
4
4 ing.”
4
4 Have you any further commands, Sir,,
4
4 (faid the Officer.) It is proper I fhould be on
4
4 board. I fee feveral of the (hips have now
4
4 made the fignal of feeing land.” — —
4
4 Nothing more at this time (anfwered the
4
4 Admiral.) You have your orders, and will;
4
4take
«4 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. »5
“ take the beft method to execute them. Only
li obferve to keep as clear as pojjibh o f that other
“ m ans jcheme. I had rather all ß o u ld .mifcarry%
c< than appear in the h a ß indebted to him fo r fu c -
« cefs.” i
My new mailer on this withdrew, leaving
the Admiral to enjoy the contemplation of his
own corifequence, and keep himfelf cool till
dinner.
If the indolence of my late mailer was ineon-
iiilent with his ilation, the aßivity of my pre-
fent feemed to exceed the abilities of an human
being. 7'he moment he got to his own ihip he
made a fignal for all the Captains in his divi­
sion, and the General, to come on board him;
and then ordering his (hip’s crew to be called
afij he went to the barrteaches, and waving hit
hat over his head, “ Courage, my lads (faid
<r he) the day is our’s. The Admiral has given
iC us leave to take yonder town, with all the
“ treafure in it, fo that we have nothing to do
c< now, but to make our fortunes as fail as we
can, for the place can never hold out againft
<
s us. The Purfer will give every brave fel-
<
c low a can of punch to drink profperity to
Old England, and then we’ll go about our
“ bufinefs with fpirit. W e (hall all be as rich
as Jews. The place is paved with gold,
<
c which the lubbery Dons have gathered for us*
“ Old England for ever is the word, and the
M day is our,s•>
, *
, This
yGoogle
This eloquent harangue had the effeft that
eloquence ufually has, it tranfported the hearers
out o f their fenfes* They anfwered with three
chears, which made the welkin ring, and then
went (kipping and dancing with joy to get their
punch; a foretafte of their good fortune, which
many of them would not have given up for all
their expeftations.
As they were going off, my mailer happened
to fee among the crqud the man who had firft
difeovered the land, and calling to him, 4
4Here;
4
4 fhip-mate (faid he, giving him a doub-
4
4 loon) here is fomething the Admiral has
4
4 fent you for your good look-out: and take
4
4 this alfo from me (giving him another)
4
4 and I hope to give you an hundred more for
4
4 hoifting your colours on the top of yonder
4
4 walls.” -----
4
4 A ye! noble Captain,” (faid the Sailor,
Ihrugging his ihoulders, and making his bed
bow) 4
4 and fo I will, or it (hall coft me a worfe
4
4 fall than from the main*top-gallant-maft-
4
4 head, that is, when the (hip takes a heel:
4
4 I’ll pull down proud Spain, and clap Old
4
4 England in its place.”
The fpirit which my mailer ihowed in every
word and a&ion interefted me fo far in his fa­
vour, that I was pleafed at his not having parted
with me on this occafion.
By this time the General and the Captains
were come on board, and being ibown into the
great
CHRYSALs OR, THE
yGoogle
great cabbin, <
c Good news, gentlemen,” (faid
my matter in an extacy, ihaking every one of
them by the hand as they entered) 4
4I bring
4
4 you good news ! Yonder is the objedt of pur
4
4 hopes, the place that is to make our for-
4
4 tunes, and crown us with glory, if it is not
4
4 our own faults, for the Admiral has given us
4
4 general orders to proceed in the beft manner
4
4 we can, and without loiing time or opportu-
4
6 nity in waiting to confult him on every occa-
4
4 fion.” '
This news filled them all with the higheft
fpirits. They congratulated each other on a
fuccefs of which they made no doubt; and hav­
ing concerted the meafures proper to be taken,
returned to their ihips to carry them into inttanc
execution.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. if
C H A P .
yGoogle
M CHRYSALs OR, THE
C H A P. IV.
The General profeffes an uncommon motivefo r milt-
tary ardour. An Officer deftres toJpeak w ith him%
the mention o f whofe name opensfomefecrets in the
fervice. Account o f the Officer. An extraordi­
nary infance o f ignorance o f the world. H e figna-
lizes bim felf at the expence o f his fuperiors, who
reward him accordingly. The hejl qualifications
fo r rifing in the army, with reafons why things
were otherwife under another commander.
AS foon as the Captains of the men of war
were gone, 4
4 Now, my deareft friend,
(faid my mafter to the General, who .ftaid)
4
4 you wiU have an opportunity not only of
4
4 gaining fuch glory as will add luftre to the
4
4 dignity of your birth, but alfo of acquiring a
4
4 fortune to fupport that dignity properly.”
4
4 True? (anfwered the General eagerly)
4
4 But, powerful as thefe motives are, my heart is
4
4 ftimulated by one ftill Itronger, on this happy
4
4 occaiion.”
4
4 How ! can any motive be ftronger than ho-
4
4 nour and independence ?”.......
4
4 Yes, gratitude ! grateful anxiety to prove
4
4 myfelf not unworthy of his favour, who pro-
4
4 cured me this opportunity. He promoted my
4
4 intereil with the ardour of a friend. He fup-
4
4 ported it with his whole weight; and in a
4
4 manner flaked his honour for my abilities*
5 “ T ill
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
4
4 T ill I have acquitted him, therefore, by a
4
4 fignal difcharge of my duty, I can have no
4
4 thought for myfelf.” —■—
4
4 Thefe fentimenU prove you worthy of his
4
4 favour; nor can you poifibly ferve yourfelf
4
4 more, than by paying this debt honourably to
4
4 him, in which I ihall think myfelf happy to
4
4 give you every inftance of that affiftance
4
4 which the nature of my command fo fortu-
4
4 nately puts in my power.”
4
4 I doubt you not; and therefore, as ourun*
4
4 animity deprives us of the excufe of difagree-
4
4 ment, which former commanders in the dif-
4
4 ferent fervices have made for their mifcar-
4
4 riages, we muft be doubly careful not to omit
4
4 any thing that can enfure fuccefs.”
The friends then embraced with ardour, and
were juft feparating to attend the bufinefs of their
different departments, when a fubaltern Officer
defired to fpeak with the General. On hearing
his name, 4
4 Did you not know that I am en-
4
4 gaged ?” (faid the General, with an embar-
rafled air) 4
4 He muft wait till I am at leifure.”
4
4 Don’t let me hinder you (faid my ma-
4
4 fter.) I am juft going.”-——
4
4 You do not, in the leaft. He can have no
4
4 bufinefs with me but what you may hear;
4t and indeed what you muft help me to extri-
4
4 cate myfelf from; for I know he comes upon
4
4 fome fcheme of dijiinguijlnng himfelf, that will
4
4 only give me trouble.”— —-
4
4 How
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. * i9
yGoogle
4
4 How can that be ? If you do not approver
4
4 of what he propofes, furely you have it in your
4
4 power to reje& it, without fear of giving him
4
4 offenfe; or if, on the other hand, you think
4
4 it pra&icable, and worth purfuing, I cannot
4
4 fuppofe that any honour or advantage that cart
4
4 pofiibly accrue to him, can make you unwil-
4
4 ling to carry it into execution.” —
4
4 Moil certainly not. The difficulty I am
4
4 under is of a very different nature. The
4
4 chara&er of the man gives me reafon to be-
4
4 lieve, that he will not propofe any thing,
4
4 which is not both pra&icable and important;
4
4 and, as it is not in my power to reward his
4
4 fuccefs, his doing any thing out of the com-
4
4 mon courfe of duty would involve me in the
4
4 higheft diftrefs, both on account of the in-
4
4 juftice to him, and the poor figure I muff
4
4 make myfelf on fo flagrant a breach of my
4
4 own publick declaration, thaty in the difpofal o f
4
4 all preferments, I would pay due refpe£l to fenio-
4
4 r/(y, where fuperior merit did not give aJlronger
4
4 claim 9,‘ — .
4
4 W ell! and why ihould it not be in your
4
4 power to fulfil that declaration „
4
4 My deareft friend, I bluih to think of,
4
4 much more to expofe even to you the mortify-
4
4 ing hardihips laid upon me. The truth is, I
4
4 have, fince I made that declaration, another
4
4 Officer, who was in his cradle fince this has
4
4 been in the army, and has never yet feen the
4
4 face
s# CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. mi
u face of an enemy, put upon me for the firft
4
4 preferment, by one whofe diregions I muft
4
4 not difobey, however detrimental to the fer-
4
4 vice ■ -
4
4 That is a difagreeable circumftance, I own.
4
4 But who is this Officer, your good opinion of
4
4 whom gives you fuch apprehenfions
4
4 He is a military enthuiiaft, who knows f§
4
4 little o f the worlds as to think o f rijing in the
4
4 army by merit alone; and with that view, not
4
4 fatisfied with doing his duty in the moft fignal
4
4 manner, is always a voluntier, wherever he
4
4 thinks any glory can be acquired $ though
<
€ his own particular experience, as well as ge-
4
4 neral obfervation, might have long fince con-
4
4 vinced him of the folly of fuch a thought.
4
4 You muft know him. This is he who, in
4
4 that unlucky affair upon the coaft of France,
4
4 made a ftand with the fingle company to
4
4 which he belonged (and which he had fo at--
“ tached to him, by giving out of his own pocket
<
c to fuch as behaved well a daily gratuity in
C
i addition to their pay, that they would follow
“ him any where) to cover the embarkation of
fi the troops, while every officer was ihifting for
<
c himfelf, as he a&ually did in a great meafure,
u till moft of his little party was cut off, as it
“ was a thoufand to one but they all muft,.
4
6 unfupported as they were; though it appeared
4
4 after, that if a proper force had been pofted
4
4 in that very place at firft, or he re-enforced in
* <
4 any
yGoogle
4
4 any time, the heavy lofs and difgrace fuffered
4
4 on that occafion might have been prevented.
4
4‘But ftill that was reckoned no buiinefs of
4
4 his; and therefore all the reward he got for
4
4 his pains was to have two Officers, who were
4
4 not even in the aflion, put over his head, and
44 the company’s money, which he had loft
4
4 along with all his own baggage, refufed to be
4
4 made good to him9 becaufe he was a voluntier on
4
4 that attack. For (forry I am to fay it!) that
4
4 is not the way to rife in the army now o’days.
4
4 Where a man has not intereft to puih him
“ forward, being able toJing a goodfong9 or pimp
4
4 w ell9 or having an bandfome w ife or Jifter9
4
4 with a proper degree of humility and complain
4
4 fance, will avail him more than all the cou-
4
4 rage and conduit in romance. In my patron’s
4
4 time, indeed, things were not fo. Brave him-
c< felf, he expeited that every man under him
C
€ ihould be brave alfo j nor would let any re-
c< commendation compenfate for the want of
c< merit in thofe who fought his favour; as his
“ own interejl and honour were naturally and infe-
c< parably connected with thofe o f his country; and
4
4 he was not lifted up to power, only to be the toot
4
4 o f a party j nor obliged to fupport him felf in it by
4
4 intrigue9 without any other view or motive than
4
4 that o f amajjmg its emoluments; and therefore it
4
4 has been the great misfortune of this Officer,
4
4 that he never ferved immediately under him.
C H A P .
tt CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
A D V E N T U R E S O P A G U I N E A . 43
C H A P . V.
C h r y s a l ’j mafler makes[ m e clofe remarks on cer­
tain matters. The method which the General
took to parry the Officer. (Jh r y sa i/ j m aßet
makes up the affair. The General gives the O ff*
ter ah opportunity of dißinguißtihg bimfelf9 which
he does in a fignal manner.
I
T is remarked that men feldom enquire into
the caufes of things continually before their
eyes. Habitual acquaintance prevents that cu*
rioilty, which is one of the ftrongeft incentives
to knowledge* They have always feen fuch
things; and therefore have never enquired how
they came to be fo*
My mailer, who had long obferved the fa&$
but never thought of the caufe, was ftruck with
what his friend faid. After fome paufe: 4
4 I am
4
4 afraid what you fay is too true!” (faid he)
4
4 and cannot help attributing it to a caufe, not
4
4 much to the credit of the commanders, who
4
4 certainly would never difcourage merit in
4
4 others, were they not confcious that they had
4
4 not rifen by it thertifelves ; and therefore look
c< upon it with an envious eye, as a reproach to
4
4 them. Indeed, it can fcarcely be expedted*
4
4 that a General, who bas Jpent his life in paying
4
4 court to a minißer9 or favourite9 or who was
4
4 preferred onlyfo r his intereß in parliament,fhould
4
4 aa
yGoogle
4
4 a£l otherwifc. But, what will you do with
4
4 this Officer ? It will have an odd look if
<
c you don’t fee him; at the fame time, if he
€t ihould propofe any thing of real confequence,
4
4 I am abfolutely at a lofs how to advife you
4
4 to aft.” -----
“ The only method I can think of, is this:
4
4 His temper is warm, and his notions of ho-
4
4 nour punailiouily high. I will, therefore, re-
4
4 ceive him with a diftance that I know will
4
4 hurt his fenfibility, and provoke him to fay
4
4 fomething, of which I may take advantage to
4
4 break off the conference, without entering
4
4 into the fubjea of his coming; for he fpeaks
4
4 as boldly as he aas ; and thinks it beneath
4
4 him to foften his fentiments by any qualifying
4
4 expreffion.”
Accordingly, the General ordered the Officer
to be admitted, and aiking him (lightly what
was his bufinefs ? 4
4 I come, Sir (anfwered he)
4
4 to inform you, that I have difcovered a proper
4
4 place for landing the troops, and formed a
4
4 plan for that purpofe.”
4
4 You have difcovered, Sir!” (interrupted
the General haughtily) 4
4 Pray when, and how
4
4 did you make this notable difcovery ?”
4
4 Juft now, Sir!” (returned the Officer)
too intent upon the obje6l he had in view to
take notice of the manner of his reception.
44 The tranfport% in vvhiph I was, happening to
4
4Jlretch away a-head^ I got out a boat, and have
4
4 carefully
«4 CHRYSALs OR, THE
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
cc carefully reconnoitred a great part of the coaft,
4
4 in the thick of the enemy’s fire.”
cc And, pray, Sir,” (interrupted the General
again, determined not to let him explain him-
felf) 4
4who gave you orders to reconnoitre in
4
4 this manner?”
“ No one, Sir !” (anfwered the Officer warm­
ly, and hurt at the manner in which the Ge­
neral fpoke.) 4
4 I never wait for orders, to do
“ any thing in which my own fafety only is
<
c concerned, when I think it for the advantage
C
4 of the fervice.”
4
4 When you think! (retorted the General
4
4 iternly.) I fhould be glad to know who has
4
4 appointed you to judge of thofe things? At
4
4 this rate the whole army will be generals by
4
4 and by; and every one will be out recon-
4
4 noitring forfooth, when they ihould be at
4
4 their pofts ; but I’ll put a flop to fuch con-
4
4 tempt of difcipline, and make you know, that
4
4 it is your duty to wait for orders, not to go
4
4 rambling thus, wherever you pleafe.”— Say­
ing which, he called one of his Aides-de Campy
and putting the Officer in arreft, fent him away,
burfting with indignation and refentment, to his
ihip.
When he was gone, 4
4 I am very forry (faid
4
4 my mafter) that your engagement to that other
4
4
, man laid you under a neceffity of treating
4
4 this Officer fo harihly. I have conceived a
4
4 very good opinion of him: he appeared to be
VoL. III. C 4
4actuated
yGoogle
96 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
4
4 añuated by true zeal; and fpoke with a con-
“ fidence, that ihowed, he was convinced of
4
4 what he faid ; for which reafon I am refolved
4
4 to reconnoitre that place myfelf, and don’t
4
4 doubt but I fhall find his account of it to
44 be juft.”—
4
4 Nor do I in the leaft. He has an head to
4
4 plan, and an heart to execute the moft im-
4
4 portant enterprifes; and I am as forry for
4
4 what I have been forced to do as you. But,
4
4 as foon as I have it in my power to reward
4
4 his merit, HI give him every opportunity of
4
4 difplaying it, till when this affair will keep
4
4 him out of the way.”
I fee you áre anxious to know the fequel of
this Officer’s ftory. T o avoid breaking the
thread of my narrative with it, therefore, at an­
other time, I will conclude it here.
My matter, as he faid, went that very night,
and reconnoitred the place pointed out by the
Officer, whofe account of it proved fo juft, that
he repaired to him dire&ly, and enquiring into
hispían for landing the troops, found it fo ju­
dicious, that he immediately adopted the whole,
and carried it into execution with fuccefs. -
After fome days, when the Officer’s impa­
tience of being idle thus in the midft- of a&ion
had in a great meafure got the better of his re-
fentment, and the fevere lofs fuftained in the
fiege made the worth of men more attended to,
my matter attacked him on hisfoible, his paffion
for
yGoogle
for glory, and zeal for the fervice of his cduntry,
and prevailed on him to return to his duty, on
the General s making an apology for what he
had done, which he attributed to his anxiety,
and kpprehenfion of the enemy’s being put pn
their guard by his reconnoitring in that daring
manner; and, to cancel the difgrace of the arreft,
treated him with particular attention 5 and as he
was now at liberty to do juftice to his merit
(the other, who had been impofed upon him, be­
ing provided for) gave him the firft opportunity
he could of fignalizing himfelf, which he did in
a manner that amply juftified the opinion my
mafter had conceived of him.
The affair was this— The General had refolved
to make an attack upon the principal redoubt
that defended the fortrefs, and gave the com­
mand of it to him. The plan laid down by the
General was, that an officer, with a party of
men, ihould go from another poll, juft before
the dawn, to reconnoitre the redoubt, and, if he
found that the fire of the night had made the
impreffion expeSed, a fignal was to be given for
this Officer to advance and make the attack.
The other accordingly marched, but miffed his
way, and falling in with a leffer redoubt, mif-
took it for the objeift of his defignation, and in-
confideiately attacked it, upon which the fignal
was given for this Officer to proceed. The alarm
had fet the foldiers in the principal redoubt
upon their guard, which he perceiving before he
C 2
Digitized by C j O O ^ l C
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *7
came
came within their (hot, and being fenfible that
his attempt could fucceed only by furprife, by
one of thofe inftantaneous efforts of genius,
which mark the true military character, he re-
folved, without a moment’s hefitation that might
difcover his difappointment, to try a ftratagem
of his own, fince that of his General had been
fruftrated by this miftake, and directed his march
regularly towards the attack that was begun upon
the lefTer redoubt, as if he had been fent on pur-
pofe to fupport it.
Deceived by this feint, the Officer who com­
manded in the principal redoubt, knowing the
force there to be too weak to make reliftance,
fent the greater part of his own to their relief.
This was what he had forefeen. He, therefore,
continued his march ilowly, till they had got
beyond him; and then facing fuddenly about,
pufhed with all fpeed for the redoubt they had
thus abandoned. The moment they faw this
motion, they turned back, but the narrownefs
of the entrenchment in which they were pre­
vented their making fuch expedition, and com­
ing up in a body, as his men did on the plain,
fo that he entered with the very foremoft man
of them, and made himfelf mailer of the place,
with inconiiderable lofs.
The importance of this redoubt, the taking of
which greatly facilitated the operations of the
' liege*, enhanced the merit of the adtion. No­
thing elfe was talked of in the army, where the
fortune
*8 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
fortune of this Officer was looked upon to be
made. But no opportunity offered for promot­
ing him during the remainder of the expedition,
fo that the only reward in the General’s power
to give him, was thanking him pubfickly at the
head of the army, which he did in the ftrongeft
terms. Refolved, however, to be the inftrument
of his promotion, though he could not promote
him himfelf, he reprefented him, on his return,
in fo advantageous a light to one, whofe inclina­
tion it was known to be, and who from bis office
Jhould have had it in his power to reward merits that
he promifed to do him juftice.
But the delicacy of this Officer’s fenfe of ho­
nour defeated thefe generous intentions. He
would not accept of the preferment offered him,
without having at the fame time reparation for
the injuftice he had fuffered, by an honorary
rank, fuperior to thofe who had been put
over him: and, when this was refufed, fo r
reafons of convenience^ infift#d on quitting the fer-
vice, in the permiffion for which, his patron did
juftice to his chara£ler in the moft authentick
manner, before he himfelf refigned an office,
which he would hold no longer, than it was in
his power to fulfil the declaration he had made
on accepting it : <
c That while he Jhould be in that
44 office, he would not only be a vigilant fervant o f
44 the crown, but alfo a fa ith fu l trujlee fo r the ho-
44 nejl claim o f the brave and deferving officer ”
C 3 C H A P .
Digitized by C j OC “
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i 9
3
0 - CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P . VI.
C h r y s a l accounts curioufly fo r fome interejling
. points o f policy. H e fupports his reafon fo r not
entering into the particulars o f the fiege% byfome
remarks on war, more ju jl perhaps than popular;
and affigns a motive fo r courage, not. likely to be
meant by thofe who give it.
IHave been fo particular in the dory of this
Officer, in order to give you fome notion of
matters, with which your manner of life has
made you unacquainted, In his fate you fee
the confequence of a fubaltern’s driving to di-
ftinguifh himfelf, by doing any thing more than
his immediate duty.
This, however ftrange it may appear to you,
who judge only from reafon, is dridtly confident
with the principles of modern policy* which is
calculated entirely for private convenience, with­
out the lead regard to publick good. Every at­
tempt of the kind is taken for an affront by his
fuperiors, as implying a defign of forcing them
to promote him, and putting himfelf in compe­
tition with them for the good opinion of the
publick, and therefore difcountenanced.
Indeed, if it were otherwife, few men of for­
tune or intered would, according to the prefent
way of thinking, go into the army at all, as they
could not expeft to enjoy their eafe, orjhow a prudent
regard
G oogle
regard to their fafeiy, without being fubjeil to
difgraceful companions from the officious affiduity
or rajhnefs of every man, defperate in difpoiition
or circumftances, who difregarded life and all its
pleafures, or had no way of being able to live,
but by hazarding the lofs of them.
In former times men entered into the profef-
fion of arms with a certain profpedl of honour
and advantage, if they could merit them, and
therefore exerted all their abilities of mind and
body, in emulation for fo tempting a prize $ but
now, every idler, who is unfit for any other bu-
finefs, purchafes a commillion, in order to live
upon the pay; and as he is fenlible that no efforts
of his own dan procure an addition to that pay,
by railing him to an higher rank, he is fatisfied
to enjoy his bargain as eafily as he can, and do
no more than he needs muff to avoid lofing it.
And this will account to you for the difference
between the Englijk forces, now, and in thofe
days. Nor is the cafe otherwife with thofe who
get into the army by intereft. They depend
folely upon the fame intereft to pulh them for­
ward, and therefore give themfelves no trouble
to deferve promotion, which they are convinced
no defert could procure them.— But, to quit re­
flexions not likely to be regarded, and return to
my ftory.
You muff not expedl a minute detail of the
progrefs of this enterprise. The operations of
war are too confufed to give pleafure to reafon
C 4 in
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 3»
yGoogle
in the reprefentation, too horrid not to give pain
to humanity. '
I fee you think this too fevere: but that is
the effe& of prejudice. When the vi&ories,
which have been blazoned higheft, and refledled
the greateft honour on thofe who gained them,
are ftripped of the falfe colouring laid on only
to dazzle and deceive, and examined coolly, moft
of them will be found owing to fome unforefeen
accident, fome lucky improvement of a blunder
of the enemy, or elfe an obftinate perfeverance
in their own, after every boafted rule of art had
been broke through, every refource of judgement
exhaufted'in vain ; and to have been attended by
circumftances of fuch mifery and lofs to vi&ors,
as well as vanquifhed, as tarniOied all their glory,
and infinitely over-balanced every advantage
polfible to be gained by them. I ihall, thereT
fore, mention only fuch particulars as may con­
tribute to .illuftrate this pi&ure of the heart of
man.
The ardour ihown by the fubaltern officers
and private men in carrying on the fiege, in
which they fuftered more from the inclemencies
of a climate unnatural to them, and againft
which no proper provifion had' been made,
though they had been delayed to meet its fierceft
fury, as well as from the difeafes caufed by the
badnefs of every neceflary of life, than from all
the efforts of the enemy, all the arts which the
ingenuity of man has devifed for the deftru&ion
' of
3i CHRYSALi OR, THE
yGoogle
of his own \mhappy fpecies, was impoflible to be
accounted for from any other principle than dif-
regard to a life dejlitute o f every comfort and
convenience that could endear i t — a remark
which to the humane wifdom of fom may feem
to juftify the deficiency and badnefs of every
kind of provifion, too generally made for them
on fuch occafions, while thofe whofe higher
rank may be thought to animate them with a
fenfe of honour and ambitious hope, and who
therefore may be thought not to want fuch in-
citemento to defperation, enjoy a luxury fcarce
to be reconciled with the confufion of fuch an
unfettled ftate— that neither of thefe motives,
though, powerful as they may be in general, will
always prevail over a fooliih fondnefs for life,
inftances appear in every war.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 33
C 5 C H A P .
yGoogle
3
4
» C H R Y S A L î OR, THE
* C H A P . VII.
One o f the Captains under C h r y s a l ’ j majler be­
haves in an extraordinary manner, and vindicates
him feif as extraordinarily. H is crime is over-
looked fo r prudential reafons9 which he mijlakes,
and demands a tryal. H e meets his deferts.
AS my mailer was attending, one morning,
to the fuccefs of an attacjc which he had
ordered to be made, by fome of the men o f war.
under his command, upon a fort which princi­
pally obftruded the progrefs of the liege, he was
furprifed to fee one of them not only notoriouily
make the moil (hameful delay in bearing down9
but alfo, the moment (he came within reach of it,
initead of joining in the attack begun by the
others, put about and quit her Ration, without
even attempting to do any thing.
Though the Captain of the (hip had drawn
the general difefteem of the corps upon him by
his arrogant behaviour, and, by his morofe treat­
ment of his men and officers, raifed fufpicions of
his fpirit, oh this unerring maxim, that cowardice
is the Jnfeparable companion o f cruelty, yet, as he
had thofe powerful motives to courage, pride o f
fam ily and poverty, and muft know that the in­
evitable confequence of fuch a flagrant breach of
duty muft be a difgraceful death, if it could not
he properly accounted for, my mafter concluded
5 that
yGoogle
that Tome accident muft have happened, which was
the more probable, as the ihip was the worft in
the fleet, and therefore, as foon as the affair was
over, made his fignal to come on board, that he
might learn what was the matter.
Though the firft fight of him might have ex­
plained the whole, the fears of his heart being
vifible in every feature of his haggard face, my
mafter difdained to aggravate his diftrefs by an
appearance of feverity, and only aiked him coolly
the reafon of his not having borne down to the at­
tack with the fame expedition as the other (hips.
4
4 Sir— Sir— Sir— ” (faltered the trembling
wretch, not fufficiently recovered from his fright
toexprefs the evafion he had prepared) 4
4
T — I—
4
4 made all the expedition I poflibly could.” —
4
4 How can you have the confidence to fay fo
* (returned my mafter) when there were feveral
4
4 of your fails which you neverf e t ? ”
4
4 That was not my fault, Sir (replied the
4
4 Captain, refuming his natural aflurance) how
4
4 could I fefthem, when I had fent the booms
4
4 aihore yefterday, by your orders ?”—
4
4 The booms !” (interrupted my mafter, with
a look of the moil contemptuous aftoniihment.)
‘ 4
4 Can fuch ignorance be poftible ? Surely, you
4
4 muft have known, that the booms meant in
4
4 my orders where thofe the boats are flowed
4
4 on, which were to be fent aihore, that the
4
4 men might not be hurt by the fplmters in the
4
4 attack, not thofe of your fails!”— — .
C 6 4
4 Very
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 3
5
yGoogle
3«
4
4 Very likely, Sir! it might have been fo,
4
4 to be fure. But as the order was to fen$ all
4
4 my booms, without any fuch exception, I did
4
4 not think I could juftify difobeying it on my
4
4 own opinion.”— —
4
4 And, pray, Sir, how can you juftify your
4
4 quitting your ftation in the manner you did,
4
6 when you at length made a ihift to come
4
4 up ! Was that in obedience to your orders,
4
4 too?” -----
4
4 No, Sir! that was quite another thing.
4
4 When I came up, I faw the other fhips had
4
4 fuffered coniiderably, and, as I thought they
4
4 were fufficient for the purpofe, I judged it beft
4
4 to fave his Majefty’s ihip entrufted to my care,
4
4 for another occafion. That was my reafon,
4
4 Sir.”-----
4
4 A very prudential one, truely; but I believe
4
4 you ihould add too, to fave the Captain ; for,
4
4 if I miftake not greatly, that was not the leaft
4
4 obje£fc of your care.”—
4
4 Very true, Sir ! and with good reafon too,
4
4 let me tell you; as I know that the intereft of
4
4 my family, which has promoted me thus far,
4
4 will not fail to raife me higher. Men of low
4
4 birth, or whofe relations will not ferve them,
4
4 may fet no value on their lives ; but that is
4
4 not my cafe; I am akin to moft of the nobi-
4
4 lity of my country, who always ftand by their
4
4 own blood, where any preferment or advan-
M tage is to be gotten ! Hem ! hem !” ------
4
4 I know
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
<
c I know t-heir intereft full well,” (retorted
my mafter, fcarce able to fupprefs his indigna­
tion at fuch infolence) “ and the clofenefs with
<
c which they hang together ; but, take care that
<
c you do not depend upon them too far.”
Unabaihed by the manner in which this was
faid, the Captain aiked if he had any further
commands, and, being anfwered in the negative,
marched off in triumph*
There are fome qrimes, in the puniihment of
which all men are more than ordinarily fevere,
in order to prove their own exemption from
‘them. One of the iirft of thefe is cowardice,
which,* though often, an involuntary defe£t of
conftitution, is juftly reckoned a crime in mili­
tary men, from the confequences that may attend
it, and as it makes them unable to perform the
duties of a profeffion which they ihould not have
entered into under a fenfe of fuch an incapacity.
AH the Captains prefent were for puniihing
the offender inftantly, in the moil exemplary
manner, for fo flagrant a breach of duty. But
my mafter, much as he detefted the crime, and
was provoked at the infolence with which he
ftrove to carry it off, thought it better to over­
look it for the prefent, than, by bringing him to
juflice, throw a difgrace upon the forces, that
might encourage the enemy to exert themfelves,
in hopes of more inftances of the kind.
But this moderation was difappointed by a
common caufe. In a few days after, the Captain
judging
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 37
yGoogle
3« C HR YS A L î OR, THE
judging by himfelf, that nothing but fear of
giving offenfe to his great family could have pre-*
vented his being fallen upon direCtly (for, not-
withftanding his evafions, he was confcious of
his crime) inftead of improving that precious
refpite, to extenuate his guilt by fome meritorious
aCtion, prefumed, upon meeting fome inftancea
of contempt from the reft of his corps, to de­
mand the junification of a publick tryal, in order
to be formally acquitted of what he thought they
dared not to conviCt him ; and alfo to efcape
being involved in any further dangers during the
expedition, as he knew the immediate confe-
quence of fuch a demand muft neceflarily be
fufpending him from his command till he fhould
be tried, which he knew could not be before the
«onclufion of the fiege; and in this latter parti­
cular his expectation was not deceived.
This direCtly put an end to the prudential rea-
fons that had hitherto faved him, and of which
tlre fuccefsful progrefs of the fiege had alfo greatly
Jeflened the force. Accordingly, to end his
ftory here in a few words, the tryal he defired was
granted, the refult of which was, that he was
broke with infamy, in contempt of all his boafta
and menaces of the power and refentment of hi*
family and friends*
C H A P *
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 3*
; C H A P . VIII.
C h rysal accounts fo r the peculiar animofitics
which fome nations Jhow in w ar. A noble
S p a n i a r d ' is taken pri f oner in a fally. H e '
makes a propofal to the General, which is accept-
ed"> and opens a profpeft o f peace. A brutal out­
rage difappoints his defign> and embroils matters
more than ever.
TH E R E is nothing fuggefts fo difadvanta-
geous an idea of mankind as the more than
brutal ferocity with which they deftroy each
other, when quarrels between nations fet the
animofity of individuals free from thofe reftraints
of law with which neceility has taught human
prudence to enforce the obfervation of the gene­
ral duties of focial and moral life*
This animpfity, though, is never feen in its
moil fanguine colours but in wars between peo­
ple of different modes of religion. In that reve­
lation of the will of Heaven, which ihould be
the rule of the religion of Ghriflians, the firil
precept in refpe£l to the mutual intercourfe be­
tween man and man, is brotherly love to each
other.
Such a precept bears intrinfick evidence of its
divine origin. But ftill human perverfion has
dared to reprefent the breach of it as a duty of
that revealed law, by confining the benefit of
- the
yGoogle
40 CHRVSAL: OR, THE
the obligation to the profeflion of fome particu­
lar opinions, and not only excluding the reft of
mankind from the circle of general brotherhood,
but alfo making it a merit to propagate thofe
opinions, by the extirpation of all diffenting from
them, who are held incapable of the favour of
Heaven, and therefore not entitled to the com­
mon rights of humanity. '
O f all the people who profefs Chrijiiantty,
the Spaniards are the moft bigoted {laves to this
narrow and grofs prejudice. With them, there­
fore, the natural animofity of war is heightened,
by religious abhorrence, againft all who differ in
opinion from them: and the laws which more
enlightened nations have mutually agreed in, to
reftrain its ravages, and facilitate the reftitution
of peace, are often broken through, with a
cruelty difgraceful to the name of man.
In a fally made one night by the befieged, a
noble Spaniard, who had penetrated fo far into
the trenches that it was impoflible for him to
get back, fell wounded into the hands of the
Englijh. The gallantry with which he had de­
fended himfelf gained him refpedf from his ene­
mies; and he was treated with that generous
tendernefs which brave men feel for each other. -
Struck with a behaviour fo different from what
he expe&ed, for he had been taught to look
upon the Englijh as enemies to mankind, and de­
lighting in the moft favage cruelty, he defired to
be led to the Commander, to whom, he faid, he
had
yGoogle
had fomething of confequence to propofe. Ac­
cordingly, as foon as his wounds were dreffed,
he was conduced to the General, with whom
my mailer happened to be, and advancing to
him with an air of dignity, 4
4I am come, il-
4
4 luflrious Chief (faid he) to thank you for the
4
4 humane and generous treatment I have re-
4
4 ceived from your brave foldiers, which, if
4
4 known to my countrymen, would facilitate
4
4 an accommodation between them and you,
4
4 as dread of your power, raifed, I am now
4
4 convinced, by injurious mifreprefentations,
4
4 has hitherto principally prevented their liften-
4
4 ing to any terms from you. I fpeak not this
4
4 from ignorance* My father is Governour of
4
4 the city. If you will let him know that I am
4
4 your captive, he will dire£lly pay for me
4
4 whatever ranfom you defire, and, on my re-
4
4 turn, I will faithfully remove the prejudices
4
4 which keep up their animofity againft you,
4
4 and by that means open the way to a recon-
4
4 cili&tion, till the pleafyre of our Sovereigns
4
4 ihall reftore peace to their fubjedts.”
Such an offer required no arguments to enforce
it. 4
4 The Eriglijh (anfwered the General)
4
4 never abufe the advantages they obtain in
4
4 war. I defire no ranfom for your liberty ;
4
4 you are free to return to your father when you
4
4 pleafe \ and if you can be the means of pre-
4
4 venting the effufion of more blood, as you
4
4 muft be convinced that refiftance is in vain,
44 I ihall
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 41
yGoogle
(( I fhall think myfelf happy in having an op­
portunity to fliow refpe£t to all whom you
<
c ihall recommend as your friends, and deferv-
“ ing of it.”
Thefe words filled the benevolent heart of the
Spaniard with joy. “ I fly (replied he eagerly)
<
c to execute a commillion, in which there can
4
< be no difficulty. As you are brave, and faith-
4
< ful to your Sovereign, you will require no
“ terms which brave men and good fubjefts
“ ought not to comply with.”
The General then prevailed upon him to take
fome refrelhment, after which he and my mailer
went with him to the head of the lines, where
he difmifled him with every mark of refpe£t, at­
tended by an Officer with a flag o f truce, to bring
back the Governour’s anfwer.
But this pleafing profpect was foon over-call.
The Officer and he had not advanced half the
way between the trenches and the town, when
they were fired upon by a party of Spaniards,
who lay in ambulh among the ruins of fome old
buildings. At the firft found of their fire, the
Spaniard rulhed forward, in order to put a Hop to
it, and the Officer waved his flag of truce over
his head, but that facred enfign afforded him no
protection. They repeated their (hot, and, fee­
ding him fall, ran up, and, in defpite of all the
Spaniard could do, who received a mortal wound
as he covered his body with his own, butchered
him in the moil barbarous manner, replying to
his
4» C H R Y S A L : OR, T H E
yGoogle
his appeal to the law of nations, violated thus in
him, that H eretich were excluded from the benefit
o f all laws.
The indignation with which fuch an outrage
fired the Englijh forces is not to be defcribed.
They vowed to exterminate a people who were
unworthy to live; and in the firft madnefs of
their rage were with difficulty reftrained from at­
tempting to Jlorm the walls, before a breach
fhould give them even a poffibility of fuccefs.
The leaders did not fail to improve fuch a
fpirit. Every thing was puihed on with re­
doubled vigour; and war became more horrible,
when blackened with a paflion for revenge, which
had taken fuch pofleffion of the men, that it was
fome time before all the endeavours of their Of­
ficers could put a ftop to their indulging it, and
bring them back to that generous valour which
is their peculiar glory.
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. 4*
C H A P .
yGoogle
44 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P . IX.
C h r y sa lV attention is agreeably diverted by the
appearance o f a young Sp a n ia r d , who throws
him felf at the fe e t o f his majler to prefer an ex­
traordinary requejl. The Hijlory o f D on A l -
phonso G u zm a n , the young Sp a n ia r d .
IWas relieved from the pain of attending to
fuch fcenes of horrour,by an affair that fhowed
in a ftriking light the force of pailions more na­
tural to the heart of man.
As my matter, who, adtive as light, was every
where, and joined in every thing, was (landing
Qne night to fee the effedl of a battery that com­
manded a particular quarter of the town, a
youth, who had made his efcape from the gar-
rifon, and advanced in the face of all their fire,
though fufficient to terrify any being capable of
terrour, threw himfelf at his feet in agonies of
diftrefs.
My matter, whofe heart was warmed with
that generous compaflion which is infeparable
from true courage, was ftruck at the fight, and,
raifing him from the ground, bade him declare
the nature of his diftrefs, and expedí every af-
fiftance to which he was enticed by the facred
duties of humanity.
Encouraged by thefe words, the youth raifed
his head, and fixing his eyes upon my matter,
. with
yGoogle
with a look inexpreflibly fupplicating, 4
4O h ! flop
4
4 your fire, gracious Chief!” (faid he, prefling
his lips paflionately to ttye hand that had raifed
him, and on which he ftill hung) 4
4flop your
4
4 fire in that fatal direction, where it can hurt
4
4 only innocence and virtue. That building,
4
4 againft which it is levelled is not a part of
4
4 the fortifications, the deftru&ion of which can
4
4 be of any fervice to you. It is a convent de-
4
4 dicated to the Virgin M other o f God9 and at
4
4 this time contains all that my foul holds
4
4 dear, all that is beautiful and virtuous under
4
4 heaven.” .
T hough his youth, beauty, and diftrefs in-
terefted every one prefent in the fuppliant’s fa­
vour, the nature of his fuit muft neceflarily have
prevented its fuccefs. But an accident faved him
from the pain of being refufed; the powder
which was to ferve the guns fomehow catching
fire, and deftroying the greateft part of the bat­
tery, in the very inftant he fpoke.
Not all the horrours of fuch a fcene could fup-
prefs the joy he felt at an event fo favourable to
his hopes. 4
4 Heaven has interfered ! (exclamed
4
4 he in an extafy.) Heaven has interfered to fave
4
4 her; and man will not prefume to oppofe its
4
4 pleafure.”
The enthufiaftick manner in which he faid
this ftruck my matter. 4
4 Reftrain your paf-
4
4 iions for a few moments (faid he) till I have
- 4
4 leifure
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 45
yGoogle
4
4 leifure to attend more particularly to you;
4
4 and then, if you can convince me of the truth
4
4 of what you fay, your requeft ihall be com-
c< plied with. Far be it from me to hurt thofe
4
4 helplefs votaries of religion. Britons feek
4
4 other objedts for their valour.”— He then
gave the neceflary orders for repairing the batte­
ry, and, defiring the youth to follow him, went
on board his ihip, where he treated him with
every mark of politenefs and companion.
As foon as they had taken' fome refrefhment,
my matter made a fign to every one elfe to retire,
and then addreffing himfelf to the youth in the
moft humane manner, defired to know who he
was, and what motives could have induced him
to rim into fuch imminent danger, in order to
prefer a fuit, of the fuccefs of which there was fo
little probability.
The youth for fome moments hung down his
head abaihed, then with a figh that feemed to
burft his heart, 4
4 It is my duty, moft generous.
4
4 Chief (faid he) to give you the information
4
4 you require, however painful the taik may be
4
4 to me; efpecially, as your condefcending to
4
4 liften to the ftory of my misfortunes awakes
4
4 a hope, that you will be moved by them to
4
4 grant a requeft on which depends my life.
4
4 My name is Alphonfo. My father, Don P e -
4
4 dro, bears an honourable command in the
4
4 forces which defend yonder city againft your
4
4 arms,
*6 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
4
4 arms, but glories more in the honour of being
4
4 defcended from the noble family of Guzm any
4
4 which has preferved its blood pure from every
4
4 debating mixture, fince the beginning of time,
4
4 in the mountains of Cajlile, and produced a
4
4 race of heroes, whofe fame has filled the
4
4 world.
4
4 When my father arrived at an age fit to
4
4 bear arms, as none of the powers of Europe
4
4 dared to provoke the wrath of Spain9 difdain-
4
4 ing a life of inglorious peace, he entered into
4
4 the forces fent hither to reduce fuch of the re-
4
4 bellious natives as Hill prefumed to refufe
4
4 fubmiffion to the monarch of the Spanijh
4
4 worlds, where he fignalifed himfelf fo emi-
44 nently, that at the end of feven years his me-
4
4 rits were rewarded with a commifiion, figned
4
4 by the Viceroy himfelf, in the name of the
“ King.
4
4 Such a diftinguiihed honour gave weight to
4
4 the addrefles which he had for fomfe time paid
4
4 to the only daughter of Don Alonzo G arzias9
4
4 who was a native of Arragon9 and had been
4
6 fent over by the King to fill the important
4
4 office of Secretary to the Receiver of his re-
4
4 venues.
4
4 From this marriage, fo honourable to both
4
4 parties, I have the happinefs to derive my
4
4 birth, if it can be called an happinefs to be
4
4 born only to misfortunes.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 47
yGoogle
" As
4
4 As I was the foie hope of two fuch illuftrious
4
4 houfes, no pains were fpared to give me an
4
4 education fuitable to my birth ; the great ex-
4
4 ploits of my anceftors, the antiquity and un-
4
4 tainted nobility of my blood, were qontinual-
4
4 ly repeated to me, to excite emulation, and in-
4
4 fpire me with proper fentiments of honour.
4
4 Such care feemed the fureft means to procure
4
4 happinefs, but the wifdom of man ftrives in
4
4 vain againft the decrees of fate.
4
4 In the neighbourhood of my father’s houfe
4
4 there lived a merchant, named Don Antonio,
4
4 between whofe family and our’s there was the
4
4 clofeft intimacy— an intimacy mutually ad-
4
4 vantageous; the countenance of a perfon of
4
4 my father’s confequence being an honour to
<
4
-his friend, who never omitted thofe returns of
4
4 gratitude, which his wealth often gave him
4
4 an opportunity of making.
4
4 Don Antonio had an only daughter, whofe
4
4 being heirefs to his great fortune was the
4
4 leaft blefling Heaven had beftowed upon her !
4
4 O ! my O livia, ihall I ever behold you more ?
4
4 May I yet raife my hopes fo high as to think
4
4 of calling you mine?” —-
At thefe words a flood of tears choaking his
utterance, my matter took the opportunity to
go out, and give fome orders to his officers ;
and on his return the youth proceeded.
4
4 Don Antonio's daughter and I being nearly
4
4 of the fame age, the tender connexion of
4
4 infant
*8 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
4
4 infant fondncfs grew up between us, and im-
4
4 proved with our ripening years. The atten-
4
4 tion of my father was too much engroffed by
4
4 his military cares to take notice of our ac-
4
4 tachment, and my mother was fo ferifible
4
4 of the many perfe&ions of O livia, that, far
4
4 from difcouraging, (he promoted it by every
4
4 means in her power, dwelling continually on
4
4 her praifes, and fuggefting to me fuch little
4
4 offices of affeilion and refpefl: as were fuited
4
4 to our ages, and moft likely to make an^im-
4
4 preffion on her tender heart.
4
4 Nor did the father of O livia ((he had loft
4
4 her mother in her infancy) (how any dif-
4
4 fatisfa&ion at a paffion which could not efcape
4
4 his notice; influenced moft probably by afenfe
44 of the honour which he fliould derive from
4
4 fuch an alliance.”
4
4 In this happy ftate we lived till I entered on
44 my fifteenth year, when my father thought it
44 proper for me to learn the art of war, in order
4
4 to qualify me for fuch military promotions as
4
4 I was entitled to by my birth, and for that
4
4 purpofe gave me notice to prepare myfelf to
4
4 march with fome troops, which were going
4
4 to re-enforce a garrifon in the moft diftant
4
4 part of the kingdom.
4
4 Though my heart glowed with all the am-
4
4 bition and defire of glory which my noble
4
4 blood muft naturally infpire, the thought of
VoL. Ill, D 4
4being
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 4»
yGoogle
5* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
44 being feparated from O livia overbalanced every
44 other confiJcration. In the firft emotions
4
4 of my foul, therefore, I ‘threw myfelf at
4
4 my father’s feet, and raihly owned my paf-
4
4 fion, imploiing him, as he regarded my life,
4
4 to make me happy in the pofleflion of my
4
4 love, before he attempted parting us, even for
4
4 a moment.
4
4 It is impoflible to deferibe his rage on this
4
4 unhappy difeovery. Spurning me from him
4
4 with his foot, 4Degenerate wretch! (faid
4 he, when his wrath permitted him to fpeak)
4 Degenerate wretch ! to flain the honour of
4 your blood, by thinking of an alliance with
4 the daughter of a perfon of whofe family you
4 have no knowledge!’— (For, in all the in-
4
4 tercourfe of intimacy, the father of O livia
4
4 had never difeovered in what part of Spain
4
4 he had been born; nor could the recital
4
4 of illuftrious pedigrees, the conftant topick
4
4 of difeourfe among the noble, ever incite him
4
4 to an emulative mention of his own.)— —
4 Hence! Fly my fight this moment; nor
4 ever prefume to appear before me again,
4 till you have conquered this difgraceful paf-
4 fion.>
—
" 4
4 I knew the inflexibility of my father’s
4
4 temper too well to attempt making any re-
4
4 ply, even would the fullnefs of my heart
4
4 have permitted me. 1 retired, therefore,
4
4 without
yGoogle
4
C without fpeaking a word, and going to my
mother, informed her of my diftrefs, which
4
4 ihe ftrove to alleviate by every expreffion of
** tendernefs and confolation, promifing to exert
4
4 all her influence, as foon as the firft heat of
4
4 his wrath ihould be allayed, to prevail upon
«4 him to content to my fuit.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. jr
D t
Digitized by Google
C H A P .
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
&
C H A P . X.
Continued. O l iv ia 9s father is taken up by the
Inquifttion, and herfelf put into a convent, on an
E nglish batterfs firing upon which D on
A lphonso comes in defpair to C h r y sa l’j ma-
J ier to make a very odd requejl, which he grants
at lengthy and alfo promifes him his ajjiftance to
obtain his miflrefs.
« w H O U G H I received fome encourage-
c< A ment from thefe affurances, I could not
4
4 forbear going, in the boding of my heart, to
44 acquaint O livia with what had happened, but
4
4 in the moil delicate terms. Her affli£tion was
4
4 not lefs than mine. She faw the iincerity of
4
4 my love, and in the tendernefs of fuch a
4
4 fcene yielded to my entreaties, and plighted
4
4 her faith to me by the moil facred vows.
4
4 Comforted by the thought that ihe could
4
4 not now be torn from me, I returned home,
4
4 where I found my mother fulfilling her pro-
4
4 mife, and pleading with my father in my be-
4
4 half. As their earneilnefs made them fpeak
4
4 aloud, I could not refill the natural defire of
4
4 liftening to a debate of fuch importance to
4
4 my hopes. She urged, with all the ilrength
4
4 of reafon, the abfurdity of thinking a family
4
6 diihonoured by the admiffion of a female, and
4
4 enforced her arguments with the examples
4
4 even
yGoogle
4
4 even of Sovereigns : (he infilled on the beauty,
4
4 virtues, and fortune of O livia, which made
4
4 her worthy of the moil honourable alliance ;
4
4 and concluded with faying, how much better
4
4 it would be for us all to have me married to a
4
4 perfon whofe wealth would enable us to fpend
4
4 the remainder of our lives in plenty and hap-
4
4 pinefs, than to continue llruggling v/ith every
4
4 mifery of poverty, merely to indulge a falfe,
4
4 ill-grounded pride.
4
4 My father had liftened to the former part of
4
4 what ihe faid with an appearance of atten-
44 tion; but the moment ihe mentioned his
4
4 poverty he loft all patience. 4 Forbear,
4 mean, mercenary woman !’ (faid he, ftamp-
4
4 ing his foot upon the ground with a violence
4
4 that (hook the houfe) 4 forbear to tempt my
4 wrath by fuch bafe inlinuations. Did ever
4 a Cajlilian think poverty an hardihip, or put
4 riches in competition with his honour ? Such
4 fentiments may fuit an Arragonian> but are
4 beneath me. I fee the fource of the wretch’s
4 degeneracy! My blood never could have
4 Hooped to fuch meannefs, had it not been
4 mixed with your’s/ — -
4
4 Saying this, he flung out of the room, and
4
4 finding me at the door, 4 Mark me, thou
4 difgrace to my blood !’ (faid he, with a look
4
4 that appalled my fouh) 4If ever I hear more
4 of this affair, I fwear by the offended honour
4 of all my anceftors to facrifice every one con­
D 3 4 cerned
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 53
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
* cerned in my being offered fuch an aP-
4 front.’——-*
4
8 What I felt on hearing this dreadful denun*
u ciation may be eafily conceived. I fwooned
u away, nor recovered my fenfes till feveral
fi hours after, when I found my mother weep-
€t ing over me, in the bitternefs of refentment
and grief.
4
8 As foon as fee perceived that I was come
4
4 to myfelf, ihe ftrove to comfort me by re-
4
4 repeating her former promifes, to the accom-
4
8 pliihment of which ihe was now further im-
4
8 pelled by her refentment of the reflexions
4
4 which my father had thrown upon her coun-
4
4 try.
4
4 But an unforefeen misfortune blafted all our
4
8 hopes before ihe had time to make another
4
8 effort.
4
8 The father of O livia having had occafioti ta
4
4 go to England on fome affairs in the courfe of
4
4 his extenfive dealings, was fo taken with the
4
4 people of that country, that, after his return,
4
4 he never omitted any opportunity of vindr-
4
4 eating them from the injurious afperfions of
4
4 thofe who fpoke only from prejudice, and
4
4 without proper information.
4
4 This attachment naturally raifed the jea-
4
4 loufy of the clergyV but as he confined his
4
4 approbation merely to their moral and focial
4
8 virtues, without ever faying a word in vin-
44 dication of their religious tenets, they con-
8
8 tented
54 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
<
c tented themfelves with cautioning him againft
4
4 mifplacing his praife, and telling him, that
4
4 there could be no virtue where the true fa ith was
4
4 not; and therefore thcfe aftions, with which he
“ was dazzled, were no more than finning fins
4
4 and they were thus mild in their reprehen-
4
4 fion* as be was remarkably pun&ual in the ,
4
4 profeffion and pra&ice of all the rites and doc-*
4
4 trines prefcribed by th^holy church.
4
4 But this lenity lafted not long. On the
4
4 breaking out of the prefent war with England,
4
4 fome perfons, who envied the fuccefs with
4
4 which his honeft induftry had been re-
4
4 warded, raifed a fufpicion in the Governor of
4
4 his holding an improper correfpondence with
4
4 the enemy, to which his former regard for
4
4 them feemed to give an appearance of proba-
4
4 bility.
4
4 Bold in confcious innocence, he denied the
4
4 charge, nor could the ftri&eft enquiry pro-
4
4 cure the leaft proof of it: But in the courfe
4
4 of their fearch a difcovery was unhappily made
4
4 that involved him in ruin, if poflible, more
4
4 dreadful : a number of books, containing opi-
4
4 nions contrary to the Catholick faith, being
4
4 found in his poffeffion, concealed among fome
4
4 of his goods.
4
4 In vain did he alledge that they belonged
4
4 not to, nor could poffibly have been known
4
4 of by him, the goods among which they had
44 been concealed having been landed but a few
D 4 4
4 days
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA,
yGoogle
4
4 days before out of an Engttjb ihip,, which had
4
4 been taken by a Spanijb man of war, in her
4
4 paflage toone oftheir own colonies, where fuch
4
4 books were openly allowed of, and fold to him
4
4 unopened, as they ftill remained,
4
4 But, evident as the truth of this was, the
4
4 jHoly Office, to whofe jurifdi&ion the affair
4
4 belonged, would not admit of any fuch ex-
4
4 cufe. They inftantly feifed the, unhappy
4
6 man, and hurrying him away to their own
4
4 prifon, took poffeflion of all his wealth, and
4
4 forced his helplefs daughter into yonder con-
4
4 vent.
. 4
4 This misfortune, which deprived me of the
4
4 wretch's pooreft confolation, the liberty of
4
4 complaining, drove me to defpair. I pined
4
4 in filence \ and was beginning to meditate on
4
4 laying down a life that was become a burthen
4
4 to me, when my father calling me to him
*4 one morning 4 The time is come !’ (faid he,
4 fmiling fiercely) that will prove the blood
4 of Guzm an. The evil genius of the Englijh
4 has prompted them to come, and feek their
4 deaths here. The moil noble Governor has
4 not only promoted me this day to the com­
4 mand of a company in the forces deitined for
4 the defenfe of this city, but alfo, in refpecl
4 to my family, has appointed you to be my
4 lieutenant. Let this aroufe you to a fenfe of-
4 yourfelf! Confider what you owe to your
4 country, and to your name! Every feebler
4 paffion flies at the manly voice of war.’
^ 4
4 Languid
5d CHRYSALs OR, THE
%>°gle
4
4 Languid as my foul was, I could not hear
4
4 this news without joy, efpecially as it opened
4
4 -me a profpedt of meeting honourably that
4
4 death, which was now my only hops. Ac-
4
4 cordingly, as foon as the enemy appeared, I
4
4 courted danger with fuch eagernefs, that my
4
4 father, in fpite of all his magnanimity, more
4
4 than once defired me to reftrain a courage that
4
4 arofe to an excefs.
4
4 But even death itfelf is deaf to the wretch’s
4
4 call. Nothing material happened to me, till
4
4 the battery, to which I came to you, opened
4
4 upon the convent, when the thought of my
4
4 O livia's danger of being buried in its ruins
4
4 drove me to madnete. I inftantly flew thi-
4
4 ther, and, imagining that fuch circumftances '
4
4 bore down all regard to rules calculated for
4
4 times of peace, demanded entrance to convey
4
4 the inhabitants to fome place of fafety : but
4
4 what was my aftoniihment to hear the Gover-
4
6 nor had given the ftri&eft orders, that not a
4
4 foul ihould be admitted to ftir, committing
4
4 to the immediate hand of Heaven the prottfc-
4
4 tion of its peculiar votaries.
4
4 Such inhumanity, for I can call it by no
4
4 milder name, broke every bond of duty and
4
4 allegiance. I abjured all further connexion
4
4 with fo cruelly infenfible a monfter; and re-
4
4 colle&ing the many exalted inftances of gene-
4
4 roiity which the unhappy father of Olivia had
4
4 told me of the Englijh, I refolved to apply
J
L
) 5 4
4myielf
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 57
s* CHRYSALt OR, THE
4
4 myfelf to them, and try whether I could not
4
4 obtain that fafety for the beloved of my foul,
4
4 which I could not hope from him whofe duty
4
4 it was to proteft her.
4
4 This, moft illuftrious Chief, is the ftory of
4
4 my misfortunes; the caufe of that conduit
4
4 which appeared fo ftrange to you. If you
4
4 grant my fuit, you will be amply rewarded by
4
4 the confcious approbation of your own mind.
4
4 You will merit the blefling of Heaven on
4
4 your undertakings, by fparing the moft per-
4
4 feit of its works ! And may I prefume to
4
4 add ! you will attach to you an heart that
44 is incapable of deceit! Through every vicif-
4
4 fitude of life will I attend your fteps, the faith*
4
4 ful fervant of your fate.”
The brightnefs of truth breaks through every
cloud, and forces conviflion. 4
4 I grant your
4
4 requeft (faid my mafter, with a fmile of con-
4
4 folation and encouragement) the convent ihall
4
4 be fpared. Nor is that all. If fuccefs crowns
*4 my hopes, I will alfo ufe every means in my
power to reftore your O livia to your arms.”
C HAP .
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 59
C H A P . XI.
TThefortunate effeft of C hrysal’j mafler*sfparing
the convent. The mutual advantages to viftor$
and vanquijhed of articles of capitulation.
C hrysal’j majler performs his promife to Al-
phonso, into whofe fervice C hrysal enters.
A lphonso recovers his mijlrefs, whofefather is
fet at liberty by a piece of f u n offome E n g l i s h
failors, Conclufton of the Jlory of A LPHONSO.
C hrysal changes hisfervice,
A
C C O R D I N G to hrs promife, the next
night, when the battery was repaired, my
matter gave orders to diredt the fire another way,
where he foon found the recvard of his generofi-
ty, one of the firft bombs which was thrown fet-
ting fire to the principal magazine in thè whole
city, the blowing up of which overturned a ccn-
fiderable part of the fortifications.
Animated by this fuccefs to a degree of phrenfy,
the befiegers puihed on their attacks with fueh
irrefiftible fury, that, in fpite of the accumulated
havock of war, dtfeafe, and want, they at length
overcame the obftinacy o f the befieged, and com­
pelled them to capitulate on terms which were
readily agreed to on both fides, as they faved the
plunder from the foldiers, for the viftorions com­
manders j at the fame time that they proteseci
D 6 tha
yGoogle
the perfons of the vanquiihed from licentious
outrage.
There is no inftance in which the cuftoms of
mankind are more changed than this. Former­
ly, when nations waged war, every thing the
vidlorious foldier could lay hold on was his
own, the perfons as well as the property of the
vanquiihed; and this more efpecially at the
taking of a town, which was the harveft of his
hopes. The excefles committed on thefe occa­
sions moft certainly required a remedy ; but it
were well if that remedy, as in other cafes, had
not been abufed ; and the care of reftraining
the excefs of the common foldiers made a pre­
text for depriving them of the reward of all
their toils and dangers, to enrich their Com­
manders.
The injuftice of making ilaves of the people,
for the ambition or avarice of their Prince, is fo
flagrant, that the pradtice has been univerfally
difcontinued among civilized nations, who alfo
affedt to ihow moderation in dripping them of
their property, particularly in this inftance of
towns taken by capitulation. But at whofe ex-
penfe is this moderation ? Why, at that of the
inferior officers and foldiers, who receive a pit­
tance of their own earnings that only infults
their neceffities, while the bulk is (hared between
their fuperiors. The injuftice of this is evident.
Either all fuch compofoion (hould be abolilhed
entirely, and the properties as well as liberty of
the
6o CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 61
the vanquiQied be preferved to them, or the
prize be more equitably divided with tbofe
from whom the plunder is taken, who ftruggle
with diftrefs, and brave death for a morfel of
bread, without any more hope of mending their
condition even by fuccefs, than the ox has of
eating the corn for which he labours to plow
the ground: and this lofs of hope is the reafon
why foldiers are not animated with the fame ar­
dour now as in former days.
But, grating as fo flagrant a partiality muft
be to a generous mind, there is one circum-
ftance, not obvious perhaps to you, that aggra­
vates the pain of it ftill higher: this is, the ne-
ceflity which the fufferers are under of fubmit-
ting to the infolence and extortions o f a fe t o f Clerks
and Agents who fatten on their fpoils, without
even pretending to any merit in the acquifition :
a reflexion that exafperates them againft their
commanders, by whofe favour thofe wretches
are introduced and fupported, and on whom
they father all their villanies.
Much as the cares of his fituation engrofled the
attention of my mafter, he did not forget his
promife to the Spanijh youth, but, ordering him
a guard of foldiers, bade him go, as foon as the
gates ihould be delivered up, and Secure the
convent where his O livia was confined from any
accident which might happen on fuch an occa-
fion in fpite of all their care, giving him at the
fame time a purfe of gold, in which I was, to
anfw
er
yGoogle
anfwer any prefent necettities, with diregions to
apply to him again, if he ihould have any fur­
ther need of his afiiftance.
My new matter did not want to have fuch a
commiffion repeated. He kitted the hand of his
benefa&or in a rapture of gratitude, and encou­
raging the guard afligned him with the moft li­
beral promifes, flew, the moment the gates of
the city were opened, to the convent, and de­
manded his O livia with the peremptory voice of a
conqueror, where the fight of the guard removed
every obje<3ion, and ihe was inftantly delivered
to him.
The meeting of thefe young lovers was moft
affe&ing. They flew into each other’s arms,
and embracing in extafy too big for -utterance,
gave vent to the fullnefs of their hearts by a flood
of tears.
Recovering himfetf at length, c‘ Come, my
** O livia (faid Alphonfo, taking her hand) let us
leave this place. Let us go”— —
O whither (interrupted ihe, ftarting wildly)
€i whither ihall I go f 1 have no home-----no
father to receive me.” -----
My home is your’s (anfwered Alphonfo, tm *
€i bracing her moft tenderly) we tvill go to the
c< houfe of my father, who cannot peifift in his
<
c cruelty, when he is informed how ilgnally
4
< Heaven has interfered, in our favour, and there
** we will confult on the means proper for pro­
curing the deliverance of Antonio. I have a
- “ protedloc
6* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
tc prote&or among the conquerors, the molt ge-
c< nerous of mankind, who will not refufe his
4
< affiftance on fuch an occafion.”
Thefe words comforted O livia with an hope,
for the accompliihment of which thought ihe
was indebted to another caufe.
The way from the convent to the houfe of
Alphonjo’s father leading them by the prifon of the
Inquifition, O livia was fo affe&ed at the fight
of it, that ihe fwooned away in the arms of
Alphonfo. Such an accident naturally threw the
whole company into an embarraflment; while
they were in the midft of which, a body of
Englijh feamen, who had flipped away from their
officers, and were roving about merely from cu*
riofity, and without intention of doing mifchief,
but ready to join in any that ihould fall in their
way, happening to come by, no fooner under­
flood from the guard what was the matter, than
looking at each other for fome moments, as if
waiting for the word of command, at length
one of them cried out, 4
4 Halloo, boys ! What
4
4 fay you? Shall we bail the gentlewoman’s
4
4 father? May-hap there may be fome of our
4
4 countrymen in the bilboes along with him !
4
4 Damn my eyes and limbs, but it would Be
4
4 good fu n to fet them all free! I fancy the
' 4
4 quifitors will not refufe our bail; if they do
4
4 I ihould be glad to pick a quarrel with them:
<4 I hate them mortally ever fince I faw them
xoaft fome poor Smouthes at Li/bon becaufe
they
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. «5
yGoogle
CHRYSAL î OR, THE
*4
4
4 they would not eat pork. Come ! chear away,
4
4 my hearts of oak! All hands aloft, and to
4
4 work.” '
Thefe words were like fire given to a mine.
He had fcarce finiihed, when the thoughtlefs
creatures without more ado ran to the prifon,
and, while fome of them were forcing in the
gates, the reft, mounting on each other’s fhould-
ers, climbed over the walls.
The moment O livia, now recovered from her
fwoon, faw the prifon open, 4
4 Now is the time,
4
4 Alphonfo! (faid ihe.) Now is the time to fet
4
4 my father free.” ----- -
The hint was fufficient. Alphonfo turned di­
' redily to the guard, and perceiving by their looks
that they were willing to aflift him, 4
4I go, my
4
4 love ! (faid he.) But where fhall I leave you
c< in fafety till I return ? Such a place cannot
4
4 be fit for your delicacy.” — ■
4
4 Speak not of leaving me ! (interrupted fhe
4
4 eagerly.) I will go with you! No delicacy
4
4 fhall interfere with fuch a duty.” ---- -
On her faying this, they 'all entered the pri­
fon, where the feamen were fhouting, and ikip-
|>ing about like fo many wild creatures, and fet-
ting all the prifoners at liberty, wherever they
went. ^
The fecrets of this prifon-houfe are too horrid
‘for defcription. I fhall, therefore, draw a veil
over them at this time, efpecially as another oc-
cafion will lead me into the fame fcenes again,
. w h e n
yGoogle
when the reprefentation will be more intereft-
ing. s;
No words can convey an idea of the tender-
nefs of the meeting between O livia and her fa­
ther, whom Alpho7ifo and fhe readily found out.
As foon as they had indulged the firft tranfports
of their joy, fhe informed him briefly how much
they were both indebted to Alponfo for their pre­
fent happinefs. Though her father was not at
a lofs for the motive of fuch generofity, he
thought it not proper to take notice of it at that
time. He embraced him tenderly, and befought
Heaven to reward his virtues.
4
4 The happinefs of ferying thofe moft dear
4
4 to us (faid Alphonfo, who had not the fame
<
c command of his temper) is its own reward,
4
4 O livia and her father have a right to every
4
4 thing in my power. But, let us leave this
4
4 place, the fight of which appals my foul. Let
“ us go to the houfe of my father.”-----
4
4 Lead on, my children ! (anfwered O livia9
$
4
4 father) I follow willingly and not without
4
4 hope of reconciling my friend to our general
4
4 happinefs.”
When they went out of the prifon, they found
the failors employed in executing a piece of ju-
ftice exailly in their chara£ter. They had
rambled all through the prifon, without doing or
defigning mifchief, till they came to the chamber
in which were kept the inftruments of torture,
the fight of which incenfed them to fuch a de­
gree
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *s
yGoogle
gree, that they inftantly refolved to make the?
Inquifitors themfelves feel the force of them in
their turn; but they, apprehenfiveof what might
happen, had prudently made their efcape by a
fecret paffage, as' foon as the prifon had been
forced, Difappointed thus in their defign, the
Tailors took all the horrid apparatus, with the -
habits, enfigns, books, &c. of the office, and
piling them up in the court, fet fire to the heap,
concluding the exploit with three cheers for the
honour of Old England5 after which they marched
off in queft of more fu n y as unconcerned as if
nothing had happened.
When Alpbonfo arrived at his father’s houfe,.
he found his mother juft finking under the weight
of affiitìion. On hearing his voice, fhe ftarted
up, and running to him, <
c O my fon t my
ct fon ! (exclaimed ihe, clafping him in her
4
< arms, and leaning her head upon his bofom.)
4
< Heaven has heard my prayers 1 I am not
4
< childlefs, though I am a widow t”— — 4
6 A
c< widow! (exclaimed Alpbonfo.) Forbid it, Hea-
4
< ven ! O my father !”— —
c< Yes, Alpbonfo ! " (continued (he, railing her
head from his bofom, which fhe had bedewed
with her tears) 4
4 Your father died, as he lived,
4
4 with honour, fighting valiantly by the fide of
4
4 his General, in defenfe of his country. But,
4
4 what do I fee ?” (cafting her eyes upon O li-
v ia y her father, and the guard, whom her fur-
prife had prevented her taking notice of before)
4
fc O liv ia !
«é~ CHRVSAL: OR, THÈ
yGoogle
4
4 O livia ! Antonio /— And who are thefe ftrange
“ men?— But, alas, I know too w ell!— OF
4
4 my fon, art thou then a prifoner to the ene-
4
4 mies who flew thy father !— Am I to lofe
4
1 thee again, the moment thou art returned ?”—
4
C No, my mother! (anfwered he) I am no
4
4 prifoner! They are our protectors, given by
cc the raoft generous of men, who has thus re-
4
4 ftored us to each other ! O 1 that my father
4
4 were alive, to make our happinefs com-
4
4 plete.”-----
4
4 Since Heaven has appointed otherwife,”
(faid Antonio, going up to Alphonfo*s mother,
who was weeping with OKvia% on whofe neck
fhe had fallen) 4
4 it is our duty to fubmit to its
4
4 pleafure. The circumftances of our lives
4
4 make it improper for us to think of living
4
4 any longer here. But that ihould not dif*
4
4 courage us. The virtuous find an home every
4
4 where ! We will remove to the dominions of
4
4 the Englijh, where I have lodged in honeft
4
4 hands fortune fufficient to make our retreat
4
4 happy. Under the protection of their laws,
4
4 a man’s mind is at liberty, and his wealth is
4
4 fecure. Mine was my only crime here 5 but
4
4 I was aware of fuch an attack, and had re-
4
4 moved it beyond the reach of thofe who im~
4
4 pioufly made religion the pretext for depriving
4
4 me of it. Were my friend Don Pedro living,
4
4 I would have removed the objections which
4
4 his high notions of honour made to an alii-
44 ance
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 67
tized by Google
gQ ance with my family, and prevailed upon hiim
to accompany us.” * Thefe words comfort­
ed the mother of Alphonfo, and made the lovers
happy.
Every thing being thus fettled, the guard was
difmified with profeflions of the higheft gratitude
to the generous Chief, which Antonio and A l-
phonfo propofed waiting on him to pay in perfon*
as foon as he fhould be more at leifure; and to
reward the foldiers for their attendance, Alphonfo
gave them the purfe of gold he had received
from his benefa£tor, and in which I was,* in the
divifion of which I fell to the lot of the ferjeant
who commanded them, who, looking upon me
as an earneft of the vail, treafures he was to re­
ceive as his ihare of the fpoil, went away with
an happy heart, to join his fellows, who Were
now in full pofleflion of the city.
• T
h
efto
r
yofAntonio fo
llo
w
e
dh
e
r
e
, b
u
tw
a
sfob
lo
t­
te
d a
n
d im
p
e
ife
& in th
e M
. S
. th
a
t th
e E
d
ito
r w
as
o
b
lig
e
dtoo
m
itit.
Cff CHRY6AL: OR, THE:
CHAP,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 69
C H A P . XII.
C h r y s a l makes fome Jlriking remarks on a
Jlate o f abfolute liberty. D i f appointment o f the
hopes o f the conquerours, w ith the natural confe-
quences. C h r y s a l ’s majler going to take a
tajle o f the pleafures o f affluence, is flammed out
o f bis treafure by a fu tlery into whofe fervjce
C h rysal enters.
H E conduit of man in fuch fcenes as
this, where he thinks himfelf at liberty
to follow the inftantaneous impulfe of his own
will, without apprehenfion of immediate punifh-
ment, fliows the groundlefs vanity of thofe, who
boaft fo loudly of the excellency of his nature,
and deny the neceffity of coercive laws.
It is true, no people ever abufed this liberty
lefs than the EngliJhj who fcorn to infiiit upon
others that oppreffion from which their laws
proteil themfelves ; as, on the other hand, flaves,
on a change of fortune, always prove the moft
imperious tyrants; but {till the circumftances
attending even the moft moderate exertion of it
are too (hocking for difpailionate description,
wherefore I (hall wave the painful talk.
As foon as fome degree of order was eftabliih-
ed in the city, the vidlorious commanders pro­
ceeded to divide the fpoil, a work fo r which they
till Jhowed their capacity in the mojl remarkable
manner,
3 Google
Digitized by
f CHRYSAL-. OR, THE
manner, the pittance which they thought proper
to appoint for the ihare of each of the private
men, who had literally bor’n the heat and bur­
then of the day being a trifle beneath the ac­
ceptance of any but a beggar who wanted a
morfel of bread, and not the fifty-tboufandtb part
of what the chief commanders, who comparative­
ly had lived in luxury, and iflued their order«
from places of fafety, modeftly owned to have
referved for each of themfelves.
Nor was the cafe of the inferiour officers, who
executed thofe orders, any better, their ihares
not being fufficient to defray the extraordinary
expenfes which they had been at, to provide for
the enterprife, much lefs the extraordinary ex-
penfe of living, where the indifpenfible necefla-
ries of life were fubjedt to the mod exorbitant
impofltions of an avaricious and arbitrary w ill;
fo that all they gained by their conqueft was to
exchange the dangers of war for the miferies
of want.
This difappointment of the hopes which alone
had fupported their fpirits through hardfhips al-
moft beyond the power of nature to fupport
filled up the black lift of the calamities which
attended this enterprife, aggravating by defpair
the difeafes to which the climate fubje&ed the
vi&ors to fuch a degree, that their lofs, after
their conqueft, exceeded many times that which
they had fuffered in the liege from fo many com­
bined caufes.
yGoogle
To
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. yi
T o the truth of this reprefentation, which
to unexperienced fpeculation may appear too
feverely drawn, the wretched remains of the
conquering army which returned to their ex-
haufted country bore a melancholy teftimony.
— But to quit thefe difagreeable reflexions !
Such a t.eafure as I was (greater much than
he had -ever been poflefled of before!) railed
the (pints of my matter, the ferjeant, fo high,
that he went direXly to a futler’s tent, to take a
tafte of the good living which he thought him-
felf fecure of for the remainder of his days.
On his entering the tent, and afking what
entertainment he could have, the Cutler, ignorant
of his wealth, anfwered with a curfe, that he
had none for fuch ihabby fellows as him, and
took him by the ihoulder to thruft him out«
Provoked at fuch an indignity to a perfon of
his prefent confequence, my matter turned upon
him, and pulling me out of his pocket, demanded
haughtily, why he might not have what he
would pay for, as well as another.
The fight of the gold inftantly changed the fut­
ler’s whole behaviour« c* My worthy friend !”
(faid he, flhaking the ferjeant by the hand.) “ I
« beg your pardon. I aXually did not perceive
« whom I fpoke to, I am fo hurried about.
“ But, come along with me, and 1*11 make you
« amends. I have a nice leg of a fowl which
“ was befpoke for your colonel$ but firji come
“ f i r
f i as frying i3> kere is foy
)0
7* C H R Y S A L j OR, THE
4
4 you ; and here is a bottle of wine, as cool as if
44 it: came but this minute from Iceland.”
My mailer was not proof againft fuch an invi­
tation. He f e ll to, without more ceremony,
and when he had finiihed his feail, calling to
know what was to pay, the futler anfwered,
Two doubloon^.
4
4 Two doubloons!— Two devils !” (faid the
ferjeant, flaring at fuch a demand) 4
4 for a leg
4
4 of an old hen, as black as Hell, and lean as
44 Belzebub ; and a bottle of rot-gut four cyder !
4
4 No, no, friend ! no fuch tricks for me. I am
4
4 not to beflammed fo neither.”
4
4 Why there it is now !” (anfwered the futler,
not much pleafed with my mailer’s looks.)
4
4 The moment a man grows rich, he grows
4
4 covetous. ’ I received the fame for the other
4
4 leg of that very fowl, this moment, from an
4
4 eniign, who by the fame token left his laced
4
4 waiftcoat in pawn for half the money. But
4
4 I will not fall out with you for fuch a trifle,
4
4 as I expedl more of your cuilom ; fo e’en give
4
4 me what you pleafe. You can’t think one
4
4 doubloon too much, I am fure ! But you {hall
4
4 make it up another time.”
Such an argument could not be refilled. The '
ferjeant threw me down upon the table with an
air of grandeur, and went to confider how he
Ihould lay out to the beft advantage, the trea-
fures which he expe£ted immediately to receive.
• C H A P .
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 73
CHAP. xnr.
CharaHer o f C h r y s a l ’j new maßer. The right
way not to fu jfer by making mißakes. A cu~
rious converfation betiveen C h r y s a l ’j rnaßer and
two perfons o f confequence lays open the fecrets
o f fome intereßing affairs. H e makes up a
fo o liß difpute by a fenßble toaß.
T W A S now entered into a fervice, which
opened to me fo many various views of hu­
man folly, vice, and wretchednefs, as made the
profpeä painful.
The manner in which my new matter got me
into his poflefticn ihowed his character in a
light fufficiently ftrong. But I foon had the
fatisfaftion of feeing that, with all bis addrefs
at impofition, he was himfelf no more than the
tool of the impofitions of his fuperiours, who
fcarce left him the pooreft gleanings to pick
up, after all the plenteous harveft: The juft
and conftant fate of all fuch wretches.
The continual hurry in which he was en­
gaged, though he had falfely alledged it as an
excufe for the treatment of my late mailer, the
ferjeant, was really fuificient to excufe any in­
advertency or blunder, and mutt have caufed ma­
ny in any one, whofe ideas were not fettled in one
V ol. III. E • certain
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c ~
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
n
certain courfe, out of which it was impoflible
to divert them. But I foon found, that he was
in no danger of that kind, all his thoughts
having fuch an invariable biafs to his own in­
tereft, that every miftake naturally fell to that
fide, for which upon detection his hurry was a
ready and probable excufe.
The ferjeant had fcarce left hint, when two
perfons entered, whom he received with every
mark of the moft obfequious ceremony and re-
fpedl. One of them I directly knew to be my
old matter, the Admiral’s clerk, as I foon found
the other to be in the fame important ftation
with the General. ‘
My matter, who was not at a lofs for the
occafion of their vifit, led them into the moft
private place in the tent, and fetting before them
a bottle of his heft, proceeded to buiinefs.
4
4 Mr. Admiral, to your good health ! Mr. G e-
4
4 Herald my very hearty fervice to you (faid
he, filling a brimmer, and addrefling each, by
the title of his matter, as he fhook them by the
hand.) <
4 Here is a good conclufion for the cam­
“ paign to us. I was impatient of your com­
ing to know how I fhould go on. Here have
4
4 been feveral officers with me already, for
4
4 credit on the fcore of their prise-money, for
4
4 the length of the fiege, and the dearnefs of
4
4 every thing, has not left them a penny, nor
4
4 any thing to pawn for one. I have got as
4
4 many clotheS| and things of all kinds, as
“ 4
4 would
yGoogle '
4
4would ferve to fet up a Monmouth-Jlreet mer-
4
4chant. If the place had held out but a few
4
4days longer, the poor devils muft have done
“ duty in their B uff. Ha! ha! ha !”
4
4 And the propereft drefs for them : (re-
4
4 turned the A d m ira l) Who wants any clothes
4
4in fuch a climate as this ? I am fure, I go
4
4naked half my time, though I keep under
4
4 cover, and have nothing to do to heat me.”
4
4 Very true ! (anfwered my mailer.) 4
4 But
4
4 naked and hungry both are not quite fo well;
4
4 and when their moveables were all gone after
4
4 their money, I don't know who would have
• 4
4 fupplied them.”
4
4 Then let them live on their allowance ?
4
4 (faid the General.) They who can’t afford
4
4to pay for better, ihculd be content with
4
4that.”----- '
4
4To die upon it, you ihould fay;” (inter-
4
4 rupted my mafter.) I am fure the ftores laid
4
4 in are fuch as no one can live upon, that has
4
4ever known what living was. For my part,
4
4 I-wonder the contradlors were not aihamed
4
4 to fupply fuch wretched fluff of all kinds.
4
4 They muft have no confcience at all who can
4
4 do fuch things.”—
4
4 Confcience! ha! ha! h a! who ever
4
4 heard a futler fpeak of confcience before!
4
4 (faid the Admiral.) 4
4 And pray, my con-
4
4 fcientious friend, what do you charge a bottle
4
4 forthis moft excellent wine of your’s ?”
£ z
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ;§
4
4For
CHRYSAL; OR, T HE
7*
4
4 For this wine ?” (anfwered my mailer,
palating it two or three times.) 4
4 I charge for
“ this wine only a p iß ole ; and, let me tell you,
4
4 that is not fo much, confidering every
4
4 thing. This Burgundy coft me five fhillirigs
4
4 a bottle, prime coft ; and, when you compute
4
4 every expenfe, you’ll find that my profit is
4
4 nothing extraordinary ; nothing at all in com-
4
4 parifon of what others get.”
“ No! to be fure! (replied .the General.)
4
4 Your confcience won’t fuffer you to do as
4
4 they do ! you are too good a man.”—
4
4 Too good a Chrißian, you ihould fay;
4
4 (interrupted the Admiral;) as appears by your
4
4 baptizing your wine fo pioufly ! ha! ha!
4
<ha ! Pray, what did the water coft, that is
4
4 mixed with this fame Burgundy ? I hope that
4
4 did not ftand you in five ihillings a bottle,
4
4 too, Ha! ha! ha !” .—
4
4 It is very well, gentlemen ! (returned my
4
4 matter, with a fneer.) You are pleafed tobe
4
4merry. But if I had not fome way to make
4
4out matters, I could never pay the exorbitant
4
4 taxes, which are fqueefed from me by fome
4
4 people whom I ihan’t name. And fo, here’s
4
4 my fervice to you both, once more ! When
4
4 you lower your compoßtion, I’ll letten the
4
4quantity of water, and mend mine. Ha!
4
4 ha ! ha !”—
4
4 And fo you had need (faid the General)
4
4 to make it drinkable : As it is, I wonder it
\ 4
4does
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 77
4
4 does not poifon every one that taftes it.
4
4 When I lived at the Shakefpear, we did not
4
4 give worfe than this to our company after
4
4 they were dead drunk !”
4
4 Worfe than this ! (added the Admiral.)
4
4 If you had given me half fo bad, I ihould
4
4 have broken your head with the bottle.”
4
4 Broken my head ! (returned the General)
44 fine words truely ! When you were a blue-
4
4 nofed journey-man Barber* and ufed to come
4
4 to me, to beg broken vi&uals, and bottoms of
4
4 bottles, you fpoke in another tone.” — —
4
4 And when I was Sir, (replied the Ad-
4
4 mirai) I had a good trade, and never looked
4
4 upon myfelf as upon a level with the Pimp of
4
4 a tavern.” ■■■■■
4
<
*And yet that pimping made you what you
4
4 are now !” (retorted the General, rifing up
in a paflion.) 4
4 You forget, perhaps, how you
4
4 begged of me to introduce your fitter to the
4
4 Admiral, by which means you got into his
4
4 fervice ! this is a fine return, indeed.”—
4
4 And you forgot too” (faid the Admiral,
ftarting from his feat, and catching at the
bottle) 4
4 that it was that fame fitter of mine,
4
4 who got you into the General’s fervice, if
4
4you go to that, fo that I think the obligation
4
4 is equal.”—
4
4Gentlemen! dear gentlemen !” (interrupted
my matter, clapping a hand to each of their
collars.) 4
4 Conllder what you are dorng ! What
E 3 4
4 will
yGoogle
7* CHRYSAL* OR, T t i E
“ will the world fay of fuch a quarrel between
** gentlemen, who ought to agree like brothers.
4
4 For ihame! every body will laugh at you i
<
c Come, fit down, and be good friends, and
tc I'll try if I have not one bottle of better
4‘ wine, over which we’ll make up all mat­
«
« ters.”----- Then bringing it, and filling his
glafs, 4
4 Come gentlemen,” (continued he,
fhaking each of them by the hand) 4
4 I’ll give
“ you a toaft that (hall drown all animofity :
4
4 Here is profperiey to pimping! It is the beft
4
4 trade going, and has made us a ll! Aye, and
4
4 is pradtifed too by people in every Ration,
4
4 however they may affedl to turn up their nofes
4
4 at it. So let us attend to our bufinefs, and
4
4 not fall together by the ears for nothing, like
4
4 a parcel of dogs about a bare bone. It figni-
4
4fies nothing what we have been ; if we mind
4
4 our bits now, we fhall all be gentlemen, as
4
4 good as the beft of them$and as well refpedled,
4
4 too.”
The Admiral and General faw the force of
what he faid^ and, pledging his toaft, ihook
hands, and were as good friends as ever.
C H A P .
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
' C H A P . XIV.
Continued. The myfleries o f agency and. convex
; nience o f amilitary government^ withfyme curious
notions o f the genteeleji ways o f rifmg in life•' *
4
4 T T 7E L L , gentlemen,” (faid my mailer,
V V \vho was not pleafed at their jells up­
on his liquor, becaufe he could not deny the
truth of them) “ I hope, that wine pleafes you !”
“ A y e ! (anfwered the Admiral) ttfis is
4
4 the right fo r t! this is the thing. Give us this 5
4
4 and keep the other for officers, and fuch as
4
4 are not ufed to better.”— —
4
4 And if it poifon3 them (added the Ad-
4
4 miral) the pimlick will have the fewer to pay.
4
4 Now they have done the *bufinefs, let them
4
4 live cr die as they can, we care not. That’s
4
4 nothing to us.”
4
4Very true ! (Did my mailer.) All we
4
4 have to do, is to make the moil of them while
4
4 they do live ; and therefore I ihould be glad to
4
4 know, as I faid before, how far I may ven-
4
4 ture to go with them, on the credit of their
4
4 prize-money; for, as the place was faved from
4
4 being plundered by the articles of capitulation,
4
4they mufl all get money on their fhares, whe-
4
4ther they will or not, their neceffities aré
4
4 fuch.”
E 4
Digitized by Google
“ So
4
4 So much the better for us, who can buy
4
4 their (hares : (anfwered the Admiral.) They’ll
4
4 give the better bargains. Their neceflity is our
4
5 gain.”-----
4
4 Aye! (replyed my mailer.) But I don’t
4
4 find they intend felling. All they propofe is,
4
4 to mortgage.” -----
4
4 Then, let them fee who’ll give them mo-
4
4 ney: (faid the General.) No! no ! no mort-
4
4gages for us. An abfolute fale or nothing.
“ We’ll have no after-reckonings; no over­
“ hauling accounts. As to their being unwilling
4
4 to fell, we’ll manage that matter with them.
4
4 When you have got them fufficiently in your
4
4 books, call for your money, and, as it will be
4
4 impoflible for them to pay, apply to the com-
4
4 mander in chief, who will oblige them to do
4
4 you juftice,” *
Why! to be fure, that mud do! (anfwer-
4
5 ed my mailer.) But how far am I to truft
“ them ?”-----
4
4 This will (bow you ! (replied the Gene-
4
8ral.) Here is the rate of all their (hares. Look
4
4 at the fum total. What noble fortunes that
4
4 would have made for half a dozen reafonable
4
4 men. It went to my heart to fr itter it away
4
4 among fo many.”----- '
4
4 This! this the rate of their fhares !” (faid
my mailer, not able to conceal his aftoniihment,
when he looked at the paper which the other
gave
to CHRYSAL; OR, THE
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 8 1
gave him.) i4 Is it poflible that this ihould be
4
4 all ?”
4
4 Yes ! (returned the Admiral) and too
4
4 much for them, too. More than moft of them
4
4 ever had before, or will make a good ufe of
4
4now.”-----
4
4 Why, they’ll mutiny, and cut all our
4
4 throats (returned my mailer.) There are
4
4 feveral of them, who owe me almoft as much
4
4 as this already. I thought they would have
4
4 had ten times this fum at lead. They’ll cer-
4
4 tainly mutiny, and cut all our throats.”
4
4Don’t you give yourfelf any trouble about
4
4 their mutinying! (faid the General.) Do you
4
4 mind your bufinefs, and leave us to take care
4
4 of that. Their fpirits will hardly be fo high !
4
4 If you have gone hand over head, and trufted
4
4 them fo far, you muft abide by the lofs. I
4
4 thought I gave you a friendly caution about
4
4 that before.” -
4
4 And fo (returned my mailer) I am not
4
4 to go beyond this rate, you fay r”-----
4
4 Not a penny! (anfwered the Admiral.)
4
4 That is your rule. Whatever you can beat
4
4 them down of that (hall be your own.”
4
4 That is, deducing five per Cent. agency !
4
4 (interpofed the General) and five or ten per
4
4 Cent, as you can make your bargain, for
4
4 prompt-payment $ for we will not appear to
4
4 have any hand in the affair, further than pay*
4
4 ing ydu the money. Ic muil not be known
w that we are concerned in the lead.” — ■ ■
E 5 4
4You
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
4
4 You concerned ! (replied my matter.) I
4
4 don’t underftand you. Are you to be concern-
4
4 ed with me, jn what I buy ?”
4
6 Not in the leaft (returned the Admiral ;)
4
4 any further than by employing you to aft for
4
4 us. You feem to miftake the matter entirely.
4
4 You are to buy the {hares for us, according to
4
4 this rate, for which we will allow you a proper
4
4 agency : and that is all the concern you are
•4to have in the affair.” -"-—
4
4But I fuppofe (faid my matter) I may
44 buy on my own account, if I pleafe !”-----
4
4Buy on your own account ! (interrupted
44 the General.) Such another word, and you
4
4 ihall neither fell nor buy any thing here. Are
44 not we the Commander’s agents ? And do you
4
4 think they will fuffer us to be interloped up-
4
4 on ? You may be very well content with thé
44 profits of your own bufinefs, without thinking
4
4 to interfere in our’s.”
441 aik your pardon, gentlemen !” (faid my
matter, who knew their power too well to dif-
pute with them.) 4
4 It was only a miftake. I by
4
4no means prefume to interfere with you ; and
4
4 ihall be proud to execute your orders, on
4
4 whatever terms you think proper. I fuppofe
4
4 though our former compofition is to end. Pro-
4
4 vifions will now come in from every part, fo
4
4 that we can never think of keeping them up at
4
4 their former prices.”
' " Can’t
t '
Is C H R Y S A L : OR, T H E
yGoogle
4
4 Can’t you fo? (anfwered the General.)
44 That ihall be your own fault then ; and your
4
4 own lofs too, I can tell you. Let provifions
44 come in as they will, no one ihall fell an
4
4ounce here without oui permiflion, and that
4
4ihall be on our own terms, you may be affured.
4
C Our hands are not tied up by laws. Our’s is
4
4 a military government, in which we can do
4
4 what we pleafe without being accountable to
4
4 any one. So you may go on as before.”
4
4 But, gentlemen (replied my mailer) you
4
4 ihould confider that the whole odium of this
4
4 will fall upon me, as you do not appear in it,
4
4 fo that I ihall lofe my charadler for ever.”
4
4 Your chara£ter! Ha! ha! ha! (in­
terrupted the General) a futler’s charadler!
4
4I ihall never be able to bear the word again !
4
4 Pray, my good friend, whatchara&er hadafut-
4
4 ler ever to lofe, that would not be a greater
4
4 lofs to the finder ? Come, here’s my fervice
4
4 to you. Go on with your bufinefs, and make
4
4 money, and never fear fuffering by the lofs
4
4 of your charaiter. It is time for us to go,
4
4 and fettle what taxes we ihall lay upon the
4
4 different kinds of merchandife that ihall
4
4 be brought here. Our duties ihall be paid,
4
4 as well as thofe of any king of them all.
4
4 This is our reign; and if we do not make
4
4 the moil of it, we have no one to blame
4
4 but ourfelves.” *
E 6 4
4 And
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. S
j>
yGoogle
*4 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
4
4 And as rich as fo many kings you will be £
4
4 ffaid my mailer) if you can carry off things in
4
6 the manner you fay.” ----
4
4 As to our being rich! (returned the Ad-
4
4 miral) that depends entirely upon our own
14 management. Our principals, indeed, will be
4
4 rich enough, which is all they care for; not
4
4 what becomes of us, whom they would
4
4 have do their bufinefs for nothing, or next to
4
4it, But they (hall find themfelves miftaken.
4
4 Every thing muft go through our hands ; and
4
4gold in handling w ill Jlick to the fingers, as the
4
4 fong fays. We ihall feather our nefts, in
4
4 fpite of them» They cannot do without us;.
44and will hardly be fond of calling us to
4
4 too drift an account, for fear of our telling
4
4 tales. To be fure, the great harved will be
4
4 their’s ; but we will take toll.”
4
4 I don’t doubt but you will (faid my ma-
4
4der) twice over, for fear of midake, as the
4
4 miller does. Why, you’ll make fuch fortunes,
4
4 that you won’t know what to do with your-
4
4 felves.”
4
4 Never fear that! (anfwered the General.)
4
4 We ihall not be at a lofs. For my part, I de-
4
4 fign to buy a borough, and puih my fortune
4
4 in Parliament. That’s the genteeleft bufinefs
4
4 a gentleman can follow now, and the readi-
4
4eft way of advancing in life, and making a
4
4 family.”-----
4
4 Now,
yGoogle
4
4Now, I think otherwife (faid the Admiral;)
4
4 and that it .is the moft ungenteel way ; fuch
4
4dirty jobs are required for every thing a man
4
4gets, that it is beneath a gentleman to do
4
4them. My fcheme is to *buy an Irijh Peerage
4
4 at once, and then live fplendidly, without
4
4 troubling myfelf about any thing. Or, if I
4
4ihould grow tired of idlenefs, go into Parlia-
4
4 ment there, and turn Patriot, and make
4
4fpeeches for the good of my country.”
4
4 Both your fchemes may be very good }
4
4 (faid my matter) but my ambition is not fo
4
4 high as either, at leaft as yet. I will try to
4
4get a Contract; and then I ihall not fear
4
4making a fortune fufficient to do what you
4
4 propofe, or more if I choofe it, without being
4
4 fneered at for my folly. You may fay what
4
4 you will, but there is more to be got by a
4
4contrasty than by every other way ; and, there-
4
4 fore, it is thegenteeleft in my opinion. How
4
4 many contrastors have I feen buy noblemen’s
4
4fine houfes, and members of Parliament’s
4
4eftates, with the profits of a fingle campaign f
4
4 And fo, M y Lord, and you, moft honourable
4
4 M r. Member, I am your humble fervant.”
4
6Honeft M r . ContraSior (replied both, at the
Mfame time) Your’s.”
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
yGoogle
C H A P.
u CHRYSALi OR, THE
C H A P . XV.
Affecting confequences o f carrying the foregoingfchemes
into execution; with the conclufeon o f the charac­
ter and hijiory o f C h r y sa l’s majler. C h r y -
sal changes his fervice,
AS foon as this worthy pair had left my ma­
tter, he fet about his bufinefs of preying
upon the neceflities of every one who came
near him, with as much keennefs as a vulture
tears a carrion, and with as little feeling, or he
could never have gone through with it.
The tranfadHons I now faw are a pain to me­
mory. For the few firft days after their fuccefs,
the officers, under the fame intoxication with my
late matter, the ferjeant, gave a loofe to every
kind of extravagance, to compenfate to them-
felves for the wants and hardfliips they had
(uttered. But, nofoonerhad they advanced near
the limits prefcribed to their credit, than the
whole fcene changed.
The firft mention of the amount of their re-
fpe&ive (hare was like a clap of thunder burft-
ing over their heads. Their aftonifhment for
iome time deprived them of their fenfes. But
when they were able to make a proper enquiry,
and found the cafe to be too true, their rage
broke through all bounds, and rofe almoft to
defperation. The horrours o f a ja il, the cries o f a
Jlarving
iy
Goo le
fla w in g fam ily, every aggravation of human mi-
fery flared them in the face, and made the very
thought of returning to their native country too
terrible to be endured. But there was no re­
medy. Thofe, from whom alone it could pro­
ceed, were too much interefled to liften to their
complaints; and, inflead of preventing, permit­
ted their authority to be proftituted to complete
their ruin, in the manner propofed by their
agents, fo that the unhappy viftims were forced
to fubmit to the terms impofed upon them.
The confequence of this, as I have faid before,
was that, to drown reflexion, they fpent what­
ever trifle remained to them on concluding the
bargains which fealed their ruin in ftill greater
exceiTes, and fo precipitated the diftrefs they
feared.
As for the private men, the impofitions they
fuffered were, if poffible, ftill fcverer (though
from their infenfibility perhaps- not fo feverely
felt) as the management of their affairs went
through many more hands, every one of whom
had a pull at them, down to the very loweil
clafs of the harpies which prey upon an army, fo
that what remained to them was too trifling to
be of any fervice, even to the very few who
ftruggled with their neceflities in order to fave it.
I have not entered minutely into the particulars
of this horrid fcene. This flight iketch will
give you a general notion of it, and that is as
much as an humane heart can bear, indeed, no
defcription
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. tf
yGoogle
defcription could reach the truth. I (hall, there­
fore, only juft finiih, the outlines of my mafter*s
character, and then pafs on to the occurrences
in my next fervice.
The extortions to which he was himfelf forced -
to Submit, from thofe in authority, took off
every (hadow of ihame (to conscience he had
long been a ftranger) and added double keennefs
to his natural propenfity to extortion, by giving
it what he thought the appearance ofjuftice, and
provoking him to wreak his refentment upon
others, for what he Suffered himfelf from thofe
above his reach.
The opportunities for exerting his talents this
way were infinite in a profeftion that is a myfte«
ry of iniquity too complicated to be unravelled,
too black to be conceived, but upon experience,
which he had acquired to the moft confummate
degree, in the gradual progreftion of his life..
A natural fharpnefs of genius, which ought to
have been curbed, not encouraged, had influen­
ced his parents to bind him when very young to
an attorney, under whom he learned, befides
other valuable qualifications, the nice diftin&ions
between law and juftice, fo as to know criti­
cally how far he could infringe upon the latter,
without danger of getting within the reach of
the former : Bur, encouraged by much fuccefs,
he had at length unluckily happened to go too
near thofe boundaries, and been obliged to quit
that profeftion ! after fome common fteps of
4 dsfcent
IS CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
defcent from which, fuch as bailiff’s follower,
knight of the pojl, and bully to a bawdy-houfe, he
flopped in that of footman to a beau, from
which the neceflary arts of prevaricating$
lying, and evading difagreeable demands, the qua­
lifications of his former chara&er, foon raifed
him to be his gentleman.
In this ftation, he added to his flock of ac-
complifhments, natural and acquired, pimpings
fervility, adulation, and an abfolute command of
countenance, on the ftrength of all which, toge­
ther with fome little money, the fruits of his
honeft induftry, on his matter's fixing his habi­
tation in a jail, he fet up a tavern, where his
fecond-hand politenefs and cringing behaviour foon
brought him into bufinefs that enabled him to
live better than he could have any right to have
cxpe&ed, and would in time have procured him
an independence.
This fuccefs, which would have fatisfied a
reafonable perfon, only raifed his ambition, and
made him defpife his bufinefs. Accordingly, he
commenced wine-merchant, as more fuitable to a
gentleman, in which profeffion he went on, till
bis one-korfe chafe, his country houfe, and kept-
mijlrefs would have brought him back to his
primitive poverty, had not his knowledge of the
world taught him how to fecrete from his credi­
tors, fomething to try his hand upon in fome
other way, when he pitched upon his prefent
occupation of afutler, in which this account of
hla
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
yGoogle
his life (hows he was moft eminently fittOcJ to
Atake a figure. ..
J Thus qualified in himfelf, and fupported bjr
his employers, he proceeded making his bargains',
with a fuccefs, to which it may be thought no
regard to honefty, no fenfe of compaflion, was
the leaft impediment. He flattered, profefled
the higheft refpe£t and attachment, and prefled
his goods upon his deftined viilims, with every
iniinuating art, till he got them into bis fnare,
when he dire&ly put on all the infolence of pow­
er, and made even ruin ftill more wretched by
the cruelty with which he drove them to it, the
infenfibility with which he treated them after.
How often have I feen him refufe to truft for a
glafs of what he called wine, to cool his raging
third, and comfort his fainting heart, the man
whom but the day or two before he had cajoled
into the excefles which drew him into that
diftrefs.
After fome days of painful attention to fuch
(hocking fcenes, I had the pleafurc of being
paid away to the captain of a merchant (Hip, for
fome liquors, which he had the addrefs to de­
ceive the vigilance of the ruling powers, and ail
their emiflaries, and convey impoji-free’ to my
mailer.
$ 9 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
C H A P .
ADVENTURES O
F A GUINTA. |i
C H A P . XVI.
C h r y s a l ’j mafter/wallows a pill, and pleads an
important caufe without faccefs. A curious me-
thodofparrying one falfe oath by another, with
thefirjl oath taken bythe majler of a merchant•
man. HeJhows another injlance of his Jkill in
fleering clear of perjury, but without his former
fuccefs. His notion of am
feience• CH
RY8AL
. changes hisfervice. '
THE care which I knew to be taken to de-
ted and puniih this kind of illicit trade made
me wonder at firft that it ftiould even be at­
tempted 5 but I foon found that the danger of
fuch dete&ion when it depends folely on the
confeflion of thofe concerned, however forceful
the means made ufe of to extort that confeflion,
is held at naught by a fet of people, bred in the
grofleft ignorance of every principle of moral
virtue, or religious obligation, and hardened by
long habit into contempt of- whatever claihes
with their intereft.
When I came into the polleflion of my new
mafter, he was going to attend the two great
m
en> whofe converfation with $e futler I have
juft now related, in obedience to a fummons
fent him the moment he entered the harbour.
The reception he met with was fuited to their
importance. He was obliged to wait a confi-
derable
’ >og!e
derable time, before they were at leifure to fee
him, when being admitted to their prefence, and
having delivered in his bill of lading, and taken
his oatby that he had no private trade on board,
nor any thing which was not contained in that
account; they informed him what duties he muft
pay on every article, before he ihould be per­
mitted to land them»
My.mafter, though he was fufficiently apprifed
of this before, affe&ed furprife, and attempted to
expoftulate with them on the illegality and in-
juftice of fuch a demand, alledging that the
goods had been purchafed at the higheft prices,
in order to fend a fpeedy and effeftual fupply- to
the troops, who were known to want them, fo
that there could be no advance made upon
them, which could defray fuch additional duties;
that his owners, not in the lead fufpe&ing any
fuch, had given him no power to pay them;
and that many of the commodities, being of a
perifhable nature, muft be damaged if not per­
mitted to be landed dire&ly, by which means
not only the merchants would be great lofers,
but alfo the troops fuffer feverely for the want of
common neceifaries, which they could not other-
wife be fupplied with.
But all he could fay had no effeih They did
not even deign to make him any anfwer, further
' than that they had authority for what they did,
and expe&ed obedience, not arguments, which .
they had not leifure to liften to.
Such
9* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 9 Î
Such a repulfe, however unjuft in itfelf, and
perfonally offenfive in the manner of it, was far
from giving my mafter any concern. On the
contrary, the difficulties which it threw upon the
bufinefs of his owners afforded him an oppor­
tunity of carrying on bis own private trade to
better advantage, which no oaths they could de-
vife were able to put a ftop to, as an inftance or
two of his conduit will ihow. ~
Some fufpicion having arifen of his commerce
with the futler, of which no direit proof could
be obtained, he was fummoned to appear before
the tax-gatherers, to acquit bim felf by bis oath of
fo heinous an offenfe.
The futler, who knew the confequence of be­
ing convicted, and with all his knowledge of the
world faw no poffibility of avoiding it, gave
himfelf up as ruined : but my mafter foon
fhowed him the convenience of a confcience
trained to fwearing, for calling -upon him the
morning they were to appear at the dread tri­
bunal, and feeing him fo caft down, “ Chear
<
c up, brother (faid he.) I’ll bring you fafe
through this ftrait! By the virtue and con-
“ tents of this book (pulling one out of his
«
« pocket, and killing it in form) I will never
«
« fwear that you have bought any thing from
me; fo, throw off that fneaking, Tyburn look,
“ and come along.”
Such an affurance naturally gave the futler
feme fpirits; though he could not conceive how
he
yGoogle
44
he meant to make it good; but a little time
cleared up the myftery, and ihowed him the force
of a cuftom-houfe oath.
As foon as the two culprits appeared before
their judges, the latter, affuming all the dignity
of their office, exaggerated the charge in the
ftrongeft colours, and adminiftering the oath to
my mailer, demanded, in an authoritative tone,
whether he had not fold uncujiomed goods to the
fuller, and to what amount; who, not in the
leait difconcerted either by the queftion, or the
manner in which it was put, 4
4Why look ye,
4
4 gentlemen” (anfwered he, turning the quid
in his cheek, and pulling up his breeches at the
hips, with both his hands) 4
4as to that affair,
4
6 by the virtue of my oath, i f I Jhould/wear
4
4 that I fold him any, I Jhould heforfw orn, and
4
4 I’ll always try to weather that point, if I
4
4 can.” ----- •
As there was no more than a general fufpicion
againft the criminals, this anfwer fatisfied the
fagacity of their judges, and they were difmifTed
with flying colours.
When they were alone, 4
4Well ! (faid my
4
4 mailer, (baking his friend by the hand) I told
4
4 you I’d bring you off. Let that be an
4
4 example to you for the future. None hut fools
4
4 conviEl themfelves; and none hut greater fools
4
4 expett it. I ihould have little bufinefs in the
4
4.merchants fervice, if I fcrupled to fwalloW
4
4 fuch a pill as that every day of my life! No !
44 no!
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
3
** no! they mufl be cunning if they can make
4
4 an oath, that will flick in the throat of the
4
4 captain of a merchant-man, even if he can’t
4
4 find an opening to fleer through, as was the
4
4 cafe here. We have afalvo for fuch things.
4
4 The firji oath we takef as foon as we get into em-
4
4 ploymentj is, never tof wear the truth to a Gieftom-
4
4 houfe Officer while we live ; fo that all the oaths
4
4 they give us go fo r nothing ”
But with all his clevernefs he fometimes failed
of fuccefs. A lieutenant of a man of war hap­
pening, as he was rowing guard one night, to fee
a boat put off from our fhip, purfued it, in hopes
of making fome reprifals for all the extortions
he and his brethren daily fuffered from every one
concerned in trade, as he knew it mull be a
ftnuggler. ■
The hope of a prize made the crew of the lieu­
tenant’s boat pull with fuch fpirit, that they
gained fail upon the chafe% which the others fee­
ing, and that it was impoffible for them to get
clear off, they threw their cargo over-board, to '
difappoint their purfuers of their expedted booty,
and then ran the boat a-fhore, to fave them-
felves from being taken, leaving her of courfe
to the captors for their trouble, who towed her
away ip triumph.
The chief of the fmugglers was my mailer’s
fon, who, in the account he gave him of the af­
fair on his return, was proceeding to tell him
the names of thofe who had been with him, when
the
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. **
yGoogle
the father flopping him (hort, 4
4 Avaft! (faid he)
4
4 coil up your tongue. I defire to hear no
<
4 more of them. Have you a mind to make
4
4 me forfwear myfelf when I go to recover my
4
4 boat? For have her again, you know, I muft,
4
4 as I can’t get another here, nor carry on any
4
4 bufinefs without one.” -----
Accordingly, next morning he made a pub­
lick enquiry after his boat, which he pretended
had been ftolen from his (hip’s fide, and find­
ing her in the poffeflion of the lieutenant, de­
manded to have her reftored dire&ly, and on
his refufal had him fummoned before the offi­
cers of the cuftoms, who were judges in fuch
affairs.
As he grounded his claim on her having been
taken without his privity, and by perfons un­
known to him, he was put to the common teft
of an oath, whether he knew who had been in
her when (he was purfued by the captors. 4
4 By
4
4 the virtue of m
y oath, gentlemen (anfwered
4
4 he without the lead hefitation) I do not know
4
4 one of them
So direct an anfwer fatisfied the judges, who
were no ways concerned in the affair ; but that
was not the cafe with the lieutenant: 4
4 Hold,
4
4 Sir ! (faid he to my matter, who was (heer-
4
4 ing off, laughing in his lleeve.) What is that
4
4 you fay?” -----
4
4 I fay (anfwered my matter, nothing difcon-
4
4 certed) that I don’t know one of them.” — —
4
4 One
3* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
4
4 One of them! (returned the lieutenant, who
4
4 inftantly faw through his evafion.) But, don’t
4
4 you know any of them, though ? Take care
4
4 what you fay! Perhaps I know more than
4
4 you think I do !”— —
4
4 Why, as to that (replied my mafter, laugh-
4
4 ing) I cannot fay fo much. Perhaps, I may
4
4 know fome of them.”—
4
4 How!” (interpofed the judge, offended at
an anfwer, which he thought ihowed a flight
to his authority.) 4
4 Did you not fwear, this
4
4 moment, that you did not know one of
4
4 them ?” — -
. 4
4 No more do I! (anfwered my mafter.)
4
4 There were twelve in the boat, of whom I
4
4 know only eleven ; and fure, in that cafe, I
4
4 can fafely fwear I do not know one, that is,
4
4 the twelfth of them. Ha ! ha! ha !”----- •
4
4 Take care, Sir (replied the judge) how
4
4 you attempt to trifle in this manner be-
4
4 fore us again. You know the puniihment
4
4 of perjury, if you ihould be caught trip-
4
4 ping.” -----
4
4 Never fear! (faid my mafter.) I know the
ct com
pafs of my confcience too well for that.
4
4 I can fleer as near that wind as another.
4
4 Thus! thus! andno nearer, is my trim. I’ll
44 never break an oath ; but if I can give it the
4
4 go by, at the Ice-Jsde thus, by a double mean-
4
1
4 ing, I hope that’s-no offenfe.”—
V q l . III. F Then
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 97
yGoogle
CHRYSAL * OR, THE
1«
Then turning to the lieutenant, u Well, Sir !
44 (continued he) it Teems you have carried too
4
4 muchfailfor m
e this trip / But, if I meet you
4
4 upon a wind again, mind your helm, or I may
44 chance to fall aboard you. However, fince J
4
< can’t have my boat cheaper, I muft e’en
44 come to your terms, To what do you aik for
4
« her?” -----
To this propofal the lieutenant made no ob­
jection : fetting, therefore, his price, 44Zounds!
41 (faid my mailer) I believe you have no con-
44 cience at all, to aik a man To much, and for
44 his own boat!— —
At his mentioning confcimce, all prefent fet up
a loud laugh, and repeated the word.
Nothing abaihed at which, 44You may laugh
44 as much as you pleafe (continued he) but my
44 notion of confcience is, not to aik out of rea-
44 Ton for any thing one has to difpofc o f; and
44 fo, Sir, if you have a mind to part with the
44 boat, I’ll give you half what you aik; and
44 I ihould think even that too much, but that
44 I want her, and do not know where to get
44 another.” '
44 And as I want to fell her, and do not know
44 where to get another purchafer! (anfwered
44 the lieutenant) you iball have her. Not that
44 I think fhe comes very cheap to you upon the
44 whole, neither! You have fworn well for her,
44at leaft,”
, V As
yGoogle
€t A s to that matter (replied my matter) that
<
c is my bufmefs, and not your’s. Here is
“ jour money; sfnd that’s all you need care
<
c for,”— Saying this, he paid him for the
boat, and then walked off, without concern or
ihame,----- 1 here quitted his fervice, of which
I was heartily tired, and entered into that of the
Lieutenant.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 99
F 1 CHAP.
b
yGoogle
XU CHRYSAL: OR, TH£
C H A P . XVII.
CHRYSAL makes fame reflexions on the policy o f
impoflng oaths o f exculpation. The proper method
of preferving the validity o f oaths, with the confe-
quences o f their being adminiflered indifcriminately
to all perfons9 and on all occafions. An uncommon
lefture from a Captain o f a man o f war to his
Officers reprefents fome polite amufements in an
odd light•
ISee you are fhocked at fuch flagrant inftances
of profligacy, of bare-faced contempt of every
thing moft facred and important. They cer­
tainly are a reproach to human nature ; but that
reproach muft not be confined to thofe alone
who obvioufly incur it. They who from falfe
principles of policy give the occafion, againft the
convidtion qf reàfon and experience, are at leaft
equally guilty.
The impotency of man to refift temptation is
fuch, that he is taught to pray againft it ! Why
then ihould thofe, who are entrufted with the
care of directing his adfions in the common in-
tercourfe of life, lay fnares to lead him into it,
which there is no probability of his avoiding ?
Appealing to the atteftation of the Deity, is
moft certainly the higheft aflurance poflible to
be given by any being, who has a fenfe of his
dépendance
yGoogle
dependance on that Deity; nor ihould ever be
j*iven but on the moft important occafions, and
in the moft folemn manner; nor accepted but
from fuch as may be prefumed to underftand the
nature of it.
In fuch circumftances it would never be vio­
lated. Man is not fo defperately abandoned as
to run with his eyes open into inexplicable per­
dition. But when that atteftation is given light­
ly for every trifle, when it is placed in oppoii-
tion to intereft, and demanded from fuch as can­
not be fuppofed to know its confequence, the
reverence which ihould be its guard is taken pfF,
the violation becomes familiar, and of courfe,
the end, for which it is thus impioufly and in-
judicioufly proftituted, difappointed ; and by that
means the moft facred aflurance of life rendered
void, the bond of focial confidence and fafety
broken.
The effe£ls of this abfurd policy of making
the obligations of religion the common teft of
truth on trivial occafions, and where intereft is
concerned, are more extenfive than is generally
imagined. The immediate wants of nature en-
grofs the attention of the greater part of man­
kind too much to let them fee the congruity of
moral virtue, however evident to exerted reafon;
wherefore, the threats and promifes of religion
were found neceflary to enforce the pra£tice of
it : but as the accomplishment of thofe is placed
at a diftance, when they interfere with prefent
F 3 enjoyments,
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, v n
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
102
enjoyments, their force wears off, the threats
lofe their terrours, and the promifes are flighted
by thofe, who look no farther than the inftant
moment: and this is the great fource of that im­
morality and irreligion fo prevalent in life, and
which will never be corre&ed, till legijlators make
oaths lefs common, prevent their interfering with the
fw earer9
s own interejl (as in the inftances which
gave occafion to thefe reflexions) explain their na­
ture before they are adminijlered, and in fift injlant
punijhment on their violation.
My new mailer had but juft returned on
board, when the Captain received orders to go
and aflift the operations of the war in another
%part of the world. The news raifed every one's
fpirits. The fight of a place in which moft of
them had been guilty of excefles which drew
them into diftrefs, and where all had been fo
wretchedly difappointed, was neceflarily disagree­
able ; and consequently a removal to another,
where a new objeft attracted their attention
from fuch reflexions, and awoke new hopes,
however likely to end in fhe fame manner as the
former, gave them pleafure.
There was a decency in the behaviour of both
men and officers in this fhip, fo very different
from what I had feen in others, as to ftrike me
with an agreeable furprife. But I was not long
at a lofs for the reafon. As foon as the fhip was
under fail, the Captain fummoned all his officers
into the great cabbin, and after fome general in-
ftru&ions
CHRYSALj OR, THE
yGoogle
ftru&ions about their duty, 4
4 Gentlemen,” (faid
he, addrefting himfelf to my mailer, and an­
other, who had been but lately appointed to his
ihip) 4
4 as we have never failed together before*
4
4 I muft defire your attention to a few hints*
4
4 which I always take the liberty to give it*
4
4 fuch circumftances.
( u We are now ihut up together in a prifon*
4
4 where the unavoidable inconveniences of our
4
4 fituation make all our care neceflary to pre-
4
4 vent its becoming infupportable to us. For
4
4 this reafon, the firft thing I recommend to
4
4 you is, not to game, Befide the danger of dif-
4
4 agreement when the paflions áre agitated by
4
4 the viciflitudes of play, our pay is fcarce fuf-
4
4 ficient for our fupport, fo that the leaft lofs
4
4 muft be diftreifing, the confequence of which
4
4 muft be general unhappinefs, for who can fee
4
4 his companion miferable, without iharing in
4
4 his mifery ?
4
4 There is another thing, ágainft which,
4
4 though not commonly confidered in this light,
4
4 I muft earneftly caution you, as inevitably
4
4 throwing a gloom over that chearfulnefs of
4
4 mind, which is the greateft happinefs of life,,
4
4 and to us muft fupply the place of every other
4
4 happinefs, and this is the vice o f profane curjing
4
4 andfw earing, to the reproach of our fervice
4
4 too prevalent among us.
4
4 There is no man, however hardened in this
4
4 deteftable habit, but knows it to be a crime*
F 4 and
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ro*
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
4
4 and feels a check from within every time he
4
4 is guilty of it, the repetition of which felf-
4
4 accufation four? his temper, and makes him
4
4 difTatisfied with himfelf, and every perfon and
4
4 thing about him. For the truth of this I ap-
4
4 peal to unvaried experience. Who ever faw
4
4 a man ferenely.chearful, that was addi&ed to
4
4 this vice? (I might fay indeed to any vice,
4
4 but as our fituation precludes us from the prac-
4
4 tice of moil others, I mention thefe only, into
4
4 which we may fa)1) for occaiional mirth is a
4
4 very different thing, and too often leads into
4
4 confequences deftruflive of ferenity of mind,
4
4 efpecially when it is raifed by means incon-
4
4 fiftent with virtue.
4
4 I do not fpeak of the effetSl which the prac-
4
4 tice of virtue has upon our refolution. The
4
4 courage of a Briton can never be doubted;
4
4 but ilill there is as much difference between
4
4 that of a virtuous and a vicious man, as of
4
4 the fame perfon when fober, or intoxicated
4
4 with liquor. The former is uniform, Heady,
t4 and attentive to improve every advantage, or
4
4 remedy any misfortune; the other boifterous,
4
4 headlong, and blinded with paflion ; for paf-
4
4 fion only can make a man face death, who in
4
4 the cool moments of reflexion is afraid to
4
4 die. In a word, one is the courage of a man,
4
4 the other the raQinefs of a brute.
4
4 Againil thefe two things, therefore, gaming
4
4 and jw earing, I take the liberty to caution
4
4 you,
10 4 CHRYSALs OR, THE
yGoogle
4
4 you, as a friend, who is fincerely defirous of
4
4 your welfare; but there is another vice, in re-
4
4 fpedt to which I do not think tnyielf obliged
4
4 to obferve the fame delicacy; and this is
4
4 drunkennefs, which is liable to be attended
4
4 with fuch dangerous confequences in our fitua-
4
4 tion in particular, for I think it unneceflary
4
4 to mention any other, that I ihall ever exert
4
4 all the authority entrufted to me to fupprefs
4
4 it, and therefore it is but juft for me to de-
4
4 clare, that no officer, who is once guilty of
4
4 it under my command, ihall ever do duty un-
4
4 der me more.
4
4 This, gentlemen, is what I had to fay to
4
4 you. The obfervation of thefe few hints will
4
4 make us happy among ourfelves, and refpedl-
4
4 ed by our men, without which it is impoffible-
4
4 for us to be well obeyed by them ; for, hced-
4
4 lefs and profligate as they may appear, they
4
4 are the fevereft critickson the condu& of their
4
4 officers, and not only, like people in higher
4
4 Rations, revere the virtues which they have
4
4 not refolution to imitate, but alfo aftually do»
4
4 imitate them in a great degree.”
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 105
F 5 C H A P.
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
xc$
C H A P . XVIII.
The folly o f a performs projlituting his character to
pleafe his company aggravated by the dangerous
mijlake o f ridicule fo r applaufe. C h r y s a l ’ j
majler clxinges place with the Chaplain, and
preaches him an interefting fermon, in which,
among remarks more ju ft than polite, he gives cm
uncommon reafon fo r the particular deformity o f
vice in women.
IHave already taken notice of the effefl which
the advice and example of the Captain had
upon every one in the fliip. The officers lived
like a family of brothers, and the men did their
duty with regularity and pleafure; -but, though '
all paid due refpedt to what he faid, it was im-
poifible to work fuch an inftantaneous reforma­
tion, but that fome of them would now and then
jeft among themfelves upon his conduQ, as, from
comparifon with that of others of his rank, in-
confiftent with his chara&er 5 and in other re-
fpedts indulge in the levities of dificcurfe and be­
haviour too general among perfons not much ac-
cuftomed to the rules of rational conversation.
But, whatever allowances the circumftances of
their education might claim for fuch Tallies in the
officers, the perfon who tranfgrefled moft was
certainly entitled to none. This was the Chap­
lain, who, to avoid the imputation of being hy­
. politically
yGoogle
pocritically fan&ified, ran into the oppofke ex­
treme.
The felfiih vanity of man always takes plea-
fure in feeing any perfon debafe himfelf by add­
ing beneath his chara&er, efpecially if that cha­
.radter is fuch as appears to be placed in a more
refpedlable point of view than their own. The
officers, who in general look upon a chaplain as
no better than lumber in a Clip, and think he
is placed as a kind of check upon them, were
pleafed with his proftitution, which he, by a
common miftake of ridicule for applaufe, gave
Cill further into, imagining they laughed, with himy
when, in reality, they laughed at him.
But my matter beheld the matter in another
light, and taking an opportunity one day, when
the chaplain and he were by themfelves in the
ward-room, 4
4I have obferved with much con-
4
4 cern, Sir (faid he) that you are falling into
4
4 an error, which I have known prove fatal to
4
6 many gentlemen of your profeffion. This is, de-
4
4 parting from your character, in order to accom-
4
4 modate yourfelf to what you think the humour
4
4 of your company. Believe me, Sir, no man
4
4 ever did fo, who did not immediately fall into
4
4 contempt with the very people whofe appro-
4
4 bation he ftrove to purchafe at fo dear a rate.
4
4 The greateft libertine defpifes a clergyman
4
4 who is a libertine; and the 'reafon is plain.
4
4 You are fet apart from the rejl o f mankind, to
4
4 perform the rites o f religion, a?id inculcate virtue
F 6 4
< by
ADVENTURES OK A GUINEA. ja7'
yGoogle
loS CH RYSAL i OR, THE
4
4 by your precepts and example; and fo r this you
4
4 are paid by the publicity who expeft that you
4
4 Jhould earn your wages, by doing your duty ; and
4
4 look upon thofe who do not as no better than
4
4 cheats. This may appear an odd way of
4
4 fpeaking, but it is true neverthelefs.
4
4 On the other hand, where a clergyman ful-
4
4 fils bis duty, and enforces his preaching by
4
4 his pra&ice, though he may not abfolutely
4
4 reform all thofe with whom he converfes, yet
4
4 he will certainly work this good effedt, that
4
4 he will keep them in awe, and prevent their
4
4 running into outrageous lengths of wicked-
4
4 nefs, at lead in his prefence. For, whatever
4
4 people may inconfiderately imagine, no man
4
4 ever afted in charafter, who was not refpeftedj
4
4 no man ever afted out o f charafter, who was
4
4 not defpifed.
4
4 Do but refledt a moment, in what light
4
4 you yourfelf would look upon a lady, who
4
4 fhould fpeak obfcenely, fwear, drink, and
4
4 talk of fighting, and it will fhow you the
4
4 juftice of this remark. For what makes thefe
4
4 vices fo particularly hateful in a woman, is
4
4 not any thing in their nature particularly con-
4
4 tradidlory to the fex, more than t)ur’s, but
4
4 becaufe they are contrary to her character.
4
4 I beg your pardon, Sir, for talking to you
4
4 in this free manner, in refpedfc to your con-
4
4 dudt, which I am fenfible concerns only your-
4
4 felf > but as the errors you have fallen into
, 4
4 appear
yGoogle
4
4 appear to have rifen merely from inadvertency
4
4 and miflake, I think it my duty to caution
4
4 you againft the danger of them, particularly
4
4 in your prefent fituation, with which I have
4
4 had the opportunity of being much better ac-
4
4 quainted than you poffibly can be. I was in
<
c the fervice long, very long, before you were
4
4 born, and have been intimate with many
4
4 chaplains, but never knew one who profti-
4
4 tutcd his charader to humour his company,
4
4 who was not negleded by them when they
4
4 had it in their power to have ferved him $ as,
4
4 on the contrary, I have known many in-
4
4 fiances of thofe who have reaped the happy
4
4 fruits of'a regular and virtuous condud, by
4
4 which they acquired an eileem that proved
4
4 the foundation of their fortune; and if all
4
4 have not been equally fuccefsful, their dif-
4
4 appointment muft be attributed to fome other
4
4 caufe.
4
4 I would not by this be underftood to ad-
<
c vife you to a morofe diftance and ftiffnefs of
behaviour, or afperity of reproof upon every
“ occafion. They feldom, if ever, do good,
u in any fituation; in your’s they will certainly
“ do hurt, by picquing falfe pride to ad in op-
4
4 pofition to them, without regard to tiie confe-
4
4 quences. An obliging temper, and an uni-
4
4 formly decent condud, lead infenfibly to imi-
4
4 tation, where contradi&ion or dired admoni-
<
4 tion would he held impertinent. Thefe hints
4
4 are
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 109
yGoogle
t€ are fo obvious, that they may feem unnecef-
<
c iary; but it is want of attention to them
€
< which has made fo many chaplains mifcarry
€t in life, and indeed has brought the very cha-
“ rafter into difrepute.”
The chaplain, who wanted neither natural
good fenfe, nor virtuous inclination, was (truck
with the juftice and force of this rebuke. He
thanked my mailer in the mod ingenuous man­
ner, and promifed to regulate his future conduft
by his advice. Such a change at firft naturally
expofed him to the merriment of his companions j
but as my mailer took his part, and ihowed them
the injuftice of fuch behaviour, it foon wore off,
and he had the heart-felt fatisfaftion to find him-
felf treated with friendly refpeft and confidence
by thofe whofe grofs familiarity had before often
given him pain, as it evidently implied contempt.
,110 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P .
yGoogle
C h r y s a l defcribes true compaffion 5 and Jhows
the general confequence of a man's acknowledging
dijirefs, with the reafons o f it. Chrysai/j
majler is prevailed upon by his captain to tell him
the caufe o f his melancholy, which is removed by
an aft o f uncommon generofity. C hrysal en-
ters into a new fervice.
S the captain maintained the moft
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, ux
CHAP. XIX.
friendly intercourfe with his officers, he
foon obferved that my mailer laboured under
fome heavy diftrefs of mind. This naturally
raifed his compaffion, and as real compaffion
never fees dijirefs^ which it is not defirous o f allevi­
ating^ he frequently took occafion, when they
were by themfelves, to turn his difcourfe upon
fuch fubje£ls as he thought might lead him to
open himfelf; but .finding that modeily, or a
referve contra&ed from long acquaintance with
misfortune, and obfervation that the knowledge
o f a man's being in dijirefs always Jinks him in the
.ejleem o f his companions, by cutting o ff their hopes o f
fervice from him, and alarming their apprehenfions
o f his expefting afftflance from themi prevented
his taking the hint, he refolved to break through
forms, and aik him dire&ly.
Seeings him, therefore, one day, walking the
quarter-deck, in a mood of deepeil melancholy,
he
Digitized by Google
II» CHRYSALî OR, THE
he called him into the great-cabbin, and defiring
him to fit down, after a little general chat, 4
4 I
4
4 fear, Sir (faid he) that fomething hangs
<
c upon your fpirits. If it is proper to be com-
4
4 municated, let me know what it is, and de-
4
4 pend upon every afliftance in my power to
4
4 make you eafy. I afk not from idle or im-
4
4 pertinent curiofity.”
4
4 Sir,’* (anfwered my maftcr, ftruck with
the manner in which he fpoke) 4
4 I believe you
4
4 above the influence of fuch motives, and fliall
41 therefore obey your kind commands without
4
4 fcruple. It is too true that 1 am unhappy ;
4
4 and I fear my unhappinefs is too common.
4
4 I have devoted my life to a profeflion in which
4
4 I have ferved my country above forty years
4
4 with fidelity ; and I will take the liberty to fay
4
4 with fume fuccefs : And now, when my con-
4
4ftitution is broken with wounds, fatigue, and
4
4 change of climates, when nature calls for reft
4
4 and refreihment, the only reward I have to
4
4 expedl is poverty, and its infeparable attend-
4
4 ant, contempt. This, Sir, is the caufe of my
4
4 unhappinefs; and fuch a caufe, as I believe
4
4you will think to be a juft one.”
4
4 Very true, Sir (replied the captain) it is
4
4 ajuft one; and what muft affedfc every man of
4
4fpirit, and a generous way of thinking. But
4
Cyou ihould not yield to it too far! You are
4
4ftill in the vigour of life ; and, while the war
4
4 continues, fhould look forward with hope.
4
4Though
yGoogle
“ Though you have been unfuccefsful hitherto,
“ fortune may prove more kind.”
“ Alas, Sir! (returned my mafter.) I have
“ been fo long cheated by hope, that I now
<
c deteft it. When I came out upon this laft
“ expedition, our force made me fo confident
“ of fuccefs, and I was fo well acquainted with
“ the wealth in the place, that I unhappily gave
“ wajr tp hope, and ran into expenfes, which,
“ though far from being unneceffary, were im­
“ prudent, and threaten now to involve me in
“ ruin, on my return home, as it has been
“ thought proper by our fuperiours to rate our
“ fervice in the conqueft at fo low a price.”
' “ If that is the cafe, then ! (faid the captain)
4
4do not return till matters mend. Whenever
“ I am ordered home, I'll take care to get you
“ removed into another fhip. Your ftaying
“ abroad on fucli an account is not inconftftent
“ with the ftri&eft honour, as you do it with an
•* intention truely honeft.”
“ Dear~Sir (anfwered my mafter) that is
“ very true. But I am precluded even from the
4
4 wretched relief of a voluntary exile. I have
4
4 a wife and children at home, the apprehenfion
4
1 of whofe diftrefles drives me to defpair. It was
4
4to clothe and fettle them in a little habitation,
4
4 where they might enjoy the indifpenfible ne-
4
4 ceilaries of life with fome degree of comfort,
4
4 that I anticipated my fuccefs, in the manner
4
* I mentioned $ and now, as that fuccefs has
4
4 fallen
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. si$
' Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
4
4fallen fo far ihort of what I thought juft ex-
4
4 pe&ation, all the former favings of my life
4
4 (favings from the very neceffities of nature)
4
4 will be torn away by the rapacious hands o f
4
4 mercilefs creditors, to make up the deficiency
4
4 in the articles bought of themfelves to dif-
4
4 charge their demands, and my wretched family
4
< thrown upon the unfriendly world, without
4
4 its being in my power to affift them. I muft
4
4therefore return, and go into a jail, to prevent
4
4 their ftarving in the ftreets. What afte&ed
4
4 myfelf only, honeft indignation enabled me to
4
4 fupport. I have feen boys, whofe ignorance I
4
4 defpifed, and men whofe principles I detefted,
4
4 preferred to command, while my fervices were
4
4over-looked; but, as I had not the intereft
14 of the former, nor the modijh merit of the
4
4latter, I bore my fate with patience. But to
4
4 have thofe dearer to me than life expofed to
4
4 mifery, is more than I can bear.”—
4
4 Nor fliall you bear it !” (replied the captain,
who had feigned to cough, to hide the fympathe-
tick tear that gliflened in his eye) 4
4 Nor ihall
4
4 you bear it ! How much is the debt that
4
4 alarms you ? I will advance it for you di-
4
4 redly; and not that only, I will take upon
4
4me to make your merit (to which I am no
4
4 ftranger) known to your fuperiours, in fuch
4
4 a light as ihall not fail of juft reward.”
4
4 O Sir!” (returned my mafter, as foon as
the fullnefs of his heart gave him utterance)
4
4how
H4 CHRY8AL: OR, THE
yGoogle
4
4 how can I fubmit to obligations, to which it
C
4is impoffible 1 fliould ever make any return !99
4
4 All the return I defire (anfwered the captain)
4
4 is your friendihip. Speak ! how much do you
4
4 want ? The pacquet is yet in fight. I will
4
4 order a fignal to be made for her, and give
4
4you a draft upon my agent.” ■ —
4
4 Gopd Heaven! (exclaimed my matter.) Can
4
4there be fuch virtue in man.” — -
4
4 Come ! what is the fum ?” (interrupted the
captain, who wanted to ihorten a converfation,
that began to be too afte£ttng to him.) 4
4 I ihall
4
4 think you doubt my fincerity if you hefitate to
4
4 accept of my friendihip.” — -
4
4 Such a doubt” (returned my matter, whofe
heart a guih of tears had lightened) 4
4 would be
4
4 a blacker Crime than ever ftained my foul!
4
4 No ! I receive your beneficence with humble
4
4 gratitude, as from the hand of Heaven, nor
4
4 will mention any other return but what mail
4
4 be made to that, till it (hall be pleafed to blefs
4
4me with better ability.”
Then pulling out his pocket-book, 4
4 Here is
4
4 the account of what I owe,” (continued he,
giving him fome papers, and a purfe containing
little more than his (bare of the price of the
fmuggler’s boat:) 4
4 And here is all my worldly
4
4 wealth, which is no more than an aflignment
4
4 of my miferable prize-money, and thefe few
4
4 pieces of gold, thrown by fortune in my way,
4
4 inoftly fiace our hands were tied up by the
4
4 capitulation.
ADVENTURES OP A GUIÑEA. «5
:y( le
4
4 capitulation. For the balance I muft be
4
4your debtor.”
4
4 For the balance !” (anfwered the captain,
returning the purfe and the alignment.) 4
4 No !
■
4
4 you (hall be my debtor (if you will call it fo !}
4
4 for the whole. It would be ftrange friendihip
4
4to ftrip you of every thing. You may want
4
4 yourfelf.”-----
4
4 Excufe me, Sir,” (interrupted my mailer,
unable to fupprefs the delicacy, the dignity of
honour) 4
4 I am not fo low a wretch, as to ac-
4
4cept of more than I indifpenfibly want; and
4
4 that for perfons dearer to me than myfelf. If
4
4you will not permit me to make the debt as
4
4 light as I can, it is impoffible for me to receive
4
4your friendihip, however effentiai to the hap-
4
4 pinefs of my heart. I am forry you ihould
4
4 have entertained fo mean an opinion of me.,>
—•
4
4 I have the higheft opinion of you !” (replied
the captain, who faw what pain he had given
him) 4
4and fpoke in the warmth of my regard,
4
4 without the moil diftant defign of giving you
4
4 offenfe. But you ihall make your own terms,
4
4 on this condition, though, that, if you have
4
4 any occafion for money, you will apply to me
4
4 with the freedom of a friend.”
Tofuch a propofal, it was impoffible to refufe
aflenting. My mailer complied, and the cap­
tain taking the money, & c. from him, delired
that he would order a fignal to be made for the
pacquet, and write his letters, while he him-
fclf
Ii6 CHRYSAL: OR, THE *
yGoogle
felf ihould draw a bill upon his agent.— The
fentiments expreffed by the captain made it a
pleafure to me to pafs into his fervice on this oc-
cafion.
As foon as the lieutenant went out, my new
mailer walked a turn or two about his cabbin, in
the exalted happinefs of confcious virtue ; ahd
then drawing a bill for confiderably more than
the lieutenant was to pay, he defired that he
ihould be called, and when he entered,“ I beg
“ your pardon (faid he) for interrupting you,
“ but it is to deiire that you will prefent my
<
c compliments to your wife, and tell her 1 beg
Ci ihe will accept of a trifling prefent from me,
<
fcwhich I have taken the liberty to include in
“ the bill. Come ! no words ! In this I will
4
4not be contradiâed.”
<ç O Sir !” (anfwered the lieutenant, catching
his hand, as he reached him the bill, and killing
it eagerly) 4
4 this is too much ! my heart will
4
4 buril.”— Saying which, he went out of the
cabbin, in a filence more expreffive of his foul,
than all the flights of eloquence.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *17
C H A P .
yGoogle
CHRYSALi or, t h e
I I I
C H A P . XX.
Hijiory o f a lieutenant o f a man o f w ar. A compa-
rifon between the rewards o f merits in the land
andfea fervices ; with a remarkable injlance o f a
great mat!s remembering an old friend . The
confequence o f attempting to fe t up fo r a mender
o f manners, and o f a mar!s not meeting an oppor­
tunity o f making him felf remarkable.
W
H EN every thing was fettled, and the
pacquet failed, the lieutenant defired leave
to wait upon my matter; and as foon as be
entered, “ I come, Sir (faid he) to pay you the
“ thanks, which the fullnefs of my heart would
c<not let me utter before. You have raifed
“ me to happinefs from the loweft ftate of de-
u fpair.”— —
“ Hold my friend !” (anfwered my matter,
taking his hand, and fqueefing it tenderly.)
€
• Speak no more of it, 1 conjure you. I am
u abundantly overpaid for what I have done, by
<
c the pleafure of having ferved a man of merit;
€t and fhall think you repine at my happinefs
€
C in being able to purchafe that pleafure, if I
ever hear the affair mentioned more.”
✓
T o relieve the lieutenant, whom he faw op-
preffed with gratitude, he then changed the con-
verfation to another fubjedt, when the lieutenant
¿bowed fo much good fenfe, and folid judgement,
* that
I .
yGoogle
that my mailer could not forbear expreffing his
aftoniihment, that fuch a man ihould have been
fo long unpromoted in the fervice.
4
4 If you can have patience to bear the ftory
4
4 of my life (anfwered the lieutenant) it will
4
4 foon explain that difficulty to you.— My
4
4 father was an officer in the army, who
4
4 was rewarded for the lofs of a leg, and thirty
4
4 years fervice, with the half-pay of a captain
4
4 of foot. As he had a wife and^children to
4
4 maintain and provide for, he retired to a cheap
4
4 county, where he lived in the moil rigid
4
4 ceconomy, in hopes of faving, for he could
4
4 not make any thing, being precluded from
4
4 every kind of induftry, by the profeffion to
4
4 which he had devoted his youth.
4
4 The firft acquaintance a itranger gets in a
4
4 country place is tfce parfon of the pariih. It
4
4 was my father’s happinefs to fix his habita-
4* tion, where there was a clergyman, who
4
4 would have been a valuable acquaintance in
4
< any place, and who was equally happy in the
4
C acquifition of a rational acquaintance in him.
4
4 The common intercourfe of neighbourhood
4
4 was, therefore, foon improved between them
4
4 into the ftrongeft friendihip, in the intimacy
4
4 of which, as my father would often naturally
4
4 mention his anxiety fof his children, his friend
4
4 perfuaded him to breed me, the eldeft, to the
?4 fea-fcrvice, in which he thought he himfelf
4
4 might
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 119
yGoogle
fC might be able to ferve me, by his interelt
4
4 with feveral commanders, with whom he had
4
4 been acquainted formerly, when chaplain to
4
4 a man of war. * That is the fervice !* (would
the good man fay, with pleafure fparkling in
his eyes.) * That is the fervice in which merit
4 is never disregarded. You would not have
4 been laid afide after thirty years, to pine upon
4 five {hillings a day, if you had been bred to
4 the fea. No ! no ! merit is all that is necef-
4 fary there/
4
4 Such an argument was too flattering to my
4
C father’s hopes to be refilled. Though he
4
4 felt the evil of not having been bred to buli-
4
4 nefs himfelf, he was charmed at the thought
4
6 of his fon’s being placed in the way of rifing
4
4 to an higher fphere, and readily aflented to
4
4 the advice of his frieifd, who, not content
4
4 with mere advice, infilled on taking me home
4
4 with him, and giving me fuch an education
4
4 as ihould qualify me to make a figure in the
4
4 profeflion to which he had dire&ed me. 4If
4 ever a man of merit in the fea-fervice (would
4 he often fay) fails of rifing, it is for want of
4 having had a good education to found his
4 hopes upon. A mere feaman may work a
4 {hip, but an Admiral ihould be a fcholar/
4
4 How well this reafoning was founded expe-
4
4 rience daily (hows; though it would be in~
4
4 gratitude in me to arraign it, as the little tafte
4
4 for letters which I acquired from his care,
4
4if
!!• CHRYSALi OR, THE
5
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
ADVENTURES OF A GUTNEA. I*t
** if it has not contributed to my advancement,
4
4 has at leaft enabled me to fupport the Ihock
4
4 of difappointment, as well as to avoid many
4
4 evils, into which I have feen others, who had
4
4 not the fame advantage, fall.
4
4 At fixteen (for he infilled that it was mod
4
4 wretched policy to turn a boy loofe upon the
4
4 world before he had come to the ufe of reafoil,
4
4 and was well inftrudted in the principles of
4
4 morality and religion, for the fake of gaining
4
4 a couple of years advance :) At fixteen, l fay,
4
4 I was fent to fea, provided with a cheft of
4
4 books, and mathematical inftruments, and
4
4 a-good fuit of clothes, not to diferedit the re-
4
4 commendation which my beft friend gave me
4
4 to an Admiral, with whom he had been moil
4
4 intimate when a lieutenant; and whofe reaefi-
4
4 nefs to ferve him in any thing he would not
4
4 admi$ a doubt of.
4
4 On my prefenting my letter, the Admiral
4
4 at firft had forgot the name, but recolJe&ing
4
4 himfelf at length on my mentioning fome
4
4 circumftances which I had often heard
4
4 my friend dwell upon with pleafure,
xt Very true (faid he) I remember him now.
4
4 He made the beft bowl of punch of any man
4
4 in the navy.”——
4
4 This was all the notice the great man took
4
4 of him, or of me on his account, except
4
4 I Ihould add, that on his captain’s obferving
V o l . H I. G 44 I ihould
yGoogle
T2Z C'HRYSAL: OR, THE
4
4 I ihould make a good figure on the quarter-
4
4 deck, I was dire&ly rated a midihipman— a
4
4 favour for which I foon found I was indebted
4
4 to his caution of fending me well dreffed,
4
4 much more than to his intereft.
4
4 Though I felt this difappointment of my
44 firft hopes very feverely, on my friend's ac-
44 count as well as my own, I could not think
4
4 of ihocking him with the news, but faying,
4
4 in general terms, that I had been well received,
4
4 refolved to apply myfelf to my bufinefs, and
4
4 try whether I could not deferve that favour
4
4 which he had failed to procure me.
4
4 As I had been accuftomed to converfation
4
4-very different from that of thofe with whom
4
4 alone I could now converfe, I took every opr
4
4 portunity, when off duty, of running to my
4
4 books. But the relief I found from this was
4
4 for the prefent over-balanced by the#general
4
4 ridicule, into which it drew me; efpecially,
4
4 as I not only avoided obfcenity, fwearing,
4
4 and drinking myfelf, but had alfo been fo
4
4 imprudent as to rebuke others for them.-' I
4
4 was immediately nick-named the parfony and
4
4 avoided by every one in the (hip.
4
4 I need not defcribe to you the fituation of
4
4 a petit officer, infultcd by thofe below him,
4
4 ridiquled by his equals, and looked down upon
4
4 with contempt by his fuperiours, who forget
4
4 they ever were in his Cation themfelves. I
4
4 bore it for fifteen years, at the end of which
4
4 time
yGc • le
4
4 time, having the good fortune to be fent to
4
4 London, with a prefs-gang, on purpofe to
4
4 mortify me, fori always difiiked that particu-
4
4 lar duty more than any other in the fervice,
4
4 on feeing an advertifement in the news-papers,
4
4 that all who were qualified by their ftanding
4
4 to be lieutenants in the navy ihould attend
4
4 to pafs their examination, I offered myfelf
4
4 without any other introdu&ion, or intereft,
4
4 and was appointed to a ihip.
4
4 In this ftation I have now done my duty
4
4 for five and twenty years, without reprehen-
4
4 fion ; but as I have no corporation interejl to
4
4 puih me at home, none of the modern polite
4
4 accompliJJments to recommend me to the
4
4 favourites of fortune, whom I occafionally
4
4 meet in the fervice, nor have ever had the
4
4 good luck to find an opportunity of making
4
4 myfelf remarkable, by any adion of eclat,
4
4 though in itfelf no more than a fuccefsful
4
4 blunder, my uniforn cdndu& and care have
4
4 patted unnoticed, and I remain a lieutenant
4
4 ftill.”
The circumftances of this itory affeded my
matter in the ftrongeft manner. He took the
lieutenant by the hand, and defiring him not to
defpair, repeated his promife of ufing all his
intereft to ferve him, of the fuccefs of which he
had no reafon to doubt.
Nothing particular happened during our voy­
age, One inftance, though, of my matter’s con-
<
■ 0 2 dud
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. is;
' Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
î J H CHR YS AL: OR, THE
dud in his military capacity I cannot forbear
mentioning, as it ihows his charader in the
ftrongeft light, which was, that he never inter­
fered in the bufinefs of his officers, but if he
happened to fee any thing which he difapproved,
inftead of interpofing his own authority publickly,
and giving contrary orders, he always fpoke pri­
vately to the officer on duty, and giving his
diredion under the appearance of advice, let the
alteration proceed as immedietely from him, by
which means he fpared him the pain of being
found fault with before the men, and confe-
quently leflened in their opinion.
This delicacy not only endeared him to them
all, but alfo contributed greatly to advance the
fervice. For as every officer knew that he ihould
have the credit, or bear the blame of his own
adions, they all exerted themfelves with the ut-
moft ardour ; whereas, on the contrary, where
a captain is continually interfering, and leaving
nothing for his officers to do, they grow carelefs
of courfe, and do nothing, as they know he will
arrogate to himfelf the merit of fuccefs ; if they
do not even take a malignant pleafure in any
mifcarriage, the blame of which they have fo juft
an opportunity of throwing upon him*
C H A P *
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, itg
C H A P . XXI.
I n uncommon method o f carrying on a war \ w ith
the danger o f fpeaking the truth too plainly, at an
improper time, C h r y sa l’j mafter meets his
brother. Some account o f him. H e reprefents
certain matters in an odd light, C h ry sa l en­
ters into his fervice. Conclufton o f his character.
C h r y sa l quits his fervice, on an uncommon oc-
cafm y fo r onefrom which he paffes, in the ufual
courfe o f bujinefs, into that o f the General.
W
H EN we arrived at the place of our de­
stination, we found the ihore covered with
an extenfive encampment, and every thing wear­
ing the appearance of the moft a£tive war.
The firft thing my mafter did was of courfe
to wait upon the General, whbfe operations hei
was fent to affift. He met him viewing an occa­
sional fortification, which he had caufed to be
raifed to train his army to the method of making
regular fieges and attacks; and marking out a
piece of ground to be fowed with vegetables, to
. correct the bad effe&s of the fait provifions
which hi9 men had lived upon in their paftage
thither, and preferve them in health. ’
The account he received from my mafter of
the heavy lofs fuftained in the expedition from
which he had juft come, gave him vifible plea-
iufc, as it feemed to fet his own conduit, which
' G 3 was
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
was diametrically the reverfe of that obferved
there, in the moil advantageous light,
4
4 I wonder (faid he, looking around him with
14 an air of confcious exultation) how officers
4
4 can reconcile it to themfelves to throw away
4
4 the lives of their men in fuch a manner ! For
4
4 my part, I a&'upon very different principles.
4
4 I take care not only to give my troops an in-
4
4 fight into all the various branches of the mi-
4
4 litary art, but alfo to keep them in fuch
4
4 health as may enable them to reap the advan-
4
4 tage of their experience. There is nothing
4
4 fo bad in war as precipitation. It was the
4
4 fo;e caufe of the late General's defeat and
4
4 death." ■■ ■—
4
4 Y es!” (interrupted an officer who flood
near, and had -hearkened to him with evident
impatience.) 4
4Delay is full as bad. Your troops
4
4 want neither health nor experience to con-
4
4 q.uer every oppofition they can poflibly meet;
4
4 and will accomplifh the end they were fent
4
4 upon before your cabbages are fit for them to
4
4 eat, if you will but lead them againft their
4
4 enemies, and not give them time to retire
4
4 with their effedls into places whither it is im-
4
4 poffible for an army to purfue them, while
4
4 your men wafle their time and fpirits in the
4
4 foolifh parade of mock battles and fieges, till
4
4 they lofe- their ardour with delays which can
4
4 anfwer no end but that of protradling the war,
V and thereby lengthening alucrative command."
Such
1x6 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
Such an attack was quite unexpected, and
ftruck the General with equal furprife and in­
dignation, as it touched him in the tendered
part; however, diflembling his paffion, of which
he had an abfolute command, “ I would have
tc you to know, Sir (faid he) that I think it
the higheft aflurance in you to attempt cen-
“ Turing my condudt, who are fent merely to
“ execute my orders. When I afk your opi-
<
c nion, it will be time enough for you to give
“ it, till then, obedience, not advice, is what
** I expefl from you. If I did not hold it be­
neath me to fhow refentment to one fo abfo*
<
c lutely fubjeft to my powder, you ihould in-
<
c ftantly find the effect of this infolence. But
{< prefume not on that prote£Hon any further, as
<
c you regard your fafety. No man provokes
“ me with impunity.”— — .
N — n— nor me!” (fputtered the officer,
yrhofe temper, hot as that of the General was
cool, caught fire at the fainteft ihadow of of-
fenfe, and flamed almoft to madnefs, as foon as
rage permitted him to articulate a word) <
c Nor
4
4 m— m— me. I feek no p— p— prote&ion but
ic my fword, with which I will v
<
—v— vindicate
“ my own honour, and make good what l.fay.—
4
4 Talk to m— m— me of fafety and im— p—
44 P — punity !”—
The affair now became ferious, thefe words
ftrikingat the General’sfafety aswell ashishonour,
and convincing him that he muft fupport his dig­
G 4 nity
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. lay
yGoogle
nity by a vigorous effort. 4
4 What! (retorted
4
4 he, therefore, with a tone and air of offended
4
4 authority.) Do you menace me, too ? I fup-
4
4 pofe you defign to raife a mutiny in the army,
4
C but I'll prevent that.”— Then turning to an
officer who attended, 4
4Take that madman away
4
4 (continued he) and put him under a guard,
4
4 till he recovers his reafon. Such behaviour
4
4 muft not go unpuniihed.”— Then addreffing
himfelf to my mailer with an affe&ed unconcern,
as above being moved by what had happened,
while the other was led away fpeechlefs and con-
vulfed with rage, he politely invited him to
dinner ; an honour, however, which my mailer
declined accepting that day, as he was mod im­
patient to fee his brother, who bore a principal *
^command in the army under the General.
The meeting of thefe brothers was truely af-
fefiing. The inilinflive connexion of nature
bad been indiiTolubly cemented between them by
the facred bond of friendihip, founded on a fenfe
of mutual virtue. ,
A&uated by the fame principles, they had both
devoted themfelves to the profeffion of arms, in
the different fervices of the land and fea, as if
to avoid the jealoufy of rivalfhip,- each being de­
termined to let no competitor take the lead of
him in the road to honour.
Undebauched by affluence, and difdaining to
wafle his youth at home in luxury, when the
caufe of his country called for his. affiilance, the
elder
k*S C H R Y S A L i OR, T H E ^
yGoogle
cider bravely canne to feek for glory in thefe in-
hofpitable wilds, with as much ardour as my
mailer purfued it on his proper element, in or­
der to earn honours which he might tranimit to
his own pofterity, equal to thofe which his bro­
ther inherited from his illuftrious anceftors.
When the tender enquiries of affeélion were
reciprocally anfwered, my mailer gratified thé
curiofity of his brother with a particular account
of his Ia{e dearly bought fuocefs, clofing thè
black detail with fome remarks on the different
conduct of the General of this army, which
were much to his advantage.
4
4 Your reflexions, my deareft brother [an-
44 fwered the officer) are moil juft, as things
44 appear to you. But when you havé had an
44 opportunity of feeing further, I fear you will
44 find reafon to change your fentiments, and
44 that the delay here proceeds at bottom from
44 the fame principle with the precipitation which
44 produced fuch terrible effeéts with you, and
44 Heaven grant it produces not as bad. Intereft
44 is the objeél every where ; and whether that ts
4
4 purfued byfacrificing the forces in rajh and ill-
4
4 conduced attempts, to gam an immediate p r iz e ,
44 or by letting them melt away in inaction, to accu •
44 mulate the profits o f eommand9 makes nodif-
44 ference in the end. •
4
4 I would not be underftood from this to ju -
44 ftify the officer for arraigning the General's
44 conduà in fopublick and perfonal a manner.
G 5 44 Such
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, n*
yGoogle
130 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
4
4 Such' ungoverned warmth is inexcufabie.
44 Proper refpeft muft be paid to thofe who
44 bear authority, or the effect of that authority
44 ceafes; indeed, it is not to them, but to him
44 who delegates the authority, the refpe£t is
44 paid. A General at the head of an army re-
44 prefents his Sovereign in the plenitude of his
44 power, and to fuffer any flight to be ihown
44 to his delegated charafter, were to betray the
44 truft of that delegation.
4
4 For this reafon, I think his puniihment
4
4 was neceffary, and therefore juft: I wiih I
4
4 could add, that it was equally fo from the in-
4
4 juftice as from the circumftances of the accu-
4
4 fation which occafioned it ; but to any one
4
4 who will not {hut his eyes it muft appear be-
4
4 yond a doubt, that his great crime was fpeak-
4
4 ing too much, and too plain truthj for, with
4
4 all our boafted care for the prefervation of the
4
4 men, their diftreffes are fuch as have not left
4
4 me a penny in my pocket, for I cannot (hut
4
4 my hand where my heart is opened. In fhort,
4
4 I am fo fick of the whole fcene, that I have
4
4 follicited the command of a detached party,
4
4 with which I hope to fhow, that the native
4
4 bravery of Britons, when led with fpirit, re-
4
4 quires but little experience to enable them to
4
4 conquer more formidable foes than naked fa-
4
4 vages, led by a few wretched Frenchmen, in a
4
4 condition not much better. I fet out to-mor-
' 4
4 row morning, and think it a particular hap*
4
4 pinefs
yGoogle
3
4
4 pinefs that you have arrived time enough for
4
4 me to have this interview with you.”
The reft of their converfation is not neceflary
to be repeated, as it turned upon their own do-
meftick concerns. This much only it is but
juft for me to obferve, that it fhowed their con-
du& in the intercourfe and relations of private
life to be as amiable as that in their publick ca­
pacities was exalted; and proved that moral
virtue is the beft foundation for true heroifm.—-
My matter’s brother having, in the courfe of their
converfation, intimated his having fome prefent
occafion for money, I here entered into his fer-
vice.
You may judge that I remained not long m
the pofleflion of my new matter. His brother
had no fooner left him, than he paid me away,
among a large number of my fellows, to a mer­
chant, for fome additions which he thought it
neceflary to make, at his own expenfe, to the pro­
vifions made by the publick for the fupport andv
comfort of his men, through the fatigues and
inconveniences of a campaign in an uninhabited
country.
The fentiments exprefled by my matter, in the
effufion of his foul, to his brother fhowed his
chara&er in the jufteft ligh t; I {hall, therefore,
only add, that as he a£ted from principles firmly
eftablifhed on the invariable bafis of reafon,
there \yas no danger of his deviating from the
path in which he fet out«
G 4 So-
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 1 3 1
yGc ' le
So bright a profpefi made it a pain for me to
quit his fervice fo fuddenly; but I have fince
met many mortifications of the fame kind, my
flay being always fhorteft in the beft hands.
My continuance, though from another mo­
tive, *was not much longer with my next matter,
the merchant, who, in the common courfe of
folliciting permiflion for a ihip of his to fail with
a cargo that mutt be ruined by delay, an em­
bargo having been laid on all the (hipping in the
place, in the unfathomable wifdom of the ruling
powers, to promote fome unintelligible plan of
fervice, gave me to the General’s clerk, from
whom, in the fame courfe of bufmefs, I came
into the fervice of the General.
«3* CHRYSALs OR, THE
' END OF THE FIRST BOOK»
yGoogle
C H R Y S A L
O
R
, TH
E AD
VEN
TU
R
ES O
F
A G U I N E A .
B O O K II.
C H A P . I. .
C h r y s a l ’ x mafter makes fume charafter¡/tick re­
flexions, H e is jurprifed at the officer's refuftng
to make up matters ; and gives a particular reafon
fo r fome people's rifing in the world. An extra­
ordinary perfonage enters to him, Defcrtption o f
him. H e gives a charafter o f the native A m e ­
r i c a n s 5 and offers fome interefling remarks on
the return they make to the treatment they meet
w ith ; and on the praftice ofform ing in the clofet
plans o f operations fo r armies in the field. Odd
reafon why the A m e r i c a n s are defirous o f gold*
C h r y s a l changes his ferv ice,
W
H EN I entered into the poffeffion of my
new mailer, he was waiting in his tent;
with the moil anxious impatience, for the return
. of
yGoogle
of a perfon whom he had employed to mediate,
as of himfelf, between him and the officer, whofe
prefumption in daring to find fault with his mea-
fures he had thought proper to puniih in the
manner I juft now mentioned»
His reflexions on an affair that (truck fo dan-
geroufly at his pride and avarice, the ruling paf-
(ions of his heart, could not be very agreeable;
but the fight of the money gave them a more
pleating turn. .Having afked the clerk a few
jqueftions in the way of bufinefs, and difmiifed
him, he took the purfe, and weighing it in his
hand, 4
4 Aye ! (faid he, with delight gliftening
4
4 in his eyes) this will do. This embargo was
4
4 a lucky thought. Let who will complain of
4
4 the hinderance it is to the bufinefs of the pub-
4
4 lick, it advances mine $ and that is all 1 care
4
4 for. I came here to ferve myfelf, and not the
4
4 publick; and as there is neither^plunder nor
4
4 contributions to be got by activity, I muft
4
4 try what I can do another way* I ihowed
4
4 my dexterity at.hunting favages in the moun-
4
4 tains of my own country, and have no defire
4
4 to renew the chafe here. It was neceflary for
4
4 me then to do fomethipg that ihould make
4
4 me remarkable, and gain favour with thofe
4
4 who I faw muft prevail in the end, and there-
41 fore I fpared no trouble nor fatigue, neither
4
4 friend nor foe, to convince them of my at-
4
4 tachment 5 and in reward they have now given
4
4 me this command, in conducting which I
4
4 muft:
134. CHRYSAL: OR, THF
yGoogle
4
4 muft ufe delay, to reap the advantages of my
4
4 former a&ivity. Fabius faved Rome by delay;
4
4 let me but make my fortune by it, and I envy
4
4 him not his fame. I prefer this found (chinks
4
4 irig the purfe) to the empty noife of publick
4
4 acclamation, the ihouts of a giddy mob, who
4
4 blefs and curfe with the fame breath, and
4
4 without knowing why they do either. No!
4
4 no ! this is the mufick that charms my ear.”
His meditations were broken off here by the
gentleman he waited for, who informed him that
the officer would come to no terms of accommo­
dation ; nor even accept of bis liberty till he
ihould be acquitted by a court-martial, and have
juftice done him for the affront offered to his ho­
nour. #
Such an account was far from being agreeable
to my mailer, who, for obvious reafons, wiihed to
have every thing to go as quietly as poffible. After
fome paufe, 4
4 This is a damned affair (faid he)
4
4 but we muft now e'en make the beft we can
4
4 of it. Who could have thought that a coun-
4
4 tryman of my own would have proved fo re-
4
4 fraftory. W e have always been remarkable
4
4 for hanging well together-. One and all was
4
4 the word, or we could never have done fuch
4
4 great matters. If it is once found out that
4
4 we can be divided, we lhall foon lofe our con-
4
4 fequence, and every man be reduced to tht
4
4 poor profpeft o f depending on his own merit.
“ However, fincc he will not accept of his li-
4
4 berty
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 135
yGoogle
136» CHRYSALî Ô
R
, THE
<
c berty here, he ihall e’en go home a prifoner*
€i and recover it there as well as he can. I am
4
4 on the right fide ; and don’t fear but my
4
4 friends will bring me through more than this;
€
< efpecially, as it is a national concern to us all
** alike. In the mean time, we muil double our
4
* diligence to make hay while the fun ihines.”
The gentleman, who was in all his fecrets,
acknowledged the force of his reafoning; and
was going to communicate to him fomenew ilrokes
of management, when word was brought my
mailer, that a perfon, to whom he could not
properly be denied, dcfired to fee him.
There was fomething in the whole appearance
of this perfon that (truck me with the itrongeft
curiofity the moment I faw hijn* His ftature,
above the common fize of man, was formed with
the jufteft proportion, and denoted ability to exe­
cute the moil difficult attempts, which the de­
termined and enterprifmg fpirit that animated
his looks could urge him to. His open counten­
ance, in which humanity and reafon attempered
relolution, (howed the genuine workings of his
foul ; and his whole deportment was in the un-
affe&ed eafe of natural liberty, above the hypo­
critical formality of ftudied rules of behaviour,
devifed only to deceive.
As foon as he entered, 441 am come, Sir,**
(faid he, throwing himfelf carelefsly into a chair*
and cutting fhort all that parade of ceremony*
cn the punctilious obfervation of which my mailer
prided
yGoogle
prided himfelf not a little) 4
4 to receive your
4
4 orders. It is time I ihould join my people,
4
4 who grow impatient, as the enemy have be-
4
4 gun to ftir ; and I never choofe to baulk their
4
4 firft ardour. There is nothing like taking
4
4 men in the humour to fight, and before they '
4
4 have time to confider too much about it.”—
4
4 I defign, Sir,” (anfwered my mafter, with
a folemnity and affeilation of politenefs, which
made the flrongeft contrail to the blunt freedom
of the other) 4
4 to call a council of war very
4
4 foon, at which I ihall be glad of your af-
4
C fiftance, to form a plan of operations for thè
4
4 campaign. When that is done/ and all pro-
4
4 per meafures concerted, you (hall fet out.
4
4 Precipitation is very dangerous, and direilly
4
4 contrary to the principles of the regular art o f
4
4 w ar, by which I mean to proceed. Thè
4
4 favages ihall find fome difference between my
4
4 conduit and that of my predeceffors. They
44 {han’t furprife me on my march 5 nor draw
4
4 me into an ambuih, among woods and moun-
4
4 tains.”
41 As to the art of war, Sir (replied the other)
4
4 I know no more of it than what Heaven and
4
4 common fenfe have taught me, which is, to
4
4 find out the enemy, and beat them as foon
4
4 as I can, my plan for which is always dirçil-
4
4 ed by prefent circumilances 5 nor do I know
4
4 how one can be formed to effeéï, any other
4
4 way.”
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 137
4
4 Your
yGoogle
4
< Your exploits have always^ been well exe-
f< cuted(returned my mafter, with an air
and tone of importance, as defigning to fay fome-
thing that fhould raife him in the opinion o f' the
other) 6
4but you have hitherto a&ed rather in
tc the low fphere of a partifan, than as a gene-
4
4 ral. The duty of a general comprehends
4
4 much more than what you mention, as you
4
4 fhall have an opportunity of learning before
4
4 we take the field, i intend to go through a
*c regular courfe of military operations, to in-
4
4 ftru& my officers, and difeipline the men.
4
4 Your Heaven-taught generals may beat the
4
4 enemy, but that is the leaft part of the care
4
4 and duty of a general now a-days. The very
4
4 leaft part.”-—
4
4 And» pray, Sir, how much time will this
4
4 courfe of operations take up ?”
4
4 I can not exactly fay; but not above a
4
4 month or two, I imagine.”-----
4
4 A month'or two ! why, Sir, I hope we fhall
4
4 have done the moft troublefome part of our
4
4 work by that time; or elfe I do not know
4
4 what may be the confequence. For, to be
4
4 plain with you, thefe delays will never do
4
4 with the uncivilized Americans, who judge of
4
4 things only by common fenfe; and cannot be
4
4 made to comprehend this way of carrying
4
4 on a war, by lying ftill in a camp, and
4
4 doing nothing. They have formed very dif-
4
4 advantageous notions of the delays already
44 madci
lit CHRYSAL: OR, THE
: y ( le
“ made; and think a man, who does not ad-
4
4 vance to fight his enemy, is afraid of him;
4
4 and, therefore, if they are not led to adion di-
4
4 redly, they will defert; fo that, if I ftay a
4
4 month or two here at fchool, to learn a
4
4 leffon I may never have occafion for, I
»4
4 muft find other forces to put it in pradice
4
4 Cannot you devife any reafon that may ac-
4
4 count for your ftaying, to their fatisfac-
4
4 tion ?” — —
4
6 Really, Sir, not I ! I never was good at
4
4 devifing reafons, deftitute of truth, in my life;
4
4 and have entirely forgot the pradice iince I
44 have converfed with the Americans, who are
4
4 far from being fuch fools as they are too ge*
nerally thought to be. Though they have not
the advantages of learning, they fee by the
4
4 light of natural reafon through all the boafted
4
4 wiles of policy ; and, as they never mean de-
4
4 ceit themfelves, deteft it in others, however
4
4 fpecioufly difguifed ; nor ever place confidence
4
4 a fecond time, where it has been once
4
4 abufed.”-----
4
4 How ! the Americans never mean deceit!
44 Surely, you muft know better ! they are the
4
4 moft perfidious, deceitful favages that burthen
4
4 the earth ; and it would be an advantage to
4
4 the world, if the whole race of them was ex-
4
4 terminated.”
ADVENTURES 6F A GUINEA. 139
44 Such
yGoogle
4
4 Such of them as converfe much with civt*
€€ lized Europeans, it is too true, learn many
4
4 things from them, which are a difgrace to
4
4 their own Savage nature, as you call it# But I
4
4 fpeak of the general difpofition of the people#
4
4 Treat them with candour, probity, and ten-
4
4 dernefs, and they will return them tenfold, in _
4
4 all their intercourfe with you; as, on the
“ .other hand, they feldom fail to retort the con-
4
4 trary treatment with fevere ufury. Nor are
4
4 they to be blamed. In all their dealings with
4
4 the Europeans they find themfelves impofed
4
4 upon in the groffeft manner; in a manner not
4
4 fit to be praflifed even with brutes. Their •
4
4 fenfibility is quick, and their paffions ungo-
4
4 verned ; perhaps, ungovernable: how then
4
4 can it be wondered at, that they make returns
4
4 in kind, whenever they find opportunity,
4
4 and become the moft dangerous enemies ?
4
4 Whereas, if thofe paifions were attached by
4
4 good treatment, they would be the moft af-
4
4 fe&ionate, fteady, and careful friends. I
4
4 fpeak from experience. 1 treat them as ra-
4
4 tional creatures; and they behave as fuch to
4
4 me. I never deceive them ; and they never
4
4 deceive me. I do them all the good offices
4
4 in my power; and they return them many-
4
4 fold. In ihort, I prailife to them the beha-
4
4 viour which I wiih to meet from them, and
4
4 am never difappointed. All the evils which
4
4 have
t4o CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
have been fuffered from them have proceeded
44 from the unhappy error of thinking ourfelves
4
4 poflefled of a fupcriority over them, which na-
*4 ture, that is, Heaven, has not given us. They
4
4 are our fellow-creatures $and in general above
tc our level in the virtues which give real pre-
4
4 eminence, however defpicably we think of,
4
4 and injurioufly we treat them.”— —
4
4 They are much obliged to your charader
4
4 of them at leaftj whatever others may be.
4
4 And, pray, Sir, what is it you would have
4
4 me do, to preferve the good opinion of thefe
4
4 moil virtuous people?” ----- „
4
4 I prefume not, Sir, to fay what is proper
4
4 for you to do. All my defire is, that you
4
4 will difmifs me dire&ly, in a capacity of mak-
4
4 ing good my promifes to my friends; and, by
4
4 the time you fay you ihall be ready to move
4
4 with your army, I hope to give a good ac-'
4
4 count of the enemy.” ■ ■
4
4 That, Sir, I have no thought of. How-
4
4 ever, as you are fo defirous of going, I ihall
4
4 not delay you. I’ll form a plan of operations
4
4 for you this very day.”-----
4
4 For me, Sir? I do not underftand you.
4
4 How can you know what will be proper or
4
4 poffible for me to do, at the diftance of many
4
4 hundred miles, in a country you are an utter
44 ftranger to. In Europe, where war, like a
44 game at chefs, is played, as I may fay, entire-
■“ ly
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 141
yGoogle
4
4 ly by art, .that method of planning in the
4
4 clofet the operations of the field may do, per-
4
4 haps; but then it is neceflary that each fide
4
4 ihould play the game by the fame rules. A
4
4 body of Americans, who know nothing of the
4
4 art of war but fighting, might be apt to move
4
4 fo irregularly, as to difconcert the whole
4
4 fcheme of the game. Indeed, by what I can*
4
4 judge of the matter, that very method, of plafi-
4
4 ning the operations of a campaign is advan-
4
4 tageous only to the general, as it prolongs
4
4 the war, and confequently the emoluments of
4
4 command, by tying up his hand from availing
4
4 himfelf of any unforefeen circumftances in his
4
4 favour. Whereas, if armies were fent out
4
4 only to fight, as formerly, before thz improve-
4
4 merits in the art of war, the difpute would
4
4 foon be decided, and even the vanquifhed
4
4 better off than the vi&ors are at prefent, whofe
4
4 riches and ftrength are fo exhaufted, by this
4
4 dilatory way of proceeding, that they are not
4
4 the better for their fuccefs. I hope, Sir, you
4
4 do not take offenfe at the plainnefs of my
4
4 fpeech. I have fo long been accuftomed
4
4 to converfe with Savages, who fpeak juft
4
4 what they think, that I am become quite a
4
4 ftranger to that dijfimulation which is called
4
4 politenefs among civilized nations, and muft
4
4 make ufe of words in their original intention
*4 of conveying my thoughts.
i4* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
4
4 Not
yGoogle
4
4 Not in the leaft, Sir! I like your free
4
4 manner much. It is in the charadter of a
4
C foldier. I will order every* thing to be got
4
4 ready for you direitly; and you fhall go as
4
4 foon as you pleafe, at full liberty to a£1 as
4
4 you £hali fee proper.0—— ,
<
c I hope, Sir, I (hall not make a bad ufe
4
4 of that liberty. And, pray, among the
4
4 other things, do not forget to order me feme
4
4 money.0-----
4
4 Money, Sir! What occafion can you
4
4 poilibly have for money, among Savages, who
4
4 do not know the value of it -----
4
4 Why really, Sir, that queftion is natural.
4
4 But the matter is, the Savages, who come
4
4 among the Europeans, fee every thing govern-
4
4 ed by gold, in fuch a manner, that they have
4
4 taken it into their heads we worihip it ; and,
4
4 therefore, are become as eager for it as our-
4
4 felves, in hopes of gaining an afcendancy over
4
4 us, when they have got our god in their pof-
4
4 feffion.”
A confcious heart takes to itfelf more than
was ever meant. The dry manner in which
this was faid touched my mailer to the quick,
and made him not defire to purfue the conver-
fation any farther with fuch a free fpeaker, nor
have fo nice an obferver longer about him, to
pry into the motives of his a&ions. Giving
him, therefore, the money he required, he wiihed
him
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 143
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
*44-
him fuccefs, with a forced politenefs, and dif-
miffed him to prepare for his departure.
It was a pleafure to me to change my fervice
on this occafion ; as the idea I had conceived
of my new mailer, both from his appearance
and converfation, promifed me fome variety, and
my curiofity was heartily furfeited with the re*
gular art of war.
CHAP,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES O
F A GUINEA. i4
S
C H A P
. II.
The manner in which C h ry sa i/ j majier was re*
ceived by his fubjefts. Antiquated principles on
which his authority was founded. H is odd
opinions and conduft in fame important matters,
with the confequences.
AS foon as every thing was ready, my mailer
fet out for home, where he arrived without
meeting any thing remarkable in liis jour­
ney, as you may fuppofe, through uninhabited
deferts. .
The reception he met with from his people
was the very reverie of what Sovereigns ufually
meet. They welcomed him with fincere joy and
refpe<Sl, which they expreflecNn the over-flowing
of their hearts, without ceremony or parade : I
fay, “ Sovereigns,” as he really enjoyed that
power in its moft rational fenfe, his will being
a law to all around him, becaufe they always fou n d
it jujly and advantageous to them.
Though the account which he gave my late
matter of his manner of treating his people
ihowed a juft foundation for his power over
them, I found that it depended not on that
alone. His authority, like that of the firft rulers
©f the earth, was founded alfo on the relations
of nature, and fupported by its ftrongeft ties,
V o l. 111. H he
yGoogle
he being literally the father of his fubjeâs, the
king of his own family*
T o explain this, it is neceffary to inform you,
that on his fixing his refidence among thefe uh+
civilized nations, in order to gain an influence
over them the more readily, he had laid afide all
fuch rulrs of conduft as feemed to him to be
contradi&ory to natural reafon, and the publifck
good, however forcibly enjoined for particular
Convenience.
Among theft, the chief was, the cuftom of
reftraining the commerce between the fexes,
and confining individuals to each other, after the
defire which firft brought them together had
Ceafed : As he faw that thé ftrongeft paifion
which governs the human heart is that defire
(for his philofôphy was not refined enough to
fuggeft one thought of governing the paflions)
and as the continuation of the fpecies depends
entirely on the gratification of it, he held every
opposition to it to be moft criminal in itfelf, and
detrimental to the publick good (properly the
firft objeCt of every civil inftitution, and which
can be promoted no way fo effectually, as by
promoting population) and therefore exerted all
his influence to encourage that commerce, under
fuch reftriâions only, as were evidently necef-
fary to procure the great end of it, the propaga­
tion of the fpecies. He gave liberty to every
man to converfe with as many females as he
pleafed,
n* CHRY SAL » OR, T H Ï
yGoogle
pleafed, and to quit them whenever he thought
proper, provided they were not pregnant. T o
the women the former liberty could not be ex­
tended, as the ufe of it would defeat the defign ;
or, where it had not immediately that effe<Sf, .
caufe confufion, and prevent both paternal care,
and filial duty, by the uncertainty of defcent:
but the latter inftance they enjoyed equally with
the men, being allowed to choofe whomthey liked,
and if not pregnant quit them at pleafure, for
others, without reproach or ihame, the offspring
of all which connexions were to remain with
the fathers.
I (hall not fay whether reafon originally fug-
gefted this fyftem to him; or (as is often the
cafe) whether he fought for reafons to fupport
the di&ates of inclination. Be it which it
would, the effeft was the fame. His fubjefts
increafed in an uncommon degree; and he
founded, like the patriarchs of old, an authority
on the jufteft of all principles, voluntary coR-
fent, over a people infeparably linked to him»
and to each other, by the ftrongeft ties of nature,
as being, by this complicated commerce, in the
ftrifteft fenfe one family; for, difdaining to make
laws for others, which he would not obferve
himfelf (like too many of his brother legiilators)
he had enforced his precepts fo powerfully by
his example, that there was fcarce a houfe in any
of the tribes around him, from which he had not
H z taken
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. 147
yGoogle
taken a temporary mate, and added a child of
his to their number.
^That his reception, as I have obferved*
ihould be moft cordial from fuch fubje&s is not
to be wondered at. They flocked about him on
his arrival, and hailing him with one voice by
every tender relation of nature, brother, father*
fon, hqftand, fhowed an affe&ion too fublime to.
be expreflid by formal rules, and impoflible to.
be feen without fympathifing in it. .
When this tribute was paid to nature, he
called the elders of the people together, and
diftributing among them the prefents which he
had received for that purpofe, gave them an
account of the mighty army fent by his Sove­
reign againft the enemy, and propofed to them
to aifift its operations.
There required not many arguments to con*
firm their confidence, in one who had never
deceived them. They readily and fincerely af­
fented to his propofal, and fending to invite all
their neighbours to join them, feparated to make
the very little preparations neceflary for perfons
who were ftrangers to luxury, and knew no
wants but thofe of nature*
*4* CHRYSALi OR, THE
>og!e
CHAP.
ADVENTURES op A GUINEA, 149
. C H A P III.
CHRYSAL defcribes his majler s habitation and f a ­
mily. H e makes an uncommon progrefs. The
manner in which he jound the females o f his houfe-
. hold engaged. Remarks on f i n e r y . Account
o f their amufements, with the manner in which
. they ufually ended. The method by which Chry-
s a l ’ s majler kept peace in his fam ily.
AS Toon as my mailer had thus concluded the
bufmefs of his publick chara&er, he
retired to devote a few minutes to his dome-
ftick concerns.
His habitation was built on an eminence, by
the fide of a rivulet, the banks of which were
covered with a number of neat little cottages,
inhabited by the females of his prefent family ;
for, inftead of attempting to prevent their quitting
him for other men, as inclination led them, he
not only always diimiffed them with prefents in
the m o i l friendly manner, but alfo kept up an
intercourfe of regard with them and their fuccef-
live huibands, every one of whom he attached to
himfelf in the ftrongeft manner, being particu­
larly ready, on all occaiions, to do them every
good office in his power.
. In thefe cottages they bred up their children,
and enjoyed from his care all the neceffaries of
life, with more convenience and comfort than
H 3 they
yGoogle
they could poilibly have experienced among their
own people, unembittered by any of thofe jea-
loufies and feuds which fuch a fituation might
feem to threaten ; fo equally did he difpenfe his
favours among them.
When he had given fome orders in his houfe,
he walked out to vifit his family, and enjoy the
fublimeft inftance of the happinefs of power, in
making all who were fubjeft to it happy, by the
unaffedted tendernefs with which he enquired
after their welfare, and returned their careffes,
on his entering every cottage.
The appearance of thefe females was moft
different from the delicate fenfibility that foftened
the beauties of Amelia *, the fire which ani­
mated the charms of Olivia 5 but cuftom, that
reconciles all things, had made them agreeable
to him, efpecially as no comparifon could there
be made to their disadvantage; and the honeft
readinefs with which they met his addrefies, the
warmth with which they ihared his joy, amply
over-balanced any imaginary defedfc in feature
or complexion j any ignorance of thofe affedted
arts of coynefs, which, over-adted, often pall the
tafte for long expedted pleafure.
As his women did not expedt his vifit fo foon,
be found them engaged, according to their dif­
ferent inclinations, either in the management of
their domeftick ceconomy, or in fuch amufe-
ments as cuftom had made pleafing to them.
The
• See Vol I %
mmm?age a o . '
Jjo CHRYSALt OR, THE
yGoogle
The occupations of the former kind were necef-
farily confined within a narrow circle, from the
circumftances of their lives; but in the latter,
fancy, foie fovereign of the fcene, aflerted her
unbounded rule, and fported in variety of forms,
many of which I foon had an opportunity of
feeing.
As my matter proceeded in his patriarchal
progrefs, he met a confiderable number of the
females of his family, with fuch of the neigh­
bouring men, as from age or idlenefs were unfit
for more ufeful employments, affembled together
under a fpreading tree that grew before the door
of one of their cottages, drefled out in their
gayeft apparel, and engaged in different kinds of
diverfions. At the fight of him they all arofe,
and would have defifted, but he prevented them,
and not only made them refume their fports, but
alfo fat down himfelf in the midft of the com­
pany, to be a fpe£tator of them.
It feems it was a cuftom among them to meet
frequently thus, at each other’s cottages, for
the pleafure of enjoying their favourite amufc-
ments to more advantage together, and difplay-
ing theirfinery, to fet off which, no art nor care
was neglefled on thefe occafions They drefled
themfelves in their belt blankets, which were
covered all over with patches of various colours,
to make them look more gaudy. Their heads
were adorned with plumes of feathers. Strings
of glafs-beads were rolled round their arms and
H 4 legs.
ADVENTURE6 OF A GUINEA. 151
yGoogle
15* CHRY£ AL: j
DR
, THR
legs. Their toes were loaded with rings of pew­
ter and brafs 5 and their necks and faces were
carved with figures of birds and flowers, and
painted of various hues.
I fee your laughter moved at this defcription;
but that proceeds from narrow prejudice, and
want of rational reflexion, on which it would
appear that all ufelefs ornaments are equally juft
obje&s of ridicule, whether made of filks and
laces,* or party-coloured fags ; whether bits of
glafs, or pearls and diamonds. Think, I fay,
but for a moment; and you will fee that in rea­
lity there is nothing more abfurd in wearing one
kind of metal, or upon one part of the body*
than another; rings o f brafs, for' inftance,
on the toeSj than golden on the fingers ; in carving
the Jkin9 than boring the ears; or in painting the
fa ce blue and greeny than white and red. The fame
vanity is the motive of all, and all prod uce the
fame effeft of admiration ; as, ip things equ ally
unfupported by reafon, cuftom and caprice bear
equal fway. The difference in the means, there­
fore, makes none in the end 5 at lead none to the
disadvantage of the perfons of whom 1 fpeak, as
it certainly is more abfurd to laviih treafures,
that might be fo much better employed, to a
Worthies purpofe, which cheaper baubles would
anfwer as well.
The amufements in which they were en­
gaged, were as whimfical as their drefles. Some
fkipped about, defcribing various figures in their
motions,
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 153
motions, till want of breath and wearinefs obliged
them to fit down. Others, and thefe the greateft
number, were employed in chucking (hells, or
pebbles from the brook, into holes dug in the fand,
for prizes of bits of tin or brafs, which game
they applied themfelves to with the greateft
eagernefs and anxiety, and many w.ere fo expert
at it, as to ftrip their antagonifts of all their
hoards, often, indeed, not without the afliftance
o f chicanery and deceit: And a few of the' eldeft,
and thofe who had nothing to flake at play,
gathered up and down into little fets, and enter­
tained themfelves with making remarks upon
the reft, not always di&ated by good-nature or
truth ; while the miftrefs of the cottage bufied
herfelf in adjufting ceremonials, fettling her
company at their feveral amufements, and ferv-
ing them with milk, or broth, and tobacco,
the fatigue of which office (he never repined at,
as her confequence was eftabliihed by the number
of her guefts.
Though mere amufement was the obvious end
of thefe meetings, ocher obje£ts were generally
purfued, and other confequences produced by
them. Intrigues were commenced, and often
completed ; and, trifling as the prizes were for
which they contended, emulation and avarice
agitated the paifions, and fet the competitors
together by the ears, till they almoffi clawed out
each other’s eyes.
H 5 Their
yGoogle
Their fports were at length beginning to take
their ufual turn. The tempers of the lofers
became foured * and the detedlion of fome deep
ftrokes of play gave rife to altercations, which
would foon have been followed by blows;
but my mailer interpofed his authority, and
put an end to their difputes, when the party
broke up; fome retiring to keep the affigna-
tions they had made in the warmth of their incli­
nations, and the reft to calculate their winnings,
and devife fehernes for retrieving their loiTes,
at their next meeting; and my mailer having
iingled out the happy favourite of that night,
repaired with her to his own habitation, with-*
out any of the reft taking oftenfe or even parti­
cular notice of the preference, as they had it
in their power to fupply their lofs elfewhere.
I have obferved your aftonilhment at this
whole fcene, efpecially at my mailer’s hardinefs
in expediting to be happy among a number of
women, and attempting to keep them in order
together, when one, in your opinion, is more
thari any man can manage ; but what will it be,
when I tell you that that number often amounted
to hundreds ; and that he never had recourfe to
any kind of feverity, in bis conduit to them ?
T o comprehend this, it is neceflary for you
to confider, that moil of, if not all, the uneaii-
neffes which embitter the life of man arife from,
an officious intrufion into the uneafineffes of
others, or an over-waning partiality to him-
C H R Y S A L : O R , T H E
yGoogle
feIf, that makes him expe& treatment, which
he does not give, and take ofFenfe where none is
meant him, for matters not worth his being
offended at— an obfervation that will hold ia
every ftate, publick and private; among gover­
n o r s > as well as govermed.
His rule, then, was never to take part in their
difputes among themfelves, nor ofFenfe at their
infidelity to his bed, of which he himfelf fet them
the example. This difarmed them of thatperverfe-
nefs) which is the fe x ’s moft offenfiue weapon. They
remained conftant to him, becaufe they were
not reftrained from being otherwife, whenever
they pleafcd; nor did they trouble him with
their difputes, becaufe they faw he would not
be troubled at them.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 155
H i C H A P .
yGoogle
*5« C H R Y S A L : O R , T H E
C H A P . IV.
C h r y s a l ’x m ajler is honourably rew arded fo r b is
ferv ices. A n unexpected m eeting w ith one o f h is
country-women introduces an uncommon rem ark
on a common m atter. 'The lady g ives an odd injiance
o f conjugal love ; and refufes the c iv il offer o f
C h r y s a l ’j m ajler, fo r a natural reafon. C h r y -
sa l changes h isferv ice.
T
H E very nextmorning his people aflembled
before his door, in readinefs to obey his
commands, when he led them direftly in queft
of the enemy, lharing himfelf in all their fa­
tigues, and teaching them to defpife danger by
his example; fo little did he know of the duty of
a general.
It would be tirefome to enter into a particular
description of an expedition carried on among
wildernefles and deferts, and confiding chiefly
of ambufcades and furprifes. It is Sufficient to
fay, that he was Successful in all his enterprises,
reafon and prefence of mind ferving him inftead
of experience in the regular art of war, and
courage well Supplying the place of difcipline in
his men.
% Such fervices could not mifs pf reward from
a juft and judicious Sovereign. His power was
enlarged ; and he received thofe marks of favour
and diftindtion which were originally inilituted
to
yGoogle
to excite virtuous emulation, and fet the feal qf
honour on fuccefsful merit; though, like mpft
other human inftitutions, they too often produce
the contrary effe&, and refledf only difgrace,
from being beftowed contrary to their intention,
and on unworthy objefts.
As he was preparing the way thus for the
motions of the main army, whenever the general
ihould think proper to let it move, fome of his
people brought before him an European lady,
whom they found wandering in thofe unfre­
quented wilds, her guide having miftaken his
way.
Such a fituation neceflarily entitled her to his
compaflion and afliftance ; but he foon felt him-
felf ftill further interefted in her favour, when he
found (he was a native of his own country, and
of a family not entirely unknown to him, before
he came to fix his abode in this diftant part of
the world.
There is not a ftronger inftance of the force of
that attachment, culled in a larger fenfe patrio-
tifm, than the inftin&ive affe&ion which perfons
of the fame country, though utterly unacquainted
before, feel for each other the moment they meet
in a ftrange place. My mafter inftantly called
her his dear country-woman, and embracing
her with the tendernefs of a brother, led her
away to his own tent, which he refigned to her,
as the beft accommodation he could give her ;
and then went and ordered every thing that had
belonged
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.. i $ f
yGoogle
belonged to her, which his men looking upon as
fair prize had taken and divided among %
them-
felves, to be reftored, promifing to recompenfe
the captors himfelf.
As foon as (he had adjufted her appearance in
fome better manner, (he fent to defire my matter’s
company, for he had toljd her that he ihould not
come without permiffion, for fear of intruding
improperly upon herj and on his expreffing
wonder what could have brought her thus into
the midft of thofe deferts, fo far away from every
European fettlement, (he gratified his curiofity
with the following account, which was often
interrupted by fighs, tears, and every expreffion
of the moft poignant grief:
Her huiband (ihe faid) who had been an officer
of diftinguifhed rank in the Englijh forces, had
fallen in one of the defeats they fuffered in the
beginningof the war, before 'England, had exerted
herfelf in fuch a manner, as to entitle her to
fuccefs; the news of whofe death affefled her
fo extraordinarily, that (he refolved to brave all
the fatigues and dangers of fo long a voyage by
fea, and journey through uninhabited deferts in
time of war, for the melancholy pleafure of one
laft view of his dear remains, which (he had ac­
cordingly obtained, though not fo much to her
fatisfa&ion as (he could have wiflied, the body
being in a ftate of putrefa&ion, not poffible to
be approached without difguft and abhorrence,
nor to be diflingui&ed from any other mafs of
corruption*
f 5s C H R Y S A L : O R , T H E
yGoogle
corruption, when Hie had caufed it to be dug out
of the grave in which it had been buried, on the
fpot where he had been killed, among the other
vi£tims of the day; and was now returning
home, when ihe had happily been found by his
people.
Though my matter was as much unverfed in
the regular rules of politenefs, as of war, good­
nature taught him the effentials of one, as reafon
had of the other. He heard out her ftory, though
not without pity and contempt at the extrava­
gance and folly of it ; and, confoling her with
fome general remarks on the errour of indulging
immoderate grief for things not to be remedied,
offered to fend her under a fufficient efcort to his
own habitation, where ihe might remain in
fafety, and have the cotiverfation and attendance
of his women, till the concluiion of the cam­
paign, when he would convey her himfelf to the
next fea-port, in order to her returning to her
own country.
Though ihe would have looked upon any at­
tempt to confole her as the higheft affront in
another fituation, her prefent circumftances
made her think it not proper to ihow anÿ refent-
ment of it to him : befides, there was fometbing
in his appearance, that fomehow made it lefs
difagreeable from him than it would have been
from any other perfon ; and would poffibly have
influenced her to accept of his offer, had not the
mention
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA.
yGoogle
z60 CHRYS ALî OR, THE
mention of his women alarmed her delicacy, and
let her virtue on its guard.
Refolving, therefore, to have this cleared up,
before ihe would give any dire£l anfwer to his
offer, ihe expreffed her high fenfe of his kindnefs
in the politeft terms ; and entering, into a general
conversation, among other queftions of mere
curiofity, alked him, in a carelefs manner, whom
he meant by his womeny and in what capacity
they ferved him ? .
Such a queftion was more than he defired,
though he had inconfiderately laid himfelf open
to it. However, as he thought no delicacy could
juftify deceit, he anfwered her dire£tly, and with­
out preface, that they ferved him in the' natural
capacity of women, while they pleafed to conti­
nue with him ; nor did he defire any other Ser­
vice from them.
Though file was a good deal difconcerted at
this anfwer, ihe had the addrefs not to feem to
underftand it, in hopes that he would take the
bint, and explain himfelf into a meaning lefs
pffenfive to her modefty ; to give an opportunity
for which, I prefume Sir (replied ihe) you
<
€ mean that they wait upon your lady, or per-
c< form the other domeftick offices of your fa-
lc mily, in which women Servants only are em-
<
c ployed ?”
“ No, really? madam, (anfwered he) that was
c< not my meaning. I have no lady for them to
#c< wait upon j nor do they live fo immediately
5 4
C in
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, iff
4
4 in my own family, as to have any domeftick
4
4 employment in it.” •
4
4 How, Sir! Are you not married ?”
4
4 Not particularly to any one perfon, ma-
4
4 dam.”
— 4
4 That’s very ilrange!” (faid ihe,
pleafecf at having gained fo material a piece of
intelligence, and refolving to purfue the conver-
fation.) 4
4 That is really very ftrange. And
4
4 pray Sir, are thefe ladies Europeans ? I fuppofe
4
4(hghing heavily and wiping her eyes) they are
4
4 the unhappy widows of fuch officers as are
4
4 fallen in the fervice, to whomyou have ihowQ
4
4 the fame politenefs and humanity, as I now
4
4 experience from you.”
4
4 I am forry madam,” (anfwered he, to fatif-
fy her curiofity at once, and put a flop to que-
fiions which began to be troublesome) 14 to be
4
4 obliged to undeceive you in an opinion fo
4
4 favourable to me; they are all native Ameri-
4
4 cans, by whom I have had children ; and irj
4
4 whofe unfeigned affe&ion, and eafy comply-
4
6 ing tempers, I find fuch fatisfa&ion, that I
4
4 never ihall quit them to attach myfelf folely
4
4 to any one woman, however fuperiour to them
4
4 in the advantages of beauty and education;
4
4 not, indeed, that they want qualifications
4
4 to raife both love and efteem, as you will
4
4 find when you have been fome time among
4
4 them.”
This,
yGoogle
if» CMRYSAL: OR, THE
This, which was too plain for her to affe£l not
to underfland it, inftantly put an end to the
pleafure (he had begun to find in his converfa-
tion, and determined her as to his propofal. 4
4 I
4
4 ammuch obliged toyoufor yourcivil offer, Sir,*
(faid ihe, bridling up her chin, and making him
a formal curtefy) 4
4 but I cannot accept of it.
4
4 I have not the leaft defire for the converfation
4
4 of Squaws, and am in haite to leave this favage
4
4 place; for which reafon I ihall take k as a
4
4 favour, if you will fend fome of your people
4
4 to guard me to the next Englijb fettlement,
4
4 to-morrow morning. At prefent, I am quite
4
4 exhaufted with fatigue, and want fome reft,
4
4 if the diftrefs of my heart will permit me to
4
4 take any.”
This thought recalled the rememberance of her
lofs : She burft into a flood of tears ; and my
maker withdrew, after finding that his attempts
to confole her only aggravated her grief, and
gave offenfe to her delicacy!
Unverfed as he was in the ways of the polite
world, he was too well acquainted with the ru­
ling principles of the fex, which in every (late
are the fame, not to fee through this change in
her behaviour; but the difcovery had no other
effe<5l, than to confirm him in his contempt for
fuch hypocritical levity. Accordingly, finding
(he continued in the fame mind next morning,
he made the beft provifion he could for herjour-
yGoogle
ney, and fent her away with a fufficient guard,
forcing upon her a purfe of gold (in whichI was)
to defray any accidental expenfe, for which
(he might be unprovided, in cafe ihe ihould
not dire&ly meet a ihip ready to carry her
to Europe^
A D V E N T U R E S O F A G U I N E A . *6|
C H A P #
yGoogle
fHRYSAL: OR, THf
f*4.
C fi A P. V.
C h r y s a l ’ / m ißrefi gives fo m eß rik in g inßances o f
fem a le confiflency. She is cured o f her g r ie f by a
perfon o f accomplijhments as extraordinary as her
ow n. T he advantage o f com parative excellence•
C h r y s a l ’j m ifrefs m arries, and he changes his
ftr v ic e fo r that o f an old m ajler.
S ibon as my miftrefs found herfelf out of
fight of my late mafter, ihe gave vent to
that indignation and rage of difappointment
which (he had thought proper to fupprefs while
in his prefence. 4
4 Infenfible brute ! (faid (he.)
4
4 Not quit his odious Squaws for any woman !
** And to have the rudenefs to tell me fo to my
<
c face ! It (hows his grofs, low tafte, for which
4
4 fuch animals are fitted.” -----
Then pauling for fome moments : 4
4 What a
cc charming figure ! (continued ihe, fighing foft-
4
4 ly.J Such a fize ! Such ftrength and eafe in
4
C every motion ! And then the manly beauty
4
4 in his looks! Had I but the poliihing of
4
4 him ! I was too hafty— I ihould have waited
4
4 to infinuate myfelf into his heart by degrees.
4
4 I could not have failed of fuccefs. My huf-
4
4 band was as ftrongly attached to another
4
4 when firft I undertook him. Oh ! deareft,
4
4 beft of men! Never ihall I meet your fel-
4
4 low ! Never ihall another poflefs your place
4
4 in this faithful, wretched heart.,,—
A flood
Digitized by Google
A flood of tears here interrupted her medita­
tions, which were often renewed in the fame
ftrain during her journey, and always ended the
fame way.
On her arrival at the fea-port, ihe had the
mortification to find that ihe mud wait fome time
for a paflage home, all the fliips which were there
having failed a few days before.
But her vexation at this difappointment was
confiderably lightened by the converfation of fe-
veral companions in it, particularly that of a
chaplain of a regiment, who had taken fuch of-
fenfe at the immorality of the army, and the
uncomfortable way of living in thofe favage
countries, that he had hired a fubftitute, at a
cheap rate, to do his duty, and was returning
home to enjoy a life more agreeable to the deli­
cacy of his charafler and inclinations, and exert
his talents to more advantage in paying court to
his patrons, than in reforming foldiers, or con­
verting favages. *
Extremes are never lafting: the violerice of
my miftrefs’s grief had been too much for na­
ture to fupport, and was beginning to abate of
itfelf, when my late matter awoke another paf­
fion, that would foon have fupplanted it; and
though he did not purfue his advantage as far
as he might have done, he had opened her heart,
and infpired a warmth ready to receive any other
imprefiion;
As
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i#j
yGoogle
As the chaplain’s fun£tion and her rank, not
to omit the accompliihments of both, feemed to
point them to each other as the moft proper
companions, it was not Grange that they ihould
foon grow intimate, nor that their intimacy
ihould be infenfibly improved into a tenderer
paifion, They made tite-a-tete parties, at games
which no one elfe in the place knew how to play
with them. They talked of all the places of .
pleafurable refort in England, and of the amufe-
ments purfued at them : and they raifed their own
confequence in the eyes of each other, by boaft-
ing of acquaintances with perfons the knew only
by name.
Such uncommon accompliihments were not
without efFe£t. Each took the tales of the other
upon credit, becaufe their own met the fame
complaifance, and found a pleafure in being de­
ceived by one whom it was an equal pleafure to
deceive.
But this was not the only thing that advanced
their mutual influence upon each other. All
human excellence is but comparative. Though
far from being beautiful, they were the neareft
to being fo; though far from being well-bred,
they knew moft of the common ceremonies in
which good-breeding is by many thought to con-
fift, but which really are the incumberances of
it, of any perfons there; and confequently ap­
peared to enjoy thofe advantages in the higheft
degree. They regulated the aflemblics, they
laid
1 <* CHRYSALs OR, THE
yGoogle
laid down the rules é f play, they made faihions;
in a word, their opinion was the law in every
matter of polite amufement and concern.
Thus cut out for each other, it was imponible
for this accompliihed pair not to come together.
They were accordingly married, not more to the
grief of their refpe&ive admirers, than the joy of
their rivals, the bride forgetting her grief for a
dead, in the arms of a living huiband, and the
happy bridegroom pleafing himfelf with the
thought, that the high accompliihments of his
lady would increafe his intereft with his noble
patrons.
T o crown their happinefs, a few days after
they were married an Epglijh man of war put
in there, in its way home, the captain of which
politely offered them their paffage. Such an op­
portunity was not to be miffed: They accepted
his offer with the greateft joy, and in return
made a party and entertainment for him, when
he won me from my mifttefs at a game of bragf
the only game, indeed, at which he thought him­
felf a match for her.
Thpugh I had no reafon^to regret leaving her
fervice, my prefent change gave me no great
pleafure, as it wanted even the recommendation
of novelty, my new matter being the captain
with whom I had left the Spanijh coaft, who had
at length been made fo happy as to be ordered
home.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i6p
C H A P .
>og!e
CH RY SAL s OR, THE
r t t
C H A P . VI.
C h r y s a l arrives in E n g l a n d . H is mafitr is
fahuted by a fight not very pleafing. The hiflory o f
the unfortunate hero o f the day opens feme myjle-
riousfeenes. T he o b v i o u s u s e o f c o u n c i l *
OF W A R . #
/ / ^ H R Y S A L ’i majler having in the courfe o f
' V j his voyage home given offenfe to his officers,
by his prudential regard to his own fafety ; to, ob­
viate any bad confequences which might attend their
complaining to his fuperiours, he refelved to employ
G h r y sa l ’j mediation in his favour, as foon as he
Jhouldarrive in E n g l a n d .— Vol. I. page 57.)
His arrival in England prefented him with a
fcene that confirmed this refolution, and made
him wiih he had not been iri fuch hafte to re­
turn* On his entering the harbour, he found
the boats of all the men of war there drawn up
around one fhip, in which was difplayed the
dreadful fignal of the execution of the com­
mander. The fight appalled his foul, confcience
anticipating the ftroke of juftice, and taking
this as an omen of his own fate.
He had not time to brood over thefe gloomy
reflexions long, when an officer came on board
him, with an order to attend the execution in
his boat, along with the other captains, which
he
yGoogle
he obeyed, in a ftate of mind fcarce lefs unhap­
py than that of the criminal.
As foon as the bloody work was done, he
waited on the chief commander, where the me­
lancholy in every face he met was far from
relieving the anxiety of his mind. He could
have no pleafure in fuch company. When he
had anfwered a few general queftions of courfe,
he went away to the £hip of a captain of his in­
timate acquaintance, to learn fome account of
this ihocking fcene, for he had not had refolu-
tion to make any enquiry about it; nor even
to attend to the converfation of every one around
him, which would have explained the whole.
After mutual congratulations on their meet­
ing, my matter fignified his curiofity, which his
friend promifed to gratify over their bottle, as foon
as they ihould be alone after dinner.
Accordingly, when the coaft was clear, 4
4You
4
4 defire information in an affair (faid he) that
4
4 has given our corps the deepeft wound we
4
4 have ever received. The circumftances are
4
4 many, and myfterious; but I will ftrive to
4
4 give you a notion of it in as few words as
4
4 pofiible, for it can be no pleafure to either
4
4 of us, to dwell upon fuch a fubje£l.
cc In the beginning of the war, foon after
4
4 you went to America, the unfortunate man,
4
4 who has this day fallen a facrifice to the hu-
4
4 mour of the times was fent out with a fleet,
4
4 to countera£t the fchemes of the enemy, and
V ol, III. I 4
4 relieve
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. iS9
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
4
4 relieve a fortrefs of our’s which they wer<
5
4
4 then befieging. (This was the purport of
4
4 his publick orders; but it will appear to you
4
4 prefently, that he muft have received p ri-
4
4 vale ones, of a very different nature, from
4
4 thofe who, at that time, had the conduit of
c< affairs.)
4
4 Inftead of making the expedition neceffary
4
4 to have carried his orders into execution with
44 effeft, he trifled away the time here in fuch
44 a ihameful manner, ufing every frivolous ex-
4
4 cufe he could devife, to delay his departure,
4
4 that the voice of the publick was raifed againft
4
4 him; and it was found neceffary to appoint
4
4 another to the command in his place, in or-
4
4 der to filence their clamours ; but, unfor-
4
4 tunately for him, he failed the very day be*-
4
4 fore his appointed fucceffor was to have fet
4
< out to fuperfede him,
4
4 The fame dilatory conduft threw a damp
<
c upon every thing he attempted to do. He
4
4 feemed refolved upon nothing; but, though
4
4 he was inverted with the fulleft powers to aft
4
4 as he faw proper himfelf, called councils of
4
4 war to deliberate upon every the moft trifling
4
4 occafion, that he might have the fanftion of
4
4 their advice, to excufe his negleft, and often
4
4 direft difobedience of his orders ; for you well
4
4 know, that a council o f war always /peaks the
44fenfe o f the commander.
4
4 One
170 C H R Y S A L i O R , T H E
yGoogle
4
4 One inftance of his proceeding in this
4
4 manner will be fufficient to juftify this re-
4
4 mark. He had been ordered to call at an-
4
4 other fortrefs in his way* and take from
4
4 thence a re-enforcement for the garrifon of that
4
4 which he was fent to relieve: On his arrival
4
4 there, inftead of demanding that re-enforce-
4
4 ment peremptorily, as his orders empowered
4
4 him, and making the expedition which the
4
4 urgency of the occafion required, he ihowed
4
4 fuch indifference to the enterprife by his de-
4
4 lays, and exprefled fuch diffidence of his fuc-^
4
4 cefs, that the commanding officer took the
4
4 alarm; and, following his example, called a
4
4 council of war, to confider, whether he ihbuld
4
4 fend it, which, on mature deliberation, he
4
4 abfolutely refufed, on account of the danger
4
4 of weakening his own garrifon, in cafe it
4
4 ihould be attacked; whereas, it was noto*
4
4 rious, that could never happen, if this un-
4
4 happy man did his duty, as the force he had
4
6 was fufficient to keep the command of the fea,
c< and prevent any fuch attempt. But, far from
tc urging this, he quietly acquiefced in the offi-
4
6 cer’s excufe, and failed away without the rc-
<
c enforcement, for which alone he had been or-
46 dered to ftop there. •
4t On the fame principles, when at length he
4
4 came in fight of the place, the fiege of
4
4 which was pufhed with the greateft vigour,
I 2 44he
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i7t
yGoogle
*c he excufed his fending any relief to it, on i
c< pretence of the danger of entering the har-
c< hour, as if any military operations could be
<
c free from danger, and failed away to feek -a
€( fleet of the enemies, which was coming to
tc aflift the fiege, arid which he carile up with
€
C fooner than he wiflied.
tc An engagement now was unavoidable; but,
€t flill he had it in his power to prevent any
u effeft from it, which he notorioufly did, by
€
€ trifling away his time in vain, Unneceflary ma~
<
c naeuvres, and pretending to come to a&ion
at a diftance too great for him tò do any
€
C thing.
6* The enemy, whofe intereft it was to avoid
<
c an engagement, in which their moli fanguine
<
c hopes could not promife them fuccefs, availed
<
c themfelves of this condudl, and made their
€t efcape, after having, from the fuperiority
€i which his keeping aloof in this manner gave
c< them, treated very roughly a part of his fleet,
c( that had advanced with lefs caution, and come
c< really tò aótion.
This ferved him as a prfeterice for calling a
c< council óf war next'day, by the advice of
€i which, inftead of purfuing the enemy, who
<
c had evidently fled from him, or making any
“ attempt to relieve the fortrefs which was be-
ci fieged, obvioufly the firft objeft of his being
“ fent out, he returned dire£ily to the other,
«
« from which he was to have taken the re-en-
4
<forcement,
ty* CHRYSAL: OR, THfe
Digitized b y C j O O ^ l C
“ forcement, as I mentioned before, to defend
c
< that from the danger brought upon it folely
“ by his own conduit, leaving the former, de­
prived thus of every profpeit of relief, to take
“ its fate; and giving up the honour of his
“ country, by flying from an enemy whom he
4
< might have vanquiihed, and who had fled
<
c from him before.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. x73
I 3 C H A P .
yGoogle
»74 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P . VII.
Continued. Confequence o f the foregoing conduct.
A n extraordinary fentence attempted to he reverfed
in an extraordinary manner, and by as extraordi­
nary perfons. The reafon o f this ; and why it
mifcarried. M ore myfteries. Juft fa te o f the
b u n g l e r s , who left their poor t o o l in the
lurch; with the confequences o f this affair to a
certain corps•
<
c '■ “T^H E confequence of fo ftrange a con-
JL du£t was, the nation took fire; and
with one voice demanded fatisfa&ion for fuch
4
< a facrifice of their intereft and honour. He
was, therefore, not only deprived of his com-
<
c mand, but alfo fent home a prifoner; and,
<
c after differing every indignity and abufe which
** the rage of a licentious populace, broken lofe
c< from all bound, could fugged, brought to his
<
c tryal, found guilty of neglefting to do all in his
€€ power to dejlroy the enemyy and for that crime
c< has this day differed the fentence of the law—
c< a fentence not more unexpe&ed by him, and
<
c extraordinary in itfelf, than in the manner it
€
< was paffed; and afterwards attempted to be
f< reverfed by thofe who had paffed it, when they
<
c refle£led on the danger of edabliihing a pre-
%i cedent, that might one day come home to
themfelves.
“ For,
yGoogle
4
4 For, perfuaded (perhaps by their knowledge
4
4 of the true motives of his conduit) that no-
4
6 thing more was meant by the tryal than to
4
4 amufe the publick, they refolved to a£t their
4
4 parts in the farce, and found him guilty, as I
4
4 have faid, of fuch a part only of the charge
4
4 againft him, as common fenfe could never
4
4 conceive puniihable with death, it being im-
4
4 poflible to acquit him abfolutely of the whole*
4
4 without involving themfelves in his guilt, by
4
4 which means they expeCted to fave both his
4
4 life and their own credit. But fuch trimming
4
4 feldom anfwers; the tables were now turned 5
4
4 and it was refolved to carry even this lame
4
4 fentence into execution with the utmoft feve-
4
4 rity.
4
4 Alarmed at. a meafure fo contrary to their
4
4 expectations, his judges were driven to their
4
4 wit’s end; and, from a provident regard to
44 themfelves, left nothing unattempted to faye him.
4
4 They retraced, as far as was in their power,
4
4 their own judgement ! They petitioned the
4
4 miniftry ! They applied to the whole body
4
4 of the legiflature. -They prayed ! They ex-
4
4 populated ! They wept! but all was in vain.
4
4 His fate was determined; and they only drew
4
4 upon themfelves that contempt which fuch
4
4 inconfiftency deferved.
4
4 From this general account of his conduCt it
4
4 miiil nave appeared to you, that he aCled by
4
4fccrei orders, direCtly oppofite to his publick
1 4 4
4ones,
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. 175
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
176 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
4
4 ones, as no man, however proftituted in prin-
4
4 ciple, however infatuated by fear (neither of
4
4 which, it was well known, was his cafe)
4
4 could otherwife poffibly have afted in fuch a
4
4 manner, the inevitable confequences of which
<
c were difgrace and death. But if any doubt
4
4 ihould remain in your mind, from the incon-
4
4 fiftency of man’s aftions at different times,
4
C the leaft attention to the following circum-
4
4 fiances will effeftually remove it.
4
4 Repeated informations of the enemies de-’
4
4 fign upon that place had been fent to thofe in
4
4 power,' for a confiderable time before; but
4
4 no notice was taken of them to re-enforce the
4
4 garrifon ; nor even order the officers, regu-
4
4 Jarly belonging to it, to attend their duty,
4
4 till the iiege was aftually begun ; when this
4
4 unfortunate man was fent, but fo late, that
4
4 the common impediments of contrary winds
4
4 might very poffibly have delayed him fo long
4
4 as to defeat the defign of his going, even had
4
4 he exerted himfelf with the greateft ardour.
4
4 Had it alfo been really intended that he
4
4 ihould re-enforce the garrifon, a force proper
4
4 for that purpofe would have been fent direftly
4
4 from home, without fubjefting him to the
4
4 further delay of flopping for it at another
4
4 place, where it might not be to be fpared, as
4
4 proved to be the cafe. ‘
4‘ And, laftly, had he not had fecret reafons,
4
4 which he thought fufficient to juftify his con-
4
4 duft,
yGoogle
4
4 dud, it is not to be imagined that he would
4
4 have wafted the time before he failed; that
4
4 he would have accepted the refufal of the
4
4 commanding officer of the fortrefs, from whiclv
4
4 he wa$ to have taken the re-enforcement; that
4
4 he would not have attempted at leaft to throw
4
4 fome relief into the place; and that he would
4
4 not have fought the enemies fleet, when he
4
4 had the faireft profpedl of defeating it; for
4
4 the tenour of his former life acquitted him, as
4
4 I have obferved, of all fufpicion of cow-
4
4 ardice, or traiterous correfpondence with the
4
4 foes of his country.
4
4 His condu& at, and after his tryal con-
4
4 firmed thefe remarks. Depending on fupport
4
4 from thofe in power, he negledled the only
4
4 meafure prudence could have fuggefted for his
4f defenfe, which was to have retorted the charger
4
4 of his mifcarriage upon his very accufers, and'
4
4 perplexed the caufe with fuch a variety of
4
4 matter about difobedience to ftgnals, and breach
4
4 o f difcipline, as to blind the world, and be-
4
4 wilder his judges, fo that they ihould be glad
4
4 to have acquitted him, if only to get rid of
4
4 the plague of the enquiry; a method which
4
4 experience had ihown to be effe£tual in as
4
4 flagrant a cafe as his. And, even after he
4
4 was condemned, his behaviour proved, that
4
4 he expelled a pardon to the laft moment, for
4
4 a crime which he had committed in obedience
4
4 to their orders. Why he did not produce
1 5 4
4 thoie
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 177
yGoogle
“ thofe orders, in his vindication, muft have
ss been, that they were only verbal ones 5 which,
<
4 in the blind luft of minifterial confidence and
4
4 favour, he had been weak enough to take.
4
4 The reafon of his b^ing fo bafely deferted
4
4 is too obvious. The adminiflration of thofe
4
4 who had employed him had been fuch a feries
4
4 o f blunders (not to call it by a feverer name !)
4
4 that they had not only been fupplanted by an-
€t other fet, who promifed better things, but
4
4 were alfo obliged to give him- up, as a ftn -
4
4 offerings to the rage of the people ; as pro­
** te&ipg or pardoning him wou d have implied
<
c a participation of his guilt: And in this light
44 the other party viewed it fo llrongly, that they
4
4 exerted all their llrength to have faved him,
4
4 in hopes of being able by his means to gain
4
4 a clue, to guide them through fome of thofe
4
4 labyrinths of iniquitous and falfe policy,
4
4 which they fufpedled, but could not otherwife
44 deteft, to the entire overthrow of their rivals.
4
4 This fo abfolutely reverfed the whole fcene,
€t that they who Ihould have fupportcd, now
4
4 found themfelves obliged to crufli him, in
4t their own defenfe, which, as it was the moft
4
< popular meafure, they were ftill able to do.
4
6 There is but one thing more neceifary for
cc me to add, and that is, the motive for their
€
< giving him fuch fecret orders 5 which, as far
c< as reafon can judge in fuch dark confufed my-
Series, muft have been this:
5 4
4Provoked
»7* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
4
4 Provoked at the repeated infults and in-
u juftice of the French, the miniftry here had
4
4 precipitately plunged themfelves into a war,
4
4 without being prepared, or even determined
4
4 to purfue it; and then, like a parcel of chil-
4
4 dren who have exhaufted all their ftrength
4
4 and refolution in one fpiteful affault, flood in
4
4 a ftate of ftupefaéHon, utterly at a lofs how
4
4 to proceed, or retreat 5 till roufed, at length,
4
4 by the preparations and menaces of the ene-
4
4 my, they unluckily blundered in their fright
4
4 upon the wretched expedient of letting them
4
4 take this fortrefs, that, for the recovery of it,
4
4 they might have a pretence for giving up to
4
4 them thofe places about which the difpute be-
4
4 gan : and fo botch up a peace any way, to get
4
4 rid of a war they found themfelves unable to*
4
4 manage.
4
4 The confequence of this notable ftrçke of
4
4 policy was, the fpirit of the people was en-
44 flamed to fuch a degree, by this difgrace upon
4
4 their arms, that they have puihed on the war
4
4 with a refolution little (hort of madnefs ; and
4
4
1 the fcheme, which the minifters had fo wifely
44 laid for their efcape, only fealed their ruin,
4
4 This, my friend, is a fhort but juft (ketch*
4
4 of this unfortunate affair, to* which I (hall
4
4 only add one circumftance, to prove what I
4
4 faid of his being facrifioed to the humour o f the■
4
4 times. Thé officer who commanded in the-
u fortrefs which was befieged, and who in. the
16* 4
4 defenfe
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA; 17*
■ le
4
4 defenfe of it had betrayed a want of every
4
4 qualification neceflary for fuch an office, but
4
4 courage, and had even let that be over-ruled
4
4 by the inftances of his officers, who were tired
4
4 of fatigues and dangers from which they faw
4
4 no profpeft of relief, to furrender it at laft,
4
4 without any abfolute neceffity, was loaded
4
4 with honours of every kind, in reward of a
4
4 merit merely negative at beft; that is, for
4
4 not having done the very worft in his power,
4
4 and furrendered it at firft, without making
4
4 any defenfe. .
4
4 I have thus gratified your curiofity, in the
4
4 beft manner in my power. If I have made
4
4 any miftakes, they are not thofe of intention;
4
4 but have proceeded from the inability of rea-
4
4 fon to trace fuch myfterious adlions to their
4
4 real motives. One obfervation, though, I
4
4 know, I cannot be miftaken in, which is,
4
4 that this affair has given a wound to our corps
4
4 (as I obferved before) which it can never re-
4
4 cover. For, after fuch an example, what officer
iC of any rank can expeft to efcape, ihould he
4
4 negledl to do his duty in the fulleft manner,
4t however powerful his private motives to the
4
4 contrary may be f
4
4 For my own part, I cannot fay, it yet af-
4
4 fefls me much. I am poor, and therefore
4
4 muft puih. If I ever have the good luck to
4
4 be other, I know the confequence; and will
4
4 rather quit thefervice, thanhazardbeing ihot,
4
4as
18
# CHRYSAL* OR, THE
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. iSt
<
f as I know mud be any man’s fate, who (hall
4t hereafter be found to fail in the performance
<
c of his duty, from a prudential regard to the
“ prefervation of his life or fortune; however
great that fortune, or powerful his family.”
And fo, here’s to you, neck or nothing is now
c< the word.”
The effeft which this whole account had upon
my mafter may be eaiily conceived. He pledged
his friend, though without naming the to a jl; and
aflenting to his remarks by a heavy figh, took
his leave, without faying a word.
C H A P .
yGoogle
C H R Y S A L ; OR, T H E
ih
C H A P . VIH.
C hrysal changes his fe r v id . H e gets a view o f
a court o f civil judicature, on an extraor-
dinary occajion. Some reflexions out o f the common
cant on the delays o f the law . A whim fical ap­
plication o f an oldftory produces the Jhrange ejfett
o f putting a counfellor out o f countenance. The
necefflty o f abfolute power in fome governments w ith
a common deciflony by which nothing is decided.
4
4 A S foon as my mafter returned to his (hip,
4
4 J fxL he took me from his purfe once more,.
4
4 and looking earneftly at me, for fome mo-
4
4 ments, 4We miift part! (faid he, with a iigh)
c we muft part! but I hope to good purpofe.
4 Thou only waft the caufe of that conduft
4 which now gives me fear; exert, therefore,
4 thy influence equally where I now fend thee;
4 and thou wiltexcufe my fault, if it is one/—
4
4 Tears, at the thought of lofing me, here
4
4 choaked his utterance. He gave me a laft
4
4 kifs, and fent me dire&ly away, in company
4
4 with a confiderable number more, to mediate
4
4 his peace.
4
4 As the delicate nature of this tranfaflion
4
4 required fome addrefs, he entrufted the ma-
4
4 nagement of it to his purfer, who had con-
f4 vlnced him, by many inftances, of his faga-
44 city
:y( - le
« city in the methods of obtaining an influence
over the great
My new mailer’s road leading through a city
where a matter of great moment was under ju­
dicial determination, he waited for the event, to
gratify a natural curiofity.
The affair was this: A forem ajl man in a
guard-Jhip, lying in one of the neighbouring
harbours, had by repeated mifbehaviour, in going
clandeftinely on ihore, contrary to the exprefe
orders of his captain, provoked him at length to
give him a dozen at the gang-way, in order to
terrify others from following his example.
Inflead of being reclaimed by this punifhment,
the fellow perfifted to mifbehave in fuch a man­
ner, that the captain, who was remarkably hu­
mane in his difpofition, difcharged him from
the íhip, to avoid the pain of punifhing him
any more.
This was juft what the wretch wanted. Ac­
cordingly, he went dire£lly to a proftituted, pet~
tyfogging attorney, who had before fet him on
the fcheme; and employed him to fue the cap­
tain at law, for an afTault, in punifhing him in
the harbour, where he had no power fo to do.
*
' In a country governed by laws, they muft re­
gularly take their courfe in every inftance, how*>
ever flagrant in its particular circumftances.
After all the preliminary delays of pradlice,
which, grievous as they may in fome circum­
ftances
* Vol. I. page
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 18$
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
fiances be to an individual, are yet the fafety of
the publick, the affair was now brought to a
legal deciiion, You are too well acquainted
with the form s o f law to require a minute account
of all which were obferved in this cafe. But
there was one incident which I cannot pafs
over.
As this was a matter that importantly con­
cerned the intereft of the navy, the rulers of it
had ordered all the captains of the guard-Jhips>
in the harbour where it had happened, to attend
the trial, in order to inform the court, in the
ufages of their fervice.
One of thofe, who had never feen a court of
civ il judicature before, but was a man of natural
good fenfe, and fome reading, having liflened to
the unintelligible pleadings, and grofs exaggera­
tions of the counfel on both Tides of the queftion,
efpecially thofe hired in the profecution, till his
patience was quite exhaufted, at length arofe,
and having obtained permiflion from the judge
to fpeak, addrefled himfelf to the court in thefe
words:
“ I am fent here by thofe to whom the King has
4
< entrufted the condudl of his navy, to explain
the nature and rules of our fervice to this court,
** in cafe I fee any danger of their forming 3
wrong judgement of it, from inexperience in a
4
< matter fo much out of their way.
“ The little gentleman yonder has fpent fo
“ m
uch breath, an
d ihown fuch great reading
* on
yGoogle
4
4 on the fubje&, that I imagine it is proper for
4
4 me to make him fome anfwer, which I ihall
4
4 do in as few words as poifible, being not half
4
4 fo long w inded, as he. But firft, I muft beg
4
4 leave to tell him a ftory, to conform to rule.
4
4 I have read in a book (for I perceive that
4
4 common fenfe iignifies nothing here, if not
4
4 fupported by a quotation, it matters not whe-
4
4 ther to the purpofe, or not!) that a certain
4
4 Philofopher having declaimed one day for a
4
4 confiderable length of time before Alexander tht
4
4 G reat, at the head of his army, on the duties
4
4 of a general, the Emperour turned about to
4
4 Parm enio, one of his generals who flood near
4
4 him, and afked him what he thought of his
4
4 fpeech?-----S/Yv, (anfwered Parm enio) my
4
4 opinion is, that I never heard a fo o l talk fo
4
4 learnedly.---- -
4
4 I make no applications. All that I fay
4
4 on this occafion is, that I am fure that gen-
4
4 tleman has never been at fea; and confe-
4
4 quently knows nothing of the fervice, on
4
4 which he has been haranguing with fuch
4
4 vehemence, and elocution. He has expatia-
4
6 ted moft pathetically on the injuftice of in-
4
4 fli&ing corporal punifhment, .without a legal
4
4 trial, and condemnation ; and flourilhed on
4
4 the danger of fuch an invafion of liberty.
4
4 Thefe, to be fure, are fine words ; but I much
4
4 doubt whether they are properly applied on
4
4 this occafion. The moft perfeft form of
4
4 government
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 185
yGoogle
4
4 government is allowed to be abfolute defpotifmy
4
4 as beft calculated to work its effefts without
4
4 delay. In all the communities in this world,
4
4 I doubt if there is one, where immediate obe-
4
4 dience to the command of the governour is fo
4
4 indifpenfibly neceflary to the fafety of the
4
4 whole, or where individuals are fo infenfible
4
4 to every other motive to obedience but fear*
4
4 as in a man of war.
4
4 1 have myfelf the honour to command a
4
4 ihip, in which 1 have five hundred men
4
6 under me, the greateft part of whom.
4
4 (I am forry to fay it) are the out-cafts of
4
4 human nature, as from fome unhappy cir-
4
4 cumftances is, and perhaps muft always be
4
4 the univerial cafe in our fervice. Now, as
4
4 inftances daily occur, in which a moment’s
4
4 delay or hefitation to execute my orders*.
“ though attended with the greateft difficulty,
4
4 or moft imminent danger, muft evidently
4
4 hazard the lofs of the ihip, and every life in
4
4 her; I defire that gentleman to inform me
4
4 how I am to aft, ihould one of the men*
4
4 whom I order, fuppofe to cut away a yard
4
4 that is broke in the flings, refufe to go aloft*
4
4 and tell me I have no right to puniih him, till
4
4 he is regularly tried and found guilty ! Shall
4
4 I admit of fuch an anfwer, to be an example
4
4 to the reft ? Or fhall I puniih him with fuch
4
4 feverity on the fpot, by my own mere autho-
4
4 rity, as to terrify any other from imitating
> 4
4 him ?
i%6 CHRYSAL* OR, THE
yGoogle
4
4 him ? The anfwer to this plain queftion will
4
4 determine the affair under confideration. If
4
4 it is faid that in the prefent cafe the (hip’s
4
4 being in the harbour makes a difference, let
4
4 us fuppofe her on fire there, and that differ-
4
4 ence will vanifh. In a word, if the abfolute
4
4 authority, indifpenfibly neceifary for carrying
4
4 on our fervice in fome inftances is attempted
4
4 to be abridged in any, it will of courfe be at
4
4 length difputed in all, and the fervice ruined.
4
4 All that can be done is to be cautious not to
4
4 truft it in improper hands.”
This method of reafoning changed the face of
the affair. The counfellor hung down his
head, and flunk out of the court. The fears
which had been entertained for publick liberty
vanifhed ; and the jury Amply fou n d the fa ft*
but left the point of law to be determined by the
judges ; fo that after all this expenfe and trouble
matters remained in the fame ftate of uncertainty
as before, to the great joy of the lawyers.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 187
C H A P .
yGoogle
>18 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P IX.
C h ry sa l’j majler joins a remarkable fe t o f com­
pany. Their characters. C h rysal changes his
fervice. Account o f the enterprife on which his
late_ majler*s companions were going; w ith the
convincing arguments they ufed to procure obedience
to their commands•
S C p H E purfer havings on his arrival in L o n -
( d o n , parted w ith C h ry sa l regularly, in
the execution o f the commijjion entrujled to him by
his captain, C h ry sa l, now , in t h e shape o f
a G u i n e a , after feveral changes 'o f fervice, and
a variety o f curious adventures, has fa llen into the
hands o f a ph y sic ia n and a u t h o r $ who, hav-
ing Jhown him many o f the myjleries o f the latter
p rofeffort, proceeds to introduce him into new fcenes.
VoL I. page laa.)
Happy in the contemplation of his own abili­
ties, and the pleafing profpe&s they opened to
him, my mailer proceded tofigure as ufual, in his
variegated fphere. Accordingly, he defcended
from his aerial citadel, and going out to vifit his
patients, repaired dire£lly to a tavern, to join
a fet o f criticks and choice fp irits, fouls o ffentim ents
and fire, who were going that evening upon
an expedition, that was to immortalife their
names.
This
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 1*9
This was no lefs than to aflume the modeft
power of making laws that ihould affedt the pro*
perty of a number of their fellow fubjedls; the
execution of which they were refolved to enforce
by the mild and equitable means which the re-
fpedtable legiilature of the mob always ufe to
enforce obedience to their decrees.
Thofe who were honoured by being taken
thus under their immediate command, were the
a51ors of plays and interludes of which, as
the works of genius, and calculated for the en­
tertainment of the idle, they claimed the foie,
and abfolute rule.
You conclude from this, that they muft have
been perforls of learning, and large fortune,
whofe affluence gave them leifure to attend to
fubjedls, which their education qualified them
to judge of; but the contrary was the fadt.
They were either blanks in the Creation, whom
a fuperficial fmattering of letters had filled with
fuch an opinion of themfelves, as to make them
look with Contempt upon every exertion of in-
duftry, as beneath their dignity, though at the
fame time they were barely able to fubfift with­
out it, by all the little ihifts of oeconomy ; or,
tradefmen, almoft abfolutely illiterate, who, from
a prepofterous ambition of hiding an ignorance
that was not any reproach to their ftation, fet up
for the arbiters of tafte, on the ftrength of a
fet of phrafes picked up at random, and of which
they knew not even the meaning; and negledted
the bufinefs by which they were to earn their
bread,
yGoogle
i9o C H R Y S A L j o r , t h e
bread, in order to make a {how of knowledge,
that could be of no ufe to them.
When this illuftrious fet had fufficiently conned
their feveral parts, in the great enterprise which
they were going to undertake, and raifed their
refolutions to a proper pitch by wine, they pre­
pared to adjourn to the fcene of adiion, the
Theatre ; and calling for a b ill, I was changed by
my matter to pay his club, and direSly borrowed
from the landlord by one of the leaders of the
party, who changed me again at the door of the
Theatre, to pay for his admiilion.
Thefe changes of my fervice, however, did
not prevent my feeing the procefs of this extra­
ordinary affair. On the contrary ; as I now be­
longed to the whole theatrical community in gene­
ral, I had an opportunity of getting a full infight
into the nature and myfteries of every part of
that profeilion.
I fee you defire to know my fentiments on a
fubjedt, that has been canvaffed by the ingenious
of all ages. Such a curiofity is natural, and
ihall be gratified at a proper time; but at prefent r
I mutt not interrupt the account of this tran-
faftion.
From the manner in which thofe felf-made
legiflators had talked, when together, of every
circumftance in the management of a theatre,
and profeilion of an adtor, you would have con­
cluded that they were going to over-turn the
whole prefent fyftem of the ftage, and inflitute
anothef
yGoogle
another on principles dire&ly oppolite, according
to their own ideas of perfe£tion.
But that was not the cafe. Among all the
errors and abufes, againft which they declaimed
with fuch vehemence, they thought proper to
attack only one, which they thought moft
interefting to themfelves in particular. This
was the right, which reafon, and law gave the
performers to fix the price of their own la-
hours.
In the infancy of the ftage in London, before
it had been brought, by much labour and ex-
penfe, to fuch a degree of perfe&ion as to at­
tract the attention of the publick, it had been
the cuftom after a certain part of the reprefenta-
tion was over, to admit perfons for lefs than was
paid at the beginning.
The obvious reafon of this was to allure com­
pany of any kind thither, and take the moft they
could get, rather than keep the houfe empty.
But when the paffion for feeing plays arofe to its
prefent height, this expedient appeared to be no
longer necefiary, and therefore was difufed ; a
change which, thofe who conduced the enter­
tainments of the theatre juftified, by alledging
the enhanced falaries of the a&ors, and the im­
provements made in the machinery and deco­
rations of the ftage fince the time when that
cuftom was introduced, which they faid required
reimburfement, by a method, that could not
, juftly
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. m
yGoogle
CHRYSALi OR, THE
*9*
juftly be taken offence at, as none were obliged
to go, who did not approve o f the terms.
Such a meafure was moil alarming to thefe men
of tafte, fome of whom denied themfelves theplea-
lure of going to the beginning of the performance
becaufe they were not able to pay the fu ll p rice; as
the others could not get from behind their compters
before it was half ended \ and for thefe good rea-
fons both thought it the higheft grievance to have
a cuftom aboliihed, that had been fo convenient
to them.
Accordingly, as foon as the performance
began, they all arofe, and without any refpedfc
to the reft of the audience, interrupted the
players in the moft outrageous manner, nor
would defift, till the managers Ihould promife to
tedrefs the grievance which affeited them fo
feverely, and take half-prices, as before.
This was too flagrant a violation of juftice to
be fubmitted to fo fuddenly. The managers,
therefore, refufed; upon which thefe redrejfers
o f grievances gave a loofe to their refentment, at
fuchan inftance ofdifobedience to their authorityj
and tore the houfe to pieces, doing more damage
to the proprietors than their own entire worldly
fubftance could repair.
C H A P .
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 193
G H A P. X.
The ruinous appearance o f the fcene o f aftiqn fupplies
matter fo r mirth to thofe whofe trade is to laugh
at every thing. The point carried againfi law and
reafon. Enquiry into the caufe o f this. The rife
o f the prejudice againjl the profejfton o f an a ftor*
W
H E N thefe men of genius and publick
fpirit had thus gallantly accompliihed their
enterprife, they marched offin triumph, denounc­
ing a repetition of their refentment, ihould their
orders not be obeyed.
The appearance of the houfe, after this ra­
vage ; and the looks of the a&ors, when they
ventured to creep out of their hiding holes,
feemed to realife the mimick fcenes ufually ex­
hibited there. All was havock, defolation,
amazement, and affright. Crowns, fceptrcs,
candledicks, and broken benches were jumbled
together: Sovereigns, and fweepers, lords, link­
boys, ducheffes, and cinder-wenches joined in
one common lamentation of their fate. t
This, however, laded not long. Their hearts
were not formed of duff, for grief to make a
deep impreffion on : nor were they fo unaccu-
domed to the rubs of life as to be dejedled at any
mifchance. Their concern, therefore, wore off
with their fright; and one of them, refuming his
charafter of turning every thing to ridicule,
Vol. III. K marched
Digitized b y - C j O O ^ I C
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
marched with folemn pace and rueful counte­
nance up to the motley ruins now colledled into
a heap, and with fome droll variations, apt to
the occafion, /pouted over them a tragick fpeech,
in all the emphafis and trick of woe. The hu­
mour inftantly ran through them all. Mirth
grinned on every face; and they vied in cracking
villainous jefts on each other’s undoing.
But the managers had fuffered too feverely in
their property to be in fo merry a mood. They
confulted among themfelves, and w ith the /ages
i f the lawy what was proper for them to do,
to obtain redrefs for fuch injuilice, and prevent
the menaced repetition of it. But all was to no
purpofe. Law gave way to licentioufnefs ; and
they were obliged to fubmit to the moil intoler­
able of all tyrannies, that o f the mob.
You are furprifed that fuch things fliould be,
in a country governed by equal and eilabliihed
laws. In fpeculation it muft feem ftrange $ but
the lead acquaintance with life would reconcile
you to inconfiftencies ilill grofler. There is
fomething, however, in the circumflances of this
cafe, which deferves attention, and makes it not
improper to trace to their origin the prejudices
from which fuch injuilice could proceed.
When the fyitem of Divine worihip, which is
now profefled in thefe parts of the world, was
firft propofed to mankind, the human mind was a
Have to fuperftitions, which were a difgrace to
that portion of reafon given for its direction.
. By
yGoogle
By a perverfion, of which man alone is capa­
ble, the celebration of thofe fuperftitions, though
profefledly deiigned in honour of the Deity,
was attended with games, and fcenical interludes*
in which the grofleft immoralities received the
fan&ion of religion, and were pra&ifed openly as
plealing to him. This was done to attach the
paffions of the multitude ; and fatisfy their curio-
fity with fenfible reprefentations, in order to
prevent their making rational enquiries into the
grounds of thofe fuperftitions, the principles of
which were fubfervient to the policy of the
ruling powers.
A Religion inftituted on purpofe to reclaim
man from immoralities and fuperftitions, and
reftore him to the dignity of his nature, necefla-
rily ftruck at every thing that conduced to their
fupport: Accordingly, the perfons appointed to
propagate it exerted all their endeavours againft
thofe games and interludes, both as a part of
the fuperftitious worftiip which they wanted to
aboliih, and as in themfelves fubverlive of moral
virtue, by the vices which they exhibited to
imitation, heightened, and made ftill more
alluring by every incentive art, and pomp of
expenfe.
For this purpofe, reafon, as well as Religion,
fupplied ready and powerful arguments ; but,
not content to wait for the flow effect of thefe,
they ftrove to prejudice thofe whom they could
not perfuade 3 and, to obviate the imitation of
K % their
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 195
yGoogle
C HR Y S A L : Ok, TI t t
their example, raifed an abhorrence to the per*
Ions of all concerned in fuch reprefentations,
cafling them off from this rites of religion, and
declaring them unworthy both of the prote&ion
tofthe laws, and the common privileges of fociety:
A method, that in one refpe£fc defeated its
own defigrt J as it could never reclaim the offen­
ders, however it might deter others from follow­
ing their example.
Nor did they flop here. By ah errour too
common in the heat of argumentation, they
Concluded from the abufe, again/} the ufe of the
ftage, and branded with the mark of reproba­
tion all future a&ors* for the faults of the pre-
fent.
yGoogle
e h a t .
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. 19
7
CHAP. X
I.
Continued. The common confequence o f excefs o f
zeal, The profejfed intent o f the theatrical
reprefentations defeated by this abfurd pre­
judice againjl aSiors. The vices againjl which
this prejudice is levelled, in reality the effects
o f it \ w ith the means fo r remedying this> and
other abufes.
HO W EVER the occafion might there feem
to juftify this excefs of zeal, when the
caufe ceafed, the effe& ihould in reafon have
ceafed alfo; and thefe general cenfures have
been repealed. The fuperftitions which were
the foundation of the firft charge againft the
ftage have been long aboliflied ; nor are the ab-
furdities and immoralities which gave offenfe to
reafon and virtue any longer pra&ifed there. Or*
the contrary, the profeffed intent of theatrical
reprefentations at prefent is, to infinuatejnftruc-
tion under the pleafing appearance of entertain«
ment, to encourage virtue by example, and in«
culcate the praftice of it, by ihowing the evils
infeparably attendant on vice; to regulate the
paflions, by difplaying the danger of indulging,
them too far, and to put folly out of countenance,
by holding it up to ridicule.
Now, as experience has proved the ftagecapable
of anfwering thefe great ends, what can be more
K 3 injudicious
yGoogle
injudicious than to attempt to bring it into dis­
repute. What more unjuft than to confign to
infamy thofe who exert the fined powers of
the human mind and body to accomplifh this
end in the moft pleating manner ? Yet, fuch is
the abfurdity of man, that while perfons of the
moft exalted rank, and facred character, not
only frequent the theatre, but alfo compofe
works to be reprefented on it, and evidently
value themfelves more on pofleffing the abilities
requifite to compofe them, than on all their other
diftin&ions in life, thofe from whofe aftion fuch
compofitions receive their force and beauty are
held in difrepute, and fubjeft to the fevereft dis­
advantages only for acfting them. If it is no dis­
grace to w rite a play, why fhould it be any to
a ft it ?
It is true, the confequences of this prejudice
are not fo fevere here as in other countries, but
frill they are fuch as reafon is afhamed of. If -
aftors are not literally excluded from the protec­
tion of ¿the laws, they want fupport to avail
themfelves of that protection, as in the cafe
which gave rife to thefe reflexions! If they are
not aftually (fo r literally they are ! ) excluded from
the rites of Religion, they want encouragement
to participate in them !
I fee you are ready to obje& to the utility of
the ftage, the faults in many of the performances
exhibited upon it ; and to juftify the difrepute
affixed to the ch a ra cter of an a&or, from the
general
i98 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
general immorality of their conduit in private
life, as if it arofe folely from their profeiBon.
But a moment’s reflexion would fuggeft ant-
fwers to both thefe obje&ions.
If there is any improper exhibition upon the
ftage, furely the blame fhould fall on thqfe
who have a legal power to prevent fuch ahufe
of the inflitution of it! If the a£lors are immoral
in their lives, fhould it not be confidered that
they are prejudged from their profeiBon; and
deprived of one of the ftrongeft inducement*
to virtue, that is, reputation., before they are
proved to be guilty of vice.
The confequence of this is, that too few
enter into the profeiBon, till afcr they have loft
their reputation, or are driven by mere necef-
fity} by which means they refledt that difgrace
upon it, whiqh they are thought to fuffer from
it ; and as they are fenflble that they are pre~
eluded by this prejudice from all pofBbjlity of
recovering or preferring it by the mod careful
deportment, they become defperate, and pro­
ceed till they even lofe the fenfe of unavailing
ihame. '
Whereas, if a different conduit was obferved
to them ! if the brand of reprobation was taken
off, and the profeiBon eftablifhed in that credit,
which the abilities indifpenfibly necefiary to
eminence in it deferve, Genius would be no
longer damped by apprehenfion of reproach:
More perfons of good chara&er would not
K 4 ' fcruple
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i9t
yGoogle
fcruple going on the ftage, as they could pre­
ferve it there; nor vice feem to receive encou­
ragement from publick favour, becaufe from
this circumftance unhappily too often entangled w ith
m erit; but the life of the aftor would refle& the
fentiments of the poet, and enforce them to
imitation by example.
Nor would it be difficult to work this im­
portant effe£h All neceflary, would be, to refufe
admiffion on the ftage to all, notorious fo r vice of
any kin d; to baniih from it fuch as Jhould become
fo after, however eminent in their m erits; and to
fupport the profeffton by the civil pow er againft the
tyranny of the mob, fo that the lives artd pro­
perties of all concerned in it ihould be fecure
from fuffering fuch licentious outrage and in-
juftice, as no other fubje&s are expofed to 5 and
as are equally a reproach and infult to good
government and common fenfe.
Nor need it be apprehended that this would
make them infolent, or fladcen their endeavours
to pleafe. Their very being depends on publick
favour, the bare withholding of which ispuniih-
ment fufficiently fevere ; as ambition to acquire
it will make them exert their utmoft abilities,
and always obferve proper humility to the arbiters
of their fate. They know that if they are
neglected, they cannot live: On the con­
trary, it would enable them to rife to greater
merit in their art, as they would no longer he
under the wretched neceffi ty of proftituting
their
*«• CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
5
AD VE NTITRE S OF A GUINEA, aor
their own judgement, to pleafe the grofs tafte of
their tyrants.
Many other arguments might be alledged
againft this grievous, and ihameful abufe, but
what I have faid is fufficient to convince candicf
reafon; and with prejudice it is in vain tc*
argue.
K ,
yGoogle
G H A K
2ê t C H R Y S A L : CR, THE
i
C H A P . XII,
The fyfem o f policy, by which C h r ysa l’j majler
governed his Jlate. Account o f his methods o f
parrying poets. The reafon why fo fe w new
plays are atted. Enquiry into the prefent f a te
o f genius. The general motives fo r w riting plays
preclude them from fuccefs. M anagers and
Poets equally in faulty in their dealings w ith each
ether. •
H E day after this great affair was thus
equitably fettled, on the treafurers making
up his week’s account, I came into the poffeffion
of the manager, who having fome occafion for
money put me into his pocket.
The meafures of my new mailer’s government
in his little empire were the ilrongeit burlefque
on the policy of the world, the greateft fove-
reign in which had not more intrigues offa te to
manage, than were continually carrying on
about him, from the ambition, envy, and
jealoufy of the feveral candidates for his royal
favour.
But all this buftle did not embarrafs him in
the lead. He had the addrefs to play off one
party againft another; and by never engaging
him felfparticularly to any, was able to manage alU
A method, by the by, that might fuggeft an
hint
X
Digitized by Google
hint not unufcful to politicians in an higher
fphere. ,
But the part of his conduct that was moft
curious, and gave me the greateft pleafure, was
his manner of parrying the attacks of the authors
who were continually bringing him their works
for reprefentation on the ftage, of which I had
an opportunity of feeing many ftriking inftances.
As it is evidently the intereil of the manager of
a theatre, to exhibit thofe performances, whofe
merit is moft likely to gain the approbation of.
the publick; and as no man who is capable of
writing a piece proper for exhibition can be
fuppofed to want judgement to know whether
it has that merit, you may naturally think that
there could not be much-difficulty in the inter-
N:ourfe between them ; but human a&ions are
not always to be judged of from the ftrongeft
appearances of reafon.
The reprefentation of a new piece necefTarily
puts the manager to fome expenfe and much,
trouble. If you add to this, the natural anxiety
about fuccefs, fo r merit is often rejetted by caprice,
or perfonal prejudice, you will not wonder that
he ihould be cautious what he brings upon the
ftage; and prefer ailing old ones, unattended
with thefe inconveniencies, while the publick
will bear the repetition, and does not peremp­
torily demand new.
This is the real reafon, why fo few new
pieces are performed; and not any decline of
K 6 poetical
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *03
yGoogle
204 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
poetical genius to produce them; it being cer­
tain that there are as many good plays written
now, as at any former point of time. But the
matter is this. All the good ones of thofe times
lie together before you, and raife your opinion to
the happy days which produced them : But if
you confider the long intervals between, and the
innumerable bad ones which appeared along with
them, but are now loft in the wreck of time,
you will find that you have not fo great reafon to
complain of the prefent decline of genius, as
you may have imagined.
I do not by this mean, that every one who
pretends to write is poffeffed of that genius; or
that all the pieces offered to the ftage are proper
for representation. On the contrary, many who
want every qualification indifpenfible to fuccefs
in fuch attempts, make them every day in defi­
ance of reafon; and ftrive to obtrude upon the
publick works which are a reproach to common
fenfe.
The motives of this are obvious. Whenever
a man is at a lofs how to fpend his time, or wants
to raife a little money, down he fits without
more ado, and writes a play. The confequence
of this is, that the very reafons which made him
turn poet neceffarily preclude him from fuccefs*
Jdlenefs prevents that care, that lim a labor,
which alone can make a performance proper
for publick representation; and dijirefs depreffes
the
j by Google
the imagination ; and hinders its rifing to that
happy boldnefs, which is the eflence of poetry. *
It appears from hence, that if the managers
of theatres from interefted motives are often to
blame for receding good pieces ; poets (or thofe
who would be thought fuch) are much oftener
culpable for. offering them bad ones* The
difference of opinion unavoidable on this
account occaiions the difficulty in their in-
tercourfe. But in this the conteft is not
equal. The word of the manager is decifive ;
while the poet has nothing left, but to vent-
his refentment in unavailing (and often unjuft)
complaints, and abufe, in which thofe who
have leaft right are always loudeft; for en­
amoured with the beauty of their own offspring,,
like the ape in the fable, they throw dirt at all
who prefume to find fault with it.
But fevere as it muft be to fuffer this, it
is not the greateft difficulty the manager has
to encounter with them. Not fatisfied with
the civil refufal of affe&ed delays and ex-*
cufes, they muft have a direct anfwer, which,
they controvert with all their power,, and ob­
lige him to fupport by fuch arguments as
muft give him pain, if he has either politenefs
or good-nature; though, after all, inftead of
convincing them, he only gets their’s and
their friends ill-will> and arms all their tongues
againft him.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ±oS
It
yGoogle
C H R Y S A L : O R , T H E
so6
It is not to be doubted but the evafons which
managers ufe to Jhift o ff good pieces are as
grofsly offcnfive to moral propriety, truth, and
candour, as the arguments of authors in defenfe
ofbad ones can poffibly be to reafon; but as I
did not happen to be witnefs to anyinftances of
them, 1ihall confine my account to the latter.
C H A P .
iyGoo le
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, «
«
?
C H A P . XIII.
C h r y sa l’j maßerfits in judgm ent on fome pieces
offered to him . A poet o f fajhton enters. The
arguments by which he fupports his work againß
the objections o f C h r y sa lV
t maßer, who makes
fom e curious dramaticalfiriCJures. The poet, driven
from his laß retreat, the intereß o f his great
frien d s, by the common cant o f the houfe9
s being
fu ll fo r thefiafon, departs in a rage, denouncing
their refinement, which C h r y sa l’j m cfier fiow s
his reafon not tofea r the effects o f
T
HE important morning after I came into
the poffeffion of the manager was big with
the fate of many a poetical performance, the
authors of which were appointed to come there
for his deciiive anfwer.
Accordingly, as foon as he had breakfafted,
lie repaired to his tribunal, where he had been
waited for, fome time, by one of thofe afpiring'
geniufes, who facrifice the folid happinefs of in­
dependence to the vain ambition o f being w elt
- w ith the g reat; fubmitting to their capricious
humours for the honour of a nod in publick
places, or an invitation to their tables; to en­
hance their welcome at which, and confume time
they know not how to make better ufe of, they
fall upon this wife expedient of turning poet.
When
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
to€
When they had gone through all the forma*-
iities of polite addrefs, and taken their feats with
proper ceremony, the poet opened the bufinefs.
4
4 Well, Sir (faid he, with a fraiie of felf-com-
4
4 placence) you have perufed that trifle! what
4
4 is your opinion ? Heh ! don’t you think it
4
4 will do ?”
4
4 Sir (anfwered my mailer, with the fmooth
4
4 fimper of a courtier) you do it injuilice by
cc calling it a trifle ! the piece has a great deal
4
4 of merit; and reads very prettily in many
4
4 places; but I fear it is not quite fo proper
4
4 for the ftage !”
— 4
4 How, Sir! not proper for the ftage!
4
< pray, Sir, where does the impropriety lie l Se-
44 veral perfons of the firft rank have read it,
4
4 and found no fuch thing. H is grace faid, it.
4t abounded with the vis comica. Lord TaJUy
4
4 was charmed with the A ttick fa it; and S ir
44 Courtly admired the elegance of the didtion.
4
4 Pray, Sir* where then can the impropriety?
4
4 lie? They are"allowed to be judges.
4
4 — Pardon me, Sir, I do not prefume to.
4
4 call their judgement in qvieftion,, in the leaft.
4
4 But— a— ” '
— 4
4 And why,, then, ihould you hefitate to re-
4
4 ceive it? They will fupport it with all
4
4 their intereft.” -....
<
c That, Sir, I do not doubt*, But— ftill*
4
4 Sir— the town”— - •
44 —The.
yGoogle
1 c< — The town, Sir! and pray what of the
4
4 town? Is the judgement of the town to be
4
4 put in competition with their’s ?” — «
4
4 No, Sir ! by no means ! but ftill the town
4
4 is a very formidable and arbitrary judge; and
4
4 will not admit its authority to be difputed in
4
4 fuch matters as this.”-----
— 4
4And, pray, good Sir, what obje&ions can
4
4 the judicious town, or you, its learned advo-
4
4 cate, make!”— •—
4
4 Sir, you impofe a very difagreeable tafk
4
4 upon me ! I had much rather be excufed.”—
4
4 I do not in the lead doubt that, Sir; but
4
4 my friends infift upon a dire& anfwer. Either
4
4 receive the play, or fay why you will not.”—
—-4
CSir, I ihould be very forry to give of-
4
4 fenfe to any gentleman; but fince you infift
4
4 upon my opinion, Do not you think, Sir,
4
4 the plot is too— too— too domeftick ? Are
4
4 not the intrigues and tricks of fervants too
4
4 low a fubje£t for polite entertainment ?” —■■■
— 4
4 How, Sir ! have you any obje&ion to
4
4 fervants ? Do not they make a principal part
4
4 in all our modern comedies? Are the J ere-
4
4 my’s, and Scrubs, and PbUis’s, and a thou-
4
4 fand others, to be reje&ed becaufe they are
4
4 fervants ?”-----
— 4
4 No, Sir ! but confider they are not the
4
4 principal chara&ers ; nor does the plot tura
‘ 4
4 upon them. They come in, as it were, by
4
4 accident; and, Jndeed, except in the in­
. 4
4 ftancea
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. s»9
yGoogle
“ (lances you have mentioned, and, perhaps, a
“ very few more, they had much better be left
“ out. It (hows a groflnefs of tafte to (loop to
“ them for entertainment.” —
— “ And do not I introduce the mailers and
“ miftreffes too, as well asthefervants? Are there
“ not country fquires, and town fops, and fine
“ ladies ?”—
“ Yes, Sir, you do introduce them, but in
“ a fuborcfinate light; and merely to be the
“ dupes of their fervants, without any bufinefs,
“ or importance of their own.” — •
— “ And, pray, Sir, in what other light do
“ moil mailers appear ? Ha ! ha ! ha !— W ell,
“ then, it feems all your objections are to the
‘‘'“fable. You have nothing to fay againft the
“ fentiments and diCtion.”
— The fentiments, Sir, may be very pro­
“ per, and the diCtion fuited to them ; but you
“ muft be fenfible that the former objection af-
“ feCts them all equally. The characters are
“ too low; and the fentrmeiits and diCtion con-
“ fequently too coarfe.” — -
“ Sir— Sir— Sir— I ihall not enter into any
“ further arguments with you. H is Grace bids
“ me tell you, he infills upon your receiving
“ it, or giving him fuch reafons as he (hall
“ think fatisfaCtory, which mud be very diffe-
“ rent from thofe infignificant cavils.”—
— “ His Grace need not exert his authority
“ to influence my obedience, 'The lead hint
“ of
2
j o C H R Y S A L j o r , t h e
yGoogle
<
c of his pleafure were fufficient ; but unluckily
4
4 I am engaged for the whole feafonj quite
4
4f u ll: 9----- -
F u ll! why did you not tell me fo at
CC --------
— 4
4 Becaufe you infifted on having my opi­
« nion.”----- * *
4
4 Very well, Sir ! I ihall let his Grace, and
4
4 all my friends, know how you have behaved.
4
4 Let me have the play ! impertinent, infolent,
4
4 ignorant puppy •” muttered he, as he went
out.
4
4 So (faid my mailer, as foon as he was gone)
4
4 I have now made him my enemy for ever,
4
4 As for his noble frien d s, they are above trou-
4
4 bling themfelves about any thing of the kind,
4
4 and give him leave to mention their names*
4
4 only to get rid of his importunity,1’
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, an
CHAP.
yGoogle
%l% CffRYSALr OIVTHE
C H A P . XIV.
Continuation. C h r y s a l ’j majler rejefls the work
o f a poet fo r his ignorance o f the laws o f the
drama. M ore dramatical fr¡¿lu res. The poet
tnodeJUy inftfts, that his play is refufed only becaufe
. 'it wants the intere/i o f the great; and goes o ff in
a huff. Another poet repulfed fo r his attachment
to the laws of the drama. Arguments againjl
thefe laws. The poet refufes to conform to the
prefent ta fe\ and makes an appeal. One more
poet refufed) onlyfo r wanting every poetical talent•
Remarks cn fomething that affeSls more than care
to own it. C h r y s a l changes hisfervicey on an
occafton not common.
TH E laft poet was fcarce down (lairs, when
a footman announced the enterance of an­
other.
My matter did not think it neceflary to ob-
ferve fo much ceremony with him, as he had
done with the former, but told him dire&ly, that
he could not receive his piece.
Such a fentence (truck the poet all o f an heap.
He was unable to fpeak for fome moments; but
recovering himfelf at length, 4
4Not receive it,
4
4 Sir! (faid he:) you furprife me. Pray, Sir,
4
4 why fo V ’— ...
4
4 I am very loth to find fault, Sir (anfwered
4
4 my matter;) but you feem to be utterly unac-
4
< quainted with all the laws o f the dram a” - ■ ■ ■
—“ The
yGoogle
— 4
4 The laws of the drama! they are but
4
4 art ; I write from nature. Thefe laws have
4
< been long laid afide. Shakefpear wrote with*
4
4 out laws.” —
— 4
4 So much the worfe. But he is a dan*
4
4 gerous example to imitate. The local, tern-
*4 porary laws of the aAcient drama are laid
4
4 afide, it is true, but not the immutable, ge-
44 neral laws of propriety and reafon. Your fa-
4
4 ble is unconnected, improbable, and unaf-
4
4 fedting.” " ■■ ■■
-
— 4
4 How, Sir ! unaffedting ! Can the fajl
4
4 of a mighty empire be faid to be unaffedt-
u ing?’*
—-— .
-—4
4 No, Sir! but the defcription of it moft
4
4 certainly may, if not drawn with judgement
4
4 and force. And then your characters are ill-
^4 fupported ; and your fentiments and language
4
4 loft in the clouds.” —*
■
— 4
4 What, Sir ! can the fentiments of Kings
4
4 and Princes be too fublime ?” — ■
—*
4
4 There is a wide difference between
4
C being fubiime, and. fwollen out of na­
« ture.”—— .
— 4
4 But what objection can you make to
4
4 the language ? Is it not raifed with epi-
4
4 thetSy and metaphors, 'and all the figures of
4
4 poetry ?” ■ ,
— 4
4 Good Sir ! poetical figures in poor lan-
u guage look like embroidery on a blanket.
‘ . *4They
ÀDVENtURES OF A GUINEA, **$
yGoogle
4
4 They only make its poverty ridiculous.
4
4 Befide, your Jlalking in their J iilts , betrays
4
4 you into many a (tumble in the dirt. Your
4
4 figures frequently fly in the fece of common
4
4 fenfe, and break through every rule of gram­
« mar.”-----
— u Well, Sir ! I (hall confider of thefe
4
4 particulars. The great objection I have heard
4
4 made to modern plays is, their want of bufi-
4
4 nefs: But this can never be Charged to mine«
4
4 There is a ghoJ}9 and a battle; and a king
4
4 dethroned. Bufinefc enough and enough, I
4
4 am fure.” —
— <
c Ghofts and battles, Sir, it is true, are
4
4 fometimes introduced with fuccefs; but then
4
4 it muft be by a matter in the art, elfe they
4
4 have a contrary effeft.” — —
— 4
4 I apprehend that the aim of tragedy is tp
4
4 work upon the paifions. In this, I believe,
4
4 you cannot fay I have failed— The diftrefs is
4
4 truely great.”— —
— 4
4 Diftrefs, when out of charafter, lofes
4
4 the appearance of reality, and becomes ridi-
4
4 culous. A king in an alms-houfe, and a
4
4 queen begging from door to door, are images
4
4 which fink into a burlefque.”— —
— 4
4 It is very well, Sir! you may fay what
4
4 you pleafe, but I am fatisfied- it is not want
4
4 of merit in my play that makes you refufe it.
4
4 You daily aft much worfe. If it had been
4
4 recommended
«1*. C H R Y S A L : OR, T H E
yGoogle
44 recommended to you bjrfome lord, you would
44 have found none of.thefe faults ; but merit
4
4 may ftarve without intereft to fupport it, now-
cc a-days. This is fine encouragement to ge-
4
C nius, f truely; and the publick is like to be*
4
4 well entertained while fuch men have it in
4
C their power to refiife every thing that does not
4
4 happen to pleafe themfelves.”—
Saying this, he fnatched up his play, leaving
my mailer to pleafe himfelf with the profpe& of
being criticifed upon in a news-paper, and pulled
to pieces in a fcurrilous pamphlet.
He had not time to indulge thefe reflexions
long, when another of his clients attended his
levee.
As foon as he was feated 4
4I have read over
4
4 your work with great care (faid my mafter)
4
4 and am ferry to fay, I think it improper for
4
4 the ftage.” -----
— 4
4 Pray, Sir, why fo ? (anfwered the poet,
4
4 with an air of importance.) It is written
4
4 ftri&ly according to the rules of the drama;
4
4 and enriched with the fublimeft fentiments of
44 the ancients.”—
— 4
4 Sir, I am feniible of its merits as well
4
4 as of the great learning of the authour: But
4
4 the tafte of the times requires entertainment
44 of a different kind.” ■■■ —
4
4 Surely, compliance with a vitiated tafte
4
4 will not juftify the breach of rules, taken
4
4 originally
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 115
yGoogle
4
4 originally from nature, and eftabliihed for fo
4
4 many ages.--—
— 4
4 I neither difpute the original juftice, nor
4
4 the antiquity of them: But I apprehend that
4
4 the latter, in a great meafure, deftroys the
4
4 prefent force of the former. The cuftoms of
4
4 mankind, the part of nature that comes with*
4
4 in the province of the drama, are fo changed
4
4 fince the eftabliihment of thofe rules, that it
4
4 would be mod abfurd to exa& obedience to
4
4 them now. Beiide, may it not be faid, with-
4
4 out violation to the refpe& due to antiquity»
4
4 that experience, in a great length of time,
4
4 may have made many improvements in thofe
4
4 rules. The infancy of every art is weak.”--— *
•
— 4
4 But, whatever change may have hap-
4
4 pened in the cuftoms of the world, truth ftill
4
4 remains the fame, and the genuine fentiments
4
4 of nature can not difpleafe.”----- '
— 4
4 Very true ! but ftill they may not always
4
4 be received with equal pleafure, in the fame
4
4 garb. Unimpaffioned fentiment, however
4
4 juft and fublime, works not the effefts de-
4
4 figned by the drama, whofe aim is to con*
4
4 vey inftru<Stion and pleafure at the fame
4
4 time, by an immediate addrefs to the paf*
4
4 fions.”-----
— 4
4 Is it poffible, that you can be an advo*
4
4 cate for the irregular monfters, which at pre-
4
4 fent dilhonour the ftage ?”— —
—44As
*16 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
4
4 As for irregularity, I look upon it to be
4
4 but an imaginary defedl. Though even if it
4
4 were otherwife, I am the fervant of the pub-
4
4 lick, and obliged to find entertainment for
4
4 their tafte, be it what it will. If you would
4
4 but conform’’— —
4
4 No, Sir ! that I never will, againft rea*-
U fon and the ancients. I fee you are preju-
4
4 diced, and,, therefore, ihall not argue with
4
4 you any longer. But I ihall not acquiefce in
4
4 filence. I will publiih the performance, with-
4
4 out being difcouraged by your refufal, and
4
4 appeal to the judgement of the learned.”-----
He then marched off, with a (lately pace, and
my matter looking after him, 4
4 There again
4
< (faid he, ihrugging his ihoulders) I ihall now
4
4 have the ghofts of Sophocles and Jrijiotle, and
4
4 all the doughty ancients, raifed to haunt
4
4 me.”-----
As he faid this, a perfon entered, whofe whole
appearance fpoke diftrefs. He approached my
matter bowing lowly, and trembling with anxiety
as he fpoke: 4
4 I have made bold to wait upon
4
4 you, Sir! (faid he) but, if you are not at
4
4 leifure, will call another time.”-----
4
4 Pray, Sir, fit down ; (replied my matter,
c4 with a fmile of encouragement) I have
4
4 looked over your work, and am concerned
4
4 that it is not in my power to receive it ; as
4
4 I ihould be fincerely glad to ferve you. But
4
4 in this, it is not pottible. I mutt: be plain
V oLf III, L 4
4 with
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 217
yGoogle
C H R Y S A L : OR, T H E
2)S
4
4 with you— You feem to want every poetical
4
4 talent.”—
4
4 I thought, Sir (returned the poet, fcarce
4
4 able to collect fpirtfs enough to fpeak to him)
4
4 that the bufuneis of tragedy was* to work
4
4 upon the pafiions! I depended entirely on
4
4 the diftrefs.” -~~^
— 4
4 Very true, Sir ! But there are other
4
4 pafiions befide pity to be applied to; nor is
4
4 poverty a properdiftrefe to work upon them.
4
4 Severe as it is to be felt, it affo&s but little in
•4 representation. The upper ranks of life know
4
4 not what it is; and thofe who do, are de-
4
4 firous to keep the thought at a difiance; and
4
4 conceal a knowledge they are afhamed of.
4
4 The mind muft be properly prepared to feel
4
4 for another. The defeription of a* famine
4
4 would affe£t but little after a feafl.”
This came too home to the unhappy poet.
He burft into tears; and was departing without
being able to make a reply. My mailer felt his
diftrefs; though he could not receive his play,
as he knew that an audience would pay na re­
gard to his circumflances, nor give up an even­
ing’s entertainment to relieve an author’s indi­
gence; and waiting on him to the door, flipped
a couple of guineas into his hand; when it fell
to my lot to change my fervice.
I had never experienced my own influence on
the human heart fo ftrongly as on this occafion.
The poet kiffed the hand of his benefadlor in a
" rapture
yGoogle
rapture too big for utterance; and forgetting*
for a moment, all his diftreffes, went to a cof»
Fee-houfe, and changed me to pay for his break-
faft; 4
4 where I was hnmedrateljr borrowed at
4
4 the bar* by an officer, who was going to dine
4
4 with his general, and wanted money to give
44 his fervaats.” Voh I.— Page 122.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, si»
I* z C H A P .
yGoogle
410 C H R Y S A L s OR, Ttttt
C H A P . XV.
* V ‘f «> ■ -«/'»> "• % ' W
^ ¡u a d ttUrn ,ha,. ^ ^ ,p " f
fe lf H isfituation o
■ proofs o f medicalJkill, w ith the advantage o f a
\eg id a r t:ourfe o f practiceA n
o f charity andforgivenefs diverts the dodiors at
tention to the murtherefs.
/ / ^ H R Y S A L , after having feen feveral J lrik *
( G ing f
c
e
n
e
s
, in the courfe o f cir-
„ M , « , ¡ f t Itn zti < « W t, *
be is initiated in fem e o f the m yjlenes o f the tu r f.)
<
c It was on a fporting bet, on one of th
«
< by-matches, that I was loft that evening to
«
* the nobleman, as I faid, in whofe po e ion
« happened to remain till the end of the meet-
« ing.” V ol. II.— Page 96.
As it was late in the evening when my matter
arrived in- L on don , he refolved to indulge himielt,
for that night, in the embraces of a tender-hearte
female, whom he picked up in the ftreet (for he
was no way nice in his amours) as he walked
from the inn where he alighted to his own houfe,
in order to ftretch his legs.
Nothing more than common occurrences paffed
upon this occafion. When his lordihip had
made his miftrefs nobly drunk* by the way o f r**
fining
\b
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 221
fining his pleafure, the delicate pair went lovingly
to bed together, where awaking about midnight,
he was furprifed to find her cold and lifelefs in
his arms. After fome fruitlefs efforts to move
her, he ftarted out of bed in a fright, and called
up all his fervants; who, perceiving that ihe was
not actually dead, took fuch pains to recover her,
that ihe at length opened her eyes, and ftaring
wildly around her for fome moments, 4
4 Where
4
4 am I f (faid ihe.) Are thefe the regions of
4
4 the damned? For thither only can fuch felf-
4
4 murthering wretches, as I am, go.” — Then
feeing his lordihip, whofe curiofity had brought
him to the bedlide, 4
4 And are you dead, too !”
(continued ihe, wringing her hands, and weep­
ing moft paifionately.) 4
4Oh ! why did I not con-
4
4 fine my rage to myfelf? Why did I add your
4
4 murther to my own, to plunge my foul ftill
4
4 deeper in perdition ?”-----
This furprifed all prefent. The fervants, who
were indifferent whether it was true or falfe,
imagined ihe only raved, and doubled their ef­
forts to bring her to herfelf, foothing her with
expreflions of tendernefs, and telling her ihe
was not dead, but would foon be very well:
but my matter was too nearly concerned to think
fo coolly of the matter.
4
4 What is that you fay ? (faid he, trembling
4
4 in horrour.) What is it you fay about mur-
4
4 ther ? There is no one murthered here.” —
L 3 4
4 How!
yGoogle
ftfft
4
C How! (anfwered^he, fixing her eyes eager-
$i ly upon him.) Is it poffible, that I am ftill
4
4 alive? And.that you alfo live? It cannot
4
4 be ! The poifon which I fwallowed this night,
4
4 and in which you ihared too largely, cannot
4
4 have rniiTed of its effeft. But, (oft! its ope-
4
4 ration now begins! that pang !— oh ¡— that
4
4 pang befpeaks the near approach of death !—
4
4 O mercy !— O cry for mercy on your fins !”—
4
4 What poifon ? (interrupted he, terrified
4
4 almoft to diftraftion.) What poifon have
4
4 I (hared in ? ijpeak ! tell me dircdUy, or”—
4
4 Sparfe your threats, my lord,” (faid (he,
with a compofure in her looks and manner that
perfuaded every one prefent (he was'in her fenfes)
4
4 fpare your threats to a wretch, whom death
4
4 will foon deliver from your power ; and for-
4
4 give a crime that proceeded from defpair.
4
4 Wearied of the mifenes of this life, I this
4
4 night refolved to put an end to it, and for
4
4 that purpofe, though on another pretence,
4
4 procured a dole of poifon from a chemiiPs ap-
4
4 prentice, who, on giving it to me, faid, it
4
4 was fufiicient to kill twenty of the ftrongeft
4
4 men alive: and this poifon did I take an op-
*4 portunity to put into the laft bottle of wine,
4
4 when you went out of the room, determined.
4
4 to facrifice one man to my revenge for the in-
44 juries I had received from the fex : though,
4
4 after I had done it, my heart relented; but
4
4 you infilled on my drinking, and fear of your
4
4 refentment
C HR Y S A L t OR, T H E
yGoogle
“ refentment prevented me from making a dif-
4
4 covery, that would have faved us both from this
** unhappy”----^-At thefe words, ihe fell into
convulsions, fo frrong, tbit every one who fa^w
her thought ihe was really in the agonies of
death.
The Situation of my mafter, at this fight, may
be eafily conceived. He inftantly felt every pain
that poifort could produce; and, failing on the
floor, roared aloud in anguiih of mind and body,
lamenting his untimely fate, and confefling all
the fins of his life to' the fervants who ftood
around him. .
As foon as they had raifed him up, and
carried him into another room, a dawn of hope
arofe at his finding he did not immediately die*
4
4 W hat! (exclaimed he) is every one com-
4
4 bined againft me ? Am I to periih For want
4
4 of aifiitance ? Will nobody even call me a
4
4 phyfician ? Perhaps, I might yet be faved,
4
4 were proper means applied ! Will nobody
14 call me a phyfician ?”---- - ,
On his faying this, every one was running to
obey him, the fight of which threw, him into
new diftrefs. 4
4 O wretch that I am ! (ex-
4
4 claimed he) and fo I am to be left alone!
14 to periih for want even of a drop of water!
4
4 Is it not enough for fome of you to go 5 and
4
4 not all to defert me in this bafe, this barbarous
4
4 manner P
”—— This feemed to reftore them
to their fenfes; and, accordingly, while feme
L 4 went
ADVENTtJRkS OF A «GUINEA. 223
yGoogle
went to call the do£tors, the reft ftaid to take
care of him. '
Where the carrion is, the Crows will jbon-be
gathered together. He was immediately fur-
rounded by half the meagre faces of the faculty
(for, as he had not named any one in particular,
his fervants, to ihow their care, had fummoned
all they knew of) who taking the account he
gave them of his being poifoned for truth, pro­
ceeded inftantly to pra£life upon him every me­
thod they had ever heard of being ufed in fuch
a cafe, in hopes that fome one of them might take
effect. He was cupped, bled, and bliftered ; vo­
mited, clyftered, and purged, in the fpace of
two hours; the dodlors fagaciouily difeovering
new fymptoms of the poifon, every new remedy
they tried. '
Wjxen they found that, beyond their expec­
tations, he had ftrength enough to out-live all
this, 'they put him into bed, and covering him
up warm, to take a fwear, comforted him with
hopes of his recovery, in confequence of their
ikill and care.
While they waited patiently for this important
criiis, fome of them happened to think of the
poor murtherefs, who had been negledted all this
time, and now lay in a fwoon, the convulfions
having gone off, as her ftrength failed.
On hearing her name mentioned, his lordfhip,
to ihow his Chriftian charity, and prove the fin-
cerity of the repentance and amendment which
he
224. CHR y SAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
he vowed in cafe his life ihould be mercifully
fpared, defired that they would do fomething for
the unhappy creature, if ihe was ftill alive.
This was fufEcient to attach their compaffion
and care. They anfwered with one voice, tbit
it was a pity to let her periih, without even at­
tempting to fave her, and praifing his lordihip’s
goodnefs, prepared to try fome experiments upon
her alfo, if only to do fomething for their fee.
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. si5
L 5 C H A P .
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
isi
C H A P . XVI.
The recovery o f the murtherefs opens a new fccne* She
clears up the m yjlery, lefs to the fatisfattion o f the
doftors, than o f their noble patient, who rewards
her liberally fo r her good news ; and fends them
o ff without their errand. Reflexions on fame
genteel matters• C h r y s a l changes his fe r »
vice.
TH E IR praflice upon this new fubjeil,
however, was cut ihort by a fuccefs
more fpeedy than they deiired ; their firft opera­
tion of bleeding bringing her dire&ly to her-
felf.
As foon as ihe perceived what had been
done, and recovered ftrength to fpeak, 4
4Good
4
4 God, (faid ihe) what is the meaning of
“ this ? Who can have been fo inhuman as
4
4 to bleed me, when it is known to be ruin, in
4
4 my diforder ?” ■....—
4
4 In your diforder!” (faid one of the doc­
tors, with a contemptuous frown.) 4
4 What
4
4 diforder ? Have you not poifoned yourfelf ?
4
4 And what is ftill worfe, his lordihip alfo;
4
4 who now lies in the fame defperate condition
4
4 with you, and has from his unmerited goodnefs
4
4 dire&ed us to take this care of you; though
4
4 if we can fave you from this death, it mult
4
4 be to fuffer one more ignominious.”
4
4I poifon
yGoogle
l< I poifon myfelf!” (interrupted ihe, raid­
ing herfelf up in the bed.) 4
4 I poifon his
44lordihip! What can you mean by this! 1
4
4 underftand you not; and am innocent, even
4
4 in thought, of any fuch crimes. Explain
4
4 yourfelf, therefore ; and do not fport with the
4
4 mifery of a wretched creature, who has rnore^
4
4 real diftrefles than ihe is able to bear, without
,c the addition of imaginary guilt.”-----
This amazed them all. They flood looking
at eadh other for fome moments, rapped in reflex­
ions, not the moft pleafing, on the confe-
quences which might attend their precipitation in
treating his lordihip in the manner they had
done, in cafe what ihe faid fhould prove true.
At length, on her repeating her entreaties, one
of them condefcended to inform her of every
thing that had pa(Ted, dwelling particularly on
the defperate condition his lordihip had been in,
and the various methods they had.ufed to relieve'
him.
Weak and difpirited as you muft fuppofe her
to have been, ihe was fcarce able to refrain from
laughter at this account. 4
4 A defperate con-
4
4 dition he muft be in now, indeed (faid (he)
4
4 whatever he was in before! but, if you will
4
4 give me leave to flip on my gown, and go to
4
4 him, Ell foon complete his cure.”
This was a ftep fo contrary to all rules of
pra&ice, that they could not permit it. On the
contrary, one of them obferving the impropriety'
L 6 oft
ADVENTURES OF1A GUINEA.
yGoogle
of liftening to the ravings of a perfon whofe
head muft certainly be diftra&ed by the effedts
of the poifon, they all took the hint, and were
a&ually going to hold her down by force, in
order to proceed in their experiments upon her,
which you may think would'not have been the
more merciful, for what ihe had juft faid.
But fhe was delivered from this diicipline, by
the appearance of his lordfhip, who on one of
his fervants carrying him the pleafing news of
what ihe faid, had found ftrength enough to run
to her, and throwing himfelfon the bed, “ O my
<
c deareft girl!” (exclaimed he, clafping his arms
around her neck) “ am I not then a dead man ?
<
c Tell me! tell me the truth dire£Uy ! am i
“ not a dead man ?”-----
His haggard looks, and the bandages and flan­
nels, in which he was wrapped all over, con­
vinced her of the truth of what the doctors had
told her he had fullered. Shocked at the thought,
ihe held up her hands in a fupplicating pofture,
and imploring his pardon for what (he had been
the involuntary caufe of, informed him that
ihe was fubjedf to fits, which attacked her with
double violence whenever ihe drank to any
excefs, as his lordihip had compelled her to do
that night, much, he muft have been fenfible,
againft her inclination,, had ihe dared to refufe
him; and that when ihe was in thofe fits,
which lafted till the effedls of the liquor went
ihe was apt to rave, and fpeak every ex­
. travagance
2i8 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
travagance and inconfiftency that could come
into a difordered head.
The manner in which fhe fpoke left not the
leaft room for doubt. All his fears were inftantly
removed, his joy at which obliterated the re-
memberance of every thing he had fuffered in
mind and body, and he not only forgave her,
but alfo made her a handfome prefent, in recoin-
penfe for her happy news. *
But his dolors met with a very different treat­
ment. He reviled them in the fevereft terms,
for their ignorance and prefumption in putting
him to fuch torture, and tearing his conftitu-
tion by fuch violent means, before they were
certain of his ailment; and without permitting
them to alledge in their vindication his affertions
of what he felt, and intreaties not to leave any
thing unattempted, that they thought might
poilibly relieve him, ordered them to be turned
out of doors, without giving them a farthing for
all their trouble
I have feen that you were furprifed at his
lordihip’s indelicacy, and difregard to his health,
in having an amour with a creature in fo low a
ftate of infamy and wretchednefs, as to walk tho
ftreets to offer herfelf to cafual proftitution; as
well as at her expreffing herfelf in a manner fo
much above her appearance and circumftances.
But the leaft acquaintance with the world would
eafily account for both.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, as*
When
yGoogle
*3« CHRYSALi OR, THE
When once a woman falls from chaftity, the
charafteriftick virtue of her fex, the defcent to
this lowed degree of human mifery is natural,
and feldom, very feldom, fails to come of
courfe. The kept-miftrefs, who this day ihines
in brocade and jewels, and rattles about in her
chariot, will in a few months fpend the night in
the ftreets, for want of an habitation to hide her
head, and without clothes to {heiter her from the
inclemencies of the weather, when the novelty
that firft recommended her is worn off; fo r n<k
profperity that is not eßablißed on virtue can la ß .
Their’s indeed, is of all the moft fleeting ; the
vice which is their fupport affecting their own
conduit by example, and making them laviih
profiifely what they get from profufion.
Such had been the cafe of this female. She
had been entitled by birth and education to better
hopes; but vice had blafted all, and left her only
the reflexion of what (he might have been, ta
aggravate her prefent wretchednefs.
As to him! his health poflibly was in a ftate
not worthy of regard ! and for his delicacy ! the
indifcriminate, vague intercourfe of the fexes*
effectually deftroys that, as well as the fentimen-
tal attachment, which refines the defire of ra­
tional beings, and diftinguifhes it from the grofs
appetite of brute animals* fo that in general
nothing further than the gratification of that
appetite is now fought; and as that can be
effected by any one objelt, as well as another,,
whether
yGoogle
whether it is found in a palace or a brothel makes
no difference with thofe who profefs themfelves
men of pleafure. The fex is all they feek,
without regard to any qualifications; and con-
fequently, when their appetites are gratified,
they dcfert the objedts of them with the fame
indifference, as they took them.
But to return to my mafter. It was fome time,
as you may imagine, before he recovered the
effefts of this affair $ but I remained not with
him fo long. The do&ors, in revenge for the
treatment they had met with, blazed it abroad,
with the addition of every ridiculous circum-
ftance they could invent. This brought all his
acquaintances to have a laugh at him upon the
occafion; to one of whom he lo ji me that
afternoon on a bet, at a race between two of the
maggots which they found in the nuts they
cracked after dinner.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. a3*
CHAP.
yGoogle
%%% CHRYSAL: OR, THE
‘ CHAP. XVII.
C h r y s a l ^
s mafler goes to he admitted in ti an ex­
traordinary Society. Some reflexions notfu ited to
the tafle o f the times. R ife o f this focieiy. A
defcription o f a monaflery, w ith an account o f its
members, and o ffome o f its rules.
THE next morning after I came into the
pqfTeiîion of my new mailer, he fet out
upon a party of pleafure of a moft extraordinary
nature. This was, to be admitted into a fociety,
formed of a number of perfons of the firft diftinc-
tion, in burlefque imitation of religious focie-
ties, which are inftituted in other countries.
I have already told you, that I fhall not give
any opinion in religious matters. But, whether
the original inilitution of fuch focieties was right
or not, as the motive of them was the worihip
of the Deity, any attempt to turn them into ri­
dicule moft certainly muft be wrong $ the mind
of man feldom being acute or attentive enough
to diftinguiih between matters which to appear­
ance are fo intimately conne£ted as thè mode of
worihip, and the obje£t of it j but generally
involving either in the difregard affe£ting the
other. In the prefent inftance, indeed, the dif­
regard was defignedly levelled at both alike.
To give you a proper notion of the fcene in
which my mailer was going to aét a capital
part,
yGoogle
part, it is neceflary to trace the whole from its
original.
A perfon of a flighty imagination, and who
poiTefTed a fortune that enabled him to purfue
thofe flights, cloyed with common pleafures,
and ambitious of diftinguiihing himfelf among
his companions, had refolved to try if he could
not ftrike out fomething new, that ihould at
the fame time pleafe his own tafte, and do honour
to his geniu?.
The mere gratifications of fenfe, in their ut-
moft extent, not anfwering his defign, he had
recourfe to the afliftance of imagination to en­
hance them* The great butt%againft which men
of pleafure play oft' all their wit, is religion.
Their reafons for a pra£Hce fo grofs are obvious.
As the voice of confcience will fometimes in­
trude upon them fo as to pall their higheft plea­
fures in the very moment of enjoyment, their
firft endeavour is to filence it, which they find,
by experience, cannot be done fo effe&ually
by any other method as this of taking oft* the
refpecSt paid to religion, from which confcience
borrows the terrours that make its admonitions fo
unwelcome. Befides, they think it (hows their
fuperiority over the reft of mankind, to laugh at
what they are afraid of; as it is alfo convenient
for their chara£ier of wit, to exert it on topicks
where it is fafe from being rivalled by men of
real underftanding,
Thefe
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *33
yGoogle
Thefe weighty confiderations determined him
to feafon his fcheme as high as he could with
Impiety, in order to make it be the better reliihed.
Accordingly, after due deliberation on a matter
of fuch moment, he at length hit upon a plan
that pleafed him.
In the middle of a large lake upon his eftate,
there was an ifland, the natural beauties of whofe
fituation had been heightened by every improve­
ment of art. On this iiland he ere&ed a build­
ing, exa<5lly on the model of the monaiteries
which he had feen in other countries*; and, to
make the refemblance complete, there was not
a vice that he had ever heard imputed to the
inhabitants of them, for pra&ifing which he did
not make provifion in his. The cellars were
ftored with the choiceft wines; the larders with
the delicacies of every climate; and the cells
were fitted up for all the purpofes of lafciviouf-
nefs, for which proper obje&s were alfo pro­
vided.
Thus far the ridicule, however criminal in it-
felf, may feem to have been defigned only againft
thofe focietics of human inftitution : but it was
beneath his genius and fpirit to ftop here. No­
thing lefs would fatisfy him than to attack the
very effeotials of the religion eftabliihed by the
laws of his country, and acknowledged by every
ferious perfon in it to be divine.
For this pious purpofe, when every thing was
prepared for their reception, his next care was
to
»3+ CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yG oO
to find a fraternity proper for the place. But in
this his rank and courfe of life made him not
long at a lofs. He fele&ed from among his in­
timates a number equal to that of thofe who had
been at the firft chofen to inculcate the religion
which he deligned to ridicule, whofe names they
aflumed, as he with equal modefty and piety
did that of the diyine author of it : and, to fup-
ply any decreafe in this number by death or de-
fertion from the terrours of reflexion, he infti-
tuted an inferior order of as many more, chofen
alfo with the greateil caution and regard to the
latitude of their principles, their fortunes, and
mirthful accompliftiments, x
The probationary office of thefe latter was to
attend upon their fuperiours in the celebration of
their myfteries, which were all performed in the
chapel of the monaftery, where no other fervants
were ever permitted to enter, on the moft com­
mon occafion, as the very decorations of it would,
in a great meafure, have betrayed their fecrets :
the ceiling being covered with emblems and de­
vices too grofs to require explanation to the
meaneft capacity; and the walls painted with
the portraits of thofe whofe names and charade«
they aflumed, reprefented in attitudes and ac­
tions horrible to imagination. -
Nor was their care to keep their myfteries
impenetrably fecret confined to this exclufion
of common fervants. The diffidence of con-
feious
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *35
yGoogle
CHRVSAL: OR, THE
»36
fcious guilt made them even diftruft each other,
till bound to fecrecy by oaths and imprecations,
receiving their force from the religion thus
abufed by them : an abfurdity common among
men aflbciated for the moil flagitious purpofes.
But, ftrong as the power of fuperftition is,
over weak and wicked minds (for nothing but
the grofleft fuperftition could make them think
oaths in fuch circumftances binding!) their fe­
crecy was fecured by a ftill .flronger motive,
which was fear.
They were fenfible that even fufpicion of fuch
' vices would for ever exclude them from the fo-
ciety of all thofe, whom, in defpite of them-
felves, they could not help holding in refpeft;
and that fo outrageous an infult upon the laws
was liable to puniihment from the fecular power,
though they might by their intereft evade the
dire£l effe£ls of which, yet the imputation
,would make them fo obnoxious to the people in
general, that they could no longer hope to en­
joy any of the lucrative employments of the
ilate, if their refentment did not arife ftill
higher, and make them take that punifhment
into their own hands ! and thefe fears prevented
their fecrets being divulged even by fuch as
had refolution enough to defert the fociety; as
they imagined the ftain could never be fo effec­
tually expunged, as to fecure them from thofe
confequences.
• The
yGoogle
The rites of this fociety, and the ceremonies
obferved upon the admiilion into it, will be beft
explained by the account of what I faw my ma­
iler perform on this occafion; when he was a
candidate for the higher order, having already
ferved his noviciate in the lower«
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *3*
C H A P «
yGoogle
»1* C H R Y S À L : O R , T H E
c h a p . xvm .
C hrts a l’x m ajier a rriva at the monajiery, T he
manner o f bis being admitted into the Jbcietf.
Charaêter o f his. competitor. The method he took
to revenge the fic ie tfs injujiice in preferring
C h r ysal’j majier to him . The mirth o f the
company difturbed by the enterance o f the d e v il,
ju ft as be was invoked by C h r ysal’x m ajier.
The effeft o f fu cb a vijitor upon the company*
The devil fixes upon C h r ysal’i m ajier in par­
ticular % and makes him fqueak.
IT was about four o’clock in the afternoon
when my mailer arrived at the verge of the
lake, where he no fooner made the concerted
fignal, than a boat was fent to ferry him over.
On his landing on the ifland, he went to the
monaftery, where he found the fociety juft fitting
down to dinner, at which he took his place among
them. When they had made a ihortmeal, and
drank their fpirits up to a proper pitch, they re­
tired to their refpeélive cells, to prepare for the
folemity they were going to celebrate. My ma­
tter, then clad in a milk white robe of the
fineft linen, that flowed loofely round him, re­
paired, at the tolling of a bell, to the chapel,
the fcene of all their myfterious rites, and knock­
ing gently thrice at the door, it was opened to
him, to the found of foft and folemn mufick.
yGoogle
On his enterance he made a moft profound
©beifance, and advancing flowly toward a table
that flood againft the watt in the upper end of
the chapel, as foon as he came to the rails, by
which it was furrounded, he fell upon his knees,
and making a profeffion of his principles, nearly
in the words, but with the moft groß perverfion
of the fenfie of the articles of faith of the reli­
gion eftablifhed in the country, demanded ad-
miffion within the rails, the peculiar ftation of
the upper order, where the fuperiour and eleven
of the fraternity (the twelfth place was vacant,
and now to be filled up) flood arrayed in the
habits of thofe whofe names and charafters they
profaned by their affumption.
When he'had finifhed, another candidate ad­
vanced in the like manner, and. making his pro-
feflion, alfo preferred the fame claim ; as there
were more who had a right to do, but, difeou-
raged by the fiiperiour merit of thefe two, they
had declined their pretenfions for this time.
The brotherhood, having heard the competi­
tors with attention, retired to the table, and
kneeling around it, the fuperiour repeated a
prayer, in the fame ftrain and manner with the
profejjion of the candidates, to the Being whom
they ferved, to diredt their choice to him of the
two moft worthy of his férvice.
The fuperiour then proceeded to take the fuf-
frages of the reft, with the fame mimick folemni-
tyj when my matter being found to have the
majority,
I
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 239
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
*40
majority, his ele&ion was exultingly attributed
to immediate infpiration, and he was according­
ly admitted within the rails, where he received
the name and character which he was to bear in
the fociety, in a manner not proper to be de­
scribed, 'every the mod facred rite and ceremony
of religion being profaned, all the prayers and
hymns of praife appointed for the worihip of the
Deity burlefqued by a perverfion to the horrid
occafion.
In this manner the evening was wafted till
(upper-time, when they fat down to a banquet
in the chapel, in honour of the occafion, at
which nothing that the molt refined luxury, the
moil lafcivious imagination could fuggeft to
kindle loofe defire, and provoke and gratify ap­
petite, was wanting, both the fuperiours and
inferiours (who were permitted to take their
places at the lower end of the table, as foon as
they had ferved in the banquet) vying with each
other in loofe fongs, and differtations of fuch
grofs lewdnefs and daring impiety, as defpair
may be fuppofed to di&ate to the damned, in
both which my matter fhone fo unrivaled, as to
bear down the fuperiour fprightlinefs, wit, and
humour of all the reft ; and compenfate for the
want of every companionable merit.
But while they were in the height of their fefti-
vity, an affair happened that interrupted it for a
time, and Ihowed their refolution, particularly
that of my matter, in a proper light.
The
yGoogle
The perfon who had that day been his com­
petitor for the honour of admiffion into the
higher order of fociety poflefled the qualifica­
tions which he wanted in the mod eminent
degree. He had fuch a flow of fpirits, that it
was impoflible ever to be a moment dull in his
company. His wit gave charms to every fubjedk
he fpoke upon; and his humour difplayed the
foibles of mankind in fuch colours, as to put
folly even out of countenance.
But the fame vanity which had firft made him
ambitious of entering into this fociety, only be-
caufe it was compofed of perfons of a rank fupe-
riour to his own in life, and dill kept him in
it, though upon acquaintance he defpifed
them, fullied all thefe advantages. His fpirits
were often flretched to extravagance, to over­
power competition. His humour was debafed .
into buffoonery ; and his wit was fo prodituted
to the lud of applaufe, that he would facrifice
his bed friend for a feurvy jefl ; and wound the
heart of him, whom he would at that very mo­
ment hazard his life and fortune to ferve, only
to raife a laugh; in which he was alfo aflided
by a peculiar archnefs of difpofition, and an un­
lucky expertnefs at carrying hisjejis into pra^ice>
as he proved upon this occafion.
Though he difdained to decline the late com­
petition, as, the others did, he had been well
aware that my mafter’s higher rank in life would
carry the point in difpute againd him; for which
V o l. III. M injudice
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *4r
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
C HR YS AL : OR, THE
M*
Jnjuftice he refolved to revenge himfelf in the
food fignal manner.
For this purpofe, he had contrived the night
before to bring into his cell a great Baboon, which
he had provided for the occafion. When the
brotherhood retired to their cells after dinner,
as I have told you, to prepare for the ceremony^
he availed himfelf of the office of keeper of the
chapel, which he then filled, to convey this crea­
ture,. dreffed up in the fantaftick garb in which
childifli imagination clothes devils, into the chapel,
where he ihut him up in a large cheft, that ftood
there to hold the ornaments and utenfils of the
table, when the fociety was away. To the fpring
of the lock of this cheft he fattened a cord, which
he drew under the carpet that was on fhe floor
to his own feat, and there brought the end of it
through a, hole made for that purpofe, in fuch a
manner, that he could readily find it ; and, by
giving it a pull, open the cheft, and let the
Baboon loofe whenever he pleated, without be­
ing perceived by any of the reft of the com­
pany.
Accordingly, when they were all in the height
of their mirth, on my matter's kneeling down,
and with hands and eyes raifed towards heaven
repeating an invocation, in the perverted phrafe
of Holy Writ, to the Being whom they ferved,
to come among them, and receive their adora­
tions in perfon, he pulled the cord, and let the
animal loofe, who, glad to be delivered from
yGoogle
his confinement, gave a fudden fpring upon the
middle of the table*
The effeit which the fight of fuch a vifitor
had upon them may be better conceived than
exprefled. Their attention had been fo fixed
upon what my mailer was faying, that they per­
ceived not from whence he came; and his ap­
pearing fo critically at the invocation, and in
fuch a ihape, made them conclude he was th t
Being invoked.
Terrified out of their fenfes by this thought*
they all roared out with one voice, The D e v il!
the D e v il! and ftarting from their feats, made
direfily towards the door, tumbling over one an­
other, and over-fetting every thing in their way.
In the height of this uproar and confuiion,
the Baboon, frighted at the effeils of their fear,
happened to leap upon my mailer’s ihoulders, as
he lay fprawling on the floor, who, .turning
about his head at feeling the ihock, faw the
animal grinning horribly at him, and concluded
the Devil had obeyed his fummons in good
earned, and come to carry him bodily away.
Driven as he was to defpair by this thought,
he drove, however, in the indinilive impulfe of
felf-prefervation, to (hake off the invader; but
he, indead of loofing his hold on his repeated
efforts, only clung to him the clofer, clafping
his paws around his neck, and chattering with
fpite at his ear. This completed the caitiff’s
didrefs. Every ihadow of fpirit failed him,
M 2 and
, ADVENTURBS OF A GUINEA.
yGoogle
*4 4
and confcious guilt fuggefting to him the mean­
ing of this unintelligible jargon, he attempted,
in the blindnefs of his fear, to move the very
Devil to pity, by his pathetick wailings and Tup-
piications*
4
4 Spare me, gracious Devil! (faid he) fpare
4
4 a wretch, who never was fincerely your fer-
4
4 vant! I finned only from vanity of being in
4
4 the faihion! thou knoweft I never have been
4
4 half fo wicked as I pretended ; never have
44 been able to commit the thoufandth part of the
4
4 vices which I have boafted of. Take not,
4
4 then, the advantage of that vanity; but judge
4
4 me only from my a&ions. I knew not that
4
4 thou wouldft have come, or I ihould never
4
4 have invoked thee! Leave me, therefore, and
4
4 go to thofe who are more truely devoted to
4
4 thy fervice. I am but half a iinner. My
4
4 confcience always flew in my face when I
4
4 committed any crime! My heart gave the
4
4 lie to my tongue, when I gloried in my vices;
4
4 and I trembled at the damnation I affe&ed to
4
4 brave! O fpare me, therefore, at leaft for
4
4 this time, till I have ferved thee better. I am
4
4 as yet but half a finner.”
CHRYSALj OR, THE
C H A P .
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *4*
C H A P . XIX.
The D ev il is degraded to a B aboon, and his
appearance w ell accounted fo r , which reßores the
m irth and courage o f the company^ and particu­
larly o f C h r y sa l’x maßer, who exerts h im felf
to recover his character. The appearance o f the
be-deviled B aboon is traced next day to his in­
troducer, who at the inßance o f C h r y sa l’j m aßet
is expelled thefociety9 fo r prefuming to ridicule their
rites* Further amfequences o f this affair make
the fuperiour break up his monaßery, and build a
church.
H IL E my mailer was making this efTay
of his eloquence upon the Baboon, the
perfon who had brought him there took the op­
portunity of theconfternation the whole company
was in, tq open one of the windows unperceived
by them, for the animal to make his efcape,
which he no fooner faw, than he made dire&ly
to it, giving my mafter a happy releafe.
Before he could get“ clear off, though, one of
the company, who <vas bolder than the reft,
having muttered refolution to raife his head,
got a full view of him, and perceiving what he
was, juft as my mafter concluded his Applica­
tions, c< Your prayers are heard !” (faid he,
ftarting up, and fpeaking, as foon as a burft of
daughter gave him utterance) <
c your prayers
M 3 “ are
Digitized by Google
<
c are heard for this time; and that Devil of a
4
4 great He-baboon, that’s juft gone out of the
<
c window, defpifing h a lf a fin n er, has fpared
u you, till you are fitter for his fervice.”
At hearing thefe words, they all arofe from
the floor, where they had lain fprawling on top
of one another, and looking in amazement at
him who had fpoke them, 4
4 Courage, my
4
4 friends! (faid he) this is but a falfe alarm?
4
4 our m ajler is not fo ready to come for us
4
4 when we call him* or we ihould none of us all
4
4 be here now. How a Baboon, though, ihould
c< come here, to fcare us all out of our little wits
4
4 in fuch a manner, the Devil may tell you, if
4
4 he will, for I cannot; but I fwear I faw one
4
4 go out of that window.” — —
4
4 And I’ll fwear, too, that I faw him come
in at it;” (replied the author of the mifchief,
who faw no way to efcape deteftion, but by
preventing further enquiry by this bold lie)
4
4 as I juft then happened to look about, to fee
4
4 from whence the wind came that blew upon
4
4 my poll.”-----
This eclairciflement fatisfied them all; they
inftantly fet the room to rights, and plafter-
ing up their broken ihins and nofes, fat down to
conclude their caroufal, refuming their former
ftrain, in which they all exerted themfelves in
. an uncommon manner, to wipe off the difgrace
of their late fqueaking, particularly my matter,
who QUt-dld his ufual out-doings in profanenefs,
blafphemy*
14* CHRYSAL: OR, THE *
yGoogle
Wafphemy, and wickednefs of every kind, to
recover his character, and convince them he
was more than h a lf a Jtnner.
They held in this hand, till nature funk under
the fatigue, when they retired, to ileep off their
debauch in their cellsy where, as I faid, proper
provifion had been made for them, to reduce
the theory of the day into praflice, in the in­
tervals of reft.
Though the affair of the Baboon had p'affed
off fo cleverly while their fpirits were in fuch A
flurry, when they came to enquire more coolly
into it next day, the whole trick came out. It
had been impoflible to convey him into the mo«
nailery, without the privity of fome of the
fervants, who had all fo often fe lt the JeJls of
this gentleman, that they were glad of an op­
portunity of being revenged upon him now, by
making the difcovery. ^
This account, confirmed by fome circum-
ftances in his behaviour, which they had not
attended to at the time* plainly pointing out the
guilty perfon, the fuperiours adjourned, direitly
to the chapel, to confult how they ihould pro­
ceed on fo delicate an occafion. For, though
they had always highly approved of fuch w it%
when prattifed upon others, they looked upon
the application of it to themfelves in the molt
heinous light, efpecially in fuch an inftance as
this, the confequences of which had expofed
them to the contempt of each other, by deteft-
M 4 iog
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, *47
ing their weaknefs^ and ihowing that the guilt
in which they gloried was only feigned.
Mortifying as this was to their vanity, the
thought, however, that the cafe was general,
afforded them fome confolation. However, to
remedy the efFeft of this, and prevent a repetition
of the like difgrace, it was propofed, after mature
deliberation, and much learned argument on the
queftion, to hury what was paft, by a folemn
aft of amnefty, and make a fpecial law, whofe
obfervation ihould be enforced by an oatby that
no member ihould ever after prefume to attempt
exercifing his wit upon the fociety, in any man­
ner, or by any means whatfoever ; on taking
which oath, and afking pardon upon his knees,
at the door of the chapel, the offender ihould be
forgiven.
To this propofal, they all affented except my
mailer, who for private reafons thought the
latter part of it much too mild for fo flagrant a
crime. He had long cherilhed a fecret grudge
againft the other, who not only often pointed his
wit againft him, in a manner that he could not
digeft, nor knew how to refent, it being as polite
as it was keen, but alfo put him conftantly to
theexpenfeof double wickednefs, the only qua­
lification in which he could poflibly ihine, to
avoid being totally eclipfed by him : his defire
of revenge alfo was ftrongeft on this occafion, as ^
he had fuffered the deepeft difgrace.
Accordingly,
»4* CHRYSALi OR, THE
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 14*
Accordingly, he exerted all his eloquence, to
ihow the enormity o f the crim e o f attempting to
turn any o f the rites and ceremonies ejiablijhed by the
. law s o f the fociety into ridicule; the letting of
which efcape without adequate puniihment, he
faid, would argue weaknefs, and want of fpirit
in them, and muff end in the ruin of their autho­
rity; for which weighty reafons he propofed
that the offender fhould be dire&ly expelled the
fociety in form, as the only effectual way to
vindicate their dignity, and prevent others from
offering it the like infult for the future. '
This gave the affair a new turn. They all
took fire at the thought of their dignities being
infulted, and expelled him that moment, without
even waiting to hear him in his own defenfe.
But he foon had the fatisfa&ion of feeing him-
felf amply avenged.
The care they took to keep every thing they
did fecret had long awoke the curiofity of the
neighbourhood, who were the more fevere in
their gueffes, the lefe able they were to guefs
right. But the affair of the Baboon, whom the
fervants got fight of, before he could be caught,
and whether milled by his drefs, or mifrepre-
fenting by defign, gave out to be the D ev ily was
no fooner known, than a formal ftory was pro­
pagated over the whole country, that the end of
their meeting was to worfhrp the Devil, to
whom this chapel was dedicated, and who had
often been feen among them, in variety of fhapes. -
M 5 Scandal
>og!e
Scandal always meets eafy credit. The ftory
was believed by many, and repeated by more, as
if they believed it, never lofing any thing in the
repetition ; till fuch an univerfal alarm was
raifed among the people (who are content to in­
fringe the precepts of Religion, without denying
its authority) that the fuperiour, whofe feat was
in the neighbourhood, found it neceffary to
diffolve the fociety, and effacing every trace of it,
convert the building to the better ufeofapleai
fiire houfe, in which he entertained all his
neighbours in general, whenever he was in the
country : Befide which, he alfo built a church,
on an eminence near his houfe, that anfwered the
double purpofe of convincing the populace of
his regard to Religion, and of making a beau­
tiful termination to a villa which he had juft cut
through a wood in his park. ,
I have anticipated thefe circumftances, to
fatisfy your curiofity; as I have alfo omitted
many, and foftened more particulars in this
account, which were too horrid to have been
reprefented in their proper colours.
»50 CHRYSAL: OR, THÈ
C H A P ,
yGoogle
A D V E N T U R E S OF A GUINEA* *£*
C H A P . XX.
A fu rther account o f the rules o f the convent; w ith
fem e Jlriking injlances o f (economy. A feem ing
tnconfijlency accounted fo r from a principle n tt
fufficiently underjlood. Some remarkable effects o f
vanity. Reafon o f the a’bufe o f wealth•
Y O U afe afto'niihed how fuch fcenes of de­
bauchery and excefs could be fupported,
either by the fortune of the entertainer, or the
conftitutions of his guefts ; but this ihall be ex^
plained.
To prevent fatiety or fatigue, thefe meeting»
were never protra&ed beyond a week at a time £
nor held oftener than twice in a year; by which
frugality of pleafure, they were always returned
to with the keennefs of novelty: And as for
the expenfe of them, that was defrayed jointly
by the whole community (the fuperiour con*
tributing nothing more than any other member,
except the firfl: coil of building the convent, which
he thought himfelf amply recompenfed for, by
the honour of having (truck out the plan ;) and
regulated by the ftri£left ceconomy; the (laves
of their lufls being fent back to the brothels
from whence they had been brought; and the
fervants of their luxury difcharged, at the end
of every meeting; and no more retained for the
M 6
yGoogle
reft of the year, than an old man and woman,
who took care of the place.
T o you, who have fupported the dignity of
your nature, by preferring the pleafures of that
reafon, which was given to diftinguifh man
from brutes, to thofe of fenfe, which they enjoy
in common with him, the pi&ure of this whole
fcene muft appear over-charged^ and irreconcile-
able with the great principles of human a&ion,
which always propofe fome good, either prefem
or future, however the judgement may err in
the thing propofed. But more acquaintance
with life would folve this difficulty to you.
The general motive for attempting to turn
Religion into ridicule has been already ex­
plained. But as fome are feen to give into this
pra&ice, who feem to cultivate their reafon
with moft fuccefs ; and whofe adlions, and even
inclinations, appear not to have the remoteft
tendency contrary to moral virtue, it may be
proper to account for fuch an exception.
The firft principle of a&ion, impreffed by
nature on every thing that lives, is felf-p refer-
vation. From this, brute animals, which by
necejftty proceed regularly in the courfe prefcribed
for them, never fwerve : but the rational animal,
man, bewildered in his own imaginations, by
the abufe of that liberty which was given him to
enhance the merit of bis obedience to the di&ates
of reafon, often fubftitutes another in its place,
fry whofe impuife he a£ls in direct oppofition to it.
This
3
■
Digitized b y C j O O ^ I C
*5* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
This is vanity ! the real fource of that ambi­
tion which courts danger, and plunges with
open eyes into deftruflion, however fpecioufly it
may be difguifed under the pompous titles of
love of glory, and regard to the publick good ;
as well as of mod of the extravagancies and
abfurdities which puzzle fuperficial obfervers,
and make them prefumptuouily impeach, as a
defedl in the work of nature, their own negleil,
and perverfion of its laws.
A particular enquiry into the effefls of this
fuppofititious principle, many of which, as I faid,
are blazoned as the brighteft virtues, while
more are acknowledged to be the moil atrocious
crimes; or how nearly fuch virtues and crimes,
proceeding thus from the fame ,fource, may be
allied, though curious and interefting in itfelf,
is not neceifary here. It is fufficient to obferve,
that its power is able to break the force of habit,
reconcile contradidiions, and confound the effen-
tial differences of things; to cope with preyudice9
and over-rule the infirm ities of nature.
This it is, for inftance, that makes the con*
Jlitution al coward, who trembles at the thought
of danger, and would fee his country ruined
rather than draw his fword in its defenfe, fight
duels for a doubtful pun&ilio of empty ceremony;
the fuperjlitious wretch, who finds omens in
/pilled fa it and crojfed Jiraw s, and fees Goblins
and D evils in the dark, profefs infidelity, ridicule
Providence, and dare the wrath of Heaven, by
infults
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 2.53
yGoogle
*54- CHRYSAL: OR, THE
infults and bravadoes; and laftly, this it is,
that makes the hoary Sage,' whofe life has been
regulated by the ftri&eft principles of morality
and religion, while paffion might have rebelled
againft them, commence Libertine in the impo­
tence of old age, and glory in vices he has loft
the power to praftife. O f the juftice of thefe re­
marks, the members of this fociety, of which
vanity was the cement, as it had been the
origin, afforded the moft glaring proofs.
You wonder what there could be to be vain
of in fuch an affociation ! but you do not reflect,
that vanity is never the refult of real worth.
The falfe glare of publick eftimation refleds it
from the vileft and moft reproachful objefls.
The inftitutor of this fociety was admired for
every polite accompliihment, every power of
pleafing in converfation ; and the firft fet he
chofe were all of the fame caft. This, with
their rank and fortunes, and, above all, the
myftery of the inftitution, which fet curioiity on
fire, and gave imagination room to form the moft
flattering ideas of it, made admiifion into it an
objeft of univerfal ambition, as it feemed a proof,
of every member’s meriting the fame charafter;
and when once admitted, a vicious fear of ridi­
cule made too many aihamed to quit it; and even
they who did were precluded from difcover-
ing any thing that might deter others, by the
fecrecy to which they were fworn.
5 There
yGoogle
There is one thing more, which from the
particular circumftances of your own life, affefts
you more than any other in this account.
This is the folly and ingratitude of laviihing
the blefling of wealth to the difhonour of the
donor; and with fo little regard to its real ufe.
But this, as has been the cafe in other in­
fiances, proceeds from want of better acquain­
tance with life.
It has been remarked by travellers, that in
thofe parts of the earth, where the bleffings
of nature are beftowed with the greateft libera--
lity, the people feem leaft fenfible of them,
and are funk in the groffeft vice ; as if reafon
and virtue were incompatible with the good
things of this world.
The reafon of this remark holds with refpeit
to wealth in other countries. Provided to
profufion with every thing they want, the rich
look no farther than to the gratification of their
appetites and paffions 5 as the means to procure
which are in their poffeffion, they acknowledge
no obligation to the power which firft gave,
and ftill preferves the enjoyment of them; but,
on the contrary, affe£t to fhow their indepen­
dence, by proftituting it to purpofes dire&lÿ
contrary to his declared pleafure ; and this caüfes
that abufe of wealth, which generally marrs the
blefling» and makes the gift of it fo dangerous.
C H A-P.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *55
yGoogle
CHRYSALî OR, THE
*56
C H A P . XXI.
Account o f the members o f the fociety. The hifiory
o f the fuperiour. The particular qualifications
by which he arofe in life . Succefs in a private
injlance encourages him to try his talents in an
higher fpbere9 from which he foon defends w ith
difgrace. A fr ik in g inconfiflency in his character.
I See you defire to have fom'e account of the
feveral members of fo extraordinary a focie­
ty. When the great lines which diilinguiih
the chara&ers of mankind are marked by vir­
tues, or even by fuperiour abilities, that dazzle
fuperficial obfervation by the fplendour of their
effedfs, and pafs for fuch, however different in
the tendency of their exertions, the delineation
affords pleafure; but, on the contrary, where
thofe lines are all diftorted by vice and folly^
and diftinguifhed from each other only by
different modes and degrees of them, the con­
templation is a pain ; and to paint them a tafk
fo difagreeable, that nothing but an impartial
regard to truth could make it be undertaken.
However, your curiofity ihall be gratified. •
As the convent was dedicated to pleafure, you
may imagine that play made a part of their en­
tertainment* Contrary, indeed, to the fcheme
of all other parties of pleafure, it was not tha
firft obje& of their meeting \ and only ferved ta
fill
yGoogle
fill up the intervals between other pleafures,
which nature, without Tome refpite, could not
fupport in fuch excefs. The circulation, how­
ever, even in this piddling for mere amufement,
gave me an opportunity of taking a view of all
their chara&ers ; fuch of which as contained any
thing worthy of your notice, for you muft not
expedt it from them all, I will give you fome
general fketches of.
As the looks of a man are generally a comment
on his heart, I will place the whole company in
your view, as I have done on other occafions,
to aflift you in forming a proper notion of theic
chara&ers. At the head of the table fits the
fuperiour. You fee every eye is expreffively
fixed upon him, in admiration at the vivacity,
humour, and wit in all he fays, while, by an
art peculiarly happy, he alone feems uncon-
fcious of his own pre-eminence.
Thefe talents, which, from the intoxication of
prefent applaufe, are much oftener of prejudice
than advantage to the pofleffor, by diverting
from more folid purfuits, proved the foundation
of his exalted rank and fortune ; becaufe always -
dire&ed by the dcepeft and moft delicate addrefs.
The firft inftance in which this addrefs was
difplayed, was in his own family. He had a
diftant relation, who had fpent his youth in
fuch bufy fcenes, as left not time for his imagina­
tion to wander in fearch of amufement. To a
m in d
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *57
yGoogle
mind unaccuftomed to be,w.ound up to fuch a
pitch, the charms of a converfation like his
Were a relaxation irrefiftibly engaging. He in-
finuated himfelf inienfibly into his favour, and
by feeming to have nothing in view but his
pleafure, led him as he pleafed himfelf, not only
into all the lengths of his own libertinifm, fo as
to be a member of this fociety, when the decline
of life, at leaft, ihould have fuggefted more
ferious thoughts; but alfo at his death to reward
his complaifance with a much larger portion of
his fortune than he had any claim to, from
confanguinity, or the preference of reafon.
Such fuccefs encouraged his ambition to higher
attempts. Introduced by the fame qualifications
to the acquaintance of the great, he not only
gained their favour by them, but alfo impofed
them upon them for abilities of an higher clafs
fo far, that being fecurc of his fubferviency to
their defigns, they admitted him to a ihare of
their power.
But in this he had deceived himfelf, as well as
them i as he found to their difappointment^ and
his own extreme confufion, upon the very firft
tryal of his political talents, when he ihowed in
the ftrongeft light the difference between the
abilities requifite to raife a laugh, and rule a
nation.
He had fenfe enough, however, to fee his
miftake, before it had involved him in any con-
fequences from which he could not recede
without
a5S CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
without danger as well as difgrace ; and pru­
dently facrificing his ambition to his fafety, he
turned off all with a laugh, and returned to the
enjoyment of thofe pleafures, for which nature
feemed to have fo particularly deiigned him.
Whether that enjoyment is as fincere and undif-
turbed, though, as ihould appear from his looks
and conduit, is a point not fo certain as you
may be apt to imagine.
The principles on which this fociety' was
originally inftituted, and from which it has never
deviated, the p ro feffect ridicule o f moral Virtue and
R eligion, ihould feem to have proceeded from an
utter diibelief of a Deity; or, at leaft, a fearlefs
defiance ofhis power ; but, contrary to this, there
ftarts not at his own ihadow a more abjeit
Have to fuperftition, and all its fooliih fears,
than he was at the time of his inftituting it, and
ftill remains.
Such an inconfiftency requires explanation
to you, whofe notions of life are formed folely
from rational fpeculation.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
C H A P .
yGoogle
stfo CHR_YSAL; OR, THE
C H A P . XXII.
' Continuation o f the H ijiory o f the fuperiour. 7 he
inconji/iency in his character accounted fo r . The
reafon o f his being fin t early to travel fo r educa­
tion. Political principles all necejfary to be at-
tended to in a tutor. The method and ejfe£l o f
his tutor’s care to in jlru ft him in religion. A
frig h tfu l Jlory gives rife to a fr ig h tfu l dream,
which is interrupted JltU more frig h tfu lly. A
tremendous apparition terrifies him into afwooru
Account o f the apparition►
THE political principles of his family being
in avowed oppofition to their Sovereign,
the earlieft care was taken to inftil the fame into
him ; and the ripenefs of his parts and genius
flattered them with a promife of his future con-
fequence in the ftate.
For this purpofe, before reafon ihould have
time to be convinced by experience of the in-
juftice and danger of fuch defigns, he was fent
abroad, to be educated in a country where every
obje£t ihould concur to prejudice him againft
the laws and conftitution of his own, and the
opportunity of perfonal intercourfe confirm his
attachment to him whofe intereft he was intend­
ed to promote.
Thepublick condu& of his life has fufEciently
ihown the fuccefs of this fcheme •, as an inci­
dental
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. a*i
dental circumilance in the execution of it will
alfo account for the inconiidencies in his private
chara&er.
The religious principles edabliflied in the
country whither he was thus fent for education,
and the political ones it was defigned he ihould
afiid to edablifli at home, were fo intimately and
eflentially conne&ed, that it was impoifible to
find a tutor for him fufficiently attached to the
latter .to anfwer the purpofe of his family, who
was not alfo at lead fecretly inclined to, even if
he did not openly profefs, the former.
But this made no difficulty. Religion is, in
reality, the thing lead thought of, however
pompoufly it may be profefled in political fchemes.
They fcrupled not, therefore, to commit his
tender mind to the influence of fuch an one, re-
gardlefs what impreifions he might make upon
it, befide thofe they defired— an opportunity
which he did not fail to take advantage of.
Accordingly, as foon as the tutor and his pu­
pil were fettled in the place of their defignation,
the former began his defign, by difplaying on
every occafion the excellence and importance of
the ceremonies and rites of the religion profefled
there, as the obje&s mod likely to flrike the
levity of youth, always complaining with a con­
temptuous concern of the want of fuch in that
of his own country; not chooiing to fpeak more
dire&ly at fird, for fear of giving him any
alarm.
But,
>og!e
t u C H R Ÿ 8 A L : ÔR, TH E
But, artful as this method was, he had thé
difappointment to fee it did not fucceed fo well
as he could wiih. Though, from the manner
of his pupil’s earlieft education, it was eafy
enough to fink his own religion in his opinion,
yet fome circumftances rendered the railing of
any other in its place a matter of more difficulty
than might have been obvioufly apprehended*
His natural quicknefs and turn for ridicule made
him fee every thing in the moil difadvantageous
light at the firft glance, at the fame time that his
diffipation and levity prevented his attending to
the abftrufer arguments, often neceiTary to eftab-
lrih the credit of matters of fuch importance be­
yond the reach of rational doubt ; fo that all the
pains his tutor was pioufly taking to enlarge his
faith, threatened to work the contrary efFeél, of
making him an infidel.
Alarmed at this, the tutor, whofe bigotted
credulity had fwallowed every fi£tion of fuper-
ftition, had always fome miraculous ftory of a
Judgem ent or apparition ready to refute the feoffs
of his pupil, and confirm the truth of whatever
he himfelf advanced. The confiant repetition
of fuch tales, which he plainly fhowedhis own
belief of, infenfibly made fuch an imprefiion on
his pupil’s imagination, as perfuaded him of
their poifibility at leaft, if he was not abfolutely
convinced of the truth of every thing in proof of
Which they were alledged ; and filled him with
, . fears,
yGoogle
fears, for which a good foundation had before
been laid in the nurfery.
When his mind was thus prepared to catch at
tevery terrour, his tutor took him one day to fee
the exhibition of one of thofe miracles, which
are faid to be wrought at the ihrine of a con-
tefted faint; and which really weaken the credit
of the religion they were devifed to fupport.
The abfurdity was too ftriking to efcape his
obfervation. He turned it into the moft poig­
nant ridicule, in fpite of all his tutor’s pains to
defend it5 who, finding that his arguments had
no effeft, had recourfe to his ufual proof of an
apparition, which he drefled up in every colour
and circumftance of horrour, to make it have the
greater weight.
His pupil took not more than ufual notice of
the matter, while light and company diverted
his thoughts ; but when he went to bed, and
found himfelf alone, and in the dark, the whole
flaihsd upon him in all its terrours, heightened
in every inftance by the livelinefs of his own
imagination.
What he felt in fuch a fituation may eafier be
conceived than exprefled. He covered up. his
head with the clothes; and lay fweating and
trembling, till his mind was wearied with dweU
ling on the fame thoughts, and he funk into a
kind of {lumber.
But this was far from giving him relief. He
was no fooner afleep, than imagination, now in
her
ADVENTURES OE A GUINEA. 26*
yGoogle
her own empire, placed him in the midft of the
fcene which had juft before been fo elaborately
defcribed to him by his tutor, from the contem­
plation of which he was delivered only to fuffer
ftill more feverely ; being awakened by founds
uncouth enough to ftartle, at fuch a time, the
moft refolute mind unacquainted with them.
Such a continuation realized all the horrours
of his dream. He ftarted up; and turning in
the inftinflive curiofity of affright to that part of
the room from whence the founds ftill continued
to come, faw four glaring eye-balls fixed upon
him, at the fame time that a voice diftinftly ar­
ticulated, but in a tremendous tone, and lan­
guage which he did not underftand, thundered
direftly in his ear.
The darknefs, which prevented his feeing the
bodies to which thofe eyes belonged, and his
ignorance of the imports of the founds, only
added to his fright, by giving room to imagina­
tion, not only to form the moft horrible concep­
tions of them, but alfo to apprehend them ftill
more horrible than he could conceive. He
was not able to fupport fuch an attack 5 but,
giving one helplefs fhriek, funk back in a
fwoon.
His tutor, who lay in the next room, and
had been awakened by the fame founds, but was
not fo much terrified at them, both becaufe his
mind was not fo well prepared for terrours, and
that he was acquainted with their caufe, heard
him
*6+ CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
him ihriek, and, knowing his voice, ran to him,
imagining he was engaged in a conflid, in which
he might want affiftance, with the cats which he
heard in his room; for, from two of thefe ani­
mals, which, finding the window open, had
chofen it for the fcene of their amours, had tl^ofe
dreadful founds proceeded.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
Vol. III. N CHAP.
yGoogle
*66 CHRYSALî OR, THE
C H A P . XXIII.
Continuation. Behaviour o f the tutor onfinding his
pupil in afw oon, He recovers \ and terrifies his
tutor, by miflaking him fo r a fa in t. Charity be­
gins at home. The tutorfagacioufiy guejfes at the
meaning o f the mifiake j and pioufiy refolves to im­
prove it. The pupiPsfu ll and true account o f the
apparition, w ith the tutor's honejl addition to it.
H is repentance and converfion. H is tutor mode­
rates his zeal, fo r weighty reafons. H e relapfes;
and his tutor, fo r private reafons, divulges the
whole affair. The method he took to invalidate
theJlory•
Y
O U may judge how he was affe£led at
feeing the perfon, upon whom all his hopes
of wealth and preferment were founded, in fuch
a fituation. Aukward at the beft, he now knew
not how to attempt giving him any afliftance, nor
had even the prefence of mind to call any one
who could, fo great was his embarraflment and
confufion. Nature, however, foon delivered
him from his diftrefs, and reftored his hopes, by
the recovery of his pupil.
As foon as he came a little to himfelf, he
flared wildly round him for fome moments, and
then fixing his eyes upon his tutor, who ftill
flood gaping in amazement at him, he miftook
him, from his being in his ihirt, for the faint
that
yGoogle
that ran in his head, his imagination ftill con­
tinuing the former fcene, and holding up his
hands in a fuppliant pofture, as he lay trem­
bling on his back, 4
4 O mercy, gracious Saint!
4
4 (faid he.) Have mercy on my youth ! never
4
4 will I again prefume to ridicule any of the fa-
4
4 cred rites of religion ! never will I admit a
4
4 doubt of any thing it commands me to be-
4
4 lieve ! O mercy! mercy !”—*Saying which
words he fainted away again.
This addrefs, one word of which the tutor
did not underftand, threw him into a fright al-
moft as great as that of his pupil. He Rood,
for fome time, ftupified by aftoniihment, till
the cold reminding him that he was in his ihirt,
care for his own health conquered every other
concern, and made him go to put on his clothes,
before he attempted to do any thing for the
other.
While he was drefling himfelf, he confidered
what his pupil had faid with rather more atten­
tion than his fear had permitted him before, and
recollecting the fubjeit of their converfation the
preceding evening, concluded that Heaven had
made ufe of fome fupernatural means to fubdue
his infidelity, the impreflion of which remain­
ing ftill upon his mind, had occafioned his
miftaking him, in the manner he did, for a Saint
(for that heihould be terrified to that degree by
the fcreaming of the cats never came into his
-head i; and pioufly refolved to contribute his af-
N 2 fiftance
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i6f
yGoogle
*tf CHRtSALs or» t h e
fiftancetotbedeception, by taking no notice that
he had been with himbefore, oreven denying it,
if he faw occafion.
With this intention he returned to his pupil,
determined, though, not todifclofe his fufpicion,
till theotherihouldmakefomedifcovery todiredt
him more certainly how to proceed. .
His pupil, who was juft come to himfelf, knew
him direflly, now he was drefled, and catching
his hand eagerly, as foon as he came within hi*
reach, 4
4 O my deareft, my beft friend! (faid
4
4 he, prefiing it to his lips) what have I fuf*
4
4 fered fince I faw you ? How deafly have I
4
4 paid for the profanenefs and infidelity of which
4
1 you have fo often reproved me, with pious
4
4 and paternal care. But never will I be guilty
4
4 of the like again. I refign myfelf implicitly
4
4 to your diredlion, and will, from this hour,
4
4 believe every thing you require me.”— ■■
His tutor, after giving him fome fpiritual com­
fort, and encouraging his perfeverance in this
pious refolution, defired to know what had been
the happy occafion of it, to which the other an-
fwered, thatfom e little time after he went to bed,
the room was fuddenly enlightened, in a manner not
to be deferibed^ when the apparition, o f which he
had given him an account the evening before, flo o d
before him , wrapped in blue fa m es, and breathing
fm oke and fu lp h u r; and calling to him in a voice
that appalled his fou l, denounced Heaven $ ven-
geangt againjl his infidelity, which he ivas ju fi going
to
yGoogle
to put in execution, when the holy Saint, whofe
miracles he hadJo impioujly turned into ridicule, ap~
peared a ll robed in w hite, and circled round w ith
glory ; and interpoftng between him and the fp eflre9
the latter gave a Jhriek that Jhook the room, and
then vanijhed in a Jlame o f fir e ; upon which the
Saint turned to him, w ith a look ineffably benign,
and exhorting him to repentance, gave him his bene-
¿¡¿lion, difappeared.
Ready as his tutor was to believe every thing
that exceeded belief, when alledged in the caufe
of religion, the circumftance of his own having
been miftaken for a Saint ftaggered his faith
in all the reft, and made him for once juftly
conclude, that the whole miracle was no more
than a fidlion of that fear with which the
fcreaming of the cats ftruck him in his fleep,
for he now plainly traced the effects of their
vbices.
However, far from undeceiving him, he im­
proved upon the thought; and, as foon as his
pupil concluded his tale, with a grave face and
folemn air added a fequel to it, of equal truth,
but di&ated by a very different degree of vera­
city ; the former being deceived himfelf, and
having eked out the illuilons of his fear, as di-
ftra&ed imagination fuggefted to him; whereas
the latter aggravated thofe illufions, by untruths
premeditately devifed to confirm that decep­
tion#
N 3 He
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 269
yGoogle
170 C HR YS AL : OR, THft
He (aid, that, grieved at the danger w ith w hich
an unhappy prejudice o f education threatened the fp i-
ritu a l fafety o f one fo dear to him, injlead o f lying
down to rejl, he had fa llen upon his knees-, and
Poured out his fo u l in prayer and fupplication to
H eaven, to enlighten his (p u p il's) m ind, and con­
vince him o f his errours, in which holy exercife
he had continued everftnce, till this moment, w hen,
in the impulfe o f a perfuafton, which he now per­
ceived to have been divinely infpired, that his
prayers were heard, he came to fatisfy him felf o f
the reality o f fo miraculous an event, fo r which
he begged him to jo in in returning immediate
thanks to H eaven, and the blejfed Saint who bad
wrought it.
This completed the deception of his pupil, fo
far as to make him believe the truth of fome
parts gf his own tale, which he was not alto­
gether fo certain of before. He arofe, there­
fore, and recbnciling himfelf to thfe faith 6f his
tutor, by the ftrongeft and moft full profeffions,
dedicated the remainder of the night With him to
prayer and pious converfation.
In the firft heat of his devbtion, he wits for
making the whole affair publick, and opefdy
joining himfelf to that religion, whofe truth was
thus confirmed to him. But his tutor moderated
the fervency of his zeal, fenfible that ftrch aftep
would not only defeat the political defigns of his
friends, which muft be carried on under a mafqire,
and in whofe fuccefs his own wiihes were moft
warmly
yGoogle
3
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *7*
warmly interefted $ but alfo overturn his bwn
hopes of being well rewarded for the care of his
education, by a church-living of great revenue,
that was in the gift of one of his pupil’s rela­
tions, who had promifed it to him, as foon as
the incumbent, then finking under all the infir­
mities of extreme old age, ihould die: for his
religious principles never interfered with his in­
tereft.
For thefe molt weighty reafons, though, as
you may imagine, he communicated only the
former, he prevailed upon his convert to be con­
tent with the private pra&ice, without the pro-
feffion of his new faith, till he ihould, in the full-
nefs of time, be fo happy as to contribute his af-
fiftance to the great event, which ihould eftabliih
it in his own country.
Such an argument could not fail of effe&
upon one who found the fervour of his devotion
cool fo fail, that in a few days the whole matter
was entirely reverfed, and his pra&ice as liber­
tine as ever, though fear of feeing any more
fpedres reftrained his profeiEons within more
decent bounds. For, fo deeply was the dread of
them imprinted on his mind, that to this day he
dares not to deep by himfelf, or be a moment
alone in the dark: though his tutor, foon after
his return home, divulged the whole affair, as
far as it affe£led not himfelf, with the addition
of many circumftances, if poffible, ftill more
contemptibly ridiculous than the true, to revenge
his
yGoogle
his procuring the living for one of his raking
companions, and ingratiate himfelf with a parti­
cular enemy of his, from whom he expefted a
recompence for fo pleafing a piece of fcandal;
to invalidate which was one of his pupil’s mo­
tives for inftituting this fociety.
*7* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P .
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, ty l
C H A P . XXIV.
Account o f the members continued. H iflory o f one
who turned libertine in fpeculati on, after he had
loji the power o f being fo in practice. H ow this
happened; the force o f literary vanity ; and the
reafon why it is Jlronger than any other. In ­
fiances o f the advantages reaped from encourag­
ing genius. A neiv method o fflattery is fuccefsfut
where a ll others had fa iled , and by a tnafler-
Jirohe makes vanity gain a flg n a l triumph over
virtue.
AT the right hand of the luperiour you fee
one, whofe example ihould be a warning
to mánkind never to be oft their guard againft
the allurements of vice, while there is any pofli-
bility, however remote and improbable, of their
falling into it.
While youth might have been pleaded in ex-
cufe of paflion ; and the bufy application of man­
hood extenuated any fpeculative errours in opini­
on, his conduit had been regulated by the flridleft
regard to the principles of moral virtue, and the
precepts of religion. But in the evening of his
days, when all that heat and hurry gave place to
cool reflexion, and the ferenity of the profpeit
more than compenfates for its approaching clofe,
the whole feene was wretchedly reverfed, and his
fetting fun over-caft with a cloud of vices
moil
yGoogle
moft blameable in any ftage of life, but aggra­
vated ten thoufand-fold in his, to which they
were unnatural.
I have told you before, that vanity was the
caufe of a fall, fo reproachful to humanity:
The manner, though, of its operating upon one
who feemed to be removed fo far beyond its reach
is worthy of attention. -
In no infiance is the power of vanity fo tyran­
nically exerted over the human heart, as when it
arifes from an opinion of literary merit. The
reafon is obvious. Real learning, is the moft
effeftual check to vanity, as it (hows the infta-
bility of its foundation. When, therefore, any
thing that makes pretence, however falfely, to
that name, feems to adminifter to its fupport, it
infiantly looks upon itfelf a3 above controul.
Though early engagement in the a&ive fcenes
of his country’s fervice had prevented his making
any great proficiency in the more abftrufe purfuits
of fpecul ation, his natural inclination to them,
dire&ed by a tafte formed by the beft education,
made him embrace all opportunities of patroniz­
ing every advance in fcience, and improvement
in the finer arts.
The liberality with which he indulged this
inclination foon marked him out to the attacks
of every needy adventurer in the trade of letters.
Proje&ors confulted him on their fchemes. Poets
fubmitted their works to his corre&ion. His
virtues, among which munificence was never
forgot,
*74 CHRYSALt OR, THE
yGoogle
forgot, were the inexhaufted theme of panegy-
rick; and dedications declared to the world his
abilities and knowledge.
Adulation fo grofs was an affront to reafon.
He reje&ed, with juft contempt, the praifes to
which he knew himfelf not entitled; and was
¿uperiour to the flattery, which compaflion for
the flatterer often made him feem to pay for.
Happy had he always preferved the fame deli­
cacy !
Among the crouds of parafites, who lay in
wait thus for his favour, was a perfon, whom
idlenefs feduced to prefer this abje& ftate of
dependence to the purfuit of a liberal profeflion,
which he had been bred tc— A bafenefs aggra­
vated by his poiTefling every qualification neceffary
to have made him eminent in any ftate.
This man, who had thoroughly ftudied the
human heart, foon faw that any dire£l: attack
upon his patron would prove ineffedual. He,
therefore, ftruck out a new fcheme, the depth
of which fecured it from dete&ion, though, at
the fame time, the difficulty of carrying it into
execution would have difcouraged any one, lefs
anxious for fuccefs, and confident of his own
abilities. He difguifed the ftrongeft flattery
under the mafque of the moft cynical bluntnefs
and candour ; and inftead of praifing all he did,
and echoing in affent every word he fpoke, he
milled no occafion of differing in opinion with
him, declaring he thought that being, who
could
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *75
yGoogle
could debate the dignity of his nature fo far as
io give up his judgement to another, from
any other motive than rational convi&ion, un*
worthy of the name of man.
A behaviour fo fingular neceffarily attra&ed
the notice of his patron* as the manner in
which it was carried pn foon won his favour
For in all the debates of any moment, which
this champion for liberty of thought held with
him, he managed with fuch delicate art, as to
lead him (his patron) to confute him, though
frequently contrary to the opinion with which
he had originally fet out. In trifles indeed, where
being foiled could refle# no difgrace, he pro­
ceeded not with that caution, but often gained
a victory, for which he laughed at himfelf when
it was won.
But with others he obferved not fuch modera­
tion. Be the fubjeit what it would, he exerted
all his powers (and great as I have faid they
were) till he filenced, at leaft, if he could not
convince his adverfary, over whom he then
triumphed in all the infolence of fuperiority.
Such a method could not fail of fuccefs ! His
patron, fure of coming off with honour, fought
every opportunity of -entering into debate with
him, and contra&ed an efteem for one who, as
he thought, had thus difcovered to him his own
abilities, while every one elfe declined entering
into a conteft, which always involved them in
difgrace.
Encouraged
«7* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A OUINEA. **7
Encouraged by thisfuccefs, he boldly ventured
tipon a Aroke, the event of'Which was to decicte
his hopes. In gratification to his own depraved
tafie, he had written a treatife, in which the
’groiTeft libertinifm was fet in fo advantageous
and alluring a light, and the arguments againft
it evaded with fo much plaufibility and true wit,
as were almoft fufficient to put virtue out of
countenance, and debauch its fincereft votaries.
The contradidion between fuch principles
and the pradice of his patron, through his whole
life, would have deterred any one lefs enter-
prifing, and experienced in the weaknefles of
human nature, from difclofing them ; but he had
lately made fome difcoveries, which emboldened
him even to puih his defigns much farther, than
owning himfelf the author of that book.
While the vigour of life had enabled his patron
to perfift in bufier purfuits, he had defpifed the
flattery paid to his literary merits ; but as foon as
the infirmities of age rendered him unfit for fuch
employment, he with a natural partiality gave
the preference to that pre eminence which he
thought ftill within his reach, and affeded to
flight all fame, that was not founded on the\
nobler labours of the mind.
This was a fufficient diredion to the parafite.
He immediately ihovved his book, with a myfte-
rious air, to feveral of his patron’s friends*
giving them broad hints at the fame time, but
under the feal offecrecy, that he was the author ot
VoL* III. O it
yGoogle
CHRY SAL s OR, THE
*7«
it. There is no way fo effeâual as this to fpread
any ftory. One whifpered it to another, till, in
a few days, the whole town was in the fecret.
The hints and allufions which were every hour
thrown out to the patron, on this occafion, per­
plexed him not a little, as he knew, not what
they meant. A fecret, though in the poffeffion
of fo many, could not poffibly remain long fuch
to him. One of his acquaintances, provoked at
the feeming affeâation of his not underftanding
his hints, told him the whole affair.
Much as he was furprifed at the account,
vanity would not let him fupprefs it by a diredfc
negative, as the book was mentioned in terms
of the higheft praife. He anfwered with the
coy evaiions of modefty, the moft effeâual
affirmation, and ihifted off any further difcuffion
of the fubjeâ, till he ihould be better in­
formed.
Accordingly, the moment his friend left him,
he fent for the author of the report, and charg­
ing him with it, defired to fee the performance
which he had done him the honour to father
upon him.
The parafite, who took his cue from the
looks of his patron, was far from denying the
charge. He prefented him the book without
hefitation, faying, with his ufual bluntnefs, that
if it was not a&ually written by him, it was
literally written from him, being nothing but
what he had frequently faid on thofe fubje&s ;
yGoogle
and, therefore, might without any injuftice be
afferted to be his.
The advantageous manner in which the patron
had heard the book fpoken of prevented his
making any reply, till he ihould have read it,
when he was fo ftruck with the various beauties
of it, that vanity fubdued all his virtue, and
deprived him of the power of denying it. 4
4 If
4
4 the fentiments are mine !” (faid he, bluihing
at his own bafenefs, as he fpoke) 4
4 I am
4
4 obliged to you for placing them in fo ad-
4
4 vantageous a light; and think I ought tQ de-
4
4 dine iharing in an honour, fo much of which
4
4 belongs to another/* ■ - —
Such a repulfe was no way difcouraging.
The parafite repeated his affertion that the whole
was genuinely his, both in words and fenti­
ments, as indeed he knew not any other, whofe
they could be j and infilling that he had no
more merit in the affair, than barely that of
writing them down, a liberty for which he
begged pardon, appealed to his former condudt
to acquit him of fo mean a piece of flattery, as
giving to another the honour of a work, which
had not its equal.
It is not difficult to perfuade a willing m-ind.
The patron could no longer deny what was fo
clearly proved; and what his own confcience
bore teftimony to, againft his falfe modefty. All
that remained was to a£t in fuch a manner,
that his pradtice ihould not contradidl this de­
claration
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 17*
yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
+ lo
claration of his principles ; and fo raife a doubt
of their authenticity. .
But after having made the firft ftep, he found
no difficulty in this. He diretlly changed the
whole tenour of his life. He laughed at mo«
rality, ridiculed Religion, and profefled vice«
he was unable to pra&ice : and laftly, to com­
plete his chara£ler, procured admiffion into this
fociety, which, as I faid, was the proof of every
polite accompliihment and qualification ; where
he nods, as you fee, over the grave, as infenfible
to the mirth and pleafijres enjoyed by his com­
panions, as of the defpicablenefs and danger of
his own fituation.
As for his parafite, his end was gained. From
that moment he commanded him as he pie. fed,
iharing in the enjoyment of his fortune while
he lived ; and fure of fuch a portion of it, if he
furvived him, as (hould fufficiently fupply his
appetites, the only ufe for which he defired a
fortune.
E N D O F VOL. JH
.
yGoogle
C H R Y S A L
O
R
- ¡ J m ,
T H E A D V E N T * U R E S
O F
A G U I N E A .
x ' WHEREIN ARB'EXHIBITED
VIEWS OF SEVERAL STRIKING SCENES,
' WITH
CURIOUS AND INTERESTING ANECDOTES
O
P THE
MOST NOTED PERSONS IN EVERY RANK OF LIFE,
W H O S E H A N D S I T P A S S E D T H R O U G H ,
IN AMERICA, ENGLAND, HOLLAND
. GERMANY, a n d PORTUGAL.
/ B Y * A i N A D E P T .
Tslr Jr' r
— Hold the Mjirrourup to Nature, '
To Ihow Vice its*i>wn Image, Virtue its own Likeneis,
And the very Age and Bodyofthe Times
His Form a n d Preflure. S h a k s p e a r e
Qui ca
p
ity tilefacit.
A N E W E D I T I O N .
V O L . I V .
L O N D O N :
PRINTED FOR J. F. AND C. RIVINGTON J G. ROBIN SON,
T. CADELL j T. EVANS ; AND R. BALDWIN.
. M DCC LXXXI1I. ■
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
Digitized by Google
C O N T E N T S of Vol. IV.
B O O K t h e F i r s t .
C H A P . I.
CHRYSAL continues the account o f the members
The hijlory o f a remarkable perfon is given,
fo r a remarkable purpofe, H is pleafures bring
him into dijlrefs, from which he extricates him -
f e l f by making them fubfervient to his interejl,
and gets into a good keeping. N ot content
w ith the mother he cajls his eye upon the daughter
alfe) but is difappointed) and forced to take up '
w ith a Jhare o f her fortune, fo r procuring her
in marriage fo r another; H e refelves to be
a G r e a t M a n ; and fo r that purpofe breaks
w ith his K eeper, when he has got from her
a ilfe e had to g iv e.. Page Li
C H A P . II.
Continued. H e begins his feheme fucoefsfully, by
Jiealing a marriage. H is late K e e p e r makesan
artfu l demand o f a ll thè prefents fee had given *
A- 2 hitriy
,yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
him , which he anfwers as artfully. H e advances
in his fcheme by Jieps exactly in his character,
and gets into favour w ith a great perfon.
C hrysal makes fem e remarks on the origin o f
the affections o f the human mind, and the d if­
feren t manner o f breeding men and horfes, w ith
the confequence. Page 8
C H A P III.
Continued. H e praflifes a fuccefsful method fo r
gaining the confidence o f h is. new Patron, which
he turns to good account. H ifiory o f the lover
who fucceeded him in the good graces o f his late
K eeper. H efiriv es to prevent his taking ad­
vantage o f his tnfiuence over her\ and finding
he fa ils in that, fools him into dißrefs, which
brings his life in his power. H e fig h ts many
motives, which might have had weight w ith others,
and takes advantage o f the opportunity to get rid
o f him, and a llfu rth er trouble about him . H e
continues to dupe him till the la ß moment, when
bis eyes are opened^ and a ll comes out. 14
C H A P . IV.
Continued. A view o f his political character in ­
troduces a maxim not jujficiently attended to
H efa ils in a great firoke, and makes fe many
wrong onesy that be is kicked out o f, power,
4 , <tnd
,yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
andforced to be content w ith profit, w hich he
purfues through thick and thin. A n unhappy
event gives him an opportunity o f Jhowing bis
ingratitude to his late Patron^ on the m erit o f
w hich he rifes to higher power than ever,
which he wifely exerts behind the curtain, and
leaves h is to ols to bear the blame. A n ac­
count o f the ju ft fr u its o f fo much fuccefs con­
cludes hisJlory. Page 22
. C H A P . V ,
C h r y s a l leaves the convent. H is mafier pro­
ceeds in character. H e praSiifes a new manner
o f courtjhip ; and ftgnalifes his talen ts fo r in -
' trigue9 by debauching the daughter o f his frien d
H er diftrefs, when toolate9gives him fameflig h t
qualms o f confidence; but he Jbon recovers, and
goes on in his enterprife. 28
C H A P . VI.
Continued. C h r y s a l ^ m afier makes his tri­
umph publickj byfeducing his new miftrefs azvay
from her fa th er's houfe. The manner in w hich
he impofed upon them both to ejfett th is; w ith
the convolution he gave her fo r fame natural con­
sequences o fhis gallantry. H is triumph is com­
pleted by her going upon the towny and her f a ­
ther's breaking his heart. 23
C H A P .
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
C H A P . VII;
** C h r y s a l V majler pays his court to a great per—
4
4fon^ who feems not much to relijh his humour
4
4 and exprejjes fom e unfajhionable fentim ents con-
4
4 cernihg polite pleafures. In the courfe o f a
4
4 regular progrejjton C h r y s a l into the
4
4 pojfejfton o f a BeauI* R ijlory o f a Beau^ w ith
a journal o f his manner o f life fo r one day.
C h r y s a l changes his fervice, common way9,
j f r r that o f a L a d y o f F a s h i o n . 4 0
C H A P . VIII.
H tfiory o f C h r y s a l V »m; m iftrefs.
brought into difirefs by her beauty9 from w hich
a lucky interview relieves her. danger o f
arguing in fa vou r o f inclination againfi reafdn.
H er fr ien d puts her to fchool9 to learn manners,
afterw ards marries her. H is fam ily Jhow
impotent refentmentj at which he is fo •enraged,
that he makes bis w ill, by which he leaves her his
whole fortu n e; and then dies. An uncommon *
infiance o f the good-nature o f the world. 48
C H A P. IX.
The common confequence o f over-doing things* H er
hufiand's relations fin d out a fla w in his w ill.
The comfort o f having good lawyers to keep up
a client's fp irits. For the advantage o f hewing
twofirin g s to her bow, Jhe enters into an engage-
m ent‘
C O'N TE N T $; '
,yGc • le
c o n t e n t s ;
merit o f marriage, under a heavy penalty. The
event o f her law -fuit Jhows the prudence o f this
precaution. She is cafl\ ber lover flies off) and
Jhe fu es him fo r the penalty o f his engagement•
H e begs the money among his frien d s, and then
by a nicefineffe plays her own game back upon her,
andflings her o ffw ith h a lf C hrysal changes
hisfervice. Page 56
C H A P . XV
C hrysal makes fom e out-of-the-w ay remarks
on. matrimony. D efcription and hiflory o f his
new mafler. C hrysal vindicates his ufing
a common expreffion. H is mafler*s fir fl rife
from a beggar to a foot-boy. H e gains his
mafler*s fa vou r, o f w hich he makes the ufe
natural to be expected from his fir fl education.
Some account o f a relation o fhis principal**.
The danger o f giving advice. C hrysal**
m afler infinuates bim felf into the Colonel**
liking, and undermines his principal in his
regardi 64
C H A P . XI.
Further account o f the Colonel. C hrysal**
maflery in conjunction w ith a fem ale officiate
proper fo r his purpofe, completes his fcheme o f
' 5 alienating
,yGoogle
C O N T E N T S -
- alienating the C olonel’j regard from his fa -
mily\ ofwhich he gives a proofof a mofl extraor-
dinary nature. A remarkable inßance of C hry-
s a l \í maßer's talents for a particular kind of
wit9with aß r iking account of the worthy manner
in which he and his fa ir officiate acquitted them-
Jelves of the truß repofed in them by the Co­
LONEL. Pag«7 2
. C H A P . XII/
C h r y s a i/x maßer receives an account of the death
of the Colonel. He finds after much deliberation
that he cannotfling his worthy aßociate out of the
whole fpoil) and therefore prudently refolves to
Jhare it with her bya marriage, of which hedraws
a comfortablepicture. He urges hisfu it9 andfije
ßrives to evade it, by arguments conßßent with
both their characters. He carries his point in a
particular manner. 78
* C H A P . xnr.
Account of the methods which Chrysal’s maßer
took to obviate the effects of hisprincipal's refent-
ment) with the charaderißick converfation that
paffid between them9 on theformer's avoiving the
colonel's will. Chrysal’j maßer cver-jhoots his
mark) andprovokes his principal to do more than
he ever intended. An uncommon inßance of the
•uftice of the world. C hrysal’j maßer obliges
\he lady to court him in her turn, and1at length
marries
,yGoogle
marries her. The confequences offuch a marriage,
andfr u its o f thefuccefs o f all their fchem es.
Page 85-
C H A P. XIV.
C hrysalV mafier defigns to fe t up a coach; but
wants a m aterial article towards making a pro-
per figure w ith it. H e confults w ith a Herald,
who gives him an elaboratediffertation, not them ojl
pleafing to him r on coats of arms, and the
modern methods o f making them, in which he un­
fold s many curious myfteries, and undertakes at
la fi, on proper. encouragement, to make him a
gentleman. C hrysal changes his fervice. Con-
verfation between his new m ajler, and an Anti­
quarian. Curious arguments, by which he
proves the genuinenefs and importance o f certain
relicks o f antiquity. C hrysal changes his^ fe r ­
vice. t92
C H A P . XV.
A modejl method o f feeking fam e. C hrysalV
m ajler confirms him felf in his refla tion to gra­
tify an uncommon curiofity, by a great example•
fh e judicious and learned manner in which he
claffed and entered his new acquifitions. C u ­
rious remark on the value o f books. H e goes
to an auction, where he makes an extraor­
dinary purchafe. C hrysal changes his fer­
vice, fo r that o f the Auctioneer* Specimen and
VoL. IV. _ a effects
C O N T E N T S .
,yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
< effefts of his new mafler*s eloquence, learnings
and judgement. Page 105
C H A P , XVI.
An unfavoury accident flops him Jhort in his ha­
rangue. H e turns off the jefl w ith another,
and accounts learnedly fo r w hat has happened.
The real caufe and confequence of that accident.
Reflexions on auctioneering, and the caufes o f
itsfuccefs. 113
C H A P. XVII.
€ hrysal^ mafler is vifited hya Connoisseur, to
VL^oom he gives a Jhort receipt how to make his
■pictures fell, and makes fome flriking remarks,
on the difregard people Jhow fo r their fam ilies,
which fend his vifitor away in a huff. 118
C H A P . XVIII.
Chrysai/ i mafler receives an agreeable fummons.
H is encomiums on the generoflty o f merchants, and
account of the way many o f them acquire reputa­
tion fo r tafle and judgement. H e meets the
merchant, who confults him on a different branch
o f his bufinefs from that which he expected.
Chrysai/ i mafler, in order to encourage his
cuflomer, gives a large account of his own abili­
ties, and opensfome curious fecrets in his bufinefs.
A bargain is flruck, to the mutualfatisfaClion o f
both parties;•and Chrysal changes his fervice
fo r that o f the merchant. 123
C H A P .
,yGoogle
3
C H A P . XIX.
M otive of C h r y s a l V new maßerfor makingfuch
a bargain, with the many and great advantages
a merchant may make of being in the houfe. A
fhortfetch of an election. The curious method
which C h r y s a l V maßer took, to evade the laws
againß bribery. He takes ojfenfe at the unrea-
fonableprefimption ofhis conßituentst and refolves
to make the moß of the bargain he has bought
from them> which by afingular piece of manage­
ment he propofes to make cheaper than they think:
C h r y s a l changes his fervice for that of the
■ idol of an inn. The confequences of electioneering.
Some account of C h r y s a l ’s new mißrefs. He
quits her fervice for a curious purpofe. An
expedient to prevent the fale of poifon for mind
and body. C h r y s a l again changes his fervice.
Page 129
C H A P . XX.
Account of C hrysalV new maßer, his [herotek
fpirit, and refolution to pujhfor a penfion or a
pillory. Meeting between him and a poet, who
turns the tables upon him. A curious method of
forming a judgement of a work of genius•
ChrysalV maßer is beaten out of all his art,
and for once buys a book by quality, not quan­
tity. The value ofan authour9
s name. C hry­
sal changes hisfervice. 1 37
. C O N T E N T S .
a 2 CHAP.
,yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
C H A P . XXL
Some account of the company to which C h r y s a l *s
■ new maßer went. His behaviour to a youngf e ­
male, who accoßed him in his way home. He
takes her to a tavernfor an uncommon purpofe,
where he treats her uncotnmonly, and goeshome
with her, from as uncommon a motive. Account
of.what hefaw in her habitation, with the manner
in which he behaved there. He takes another
lodging for the whole family, where he leaves
them abruptly, tofave himfelfand them trouble.
Page 143
B O O K II.
C H A P. i.
CHRYSAL gives feme account of his maßer.
Reafon of his having been bred to, and m if
carried in a particular profejfion. lntereßing
remarks on the different kinds of merit neceffary
to eminence in different profeffiions, confirmed by
fir iking infiances of thefuccefs in each. Natural
confequence of his being forced into a profejfion
againfi his inclination. He is compelled by di-
' firefs to exert his abilities. Contradifiious in his
character, and the particular turn of his works
accountedfor. He vifits his neiv family. A f­
fe ¿lingfiory of an officer. Page 153
C H A P .
,yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
C H A P . II.
C hrysal’* m a jie r c a rrie s h im to v if lt an o ld
a cq u ain ta n ce, w ho behaves in c h a ra c te r, on
h e a rin g the o ffic e r's J lo ry , a n d fu rp r ife s
C hrysal’* m a jie r w ith a n account o f h is
h a v in g tu rn e d P a t r i o t . T he g e n e ra l m o tive
f o r fu c h a J le p ; w ith fa m e re m a rks on the d if ­
fe re n c e betw een p ra c tic e a n d p ro fe ffito n, in d if ­
fe re n t in jla n c e s , In fig n ific a n c y o f p riv a te cha­
ra c te rs in a tta cks upon a m in ijlr y , a n d w h y .
R e fle xio n s on the o rig in a n d ufe o f satire,
a n d the abufe o f the te rm s good a n d ill-
n a t u r e , w ith the re a fo n w h y fo m any cry o u t
a g a in jl fa tir e , C hrysal changes h is fe r v ic e ir t
a common w a y . Page
‘ C H A P . IIL
C h r y sa l fu m s up the c h a ra c te r o f h is la te m a ß e r,
" D iffe re n t opinions f o r a n d a g a in fl the p ro p rie ty
a n d benefit ¿/'sATIRE. T he fo rm e r fu p p o rte d h y
good a u th o rity . R eafon o f fo m e in c o n v in ic u rie s
a tte n d ing th e i ndulgence. o ffu c h a tu rn . C h a ra c te r
o f C h r y sa l ’* n e w m aß e r concluded fro m a
fo rm e r Jke tch . H e w a its upon h is P a tro n , C h a ­
ra C te r o f h im , w ith h is m otives f o r fu c h a p a tro n ­
age, H e g iv e s f i r ik in g reafons f o r o b je ctin g to
fo m e p a rts o f C h r y sa l ’* m a fie r s p a m p h le t,
a 3 w h ic h
,yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
which the other makesfame weak attempts to v in -
dieate. C h ry sal ’j maßer enjoys the pleafure o f.
tracing his ownfam e. Page 174
CHAP. IV
.
C hrysal’j m aßer receives an unwelcome v ifit,
at an unfeafonable time. H is extraordinary
behaviour before his fuperiours. H e is fen t
to prifon. C hrysal /«¿¿¿j yim* unpopular
remarks, 0« certain interefling fubjeCis. Con­
feren ces o f his m aßer’s imprifonment, w ith an
account o f his behaviour in it. 182
CHAP. V
.
C h r y s a l ’j m aßer is vifited in prifon by his
patron ; andfrom what motives. H is conduct,
0»being fe t at liberty, confequences o f it.
Remarkable grounds on w hich he was fe t at
liberty, w ith a conjecture at the reafon o ffixin g
upon them. C h r y s a l makes an enquiry into
certain matters, much talked o f and little un­
* derfiood. jg^
CHAP. V
I.
C hr y sa l ’j maßer takes a foreign tour. Remarks
upon national reflexions, and attacks upon private
characters. C h r y s a l ’j maßer is called to an
accountfo r certain improper liberties, ¿y <
7 wry
improper
,yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
improper perfon, whom he treats w ith uncommon
propriety, C hrysal makesfom eout-of-the-way
reflexions on a queflion much canvaffed to little
purpofe, Page 192
C H A P . vir.
Chrysal’jm afiers late conduct draws him into a
new firape, in which he comes off but ficond-befl.
H e takes advantage of his misfortune to make his
. efiapefrom a greater, H e fuffers the refentment
. o f his enemies, as fa r as they can reach him ; and
meetsfrom his friends the fa te of all ufilefs tools,
after havingfirved them w ith improbablefuccefs.
A f ir iking infiance of the advantage of an upright
judge, and equal laws, C hrysal changes his
fervice. 199
C H A P . VIII.
Reafon o f thejoy w ith which C hrysal w as*re­
ceived by his new maßer. Account of a curious,
though not uncommon way ofgetting a living. Con-
verfation between C h ry sal ’í maßer and his -
gueß. Tloey compare notes on their different attempts
in the literary trade. C hrys al’x maßer is
encouraged by hisfriendfrom his own example, A
remarkable account o f a certain matter that made
much noifi, 205
C H A P .
,yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
C H A P . IX.
C hRYSAL’j m ajler makes fame Jlriking remarks
on his frien d 's account o f this myjlerious tranf-
aftion, and draws inferences from it, not com­
monly attended to. H e entertains his frien d
w ith a curious fong, who makes an important h it,
ju jl in his own character, upon it. C hrysai/j
majler boggles a little at fir jl, at his frien d 's pro­
pofol, but is encouraged by his example to under­
take it. Page 212.
/ C H A P . X.
C h RYSAl ’j majler purfues his fchem e, and violates
moral honejly to ferve the caufe o f virtue and
religion. H s w aits upon his patron, who ho-
nejlly refufes a character to which he knows
he has no right ; but undertakes the affair from
a more prevailing motive, in which he is re­
markably ajfijled by another perfon o f lefs modejly,
who pleads the caufe o f religion and virtue in
vain, till honour at length turns thé fcale in
their fa vou r. C h r y s a l V majler is difap­
pointed in his hopes, and makes ufe o f an expe­
dient in charafter, to efcapefrom theju /l rew ard
o f a ll his labours. C h r y s a l changes his fe r -
vice, 217
C H A P ,
,yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
C H A P . XL
C h r y s a l again changes his ferv ice. H is new
m aß er is obliged to pay expedition fees> to get
over artificial delays. H e and his m ißrefs
J et out on a long journey, to do 'w hat might
have been better done at home. C h r y s a l
makes fom e intercfiing refiexions on a moß im ­
portant Jubjeul. Story o f C h r y sa l ’* m aßer.
C h r y s a l continues his refiexions on the fam e
fu b jc fi) which he confiders in a fu rth er and
m oß affecting point o f v iew . C h r y s a l
changes his ferv ice. Page 224
C H A P . XIL
C h r y s a l ’* new m ajler Jlrikes out an adventure.
H e is fm itten w ith a g ir l in a travelling -waggon^
and changes his appearance, to get admijfion to
h er. Account o f the company in the waggon.
A good-natured miflake o f one o f the pa[fingers
gives occafion to a broil, w hich is put an end
to by an accident that does not mend the
matter. 231
* C H A P . XIII.
C h r y s a l ’* m ajler experiences fom e comfortable
confequences from the obliging difpofition o f
the waggoner. H e purfues his defign, by
faying
,yGoogle
C O N T E N T S .
paying common civility to his m iftrefs's mo­
ther. Converfation and behaviour o f the
company. C h r y s a l ’ j majler, in the pur-
fu it o f his ' defigji) meets an adventure that
cools his pajfton, and reajfembles the com-
pany, when they a r e , a ll like to be at a
fa u lty till one o f them luckily hits o ff the fcent.
Page 237
C H A P . XIV.
The advantage o f a ready afurance. The methodift
accounts curioufly fo r what he has done; and
turning the tables uponC hrys a l’j mafier charges
him w ith robbery, who is thereupon obliged to dif-
cover h im felf but is contradicted by one o f the
company, who boaßs o f a curious acquaintance w ith
him in his own character. H e is luckily recog­
nized by a footman, whofe maßer extricates him
from his dißrefs, and makes out the mißakes
that had caufedJo much confufion. 243
C H A P . XV.
C h r y s a l gives a ß r ik in g account o f his maf-
ter. H e arrives in London, and pays a
vifit to his m ijbefs. H is curious method o f
courting. H is m ißrefs makes him a prefent
o f h a lf her fortune beforehand, in return fo r
which he pro7nifes to narry her next dayr
and then goes to his g irl. D iferen ce in his
behaviour to the two naturally accounted fo r .
A n
,yGoogle
' 'I '
C O N T E N T S .
A n uncommon guejl at a wedding) w ith as
uncommon a manner o f celebrating a nuptial-
nighty Jhow a f i l l more uncommon infiance o f
m atrim onial complaifance. C h r y s a l changes
his fervice. Page 2^0
C H A P . XVI.
C h r y s a l makes fom e reflexions, not likely to be
much regarded. H is m ajler pays a love-vifit
to a young lady, whofefa th er interpofes unpolitelyy
and makes fom e out-of-the-w ay objections.
C h &y sa l s m ajler hits upon a fchemefo r getting
over them. H e propofes marriage on certain
firm s^ which are agreed to} and the dayfixed at a
little difiance. 2$ j
C H A P . XVII.
C hry^a l V m ajler is privately married. N ot fa -
tisfiedw ith one w ifefo r love, he wants anotherfo r
money. H e propofis the matter to his w ife, on
whofe r e fufal, he difclofes his grand fchem e; in
which) deep as it is laid) he has the mortification to
fin d him felf anticipated, and his own weapons
turned upon him felf Confequences o fthis difcovery.
C h r y s a l ’j m ajler takes a common method o f
Jilencingfcandal. C h r y s a l changes his fervice•
264
C H A P . XVIII.
C h r y s a l gives an account o f certain interejling
occurrences. A n extraordinary definition o f a
common
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
C O N T E N T S .
common word. Great expectations difappointed.
The confequence o f planning in the clofet the ope­
rations o f the field, w ith the origin o f that faga-
cious practice. Page 27z
C H A P . XIX.
Continued. The natural event o f fuch a fituation.
The general, victorious over him felf quits the
purfuit o f military glory fo r the practice o f the
virtues o f peace. Perfidy o f the enemyjufllypu -
nijhed. The army is form ed again under the com-
mand o f a G e r m a n , and afugar plum given te
the E nglish to flop their mouths at fuch an in -
fu lt. 277
C H R Y S A L
,yGoogle
C H R Y S A L
OR, THE ADVENTURES OF
A G U I N E A .
C H A P . I.
C h Rysal continues the account o f the members.
The hijiory o f a remarkable perfon is given
fo r a remarkable purpefe. H is pkafures bring
him into dijlrefsy from which he extricates him-
f e l f by making them fubfervient to his intercjl^
and gets into a good k e e p i n g . N ot content
w ith the mother he cajls his eye upon the daughter
alfoy but is difappointed, and forced to take up
w ith aJhare o f her fortune, fo r procuring her
in marriage fo r another. H e refolves to be
a G r e a t M a n ; and fo r that purpofe breaks
w ith his K e e p e r , when he has grt from her
allJhe had to give.
O
N E of the moft fpecious arguments ai-
ledged againft the obligation to virtue,
is the fuccefs that is often obferved to attend
the violation of it, *in the geneAl purfuits of
V o l . IV. B - the
yGoogìe
a
t CHRYSAL: OR, THE
the world. O f this you fee the ftrongeft in-
ftance which this age has afforded, in that
man, who fits at the left hand of the fuperiour,
wrapped up in the confcioufnefs of his own
importance, and fmiling contemptuoufly at the
company around him, while they believe he is
joining in their mirth.
A particular account of his life would lead
into too great a length. It would feem a
fatire on mankind, rather than a detail of the
aftions of one man. However, as a ihort
iketch of it may be of advantage, by unveiling
this myftery in the conduit of Heaven; and
proving the infufficiency of the higheft profpe-
rity to confer happinefs, even in the hour of
attainment, when that profperity is not founded
in, and procured by virtue, I will juft run
over the great heads of his ftory, with that
brevity which the difagreeablenefs of the fub-
jeitnaturally diitates.
The opening of his life gave no profpeit of
his exalted ftation. Fleafure in every licen­
tious excefs foon diffipated a fmall patrimony;
and he was hardly entered into man’s eftate,
when want, of his own earning, began to ftare
him in the face.
The peculiar caft of a man's mind is in
nothing more ftrongly ihown, than in the ex­
pedients he has recourfe to, in order to extri­
cate him from difficulties. Inftead of quitting
the
,yGoogle
the vices which had brought him into this
cmbarraflment, he refolvcd on the firft alarm to
build his hopes of fortune on them, by pur-
fuing them in a different manner. Expe­
rienced in all the myfteries of intrigue, he
knew that age and deformity will purchafe
pleafures, for which youth and beauty expe<9:
to be flattered, if not even paid. Unreftrained,
therefore, by any fcruples of honour or con-
fcience, he dire£Hy determined to fix upon
fome wealthy female of the former clafs, and
never doubted making her paflion repay him
manifold what he had expended on the gra­
tification of his own.
I fee the abhorrence with which the men­
tion of fuch a fcheme ftrikes you. Venal
proftitution in the female fex, though cut off
from every other method of prolonging a
wretched exiflence, is the loweft ftate to which
it can fink. What then can be faid ofv a
man, who, uncompelled by fuch irrefiftible
nccefUty, voluntarily gives up the dignity of
his nature, and hiring himfelf to be the flave
of luffs which are a difgrace to it, contentedly
eats the bread of infamy and vice? Language
yet wants a name for fuch bafcnefs.
This hopeful fcheme was no fooner formed,
than carried into execution. As his character
gained him eafy accefs to all fuch as were
proper for his purpofe, he immediately fingled
- B 2 out
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i
,yGoogle
out an old dowager, in whole difpofal the
dotage of a dying hufband had left the ac­
cumulated wealth of feveral ages of fuccefsful
induftry. Such a quarry engaged all his at­
tention in the purfuit. He paid his addreiTes
to her, though defiitute of every thing that
could raife natural defire, with fo much
affiduity and warmth, that Ihe readily re­
ceived him into her good graces ; and, in r*-
turn fo r the pleafure Jhe foun d in his converfation,
lavifhed her fortune upon him with a profufion
that even exceeded his hopes.
From the principle on which he fet out,' it
may be judged that he did not negleft to im­
prove fuch an opportunity of repairing his
broken fortunes, and laying up a fund for a
future day, out of the overflowing of her
untimely fondnefs. But, unbounded as her
generofity was, he was far from being con­
tent, while any thing further remained poffi-
ble to be got from her. Befide the great
wealth which was dire&ly in her power, a
very large eftate was by family-fettlements to
defcend to an only daughter, whom ihe had
by her hufband. As foon, therefore, as her
modeft lover had \got pofleflign of the former,
his heart yearned for the latter alfo, with as
much greedinefs, as if his wants were only
encreafed by his acquifitions.
But, though he was feldom long at a lofs
for means to accomplifh any thing he had in
5 view,
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
4 C t t R Y S A L t OR, T HE
view, as he was under no reftraint from priiv-
ciple in the choice of them, there was an ob-
ftacle in his" way here, which all the fertility
. of his genius could not furmount. This was
his connexion with the mother, the nature of
which he well knew would never let her con-
fent to a fcheme deftru&ive of itfelf; for he
bad no fear of her making oppofition froth
motives of honour or virtue to any thing that
did not claih with that, as he found none in
his own confcience even to this, though con­
trary to the firft principles of nature.
Since he could not, therefore, get the daugh­
ter^ whole fortune, by marrying her, he re-
folved to exert his influence on her mother,
to give her' to fome perfon of his choofing,
who ihould divide it with him, as a recom-
penfe for making the match. For this pur-
pofe, he pitched upon a near relation of his
own, who readily gave into his fcheme, though
poflefled himfelf of a fortune that placed
him above the neceility of (looping to fuch
meannefs. The confent of the guardian-
mother, as he forefaw, was eafily obtained.
She was happy in having fuch an opportunity
of proving her regard for him, as well as
of removing her daughter out of his reach,
his attention to whom, while his firft projeft
was in his head, had not efcaped her jealous
notice.
B 3 His
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. S
,yGoogle
6 CHRYSALs OR, THE
His ihare of the prize, added to his othei*
gains, made him now a man of confiderable
fortune, and fired him with an ambition of
making a figure in the ftate. T o accompliih
this, the natural turn of his mind fuggefted
it to him to marry into fome family, the in­
tereft and fplendour of which might drown
the obfeurity of his own original, and aifift
his hopes. Nor did he apprehend any op-
pofitiore to this fcheme from the fame quar­
ter that had defeated the former. He had
now gotten from her all that (he had to .
give; and the fame principle which prompted
him to be the hired drudge of her loofe defires
made himfind no fcruple to leaveher fervice, when
Ihe was no longer able to pay the wages of it.
Nothing is eafier than to make matter for,
difpute. On her expreffing her refentment,
with the haughtinefs which ihe thought the
circumftances of the connexion between them
gave her a right to affume, as ihe had on many
occafions before, at fomething he had done
with defign to provoke her, his fenftbility took
fire, and, in juft indignation at treatment fo
improper for a man o f honour to fubmit to, he
bound himfelf by the moft dreadful impreca­
tions to ihake off fo intolerable a yoke for ever,
and fo flung out of her prefence.
Her furprife at a behaviour fo different
from what he had ever ihown before fufpended
her
3
] *
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 7
her refentment, and ihe waited with impatience
for a repetition of the blandiihments with which
he had been accuftomed to footh her anger.
But, what was her aftoniihment to find, that,
inftead of making any advances of the kind,
he had actually withdrawn himfelf from her
houfe. This alarmed her. In the arrogance
of her former fuperiority, the lofs of which ihe
was not yetfenfible of, ihe fent him a peremptory
fummons, to attend her diredlly. But her com­
mands had now loft their weight, and ihe re­
ceived a refufal, the more cutting for being
couched in cool, equivocal politenefs. This
drew on him an epiftolary torrent of upbraid-
ings, expoftulations, and at laft,- of the moft
tender intreaties; but all were equaHy inef­
fectual. He pleaded his rafh vow, lamented
the cruel obligation of it; and, as ihe began to'
be foftened by this addrefs, hinted at a fenfe of
religion, and even diftantly recommended it to
her, as the beft confolation under the crofles
and afflictions of. life.
Such fentiments from him could mean no­
thing but fneering infult. In that light (he
took them. However, as the nature of the
affair made it improper for her to open her mind
too explicitly, ihe refolved to play his own game
back upon him, and affeCt to be convinced by
arguments of whichfhehoped to take advantage
at a proper time, though in a manner very dif­
ferent from his intention, in applying them.
B 4 ' C H A P .
,yGoogle
8 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P . II.
Continued. H e begins bis fcheme fuccefsfully, by*
Jlealing a marriage. H is K e e p e r makes an
a rtfu l demand o f a ll the prefents Jhe had given
him, which he anfwers as artfully. H e advances
in his fchem e by Jleps exactly in his character,
and gets into favou r w ith a great p e r fon,
C h r y s a l makes fom e remarks on the origin o f
the affections o f the human m ind, and the d if­
feren t manner o f breeding men and horfes, w ith
the confequence. .
WH IL E ihe was pleaiing herfelf with this
thought, he had carried the moft diffi­
cult part of his fcheme into execution. The
paffion for play, which marks the charafter of
the prefent age, though it really countera&s
every focial virtue, is yet the means of aflo-
ciating all kinds and ranks of people, who have
or even appear to have money to play for. At
meetings for this purpofe, he had found means
to make an acquaintance with a nobleman,
who was fo pleafed with his converfation, ftu-
died defignedly to pleafe him, that he admitted
him to an intimacy in his family, which he
knew /o well how to improve with one of his
daughters, that, in defpight of the difparity of
age and rank, he foon prevailed upon her t&
crown
,yGoogle
crown his hopes by a private marriage, as the
confent of her family could not be expe&ed.
As the immediate fortune of the lady could
'not be thought an objeft of mercenary purfuit,
when the firft emotions of refentment gave place
to reflexion, his plea of paflion was admitted
as ah excufe for this violation of the facred
laws of hofpitaiity; and his wife’s father un­
knowingly completed his deiign, by exerting
all his intereft, which was very great, to ad­
vance him in the ftate.
The fecrefy with which it had been ne-
ceffary for him to conduit this affair, and the
rapidity of his fuccefs, prevented his late mif-
trefs from making any attempt to defeat it.
As foon, however, as ihe recovered from the
firft ftroke of her aftonifhment at the news of
his marriage, ihe proceeded to put her fcheme
in execution. Accordingly, ihe fent him com­
pliments of congratulation on this happy fruit
of his converfion, exhorting him to perfevere
in it3 and profeffed her refolution to imitate his
example, and dedicate the remainder of her
days to the duties of virtue and religion, as a
proof of which ihe propofed to begin by re-
ftoringto her injured daughter as much as pof-
fible of the fortune, which the confidence of
her huiband had left in her power, and ihe had
^nhappily lavifhed in purfuits, to the criminal
nature of which he had opened her eyes.
’ B 5 As
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. " 9
\
,yGoogle
t o C H R Y S A L : OR, T HE
As all that was not cfiflipated beyond re­
covery was what ihe had given to him, and
her reftoring it, therefore, muft depend on his
making a reftitution to her firft, he was not
a moment at a lofs for the drift of this extra­
ordinary inftance of penitence, nor how to treat
the account of it. He immediately returned
her an anfwer, congratulating her in his turn,
with fincerity equal to her own, on her pious
refolutions, the intention of which, he faid,
would make amends for the impoffibility of car­
rying them into execution, any farther than
by dinting herfelf to the indifpenfible neceffa-
ries of life, and laying up the reft of her large
income to fupply the place of the fums ihe had
expended.
Such an anfwer neceflarily drew on an ex­
planation, and of courfe a demand of the feve*-
ral prefents ihe had made him in the courfe of
their dalliance, and knew he had laid up, as
he lived at her expenfe all the time. This was
no more than he expected. He replied, there­
fore, without being in the lead difconcerted,
that he looked upon every thing he had received
from her not as prefents, but payment for the
time he had devoted to attending upon her;
and for that reafon thought it inconfiftent with
that regard for juftice which is infeparable
from true piety, for her to demand fuch a refti­
tution, efpecially as ihe muft be fenfible that
he
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA* n
he could not now make it, without doing
wrong to his wife, who had an undoubted pro­
perty in every thing that belonged to him; and
concluded with defiring that a correfpondence
which might be mifunderftood, and fo difturb
his connubial happinefs, might be dropped be­
tween them.
This fufficiently explained the motives of his
conduit;'and the defpicable fituation which
ihe had brought herfelf to. However, ihe was
obliged to acquiefce with the bed grace ihe
could, without even the poor fatisfaCion of
revenge; for he had taken care to infert in
every paragraph of his letters fuch anecdotes
of the connexion that had been between them,
that it was impoilible for her to ihow them, in
order to expofe him, without expofing herfelf
at the fame time to the contempt and detefta-
tion of the world. From this time, therefore,
all intercourfe beyond that of common civility
was broken off between them; though fome
confequences of their former connexion, which
happened even after her death, make one of
the moil (Iriking parts of his ilory, as ihall be
obferved in the proper place.
The firft eiTays of a man’s difpofition indicate
the rule by which his whole life will be con­
duced. The intereft of the family into which
he had thus ftolen had no fooner raifed him
to fome degree of power, than he afpired to the
B 6 higheft,
,yGoogle
Il
higheft, to attain which he refolved to purfue a
method exaflly in his chara&er, This was to
ingratiate himfelf, he regarded not by what
means, with one of the firft perfonages in the
ftate, whofe intereft he meant to make ufe of,
as long as it could ferve him, and then fly in
his face, to ihow his independence. Nature
had never endowed a man with qualifications
fitter for fuch a purpofe. He was every thing,
to every man. The gay were ftruck with his
wit 5 the grave with his folidity ; while an ap­
pearance of candour and fincerity, that lulled
iufpicion to fleep^ won the confidence of all
with whom he converfed; all which powers of
pleafing were, by a fervility of difpofition de­
rived perhaps from a fervile birth, proftituted
to the humour of thofe whom he defired to
pleafe, however contrary to his own. .
I fee your curiofity at my faying, that the
fervility, o f his difpofition might perhaps be derived
from a fervile birth. You want to have the ori­
gin of the afFeftions of the human foul explain­
ed, whether they are imprinted on it, at its
firft emanation, from the fource of all exiftence,
or received by tradu&ion from the immediate
parents of the body, or only caufed by the ca-
fual operation of external obje&s. But this,
as I have faid in other cafes, is a difficulty that
I am not at liberty to folve, as the queftion is
notvyet determined by the learned \ though
much
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,yGoogle
much Ingenious reafoning has been difplayed
on every fide of It. This only I ihall fay, that
the praftice of mankind feems to contradidt the
fecond of thefe opinions, who ihow no regard
to the difpoiitions of thofe on whom they pro­
pagate their own fpecies, though they trace
back the pedigree of a dog, or an horfe, for
many generations, for fear of any fault in the
breed; the reafon, you may perhaps imagine,
why the brutes bred w ith fuch care arefound fo
much feldomer to degenerate than the offspring o f
the greate/l men. x
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i*
C HA P ^
,yGoogle
*4 CHRYSALi OR, THE
CHAP. III.
Continued. H e praftifes a fuccefsful method fo r
gaining the confidence o f his new Patron, which
he turns to good account. Hifiory o f the lover
who fucceeded him in the good graces o f his late
K e e p e r . H e firives to prevent his taking ad-
vantage o f his infiuence over her; and finding
he fa ils in that, fools him into dijlrefs, which
brings his life in his power. H e fig h ts many
motives, which might have had iveight with otherx,
and takes advantage o f the opportunity to get rid
o f him, and allfu rther trouble about him. H e
continues to dupe him till the laß moment, when
his eyes are opened, all comes out.
S foon as he had infinuated himfelf into
the pleafurable liking of his defigned Pa­
tron, by an unwearied exertion of all his pow­
ers of pleafing, he dirc&ly proceeded, with the
niceft art, to improve that liking into an im­
portant confidence. He watched his every ac­
tion, word, and look, till he difeovered the pe­
culiar turn of his mind, to which he accom­
modated his own fo implicitly, that the very fa­
culties of his foul i'eemed to move only by the
other’s will.
They who are above deceit themfelves fuf-
peil it not in others. That felf-love, which is
infeparable
Digitized by Google
infeparable from humanity, was eafily impofed
upon by fuch art. His Patron liked himfelf in
him; and infenfibly came to think all referve
unneceflary with one, whofe foul appeared^ to be
only the ihadow of his own. This foon gave
him real confequence, as the numbers whom
intereft or inclination attached to his patron
found it neceflary to take the lead from him;
and enabled him to grafp at every opportunity
of engrofling power, and acquiring wealth, to
fupply thofe pleafures which he had quitted
only from neceility, and returned to again the
moment he had the means of obtaining them".
But all this torrent of fuccefs was not able
to divert his attention for a moment from the
fmalleft matter in which his avarice was con­
cerned, as he gave the ftrongeft proof in the
following affair; to explain which I muft look
back to the woman, whofe laviih fondnefs firft
raifed his fortune, as it happened in confequence
of his connexion with her, though fome confi-
derable time after her death.
It is obferved that habitual indulgence conti­
nues the paffions proper to youth after the fire
that firft fupplied them is exhaufted, and the
end for which they were implanted by nature
become impoflible.
Old as this woman was wjien our’ hero de-
ferted her, and to appearance as incapable of
feeling, as railing, defire, ihe had fo long ac-
cuftomed
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 15
,yGoogle
cuftomed herfelf to the gratification of every
fenfual appetite, that (he could not bear to live
without a lover. The difficulty was, how to
fix upon a proper objeCt: for as intereft was her
only attraction, the firft advances mult necefla-
rily come from her;_and then her prodigality
to her lall had put it out of her power to make
it worth the while of fuch another as ihe might
like to fupply his place. Precluded thus from
much delicacy in her choice, neceffity directed
her to one of her own domeiticks, fomething in
whofe circumftances pointed him out more par­
ticularly to her notice.
There is not a more defpicable inftance of
vanity, than being aihamed of the connexions
of nature, becaufe of poverty, when that po­
verty is not the effeCt of vice. A far diftant
female relation had from this vanity bequeathed
to her a very confiderable fortune, to which
this man ihould have been heir, had not the
lownefs of his condition, a motive fufficient to
have influenced a generous heart in his favour,
made her think it would be a difgrace to her to
be fucceeded by him; for which reafon ihe
wantonly deprived him of the inheritance of his
anceftors, to give it to one who did not want
it. Difpirited by fuch unnatural injuftice, for
which the law afforded no redrefs, he was no
longer able to purfue the induftry that had hi­
therto been his fupport; and funk into fuch
diftxefs,
,6 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 17
diftrefs, that his defpair made him at length
throw himfelf at the feet of her who enjoyed
his fpoils, to beg relief.
This happened critically at the time when
her -inclinations for a new lover"began to get
the better of her grief for the lofs of the laft.
Softened by what fhe had herfelf fo lately felt,
file pitied his dillrefs; and as all the tenderer
paffions are allied, that pity was foon warmed
into fuch love as fhe was capable of feeling.
Accordingly, as fhe had taken him into her fa­
mily on his firft application, fhe now entruft-
td him with the management of her affairs, to
give colour for the further intimacy fhe had in
view/ The confequence was natural. He rea­
dily took hints too plain to^ be over-looked ;
and fhe kept up his ajjiduity in her fervice, by
fome prefents in hand, and grants of more,
charged moft of them, indeed, on the inheritance
of his anceftors, which fhe had fettled upon his
predeceifor in her favour after her death, till
when they were not to take place or be difco*
vered, to avoid his reproaches, as well as thofc
of her daughter and her hufband for fuch a re­
petition of her former follies; and becaufe fhe
did not choofe to ftraiten her own circum-*
fiances, by the immediate payment of them.
But thefe wages* of vice, however welcome in
his prefent indigence, proved fatal to him in
the end.
The
,yGoogle
The hero of my tale, who faw the rife o f
this new favourite, and knew from experience
on what it muft be founded, though ihe afFeft-
ed to attribute her notice of him to gratitude to
his relations, and retributory juftice to himfelf,
gave him a genteel and profitable employment
under one of the many which he himfelf en­
joyed in the ftate, profefledly in compliment to
her, but really^to attach him to his own inte­
reft, and prevent his exerting his influence on
her to obtain fuch grants as before-mentioned; .
for the turn of his own mind made him fufpedi
every thing that was poflible; and fuch is the
partiality of man to himfelf, that he who has
been ungrateful to all mankind will yet expedt
gratitude from others.
Proud of this preferment, which raifed his
rank in life, and depending on the profeiSons
of friendflup and promifes which his new friend
liberally made him, he thought proper at her
death not only not to claim her grants for the
prefent, to avoid breaking with him, as he knew
muft be the confequence, but alfo to give up
to him a particular gift, part of his own alien­
ated inheritance, which he had received pub-
lickly from her, as a rewardfo r his fervices, and
truft to his honour for an equivalent return.
But that return, when at length it was made,
was as far from being equivalent as his pro-
mife* were from performance, nothing being
more
if CHRYSALs OK, THE
y G c '
more contrary to his intentions, than to enable
him to fupport his claims to thofe grants of
which he had gotten notice, and judged from
his own heart the reafon of their being conceal­
ed. He continued, therefore, to feed him with
promifes, which led his vanity into expenfe,
and encouraged him to embark in fchemes that
he had not a fund to execute, till he fell into
diftreftes, to extricate himfelf from which he
had recourfe to means that laid his life at the
mercy of this his fuppofed friend.
There are fome crimes, the confequences
of which are fo dangerous, that no puniihment
can be too fevere to deter from them. One of
the worft of thefe is imitating a man’sfignature%
with a defign to deceive. It perpetuates the
violation of truth, undermines the fecurity of
innocence, and breaks that confidence which
is indifpenfibly neceflary to carry on the con­
cerns of life. But, though no circumftance
can, in a legal fenfe* extenuate the heinoufnefs
of this crime, there were fome in this particular
inftance which would have deterred any other
man from the profecution of it: it had been
committed not with an intention of doing in-
juftice to him, or any other, but to remedy for
a time his injuftice, by raifing apparently the
value of the return he had made for the gift of
their common benefa&refs, as 1 have before
obferved, nearer to an equality with it, in
order
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i9
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL* OR, THE
order to procure prefent relief from diftrefs*
of which he had been, in fo many fenfes, the
eaufe.
But all thefe confiderations were of no weight
with him, when put in competition with the?
conveniency of getting rid of one whom he
doubly hated, for being privy to his iniquities,
and interfering with his intereft. He hefitated
not a moment, therefore, to make ufe of an op­
portunity offered beyond his hopes, and facrihce
him, under the fpecious appearance of paying
obedience to the laws.
In this it was neceflary for him to a£t with
the deepeft diflimulation, to accompliih his de-
fign in its full extent. But this was no diffi­
culty to him. He profefied pity for his mis­
fortunes; and, while he corrupted aH in whom
the wretch placed confidence to betray him,,
managed fo as to feem to be compelled by law
to appear againft him, though he might with
the greateft eafe have avoided it, and buried
the whole in filence. Nor did he flop here!
his malice feemed to purfue him even beyond
the grave; for inftead of permitting him to pre­
pare in peace for the approach of fate, he buoyed
him up with the hopes of a pardon, to earn
which the deluded victim fubfcribed to every
thing dictated to him to blacken his own cha-
ra&er, and make void the grants which he had
purchafed at fo dear a rate* and in this infa­
tuation
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 21
tuation he was kept to the laft moment, to
prevent his recanting; for which purpofe, his
neareft friends, and all who might have unde­
ceived him, and adminiftered comfort to his
diftrefs in the hour of anguiih, were barred ad­
mittance to him.
But his eyes were opened on the verge of
life, and in that aweful moment when truth
only is fpok^n, he revoked every thing he had
been thus drawn in to fay, and afTerted the
validity of the claims which were the caufe of
his ruin, fo that the whole fcheme, laboured
with fuch deep damnation to deceive the world,
was defeated.
I fee the horrour with which you are affected
at fuch a fcene; and (hall therefore clofe it with
obferving, that though he was permitted to
perpetrate his crimes, divine juftice prevented
his reaping the fruits he propofed from them;
as, befide the immediate price of his blood, it
coft him more than he earned by this com­
plicated guilt, to flop the cries of the widow
and orphan, and bribe venal defamation to
filence, when it was too late, and the myftery
of his wickedncfs was made known to the
world.
C H A P ,
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
%%
C H A P . IY.
Continued. A view o f bis political character in­
troduces a maxim not fufficiently attended to.
H efa ils in a greatJlroke, and makes fo many
wrong ones, that he is kicked out o f power9
andforced to be content w ith profit, which he
purfues through thick and thin. A n unhappy
event gives him an opportunity o f Jhowing his
ingratitude to his late Patron, on the merit o f
which be rifes to higher power than ever,
, which he wifely exerts behind the curtain, and
leaves His tools to bear the blame. A n ac­
count o f the ju fi fr u its o f fo much fuccefs con­
cludes his hiftory.
Y O U have hitherto feen him only in
private life. Iwill now give you a glimpfc
of his political chara&er, which will convince
you of a truth, for obvious reafons not fuffici­
ently attended to, which is, that the ruling
principles of the heart influence the ailions in
all capacities; and therefore that it is impoftible
fo r a bad man to be a good minifter.
The power to which the confidence of his
Patron raifed him was fuch as might have en­
abled him to effeft either much good, ot evil, ,
had he known how to have ufed it to the belt
advantage.
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *3
advantage. But his eagernefs in the purfuit
of his own views put him off his ufual guard,
and difcovered his principles before it was too
late to oppofe them.
The moft exalted minds are not exempted
from human weakneffes. That of his Patron
waya thirft of power, though without a thought
of ufing it in any improper manner. Some
late fervices, of the higheft importance, which
he had performed to the ftate, fuggefted to our
hero a fcheme for rivetting his intereft with him
ftill ftronger, by procuring him a power which he
knew would centre really in himfelf. Accord­
ingly, he exerted all his abilities and influence
to wreft from the Sovereign an effential part of
the incommunicable power of the crown, and
veil it in him.
Such an attempt inflantly gave the alarm to
every real friend, not only of the government,
but alfo of him in whofe favour it was profef-
fed to be made; who, though they harboured
no fear of him, did not dare to offer fuch an
affront to their Sovereign, and give a wound to
the political conftitution of their country which
might be of moft dangerous confequence in lefs
fafe hands. Thedefign therefore was defeated ;
and, inftead of ferving his Patron, only inftilled
doubt§. of him into thefe who were not ac­
' quainted with the uprightnefs of his heart.
Though the intereft of his Patron continued
to
,yGoogle
CHRYSALs OR, THE
*4-
to fupport him fora confiderable time after this,
his whole conduit was fuch a feries of blunders
(many of them fo grofs, that it was doing vio­
lence to probability to impute them to igno­
rance) that at length the voice o f the people was
raifedagainji him> and he was obliged to give up
all pretenfions to power, and fit down with an
employment of great, but mere profit, which
all his own follicitations, though urged with the
abjeit importunity of a common beggar, even
to fhedding tears, and imploring compaffion for
his wife and family, all he had hitherto acquired
having been fquandered, as faft as it came, on
his pleafures, would not have procured for him,
had not his Patron fanguinely efpoufed his in­
tereft, even to the injury of his own, though
on adifcovery of his principles and private cha­
racter, now too notorious to pc concealed, he
rejected him from his efteem, and refufed to gitfe
any further countenance to his ambition.
From this time he applied every power of his
foul to amafs wealth, which he had too many
opportunities of doing in his prefent employ­
ment, the moil iniquitous of which he never
failed to-improve to ftill greater iniquity, re-
gardlefs of publick reproach, and the diftrefs of
myriads, fuffering under his injuftice, whofe
cries and imprecations afeended hourly to hea­
ven againft him.
Riches givq confequence, eipecially with
thofe who facrifice every thing to luxury.
' * Though
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *5
Though he had no publick power, his perfonal
influence over individuals in a iliort time became
greater than ever, as he too foon had an oppor­
tunity of proving.
One of thofe events, which ihow the vanity
of all human defigns, however wifely conduced,
and glorious in their end, threw the govern­
ment intoother hands. New men always adopt
new Ineafures, if only from an affectation of
appearing wifer than their prcdeceflors. In
this change his late Patron loft all influence,
except that which virtue ejlablijhes in the hearts o f
the virtuous. This was an opportunity for
ihaking off* the weight of obligation not to be
miffed by one of our Hero’s, turn. He not
only deferted him direCtly in the bafeft manner,
but alfo, to ingratiate himfelf with the prefent
powers, fathered upon him the fi&ions of his
own brain, under the appearance of betraying
his fecrets, and made a merit of aggravating
his ingratitude and perfidy by open infults, in
hope of provoking him to fome unguarded a£t
or expreflion of refentment, which might give
advantage againft him, by the common trick o f
applying to the majler what is meant to the fervant•
But for once all his art failed. Confident in
confcious innocence and merit, he difdained to
'give weight to fuch bafe machinations by ta­
king notice of them ; and receiving this ingra­
titude as a punifhment for having placed his
Vol. IV, t C efteem
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,t6
efteem fo unworthily, looked down upon him
with indignant contempt, nor was ever heard
to honour his name with utterance.
Such a proof of his fincerity gained our Hero
the confidence of his new friends, to whofe
tottering power his perfonal intereft was found
a neceflary fupport. But he lent not that
fupport but on his own terms. Cooled by
experience, he had learned that the name of
power is always purfued by envy and am­
bition. He, therefore, wifely gratified the va­
nity of others with the dangerous fhadow, while
he referved the fubftance to himfelf, dictating
in fafety, becaufe in fecret, all the meafures, for
any miftake in which they were anfwerable.
In this fituation you fee him now. But fuch
a feries of fuccefs has been far from procuring
him the happinefs propofed in the purfuit.
Recolle&ion of the means imbitters the end.
The ingratitude and perfidy of one, whom he
had placed his whole confidence in, and bound
to him by the higheft obligations, upbraid him
continually with his own bafenefs to his Patron,
and make him afraid to place truft in any other $
fo that he lives in a ftate of conftant fufpicion
and dread of all mankind, deftitute of that
friendly confidence which is the cement of
fociety, the comfort and fupport of life.
Nor is this the only wound that rankles in
his breaft! The unhappy vidtim of his avarice,
mur-
,yGoogle
murthered under the formalities of law, is never
abfent from his thoughts a moment. Conjured
up by confcience, his fpeCtre haunts his dreams.
Hefees him in the dark. He hears him in the
deepejiftlence. Nor can the loud laugh of mirth
and riot drown his louder voice in the midft of
company. Hence that gloom which you fee
hang upon his brow; that confcioufnefs of
guilt, which gives a call of horrour to his very
fmiles.
Conlider now, the ftory of this man ^and own
with reverence and awe, that vice never wants an
avenger; that wickednefs is its own punijbment.
Who would not rather be the apparent wretch,
that wanders homelefs through the world, fed
by the cold hand of common charity, than he,
with all his honours, power, and wealth !
The characters of the reft, except him who
had been my mafter’s competitor for admiffion
into the fuperior order of the fociety, are not *
diftinguiihed by any thing to make them worth
difplaying ! I ihall, therefore, leave them in the
obfcurity they deferve; as I ihall referve his for
another place, where fome new occurrences will
ihow it in aftronger light.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. iy
C i C H A P .
,yGoogle
C H R Y SA L i OR, THE
sS
C H A P . V.
C h r y s a l leaves the convent. H is majler pro-
cuds in character. H e pra¿fifes a new manner
o f courtjhip \ and ftgnalifes his talents fo r in ­
trigue, by debauching the daughter o f his frien d .
H er dijlrcfs, when too late, gives him fomeflight
qualms o f confcience \ but he foon recovers, and
goes on in his enterprife•
I
T was my fortune to leave this place, in the
pofleflion of the fame perfon who had brought
me to it. The moment the meeting broke up,
he flew to reduce into pra&ice fome part of the
theory which had been fo well difcufled among
them. A perfon of diftinguifhed learning and
virtue, who had taken great pains, though to
little purpofe, with fome part of the education
of his youth, had obferved of late, that he feemed
*to pay him particular refpeft, and was more
frequent than ufual in his vifits at his houfe,
where he behaved with a moral decency, very
different from his general chara&er.
The good man faw this with real pleafure,
and attributing it to the influence of his own
converfation, as vanity will find its way into
the bcft hearts, gave him-all the encourage­
ment he could to come, in hopes of working a
thorough reformation in him. But he was de­
ceived
,yGoogle
ceived in that hope ; and found, when too late,
that he had cheriihed a viper in his bofom, to
Ring his heart.
Eufebius (that was this perfon’s name) had
an only daughter, on whofe education he had
exerted the tendercft care. She was now in
that dangerous time of life, when ripened youth
has given all the paillons their full force, and
reafon not yet acquired ftrength to rule them.
This danger, though, feemed lefs threatening to
her than it is to moft ofthefex, nature, which
had been moft liberal to her mind, having de­
nied thofe charms of face which too often prove
a fnare to the poffeffor ; and the precepts of her
father trained her in fuch principles of wifdom
and virtue, as feemed a fufficient guard. .
Such circumftances, exclufive of the obliga­
tions of honour not to infringe the laws of hôf-
pitality (I add not virtue, for that has long loft
all obligation in matters of this kind) would
have prevented any other man from thinking of
attempting her ; but the pleafure of feducing
innocence fupplied every defect of beauty ; and
the difficulty of fuch a conqueft doubled his ar­
dour in thepurfuit; as the triumph would
,eftabli{h the fame of his gallantry, which had
never yet afpired beyond a fervant wench ; be-
fide, that the age and profeffion of her father fe-
cured him from the danger of perfonal refent-
ment. Encouraged by all thcfe equally power-
c 3 ful
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEAi t 9
,yGoogle
30
ful motives, the moment he faw her, he marked
her out for the proof of his talents for intrigue;
how to begin his attack though, fo as to dude
her father’s vigilance, without alarming her
virtue, was the queftion.
But he was not long at a lofs. Difficulties,
which appear unfurmountable to wifdom, are
eafily conquered by cunning (and with this he
was plentifully ftored) becaufe it will make ufe
of means, which the other holds in abhorrence.
In purfuance, therefore, of a plan, which he foon
formed, he cultivated the acquaintance of E u -
febius with the greateft affiduity, and, in all his
vifits to his houfe, turned his converfation en­
tirely upon points of fpeculative knowledge, in
which he profefled the moft earneft defire of in­
formation, Eufebius took the bait. As thefe
were the ufual topicksof difcourfe between him
and his daughter, he was pleafed at her being
prefent whenever my mafter was with him,
both for her information, and to giveher an op­
portunity of difplaying the advantages fhe had
received from his care; for which purpofe, he
often led her and my mafter into arguments,
to which he liftened with the higheft delight,
as ihe always had the better in them. Nor wa*
ihe lefs pleafed on fuch occafions than her fa­
ther. The modeft deference which my maf­
ter conftantly paid to her judgement was fo
flattering to her confcioufnefs of fuperiority,
that
CMRYSAL: OR, THE
,yGoogle
that fbe foon became fond of his company ; at
the fame time, that the artfulnefs of his addrefs
to her, for he never fhowed any other notice of
her fex, than by a moft guarded delicacy in his
expreflions, deceived the watchful care of E u -
febius fo effeftually, that he never fcrupled to
leave his two pupils (as he fondly aiFe&ed to
call them) alone together, when any bufinefs
demanded his attendance elfewhere.
As this was what my matter had all along
aimed at, it may be fuppofed he did not negledt
to improve opportunities fo favourable to his
wiihes. He always turned his converfation di-
re&ly to fuch fubjecls as were moft likely to
inflame the paflions, on the gratification of
which he expatiated with a particular warmth
and luxuriancy of imagination, but in terms fo
well wrapped up, as to conceal the poifon they
conveyed. The effe& foon anfwered his de-
Cgn. Subjects, propofed merely as points of
/peculation, gave her no alarnt. And when
fuch thoughts are once fuggefted, nature will
lead them to her own ends. Her paflions had
been fmothered, not extinguiihed ; and were
the readier to take fire, for fuch reftraint. She
heard him, therefore, with pleafure, and did
infenfibly into danger, the dire£t mentien of
which would have ftruck her with horrour.
Matters were in this critical fituation, wh^a
b e returned from the fociety. The moment he
C 4 alighted*
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 31
,yGoogle
3» CHRYSAL: OR, THE
alighted, heflew to the houfe of Eufebius, who un­
happily was not at home. The converfation foon
fell into its latecourfe. There are fome moments
in which nature will bear down all oppofition*
Though ihe had indulged herfelf in talking on
fuch fubje&s, (he meant nothing more. But he
was too well verfed in the pra&ice to let her flop
at the theory; and one unguarded minute mur-
thered the peace of her future life, and blafted
the fruits of all her father’s care.
It is impoflible to defcribe what (he felt, when-
paflion gave place to reafon, and fhe became fen-*
fibleofwhat had pafled. Even he, hacknied as he
was in theways of wickednefs, could not ftand it.
He left her precipitately, and for the firft time felt
fomething like remorfe. But thtfe qualms lafted
not long. His dtfires were rather raifed than
fatisfied ; befides, that to have flopped herejwith-r
out making his fuccefs publick, would havedif-
appointed perhaps the principal pleafure hehad in
view. He refdlved, therefore, to feduce her from
her father’s houfe, that all the world might be
witnefles of his triumph.
For this purpefe he went to her the next morn­
ing, ata time when he knew Eufebius was ufually
engaged abroad. On enquiring for her, he was
answered that ihe was not well; and was turning,
about to go away,when her maid, who, from her
own experience had fufpedled fomething of the
caufeof her miftrefs’s illnefs, oiHcioufly ran to
him, and told him ihe was in her drefling-room.
' C H A P .
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 33
C H A P . VI.
Continued. C hrysal’j mafter makes his tri»
umph publick, by feducing his new miftrefs away
from her father's houfe. The manner in which>
he impofed upon them both to effeft this \ w ith»
the confolation he gave her fo r fome natural con*
fequences o f his gallantry. H is triumph is com-
pleted by her going upon the towny and her f a «-
ther's breaking his heart.
HI S intimacy in the family giving him &
title to vifit her there, he went direfUy
up, where he found her in a condition that
once more ihook his refolution, and made him
almoft forry for what he had done. She fat the
image of defpair ! ileep had never clofed her
eyes ! {he had not changed the difordered drefe
of the day before ; and her face was fo fwoUen
with inceflant weeping, that he could hardly
believe it was (he.
Her maid withdrawing conveniently, as fboi*
as he entered, he threw himfelf at her feet hip
all thé trick of woe, and imploring her pardon,,
lamented What had pafTed (for which he impre­
cated Heaven's vengeance on his own head) ii*
fuch paflionate terms, as* amid all her grief*
alarmed her fear of his being overheard, for hi­
therto the fecret was their owiu
% C s T he
,yGoogle
34 CHRYSALî OR, THE
The firfi hint of this cured him of his peni­
tence, and fuggefted to him how to proceed.
He perfiiled in all the extravagance of grief;
and adled his part fo well, that, forgetting her
own diftrefs for a moment, ihe was infenfibly
led to adminifter confolation to him. This
was what he wanted ! he at length feemed to be
comforted by her arguments, which he gradu­
ally improved fo far as to glance at her conti­
nuance of the guilty commerce, which he pref-
fed for by the moll rapturous profelfions of love,
and the ftrongeft vows of an unalterable con­
stancy and truth.
This was an attack which ihe was no way
prepared for! her heart was foftened by grief;
and fhame for what was palTed precluded her
arguments againft a repetition. She hefitated
however, filenced not convinced, till the voice
of her father turned the fcale. 4
4O ! fave me
44 from his fight !** (exclaimed ihe, wringing
her hands.) 4
4 Save me from his fight! 1*11go to
4
4 death, to any thing rather than meet his
tc eye.” -----
4
4Norihall you meet it.** (Anfwered my matter
clafping her in his arms, and killing away the
tears that trickled down her cheek.) 4
4 1*11 go
4
4 thisinttant; and take him home with me as
4
4 upon bufinefs, where 1*11 find means to
4
4 detain him, while you pack up fome imme-
4
4 diate neceflaries, and prepare to meet my
fa ith fu l^
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 35
cc fa ith fu l valet de chambre, who fhall wait with
4
< a coach at the end of the next ftreet,' and
€t conduct you to my cotlntry-houfe, whither
4
4 1*11follow you on the wings of Jove, and
4
4 droun every difagreeable thought in rap-
4
4 tore.”
He did nor give her time to anfwer, but rufh-
ed direilly out of the room, and meeting her
ready maid at the door, took his cue from her,
who told him ihe had excufed her miftrefs’s ab-
fenee from fupper the night before, on a pre-
tenceofher being engaged in reading, as ihe faid
in the morning, that ihe had fat up fo late, ihe
could not rife to breakfaft.
Satisfied with thefe excufes, becaufe he fuf-
pedled nothing elfe, E u feliu s, on hearing my
mailer was above, was coming up to pay his
compliments to him, when he met him at the
bottom of the flairs. 4
4 I muft give up arguing
4
4 with one,” (faid my mailer fmiJing as he
went forward into the parlour, whither he
knew Eufebius would neceflarily attend him)
44 who fits up fludying all night. She has turn-
4
4 cd me out on a pretence of dreili^g; but I
4
4 know it is to go back to the book at which I
** caught her; fothat.I fhall make but a poor
4
< figure in the evening if you don’t help me out.
4
4 However, I’ll try! I am not afhamed to
*€ yield to her! But, come! I called fo early
4
4 to beg your company at my houfc, where I
C 6 hiive
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
36
c< have fomething that will pleafe you to con­
M fult you upon. I (han’t keep you long, as
,c I am obliged to goeut before dinner.”
T o this Eufebius readily aflented ; and my"
mailer, putting his hand under his arm, led him
away, proud of fuch familiarity with a perfori
of his rank, as unfufpedling as a vidlim to the
altar. As foon as he got home, he gave the
neceflary inftruftions to his trufty valet de chambre,
and then returning to Eufebius, amufed him
with imaginary fchemes of reformation and
ceconomy in his family, and improvements irt
his houfe, till the return of his emiflary let him
know all was over. He then difmifTed Eufebius
with a fmileof triumph, who went home, hap­
py in his mind at the prudence and virtue of his
converfation, the effedls, as he fondly imagined,
of his own care and example; the lad time his
mind ever knew happinefs.
The moment he was gone, my mailer hailed
after the deluded fugitive, whom he overtook
juft as (he alighted at his houfe, the fervants of
which were too well accuftomed to fuch things,
to be furprifed at the fight of a new face.
The manner of their meeting may be eafily
conceived. On his fide, all was joy and tri­
umph; on her’s, guilty confufion, (hame, and
fear. However, repetition, though the high­
eft aggravation of a crime, is yet lefs terrifying
than the firft commifiion; befides, (he had now
gone too far to (lop at any thing,
. Three
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. n
Three days he ftaid with her, every moment
of which was imbittered to her by reflexion,
and feemed tedious to him from fatiety and im­
patience to make his triumph known; and
then left her on a pretence of bufinefs, with
vows of immediate return, and, going back to
London, repaired diredy to the tavern, where
he had by letter appointed to meet all his aflo-
ciates, to whom he related the whole af­
fair in fuch terms of exultation, as raifed their
envy, not fo much at his pofleffion of her, as
the glory of fuch a triumph.
I fee your anxiety to know the fate of the
unhappy Eufebius^ and his more unhappy daugh­
ter. Though I faw them no more myfelf, I
had too many opportunities of hearing their
ilory, the fum of which is this :— Eufebius, on
his return home from my matter, found a note
from his daughter, bidding him farewell for ever*
and defiring he would not take the trouble of
making any enquiry after her, as (he was un­
worthy of his care. The diftraCion evident
in the ftyle and purport of this note too
plainly ihowed her ruin. This was an attack his
heart was not proof againft. He funk down in*
ftantly in a fwoon, in which he efcaped fome
hours of mifery before he recovered his fenfes.
The firft exertion of his reafon was to make
enquiry after his daughter, but no one could
give him any information, her maid who con­
duced
,yGoogle
3* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
dudted having accompanied her flight. He then
flew to his friend, my matter, for council and
afflftance; for the goodnefs of his own heart
would neither let him fufpedl him, nor defert
her in the ruin into which ihe had fallen;
but he was told at his houfe, that a certain
Nobleman of his acquaintance had called upon
him, the moment he left him, and taken him
into the country for a few days. Every en­
quiry he could make after his daughter was e­
qually unfuccefsful, till my matter’s exultation
made the whole affair publick. This, ifpofii-
ble, gave frefh poignancy to his grief. He did
not, however, defert the wretched vi<Sim of fuch.
villainy, but wrote to her diredlly to return to
him, and hide her ihame from the world in his
bofom ; but defpair made her rejedl his offer.
As for her, a few days, in which my matter
left her to the comfort of her own reflexions,
difcovered to her that his love had been injuri­
ous to her health, as well as to her peace of
mind. What (he felt at this difcovery may
cafily be conceived. She wrote to him in the
. agony of her foul, to reproach fuch manifold
bafenefs ; but, inftead of an anfwer of excufe or
confolation, received only a quack doctor's ad-
vertifement, and a bank-note for a trifling fum,
enclofed in a blank cover. The fame poft
brought her father’s offer of forgivenefs and
reception. The contrail was more than ihe
could
,yGoogle
could bear. She hurried back to town, where
defpair prompting her to revenge her folly on
herfelf by ftill deeper ruin, (he plunged into all
the horrours of alife of common proftitution.
This filled the meafure of her father’s woe.
He had no redrefs to expeft in this world ; and,
therefore, refigning the puniihment of his
wrongs to the great Avenger, indulged his grief
in filence, till in a few months it brought his*
grey hairs to the grave. -
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. &
C H A P »
,yGoogle
CHR YS AL: OR, T HE
4*
C H A P . VII.
44 C h r y s a l ’ j majier pays his court to a great per-
44 fan, who feems not much to relijh his humour%
44 exprejjes fome unfajhionahlt fentiments con -
44 cerning polite pleafu res. In the courfe o f a
44 regular progreffton C HR YsA L comes into the
44 P°Jfe
Jfton ° f a B w u ” Hijlory o f a Beau, w ith
a journal o f his manner o f life fo r one day.
C h r y s a l changes his fervice, in a common way,
that o f a L a dy of F a s h io n .
4
4 ^ p H E next morning after m y mailer’s
4
4 A return to London, he went to pay his
4
4 court to the Heir of the Crown, who was
4
4 then at one of his country feats. Some
4
4 publick occafion had brought a concourfe
4
4 more than ufual in thofe retirements, to pay
4
4 their duty to the Prince, that morning. As
4
4 my mailer was one of the laft who came, as
4
4 foon as his devoirs were ended, fome of the
4
4 company accidentally aiked him what had
4
4 kept him fo late; on which, with an eafy
4
4 air of pleafantry, he anfwered aloud, that ho
4
4 had been detained by a very whimfical affair t
4
4 A certain nobleman (faid hej went into
4
4 company laft night fo immenfely drunk, that
4
4 having fat down to play, and loft five thou-
44 fand pounds, he quite forgot it this morn-
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. 4*
4
4 ing, and refufed to pay the money, till fome
4
4 pzrfon o f honour, who was unconcerned in the
4
4 matter, ftiould vouch his having loft it fairly;
4
4 on which it was-referred to me, and forry I
4
4 am that I was qualified to give it againft
4
4 him.”
4
4 How, my Lord ! by being a perfon of ho-
4
4 nour!” (fays the gentleman hefpoke to.)—
4
4 No! (replied my mafter, with a fignificaot
4
4 fmile) not fo neither! but by being uncon-
4
4 cerned in winning it.” — And then turning
(hort to another, 4
4 But, have you heard the
4
4 news, my Lord ? (faid he.) Mr. — — caught
4
4 his wife yefterday, taking a ferious walk in
44 Kenfington Gardens, with the gentleman whom
4
4 we all know he forbade her keeping company
4
4 with fome time ago.” —
4
4 A fmile of general approbation encouraged
4
4 himfo much, that he concluded with faying,
4
4 he wiflied he had himfelf been the happy de-
4
4 linquent fo taken, as he doubted not but the
4
4 graveft biihop on the bench would, were he
4
6 to fpeak his mind honeftly.”
4
4 The Prince had heard himwithout interrup-
4
C tion; but, as foon as he had ended, turning to
4
4 a nobleman who ftood near him, There can
4
4 be no greater infult (faid he, with a deter- 4
4
4 mined look, and folemn accent) to a perfon,'
4
4 who is appointed to put the laws of a country
4
4 in execution, than for any one to boaft of
4
4 a breach
,yGoogle
4 * CHRYSALs OR, THE
4
4 a breach of thofe laws in his prefence. F a r
44 my part, i f I am ever called by Providence to
44 that Jlation, it is my invariable resolution, that
44 no man, how exaltedfoever in rank, who lives in
44 open violation o f any law, human or divine, /halt
44 hold employment under me, receive coun-
41 tenancefrom m e ”
4
4 This rebuke damped my mailer’s fpirits,
4
4 as it {truck a reverential awe into all prefent.
4
< He hung down his head; and in a few mi~
4
4 nutes withdrew quite abaihed. But he foon
4
4 recovered; and, to filence the jefts of his
4
4 companions, and fhow that he was not to be
4
4 brow-beaten out of his own way, he made
4
4 one with them to fpend the evening at a
4
4 brothel tavern, where he gave me to a pimp*
4
4 who gave me to a whore, who gave me to a
4
4 bully, who gave me to a pawn-broker, who
4
4 gave me to a beau.” Vol. II.— Page 98.*
My new matter was one of thofe cyphers in
nature, who feem born only to make up the
number of mankind. The poor pittance, which
pride of family fpares from the eldett fon to fave
the reft from ftarving, had been juft enough to
purchafe him a commiflion in the guards, in
-which he fignalized his prowefs on the parade*
and talked as big, and looked as bluff as the
beft,
* A
s th
isc
o
n
c
lu
iio
nof th
e fo
re
g
o
in
g c
h
a
r
a
&
e
r isfo
fh
o
r
t, it isin
ie
r
te
d top
r
e
fe
r
v
eth
e c
o
n
n
e
x
io
n
, a
n
dfa
ve
th
er
e
a
d
e
rth
etr
o
u
b
leofr
e
fe
r
r
in
g
.
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 4}
beft, while his campaigns were confined to S t.
James’s Park, but the profpedl of a war changed
his note. The irregularities and licentioufnefs
of a military life now (hocked his delicacy, and
he exchanged for half-pay ; and, retaining only
the convenient title of captain, refolved to puih
his fortune in the gentler way of matrimony.
For this purpofe, he dire&ly commenced beau%
as the fair fex is fooneft caught by the eye, and,
when that is pleafed, feldom enquires farther.
Accordingly, he now ftudied nothing but fa-
ihions, as all his care was to procure clothes to
keep up to them, which the narrownefs of hi$
circumftances made fo difficult for him to do,
that his belly mourned many a time for the
finery of his back. Nor was that his only diffi­
culty. The very expenfe of going into com­
pany to difplay that finery was often as diftref-
fing to him as to procure it.
It was on an occafion of this kind, that I
came into his poileffion. His fhowy appearance,
together with his being one whom every body knetvy
making him a convenientfaggot to fill up thofe
mujiers, the only end of which is to fliow the
confequence of the commanding officer^ by the
numbers (he can croud together, there was
hardly a genteel route in town to which he was
not invited. Such a diftin&ion was the height
of his ambition; accordingly, having received a
card to fummon him to one the next evening,
he
,yGoogle
44 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
he was not able to refill the temptation of fo fa­
vourable an opportunity of ihowing himfelf to
the ladies, though his finances were fo low, that
he had no other way to defray the expenfe of
his chair, but by applying to fuch a place as
this, where dlftrefs is preyed upon by profejjion, and
really aggravated under the deceitful appearance c f
momentary relief— an expedient, indeed, to which
he was well accuftomed. As foon as it was
dark, therefore, he came wrapped up in a horfe-
man’s coat, and pulling a laced waiftcoat out of
his bofom, mortgaged it for three guineas, one
o f which I w as.
When this weighty tranfaftion was concluded,
he returned home, and, changing his drefs, re­
paired to a coffee-houfe .at the court-end of the
town, where he talked over the news of the
day, with all the fignificant airs and importance
of one in the fecret^ confirming every word he faid
with the authority of his couftn, this lord, or his
frien d that duke, till he carelejly out-Jlayed all his
engagements fo r fupper, when a W elch-rabbit and
three-penny-worth of punch made him amends
for the want of a dinner, and he went home fa-
tisfied.
W ell, as I was by this time acquainted with
the inconfiftencies of human life, 1 could not
help being (truck with the Contradidlion between
the external appearance and domeilick ceco-
norny of my new"mailer. The former was in
all
,yGoogle
all the elegance of tafte and affluence, while
the latter was regulated by the ftri&cft parfi-.
mony that nature could fupport. He lodged in
a houfe, which opened into a genteel ftreet,
and had a back door into a blind alley, that
ferved him whenever he chofe to go out or
come in incog. Here, one room up three-pair-
of-ftairs (but the name of the ftreet over-ba­
lanced that, and every other inconvenience)
ferved him for every purpofe of life, in moft of
which he miniftered to himfelf, undifturbed by '
the company of any one, but his hair-drefler,
laundrefs, and tailor, at their appointed times.
T o all others he was conftantly denied by the
people of the houfe, who received all meffages
for him, and returned proper anfwers. But
the manner of his life will be beft deferibed by
the hiftory of the one day I was in his poffef-
fion, the buftnefs of every day being invariably
the fame.
As he had fat up late, it was near noon when
he arofe, by which genteel indulgence he faved
coals, for his fire was never lighted till after he
was up. He then fallied out to breakfaß in a
tarniihed laced frock, and his thick-foied fhoes,
read the papers in the coftee-houfe ( too foon after
hreakfaft to take any thing) and then walked a
turn in the Park, till it was time to drefs for
dinner, when he went home, and finding his
ilomach out of orderfrom his laß night's debauch*
and
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA 45
,yGoogle
4* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
and his late breakfajling, he fent the maid of the
houfe for a bafon of pea-foup from the cook’s
ihop tofettle it, by the time he had taken which,
it was too late for him to think of going any
where to dine, though he had feveral appointments
w ith people of thefirjl fajhion. When this frugal
meal was over, he fet about the real bufinefs of
the day. He took out and bruihed his beft
clothes, fet his ihirt to the fire to air, put on
his dockings and {hoes, and then fitting down
to his toilet, on which his waihes, paints, tooth-
powders, and lip-falves were all placed in order,
had juft finiihed his face, when hr$ hair-dreiler
came, one hour under whofe hands completed
him a firft rate beau.
When he had contemplated himfelf for fome
time with pride of heart, and prafiifed his looks
and geftures at the glafs, a chair was called,
which carried him to a feene of equal magni­
ficence and confufion. From the brilliant ap­
pearance of the company, and the eafe, and felf-
complacency in all their looks, it ihould have
feemed that there was not one poor or unhappy
perfon among them. But the cafe of my matter
had convinced me what little faith is to be given
to appearances, as I alfo found, upon a nearer
view, that many of the gayeft there were in no
better a condition than he.
Having reconnoitred one another fufficient-
ly to lay in a fund for remarks, and bandied
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *7
about the common cant of compliments, the
company fat down to cards, when the look*
of many of them foon underwent a change.
Fot prudential reafons my matter always declined
engaging in parties of this nature, but this night
all his addrefs could not excufe him. A lady,
whom he had drejfed at for a confiderable time,
happening to come late, unluckily wanted one,
and feeing him idle wou!d take no apology.
He complied, therefore, with the beft grace
he could, and invoking fortune with more fer­
vency than he had ever prayed to heaven, cut in ;
when chancing to fa ll againjl her9 her fuperiour
luck, or fkill, aided not a little by his anxiety,
foon ftripped him of every Ihilling in his pocket,
and fent him home in a penfive mood, to ftudy
ways and means for railing another fupply; and
on this occafion I followed the fmiles of fortune,
and entered into the fervice of the winner.
C H A P .
,yGoogle
4 * C H R Y S A L s OR, T HE
C H A P . VIII.
H ijlory o f C h r y s a l ’j new mijirefs. She is
brought into di/lrefs by her beauty, from which
a lucky' interview relieves her. The danger o f
arguing in favou r o f inclination againjl reafon.
H er frien d puts her to fchcoly to learn manners,
end aftaw ards marries her. H is fam ily Jhow
impotent refentment, at which he is fo enraged*
that he makes his w ill, by which he leaves her his
whole fortu n e; and then dies. An uncommon
infance of the good-nature o f the w orld.
T HOUGH my late mailer had put the beft
face he could upon the matter, and ex-
cufed his breaking up the party at the end of the
firft rubber, on a pretence of being taken fud-
denly fick, my miftrefs faw through him.
4
4 Sick indeed! (faid ihe, laughing) ha! ha!
4
4 ha ! poor captain ! I do not doubt but you
4
4 are, and that at heart! I faw it coming upon
4
4 you, ever fince the firft deal, when I held
4
4fou r by honours! but I don’t wonder at it.
4
4 A full rubber was too much. Two guineas
44,and an half are no trifle to fome people!”—
T wo or three other vifits which ihe had to
pay that evening prevented her making a new
party, (he only flayed to tell the ftory of the
captain’s ficknefs to every one ihe knew in
, the
j
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 49
\
the room, who all joined in the l^ugh againft
him.
I fee you are (hocked at fuch an mftartce of
infenfibility; but, if you will reflect a moment,
you will find you have no reafon. Though
poverty is attended with many real evils, yet,
when the word of them are voluntarily en­
countered to gratify vanity, the pity, otherwife
due to it, is juftly turned into contempt; and
the efforts ufed to hide it, which are always
feen through, treated with ridicule and infult.
The morning after I came into the pofleilion
of my new miftrefs, (he brought to conclufion
an affair of a moft extraordinary nature, which
few women befide herfelf would have had fpirit
even to undertake. To explain it properly to
you, it will be neceffary to give you a ihort
(ketch of her ftory.
The gifts of nature are,either a bleffing, or
a curfe, according to the ufe made of them.
My miftrefs was born in one of the lowed
claffes of mankind; the obfcurity of her birth,
though, Teemed to be made amends for, by the
endowments of her perfon and mind, which
were fuch as raifed univerfal admiration, from
their firft infant dawn. But thefe, tempting
the licentious fpoiler, like the beauty of a flower
growing in the high-way, loft their advantage,
and proved her ruin for want of proper care.
She had fcarce palled her childhood, when
one of thofe female purveyors for vice, who
V o h , I V . D go
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
C H R Y S A L : OR, T HE
So
go about, like their mafter, feeking whom they
may deftroy, to the difgrace not only of their
own fex, but alfo of human nature, marked her
out as proper for her purpofe. There was no
difficulty, either in getting her into her power,
or feducing her mind. The poverty of her
parents made them glad to part with her, with­
out further enquiry, to any one who pro-
mifed to take care of her, only to be delivered
from the expenfe of her fupport, as it had pre­
vented their giving her the lead education to
fornix her manners, or infpire her mind with
principles of virtue. Such a fubje&,was ex-
a£tly fuited for fo vile an agent to work upon.
She took her home; drefled her up decently,
and, teaching her what account to give of herfelf,
prodituted her, while fhe could make any profit
of her, and then turned her adrift upon the
world, to liveas well as ihe could on the earnings
of fin and wretchednefs.
I mult not attempt to defcribe the life of a
common proditute! it is too horrible! She had
run through the lowed fcenes of it for fome time,
when fortune one night threw into her way
one of thofe old debilitated debauchees, who
indulge in the fpeculation after they are pad
the pra&ice of vice. Something in her air and
manner, as ihe picked him up9 druck him. He
took her to a tavern, where he was dill more
pleafed with her uncommon fmartnefs and vi­
vacity.
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 5*
vacity. 4
4 I am cloyed (faid he, to himfelf)
4
4 with the grofs ignorance of the women of the
4
4 town! I hate the impertinent airs of virtue,
4
4 which thofe of better education give them-
4
4 felves! I'll therefore unite thofe qualifica-
4
4 tions, which feparately pleafe me in both, in
4
4 this young creature, who can never ofiend
4
4 me by pretences to virtue, at the lame time
4
4 that the excellence of her underftanding will
4
4 receive, and reward me with the fruits of
4
4 the beft education.” ------
There was novelty in the whim; and, there­
fore, he refolved to carry it into execution. He
took her home with him, and, fending for the
moft eminent matters in every part of polite
education, put her under their care, and in­
cited their application by mott liberal promifes
of reward.
Young as fhe was, and hackneyed in every
vicious habit, fhe had a fufEcient fenfe of the
change in her way of life, not to forfeit' the
advantage by any miibehaviour or negle&.
On the contrary, fhe applied herfelf fo clofely
to every thing taught her, and ihowed a dif-
pofition fo defirous of improvement in every
fenfe, that her benefaftor, proud of the dif-
cernment which could difcover fuch talents
under fo great difadvantages, became enamoured
of the efFe&s of his own benevolence and care.
4
4 1 have at length found (would he fay to him-
D 2 4
4 felf)
,yGoogle
5* C HR Y S A L : OR, THE
44 felf) what 1 have hitherto fought in vain—
4
4 a woman that can make me happy! Her wit
4
4 and underftanding will enliven the hour of
4
4 heavinefs; while a falfe parade of virtue will
4
4 never throw a damp on pleafantry and mirth.
4
4 What, though her birth is obfcure! are'we
4
4 not all defcended from one common ftock?
4
4 is the blood of a peafant lefs pure than that
4
4 of a prince?— If (he has taken a falfeilep,
4
4 in the weaknefs of her youth, that ihould be
4
4 charged to fate* that led her into temptation
4
4 before fhe had reafon to refift it!—-But all
4
4 thefe feeming difadvantages are now turned
4
4 in her favour. Her experience in the ways
4
4 of the world will make it impoifible to deceive
4
4 her again. Her confcioufnefs of the mean-
4
4 nefs of her own family will give her a proper
4
4 fenfe of the honour of being admitted into
4
4 mine, and fave me from the intolerable
4
4 plague of having her pedigree rung in my
4
4 ears every hour. Her youth and luxuriance
<
4 of conftitution will alfo fupply toour children
4
4 the defefts which too eager a purfuit of plea-
4
4 fure may have made in mine. Let thofe who
u are dependent on the world regard its cen-
4
4 fure; I am above it, and will purfue my own
.
4
< happinefs, wherever it leads me.”
There *is nothing more dangerous than
feeking for arguments in favour of inclination
againft reafon. Trifles, light as air, will be
admitted
,yGoogle
admitted as the weightieft proofs of that which
is wifhed to be proved; and palliatives, barely
polHble, anfwer obje&ions, in their nature un-
anfwerable. ^He had taken a liking to her! he
had taken it into his head to fecurethe gratifi­
cation of that liking, by marrying her; and a
Very little arguing with himfelf in this manner
foon convinced him, not only of the expediency
of fuch a marriage to his happinefs; but alfo
of the obligation he was under of doing that
juftice to her merit, and his own judgement.
The confequence may be eafily concluded. He
married her, as he profefled, in obedience t®
reafon, rather than to gratify inclination.
But the cafe was very different with th®
,W6tid, which, far from feeing the force of hi*
arguments, laughed at him for being taken
thus in a fnare of his own making. His own
family, in particular, beheld her with eyes, per­
haps, not lefs blinded by intereft, than his were
by inclination; and, depreciating the merit Ihe
really had, reprefented his marriage as the mere
effedfc of vicious dotage.
Nothing is fo ill judged as to fhow impotent
refentment. It only provokes a return of none
effeifc; and makes a wound incurable, which
otherwile might have healed of itfelf. Incenfed
that they ihould prefume to cenfure actions
which they could not control, he dire&ly made
his will, by which he gave away the inheritance
D 3. of
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 55
,yGoogle
54- C HR Y S A L : OR, T HE
of his anceilors from his own blood, leaving his
whole fortune to his wife, as a teftimony of
his unaltered regard for her, and to ihow his
rcfentment to them j foon after which he
died.
This was more than her moft fanguine hopes
could ever have rifen to. She was in the prime
of life ; and poffeifed of a fortune to afford her
all its pleafures. Thefe advantages (and I
fhould add her beauty, which was in the per-
fedticn of a ripened bloom) naturally attradled
a number of admirers of different kinds, and
with as different views, who all thought them-
felves fure of her, from the circumilances of
her paft life. Needy adventurers (fuch as my
late mailer) paid court to her fortune, in the-
matrimonial way 5 while her beauty attrafted
the more dangerous addrefs of thofe, who
meant no more than pleafure. But ihe was
guarded againft both. She had tailed fome-
thing of the fweets of virtuous reputation, and
knew the value of it too well to forfeit it entire­
ly again by compliance with the latterj and her
pride and experience fet her above all the
fchemes of the former. .
She lived thus for fome time in the higheft
happinefs of which Ihe had any idea, for ihe
was a ilranger to that falfe delicacy, which
creates itfelf imaginary uneafineiTes, and palls
the enjoyment of prefent pleafures. She , was
admitted
,yGoogle
admitted into good company, where her be­
haviour, if not abfolutely approved of, was ftill
received with good-natured allowances, as much
better than might have been expe&ed from the
circumftances of her life; and fhe herfelf treated
with tendernefs, to encourage her to perfeverance
in fo uncommon an amendment. But this
happinefs was too great to laft long undifturbed*
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 55
D 4 CHAP.
,yGoogle
CHÎiySAtî OR, THE
S *
C H A P . IX.
The common confequence o f over-doing things. H er
hufiand’s relations firid out a fla w in his w ill.
The comfort o f having good lawyers to keep up
a client's fp irits. For the advantage o f having
twofirin g s to her how, Jbe enters into an engage­
ment o f marriage, under a heavy penalty. T he
event o f her law -fuit Jhows the prudence o f this
precaution. She is cafl\ her lover flies off, and
Jhe fu es him fo r the penalty o f his engagement.
H e begs the money among his frien d s, and then
by a nice fineffe plays her own game back upon her,
andflings her o ffw ith half. C h r y s a l changes
hisfervice.
I
T daily happens that men defeat their own
intentions, by carrying them too far.. Hur­
ried away by his paffioos, her huiband, in mak­
ing his will, had exceeded the power veiled in
him by the law, and fo, by driving to give her
more than he had a right, really gave her much
lefs. But it was a coniiderable time before his
family recovered fufficiently from the aftoniih-
ment and confufion with which fuch a ftroke
overwhelmed them, to perceive this, and be
able to purfue proper meafures for taking ad­
vantage of it.
The firft notice my miftrefs received of this
affair* was by an offer they made her, to refer
their
,yGoogle
the'ir claim to private decision, in order to avoid
the expenfe and trouble of a law-fuit. But,
though the former part of her life had imprefled
her with horrour at the very name of the law,
(he would not liften to fuch a propofal, without
taking proper advice, the refult of which may
be eafily judged.
Lawyers will never lofe a good client for
want of giving hopes. Her’s perfuaded her
fo fully of the juftice of her caufe, and gave
her fuch pofitive afluranee of fuccefs, that ihe
refolved to fpare no expenfe to obtain iu
Though right and wrong are fo eflentially dif­
ferent from each other, they yet are fometimes
involved in fuch intricacies, by the induftry
of thofe whofe profeffion it is to diftinguiih
between them, that it is difficult to know
which is which. It was fo in this cafe. They
had raifed fuch clouds, that reafon could not
fee through them; and fo every one was left to
fpeak according to inclination. .
While matters were in this fituation, one of
her admirers thought it a proper time to puih
bis fortune with her. His rank and expecta­
tions in life raifed him above the neceffitv of
fuch a feeme; but avarice will ftoop to any
thing; and he would gladly have taken her,
with all her faults, for the fake of her fortune,
the certainty of her eftablifhing her right to
which he had taken care to be well allured of
n 5 br
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. $7
,yGoogle
by fages learned in the law, before he laid liege
to her. This, however, he was far from avow­
ing. He pleaded the moft difinterefted love,
and preiTed for a return with all the ardency of
defire.
But, though ihe could not do lb much in-
juftice to her charms, as to doubt their power
of infpiring fuch a paffion, ihe pofitively re-
fufed to liften to any propofals of marriage
till her law-fuit ihould be decided, from a
generous fe a r o f involving him in inconveniences,
which her lawyers pofitively allured her could
never happen; as he, w ith equal generbfity,
founded on the like afTurances, offered to marry
her while it was Ifill depending; whereas,
the truth of the matter was with both, that
he thought he could make a better bargain, as fl)e
knew ft)e muß a worfe, if it ihould be concluded,
till every thing was abfolutely fettled.
They had played this game upon each other
for fome time, when adiffident word dropped by
one of her lawyers, as the day of decifion drew *
near, determined her to change her fyftem, and
make fure of fomething for fear of the worft.
Accordingly, the next time her lover vifited her,
on his repeating profeffions of the violence
of his paffion, and offering, as a proof of its
difintereftednefs, to enter into a mutual engage­
ment of marriage, as foon as the fuit ihould be
ended one way or other, under the penalty of a
large
5* CHRYSALj OR, THE
,
y
Gbc le
large fum of money on the refufer, ihe let her-
felf be overcome by fuch an inftance of iincerity,
and, taking him at his word, figned the engage­
ment diredly.
The eventjuftified this caution; for, after all
the aflurances of fuccefs by which flie had been
led on by her lawyers to run into every expenfe
they could devife, juftice appeared fo ftrongly
in favour of her opponents, that ihe was cajl\
and a coniiderable part of the eftate of her
huiband adjudged to return direftly to his fa­
mily; and the reft after her death.
Though what remained to her was more than
fufficient to fupport her in the genteeleft man­
ner, ihe could not but feel at iirft a fall from
fo high hopes; but her fpirit had been too well
exercifed in the beginning of her life, to yield
long to any thing; and ihe had almoft got the
better of it, when fomething that piqued her
refentment roufed her effectually. Among all
thefrien d s who came on this occafion'ta gratify
the infolence o f condoling her misfortune, ihe was
not a little furprifed never to fee the face of her
lover. As ihe could not be at a lofs for the
mean motive of fuch behaviour, ihe might po(-
fibly have treated it with the contempt it <fq-
ferved, had not neceffity urged her to ihow a
warmer refentment.
The expenfes of her law-fuit had involved
her in debts (for ihe never lowered her living,
D 6 depending
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 59
,yGoogle
CHRY SAJL: OR, THE
depending on the affurances given her of fuc-
cefs) which were paw demanded with an im­
portunity that perplexed her. This was juft at
the time when ihe took notice of the defertioa
of her lover. The urgency of her creditors,
therefore, fuggefted it to her, to call upon him
to fulfill his engagement of marriage, which his
conduft convinced her he would forfeit the pe­
nalty rather than do, by which means fbe ihould
punifh him for his rafhnefs, and extricate her-
felf from her difficulties at the fame time; for,
had ihe thought that he would fulfil it, there
was nothing ihe would not have fuffered, fooner
than link her fate to him.
There is fomething in a woman’s calling upon
a man to marry her fo contrary to thofe notions
of delicacy, on which the fuperiour clafs of the
female fcx value themfelves, that, perhaps, no
other woman of her rank could have prevailed
upon herfelf to do it. But ihe had not been
born in, nor bred up with expe&ations of that
rank; her notions, therefore, were of a coarfer
complexion) and, though ihe had learned the
external modes of behaviour, the trick o f com-»
‘plaifance% ihe had been put to icbool too late in
life, to change her fentiments fo far as to make
her think it neceflary to facrifi.Ce fo powerful
motives as refentment and intereft to a delicacy
that appeared to her merely fantaftick.
The moment, therefore, the thought ©
c«
*
curred, ihe applied once more to her lawyer;
ajid
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *«
and by his advice wrote a letter to her lover,
in which (he direilly claimed the performance
of his engagement* But, as this was no more
than his heart told him he mult expeél (for he
would have done the very fame thing himfelf)
he was prepared how to anfwer her. Accord­
ingly, he wrote to her in the mod artful manner,
excufing his not having been to w ait upon her fin a
the fa ta l decifion o f her law-fu it y on account o f the
pain he m ufi fe e l at feeing hery when he had lofi a ll
hopes o f ever calling her his; fo r 9 as her generofity
w ould not perm it her to marry w hile there was
only a poßibility o f fu ch a misfortune, he could not
fappofe that her fenfe o f honour and ju fiice would
nowy when it had actually happened; andfo r this
reafon he defired that ft)e would pleafe to fen d him
his engagement* not that it was o f any confequencey
as be would return her's, to whom he w ijhed the
highefi happinefs in every feene and view o f life—
Such a refufal was juft what (he wanted! ihe,
therefore, inftantly commenced a fuit at law
with him, to recover the penalty of his engage­
ment, which he had thus forfeited to her.
The care he had taken himfelf, to make the
engagement as binding as poffible, precluding
every hope of defeating her claim; and his
knowledge of her temper convincing him that
it would be in vain to attempt prevailing on
ber to drop it now ihe had once begun, he had
secourfe to an expedient to extricate him from
this
,yGoogle
this difficulty, of the fame mean kind with that
which brought it upon him. Accordingly,
though he was well enough able to pay the
penalty himfelf, as he did not choofe to fulfil
his engagement by marrying, he put on a poor
face, and went begging to all his relations for
their aififtance, pleading poverty, and alledging
the difgrace it would bring upon the whole fa­
mily if he ihould be obliged to marry fuch a
woman, whom he represented in the blackeft
colours, exaggerating every circumfiance of her
life. Though this might juftly have been re­
torted upon himfelf, for ever thinking of her,
they took pity on his diftrefs, and raifed the
money for him, by a general contribution.
Such fuccefs encouraged him to hope for
further, and try the force of his eloquence up­
on my miftrefs. For this purpofe, he defired an
interview, which (he had with much reluctance
confented to give him, the next morning after
I came into her pofleifion. >
I had Seen vice and folly in avariety of fhapes,
but never did the human heart appear to me in
fo contemptible a light, as his upon this occa-
fion. He began his attack with flattery, pro-
fefling the higheft refpeCt, and lamenting, in
the moit paflionate terms, that the difficulty of
his circumftances would not permit him to have
the happinefs of marrying her, and appealed to
her generofity andjuftice, as before, fora releafe
from an engagement, that it muft be the ruin of
them
it CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,yGoogle
them both to fulfil. But all was in vain. She
fcarce deigned to make him any anfwer; and
that only to tell him, that his profdfions and
arguments were equally ineffe&ual to alter a
xefolution, which the bafenefs of his behaviour
alone hadmadeher take. Not quite difcouraged9
though, by fuch a repulfe, he inftantly changed
his method of application. He threw himfelf
at her feet, implored her compaffion on his po­
verty, and offered,as theutmoft it would permit
him to do, to pay her down half the penalty
diredtty, concluding with faying, that, if ihe re-
fufed to accept of that, he had no other refource,
but even to fulfil his engagement and marry her.
This was fighting the Devil at his own wea­
pons. , The mention of marriage was a ftroke
ihe was not prepared for. Startled at the
thought, therefore, as ihe knew not what defpair
might drive him to, ihe agreed to his propofal,
and fo they divided the money between them
(for he prudently pocketed the other half him­
felf, as he could not think of offering fuch
an affront to his friends as to return any part of
their bounty) and were equal gainers by a bar­
gain, in which e£ch out-witted the other.
Though what my miftrefs got fell ihort of
her expedition, it anfweted the double end of.
gratifying her refentment, and paying her debts,
on the latter of which occafions I left her
/twice* ^
C H A P
<
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ¿j
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL* OR, THB
r 4
C H A P . X .
C h ry sa l mates fome out-of-the-way remarks
on matrimony. Defcription and hijiory o f his
new maßer* C h r y sa l vindicates his ufing
a common exprejfion. H is maßer's firft rife
from a beggar to a foot-boy, #H e gains his
maßer's favou r, of which be makes the ufe
natural to be expefied from his firß education.
Some account of a relation of his PRiNCiPAtV.
H e danger of giving advice, C h r y sa l ’x
maßer inßnuates hinfe lf into the C o l o n e l ’ *
likings and undermines his principal in his re­
gard. ,
IHave obferved, in the courfe of this ac­
count of my laft miftrefs, that you have
been fhocked at the thought of a man’s marry­
ing a woman in her circumftances. To you,
who view life only by the light of reafon, it
muft certainly appear moQ unaccountable ; but
better acquaintance with the ways of the world
would reconcile you to that, and many other
things equally grofs and ihocking in fpecula-
tiön.
Marriage is a mutual truft of honour. A
man’s marrying a woman, therefore, who has
loft her honour, is trufting his whole fortune to
a bankrupt, who has no fecurify to give for that
truft $
,yGoogle
truft; a fool-hardinefs that mull proceed either
from a confcioufnefs of having himfelf no ho­
nour to lofe, a total difregard to the lofs, or
an affedation of afting on different principles
from the reft of mankind, as a proof of being
above their prejudices. Where her honour in­
deed has been loft to himfelf, juftice makes it a
duty upon him to repair her lofs by mar­
riage; but then that very marriage is a pu-
nifhment for his crime, as it muft want the ef-
fential happinefs of confidence; for he will be
always ready to fufpeit, that the difpofition
which betrayed her into errour with him may
have the fame effe& with others. Nor is this
Atfpicion unnatural.
I fie you would argue from the habitual,
avowed incontinence of man, that this truft of
honour is not equal, and therefore cannot be
obliging. But this is judging without duely
confidering tbefubjeO. Chaftity is, in its na­
ture, a virtue equally the duty of both fexes to
obferve, and, with regard to fociety in general,
the violation of it is equally criminal in both $
but in thofe nearer connexions of life, the in­
tereft of which is the more immediate objedi of
human attention, the confequencesof that vio­
lation in woman are attended with fo much
greater inconveniences than in man, that, in
j«fpe& to them, the crime is obvioufly lefs par­
donable in her than in him \ and, for this rea-
fon.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 6$
,yGoogle
€6 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
fon, this virtue o f chajlity is made in a 'peculiar
manner, the honour o f wom an; while the honour o f
man is placed in other virtues^ from which ihe
receives as much advantage, as he does from
her chaftity ; and, therefore, the truft of honour
is mutual and equal------In diftinguiihing thus
between honour and virtue, Ifpeak according to
the notions of mankind; in their own nature,
there is no diftin&ion between them.
There was fomething in the whole appear­
ance of the perfon to whom my miftrefs paid me
a%*ay% that made me expeft to fee a charafter
of a caft which I had not yet met with among
mankind. His looks were fly, methodical, and
plodding. Praftice had fixed upon his paffive
face the hollow varniih of a fervile fmile ; and
an over-afted affeftation of polite behaviour
made his natural awkardnefs truely ridiculous.
But under all this, I could fee a depth of de-
fign, and a latitude of principle, equal to any
great attempt, the fuccefs of which ihould in
the opinion of the world determine the quality
of that greatnefs, whether villainy or virtue.
That knowledge of his life which is necef-
fary to explain his chara&er, and account for the
principles upon which he a&ed confidently his
manifold part, will be comprifed in a few
words. Sprung from the dregs of the people,
and turned loofe upon the world to fhift for him-
felf, as foon as he was able to crawl, he took
,yGoogle
his (land about the houfe of a perfon in bufinefs,
where he hardly earned a morfel of broken vic­
tuals, by running of errands, cleaning ihoes,
and fuch other offices as are performed by thofe
fervants offervants.
I fee you wonder at my faying he was fprung
from the dregs o f the people) as if difference of
rank could make any' alteration in the effential
equality of human nature; but without entering
into a difcuffion of undetermined points, on both
iides of which much has been faid with equal
ftrength of reafon, the beft obfervation of the
power ofearly example, to imprefs thofe princi­
ples which are to govern the future life,
will fufficiently juftify my uiing the expreffion
here.
The patience with which he was obliged to
bear the cuffs and kicks of thofe worft of tyrants,
who always wantonly revenge tenfold upon their
wretched underlings whatever they fuffer them-
felves, taught him that hypocrify, and abjeft fub*
miffion to every thing that might any way ferve
his convenience, which afterwards proved the
groundwork of his fortune; as the example of
his parents, who got their living byretailing to
the poor the meaneft neceffaries of life, initiated
him fo early into every fpecies of low fraud and
chicane, that they became abfolutely natural to
him, and invariably ruled the conduit of his
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 6 7
,yGoogle
it CHRYSAL: OR, THE
He had been fome time in this hopeful courte
of education, when an accident opened him aa
opportunity of ihowing what a progrefs he had
made in it. A brother of the perfon, about whofe
houfe he picked up the fcraps that kept him
alive, happening to fee one of the fervants beat­
ing him unmercifully, interfered from mere hu­
manity, and faved him. The marks he bore of
his beating raifed a curiofity to knowhow he had
deferved it ; when he gave fo feemingly innocent,
and pitiable an account of himfelf, and attribu­
ted the fervant’s cruelty fo artfully to his having
refufed to do fomething for him, which was im­
proper for him to do, that the young gentleman
believed him, and taking companion on bis di-
ilrefs, admitted him into the family, to wait upon
himfelf, by which he was delivered from hi*
' dépendance on the other fervants, and proteâed
from their future infults.
The humility with which he behaved himfelf,
in this firil ftep of his advancement, his afhduity
and feeming attachment to his mailer foon won
his good opinion fo far, that he difpenfed with
his attendance, and fenthim to fchool, where he
applied himfelf fo clofely, and made fuch a pro­
ficiency, that his mailer took him into his own
bufinefs, in which his fobriety, diligence, and
obedient tempergained his confidence fo entirely,
that, as foon as ever bethought him capable, he
admitted him into fellowihip with himfelf, and
abfolutely
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 4 9
abfolutely refigned the management of his whole
buiinefs to him. ,
It may naturally be fuppofed, that he did not
negledt to improve fuch an opportunity of prac-
tiiing the leffons he had learned in his yo.uth. He
fecreted the profits of all the bufinefs, which his
principal was not indifpenfibly obliged to be per­
sonallyengaged in; he fupplanted himwith fuch a$
he could of his cuftomers; he cheated of confider-
able fums of money fuch others, as long experi­
ence of his (the principal’s) honefty had put off
their guard with him; and Cook every occafion
of infmuating to the world, underthe moll effec­
tual difguife of friendly concern and complaint,
his negligence and incapacity; at the fame time,
that he profeffed to himfelf the moil implicit re-
fpe& and obedience, and feemed ambitious of
ihowing his gratitude and attachment, by per­
forming the fame fervile offices which had been
his firil occupation about him«
But all this was trifling in companion with
the ftroke he made againll him, in his own fa­
mily. There was a near relation of his principal’s,
who was indebted to his friendly affiftance for
the firfl ftep of his rife to the rank o f a colonel in the
■ army. Nature had been laviih to him in the en­
dowments of mind and body; but pride marred
the bleffing, and turned them all to his difadvan-
tage. Confidence in the external gracesof his per­
fon made him neglect the improvement of his un­
demanding,
3
,yGoogle
CHRYSALi OR, THE
y®
derilanding, while an affe&ation of fingularityy
which is always aiTumed as a mafk to hide real
ignorance, made him fet his own opinion in
oppofition to the eilabliihed judgement of
mankind.
As the conduit offuch a man muft neceflarily
be irregular, his relation and friend, my mailer’s
principal, exerted the authority of thofe charac­
ters, and frequentlyreproved him in the fincerity
and well-meaning of his heart. The notion that
this liberty, which when properly taken is the
higheft proof of regard, was aflumed on the fcore
of obligation, gave offenfe to the captious
haughtinefs of the colonel's temper, and eftranged
an efteem, which it ought to haveconfirmed.
This was an opportunity for my mailer to dis­
play his talents. He iludied the temper of the colo­
nely and paid court to his caprices. He cringed to
his haughtinefs, bore his infults, and miniilered
to his vices, with an implicit fubmiflion to his
fuperiour fenfe and judgement, which he received
as the only ilandard of right and wrong.
The contrail between his complaifance, and
the fuperiority which the colonel thought his re­
lation aflumed by giving him advice, infeniibly
transferred to my mailer that regard which his
principal loft. As this was what he had all along
aimed^at, he omitted nothingto widen the breach,
bylnfinuations fo artfully conveyed as toaggra­
vate the offenfe taken by the colonel, and yet if
repeated
yGoOgl
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 7»
repeated would bear a fenfe diredtly oppofite, and
ioem to fpring entirely from friendly concern,
(hould a reconciliation between them bring his
praftifes to light. But an event, that he
could not fcheme for, removed every fuch
apprehenfion, and rivetted his influence beyond
his moft fanguine hopes*
CHAP-
,yGoogle
1 % CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P . XI.
Further account o f the C o lo n el. C h r y sa l ^
majler, in conjunction with a female officiate
propel' fo r his purpofe, completes his fcheme o f
alienating the C o lo n elV regard from his f a ­
mily, o f which be gives a proofo f a mojl extraor­
dinary nature. A remarkable injlance o f C h r y -
sa l’j majler's talents fo r a particular kind o f
w it, with aJlriking account o f the worthy manner
in which he and his fa ir ajfociate acquitted them-
felves o f the trujl repofed in them by the C o­
LONEL.
V
AIN of the beauty of his perfon, the colonel
prided himfelf in an opinion, that there
was no woman whofe virtue could refift his ad-
drefles. This felf-conceit, which the frailty of
the lower clafs of females had firft given rife to*
was confirmed by his fuccefs with one, whofe
fortune and education ihould have fecured her
againft his attacks. The glory of fuch a con-
queft fatisfied his vanity; and the pleafure of
having her on his own terms fo endeared her to
him, that he thought not of any other. One
thing only gave him concern about her; which
was, in whofe care he ihould leave her, when
the bufinefs of the campaign called him into the
field*
But
,yGoogle
But in this he was not long at a lofs. The
humble, implicit attachment of my mailer
pointed him out as the perfon, in every refpeft,
moil proper for fuch a truil. To him, there­
fore, he committed her at his departure, hugging
himfelf inthe happinefs of having fuch a miilrefs,
and fuch a friend.
* The nature of this truft neceffarily brought on
an intimacy between my mafter and his charge.
Intimacies between the fexes are dangerous in
any circumftances: but in thcir’s, where fhe
could not even make pretence to that virtue
which could be her only guard, the confequence
is obvious. From this time, they joined their
interefts, and laid their heads together to eftrange
him fromhis own family, particularly my mailer's
principal, who, in cafe of death, had the firil
claim, from law and nature, to his fortune.
In carrying on this fcheme, they played into
each other’s hands with fuch addrefs at his
return, that, when he was going tothe next cam-
paign9 he made a will, by which he gave, not
only his own large acquifitions, but alfo the in­
heritance of his anceftors, between them, in fuch
a manner as plainly ihowed a wrong mind, and
fupported his bequeft with fuch reafons, as were
an infult to the laws and religion of his country;
at the fame time, that they perpetuated the in­
famy of thofe, to whom it was made, by arguing
exprefsly in favourof the vices which had gained
Voi.. IV. E them
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. y%
,yGoogle
n Ct ì RYSAL» OR, THE
them this mark of his regard; and this will,
the fubilance of which fatisfied them for the
circumflances, he left in the hands of my
mailer.
In this fituation matters flood between the
three, when I came into his pofleiliòn. When
he had finifhed the drudgery of the day, he went
as ufual to fpend his evening agreeably with his
charge.
There was one fpecies of what is called w it,
upon his expertnefs in which my matter valued
liimfelfnot a little. This was telling a fictitious
ftory with fo grave a face, and corroborating it
with fuch plaufible circumflances as to raife the
hearer’s anxiety, and then to laugh at thè eafy
faith that could be (o taken in. Low as the merit
offuch w it was, at the belt, in him it had none
at all. His fictions were no better than down­
right lies, deftitute of imagination or humour,
and corroborated with nothing but new-coined
oaths and imprecations, fit to afford entertainment
only to the damned.
With an eifay of this kind he refolved to
entertain his miflrefs this evening. Exerting,
therefore, all his command of countenance,
“ My deareil love (faid he with a melancholy
look, and deep-drawn figh, as he entered the
room) “ I have received bad news, blajl my
<
c eyes! there has been a battle, in which our
u f o c i ” -------------- *
« Has
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 7S
" Has not been killed! (interrupted (he,
fnatching the word out of his mouth) “ that is
“ bad news, indeed; but another battle may
“ afford better.” ----- •
1 fie you were (truck with horrour at my re­
peating the imprecation he made ufe of on this
occafion. Initead, therefore, of intermixing
them with every period of his difcourfe, as he
always does, I will in their place make a paufe
thus, — — , which will ferve as well, for he
ufes them, in general, as no more than mere
expletives.
“ No! (ahfwered he, Ihrugging up his
“ (boulders) that chance is loft for ever. _
_
_
“ He has received a wound------ , which, with-
“ out endangering his life, has difabled him
“ from further fervice, fo that we (hall be bleft
“ with his company------ , ¡F
or the reft of our
“ lives.”
. “ Gurfed, you fliould fay! But is there no
“ way to be thought of to prevent it? Could
“ not proper application be made to the fur-
“ geons?”
“ All is too late! his leg was taken off di­
“ reftly ----- ; and the danger entirely over,
“ when the account came away; as you may
“ fee by his letter, in which he writes me word,
** 1 , that he hopes to be at home with us,
“ in a month, to leave us no more. Eh ! what
“ have I done with his letter?— It fliould be
»Google
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
76
4
4 in this pocket! I certainly have left it behind
4
4 me, in my confufion.— But you’ll fee it foon
4
4 enough. He fends his love to you; and bids
4
4 me tell you, he would have wrote to you,
4
4 but was prevented by company, fo that you
4
4 fee he cannot be in any danger------ . But
4
4 he’ll make you amends. I fee how every
4
4 thing will be ■ — •. He’ll marry you, asfoon
4
4 ashe returns------ ; that hemay introduce you
4
4 into his family, who will treat you with forced
4
4 civility, in order to get him into their hands
€t again. I fee very well — — , how every
4
4 thing will happen.”
c< No! that ihall never happen ! I hate them-
4
4 felves, and defpife their civility. I had ra-
4
4 ther bear the fneers and infults of the world
4
4 than that. Nor will I marry him, let what
4
4 will be my fate! his infolent, capricious hu-
4
4 mour is fcarce to be bor’n now$ though he
4
4 curbs it, becaufe I am at my liberty to leave
4
4 him. What would it then be, were I to be
4
4 his Havefor life ? I had rather feign penitence,
4
4 and throw myfelf on the compaflion of my
4
4 own family, than plunge into fuch mifery.
4
4 Marriage on any terms is a ftate I defpife,
4
4 but with him I abjure it.” -
This pafiion was fuch a triumph to my mailer,
that he could keep his countenance no longer.
4
4 Ha! ha! ha! a fair humbugs damn me!
4
4 (faidhe, burftingout into ahorfe-laugh) your
4
4 humble
,yGoogle
€€ humble fervant, madam! I thought you could
€t not be taken in. Ha! ha! ha! a fair
<
c humbug, damn me.,ar
Taken in !” (faid ihe, vexed atbeing played
Upon, but more pleafed that it was no
worfe) u how can youtakedelightin fuch a low-
€€ liv’d trick? If I could not fhow my wit in a
*c better manner, I am fure I would give up all
€
€ pretenfions to it.”
<
c All poor fpite and malice! But, dori*t fret
u for it. Come! we’ll kifs and friends, and
think no more of the matter! only remember
<
c not to brag another time that you cannot be
<
c taken in9 though, ha! ha! ha I*’
Every thing being thus made upr their con-
verfation for the reft of the evening was fuch
as may be fuppofed between perfons of their
caft, and in their fituation, They gloried in
the fuccefs of their fchemes upon their common
dupe, the colonel; they formed plans for fpending
his fortune, ihould any lucky accident put an
end to his life; they ridiculed the pride and felf-
fufficiency of which they had taken advantage j
and concluded in their ufual way, with proving,
in each other’s arms, the jujinejs of his confi­
dence in their fidelity.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 77
2 j C H A P .
,yGoogle
7* CHRYSALi OR, THE
C H A P . XII.
C h r y sa l ’j tnajier receives an account o f the death
o f the Colonel. H e finds after much deliberation
that he cannotfling his worthy ajjociate out o f the
whole fpoil, and therefore prudently refolves to
Jhare it w ith her by a marriage, o f which he draw s
a comfortable p i¿Jure. H e urges his fu it9 andJhe
firives to evade it, by arguments confi/lent w ith
both their chara6iers. H e carries his point in a
particular manner.
BU T all this harmony was Toon difturbed
for ever, by the accompliihment of the
very fchemes it was founded on, which was
much nearer than they imagined. The firft
news my mailer received on his return home
next morning, was that the colonel had been kil­
led in a late battle. This was an interefting
event; he direilly locked himfelf up in his clo-
fet, and taking out the will, though he had
often read it before, ftudied every fyllable of it
over and over, to try if there was any poflibility
for him tofling his own and the colonel's common
miftrefs, and get the whole fortune himfelf; but
he had the mortification to find that this ex­
ceeded'all his fagacity, and that the whole will
muft Hand or fall together.
After fome, not the moil pleafing, meditation,
therefore, “ And fo! (faid he, biting his nether
“ i'p>
>
y
Google
44 lip, and turning up his eyes, with an execra**
44 tion too horrid ta be repeated) I have been
44 labouring all this while to get a fortune for
44 this brimftone! A very pretty reward, truely,
4
4 for fupplanting my beft benefactor! it were
44 better for me, that even he had it, than (he;
4
4 for then I might not only enjoy my ihare of
4
4 it as it goes, along with him; but alfo very
4
4 probably cheat him out of moft of it, in the
4
4 end. What, though I am tohave it after her
4
4 death, may not ihe live as long as I ! Be-
44 fide, I have made away with the greateft part
4
4 of the money, and fo am liable to be blown up
4
4 and undone, whenever ihe thinks proper to
4
4 call it in; for I know too much of her, to
4
4 expeCl that (he ihould (how favour to any
4
4 one, when once in her power. No! that
4
4 ihall never be! I have it in my power to fet
4
4 afide the whole unnatural, nonfenfical will-,
4
4 and I will do it, if ihe refufes to come into
4
4 terms with me. Such a facrifice of my own
4
4 intereft to gratitude and honefty, as this will
4
4 appear, will gain me fo great reputation, that
4
4 I íhall make a better fortune myfelf in a lit-
4
4 tie time; and as to what I have embezzled,
4
4 I know by experience that I can fin k that
4
4 upon my wife principal at a proper time, as
4
4 I have done more before now; fo that after
4
4 all I may find honefty to be the beft policy,
14 as the faying is. W ell! be that as it will, I
E 4 4
4 am.
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. 79
,yGoogle
CHRYSALs (D
R
, THE
u am refolved to be honeft to myfelf firft, and
<
c~do that which lhall ferve my own intereft
4
4 beft, without regard to proverb or opinion.
4
4 Let me confider, then! Suppofe I marry her;
4
4 and fo get pofleflion of all at once. But the
4
4 devil of it is, that I mult take her into the
44 bargain; and I know her too well for that,
4
4 if! could help it. She may moft likely ferve
4
4 me the fame trick with fomebody elfe, that
4
4 ihe has ferved this fool with me ; once aw horej
4
6 and always a whore. However, Xmuft take
4
4 my chance for that. Cunning as ihe is, ihe
4
4 ihall not cuckold me eafily. If I am not a
4
4 match for her ihe muft be able to outwit
4
4 the devil himfelf; fo, happy come lucky, Til
4
4 e’en venture.”
Having reafoned himfelf into this prudent re-
folution, he would lofe no time; but went to
her dire&ly, to carry it into execution. Asfoon
as he met her, 4
4 I have brought you news now
4
4 (faid he) in earned. News that will be ei-
4
4 ther good, or bad, according as you take it.”
4
4 Pihaw! (anfwered ihe, ilightingly) this is
4
4 more of your w it9 I fuppofe. But for hea-
4
4 yen’s fake leave off making a fool of yourfelf,
4
4 and teaming me. I am quite fick of fuch
4
4 fluff/’
4
4 Strike me to the centre (replied he, paflionate-
4
4 ly) but I am ferious. I have this moment re-
4
4 ceived an account, that the colonel is a&ually
4
4 dead. He was killed in the late battle.”
The
,yGoogle.
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. Si
The look with which he faid this had more
weight with her than all the oaths and impre­
cations he could utter, for, much as he was ma­
iler of his countenance, he could not conceal
the agitation of his mind “ Dead! (interrupt-
4
4 ed ihe, eagerly) thank heavenl then all my
4
4 fears are over.5
’
4
4 Aye! (replied he, dryly) but it is well if
4
4 your hopes are not alfo over with them!”
4
4 How ! What do you mean ? Has he not
<
c made a will, by which all his fortune comes
4
4 dire&ly to me? For heaven's fake do not
4
4 torture me in this manner.”
4
4 Y es! he has made a will, it is true. But
44 don't you know that the laft letter I received
4
4 from him revoked it, fo that every thing goes
4
4 now to his family, for he lived not long
4
4 enough to make another, after he received
4
4 his wound; though that is no great lofs to
4
4 you, for, from what he faid when he was
4
4 dying, it would not have been much in your
4
4 favour."
4
4 But, did you not promife me, that you
4
4 would fupprefs that revocation, in cafe any
4
4 thing of this kind ihould happen j which you
4
4 faid you had it in your power to do, as your
4
4 principal was fool enough to promife you,
4
4 that he would never open any letters that
4
4 ihould come dire&ed to you from the army,
4
4 as he had a right to do, by which means it
E 5 4
4 had
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
¿2
4
C had luckily efcaped coming to his know-
4
4 ledge/* . , ,
4
4 Perhaps I may have faid fo! But, do you
4
4 think I have no more confcience than to
4
4 conceal fuch a thing; and rob a man to whom
4
4 I am under fo great obligations ?”
4
4 Confcience! For heaven’s fake, I conjure
4
4 you again, do not torture me any longer.
4
4 Speak of confcience to thofe who do not
4
4 know you. I have had fufficient proof, that
4
4 your interejl is your confcience; and this will
4
4 furely determine you to ferve me, as you
4
4 ferve yourfelf at the fame time. Is not all to
4
4 come to you at my death ?’*
4
4 But what am I to do in the mean while ?
4
4 Come, then, as you fay you know me fo
4
4 well, I’ll offer you a fair propofal, that fhall
4
4 make it my prefent interejl (for that is what I
4
4 regard) to ferve you ; and your future interejl^
4
4 on which you lay fo great a ftrefs, to ferve
4
4 me. Suppofe we join our interefts in all
4
4 things, and marry. By this expedient I ihall
4
4 come direftly into the enjoyment of the for-
4
4 tufte j and your children will .inherit it.”
4
4 Marry! (exclaimed ihe, ftarting in fur-
4
4 prife) what could put fuch a ftrange thought
4
4 into your head, who know my fentiments on
.4
4 that unnatural Rate of fuperftition and
4
4 flavery? No! that, of all things, I can
4
4 never come into. But, I fee you- are at
4
4 your
,yGoogle
cc your hum bugging again. The profefiions, and
44 oaths of friendihip, you have fo often made
cc me” ---------
4
4 Were all but wind (anfwered he) and
4
4 have left no trace behind them. But this
4
4 kind of talking anfwers no end. The whole
4
4 depends on the one word by which you
4
4 anfwcr me this ihort queftion— 4 Will you
4
4 marry me? Or will you not ?’ If you con-
44 fent, I will fecrete the papers that fet aiide
4
4 the will, and fo we fhall (hare the fortune
4
4 between us. If you refufe, I will give them
4
4 up to his family, who will diredtly defeat
4
4 your claim, and then you may follow for
4
4 your living that libertine way of life you
4
4 appear fo fond of; for I have no notion of
4
4 damning my charadter in this world, and my
foul in the next, to ferve any other but my-
4
4 felf. Confider, therefore, before you fpeak,
4
4 as I will go diredtly from you to them, if you
4
4 refufe me.”
Such a menace was not ineffedtual to one
who knew him fo well. 4
4 Will nothing elfe
4
4 fatisfy you? (replied ihe, burfting into tears.)
4
4 No part of the fortune; and to continue as
4
4 we are at prefent, man and wife in every.
4
4 thing but the curfed ceremony ?”
4
4 No! that ceremony is the very thing I
4
4 want, and nothing elfe; becaufe that only
4
4 can give me aright to your fortune; for, at.
‘ E 6 4
4 to>
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
,yGoogle
4
4 to your perfon, I would not have you think
4
4 I fet any value on that! I have long fince had
44 enough of it: and for Iharing the fortune,
4
4 I am refolved I will have all, or none ; and
4
4 this is the reafon why I make you fuch
4
4 an offer; for, otherwife, I allure you I hate
4
4 marriage as much as you poffibly can* So
4
4 let me have your anfwer diredly, for I will
4
4 not trifle thus a moment longer.”
The manner in which he faid this left her
no room to doubt his refolution. 4
4 Well then
4
4 (replied ihe, fighing) if you will have it fo, it
4
4 muff be fo; and I confent, becaufe I cannot
4
4 help it. But when is this blefled marriage
4
4 to be folemnifed l ”
4
4 As for that, I am in no more hurry than
4
4 you* All I defire is, that you will diredly
4
4 fign a promife of marriage, whenever I think
4
4 proper to call upon you. Fll go this inftant,
4
4 and draw it up; and leave you to confider
4
4 how much better this is for us both, than to
4
4 have disagreed, and let all go to his family.
He waited not for a reply; nor was long be­
fore he returned with the deed9 which Ihe figned
with evident reludance.
I+ CHRYSAL: OR, THE
CHAP*
,yGoogle
C H A P . XIII. _
Account o f the methods w hich. C h r y s a l ’x m aßer
took to obviate the effects o f his p rin cip a l's re-
fentm ent, w ith the charafterißick converfation
that paffed between them $ on the fo rm er's avow ing
the coloneVs w ill. C h r y s a l ’x m aßer over-
fo o ts his m ark, and provokes his p rin cip a l to do
more than he ever intended. A n uncommon in -
ß a n ce o f the ju ß ic e o f the w orld. C h r y s a l ’x
m aßer obliges the lady to court him in her turn9
and at length m arries her. T he confequences o f
fu ch a m arriage, and fr u its o f the fu ccefs o f a ll
their fchem es.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. S5
H IS point being fettled, the next thing
was to produce the colonel's will, the
thought of doing which gave him fome alarm,
in fpite ofall his fortitude, as it would be throw­
ing offthe maik he had worn all his life, and
declaring war with his principal, who he judged
from himfelf would not fail to publifli to the
world the meannefs of his original, and the
mifery from which his companion had raifed
But fuch thoughts, difagreeable as they might
be, could not divert him from his purpofe. T o
difable his principal, though, as far as poffible
from carrying his refentment any farther than
him.
words,
Digitized by Google
words, he ranfacked all his papers, and took
away not only fuch as related immediately to
the private tranfaftions between themfelves, but
atfo thofe of other people, with whom they
had been concerned in bufinefs, in order to
diftrefs his circumftances, and involve him in
fuch perplexities as ihould lay him under a ne-
ceffity of keeping fair with him. But this pre­
caution, like many others dilated by the fame
fpirit, occafioned the very thing it was defigned
to prevent.
The firft news of the affair was like a thunder­
clap to the family of the colonel. My mailer's
principal, who, though, in the courfe of lawand
nature, had the firil expeditions, as I have fa:d
before, could not believe it to be true, fo high
was his confidence in the honefty and attach­
ment of my mailer. To fatisfy, however, the
importunities of his family, he came to him,
and with a look of indignation at the bafenefs of
fuch a report, rather than apprehenfion of the
truth of it, 4
4 I am come (faid he) to tell you
4
4 a piece of news, I have juft this moment ,
4
4 heard, which is, that colonelhas left his
4
4 whole fortune between thatjade, his miilrefs,
4
4 and you; and that you were privy to his
4
4 will, which he left in your hands
4
4 when he was going abroad. But the latter
4
4 part of the ilory makes me eafy about the
4
4 reft; for, whatever his capricious temper
* 4
4 might
ts CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. S?
4
4 might lead him to do, I am convinced you
4
4 would have no hand in fo bafe an affair, nor
c< even conceal his having fuch an intention
4
4 from me a moment. I fee you are ihocked
4
4 at the fcandalous imputation $ but do not
4
4 think I mention it as if I believed it. I could
4
4 not do you fo much wrong.”
The firft impreffions of youth can never be
totally effaced. Though my mailer could lay
fchemes to cheat his principal, and revile him
behind his back, he had learned to look at him
with an awe, when a beggar about his brother’s
houfe, and afterwards his fervant, that he could
never after get over, when in his prefence. This
awe, added to the confufion of confcious guilt,
made him unable to make any anfwer for fome
moments, and had wrought that change in his
countenance which the other took notice of.
As foon as he could collet fpirits to fpeak,
4
4 I— I— I am obliged to every one, f— f— for
4
4 their good opinion of tne$” (faid he, with his
eyes fixed on the ground, and faltering at every
word) 4
4andhopelihall not f— f— f— forfeit it,
4
4 by accepting the favours of my friends.”
4
4 How! (interrupted the other eagerly.) What
4
4 can you mean by that? You furely do not,
4
4 cannot, avow!------”
4
4 As for that, Sir!” (returned my matter,
plucking up a little more affurance) 4
4 what I
4
4 avow or difavow is nothing to the purpofe.
r 4
4 I prefume
,yGoogle
ss CHRYSAL: OR, THE
<l I prefame that my mojldear andworthyfriend,
4
4 the colonel, had a right to leave his
4
4 fortune to whom he pleafed; and that who-
4
4 ever he has left it to has alfo a right to take
4
4 it, withoutbeinganfwerableto youropinion,
4
4 or that ofanyothers, who may beprejudiced
4i byyou; for the world will judge better, and
4
4 be fatisfied that he had fufficient reafons for
4
4 what he has done.”
44 And fo, then ! it is even fo ! (replied the
4
4 other, after a long paufe) and this is the return
4
4 I meet for raifing you from wretchednefs, and
4
4 admitting you to the firft place in the efteem
44 and confidence of my heart. C herijh a v ip er
4
4 in your bofom, and he w illf Jling you to death•
4
4 But it is beneath me to upbraid you ! I leave
4
4 the revenge of my wrongs to your own con-
4
4 fcience and the juftice of Heaven; and from
4
4 this moment difclaim all intercourfe with
4
4 you; nor (hall my lips ever more utter your
4
4 name, if I can help it. The fight of you is
4
4 a pain to me ! I will fend a perfon to take m y
4
4 affairs out of your hands, and defire you will
4
4 dire&ly provide yourfelf another habita-
4
4 tion ! Unhappy for me was the day, when I
4
4 firft gave ihelter to yourmifery in mine.” — •
Saying this, he turned away, without waiting
for a reply, and left the room.
This infolent behaviour (for fo my mafter
called it, as foon as the other was gone) was
fuch
,yGc_ >gle
fuch an affront to his honour, as in his opinion
cancelled all obligations, and juftified every
thing he had done, or could do againft him.
Giving vent to his refentment, therefore, in a
burjl o f blafphemous execrations, he proceeded in
the execution of his fchemes, with this improve­
ment, that, to obviate the imputations of bafe
difhonefty and ingratitude, which his own con-
fcience told him his principal would publiih to
the world againft him, he loaded him with every
icandal that his inventive malice could fugged.
But, inftead of anfwering his purpofe, produced
the very contrary efFeft, as it put him under a
necefiity of laying open things to vindicate his
own chara&er, which indignant fhame of having
placed his confidence fo unworthily would other-
wife have made him conceal; and, in this in-
ftance, the world was not dazzled by fuccefs,
but dire&ly paid his villainy with the infamy it
deferved.
As for the lady, fafhion made it neceflary for
her to put on all the mimickry of woe, in which
ihe perfifted moft decently for the ufual time, at
the end of which ihe found her huiband that was
to be fo flack in his addrefles, that ihewas obliged
to court him, as fuch an unfettled life was equally
contrary to her intereft and inclinations. This
anfwered a double end. It gratified his vanity
(for he took care to make it known) and feemed
to obviate the credit of the contra# between
them,
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. Z9
,yGoogle
CHRYSALî OR, THE
them, fhould it ever happen to be difcovered.
Accordingly, he kept off a little longer $ and
strength confented, with the affected irrefolution
of a man of the mod delicate principles and
fenfe of honour.
As he only got a legal right by his mar­
riage to what he was already in pofleflion
of, he foon grew tired of the ftate, the cir-
cumftances of which, in his particular cafe,
could not be very pleafing to any man. How­
ever, to avoid the evils of which he was
mod immediately afraid, he went to live in
the country, where he permitted his wife to
fee nobody but thofe he approved, and in
company with himfelf. Nor was he fatisfied
that his utmoft vigilance could prove effectual,
as he had had experience of the loofenefs of
her principles, and her expertnefs in all the arts
of intrigue.
Their fituation, in thefe circumftances,
may be eafily conceived. Continual fufpicions,
quarrels, and recriminations aggravated their
mutual diflike to the mod rancorous hatred,
and made their lives fuch a fcene of mifery,
that they themfelves looked upon it as a
commencement of Heaven’s vengeance on their
crimes ; while all who knew them expected in
horrour that they would make that vengeance
ftill more fignally dreadful, by wreaking their
hatred upon each other’s lives, or their defpair
upon their own.
All
,yGoogle
All the advantages, thus dearly earned, were
an affluence difgufting for want of power of
enjoyment, except in an external pomp that
only mocked the mifery within, and made
the meannefs it was defigned to hide the
more remarkable.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 9*
C H A P ,
,yGoogle
CHRYSALî OR, THÊ
ï*
C H A P . XIV.
C h r y s a h9
s maßer defigns tofet up a coach$ but
wants a material article towards making a pro­
per figurewith it. Heconfults with a Herald,
whogiveshim anelaboratediffertation^ notthemoß
pleafing to him
> on coats of arms, andthe
modernmethods ofmaking them, in which he un­
folds m
any curious myfieriesy and undertakes at
laß, on proper encouragement, to make him a
gentleman. C hrysal changes hisf ervice. Con-
verfationbetween his newmaßer, andan A n t i ­
qu arian . Curious argumentSy by which he
proves thegenuinenefs and importance of certain
relicks of antiquity. C h ry sal changeshis fer-
vice. .
I
N this age of delicacy and refinement the
firft thing thought of in genteel life is a car-
riagcy which is fo indifpenfibly neceflary to
procure refpeft, that no eminence in fcience,
no pra&ife of virtue is held in efteem, where
that is wanted. Senfibleof this, my mailer re­
,folved to befpeak one, the elegance and gran­
deur of which ihould prove his tafte and mag­
nificent fpirit. One difficulty though perplexed
him not a little in the defign. This was, his
want of a coat of arms to decorate the outfide of
it, and difplay to the world his illuftrious
defcent.
After
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 93
After much fruitlefs meditation on fo impor­
tant a fubjedt, it occurred to him, that a herald
iiiuft be the proper perfon to confult with upon
the beftjmeans of remedying this defeft. Ac­
cordingly, he enquired for the moft eminent in
that way, and, on the morning fixed for his
attendance, prepared to receive him, in fuch a
manner as he imagined could not fail to infpire
him with refpe£L He was lolling at breakfaft
in an elbow-chair; drefled in a morning-gown
of greendamaik, with a redcap on his head,
the cambrick lining of which was edged with a
rich lace, that turned up over it, and crimfon
velvet flippers on his feet, one of which was ex­
tended on a cuihion of the fame materials, to
give him the appearance of the gout, a diforder
which he looked upon as an inconteftible proof
of his being fprung from a good family, while
his lady poured out his tea, and between every
diih read a paragraph in the news-paper to en­
tertain him.
As foon as the herald was fhown in, my ma­
iler caft an eye upon his lady, and nodding ma-
jeftically towards the door, (hewithdrew, and
left him to his bufinefs: After the ufual que-
ilions about the weather, and the news, my
mailer at length entered upon the fubjeft. 4
< I
underftand S— -S— S— Sir,” (faid he falter­
ing, and almoft bluihing in fpite of his aflurance)
, «• that
,yGoogle
9
4
* CHRYSALi OR, THE
4
4 that you have great ikill in heraldry; and
4
4 therefore defired to fee you, to confult about
4
4 my c— c— c— coat o f arms»9
9
4
4 I do prefume, Sir,” (anfwered the herald
with an air of importance) 4
4 to have fome
4
4 knowledge in that myfterious and fublime
4
4 fcience, and hope I £hall not wrong the cha-
<4 rafter you have received of me, in any thing
4
4 in which you are pleafed to employ me.
4
4 Hem! ahem! Pray, Sir, what may be the
4
4 nature of your prefent commands ? I fuppofe
4
4 you want to introduce into your own coatf
4
4 the bearing of fome branch of your family,
4
4 which is fallen to you. There is nothing
4
4 in the world eafier to be done, that is by
4
4 one, who, as 1 faid before, underftands the
4
4 fcience. It is only dividing thefield proper-
4
4 ly, and taking care that the blazoning of the
4
4 different quarteringsy of which all good fa-
4
4 miliesgain many in a longcourfe of defcents,
4
4 may not be wrongly blended, as colour upon
4
4 colour, or metal upon wetaly which you mud
*4 know isfalfe heraldry ; though I beg pardon,
4
4 your blazoning is mod likely in preciousJlonesy
4
4 the peculiar emblems of nobility with us.
4
4 But that makes no difference, as I will con-
4
4 vince you, if you pleafe to let me fee your
4
4 arms.”
4
4 Sir (replied my matter, ftill more con-
4
4 founded by this jargon) that is not what I
4
4 want*
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, 95
ft want. I would have an entire n— new
“ coat."--------- '
“ O ! I underftand you, Sir! youarethefirß
cc o fyour fam ily \ and want to make arms for
u yourfelf, as none of your anceftors have left
<
c you any ! Why, Sir, that too may be done ;
<
c but it muftbe with judgement and care, as
u I faid before, for fear of interfering with the
“ arms o f any other family. But, you may
<
c truft me for that, Sir ! Half the arms you
u fee cut fuch a figure about the town are of
<
c my devifing. The king may make lords and
cc knights o f whom he pleafes, but it is the herald
<
c muß make them gentlemen; for what is any
“ man without a coat o f arms? Pray, Sir,
<
6 what is your name ? and of what profeifion
was your father?” —
<
* Wh-—wh— why do you afk, Sir? I fup-
u pofe there cannot be any thing material to ^
“ your purpofe in them ?”----*
—
Pardon me, good Sir, they are material,
<
c very material. A name, efpecially if itcon-
fifts of many fyllables, often gives an excel-
<c lent hint; for, as much as your modern wits
xt may affeft to defpife the myfterious learning
“ o f Rebafes, wifer antiquity held it in higher
c
< repute, as you muft have obferved from the
“ many illuftrious coats o f arms taken entirely
u from the name: and then knowledge of the
u profefiion of a gentleman’s father is abfolutely
“ neceflary
,yGoogle
C H R Y S A L j o r , t h e
44, neceflary for many reafons. There are pro-
cs feffions, the implements of which are never
4C dropped, becaufe the profeffions themfelves
are reckoned honourable, as there alfo are
4
4 others, nothing relating to which is ever
f € bor'rtj for the contrary reafon. The fon of
4
4 a general or an admiral, for inftance, will
4
4 have his arms charged with implements of
4
4 war; but thefon o f am an who keeps a chandler's
4
4 Jhop will never bear a lamp of butter, or
4
4 bunch of candles, nor the fon o f a tailor, a
4
4 pair of fciflars or a thimble; forthefe would
4
4 at once betray what is defigned to be hid ;
4
4 and therefore it is abfolutely neceflary that I
4
4 fliould be informed of thefe particulars.”-—
4
4 B— b— b— but, Sir, can you not ftrike
Cf out fomething entirely new, without alluding
“ to any name or profeffion at all ? I am wil-
<
c ling to pay you well for your trouble, only
<
s let me have fomething elegant and grand.”
I underftand you, Sir. Til engage to
€6 pleafe you. I’ll quarteryou the coat o fa crowned
€i head in an inftant, without any body’s being
<
c able to fay a word againft it. Leave it to
4
4 me ; and I’ll engage to pleafe you ; not the
44 richeft contralor or Nabob of them all ihall
44 make fuch a figure.”—
4
4 And pray, Sir, what is your price, for a
44 job of this kind ?”— 4
4 Price, Sir? I never
*4 make bargains! let common mechanicks do
4
4 that!
,yGoogle
3
44 that! Gentlemen always make me a prefent,
4
4 when they befpeak their honours; and, ac-
4
4 cording to the value of that, my invention is
4
4 either high or low.” .
4
4 Well, Sir, it fhan’t fink on that account
4
4 now. Here are ten guineas for you, as an
4
4 earned of what I will give, if I like your
4
6 work, when it is done.” ——
4
4 Sir! you may depend on having the
44 highejl arms of any man in the kiggdom.
4
4 Your generofity fhows that you ought to be
4
4 a gentleman; and it (hall be my fault if 1
4
4 don’t make you one, in the fight of the
44 world.” ---- -Saying this, he took his leave,
when I was heartily glad to go w ith him , being part
o f the price paid upon this occafionfo r the making o f
a gentleman•
As foon as my new mafter went home, he re­
tired to his clofet, and taking out the money he
had juft received, 4
4Ha! ha! ha! no bad
4
4 price for a little daubing!” (faid he, laughing,
and chinking the purfe.) 4
4 I wonder how the
4
4 fellow could befuch an afs as to think that
4
4 any thing in my power to do could make him
4
4 pafs for a gentleman ! But let him have his
4
4 way! his folly is my gain; and it is no
4
4 more than juftice, that one who has cheated
4
4 the world fo long ihould cheat himfelf at
4
4 laft, and facrifice the earnings of villainy to
4
4 vanity ! But, hold! this is about the time my
Vol. IV. F 4
4 A n ti-
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 9f
,yGoogle
4
4 Antiquarian was to come. Let me fee thofe
4
4 ancient manufcripts and infcriptions which /
<
4 had dene la ß week ! Upon my life, they look
<
c very well. The cartker upon this copper*
*4 and thefmoke upon this parchment are as na-
•f tural as if they were the work of a thoufand
years; and thefe¡craw ls might pafs even for
4
4 thefpells of the Witch of Endor, they have fo
little likenefs to any marks made to convey
4
4 thought, at this time. He is a very pretty
<
c fellow that did them, and deferves encou-
4
4 ragement.” ,
Juft as he faid this, the perfon he expefted
came, and entering without ceremony upon his
bufinefs, 4
4 I called upon you, Sir (faid he)
4
4 to fee thofe things you mentioned to me. If
4
4 they are really what you defcribe, we fhall
4
4 not differ about the price, high as it is.”
4
4 I hope, Sir (anfwered my mafter) you
4
4 have not fo mean an opinion of my judge-
4
4 ment, as to imagine I could ever think of
4
4 impofing upon you. No, Sir! I know that
4
4 to be impoflible; even if I could, be bafe
4
4 enough to attempt it; and, therefore would
€i not mention any thing to you, that could
admit of the leaft doubt to a perfon of your
<
c profound learning. As to the price, I could
4
C have had much more fince I faw you; but
€
< I thought it but juftice to their merit to offer
4
4 them firft to you, as there is no other €ol-
' ' 4
6le&ion
¿8 CHR YS A L: OR, THE
,yGoogle
<c le&ion in the kingdom worthy of them, and
4
4 I am above riiing in a demand I have once
44 made, though infinitely ihort of their intrin-
44 fick value, as you will be convinced, the
44 moment you fee them. Here, Sir, is the
4
4 manufcripty which I had the good fortune to
4
4 meet with, as I was rummaging among fome
4
4 old records in our office, that had never been
4
4 ftirred fince the reign of Henry the Eighth.
4
4 The paper in which it was wrapped was fo
4
4 decayed* that it mouldered quite away, fo
4
4 immediately upon its coming into the open
4
4 air, that I had fcarce time to read the con-
4
4 tents, which were that this parchment had been
4
4 foun d in the tomb o f Thomas i Beckety upon the
4
4 breaking up o f his Jfa'ine at the Reformation, and
4
4 was laid up there, on account of its anti-
4
4 quity. That it muft have been very ancient,
4
4 even before his time, the colour and decay of
4
4 the parchment would fufficiently prove, were
4
4 there not other proofs ftill more convincing
4
4 tofuch as have judgement to comprehend
4
4 them. Theihape of the letter (hows its age,
4
4 This manner of writing, as appears by com-
4
4 paring it with other ancient manufcripts,
4
4 was introduced in the beginning of the fecond
4
4 century of the Criftian-#£ra, and quite drop-
4
4 ped by the middle of the third. Within
4
4 that period, therefore, it muft have been
4
4 written.* Its antiquity being thus fixed, the
F 2 4
4 purport
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
,yGoogle
4
4 purport of it is next to be confidered 5 andof
4
4 that, and its importance, there can benojuft
4
4 room to doubt. This fpot at the bottom of
4
4 the parchment, though fo much defaced by
4
4 time, bears a ftrong refemblance to the im-
4
4 preilion of a m itre, and thereby proves that
4
4 fome biihop was the author of what was
4
4 written over it, into which thefe four letter«,
4
4 m — a — t — h , fortunately fo very plain,
4
4^give the cleareft light ; for as they mult
<
c have been part of the word A r i m a t h æ a ,
** they prove that the dpinion of Jofeph o f A r i-
4
4 m athaef* having firft preached the Gofpel in
4
4 B ritain was known fo early as in the fe-
4
4 cond century, and fo decide that long-con-
4
4 tefted point 5 as, who can be fuch an Infidel
4
4 as to doubt a thing given thus, as I mayfay,
under the facred feal of the mitre9 and that
i4 fo very near the time.”
4
4Very true; but is it not as probable, that
f4 the defign of this writing was to refute that
4
4 opinion, as to confirm it ?”
4
4 My good Sir, if you allow weight to fuch
4
4 trivial objeftions as this, you give up all the
4
4 knowledge of an Antiquarian, which never
4
4 amounts higher, than to poflible conjefture,
4
4 without regard to probability even againft
4
4 him ; for conjectures fuch as this, founded on
4
4 effaced remains o f antiquity, are o f much greater
4
4 weight in the learned worlds becaufe they Jhow
4
4 more
toa CHRYSALî OR, THE
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. icn
44 more learning than the plainejl cortclufiom drawn
u from evident, and complete records, as thefe are ob~
4
4 v.ious to any common perfon. But, why do I
4
4 mention thefe things to you, who underftand
44 them fo much better than I pretend to do.”
4
4 I believe I do* Sir, know fomething of
4
4 thofe matters; and was fatisfied both of its
4
4 antiquity and importance, at the firft glance
4
4 of my eye; though I ftarted that obje&ion
4
4 for mere amufement. But where is the frag-
4
4 ment ? I ihould be glad to fee that alfo.”
4
4 Here it is, Sir;” (anfwered my matter,
taking a bit of broken copper out of a box, in
which it was carefully wrapped in cotton.)
4
4 This plate of copper was torn, in the manner
4
4 you fee, from the head of a fepulchral mo-
4
6 nument, on the top of Mount Libanus9 by
4
4 a perfon who had beenfent thither by a cele-
44 brated Society, on purpofe to feek for fuch
4
4 things; and at his return made me a prefent
4
4 of it, as the mod valuable acquifition he had
4
4 made, out of gratitude for my having helped
4
4 him to the job. Obferve this canker, Sir J
4
4 Much as it has been rubbed off in the car-
4
4 riage ; the depth and colour of it ihow, that
4
4 it mud have been fome thoufands of
4
4 years in gathering. What the occafion of
4
4 fetting it up was, fome particular circum-
4
4 ftances direft to a conjefture fufficiently pro-
4
4 bable. You fee this hole, which the canker
F 3 ' 44 has
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
lo t
4
4 has eaten almoft through the copper, with
4
4 thisJiroke turning up over it. This certainly
4
4 is the remains of the figure of a lion, as is
4
4 plain from thefe two tufts in the middle, and
4
4 at the end of the ftroke, which muft have
4
4 been the tail of it. Now, as a lion was the
4
4 emblem of Judah, it cannot be doubted but
4
4 fome great perfonage of that tribe muft have
4
4 been buried where this emblem was fet up—
4
4 a circumftance, that fo clearly proves the an-
4
4 tiquity o f coats o f arms, that I do not know
<
c how to think of parting with it, it affords fuch
cc an illuftration to a treatife I am at this time
4
4 engaged in writing on that fublime and dif-
4
4 ficult fubjeft.”
cc Not part with it!** (replied the Antiqua­
rian, returning it carefully into the box, and
then cramming the box into his bofom.) 4
4YoiX
4
4 muft get it firft, my good friend, to part
<
c with. Ha! ha! ha! a very pretty jeft, truely!
4
4 you offer a thing to fale, and fet a price upon
4
4 it, and then you cannot part with it ! a very
4
1 pretty jeft, truely! Here is your money, both
cc for the tnanufcript and the fragm ent; and
ic when you meet with any other fuch precious
4
4 remains of antiquity, I (hall be obliged to
4
4 you to let me have the preference. Nobody
4
4 will give you a better price.”
Saying this, he reached my mafter a bank­
note, which he took with an air of diflatis-
faftion \
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. wj
fa&ion> and while he was telling out change*
4
4 You do as you pleafe with me, Sir (faid he)
4
4 this time*, but the next I (ball be more upon
4
4 my guard. I am glad, however, that it
44 goes into fo noble a collection as your’s, where
.
4
4 it will have juftice done to its merit.
4
4Aye, Sir!” (anfwered the Antiquarian,, with
a {mile of felf-complacency.) 4
4 I have been at
4
4 fome pains, and expenfe, too, to make a col-
4
4 ledion\ and have the fatisfa&ion to think,
4
4 that, whenever I die, it will make as good a
4
4 figure in afa le catalogue as that of moft of my
4
4 contemporaries. I ihall leave proofs behind
4
4 me, that I have not fpent my life in vain.
4
4 What would I not give to hear the chara&er
4
4 w;hich an able Auctioneer will give of me,
4
4 upon opening the fale ! I wiih my good
4
4 friend P u ff may out-live me, to have thejob.
4
4 There is no man fets forth the merit of any
4
4 thing in fuch happy terms. He has words
4
4 at will, as they fay. What a high opinion
4
4 will he raife of my learning, tafte,and judge-
4
4 ment ! But that’s right— You faid you
4
4 wanted thisfragm ent, for a particular occa-
4
4 fion: I am by no means averfe to obliging
4
4 you. You are welcome to quote it, as in
4
4 my collection, fuppofe in this, or fome fuch
4
4 manner, 4
4as appears (proving what you
4
4 have advanced before) by a mojl valuable,
4
4 and rare antique fragm ent (or whatever elfe
F 4 f4 you
,yGoogle
104 CHR Y SA £i OR, THE
4
4 you ihall call it) in the mofi curious, or cojlly, or
4
C ineftimable, or (or perhaps all thefe) coU
w leftion o f my late mojl learned, and judicious*
4
4 indefatigable, munificent fr ie n d f9 or
4
4 whatever other titles of the kind your judge-
4
4 mentand regard Ihall di&ateto you.”
4
4 I am much obliged to you for the favour,”
(returned my mailer, fcarce able to reftrain his
laughter) 4
4and ihall be fure to avail myfelf of
4
4 it, at the proper time, as alfo to do it in a
4
4 manner, which, however Ihort it may fall of
4
4 your merit, will yet teftify my high and re-
4
4 fpe&ful fenfe of it.”—-Saying this, he gave
him the change of his note, among which 1 w as,
and fent him away happy.
C H A P .
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 105
C H A P . XV.
A modeji method o f feeking fam e. C h r y s a l V
m ajler confirms him felf in his refolution to gra­
tify an uncommon curiofity, by a great examples
The judicious and learned manner in which he
claffed and entered his new acquifitions. Curious
remark on the value o f books. H e goes to an
auction^ where he makes an extraordinary p u r-
chafe. C h r y s a l changes his fervice fo r that
o f the Auctioneer. Specimen and effects o f his
new mafter's eloquence, learnings and judgem ent.
A
Man’s fpending hifr life and fortune, in
buying up books of learning, and obfcure
remains of antiquity, only to make a great fale
after his death, was a method of feeking fame
more modeft than I had hitherto met among
mankind. As foon as my new mailer reached
home, he went dire&ly into his M ufieum % and
taking out his rare purchafes, flared at them for
fome time in a kind of ftupid delight, till no
longer able to contain it, 4
4 What an opinion
<
c (faid he) will the world have of me, when all
u thefe come to be ihown for iale? I hope my
4
4 worthy friend P u ff will live to do me juftice!
u What if I ihould beg of him to give me a,
4
4 fpecimen of the manner in which he will fet
4
4 them out ? Hecanrfot refufe me thatgratifica-
F 5 4
4 tion* '
,yGoogle
4
4 tion, in return for all the money he has taken
4
4 from me, efpecially as I have told him, that I
4
4 defign he lhall have the job. Such a requefl:
4
4 is not improper. It has the fan&ion of one
4
4 of the greateft names in antiquity to fupport
4
4 it. Cicero, the great Cicero, defired his friend,
<
c the hiftorian, to let him know what he in-
4
4 tended to fay of him ; and need I hefitate to
4
4 follow his example? Whatever has the au-
4
C thority of antiquity muft be right; and, there-
4
6 fore, I will go to him dire&ly about it.— But,
4
4 hold ! I muft enter thefe articles in my ca-
4
4 talogue firft.5
’
Then taking down an huge folio, richly
bound, and infcribed C a t a l o g u e , on the back
and fides, in capitals of gold, he fat down to
infert this valuable addition to his treafure,
and opening the book with great deliberation,
4
4 What are the heads (faid he) under
4
4 which they are to be clafled ? Let me, fee !
4
4 A ntiques! No! that is for my coins, and
4
4 bujls, and urns. What is the next? Ancient
4
4 manufcripts and fragm ents! Aye!, thefe are
4
4 they. Let me confider, now, what are the
4
4 titles !” ----- Then laying the fore-finger of
his right hand upon the tip of his nofe, fupport-
ing his chin with his thumb, ihutting his eyes,
and leaning back in his chair, on the arm of
which he refted his elbow, 4
4 How unlucky it
i4 was (refumed he, after a long paufe) that he
4
4 did
xof , C H R Y S A L i OR, T H E
,yGoogle
4
4 did not tell their names! I was aihamed to aik
4
4 him dire<ftly, though I did as much, if he
4
4 had minded me. But, can’t I make them
4
4 out, from what he faid ? A very antique ma-
4
4 nufeript— N o ! that will not do. Antique
<
c is for works of art; ancient is the word here.—
4
4 A very ancient manufeript w ritten by "Thomas ä
4
4 Bechet in the fecond century, and found, in his
4
4 tomb, at the K eß oration, proving that Jofeph o f
44 Arimathcea was an E n g liß bißop.— Y es! .That
4
4 is it. Arid then for the fragm ent— a very
4
C ancient— no, antique. Antique is the word for
4
4fragm ents, they are made by art— A very an-
4
4 tique fragm ent torn from a monument on M ount
4
4 Libanus, proving that fome great perfon was
4
4 buried there', and that a lion was the arms o f
4
4 Ju d a h .— Aye! thefewilldo! I knew I could
4
4 make them out. This is juft the fubftance
4
4 of what he faid, but in fewer and better
4
4 words. Titles ihould be fhort and pithy;
4
4 M ultum in parvo— Much in a little compafs;
4
4 Let me alone for hitting off a ftriking title*
4
4 I have not been an Antiquarian fo long for
4
4 nothing.”— Then conning them over twice
or thrice, to try how they founded, he entered
them in his catalogue, and putting the book back
into its place, fat down to contemplate his own
confequence in the learned world.
But, fublime as this enjoyment was, his in­
defatigable induftry would not permit him to
F 6 indulge
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 107
,yGoogle
indulge it long. 4
4 Hah! (faid he, ftarting, as
4
4 uponfuddenrecolle&ion) that’sright! thefale
44 of thofe Chinefe charafters% brought over ia
4
4 the laft fleet, comes on about this very time.
•4 It was quite out of my head; and I
€c would not have miffed them on any account.
4
4 They’ll make a capital article; for the Chinefe
4
4 tafte is coming into fuch great vogue, that I
4
4 fuppofe we fhall foon learn their language;
4
4 though I (hould be forry to fee that, too; as
4
4 it would leffen the value of my Chinefe books;
4
4 for hooks are now valuedthe more fo r not being un-
4
4 derjlood, as I know by experience, having laid
4
4 out many a pound in the purchafe of fuch as
4
4 I underhand no more of, than if they were
4
4 Chinefe. But letthofe who know noother ufe of
4
4 books but to read them buy only fuch as they
4
4 can read: I colleft mine for another purpofe,
4
4 and a noble collection I will have, let it coft
4
4 me what it will: I care not whether I die
4
4 worth a groat befide: the fame of that is
u fortune enough for me.”
Purfuant to this noble refolution he went di-
reftly to the fale, where he was fo charmed with
the Auctioneer's learning and eloquence, that he
out-bade every body, and carried off in triumph
the curious, therare, the inejlimahle key into all the
myjlerious, theprofound, thefublime wifdom of that
prince ofallPhilofophers, Legifators, and Hierarchs%
the divine C on— f u t — see, andall his learned
" and
lot C H R Y S A L , OR, T H E
yGoOgl
and judicious D ifciples and Commentators^ the
C hinese ch ar acter s, in paying for which,
I changed hisfervicefo r that o f the Auctioneer.
My new mailer proceeded, for the remainder of
the fale, to difplay his abilities in the fame ex­
traordinary manner; giving circumftantial ac­
counts of things he knew nothing of; and be-
flowing the moft extravagant praifes for excel­
lencies of his own invention, often inconiiilent
with each other, and with the fubjedl to which
they were ignorantly attributed, with a confi­
dence that bore down doubt, and gained implicit
credit with the gaping croud, in defiance to
reafon, and their very fenfes, till he led them on
by little and little to pay the price of fuch an
imaginary value. But this will be beft explained
by an inftance thatjiappened juft after 1 came
into his pofleffion.
The fale of that day confided nominally of the
collection of a Cheefemonger lately 'deceased, who
had been an eminent Antiquarian and Virtuofo•
1 fay nominally; beqaufe, though the whole
went Under his name, fcarce the tenth part of
it had ever been his, the reft being made up from
every quarter by my mailer. Among the rare%
curious, and tojlly articles exhibited on this oc-
cafion, was a veffel of Porcelaine, of an uncom­
mon fhape, ornamented with feveral odd and
uncouth reprefentations of animals, and fome .
figures not unlike the chara&ers of a language.
“ Gentlemen*
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. so?
,yGoogle
4
4 Gentlemen (faid my matter, as foon as this
4
4 was produced) you here fee one of the rareft,
4
4 and moft valuable remains of antiquity, ever
4
4 brought into jEurope. This here fuperb vafe
4
4 was the identical cup out of which the fub-
4
4 lime emperours of China for numberlefs ages
4
4 drank the confecrated wine, on the day of their
4
4 coronation. It was found, gentlemen, among
4
4 the treafures of the Great M oguly by Thomas
4
4 Couli Cany when he dethroned that there
4
4 prince, out of the wreck of whofe fpoils,
4
4 when they were loft in patting the river o f the
4
4 Indies, it was faved by a Chinefe Naboby from
4
4 whom it was afterwards taken, together with
4
4 his crown, by that there heaven-born general,
4
4 who made thofe effeminate and daftardly
4
4 Indians* tremble at the name of an Englijhm an,
4
4 and given by him as a precious token of his
4
4 efteem to the deceafed, his very learned and
u curious friend. This, gentlemen, is in few
4
4 words the whole, full, and true account of
4
4 this here ineftimable curiofity, every word of
4
4 which can be proved by unqueftionable au-
4
4 thority. As for the vafe itfelf, exclufive of all
4
4 this, its own merits give it futticient value.
4
4 Obferve thefe here figures, gentlemen j they
4
4 are Egyptian hieroglyphicks denoting the duties
4
4 of a fovereign, which thofe wife M andarines
4
4 always take care to inftruft their emperours
4
4 in. This here lion) for inftance, fignifies that
4
4 he
U9 CHRYS AL: OR, T HE
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. m
4
4 he muft be courageous and valiant: this fo x ,
4
4 that he muft be wife; and fo on. But the
4
4 moil extraordinary thing of all, gentlemen,
4
4 is thefe here characters. They are a ta lij-
4
4 man, or charm, invented by Mahomet to pro-
4
4 teft the owner of this cup from the influence
4
4 of evil fpirits. I do not prefume, gentlemen,
4
4 to ftand up fornhe virtue of fuch things. The
4
4 notion of fpirits, I am fenfible, is much ex-
4
4 ploded; and the religion of Mahomet cried
4
4 down among us; but ftill, gentlemen, with**
4
4 out entering into thefe here nice points, we
4
4 all know that he was a great man, and lived
4
4 a great w hile ago9 which is fufficient to make
4
4 any thing that was his of great value to men
4
4 of learning, who are above prejudice in thefe
4
4 matters. But, befide all this, thefe here cha-
4
4 rafters are of the greateft importance, on
4
4 another account; as they prove beyond dif-
4
4 pute, that the true method o f w riting the learned
4
4 languages was w ithout accents, not one appear-
4
4 ing, as you fee, gentlemen, in this moil ori-
4
4 ginal and authentick relick of ancient learn-
4
4 ing, and fo put an end to that there contro-
4
4 verfy, that has fo long puzzled the world. It
4
4 were preemption in me, gentlemen, to at-
4
4 tempt putting a value on a thing that is inva-
4
4 luable. I will, therefore, fet it up at what
4
4 you pleafe, as you are the beft judges. This
“ only I will make bold to fay, that the beft
* 5 4
4 judge
,yGoogle
4
< judge of all will have it, as he will give mod
<
c for it; for too much it is impoffible to give.”
So juft an account, and fuch judicious praife,
could not fail of effeft. The V iriu ofiround him,
fatisfied that what he faid muft be true, becaufe
fpoken with confidence, and above their com-
prehenfion, vied with each other for the pofleffion
of fo ineftimable a treafure, till they raifed it to
an height, at which they themfelves were fur-
prifed, as foon as the fpirit of bidding began to
cool, and they had time to refleft»
tis C H R Y S A L : OR, T HE
C H A P ,
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, nj
C H A P . ’ XVI.
A n unfavoury accidentflop s him Jhori in his ha­
rangue. H e turns o ff the jefl^ w ith another,
and accounts learnedly fo r what has happened.
The real caufe> and confequence o f that acci­
dent. Reflexions on auttioneering^ and the caufes
o f itsfu ccefs• ,
T H IS was the time for which he always
reserved the higheft flights of his elo­
quence, to raife that fpirit again. Refuming,
therefore, his harangue, 4
4Youpaufe, gentlemen.
4
4 (faid he) only to confider how much farther you
4
4 may rife with fafety; for it is impoffible that
4
4 perfons of your profound tafte and judgement
4
4 ihould difgrace them fo much, as to let fuch
* a jewel go for fo mere a trifle. Do not take
4
4 my word, gentlemen, for its value. I may
4
4 be millaken, but you cannot. Examine it,
4
4 therefore, yourfelves. Obferve the beauty of
4
4 thefe here unknown figures ! read thefe unin-
4
4 telligihle chara&ers; and fmell the aromatick
4
4 odour which the vafe ftill retains, and evet
4
4 will retain, from the quinteflences of all the
4
4 fpices of the Indies, which ufed to be mixed
4
4 with the confecrated wine. The perfume
4
4 isalmoft enough to revive the dead.”
Saying
,yGoogle
C H R Y S A L : OR, T HE
ti4
Saying this, he went to fmell it himfelf, to
lead the way to the reft, and putting the mouth
of ittohisnofe, without taking off the cover,
that the fragrance ihould not evaporate, as he
raifed his hand, a ftream, that emitted a favour
far from aromatick, guihed out into his face,
andfilled his mouth, as well as nofe, with fome-
thing more fubftantial than perfume.
It is impoffible to defcribe his fituation, at
fuch a difgraceful accident. Surprife, fhame,
and loathing aggravated each other, and threw
him into fuch confufion, as once in his life de­
prived him of utterance for fome moments. As
foon as he had emptied his mouth, and wiped
his face, “ Villain, (fputtered he, to his fer-
<
c v.ant) how has this happenned? Whom have
“ you let play me this bafe, malicious, low-lived
<
c trick ?”
“ S— S— Sir,” (anfwered the fellow, as
well as his ftruggle to fupprefs his laughter per­
mitted him to fpeak) “ I know nothing of the
“ matter, I never left any one a moment
<
c alone among the things,but them there ladies,
<
c who I told you fent me out for a glafs of
<
c R atafia, the other morning, and how could
“ I have fufpedled their doing fuch a thing ?”
“ Ratafia!** (replied my matter, who had by
this time recovered his affurance, and knew
the beft way to turn off one jeft is by another)
u G in , you ihould fay; for, if lean judge by
c
< tafte
,yGoogle
“ tafte and fmell, that is their liquor. Ifup-
c* pofe they did it on purpofe to revenge their
“ fex upon Mahomet, for taking away their
cc fouls (I wiih he had alfo taken away the
cc filthinefs of their difpofitions!) by defiling
cc fo celebrated a monument of his learning and
(kill, in this nafty manner, Ha! ha! ha!”
The oddity offucha thought naturally made
the company join in his laugh; but could not
fo far wipe off the difgrace which the defiled
vafe had fuffered, as to make any more be of­
fered for it, fo that it was forced to be knocked
down to the laft bidder, at not much more than
if it had been made of gold, at which the pur-
chafer and my matter were equally mortified,
though for different and with very unequal rea-
fons. As for the caufe of this misfortune, it
was really what the fervant faid. One of the
ladies who came to view the curiofities having
certain prefiing occafions, feigned a pretenfe to
fend him out; and in the mean time made fuch
ufe of this vafe, being the firft conveniency that
came to her hand, as over-powered the fcent of
fome fpices, which had been put into it for the
purpofe.
It was fortunate for my mailer, that this
was the laft article in the fale of that day, as a
fpirit of ridicule could not be favourable to bis
bufinefs. As foon as the company were gone,
he fettled his accounts, and fumming up the
profits,
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ixs
yGoogl
n s C H R Y S A L î OR, T H E
profits, “ Why this is pretty well !v (faid he rub~
bing his hands, and ihrugging up his Ihoulders}
€t this does pretty well l Though, if that damn’d
“ accident had not happened (turning up his
“ nofe, and fpitting with loathing) it would
“ have been much better. The fools were in
<
c the humour, and wanted only to be kept up.
“ However, I have not much right to complain
€
€ upon the whole. That there Jordan coft
<
c me five {hillings, and 1 have fold it for fifty
<
c pounds. Much good may thejudicious buyer
“ make of his bargain. This is the happinefa
4
4 of Oman’s having his tongue w ell hung. A
4
4 mealy mouth will never do for my bnfmefs j
Cf which after all is the beft going. I might
u have flood freezing behind a counter this
“ month, and not make half this much. In
<
c the way o ffa ir trade, as it is called, people
<
4 have their fenfes about them, and fland to
€
c examine before they buy, but any trumpery
<
c will go off in this way.’*
I have obferved your aftoniihment at the
eafinefs with which my matter fucceeded in fuch
grofs impofition; but the reafon of it is obvious*
All mankind have an ambition of diftinguiibing
themfelves, one way or another; and generally
choofe that, in which they have the leaft quali­
fications to entitle them to fuccefs, in order to
hide their own deficiency. The coward, for in-
ftance, affe&s valour; the blockhead know­
ledge*
,yGoogle
ledge% and the illiterate tradesman, who hat
made a fortune by plodding on in fome illiberal
bufinefs, tafte and judgement in the abftrufeft
purfuits of learned curiofity, in which, as there
is no fixed rule to judge by, caprice takes the
direction, and opens an ample field for impo-
fition.
As to the bufinefs of auctioneering in general,
it owes the greater part of that fuccefs, with
which my mailer was fo pleafed, to another
caufe— The defire of buying bargains, which
governs every one who buys any thing, makes
people croud to tbofe places, where things are
to be fold, not as in the regular courfe of trade,
for what they appear to be worth, but for the
moll that can be got for them ; and there emu­
lation, dependence on each other’sjudgement,
( thofe people know what they are doings and w ould
not bidfo much, i f it was not worth more9
9
)
and the oratory of the au£tioneer lead them
by infenfible advances, as their fpirits rife,
to give prices, which they never meant to give,
when they began to bid, That great bargains
are often got at fuch places is true, but that is
chiefly in a particular branch of the bufinefs,
the myftery of which will be explained to you.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA^ fif
C H A P .
,yGoogle
lit C HRY S A L : OR, T HE
C H A P . XVII.
C h r ysal'sm a fterisvifited ly a C onnoisseur, to
whom be gives a Jhort receipt how to make his
pictures fe lly and makes fome Jlriking remarks,
on the difregard people Jhow fo r their fam iliesy
which fen d his vifitor away in a huff.
T l/T Y mailer was interrupted in his pleafing
meditations, by the enterance of a gen­
tleman, the fight of whom promifed him the
greater pleafure of carrying the fubjeft of them
into execution. After fome judicious remarks
on the taile of the town, and the prefent Hate
o f tfirtUy in the courfe of which each liberally
complimented the other, <
c Pray, Sir (faid the
<
c gentleman) howdo pictures fell, this feafon i "
c< Never better, Sir (anfwered my mailer.)
<
c Pictures are every body’s money, now. . A
“ good m ajler brings any thing; and what is
<
c more, I am convinced they will rife Hill high-
<
c er, fo that buyers have no time to lofe. I
<
c have a fale next week, when you will fee
<
c fuch prizes as will aftoniih you. There
<
c are fome things there, that I know you will
<
c have, let them coft what they will, they fuit
(f your fine colle&ion fo cxailly.”
Why as to that (replied the gentleman)
(i my
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. u 9
4
4 my mind is a good deal changed. I have
4
4 taken it into my head lately to part with my
4
4 pi£tures, and have therefore called upon you,
4
4 todefire that you will come in the morning,
4
4 and let me know what you think they are
4
4 worth.”—
4
4 Worth, Sir! they are a worth a great deal
4
4 of money; which there is not the leaft dan-
4
4 ger but they will bring, if they are managed
44 properly. There is more, Sir, in the manage-
4
4 mentofa fale, much more than moil people
4
4 dream of, I allure you.” — —
4
4 I am fenfible of that, Sir; and alfoof your
44 abilities in fuch management, which you will
4
4 have the beft encouragement to exert on this
44 occafion, as I propofe felling the whole to
4
4 you together, if we can agree.” — *
This turn came fo unexpedled that it ftruck
my mailer quite down in the mouth, as he was
fenfible that he had over-ihot himfelf, aq^
fpoiled his market by faying fo much. 4
4It is very
4
4 unlucky, Sir,” (anfwered he, changing his
note diredlly) <
c that I did not know your inten«
<
c tion fooner. I could then have divided them
4
4 properly among the feveral fales of the feafon;
4
4 but it is now quite too late; this here one next
4
4 week is the laft ; and the catalogues for that
4
4 are alj. made out, and difperfed, fo that there
4
4 is no poflibility of flipping in a Angle article.
4
4 Befides, the buyers have laid out all their
4
4 money.” —■ «
-­
4
4 Slipping
,yGoogle
!2t C H R Y S A l i OR, THE
4
4 Slipping in, Sir! I do not underhand you.
4
4 Do not you think my pi&ures are fufficient,
4
4 both in number and value, to makeafale by
4
4 themfelves? I am fure, I have more than
4
4 once known you make noife enough about
4
4 colleSiions in no refpeft equal to mine. There
4
4 muft be fome myftery in this, which I cannot
4
4 comprehend.”
4
4 Very true, Sir! there are myfteries, as
4
4 you obferve, in all bufineffes; and perhaps
4
4 in none more than our’s.” — ■-
4
4 I am not enquiring into your myfteries.
4
4 All I defire to know is, why, afterjuft tel-
4
4 ling me that pi&ures never bore fo high a
4
4 price as at this time, and that mine could
4
4 not fail of bringing a great deal of money,
4
4 you fliould fo foon change your opinion.5
’—
4
4Pardon me, Sir, I have not changed my
4
4 opinion in the leaft; and fhall be very proud
4
4 to ferve you to the beft of my abilities, in the
4
4 way of a fale; but there is a material reafon,
4
4 why I muft beg to be excufed in buying them,
4
4 to ftand the hazard of it myfelf.” ---- -
441 ihould be glad to know what that reafon
4
4 can be, for I muft own I cannot conceive it.”
4
4Why, Sir, it is a thing to be fure that may
4
4 feem odd to you* but experience has taught
4
4 us the truth of it. In ihort, Sir, it is your
4
4 being alive.” ---- -
4
4 How! my being alive! Wjhat difference can
,yGoogle
44 my life or death make in the value of my
44 pictures ?
*
*
■ •■—
4
4 A very great one, Sir, I aflure you. In
4
4 all the courfe of niy bufinefs, I never knew
4
4 oneinftanceof 3 fale’s going o ff well, where
44 the owner was living* People conclude that
4
4 a perfon parts with piilures either through
44 diilike, or necefljty. The former, you know,
44 depreciates them at once; nor does the other
44 much lefs; as people of fafhion defpife a man,
4
4 and every thing belonging to him, the mo-
44 ment it is known that he is in diftrefs. Be-
41 fides, an Auctioneer's tongue is tied up from
4
4 faying any thing of a perfon’s tafte, and
44 judgement, and all that, while he is living,
41 it founds fo fulfome; and you are fenfiblethat
44 a good charaiter of the collector often goes a
44 great way in helping off a collection”
4
4 The beft thing, then, for a man to do on
4
4 fuchan occafion, I prefume, would be to fhoot
4
4 himfelf through the head ! Heh?”
u Ha! ha! ha! You are pleafed to jeft,
44 Sir; but to be fure it would be of great ad-
<
c vantage. Curiofity brings all the world upon
4( thofe occafions, and then a man has an op-
44 portunity of faying fo many things, astb a t
4
4 the deceafed would not take ten timesfo much,
44 i f he were liv in g s or, that the high price he
4
4 gavefo r it caufed the diftrefs that made him k ill
*4 him felf; or a thoufand other finking things
“ V o t. IV. G “ of
ADVENTURES OF A GUINE A, i»x
,yGoogle
ÇHRYS AL: O R, THE
* i the kind. I never havefo much pleasure as upon
4
C thofe occaficns, they give a man fuch room to
<
c ihow himfelf. Indeed, if gentlemen con-
4
4 fidered the thing in time, more of them would
4
4 take this method of delivering themfelves and
4
4 their families both from diftrefs, and not de-
4
4 fer it till all his .gone, and the furvivors can
4
4 make nothing by their deathj but few people '
4
4 take any care for their families now o’ days..
4
4 It is a bold pufli, to be furej though not fo
4
4 bad as a man’s Jhooting him felf to w in a wager,
4
4 neither. I fhould beg your pardon, Sir, for
4
4 fpeaking fo freely, but as I know it is not
4
4 your cafe, you cannot take offenfe ; though,
4
4 even if I thought it was, I would not pre-
4
4 fume to recommend fuch a thing, for the
4
4 world. Every body is to judge for himfelf.
4
C I only give you my opinion what effeft i$
4
4 would have.”
4
6 I underftand you very well, Sir,” (an-
fwered the gentlemen, who had much diffi­
culty to hear him out) 4
4 and in return for your
4
4 opinion will give you my advice, which
4
4 to confider better whom you fpe;ak to in this
44 infolent manner another time, for fear of re-
4
4 ceiving fuch cfyaftifement, as contempt alone
4
4 prevents my giving you this moment.”— On
faying which words he turned about, and left
the room. .
C HAP.
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES ÒF A GUINEA. 12$
C H A P . X V III.
C h r y s a l ’j maßer receives an agreeable fummons•
H is encomiums on the generoflty o f merchants, and
account o f the way many o f them acquire reputa­
tion fo r tafle and judgement. H e meets the
merchant, who confults him on a different branch
o f' his buftnefs from that which he expefted.
C h rysalV m aflery in order to encourage his
cuflomery gives a large account o f his own abili­
ties, and opensfome curious fecrets in his bufmefs.
A bargain is flru ck , to the mutualfatisfaäion o f
both parties; and C hrysal changes his fervice
FXL as my mailer was accuftomed to
rebukes, there was fomething in the na­
ture of this which difconcerted him fo much,
that he had nQt power to make the gentleman
any reply. But he was foon relieved from the
trepidation into which it threw him, by a mef-
fage from an eminent merchant, to meet him
direftly at a neighbouring tavern. c
< Aye (faid
he, adjufting his wig at theglafs, and putting
<
c on his cloak) this is the thing! There is fotne
difference between treating with a good fub-
ftantial citizen, who will mind what a man
<
c fays, and your people of fa(hion, who fly
into a rage, forfooth, if they can’t have their
fo r that o f the merchant.
G 2 c< own
Digitized by Google
C H R Y S A L : OR, THE
*M­
** own way, in every thing. No people part
<
c with their money fo freely as merchants.
4
4 They don’t ftand higgling, and criticizing
4
6 like the others. All they require is, to be
4
6 afked a good price, and then they think a
4
4 .thing muft be good of courfe. Many a time
4
4 have I got five times more from a merchant,
4
4 than I dared to haveaiked from a duke. I
4
4 fuppofe he wants to ihow his tafte next week
at thefale; and has fent for me, to tell him
44 which are the belt pieces, and how much he
4
4 may bid for them. He is not the firft citizen,
4
4 whom my inftru&ions have made pafs for a
4
4 man of tafte and judgement. I love fuch
4
4 pupils, they pay fo well for their learning;
4
4 and that more ways than one; for they buy
4
4 what no body elfe would bid for; it is only
4
4flipping a puffer or two o f quality at them,
4t enough o f whom come parkin g to every fa le fo r
4
4 that purpofe only, and they may be raifed to
4
4 any^rice. No people part with their money
4
4 like merchants.”
When he came to the tavern, he found the
merchant waiting for him. After the compli­
ments common upon fuch occafions were po­
litely interchanged, 4
4I defired to fee you ((aid
4
4 the merchant, proceeding to bufinefs, though
4
4 not without evident confufion) on an affair,
4
4 that will convince you of my confidence in
4
4 your abilities and honour. Trade, as you
4
4 know,
,yGoogle
** know, has been fo dead for fome time paffy
4
4 that there is no getting in a penny of money,
<
c without tearing people to pieces. Now, as I
4
4 had rather fuffer fomethmg myfelfj than op*-
4
4 prefs any honeft man, till he can bring his
<
c affairs about, I iliould be glad to difpofe of
4
4 fome parcels of goods, even under their va-
4
4 lue, to raife money for prefent occafions, that
4
4 is, provided it can be done in fuch a manner,
*c as not to be known, asfucha thing might in-
4
4 jure a man’s credit/’
4
4 Dear Sir,” (anfwered my mailer,* Whofe
heart leaped with joy, at the mention of fuch
an affair) 4
4 never fear that; I’ll engage to
** manage it fo, that if every one who knows
44 you were to watch, they’d never even fufpe&
4
4 the leaff of the matter. ^
There is nothing
4
4 eafier, nor more common in the way of
4
4 bufinefs; and it luckily happens, that I have
4
4 the fineft opportunity, at this very time, that
4
4 ever I had in my life. I have a large fale
u under a commiiSon, the very week after next,
4
4 into which I can hedge a thoufand or two,
4
4 with the greateft eafe and fafety. Aflignees
4
4 never take notice of fuch things. We under-
,4
4 ftand one another better than that. Many a
4
4 worthy man have I enabled to hold his head
4
4 above water, for years, by this method. T o
4
4 be fure, it muft have an end fome time; but
4
4 then a man ftands in fortune’s way for a
G 3 4
4 lucky'
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 12/
,yGoogle
44 lucky hit, you know; and not only that-
*
4
4 but alfo makes Jure of fo much good living*
4
4 in the mean time, and can be no worfe at
4
4 the laft rand, then when all comes to all, and
4
4 there muft be a blow-up^ it gives him an op-
4
4 portunity of fecuring fomething againft a
4
4 rainy day, as the faying is. As for its being
4
4 difcovered, there are ways enough to prevent
4
4 that. It is but entering them as fold, and T il
4
4fin d a buyer, that Jhall never be heard more of.
Ci Lord, Sir, if it was not for things of this
4
4 kind, our bufinefs wouid be nothing to what *
4
4 it is. Half the fales you fee every day in the
14 papers are made up in this manner.”
4
4 Well, Sir,” (repliedthe merchant, who had
liftened to him with attention, and feemetj
greatly affe&ed at fome part of what he raid)
4i I prefume you underiland your bufinefs, and,
4
4 as 1 have no doubt of your honour, 1 fhall
4
4 leave the whole entirely to your management.
4
4 Here is an account of the particulars which
4
4 I want to difpofe of at this time. They are
41 in a private warehoufe, whither I have had
<
4 them conveyed, to be ready for the purpofe,
4
4 of which this is the key; and here is a bill
4
4 of fale, which 1 will execute direflly, as I*
4
4 have an occafion for two thoufand pounds
4
4 this very evening.. You fee there is value*
4
4 more than fufficient for double that fum, as
4
4 you will be a better judge when you fee the
4
4 goods*
i if C H R Y S A L : OR, THE* ,
yGoogl •
** goods, but tile reft can Jland fo rw a rd till
x% they are difpofed of, and the account made
“ up.” ------
cc Really, Sir, I (hould be extremely glad tar
tx ferve you, but I fear, I have not fo much caflr
** by me, However, if you pleafe, I’ll go with-
“ you, and look at the goods; and then Fllftejr
home, and try What I can do.”
Accordingly, away they went together to the'
warehoufe; where my mafter being fatisfied with
the value of the goods,- left the merchant, and*
hied him home dire&ly with a joyful heart for
the money.
<
c So! (laid He, to himfelf, ashe went along)
I thought what things would come to, in the
€t end! His coach, and country-houfe! his
** wife’s routes; and his own kept miftrefs have
lx made quick work with him. I believe fuch
iX men muft imagine the reft of the world to be
w blind, or they would never go on at fuch a
u rate. I fuppofe he’s preparing for a place in
the G a ze tteto-morrow, or next day. B*»t
“ that is no affair of mine. I’ll take care to
** make a fafe bargain formyfelf; and let him
tc look to the reft. I am not to jw ea r fo r him•
O f all the bufinefs in our way, 1 like this
“ the beft. A man can make up wh^t account
he pleafes, without danger of its being dif-
“ puted with him. All here is fhug and fecure.
** If I could but get jobs enough of this kind,
G 4 “ V d
ADVENTURES OE A GUINEA. r*y
,yGoogle
<
c I’d let who would chaffer for toys and daul~
“ ings with people of quality, who often out*
tc /harp us, in fpite of all our experience.”
By this time he reached home, where he foon
made up the money, with the help of that and
the former day’s fale, without hefitating a mo­
ment at its not being his own, and taking with
him proper perfons to attejl his hargain, and new
leeks to make fure of it, returned to the merchant,
with whom hefoon concluded every thing, with­
out fcruple or delay on either fide, and then
paying him on the fpot, in bank-notes and caih
(among the latter o f which I w as) fent him away,
as well fatisfied, as he himfelf ftaid behind.
i i f C H R Y S A L : O R , T H E
C H A P ,
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, i»*
C H A P . XIX.
M otive o f C h r y sa l ’j new m ajlerfor makingfu ctr
a bargain, w ith the many and great advantages
a merchant may make o f being in the houfe. A
JhortJketch o f an election. The curious methods
which C hrysal 9s m ajler took9 to evade the law s
againjl bribery. H e takes offenfe at the unrea•
finable prefumption o fhis conjlituents, and refilves
to make the mojl o f the bargain he has bought
from them) which by a fingular piece o f manage-
ment he propofes to make cheaper than they think:
C h ry sa l changes his fervice fo r that o f the
idol o f an inn. The confequences o f electioneering.
Some account o f C h r y sa l’j new mi/lrefs. H e
quits her fervice fo r a curious purpofe. A n
expedient to prevent the fa le o f poifin fo r •minA
and body. C h ry sa l again changes his fervice*
W
H E N a man has fixed his mind upon
gaining a particular end, he flights any"
inconveniencies which may attend the means.
Though my new matter was fenfible of the lofs^
he mutt fuffer by his bargain, the pmfpe& of
accompliihing the purpofe for which he made it
prevented its giving him any concern.
As foon as he got home, he gave orders to
have his equipage made ready for a journey into
the country, early next morning, and then re­
G 5 tiring
gle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
150
tiring into his clofer, for a few moments, before
he went to bed, fc
4 At length” (faid he, with a
look of felf-congratulation) 4
4 I fhall compafs,
4
4 what I have fo long fet my heart upon.
4
4 What an advantage it is for a merchant to be
4
4 in the Houfe! lean laugh at bailiffs and*
4
4 bankruptcies for five years atleaft; and in the
*4 mean time 1 (hall have a thoufand opportu-
4
4 nities of making nty fortune, by puihing
4
4 boldly in thè alley, now that all fears of the
4
4 immediate confequences are over, or getting
4
4 beneficial contrails with the government, or
4
4 at leaft fome genteel, and profitable employ-
*4 ment under it. A merchant may make many
4
4 advantages of being in the Houfe ! Confound
44 that prating fellow! I was once afraid that he
4
4fmoaked my defign, he came fo near fome un-
4
4 lucky circumftances; but it was above his
4
4 cut. All his fchemes are common, and
4
4 low-liv’d. This of mine is a mafter-ftroke.
4
4 It is playing deep, tobefure! Fifteen hundred
4
4 for my feat; and what with other expences,
4
4 and the lofs upon this night's work, as much
M more. It is playing damn'd deep. But it
4
4 is too late to think of that now. I have
4
4 /portedmany a thoufand upon a worfe chance
4
4 in my time. At any rate, I can laugh at
4
4 bailiffs and bankruptcies, for five years at leaft*
4
4 What an advantage it is to a merchant to be *
54 in the Jiouft!”
Saying;
,yGoogle
Saying this, he went to bed, where the ad­
vantages 6f being in theHoufe ftill ran fo ftrong-
ly in his head, that he dreamed of nothing all
night, but bullying creditors, and cringing to m i-
niflers\ doin%jobs% and getting contracts, places,
and penjions.
In purfuance of his ftheme, he fet out next!
morning, witha fplendid retinue, forthe borough
he had in* view, where hfc managed matted with
fuch judgement and generofity, keeping the
whole town drunk from the moment he arrived,
according to the policy which permits a candidate to
deprive his electors o f their fenfes* in order to en­
able them tojudge the better o f his hgijlutive abilitiesf
that he was elected in preference to a gentleman,
the munificence of whofe family had for many
generations been the chief fupport of the place,:
and who hiptfelf fpent his ample fortune in hof-
pitality and beneficence in it, but difdarned to*
buy the votes of a venal crew, on this occafioiu
As fuch a competitor naturally had everythin
Of worth and honour in his rntereft, it had beeir
iieceflary for my mailer to proceed with the ut-
tnoft care and drcumfpe&ion. Accordingly, in*
ftead of direEllygiving his voters money, he len t
them the prices ftipulated, on ihe fitd rity of
their notes o f hand, payable in1a ¿ertatn Hhle— '
an expedient, in which he had k furrher view,,
than barely evading the laws againft fbeh prac­
tices.
G & Ever/
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 13
1*
,yGoogle
Every thing heing concluded, he was pre­
paring to depart in triumph, when his conftitu-
ents waited, upon him in form, with certain in -
J lru & o n s, for executing the truft they had thus
repoftd in him. Though he looked upon this
as fuch a bare-faced piece of infolence, that he
fcarce kpew how to bear it, yet, as he had not
yet taken his feat, he received their commands
with the politeft ¿Kjrai/%, and promifed the moil:
faithful obedience to them. But they were no
fooner out of his fight, than he changed his note»
4
4 Impudent, unreafonable fcoundrels !” (faid he
to himfelf, giving vent to his indignation, as
, he walked back and forwa/d in the room) 4
4 to
4
4 talk of having repofed your truft in me, and
4
4 pretend to give me inftruftions! I have bought
4
4 you i and I willfe ll you to the beft bidder, if
4
4 he were the devil\ and a bad bargain he wll
4
4 have of you, if he buys you as dear as I have»
44 Though I have a ftroke in my head, to bring
4
4 myfelf home, that you little think, of. Thofe
4
4 notes of hand, which you thought I took
4
4 only to evade the law, ihall be paid to the laft:
4
4 farthing, if I am not chofen for nothing, next
4
4 cle&ion. You ihall find you have no fool
4
4 to deal with.’*
_ Juft as, he (aid this, he received notice that
his coach was ready, and the landlord’s daugh­
ter coming to wiih him a good journey, he fa«
»
luted her politely, and flipping a couple of gui­
neas
Sj* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,yGoogle
neas ( one o f which I w as) into her hand; to buy
a ribbon, left the houfe like a man of honour.
I have not entered particularly into the cir-
cumftances of eleftioneering. They are too
grofs to give pleafure; and too well known
%o require repetition even *to you. The
effefts, I mean immediately in the place, were
fuch as reafon may fugged to you. The elec­
tors, inftead of making any advantage of the
price for which they thus had literally fold their
confciences, liberties, and properties, con­
tinued to wallow in drunkennefs, till every pen­
ny of it was fpent, after which it was fo long
before they could fettle rightly to work again,
that it required a year’s hard labour and ftarving
to repair what they fuiFered by this bout of excefs
and idlenefs.
My new miftrefs was what is not unjuftly
called the idol o f an inn. Endowed by nature
with prettinefs enough to entitle her to flattery,
and fufficientpertnefs to make her a coquette, on
her return from a baarding-fchool, where her
natural talents were fo well improved by edu~
cation, that fhe was thought fit to try her foiv
tune in the world, (he took her place in the
bar, and flirted away with every gentleman
that came to the houfe, in hopes of taking in
fome one of the number for marriage, as others
in her way bad done. .
The
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *3*
,yGoogle
The firft paflion of the female heart is for
finery^ to t;he gratification of which girls feldom
fail to apply all the money in their power. But
though my miftrefs was very far from being in-
fenfible to this paffion, another fcarce lefs
powerful with the fex took place of it at this
time, which was curiofity.
A young officer, who had lately been quar­
tered in the houfe, and made Warm addrefles to
her, had faid fo many fine things in praife of
a certain book, called M emoirs o f a Lady o f
Pleafure, that ihe refolved to fee it, and for that
purpofe applied at a circulating, library in the
town, the keeper of which told her, it’was fo*
fcarce and vclaable a book that he could not
poflible procure it for her, under a guinea.
High as this price was, ihe would have found*
means to raife it, fo ilrong was her curiofity,
had not the hurry of the ele^lion^ which juft
then came on, taken up all her time. But every
©bftacle was now removed, and the very evening:
I came into her pefleffion, ihe muffied herfelf up'
in one of the maicPs cloaks, and went for it as
foon as it was dark, when I Wat the purchaje o f
this extraordinary bargain.
I fee you are ihocked at the difhortefty and;
wickednefs of my new mailer for hiring Out at
fueh a price, or indeed at any price at all, a
book, whofe obvious defign (and which it is too
well calculated to aeeomplifh) is to fopplant
3 ever/
CHRYSALi OR, TH£
,yGoogle
every principle oF virtue in the youthfuf
mind. But the blame refts not folely upon
him. The excufe, which the poet puts in­
to the mouth of the apothecary for felling
poifon, that, <
6 his poverty, but not bis w ill con~
fe n te d ” may with equal juftice be alledged
in palliation of a poor bookfeller’s vending'
impious or immoral books, the poifon of the
mind.
For this reafon, as no penalty, however
fevere, may be fufficient to combat that ne-
ceflity, the moft effe&ual way to prevent
the vending of either poifon would be abfo»
lutely to prohibit all thofe, whofe poverty-
might fubjedt them to fuch temptation, from<
trading in books or drugs of any kind; as*
it is moft certain, that if there were neither
poor apothecaries, nor poor bookfellers, the fa^e
of both vicious books, and noxious drugs,,
would be much lefs extenfive than it is,
if it could not be totally fupprefled; therff
being very few of the human fpecies to
entirely given up to a reprobate fenfe, a&
to murther either the foul or body of a
fellow creature, merely for the pleafure of
doing it.
It may be judged that I did not remain
long in the fervice of this matter. The
next morning after I came into his poflef-
fion, he came to London, where he laid out ,
a lt«
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, rj*
,yGoogle
13* CHRYSALî OR, THE
all the money he had in the purchafe o f
a parcel of fuch books as he thought moil
likely to fuit the tafte of his cuftomers, with­
out regard either to virtue or religion, on
which occajion I changed his fervice fo r that o f
his bookfeller+
CHAP,
,yGc • le
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 13
7
C H A P . XX.
Account o f C h r y sa i/ x new majier, his heroici .
fpirity and refolution to pujh fo r a penfton or a
pillory. M eeting between him and a poety who
turns the tables upon him. , A curious method o f
form ing a judgement o f a work o f genius.
C h r y sa h*s majier is beaten out o f a ll his art,
and fo r once bought a book by quality, not quant­
ity . The value o fan authour’ s name. C h r y -
sal changes his fervice.
M
Y new matter was one of thofe afpiring
geniufes whom defperate circumftances
drive to puih at every thing, and court
confequences, the bare apprehentton of which
terrifies men, who have fome character and
fortune to lofe, out of their fenfes. He was
that evening to meet at a tavern an authour, the
boldnefs and beauty of whofe writings had fop
fome time engaged the publick attention in a
particular manner, and made his numerous ad^
mirers tremble for his fafety.
As he happened to out-ftay his time, my
matter’s importance took offenfe at a freedom,
which bethought fo much out of character t
This is very pretty, truely!” (faid he, walk*'
ing back and forward in a chafe) “ that I
“ ihould wait an hour for an authour. It was
,yGoogle
CHR YS AL: OR, THE
>3*
4
4 his bufinefs to have been here firft, and*
44 waited for me; but be is fo puffed up of late,
** that he has quite forgot himfelf. Bookfellers*
Mfeldom meet w ith fuch infoUtice from authours.
4
4 I ihould ferve him right, to go away and dif-
4
4 appoint him. But would not thatdifappoint
4
4 myfelf more! He is come into fuch vogue
4
4 lately, that the beft man in the trade Would
4
4 be glad to get him. Well! if he does not
•* do what I want, I know 'not who can!
4
4 Fools may be frighted* at the thoughts of a*
4
4 cart's-taiL, o ra pillory, I know better things;
4
4 Where they come in a popular caufe, no-
4
4 thing fets a man’s name up to fuch advan-
44 tage; and that is the firft ftep toward making
44 a fortune; as for the danger, it is only a4
4
4 mere bug-bear, while the mob is on my fide.
4
4 And, therefore, I will go on without fear, if
4
4 lam not bought of£ A penfion or a pillory*
4
4 is the word” *
Thefe heroick meditations were interrupted
• by the enteranceof the authour, who throwing
himfelf carelefsly into a chair, 4
4 I believe I
4
4 have made you wait (faid he) but I could
41 not help it. I was obliged to flay to kick a
4
4 puppy of a printer, who had been imperti-
4
4 nent, as I am to meet company direftly, fa*
4
4 Jet me hear what you have to fay.”
4
4 1 thought, Sir,” (anfwered my ma(ferr
witivan air of offended importance) 4
4you had
* 4
4
>appointed-
,yGoogle
44 appointed me to meet you here on bufinefs,
44 and bufinefs, you know, cannot be hurried
44 over fo foon.”------
4
4 Don’t mention bufinefs to me! I hate the
4
4 very name of it; and as to any that can pof-
4
4 fibly be between you and me, it may be done
4
4 in five minutes, as well as five years, fo
* fpeak direitly, and without further preamble,
4
4 for all your finefles could have no effeft upon
4
4 me, even if I would fubmit to let you try
44 them.’"------
4
4 Finefles, Sir! I don’t know what yoir
4
4 mean! I defy the world to charge me with
4
4 having ever been guilty of any. The bu-
4
4 finefs I defired to meet you upon, was about
44 a poem, I was informed you had ready for
4
4 the prefs, and which I fhould be glad to
4
4 treat with you for.” ------
4
4 Well, Sir! and what will you give me for
i l it? Be quick; fori cannot wait to make
u many words.” -— -
* 4
4 What! before I have feen it! It is im-
4
4 poifible for me to fay, till I have looked it
44 over, and can judge what it is, and how much
4
4 it w ill make /”
4
4 As toyourjudgingtvAtf/ it is i that muft de*
4
4 pend upon infpiration, which I imagine you
4
4 will fcarcely make pretence to, till you turn
44 M ethodifl at leaft; but for what it will make,
4
4 here it and you may judge of that*
44while
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. tfr
► gle
€C while I go down Hairs for a few m in u test
Saying which he gave him a handful of loofe
papers, and left the room.
The Jfirft thing my mailer did, when leftthus
to form his judgement of a work of genius, was
to number the pages, and then the lines in a page'
$rtw o, by the time he had done which the
authour returned, and taking the papers out
of his hand, C
4Well, Sir (faid he) and what
<
c is the refult of your judgement ?” ----—
Why really, Sir,” (anfwered my mailer,,
after fome paufe) ** 1 hardly know what to fay„
“ I have cajl o ff the copy, and do not think it
“ will make more than a Jbilling% however pom-
M pouily printed,” ------
(€What you think it will make is not the
<
c matter, but what you will give me for iu
I fell my work by the quality% not the quan­
ta uty r ------
<
c I do not doubt the quality of them in the
f< leaftj but confidering how much the trade is
over-flocked at prefent, and what a mere drug
“ poetry has long been, I am a good deal at a
cc lofs what to offer, as I ibould be unwilling
4
< to give you or any gentleman offenfe, by
c< feeming to undervalue your works. What
cc do you think of five guineas; I do not ima­
gine that more can be given for fo little; nor
indeed ihould I be fond of giving even that*
4
4 but
14* C H R Y S A L t OR, T H E
,yGoogle
but in compliment to you. I have had full
44 twice as much for two, many a time.”—
4
4Much goodmayyourbargaindoyou, Sir; but
44 I will not take lefs than fifty for mine in com-
44 pliment to you, or any bookfeller alive; and fo
4
4 Sir, I defire to know without more worda(for I
4
4 told you before that your eloquence would be
4
4 thrown away upon mb!) whether you will
14
4 give that; as I am in hafte to go to company,
44 much more agreeable to me than your’s.— .
4
4What, Sir! fifty guineas for fcarce five
44 hundred lines ! Such a thing was never heard "
44 of in the trade.” — *
4
4 Confound your trade, and you together!
4
4 Here, waiter ! what is to pay?” — * .
4
4 But, dear Sir! why will you be in fuch a
4
4 hurry ? Can you not give yourfelf and me
4
4 time toconfider a little? Perhaps we might
4
4 come nearer to each other!” —
4
4 I have told you before, and I repeat it
4
4 again, that I will have fo much; and that
4
4 without morewords.” — .
4
4You are very peremptory, Sir; but you
4
4 ¿now your own value $and therefore, in hopes
4
4 you will let me have more for my money
4
4 next time, I will venture to give you your
4
4 price now; though really, if it was not for
4
4 your name, I eould not poflibly do it; but
4
4 to be fure that is worth a /hilling extraordinary
4
4 lo w n :\
44 Which
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 141
,yGoogle
tHRYS AI: O
R
, T HT
c
i$z
4
4Which is twelvepence more than your*s
*c ever will be, unlefs to the Ordinary o f N ezu -
*4 gate. But, come! give me the money! I
4
4 want to go to my company.” ------
4
4 Well, Sir ! this is a hatty bargain ; but
*4 I take it upon your word ; and don’t doubt
14
4 but there is merit in it, to anfwer fuch a price.
*4 Satire, Sir! keen fatire, and fo plain that
*4 he who runs may read) as the faying is, is the
•
4
C thing now 6* days. Where there is any
44 doubt or difficulty in the application it takes
4
4 off the pleafure from the generality of
4
4 readers, who will fcarce be fatisfied with
4
4 lefs than the very name. That, Sir, is
*4 your great merit. Satire mud be perfonal,
or it will never do/’—-----
4
4 Perfonal! that mine never ihall be. F u es,
4
4 not Perfm s, are the obje&$ of my fatire,
4
4 though were I find the former, I never
4
4 fpare the latter, be the rank and chara&eria
4
4 life what it will.”
My matter had by this time Counted out his /
money (among which / w a t) which the author
took without telling over, and then went to his.
company, leaving the bookfeller fcarcejy more
pleafed with his bargain, than mortified at the
cavalier treatment he had met in making it.
C H A P .
,yGoogle
\
- ¿ADJVE NTU RE S OF A G UI NEA. 143
P
C H A P. XXi.
'Some account o f the company to which C h r y s a l V
new maßer went. H is behaviour to a youngf e ­
male^ who accoßed him in his way home. H e
takes her to a tavern fo r an uncommon purpofe9
where he treats her uncommonly, and goes home
w ith her, from as uncommon a motive. Account
o f what he fa w in her habitation, w ith the manner
in which he behaved there. H e takes another
.lodging fo r the whole fa m ily, where he leaves
them abruptly, to fa v e him felfand them trouble.
TH E company to which my new mailer
was in fuch hafte to go, confrfted of a
few perfons, whom a fimilarity of temper had
linked in the clofeft intimacy. With thefe, he
fpent the remainder of the evenings in a man­
ner which few would diflike, though fewer ftill
could approve it* the fpirited wit and live-
linefs of their converfation gilding the grofleft
debaucheries; at the fame time, that the rec­
titude and fublimity of their fentiments, when­
ever their hearts could find opportunity to
fpeak, made the vices of their practice ftill more
horrible by the contraft.
They broke not up, as it may be imagined,
till nature funk under their excefies, when my
mafter
,yGoogle
C HR Y S A L : OR, TH E.
H*
matter, as he ftaggered home, was accofted by
« female, who had fortiething in her air and
manner fo different from thofe out-cajls of hu­
manity, who offer themfelves to cafual profti-
tution in the ftreets, that his curiofity was ftruck,
and he flopped to take more particular notice of
her. She appeared to be about fifteen. Her
figure was elegant; and her features regular;
but want had ficklied over their beauty ; and all
the horrours of defpair gloomed through the
languid fmile ihe forced, when ihe addreffed
him.
The figh of diftrefs, which never ftruck his
ear without affe&ing his heart, came with
double force from fuch an objeCi. He viewed
her with filent compaflion for fome moments;
and reaching her a piece of gold, bade her go
home, and ihelter herfelf from the inclemen­
cies of the night, at fo late an hour. Her fur-
prife and joy at fuch unexpected charity over­
powered her. She dropped upon her knees,
in the wet and dirt of the ftreet, and raifing
her hands and eyes towards heaven, remained
in that pofture for fome moments, unable to
give utterance to the gratitude that filled her
heaft. '
Such a fight was more exprefiive than all
the powers of eloquence. He raifed her ten­
derly from the ground, and foothing her with
words of comfort, offered to conduit her to
fome
,yGoogle
feme place, where fhe might get that refrefh-
ment of which ihe appeared to be in too great
want. 4
4 O! Sir” (faid ibe, prefling the hand
that had railed her with her cold trembling lips)
my deliveref fent from heaven to fave mefrom
“ defpair, let menot think of taking refrefhmen*
46 myfelf, till I have firft procured it for thofe,
c< \vhofe greater wants I feel ten thoufand time»
44 more feverelythan my own.”
“ Who can they be?” (interrupted he, with
anxious impatience.) 4
4 Can humanity feel
4
4 greater wants, than thofe under which you
4
4 are finking?”
4
4 My father” (exclaimed (he, burfting into
tears) 4
4languifhing under infirmities, acquired
4
4 in the fervice of his‘country; my mother
4
4 worne out with attending on him, and both
4
4 periihing of want (heaven grant they are
4
4 not already dead !) together with two infant
<
4 brothers, infenfible of the caufe of their di-
4
4 ftrefs, and crying to them for a morfel of
4
4 bread, which it is not in their power to
?c give.”
4
4 Where can fuch a feene 6f wretchednefi
4
4 be hidden from relief? I will go with you
4
4 dire&ly! but, flop! let us firft procure fomc
4
4 comfortable nourifhment from fome of the
4
4 houfes which are kept open at this late hour
4
4 for a very different purpofe. Come with
4
4 me! we have no time to lofe.”— With
thefe words, he went diredlly to a tavern, and
V o l . IV, H enquiring
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 145
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
146 C H R Y 5 A L : OR, T H E
enquiring what vi&uals were drefled in the
houfe, loaded her with asmuchas (he could carry
of the bed:, and putting a couple of bottles of
wine in his own pocket, walked with her to her
habitation, which was in a blind alley, happily
for her not very far diflant, as weaknefs, to­
gether with the conflict of paflions flruggling
ill her heart, made her fcarce able to go.
When they came to the door, fhe would
have gone up firfl for a light, but he was refolved
to accompany her, that he might fee the whole
feene in its genuine colours. He, therefore, fol­
lowed her up to the top of the houfe, where open­
ing the door of the garret, ihe difeovered to
him fuch a feene of mifery, as flruck him with
aflonifhment, By the light of a lamp, that
glimmered in the firelefs chimney, he faw lying
on a bare bedftead, without any other cover­
ing than the relicks of their own rags, a man,
a woman, and two children, ihuddering with
cold, though huddled together, to fhare the little
warmth which exhaufted nature dill fupplied
them wkh.
While he flood gazing in horrour at fuch
complicated wretchednefs, his conduArefs ran
to, the bed fide, and falling on her knees, O !
4
C Sir! Madam! (exclaimed fhe, in rapture)
4
< Arife! I have got relief from an angel of
4
4 heaven.” --—
“ Take care 1” (anfwercd a voice, the hol­
low trembling of which was fharpened by in­
i dignation)
,yGoogle
dignation) “ take care it is not from a fiend of
4
4 hell, who has taken advantage of your
4
4 diftrefs to tempt you to ruin! for with
4
4 whom elfe could you be till this time of
4
4 night? But know, wretched girl, that I will
4
4 never eat the earnings of vice and infamy.
4
4 A few hours will put an end to my miferies,
4
4 which have received the only poffible addition
4
4 by this your folly.”
4
4He muft be fuch, indeed” (interrupted my
matter, flill more ftruck with fentiments fo
uncommon in fuch a fituation) 4
4who could
4
4 think of tempting her in fuch circumftances
4
4 to any folly. I will withdraw, while you
4
4 arife, and then we will conftrlt what can be
4
4 fooneft done to alleviate a diftrefs, of which
4
4 you appear fo undeferving.” — While he faid
this, he took the wine out of his pockets, and
giving it to the daughter, went diredtly down
flairs, without waiting for a reply, and walk­
ing back and forward intheftreet for fome time,
enjoyed the fublimeft pleafure the human heart
is capable of, in ronfidering how he had re­
lieved, and ihould further relieve the fufferings
of objedfs fo worthy ofrelief.
By the time he thought they might have learn­
ed from their daughter the circumftances of her
meeting with him, and taken fome nouriihment,
he returned to them, when the moment he en­
tered the room, the whole family fell upon their
H Z knees
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i47
,yGoogle
knees to thank him. Such humiliation was
more than he could bear. He raifed them one
by one, as faft as he could, and taking the
father’s hand, 4
4Gracious God ! (faid he) can
*4 a fenfe of humanity be fuch an uncommon
4
4 thing among creatures who call themfelves
4
4 human, that fo poor an exertion of it ihould
4
4 be thought deferving of a return proper
4
6 to be made only to Heaven 1 Opprefs me
4
< not, Sir, I conjure you, with the mention
44 of what it would have been a crime I could
4
< never have forgiven myfelf to have known I
4
C had not done. It is too late to think of
4
4 leaving this place before to-morrow, when
44 I will provide a better, if there is not any to
4
4 which you choofe particularly to go. I am
4
4 not rich ; but I thank Heaven, that it has
4
4 blefled me with ability, and inclination, to
4
4 afford fuch ailiflance as may be immediately
4
4 neceflary to you, till means may be thought
4
4 of for doing more.”
4
4 O, Sir (anfwered the mother) well might
4
4 my daughter call you an angel of Heaven !
4
4 You know not from what mifery you have
*
4
4 already relieved”------
4
4 Nor will I know more of it at this time
4
4 (interrupted my mailer) than that which I
4
4 too plainly fee. I will leave you now to
4
4 your reft, and return as foon as it is
4
4 day.”—
4
4 Speak
*4« CHRY8AL: OR, THE
,yGoogle
4
4 Speak not of leaving us, Sir,” (exclaimed
the daughter, who was afraid that if he ihould
go away, he might not return.) 4
4 What reft
4
4 can we take, in fo ihort a time ? Leave us
4
4 not, I befeech you ! leave us not in this
4
4 place ]” '•
---- -
4
4 Ceafe, n>y child ! (interpofed the father}
4
4 nor prefs your benefactor to continue in a
4
4 fcene of mifery, that muft give pain to his
4
4 humane heart.”------
4
1 If my {laying will not give you pain
4
4 (anfwered my mailer) I will molt willingly
4
4 flay j. but it muft be on condition, that our
4
4 converfation points entirely forward to hap- .
44 pier days* There will be time enough here~
4
4 after to look back.’*—
Saying this, he fat down on the bed-fide,
(for other feat the apartment afforded none)
between the huiband and wife, with whom he
fpent the little remainder of the night in fucb
difcourfe as he thought mod likely to divert
their attention from their prefent mifery, and in-
fpire their minds with better hopes, while the
children, all but the daughter who, hung upon
his words, comforted at heart with a better
meal than they had long tailed, fell fail aileep,
as they leaned their heads upon their mother’s^ f
lap.
As foon as it was day, 4
4Now, madam” (faid
my mailer, addreffing himfelf to the mother)
H 3 “ I
ADVENTURES.OF A GUINEA. 14*
,yGoogle
4
4 I will go and provide a place for your re-
4
4 ception, as ^ou fay all places are alike to
4
4 you. In the mean time, accept of this trifle
4
4 (giving her ten guineas) to provide fuch ne-
4
4 ceffariesas you may indifpenfably want before'
4
4 you remove. When you are fettled, we will
4
4 fee what further can be done. I (hall be back
4
4 with you within thefe three hours at moft.”
For fuch beneficence there was no pofllbili-
ty of returning thanks; but their hearts fpoke
through their eyes, in a language fuificiently
intelligible to his. Departing diredtly, to^fave
both himfelf and them the pain of purfuing a
converfation that grew too diftrefiful, he went,
without regard to change of drefs, or appear­
ance, to look for a proper lodging for them ;
where he laid in fuch provifions o f every kind,
as he knew they muiTimmediately want. This
care employed him till the time he had promifed
to return, when he found fuch an alteration
in the looks and appearance of them all as
gave his heart delight.
4
4 You fee, Sir (faid the mother, as foon as
4
4 he entered) the effe&s of your bounty ; but
4
4 do not think that vanity has made us abufe
4
4 it. Thefe clothes, what we could raife on
4
4 which has, for fome time, been our foie
4
4 fupport, were the purchafe of happier times;
4
4 and were now redeemed for much lcfs than
4
4 we
J50 CHRYS ALi OR, THE
,yGoogle
c< we muft have given for the worft we could
4
4 buy.”------
4
4 Dear Madam,” (interrupted my mafter,
taking her hand refpe&fully) 4
4 mention not
4
4 any thing of the kind to me, I befeech you.
4
4 You will foon fee fuch times again,”— Then
turning to her huiband— 4
4 I have" taken a
4
4 lodging, Sir (continued he;) it is conve-
4
4 nient, but not large, as I imagined would
4
4 be your choice. I will call a coach, to
4
4 take us to it diredfly. If there are any de-
4
4 mands here, let the people of the houfe be
4
4 called up, and they ihall be paid. I will be
4
4 your purfe-bearer for the prefcnt.”
4
4 No, Sir (replied the huiband) there are
4
4 not any. You have enabled us to difcharge
4
4 all demands upon us. People in our cir-
4
4 cumftances cannot find credit, becaufe they
4
4 want it.”
My mafter would then have gone for a
coach, but the daughter infifted on faving him
that trouble ; upon which he put the whole
family into it, and walked away before them
to their new lodging. It is impoflible to de-
fcribe what thefe poor people felt, when they
faw the provifion he had made for their recep­
tion. The father, in particular, could not
bear it, but finking into a chair, 4
4 This is
4
4 too much !” (faid he, as foon as a flood of
tears.had given vent to]the fullnefs of his heart.)
H 4 4
4 This
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, i 5i
,yGoogle
*5* C HR Y S A L : OR, T HE
4
4 This is too much. Support me, gracious
4
4 Heaven, who has fent this beft of men to my
4
4 relief; fupport me under the weight of obli-
4
4 gations, which the prefervation of thefe alone
4
4 (looking round upon his wife and children)
4
4 could induce me to accept.”— Then ad-'
drefling himfelf to my mailer, 4
4 My heart
4
4 is not unthankful (continued he) but gra-
4
4 titude in fuch excefs as mine, where there
4
4 is no profpedi of ever making a return, is
4
4 the fevered, pain.” ’
My mailer, who fought none, attempted
often to give the converfation another turn $
but, finding that they could fpeak or think of
nothing elfe as yet, he took his leave, pro­
mifing to come the next day, when their minds
ihould be fetter fettled, to confult what more
Was in his power to ferve them, having firft
privately taken an opportunity to flip a couple
of guineas into the daughter’s hand, to avoid
putting the delicacy of her father and mother
to further pain.
END OF THE FIRST BOOK»
,yGoogle
C H R Y S A L
OR, THE ADVENTURES OF
A G U I N E A .
B O O K II.
C H A P . L
C hrysal gives [ome account o f his ?nafter, Rccr~
Jon o f his having been bred to% and mifcarried
in a particular profejfion. Interejiing remarks
on the different kinds o f merit neceffary to emi­
nence in different profejfions% confirmed by J lr i-
king infiances o f their fuccefs in each. N atural
confequence o f his being forced into a profejfion
againji his inclination. H e is compelled by di-
Jirefs to exert his abilities. Contradictions in
his character, and the particular turn o f
his works accountedfo r . H e viftts his new f a ­
mily. EffectingJiory o f an officer.
F
ATIGU ED in mind and body, from the:
debauch of the evening before, and the
o 7
height to which- his tendered paiTions had bee.-v
H 5 wouod
,yGoogle
4
•
*54* C H R Y S A L : OR, T HE
wound up by fuch a moving Scene, my mailer
went dire&ly home, and throwing himfelf on a
bed, flept till next morning, without difturb-
ancefrom pain or reflexion.
The contradi&ions which I had feen in his
character prompted my curiofity to take this
opportunity of looking back to his paft life,
to try if in the occurrences of that I could
trace their caufe. Born in the middle rank of
life, his parents were induced by the dawn-
ings of uncommon genius, which he discover­
ed in his earlieft youth, to 'give him fuch an
education, as might enable him to make that
figure in fome of the learned profeflions, for
which paternal fondnefs flattered them, that
nature had defigned him.
But, however greatly he profited by his
education, the end propofed by it was far from
being pleafing to his inclinations, which the
rigour of his mind and body turned to more
a&ive Scenes. For this reafon, when he was
to quit the purfuits of general learning for thofe
of fome particular profeflion, his ardour cool­
ed, and he entirely loft that fpirit of emulative
ambition, which alone can enable a man to ar­
rive at eminence.
Such a falling-ofF could not efcape the
anxious obfervation of his friends, but as it was
not in their power either to remedy it, or gratify
his inclination in any other way, all they could
do
>ogle
do was, to enter him into the fervice of religion,
aproFeflion in which, though thegreateft abili­
ties and application of the human mind are
evidently and indifpenfibly neceflary, yet, by the
perverfion of man, the lead are required.
You fecm (hocked at the feverity of this
remark j but a moment’s reflexion will open to
you the reafon upon which it is founded. In
every other profeflion, fuccefs depends upon
an opinion of that knowledge, which is-called
m erit in it, becaufe mankind fee the neceflity of
fuch merit to attain the object of the profeflion.
But in the church, the cafe is quite different.
Every man thinks that he knows enough of re­
ligion to ferve his own turn, and therefore gives
himfelf no trouble about the knowledge of thofe
who profefs it, as he concludes that knowledge
can be of no fervice to him ; and therefore fu c­
cefs in the church depends not on a general opinion o f
m erit, but on particular favou r, w hich, fo r the
reafon given before, is not the neceffary confequence
o ffuch m erit. An attorney, or furgeon, for in-
ftance, who is not thought to have fome merit
in his profeflion, will never be employed 5 but
let him by any means get into the church, and
curry favour with thofe in power, and he may
rife to the firft dignities of it, though he has no
more merit in this profeflion, than he had in
that which he was forced to quit for want of
bread. And this is the reafon, why they who
H 6 have
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 155
,yGc ■ le
have lea f abilitiesfo r any profeffton are packed inU
this; and why they, again, who have the le a f o f
thefe, are generally m of fuccefsfid in it\ as con
fcioufnefs of their want of merit makes them
take moft pains to gain favour.
The confequences of his entering into fuch a
profeflion againft inclination are obvious. An
indignant fenfe of his own natural fuperiority
to his fuperiours in ftation made him fall into
the too common errour of arguing from the abufey
againft the ufe, and hold in contempt not only
them, but alfo the very profeflion itfelf, in
•which they could have fuch fuccefs, and in
which neceflity alone obliged him to continue»
He difdained to apply abilities, which he thought
above the end! He neglected duties which
he fawahufed; and at length funk into a ftate
of liftlefs indifference, in which he would have
died in obfcurity, had not diftrefs roufed him,
and extorted an exertion of his abilities, which
a mind foured by difappointment cf its earljeft
hopes, and by domeftick unhappinefs after,
turned tofa tire, with an afperity and ftrength
that made vice tremble in the bofom of the great,
and folly hide her head in the higheft places.
As this domeftick unhappinefs was the im­
mediate caufe of thofe parts of his conduit
which contradi&ed the general tenour of his
chara&er, juftice requires that fome account
fliould be given of it. In the capricious levity
of
jS
« C H R Y S A L : OR, T HE
,yGoogle
of youth, he fixed his inclinations on a female*
who had no other recommendation befide beau­
ty. Prudence would have forbidden a match*
in which there was fo little profpefl: of happinefs*
but men of great abilities too often think it be­
neath them to liften to her voice. He married
her, though, in the phrafe of the world, evi­
dently to his ruin, the return ihe made him for
\yhich proof of his love, was* infidelity to his
bed. This is the deepeft wound that can be
given to an heart of any delicacy; it ihar-
pens the fling of ingratitude with infult*
by giving a preference that reflects difhonour.
He felt it fo feverely, that defpair made him
ftrive to drown the fenfe of it in wine, in the
intoxication of which, he too often was guilty
of what, in a cooler moment, his reafon would
have bluihed at, and his principles abhorred $
and this was the chief caufe of that diftrefs alfo,
which, as I obferved, forced him to exert his
abilities, which he did with fuch fuccefs, as
foon enabled him to quit a profeflion that had
not been his choice, and at the fame time in­
dulge the natural difpofition of his heart, by
praftifing fome of the fublimeft duties of it.
As foon as he awoke next day, he went to
vifit his new family, where the happinefs that
gliftened in every grateful eye, at his approach,
made him happy. After fome general chat,
4
4 It is my duty, Sir (faid the father) to give
2 4
4you
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. r tf
,yGoogle
you fome account of myfelf, and of the caufe
4
4 of my falling into that depth of mifery, from
4
4 which your beneficence relieved me, that you
4
4 fhould not think it has been laviihed on ob-
4
4 je&s altogether unworthy of it,
4
4 I am defcended from a good family, the
4
4 fortune of which my father diifipated in fup-
44 porting a parliamentary intereft for the mi-
4
4 niftry, the only return he received for which,
4
4 and for his voice upon all occafions, was a
4
4 fmall penfion for himfelf, and a pair of
4
4 colours in the guards for me, his only fon,
4
4 with promifes, indeed, of further provifion,
4
4 which were all forgotten when he died, happily
4
4 for himfelf before the end of the parliament,
4
4 which, as he hadno profpecSt of being returned
4
4 again, would have left him at the mercy of
4
4 creditors, whom it was not in his power to
4
4 pay. •
4
4 Though I was foon fenfible that my beft
4
4 hopes died with him, I was fo infatuated to a
4
4 profeilion, the moft pleafing to youthful idle-
4
4 nefs and vanity, that I laid out the little for-
4
6 tune of this beft of women,.whom I had
4
4 married in my days of better hope, in the
4
4 purchafe of a company, in a marching regi-
4
4 ment; at the head of which I flattered my-
4
4 felf, that I fhould meet fome opportunity,
4
4 in the war juft then broke out, of meriting
4
4 further promotion. But I found the vanity
4
4 of
iS3 CHR YS AL; OR, THE
,yGoogle
4
4 of fuch a thought when it was unhappily
4
4 too late.
4
4 After feveral years careful fervice, in the
4
4 courfeof which I had fealed fome degree of re-
4
4 putation with my blood, in feveral warm ac-
tc tions, without advantage to myfelf, or prof-
4
4 pe£ of any to my family, who now multi-
4
4 plied the cares of life ten thoufand fold upon
4
4 my head, I was driven by defpair to exchange
4
4 my company, which I had bought,' and
4
4 therefore could have fold again, the price of
4
4 which would at leaft have kept us from ab-
4
4 folute ftarving, foran higher rank in a younger
4
4 regimentjuft then ordered upon anexpedition,
4
4 the objeft of which raifed what was thought
4
4 rational expe&ation of fuch profit as fhould
4
4 eafe me from the anxieties that made life a
4
4 burthen.
4
4 Allured folely by this expe&ation, I went
4
4 accordingly. The expedition was fuccefsful.
4
4 I did my duty. I was wounded in the courfe
4
4 of it, to the extreme danger of my life. I
4
4 entirely ruined my conftitution by the feverity
4
4 of the climate; and on my return home was
4
4 reduced to half pay, without receiving fo
4
4 much prize-money as defrayed the extra-
4
4 ordinary expenfes of the expedition, and
4
4 of the illnefs which I contrafted in it;
4
4 while thofe above me accumulated fuch
!4 wealth, as, if divided in any degree of pro-
4
4 portion,
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i5
9
,yGoogle
€
4 portion, would have recotnpenfed the labour*
4
4 of us, who had literally born the heat and
u burthen o f the day, and were now pining in
4
4 difcontent and mifery, aggravated by a par-
4
4 tiality fo fcverely injurious.
4
4 In this fituation, I refolved to throw my-
4
4 felf at the feet of my Sovereign, and implore
4
4 relief from the known goodnefs of his heart.
4
4 But his throne was furrounded by thofe,
4
4 whofe intereft it was to keep theories of his
4
4 people from coming to his ears*; and there-
4
4 fore, a9 it was neeefiary for me to make my
4
4 errand known, I never could obtain accefs
4
4 to him.
4
4 The diftrefs of this difappointment was flilf
4
4 further heightened by the delays in the dif-
cc charge of that h a lfpay, which was now my
4
4 only fupport; and the draw backs it was fub-
4
4 jeft to from the fees o f office, even when it
4
4 ihould come to be paid, which were fuch,
4
4 that when I attempted to mortgage it, the
4
4 wretch’slaft refource, to put off flarving as
4
4 long as he can, what I could get from thofe
4
4 vultures, who fatten upon the fufferings of a
4
4 foldier, was fcarce fuUicient to fatisfy our
4
4 prefent wants. How, then, could I look for-
4
4 ward for a family, dearer to me than life?
' What
* This reflefilon, notoriously so groundless, is
alonefufficient to vindicate the auihourfrom any ailujion la
prefent times.
j Co CHRYSAL: or, t h e
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ifx
*4 What could fupport refolution, when hope
4
4 was gone? Mine was unequal to the tryal ;
4
4 and I was beginning to meditate on putting
4
4 an end to a life of fuch mifery, withoutcon-
4
4 fidering that the fufferings of thofe, for whom ,
4
4 I felt fo much more than for myfelf, mult be
4
4 ftill made heavier by fuch a bafe defertion of
4
4 them, when heaven, in its mercy, vifited my
4
4 family with a violent fever, which freed ,me
4
4 from further fears for the future welfare of
4
4 my three eldeft fons, and with difficulty
4
4 fpared the two, whom you fee before you.
4
4 Oh! my poor boys! happy! thrice happier
4
4 than us, whom you left behind! Excufe this
4
4 weaknefs, Sir ! nature will force the involun-
4
4 tary tear, in fpite of reafonj for were they
*4 not the children of my love?
4
4During thejr illnefs, I loft every other care
*4 in my attendance upon them; nor omitted
4
4 any poffible means to preferve lives, for
4
4 which my fears foreboded nothing but unhap-
4
4 pinefs; but, though their deaths freed me
4
4 from a part of thofe fears, they left a nielan-
4
4 chofy void in my heart, which was more
4
4 painful, if poffible, than any fear. But I
4
4 was not long fenfible of that pain. My chi!-
4
4 dren were fcarce laid in the grave, when the
4
4 fever feifed myfelf with fuch violence, that
4
4 I foon loft my fenfes, nor recovered them
4
4 for above a month; and then only to feel the
4
4 greateft
,yGoogle
4
4 greateft wretchednefs, that was ever heaped
4
4 upon human creature.
41 The expence of my children’s and my own
4
4 ilinefs had not only exhaufted all the money
4
4 I had raifed on the anticipation of my half-
4
4 pay, but alfo obliged my wife to mortgage
4
4 feveral of our beft effects. Such a refource
4
4 never efcapes the watchful eyes cf people
4
4 who keep lodging^houfes. Our landlady no
4
4 fooner perceived it, than ihe feifed upon the
4
4 reft, and then turned us out, the moment I
4
4 could be removed without inftant death.
4
4 In this iituation, I muft have periihed in
4
4 the ftreet' had not a poor woman, whom
4
4 my wife had been obliged to call in to heraflift-
4
4 ance when I fickened,ihared with us herhabi-
4
4 tation, in which you found us, as ihe alfo did
4
4 the earnings of her daily labour, till achair—
4
4 man, who was carrying a beau to a ball, threw
4
4 her down with fuch violence, for not making
4
4 hafte enough out of his way, that ihe broke
4
4 her leg, and was obliged to be taken to an
4
4 hofpital.
4
CFrom that time we fupported life by mort-
4
4 gaging the few clothes we had brought upon
4
4 our backs, without one ray of hope to tempt
4
4 us to look forward, till they alfo were all
«
4 gone, and the mifery of cold added to that
4
4 of hunger. In this condition we had been
4
4 two days without tailing brekd, or feeling
4
4 the
i6* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,yGoogle
4
4 the warmth of fire, calling inceflantly upon
4
4 death to put that end to our diflrefles, which
4
4 a fenfe of religion, made ftronger by my
4
4 wretchednefs, now prevented my daring to
4
4 haßen, when my daughter ßole out unknown
4
4 to us, to feek for charity in the ßreets, where
c< ihe wandered, without meeting any thing
4
4 but infults, and foil citations to vice, till
4
4 heaven dire&ed your ßeps to her.
4
4Such was the reward of more than twenty
4
4 years faithful and hard fervice, in which I
4
4 had fought the battles of my country, in the
4
4 oppofiteextremities of the globe, with honour,
4
4 and been infirumental in making princely for-
4
4 tunes for the feveral commanders under
4
4 whom I ferved.
4
4 This, Sir, is the fum of my ftory, in
4
4 which I have been as brief as I could, to avoid
4
4 giving you pain. We are now your creatures.
4
4 The lives we enjoy are immediately the gift
4
4 of your benevolence— a benevolence fo cri-
4
4 tically timed (for we could not have fub-
4
4 fified many hours longer without it) as to
4
4 raife a hope, that Providence, which fent you
4
4 to our relief, will notleave its work unfinifh-
4
4 ed, but fave us from falling again into fuCh
4
4 mifery, by means agreeable to its own
4
4 wifdom and goodnefs, though impoflible for
4
4 us, in our prefent fituation, to forefee.,,
It
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 163
,yGoogle
It was fome time before my matter, who had
liftened to the officer’s ftory with fympathe-
tick attention, was able to fpeak. Recovering
himfelf at length, “ Fear not;” (faid he, in a
broken voice) c*never were the righteous forfa*
<
c ken; nor— nor— nor:— . I have fome friends,
<
c Sir, who may ferve !— In the mean time take
<
c this (reaching him a bank-note for twenty
pounds) I will not be refufed f bufinefs calls
c< me for a few hours; but I will fee you again
<
c in the evening.” — Saying this, he hurried
away, to hide his emotions, without waiting for
a reply, which, indeed, their gratitude left then*
notthe power to m
ake»
»$4 CHRYSAL* OR, THE
C H A Pr •
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF.A GUINEA. *«s
C H A P. II.
O h r y s a l ’s majler carries him to v ijit an old ac­
quaintance, who behaves in character, on hearing
the officer s Jlory, and fu rptifes C h r y s a l ’x
m ajler w ith an account o f his having turned Pa ­
t r i o t . The general motive fo r fuel\ a Jlep ;
w ith fem e remarks on the difference between
practice and profeffion, in different inflam es.
' Infignificancy o f private characters in attacks
upon a m inijiry, and why. Reflexions on the
origin and ufe ^ s a t i r e , and the abufe o f
the terms good and i l l -n a t u r e , w hh the
reafen why fe many cry cut againjlfa tire. C h r y -
sa l changes his fervice, in a common way.
TH E moil intimate acquaintance my
mailer had, was the perfon who had
been competitor with, a former mailer of mine,
for admiffion in the higher order o f t h e m o c k -
m o n a s t e r y *. T o him he went dire&Iy,
and relating the officer’s ftory, while it was Hill
warm on his heart, aiked his affiftance to do
fomething more effectual for his relief.
His friend was fo affe&ed with the melan*
choly tale, that it was fome time before he
could fpeak; but when at length he did, it
was in a ftrain very different from what might
’ have
* Vol. I U ----- Page 219.
,yGoogle
have been expeited. 4
4 And the girl was really
4
4 fo pretty !” (faid he', with a look of inexpref-
fible archnefs.) 4
4 Well faid, my good L e-
4
4 vite. I prefume you fatisfied your own ap-
4
4 petites with her at the tavern, before you
4
4 provided for thofe of her family; though
4
4 you funk that part of the ftory, for fear 1
4
4 ihould want to come in for afnack with you.
4
4 The concupifcence of you parfons is truely
4
4 catholick, whatever your confciences may be,
4
4 and would engrofs the whole fex, if it was
4
4 not reftrained ; not indeed that women come
4
4 within the meaning of the M ortm ain ails $
4
4 as none do more good in their generation,
4
4 and confequently are better reprefented to
4
4 the ftate, than thofe who are occupied by
4
4 the clergy. ”
4
4 Why, what a fenfual brute mutt you be
4
4 (anfwered my matter) to talk of fatisfying
4
4 appetites with a wretch juft periihing of
4
4 cold and hunger. But it is all affectation.
4
4 If you had been in my place, you would
4
4 have ailed juft as I did ; for, whatever airs
4
4 your wicked wit may affume, I know your
4
4 heart is ftrongly fufceptible of charity.” " %
4
4 Charity! H a! ha! h a! I expeited
4
4 that. It is always the burthen of a par-
4
4 fon’s fong. They make a cloak of it upon
4
4 all occafions; and, indeed, if it will really
4
4 cover fins, as they fay, they are in the
J4 right to have it ready, for multitudes enough
4
4 they
166 CHRYSAL; OR, THE
,yGc 1e
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 16f
<€ they have, to take up every corner of It. But,
« why can you not throw off the cant along
4
4 with the cloth ? However, that her hunger
4
4 (hould not damp your defires any more, here
4
4 (giving him half a dozen guineas) is my help
<
c to allay it.” -----
4
4 I will not refufe your money, for your
4
4 own fake, in hopes that your bellowing even
4
4 this much fo well may help to atone for fome
4
4 of the thousands you have thrown away.
4
4 But it was not with any view of getting it,
4
4 that I fpoke to you. Their immediate ne-
44 ceflities are fupplied. I want your affiftance
4
4 and intereft.------
44 My intereft ! Ha ! ha ! ha !— You apply
44 to a perfon of great intereft, trucly. Why, my
4
4 very naming them would be fufficient to
4
4 ruin their hopes for ever. You don’t know*
44 perhaps, that I have turned patriot, and attacked
4
4 the m inijiry” —-....
4
4 Patriot ! for heaven’s fake how long, and
4
4 on what occafion have you taken this ftrange
4
4 whim ?”
4
4 Whim ! Pray, good Sir, fpeak with more
4
4 refpetSt of the nobleft principle y f the human
4
4 heart. The thought came into my head the
4
4 night before laft j and as I do not love to
4
4 lofe time, efpecially in things of fuch mo­
u ment, I gave it vent yefteiday, in the fhape
4
4 of a political pamphlet, in which I have
44 proved to a demonftration, that the minifter
4
4 and
,yGoogle
** and all his friends and country-men are fools
<c and rogues, and deferve to be hanged.” -—
c
< Is it poffible that you can be ferious!
*c What, in the name of common fenfe, could
« be your motive for taking fuch a ftep as this?
6
C I thought you had expe&ations of favour from
<c them.”------ '
<
c What motives ihould any man of honour
<c and honefty have, but the good of his coun-
<c try ; their neglefl of which has roufed an in-
<c dignation that will make them tremble.” —
Or, in other words, they have difappoint-
ed your expectations, and, therefore, you
take this method of being revenged on them,
and extorting, for fear, what they would not
do from favour ; the general motive of mo-
*c dern patriots, 1 acknowledge; but with what
<
< face >ou can pretend to the title, profti-
tuted as it is, I cannot think, as your very
<
c name is a burlefque upon every thing that
<
c is ferious.”
<
c Pray, how fo, reverend and grave S ir!
. <
c If the mod profligate finner makes the beft
faint, as you fay, why ihould not a moderate
<
c rake make a tolerable politician ? I believe
c< you will hardly attribute it to the fuperiour
cc excellence of the latter character ? but the
4
C truth is, though it is impollible for me to
<
c profefs political principles more contrary to
my practice, than your moral pra&ice is to
44 your preaching, yet you would deny me the
4
4 toleration
i6S CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,yGoogle
4
4 toleration which you avail yourfelf of, and
4
4 have my words judged from my aftions *
4
4 not my aitions from my words, as you expeifc
4
4 your own ihall be.
4
4 Rut my private chara&er or practice fig-
4
4 nifies nothing to this undertaking, which is
4
4 to rip up the pra&ices and chara&ers, publick
4
4 and private, of a fet of people who have
4
4 obtruded themfelves into a ftation that ex-
4
4 pofes them toenvy, andevery accufation againft
4
4 whom will, therefore, be received implicitly,
4
4 without regarding who or what the author of
4
4 it is. Not but there is fufficient room to
4
4 attack thefe, whofe whole private lives have
4
4 been fuch a continued feries of vice and
4
4 folly, and their publick conduit of blunders
4
4 and villainy, that it is impoffible to fay or
4
4 think any thing bad enough of them, as I
4
4 have already proved by inconteftible inftances
4
4 in my pamphlet, and ihall by many more in
4
4 the courfe of the undertaking. If the tables,
4
4 indeed, ihould turn, and I get into their
4
4 place, then they may make the fame ufe of
4
4 my charaiter, and perhaps not without
4
4 effeit j but at prefent it is quite out of the
4
4 queftion. And now that I have opened
4
4 myfelf to you, I expeit your affiftance, in
4
4 return for my confidence.”
4
4 Affiftance in politicks! It is not in my
4
4 power to give you any. I hate from my
4
4 foul, every political fyftem under the fun,
' V ol. IV. I 4
4 as
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i*9
,yGoogle
170 CHR Y SAL: OR, THE
4
4 as a jumble of folly and villainy (I mean as
4
4 they are carried into practice, not in their
44 fpeculative plans) and therefore never could
?4 throw away a thought upon them.”»
---- -
4
4 That fignifies nothing. The affiftance
4
4 which I want, you are well qualified to give.
4
4 While I deteft their political blunders and
4
4 villainy, you ihall la(h their private vices
4
4 and follies, till we make them equally ridi-
4
4 culous and odious to every man of fenfe and
4
C virtue in the nation; a tafk that will give
4
4 you the pleafing opportunity of indulging
44 that mifanthrcpy%which infpires the mufe of a
4
4 fa tirift% and is miftaken for virtue, becaufe it
4
4 rails againft vice; for, blazon it out as
4
4 pompoufly as you will, nothing but ill-nature
4
4 can make a man take delight in expofing the *
44 defefts of others; and the more forcibly he
44 does it, the more powerful mult that principle
44 be with him. And by the fame rule, it isgood-
4
4 nature that makes a man fawn upon folly, and
4
4 flatter vice; and confequently, whoever does
4
4 it, is virtuous.”
4
4 A molt judicious way of reafoning, true-
4
4 ly ! Now, on the contrary, I think it a
4
4 much more juft conclufion, that they
4
4 who treat vice with tendernefs approve in
4
4 their hearts, and would pra&ice it if they
4
4 could ; and that they who expofe its de-
4
4 formities and dangers really deteft it,
4
4 though they may fometimes, through human
44 w eaknefsj
,yGoogle
* weaknefs, fall into the pra&ice. But I do
4
4 not wonder at your remark ; it is an old and
4
4 common one. All who are confcious that
4
4 they deferve the laih defire to leflen its
4
4 force; and therefore derive fatire from ill—
44 nature, in order to obviate the application of
x
4
4 it to the proper objedt; and fallen upon the
4
4 fatirift the fault, which is in themfelves,
4
4 And this abufe of the terms good and ill-
4
4 nature is the reafon why fome have been
u provoked to call the former fo lly .
4
4 But, not to waftetime in difcuffions, where
4
4 prejudice only can find a doubt, I agree to
4
4 your propofal with pleafure, and will hold
4
4 folly up to ridicule, and brand vice for de-
4
4 teftation, wherever you point them out to
4
4 me, without regard to the rank or power of
4
4 the perfon ; or to any imputations of mifan-
4
4 thropy, and ill-nature, which may be levelled
44 at myfelf, to ihield againft, and blunt the
44 edge of my fatire; though I no more expert
4
4 that I (hall be able to reform the morale than
4
4 you the political condu& of the age. How-
4
4 ever, it is a duty to make the attempt, be the
4
4 fuccefs what it will. But, by the by, are
4
4 you not apprehenfive that your undertaking
4
4 may be attended with danger ? The people
4
4 in power will certainly be provoked*; and
4
4 power, you know, has long arms, and will
4
4 often reach over the fences of law.”
I 2 . 44 I fear
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ijt
,yGoogle
CHRYSALi OR, THE
*7*
«
« I fear them not! I have friends who are
<
4 able, and will defend the laws in me, while
4
4 I keep within their fence; one of the prin-
44 cipal of whom, I expeft every minute to
« call upon me, to communicate matter, and
€i confult upon another ftroke.” —
4
6 Then Pll take my leave. YouHl have
4
4 things to talk about which you will not de-
44 fire me to hear. Confpirators againft the
4
4 ftate always cfcoofe privacy.” —
4
4 Confpirators againft the ftate! Our con-
4
4 fpiracy, if fuch you call it, is for the ftate,
4
4 againft its worft enemies, traitors to the truft
4
4 repofed in them, and fools to their own true
4
4 intereft, as members of the community,” —
* 4
4 All this Pll grant; and yet it is well if
4
4 they do not find means to make themfelves
4
4 pafs for the ftate, and of courfe, you for
44 the traitors againft it. They who have the
f4 power, can eafily aflume the name.” ------
As he faid this, a fervant brought his friend
a note, who upon calling his eye over it,
4
4 The gentleman I expe&ed (faid he) writes
44 me word, that he is not very well this morn-
4
4 ing, and, therefore, defires to fee me at his
4
4 houfe. If you are going my way, Pll
4
4 fe t you dow n”
4
4 I thank you ! (anfwered my mailer.) But
4
4 my ambition does not rife fo high as that
f4 yet. I do not afpire to a pillory, or a
4
4 prifon,
,yGoogle
€c prifon, even in the caufe of my country*
4
4 Shall we fee you at dinner ?” ------
4
4 Moft certainly ! but hold. Can you give
4
4 me change for this note ? I have not time to
4
4 call upon my banker.” —
4
4 I believe I can; but then it muft be with
4
4 the help of what you have yourfelf given mi
4
4 for the officer; like other bankers, who make
4
4 a parade of taking in charitable fubfcriptions,
4
4 at the fame time that they fupport their credit
44 with the money.”—
4
4 That’s right! Til mention him to the per-
4
4 fon I am going to. He has abilities to ferve
4
4 him effe&ually; and I am fatisfied never
4
4 wants inclination to do a generous a£tion.”— .
My mailer then gave him the change of hi»
note, atnong which I w as, and took his leave*
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. %rf
1 3 CHAP.
by Google
*74 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P .. HI.
C h RYSAL /urns up thecharacter ofhis late majler.
Different opinionsfor and againjl the propriety.
and benefit ofSATIRE. Theformerfupportedby
good authority. Reafon offome inconveniencies
attending theindulgence offuch a turn. Character
of C h r y s a l ’x new majler concluded from a
formerJketch• He waitsuponhis Patron. Cha­
racter ofhim9 with his motivesforfuch apatron­
age. He givesJlriking reafons for objecting to
fome parts of C h r y sa l ’x majler s pamphlet,•
which theothermakesfome weak attempts to vin­
dicate. C h r y sa l’x majler enjoysthepleafure of
tracing his ownfame•
TH E peculiar charaiter of my late mafter
made me feel regret at leaving his fer-
vice, till I ihould fee more of him. His abilities
did honour to the age and country in which
he lived; and the exalted fentiments of virtue,
which broke from him fpontaneoufly, in the
genuine effufions of his foul, gave fufficient'
reafon to judge, that his conduit would be en­
tirely ruled by it, and his talents exerted in the
more pleafing and extenfive way of recommend­
ing it to imitation by difplaying all its advan­
tages and charms, as foon as time fhould cool
the fervour of his paflions, and apply its lenient
balfam
,yGoc# le
Balfam to the fores in his heart, the fmart of
which firft gave him that poignant turn, and:
drove him for relief to excefles that too often
drowned his better reafon, and led him into
actions, which in a cooler moment he abhorred.
In a word, his failings were the^ luxuriance of
nature, as his virtues were her perfection.
As I have faid that he turned his poetical vein
particularly to fatire, I fee your curiofity to
know my opinion of the propriety and benefit
of that manner of applying the powers of
w it. But I have often told you, that
I am not permitted to determine controverted
points. Many, with a plaufible appearance of
good-naturey decry it, as proceeding from a ma­
levolence of difpofition,. and tending only to
fpread the influence of bad example, by making
it known,. and harden people in vices they
might forfake if not made defperate by detection!
Many, with an appearance of virtuous indigna-
tioriy vindicate it, as terrifying from vice, by
ihowing it in its native deformity, and correct­
ing folly, by putting it out of countenance^
which latter opinion is fupported by the autho­
rity of one of the moil fenfible, and belt men of .
his age.*
I 4 But
*Would the anachronifm admit thefuppojitioti, the editor
Jbould imagine that the author here meant the w riter o f
L etters from a Persjan in England, &c. whofe
w ords are thefe, “I f a ll the edge o f w it is turned on thofe
“ w ho are juflly the objects o f ridicule, Wit is as great a
benefit
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 175
zed by C j O O ^ I c
But ftill the indulgence of this turn is at*
tended with many inconveniencies and dangers,
if it be not guided with the greateft care. That
imaginary fuperiority, which the power of
making another ridiculous or detefted flatters
a man with, is fo pleafing to the felf-love in­
Separable from human nature, that it requires
uncommon moderation to refrain from exer-
cifing it upon improper occafions, and makes
him prefumptuouily conclude, that whatever
happens to difpleafe himfelf in any particular
is a juft objedt of publick ridicule and cenfure.
An errour, into which the impetuofity of my
la te matter fometimes hurried him.
I have given you a (ketch of the charafler of
my new matter upon a former occafion*} to
which I have only to add here, that a wanton
abufe of uncompion abilities inverted the end
for which they were given, making them dis­
graceful to himfelf anddangerous to his country,
a licentious purfuit of every thing called plea-
fure having watted his fortune, and driven him
to the defpicable neceility of proftituting them
to any purpofe that might promife to retrieve
his affairs.
The gentleman whom he went to wait
upon, the morning I came into his pofleflion^
was
u benefit to private Life, as the fiw ord o f the magi-
u fir ate is to publick."—Letter 40.
• VoU III. page 2
3
9
. '
Ifi CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 177
was one who had ferved his king and country
with fidelity and fuccefs, while he was permit­
ted to follow the dictates of his own reafon in
their fervice; but gave up the empty and dif-
graceful appearance of afting in it any longer,
on finding his judgement difregarded, and him-
felf defigned to be made only a cypher, to in­
crease the confequence of another.
The indignation, however, which had prompt­
ed him to take this ftep, led him not into thofe
unjuftifiable lengths which are too common
on fuch occafions. He was faithful to his So­
vereign, though he had loft his favour; and
watched attentively over the interefts of hi$
country, though he was not permitted to pror
mote them. The only inftance in which hi$
conduit could pofiibly be cenfured was his pa­
tronizing fuch a man as my mailer. But it
is a maxim in human politicks, that the end
ju flijies the means% be they what they will#
He wanted to be reftored to his former power j
and thought this man’s expofmg -the in-
fufficiency of thofe who had fupplanted him
in it, the moft likely way toefteit that purpofe*
T o this defire of power he was not llimulated
by the ufual methods of repairing a ruined for­
tune, or making a new family. His wealth,
exceeded his very wiflies; and he already en­
joyed the higheft honours he could afpire to :
all he propofed was the glory of his Sovereign,
and the advantage of his country, which that
I 5 enthufiaflick
,yGoogle
17* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
enthufiaftick ambition, from whence proceed thé
greateft a&ions, made him think himfelf the
moft capable, and wifli to be the happy infini­
ment of promoting.
By this gentleman my matter was received
with that civility which is commonly mifiaken
for ejleem. After fome general chat, on the
occurrences and humour of the times, in which
my matter modeftly took to himfelf the merit of
the people’s difcontent at the miniftry and their
meafures, as raifed folely by his pamphlet, 4
4 I
4
4 allow the good effedls of it (faid the gentle-
4
4 man) and greatly approve the principles upon
4
4 which it is written ; but I much fear that
4
4 your zeal has tranfported you too far. You
4
4 Ihould of all things have avoided involving
4
4 the matter in your charge againft the mi-
4
4 nifters; becaufe that alone can give them
4
4 any advantage againft you, and is therefore
4
4 what they always feign, however unjuftly,
4
4 when they are attacked, in order to fcreen
4
4 themfelves behind him. Befides, the cha-
4
4 racier of a Sovereign is facred, and ihould
4
4 never be treated but with thehigheft refpeft,
4
4 efpecially when the virtues of the man are
4
4 fuch as would be refpeftable in anycharafter”
Such difapprobation from his principal patron
greatly difappointed my matter, who was fo
little acquainted with his fentiments, as to
think he bore refentment againft his Sovereign
for the lofs of his favour, as well as againft
3 thofe
,yGoogle
thofe who had deprived him of it, and confe-
quently would be pleafed with any thing that
might feem to refleft difgrace upon him.
Recovering himfelf, however, before his em-
barraffment was perceived, 4
4 I imagined,” (an-
fwered he, with his ufiaal prefence of mind)
44 that it was impoflible to accufe me of difre-
44 fpe& to one, whom 1 have fludiouily fought
4
4 every occafion of praifing. As for what you
4
4 take notice of, my charge is not perfonally
4
4 againjl him, but through him, againjl thofe
4
4 who had the bafenefs and infolence to abufe
4
4 his goodnefs and confidence in fucli a manner;
4
4 fo that I think it is impoilible to wreft it to
4
4 the purpofe you apprehend.”— ~
4
4 I wiih you may not be miftaken ; but
?4 I much fear that your argument will not have
4
4 the weight you expert. Praife, given with
4
4 an air of irony, is the keened: infult; be-
4
4 fide, in this particular cafe, the praifes you
4
4 beftow upon his goodnefs are all at the ex-
4
4 penfe of his underjlanding. However, do not
4
4 be difpirited at what cannot now be helped.
4
4 As I think your intention was not in fault,
4
4 you may depend upon my countenance and
4$ fupport, let what will happen.”
This comfortable affurance reftored my mafter
to his former fpirits: not defiling, however, to
continue the converfation any longer upon that
fubjedt, 4
4 I have this morning (faidhe) made
16 “ no
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 179
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
1*0
no incontiderable addition to our force. My
4
4 friend, the poet, whofe turn for fatire I have
4
4 heard you fo much admire, has promifed me
4
4 to exert all his powers in our caufe. He will
4
4 attack the faults in their private, while I ex-
4
4 pofe their publick characters, and experi-
4
4 ence has ihown that it is eafy to overturn the
4
4 m intfler, when the man is made ridiculous
4
4 or odious.” ------
4
4The former I’ll grant you; but we have too
4
4 many inftances in contradiction to the latter,
4
4 to build much upon it. However, his
4
4 powers are great, and may do much, if he
4
4 will take care to avoid the rock upon which
4
4 you have fallen; and, therefore, I (hall be
4
4 glad to attach him ferioufly to us, efpecially
4
4 as he does not feem to be utterly void of vir-
44 tue, notwithftanding the libertinifm of his
45 conduct in fome inftances.”
My mailer would not mifs fo favourable an
opportunity of doing juftice to the character of
his/riend. Accordingly, he related the itory of
the diftrefles of the officer and his family, and
his generofity to them, in fo affeCting a manner,
that the gentleman direCtly gave him a confider-
able fum of money, for their prefent relief, with
a promife of providing for them himfelf, if he
could not prevail upon thofe in power to do it.
Pleafed with a fuccefs which he knew would
he fo pleating to his friend, my mailer took
leave
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, xti
leave of his patron, and fetout to trace his own
fame from one coffee-houfe to another, and en­
joy the applaufes which the popularity and
boldnefs of his attempt procured him from the
multitude, wherever he went; after which he
repaired to his ufual haunt, where he dined,
and fpent the evening in his ufual manner.
CHAP.
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
sS*
C H A P . IV.
C hRy sa l ’j maßer receives an unwelcome vifit, at
an unfeafonable time. His extraordinary beha­
viour before hisfuperiours. He isfcnt toprifen«
C h kysal makes feme unpopular remarks on
certain intereflingfubjefts. Confequences of his
maßer simprifenmenty with anaccount of his be-
haviour in it.
CO N F ID E N T as my mailer was of his
fafety, he foon found that the fears of his
patron were toojufl. He had fcarce laid him
down to fleep, when his bed was furrounded,
and himfelf made a prifoner, by a number of
fellows, who, under the fanclion of authority,
committed all the outrages of lawlefs ruffians,
breaking open his locks, rifling his ejfe£Isy and
fearching into all hisfecrets.
It was in vain for him to expollulate with
fuch people againft fo flagrant injuftice, or claim
the prptedlion of the laws. They derided him,
and all he could fay; and having finifhed their
work,¡dragged him away, with infults and abufe,
to a magiftrate, where he had the comfort of
waiting d confiderable time in fuch agreeable
company, before his worihip was at leifure to
fee him.
But this, though defigned as an indignity,
rwas of real advantage to him, as it gave him
tim
e
,yGoogle
time to recover his fpirits, and ¿olledt prefence
of mind for an interview of fuch importance.
Accordingly, when at length he was admitted
to the dread tribunal, inftead of (bowing any
deje&ion at the danger which feemed to hang
over him, he behaved in a manner worthy of a
better man, and a better caufe. He aflerted
the violation of the laws in his perfon with fo
much refolution, and appearance of reafon, and
returned the infolence of office with fuch con­
tempt, anfwering illufively to the infidious
queftions put to him, and boldly demanding
that right of being reftored to his liberty, which
was aflured to every individual ofthecommu-
nity by the eflential principles of the conftitu-
tion, that hisjudges were ftartled, and more than
once wifhed they had left him unmolefted.
However, as there was no receding now,
they concluded it to be their beft way to go
through with what they had begun, and bear
down oppofition with a high hand; with which
intent they fent him direilly to prifon, in defi­
ance to all he could fay, where he was treated
with uncommon feverity, and the method
which the law provided for his being reftored to
liberty eluded as long as poffible, by fincffes
which power only could fupport.
I fee your indignation at fuch an infringe­
ment oflaws procured by the blood of myriads,
and eftabliihed by the mod folemn engagements
human and divine, for the fecurity of thecom-
mon
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. itj
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
mon rights of mankind. The part which every
man feels in fuch fufFerings, on a fuppofition
that they may pofiibly one day fall upon him-
felf, naturally interefts you, as it did the
multitude, in my matter’s caufe. But when you
come to examine coolly the manner of his be­
ing taken into confinement, which is what gives
you fuch offenfe, it will not appear fo contrary
to reafon and juttice, the foundation, and as
I may fay, foul of all laws, as popular opinion
may prefume*
All power is delegated from the people for the
mutual advantage of govermurs and governed*
T o fupport the ufe, and prevent the abufe of
that power, laws are eftablifhed by the confent
of both, which are to be the rule of their ac­
tions. But, as it is impoifible for human wifdom
to forefee, and provide for every occurrence that
may happen, there is eflentially implied in the
firft truft a further power of applying unprovided
remedies to unforefeen cafes, for the fafety and
advantage of the whole.
If it be obje&ed, that thefe remedies may
fometimes be injurious to individuals, by being
injudicioufly or wrongfully applied, theanfwer
is obvious. The fufFerings- of a few are not
to be fet in competition with the fafety of the
many. Befide, if the remedies were never to
be applied, where there was a poflibility of a
miftake, the evil might happen, in the time ne-
cefTary for enquiry and deliberation,. For*
though
,yGoogle
though penal laws are defigned only to prevent
future by the puniftoment ofpaß crimes\ yet where
fuch crimes, if committed, will exceed the
reach of puniihment, and defeat the laws, the
power of prevention muft be exerted earlier, to
anticipate them before commillion.
Without fuch power, the truft of government
would be imperfeft, and inadequate to the end ;
as, if no puniihment could be infliited thus for
prevention, but by prefcribed forms, human inge­
nuity, ever moil fertile in evil, would devife
expedients to evade it, till perpetration ihould
fecure impunity, as I faid before, perhaps to the
ruin of theftate.
For thefe reafons, an extraordinary power
muft have been implicitly given, for extra­
ordinary cafes, or the good of the commu­
nity, which is the end of government, can­
not be obtained. If this power, though, ihould
be abufed, the facred fpirit of the laws ofyour
happy country will fupply the inevitable defeft
of the latter, and grant redrefs to the fufterer*
when a proper time comes for enquiring into
the circumilances of the cafe; a redrefs which
was not provided by the people* the moil
jealous of their liberties of any who ever
united themfelves into civil fociety, who, fen-
iible of the neceffity of fuch a refource, made
it a fundamental rule of Ttheir government*
on any occafions of uncommon difficulty or
danger,
# *The Romans.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. iS$
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
lSS*
danger, to entruft the whole power into the
hands of fome one perfon, whom they called
d i c t a t o r , as bis word was to be the law ,
without fubjedling him to controul in the ufe,
or account for the abufe of it, when his power
ihould be at an end.
As foon as my mailer’s imprifonment was .
known, the populace all took fire. They
made his caufe their own. They looked upon
him as a martyr in the darling caufe of liberty.
They infulted all government, and commit­
ted excefles every hour, infinitely more illegal,
and dangerous to liberty, than that of which^
they complained.
In the mean time, his confinement was far
from fitting fo heavy upon him as might have
been expe&ed. Though he wanted the ap­
probation of his own mind, and the enthu- .
Jtafm of the principles he profefled, to fupport
his refolution, and encourage him to look
forward with hope, levity of temper fup-
plied the place of that refolution, and faved
him from finking under misfortunes, by making
him infenfible of their weight. He rallied
his jailors, mimicked his judges, cracked jefts
upon his own undoing, and turned every cir-
cumftance into ridicule, with fuch drollery and
unconcern, as if he was ailing the imaginary
fufferings of another, not afiually fufiering him-
felf. How long he would have been able to
fupport that fpirit though came not to be tried.
C H A P ,
,yGoogle
C H A P. V. * '
% .
Ch
rysal’jmafier is vijitedin prifonby bispatron%
andfrom what motives. His conduity on being
fet at liberty,and the confequences of it. Remark-
• able grounds on which he wasfet at liberty, with
a confiture at the reafon of fixing upon them•
Ch
rysal m
akes an enquiry into certain matters
much talkedo f and little underjlood.
ADVENTURES of A GUINEA. Ilf
S foon as his friends obtained accefs to hint
(for the great feverity of his confinement
was the uncommon ftriftnefs of it) his patron
went to fee him. As I have taken notice of hi»
difapprobation of what had brought my matter
into this fcrape, you are furprifed at his taking
a ftep thatfeemed fo inconfiftent with his cha*
rafter. But his motivesfor it did honour to the
many however flrange they may appear in the
politician. He had admitted him to a degree of per-
fonal intimacy. He had approved of his enga­
ging in a caufe, to which he was himfelfattached
moft fanguinely, and he fcorned to defert him
indiftrefs, occafioned by what he thought an
errourofMisjudgement, notafault ofhis intention.
Befide the confolation to himfelf, the honour
of fuch a vifit was of the greateft advantage to
my matter’s affairs j as it lightened the perfonal
prejudices againft him, and gave a good opinion
of
Digitized by Google
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
a t
ofacaufe, which appeared to have the counte­
nance of fuch a man.
Intoxicated with the popularity he had thus
acquired, which if rightly managed might have
done great matters, he was no fooner at liberty,
than he threw offall reftraint, and ran into fuch
licentioufnefs, as in a ihort time leffened its
force, and loft him every trace of the good opi­
nion of all who gave themfelves time to think
of the caufes and confequences of fuch con­
duit. But his triumph was not long lived.
He had been reftored to his liberty, not as s
sight common to all the members of the com­
munity, on a fuppofition of the illegality of
the manner in which he bad been deprived of
it; but in confequence of certain immunities,
annexed to a particular part of the legiftature,
to which he belonged.
Though the abilities and integrity of the
magiftrate who made this diftin&ion were un-
queftionable, fome perfons, who looked farther
than the prefent moment, imagined they could
trace it to a caufe not commonly attended to«
He had on former occafions been inftrumental
in depriving fome people of liberty in the fame
manner; to have condemned that manner there­
fore now, as illegal, would have been con­
demning himfelf; at the fame time, that up­
right obedience to the di&ates of his prefent
opinion
,yGoogle
opinion obliged him to fet him free. Such a
difficulty muft have been diftreffing; but this di-
Hination delivered him from it, and enabled him
to favehis credit, and confcience both; as thofe
people had bor’n no part in the legiflature, and
therefore had not been entitled to fuch immunity.
I fee your indignation arife at the thought,
that in a country which boafts of being governed
by equal laws, any one fet of men fhould enjoy
immunities denied to the reft; but that indig­
nation proceeds from viewing the matter in a
partial light. In the country where your lot
has happily fallen, the end of government is
better fecured by a divifion of its powers, than
in any other under heaven. The great wifdom
of thofe who made this divifion appears in the
provifions made to preferve each part in it in­
dependent of the reft, the only means by which
the divifion itfelf could be preserved.
Now, as the executive power necefiarily belongs
folely to the prince, it was equally necejfary to
fecure thofe who bore a part with him in the
legifiative from any undue exertion of that
power, which might be attempted in order to
break through that independence, and join the
legifiative to the executive; or, in other words,
vejl bothpowers abfolutelyyandwithout limitation,in
the prince. And this was the reafon of immu­
nities fo much talked of, and fo little under*
flood.
If
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA- iff
,yGoogle
CHRYSAt: OR, THE
®9°.
Ifitbefaid, that thefe immunities operate
*]fo againft.fellow-fubjefls, from whom there
can be no fuch fear, and are fometimes (perhaps
too often) abufed to diihoneft ends, the anfwer
null be fought for in the depravity of the human
heart, which will pervert the beft iaftitutions to
the worft purpofes, and makes it neceiTary to
preclude every exception, that it ihould not be
extended to ferve them. As for inftance, if the
meaneft fubjeft of the ftate had a right to claim
the affiftance of the civil power in every cafe
againft any member of the-legiflature, while in
his legijlative capacity, that right might be fub-
borned, or feigned, by the executive power in
fuch a manner, as to overturn his indepen­
dency, and to prevent his difeharging the truft
committed to him: for which reafon it is better
that an individual ihould fuffer (to fuppofe the
worft) than an opportunity begiven for ruining
the whole community $ according to the known
maxim, that an ev il (w hich affefts but one) is
preferable to an inconvenience ( which affeftsm any.)
And this immunity, which is really the ihield
and fafety of the ftate, can never be invaded,
but from a defign againft the liberty of the ftate,
nor abfolutely given up, without giving up
that liberty along with it; though the right
may be waved in particular inftances, which
appear unworthy of the benefit of it. T o ac­
tions, criminal in their own nature, between
individuals,
,yGoogle
Individuals, or immediately dangerous to the
ftate, it was never defigned to be extended, as
in fuch cafes it would have been deftrudtive of
th e end for which it was inftituted.
While my mailer was running riot in this ex­
travagant manner, fome things happened which
raifed in his favour the indignation and pity
of many, who diiliked the man, and difapproved
of his proceedings, becaufe they faw him perfe­
c te d by unjuftifiable means. .
It may well be imagined, that I did not re­
main long enough in his pofleflion to fee the
.conclufion of this affair $ but, as I had ample
opportunity of being acquainted with it at the
time, and fee that your curiofity is interefted
in the event, I will continue the account Jjere,
efpecially as the principal occurrences in my
next fervice were connected with it in fo par­
ticular a manner, that it is naceffary to explain
«one, in order to underftand the other.
ADVENTURES O F A GUINEA. i9i
C H A P .
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
I*»
C H A P . VI,
C h r y s a i/j m ajkr takes a foreign tour. Rem arks
upon national reflexions, and attacks upon p riva te
characters. C h r y s a l ’* mafler is called to an
account fo r certain improper liberties, by a very
improper perfon, whom he treats w ith uncommon
propriety. C h r y sa l makesfem e out-of-the-w ay
reflexions on a queflion much canvajfed to little
purpofe.
H E N my mafter had in fome meafurc
exhaufted the firft flow of his fpirits upon
the recovery of his liberty, he made a ihort ex-
curfion abroad, as if merely for amufement, but
in reality to provide a place of retreat, in cafe
of the worft, as his apprehenfions could not but
be alarmed, whenever he allowed himfelf time
to think.
I have obferved, that in the account he gave
my late mafter, when he firft told him of his
attack upon the minifter, he faid he had in­
cluded in it all, his country-men. This he real­
ly had done on that, andcontinued to do, on all
otheroccafions with alicentioufnefs unexampled;
but which loft its force, and became contempti­
ble, by finking into fcurrility.
Attack*
Digitized by Google
Attacks upon private charaiters, unlefs forced
by neceflity, or defigned to ferve good purpofes,
fuch as perfonal reformation, or caution to
others, are literally abufe, and proceed always
from a bad heart j but national reflexions, as
they can anfwer no good purpofe of any kind,
are abufe in. every fenfe, and proceed equally
fromfolly and malevolence. A fo lly , indeed, that is
often puniflied byfools, who take to themfelves
that abufe, which belongs not to them in par­
ticular, and would pafs by, without lighting
upon them, if not applied thus by themfelves.
My mafter had not been long abroad, when
a country man o f the m tnijlers thought proper to
call him to account for the liberties he had ta­
ken with his country. The abfurdity of fuch
a ftep in any man was ftill aggravated by the
peculiar circumftances of this perfon, who had
actually given weight to the fevered part of the
charge againft his country (indeed, the only part
that would admit of weight, the reft being, as I
have faid, nothing but feurrility) by engaging in
the fervice of the enemies of its prefent govern­
ment, and fighting their battles againft it. Such
an antagonift, therefore, was beneath the no­
tice of any man of reafon, and accordingly was
treated fo by my mafter, who on this occafion
behaved with a moral propriety, and prudence,
much above the tenour of his general character.
But his enemies beheld his conduit in a differ-
V ol. IV. K ent
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 19J
,yGoogle
CHRYSAt: OR, TUE
m
light, and attributed to cowardice what ,was
ieally the effe& of courage.
You feem furprifed at my faying that his de*
dining to fight was the effect of courage! but,
refleCt a moment, and you will fee that it is the
motive o f fighting, and not the mere fightings that
conftitutes true courage; and that the fa jh ion a b k
courage of venturing life for punctilios of imagi­
nary honour is real cowardice, as it proceeds
folely from fear of the falfe cenfure of the world;
and, therefore, that to brave that cenfure in fu ch cafes
is the highejl courage.
I would not be underitood by this, to declare
abfolutely againft a man’s fighting in his own
caufe, in all cafes indifcriminately. Different
circumftances make an eiTential difference in
things which fuperficially appear to be alike,
A man’s venturing his life, as I have faid, in
vindicating empty punctilios o f imaginary honour,
or infupport o f injufiicey is the higheft and moft
ungrateful infult to the authourof that life, who
hfcs made the prefervation of it the firft principle
of aCtion, and confequently an indifpenfible
duty, when it can be preferved without viola­
tion of thofe greater duties which he has
thought proper to prefcribe.
• But, as there are other things more valuable
than life, becaufe without them life would lofe
its value, reafon, which is the voice of heaven,
- permits to hazard the leffer good for the pre­
fervation
,yGoogle
fervation of the greater, and this is thejuftifi-
cation of war between different ftates.
T o prevent the evils, which fuch a recourfe
between individuals in the fame ftate, muft be
attended with, laws are eftabliihed to preferve
thofe rights, and redrefs injuries which they
may offer to each other; to thefelaws, therefore,
it is an indifpenfible duty to recur for fuch re­
drefs and prefervation, yvhere they are able to
p
effeft them: but this duty does not feem to ex­
tend fo far as abfolutely and indifcritninately to
preclude the other method of a man’s ftriving at
the hazard of his life to effeft them himfelf,
When the laws cannot do it, as is too often the
cafe, it being impoffible for human wifdom to
make proviiion for every occurrence, which in
the complication and extenfivenefs of human ac­
tion may require it.
An opinion fo contrary to that profeffed by
all who have undertaken to difcufs this fubjeft,
however confonant to the fenfe of mankind in
general, as ihown in their practice, fhould be
fupported by the plaineft and moft convincing
reafons. '
A good name is the immediate jew el o f the fo u l; it
is the firft fruit, and the reward of virtue: the
prefervation ofit, therefore, is indifputably worth
hazarding life for, where the laws have not
fufficiently provided for its defenfe; as is the
cafe, in many of the moft delicate and tender
K 2 points.
ADVENTURES OE A GUINEA. 195
,yGoogle
points. If a man, for inftanee, is unjuftly ac-
cufed of a fa£t that ruins his good name, at the
fame time, that the accufation comes not within
the reach of any law, from which he may re­
ceive redrefs, can reafon fay, that he is not ju-
ilifiable in driving for that redrefs himfelf, and
vindicating his good name, alt the hazard of his
life, when that life would be only mifery with­
out it?
But here another difficulty occurs. Shall a
man, it is faid, put himfelf upon a level with
his injurer, and rifque a fecond injury, in feek­
ing fatisfaftion for the firft? This certainly is
an evil, but mud be fubmitted to, to prevent a
greater.
( If a man were permitted to redrefs himfelf
abfolutely, without fuch a rifque, the confe-
quence would be, that partiality to himfelf
would make him think every thing that ihould
difpleafe him an injury fufficient to merit fuch
a redrefs, whereby murthers would be multiplied
to the reproach of humanity, and ruin of the
date. But where this rifque makes the redrefs
attended with danger, people are cautious not
to run into it, but on what they at lead think
good grounds.
Befides, rifquing life in an even fcale is in
fome manner flaking it upon the juftice of the
caufe, and appealing to heaven for decifionj
and confequently fuccefs clears the chara&er in
„ general
196 CHRYSAL: OR, THE
,yGoogle
general eftimation; whereas killing infldiouily,
or without fuch equal rifque, only confirmsthe
firft charge, on a. prefumption of confcioufnefs,
and aggravates it with the weight of new guilt*
And this was the fenfe of mankind, till the re­
medy was perverted to fuch an excefs, as to be­
come worfe than the evil, and therefore necef-
fary to be aboliihed, as far as human laws cafL
aboliih a general principle of a¿lion.
One particular, though* in the laws made to
aboliih it deferves remark* as it (hows a ftri-
king inftance of the iagacity with which human
laws are often made. Killing a man in a de­
liberate duel, be the caufe ever fo important,
and utterly unprovided for in the law, is ac­
counted murther, and made capitally criminal ;
but killing in a drunken broil, or ungoverned
guft of paflion is only a pardonable ofFenfe, and
called by the fofter name o f m an-faughter ! Now,
if the makers of that law had but confidered
which aftion proceeded from the worft caufe,
and was liable to be attended with the worft con-
fequences, from the poffible frequency of it, they
might perhaps have feen reafon to reverie the
cafe, and made the latter capital, and the fo r ­
mer at leaft pardonable.
In a word, he who takes away the life of an­
other, or lofes his own, in a trivial or unjuft:
caufe, or where the laws of his country have
provided him redrefs, is guilty of murther;
K 3 whereas
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, 1*7
,yGoogle
whereas, he who kills, or is killed, in a caufeof
real importance, for which there is no remedy
provided him by the law, fins not againft the
/ p in t of that law, however he may againft the
U tter; and confequently feems to be entitled to
an immunity from the penalties of it. This
reafoning, though, refpe&s only the reafon of the
law, and is by no means laid down as a rule for
pra&ice; it being the indifpenfible duty of a
fubjeft to obey the plain letter of the law, with­
out prefuming to oppofe his private opinion to
it, otherwife than by humble application to
proper authority to have it altered,
i,S CHRYSAL: OR.THE
C H A P
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
C H A P , vn,
C h r y s a l *s mafter's laté conduct draw s him into a
new f ir ape, in which he comes off hut fecond-befl.
H e takes advantage o f his misfortune to make his
efiapefrom a greater. H e fuffers the ?efentment
of his enemies, asfa r as they can reach him ; and
meetsfrom his friends the fa te o f all ufelefs tools,
after havingfirved them w ith improbablefuccefs.
A Jlriking injlance of the advantage o f an upright
judge, and equal law s. C hrysal changes his
fervice•
H E opinion, that my mailer’s having be-
haved in this manner proceeded from a
want of fpirit foon laid him under a neceility
of ihowing the contrary. A perfon who was
involved deeper than he chofe to appear in his
accufations againil the miniiler, though he was
known to be his creature, thought he might
fafely invalidate the credit of the charge, and
curry further favour with his patron, by denying
it in terms of fuch abufe, as ihould make the
accufer infamous, onfubmitting to them, as he
imagined he would.
But in this he found himfelf miilaken. T he
captioufnefs o ffalfe honour, that often pafles for
true refolution, which is the only refult of virtue,
was now picqued j and two beings (for it was
impoflible
Digitized by Google
CHRYSALi OR, THE
impoffible for the other to draw back) who cal­
led themfelves rational hazarded tlieir lives, in
fupport of what neither could have fupported by
reafon.
The event proved immediately unfavourable
to my matter, who received a wound, that for
fome time feemed to threaten his life. But he
foon thought the danger amply made amends
for, by the pretence it gave him to put off from
time to time the refemment of that part of the
legislature to which he belonged, for the oiFenfe
which had occaiioned his being confined, and
at length to fly from it, when he found it could
not be any longer prevented by fuch finefles,
from burfting on his head. Such a flight was
an implicit acknowledgement of his guilt. He
was, therefore, deprived of his part in the legisla­
ture, and confequently of all the immunities
annexed to it, and given up to the common
courfe of the laws* for that and other matters*
whenever he Should be found within the reach
of their power. Nor was this all! T o Show
itill flronger difapprobation of his conduit, the
breach of thofe immunities, upon which the ma­
gistrate had founded his difcharge from confine­
ment, was over-looked, and fuch offenfesas his
excluded from their protection for the future.
You cannot be furprrfed at his meeting fuch
a fate. The tools of a ftatefman, however fuc-
cefsful they may have been, aie always thrown
afide
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 201
afide with negleft, the moment they have done
their work; but when they fail, however blame-
tefly, or run into any errour, though only from
exeefs of zeal, the weight of the negleft is made
«ill heavier, by heaping all the blame upon
them. But what will you think, when I tell
you, that, unequal as he muft appear to have
been to fuch an attempt, in confequence, cha-
rafter, and abilities, he railed fo threatening a
ftorm, that the minifter thought proper to re­
tire out of its way; as all his friends apprehended
they ihould have been obliged to follow him :
a fuccefs, for which he was in great meafure
indebted to the alljftance of my late matter,
who reprefented their private chara&ers in fuch
colours, in his fatirical writings, as will make
their memories pay a dear price for their power,
the poetical merit of his works, in which their
names are branded with indelible infamy, en-
furing their immortality* Such is the bafis,
upon which ftatefmen found their greatnefs;
and fo eafily is a jealous populace led away, by
any thing that flatters their prefent humour.
I fay not this, as deciding upon the merit of
the difputes in which he was concerned. I
think too meanly of human politicks in general,
to give my opinion in favour of any one fcheme
of them, in preference to another, They are
all alike a jumble of villainy and blunders. All
I intend is, to ihow on what a fandy founda-
K 5 tion
,yGoogle
AOS CHRYSAL* OR, THE
tion men who value themfelves upon their
wifdom wear out their lives in anxious toils
and dangers, to build their hopes; and what
unworthy means are often made ufe of to over­
turn them, and work ends, reputed great, on
purpofe, perhaps, to humble man in his own eyes.
As for my mailer, he was no fooner removed
out of the fight of the mob, whofe idol *he had
been in fuch an extravagant degree, than he was
entirely out of their mind, and the ilorm he
had raifed fubfided fo totally, as to leave no
other trace behind it, but his ruin.
I have obferved your anxiety to know
whether he ever obtained redrefs for the in-
juftice done him in his property, and the inju­
rious treatment he received when he was firft
apprehended, as I faid that thefellows employed
to take him, had, under the fadftion of autho­
rity, committed all the outrages of lawlefs ruf­
fians. The intereft you take in the caufe of
fuch a man can arife from nothing but your
love ofjuftice, which Jhould not be violated in the
p erfon o f the moft unjuft. It will, therefore, give
you pleafure to be informed, that the laws of
your country never ihone with brighter luftre,
than in this inftance.
In defpite of every artifice and effort which
power and chicane could make ufe of to evade,
or intimidate from, the execution of them (a
ftriking inftance of the latter of which was de-
5 pnving
,yGoogle
priving his patron of every degree of power and
honour, of which he could be deprived without
regard to his great fervices, and perfonal con-
fequence, only for appearing in his caufe) an
able and upright magiftrate fupported them with
fuch resolution and judgement, that he ob­
tained exemplary redrefs for all he had fuffered,
that could be redrefled, as did feveral others, who*
had been involved in the fame circumftances,
as having been employed by him.
In gratification to your curiofity, I have thus
given you the general heads of his ilory. T o
have dwelt on the minuter circumftances, how­
ever curious in themfelves, would have led me
too great a length, befide that they come not
within my defign, as I was not diredlly in his
pofleflion when they happened. To return,
therefore, now to the regular chain of my own
adventures, I muft go back to the time of my
leaving his fervice, which was not very long
after he had been releafed from his confinement.
Among the crowds that came to congratu­
late him upon this event, was a clergyman,
whofe profeifions of perfonal attachment, and
refpefl: for his principles and abilities, were
ftrained to fuch a fulfome height, as would have
difgtffted vanity itfelf.
My mailer faw through him direilJy, and
played him off with humour peculiar tohimfelf,
till he concluded with telling him, that he had
K 6 a work
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 20*
,yGc le
a work then in hand, upon the fame fcbeaie
with his, which he intended to publifl* by fub-
fcription.
M y mailer, who knew the man, took the
bint, in the proper light of a modeft way of
begging, and clapped a couple of guineas into
his hand, defiring to be inferted in his lift, upon
which occqfion I left hisfervice•
*©+ CHRYSALi OR, THE
C H A P .
,yGoogle
A D V ENT UR ES OF A GU IN EA. ao$
C H A P . VIII.
Reafon o f thejoy w ith which C h r y s a l was re­
ceived by his new majler. Account o f a curious,
though not uncommon way o fgetting a living. Con-*
verfation between C h r y s a l ’j niajler and his
guejl. They compare notes on their different attempts
in the literary trade. C h r y s a l V majler is
encouraged by hisfriendfrom his own example. A
remarkable account of a certain matter that made
much noife.
H E joy my new mailer felt on the receipt
of fo fmall a fum, fhowed the confequence
it was of to him. He thanked his benefaitor,
in terms of rapture, and vowing eternal grati­
tude and attachment to him and his caufe,
departed with an happy heart. Nor was
his joy without caufe He had invited an ac­
quaintance to fup and fpend the evening with
him, and had neither money nor credit to pro­
vide any thing for his entertainment.
Defpicable as the vanity of making invitations
in fuch circumftances may appear to you, it was
one of his chief refources, to fupport himfelf
and his family; as he never invited any, but
fuch as he expedted to borrow much more from
than it coil him to entertain them.
Your indignation at the mention of fo mean a
fhift ihows your happy ignorance of the ways
of
Digitized by Google
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
to6
ofthis populous place,inwhich there arenumbers,
who keep up a decency of external appearance,
andfupport life only by this method of raifing
contributions on their acquaintances, fpending
with one what they have got from another, in
order to get from him too, and fo on; with this
difference only from common beggars, that they
feldom apply to the fameperfon twice, and rn-
iiead of praying for their benefa&ors with an
appearance of gratitude, wherever they meet
them avoid their company, and are always
feeking for new acquaintances, as quarry for
them to prey upon.
On this errand he had Tallied out this morn­
ing, but met with fuch bad fuccefs, that he had
been obliged to haverecourfe to th$fubfcription-
fcheme, an addition which he had lately made to
his former plan. His joy, therefore, at my late
mailer’s generofity was but natural. He re­
turned home in high fpirits, and giving his
wife half his prize, to provide two or three nice
little things, fecured mey for future contingencies.
Every thing being thus adjufted, his gueft,
who came punctually at the appointed time, was
received with all theform alities and airs o f polite-
nefsj and high life. The converfation before,
and at fupper, ran on the ufual topicks, of the
- weather, politicks, and thefecret hijlory of the day,
but when my matter’s lady had withdrawn, and
he fawhis friend begin to palate his wine with
pleafure,
,yGoogle
pleafure (for he never made his pufh till the
heart was warm) he took occaiion from fome
. modejl mention the other made of his munificence
in the relief of merit in diftrefs, to lament his
own inability to indulge that darling pleafure of
his foul, as a proper introdu&ion-to his bufi-
nefs.
4
4 I have wondered with much concern (an-
cc fwered his friend) at your languiihing folong
4
4 in this obfcurity. It is all your own fault.
4
4 Why do you not exert yourfelf? There is
4
4 nothing which fpirit and diligence cannot
conquer.”------
4
4 Very true, my deareft friend” (replied my
mailer, with a fhrug of his ihoulders, and a heavy
figh.) 4
4But what can diligence or abilities
4
4 either do, when they cannot find employ-
4
4 ment. I have offered myfelf to mtntftry and
4
4 oppofttion, to bookfellers, and new s-w riters ; and
4
4 all to no purpofe : though indeed if it was not
4
4 for the affiftance of one of the latter, who
now and then takes an effay or a letter from
4
4 me, I ihould be utterly at a lofs. So that
4
4 what can I do.” ----
4
4 W hat! why any thing rather than be idle.
4
4 If one thing won’t do another may. There
4
4 is notan article in the trade, which I have not
4
4 tried in my time. I made bibles, magazines,
4
4 and review s', fermons, ballads, and dying-
4
4fpeeches, and though all failed I never loft my
. 4
4 fpirit.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *07
,yGoogle
CHRYSALi OR, THE
*•8
4
4 fpirit. The mi(carriage of one fcheme only fet
4
4 my invention at work to fti ike oat -another.
4
4 No man can have greater difficulties to ftrug-
4
4 glewith than I had; and yet yon fee I have
4
4 got over themall.”------
4
4Yes ! but, my deareft friend, you had ad-
c< vantages! the countenance and affiftance of
4
4 fuch a patron as yourV*-— -
4
4 Were juft as great advantages to me, as
4
4 your patron’s are to youv and no more.
4
4 1 had the honourable advantage of leading a
4
4 hear, for a bit of bread; and betraying his
4
4 fecrets to his father and mother, for the hope
4
4 of a church-living, which I ihould not have
4
4 got at laft,but that it was not worth felling.”
4
4 You aftoniih me ! Don’t you owe all your
4
4 preferments, all your affluence, to the intereft
4
4 of your patron?”
4
4 What I owe my preferments to is not ne-
44 ceffary to mention ; but my affluence I owe
4
4 to a very different caufe. The detection o f
4
4 that impojlor was the thing that made my for-
4
4 tune. I might have remained in my original
4
4 poverty to this day, if it had not been for
4
4 that.”------ .
4
4 For that! Is it poffible? I cannot con-
4
4 ceive that the pro/its upon the fale of a pam-
4
4 phlet or two (and that not a very extenfive
4
4 fale neither) could do fuch great things.
4( My novels I thought, bade as fair for a good
3 “ rm >
iy
C >gle
4
4 row, as any thing : it wasfeafonedhigh to the
4
4 tafte of the times, and yet it did very little
4
4 more than pay.” —--- -
4
4 The fale! Ha! ha! ha! No, no ! I did
4
4 not depend upon that. My profit came in
4
4 another way entirely.”
4
4 What can be your meaning ? If it be not
4
4 too great afecret, I ihould be much obliged
4
4 to you to explain this matter. It may poifr-
4
4 bly be of fervice to me.” —
4
4 Why, on that account*and as I think I can
:4 depend upon your honour, I don’t much care
*4 if I do. If you are fo much furpri&d at m y
'•* faying that I made my fortune by that pam-
4
4 phlet, what will you think when I tell yotr
4 further, that I never wrote one line of it,
*4 nor was I any more concerned in the fale
4
4 than you, who knew nothing of thematter ?
4
< But, not to perplex you with gueffing at
4
4 what it is impoffiblc you Ihould ever difcover!
4
4 You can be no ftranger to the noife that im~
4
4 pojior made, when he firft came here. While
44 hedid no more than tell his own ftory, it was
4
4 thought, by his old fraternity, to be the beft
4
4 way not to give it confequence by contradict-
44 ing it, but let it die away of itielf; befide,
4
4 that poiEbly it might not have been fo eafy to
4
4 contradict it to-any effeCt, while the perfons
4
4 concerned were all living, and the fails freih
4
4 in every one’s memory, But when he went
4
4 fo
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 209
,yGoogle
S I # CHRYSAL: OR, THE
4
4 fo far as to attack the whole body, and was
4
4 evidently undermining the foundation - upon
4
4 which they flood, by tearing off the veil of
4
4 antiquity behind which they hid themfelves,
4
4 and expofing all their myftery to light, the
4
4 matter became more ferious, and it was judg-
4
4 ed neceffary to ruin his chara&er, in order to
4
4 invalidate the credit of his work,' the merit
4
4 of which made a dire& attack not only difli-
4
1 cult, but alfo too doubtful of fuccefs to ha-
4
4 zard an affair of fuch importance upon it.
4
4 For this reafon, heaven and hell were con-
4
4 jured up, and every engine fet at work to
4
4 prove his ftory of himfelf falfe in every par-
4
4 ticular, and make him appear the moft com-
4
4 plicated villain that ever exifted. But the
4
4 credit of thofe who made this attack upon
4
4 him was too low for it to have any effect,
4
4 as their principles, and the interefted motives
4
4 upon which they proceeded, werefufficiently
4
4 known, fo that it only did him fervice, by
4
4 ihowing his confequence.
4
4 While they were confidering how to repair
4
4 this defeat, neceility fuggefted to me the
4
4 lucky thought of offering them my afliflance.
4
4 I had already got fome degree of credit bjr
4
4 anticipating time in the dete&tonof two filly
4
4 impollures, the abfurdity of which would
4
4 foon have difcovered them without my help.
4
4 This gave weight to my offer: accordingly,
4
4 they
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. % u
4
4 they readily embraced it: and defiring only
4
4 thefanftion of my name (for which you may
4
4 judge, I was w ell paid) took all the trouble
4
4 upon themfelves
4
4 The reafon, which defeated them affifted
4
4 me. Every thing I was thought tofa y carried
4
4 weight, as appearing to proceed ixom the high-
4
4 eft candour, and attachment to truth, as no-
4
4 thing elfe could naturally be fuppofed to have
4
4 made me take fuch pains to deteft an im-
4
4 pofture, fo favourable to the principles I
4
4 profefled myfelf. The publick alfo had got
4
4 enough of his ftory, and was ready to liften
4
4 to one againft him. The confequence you
4
4 know. His chara&er was ruined with the
4
4 publick; and of courfe a prejudice raifed
4
4 againft his work, which ruined that alfo,
4
4 without the trouble of a regular confutation,
4
4 which, as I obferved before, might not have
4
4 been an eafy matter: and now I hope the
4
4 myftery is explained to you.”- - »
—«
C H A P .
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, T HET
C H A P . IX.
C hRYSAl ’s m aßer makes fome ß r iking remarh
on his fr ie n d 's account o f this myfterious t r a n f
a¿lion, and draws inferences from it y not com­
monly attended to. H e entertains his fr ie n d
w ith a curious fcn g y tvho makes an important h it9
ju fi in his own character, upon it. C h r y s a l ’x
m aßer boggles a little at fir ß y at his fr ie n d 's p ro-
fo fa l, but is encouraged by his example to under-
take it.
M T Am much obliged to you, for fitch a
c< proof your confidence %
(returned1 my
<
c mailer) particularly, as it clears up fome
u points to„ me, which I own gave me equal
u concern and furprife; and of which delicacy
#
c prevented my defiring an explanation from
you. Thefe were the manner in which that
attack was made upon him, and the argir*
<
4 ments and proofs brought in fupport of it,
which were fo un fair, inconclufve9 and in
€i many inflances contradictory, that I was
ct aftonifhed any man of fenfe and honefty could
<
c make ufe of, or be influenced by them.”
Why, that is very true. Their zeal often
over-fhot the mark to be fure. But that fig-
<
c nified nothing. Set the publick once upon
“ the feent of fcandalj and they’ll hunt it like
« blöod-
,yGoogle
** blood-hounds, through thick and thin. No-
4
4 thing can be fo grofs as to flop them. You
4
4 may as well whittle to the wind to change its
4
4 courfe, as (peak reafon to the people, when
44 they have conceived a prejudice.” —-- - -
4
4 JBat what is your opinion of that affair? Is
*4 he, or is henot, the impoftor they would make
4
4 him ? For I confefs, the arguments by.which
44 they would prove him one are fo far from
44 anfwering their defign with me, that I think
44 they prove the contrary, by proving nothings as it is
4
4 natural to conclude, that if there were any
4
4 better, fuch would not have been made ufe
4
4 of. But you certainly mutt have had fuf-
4
4 ficientopportunities of being informed, in the
4
4 intercourfe you neceffarily had with them.”
4
4 As to that, 1know no more of the matter
4
4 than you do, nor ever gave myfelf the trouble
4
4 to enquire. All the intercourfe I had with
4
4 them, was only to fave appearances, and get
4
4 my money. Whether he was an impoftor or
4
4 not was the fame thing to me. I was paid for
4
4 feeming to prove him onej and that was all
4
4 I cared for.” — — . *
4
4 But you continue to call him one ftill,
4
4 Do they alfo pay you for that now?”------
4
4 No. I do that for my own credit. Were
4
4 I to retra&, all the fcandal that has been
4
4 heaped upon him, in my name, would revert
4
4 upon myfelf, fo that whenever 1 mention him,
4
4 I am
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ai*
,yGoogle
CHRYSALî OR, THE
ftI4-
4
4 I am obliged to do it in the old phrafe. I
4
4 know fomefqueamijh people would havefcrupled
4
4 the whole; but that is not my way of think-
4
4 ing. I hold nothing tobefo great areproach,
4
4 as poverty; nor any thing a fin that can get
4
4 over it. And fo, here's my fervice to you.
4
4 I wiih you could hit upon fuch another op-
4
4 portunity.”------
4
4 And if I would fcruple to make ufe of it,
4
4 may I perifh in my prefent poverty; and I
4
4 defy the devil to find an heavier curfe.”
Theconverfation then turned to more general
topicks, in the courfe of which my late matter
naturally coming to be mentioned, 4
4 That’s
4
4 right (faid my matter) I have fomething to
4
4 (how you, that will give you pleafure. You
4
4 may remember* I told you, that I am fome-
4
4 times obliged to a printer of my acquaintance
4
4 for helping me to a job, in the letter or effay-way.
4
4 Happening to call upon him this morning, to
4
4 try if he could take any thing from me, he
4
4
v ibowed me this (pulling a piece of greafy
4
4 paper out of his pocket) which I think
4
4 really a curiofity. It is a proof of a bawdy-
w fong, which the gentleman we have been
4
4 talking of wrote, and had a few copies of
4
4 printed for the amufement of his particular
4
4 intimates. My friend got it from one of his
4
4 journey-men, who fometimes works for that
4
4 gentleman, and fays there are a good many
4
4 more
,yGoogle
4
4 more of them, which are all printed together
4
4 in a ballad. You’ll find it worth your read-*
4
4 ing. Nothing ever was fo highly worked up.
4
4 It gave me ineffable pleafure.” ------
4
4 If you can piove this to be wrote by that
4
4 perfon” (faid the other fpitting, and wrigglingin
his chair, after having pored over it foi*fometime)
4
4 your fortune is made! you know his enemies
4
4 areftriving to run him down, by any means*
4
4 Now, this will give them fo plaufible an han-
4
4 dleagainft him, that they will not fail to re-*
4
4 ward you liberally for the difcovery. All you
4
4 have to do is* to prove it plainly upon him.”—
4
4 I am pretty fure that may be done;”
(anfwered my matter, with fome hefitation)
4
4 But I— I— I— I hardly know how— I am
4
4 under perfonal obligation” — —
4
4 Nay, if you let fuch things as that inter-
4
4 fere, I give you up. What fignifies paß
4
4 obligation, when put in competition with
4
4 prefent intereß? You know what myoldan-
4
4 tagonift fays, that it is a rule among his
4
4 former fraternity never to let any focial or
44 moral duties interfere with religion, of which
4
4 he gives a remarkable inftance in his owh
4
4 ftory. Now, my intereß is my religion; and
4
4 every thing which interferes with that I ab-
4
4 jure; as I have fufficiently proved. But I
4
4 beg pardon, I would by no means prefs you
4
4 to do any thing againft your confcience, if it
14 isfo tender.” —
4
4 Wrong
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *15
,yGoogle
4
4 Wrong tne not, mv deareft friend, by fuch
4
4 an opinion: my confcience is as far from
4
4 being tender as your’s can be. I was only
4
4 furprifed, that I had not myfelf feen what
4
4 you mentioned. But now that your friend-
4
4 ihip has pointed it out to me, you ihall fee
4
4 me purfue it as eagerly as you can define. All
4
4 I want is your direction! Leave the reft to
4
4 me.”
The remainder of th e ‘evening was fpent in
eonfultation upon the plan proper to be purfued,
the forming of which my mafter fubmitted im­
plicitly to the fuperiour judgement and expe­
rience of his friend, who was fo pleafed with
this mark of his refpeft, and fo fure of fuccefs,
that on going away he took a modeft hint,
and lent him five guineas, reminding him at the
fame time of the confidence he had placed in his
honour, by difclofing his affairs to him, and
enjoining him to fecrefy.
21* CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P,
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ai7
, . C H A P . X.
C h r y s a l ’s majier purfues his fcheme, and violate*
moral honejly to ferve the caufe o f virtue and
religion. H e'w aits upon , his patron, who ho-
nejlly refufes a character to which he knows
he has no right; but undertakes the affair from
a more prevailing motive, in which he is re­
markably affifted by another perfon o f lefs modejly,
who pleads the caufe o f religion and virtue in
vain, till honour at length turns the fcale in
their favour. C h r y s a l ’ j majler is difap-
pointed in his hopes, and makes ufe o f an expe­
dient in charafter, to efcape from theju jl reward
o f all his labours• C h r y s a l changes his fe r -
vice.
NO T to lofe a moment’s time, in a matter
of fuch importance, my mailer went next
morning to his worthy friend the printer, to
whom he opened his fcheme, and by his influence,
with the afliftance of a bribe, and promifes of
much more, he prevailed on the fellow from
whom the former paper was got, to betray the .
truft of his employer, and ileal the whole ballad.
The next thing was to make his honefl ac-
quifition known to thofe from whom he expedled
the reward of his pious pains. For this pur-
pofe, he waited upon his patron, and having
V o l. IV. L with
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THË
lift
with difficulty gained accefs to him, on re*
peated meflages of important bufinefs, after the
common cant of compliments, 4
4 I am come,
4
4 Sir (faid he) on an errand, that I know muft
cc be agreeable to you, as it will afford a fignal
4
4 opportunity of ihowing your regard for reli-
4
4 gion and virtue.”
4
4 Heh! (anfwered his patron.) My re-
4
4 gard for religion and virtue! What the Devil
4
4 does the fellow mean? What regard have I
4
4 ever ihown for either, in word or adtion, that
4
4 ihould put fuch a thought in your head ? If
4
4 you are come to preach to me, you (hall foon
4
4 find the effedfs of your p i e t y . — -
4
4 Pardon me, Sir; I know you better than
4
4 to be guilty of fuch prefumption! What I
4
4 mean is this: Fortune has favoured me-with
4
4 an opportunity of putting it into your power
4
4 to eftabliih fuch a character; and as I know
4
4 moil people are fond of the name, when it
4
4 can be obtained without the trouble of the
4
4 pra&ice, I thought it my duty to acquaint
4
4 )ou with it; efpecially, as it will enable you,
4
4 at the fame time, to do a particular pleafure
4
4 to your fiiends in power.”
4
4 W h), there may be fomething in that, as
4
4 you fay j but for the reft, I care as little for
4
4 the name as 1 do for the pra&ice; and would
4
4 not give myfelf a moment’s trouble to get it $
4
4 fo, be quick, and let me hear what you have
44 got
5
,yGoogle
A d v e n t u r e s o f a g u i n e a . 2 i 9
u got to fay. I have a ?natcb to ride to-morrow
c< againft a gentleman for a coniiderable wager,
4
4 and muft fee his groom this morning, in
4
4 order to fettle matters w ith him*, befide which, I
4
4 have an affignation With his wife, who expe&a
4
4 me at this very time, fo that I have not a
4
4 moment to lofe about religion and virtue.”
My matter, who knew him too well to attempt
interfering with fuch engagements, politely
wiihed him fuccefs, and then gave him, in few
words, an account of the whole affair, only re-
ferving to himfelf the honour of the-thought,
with which his patron was fo pleafed, that he
promifed to give him all the afliftance in his
power, i f it was onlyf o r the f u n o f the thing.
Accordingly, as foon as he could fpare time
from his own weightier concerns he mentioned
the matter to thofe more immediately concerned
in it, who embraced the projedt eagerly, and
rewarded my matter with moil: liberal p ro -
mifes, for his pains, of which they refolved to
take advantage, in order to cruih a perfon, either
hated or feared by every one among them.
In the attack made upon him, for this purpofe,
the principal part was undertaken by one, whofe
regard for religion and virtue was heightened by
a motive not the moft confident with either.
This was the perfon who had been competitor
with the culprit for the higher order o f the m o c k -
m o n a s t e r y . In the account I gave you of
L 2 that
,yGoogle
CHRYSALs OR, THE
that curious tranfa&'ion, I obferved that he che-
riihed a fecret grudge againft the other, which
was aggravated fo violently by the difgrace he
fuffered on that occafion, that he had prevailed
to have him expelled the fociety*. Such an
opportunity, therefore, as this, of completing
his revenge, was not to be miffed by one of his-
principles. Accordingly, though at the fight of
the ballad he knew it to be no more than a col-
ledtion of the longs w hich he had him felf often
bore a part in ftnging, at the monajlery, andfome o f
the w orjl o f which he had boajled o f being the authour
of9 he inveighed againft it with all the fervency
and enthufiaftick zeal of a modern fanatick, and
difplayed the danger of letting fuch an infult
upon every thing held facred go unpunifhed, in
fuch ftrong and affedting colours, as afforded
high entertainment to all who heard him, and
were acquainted with his life.
But all his eloquence would have proved
ineftedtual to make fuch of his fraternity as
were not, like him, ftimulated by private motives,
give the lie to theft own pra£tice in fo flagrant a
manner, as to cenfure the theory of it, had not
fome particular expreflions happened to affeffc
the honour of one of them; whom all the reft
of courfe efpoufed; and thus% fo r once, honour
turned the fcale in favou r o f virtue and religion,
too light by them felves; and the ballad was con*
demned
* V
o
UIII.—-Pajezu.
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, an
demned, as tending to debauch the principles of
the people, though it was fufRciendy known
that it was not defigned for publication, nor
would ever have been heard of, had not this
attack raifed a curiofity about it.
Through the whole of this important tranf-
aftion, my mailer performed his part moft clever­
ly, flopping at nothing that was thought any
way neceflary to bring it to effedl. As foon,
therefore, as it was concluded, he prepared to
receive the reward of his labour, the enjoyment
of which he had anticipated in imagination in
every fhape it could be given. *
But it was not long before he found his hopes
had been too fanguine. Inflead of being re­
warded immediately, as he had been made t,o
expeft, the job was fcarce done, when he could
perceive the fmiles of favour grow cooler upon
him, as often as he went to pay his court to his
patrons, in order to keep them in mind of their
promifes. A date of fuch uncertainty, fevere
enough upon any, was not to be bor’n by one
in his circumftances. The expe&ations he had
raifed, in the height of his hopes, had opened the
mouths of all his creditors upon him, with an
importunity not to be quieted; befide, that he
had imbezzled fome publiclc money entrufled to
him, a demand for which he expeded every
day, and knew he could not ihift off for a
moment.
L 3 Driven
,yGoogle
«21 CHRYSALî OR, THE
Driven almoft to diftra&ionby fuch irrefiftible
neceility, he had no refource, but to throw him-
ielf at the feet of the perfon who had appeared
moil fanguine in the purfuit of his fcheme, and
confequently been moft liberal of his promifes
to him, and implore his ailiftance to extricate
him from his accumulated difirefles. But they
who will moft readily avail themfelves of vil­
lainy, always deteft the villain. All the return
he received was a cold profeilion of concern ;
and a ihamelefs excufe of wanting that power
to relieve him, which the caitiff fuppliant well
knew he had. .
A new misfortune often lightens the weight
of thofe under which the mind was finking be­
fore, by roufing it from liftlefs deje&ion to an
exertion of its powers. Such a difappointment
of his only hope ihowed him all the horrours of
hisfituation; andmadehimm fa n tly cajlabout \iovr
to efcapefrom what he foundhecould notredrefs:
inftead, therefore, of betraying it by his looks,
which he knew were watched, he aflumed an
air of uncommon fpirits, and telling every one
that he had got a pofitive aflurance of receiving
the promifed reward without any further delay,
he went to one of his tradefmen, by that time
he thought the news might have reached him,
and taking up goods to a confiderable amount,
for which he confidently engaged to pay at a
fixed and fhort day, no fooner got them into his
pofleffion,
,yGoogle
pofleflion, than he fold them privately at half­
price, and packing up whatever he could carry
with him, fled beyond the reach of his creditors;
and fo proved how far his late conduit had pro­
ceeded, as he profefled, from his high regard to
moral virtue and religion.
The agitation and horrours of his mind, from
the time he had refolved upon flight, till he had
efteeded it, may be eafily conceived. Whether
the prefent fafety it procured him gave him any
lading relief, I had not an opportunity of feeing,
as I quitted hisfervice, at the inn where he took
a poft-chaife to get off; though it is mod pro­
. bable, that, after the fird hurry of his fpirits
fubfided, a fenfe of the various villainies, by
which he had brought himfelf to fucl\ a date of
exile, imbittered the very blefling of liberty, ~
and kept his mind in flavery, though his body
was free.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA.
L 4 CHAP.
iy
C >gle
C H R Y S A L : OR, THE
• C H A P. XI.
C h r y s a l again changes his fervice» H is new
majier is obliged to pay expedition fees> to get
over artificial delays. H e and his miflrefs
fe t out on a long journey, to do what might
have been better done at home. C h r y s a l
makes feme interflin g reflexions on a mofi im­
portant fubjeft. Story o f C h r y s a l ’j majier.
C h r y s a l continues his reflexions on the fame
fu lje ft) which he confiders in a further and
' mofi offering point o f view . C h r y s a l
changes hisfervice.
MY late matter had fcarce decamped, when
a young gentleman came into the inn,
and ordering a chaife and fo u r to be got ready
with the utmoft expedition, gave my new'matter
a bank-note to pay for it, in the change o f which
he received me.
The anxiety which my new matter exprefled
to have the grooms make hafte was a fufficient
reafon for them to pradtife every delay they
could devife, in order to extort expedition fees,
at, which they were fo expert, that he was
forced to give them almoft as much as he paid
for the chaife, before he could get it to ttir.
When at length every thing was fettled, he
¿iredied them to a particular place, where a
hackney
>ogle
hackney-coach waited for him, out of which he
received a young lady, with a couple of fmall
bundles, and then bade the poftillions drive on;
but they had no fooner got out of the town,
than he changed his orders, and dire&ed them to
take another road. Thisoccafioned a newdelay.
The fellows alledged their being obliged to go
where their matter had ordered them, and no­
where elfej and made fo many difficulties, that,
as they expelled, my matter was compelled to
purchafe their compliance, at their own price.
All obftacles being thus got over, he turned
to the young lady, who fat trembling and
panting by his fide, and embracing her tenderly,
4
4 Now, my deareft love (faid he) all our fears are
4
4 over. Should we even be traced to the inn,
4
4 this turn will effc&ually baffle all purfuit.”
4
4 I wiih it may (anfwered fhe) but I fhall
4
4 never think myfelf fafe, till 1 am abfolutely
4
4 out of their reach, and all is over.”
The converfation of lovers is agreeable only
to themfelveS ! The reft of their’s for two days,
as they flew rather than travelled (for which
expedition they paid fufficiently, every fet of
poftillions giving the word to the next) will not
bear repetition. As foon as they got to the end
of their journey, they put an end to their moft
immediate fearo alfo, by a marriage, which might
have been performed with a much greater pro­
bability of fuccel's at home, had not a pofitive
law prevented it.
ADVENTURES, OF A GUINEA. »*5
L 5 Ifee
,yGoogle
I fee your furprife at my faying that a pofitive
law prevented marriage, as the profperity of the
community depends in the firft degree on the
promotion of that ftate. But fo it happens in
human affairs, that the true intereft of the
people is not always the firft objedt of the laws
made for their government.
Though too general experience confirms this
remark, it is neceflary to explain the particular
circumftance that gives occafion to it, in this
inftance.
The firft end of marriage is the propagation
of the fpecies, in the manner moft agreeable to
reafon, and likely to produce the happinefs of
the parties, as well as the population of the
ftate. As the paifions which lead to this end
are ftrongeft before reafon has acquired ftrength
to diredt them, it is neceffary that they (hould
be fubjedi to the diredtion of others, who may be
better qualified to difcern and promote their in­
tereft. This right of direction naturally be­
longs to thofe who are moft intimately con­
cerned in that intereft, as afFedting a part of
ihemfelves; and hence, among every people upon
earth, however differing in other refpedts and
cuftoms, this right of diredting matrimonial
choice has always belonged to the parents; till
maturity of age may be prefumed to ripen judge­
ment, and fo remove the neceffity upon which it
is founded.
But
226 C H R Y S A L s OR, THE
,yGoo 'le
But, however evident this right is, the paffions
of youth fo often rebel againft it, that it was
found neceflary to enforce it by exprefs laws.
Thefelaws, though, theprofefled end of which
is to make marriage happy, ihould never be per­
verted to the unnatural purpofe of preventing it
entirely, by clogging it with fuch unneceflary
and unreafonable reftriftions, as tend to fubju-
gate not only natural liberty, but alfo the higheft
intereft of the ftate, which depends upon popu­
lation, to avarice, caprice, or pride of family in
parents; or to views of intereft in thofe appoint­
ed to fupply their place.
The particular cafe of my matter, which gave
occafion to thefe reflexions, was this: He was
the younger fon of a noble family, to the honours
of which his rifing virtues promifed to add new
luftre. Youthful inclination had firft attached
him to this lady, whofe merits upon acquaintance
confirmed that attachment more than her very
large fortune. Such a marriage could not fail'
to meet the apprbbation of reafon and paternal
prudence. Accordingly, every neceflary preli­
minary was agreed upon, when the fudden death
of her father threw in legal obftacles, which
threatened to prevent it, at lead for a longer
time than youthful impatience could bear. For,
as he had notaftually figned to hisconfent, thofe
to whom the care of his daughter devolved
thought proper to exert the right which the law
L 6 gave
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. zi7
,yGoogle
CHRYSAtï OR, THE
tiS
gave them of objefting to the difparity between
her fortune, and that of her lover, and fo^reak
off a match evidently for their mutual advantage.
When the lovers found that all they could do
to influence their compliance was ineffeitual,
they had recourfe to this expedient (which the
fage makers of the law had, perhaps inadver­
tently, left open) to evade it, by flying beyond
its power; and there folemnized a marriage,
which fhould be valid at tbeir return home,
though entered into without any of the pruden­
tial cautions for fecuring happinefs, which are
cuftomary on fuch occafions, and he had in vain
offered to come into* fo that the law which was
profcffedly defigned to prevent inconfiderate and
unhappy marriages, in its effe£t deprived this,
and the many marriages of the kind, of the
means for procuring happinefs, which former
laws, founded on reafon, had provided for them.
It is not to be denied, but the evils which
were immediately ailedged as the occafion of
this law called aloud for remedy; but whether
the remedy provided by it did not introduce an
inconvenience of worfe confequence to the pub-,
lick than thofe evils, is not fo clear a cafe.
Whatever reftrictions might have been thought
necefiary, in worldly wifdom, to prevent fecret
marriages, by which either the honours of fa­
milies might be luppofed.io fufter diminution,
or their fortunes fall a prey to mercenary defigi),
where
,yGoogle
^Vhere thcfc confiderations interfere not, fuch
reftriftions ihould never, in good policy, extend.
On the contrary, every impediment and delay*
not immediately proceedingfrom moral necejfity, ihould
be removed; and the Rate of matrimony en­
couraged by fuch honours and advantages as
Ihould counterbalance the inconveniences of it
to perfons labouring under circumftances of in­
digence; by which means, the inferiour ranks
of the people, whofe numbers make the ftrength
of a ftate, would be delivered from the difficul­
ties and fears which at prefent deter them from
entering into matrimony, to the heavy lofs of
the community, and the immediate ruin of fuch
numbers of both fexes, whofe natural paffions,
debarred from this, their only proper refouroe,
lead them into fuch vices, as defeat the end of
their creation, and make them a reproach to
humanity. How many infants would daily be
faved from the moft unnatural murther, to the
ornament and advantage of their country, could
the wretched parents have faved their own ihame
by marriage? How many females, who offer
themfelves in the highways to brutal proftitution*
periihing with cold, hunger, and difeafe, might
have been the happy mothers of many children,
and performed all the duties of their ftation in
virtuous efteem, had not their being hindered
from marrying, by impediments made by law , be­
trayed them to deilru&ion?
As
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. i t 9
,yGoogle
*30 C HR Y S A L « OR, THE
As foon as my mailer had thus accompliihed
the end of his journey, he fet out on his return,
to enjoy the fruits of it at home. But I con«
tinued not in his pofieilion to fee much of that
mutual happinefs which his marriage promifed,
being borrowed from him on the road, by a gen­
tleman of his acquaintance, who had been bub­
bled out of all his money at a horfe-race, and
was nowfighting his way to town, by running in
debt at every inn, and raifing contributions thus
on all he met, of whom he iiad the leaft know­
ledge.
CHAP.
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 231
C H A P . XU.
C h r y s a l ’j new maßer ß rik es out an adventure.
H e is fm itten with a g irl in a travelling-waggon^
and changes his appearance, to get admijfton to
her. Account o f the company in the waggon.
A good-natured mißake o f one o f the paßengers
gives occafion to a broily which is put an end
to by an accident that does not mend the
matter.
D
i s t r e s s i n g as fuch a fixation would
have been to another, cuftom had made it
io familiar to my new matter, that he thought
nothing of it, but travelled on with his equi­
pages, as unconcerned, and ready to engage in
any mad freak, as if his pockets were full of
money. Nor was he long without an opportu­
nity of indulging his difpofition.
As he was rolling carelefsly along, his chariot
was ttopped in a narrow part of the road, by one
of thole travelling waggons, whofe unwieldy
weight gives them the privilege of taking place
of their betters. Such a circumftance naturally
made the travellers in both carriages look out,
when he was ftruck with the uncommon beauty
of a young creature in the waggon, whofe charms
in the firft opening of their bloom, gave fcope
to imagination to paint a profpe£t, if poifible
beyond their prefent perfedlion.
Such
,yGoogle
CHR YS ALî OR, THE
232
Such temptation could fcarce be refilled by
one who had reafoned his paffions into the beft'
fubjeilion, much lefs by him, who blindly obeyed
them in, or rather ftimulated them to their ut-
moft excels. He no fooner faw, therefore, than
he refolved to have her by any means. The firft
thing to be done, for this pious purpofe, was to
change his appearance, in order to get into her
company, as the leaft fufpicion of his rank, would
directly blow his defign. But this was no dif­
ficulty. He was well accuftomed to lav it down ;
and the meaneft character in life fat as naturally
upon him as his own.
Accordingly, as foon as his chariot pafled the
waggon, he drove on furioufly, till he was out
of light, when he alighted, and changing clothes
with one of his fervants out of livery, ordered
them to leave the great road, and wait for him
at an inn, fome miles diftance acrofs the
country.
Tnus equipped for his enterprife, he walked
on Icifurely, like a common traveller, till he was
over-taken by the waggon, the driver of which
plied him in the ufual way to take a place, which
after fome aftedted difficulties he agreed to. But
the greateft difficulty arofe not from him. The
waggon was already fo full, that when the
driver mentioned taking in another, the paiTen-
gers all cried out againit it with one voice. But
his authority was too abfolute to be reliited. He
fixed
,yGoogle
fixed his ladder, and ordered them to make room,
barely condescending to fay that it was for a
gentleman who had been taken Suddenly ill,
and wanted to go only to the next village. This
circumftance, though treated with brutal dis­
regard by the reft, had an immediate effeCt upon
the tender difpofition of his deftined prey, who
Squeezing clofer to her mother, he crept into his
neft, and fettled himfelf as conveniently as he
could next to her in the ftraw.
The company.into which he had thus thruft
himfelf feemed to be a representative of all the
heteroclite characters of the age. Befide the
young female, whofe appearance had attracted
him, and her mother, a plain, good-looking wo­
man, it confifted of a mountebank-doCtor, and
his- zany, a methodift-preacher, a ftrolling-
aCtor and aCtrdfs, a fat ale-wife, a Servant-maid,
who was going to London to repair a cracked
reputation, a recruiting-ferjeant, and two recruits,
an outlawed Smuggler, and a broken exciseman.
Though my matter could not, at firft view,
diftinguifh all their different characters, Some of
them were So ftrongly marked, that he promifed
himfelf the higheft entertainment from the
claftiing which he concluded muft inevitably
arife in Such a groupe, and was refolved to pro­
mote, upon the firft occafion. But an acci­
dent Soon gave him that pleafure, without the
trouble of planning for it.
As
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. 235
,yGoogle
*34 C H R Y S A L : OR, THE
As the weather was warm, and few of the
company could be fufpe&ed of the delicacy of
changing their clothes often, it may be fuppofed
that every favour which arofe among them was
not purely aromatick. My matter had not been
many minutes in his place, when the various
odours fuming round him had fuch an effe<5t
upon his fenfes, that he undefigningly breathed
si wifh for a bottle offp irits.
As he had been introduced under the pretence
of being fick, thè ale-wife, who happened to be
near him, miftook his meaning, and thought he
wanted a dram, not once dreaming of any other
ufe of fpirits. Pulling out a flaik, therefore,
from under her coat, in the height of good­
nature, 4
4 Spirits! (faid ihe) they are poifonous
4
4 fluff. Here is what will do you more good
4
4 by half !’’— Then drawing the cork, and
taking a fup, to ihow him that it was not
poifon, 4
4 Drink fome of this,” (continued ihé,
reaching him the flaik) “ aqd I’ll warrant it will
4
4 fettle you. It is right H ollands” ------ -
Before my matter had time either to accept
or refufe her offer, the aftor, who fat between
themi fmoaked her miftake, and intercepting the
bottle, as ihe reached acrofs him, cried out in
triumph,
(( B
ra
v
o
,m
yq
u
e
e
n?y
o
u
rg
in
, fr
o
mHolland p
u
r
e
,
“ M
yfto
m
a
c
hfo
o
n
e
rth
a
nh
ish
e
a
dw
ill cu
r
e
.”—
Then taking a large go-down or two, 4
4 H ert%
4
4 B elvid era ”
,yGoogle
4
4 Belvideraf* (added he, giving the bottle to
the aftrefs) 4
4 in this friendly cup drown all your
4
4 forrow sl— D rin k, as you love, me, deep” ------
His faithful mate could not difobey fuch a
command. She took the bottle, and lifting it
to her head, 4
4 Thus to the bottom (faid ihe)
44 though it were a mile ! ’*
But ihe was interrupted in her intention by
the fmuggler, who lay at her feet, and no fooner
fmelt the dear liquour, than he raifed his head,
and perceiving what ihe was about, 4
4 Avail
4
4 haling there,” (cried he, fnatching the bottle
from her mouth) 4
4 or you’ll pump the fcupper
4
4 dry.”— And then going to put it to his own,
4
4 Hold,” (faid the excifeman, catching his hand
with the fame defign) 4
4 I feife this in the
4
4 King’s name, till 1know whether it has paid
4
4 duty.” -
The mention of the word duty fet the ^
fmuggler’s blood on fire. 4
4Duty! youihark!”
(faid he, grafping the bottle fafter, and catching
him in return by the throat with the other hand)
4
4 I’ll feife you! damn my eyes, and limbs!
4
4 I’ll pay you the duty, if you don’t loofe your
4
4 hold this moment, you fcoundrel! that I will.’*
Though he griped the excifeman’s throat fo
hard, that he could not return his compliment
in words, he fcorned to yield the prize without
one effort. Giving a twift, therefore, with all
his force, to wreft it out of his antagonift’s hand,
' though
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. a3
5
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
*3&
though he could not fucceed, he prevailed fo
far as to turn the mouth of the bottle downwards,
by which means the contents were poured full in
the face of the ferjeant, who lay fnoring, on his
back, with his mouth wide open.
Welcome as fuch a gueft would have been in
a proper manner, the intrufion thus unexpe&edly
was not fo agreeable. He flatted up, half fuffo-
cated; and belching his dofe full in the face of
one of the recruits, u Blood anouns! fire and
4
4 fury! (fputtered he.) What's the meaning of
4
4 all this?”
Juft as he faid this, one of the wheels of the
waggon came into a deep hole, with fuchaplump,
that though it did not absolutely overfet,' it
tumbled all the paifengers on top of one another;
and inftantly put a flop to the cries of the ale-
wife, for the lofs of her liquour.
The fcreams, oaths, and execrations of the
whole company, on this occafion, would have
given my mafter the higheft delight,
been rather too nearly concerned to enjoy the
fu n , the fat ale-wife being thrown fo full upon
him, that he was unable to ftir, though almoft
fmothered, fo that he could not help adding his
cries to the concert.
. C H A P .
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, a%f
CHAP. X
III.
C h r y s a l ’j m aßer experiences fem e com fortable
confequences fro?n the obliging difpofition o f
the waggoner. H e purfues his defign, by
paying common civility to his m ifirefs’ s mo­
th er. Converfation and' behaviour o f the
company. C h r y s a l ’j m aßer, in the p u r-
fu it o f his defign) me.ets an adventure that
ctols his pajfion, reajfembles the com­
pany^ w hen they are a ll like to be at a
fa u lt, till one o f them luckily hits o ff the feen t.
W H EN the driver had got his waggon out
of the hole, and feen that all was fafe
about it, he came to know what was the matter
with his paffengers; and having unpacked them,
my mailer had the pleafure to hear the young
woman propofe to her mother to walk a little
way, till fome, not the moil agreeable, con­
fequences of the late difafter ihould blow off, to
which Ihe readily consented, as he prepared to
accompany them, both for the fame reafon, and
in order to have an opportunity of making an
acquaintance, which he found he could not fo '
well do in the waggon.
But the waggoner was not in the humour to
give them that indulgence. When they called to
him to let them down, he anfwered furlily, that
they
,yGoogle
CHRYSALs OR, THE
• 5*
they had not above a couple of miles to theif
inn; and if they were to flop thus every moment,
he ihould not get in, in time, and fo without
any further ceremony whipped on his horfcs.
This was a fevere difappointment to my mailer,
who foon grew fo fick, that he could not hold
up his head ail the reft of the way.
But the qualms of his ftomach did not affeil
his confcience, fo as to make him in the leaft
alter his defign. On his arrival at the inn, he
made a pretence of the compaffion which»
the
young girl and her mother had exprefled for
him, to attach himfelf particularly to them,
and ply them with wine, by way of return,
which falfe modefty made the mother take fo
freely, as gave him good hopes of fuccefs.
The converfation and behaviour at fupper
was ftri&ly in the chara&er of the company.
The methodift made a long grace, and talked of
religion and temperance, while he eat more
than any two at the table, and his eyes were
gloating at the fervant-maid, his fellow- traveller,
who feemed to liften to him with great compla­
cency and attention. The adlor mimicked the
methodift to his face, and lolled out his tongue
at every one elfe, as they happened to look
another way. The a<ftrefs fpoke in heroicks,
and turned up her nofe at every thing and every
body. The fmuggler and excifeman fat growl­
ing at each other, as if they meant to make a
further
3d by Google
farther trial of their manhood. The ferjeant
talked of his exploits in the wars, and proved
his valour by an oath at every word, which his
two pupils liftened to with looks of admiration,
that ihowed they defigned to imitate that part of
his example at lead. The ale-wife lamented
the lofs of her gin, which, fhe faid, ihe could not
replace with any like it, on the whole road. In
ihort, every body eat and talked; and talked and
eat together, except the girl and her mother*
who were quite loft in aftoniihment, at a fcene
fo new to them, and my mailer, whofe thoughts
were too much taken up with his own fcheme,
to mind any thing elfe*
Accordingly, he ftepped out, when fupper
was ended, and engaging the chamber-maid in
his intereft, by a prefent of half a crown, ihe
ihowed him where his miftrefs was to lie,
and promifed to fettle all things in the manner
moil convenient to his defigns, by putting her
and her mother in the bed next to the door,
there being two in the room, and placing in the
other the fervant-maid, who paid for a bed to
herfelf, as her modefty would not permit her to
fleep with a ftranger. .
As foon as the houfe was quiet, and my mailer
thought the wine which he had forced upon
the mother had fecured her, he^ got up, and
ftealing in his ihirt to the door of their chamber,
found it open, upon which he entered and crept
to
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *3,
,yGoogle
*4 ® C H R Y S A L : OR, THE
to the bed, where he expeited to find his miftrefs,
without ever confidering what muft be thecon-
fequence of furprifing her in fuch a manner.
Opening the curtains, therefore, foftly, to feel,
by the difference of fize, on which fide ihe lay,
he had fcarce put his hand upon the clothes,
when it was feifed and griped fo hard, that he
loon loft all thought of every thing but dis­
engaging himfelfi
For this purpofe, he made two or three efforts,
but finding them ineffectual, and provoked at the
pain his hanci fuffered in the ftruggle, he dis­
charged a blow with the other full in the face of
his antagonift, who fpringing directly out of
bed, returned it with fuch ufury, that my poor
matter fell fprawling on the floor, where he
roared out murther with all his might, in which
he was immediately joined by thofe who lay in
the other bed, whofe cries not only raifed the
houfe to his refeue, but alfo faved him from
further violence, his antagonift defifting to beat
him, in order to make his retreat in time.
When thofe who lay neareft were aflembled
at the door, half clad, and worfe armed with
whatever they could catch up in their confufion,
prudential regard to perfonal fafety made them
all flop ihort, every one finding fome pretence
to excufe himfelf from going in firft, and pref-
fingthe poft of honour upon his neighbour, till
they at length raifed their fears fo high, that it
4 was
,yGoogle
was uncertain whether any one would venture
in before day-light^ though the cries ftill con­
tinued, had not the (muggier, who did not wake
to join them atfirft,v put an end to the debate.
4
4 Damn you all” (faid he, (batching a candle
from one, and a poker from another) 4
4 for a
4
4 pack of cowardly lubbers! Will you (land
44 jaw ing here, while the,peopleare murthering
Then ruihing in, 4
4 Hallo I (continued he)
4
4 what’s going forward here, in the Devil’s
4
4 name?” - ......
The firft obje& that prefented itfelf to his
view, when he entered, was my mailer, who
was ftill upon the ground, unable, between
fright andbeating, to arife. Advancing to him,
therefore, 4
4Hip, meflmateJ” (faid he, giving him
a kick on his naked pofteriours) 4
4 what cheer i
4
4 Speak, if you are alive!”—
The enterance of light reftoring my mafter
to feme fpirit, he raifed his head at this falute,
and making an effort to get up,441 fcarce know
4
4 whether I am or not (anfwered he) I have been
44 fo beaten by that bitch of Babel} but (he
44 (hall pay for it, if I ever recover.”
The place where he was found dire&ing
this accufation to the perfon in that bed, while
fome of them helped him up, the reft gathered
round it, and aiked the fervant-maid, who lay
there, what had induced her to treat the gen­
tleman in fuch a manner ? But the mention of
V ol.' IV, M her
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *41
,yGoogle
her namefaved her the trouble of a reply. Be­
fore fhe could fpeak, c<It was not ihe!” (ex­
claimed my matter) u I mean the old Beldam,
“ mother to the young Witch, whofe baby-face
u brought me among you, and who lay in this
u bed. It was ihe who abufed me thus; or
*c rather fome porter in woman’s clothes, who
“ patted for her, for no woman ever had fuch
u ftrength.”—
“ I believe you mutt be miftaken, Sir” (in-
terpofed the excifeman) u the people you mean
cc are lying quietly in the next bed, and feem to
4
< be as much frighted as you are hurt.” ------
u How! (returned my matter) did they not
fC lie in this bed, next the door?”—
No (anfwered the other) Mrs. .Margery
€
< lies here, as grave and demure as a whore
at a chriftening.” ..........
<
c Then the jade of a chamber-maid played
me a trick (replied my matter.)- But who the
u Devil lay with her? For I am fure ihe was
€i never able to do what I have fuffered.” ------.
cc As for that!” (faid the a£tor, who had
all the while been peeping round the bed)
*& I believe it will be no hard matter to find it
out. Thefe breeches (pulling a pair from
under the boltter) mutt belong to fome-
c< body, and will certainly point out her bed-
c< fellow, if the lady, like a true Amazon, did
** not wear them herielf.” — —
- C H A P .
3
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, *4.3
C H A P . XIV.
The advantage o f a ready ajfurance. The methodifl
accounts curioußy fo r what he has done \ and
turning the tables upon C h r y s a l ’ j maßer charges
him w ith robbery, who is thereupon obliged to d if-
cover h im felf but is contradiSled by one o f the
company, who boaßs o f a curious acquaintance w ith
him in his own character. H e is luckily recog­
nized by a footm an, whofe maßer extricates him
from his dißrefs, and makes out the mißakes
that had caufedfo much confufion.
AS the breeches were immediately known
to belong to the methodiil, they march­
ed away diredlly to his bedfide, for he had not
joined them, and aiked him how he had come
to ufe the gentlemai^in that inhuman manner,
. lhowing him my mailer, whom they had dragged
along with them.
. 4
4 Who I?” (anfwered themethodift, affedl-
ing all the furprife of innocence, and determined
to deny what he thought could not be proved)
4
4 Heaven forbid that I ihould ufe any fellow
. 4
4 chriftian ill. I engage not in fuch broils.
4
4 My warfare is with the fpirit.” ----- - .
4
4And fometimes with the flelh, too, I be-
4
4 lieve, doctor! (interrupted the a£tor.) Nay,
M 2 4
4it
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
4
4 it is in vain to deny it ! Do you know thefc
44 breeches, do&or?”
4
4 Breeches!” (exclaimed he, ftarting up in
real affright, and fumbling under his holfter)
4
4 Oh they are gone ! they are gone! I am rob-
4
4 bed, ruined, and undone!”— i
—
“ No, doitor; they are not gone, as you
4
4 fee! but the queftion is, how they came
41 under the young woman’s bedVhead, where
4
4 this gentleman received this abufe.” *
-----
4
4 Let him anfwer that!” (replied the metho­
dic, never at a lofs for an impudent lie.)
4
4 Let him anfwer that! all I know of the mat-
4
4 ter is this : being difturbed in my reft, I
44 then knew not, but now plainly perceive by
44 what caufe, I arofe to pray, as is my cuftom,
44 when hearing fomebody go foftly out of the
44 room, I watched, as was my duty, to prevent
4
4 any evil, and following the footfteps into
4
4 another chamber caught a man in the very
11 fadl of attempting the virtue of fome fe-
4
4 male, who lay there; upon which, expoftu-
4
C lating with him upon the heinoufnefs of fuch
4
C a crime, he flew at me fo furioufly that I
ct could fcarce defend myfelf from him, and i f ,
4
C in the fray he received any hurt, he muft
u charge it to himfelf, as he was the aggreffor:
cc but this is not the whole ; I now perceive,
<
c that I was difturbed out of my fleep by his
f c Scaling my breeches from under my head,
4
4 which
,yGoogle
C
4 which he accordingly took with him into the
4
4 room of that damfel, and therefore I demand
<
c juftice againft him for the attempt, as well
4
4 as for any lofs I may have raftered.”----- -
Saying this, he took his breeches out of the
a&or’s hand, and fearching the pockets, 4
4It
4
4 is too true!” (continued he, gnaihing hia
teeth, and wringing his hands, in a perfedf ago­
ny.) 4
4It is too true ! I am ruined and undone!
4
4 I am robbed of all the money which I had
4
4 colle&ed in my pilgrimage to relieve the poor
4
4 of the Lord. Twenty golden guineas, befide
4
4 filver, and other monies. Let him be fearch-
4
4 ed; let every body be fearehed this momenr.
4
4 I muft have my money! I'muft have my
4
4 money!” ----
As my mailer was a ftranger to them all ;
and not blcffed with a face that could befpeak
much favour, they began to give credit to the
charge, againft him, efpecially, as the fervant-
maid corroborated it, by faying that he had alfo
been rummaging for her pockets, when that
worthy gentleman interrupted him (for women
and all were now gathered to hear the matter
canvaffed) and talked of carrying him before a
magiftrate in the morning, that he might be
fenttojail.
At another time, fuch a feene would have
given him the higheft pleafure, but he had no
tafte for fu n now. Enraged, therefore, at the
iniquity of fuch a charge, and the infolence
M 3 with
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. ±4*
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
2
4
6
with which they were proceeding to treat him,
4
4 Unhand me, at your perils, you fcoundrels”
(faid he, telling them whohe was.) 4
4 Unhand
4
4 me, this moment. As for that infamous
4
4 villain, and his trull, I charge you to fecure
4
4 them dire&ly, and fend in my name for &
4
4 magiftrate. I’ll make examples of them, at
4
4 leaft.”
You may conceive with what furprife they
were all ftruck at hearing this. However, as
he gave only his bare word for it, all were not
equally ready to believe him. 4
4 You, my
4
4 friend Scapegrace/” (faid the a¿tor, coming
and looking him full in the face.) No! no! Sir:
4
4 fay that to thofe who don’t know him. I
4
4 am his intimate companion; his chofen
4
4 among ten thoufand. There is not a fine
4
4 girl upon the town but we have bilked; nor
4
4 an houfe in the hundred o f Drury where we
4
4 have not kicked up a dujl together. He and I
4
4 are Pylades and O rejles; fworn friends and
4
4 brothers. No! ^10! that ftroke won’t pafs
4
4 upon me.”
This made matters vvorfe than ever with my
matter, adding ridicule to infult, which was
poured upon him in fuch torrents from every
mouth, that he could not fpeak a word in his
own defenfe. But his diftrefs lafted not long.
Thefervants of a gentleman who luckily happen­
- ed to lie at the inn that night, beingraifedby the
uproar,
,yGoogle
tiproar, one of them knew my mafter, through
all his difguifes. 4
4 By your leave, there!”
(faid he, ruihing through the crowd* and ihov-
ing afide fome o f them, who had already laid
hold of him.) 4
4 Are you all mad, to ufe a gen.-
t€ tleman in thia manner?” — Then addrefling
himfelf to my mafter, 4
4 What is the matter,
4
4 pleaie your honour? I am forry to fee your
4
4 honour in fuch a pickle. My mafter (nam-
4
4 ing him) is in the houfe, and will do you
4
4 juftice. I'll run, and call him up dire&ly.”
Such a teftimony inftantly turned the fcale, ~
and made thofe who were moft infolent to him
before, now moft ofticious to pay him refpeft
and attendance. Accordingly, he was removed,
without afking his leave, into his own room,
where they were preparing to humanize his ap­
pearance, when the gentleman entered.
Much as my mafter was above the weaknefa
of ihame, he could not avoid feeling fomething
like it, on being caught in fuch a condition.
He was fitting on the fide of the bed, covered
only with the ragged remains of his ihirt, which
had been torn to pieces in the fray, daubed all
over with blood and dirt, and beaten to fuch a
degree, that he fcarce retained one feature of
the humanface divine^ which had not loft all
likenefs.of the original. .
The gentleman ftarted at fuch a fpe&acle,
and flopped ihort, in doubt whether it could be
he, till my mafter’s voice fatisiied him: when he
M 4 gave
ADVENTURES OP A GUINEA. »4.7
,yGoogle
*4« CHRYSALt OR, THE
gave orders to have every one concerned in the
affair fecured, and then feeing the poor fufferer
taken proper care of, and put to bed, he pro­
ceeded to enquire into the matter, the circutn-
ftances of which appeared tobethefe:
The methodift having agreed with the fervSnt-
maid, his fellow-traveller, to have fome fp iritu a l
converfation with her that night, ihe promifed
to lie in the bed next the door, and, therefore,
after the chamber-maid had affigned them their
quarters, as ihe had fettled with my matter*
feigned fome pretence to defire a change, which
the others readily contented to. Accordingly, as
the methodift was fecure of his reception, he
came* foon, and was got into bed to his dif-
ciple> when my matter made his attempt, whofe
hand hefeifed, in the manner I have related;
and would have beaten him ftill more feverply
for his intrufion, had it not been for his crying
out, upon which he retreated, to his own bed,
in fuch a hurry, to efcape dete&ion, that he
forgot his breeches, which he had taken with
him, for fear fome of his cbamber-fellowsfhould
fearch them, and rob him of eight or ten guineas,
that he had picked up inthe courfe of his preach­
ing about the country, and thea&or had made
bold to take as lawful prize, when they fell into
his hands, and afterwards found means to con­
vey to his wife, for more fecurity.
Every thing being thus cleared up, the gen­
tleman advifed my matter to drop the affair,/ as
profecuting
,yGoogle
profecuting it would only expofe him ftill more,
to which he willingly agreed, having no incli­
nation for any further trouble about it.
«The methodift, though, was far from being
fo eafily pacified for the lofs of the fruits of his
fummer’s labour in the vineyard, which he
thought worfeof than a thoufand beatings, and
was refolved to recover if poflible, in fpite of
all their feoffs and infults. But the dete&ion
of the other part of his ftory had fo entirely
deftroyed his credit, that he found it in vain to
perfift* efpecially as the adlor offered to make
oath that he had that very evening applied to
him, to borrow a (hilling to pay his reckoning.
Curing them all, therefore, in the bitternefs of
his foul, he changed his route, and went upon-
another preaching progrefs, in order to retrieve;
his lofs, in which pious work he prevailed upon
his difciple and fellow-fufferer in ihame, the
fervant-maid, whofe pockets had efcaped the:
pillagers, to accompany him.
By this time the waggon was ready to fetout,
when the reft of the company departed, except
the aftor and his lady, who were fo tired of
that vulgar way of travelling, that they thought
proper to continue their journey in the ftage-
coachj andmymafter, whowaslaid upinfalves
and flannels, had loft both ability and incli—
nation to purfue his enterprife any farther.
M.5 C H A P ;
, ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *4*
,yGoogle
CHRYSALî OR, THE
*$
o
C H A P . XV.
C h r y s a l gives a Jiriking account o f bis m a f
ter. H e arrives in London, and pays a
vifit to his miflrefs. H is curious method o f
courting. H is miflrefs makes him a prefent
o f h a lf her fortune beforehand, in return fo r
which he promifes to marry her next dayy
and then goes to his girl. Difference in his
behaviour to the two naturally accounted fo r .
A n uncommon guejl at a weddings w ith as
uncommon a manner o f celebrating a nuptial-
nighty Jhow a JIM more uncommon injlance of
matrimonial complaifance. C h r y s a l changes
his fervice.
T HE Angularity of my matins character
gave me a curioiity to take a view of his
life, while he was ileeping oiFfome of the efFe&s
of his late adventure. He was born in a rank,
that fupported the fair hopes of honour and ad­
vantage, which the firft opening of his youth
univerfally raifed. But an errour in his educa­
tion blailed all thofe hopes in thebud, and drove
him into every extreme of vice and folly, which
it was deligned to guard againft.
The bad confequences which are feen to
attend indulging the paffions too far, often lead
weak mindsto attempt fuppreffing them entirely,
without
,yGoogle
without coniidering that the crime is only ¡li­
the excefs. The difficulty and pain of this
attempt throws fuch a gloom over the whole
appearance, as hides the native beauty of virtue,
and makes it feem to be the fource of unhappi-
nefs, to thofe who view it only in thefe effe&s^
fo as to terrify them from the purfuit of it.
On this errour pretended enthufiafts have in
every age founded their influence, by enflaving-
the mind to groundlefs terrours, which they
never fail to turn to their own advantage. T o 4
the conduit of fuch blind and bafe guides, the
mother of my matter, to whom the foie care of
his education had fallen by the death of her
hufband, implicitly refigned herfelf, and ofcburfe
her fon, in return for which they flattered her
fanaticifm, and vanity together, with promifes
of breeding him up in the perfection of fanitity.
For this purpofe, he was debarred from every
innocent recreation) and harrafled with ftudies*
improper for bis age. His appetites were morti­
fied by fatting; his reft was broken to chaunt
hymns, and pray ; nor was he allowed even to*
fpeak but in fcriptqre-phrafe; and all as the in-
difpenfible duties of virtue and religion.-
Such a flavery naturally gave him fo-great an*5
averfion to every thing that bore their names,,
that the moment he became his own matter, he'
placed the fupreme pleafure of his life in afting.
in-contradiction to them, by every inftance of*
M 6 expenfive'
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *5*
,yGoogle
* 5 * CHRYSAL: OR, THB
cxpenfive and vicious excefs, in which hefquan-
dered away the inheritance of his anceftors, and
broke his conftitution with a rapidity, that gave
fcandal to vice, put folly out of countenance,
and made his name a by-word id an age of
cxceiTes. And in this fituation he was, when I
came into his pofleflion.
Though it was near noon before he awoke,
the gentleman whofe prefence had fo luckily
relieved him the night before waited to fee him,
when he completed his kindnefs, by lending him
money to defray his expenfes up to town, upon
which he fentfor his equipage, and fet off with­
out further concern at what had happened.
On his arrival in London, he drove dire&ly
to the laft place which any other man in his
circumftances would have thought of going td.
This was the houfe of a lady of large fortune,
to which he had paid his addreffes, fince his ex­
travagance had diifipated his own; and with this
peculiar honefty, that he never even pretended a
regard to herfelf.
The fuccefs of fuch a courtihip muft appear
improbable, but there is no accounting for the
caprice of woman. She had taken a liking tor
him, which feemed to rife in proportion to the
flights he ihowed her, and was refolved to gratify,
if only nominally, for (he could expeft no more,
at the hazard of every happinefs of life.
It may be fuppofed that the fight of him, in
fuch a condition, (truck her feverely. She flew
t*
y G o O '
to him, threw her arms around his neck, and
bemoaned his misfortune in the moft paffionate
terms. But that was not what he wanted.
Shaking her off, without feigning the leaft re­
turn to her fondnefs, 4
4Piha! (faid he) leave
4
4 off this fluff; and let me know whether you
4
4 have got the money I told you I fhould want
4
4 to pay off thofe debts of honour! If you have,'
4
4 and will alfo give me up the reft of your
4
4 fortune without referve, 1*11 marry you.” —
4
4 Will you? (exclaimed ihe, in rapture)
ct then you have it, if it were ten times as
4
4 much. Here it is” (opening a bureau, and
reaching him a handful of bank-notes) 441 fo ld
4
4 out half my fortune to raife it, the very day
44 youfpoke to me.” -----
4
4 I wifhl had known that” (faid he, putting
the notes in his pocket) 4
4 and then I might
4
4 have made my excurfion into the country
4
4 longer. Farewell! I’ll call upon you to-
4
4 morrow-evening, and conclude thejob. Do
4
4 you have the hangman and halter ready.” —
4
4 What do you mean ? I don’t underftand
4
4 you.” ------
4
4 What fhould I mean but the parfon and
4
4 the ring. Is not that an halter ? And does
4
4 he not hang us up with it for life?” ■
4
4 But, can’t you flay a few moments! I
4
4 want to know how you came in that con-
4
4 dition!”
4
4 It
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. a5$
,yGoo je
*5*
u
C HR Y S A L ; OR, T H E
It was only a fcrape about a wench. I’ll
4
4 tell you the particulars another time. M y
4
< girl would not forgive me, if flie knew I was
4
4 fo long in town, without going to her.” —
4
4 But will you certainly come to-morrow ?
4
4 I am afraid you will difappoint me, now you
4
6 have got what you wanted.” — —
« 4
4 Never fear! I have not got what I want,
4
< while you have a (hillingleft in the world.” —
Saying which he walked away,, without
deigning to take any further leave.
But his behaviour was not fo cavalier, where
he was going. The moment he entered hi*
miftrefs's room, (he flew at him, not with' the
fondnefs of a dove. 4
4 So! (faid (he) what
4
4 bawdy-houfe have you been breaking up,«
4
< now? You do well to come to me in fuch a
4
4 pickle;, but I’ll fee you damn’d, before 1 take»
4
4 the trouble of nurlingyou.”
4
4 Don’t be in a pafiion, my love” (.faid he,,
taking her in his arms, and giving her a kifs.)>
41 It is no fuch thing. I fell among a gang of
4
4 foot-pads, who abufed me in this manner,.
becaufe I made refiftance.”-
-----
4
4 A very likely (lory, truely, invented, I
4
4 fuppofe, to excufe your not bringing me«
4
4 money! but if that is the cafe, you. may go*
4
4 to the Devil, from whence you came. I’ll
4
4 not be troubled with your company.”—
4
4 No, my dear! I never come to you empty-
4
4 handed, let me do as I will elfewhere”—
^ With*
,yGoogle
With which words, he pulled out one of the
bank-notes he had juft got from the other, and
giving it to her, put her at length in a good-
humour.
I fee your indignation at a man’s aPing in
fuch a manner; but you could expeP no other.
The fame bafenefs of temper which could treat
the other woman with infult naturally fubmitted
to be infulted by this.
You imagine that his miftrefs muft have un­
common attrapions, to give her fuch power
over him ! You judge right; Her’s were un­
common, indeed. She had loft her hair and
teeth in a falivation : and was allowed to be the
moft profligate of her profeflion; charms fuf-
flcient to attach a man of his tafte.
My mafter having thus happily made his
peace, the loving couple fat down to their bottle*,
as ufual, over which happening to mention his
intended marriage the next day, her delicacy
took fuch ofFenfe, that (he pofitively refufed t o
confent to it, till he promifed not only that ihe
ihould be prefent, but alfo to return and fpend*
his wedding-night with her, toprove,her triumph
over the happy bride.
Accordingly, he took her with him the next
evening, and introducing her to the expePing
fair one, “ I have brought my girl (faid he) to
<
c grace our nuptials. The dear creature in-
*c lifted upon it; and you know I can’t refufe
“ her
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *5*
,yGoogle
<
c her any thing.” The bride eleik was fa
enraptured at the thought of her approaching
happinefs, that (he had no fenfe of the infult,
but received her with politenefs, perhaps not
without a mixture of pride, on theoccafion.
There are fome feenes, the extravagance of
which beggars defeription. I. ihalJ, therefore,
only fay, that the behaviour of the company was
in chara&er during the ceremony and enter­
tainment, at the end of which, the bridegroom
alledging his promife to go back with his
miftrefs, the convenient bride not only con-
fented; but alfo propofed preparing au apart­
ment for her in her own houfe, to fave him that
trouble for the future, and procure for herfelf
the pleafureof hiscompany— a fcheme that was
a&ually carried into execution, while ihe had
a houfe to receive her; which was not very
long, a continuance of the fame extravagance
that had diiHpated his own fortune foon diili-
pating heris alfo.
It may be imagined that I did not remain Jong
in the pofleflion of fuch a matter. He lojl me
the next evening after his marriage, on a bet
that he could repeat the Lord's Prayer, which
he laid on purpofe to lofe, in order to prove how
entirely he had got rid of the prejudices of edu­
cation.
s56 CHRYSAL« OR, THE
G H A P..
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES of A GUINEA. »5*
C H A P . XVI.
C hrysal makes fame reflexions, not likely to be
much regarded. H is m afler pays a love-viflt
to a young ladyj whofefa th er interpofes unpolitely,
and makes fom e out-of-the-w ay objections.
C hrysal’j m afler hits upon a fcheme fo r getting
over them. H e propofes marriage on certain
term s%which are agreed to> and the dayfixed at a
little diflance.
IHave, on former occasions, given you a fuffi-
cient defcription bow people o ffa/hion fpend
their time in gaming-houfes, where, though
every meeting produces new misfortunes to fome
of the company, there is fuch a famenefs in the
manner, as will not bear repetition, and mutt
cloy any creature not abfolutely under infatua­
tion, or obliged to make a trade of it for bread,
as neither of which was the cafe of my new
mafter, he left the company early, to purfue
pleafures more in his own tafte.
In no inftance are the contradictions in hu­
man conduct fo ftrongly ihown, as in that of
man to woman. He who would lofe his life
rather than violate the ftriCteft principles of
honour or honefty (as they are abfurdly diftin-
guiihed from each other) in his intercourfe with
another man, not only fcruples not to ftudy
deceit,
,yGoogle
deceit, and praftice the blacked and bafed vil­
lainies againd womans but will even glory in
the fuccefs of them, when accomplished, with­
out fliowing remorfe in himfelf, or meeting
reproof from others.
The reafon of this is generally faid to be
man’s partiality to his own caufe, which as he
has the power ofjudging in his hands, whether
by ufurpation or right it matters not, makes
him pardon in others the crime he would be
glad to commit himfelf.
But, without exculpating him in the lead,
woman bears a heavy ihare in the blame of her
fex’s ruin. I mean not here by her immediate
confent in her own cafe, but by the counte­
nance which ihe ihows to the perpetrators of it,
in that of others; it being as certain in fa&, as
it is grofs and abfurd to thought, that the fured
recommendation to the general favour of women
is the fame of having ruined numbers of them.
Whether this proceeds from a vain ambition
of triumphing over the triumpher, or an affe&a-
tion of difdaining to efpoufe the caufe of the
fallen, as having forfeited the common regards
of humanity, makes no difference in the com-
fequence, whatever it may in the crime, as it
opens an opportunity to the fpoiler to extend his
conqueds often upon themfelves, in the midft
of their fecurity; whereas, would women (how
a true fenfe of the honour of their fcx, by re-
fufing
*5« CHRYSALi OR, THE
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. a5*
fufing every kind of intercourfe with fuch as
had ever violated it, man’s partiality to himfelf
would lofe its effeft, and all his deligns upon
them be reftrained within the proper boundaries
of virtue.
From the place where I came into the pof-
feflion of my new mailer, he went to pay a vifit
to a young lady of uncommon beauty and merit,
whom he was violently in love with; that is, he
was earncftly bent upon gratifying his defire for
her, at the expenfe of her ruin; an enterprife
for which he was eminently qualified, being
poflefled of all the advantages of youth, fortune,
and addrefs, and abfolutely free from every re-
ftraint of principle, as he had proved on feveral
fuccefsful occafions of the fame kind. The re­
ception he met ihowed that he had made an in­
tereft in her heart; but all his experience in the
fcience of intrigue could not elude the vigilance
of Her virtue for a moment, nor find the leaft
opening for any attack upon her honour.
Such difficulties only redoubled his ardour.
As he was confidering, therefore, next morning,
how he ihould proceed, he was interrupted in his
meditations, by a vifit from his miftrefs’s father.
After fome timefpent in common chat, 441have
4
4 taken the liberty to wait upon you, Sir,
4
4 (faid the father) about an affair, the importance
4
4 of which to my happinefs will apologize,
4
4 for any feeming unpolitenefs in it. I have
w for
>ogle
CHRY8AL» OR, THE
*<o
4
4 for fome time taken notice of the frequency
4
4 of your vifits to my houfe, the honour of
4
4 which I am juftly fenfible of, but not fo far
4
4 dazzled by, but I can fee the motive of them
4
4 through it; and, therefore^ muft for many
4
4 reafons beg leave to defire that you will dif-
4
4 continue them-.”
4
4 I— I— I don’t underftand you, Sir;” (an-
fwered my matter, a good deal difconcerted at
fo unexpe&ed an addrefs.) 4
4 I have no motive
4
4 that I defire to conceal, or is any way incon-
4
4 fiftent with the character of a gentleman.”
4
4 Pardon me, Sir (replied the other) I mean
4
4 no fuch thing. But yet, what may be thought
4
4 confluent with that character in fome things
4
4 may be very inconfiftent with the happinefs of
4
4 a father. To be plain, Sir, 1am not fo un-
4
4 acquainted with the world, but I can fee that •
4
4 all your vifits are paid to my daughter! and
4
4 as (he is not upon a level with you, either in
4
4 family or fortune, for a wife, I muft repeat
4
4 my requeft, that you will drop a purfuit which
4
4 muft, therefore, have another view.”
4
4 You do injuftice to your daughter” (re­
turned my mafter, recovered from his furprife,
and convinced that it was in vain to diftemble
any longer) 4
4 to fay that (he is not upon a
4
4 level with any man alive. I am above the
4
4 vain pride of family; and as to fortune, my
4
4 own fatisfies me, without hazarding my hap-
4
4 pinefs, to feek for more.”
4
4 Thefe
,yGoogle
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *6i
<
c Thefc (faid the lady's father) are truely the
<
6 fentiments of a gentleman, nor have I any
4
4 doubt of the fincerity with which you de-
44 dare them. But there are other confiderà*
4
4 tions, that make it impoffible to carry them
4
4 into execution. You and my daughter pro^-
4
4 fefs different principles of religion; and as I
4
4 can by no means expe& that you fhould change
“ your’s, fo, I hope,ihe is too firmly eflablifhed
4
4 in her's, to quit them for any worldly honour
4
4 or advantage.”
This was a ftroke my mailer was not pre­
pared for. Heacquiefced, therefore, feemingly,
with the beft grace he could, to avoid entering
more explicitly into the fubjed, till he fhould
have time to concert meafures for getting over
this new difficulty, for his honour was now
picqued, and he refolved to flop at nothing, if
only to punifh the infolence of her father, in
prefuming to forbid him his houfe.
Accordingly, after revolving a variety of
ichemcs, he fixed upon one, which he thought
could not fail. Big with this hope, he went
next morning to wait upon his miflrefs, notwith-
{landing the interdidlon of her father, and find*-
ing her alone, after fome moments of mutual
confufion, on the circutnflances of fuch a
meeting, 4
4 I — I— 1— I am came, Madam"
(faid my nailer, hefitating and blufhing as he
fpokfe) 4
4lam come, in confcquence of what
i4 paffed
,yGoogle
4
4 parted between your father and me yefterday,
4
4 of which I prefume he has informed you.
4
4 It never was my defign to difavow a paffion,
4
4 upon which depends the happinefs of my life.
4
4 I only waited till fome particular circutn-
4
4 fiances ihould enable me to declare it with
4
4 more convenience. But, as he has made, the
4
4 difcovery, that referve is no longer neceffary.
4
4 If, therefore, Madam, I can be fo happy as
4
4 to find favour in your fight, all his obje&ions,
4
4 I prefume, will be removed, by my offering to -
4
4 marry you. dire&ly; on this foie condition,
4
4 that our marriage fhall be kept inviolably
4
4 fecret, till 1 have accomplifhed fome affairs,
4
4 to which you muft be fenfible the difference
4
4 of our religions would be a prejudice. The
4
4 ceremony fhall be performed by any clergy-
4
4 man you pleafe, in the prefence of your father,
4
4 and any other witneffes in whofe fecrefy we
u can confide, and every thing done that can
“ convince you of the fincerity and honour of
€
C myattachment, r Speak then, deareft Madam,
and make me happy, by complying with a
** propofal that has your happinefs in view
^-equally with my own.”
** I fliould be unworthy of the honour you do
<
c me” (anfwered ihe, the blufh of true modefty
heightening the charms of her beauty) “ if I
4t could let it interfere with, fuperiour obliga-
4
4 tions. When the approbation of my father
4
4 gives
*6* CHRYSALs OR, THE
,yGoogle
gives a proper fanftion to your application to
<
c me, you will probably find no great difficult
ty in making my inclination go hand in hand
cc with my duty.” ----- -
Her father juft then entering, relieved her
from the embarraffment of any further conver-
fation upon fo delicate a fubje&j and ihe with­
drew. But my mafter was under n# fuch diffi­
culty. Encouraged by a reply fo favourable
to his hopes, he dire&ly repeated his propofal
to her father, who promifed him a decifive an-
fwer next morning.
As the manner of his reception left him no
room to doubt of his fuccefs, he went again at
the time appointed, when the father gave his
confent without difficulty, as did his miftrefs,
ftipulating only for a Ihort delay, till ihe ihould
return from the wedding of a young lady, her
coufin, who lived at fome diftance in the coun­
try, and had engaged her to attend her upon that
occafion. As he could make no juft objeftion
to this, however difagreeable fufpenfion of his
hopes, he confented with a compliment, that
his jefolution was too firmly fixed for any time
to make him change it, and then took his leave,
exulting at the fuccefs of his projeih
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. **3
C H A P .
,yGoogle
CHRYSAL: OR, THE
C H A P . XVII.
C hrysalV mafier is privately m arried. N et fa -
tisfiedw ith one w ifefo r love> be wants anotherfo r
money. H e propofes the matter to his w ife, on
whofe refufalj he difclofes his grand fcbem e\ in
w hich, deep as it is laidyhe has the mortification to
fin d him felf anticipated, and his own weapons
turned upon him felf Confluences o f this difcovery,
C hrysai/j mafier takes a common method o f
JilencingfcandaL C hrysal changes his ferv icr.
T
H £ (miles of hope make the fun-ihine of
life; as the mind is then too intent upon
the objeft in expedition, to fee the inconve­
niences, which afterwards embitter the enjoy­
ments of it. The abfence of his miftrefs,
though confiderably longer than he had appre­
hended, pa{Ted away pleafantly in the thought
of his approaching happihefs. As foon asihe
returned, therefore, he diredly claimed the per­
formance of her promife, to whidi all parties
confenting, they were tnarried by his own
chaplain, in the private manner he defired.
Pofleffed thus of his wifhes, his next care
was to enjoy them with the moft convenience
to himfelf. For this purpofe, he took a houfe
next to his own ; and opening a fecret commu­
nication between them, he removed her thither,
as
I
,yGoogle
as he could not take her dire&ly home, without
declaring his marriage.
Mortifying as the myilerious appearance of
fuch a fituation muft have been to her, (he
made no obje&ion, but complied implicitly, in
that and every thing elfe, as if (he had no will
but his. Paffions merely fenfual are foon fated.
Though the refemblance of this intercourfe to
an intrigue heightened the pleafure of it, he had
not carried it on long, when an opportunity of
marrying to great advantage, in the phrafe of
the world, awoke his ambition, and gave his
wiihes another turn.
After fome little conflid: with himfelf, in
which, however, the object in view proved too
powerful for that in pofleffion, he refolved to
' break the matter to his wife. Accordingly, as
they fat together one morning at breakfaft, after
fome expreifions of uncommon tendernefs^
4
4 The regard which my deareft girl has al-
<
cv ways (hown for me” (faid he, bluihing at
his own bafenefsas he fpoke) 4
4convinces me
4
4 that (he will not only take pleafure to hear of
4
4 any thing to my advantage, but alfo forward
4
4 it as far as may be in her power.”
4
4 I hope no adion ofmy life” (anfwered (he,
furprifed at his fpeaking in fuch a manner)
4
4 lince 1 have been married to you, has given
4
4 any reafon to doubt either my duty or affec-
4
4 tion, that you (hould imagine fuch a preface
V ol . IV# N 4
4 necefiary
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, itg
,yGoogle
** neceflary to introduce whatever you think
4
4 proper to command.** *
4
4Very true, my deareft life. But— but—
4
4 but there are fome things, the nature of
4
4 which requires delicacy, even to you, whofe
4
4 understanding is fuperiour to the foibles of
4
4 yourfex. You know the young Lady W orth -
4
4 la n d ! I hare received intimation that myad-
4
4 drefles would not be unacceptable to her.
4
4 Now, as her rank and fortune would entitle
4
4 me toexpeftthe firft honours in the ftate,
4
4 I have that confidence in the attachment and
4
4 ’ov^of my deareft girl, as to think you will
4
4 not oppofe my intereft.**------
4
4 Ashow?** (replied fheeagerly, alarmed at
the hint, but unwilling to think fo meanly of
him, as to underftand it.) 4
4 As how! What
4
4 intereft can you poffibly have in her rank and
4
4 fortune?” ----
4
4 The intereft which the law gives an huf-
4
4 band. , Pofleffion— abfolute pofleffion of the
4
4 whole.**-----
4
4An huiband ! Good God! how can that
4
4 be? Are you not already married?**-------
4
4 True, my deareft life! But, as that mar-
4
4 riage is a fecret, if it can be kept fo, it will be
4
4 noobftacle. You ihall remain, as you are,
4
4 the wife of my lovej and I will be only the
4
4 huiband of her fortune.’*
------
4
4 How you men, whofe minds are ftronger,
a take pleafure in playing with the weaknefs of
4
4woman!
»9* CIIRYSAL: OR, THE
,yGoogle
44 woman! The verymentionof fuch athings
4
4 even injeft (for it is impoifible.you can be
4
4 ferious) ftrikcs me with horrour.” ------
4
4In jeft! I am ferious, upon my honour $
44 and expert your immediate compliance, as a
44 proofof your duty and affe&ion,— —
4
4 And can you mention honour in the fame
44 breath with fuch a bafe propofali What a
4
4 profanation of the word 1 But, whether you
4
C are ferious, or not, I muft be fo on fuch an
occafion; and therefore l declare that I never
41 will facrifice both honour and conscience, by
44 giving what you are pleafed to call a proof
44 of duty and affe&ion, but what would
4
4 really prove that I had neither.” -----
4
< This romantick fpirit, child, much as
4( you think it becomes you, is all thrown
44 away. I am determined; and you muft
4
4 fubmit. But let me tell you, that on the
4
4 manner of that fubmiftion depends your ftt-
4
4 ture welfare. If you comply properly with
4
4 my propofal, I will make a fettlement upon
4
4 you, that ihall exceed any expe&ations yon
4
4 could naturally have had in life, and remain
44 your huiband in every thing but the empty
44 name. But if you attempt making the leaft
4
4 oppoiition to my will, I caft you o ff from
4
4 this moment to beggary and ihame; nor
44 ihall any late repentance ever bring me to
4
4 receive you again; fo, confider the confer
44 quence, before you raihly run upon yourruin;
N 2 44I ihall
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. %6y
,yGoogle
* I ihall expeft your final refolution to-mor-
“ ro w ."------
ct For that you need not wait a moment,
<
c I fear no confequence that can attend my
cc doing wfiat is right. The duty of obedience
c< I have fulfilled in its utmoft extent, by im-
*c muring myfelf thus, and forfeiting my good
*c name to keep yourfecret; butwhile my con-
cc fcience witnefied for the purity of* my heart,
4
6 I regarded not the prefent cenfure of the
C
( world, no morethan ldo now, from the fame
principle of virtuous refolution, your vain
4
6 threats, for in fuch a light the laws of my
u country enable me to hold them.”------
<
c The laws of your country, madam! Then
claim their protection, if you pleafe; but you
“ will find that they afford none to you. Such
4
4 marriagesasyour’s, between people profefiing
4
4 different religions, are made void by thofe
4
4 laws, and therefore, if you think proper to de-
44 pend upon them, I give you this notice, that
4
4 you have nothing to expect from me but
4
4 what they ihall procure you.------
44 And was this your motive” (returned ihe,
with a fpirit raifed by indignation) 4
4for de-
4
4 firing a private marriage? Impoffible! you
4
4 could not, cannot be fo bafe. You only
4
4 have a mind to try my refolution, which you
4
4 ihall ever find immoveable in this, and every
4
4 caufe of virtue and honour.—
CHRYSAL: OR,THB
4
4 Madam,
,yGoogle
4
4Madam, I have no more time to trifle in
4
4 this manner v therefore,once morel defire you
4
4 to let me know your final determination; for
4
4 notwithftanding this behaviour, I ftill have
4
4 fuch a regard for you, that I am unwilling to
4
4 take an anfwer which muft feparate us for
4
4 ever. Think, then, before you fjpeak; and
4
4 let my making you this generous offer, and
4
4 preventing your expofing yourfelf in vain,
4
4 teach you a proper return of gratitude.”—
cc I want not a moment to determine between
4
4 virtue and vice, infamy and honour.” —
4
4 Then take the confequence; and blame
4
4 yourfelf, when it is too late.”—
4
4 I will; if any blame falls on me. And now
4
6 that I fee you are ferious, in return for the
4
4 notice you have fo generoufly given me,
4
4 I let you know, that I have obviated the ad-
4
4 vantage you flatter yourfelf you have over me,
4
4 by conforming legally to your religion, before
4
4 I was married to you.” — —
4
4Confufion ! what is that you fay ? When,
14 where did you conform?” ----- -
4
4 When I went to the wedding of my coufin,
4
4 as you will find upon enquiry, which I advife
4
4 you to make, before you proceed farther in a
fcheme, that can only expofe you to worfe
4
4 infamy than that with which you threatened
4
,4 me.” --- --
4
4 Infernal witch ? Was this your love?”—
4
4 No; it was the prudence of my friends.-
N 3 4
4My*
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA, rif
Digitized by C j O O ^ I c
CHIt V SA hl OR, THE
•7®
4
< My Jove could harbour no doubt of you; but
4
4 they knew you better ; and took this honett,
4
4 wife precaution to guard againft villainy,
<
4 which I now am fenfible they forefaw; and,
4
4 therefore, as you have thought proper to re-
4
4 fer me to the law, I now tell you that I will
4
4 immediately claim its protection, and declare
4
4 my marriage, nor fuffer any longer in the
4
4 opinion of the world, by a fecrecy that was
4
4 enjoined for fo bafe a purpofe; by which I
4
4 (hall at leaft have the fatrsfaCtion of faving
4
4 another woman from falling into the fnare
4
4 laid for her.”-------
Saying thi9, fee flung out of the room, ta
conceal tears which fee thought would be­
tray a weaknefs unworthy of her, and could no
longer reftrain. .
The nature of my matter’s meditations on
this difeovery may be eaiily conceived. He
curferi that fooliih fondnefi, which had thus led
him blindfold into his own fnare; and damned
all womankind, in revenge for being foiled at
his own weapons by one of the fex.
When he had vented his rage in this man­
ner for fome time, a fudden gleam of hope flat­
tered him, that what fee faid might poflibly have
been only the inftantaneousfuggeftion ofrefenu
ment and defpair, without being really true.
Pleafed with the thought, he fent dire&ly to
make the proper enquiry, the refult of which
confirmed the defeat of all his defigns. But
• this
,yGoogle
this was not the only mortification he differed.
His wife, the moment (he left him, went to her
father, and difcovering to him her hufband’s
#
bafenefs, he fupported her in her refolution of
declaring her marriage, as the moft proper means
to prevent his forming any further fchemes againft
her.
The confequence Ì9 obvious. The publick
received fuch a curious piece of fcandal with
pleafurej and paid refpetì to his wife, if oply to
ihow contempt for him ; particularly the women,
who made her’s the caufe of the fex, as he had
precluded all further defigns upon himftlf, by
marriage.
This though, however flattering to her va­
nity and refentment at the time, only widened a
breach that ihe wiihed to clofe. His pride was
pieqed to disappoint her defign, as ihe had his,
and he left her to languidi out the reft of her life
in worfe than widowhood, and repent of thè
folly of attempting to attach to herfelf a marl
who flie knew had betrayed others of the fex.
As for my matter, this detetìion made hinfc
defperate. He threw offevery appearance of re­
gard even tocommon decency, which he thought
could no longer be of ufe to him, and determined
to bear down fcandal, by glorying in his vices ;
in the performance of which gallant refolutioa
he gave me to a ftage-dancer, who gave me to aa
' half-pay officer,, who gave me to a tavern*
keeper, &c.— Voi* II. Page 98.
N 4 C H A P .
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *7*
,yGoogle
* 7 * CHR YS AL: OR, THE
C H A P . XVIII,
C hrysal gives an account o f certain interefiing
occurrences. A n extraordinary definition o f a
common word. Great expectations difappointed.
The confequence o f planning in the clofet the
operations o f the fields w ith the origin o f that
f agacions practice.
HRY SAL’s mafter, in the courfe o f his
journey from V ie n n a to L isbon, fa lls in
w ith one o f the armies engaged in carrying on the
ii The army through which my mafter
C
( was obliged to pafs, as I have faid, though
paid by England, and the flower of it com-
ct pofed of Britons, was commanded by a
c< German general, in difgraceful acknow-
cc ledgement of the want of military merit
<
c equal to fuch a charge in the natives.” —
VoL II. Page 215.
Such an indignity to a people ever famed
in war, and jealous of their honour, muft
appear unaccountable; but the web of human
policy is woven in fo myfterious a manner,
as to reconcile inconfiftencies ftill harder to be
accounted for, on the common principles of
reafon.
w arJ
When
Digitized by Google
When this army was firft formed, the com­
mand of it was given to a B riton, whofe
military abilities had in their opening dawn
faved his country from ruin, and now in
their meridian promifed to raife his name to
an equality of glory with thofe of moft re^
nown rn the long lift of heroes; but the
wifdom of thofe meafures by which the world
is governed defeated expectations fo juftly
founded, and deprived his country for ever of
the advantage of fuch abilities.
As the profeffed defign of this army was
only to obferue the motions of the French,
and defend the allies of England from their
attacks, it was judged fufficient to make it
barely of fuch force, as might effect that de-
fenfe, with the affiftance of thofe allies them-
felves. Though an inferiour army may act
fuccefsfully on the defenfive in repelling an
immediate affault upon itfelf, yet, where its
attention is extended to the defenfe of diftant
objects, the neceffity of dividing fuch inferiour
ftrength, enhances the difproportion, fo as not
only to defeat the defign, but alfo often to in­
volve the defenders in the ruin they were meant
to avert from others.
The danger of fuch an event was evident in
the prefent cafe, but fome divifions in the
Englijh councils made it impoifible to obviate
it, by making the force of the army equa] to the
. * end
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *73
,yGoogle
end, it was appointed for; certain patriots
having oppofed the forming of any fuch army
at all, with fo plaufible and popular arguments,
that the fovereign was obliged to befatisfied, for
the prefent, with this ihadow of one, as I may
fay, in expe&ation of being able to re-enforce it
by degrees, as the patriots expe&ed to make their
compliance with fuch a meafure the means for
gaining the end of their patriotifm, that is,
railing themfelves to power.
You feem furprifed at my calling men who
could a<il with fuch a view, and oppofe a mea­
fure which I have faid to be founded on every
motive of honour and juftice, by the refpedtable
name of patriots. But in this, as in.very many
other things, the name remains after the idea it
was defigned to reprefent is loft. Patriotifni,
that once meant the nobleft exertion of difin-
terefted virtue, by which every attention to
private advantage was facrificed to the publick
good, fignifies now no more than an oppofition
to the meafures of government, whether right
or wrong, fupported by fuch pretences as are
molt likely to inflame the pafiions of the people,
till the governourS' are fo embarraffed, as to
be obliged to admit the patriots to a fliare of
their power, when^ they dire<511y throw off the
maik for fome other to' take up, and do
themfelves the very things which they before
declaimed againft with fuch noife and vehe-
* mence.
*74 CHRYSALj OR, THE
,yGoogle
mence. By this general description I do not
abfolutely preclude a few particular exceptions $
nor deny the merit of fome men, who even in
modern times have deferved the name, in all the
honour of its original meaning.
The nature of fuch a command, and the
improbability of its fuceefs, would have de­
terred any man from accepting it, who was not
aduated by principles fo truely patriotick, as to
make him difregard every other motive, for the
mere poffibility of Serving his country.
As the abilities of the general often make up5
for the weaknefs of an army, the Britons under
his command confiding in him, looked upon the
fuperiour force of their enemies with pleafure,
as promifirig them the greater glory. Nor waa
this confidence without foundation; he had led
them to vidory before, when they Scarce de­
ferved the name of regular forces; and had fince,
with unwearied care, affifted their native valour
with every advantage of the moft judicious
discipline. Under fuch a commander, therefore,
what might not fuch troops hope to do ? But a
difficulty ftill more diftreffing than the inferi
ority of his force disappointed all thofe hopes.
Military operations are fo complicated, that
every motion of an army requires a correfpond-
ent one in that oppofed to it. The obvious
truth o f this (hows the Sagacity of planning in
the clofet theoperations of the field. Particular
objefts
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. *7*
,yGoogle
•7* CHRYS Alt OR| THE
obje&s, indeed, may be propofed ; but the me­
thod of accomplifhing them muft be left to the
judgement of the commander, as occafion may
direct, it being abfolutely impoflible to forefee,
and provide for all the inftantaneous contingen­
cies, which muft make an immediate deviation
from any fyftem that could have been laid down*
indifpenfibly neceflary^ Where this discretion­
ary power is abridged, and the motions of a ge­
neral marked out for-him^ it muft be from the
fault of his adverfaries, if he performs any thing
of confequence-
The firft who introduced this fcheme of
(hackling a commander, were churchmen, who,
puffed up by the power which their influence
over the weaknefs of princes gave them, dif-
dained to appear incapable of any thing; and
therefore, as their want of military knowledge
would not permit their undertaking the-a&ual
command of armies, they took this method of
fbowing their abilities and authority, by direct­
ing how the commanders of them ihould pro­
ceed;. a method, however abfurd in itfelf, fo flat­
tering to human felf-fufEciency, that prince*
adopted it after, when age or infirmity pre­
vented their leading their forces into the field-
CHAP *
,yGoogle
AXYENTUJtES OF A GUINEA- *7f
C H A P . XIX.
Continued. The natural event o f fu ch a Jitua-
tion. The general, victorious over h im felf
quits the purfuit o f m ilitary glory fo r the
practice o f the virtues o f peace. Perfidy o f
the enemy juftly punijhed. The army is form ed
again under the command o f a G erman, and
a fugar plumb given to the English to flo p
their mouths atfuch an infult•
DISTRESSED more by directions of this
kind, than even by the weaknefs of his
army, the B ritijh general took the field, rather
in obedience to his duty than from any hope of
fuccefs, and literally to obferve the motions of
an enemy whom he was not able to oppofe.
The event was as he forefaw. The enemy,
fuperiour in ftrength, and at liberty to feife
every advantage, while he could only a& in
confequence of orders given at a difiance, and
impofiible to be always proper, foon turned his
attention from the defenfe of others to the pre-
fervation of his own army. But even this, the
circumfiances he was in made it impofiible for
all his judgement and intrepidity to effeit,
though difplayed in a manner that made his name
immortal, otherwife than by giving up the
countries he was fent to defend, on the beft
terms
,yGoogle
terms he could procure, and difarming his own
troops.
Mortifying as fuch a neceffity muft have been
to an heart panting for glory, his condud under
it refleded more real honour upon him than
any vidory gained againft probability, at the
imminent hazard of the lofs of his whole army,
could have done, as it ihowed that he was fupe-
riour even to the defire of fame, when claihing
with the intereft of his country.
But they who had driven him to this neceffity,
by difabling him from purfuing the didates of
his own judgement, thought propet to view his
condud in another light, and cenfure in him
their own errours. The honeft indignation of
confcious .virtue could not brook treatment (o
difingenuous. In juftice to himfelf, therefore,
be refigned all military command, and quitting
the profeffion of arms for ever, devoted the re­
mainder of his days to the pradice of every
virtue of peace.
As to the countries which he had been thus
difappointed from defending, their troubles ended
not fo eafily. The enemy, in the infolence of
power, foon broke through the terms on which
ifrey had been given up, and treated the army,
that had fubmitted to the fecurity of publick
faith with every inftance of the moft flagrant
injufticel
All obligations are mutual. The breach of
one party, therefore, difengages the other.
Provoked
±7* CHRYSAL: OR, THE *
,yGoogle
Provoked by fuch perfidy, the injured armyjoined
the natives, and arofe with all thefury of revenge
upon their oppreilors. Such attacks are not s
to be refitted. The tyrants were driven out of
all their conquefts; and, to prevent their reco­
very of them, the army was formed again of force
fufficient to accompliih the end propofed, and the
command of it given to a German of proved abi­
lities, free from the reftri&ions which had made
thofe of the late commander of no effeft, his
mifcarriage having ihown the abfurdity of them;
and the Englijh patriots, who had before oppofed
the railing any fuch army, having fucceeded in
their views of getting into power, and now
aiding the defign with all their influence;
though to palliate their difgrace, and to fatisfy
<
c the jealoufy of the E nglijh, they had the ima­
ginary privilege of being immediately under
c< a commander of their own, and fubjeit only
<
c to their own laws, in all things except the
<
c operations of the war, when they were of
necefiity to obey the German commander in
chief.”— V d . II. p . 215.
ADVENTURES OF A GUINEA. t79
F I N I S .
,yGoogle
