{"name":"Undine","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1820__motte-fouque___undine.pdf","mytitle":"Undine","mylang":"de"}
Lontion: C ILximlei),
^^
' - <
; <« «
PREFACE.
iN sending forth a new edition of this cele-
brated romance, it has been thought desirable
to prefix the following explanatory remarks,
having reference to the present tale, as well as to some
of the other creations of the author's fancy, now known
to the English public. They are extracted from the
Postscript to the last edition of his Selected VVorks.^
An edition of the last hand ! It is a serious, weighty
word for an author who, not accustomed to trifle with
time and eternity, earnestly weighs and considers what
needs to be weighed and considered.
And God be praised! this has been the manner
of him who now addresses the reading world, for many
years. It
is,
indeed, not exactly a parting salutation
to the reading world that he hereby contemplates.
There are still many arrows in his quiver, some ready
forged, some in process of forging, some only thought
of, but all without poisoUj which he purposes to
send forth when the fit time shall come, or, perhaps,
his survivors may do this when his own last hour
shall have passed, and all time for him have va-
nished. However this may be, the present task assumes
m
'
In 12 vols, liimo. Halle, 1S41.
the character of a bequest, in relation to that which he has already
sent into the world, and bequests are matters of a sufficiently
serious nature.
These fictions belonged, at one time, to my very self yea,
as I may well say, they were myself and now I resign them
once more to the world, and, after this last review, for ever. I
have made scarcely any alteration in them, for, even as they are,
they have gained the approbation of the reading world ; and,
therefore, I repelled that critical fury which sometimes assailed
me in my labours, remembering how thereby many a gifted master
has injured rather than improved his compositions, while the
reader searches with painful anxiety after the earlier features of
the much-loved work, and, alas, too often in vain ! What I
deemed indispensably to need reforming were chiefly errors arising
from former ignorance either in respect of the old northern man-
ners or names, or similar matters, of which one previously unversed
in such studies could scarcely be aware. So that now I venture,
with full confidence, to say to the reader, " Receive, renewed,
what has delighted you ; what has already been dear to you for
many years." Conscious, however, of the obligation to render
Bome account of the origin and foundation of these various works,
I offer to the reading world, and especially to fellow-artists, the
following communications :
UNDINE.
How this darling gift of my muse first arose (1807), from the
mystical laboratory of the aged, whimsical Theophrastus Paracelsus
[Treatise of Elemental Spirits], has already been alluded to :' here,
however, the particulars shall be given more at length. It was not
so easy, out of the deeply mysterious natural philosopher, some-
times seized with ostentation, and even charlatanery, as also con-
tentious pride, but at the same time penetrated and enlightened by
ever valid presentiments, and rich in an undeniably genuine expe-
rience, in any degree to make any thing, as the saying is. All the
less easy was it, inasmuch as his oracles are delivered in a mixture
of kitchen, or at best monkish, Latin and indolent provincial dia-
lect, similar to the present Tyrolese, so that the like in literature
can scarcely any where else be found. Very few treatises, and not
' Tlip reference is to the author's autobiography, which appeared the
previous year.
exactly the most interesting, are composed throughout in Latin;
and yet, perhaps, there is no one quite free from the occurrence,
as it were by accident, of German phrases. It resembles the com-
munication of an adventurer, far-travelled in foreign lands, who
yet could never quite forget his mother-tongue, and now throws all
together in confused variety, as it may chance to fall. Something
of this sort, I have been told of a French sailor, and numberless
times has the old Theophrastus Paracelsus Bombastus ab Hohen-
heim (for thus stands his full title) reminded me of it. I, notwith-
standing, ceased not to study an old edition of my speech-monger,
which fell to me at an auction ; and that carefuUy. Even his re-
ceipts I read through in their order, just as they had been showered
into the text, still continuing in the firm expectation, that from
every line something wonderfully magical might float up to me and
strike the understanding. Single sparks, here Eind there darting
up, confirmed my hopes, and drew me still deeper into the mines
beneath. Somewhat thereto might have been contributed by the
symbolic figures, very skdfuUy impressed upon the leathern covers
of the ten or twelve quarto volumes, as also by the, to me unin-
telligible, gold letters here and there dispersed among them, and
the wood-cut (inserted as a title-page) of the wonderful master,
representing him in an antiquated jacket ; his features strongly
marked, almost inclined to wrath, yet bearing a true-hearted mild-
ness ; his head already grey and bald, but with one lock, almost
Apollonian, over the forehead ; ooth his nerved hands folded to-
gether and resting on a knight's two-hemded sword.
" Now, ancient master, thanks to thee,
A valiant course thuu leddest me,"
for, as a pearl of soft radiance, that may be compared to a mild
tear of melancholy, there at last sparkled towards me, from out
its rough-edged shell-work " Undine !"
My reflection of the image succeeded all the better, and more
naturally, as the hoary magician treated with the most unshaken
conviction, one is almost induced to say faith, of the indisputable
reality of his elemental spirits ; not only of the undines or un-
denes, as he expresses it, but also of sylphs, or spirits of the air ;
salamanders, or spirits of the fire ; gnomes, or spirits of the earth.
Founded upon such ideas, the author, at a later period, called some
other tales into light, and, as he may well say, not without suc-
cess. But the words of his old master, A. W. Schlegel, spoken
IV PREFACE.
for a very different occasion, will yet here apply: " Undine re-
mains the first love, and this is felt only once !"
In those times of gloomy events for the poet's fatherland,
wherein it sprang from out his spirit, not untinged, as it well
might be, with many of his own peculiar sufferings, it assumed a
hue of deep melancholy, which yet its subject miglit have also
called forth amid the sunshine of brighter days. The eyes of a
water-maiden must, according to her nature, beam bright with
tears, although sometimes the wanton sports of aquatic nymphs,
like luxuriant loop -plants on the banks of a rivulet, may juggle
around the lovely child. Thus might the bleeding heart of the
poet, with the pelican's faculty, have poured somewhat into his
fiction, and so gained for it that abundant sympathy which it so
heartily met with, both in and out of the German land.
And now, my darling child, go forth on thy renewed ap-
pearance, accompanied by the gracious salutation of our exalted
master Goethe, on sending thee back to a noble lady, after having
replaced the worn-out binding of a library-copy by a new one :
" Here one may see how men are fabricated
Of passion only conscience have they none;
How ill have they the beauteous child entreated
Its dress almost from off its body gone !
In later time, howe'er, this luck befell me
The pious youth will envy me, I trow;
You gave me, friend, the opportunity
To clothe the lovely prize from top to toe."
[The author then goes on to mention the various languages into
wliich " Undine" had been translated French, Italian, English,'
Russian, Polish.]
' " Let me not part with England (the author adds) without quoting
the following judgment of Sir Walter Scott, the greatest master of the ro-
mantic, properly so called, which Britain has ever produced: '
Fouque's
Undine or Naiade,' he says, after a hasty glance at the author's other
romances, '
is ravishing. The sutTering of the heroine is a real one, though
it be the suffering of a fantastic being.'
"
To this Coleridge's judgment may be added: "'Undine* is a most
exquisite work. The character of the heroine, before she receives a soul,
is marvellously beautiful." ra/j/tf-I'oM-, p. 83. To which is subjoined, in
a note by the Editor: "Mr. C.'s admiration of this romance was un-
bounded. He said there was something here even beyond Scott that his
characters and conceptions were composed; by which I understood him to
mean, that Baillie Nico' Jarvie, for instance, was made up of old parti-
culars, and received its individuaUty fiom the author's power of fusion;
THE MAGIC RING.'
It happened to the poet one evening, while in familiar converse
with his beloved and now deceased spouse, Caroline Baroness de la
Motte Fouque, that he informed her, with respect to an ancient
French novel on which she was then engaged, many particulars as
to the customs of that chivalric period. For although his lady was
greatly more familiar and conversant with the modem French than
himself, yet, on the other hand, he was much more at home with
those days of departed heroes and their language ; partly on ac-
count of his ancestry, partly also through his studies, and, above
all, by the general tendency of his inward life.
The conversation was attended with much fervency ; at last she
said, " How unaccountable that thou never yet hast attempted a
fiction on those times wherein thy French ancestors fought and
vanquished !"
The thought kindled, and soon there gradually rose before the
author the lights of the " Magic Ring." He determined to con-
struct a romance of ancient French chivalry ; and a glance into his
own recesses sufficed to shew him the necessity of an original Ger-
man hero, as the radical stem for the French knighthood, as also
for the related European, and even the Arabian, therewith united.
Thus arose in its primitive features the variegated texture which
has here again unfolded itself There might further, amid the nu-
merous sympathies of which this work can boast, have been many
a minuter feature welcome, as it occurred to the poet, and deter-
mined him during its composition. Next to the propitious ap-
pearance of Bertha (in the reality), and Gabrielle, there hovered
before the eyes of the bard the Image of a female friend, then
long since beatified as Blanchefleur. At all events, this form at a
later period arose upon his consciousness In immeasurably brighter
splendour. He is certainly not the first poet to whom the like
boing in the result an admirable product, as Corinthiau brass was said to
be the conflux of the spoils of a city. But '
Undine,' he said, was one and
single in projection ; and had presented to his imagination what Scott
had never done an absolutely new idea."
' It has been thought well to include these remarks on the " Magic
Ring," both because of its connexion with " Siutram," and because it is
probably known (through the English translation above alluded to) to
many of the readers of this volume.
has hap])ened, nor, in this respect, will he be the last. Quite other-
wise did the poet forebode by an impending exploit of arms, when
describing the victory of the Swedes over the Finns, where Otho
of 'I'rautwangen, rushing on the enemy's infantry, shouts exult-
ingly to his squadron of horsemen, " Strike ye, my Swedes 1 strike
ye !" As he wrote these words, and whenever he afterwards read
them, he was seized by a deeply powerful, and, as one might say,
melancholy inspiration. In the battle of Liitzen, where at the
head of his J.-igers he rushed on a French battalion, he felt the
fulfilment of it ; and thinking on Otho of TraUtwangen, mingled
in the huzza-cry of his squadron his own jubilant call, " Strike,
my Jagers ! strike !" And manifold tones besides, from out the
magic ring sounding and re-echoing in the souls of my brethren
in arms, accompanied me joyfully all through the great and event-
ful year of " thirteen ;" at the same time, often meeting me from
cities and castles, through which and to which the marches of the
army or crusades, as in more senses than one they might be Ccdled,
conducted us.
A gallant young prince, I had just been sent out upon com-
mand, and still bore the trace of a slight wound between the eye-
brows, once asked, when riding in front of the Jager squadron, a
volunteer, known to him through my acquaintance,
" Where is
Heerdegen of Lichtenried .'"
" Whom does your royal highness mean ?"
" I mean him with the scar upon his brow Fouque."
So now, again, unlock thyself once more, my dear " Magic
Ring," and that just as thou wert first unlocked; only now be
decked with more adornment than at that time, which indeed has
not despoiled thee of thy propriety, since already for twenty years
thy second edition has brought it to thee, and thereto thy name
(of
" ring," I mean) well belongs.
From pumerous quarters it was ardently desired ; and many a
real ring tor nobie hands has since then been fashioned after it.
Some have gone so far as to desire of me a fourth part to the three
which already have existence. My answer has been, that as for the
ririff there remained no additions ; let it as a ring be recognised and
for such be taken. What, in other respects, may have contributed
to imi>art to the book a peculiar vigour is, the author's familiarity
with its materiel, as weapons, horses, castles, and other like
characteristics of the period ; vivified still more through his own
warlike and knightly experience. A sure foundation for his intui-
tions into the world of knighthood had been already laid even in
boyhood, and especially by the fictions of Veit Weber (Leonhard
Wiichter), under the title of " Tales of former Ages." lu these
pictures all is undoubtedly true, whatever is brought before us of
the manners amd customs of our forefathers, whether as to battles,
festivities, or aught else of the manifold relationships of life. In
the year 1815 it was permitted to the poet of the " Magic Ring"
personally to express his thanks to the author of " Tcdes of former
Ages." Wherever, in this respect, a similar rich spring had opened
itself, the bard was ever at hand with fresh gladness to draw from
it ; more by contemplating ancient buildings, armour, and pic-
tures, than from books, which during his youthful years were, for
the most part, sufficiently superficial in this kind of information.
His somewhat later investigations, namely, those of the armoury at
Dresden, he yet well knew all the more powerfully how to apply and
elaborate. In many ways also, since a perhaps very intentional hos-
tility was raised against him and his fictions, has the exactness of his
armorisd descriptions been a subject of censure, as also his predilec-
tion for noble horses ; indeed, many a report concerning these has,
at once, been consigned to the region of the fabulous. There is,
however, no knight without weapons ; and they in a manner form
together a unity, so that an Orlando who should divest himself of
these, would, of all things, only degenerate into an Orlando Furioso.
And as concerning the wonderful properties of horses, many such
might be related of indisputable reality, besides those in the
" Magic Ring," as the author could abundantly prove, as well
from his own experience, as from incontestable tradition ; not to
mention the well- authenticated noble qualities, mentioned by tra-
vellers, of the Arabian and Persian horses Besides, to skilful
horsemen those pictures in the " Magic Ring" have never given
scandal ; but only to those who, conscious of their own weakness
and timidity, approach their horses, when necessary, only with
trembling, scolding, and murmuring.
With respect, now, to the more important criticisms on the
" Magic Ring," I willingly allude to one which has never appeared
in print, but which was communicated to me by a worthy hand,
without the name of its author. I at first took it for the work of
an evangelical ecclesiastic, but afterwards perceived this was not
the case. It is clear, however, that it proceeded from the pen of
an earnest religious person. The author has erred in his view,
that tlie poet was self-conscious of laying as its foundation a
designed allegory. Ingeniously, however, and from his standing-
point, as if inspired, has the critic interpreted the imagery ; and
the poet cheerfully acknowledges, that such also might in part lie
within his vision, although till then in no wise, even to himself,
had it arisen through the medium of the understanding. Similar
phenomena often present themselves in poetic works, on account
of the mysterious richness of the gift, whereby the gifted one has
much more imparted than he can evolve with his own intellectual
power, if not e.xcited thereto by some bright hint from another
quarter.
After this serious relation, shall another naive judgment be
mentioned .' It may be, if only for the sake of contrast. Not long
since, a friend brought me a library-copy of the " Magic Ring,"
with which he had accidentally become acquainted, on the cover
of which were written these words, " By a boy or a girl? It
looks very like it. It is, however, very bad that Arinbiorn gets
I readily confess, that scarcely ever has unlimited applause
afforded me such hearty joy as this censure, proceeding from
inmost sympathy with my dear sea-king. The more so, as even
my own mind, on arriving at the final chord, felt almost melan-
choly, as I saw in spirit the hero of the sea floating on so lone-
somely to future scenes of war.
In regard to translations into foreign languages of the " Magic
Ring," I have heard of a French one, which [ have never seen,
but which has probably had an essential share in the far- spread
celebrity of the fiction. The French language, now as ever, still
holds its established office of interpreter amongst the European
tongues. Whether, however, this " Anneau Magique" has effici-
ently rendered the spirit and essence of the German work, may,
in the mean time, especially from the then condition of modern
French literature, be well doubted. What especially befeU. the
ballads which lie scattered through the work, I know not ! On
the contrary, a brave Englishman has successfully solved the pro-
blem in a translation, to which is prefixed a friendly notice of the
author, who once met his translator at a noble, hospitable mansion,
not anticipating at that time a future niglier relationship. As re-
gards the ballads, the English author, not deeming himself qualified
to render them metrically into his own language, has been content
to present the first lines in a corresponding measure, and the re-
mainder briefly and well in an unconfined prose version. Truly
and with perfect reason is it here said " briefly and well," for
the sense is most ably apprehended ; and thus, in every case, a far
more accurate picture is brought to the mind of reader and hearer
than if an abortive, because constrained, imitation had entered the
lists, or even a so-called free translation. The prose is every
where penetrated with the spirit of the original writing. It is
reported that there are also versions of the " Magic Ring,'' at
least of parts, in the Sclavonic languages. Respecting these, how-
ever, the poet, alas! through his entire ignorance of those tongues,
is unable to give any further information ; as little also concerning
an Arabic translation of the episode of the " Emir Nureddin,"
resolved upon many years £igo at Berlin by a then youthful Orien-
talist, now of high celebrity, in order to gratify an Ottoman grandee
at Tunis. May this imagery please anew those readers to whom
already it has long been dear, both lovely women and noble men ;
and first of sJl in our beloved German fatherland!
SINTRAM AND HIS COMPANIONS.
If the foregoing remarks on the " Magic Ring" contained a
justly serious censure against those who presume that one may at
pleasure, and at whatever request, add to tlie three parts of a work
of fiction already complete in itself, yet a fourth, (and why not,
with equal reason, a fifth, sixth, and so forth ? for if the present
generation become extinct to us, possibly their children and child-
ren's children may still live on), such disapproval could neverthe-
less in no way affect the after- vibrations which assuredly will per-
vade and reverberate in every truly poetic soul on accomplishing
an extensive poetic work. As the plastic or picturesque artist ever
feels impelled to add still a grace, an ornament, an inscription, or
the like, to his already finished performance, in order not quite to
part from his beloved work, so happens it likewise with the poet.
Work and worker are so identified, have so, as it were, become
one self, that they cannot easily part from one another again.
Nevertheless, it is with full reason that we shun the use of the
over-valued file, which has undoubtedly rubbed off and smoothed
away much of the beauty and vigour of many a noble image.
What else, then, remains to us, but, with illustrations of tones
and imagery, to temper the parting, and to hover with adornment
around the shape that we have called forth ? In this spirit, I
ween, our Schiller composed his echoes from "The Robbers," as
also, by so many victor-steps still more exalted, " Thekla's Voice
of Spirits," as sequel to his " Wallenstein." The like is also met
with in other poets ; and from a similar point of view the fiction
now under notice may be regarded.
Folko of Montfaufon was and is peculiarly endeared to my
heart as a true type of that old French chivalric glory which now
only emerges in individual appearances ; for instance, beautifully,
in the Vendean wars, which, though faiUng in victory, were rich
in honours. With these feelings, the poet could not forbear from
arraying him in the colours of his own escutcheon, and assign-
ing to him the emblems of the same, and even in some measure
denoting him by his own ancestral name ; for Foulque we were
called in old times, which was probably derived, according to our
Norman descent, from the Northlandish name Folko, or Fulko ;
and a castle " Montfau9on" was among our ancient possessions.
But here that only properly concerns the noble pair, Folko and
Gabrielle, as interwoven in the tale of " Sintrara." The tale
itself is the offspring of my own fantasy, immediately suggested by
Albrecht Durer's admirable woodcut of " The Knight, Death, and
Satan," the birthday-gift of a former friend, with the happy pro-
posal that I should frame from it a romance or a ballad. It be-
came more than this ; and the present tale shews it to be so, being
supported by divers traditions, in part derived to me orally, of the
Germanic northern customs in war and festivity, and in many other
relationships beside. The legend indicated at the conclusion of
the information respecting Sintram, of the terrific stories of the
north, transformed into southern splendour and mirthful dreams,
would really then have been executed, and arose still more clearly
from the fantastic tones of a congenial harpsichord-player, who
accidentally met the poet. Partly, however, otlier avocations, partly
interru])tions from without, have hitherto driven the project into
the background But it still lives within me ; and now again,
from the powerful and yet childlike liarmonies of the Northman
Ole Bull, seems to stir more vigorously and brightly than before.
Who knows what yet may happen .' Meanwhile here gushes from
PUKFACK. XI
me a song of salutation to one who, honoured by me as master, is
not less dear to me as a man :
Profoundly dreamt a youth on Northland waste;
But no it is not waste where fairy rings
Reflect the past as well as future things,
Where love and woe in boding tones are drest.
They greeted him, they kissed him, and retreated ;
They left for him an instrument of sound,
Whose forceful strings with highest deeds could bound.
And yet with childish frolics be entreated.
He wakes the gift he seizes, comprehending
Its sweet mystf-rious pleasure how to prove,
And pours it forth in pure harmonious blending.
O mayst thou, ever victor, joyful move,
Thou Northland sailor, on life's voyage wending.
Conscious of God within thee and above. '
It may not be uninteresting to append in this place an extract
from the introduction to " Guy Mannering," as it appeared in the
collected edition of the works of the author of " Waverley," in
" The novel or romance of Waverley made its way to the pub-
lic slowly, of course, at first, but afterwards with such accumulat-
ina; pojiularity as so encourage the author to a second attempt.
He looked about for a name and a subject ; and the manner in
which the novels were comjiosed cannot be better illustrated than
by reciting the simple narrative on which '
Guy Mannering' was
originally founded; but to which, in the progress of the work, the
production ceased to bear any, even the most distant resemblance.
.... A grave and elderly person, according to old .lohn MacKin-
lay's account, while travelling in the wilder parts of Galloway, was
benighted. With difficulty he found his way to a country-seat,
where, with the hospitality of the time and country, he was readily
admitted. The owner of the house, a gentleman of good fortune,
was much struck by the reverend appearance of his guest, and
apologised to him for a certain degree of confusion which must
unavoidably attend his reception, and could not escape his eye.
The lady of the house was, he said, confined to her apartment,
and on the point of making her husband a father for the first
time, though they had been ten years married. At such an emer-
gency, the laird said he feared his guest might meet with some
apjiarent neglect.
"' Not so, sir,' said the stranger; '
my wants are few, and
easily supplied ; and I trust the present circumstances may even
afford an opportunity of shewing my gratitude for your hospitality.
Let me only request that I may be informed of the exact minute
of the birth ; and I hope to be able to put you in possession of
some particulars, which may influence, in an important manner,
the future prospects of the child now about to come into this busy
and changeful world. I will not conceal from you that I am skil-
ful in understanding and interpreting the movements of those
planetary bodies which exert their influences on the destiny of
mortals. It is a science which I do not practise, like others who
call themselves astrologers, for hire or reward ; for I have a com-
petent estate, and only use the knowledge I possess for the benefit
of those in whom I feel an interest.' The laird bowed in respect
and gratitude ; and the stranger was accommodated with an apart-
ment which commanded an ample view of the astral regions.
" The guest spent a part of the night in ascertaining the posi-
tion of the heavenly bodies, and calculating their probable influ-
ence ; until at length the result of his observations induced him to
send for the father, and conjure him, in the most solemn manner,
to cause the assistants to retard the birth, if practicable, were it
but for five minutes. The answer declared this to be impossible ;
and almost at the instant the message was returned, the father and
his guest were made acquainted with the birth of a boy.
" The astrologer on the morrow met the party who gathered
around the breakfast-table, with looks so grave and ominous, as to
alarm the fears of the father, who had hitherto exulted in the pro-
spects held out by the birth of an heir to his ancient property,
faihng which event, it must have passed to a distant branch of the
family. He hastened to draw the stranger into a private room.
" ' I fear from your looks,' said the father, '
that you have bad
tidings to tell me of my young stranger ; perhaps God will resume
the blessing He has bestowed ere he attains the age of manhood ; or
perhaps he is destined to be unworthy of the affection which we
are naturally disposed to devote to our offspring.'
"' Neither the one nor the other,' answered the stranger;
' unless my judgment greatly err, the infant will survive the years
of minority, and in temper and disposition will prove all that his
parents can wish, liut with much in his horoscope which pro-
mises many blessings, there is one evil influence strongly predomi-
nant, which threatens to subject him to an unhallowed and unhappy
temptation about the time when he shall attain the age of twenty-
one, which period the constellations intimate will be the crisis of
his fate. In what shape, or with what peculiar urgency, this temp-
tation may beset him, my art cannot discover.'
" ' Your knowledge, then, can afford us no defence,' said the
anxious father, '
against the threatened evil !'
" ' Pardon me,' answered the stranger,
'
it can. The influence
ot the constellations is powerful ; but He who made the heavens
}.- more powerful than all, if His aid be invoked in sincerity and
trdth. You ought to dedicate this boy to the immediate service of
kis Maker, with as much sincerity as Samuel was devoted to the
worship in the temple by his parents. You must regard him as
a being separated from the rest of the world. In childhood, in
boyhood, you must surround him with the pious and virtuous, and
protect him, to the utmost of your power, from the sight or hear-
ing of any crime, in word or action. He must be educated in
religious and moral principles of the strictest description. Let
him not enter the world, lest he learn to partake of its follies, or
perhaps of its vices. In short, preserve him as far as possible
from all sin, save that of which too great a portion belongs to aU
the fallen race of Adam. With the approach of his twenty-first
birthday comes the crisis of his fate. If he survive it, he will be
happy and prosperous on earth, and a chosen vessel among those
elected for heaven. But ifit be otherwise' the astrologer stopped,
and sighed deeply.
" *
Sir," replied the parent, still more alarmed than before,
'
your words are so kind, your advice so serious, that T wQl pay
the deepest attention to your behests. But can you not aid me
farther in this most important concern ? Believe me, I will not
be ungrateful.'
" '
1 require and deserve no gratitude for doing a good action,'
said the stranger,
'
in especial for contributing all that lies in my
power to save from an abhorred fate the harmless infant to whom,
under a singular conjunction of planets, last night gave life. There
is my address ; you may write to me from time to time concerning
the progress of the boy in religious knowledge. If he be bred up
as I advise, I think it will be best that he come to my house at the
time when the fatal and decisive period approaches, that is, before
he has attained his twenty-first year complete. If you send him such
as I desire, I humbly trust that God will protect His own, through
whatever strong temptation his fate may subject him to.' He then
gave his host his address, which was a country-seat near a post-town
in the south of England, and bid him an affectionate farewell.
" The mysterious stranger departed ; but his words remained
impressed upon the mind of the anxious parent. He lost his lady
while his boy was still in infancy. This calamity, I think, had
been predicted by the astrologer ; and thus his confidence, which,
like most people of the period, he had freely given to the science,
was riveted and confirmed. The utmost care, therefore, was taken
to carry into effect the severe and almost eiscetic plan of education
which the sage had enjoined. A tutor of the strictest principles
was employed to superintend the youth's education ; he was sur-
rounded by domestics of the most established character, and closely
watched and looked after by the einxious father himself.
XIV PREFACR.
" The years of infancy, childhood, and boyhood, passed as the
father could have wished. A young Nazarene could not have beea
bred up vpith more rigour. AU that was evU was withheld from
his observation he only heard what was pure in precept he only
witnessed what was worthy in practice.
" But when the boy began to be lost in the youth, the attentive
father saw cause for alarm. Shades of sadness, which gradually
assumed a darker character, began to overcloud the young man's
temper. Tears, which seemed involuntary, broken sleep, moon-
light wanderings, and a melancholy for which he could assign no
reason, seemed to threaten at once his bodily health, and the sta-
bility of his mind. The astrologer was consulted by letter, and
returned for answer, that this fitful state of mind was but the com
mencement of his trial, and that the poor youth must undergo
more and more desperate struggles with the evil that assailed him.
There was no hope of remedy, save that he shewed steadiness of
mind in the study of the Scriptures.
'
He suffers,' continued the
letter of the sage,
'
from the awakening of those harpies, the pas-
sions, which have slept with him, as with others, till the period of
life which he has now attained. Better, far better, that they tor-
ment him by ungrateful cravings than that he should have to
repent having satiated them by criminal indulgence.'
" The dispositions of the young man were so excellent, that he
combated, by reason and religion, the fits of gloom which at times
overcast his mind ; and it was not till he attained the commence-
ment of his twenty-first year that they assumed a character which
made his father tremble for the consequences. It seemed as if
the gloomiest and most hideous of rriental maladies was taking
the form of religious despair. Still the youth was gentle, court-
eous, affectionate, and submissive to his father's will, and resisted
with all his power the dark suggestions which were breatiied
into his mind, as it seemed, by some emanation of the Evil Prin-
ciple, exhorting him, like the wicked wife of Job, to curse God
and die.
" The time at length arrived when he was to perform what was
then thought along and somewhat perilous journey, to the mansion
of the early friend who had calculated his nativity. His road lay
through several places of interest, and he enjoyed the amusement
of travelling, more than he himself thought would have been pos-
sible. Thus he did not reach the place of his destination till noon,
on the day preceding his birthday. It seemed as if he had been
carried away with an unwonted tide of pleasurable sensation, so as
to forget, in some degree, what his father had communicated con-
cerning (he jHirpose of his journey, lie halted at length before a
respectable but solitary old mansion, to which he was directed as
the abode of his father's friend.
" The servants who came to take liis horse told liim he had been
expected for two days. He was led into a study, where the stran-
ger, now a venerable old man, who had been his father's guest,
met him with a shade of displeasure, as well as gravity, on his
brow. '
Young man,' he said, 'wherefore so slow on a journey
of such importance.'' 'I thought,' replied the guest, blushing
and looking downward, ' that there was no harm in travelling
slowly, and satisfying my curiosity, providing I could reach your
residence by this day ; for such was my father's charge.'
'
You
were to blame,' replied the sage, 'in lingering, considering that
the avenger of blood was pressing on your footsteps. But you are
come at last, and we wUl hope for the best, though the conflict in
which you are to be engaged wQl be found more dreadful, the
longer it is postponed. But first, accept cf such refreshments as
nature requires, to satisfy, but not to pamper, the appetite.'
" The old man led the way into a summer parlour, where a
frugal meal was placed on the table. As they sat down to the
board, they were joined by a young lady about eighteen years of
age, and so lovely that the sight of her carried oft" the feelings of
the young stranger from the peculiarity and mystery of his own lot,
and riveted his attention to everything she did or said. She spoke
little, and it was on the most serious subjects. She played on the
harpsichoid at her father's command, but it was hymns with which
she accompanied the instrument. At length, on a sign from the
sage, she left the room, turning on the young stranger, as she de-
parted, a look of inexpressible anxiety and interest.
" The old man then conducted the youth to his study, and
conversed with him upon the most important points of religion, to
satisfy himself that he could render a reason for the faith that was
in him. During the examination, the youth, in spite of himself,
felt his mind occasionally wander, and his recollections go in quest
of the beautiful vision who had shared their meal at noon. On
such occasions the astrologer looked grave, and shook his head
at this relaxation of attention ; yet, on the whole, he was pleased
with the youth's replies.
" At sunset the young man was made to take the bath ; and,
having done so, he was directed to attire himself in a robe, some-
what hke that worn by Armenians, having his long hair combed
down on his shoulders, and his neck, hands, and feet bare. In this
guise, he was conducted into a remote chamber totally devoid of
furniture, excepting a lamp, a chair, and a table, on which lay a
Bible. '
Here,' said the astrologer,
'
I must leave you alone, to
pass the most critical period of your life. If you can, by recollec-
tion of the great truths of which we have spoken, repel the attacks
which will be made on your courage and your principles, you have
nothing to apprehend. But the trial will be se\ere and arduous.'
Hii features then assumed a pathetic solemnity, the tears stood in
Lis eyes, and his voice faltered with emotion as he said, '
Dear
child, at whose coining into the world I foresaw this fatal trial
may God give thee grace to support it with firmness !'
" The young man was left alone ; and hardly did he find him-
self so, when like a swarm of demons, the recollection of all his
sins of omission and commission, rendered even more terrible by
the scrupulousness with which he had been educated, rushed on
his mind, and, like furies armed with fiery scourges, seemed de-
termined to drive him to despair. As he combated these horrible
recollections with distracted feelings, but with a resolved mind, he
became aware that his arguments were answered by the sophistry
of another, and that the dispute was no longer confined to his own
thoughts. '1 he author of evil was present in the room with him
in bodily shape, and, potent with spirits of a melancholy cast, waa
impressing upon him the desperation of his state, and urging sui-
cide as the readiest mode to put an end to his sinful career. Amid
his errors, the pleasure he had taken in prolonging his journey un-
necessarily, and the attention which he had bestowed on the beauty
of the fair female, when his thoughts ought to have been dedicated
to the religious discourse of her father, were set before him in the
darkest colours ; and he was treated as one who, having sinned
against light, was therefore deservedly left a prey to the prince ot
darkness.
" As the fated and influential hour rolled on, the terrors of the
hateful presence grew more confounding to the mortal senses of
the victim, and the knot of the accursed sophistry became more
inextricable in appearance, at least to the prey whom its meshes
surrounded. He had not power to explain the assurance of pardon
which he continued to assert, or to name the victorious name in
which he trusted. But his faith did not abandon him, though he
lacked for a time the power of expressing it. '
Say what you will,'
was his answer to the tempter ;
'
I know there is as much betwixt
the two boards of this book as can insure me forgiveness for my
transgressions, and safety for my soul.' As he spoke, the clock,
which announced the lapse of the fatal hour, was heard to strike.
The speech and intellectual powers of the youth were instantly
and fully restored ; he burst forth into prayer, and expressed, in
the most glowing terms, his reliance on the truth, and on the
author, of the gospel. The demon retired, yelling and discomfited ;
and the old man, entering the apartment with tears, congratulated
his guest on his victory in the fated struggle.
" The young man was afterwards married to the beautiful
maiden, the first sight of whom had made such an impression on
him, and they were consigned over, at the close of the story, to
domestic happiness. So ended John MacKinlay's legend.
" Tlie author of Waverley had imagined a possibility of framing
an interesting, and perhajjs not an unedifying, tale, out of the in-
cidents of the life of a doomed individual, whose efforts at good
and virtuous conduct were to be for ever disappointed by the in-
tervention, as it were, of some malevolent being, and who was at
last to come off victorious from the fearful struggle. In short,
something was meditated upon a plan resembling the imaginative
tale of '
Siutram and his Companions,' by Mons Le Baron de la
Motte Fouque, although, if it then existed, the author had not
seen it.
" The scheme projected maybe traced in the first three or four
chapters of the work ; but farther consideration induced the author
to lay his purpose aside. It appeared, on mature consideration,
that astrology, though its influence was once received and admitted
by Bacon himself, does not now retain influence over the general
mind sufficient even to constitute the mainspring of a romance.
Besides, it occurred, that to do justice to such a subject would
have required not only more talent than the author could be con-
scious of possessing, but also involved doctrines and discussions of
a nature too serious for his purpose, and for the character of llie
narrative. In changing his plan, however, which was done ia the
course of printing the early sheets retained the vestiges of the
original tenour of the story, although they now hang upon it as an
unnecessary and unnatural encumbrance."
It will probably be admitted, even by the greatest admirers of
Scott's genius, that it was well he did 7iot attempt the prosecu-
tion of his tale as at first projected. The truth is, the mind of
this great writer was scarcely fitted for the successful handling of
a subject which should bring before his readers in serious reality
the mysteries of the invisible world. However much he may ap-
pear at times to write under such a feeling, one is constantly dis-
appointed in finding that it has been only assumed, as it would seem,
for the sake of temporary effect : wherever a character or event is
made for a time to wear a supernatural aspect, due care is taken to
let the reader see, that the author neither believes any such thing
himself, nor wishes him to do so, more than is needful to keep up his
curiosity to the proper pitch until the evolution of the plot. He
often lets us know, and at times, one would think, gratuitously,
that the mystery which he is describing so beautifully, is, after all,
but an apparent one, some form of natural magic, some inge-
nious trick, or some fantasy of a diseased imagination. The above
instance furnishes no bad specimen of the way in which his taste
would naturally lead him to construct a romance on the basis of
an old legend. (See the astrological allusions in the first few chap,
ters of " Guy Mannering.") Enough would be taken to keep up
that kind of awe and suspense we have alluded to as needful to
an effective romance ; but the general impression is not very dis-
similar to that left on the mind of the thoughtful reader after lay-
ing down the " Mysteries of Udolpho," or the " Castle of Otran-
to," and finding that all the mystery has vanished, with nothing
left for us to admire but the stage-machinery which has been so
ingeniously employed to mimic the supernatural, and excite our
temporary awe.
It will be evident how dissimilar (among various points, how-
ever, of resemblance') was the line pursued by De la Motte
Fouque. He writes throughout as if he believed what he is re-
lating ; and if the reader is to enter into the charm of the piece,
and to derive fuU enjoyment from its perusal, he must throw him-
self into the same posture of mind. In his romances the super-
natural is carried through consistently to the end, and is there left,
in all its mystery ; £ind one need hardly remark how much of their
solemnising Eind indescribably beautiful effect upon the mind is due
to this characteristic of these tales. ^
Indeed, as far as the mere interest of the story, and its pleasing
effect on the imagination, is concerned, one would rather prefer
that there should be no unravelling of its hidden things. Which
of us, when in our childish years we drank in the charms of a
simple fairy tale, could endure to have the consistency of its struc-
' The reader who consults the Preface to " Waverley," in which the
author gives an account of his youthful studies, his love of antiquarian
lore, of chivalry, &c., and refers back to the foregoing Preface, will see
how, in a great measure, the same kind of materials must necessarily
have entered into the compositions of both these authors. It may be
added, that the early religious associations of Scott were not of a kind
which were likely to lead to his treating supernatural subjects in a very
high tone.
2 In estimating the impressive effect produced by the writings of our
author, it should not be forgotten that many of them partake to some ex-
tent of th( ch;iractor of the spiritual allegory, though the meaning is often
but indistinctly marked on the surface. This has been overlooked by
many, who nevertheless admire his tales as the oflspring of high poetical
genius. There is somewhere a criticism upon one of them by a very able
writer of the prosinit day, who had evidently entered fully into its literary
merit, and who expressed a high admiration for the sentiments and tone
of the author, but who had, nevertheless, completely missed the beau-
tiful allegory which it embodies, the dim, impressive obscurity of which
leods so wondrous a charm to its scenes.
PREFACE. XIX
ture tampered with, or any thing hinted which should prevent us
fairly throwing ourselves into its scenes, and viewing them in all
the truth and reality of the picture ? Or who would care, again,
to revel in the gorgeous scenery of an Arabian tale, if at every
turn we must be dogged by some officious attendant, ready to put
in some matter-of-fact remark which should bring us back to
common life, and dash in a thousand pieces the enchanted mirror
in which we were gazing with our whole souls ? The difference
(we may here remark) between the two writers alluded to, appears
sometimes even in those subordinate parts of their romances, where
one might fairly expect it to be otherwise. Roth, for instance, oc-
casionally work in old legends as episodes, by putting them in the
mouths of some of the characters in the tale. These, at least, as
remains of still more ancient days, might well be given in all their
unexplained marvel, just, in fact, as they were believed in at the
time supposed. Fouque does so. Compare, for instance, the sin-
cere way in which his little tale of the " Magician of Finland " '
is
told, in the first volume of the " Magic Ring," with the legends
which Scott incidentally introduces, but which are usually accom-
panied by some hint as to the credulousness of the eige in which
they were current, or some suggested explanation in accordance
with what are called the laws of nature.
But, besides the mere interest and consistency of the story, it
must be admitted that to reverential minds there is something
cold and unsatisfactory in this habit of clearing away, always, and
as a matter of course, whatever is mysterious and beyond the
range of our senses and present experience. If we believe at all
in the powers of the invisible world, we do not see why many things
which men usually look upon as incredible, though beautiful ima-
ginations, should not, after all, be deemed possible, and even pro-
bable. We are not here pleading for a belief in any particular
portions of works usually deemed fictitious ; nor are we concerned
at present to find such instances. We are only suggesting whether
we are not too apt, under the name of romance and fiction, to treat
as incredible many things which, if we are believers in Holy Writ,
we have at least no a priori rejison for rejecting as fabulous. There
is such a thing as superstition ; but there is also an opposite and
1 This beautiful little story will be found in " Popular Tales and Le-
gends." Burns, 1843.
most dangerous extreme. " I had a dream, which was not all a
dream," says one of our poets ! and so too may it be witli much
that we are apt indiscriminately to call " fictitious or imaginary."
The tone of mind which such writings as that of our author
tend to foster, is one of faith in the invisible ; while, on the other
hand, those of most other novelists rather tend to the opposite
habit of scepticism.' There is, therefore, one especial charm about
the tales of Fouque, which even those of Scott do not possess ;
though there is doubtless much in the latter which in many ways
tends to good.
This, of course, is not the place to point out the merits of the
author of " Waverley
" as a romance writer ; and the attempt
might well be deemed absurd at this time of day. In many re-
spects he is far before Fouque. One particular may be cited :
we think the readers of the latter must often have desiderated that
wonderful talent of Scott by which all the parts of his tale are
made to hang together each event and character fitting into its
place with graceful order, and yet without stiffness or formality
and at last forming, what is so gratifying to the mind of the
reader at the time, and so pleasing in recollection, one symmetrical
whole. Fouque, with all his glowing descriptions and true poetical
touches, does ct-rtainly sometimes provoke us by his wild con-
fusion and almost contempt of plan.- For this we must, of course,
account by the cast of his genius. He was unquestionably a true
poet calling up, as he went on, the most beautiful pictures, and
presenting them before us, as they arose to his own mind, in all
their primitive freshness and simplicity, but lacking that talent
which would bring them into due order and method, and which,
though a lower gift than poetical genius, is yet very needful for one
who would not only make a series of beautiful sketches, but who
would also form a well-compacted tale. It seems probable that this
defect has operated against the general j)opularity of these works
' Some of the popular books of the day, which profess to explain
marvels, are dangerous in this way. They try to prove too much ; and
by their otl'-hand way of treating every thing which savours of miraculous
agency, tlioy unconsciously it may be, but really play into the hands of
the rationalist, and I'urnish weapons with which a worse class of persons
will go on to demolish altogether a belief in invisible influences.
2 It must be admitted, however, that many of his shorter pieces are
very perfect iu their structure.
I'REIACE. XXI
amongst ourselves ; though this may also be attributed, in some
degree, to the characteristic already alluded to, which, if it recom-
mends them to some minds, may cause them to find less favour in
the eyes of others. He writes at times, in fact, under a kind of
Heavenly inspiration, which, without a congenial disposition on the
part of the reader, it is vain to hope will be appreciated.
It ought to be remarked here, however, that in one case the
author of " Waverley" did make a bold attempt to grapple with the
supernatural. We allude, of course, to the "
Monastery ;" and it
is singular that in this instance he should have taken the idea from
the first tale in this collection. In his Introduction, where he
speaks of the origin of the story, he says :
" . . . . Machinery remained, the introduction of the super-
natural and marvellous the resort of distressed authors since the
days of Horace, but whose privileges as a sanctuary have been
disputed in the present age, and well-nigh exploded. The popu-
lar belief no longer allows the possibility of existence to the race
of mysterious beings which hovered betwixt this world and that
wliich is invisible. The fairies have abandoned their moonlight
turf ; the wutch no longer holds her black orgies in the hemlock
dell; and
' Even the last Hns;ering phantom of the brain.
The churchyard-ghost, is now at rest again.'
" From the discredit attached to the vulgar and more common
modes in which the Scottish superstition displays itself, the author
was induced to have recourse to the beautiful, though almost for-
gotten, theory of astral spirits, or creatures of the elements, sur-
passing human beings in knowledge and power, but inferior to
them, as being subject, after a certain space of years, to a death
which is to them annihilation, as they have no share in the promise
made to the sons of Adam. These spirits are supposed to be of
four distinct kinds, as the elements from which they have their
origin, and are known to those who have studied the cabalistical
philosophy by the names of sylphs, gnomes, salamanders, and
naiads, as they belong to the elements of air, earth, fire, or water.
The general reader will find an entertaining account of these ele-
mentary spirits in the French book entitled '
Entretiens de Compte
du Gabalis.' The ingenious Comte de la Motte Fouque composed,
in German, one of the most successful productions of his fertile
brain, where a beautiful and even afflicting effect is produced by
the introduction of a water-nymph, who consents to become ac-
cessible to human feelings, and unites her lot with that of a mortal,
who treats her with ingratitude.
" In imitation of an example so successful, the White Lady of
Avenel was introduced into the following sheets
" Either, however, the author executed his purpose indiffer-
entl)', or the public did not approve of it ; for the '
White Lady
of Avenel' was far from being popular. He does not now make
the present statement in the view of arguing readers into a more
favourable ojjinion on the subject, but merely with the purpose
of exculpating himself from the charge of having wantonly in-
truded into the narrative a being of inconsistent powers and pro-
pensities."
The inferior success which this romance met with, (chiefly, it
would seem, on account of the introduction of the White Lady,) is
probably due to both the causes alluded to by the author in the
above extract. The public were not prepared for this kind of
machinery in his writings. And it is not unlikely, that, if he had
treated it differently, and had made some person to act the part of
a supernatural being, who should come out at the wind-up as one
of flesh and blood, and explain her proceedings, the same objection
might not have been taken by some. It is possible too, however,
that had the present idea been better executed, the public might
have been reconciled to it. There is certainly an awkwardness
and want of dignity about this part of the romance ; and, much
as there is of beauty in some of the details, one does not, after the
perusal, dwell with full satisfaction upon the vision of the Wtite
Nymph.
As has been said, this was not the line which Scott was fitted
to excel in. With respect to his idea, that popular belief no longer
allows the possibility of the existence of such mysterious beings,
it may be doubted whether this is of itself a good reason why
writers of romance should eschew them. Indeed, he himself did
not, as we see in this case : he avoided certainly the more hack-
neyed ground of fairies and witches; but he chose one equally, or
more, removed from popular belief, though recommended to him
in this case by the advantage of novelty. Perhaps the most likely
way to ensure consistency and success, would be to dismiss the
question as to whether people now-a-days believe such things or
not, and to choose such a period and such characters as will admit
of this machinery being naturally made use of; so that whether
readers in the present day are found to give credence or not, they
may at least look on a picture which was true at the time sup-
posed, and which will be true and consistent to them, too, if they
will throw their symj)athies into the scenes which are openrd be-
fore them. The satisfactory effect produced by Fouque's tales may
be in part ascribed to this circumstance. He carries you into far-
off scenes, and among ancient days and manners ; and you see at
once that jou must feel as men then felt, and believe af they
believed.
It may be doubted, indeed, whether, with our present habits
and tone of mind, it would be possible to work up an endur-
able piece of fiction, of which the scene should be laid in our
own country and in our own day, and which yet should embody
the machinery of our old tales. Relate a fairy tale to some youth-
ful circle of open-mouthed listeners on a winter's evening, and
see if half the enchantment does not depend upon their realising
the scene as having existed in times far removed from their own
days. Tell the same story, only altering the circumstantials to
those among which they themselves live, as if, for instance, the
things had happened in some neighbouring viUage, and within the
last year, and the magical effect will be gone. They feel that the
thing is unnatural ; and the quiet, earnest look of wonder and awe
with which the little audience ^lung upon the lips of the narrator
will soon, we fear, be changed for one of mingled disappointment
and scorn. They wiU shew not only that they disbelieve, but that
they despise, what you are telling them.'
To conclude : these Tales, with their no less pleasing com-
panions,- are commended to the attention of all lovers amongst
us of what is noble and beautiful in external nature, as well as in
the human heart and life. We do so with hearty confidence ; nor
do we fear that they will suffer, even by oft- repeated perusaL
Manly Christian grace, virgin purity, hoary wisdom, happy child-
like innocence ; the grand, the severe, the tender, the lowly, the
affectionate, and whatever else is calculated to touch and elevate
I Perhaps the modern " ghost-story" may occur to some as an apparent
exception to this remark ; and we believe that in some places popular
belief would almost admit of such machinery being employed, without
fatally destroying the consistency and verisimilitude of a tale. Still, as a
general remark, what Sir W. Scott says in a previous page of the church-
yard ghost is true; and any of our tale-writers, therefore, who should be
adventurous enough to make use of such machinery without due care to
clear up the mystery at the end, would run a great risk of making ship-
wreck of his or her popularity. It might do, were the scene laid amongst
characters supposed to live under the influence of such forms of belief;
there would then be so far a coherence. But we suspect this must be in
" Dreamland " not in England.
' See the Tales of Fouqufe in the volume entitled " Romantic Fiction."
XXIV rUEFACE.
the heart, set off at times by the exhibition of the darker and
more repulsive traits of human character, (held up, however,
only to be avoided,) find in the writings of our author their
happy and appropriate exemplification. The noble, courteous
Christian knight the tender, modest, but high-minded maiden
the affectionate spouse the aged man, in all the commanding
dignity of years and wisdom the pious peasant the faithful
domestic, are all mingled in the goodly array of characters which
they present to us. And as the fair procession passes before us,
and its magic colours float around the imagination and linger in
the memory, who does not feel the best sympathies and aspirations
of his heart irresistibly drawn forth.' who, too. will refuse his
tribute of love and admiration to the gifted and now, alas ! de-
ceased autlior, the impress of whose own calm and beautiful mind
they so fully bear .'
CHAPTER I
N a beautiful evening, it may now be
many hundretl years ago, a worthy
old fisherman sat before his door
mending his nets. The corner of
the world where he dwelt was ex-
ceedingly picturesqiie. The green
turf on which he had built his cottage
ran far out into a great lake; and this
'^1
^
slip of verdure appeared to stretch into
it
as much
through love of its clear waters, as the lake, moved by
4 UNDINE,
a like impulse, strove to fold the meadow, with its wav-
ing grass and flowers, and the cooling shade of the trees,
in its embrace of love. They seemed to be drawn to-
ward each other, and the one to be visiting the other as
a guest,
With respect to human beings, indeed, in this pleasant
spot, excepting the fisherman and his family, there were
few, or rather none, to be met with. For as in the back-
ground of the scene, toward the west and north-west, lay
a forest of extraordinary wildness, which, owing to its sun-
less gloom and almost impassable recesses, as well as to
fear of the strange creatures and visionary illusions to be
encountered in
it,
most people avoided entering, unless in
cases of extreme necessity. The pious old fisherman, how-
ever, many times passed through
it
witliout harm, when
hfc carried the fine fish, which he caught by his beautiful
strip of land, to
a
great city lying only
a
short distance
beyond the forest.
Now the reason he was able to go through this wood
with so much ease may have been chiefiy this, because he
entertained scarcely any thoughts but such as were of
a
religious nature
;
and besides, every time he crossed the
evil-reported sliades, he used to sing some holy song with
a
clear voice and from
a
sincere heart.
Well, while he sat by his nets this evening, neither
fearing nor devising evil,
a
sudden terror seized him, us
he heard
a
rushing in the darkness of tlie wood, that re-
sembled the trampling of
a
mounted steed, and the noise
continued every instant drawing nearer and nearer to his
little territory.
What he had fancied, when abroad in many
a
stormy
night, respecting the mysteries of the forest, now flashed
through his mind in
a
moment
;
esj)ecially the figure ot
a
man of gigantic stature and snow-white a])pearanee, who
kept nodding liis lioad in
a
portentous manner. And when
he raised his eyes towards the wood, tlie form came before
bim in perfect distinctness, as he saw the nodding man
burst forth from the mazy web-work of leaves and branches.
But he immediately felt emboldened, when he reflected
that nothing to give him alarm had ever befallen him even
in the forest; and moreover, that on this open neck of land
the evil spirit, it was likely, would be still less daring in
the exercise of his power. At the same time, he prayed
aloud with the most earnest sincerity of devotion, repeal-
ing a passage of the Bible. This inspired him with fresh
courage; and soon perceiving the illusion, and the strange
vnistake into which his imagination had betrayed him, he
could with difficulty refrain from laughing. The white
nodding figure he had seen, became transformed, in the
twinkling of an eye, to what in reality it was, a small
brook, long and familiarly known to him, which ran foam-
ing from the forest, and discharged itself into the lake.
But what had caused the startling sound was a knight
arrayed in sumptuous apparel, who from under the sha-
dows of the trees came riding toward the cottage. His
doublet was violet embroidered with gold, and his scarlet
cloak hung gracefully over it ; on his cap of burnished gold
waved red and violet-coloured plumes ; and in his golden
shoulder-belt flashed a sword, richly ornamented and ex-
tremely beautiful. The white barb that bore the knight
was more slenderly built than war-horses usually are;
and he touched the turf with a step so light and elastic,
that the green and flowery carpet seemed hardly to receive
the slightest injury from his tread.. The old fisherman,
notwithstanding, did not feel perfectly secure in his mind,
although he was forced to believe th;it no evil could be
feared from an appearance so pleasing ; and therefore, as
good manners dictated, he took off his hat on the knight's
coming near, and quietly remained by the side of his nets.
When tlie stranger stopped, and asked whether he,
W'ith his horse, could have shelter and entertainment there
for the night, the fisherman returned answer: "As to your
horse, fair sir, I have no better stable for him than this
shady meadow, and no better provender than the grass
that is growing here. But with respect to yourself, you
shall be welcome to our humble cottage, and to the best
supper and lodging we are able to give you."
The knight was well contented with this reception ;
and alighting from his horse, which his host assisted him
to relieve from saddle and bridle, he let him hasten away
to the fresh jjasture, and thus spoke :
" Even had I found
you less hospitable and kindly disposed, my worthy old
friend, you would still, I suspect, hardly have got rid of
me to-day ; for here, I perceive, a broad lake lies before
us, and as to riding back into that wood of wonders, with
the shades of evening deepening around me, may Heaven
in its grace preserve me from the thought."
" Pray not a word of the wood, or of returning into
it !" said the fisherman, and took his guest into the cot-
tage.
There, beside the hearth, from which a frugal fire was
diffusing its light through the clean twilight room, sat the
fisherman's aged wife in a great chair. At the entrance of
their noble guest, she rose and gave him a courteous wel-
come, but sat down again in her seat of honour, not making
the slightest oft'er of it to the stranger. Upon this the
fislierman said with a smile :
" You must not be offended with her, young gentleman,
because she has not given up to you the best chair in the
house ; it is a custom among poor people to look upon this
as the privilege of the aged."
" Why, husband !" cried the old lady with a quiet
smile, " where can your wits be wandering ? Our guest, to
say the least of him, must belong to a Christian country ;
and how is it possible, then, that so well-bred a young
man as he appears to be could dream of driving old people
from their chairs? Take a seat, my young master," con-
tinued she, turning to the knight; " there is still quite a
snug little chair on the other side of the room there, only
be careful not to shove it about too roughly, for one of its
legs, I fear, is none of the firmest."
The kniglit brought up the seat as carefully a? she
could desire, sat down upon it good-humouredly, and it
seemed to him almost as if he must be somehow related
to this little household, and have just returned home from
abroad.
These three worthy people now began to converse in
the most friendly and familiar manner. In relation to the
forest, indeed, concerning which the knight occasionally
made some inquiries, the old man chose to know and say
but little ; he was of opinion, that slightly touching upon
it,
at this hour of twilight, was most suitable and safe
;
but of the cares and comforts of their home, and their
business al^road, the aged couple spoke more freely, and
listened also with eager curiosity, as the knight recounted
to them his travels, and how he had
a
castle near one of
the sources of the Daimbe, and that his name wa? Sir
Huldbrand of Ringstetten.
Already had the stranger, w'hile they were in the midst
of their talk, heard at times
a
splash against the little low
window, as if some one were dashing Avater against it. The
old man, every time he heard the noise, knit his brows
with vexation
;
but at last, when the whole sweep of
a
shower came pouring like
a
torrent against the panes, and
bubbling through the decayed frame into the room, he
started up indignant, rushed to the window, and cried with
a
threatening voice,
" Undine
!
will you never leave off these fooleries? not
even to-day, when we have
a
stranger-knight with us in
the cottage ?"
All without now became still, only
a
low laugh was just
audible, and the fisherman said, as he came back to his
seat: "You will have the goodness, my honoured guest,
to pardon this freak, and
it
may be
a
multitude more
;
but she has no thought of evil, or of any harm. This
mischievous Undine, to confess the truth,
is
our adopted
daughter, and she stoutly refuses to give over this frolic-
some childishness of hers, although she has already entereu
c
8 UNDINE.
her eighteenth year. But in spit« of this, as I said be-
fore, she is at heart one of the very best children in the
world."
" You may say so," broke in the old lady, shaking her
head; "you can give a better account of her than 1 can.
When you return home from fishing, or from selling your
fish in the city, you may think her frolics very delightful.
But to have her dancing about you the whole day long,
and never from morning to night to hear her speak one
word of sense; and then, as she grows older, instead of
having any help from her in the family, to find her a con-
tinual cause of anxiety, lest her wild humours should com-
pletely ruin us, that is quite another thing, and enough
at last to weary out the patience even of a saint."
"Well, well," replied the master of the house, with a
smile ;
" you have your trials with Undine, and I have
mine with the lake. The lake often beats down my dams,
and breaks the meshes of my nets, but for all that I have a
strong affection for it; and so have you, in spite of your
mighty crosses and vexations, for our graceful little child.
Is it not true ?"
" One cannot be very angry with her," answered the
old lady, as she gave her husband an approving smile.
That instant the door flew open, and a fair girl, of won-
drous beauty, sprang laughing in, and said: "You have
only been making a mock of me, father ; for where now is
the guest you mentioned?"
The same moment, however, she perceived the knight
also, and continued standing before the young man in fixed
astonishment. Iluldbrand was charmed Avith her graceful
figure, and viewed her lovely features with the more in-
tense interest, as he imagined it was only her surprise
that allowed him the opportunity, and that she would
soon turn away from his gaze with increased bashfulness.
But the event was the very reverse of what he expected.
For, after looking at him for a long while, she became
more confident, moved nearer, knelt down before him,
and, while she played with a gold meda) which he wore
attached to a rich chain on his breast, exclaimed,
" "Why, you beautiful, you kind guest ! how^ have you
reached our poor cottage at la^t? Have you been obliged
for years and years to wander about the world before you
could catch one glimpse of our nook ? Do you come out
of that wild forest, my beautiful knight ?"
The old woman was so prompt in her reproof, as to
allow him uo time to answer. She commanded the maiden
to rise, shew better manners, and go to her work. But
Undine, without making any reply, drew a little footstool
near Huklbrand's chair, sat down upon it with her netting,
and said in a gentle tone :
" I will work here."
The old man did as parents are apt to do with children
to whom they have been over-indulgent. He affected to
observe nothing of Undine's strange behaviour, and was
beginning to talk about something else. But this the
maiden did not permit him to do. She broke in upon
him: " I have asked our kind guest from whence he has
come among us, and he has not yet answered rne."
" I come out of the forest, you lovely little vision,"
Huldbrand returned ; and she spoke again :
"You must also tell me how^ you came to enter that
forest, so feared and shunned, and the marvellous adven-
tures you met with in it ; for there is no escaping with-
out something of this kind."
Huldbrand felt a slight shudder on remembering what
he had witnessed, and looked involuntarily toward the win-
dow, for it seemed to him that one of the strange shapes
which had come upon him in the forest must be there grin-
ning in through the glass ; but he discerned nothing ex-
cept the deep darkness of night, which had now^ enveloped
the whole prospect. Upon this he became more collected,
and was just on the point of beginning his account, w hen
the old man thus interrupted him :
10 UNDINE.
" Not so, sir knight ; this is by no means a fit hour for
such relations."
But Undine, in a state of high excitement, sprang up
from her little stool, and cried, placing herself directly
before the fisherman :
" He shall not tell his story, father?
he shall not? But it is my ^vill:- he shall! stop him
who may !"
Thus speaking, she stamped her little foot vehemently
on the floor, but all with an air of such comic and good-
humoured simplicity, that Huldbrand now found it quite
as hard to withdraw his gaze from her wild emotion, as he
had before from her gentleness and beauty. The old man,
on the contrary, burst out in unrestrained displeasure. He
severely reproved Undine for her disobedience and her un-
becoming carriage toward the stranger, and his good old
wife joined him in harping on the same string.
B}' these rebukes Undine was only excited the more.
" If you want to quarrel with me," she cried,
" and will
not let me hear what I so much desire, then sleep alone
in your smoky old hut !" And swift as an arrow she shot
from the door, and vanished amid the darkness of the
night.
Huldbrand and the fisherman sprang from their seats,
and were rushing to stop the angry girl ; but before they
could reach the cottage-door, she had disappeared in the
stormy darkness without : and no sound, not so much even
as that of her light footstep, betrayed the course she had
taken. Huldlirand threw a glance of inquiry toward his
host: it almost seemed to him as if the whole of the sweet
apparition, which had so suddenly plunged again amid
the night, were no other than a continuation of tlie won-
derful forms that had just played their mad pranks with
liim in the forest. But the old man nmttered between his
teeth :
" This is not the first time she lias treated us in this
manner. Now nuist our hearts be filled witli anxiety, and
UNDINK. 11
our eyes find no sleep tlie whole night ; for who can assure
us, in spite ol' her past escapes, that she will not some time
or other come to harm, if she thus continue out in the
dark and alone until daylight ?"
" Then pray, for God's sake, father, let us follow her,''
cried Hiddbrand anxiously.
" Wherefore should we?" replied the old man. '' It
would be a sin were I to suffer you, all alone, to search
after the foolish girl amid the lonesomeness of night : and
my old limbs would fail to carry nie to this wild rover,
even if I knew to what place she has betaken her-
self."
" Still we ought at least to call after hei-, and beg her
to return," said Huldbrand ; and he began to call, in tones
of earnest entreaty, " Undine! Undine! couje back, come
back !"
The old man shook his head, and said,
" All your shout-
ing, however loud and long, will be of no avail ; you know
not as yet, sir knight, how self-willed the little thing is."
But still, even hoping against hope, he could not himself
cease calling out every minute, amid the gloom of night,
" Undine ! ah, dear Undine ! I beseech you, pray come
back, only this once."
It turned out, however, exactly as the fisherman had
said. No Undine could tliey hear or see ; and as the old
man would on no account consent that Huldbraud should
go in quest of the fugitive, they were both obliged at last
to return into the cottage. There they found the fire on
the hearth almost gone out, and the mistress of the house,
who took Undine's flight and danger far less to heart
than her husband, had already gone to rest. The old
man blew up the coals, put on dry wood, and by the fire-
light hunted for a flask of wine, which he brought and set
between himself and his guest.
" You, sir knight, as well as I," said he, " are anxious
on the silly girl's account ; and it would be better, I think,
to spend part of the night in chatting and drinkingj than
12 UNDINE.
keep turning and turning on our rusli-mats, and trj'ing in
vain to sleep. Wliat is your opinion?"
Huldbrand was well pleased with the plan ; the fisher-
man pressed him to take the empty seat of honour, its
worthy occupant having now left it for her couch ; and
they relished their beverage and enjoyed their chat, as two
such good men and true ever ought to do. To be sure,
whenever the slightest thing moved before the windows^
or at times when even nothing was moving, one of them
would look up and exclaim, '
Here she conies!" Then
would they continue silent a few moments, and afterward,
when nothing appeared, would shake their heads, breathe
out a sigh, and go on with their talk.
But as neither could think of any thing but Undine,
the best plan they could devise was, that the old fisherman
should relate, and the knight should hear, in what manner
Undine had come to the cottage. So the fisherman began
as follows :
" It is now about fifteen years since I one day crossed
the wild forest with fish for the city-market. My wife
had remained at home as she was wont to do ; and at this
time for a reason of more than common interest, for al-
though we were beginning to feel the advances of age,
God had bestowed upon us an infant of wonderful beauty.
It was a little girl ; and we already began to ask ourselves
the question, whether we ought not, for the advantage of
the new-comer, to quit our solitude, and, the better to
bring up this precious gift of Heaven, to remove to some
more inhabited place. Poor jjeople, to be sure, cannot in
these cases do all you may think they ought, sir knight ;
but we must all do what we can.
" Well, I went on my way, and this affair would keep
running in my head. This slip of land was most dear to
Hie, and I trembled when, amidst the bustle and broils of
the city, I thought to myself,
' In a scene of tumult like
this, or at least in one not much more quiet, I must soon
take up my abode.' But I did not for this murmur against
UNDIKE. 13
our good God ; on the contrary, I praised Him in silence
for the new-born babe. I should also speak an untruth,
were I to say that any thing befell nie, either on my jias-
sage through the forest to the city, or on my returning
homeward, that gave me more alarm than usual, as at
that time I had never seen any appearance there which
could terrify or annoy me. The Lord was ever with me
in those awful shades."
Thus speaking, he took his cap reverently from his
bald head, and continued to sit for a considerable time
in devout thought. He then covered himself again, and
went on with his relation :
" On this side the forest, alas! it was on this side, that
woe burst upon me. INIy wife came wildly to meet me.
clad in mourning apparel, and her eyes streaming with
tears, 'Gracious God!' I cried,
'
where's our child?
Speak!'
"'With Him on whom you have called, dear hus-
band,' she answered ; and we now entered the cottage
together, weejjing in silence. I looked for the little corpse,
almost fearing to find what I was seeking ; and then it
was I first learnt how all had happened.
" My wife had taken the little one in her arms, and
walked out to the shore of the lake. She there sat down
by its very brink ; and while she was playing with the
infant, as free from all fear as she was full of delight, it
bent forward on a sudden, as if seeing something very
beautiful in the water. My wife saw her laugh, the dear
angel, and try to catch the image in her tiny hands ; but in
a moment with a motion swifter than sight she sjjrang
from her mother's arms, and sank in the lake, the watery
glass into which she had been gazing. I searched for our
lost darling again and again ; but it was all in vain ; I
could nowhere find the least trace of her.
" The same evening we childless jmrents were sitting
together by our cottage hearth. We had no desire to
talk, even if our tears would have permitted us. As we
14 UNDINE.
tlius sat in niouniful stillness, gazing into the fire, all at
once we heard something without, a slight rustling at
the door. The door flew open, and we saw a little girl,
three or four years old, and moi'e beautiful than I can
say, standing on the threshold, richly dressed, and smiling
upon us. We were struck dumb with astonishment, and
I knew not for a time whether the tiny form were a real
human being, or a mere mockery of enchantment. But I
soon perceived ^^'ater dripping from her golden hair and
rich garments, and that the pretty child had been lying
in the water, and stood in immediate need of our help.
" ' Wife,' said I, 'no one has been able to save our
child for us ; but let us do for others what would have
made us so blessed could any one have done it for us.'
" We undressed the little thing, put her to bed, and
gave her something to drink : at all this she spoke not a
word, but only turned her eyes upon us eyes blue and
bright as sea or sky and continued looking at us with a
smile.
" Next morning we had no reason to fear that she had
received any other harm than her wetting, and I now
asked her about her parents, and how she could have come
to us. But the account she gave was both confused and
incredible. She must surely have been born far from here,
not only because I have been unable for these fifteen years
to learn any thing of her birth, but because she then said,
and at times continues to say, many things of so very
singular a nature, that we neither of us know, after all,
whether she may not have dropped among us from the
moon ; for her talk runs upon golden castles, crystal
domes, and Heaven knows what extravagances beside.
What, however, she related with most distinctness was
this : that while she was once taking a sail with her mother
on the great lake, she fell out of the boat into the water;
and that when she first recovered her senses, she was here
under our trees, where the gay scenes of the shore filled
her with delight.
L'NDINE. 13
" We now had another care weighing upon our minds,
and one that caused us no small perplexit}' and uneasiness.
We of course very soon determined to keep and bring up
the child we had found, in place of our own darling that
had been drowned ; but who could tell us whether she had
been baptised or not? She herself could give us no light
on the subject. When we asked her the question, she
commonly made answer, that she well knew she was cre-
ated for God's praise and glory, and that she was willing
to let us do Avith her all that might promote His glory
and praise.
" Mj' wife and I reasoned in this waj^ :
' If she has not
been baptised, there can be no use in putting oif the cere-
mony ; and if she has been, it still is better to have too
much of a good thing than too little.'
" Taking this view of our difficulty, we now endea-
voured to hit upon a good name for the child, since, while
she remained without one, we were often at a loss, in our
familiar talk, to know what to call her. We at length
agreed that Dorothea would be most suitable for her, as I
had somewhere heard it said that this name signified a
gift of God, and surely she had been sent to us by Provi-
dence as a gift, to comfort us in our misery. She, on the
contrary, would not so much as' hear Dorothea mentioned ;
she insisted, that as she had been named Undine by her
parents. Undine she ought still to be called. It now oc-
curred to me that this was a heathenish name, to be found
in no calendar, and I resolved to ask the advice of a priest
in the city. He would not listen to the name of Undine ;
and yielding to my urgent request, he came with me
through the enchanted forest, in order to perform the rite
of baptism here in my cottage.
"The little maid stood before us so prettily adorned,
and with such an air of gracefulness, that the heart of the
priest softened at once in her presence ; and she coaxed
him so sweetly, and jested with him so merrily, that he
16 UNDINE.
at last remembered notiiing of his many objections to the
name of Undine.
*'
Thus, then, was she baptised Undine ; and, during
the holy ceremony, she behaved with great projirietj'^ and
gentleness, wild and wayward as at other times she inva-
riably was ; for in this my wife was quite right, when she
mentioned the anxiety the child has occasioned us. If I
should relate to you"
At this moment the knight interrupted the fisherman,
to direct his attention to a deep sound as of a rushing
Hood, which had caught his ear during the talk of the old
man. And now the waters came pouring on with redoubled
fury before the cottage-windows. Both sprang to the door.
There they saw, by the light of the now risen moon, the
brook which issued from the wood rushing wildly over its
banks, and whirling onward with it both stones and branches
of trees in its rapid course. The storm, as if awakened by
the uproar, burst forth from the clouds, whose immense
masses of vapour coursed over the moon with the swiftness
of thought ; the lake roared beneath tlie wind that swept
the foam from its waves; while the trees of this narrow
peninsula groaned from I'oot to topmost branch as they
bowed and swung above the torrent.
"Undine! in God's name. Undine!" cried the two
men in an agony. No answer was returned. And now,
regardless of every thing else, they hurried from the cot-
tage, one in this direction, the other in that, searching
and calling.
CHAPTER II.
The longer Huldbrand sought Undine beneath the shades
of night, and failed to find her, the more anxious and
confused he became. The im])ression that she was a mere
UNDiKE. 17
pnantom of the forest gained a new ascendancy over him;
indeed, amid tlie howling of the waves and the tempest,
tlie crashing of the trees, and the entire change of the once
so peaceful and beautiful scene, he was tempted to view
the whole peninsula, together with the cottage and its in-
habitants, as little more than some mockery of his senses.
But still he heard afar off the fisherman's anxious and
incessant shouting, " Undine !" and also his aged wife,
who was praying and singing psalms.
At length, when he drew near to the brook, which had
overflowed its banks, he perceived, by the moonlight, that
it had taken its wild course directly in front of the haunted
forest, so as to change the peninsula into an island.
" Merciful God !" he breathed to himself, " if Undine
has ventured a step within that fearful Avood, what will
become of her? Perhaps it was all owing to her sportive
and wayward spirit, because I would give her no account
of my adventures there. And now the stream is rolling
between us, she may be Aveeping alone on the other side
in the midst of spectral horrors !"
A shuddering groan escaped him; and clambering over
some stones and trunks of overthrown pines, in order to
step into the impetuous current, he resolved, either by
wading or swimming, to seek the wanderer on the further
shore. He felt, it is true, all the dread and shrinking awe
creeping over him which he had already suffered by day-
light among the now tossing and roaring branches of the
forest. More than all, a tall man in white, whom he knew
but too well, met his view, as he stood grinning and nod-
ding on the grass beyond the water. But even monstrous
forms like this only impelled him to cross over toward
them, when the thought rushed upon him that Undine
might be there alone and in the agony of death.
He had already grasped a strong branch of a pine, and
stood supporting himself upon it in the whirling current,
against which he could with difficulty keep himself erect ;
but he advanced deeper in with a courageous sjiirit. That
.18 UNDINE.
instant a gentle voice of warning cried near him, " Do not
venture, do not venture ! that old man, the stream, is
too full of tricks to be trusted !" He knew the soft tones
of the voice ; and wliile he stood as it were entranced, be-
neath the shadows which had now duskily veiled the moon,
his head swam with the swell and rolling of the waves as
he saw them momentarily rising above his knee. Still he
disdained the thought of giving up his purpose.
" If you are not really there, if you are merely gambol-
ling round me like a mist, may I, too, bid farewell to life,
and become a shadow like you, dear, dear Undine !" Thus
calling aloud, he again moved deeper into the stream.
"Look round you ah, pray look round you, beautiful
young stranger! why rush on death so madly?" cried the
voice a second time close by him ; and looking on one
side, he perceived, by the light of the moon, again cloud-
less, a little island formed by the flood ; and crouching
ujion its flowery turf, beneath the branches of embowering
trees, he saw the smiling and lovely Undine.
O how mucii more gladly than before the young man
now plied his sturdy staff! A few steps, and he liad crossed
the flood that was rushing between himself and the maiden;
and he stood near her on the little spot of greensward in
security, protected by the old trees. Undine half rose ,
and she threw her arms around his neck to draw him
gently down upon the soft seat by her side.
" Here you shall tell me your story, my beautiful
friend," she breathed in a low whisper ;
" here the cross
old i)eoi)le cannot disturb us ; and, besides, our roof of
leaves here will make quite as good a shelter as their jjoor
cottage."
" It is heaven itself," cried Iluldbrand ; and folding
her in his arms, he kissed the lovely girl with fervour.
The old fisherman, meantime, had come to the margin
of the stream, and he sliouted across, "Why how is this,
sir knight I I received you with the welcome which one
true-hearted man gives to another ; and now you sit there
TJNDIN 10
caressing my foster-child in secret, while you suffer nie in
my anxiety to wander through the night in quest of her.'"
" Not till this moment did I iind her myself, old fa-
ther," cried the knight across the water.
" So much the bettei"," said the fisherman ;
" but now
make haste, and bring her over to me upon firm ground."
To this, however, Undine would by no means consent.
She declared, that she would rather enter the wild forest
itself with the beautiful stranger, than return to the cot-
tage, where she was so thwarted in her wishes, and from
which the knight would soon or late go away. Then
throwing her arms round Huldbrand, she sung the fol-
lowing verse with tne warbling sweetness of a bird :
" A Rill would leave its misty vale,
And fortunes wild explore ;
Weary at length it reached the main,
And sought its vale no more."
Tha old fisherman wept bitterly at her song ; but his
emotion seemed to awaken little or no sympathy in her.
She kissed and caressed her new friend, who at last said to
her :
" Undine, if the distress of the old man does not touch
your heart, it cannot but move mine. We ought to return
to him."
She opened her large blue eyes upon him in amaze-
ment, and spoke at last with a slow and doubtful accent :
" If you think so, it is well ; all is right to me which you
think right. But the old man over there must first give
me his promise that he will allow you, without objection,
to relate what you saw in the wood, and AVell, other
things will settle themselves."
"Come only come!" cried the fisherman to her,
unable to utter another word. At the same time he
stretched his arms wide over the current toward her, and
to give her assurance that he would do what she required,
nodded his head : this motion caused his white hair to fall
sirano'ely over his face, and Huldbrand could not but re-
20 UNDINE.
member the nodding white man of the forest. Without
allowing any thing, however, to produce in him the least
confusion, the young knight took the beautiful girl in his
arms, and bore her across the narrow channel which the
stream had torn away between her little island and tlie
solid shore. The old man fell upon Undine's neck, and
found it impossible either to express his joy or to kiss her
enough ; even the ancient dame came up and embraced
the recovered girl most cordially. Every word of censure
was carefully avoided ; the more so indeed as even Undine,
forgetting her waj^vardness, almost overwhelmed her fos-
ter-parents with caresses and the prattle of tenderness.
When at length the excess of their joy at recovering
their child had subsided, morning had already dawned,
shining upon the waters of the lake; the tempest had be-
come hushed ; the small birds sung merrily on the moist
branches.
As Undine now insisted upon hearing the recital of the
knight's promised adventures, the aged couple readily
agreed to her wish. Breakfast was brought out beneath
the trees which stood behind the cottage toward the lake
on the north, and they sat down to it with contented
hearts, Undine at the knight's feet, on the grass. These
arrangements being made, Huldbrand began his story in
the following manner :
" It is now about eight days since I rode into the free
imperial city, Avhich lies yonder on the farther side of the
forest. Soon after my arrival, a splendid tournament and
running at the ring took place there, and I spared neither
my horse nor my lance in the encounters.
" Once, while I was pausing at the lists to rest from
the brisk exercise, and was handing back my helmet to
one of my attendants, a female figure of extraordinary
beauty caught my attention, as, most magnificently attired,
she stood looking on at one of the balconies, I learned,
on making inquiry of a person near me, that the name of
the young lady was Bertalda, and that she was a foster-
UNDIXE. 21
daughter of one of the powerful dukes of this country.
She too, I observed, was gazing at me ; and the conse-
quences were such as we young knights are wont to expe-
rience ; whatever success in riding I might have had before,
I was now favoured with still better fortune. That evening
I was Bertalda's partner in the dance, and T enjoyed the
same distinction during the remainder of the festival."
A sharp pain in his left hand, as it hung carelessly be-
side him, here interrupted Huldbrand's relation, and drew
his eye to the part affected. Undine had fastened her
pearly teeth, and not without some keenness too, upon
one of his fingers, appearing at the same time verj'^ gloomy
and displeased. On a sudden, however, she looked up in
his eyes with an expression of tender melancholy, and
whisjiered almost inaudibly,
" It is all your own fault."
She then covered her face ; and the knight, strangely
embarrassed and thoughtful, went on with his story:
" This lady Bertalda of whom I spoke is of a proud
and wayward spirit. The second day I saw her she plea-
sed me by no means so much as she had the first, and the
third day still less. But I continued about her because she
shewed me more favour than she did any other knight:
and it so happened that I playfully asked her to give me
one of her gloves.
' When you have entered the haunted
forest all alone,' said she ;
' when you have explored its
wonders, and brought me a full account of them, the glove
is yours.' As to getting her glove, it was of no importance
to me whatever ; but the word had been spoken, and no
honourable knight would permit himself to be urged to
such a proof of valour a second time."
" I thought," said Undine, interrupting him, " that she
loved you."
'' It did appear so," replied Huldbrand.
" Well !" exclaimed the maiden, laughing,
" this is
beyond belief; she must be very stupid. To drive from
her one who was dear to her! And, worse than all, into
22 UNDINE.
that ill-omened wood The wood and its mysteries, for all
I should have cared, might have waited long enough."
" Yesterday morning, then," pursued the knight, smil-
ing kindly ui)on Undine, " I set out from the city, my
enterprise before me. The earlj'^ light lay rich upon the
verdant turf. It shone so rosy on the slender boles of the
trees, and there was so merry a whispering among the
leaves, that in my heart I could not but laugh at peo])Ie
who feared meeting any thing to terrify them in a spot so
delicious. *
I shall soon pass through the forest, and as
speedily return/ I said to myself in the overflow of joyous
feeling ; and ere I was well aware, I had entered deep
among the green shades ; while of the plain that lay behind
me, I was no longer able to catch a glimpse.
" Then the conviction for the first time impressed me,
that in a forest of so great extent I might very easily be-
come bewildered, and that this perhaps might be the only
danger which was likely to threaten those who explored
its recesses. So I made a halt, and turned myself in the
direction of the sun, which had meantime risen somewhat
higher ; and while I was looking up to observe
it,
I
saw
something black among the boughs of
a
lofty oak. My
first thought was,
'
It
is
a
bear
!'
and
I
grasped my weapon:
the object then accosted me from above in
a
human voice,
but in
a
tone most harsh and hideous
;
'
If
I
overhead here
do not gnaw off these dry branches, Sir Noodle, wliat shall
we have to roast you with, when midnight comes?' And
with that
it
grinned, and made such a rattling with the
branches, that my courser became mad with atlVight, and
rushed furiously forward with me, before
I
had time to see
distinctly what sort of
a
devil's beast
it
was."
" You must not speak so," said the old fisherman,
crossing himself; his wife did the same, without saying
a
word
;
and Undine, while her eye sparkled with delight,
looked at the knight, and said,
" The best of the sXory
is,
however, that as yet they liave not roasted you! Go on,
now, you beautiful knight!''
The knight then went on with his adventures: " My
horse was so wiki, that he well nigh rushed with me against
limbs and trunks of trees. He was dripping with sweat,
through terror, heat, and the violent straining ot'his muscles.
Still he refused to slacken his career. At last, altogether
beyond my control, he took his course directly up a stonj-
steep ; when suddenly a tall white man flashed before me,
and threw himself athwart the way my mad steed was
taking. At this apparition he shuddered with new affright,
and stopped trembling. I took this chance of recovering
my command of him, and now for the first time perceived
that my deliverer, so far from being a white man, was only
a brook of silver brightness, foaming near me in its descent
from the hill, while it crossed and arrested my horse's course
with its rush of waters."
"Thanks, thanks, dear Brook!" cried Undine, clap-
ping her little hands. But the old man shook his head,
and looked down in deep thought.
" Hardly had I well settled myself in my saddle, and
got the reins in my grasp again," Hiildbrand pursued,
" when a wizard-like dwarf of a man was already standing
at my side, diniinulive and ugly beyond concei>tion, his
complexion of a brownish yellow, and his nose scarcely
smaller than the rest of him together. The fellow's mouth
was slit almost from ear to ear ; and he shewed his teeth
with a grinning smile of idiot courtesy; while he over-
whelmed me with bows and scrapes innumerable. The
farce now becoming excessively irksome, I thanked him
in the fewest words I could well use, turned about my
still trembling charger, and purposed either to seek ano-
ther adventure, or, should I meet with none, to take my
way back to the city ; for the sun, during my wild chase,
had passed the meridian, and was now hastening toward
the west. But this villain of a dwarf sprang at the same
instant, and, with a turn as rapid as lightning, stood before
my horse again.
'
Clear the way there !' I cried fiercely ;
1>
24 UNDINE.
'
the beast is wild, and will make nothing of running over
you.'
' 'Ay, ay!' cried the imp with a snarl, and snorting
out a laugh still more frightfully idiotic ;
'
i)ay me, first
])ay what you owe me, I stopped your fine little nag for
you ; without my help, both you and he would be now
sprawling below there in that stony ravine. Hu! from
Avhat a horrible plunge I've saved you !'
" 'Well, don't make any more faces,' said I, ' but take
your money and be oiF, though every word you say is false.
It was the brook there, you miserable thing, and not you,
that saved me.' And at the same time 1 dropped a piece
of gold into his wizard cap, which he had taken from his
head while he was begging before me.
" I then trotted off and left him ; but he screamed after
me ; and on a sudden, with inconceivable quickness, he
was close by my side. I started my horse into a gallop.
He galloped on with me, though it seemed with great dif-
ficult j' ; and with a strange movement, half ludicrous and
half horrible, forcing at the same time every limb and fea-
ture into distortion, he held up the gold piece, and screamed
at every leap, 'Counterfeit! false! false coin 1 counterfeit!'
and such was the strange sound that issued from his hollow
breast, you would have supposed that at every scream he
must have tumbled upon the ground dead. All this while,
his disgusting red tongue huTig lolling from his mouth.
" I stopped, bewildered, and asked, ' What do you
mean by this screaming? Take another piece of gold,
take two, but leave me !'
"He then began again his hideous salutations of cour-
tesy, and snarled out as before, '
Not gold, it shall not be
gold, my young gentleman ; I have too much of that trash
already, as I will shew you in no time.'
"At that moment, and thought itself could not have
been more instantaneous, I seemed to have acquired new
powers of sight. I could see through tlie solid green plain,
as if it were green glass, and the smooth surface of the
earth were round as a globe ; and within it I saw crowds
of gobiius, who were pursuing their pastime and nnikiug
themselves merry with silver and gold. They were tum-
bling and rolling about, heads up and heads down ; they
pelted one another in sport with the precious metals, and
with irritating malice blew gold-dust in one another's eyes.
My odious companion ordered the others to reach him up
a vast quantity of gold ; this he shewed to me with a laugh,
and then Hung it again ringing and chinking down the
measureless abyss.
"After this contemptuous disregard of gold, he held up
the piece I had given him, shewing it to his brother goblins
below ; and they laughed immoderately at a coin so worth-
less, and hissed me. At last, raising their fingers all smutched
with ore, they pointed them at me in scorn ; and wilder
and wilder, and thicker and thicker, and madder and mad-
der, the crowd were clambering up to where I sat gazing
at these wonders. Then terror seized me, as it had before
seized my horse. I drove my spurs into his sides; and
how far he rushed with me through the forest, during this
second of wy wild heats, it is impossible to say.
"At last, when I had now come to a dead halt again,
the cool of evening was around me. I caught the gleam
of a white footpath through the branches of the trees; and
I^resuming it would lead me out of the forest toward tlie
city, I w as desirous of working my way into it. But a
face perfectly white and indistinct, with features ever
changing, kept thrusting itself out and peering at me
between the leaves. I tried to avoid it ; but, wherever I
went, there too appeared the unearthly face. I was mad-
dened with rage at this interruption, and determined to
drive my steed at the appearance full tilt; when such a
cloud of white foam came rushing upon me and my horse,
that we were almost blinded, and glad to turn about and
escape. Thus, from step to step, it forced us on, and ever
26 UNDIXE.
aside from the footpath, leaving us, for the most part, only
one direction open. When we advanced in this, it kept
following close behind us, j^et did not occasion the smallest
harm or inconvenience.
" When at times I looked about me at the form, I per-
ceived that the white face, which had splashed upon us its
shower of foam, avsis resting on a body equally white, and
of more than gigantic size. Many a time, too, I received
the impression that the whole appearance was nothing more
than a wandering stream or torrent; but respecting this I
could never attain to any certainty. W^e both of us, horse
and rider, became weary, as we shaped our course accord-
ing to the movements of the white man, who continued
nodding his head at us, as if he would say, 'Quite right!'
And thus, at length, we came out here, at the edge of the
wood, where I saw the fresh turf, the waters of the lake,
and your little cottage, and where the tall white man dis-
ajjpeared."
"Well, Heaven be praised that he is gone!" cried the
old fisherman ; and he now began to talk of how his guest
could most conveniently return to his friends in the city.
Upon this, Undine began laughing to herself, but so very
low, that the sound was hardly perceivable. Huldbrand
observing
it,
said,
"
I
thought you were glad to see me
liere
;
why, then, do you now appear so happy, when our
talk turns upon my going away?"
" Because you cannot go away," answered Undine.
" Pray make
a
single attempt
;
try with
a
boat, with your
horse, or alone, as you please, to cross that forest-stream
which has burst its bounds. Or rather, make no trial at
all
;
for you would be dashed to pieces by the stones and
trunks of trees which you see driven on with such violence.
And as to the lake,
I
know* that well; even my father
dares not venture out with his boat far enough to help
you."
Huldbrand rose, smiling, in order to look about and
UNDINE. 2.1
observe whether the state of things were such as Undine
had represented it to be. The old man accompanied him;
and the maiden went merrily dancing beside them. They
found all, in fact, just as Undine had said ; and that the
knight, whether willing or not willing, must submit to
remaining on the island, so lately a peninsula, until the
flood should subside.
When the three were now returning to the cottage after
their ramble, the knight whispered in the ear of the little
maiden, " Well, dear Undin«, are you angry at my re-
maining?"
" Ah," she pettishly replied,
" do not speak to me ! If
I had not bitten you, who knows what fine things you
would have put into your story about Bertalda ?"
CHAPTER III.
It may have happened to thee, my dear reader, after being
much driven to and fro in the world, to reach at length a
spot where all was well with thee. The love of home and
of its peaceful joys, innate to all, again sprang up in thy
heart ; thou thoughtest that thy home was decked with all
the flowers of childhood, and of that purest, deepest love
which had grown upon the graves of thy beloved, and
that here it was good to live and to build houses. Even if
thou didst err, and hast had bitterly to mourn thy error,
it is nothing to my purpose, and thou thyself wilt not like
to dwell on the sad recollection. But recall those unspeak-
ably sweet feelings, that angelic greeting of peace, and
thou wilt be able to understand what was the happiness of
the knight Huldbrand during his abode on that narrow
slip of land.
He frequently observed, with heartfelt satisfaction,
that the forest-stream continued every day to swell and
28 UNDINE.
roll on with a more impetuous sweep ; and this forced him
to prolong his stay on the island. Part of the day he
wandered about with an old cross-bow, which he found
in a corner of the cottage and had repaired, in order to
shoot the water-fowl that flew over; and all that he was
lucky enough to hit, he brought home for a good roast in
the kitchen. When he came in with his booty, Undine
seldom failed to greet him with a scolding, because he had
cruelly deprived the happy joyous little creatures of life as
they were sporting above in the blue ocean of the air ; nay
more, she often wept bitterly when she viewed the water-
fowl dead in his hand. But at other times, when he re-
turned without having shot any, she gave him a scolding
equally serious, since, owing to his carelessness and Avant
of skill, they must now put up with a dinner offish. Her
playful taunts ever touched his heart with delight; the
more so, as she generally strove to make up for her pre-
tended ill-humour with endearing caresses.
The old people saw with pleasure this familiarity of
Undine and Huldbrand : they looked upon them as be-
trothed, or even as married, and living with them in their
old age on their island, now torn off from the mainland.
The loneliness of his situation strongly im])ressed also the
young Huldbrand with the feeling that he was already
Undine's bridegroom. It seemed to him as
if,
beyond
those encompassing floods, there were no other world in
existence, or at any rate as
if
he could never cross them,
and again associate with the world of other men
;
and
when at times his grazing steed raised his head and neighed
to him, seemingly inquiring after his knightly achieve-
ments and reminding him of them, or when his coat-of-
arms slernly shone upon him from the embroidery of his
saddle 'ind the caparisons of his liorse, or when liis sword
happen -id to fall from the nail on whicli
it
was hanging in
the cottage, and flashed on his eye as
it
slipped from the
pcabljard in its fall, he quieted the doubts of his mind l)y
&;iying to himself: " Undine cannot be
a
fisherman's daugh-
UNDINE. 29
ter; she
is,
in all probability,
a
native of some remote
region, and
a
member of some illustrious family."
There was one thing, indeed, to which he had
a
strong
aversion
:
this was, to hear the old dame reproving
Undine. The wild girl,
it
is
true, commonly laughed at
the reproof, making no attempt to conceal the extrava-
gance of her mirth
;
but
it
appeared to him like touching
his own honour; and still he found
it
impossible to blame
the aged wife of the fisherman, since Undine always de-
served at least ten times as many reproofs as she re-
ceived
:
so he continued to feel in his heart an affectionate
tenderness for the ancient mistress of the house, and his
whole life flowed on in the calm stream of contentment.
There came, however, an interruption at last. The
fisherman and the knight had been accustomed at dinner,
and also in the evening when the wind roared without, as
it
rarely failed to do towards night, to enjoy together
a
flask of wine. But now their whole stock, which the fisher-
man had from time to time brought with him from the
city, was at last exhausted, and they were both quite out
of humour at the circumstance. That day Undine laughed
at them excessively, but they were not disposed to join in
her jests with the same gaiety as usual. Toward evening
she went out of the cottage, to escape, as she said, the
sight of two such long and tiresome faces.
While
it
was yet twilight, some appearances of
a
tem-
pest seemed to be again mustering in the sky, and the
waves already heaved and roared around them
:
the knight
and the fisherman sprang to the door in terror, to bring
home the maiden, remembering the anguish of that night
when Huldbrand had first entered the cottage. But Undine
met them at the same moment, clapping her little hands
in high glee.
" What will you give me," she cried, " to provide you
with wine? or rather, you need not give me any thing,"
she continued
;
" for
I
am already satisfied,
if
you look
more cheerful, and are in better spirits, than throughout
30 UNniNE.
tliis last most wearisome day. Only come with me ; the
forest-stream has driven ashore a cask ; and I will be
pnndenined to sleep through a whole week, if it is not a
wine-cask."
The men followed her, and actually found, in a bushy
cove of the shore, a cask, which inspired them with as
much joy as if they Avere sure it contained the generous
old wine for which they were thirsting. They first of all,
and with as much expedition as possible, rolled it toward
the cottage ; for heavy clouds were again rising in the
west, and they could discern the waves of the lake in the
fading light lifting their white foaming heads, as if look-
ing out for the rain, which threatened every instant to
pour upon them. Undine helped the men as much as
she was able ; and as the shower, with a roar of wind,
came suddenly sweeping on in rapid pursuit, she raised
her finger with a merry menace toward the dark mass of
clouds, and cried :
"You cloud, you cloud, have a care! beware how
you wet us ; we are some way from shelter yet."
The old man reproved her for this sally, as a sinful
presumption ; but she laughed to herself softly, and no
mischief came from her wild behaviour. Nay more, what
was beyond their expectation, they reached their comfort-
able hearth unwet, with their prize secured ; but the cask
had hardly been broached, and proved to contain wine of
a remarkably fine flavour, when the rain first poured unre-
strained from the black cloud, the tempest raved through
the tops of the trees, and swejjt far over the billows of the
deep.
Having immediately filled several bottles from the
cask, which promised them a supply for a long time, they
drew round the glowing hearth ; and, comfortably secured
from the tempest, they sat tasting the flavour of their
wine and bandying jests.
But the old fisherman suddenly became extremely
grave, and said :
" Ah, great God ! here we sit, rejoicing
UNDINE. 31
over this rich gift, while he to whom it first belonged, and
from whom it was wrested by the fury of the stream, must
tliere also, it is more than probable, have lost his life."
" No such thing," said Undine, smiling, as she filled
the knight's cup to the brim.
But he exclaimed :
" By my unsullied honour, old father,
if I knew where to find and rescue him, no fear of expo-
sure to the night, nor any peril, should deter me from
making the attempt. At least, I can promise you that if
I again reach an inhabited country, I will find out the
owner of tliis wine or his heirs, and make double and
triple reimbursement."
The old man was gratified with this assurance ; he gave
the knight a nod of approbation, and now drained his cup
with an easier conscience and more relish.
Undine, however, said to Huldbrand :
" As to the re-
payment and your gold, you may do whatever you like.
But what you said about your venturing out, and search-
ing, and exposing yourself to danger, appears to me far
from wise. I should cry my very eyes out, should you
perish in such a wild attempt ; and is it not true that you
would prefer staying here with me and the good wine?"
" Most assuredly," answered Huldbrand, smiling.
" Then, you see," replied Undine, " you spoke un-
wisely. For charity begins at home; and why need we
trouble ourselves about our neighbours ?"
The mistress of the house turned away from her, sigh-
ing and shaking her head ; while the fisherman forgot his
wonted indulgence toward the graceful maiden, and thus
rebuked her :
" That sounds exactly as if you had been brought up
by heathens and Turks;" and he finished his reproof by
adding, " May God forgive both me and you, unfeeling
child !"
" Well, say what you will, that is what / think and
feel," replied Undine, " Avhoever brought me up ; and all
your talking cannot help it."
32 UNDINE.
" Silence !" exclaimed the fisherman, in a voice of stern
rebuke ; and she, who with all her wild spirit was ex-
tremely alive to fear, shrunk from him, moved close up to
Huldbrand, trembling, and said very softly :
" Are you also angry, dear friend ?"
The knight pressed her soft hand, and tenderlj'^ stroked
her locks. He was unable to utter a word, for his vexa-
tion, arising from the old man's severity toward Undine,
closed his lips ; and thus the two couple sat opposite to
each other, at once heated with anger and in embarrassed
silence.
In the midst of this stillness a low knocking at the
door startled them all ; for there are times when a slight
circumstance, coming unexpectedly upon us, startles us
like something supernatural. But there was the further
source of alarm, that the enchanted forest lay so near them,
and that their place of abode seemed at present inacces-
sible to any human being. While they were looking upon
one another in doubt, the knocking was again heard, ac-
companied with a deep groan. The knight sprang to seize
his sword. But the old man said, in a low whisper :
*' If it be what I fear it
is,
no weapon of yours can
protect us."
Undine in the mean while went to the door, and cried
with the firm voice of fearless displeasure;
" Spirits of the
earth!
if
mischief be your aini, Kiihleborn shall teach you
better manners."
The terror of the rest was increased by this wild speech
;
they looked fearfully upon the girl, and Huldbrand was
just recovering presence of mind enough to ask what she
meant, when
a
voice reached them from without:
"
I
am no spirit of the earth, though
a
spirit still in its
earthly body. You tiiat are within the cottage there,
if
you fear God and would afford me assistance, open your
door to me."
By the time these words were spoken, Undine had
already opened
it
;
and the lamp throwing
a
strong light
UNDINE. 33
upon tbe stormy night, they perceived an aged priest
without, who stepped back in terror, when his eye fell
on the unexpected sight of a little damsel of such exqui-
site beauty. Well might he think there must be magic
in the wind, and witchcraft at work, when a form of such
surpassing loveliness ajipeared at the door of so humble a
dwelling. So he lifted up his voice in })rayer:
" Let all good spirits praise the Lord God I"
" I am no spectre," said Undine, with a smile. " Do
I look so very frightful ? And you see that I do not shrink
from holy words. I too have knowledge of God, and un-
derstand the duty of praising bim ; every one, to be sure,
has his own way of doing this, for so He has created us.
Come in, father ; you will find none but worthy people
here."
The holy man came bowing in, and cast round a glance
of scrutiny, wearing at the same time a very placid and
venerable air. But water was dropping from every fold
of his dark garments, from his long white beard and the
white locks of his hair. The fisherman and the knight
took him to another apartment, and furnished him with a
change of raiment, while they gave his own clothes to the
women to dry. The aged stranger thanked them in a
manner the most humble and courteous ; but on the knight's
offering him his splendid cloak to wrap round him, he
could not be persuaded to take
it,
but chose instead an old
grey coat that belonged to the fisherman.
They then returned to the common apartment. The
mistress of the house immediately offered her great chair
to the priest, and continued urL,ing
it
ujjon him till she
saw him fairly in possession of it. " You are old and ex-
hausted," said she,
" and are, moreover,
a
man of God."
Undine shoved under the stranger's feet her little stool,
on which at all other times she used to sit near to Huld-
brand, and shewed herself most gentle and amiable towards
;he old man. Huldbrand whispered some raillery in her
ear, but she replied gravely
;
34 UNDIXE.
" He is a minister of that Being who created us all ; and
holy things are not to be treated with lightness."
The knight and the fisherman now refreshed the priest
with food and wine ; and when he had somewhat recovered
his strength and spirits, he began to relate how he had the
day before set out from hia cloister, which was situated far
off beyond the great lake, in order to visit the bishop, and
acquaint him with the distress into which the cloister and
its tributary villages had fallen, owing to the extraordinary
floods. After a long and wearisome wandering, on account
of the rise of the waters, he had been this day compelled
toward evening to procure the aid of a couple of boatmen,
and cross over an arm of the lake which had burst its usual
V»oundary.
" But hardly," continued he,
" had our small ferry-
boat touched the waves, when that furious tempest burst
forth which is still raging over our heads. It seemed as if
the billows had been waiting our approach only to rush on
us with a madness the more wild. The oars were wrested
from the grasp of my men in an instant ; and shivered by
the resistless force, they drove farther and farther out be-
fore us upon the waves. Unable to direct our course, we
yielded to the blind power of nature, and seemed to fly over
the surges toward your distant shore, which we already
saw looming through the mist and foam of the deep. Then
it was at last that our boat turned short from its course,
and rocked with a motion that became more and more
wild and dizzy : I know not whether it was overset, or the
violence of the motion threw me overboard. In my agony
and struggle at the thought of a near and terrible death,
the waves bore me onward, till I was cast ashore here
beneath the trees of your island."
" Yes, an island !" cried the fisherman ;
" a short time
ago it was only a point of land. But now, since the forest-
stream and lake have become all but mad, it appears to be
entirely changed,"
" I observed something of it," replied the priest,
" as I
VNDINE. 35
stole along the shore in the obscuritj' ; and hearing nothing
around me but a sort of wild uproar, I perceived at last
that the noise came from a point, exactly where a beaten
footpath disappeared. I now caught the light in your
cottage, and ventured hither, where I cannot sufficiently
thank my heavenly Father, that, after preserving me from
the waters, He has also conducted me to such pious people
as you are ; and the more so, as it is difficult to say whether
I shall ever behold any other persons in this world except
you four."
"What mean you by those words?" asked the fisher-
man.
"Can you tell me, then, how long this commotion ot
the elements will last ?" replied the priest.
" I am old ;
the stream of my life may easily sink into the ground and
vanish, before the overflowing of that forest-stream shall
subside. And, indeed, it is not impossible that more and
more of the foaming waters may rush in between you and
yonder forest, until you are so far removed from the rest
of the world, that your small fishing-canoe may be inca-
pable of passing over, and the inhabitants of the continent
entirely forget you in your olr Age amid the dissipation
and diversions of life."
At this melancholy foreboding the old lady shrank back
with a feeling of alarm, crossed herself, and cried, " God
forbid !"
But the fisherman looked upon her with a smile, and
said, " What a strange being is man ! Suppose the worst
to happen : our state would not be different, at any rate
your own would not, dear wife, from what it is at present.
For have you, these many years, been farther from home
than the border of the forest ? And have you seen a single
human being beside Undine and mj'self ? It is now only
a short time since the coming of the knight and the priest.
They will remain with us, even if we do become a forgotten
island; so, after all, you will be a gainer."
36 UNUINE.
''1 know not," replied the ancient dame; "it is a
dismal thought, when bi'ought fairlj' home to the mind,
that we are for ever separated from mankind, even though
ill fact we never do know nor see them."
" Then you will remain with us then you will remain
with us !" whispered Undine, in a voice scarcely audible
and half-singing, while she nestled closer to Huldbrand's
side. But he was immersed in the deep and strange mu-
sings of his own mind. The region, on the farther side of
the forest-river, seemed, since the last words of the priest,
to have been withdrawing farther and farther, in dim per-
spective, from his view ; and the blooming island on which
he lived grew green and smiled more freshly in his fancy.
His bride glowed like the fairest rose, not of this obscure
nook only, but even of the whole wide world; and the
priest was now present.
Added to which, the mistress of the family was direct-
ing an angry glance at Undine, because, even in the pre-
sence of the priest, she leant so fondly on the knight ; and
it seemed as if she was on the point of breaking out in
harsh reproof. Then burst forth from the mouth of Huld-
brand, as he turned to the priest,
" Father, you here see
before you an afSauced pair ; and if this maiden and these
good old people have no objection, you shall unite us this
very evening."
The aged couple were both exceedingly surprised. They
had often, it is true, thought of this, but as yet they had
never mentioned it ; and now when the knight spoke, i
came upon them like something wholly new and unex-
pected. Undine became suddenly grave, and looked down
thoughtfully, while the priest made inquiries resjjecting
the circumstances of their acquaintance, and asked tlie old
people whether they gave their consent to the union. After
a great number of (juestions and answers, the affair was
arranged to the satisfaction of all ; and the mistress of the
house went to pre^iare the bridal apartment for the young
UNDINE. 37
couple, and also, with a view to grace the nuptial solemnity,
to seek for two consecrated tapers, which she had for a
long time kept by her, for this occasion.
The knight in the mean while busied himself about his
golden chain, for the purpose of disengaging two of its
links, that he might make an exchange of rings with his
bride. But when she saw his object, she started from her
trance of musing, and exclaimed,
" Not so ! my parents by no means sent me into the
world so perfectly destitute ; on the contrary, they fore-
saw, even at that early period, that such a night as this
would come."
Thus speaking, she went out of the room, and a moment
after returned with two costly rings, of which she gave one
to lier bridegroom, and kept the other for herself. The old
fisherman was beyond measure astonished at this ; and his
wife, who was just re-entering the room, was even more
surprised than he, that neither of them had ever seen these
jewels in the child's j)Ossession.
*'
My parents," said Undine, "sewed these trinkets to
that beautiful raiment which I wore the very day I came
to you. They also charged me on no account whatever to
mention them to any one before my wedding evening. At
the time of my coming, therefore, I took them off in secret,
and have kept them concealed to the jjreseut hour."
The priest now cut short all further questioning and
wondering, while he lighted the consecrated tapers, placed
them on a table, and ordered the bridal ])air to stand op-
posite to him. He then pronounced the few solemn words
of the ceremony, and made them one. The elder couple
gave the younger their blessing; and the bride, gently
trembling and thoughtful, leaned upon the knight.
The priest then spoke out :
" You are strange people,
after all ; for why did you tell me that you were the only
inhabitants of the island ? So far is this from being true,
I have seen, the whole time I was performing the cere-
mony, a tall, stately man, in a white mantle, standing
38 UNDINE.
opposite to me, looking in at the window. He mupt he
still waiting before the door, if peradventure you would
invite him to come in,"
" God forbid !" cried the old lady, shrinking back ;
the fisherman shook his head, without opening his lips ;
and Huldbrand sprang to the window. It seemed to Jiim
that he could still discern a white streak, which soon dis-
appeared in the gloom. He convinced the priest that he
must have been mistaken in his impression ; and they all
sat down together round a bright and comfortable hearth.
CHAPTER IV.
Before the nuptial ceremony, and during its perform-
ance, Undine had shewn a modest gentleness and maid-
enly reserve ; but it now seemed as if all the wayAvard
freaks that effervesced within her burst forth with an ex-
travagance only the more bold and unrestrained. She
teased her bridegroom, her foster-parents, and even the
priest, whom she had just now revered so highly, w'ith all
sorts of childish tricks; but when the ancient dame was
about to reprove her too frolicsome spirit, the knight, in
a few words, imposed silence upon her by speaking of
Undine as his wife.
The knight was himself, indeed, just as little pleased
with Undine's childish behaviour as the rest ; but all his
looks and half-reproachful words were to no purpose. It
is true, whenever the bride observed the dissatisfaction of
her husband, and this occasionally happened, she be-
came more quiet, placed herself beside him, stroked his
face with caressing fondness, whispered something smil-
ingly in his ear, and in this manner smoothed the wrinkles
that were gathering on his brow. liut the moment after,
some wild whim would make her resume her antic move-
ments ; and all went worse than before.
UNDINE. 39
The priest then spoke in a kind although serious tone :
" My fair young maiden, surely no one can look on you
without pleasure; but remember betimes so to attune your
soul, that it ma.y produce a harmony ever in accordance
with the soul of j'our wedded bridegroom."
"Soul!" cried Undine, with a laugh. "What you
say has a remarkably pretty sound ; and for most people,
too, it may be a very instructive and profitable caution.
But when a person has no soul at all, how, I pray you,
can such attuning be then possible? And this, in truth,
is just my condition."
The priest was much hurt, but continued silent in holy
displeasure, and turned away his face from the maiden in
sorrow. She, however, went up to him with the most
winning sweetness, and said :
" Nay, I entreat you, first listen to me, before you are
angry with me; for your anger is painful to me, and you
ought not to give pain to a creature that has not hurt you.
Only have pjitience with me, and I will explain to you
every word of what I meant." -
It was evident that she had come to say something im-
portant ; when she suddenly faltered, as if seized with an
inward shuddering, and burst into a passion of tears. They
were none of them able to understand the intenseness of
her feelings ; and, with mingled emotions of fear and anx-
ietj^, they gazed on her in silence. Then wiping away her
tears, and looking earnestly at the priest, she at last said :
" There must be something lovely, but at the same
time something most awful, about a soul. In the name
of God, holy man, were it not better that we never shared
a gift so mysterious?"
Again she paused, and restrained her tears, as if wait-
ing for an answer. All in the cottage had risen from their
seats, and stepped back from her with horror. She, how-
ever, seemed to have eyes for no one but the holy man ;
an awful curiosity was painted on her features, which ap-
peared terrible to the others.
40 UNDINE.
" Heavily must the soul weigh dowTi its possessor," she
pursued, when no one returned her any answer " very
heavily! for already its approaching image overshadows
me with anguish and mourning. And, alas, I have till
now been so merry and light-hearted !" And sLe burst
into another flood of tears, and covered her face with her
veil.
The priest, going up to her with a solemn look, now
addressed himself to her, and conjured her by the name
of God most holy, if any spirit of evil possessed her, to re-
move the light covering from her face. But she sank before
him on her knees, and repeated after him every sacred ex-
pression he uttered, giving praise to God, and protesting
" that she wished well to the whole world."
The priest then spoke to the kniglit: " Sir bridegroom,
I leave you alone Avith her whom I have united to you in
marriage. So far as I can discover, there is nothing of
evil in her, but assuredly much that is wonderful. AVhat
I recommend to you is prudence, love, and fidelity."
Thus speaking, he left the apartment ; and the fisher-
man, with his wife, followed him, crossing themselves.
Undine had sunk upon her knees. She uncovered her
face, and exclaimed, while she looked fearfully round upon
Huldbrand, "Alas! you will now refuse to look upon me
as your own ; and still I have done nothing evil, poor un-
happy child that I am !" She spoke these words with a
look so infinitely sweet and touching, that her bridegroom
forgot both the confession that had shocked and the mys-
tery that had perplexed him ; and hastening to her, he
raised her in his arms. She smiled through her tears ; and
that smile was like the morning light playing upon a small
stream. "You cannot desert me!" she whispered, con-
fidingly, and stroked the knight's cheeks with her little
soft hands. He turned away from the frightful thoughts
that still lurked in the recesses of his soul, anti were per-
suading him that he had been married to a fairy, or some
spiteful and mischievous being of the si)irit-world. Only
xtjVdixe. 41
this sin2:le question, and that ahiiost ur)a',\ ares, escaped
from his lips :
*'
Dearest Undine, tell lue this one thing : what was it
you meant by 'spirits of earth' and 'KUhleborii,' when the
priest stood knocking at the door?"
"Tales! mere tales of children!" answered Undine,
laughing, now quite restored to her wonted gaiety.
" I
first friirhtened you with them, and you frightened me.
This is tlie end of the storj^ and of our nuptial evening."
" Nay, not so," replied the enamoured knight, extin-
guishing the tapers, and a thousand times kissing his
beautiful and beloved bride ; while, lighted by the moon
that shone brightly through the windows, he bore her into
their bridal apartment.
The fresh light of morning a\voke the young married
pair; but Huldbrand lay lost in silent reflection. Whenever
during the night he had fallen asleep, strange and horrible
dreams of specti'es Imd disturbed him ; and these shapes,
grinning at him by stealth, strove to disguise themselves
as beautiful females ; and from beautiful females they all
at once assumed the appearance of dragons. And when
be started up, aroused by the intrusion of these hideous
forms, the moonlight shone pale and cold before the win-
dows without. He looked affrighted at Undine, in whose
arms he had fallen asleep ; and she was reposing in un-
altered beauty and sweetness beside him. Then pressing
her rosy lips with a light kiss, he again fell into a slumber,
only to be awakened by new terrors.
When fully awake, he had thought over this connexion.
He reproached himself for any doubt that could lead him
into error in regard to his lovely wife. He also confessed
to her his injustice ; but she only gave him her fair hand,
sighed deeply, and remained silent. Yet a glance offer-
vent tenderness, an expression of the soul beaming in her
ej'es, such as he had never witnessed there before, left
him in undoubting assurance that Undine bore him no
ill-will.
42 UNDINE.
He then rose joyfully, and, leaA'ing her, went to the
common apartment, where the inmates of the house had
already met. The three were sitting round the hearth
with an air of anxiety about them, as if they feared trust-
ing themselves to raise their voice above a low, apprehen-
sive undertone. The priest appeared to be praying in his
inmost spirit, with a view to avert some fatal calamity.
But when they observed the young husband come forth
so cheerful, they dispelled the cloud that remained upon
their brows: the old fisherman even began to laugh with
the knight, till his aged wife herself could not help smil-
ing with great good-humour.
Undine had in the mean time got ready, and now en-
tered the room ; all rose to meet her, but remained fixed
in perfect admiration she was so changed, and yet the
same. The priest, with paternal affection beaming from
his countenance, first went up to her ; and as he raised his
hand to pronounce a blessing, the beautiful bride sank on
her knees before him with religious awe ; she begged his
pardon in terms both respectful and submissive for any
foolish things she might have uttered the evening before,
and entreated him with emotion to pray for the welfare of
her sold. She then rose, kissed her foster-parents, and,
after thanking them for all the kindness they had shewn
her, said :
" O, I now feel in my inmost heart how much, how
infinitely much, you have done for me, you dear, dear
friends of my childhood !"
At first she was wholly unable to tear herself away
from their affectionate caresses ; but the moment she saw
the good old mother busy in getting breakfast, she went
to the hearth, applied herself to cooking the food and put-
ting it on the table, and would not suffer her to take the
least share in the work.
She continued in this frame of spirit the whole day:
calm, kind, attentive half niatroT'ly and half girlish. The
three who had been longest acquainted with her expected
IJM)1XE. 43
every instant to see her capricious spirit break out in some
whimsical change or sportive vagary. But their fears
were quite unnecessary. Undine continued as mild and
gentle as an angel. The priest found it all but impos-
sible to remove his eyes from her ; and he often said to
the bridegroom :
" The bounty of Heaven, sir, through me its unworthy
instrument, entrusted to you yesterday an invaluable trea-
sure ; cherish it as you ought, and it will promote your
temporal and eternal welfare."
Toward evening Undine was hanging upon the knight's
arm with lowly tenderness, while she drew him gently
out bafore the door, where the setting sun shone richly
over the fresh grass, and upon the high, slender boles of
the trees. Her emotion was visible: the dew of sadness
and love swam in her eyes, while a tender and fearful
secret seemed to hover upon her lips, but was only made
known by hardly breathed sighs. She led her husband
farther and farther onv.ard without speaking. When he
asked her questions, she replied only with looks, in which,
it is true, there appeared to be no immediate answer to
his inquiries, but a whole heaven of love and timid
devotion. Thus they reached the margin of the swollen
forest-stream, and the knight was astonished to see it glid-
ing away with so gentle a murmuring of its waves, that
no vestige of its former swell and wildness was now dis-
cernible.
" By morning it will be vholly drained off," said the
beautiful wife, almost weeping, " and you will then be
able to travel, without any thing to hinder you, witherso-
ever you will."
" Not without you, dear Undine,'" replied the knight,
laughing ;
" think, only, were I disposed to leave you,
both the church and the spiritual powers, the emj^eror
and the laws of the realm, would require the fugitive to
be seized and restored to you."
" All this depends on you all depends on you," whis-
44 rNDINE.
peretl ln's little companion, half weeping and half smiling.
" But I still feel sure that you will not leave me ; I love
you too deeply to fear that misery. Now bear me over
to that little island which lies before us. There shall the
iecision be made. I could easily, indeed, glide through
that mere rippling of the water without your aid, but it
is so sweet to lie in your arms ; and should you determine
to put me away, I shall have rested in them once more,
.... for the last time."
Huldbrand was so full of strange anxiety and emotion,
that he knew not what answer to make her. He took
her in his arms and carried her over, now first realising
the fact, that this was the same little island from which he
had borne her back to the old fisherman, the first night of
his arrival. On the farther side, he placed her upon the
soft grass, and was throwing himself lovingly near his
beautiful burden ; but she said to him, " Not here, but
opposite me. I shall read my doom in j'our eyes, even
before your lips pronounce it : now listen attentively to
what I shall relate to you." And slie began :
" You must know, my own love, that there are beings
in the elements which bear the strongest resemblance to
the human race, and which, at the same time, but seldom
become visible to j'^ou. The wonderful salamanders sparkle
and sport amid the flames; deep in the earth the meagre
and mulicious gnomes pursue their revels ; the forest-
spirits belong to the air, and wander in the woods ; while
in the seas, rivers, and streams, live the wide-spread race
of water-spirits. These last, beneath resounding domes of
crystal, through which the sky can shine with its sun and
stars, inhabit a region of light and beauty ; lofty coral-
trees glow with blue and crimson fruits in their gardens;
they walk over the pure sand of the sea, among exrjuisitely
variegated shells, and amid whatever of beauty the old
«orld possessed, such as the present is no more worthy to
enjoy creations which the floods covered with their secret
veils of silver ; and now these noble monuments sparkle
UNDINK. 45
below, stately and solemn, and bedewed by the water,
which loves them, and calls forth from their crevices deli-
cate moss-flowers and enwreathing tufts of sedge.
" Now the nation that dwell there are very fair and
lovely to behold, for the most part more beautiful than
human beings. Many a fisherman has been so fortunate
as to catch a view of a delicate maiden of the waters, while
she was floating and singing upon the deep. He would
then spread far the fame of her beauty ; and to such won-
derful females men are wont to give the name of Undines.
But what need of saying more? You, my dear husband,
now actually behold an Undine before you."
The knight would have persuaded himself that his
lovely wife v/as under the influence of one of her odd
whims, and that she was only amusing herself and him
with her extravagant inventions. He wished it might be
so. But with whatever emphasis he said this to himself,
he still could not credit the hope for a moment : a strange
shivering shot through his soul ; unable to utter a word,
he gazed upon the sweet speaker with a fixed eye. She
shook her head in distress, sighed from her full heart, and
then proceeded in the following manner :
" We should be far superior to you, who are another
race of the human family, for we also call ourselves hu-
man beings, as we resemble them in form and features,
had we not one evil peculiar to ourselves. Both we and
the beings I have mentioned as inhabiting the other ele-
ments, vanish into air at death and go out of existence,
spirit and bodj', so that no vestige of us remains ; and when
you hereafter awake to a purer state of being, we shall
remain where sand, and sparks, and wind, and waves
remain. Thus w^e have no souls ; the element moves us,
and, again, is obedient to our will, while we live, though
it scatters us like dust w^ben we die ; and as we have no-
thing to trouble us, we are as merry as nightingales, little
gold-fishes, and other pretty children of nature.
'*
But all beings asjjire to rise in the scale of existence
46 UNDINE.
higher tliau they are. It was therefore the wish of my
father, who is a powerful water-prince in the Mediterra-
nean Sea, that his only daughter should become possessed
of a soul, although she should have to endure many of the
sufferings of those who share that gift.
" Now the race to which I belong have no other means
of obtaining a soul than by forming with an individual of
your own the most intimate union of love. I am now
possessed of a soul, and my soul thanks you, my best
beloved, and never shall cease to thank you, if you do
not render my whole future life miserable. For what will
become of me, if you avoid and reject me? Still I would
not keep you as my own by artifice. And should you
decide to cast me off, then do it now, and return alone to
the shore. I will jilunge into this brook, where my uncle
will receive me ; my uncle, who here in the forest, far
removed from his other friends, passes his strange and
solitary existence. But he is powerful, as well as revered
and beloved by many great rivers ; and as he brought me
hither to the fisherman a light-hearted and laughing child,
he will take me home to my parents a woman, gifted with
a soul, with power to love and to suffer."
She was about to add something more, when Huld-
brand, with the most heartfelt tenderness and love, clasped
her in his arms, and again bore her buck to the shore.
There, amid tears and kisses, he first swore never to for-
sake his aflPectionate wife, and esteemed himself even more
happy than Pygmalion, for whom Venus gave life to his
beautiful statue, and thus changed it into a beloved wife.
Supported by his arm, and in the confidence of affection,
Undine returned to the cottage; and now she first realised
with her whole heart how little cause she had for regretting
what she had left the crystal palaces of her mysterious
father.
I
47
CHAPTER V.
Next morning, when Hiildbrand awoke from slumber,
and jierceived that his beautiful wife was not by his side,
he began to give way again to his wild imaginations, that
his marriage, and even the lovely Undine herself, were only
shadows without substance only mere illusions of en-
chantment. But she entered the door at the same mo-
ment, kissed him, seated herself on the bed by his side,
and said :
*' I have been out somewhat early this morning, to see
whether my uncle keeps his word. He has already re-
stored the waters of the flood to his own calm channel, and
he now flows through the forest a rivulet as before, in a
lonely and dreamlike current. His friends, too, both of
the water and the air, have resumed their usual peaceful
tenour ; all will again proceed with order and tranquillity j
and you can travel homeward, without fear of the flood,
whenever you choose."
It seemed to the mind of Huldbrand that he must be in
some waking dream, so little was he able to understand
the nature of his wife's strange relative. Notwithstanding
this, he made no remark upon what she had told him, and
her surpassing loveliness soon lulled every misgiving and
discomfort to rest.
Some time afterward, while he was standing with her
before the door, and surveying the verdant point of land,
with its boundary of bright waters, such a feeling of bliss
came over him in this cradle of his love, that he ex-
claimed :
"Shall we, then, so early as to-day begin our journey?
Why should we? It is probable that abroad in the world
we shall find no days more delightful than those we have
spent in this green isle so secret and so secure. Let us yet
see the sun go down here two or three times more."
48 UXDIXE,
" Just as my lord wills," replied Undine meekly.
" Only we must remember, that my foster-parents will, at
all events, see me depart with pain ; and should they now,
for the first time, discover the true soul in me, and how
fervently I can now love and honour them, their feeble
eyes would surely become blind witli weeping. As yet
they consider my present quietness and gentleness as of no
better promise than they were formerly, like the calm of
the lake just while the air remains tranquil, and they
will learn soon to cherish a little tree or flower as they
have cherished me. Let me not, then, make known to
them this newly bestowed, this loving heart, at the very
moment they must lose it for this world ; and how could
I conceal what I have gained, if we continued longer toge-
ther?"
Huldbrand yielded to her representation, and went to
the aged couple to confer with them respecting his jour-
ney, on which he proposed to set out that very hour. The
priest offered himself as a comjianion to the young married
pair; and, after taking a short farewell, he held the bridle,
while the knight lifted his beautiful wife upon his horse;
and with rapid step they crossed the dry channel with her
toward the forest. Undine wept in silent but intense
emotion ; the old people, as she moved away, were more
clamorous in the expression of their grief. Tliey appeared
to feel, at tlie moment of separation, all that they were
losing in their affectionate foster-daughter.
Tlie three travellers had reached the thickest shades of
the forest Avithout interchanging a word. It must have
been a foir sight, in that hall of leafy verdure, to see this
lovely woman's form sitting on the noble and richly orna-
mented steed, on her right hand the venerable priest in
the Avhite garb of his order, on her left the blooming young-
knight, clad in splendid raiment of scarlet, gold, and vio-
let, girt with a sword that flashed in the sun, and atten-
tively walking beside hor. Huldbrand had no eyes but
fur his wife ; Undine, who had dried her tears of tender-
UNDINE, 49
ness, had no eyes but for him ; and they soon entered into
tiie still and voiceless converse of looks and gestures, from
which, after some time, they were awakened by the low
discourse which the priest was holding with a fourth tra-
veller, who bad meanwhile joined them unobserved.
He wore a white gown, resembling in form the dress
of the priests' order, except that his hood hung very low
over his face, and that the %vhole drapery floated in such
wide folds around him as obliged him every moment to
gather it up and throw it over his arm, or by some ma-
nagement of this sort to get it out of his way, and still it
did not seem in the least to impede his movements. When
the young couple became aware of his presence, he svas
saying :
" And so, venerable sir, many as have been the years
f have dwelt here in this forest, I have never received the
name of hermit in your sense of the word. For, as I said
before, I know nothing of penance, and I think, too, that
I have no particular need of it. Do you ask me why I
am so attached to the forest? It is because its scenery is
so peculiarly picturesque, and afFonls me so much pastime
when, in my floating white garments, I pass through its
world of leaves and dusky shadows ; and when a sweet
sunbeam glances down upon me, at times, unexpectedly."
" Yon are a very singular man," replied the priest,
" and I should like to have a more intimate acquaintance
with you."
" And who, then, may you be yourself, to pass from
one thing to another V inquired the stranger.
" I am called Father Heihnann," answered the holy
man ;
" and I am from the cloister of Our Lady of the
Salutation, beyond the lake."
" Well, well," replied the stranger, " my name is
Kiihleborn ; and were I a stickler for the nice distinctions
of rank, I might, with equal propriety, require you to
give me the title of noble lord uf Kiihleborn, or free lord
of Kiihleborn ; for I am as free as the birds in the forest,
50 UNDINE.
and, it may be, a triHe more so. For example, I now
have something to tell that young lady there." And be-
fore they were aware of his purpose, he was on the other
side of the priest, close to Undine, and stretching himself
high into the air, in order to whisjier something in her
ear. But she shrunk from him in terror, and exclaimed :
" 1 have nothing more to do with you.''
" Ho, ho," cried the stranger, with a laugh,
" you
have made a grand marriage indeed, since you no longer
know your own relations ! Have you no recollection,
then, of your uncle Kiihleborn, who so faithfully bore
you on his back to this region 2"
" However that may be," replied Undine, " I entreat
you never to appear in my presence again. I am now
afraid of you ; and will not my husband fear and forsake
me, if he sees me associate with such strange company and
kindred ?"
" You must not forget, my little niece," said Kiihleborn,
" that I am with you here as a guide ; otherwise those
madcap spirits of the earth, the gnomes that haunt this
forest, would play you some of their mischievous pranks.
Let me therefore still accompany you in peace. Even the
old priest there had a better recollection of Tue than you
appear to have ; for he just now assured me that I seemed
to be very familiar to him, and that I must have been with
him in the ferry-boat, out of which he tumbled into the
waves. He certainly did see me there ; for I was no other
than the water-spout that tore him out of
it,
and kept him
from sinking, while
I
safely wafted him ashore to your
wedding."
Undine and the knight turned their eyes upon Father
Heilmann
;
but he api)eared to be moving forward, just as
if
he were dreaming or walking in his sleeji, and no longer
to be conscious of
a
word that was spoken. Undine then
said to Kiihleborn
:
"
I
already see yonder the end of the
forest. We have no further need of your assistance, and
nothing now gives us alarm but yourself.
I
therefore be-
uxDixn. 51
seocli you, by our mutual love and good-will, to vanish,
and allow us to proceed in peace."
Kiilileborn seemed to become angry at this : he darted
a frightful look at Undine, and grinned fiercely upon her.
She shrieked aloud, and called her husband to protect her.
The knight sprung round the horse as quick as lightning,
and, brandishing his sword, struck at Kiihleborn's head.
But, instead of severing it from his body, the sword merely
fliished through a torrent, which rushed foaming near them
from a lofty cliff; and with a splash, which much resem-
bled in sound a burst of laughter, the stream all at once
poured upon them, and gave them a thorough Avetting.
The priest, as if suddenly awaking from a trance, coolly
obseiwed :
" This is what I have been some time expect-
ing, because the brook has descended from the steep so
close beside us, though at first sight, indeed, it appeared
to resemble a man, and to possess the power of speech."
As the waterfall came rushing from its crag, it dis-
tinctly uttered these words in Huldbrand's ear :
" Rash
knight ! valiant knight ! I am not angry with you ; I have
no quarrel with you ; only continue to defend your lovely
little wife with the same spirit, you bold knight ! you
valiant champion !"
After advancing a few steps farther, the travellers came
out upon open ground. The imperial city lay bright be-
fore them ; and the evening sun, which gilded its towers
with gold, kindly dried their garments that had been so
completely drenched.
The sudden disappearance of the young knight, Huld-
brand of Ringstetten, had occasioned much remark in the
imperial city, and no small concern amongst those who, as
well on account of his expertness in tourney and dance as
of his mild and amiable manners, had become attached to
him. His attendants were unwilling to quit the place
without their master, although not a soul of them had
been courageous enough to follow him into the fenrful
recesses of the forest. They remained, therefore, at the
32 UNDINE.
hostelry, idly hoping, as men are wont to do, and keeping
the fate of their lost lord fresh in remembrance by their
lamentations.
Now when the violent storms and floods had been ob-
served immediately after his departure, the destruction of
the handsome stranger became all but certain ; even Ber-
talda had openly discovered her sorrow, and detested her-
self for having been the cause of his taking that fatal ex-
cursion into the forest. Her foster-parents, the duke and
duchess, had meanwhile come to take her away ; but Ber-
talda persuaded them to remain with her until some certain
news of Huldbrand should be obtained, whether he were
living or dead. She endeavoured also to prevail upon se-
veral young knights, who were assiduous in courting her
favour, to go in quest of tlie noble adventurer in the forest.
But she refused to pledge her hand as the reward of the
enterprise, because she still cherished, it might be, a hope
of its being claimed by the returning knight; and no one
would consent, for a glove, a riband, or even a kiss, to
expose his life to bring back so very dangerous a rival.
When Huldbrand now made his sudden and unexpected
appearance, his attendants, tlie inhabitants of the city, and
almost every one, rejoiced. This was not the case with
Bertalda; for although it might be quite a welcome event
to others that he brought with him a wife of such -exquisite
loveliness, and Father Heilmann as a witness of their mar-
riage, Bertalda could not but view the affair with grief
and vexation. She had, in truth, become attached to the
young knight with her whole soul ; and her mourning for
his absence, or suj)posed death, had shewn this more than
she could now have wished.
But notwithstanding all this, she conducted herself
like a wise maiden in circumstances of such delicacy, and
lived on the most friendly terms with Undine, whom the
wliole city looked upon as a princess that Huldbrand had
rescued in the forest from some evil enchantment. AVhen-
ever any one questioned either lierself or her husband re-
UNDINE. 53
ktive to surmises of this nature, tliey had wisdom enough
to remain silent, or wit enough to evade the inquiries. The
lips of Father Heihnann had been sealed in regard to idle
gossip of every kind; and besides, on Huldbrand's arrival,
he had immediately returned to his cloister: so that people
were obliged to rest contented with their own wild conjec-
tures; and even Bertalda herself ascertained nothing more
of the truth than others.
For the rest, Undine daily felt more love for the fair
maiden. " We must have been before acquainted with
each other," she often used to say to her, " or else thefe
must be some mysterious connexion between us ; for it is
incredible that any one so perfectly without cause I mean,
without some deep and secret cause should be so fondly
attached to another as I have been to you from the first
moment of our meeting."
And even Bertalda could not deny that she felt a con-
fiding impulse, an attraction of tenderness, toward Undine,
much as she deemed this fortunate rival the cause of her
bitterest disappointment. Under the influence of this mu-
tual regard, they found means to persuade, the one her
foster-parents, and the other her husband, to defer the
day of separation to a period more and more remote; nay
more, they had already begun to talk of a plan for Ber-
talda's accompanying Undine to Castle Ringstetten, near
one of the sources of the Danube.
Once on a fine evening they happened to be talking
over their scheme just as they passed the high trees that
bordered the public walk. The young married pair, though
it was somewhat late, had called upon Bertalda to invite
her to share their enjoyment ; and all three proceeded fa-
miliarly up and down beneath the dark blue heaven, not
seldom interrupted in their converse by the admiration
which they could not but bestow upon the magnificent
fountain in the middle of the square, and upon the won-
derful rush and shooting upward of its water. All was
sweet and soothing to their minds. Among the shadows
oftlie trees stole in glinimerings of light from the adjacent
houses. A low murmur as of children at play, and of other
persons who were enjoying their walk, floated around
them they were so alone, and yet sharing so much of
social happiness in the bright and stirring world, that
whatever had ap])eared rough by day, now became smooth
of its own accord. And the three friends could no longer
see the slightest cause for hesitation in regard to Bertalda's
taking the journey.
At that instant, while they were just fixing the day
of their departure, a tall man approached them from the
middle of the square, bowed respectfully to the company,
and spoke something in the young bride's ear. Though
displeased with the interruption and its cause, she walked
aside a few steps with the stranger ; and both began to
whisper, as it seemed, in a foreign tongue. Huldbrand
thought he recognised the strange man of the forest ; and
he gazed upon him so fixedly, that he neither heard nor
answered the astonished inquiries of Bertalda. All at once
Undine clapped her hands with delight, and turned back
from the stranger, laughing: he, frequently shaking liis
head, retired with a hasty step and discontented air, and
descended into the fountain. Huldbrand now felt per-
fectly certain that his conjecture was correct. But Ber-
talda asked :
"What, then, dear Undine, did the master of the foun-
tain wish to say to you ?"
Undine laughed within herself, and made answer : "The
day after to-morrow, my dear child, when the anniversary
of your name-day returns, you shall be informed." And
this was all she could be prevailed upon to disclose. She
merely asked Bertalda to dinner on the apjiointed day,
and requested her to invite her foster-parents ; and soon
afterward they separated.
" Kiihleborn ?" said PInldbrand to his lovely wife, with
an inward shudder, when they had taken leave of Bertalda,
and were now going home through the darkening streets.
L'NDINE. 55
" Yes, it was he," answered Undine ;
" and he would
have weaned me with his foolish warnings. But, in the
midst, quite contrary to his intentions, he delighted me
with a most welcome piece of news. If you, my dear
lord and husband, wish me to acquaint you with it now,
you need only command me, and I will freely and from
my heart tell you all without reserve. But would you
confer upon your Undine a very, very great jileasure, wait
till the day after to-morrow, and then you too shall have
your share of the surprise."
The knight was quite willing to gratifj' his wife in what
she had asked so sweetlj". And even as she Mas falling
asleep, she murmured to herself, with a smiie :
" How she
will rejoice and be astonished at what her master of the
fountain has told me! dear, dear Bertalda!"
CHAPTER VI.
The company were sitting at dinner. Bertalda, adorned
with jewels and flowers without number, the ]>resents of
her foster-parents and friends, and looking like some god-
dess of spring, sat beside Undine and Huldbrand at the
head of the table. "When the sumptuous repast was ended,
and the dessert was placed before them, permission was
given that the doors should be left open : this was in ac-
cordance with the good old custom in Germany, that the
common people might see and rejoice in the festivity of
their superiors. Among these spectators the servants car-
ried round cake and wine.
Huldbrand and Bertalda waited with secret impatience
for the i)romised explanation, and hardly moved their eyes
from Undine. But she still continued silent, and merely
smiled to herself with secret and heartfelt satisfaction. All
who were made acquainted with the i)romise she had given
56 UNDINE.
could perceive tbat she was every moment on the point
of revealing a happy secret ; and yet, as children some-
times delay tasting their choicest dainties, she still with-
held the communication. Bertalda and Huldbrand shared
the same delightful feeling, while in anxious hope they
were expecting the unknown disclosure which they were
to receive from the lips of their friend.
At this moment several of the company pressed Undine
to sing. This she seemed pleased at ; and ordering her
lute to be brought, she sang the following words :
" Morning so bright,
Wild flowers so gay,
Where high grass so dewy-
Crowns the wa^'y lake's border.
On the meadow's verdant bosom
What glimmers there so white ?
Have wreaths of snowy blossoms,
Soft-floating, fallen from heaven ?
Ah, see ! a tender infant !
It plays with flowers, unwitting ;
It strives to grasp morn's golden beams.
O where, sweet stranger, where's your home ?
Afar from unknown shores
The waves have wafted hither
This helpless little one.
Nay, clasp not, tender darling,
With tiny hand the flowers !
No hand returns the pressure,
The flowers are strange and mute.
They clothe themselves in beauty,
They breathe a rich perfume ;
But cannot fold around you
A mother's loving arms ;
Far, far away that mother's fond embrace.
UNDINE. 57
Life's early dawn just openiug faint,
Your eye yet beaming Heaven's own smile,
So soon your tenderest guardians gone ;
Severe, poor child, your fate,
All, all to you unknown,
A noble duke has cross'd the mead,
And near you check'd his steed's career :
Wonder and pity touch his heart ;
"With knowledge high, and manners pure.
He rears you, makes his castle-home your own.
How great, how infinite your gain I
Of all the land you bloom the loveliest ;
Yet. ah ! the priceless blessing,
The bliss of psirents' fondness.
You left on strands unknown!"
Undine let fall her lute -with a melancholy smile. The
eyes of Bertalda's noble foster-parents were filled with
tears.
" Ah yes, it was so, such was the morning on which
I found you, poor orphan !" cried the duke, with deep
emotion ;
" the beautiful singer is certainly right : still
'
The priceless blessing.
The bliss of parents' fondness,'
it was beyond our power to give you."
" But we must hear, also, what happened to the poor
parents," said Undine, as she struck the chords, and suiig:
" Through her chambers roams the mother,
Searching, searching every where ;
Seeks, and knows not what, with yearning,
Childless house still finding there.
Childless house ! O sound of anguish !
She alone the anguish knows.
There by day who led her dear one,
There who rock'd its night-repose.
58 UNDINE.
Beechen buds again are swelling,
Sunshine warms again the shore ;
Ah, fond mother, cease your searching !
Comes the lov'd and lost no more.
Then when airs of eve are fresh'ning,
Home the father wends his way,
While with smiles his woe he's veiling,
Gushing tears his heart betray.
TTell he knows, within his dwelling.
Still as death he'll find the gloom,
Only hear the mother moaning,
No sweet babe to smile him home."
" O tell me, in tlie name of Heaven tell me, Undine,
where are my parents?" cried the weeping Bertalda. "You
certainly know ; you must have discovered them, you won-
derful being ; for otherwise you would never have thus
torn my heart. Can they be already here ? May I believe
it possible?" Her eye glanced rapidly over the brilliant
company, and rested upon a lady of high rank who was
sitting next to her foster-father.
Then, bending her head, Undine beckoned toward the
door, while her e5'es overflowed with the sweetest emotion.
"Where, then, are the poor parents waiting?" she asked;
and the old fisherman, hesitating, advanced, with his wife,
from the crowd of spectators. They looked inquiringly,
now at Undine, and now at the beautiful lady who was
said to be their daughter.
" It is she ! it is she there before you !" exclaimed
the restorer of their child, her voice half choked with rap-
ture. And both the aged parents embraced their recovered
daughter, weei)ing aloud and praising God.
But, terrified and indignant, Bertalda tore herself from
their arms. Such a discovery was too nnich for her proud
spirit to bear, especially at the moment when she had
UNDINE. 59
doubtless expected to see her former splendour increased,
and when hope was picturing to lier nothing less brilliant
than a royal canopy and a crown. It seemed to her as if
her rival had contrived all tliis on purpose to humble her
before Huldhrand and the whole world. She reproached
Undine; she reviled the old people; and even such offen-
sive words as " deceiver, bribed and perjured impostors,"
burst from her lips.
The aged wife of the fisherman then said to herself, in
a low voice :
" Ah, my God, she has become wicked ! and
yet I feel in my heart that she is my child."
The old fisherman had meanwhile folded his hands,
and offered up a silent prayer that she might not be his
daughter.
Undine, faint and pale as death, turned from the pa-
rents to Bertalda, from Bertalda to the parents. She was
suddenly cast down from all that heaven of happiness in
which she had been dreaming, and plunged into an agony
of terror and disappointment which she had never known
even in dreams.
" Have you, then, a soul ? Have you indeed a soul,
Bertalda?" she cried again and again to her angry friend,
as if with vehement effort she would rouse her from a
sudden delirium or some distracting dream of night, and
restore her to recollection.
But when Bertalda became every moment only more
and more enraged when the disapjiointed parents began
to weep aloud and the company^, with much warmth of
dispute, were espousing opposite sides, she begged, with
such earnestness and dignity, for the liberty of speaking in
this her husband's hall, that all around her were in an in-
stant hushed to silence. She then advanced to the upper
end of the table, where, both humbled and haughty, Ber-
talda had seated herself, and, while every eye was fas-
tened upon her, spoke in the following manner:
"My friends, you appear dissatisfied and disturbed;
and you are interrupting, with your strife, a festivity I
60 TJNDINE.
had hoped would bring joy to you and to me. Ah ! I
knew nothing of your heartless ways of thinking; and
never shall I understand them. I am not to blame for
the mischief this disclosure has done. Believe me, little
as you may imagine this to be the case, it is wholly
owing to yourselves. One word more, therefore, is all I
have to add ; but this is one that must be spoken : I have
uttered nothing but truth. Of the certainty of the fact, I
give you the strongest assurance. No other proof can I
or will I produce ; but this I will affirm in the presence
of God. The person who gave me this information was
the very same who decoyed the infant Bertalda into the
water, and who, after thus taking her from her parents,
placed her on the green grass of the meadow, where he
knew the duke was to pass."
"She is an enchantress!" cried Bertalda; "a witch,
that has intercourse with evil spirits. She acknowledges it
herself."
" Never ! I deny it
I''
replied Undine, while
a
whole
heaven of innocence and truth beamed from her eyes.
"
I
am no witch
;
look upon me, and say
if
I
am."
" Then she utters both falsehood and folly," cried Ber-
talda
;
" and she
is
unable to prove that
I
am the child of
these low people. My noble parents,
I
entreat you to take
me from this company, and out of this city, where they do
nothing but shame me."
But the aged duke,
a
man of honourable feeling, re-
mained unmoved
;
and his wife remarked
:
" We must
thoroughly examine into this matter. God forbid that we
should move
a
step from this hall before we do so."
Then the aged wife of the fisherman drew near, made
a
low obeisance to the duchess, and said: "Noble and
pious lady, you have opened my heart. Permit me to
tell you, that
if
this evil-disposed maiden
is
my daughter,
she luis a mark like
a
violet between her shoulders, and
another of the same kind on the instep of her left foot. If
she will only consent to go out of the hall with me "
UXDINE. 61
"I will not consent to uncover myself before tlie pea-
sant woman," interrupted Bertalda, haughtily turning her
back upon her.
" But before me you certainly will," replied the duchess,
gravely. " You will follow me into that room, maiden ;
and the old woman shall go with us."
The three disappeared ; and the rest continued where
they were, in breathless expectation. In a few minutes
the females returned Bertalda pale as death; and tha
duchess said: "Justice must be done; I therefore declare
that our lady hostess has spoken exact truth. Bertalda
is the fisherman's daughter ; no further proof is required ;
and this is all of which, on the present occasion, you need
to be informed."
The princely pair went out with their adopted daughter;
the fisherman, at a sign from the duke, followed them
with his wife. The other guests retired in silence, or sup-
pressing their murmurs ; while Undine sank weeping into
the arms of Huldbrand.
The lord of Ringstetten would certainly have been more
gratified, had the events of this day been different ; but
even such as they now were, he could by no means look
upon them as unwelcome, since his lovely wife had shewn
herself so full of goodness, sweetness, and kindliness.
" If I have given her a soul," he could not help saying
to himself, " I have assuredly given her a better one than
my own ;" and now he only thought of soothing and com-
forting his weeping wife, and of removing her even so earlj'^
as the morrow from a place which, after this cross accident,
could not fail to be distasteful to her. Yet it is certain that
the opinion of the public concerning her was not changed.
As something extraordinary had long before been expected
of her, the mysterious discovery of Bertalda's parentage
had occasioned little or no surprise ; and every one who
became acquainted with Bertalda's story, and with the
violence of her behaviour on that occasion, was only dis-
gusted and set against her. Of this state of things, how-
62 UNDINE.
ever, the knight and his lady were as yet igno. mt ; be-
sides, whether the public condemned Bertalda or herself,
the one view of the affair would have been as distressing
to Undine as the other ; and thus tliey came to the conclu-
sion, that the wisest course they could take, was to leave
behind them the walls of the old city with all the speed in
their power.
With the earliest beams of morning, a brilliant carri-
age for Undine drove up to the door of the inn ; the horses
of Huldbrand and his attendunts stood near, stamping the
pavement, impatient to proceed. The knight was leading
his beautiful wife from the door, when a tisher-girl came
up and met them in the way.
" We have no need of your fish," said Huldbrand,
accosting her; " we are this moment setting out on a
journey."
Upon this the fisher-girl began to weep bitterly ; and
then it was that the young couple first perceived it was
Bertalda. They immediately returned with her to their
apartment, when she informed them, that, owing to her
unfeeling and violent conduct of the preceding day, the
duke and duchess had been so displeased with her, as en-
tirely to withdraw from her their protection, though not
before giving her a generous portion. The fisherman, too,
had received a liandsome gift, and had, the evening be-
fore, set out with his wife for his peninsula.
" I would have gone with them," she pursued, " but
the old fisherman, who is said to be my father "
" He
is,
in truth, your fatlier, Bertalda," said Undine,
interrupting her. " See, the stranger whom you took for
the master of the water-works gave me all the particulars.
He wished to dissuade me from taking you with me to
Castle Riiigstetteii, and therefore disclosed to me the whole
mystery."
" Well then," continued Bertalda, " my father,
if
it
must needs be so, my father said
:
'
I
will not take you
with me until you are changed. If you will venture to
UNDINK. 63
come to us alone through the ill-omened forest, that shall
be a proof of your having some regard for us. But come
not to me as a ladj- ; come merely as a fisher-girl,' I do as
he bade me ; for since I am abandoned by all the world,
I will live and die in solitude, a poor fisher-girl, with parents
equally poor. The forest, indeed, appears very terrible to
me. Horrible spectres make it their haunt, and I am so
fearful. But how can 1 help it? I have only come here
at this early hour to beg the noble lady of Ringstetten to
pardon my unbecoming behaviour of yesterday. Sweet
lady, I have the fullest persuasion that you meant to do
me a kindness, but you were not aware how severely you
would wound me ; and then, in my agony and surprise, so
many rash and frantic expressions burst from my lips.
Forgive me, ah forgive me! I am in truth so unhappy
already. Only consider what I was but yesterday morn-
ing, what I was even at the beginning of your yesterday's
festival, and wliat I am to-day !"
Her words now became inarticulate, lost in a passionate
flow of tears, while Undine, bitterly weeping with her,
fell upon her neck. So powerful was her emotion, that it
was a long time before she could utter a word. At length
she said :
'* You shall still go with us to Eingstetten ; all shall
remain just as we lately arranged it ; but say
' thou' to
me again, and do not call me '
noble lady' any more.
Consider, we were changed for each other when we were
children ; even then we were united by a like fate, and we
will strengthen this union with such close affection as no
human power shall dissolve. Only first of all you must go
with us to Ringstetten. How we shall share all things as
sisters, we can talk of after we arrive."
Bertalda looked up to Huldbrand with timid in-
quiry. He pitied her in her affliction, took her hand,
and begged her, tenderly, to entrust herself to him and his
wife.
" We will send a message to your parents," continued
64 TJNDINE.
he, " giving them the reason why you have not come ;"
and he would have added more about his worthy friends
of the peninsula, when, perceiving that Bertalda shrank
in distress at the mention of them, he refrained. He took
her under the arm, lifted her first into the carriage, then
Undine, and was soon riding blithely beside them ; so
persevering was he, too, in urging forward their driver,
that in a short time they had left behind them the limits
of the city, and a crowd of painful recollections ; and now
the ladies could take delight in the beautiful country which
their progress was continually presenting.
After a journey of some days, they arrived, on a fine
evening, at Castle Ringstetten. The young knight being
much engaged with the overseers and menials of his esta-
blishment, Undine and Bertalda were left alone. They
took a walk upon the high rampart of the fortress, and
were charmed with the delightful landscape wliich the
fertile Suabia spread around them. While they were
viewing the scene, a tall man drew near, who greeted
them with respectful civility, and who seemed to Ber-
talda much to resemble the director of the city foun-
tain. Still less was the resemblance to be mistaken, when
Undine, indignant at his intrusion, waved him off with an
air of menace; while he, shaking his head, retreated with
rapid strides, as he had formerly done, then glided among
the trees of a neighbouring grove and disappeared.
" Do not be terrified, Bertalda," said Undine; "the
hateful master of the fountain shall do you no harm this
time." And then she related to her the particulars of her
history, and who she was herself, how Bertalda had
been taken away from tlie people of the peninsula, and
Undine left in her place. This relation at first filled the
young maiden with amazement and alarm; she imagined
her friend must be seized with a sudden madness. But,
from the consistency of her story, she became more and
more convinced that all was true, it so well agreed with
former (occurrences, and still more convinced from that
UNDINE. 65
inward feeling with which truth never fails to make itself
known to us. She could not but view it as an extraordi-
narj'^ circumstance that she was herself now living, as it
were, in the midst of one of those wild tales wliich she
had formerly heard related. She gazed upon Undine with
reverence, but could not keep from a shuddering feeling
which seemed to come between her and her friend ; and
she could not but wonder when the knight, at their even-
ing repast, shewed himself so kind and full of love towards
a being who appeared to her, after the discoveries just
made, more to resemble a phantom of the spirit- world
than one of the human race.
CHAPTER YII.
The writer of this tale, both because it moves his own
heart and he wishes it to move that of others, asks a favour
of you, dear reader. Forgive him if he passes over a con-
siderable space of time in a few words, and only tells
you generally Avhat therein happened. He knows well
that it might be unfolded skilfully, and step by step, how
Huldbrand's heart began to turn from TIndine and towards
Bertalda how Bertalda met the young knight with ardent
love, and how they both looked upon the poor wife as a
mysterious being, more to be dreaded than pitied how
Undine wept, and her tears stung the conscience of her
husband, without recalling his former love ; so that though
at times he shewed kindness to her, a cold shudder soon
forced him to turn from her to his fellow-mortal Bertalda ,
all this, the writer knows, might have been drawn out
fully, and perhaps it ought to have been. But it would
have made him too sad ; for he has witnessed such things,
and shrinks from recallinsr even their shadow. Thou know-
G6 UNDINE.
est, probably, the like feeling, dear reader; for it is the
lot of mortal man. Happj'^ art thou if thou hast received
the injury, not inflicted it ; for in this case it is more bles-
sed to receive than to give. Then only a soft sorrow at
such a recollection passes through thy heart, and jierhaps a
quiet tear trickles down thy cheek over the faded flowers
in which thou once so heartily rejoiced. This is enough :
we will not pierce our hearts with a thousand separate
stings, but only bear in mind that all happened, as 1 just
now said.
Poor Undine was greatly troubled ; and the other two
were very far from being happy. Bertalda in particular,
whenever she was in the slightest degree opposed in her
wishes, attributed the cause to the jealousy and oppression
of the injured wife. She was therefore daily in the habit
of shewing a haughty and imperious demeanour, to which
Undine yielded with a sad submission ; and which w-as
generally encouraged strongly by the now blinded Huid-
brand.
What disturbed the inmates of the castle still more,
was the endless variety of wonderful apparitions Avhich
i.ssailed Huldbrand and Bertalda in the vaulted passages
of the building, and of which nothing had ever been heard
before within the memory of man. The tall white man,
in whom Huldljrand but too plainly recognised Undine's
uncle Kiihleborn, and Bertalda the spectral master of the
water-works, often passed before them with threatening
aspect and gestures; more especially, however, before Ber-
talda, so that, through terror, she had several times already
fallen sick, and had, in consequence, frequently thought of
quitting the castle. Yet partly because Huldbrand was but
too dear to her, and she trusted to her innocence, since no
words of love liad passed between them, and partly also
because she knew not whither to direct her steps, she lin-
gered where she was.
The old fisherman, on receiving the message from the
lord of Kingstctten that Bertalda was his guest,, returned
CNDINK. 67
answer in some lines almost too illegible to be deciphered,
'out still the best his advanced life and long disuse of
writing permitted him to form.
" 1 have now become," he wrote, " a poor old widower,
for my beloved and faithful wife is dead. But lonely as
I now sit in my cottage, I prefer Bertalda's remaining
where she
is,
to her living with me. Only let her do
nothing to hurt my dear Undine, else she will have my
curse."
The last words of this letter, Bertalda flung to the
winds
;
but the permission to remain from home, which
her father had granted her, she remembered, and clung
to, just as we are all of us wont to do in similar circum-
stances.
One day,
a
few moments after Huldbrand had ridden
out, Undine called together the domestics of the familj^,
and ordered them to bring
a
large, stone, and carefully to
cover with
it
a
magnificent fountain, that was situated in
the middle of the castle court. The servants objected that
it
would oblige them to bring water from the valley be-
low. Undine smiled sadly.
"
I
am sorry, my friends," replied she,
" to increase
your labour
;
I
would rather bring up the water-vessels
myself: but this fountain must indeed be closed. Believe
me when
I
say that
it
nmst be done, and that only by
doing
it
we can avoid
a
greater evil."
The domestics were all rejoiced to gratify their gentle
mistress
;
and making no further inquiry, they seized the
enormous stone. While they were raising
it
in their
hands, and were now on the point of adjusting
it
over the
fountain, Bertalda came running to the place, and cried,
with an air of command, that they must stop
:
that the
water she used, so improving to lier complexion, was
brought from this fountain, and that she would by no
means allow
it
to be closed.
This time, however. Undine, while she shewed her
usual gentleness, shewed more than her usual resolution;
68 UNDINE,
she said it belonged to her, as mistress of the house, to
direct the household according to her best judgment ; and
that she was accountable in this to no one but her lord
and husl.tind.
" See, O pray see," exclaimed the dissatisfied and in-
dignant Bertalda, " how the beautiful water is curling
and curving, winding and waving there, as if disturbed
at being shut out from the bright sunshine, and from the
cheerful view of the human countenance, for whose mirror
it was created !"
In truth the water of the fountain was agitated, and
foaming, and hissing in a surprising manner; it seemed
as if there were something within possessing life and will,
that was struggling to free itself from confinement. But
Undine only the more earnestly urged the accomplishment
of her commands. This earnestness was scarcely required.
The servants of the castle were as happy in obeying their
gentle lady, as in opposing the haughty spirit of Bertalda;
and however the latter might scold and threaten, still the
stone was in a iew minutes lying firm over the opening
of the fountain. Undine leaned thoughtfully over
it,
and
wrote with her beautiful fingers on the flat surface. She
must, however, have had something very sharp and cor-
rosive in her hand, for when she retired, and the domes-
tics went up to examine the stone, they discovered vari-
ous strange characters upon
it,
which none of them had
seen there before.
When the knight returned home, toward evening, Ber-
talda received him with tears, and complaints of Undine's
conduct. He cast a severe glance of reproach at his poor
wife, and she looked down in distress; yet she said very
calmly
:
" My lord and husband, you never reprove even
a
bond-slave before you hear his defence; how much less,
then, your wedded wife !"
" Speak, what moved you to this singular conduct?"
said the knight, Avith
u
gloomy countenance.
UNDl.VE. 69
" I could wish to tell you when we are entirely alone,"
said Undine, with a sigh.
" You can tell me equally well in the presence of Ber-
talda," he replied.
" Yes, if you command me," said Undine ;
" but do
not command me pray, praj"^ do not !"
She looked so humble, affectionate, and obedient, that
the heart of the kniglit was touched and softened, as if it
felt the influence of a ray from better times. He kindly
took her arm within his, and led her to his apartm' at,
where she spoke as follows :
" You already know something, my beloved 1( /, of
Kiihleborn, my evil-disposed uncle, and have often felt
displeasure at meeting him in the passages of this castle.
Several times has he terrified Bertalda even to swooning.
He does this because he possesses no soul, being a mei"e
elemental mirror of the outward world, while of the world
within he can give no reflection. Then, too, he some-
times observes that you are displeased with me, that in my
childish weakness I weep at this, and that Bertalda, it may
be, laughs at the same moment. Hence it is that he ima-
gines all is wrong with us, and in various ways mixes with
our circle unbidden. What do I gain by reproving him,
by shewing displeasure, and sending him away? He does
not believe a word I say. His poor nature has no idea
that the joys and sorrows of love have so sweet a resem-
blance, and are so intimately connected that no power on
earth is able to separate them. A smile shines in the midst
of tears, and a smile calls forth tears from their dwelling-
place."
She looked up at Huldbrand, smiling and w'eoping;
and he again felt within his heart all the magic of his for-
mer love. She perceived
it,
and pressed him more ten-
derly to her, while with tears of joy she went on thus:
*'
When the disturber of our peace would not be dis-
missed with words,
I
was obliged to shut the door upon
nim
;
and the only entrance by which he has access to us
70 UNDINE.
is tliat fountain. His connexion with the otlier water-
spirits here in this region is cut off by the valleys that
border upon us ; and his kingdom first commences farther
off on the Danube, in whose tributary streams some of his
good friends have their abode. For this reason I caused
the stone to be placed over the opening of the fountain,
and inscribed characters upon
it,
which baffle all the efforts
of my suspicious uncle
;
so that he now has no power
of intruding either upon you, or me, or Bertalda. Hu-
man beings,
it
is
true, notwithstanding the characters
I
have inscribed there, are able to raise the stone without
any extraordinary trouble
;
there
is
nothing to prevent
them. If you choose, therefore, remove
it,
according to
Bertalda's de=ire
;
but she assuredly knows not what she
asks. The rude Kiihleborn looks with peculiar ill-will
upon her; and should those things come to pass that he
has predicted to me, and which may happen without your
meaning any evil, ah
!
dearest, even you yourself would
be exposed to peril."
Huklbrand felt the generosity of his gentle wife in the
depth of his heart, since she had been so active in confin-
ing her formidable defender, and even at the very moment
she was reproached for
it
by Bertalda. He pressed her in
his arms with the tenderest affection, and said, with emo-
tion
:
" The stone shall remain unmoved
;
all remains, and
ever shall remain, just as you choose to have
it,
my sweet-
est Undine !"
At these long-withheld exj)ressions of tenderness, she
returned his caresses with lowly delight, and at length
said
:
" My dearest husband, since you are so kind and
indulgent to-day, may
I
venture to ask
a
favour of
you? See now,
it
is
with you as with summer. Even
amid its highest splendour, summer puts on the flaming
and thundering crown of glorious tempests, in which
it
strongly resembles
a
king and god on earth. You, too,
are sometimes terrible in your rebukes; your eyes flash
UNDINE. 71
lightning, wliile tlmnder resounds in your voice ; and al-
though this may be quite becoming to you, I in my folly
cannot but sometimes Aveep at it. But never, I entreat
you, behave thus toward me on a river, or even when we
are near any water. For if you should, my relations would
acquire a right over me. They would inexoi-ably tear me
from j^ou in their fury, because they would conceive that
one of their race was injured ; and I should be comi)elled,
as long as I lived, to dwell below in the crystal palaces,
and never dare ascend to you again ; or should they send
me up to you ! O God ! that would be far worse still.
No, no, my beloved husband; let it not come to that, if
your poor Undine is dear to you."
He solemnljr promised to do as she desired ; and, in-
expressibly happy and full of affection, the married pair
returned from the apartment. At this very moment, Ber-
talda came ^ith some work-people whom she had mean-
while ordered to attend her, and said with a fretful air,
which she had assumed of late :
" Well, now the secret consultation is at an end, the
stone may be removed. Go out, workmen, and see to
it."
The knight, however, highly resenting her imperti-
nence, said, in brief and very decisive terms: "The stone
remains where it is !" He reproved Bertalda also for the
vehemence tliat she had shewn towards his wife. Where-
upon the workmen, smiling with secret satisfaction, with-
drew ; while Bertalda, pale with rage, hurried away to her
room.
W^hen the hour of supper came. Bertalda was waited
for in vain. They sent for her ; but the domestic found
her apartments empty, and brought back with him only
a sealed letter, addressed to the knight. He opened it in
alarm, and read :
" I feel with shame that I am only the daughter of a
poor fisherman. That I for one moment forgot this, I will
G
72 TjNDixE.
make expiation in the miserable hut of my parents. Fare-
well to you and your beautiful wife !"
Undine was troubled at heart. With eagerness she en-
treated Huldbrand to hasten after their friend, who had
flown, and bring her back with him. Alas ! slie had no
occasion to urge him. His passion for Bertalda again burst
forth with vehemence. He hurried round the castle, in-
quiring whether any one had seen which way the fair fu-
gitive had gone. He could gain no information ; and was
alreadj' in the court on his horse, determining to take at a
venture the road by which he had conducted Bertalda to
the castle, when there appeared a page, who assured him
that he had met the lady on the path to the Black Valley,
Swift as an arrow, the knight sprang tbrougli the gate in
the direction pointed out, without hearing Undine's voice
of agony, as she cried after him from the window:
"To the Black Valley? O, not there! Huldbrand,
not there ! Or if you will go, for Heaven's sake take me
with you !"
But when she perceived that all her calling was of no
avail, she ordered her white palfrey to be instantly saddled,
and followed the knight, without permitting a single ser-
vant to accompany her.
The Black Valley lies secluded far among the moun-
tains. What its ])resent name may be, I am unable to say.
At the time of which I am speaking, the country -])eo23le
gave it this appellation from the deep obscurity produced
by the shadows of lofty trees, more esjjecially by a crowded
growth of firs that covered this region of moorland. Even
the brook, which bubbled between the rocks, assumed the
same dark hue, and shewed nothing of that cheerful aspect
which streams are wont to wear that have the blue skj
immediately over them.
It was now the dusk of evening; and between the
heights it had become extremely wild and gloomy. The
knight, in great anxiety, skirted the border of the brook.
UNDINE. 73
He was at one time fearful that, by delaj'-, lie should allow
the fugitive to advance too far before him; and then again,
in his too eager rapidity, he was afraid he might somewhere
overlook and pass by her, should she be dtsirous of con-
cealing herself from his search. He had in the mean time
penetrated pretty far into the valley, and might hope soon
to overtake the maiden, provided he were pursuing the
right track. The fear, indeed, that he might not as yet
have gained it, made his heart beat with more and more
of anxiety. In the stormy night which was now a])proach-
ing, and which always fell more fearfully over this valley,
where would the delicate Bertalda shelter herself, should
he fail to find her? At last, while these thoughts were
darting across his mind, he saw something white glimmer
through the branches on the ascent of the mountain. He
thought he recognised Bertalda's robe
;
and he directed
his course toward it. But his horse refused to go for-
ward
;
he reared with
a
fury so uncontrollable, and his
master was so unwilling to lose
a
moment, that (espe-
cially as he saw the thickets were altogether impassable
on horseback) he dismounted, and, having fastened his
snorting steed to an elm, worked his way with caution
through the matted underwood. The branches, moistened
by the cold drops of the evening dew, struck against his
forehead and cheeks
;
distant thunder muttered from the
further side of the mountains
;
and every thing put on
so strange an appearance, that he began to feel
a
dread
of the white figure, which now lay at
a
short distance
from him upon the ground. Still he could see distinctly
that
it
was
a
female, either asleep or in
a
swoon, and
dressed in long white garments such as Bertalda had worn
the past day. Approaching quite near to her, he made
a
rustling with the branches and
a
ringing with his sword
;
but she did not move.
" Bertalda !" he cried, at first low, then louder and
louder
;
yet she heard him not. At last, when he uttered
the dear name -with an energy yet mo*" powerful,
a
hollow
74 UNDINE.
echo from the mountain - summits around the valley re-
turned the deadened sound, "Bertalda!" Still the sleeper
continued insensible. He stooped down ; but the duski-
ness of the valley and the obscurity of twilight would not
alloAv him to distinguish her features. While, with pain-
ful uncertainty, he was bending over her, a flash of light-
ning suddenly shot across the valley. By this stream of
light, he saw a frightfully distorted visage close to his own ;
and a hoarse voice reached liis ear :
" You enamoured swain, give me a kiss !" Huldbrand
sprang upon his feet with a cry of horror; and the hideous
figure rose with him.
"Go home!" it cried, with a deep murmur: "the
fiends are abroad. Go home! or I have you!" And it
stretched toward him its long white arms.
"Malicious Kiihleborn !" exclaimed the knight, with
restored energy; " if Kiihleborn you are, what business
have you here? what's your will, you goblin? There,
take your kiss !" And in fury he struck his sword at the
form. But it vanished like vapour ; and a rush of water,
which wetted him through and throiigh, left him in no
doubt with what foe he had been engaged.
" He wishes to frighten me back from my pursuit of
Bertalda," said he to himself; " he imagines that I shall
be terrified at his senseless tricks, and resign the poor
distressed maiden to his power, so that he can wreak his
vengeance upon her at will. But that he shall not, weak
spirit of the flood ! What the heart of man can do, when
it exerts the full force of its will and of its noblest powers,
the poor gol)lin cannot fathom."
He felt the truth of his words, and that they had in-
spired his heart with fresh courage. Fortune, too, ap-
])eared to favour him ; for, before reaching his fastened
steed, he distinctly heard the voice of Bertalda, weeping
not far before him, amid the roar of the thunder and the
tempest, which every moment increased. He flow swiftly
toward the sound, and found the trembling maiden, just
TJNDINK. 75
as she was attempting to climb the steep, hopinpf to escape
tVom the dreadful darkness of tliis valley. He drew near
licr with expressions of love; and bold and proud as her
resolution had so lately been, she now felt nothing but joy
that the man whom she so passionately loved should rescue
her from this frightful solitude, and thus call her back to
the joyful life in the castle. She followed almost unresist-
ing, but so spent with fatigue, that the knight was glad to
bring her to his horse, which he now hastily unfastened
from the elm, in order to lift the fair wanderer upon him,
and then to lead him carefully by the reins through the
uncertain shades of the valley.
But, owing to the wild apparition of Kiihleborn, the
horse had become wholly unmanageable. Rearing and
wildly snorting as he was, the knight must have used un-
common etibrt to mount the beast himself; to place the
trembling Bertalda upon him was impossible. They were
compelled, therefore, to return home on foot. While with
one hand the knight drew the steed after him by the bridle,
he supported the tottering Bertalda with the other. She
exerted all the strength in her power, in order to escape
speedily from this vale of terrors. But weariness weighed
her down like lead ; and all her limbs trembled, partly in
consequence of what she had suffered from the extreme
terror which Kuhleborn had already caused her, and partly
from her present fear at the roar of the tempest and thun-
der amid the mountain-forest.
At last she slid from the arm of the knight ; and sink-
ing upon the moss, she said :
" Only let me lie here, ray
noble lord. I suffer the punishment due to my folly ; and
I must perish here through faintness and dismay."
" Never, gentle lady, willlleave you," cried Huldbrand,
vainly trying to restrain the furious animal he was leading;
for the horse was all in a foam, aiid began to chafe more
ungovernably than before, till the knight was glad to keep
him at such a distance from the exhausted maiden as to
save her from a new alarm. But hardly had he withdrawn
76 UNDINE.
five steps with the frantic steed, when she began to call
nfter him in the most sorrowful accenis, fearful that he
would actually leave her in this horrible wilderness. He
was at k: loss what course to take. He would gladly have
given the enraged beast his liberty ; he would have let
him rush away amid the night and exhaust his fury, had
he not feared that in this narrow defile his iron-shod hoofs
might come thundering over the very spot where Bertalda
lay.
In this extreme jieril and embarrassment, he heard
Avith delight the rumbling wheels of a wagon, as it came
slowly descending the stony way behind them. He called
out for help: answer was returned in the deep voice of a
man, bidding them have patience, but promising assist-
ance ; and two grey horses soon a/ter shone through the
bushes, and near them their driver in the white frock of a
carter ; and next appeared a great sheet of white linen,
with which the goods he seemed to be conveying were
covered. The greys, in obedience to a shout from their
master, stood still. He came up to the knight, and aided
him in checking the fury of the foaming charger.
" I know well enough," said he, '' what is the matter
with the brute. The first time I travelled this way, my
horses were just as wilful and headstrong as yours. The
reason
is,
there
is
a
water-spirit haunts this valley, and
a
wicked wight they say he
is,
who takes delight in mis-
chief and witcheries of this sort. But
I
have learned
a
charm
;
and
if
you will let me whisper
it
in your horse's
ear, he will stand just as quiet as my silver greys there."
"Try your luck, then, and help us as quickly as pos-
sible!" said the iuipatient knight.
Upon this the wagoner drew down the head of the
rearing courser close to his own, and spoke some words
in his ear. 'Jlie animal instantly stood still and subdued
;
only his quick ])anting and smoking sweat shewed his
recent violence.
Huldbrand had little time to inquire by what means
UNDINE. 77
this had been effected. He agreed with the man that he
should take Bertalda in his wagon, where, as he said, a
quantity of soft cotton was stowed, and he might in this
way convey her to Castle Ringstetten : the knight could
accompany them on horseback. But the horse appeared
to be too much exhausted to carry his master so far. See-
ing this, the man advised him to mount the wagon with
BertaJda. The horse could be attached to it behind.
'
It is down hill," said he,
" and the load for my greys
will therefore be light."
The knight accepted his offer, and entered the wagon
with Bertalda. The horse followed patiently after; while
the wagoner, sturdy and attentive, walked beside them.
Amid the silence and deepening obscurity of the night,
the tempest sounding more and more remote, in the com-
fortable feeling of their security, a confidential conversation
arose between Huldbrand and Bertalda. He reproached
her in the most flattering words for her resentful flight.
She excused herself with humility and feeling; and from
every tone of her voice it shone out, like a lamp guiding
to the beloved through night and darkness, that Huld-
brand was still dear to her. The knight felt the sense of
her words, rather than heard the words themselves, and
answered simply to this sense.
Then the wagoner suddenly shouted, with a startling
voice :
" Up, my greys, up with your feet 1 Hey, now
together ! shew your spirit ! remember who you are !"
The knight bent over the side of the wagon, and saw
that the liorses had stepjted into the midst of a foaming
stream, and were indeed almost swimming ; while the
wheels of the wagon were rushing round and Hashing like
mill-wheels ; and the wagoner had got on before, to avoid
the swell of the flood.
" AVhat sort of a road is this ? It leads into the middle
of the stream !" cried Huldbrand to his guide.
" Not at all, sir," returned he, with a laugh ;
" it is
just the contrary. The stream is running in the middle of
our road. Only look about you, and see how all is over-
flowed !"
The whole valley, in fact, was in commotion, as the
waters, suddenly raised and visibly rising, swept over
it.
" It is Kiilileborn, that evil water-spirit, who wishes
to drown us!" exclaimed the knight.
" Have you no
charm of protection against him, friend?"
" I have one," answered the wagoner ;
" but I can-
not and must not make use of
it,
before you know who
I
am."
" Is this
a
time for riddles?" cried the knight. " The
flood
is
every moment rising higher
;
and what does
it
concern me to know who you are ?"
" But mayhap
it
does concern you, though," said the
guide
;
" for
/
am Kuhleborn."
Thus speaking, he thrust his head into the wagon, and
laughed with
a
distorted visage. But the wagon remained
a
wagon no longer; the grey horses were horses no longer;
all was transformed to foam all sank into the waters that
rushed and hissed around them
;
while the wagoner him-
self, rising in the form of
a
gigantic wave, dragged the
vainly struggling courser under the waters, then rose again
huge as
a
liquid tower, swept over the heads of the float-
ing pair, and was on the point of burying them irrecover-
ably beneath it. Then the soft voice of Undine was heard
through the uproar; the moon emerged from the clouds;
and by its light Undine was seen on the heights above the
valley. She rebukod, she threatened the floods below her.
The menacing and tower-like billow vanished, muttering
and murmuring; the waters gently flowed awaj"^ under the
beams of the moon
;
while Undine, like
a
hovering white
dove, flew down from the hill, raised the knight and Ber-
talda, and bore them to
a
green spot, where, by her earnest
eflbrts, she soon restored them and dispelled their terrors.
L'NDINE. 79
She then assisted Beitalda to mount the white palfrey on
which she had herself been borne to tlie valley,- and thus
all three returned homeward to Castle Ringstetten.
CHAPTER VIII.
After this last adventure, they lived at the castle undis-
turbed and in peaceful enjoyment. The knight M'as moi'e
and more impressed with the heavenly goodness of his
wife, which she had so nobly shewn by her instant pur-
suit, and by the rescue she had effected in the Black
Valley, where the power of Kiihleborn again commenced.
Undine herself enjoyed that peace and security which
never fails the soul as long as it knows distinctly that it
is 0:1 the right path ; and besides, in the newly awakened
love and regard of her husband, a thousand gleams of
hope and joy shone upon her.
Bertalda, on the other hand, shewed herself grateful,
huml)le, and timid, without taking to herself any merit for
so doing. Whenever Huldbrand or Undine began to ex-
plain to her their reason for covering the fountain, or their
adventures in the Black Valley, she would earnestly en-
treat fliem to spare her the recital, for the recollection of
the fomtain occasioned her too nmch shame, and that of
the Bhck Valley too much terror. She learnt nothing-
more about either of them ; and what would she have
gained from more knowledge? Peace and joy had visi-
bly takm up their abode at Castle Ringstetten. They
enjoyed their present blessings in perfect security, and
now imagined that life could produce nothing but pleasant
flowers aud fruits.
In thB happiness, winter came and passed away ; and
spring, with its foliage of tender green, and its heaven
80 TJNDINE.
of softest blue, succeeded, to gladden the hearts of the
three inmates of the castle. The season was in har-
mony with their minds, and their minds imparted their
own hues to the season. What wonder, then, that its
storks and swallows inspired them also with a disposition
to travel? On a bright morning, while they were wan-
dering down to one of the sources of the Danube, Huld-
brand spoke of the magnificence of this noble stream, how
it continued swelling as it flowed through countries en-
riched by its waters, with what splendour Vienna rose and
sparkled on its banks, and how it grew lovelier and more
imposing throughout its progress.
" It must be glorious to trace its course down to Vi-
enna!" Bertalda exclaimed, with warmth; but immedi-
ately resuming the humble and modest demeanour she had
recently shewn, she paused and blushed in silence.
This much moved Undine ; and with the liveliest wish
to gratify her friend, she said,
" What hinders our taking
this little voyage?"
Bertalda leapt up with delight, and the two friends at
the same moment began painting this enchanting voyage
on the Danube in the most brilliant colours. Huldbrand,
too, agreed to the project with pleasure ; only he once
whispered, with something of alarm, in Undine's ear:
" But at that distance KUhleborn becomes possessed
of his power again !"
" Let him come, let him come," she answered with a
laugh ;
" I shall be there, and he dares do none of bis mis-
chief in my presence."
Thus was the last imi)ediment removed: they j:ro])ared
for the expedition, and soon set out upon it witii lively
spirits and the brightest hopes.
But be not surprised, O man, if events almost, always
happen very diff'erently from what you expect. That ma-
licious power which lies in ambush for our distruction
delights to lull its chosen victim asleep with sTfleet songs
and golden delusions ; while, on the other hand the mes-
UNDINE. 81
senger of Heaven often strikes sharply at our door, to
alarm and awaken us.
During the first days of their passage down the Dan-
ube, they were unusually happy. The farther they ad-
vanced upon the waters of this proud liver, the views
became more and more fair. But amid scenes other-
wise most delicious, and from which they had promised
themselves the purest delight, the stubborn Kiihleborn,
dropping all disguise, began to shew his power of an-
noying them. He had no other means of doing this,
indeed, than by tricks, for Undine often rebuked the
swelling waves or the contrary winds, and then the inso-
lence of the eneray was instantly humbled and subdued ;
but his attacks were renewed, and Undine's reproofs again
became necessary ; so that the pleasure of the fellow-tra-
vellers was completely destroyed. The boatmen, too, were
continually whispering to one another in dismay, and eye-
ing their three superiors with distrust; while even the
servants began more and more to form dismal surmises,
and to watch their master and mistress with looks of sus-
picion.
Huldbrand often said in his own mind, " This comes
when like marries not like when a man forms an unna-
tural union with a sea-maiden." Excusing himself, as we
all love to do, he would add: " I did not, in fact, know
that she was a maid of the sea. It is my misfortune that
my steps are haunted and disturbed by the wild humours
of her kindred, but it is not my crime."
By reflections like these, he felt himself in some mea-
sure strengthened ; but, on the other hand, he felt the
more ill-humour, almost dislike, towards Undine. He
would look angrily at her, and the unhappy wife but too
well understood his meaning. One day, grieved by this
unkindness, as well as exhausted by her unremitted exer-
tions to frustrate the artifices of Kiihleborn, she toward
evening fell into a deep slumber, rocked and soothed by
the gentle motion of the bark. But hardly had she closed
S'2 vauiNE.
her eyes, when every person in the boat, in whatever di-
rection he might look, saw the head of a man, frightful
beyond imagination : each head rose out of the waves, not
like that of a person swimming, but quite perpendicular,
as if firmly fastened to the watery mirror, and yet moving
on Avitli the bark. Every one wished to shew to his com-
panion what terrified himself, and each perceived the same
expression of horror on the face of the other, only hands
and eyes were directed to a different quarter, as if to a
point where the monster, half laughing and half threaten-
ing, rose opposite to each.
When, however, they wished to make one another
understand the sight, and all cried out,
" Look there !"
" No, there
!''
the frightful heads all became visible to
each, and the whole river around the boat swarmed with
the most horrible faces. All raised
a
scream of terror at
the sight, and Undine started from sleep. As she opened
her eyes, the deformed visages disapjjeared. But Huld-
brand was made furious by so many hideous visions. He
would have burst out in wild imprecations, had not Un-
dine with the meekest looks and gentlest tone of voice
said
:
" For God's sake, my husband, do not exjiress displea-
sure against me here, we are on the water."
The knight was silent, and sat down absorbed in deep
thought. Undine Avhispered in his ear: " Would
it
not
be better, my love, to give up this foolish voyage, and
return to Castle Ringstetten in peace ?"
But Huldbrand murmured wrathfully: "So
I
must
become
a
prisoner in my own castle, and not be allowed
to breatlie
a
moment but while the fountain
is
covered?
Would to Heaven that your cursed kindred" ....
Then Undine pressed her fair hand on his lips caress-
ingly. He said no more
;
but in silence pondered on all
that Undine had before said.
Bertalda, meanwhile, had given herself up to
a
crowd
of thronging thoughts. Of Undine's origin she knew
a
UNDINE. 83
good deal, but not the whole ; and the terrible Kiihle-
born especially remained to her an awful, an impenetrable
mystery never, indeed, had she once heard his name.
Musing upon these wondrous things, she unclasped, with-
out being fully conscious of what she was doing, a golden
necklace, which Huldbrand, on one of the preceding days
of their passage, had bought for her of a travelling trader;
and she was now letting it float in sport just over the sur-
face of the stream, while in her dreamy mood she enjoyed
the bright reflection it threw on the water, so clear beneath
the glow of evening. That instant a huge hand flashed
suddenly up from the Danube, seized the necklace in its
grasp, and vanished with it beneath the flood. Bertalda
shrieked aloud, and a scornful laugh came pealing up
from the depth of the river.
The knight could now restrain his wrath no longer.
He started up, poured forth a torrent of reproaches, heaped
curses upon all who interfered with his friends and troubled
his life, and dared them all, water-spirits or mermaids, to
come within the sweep of his sword.
Bertalda, meantime, wept for the loss of the ornament
so very dear to her heart, and her tears were to Huldbrand
as oil poured upon the flame of his fury ; Avhile Undine
held her hand over the side of the boat, dipping it in the
waves, softly murmuring to herself, and only at times in-
terrupting her strange mysterious whisper to entreat her
husband :
*' Do not reprove me here, beloved ; blame all others
as you will, but not me. You know why!" And in truth,
though he was trembling with excess of passion, he kept
himself from any word directly against her.
She then brought up in her wet hand, which she hao
been holding under the waves, a coral necklace, of such
exquisite beauty, such sparkling brilliancy, as dazzled the
eyes of all who beheld it. " Take this," said she, holding
it out kindly to Bertalda ;
" I have ordered it to be brought,
84 UNDIiVE.
to make some amends for your loss ; so do not grieve any
more, poor child."
But the knight rushed between thom, and, snatching
the beautiful ornament out of Undine's hand, hurled it
back into the flood ; and, mad with rage, exclaimed :
" So, then, you have still a connexion with them I In the
name of all witches, go and remain among them with your
presents, you sorceress, and leave us human beings in
peace !"
With fixed but streaming eyes, poor Undine gazed on
him, her hand still stretched out, just as when she had so
lovingly offered her brilliant gift to Bertalda. She then
began to weep more and more, as if her heart woidd
break, like an innocent, tender child, cruelly aggrieved.
At last, wearied out, she said: " Farewell, dearest, fare-
well. They shall do you no harm ; only remain true, that
I may have power to keep them from you. But I must
go hence ! go hence, even in this early youth ! Oh, woe,
woe ! what have you done ! Oh, woe, woe!"
And she vanished over the side of the boat. Whether
she plunged into the stream, or whether, like water melt-
ing into water, she flowed away with
it,
thejr knew not,
her disappearance was like both and neither. But she
was lost in the Danube, instantly and completely
;
only
little waves were yet whisi^ering and sobbing around the
boat, and they could almost be heard to say,
" Oh, woe,
woe! Ah, remain true
!
Oh, woe!"
But Huldbrand, in
a
passion of burning tears, threw
himself u])on the deck of the bark
;
and
a
deep swoon
soon wrapi)ed the wretched man in
a
blessed forgctfulness
of misery.
Shall we call
it
a
good or an evil thing, that our mourn-
ing has no long duration?
I
moan that deep mourning
which comes from the verj -well-springs of our being, which
so becomes one with the lost objects of our love, that we
hardly realise tlieir loss, Avhile our grief devotes itself
UNDINE. 85
religiously to the honouring of their image, until we reacli
that bourne which they have alreadj' reached !
Truly all good men observe in a degree this religious
devotion : but yet it soon ceases to be that first deep grief.
Other and new images throng in, until, to our sorrow, we
experience the vanity of all eartlily things. Therefore I
must say : Alas, that our mourning should be of such short
duration !
The lord of Ringstetten experienced this ; but whether
for his good, we shall discover in the sequel of this history.
At first he could do nothing but weep weep as bitterly as
the poor gentle Undine had wept, when he snatched out
of her hand that brilliant ornament, with which she so
kindly wished to make amends for Bertalda's loss. And
then he stretched his hand out, as she had done, and wejJt
again like her, with renewed violence. He cherished a
secret hope, that even the springs of life would at last be-
come exhausted by weei)ing. And has not the like thought
passed through the minds of many of us with a painful
pleasure in times of sore affliction ? Bertalda wept with
him ; and they lived together a long while at the castle of
Ringstetten in undisturbed quiet, honouring the memory
of Undine, and having almost wholly forgotten their for-
mer attachment. And therefore the good Undine, about
this time, often visited Huldbrand's dreams: she soothed
him with soft and affectionate caresses, and then Avent
away again, weeping in silence; so that when he awoke,
he sometimes knew not how his cheeks came to be so wet,
whether it was caused by her tears, or only by his own.
But as time advanced, these visions became less fre-
quent, and the sorrow of the knight less keen ; still he
might never, perhaps, have entertained any other wish
than thus quietly to think of Undine, and to speak of
her, had not the old fisherman arrived unexpectedly at the
castle, and earnestly insisted on Bertalda's returning with
him as his child. He had i-eceived information of Undine's
disappearance ; and he was not willing to allow Bertalda
86 UNDINE.
to continue longer at the castle with the widowed knight.
" For," said he,
" whether my daughter loves me or not
is at present what I care not to know ; but her good name
is at stake ; and where that is tlie case, nothing else maj'
be thought of."
This resolution of the old fisherman, and the fearful
solitude that, on Bertalda's departure, threatened to op-
press the knight in every hall and passage of the deserted
castle, brought to light what had disap])eared in his sor-
row for Undine, I mean, his attachment to the fair Ber-
talda ; and this he made known to her father.
The fisherman had many objections to make to the
proposed marriage. The old man had loved Undine with
exceeding tenderness, and it was doubtful to his mind that
the mere disappearance of his beloved child could be pro-
perly viewed as her death. But were it even granted that
her corpse were lying stiff and cold at the bottom of the
Danube, or swept away by the current to the ocean, still
Bertalda had had some share in her death ; and it was
unfitting for her to step into the place of the poor injured
wife. The fisherman, however, had felt a strong regard
also for the knight: this, and the entreaties of his daugh-
ter, who had become much more gentle and respectful, as
well as her tears for Undine, all exerted their influence ;
and he must at last have been forced to give up his op-
position, for he remained at the castle without objection,
and a messenger was sent off express to Father Heilmann,
who in former and happier days had united Undine and
Huldbrand, requesting him to come and perform the cere-
mony at the knight's second marriage.
Hardly had the holy man read through the letter from
the lord of Ringstetten, ere he set out upon the journey,
and made much greater despatch on his way to the castle
than the messenger from it had made in reaching him.
Whenever his breath failed him in his rapid progress, or
liis old limbs ached with fatigue, he would say to himself:
" Perhaj)S I shall be able to prevent a sin ; then sink
TJNDINE. 87
not, withered body, before I arrive at the end of my jour-
ney !" And with renewed vigour he pressed forward,
hurrying on without rest or repose, until, late one even-
ing, he entered the shady couri-yard of the castle of Ring-
stetten.
The betrothed pair were sitting side by side under the
trees, and the aged fisherman in a thoughtful mood sat
near them. The moment they saw Father Ileilmann,
they rose with a spring of joy, and pres,>ed round him
with eager welcome. But he, in a few words, asked the
bridegroom' to return with him into the castle ; and when
Huldbrand stood mute with suri)rise, and delayed com-
plying with his earnest request, the pious priest said to
him :
*'
I do not know why I should wiant to speak to you in
private ; what I have to say as much concerns Bertalda
and the fisherman as yourself; and what we must at some
time hear, it is best to hear as soon as possible. Are
you, then, so very certain, Knight Huldbrand, that your
first wife is actually dead ? I can hardly think it. I will
say nothing, indeed, of the mysterious state in which she
may be now existing; I know notiiing of it with certainty.
But that she was a most devoted and faithful wife, is
beyond all dispute. And for fourteen nights past, she
has a])peared to me in a dream, standing at my bedside,
wringing her tender hands in anguish, and sighing out,
*
Ah, prevent him, dear father ! I am still living ! Ah,
save his life ! Ah, save his soul !'
" I did not understand what this vision of the night
could mean, then came your messenger ; and I have now
hastened hither, not to unite, but, as I hope, to separate
what ought not to be joined together. Leave her, Huld-
brand ! leave him, Bertalda ! He still belongs to another;
and do you not see on his pale cheek his grief for his lost
witie ? That is not the look of a bridegroom ; and the
' The betrothed are called liride and bridegrnnm in Germauy.
H
88 UNDINE.
sjiirit says to me, that ' if you do not leave him, j^ou Mill
never be happy !'
"
The three felt in their inmost hearts that Father Heil-
raann spoke the truth ; but they would not believe it.
Even the old fisherman was so infatuated, that he thought
it could not be otherwise than as they had latterly settled
amongst themselves. They all, therefore, with a deter-
mined and gloomy eagerness, struggled against the re-
presentations and warnings of the priest, until, shaking
his head and oppressed with sorrow, he finally quitted the
castle, not choosing to accept their offered shelter even for
a single night, or indeed so much as to taste a morsel of
the refreshment they brought him. Huldbrand persuaded
himself, however, that the priest was a mere visionary ;
and sent at daybreak to a monk of the nearest monastery,
who, without scruple, promised to perform the ceremony
in a few days.
89
CHAPTER IX.
It was between night and dawn of daj- that Huldbrand
was lying on his couch, half waking and half sleeping.
Whenever he attempted to compose himself to sleep, a
terror came upon him and scared him, as if his slumbers
were haunted with spectres. But he made an effort to
rouse hinij^elf fully. He felt fanned as by the wings of a
swan, and lulled as by the murmuring of waters, till in
sweet confusion of the senses he sunk back into his state
of half consciousness.
At last, however, he must have fallen perfectly asleep ;
for he seemed to be lifted up bj^ wings of the swans, and
to be wafted far away over land and sea, while their mu-
sic swelled on his ear most sweetly. " The music of the
swan! the song of the swan!'' he could not but repeat to
himself every moment ;
" is it not a sure foreboding of
death ?" Probably, however, it had yet another meaning.
All at once he seemed to be hoverins over the jNIediter-
ranean Sea. A swan sang melodiously in his ear, that this
was the ^Mediterranean Sea. And while he was looking
down upon the waves, they became transparent as crystal,
so that he could see tlirough them to the very bottom.
At this a thrill of delight shot through him, for he could
see Undine where she was sitting beneath the clear crystal
dome. It is true she was weeping very bitterly, and looked
much sadder than in those happy days when they lived
together at the castle of Ringstetten, both on their arrival
and afterward, just before they set out upon their fatal
passage down the Danube. The knight could not help
thinking upon all this with deep emotion, but it did not
appear that Undine was aware of his presence.
Kiihleborn had meanwhile approached her, and was
about to reprove her for weeping, when she drew herself
up, and looked upon him with an air so majestic and com-
manding, that he almost shrunk back.
90 TTNDINfi.
*'
Although I now dwell here beneath the waters," said
she,
" yet I have brought my soul with me. And there-
fore I may weep, little as you can know what such tears
are. They are blessed, as every thing is blessed to one
gifted with a true soul."
He shook his head incredulously ; and after some
thought, replied :
" And yet, niece, you are subject to our
laws, as a being of the same nature with ourselves ; and
should he prove unfaithful to you, and marry again, you
are obliged to take away his life."
" He remains a widower to this very hour," replied
Undine ;
" and I am still dear to his sorrowful heart."
" He
is,
however, betrothed," said Kiihleborn, with
a
laugh of scorn
;
" and let only
a
few days wear away,
and then comes the priest with his nuptial blessing; and
then you must go up to the death of the husband with
two wives."
"
I
have not the power," returned Undine, with
a
S7nile. "
I
have sealed up the fountain securely against
myself and all of my race."
" Still, should he leave his castle," said Kiihleborn,
" or should he once allow the fountain to be uncovered,
what then
?
for he thinks little enough of these things."
" For that very reason," said Undine, still smiling
amid her tears,
" for that very reason he
is
at this mo-
ment hovering in spirit over the Mediterranean Sea, and
dreaming of the warning which our discourse gives him.
I
thoughtfully planned all this."
That instant, Kiihleborn, inflamed with rage, looked
up at the knight, wrathfully tlireatened him, stamped on
the ground, and then shot like an arrow beneath the
waves. He seemed to swell in his fury to the size of
a
whale. Again the swans began to sing, to wave their
wings, and fly
;
the knight seemed to soar away over
mountains and streams, and at last to aliglit at Castle
Ringstetten, and to awake on his couch.
Upon his couch he actually did awake; and his at-
UNDINE. 91
tendant, entering at the same moment, informed him that
Father Heihnann was still lingering in the neighbourhood ;
that he had the evening before met with him in the forest,
where he was sheltering himself under a hut, which he
had formed by interweaving the branches of trees, and
covering them with moss and fine brushwood ; and that
to the question, " What he was doing there, since he would
not give the marriage-blessing?" his answer was:
" There are many other blessings than those given at
marriages ; and though I did not come to officiate at the
wedding, I may still officiate at a very different solemnity.
All things have their seasons ; we must be ready for them
all. Besides, marrying and mourning are by no means so
very unlike ; as every one, not wilfully blinded, must know
full well."
The knight made many bewildered reflections on these
words and on his dream. But it is very difficult to give
up a thing which we have once looked upon as certain ; so
all continued as had been arranged previously.
Should I relate to you how passed the marriage-feast
at Castle Ringstetten, it would be as if you saw a heap
of bi-ight and pleasant things, but all overspread with a
black mourning crape, through whose darkening veil their
brilliancy would appear but a mockery of the nothingness
of all earthly joys.
It was not that any spectral delusion disturbed the
scene of festivity ; for the castle, as we well know, had
been secured against the mischief of water-spirits. But
the knight, the fisherman, and all the guests, were unable
to banish the feeling that the chief personage of the feast
was still wanting, and tliat this chief personage could be no
other than the gentle and beloved Undine,
Whenever a door was heard to open, all eyes were in-
voluntarily turned in that direction ; and if it was nothing
but the steward with new dishes, or the cup-bearer with a
supply of wine of higher flavour than the last, they again
looked down in sadness and disappointment j while the
92 UNDINE.
flashes of wit and merriment which had been passing at
times from one to another, were extinguished by tears of
mournful remembrance.
The bride was the least thoughtful of the company,
and therefore the most happy ; but even to her it some-
times seemed strange that she should be sitting at the
head of the table, wearing a green wreath and gold-em-
broidered robe, while Undine was lying a corpse, stiff and
cold, at the bottom of the Danube, or carried out by the
current into the ocean. For ever since her father had sug-
gested something of this sort, his words were continually
sounding in her ear; and this day, in particular, they
would neither fade from her memory, nor yield to other
thoughts.
Evening had scarcely arrived, when the company re-
turned to their homes ; not dismissed by the impatience
of the bridegroom, as wedding parties are sometimes
broken up, but constrained solely by heavy sadness and
forebodings of evil. Bertalda retired with her maidens,
and the knight with his attendants, to undress; but there
was no gay laughing company of bridesmaids and brides-
men at this mournful festival.
Bertalda wished to awake more cheerful thoughts : she
ordered her maidens to spread before her a brilliant set of
jewels, a present from Huldbrand, together with rich ap-
parel and veils, that she might select from among them the
brightest and most beautiful for her dress in the morning.
The attendants rejoiced at this opportunity of pouring forth
good wishes and promises of liai)piness to their young
mistress, and failed not to extol tlie beauty of tlie bride
with the most glowing eloquence. This went on for a
long time, until Bertalda at last, looking in a mirror, said
with a sigh :
" Ah, but do you not see plainly how freckled I am
growing? Look here on the side of my neck."
Thoy looked at the place, and found the freckles, in-
deed, as their fair mistress had said ; but they called them
UNDINE. 93
mere beauty-spots, the faintest touches of the sun, such as
would only heighten the whiteness of her delicate com-
plexion. Bertalda shook her head, and still viewed them
as a blemish.
" And I could remove them," she said at last, sighing.
" But the castle-fountain is covered, from which I for-
merly used to have that precious Avater, so purifying to the
skin. Oh, had I this evening only a single flask of it !"
'^
Is that all?" cried an alert waiting-maid, laughing,
as she glided out of the apartment.
" She will not be so foolish," said Bertalda, well-
pleased and surprised, "as to cause the stone-cover of the
fountain to be taken off this very evening-'?" That instant
they heard the tread of men already passing along the
court-yard, and could see from the window where the offi-
cious maiden was leading them directly up to the fountain,
and that they carried levers and other instruments on their
shoulders.
" It is certainly my will," said Bertalda, with a smile,
" if it does not take them too long." And pleased with
the thought, that a word from her was now sufficient to
accomplish what had formerly been refused with a painful
reproof, she looked down upon their operations in the
bright moonlit castle-court.
The men raised the enormous stone with an effort ;
some one of the number indeed would occasionally sigh,
when he recollected they were destroying the work of their
former beloved mistress. Their labour, however, was much
lighter than they had expected. It seemed as if some
power from within the fountain itself aided them in raising
the stone.
" It apjiears," said the workmen to one another in
astonishment, " as if the confined water had become a
springing fountain." And the stone rose more and more,
and, almost without the assistance of the work-people,
rolled slowly down upon the pavement with a hollow
sound. But an appearance from the opening of the foun-
94 UNDINE,
tain filled them with awe, as it rose like a white column of
water : at first they imagined it really to be a fountain,
until they perceived the rising ibrm to be a pale female,
veiled in white. She wept bitterly, raised her hands above
her head, wringing them sadly, as with slow and solemn
step she moved toward the castle. The servants shrank
back, and fled from the spring ; while the bride, pale and
motionless with horror, stood with her maidens at the
Avindow. AVhen the figure had now come close beneath
their room, it looked up to tliem sobbing, and Bertalda
thought she recognised through the veil the jjale features
of Undine. But the mourning foi'm passed on sad, re-
luctant, and lingering, as if going to the place of execu-
tion. Bertalda screamed to her maids to call the knight;
not one of them dared to stir from her place ; and even the
bride herself became again mute, as if trembling at the
sound of her own voice.
AVhile they continued standing at the window, motion-
less as statues, the mysterious wanderer had entered the
castle, ascended the well-known stairs, and traversed the
well-known halls, in silent tears. Alas, how different had
she once passed through these rooms !
The knight had in the mean time dismissed his attend-
ants. Half-undressed and in deep dejection, he was stand-
ing before a large mirror ; a wax taper burned dimly
beside him. At this moment some one tapped at his door,
very, very softly. Undine had formerly tapped in this
way, when she was playing some of her endearing wiles.
" It is all an illusion !" said he to himself. " I must
to my nuptial bed."
"You must indeed, but to a cold one!" he heard a
voice, choked with sobs, repeat from without ; and then
he saw in the mirror, that the door of his room was slowly,
slowly opened, and the white figure entered, and gently
closed it behind her.
" They have opened the spring," said she in a low tone ;
" and now I am here, and you must die."
UNDINE. 95
He felt, in his failing breath, ihat this must indeed be ;
but, covering his eyes with his hands, he cried :
" Do not,
in my death-hour, do not make me mad with ten-or. If
that veil conceals hideous features, do not lift it ! Take
my life, but let me not see you."
" Alas !'' replied the pale figure,
" will you not then
look upon me once more ? I am as fair now as when you
wooed me on the island !"
" O if it indeed were so,'' sighed Huldbrand, " and
that I might die by a kiss from you !"
" Most willingly, my ov.n love," said she. She threw
back her veil ; heavenly fair shone forth her pure coun-
tenance. Trembling with love and the awe of approaching
death, the knight leant towards her. She kissed him with
a holy kiss ; but she relaxed not her hold, pressing him
more closely in her arms, and weeping as if she would
weep away her soul. Tears rushed into the knight's eyes,
while a thrill both of bliss and agony shot through his
heart, until he at last expired, sinking softly back from
her fair arms upon the pillow of his couch, a corse.
" I have wept him to death !" said she to some do-
mestics, who met her in the ante-chamber ; and passing
through the terrified group, she went slowly out, and dis-
appeared in the fountain.
96
CHAPTER X.
Father, Heilmann had returned to the castle as soon as
the death of the lord of Ringstetten was made known in
the neighbourhood ; and he arrived at the very hour when
the monk wlio had married the unfortunate couple was
hurrying from the door, overcome with dismay and horror.
When father Heilmann was informed of this, he re-
plied: " It is all well; and now come the duties of my
office, in which I have no need of an assistant."
He then began to console the bride, now a widow,
though with little benefit to her worldly and thoughtless
spirit.
The old fisherman, on the other hand, though severely
afflicted, was far more resigned to the fate of his son-in-
law and daughter; and while Bertalda could not refrain
from accusing Undine as a murderess and sorceress, the
old man calmly said :
" After all, it could not happen
otherwise. I see nothing in it but the judgment of God ;
and no one's heart was more pierced by the death of Huld-
brand than she who was obliged to work
it,
the poor for-
saken Undine !"
He then assisted in arranging the funeral solemnities
as suited the rank of the deceased. The knight was to
be inter/ed in
a
village churchyard, in whose consecrated
ground were the graves of his ancestors
;
a
place which
they, as well as himself, had endowed with rich privileges
and gifts. His shield and helmet lay upon his coffin,
ready to be lowered with
it
into the grave for lord Huld-
braiid of Ringstetten had died the last of his race
;
the
mourners began their sorrowful march, chanting their me-
lancholy songs beneath the calm unclouded lieaven
;
father
Heilmann preceded the procession, bearing
a
high cru-
cifix
;
while the inconsolable Bertalda followed, supported
by her aged father.
Then they suddenly saw in the midst of the mourning
UNDINE 97
females, in the widow's train, a snow-white figure, closely
veiled, and wringi'ng its hands in the wild vehemence of
sorrow. Those next to whom it moved, seized with a
secret dread, started back or on one side; and owing to
their movements, the others, next to whom the white
stranger now came, were terrified still more, so as to pro-
duce confusion in the funeral train. Some of the mili-
tary escort ventured to address the figure, and attempt
to remove it from the procession, but it seemed to vanish
from under their hands, and yet was immediately seen
advancing again, with slow and solemn step, among the
followers of the body. At last, in consequence of the
shrinking away of the attendants, it came close behind
Bertalda. It now moved so slowly, that the widow was
not aware of its presence, and it walked meekly and
humbly behind her undisturbed.
This continued until they came to the churchyard,
where the procession formed a circle round the o]jen grave.
Then it was that Bertalda perceived her unbidden com-
panion, and, half in anger and lialf in terror, slie com-
manded her to depart from the knight's place of final rest.
But the veiled female, shaking her head with a gentle
denial, raised her hands towards Bertalda in lowly suppli-
cation, by which she was greatly moved, and could not but
remember with tears liow Undine had shewn such sweet-
ness of spirit on the Danube when she held out to her the
coral necklace.
Father Heilmann now motioned with his hand, and
gave order for all to observe perfect stillness, that they
might breathe a prayer of silent devotion over the body,
upon which earth had already been thrown. Bertalda
knelt without speaking ; and all knelt, even the grave-
diggers, who had now finished their work. But when tliey
arose, the white stranger had disappeared. On the spol
where she had knelt, a little spring, of silver brightness,
was gushing out from the green turf, and it kept swelling
and fiowing onward vyith a low murmur, till it almost
98
encircled the mound of the kuight's grave ; it then con-
tinued its course, and emptied itself into a calm lake,
^vhich lay by the side of the conseci'ated ground. Even
to this day, the inhabitants of the village point out the
spring ; and hold fast the belief that it is the poor de-
serted Undine, who in this manner still fondly encircles
her beloved in her arms.
