{"name":"An Answer To Thomas Paine","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1812__southcott___an_answer_to_thomas_paine.pdf","mytitle":"An Answer To Thomas Paine","mylang":"de"}
ANSWER v
• ■ . i
\
THOJUAS P A IN E S
THIRD PART
or T H E
AGE OF R E A S O N ,
PUBLISHED BY D. I. EAYOi£$
XIKXWISI T®
’ •%
S. LANE,
a <£a(btai*tft Ptttc^rr,
AT Y E O V IL , IN S O M E R S E T S H IR E ;
• - AJtn T0 ’
HEWSON CLARKE,
’ , ># EDITOR OF
THE SCOURGE,
AND LATE OF EMANUEL COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE .
fT ' '
JOANNA SOUTHCOTT.
EJJTERE® AT STATIONER’S HALL.
PRINTED BY MARCHANT. AND QALAB1N>
JNGRAM-COURT, LONDON.
Digitized by Google
* * v -v
- ▼
AN ANSWER, &c.
2 Epistle of Peter, ii. 1,2. “ There shall be
false teachers amoo£ y$u, who privily shall bring
in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that
bought thqm, and bring, upon themselves swift
destruction: and many shall follow their per­
nicious ways, by whom the way of truth shall be
evil spoken of.”
The truth of the apostle’s words is verified by
the blasphemous books that are published against
the authenticity of the Bible. In Thomas Paine’s
“ Age of Reason,” I shall point out hvs folly, and .
the darkness of his understanding concerning the
> scriptures, knowing that: his former publications
hurt many weak minds, and have made many be­
come atheists.; because his reasoning &&o artful,
and wickedly contrived to make a mock of the
scriptures, and which men, by carelessly reading,
may not discern bis folly ; and therefore they are
carried away with his pernicious doctrines. I have
heard-much talk of Ins books, and theinjury they
have done to many ;. hufcJ never read any or them, •
before the trial of Eatot^ for publishing the third
part of Thomas. Paine’s Age pf Reason, which was
brought -to me. In reading •it over at first I
- .clearly saw the artful working of the- book : but
did not at the first reading discern his folly; but,
op perusing it over with serious attention, I soon
saw from wlienee his reasoning came, which he
call?;a divine gift, given him of G od;. but his
reason, which be boasts of, came from the same
S
source as St. Paul speaks of,—*
*That in the latter
times some shall depart ■
from the faith, giving
heed to seducing spirits, which is the influence of
the d e v ila n d this influence was over Paine’s
mind, that in seeing he could not see, nor in hear­
ing he could not understand, in what manner
Satan worketh upon the minds aud hearts of men,
to bring them to depart from the faith of the
Scriptures: and as Paine says there is no devil, he
judged that the influence upon his mind was a
gift of reason, given to him from God.
1 shall begin first to shew his folly, and how
dark was his understanding, in what he says on
Isaiah, chap. liii.
Paine says,—“Isaiah employs the whole o f this
chapter in lamenting thesufferings o fsome deceased
person, o f whom he speaks very pathetically. I t is
a monody on the death of a friend; and which
Isaiah, in deploring the hard fa te and loss o f his
friend, mentions nothing ofhim but what the human
lot o f man is subject to.”
To his folly 1 answer, and prove that Paine had
no wisdom given him from the Lord': for the
ways of the Lord were unknown to him; and his
judgment on this chapter must confound those
that rely upon his wisdom.
I shall first take him upon his own grounds.
He says, “ Isaiah was lapienting the death of his
friend* But how doth he make this agree with
the following words of Isaiah.—“ He is despised
and rejected of men; and we hid as it were our
faces from him; he was despised, and we esteemed
him not.”
If Isaiah had been speaking of a friend, that had
been put to death, he would not have joined him­
self with those that despised him; but he says,
“ we esteemed him n o t a s though all joined
together in rejecting the person he is speaking of
and s’
aith, “ all we like sheep are gone astray; we
f
Digitized by
4
have turned every one to his own way; and the
Lord hath laid on him the iniquities of us all.”
Now let us look at the beginning of the chapter.
Isaiah begins with these words:—“ Who hath be­
lieved our report ? and to whom is the arm of the
Lord revealed ?” Had this been a friend of Isaiah,
as Paine has set forth, there would have been no
cause to inquire who had believed the report; be­
cause a man being put to death, in the manner-
described in this chapter, in the days of Isaiah,
must have been publicly known to them all; and
there wanted no revelation from the Lord to con­
firm the death of a mere man; but it wanted the
arm of the Lord to reveal who was to die for the
transgression of man, and by whose stripes we
were to be healed. When we come to the second
verse, we find Isaiah was speaking of a person to
fcqme; as it says, “ he shall grow up before him
as a tender plant, and as -a root out of a dry
ground;” which raeanetb, poor ground; and so
we find, that our Saviour was born of poor parents.
And the prophet adds,—“ he hath no form nor
comeliness • and when we shall see him, there is
no beauty that we should desire him ; he is de­
spised and rejected of men: as there were no
riches, greatness or grandeur for them to desire,
when he became flesh to dwell with men; there­
fore the Lord spoke by the mouth of his prophet
what would be the language of men’s hearts, when
the prophecies of.that chapter were fulfilled : and
before it sprang forth the Lord warned of it ; for
he well knew how the devil would work in the
hearts of the sons of men against his anointed,
when he became flesh to dwell on the.earth. And
now let us come to the birth of Christ; when he
was born in Bethlehem, the arm of the Lord was
revealed to the shepherds, who were keeping their
flocks by night, as the angels of the Lord appeared
to them. Luke ii. 10. But who believed their re-
V■ Digitized e
port? The arm of the Lord was revealed to
Simeon, as it was revealed to him by the Holy
Ghost, that he should not see death before he had
seen the Lord’s Christ. But who believed his re­
port ? This was despised and rejected by the Jews;
as they did not understand the meaning of this
chapter, and many others that prophesied of our
Saviour’s first coming, to suffer for the transgres­
sion of man. They only looked to the prophecies,
that speak of his coming in the clouds of heaven,
and all the saints with him, to claim the kingdoms,
that all people, nations, and.languages, should
serve him, and to bring in everlasting righteous­
ness. Now as their eye was to his coming in
power at the last, they did not observe the first,
that hs must first come to suffer; and therefore
he was despised aud rejected of them; as they
saw no greatness for them to desire him.
But Paine says, “ JfJesus Christ was the person
the church represents him to be, that which would
exclusively apply to him, must be something that
couldnot apply to any other person ; something be­
yond the line ofnature; something beyond,the lot of
mortal man; and there are no such expressions in
Isaiah liii. nor any other chapter in the Old Testa­
ment”
This shews the absurdity of his reasoning, the
darkness of his understanding, that he had not
discernment enough to see that this chapter
speaks of something more than belongs to mortal
man.
Can we be healed by the stripes of a mere man ?
or the chastisement of our peace be upon man ?
Can man make himself an offering for the sins of
others, by laying down his life for them5 Can.a
man so blindly discern what he reads, that the
prophecy in this chapter can allude to any mortal
man, to bear the sins of many, and make inter­
cession for the transgressdrs ? Tor this is the pro­
Digitized by
phecy of the chapter, that the person spoken of,
men were to be healed by in the end; and which
we must look to the Gospel, to discern what like­
ness there was in Jesus Christ, to compare with
the chapter.
I have already mentioned, how the arm of the
Lord was revealed;at his birth, to the angels, and
to Simeon; again, at his baptism, when the voice
came from heaven, saying, “ This is my beloved
Son, in whom I am well pleasedand in many
other instances. The arm of the Lord wasrevealed
to the disciples of Jesus Christ; but who believed
their report ? Were they not mocked and despised?
And when the Jews could not deny the miracles
he wrought, yet they maliciously said they were
wrought by the devil; so that he was despised
and rejected of men. I need not to enumerate all
the wonderous miracles our Saviour wrought, as
they may be seen in the Gospel; such as could
not be wrought by a mere man. Now let ns come
to his death. He told his disciples, the time drew
near that he should be offered up; and therefore
made no resistance, when the time came; neither
did he plead in his own defence; but suffered
himself to be led like a lamb to the slaughter, and
with two thieves was put to death. Here he was
numbered with the transgressors; so that the
likeness of the words*»fIsaiah we may see through
the Gospel, how they werefulfilled by Jesus Christ;
and by his resurrection we may see the truth of
the Psalms, that his body did not see corruption.
And; now to shew how the language of men
was foretold by Isaiah; I shall come to, the utords
c f the. apostles, in Acts ii. when Peter was
' preaching to the Jews, concerning our Saviour,
.whom they had crucified^ that he was the Holy
One of God, spoken of by David and the prophets,
saying, “Let allthe house of Israel know assuredly,
*
6
Digitized by Google
that God hath' made that same J*su% whom ye
have crucified, both; Lord and C h r i s t n o w
when they heard this, they were pricked in
their hearts, and said, unto Peter, and ..the rest
of the apostles, “ Men and brethren, what shall we
do?” . Then Peter said .unto them, “ Repeat, and
be baptized every one of you, in the name of Jesus
Christ, for the remission of sins. Then they gladly
received his word and .were baptzied ; and the
same day there was added unto them above three
thousand souls.”
Now;let divine light appear; and true spiritual
reasoning, and then we shall see that the language
of men’s hearts was foretold by the prophet Isaiah.
Peter’s preaching would not have pricked them to
the heart, to inquire what they should do, and to
be baptized in the name of Jesus, and believed in
him, if the language of their hearts had not been
according to the woprls of Isaiah, to say, “ Surely
he hath borne our grief, and carried our sorrows;
re was wounded for our transgression.-; he was
bruised for our iniquities; the chastisement of our
peace was upon him; and by his stripes we are
healed.” This must have been the language oftheir
hearts, or they would never have been convinced
by the apostle; but they acknowledged, that like
sheep they had gone astray, turning every one to
his own way. This was their belief, when they
were converted: and the pleasure of the Lord
prospered through the Gospel, to bring men to a
knowledge of God, by Jesus Christ; as many
dark and heathen nations were then brought in to
be Christians; and the Gentiles, who were carried
away by dumb idols, worshipping the works of
men’s hands, standing afar off from the true and
living God, were then brought nigh, by the blood
of Christ, to believe in tne prophets from the
gospel: so that the likeness of this chapter was
fulfilled, by the miracles our Saviour wrought, by
7
Digitized by
8
the faith established in the Gospel, seeing all the
works that were wrought through him, and his
resurrection from the dead, appearing unto them
in bis own body, as our Saviour had .toHpfthem
before; and so in'like manner he ascended into
glory in the presence of his disciples. But I ask,
how this could have been done by mortal man, as
it is recorded in the Gospel ? Neither is it possible
for any man upon earth to prove that the liii. chap,
of Isaiah contains no more than what might be
accomplished by any man. Can a mere man
make intercession A>r the transgressions of man?
or can man justify men, by bearing their iniquities ?
Here I have shewn the folly of Paine’sjtidgtnent
on the liii. of Isaiah: and in like mttooer ts his
judgment concerning the New Testament* which
he says, “ He holds to be fabulous, andkare shewn
to be fa lse” This assertion is like the former:
unbelief is uo proof, which I, am a living witness
Of; for there are many that have said of me, that
there was no such woman; the writings were inven­
tions of men, published in my name; and they
would not believe there was any such womau to
.write them herself; and so strong hath been this
unbelief in some, that they have said, unless they
could see me they would not believe there was
such a woman upon'earth, to write the books that
have published; but they believed it was done
by men’s inventions in my name. :This shews that
unbelief is sure to err, and how men are blinded
against the truth; and shews the'folly that is in
mankind, how ready they are to believe things
impossible, but how hard to believe the things
that are possible. But it is a thing.impossible for
men to nave invented my writings; to have pub­
lished them in my name, without being detected ;
because men would have proved there was no
such woman, and they would soon have been put
to shame and confusion. Now perfectly so I say
Digitized by t ^ o o Q i e
•f the Gospel: bad? it been~‘bnioVention-of the
disciples, and there had been ho such person as
Jesus Christ, they would soon have been detec­
ted and.put to confusion. Could they have gone
out and publicly preached to the world, and set
forth the miracles our Saviour wrought, that he
healed the sick, halt, maimed, deaf, dumb, blind,
paralytic, lunatic, demoniac; that they saw him
give sight to one that was bom blind; life to one
that had lain four days corrupting in the grave ;
fed so many thousands with a few loaves and
fishes ; walked upon the seas, and by his single
word stilled.the raging of the winds and waves?
could they have said he was unjustly accused,
wrongful^ condemned, by the priests, by the
rulers, aiid by the great men of the nation, and that
h e was crucified under Pontius Pilate the gover­
nor ? could a few fishermen, who were in no power,
dare to go out and assert such tilings publicly?
If there had been no truth in them, would they
not SQon bave-been cpnfounded ? could they have
Jreached this doctrine of Jesus, in Jerusalem, in
rtdea, in Galilee, and all the regions,round about,
if there had been no truth in their assertions?
would they not soon have been detected for im-
Eostors and liars ? and how could they have stood
efore the rulers and judges of the day to be ex­
amined concerning their faith ? and how could
they have justified theirselves. before great men,
without-proofs, of what they assented ? and there
was no enemy that could come forward against
them, to prove their assertions were false, though
they condemned the faith of the disciples for be­
lieving that Jesus Christ was the Son of God, and
by whose power the miracles were wrought. The
Jews could not deny the miracles, but .ignorantly
and wickedly placed them to the devil, which
raised (he persecution against the disciples; for,
had the Jews believed that they were wrought by
9-
Digitized by Google
the power of God, they would:have believed that
h e was the Son of God.
The above facts being provedby the testimonyof
the disciples, and so many joining with them, that
the Gospel was established in different nations,
against all the opposition of the Jews, proves it to’
be the work of God, which neither Paine’s
writings, nor all his adherents can ever overthrow:
if they will not believe it, they cannot prove it
fabulous.
Paine says,—“ There is no history written at the
time Jesus Christ is said to have lived, that speaks
of the existence of such a person,even as a man.*
But this assertion, like his others, is false;
for ancient historians have written concerning
our Saviour; and Josephus, in his history of the
Jews, before the destruction of Jerusalem, men­
tions both our Saviourand John the Baptist. In the
fourth chapter, Josephus, speaking of the-intestine
broils of the Jews, under the reign of Caesar,,says,
“ About this period there arose to notice oneJesus,<
a man of consummate wisdom, if indeed he may be
deemed a man. He was eminently celebrated for
his power of working miracles; and those who
were curious, and desirous to learn the' truth,
flocked to him in abundance. He was followed
by immense numbers of people, as well Jews as
Gentiles. This was that Christ, whom the princes
and great men of our nation accused. He was de­
livered up to the cross by Pontius Pilate; not­
withstanding which, those who originally adhered
to him never forsook him. On the third day after
his crucifixion be was seenalive: he wronghta great
number of marvellous acts: and there remain, even
to this day, a sect of people who bear the name of
Christians, who acknowledge this Christ for their
head.”
Josephus, in mentioning the disasters that befel
10
Digitized by
Herod, $ays,-r-“ It was at thistime.the prevailing
opinion, among the Jews, that the above disaster
was a proof of the vengeance of heaven against
Herod and his army, on account of John, sur?
named the Baptist, whom this tetrarch had caused
to be inhumanly murdered. Now the Baptist had
not been guilty of any crime; his custom was to
exhort the Jews to the love and practice of every
virtue.”
Here Josephus mentions both Jesus Christ and
John the Baptist, before the destruction of Jeru-
salem ; but the evidence often thousand witnesses
would not be sufficient for a man like Paine, whose
wisdom was to direct the hand of die Almighty,
in a way that could not be of any use to mankind
to instruct them, in wisdom, knowledge, or unr
derstanding; for he says,— Had the news qf
salvation by Jesus Christ been inscribed on the
face o f the sun and themoon, in characters that all
nations would have understood, the whole earth had
known it in twentyfour hours, and all nations
would have believed it.” .
Here is the folly of the man, to have directions
given as no one could read; because the strength
and power of the sun, in all its brightness and
sparkling lustre, is too great for us to look,into*
to read inscriptions, let them be put ever so plain.
But suppose, for his argument's sake, that it could
be written, and .could he read by all nations, to be
understood and been believed; what knowledge
would they draw from it,—reading the words*
Salvation by Jesus Christ, without any information
being given them, what was the meaning of Sal­
vation ; or how it came by him; or what they
were to do, to obtain this salvation ? It is like a
directing post; that is placed, we will suppose, in
Devonshire, with directions for the London road ;
and suppose a man sets out upon the road, from
the first direction, and there were no further
11
Digitized by b o o g i e
infections given on. the road, how would lie find
his way to London ? as there are so many different
roads, how would he know which road to take to
bring him to London, if no further directions were
given on the road, only the one he set out
by ? Now perfectly so I say by the Gospel;
if we had no further directions than what Paine
saitli should be written in the sun, and in the moon,
of salvation by Jesus Christ, we should have no
more knowledge how to obtain that salvation,
than a man would know how to find the way to
London by the first direction, if he had no further
directions given. And how could man know
what was the love of God in Christ Jesus, to
bring that salvation to him? Neither would he
have any knowledge from such directions, what
Was his state in the beginning, for what ends be
was created, or how he fell from that perfection
he was created in, to be renewed by Jesus Christ;
neither would he know what salvation meant. If
nothing more was revealed, the minds of men
would only be bewildered, to know the mean?
ing of the word salvation.
• And now I shall come to another observation of
Paine’s. He says—“ The word of God is the cre­
ation we behold; and this word o f God revealeth to
man all that is necessary for man to know of his
Creator.”
How blind and absurd is such reasoning! what
can he suppose God created man for ? to be like
the beasts that perish? to sink into nothing?
Then he might say, man wants no more know­
ledge ofhis Creator, than the beasts of the fielddo;
but if God created man for nobler ends, superior
to them, for his honour and glory ; and designed
him for a future state; that we have a soul to be
saved, when the body is no more; then it is the
wisdom and goodness of God to give a further
revelation to man, what is his righteous will con­
12
Digitized by Google
n ,
cerning us, than what can be seen in the erea -
tion; and which the scriptures furnish us with
how the Lord, in all ages of the world, hath
made himself known to mankind, what h e cre­
ated us for, and what heaven of happiness the
Lord hath prepared for them that love and serve
him—the joys of heaven, the glories of a future
state, and the reward to those that love and fear
God, to draw our hearts unto him—that he is a
present help in the time of trouble-^-that the sor­
rows of this life will not always last, but that
there is a world of joy, prepared for the righte­
ous, that will last for ever: for in heaven there is
fulness of joy; and at God’s right hand there are
pleasures for evermore. There is comfort and
consolation to be found throughout the scrip­
tures, for every Christian reader, to support them
through all the troubles and trials of this life; so
that we may find joy in the midst of sorrow, in
reading the scriptures, that Paine hath despised ; #'
and we find a revelation, to give us light and un-
derstanding of the just decrees of the Lord, con­
cerning us, that we could never find out by look­
ing at the creation, if we had no further revela-
lation given us. But were I to inquire of a man,
like Paine, why the Lord created man in the be­
ginning, and never revealed his will concerning
him, what wisdom, as a God, what love, as a
Creator of the universe, or what regard for the
souls, that are created, can a man like him point
out?
But one observation Paine made, which I shall
not omit noticing. Though he denies all prophe­
cies being given, yet he says—4
*There is none but
a God can inspire afore-knowledge of things, and
afterwards fu lfil them”
Here I answer, that the*fulfilment of our Sa­
viour’s words, in Luke xxi. was a clear prophecy;
for he foretold the Jews what destruction should
come uoon them ; for he said, theyshould-ikll
Digitized by L , o o Q l e
by the edge of the sword, and should be led away*
captive into all nations; and Jerusalem should be
trodden down of the Gentiles,' until the times of
the Gentiles be fulfilled. If there wanted any
proof of the truth of the ^gospel, the Jews, to
this present day, are a clear standard to confirm
it. Here is a prophecy, which must be allowed
to be foretold by the knowledge of God, and
fulfilled by his power. There is a singular re­
mark, which Josephus mentions, in the destruc­
tion of Jerusalem, made by Titus; he saith—
-
“ Had we not been aided by the immediate in­
terposition of heaven, rt would have been impossi­
ble that we should ev.er have possessed ourselves of
these fortresses: in a word, it was God who
fought for us, and aided us against the Jews; for
a deed hath been accomplished, which the hands
of men, nor force of engines, could never have
effected.”
Therefore, as clear as the day-light, or the
brightness of the sun, the Jews stand a proof of
the Gospel, which carnal reasoning, that is dark­
ened by the wiles of the devil, cannot look into
or understand. But this our Saviour foretold, in
his Gospel, what would be the infidelity of man,
at his second coming; for he saith, “ As the days
of Noah were, so snail also the coming of tne
Son of man be.”
In the days of Noah they were so full of infi­
delity, and unbelief of any revelation being given
from the Lord, that they mocked the warning
that was given to Noah, till the deluge came and
swept them away: and this infidelity is fast in­
creasing, by the deists and atheists; for, as I
have already observed, from the prophet Isaiah,
the Lord revealed to the prophet what would be
the minds and hearts of men, when our Saviour
came to give up his life for the transgression of
man; so, in like manner, our Saviour foretold
what would be the minds and hearts of men in
14
Digitized by b o o g i e
the latter days, at his second coming; how infi­
delity would so fast increase, that except the days
should be shortened, there should no flesh be
saved; and I ath truly convinced of the truth of
the words, that were it to go on, till the expira­
tion of the six thousand years, men would be­
come like, the antediluvian world, to be destroyed
as they were: but as our Saviour said the days
should be shortened, we now see, while there is
some* faith remaining on the earth; we see the
likeness of the parables appear, that some are
like the wise virgins, waiting for the Bridegroom;
and like the wise servants, waiting for tfie coming
of their Lord ; which our Saviour said should
enter into the joy of their Lord, at his coming:
and for their sakes the days should be shortened.
Now we see both classes of people plainly before
us, as our Saviour foretold; with the signs be­
fore us—wars and tumults, distresses and per­
plexities of nations, which our Saviour said should
be prior to his coming, in power and great glory,
to bring in the redemption of man; iso that the
people of both denominations, and the- signs of
the times, stand in one likeness with the Gospel;
and therefore I may say, as our Saviour said, ye
hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the skies,
and of the earth, but how is it that ye cannot
discern these times ? I am sorry to find there are
too many of this description of people, that can
discern the works of creation, but deny the word
'o f truth contained in the scriptures.
For Paine says, “ Middleton believes in his Crea­
tor ; but instead of reposing hisfaith on books, by
whatevernames they may becalled, whether OldTes­
taments, or New, hefixes the creation as the great
original standard, by which eoery other thing
called the word or work of Ood is to be tried.'’
Now, from his observation, let the scriptures
be tried by the standard lie fixed. It is said,
“ In the beginning the Lord created the heaitetrs
15
Digitized by
and the earth: and. God said, Let there be light;
and there was light; and God spid, Let there be
lights in the firmament of the heaven, to divide
the day from the night; and let them be for
signs, apd 'for seasons, and for days, and years;
and let them be for lights in the firmament
of the heaven, to give light upon the earth; and
it was so: and God made two great lights, the
greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light
to rule the night; he made the stars also : and
God set them m the firmament of the heavens, to
five light upon the earth : and God made the
easts of the earth after their kind, and cattle
after their kind, and e\sery thing that creepeth
upon the earth after his kind: and God said,
Let us make man in our image, after our likeness;
and let them have dominion over every creeping
thing that creepeth upon the earth.”
Now, whether the Bible be allowed to be the
word of God, or not; the truth of the above
cannot be denied, as we see it in the work of
God: the sun to give light by day, and the
moon by night, and the lesser lights in the stars;
and^man, we see, is created with understanding
very different from the beasts that perish; and
the Lord hath given man wisdom to arm himself
with weapons of defence, to have power over the
beasts, that are made in strength stronger than
man; yet wisdom is given to man to defend him­
self, to have dominion over them. Thus far the
truth can be proved from the scriptures, which
I call the Word of God ; and they will bear to be
tried by the creation, which is the Work of
G o d . I shall begin with the light in the firma­
ment, to compare with man; for if man was
created superior to the beasts, with wisdom and
understanding, he must have a light given him
from God ; as there is light in the firmament, so
there must be light given to man; and as the
light of the stars, to give light in darkness, so in
16
Digitized by L i O O Q i e
like manner the Lord hath revealed a light to
man, to come to a knowledge of God ; therefore
the heavens are a standard to men, whereby the
works of creation can be proved, and his words
be proved. Man I shall compare to the dawning
of the day, before the'sun ariseth in its splendor,
to shew from whence the light proceeded; per­
fectly so we see from the creation, that the Lord
created man with light and knowledge, superior
to all that was made upon the earth; for as the
rising of the sun is after the dawn of the morn­
ing, so hath the Lord arisen upon man, to give
knowledge and understanding to him, by the re­
velation of his Spirit. Let us trace further the
state of man: the Lord gave him a tongue and
voice, and understanding. This we see in the
works of God, which 1 shall compare with the
word of G od: the ‘^prd communed with man;
the Lord give a command to man; and he placed
him in the garden of Eden, in a state of happi­
ness; but when by temptations man fell, by dis­
obeying. the command the Lord had given him;
then the bright sunshine of his happiness was fled
from him, and darkness overtook him. But as
there is a light before the rising of the sun, so
there is some light left after the setting of the
sun; and perfectly so we find, from the word of
God, was the state of man after his fall; for
though the Lord reproved him for his disobe­
dience, and cast him out of the garden of Eden;
yet he left some light for man, by the promise
made in the fall; so that he was not left without
hope: and we find, from the word of God, the
Lord accepted Abel’s offering, and did not forget
the works of his hands; but when menincreased,
they grew hardened in sin, and provoked the Lord /
to anger against them, which is said in the wordojf
God, and which I shall compare to the works of
God increation; for, as the stars areplaced forlights
B
17
Digitized by b o o g i e
to man, in the firmament, for signs, and for sea*
sons, for days, and for years; so tbe Lord gave
a light to Noah, by the visitation of his Spirit:'
he made him as a star to give light to man, what
was the will of G od} and what judgments the
Lord would bring upon them, if they went on to
provoke him to anger—that the Lord would de­
stroy man whom he had created: and, for a sign,
he ordered Noah to build the ark, for days and
years that should roll on, before the Lord put his
threatenings in execution. So that he made him
as a star, to shine amongst a dark benighted peo­
ple, that were hardened by sin:. to Noah it was
like the dawn of the morning; because he be­
lieved in his word ; but to them like a light that
shined in darkness; they did hot discern from
whence the light came, till thick darkness over­
took them by the deluge; and then the truth of
the words was like tbe rising sun to Noah, to
-prove the light revealed to him was from the Lord.
In this likeness I shall prove the scriptures
standing in the likeness of the firmament: the Lord
hath given a light to his prophets in every age, by
revealing his will to them, which was but like
.the dawn of the morning, before the Lord arose,
like tbe bright sunshine, to. fulfil them: and when
they were for promised blessings, it was like the
sun arising in its splendor, which men discerned,
-when the truth appeared; but if light be given,
by a revelation of threatened judgments, placed
for days, months, or for. years, and men refused
: to come to the light, or listen to the voice of the
prophets to whom the light was given; then clouds
: and thick darkness overtook them, like the set­
ting of the sun in a.storm; so that in the perfect
manner we see things stand, in tbe creation of
. the firmament above, we may see the likeness
'. through ‘the scriptures of the word of God given
to- man in every age. In this maimer we may
18
Digitized by b o o g i e
trace the scriptures through, by the light that was
given to the prophets, from the. promises and
threatenings, as men obeyed or disobeyed ; and .
these different changes we may see in the firma­
ment—the heavens filled with clouds and thick
darkness, storms and tempests, thunder and light­
ning; as though the whirlwind of the Lord was
sent forth with fury, and man and beasts .have
been hurt thereby. This we have seen, on the
one hand; while, on the other, we often see the
weather mild* with sunshine and moderate rains*
to bring forth the fruits of the earth, which are
sent for blessings to men. So that in one likeness
his word and works stand together, to shew his
goodness and his power; and did men seriotisly
contemplate them both together, and how differ­
ent man was created from the beasts that perish,
to have a spiritual sense-and knowledge of God
revealed to him, they would discern him in his
word and works.
. But as Paine allows no revelation to be given
from God, only the natural sense given us from
the creation;. in this opinion he makes no differ­
ence between man and the .dumb animals; be­
cause in them we see sense and understanding
given to every one after their kind. If we look
to the birds of the air, we see a natural sense and
understanding given to them, how to build their
nests to secure their young; and a natural reason
given to them, how to hatch their young, and af­
terwards how to feed them.’ And the same natu­
ral sense we may see in the bees, what under­
standing is given tp them to, gather honey from
every herb and flower, tq make the honey-comb
in the summer to provide for themselves in the
winter; and we may see, from the curious man­
ner the honey-combs are laid,' what sense is given
to them. So that after their kind we see natural
sense is given to every animal upon the earth. If
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
so
we look to dogs, what sagacity may We' see \a
them ! and not only their affections to their
young, but a faithfulness to their masters, that
in many instances can scarcely be equalled. So
that we may trace the animal creation acting with
sense after their kind, for their awn preservation
and necessity. Even the very ants, that is so
small an insect, will provide their meat iri the
summerto lay it up for the winter; which is a mo­
ral lesson to mankind. I might fill a volume in­
bringing forward all the sense we see in the brute
creation; how they all act after their kind, by
the natural instinct placed in them ; but they go
no further than the natural sense given them; but
to man thereJs given wisdom and understanding,
temporal and spiritual, which the Lord has re­
vealed to man by his Spirit, that he may con­
template on the divine word and works of G od;
not only in creation, but preservation, salvation,
and redemption; which carries his mind and heart
beyond this earth below, to adore and reverence
his Creator: and from this he is taught to believe
that there is a future state of everlasting happi­
ness for all those that love and fear God. But
this discernment is not iu all men ; for there is as
much difference in mankind, as^there is between
the dove and the serpent, between the lamb and
the tiger. Let us look to those that are good
men, and discern what noble spirits, what feeling
hearts, what love, they shew to God and their
fellow creatures—mercy, pity, and compassion,
to make' others happy, as well as theirselves,
which may be traced amougst mankind, were all
theft virtues to be enumerated and placed toge­
ther; while, on the other hand, we see in bad
men every evil, like the serpent for its sting, like
the tiger for ferocity : witness the inhuman mur­
ders, acts of ingratitude, malice, and savage cru­
elty, we have seen in mankind towards their fel-
Digitized by b o o g i e
.
low creatures. If we deeply contemplate how
great is the difference between good men and bad
men ; the one acting with every tender feeling,
the other with every cruelty and hardness of
heart ; so that the difference is as great as light
from darkness; how can this be accounted fbf,
by looking only at the works of God, without
we look to the revealed word of God, in which
we see from the beginning that God, created
man after his likeness? but how soon did the
subtlety of the devil, by working in the serpent,
draw away the heart of min in the beginning
from his Creator 1'and how strong did the temp­
tations of the devil work upon Cain to murder
his innocent brother! The fall of man sheweth
plainly there was an evil power that tempted man
to disobedience against his Creator. Thus we
learu, from the word of God, how the evil came
at first; and as we trace the scriptures through,
we may cleanly discern, how these different spi­
rits were seen in mankind: for, as our Saviour said
in his Gospel, “ His servants ye are to whom ye
yield yourselves to obey: no servant can serve
two masters.” So that we are taught, from the
word of God, that some are desirous to be in­
fluenced by the Spirit of the Lord, to be guided
and guarded by him, to know his will and obey
it, having a desire for the honour and glory of
God, and a love to their fellow-creatures, by do­
ing good one to the other; and this we are taught,
from the scriptures, is acting in some likeness of
our Creator, which proceeds from the Spifit of
God working with the spirits of men, to them
that serve God ; but, on the other hand, those
that resist the good, and give themselves up to all
the wiles of the devil, to practice every evil word
and work, they grow hardened in sin, and act in
every cruelty, like the master they are influenced
by, and to whom they yield fheirsclvcs to obey;
Digitized by L i O O Q L e
so that the difference we see in mankind is easy to
be accounted forby the written word of God, which
is impossible to be accounted for any other way;
as there is so much difference in mankind, ofgood
and evil, which proves that there are two invi­
sible powers to work upon the hearts of men.
In this mankind stand as living witnesses of the
truth of the scriptures, that there is a devil, which
Paine denies; but he need not to have brought
forward either Middleton or Cicero, deists like
himself, to confirm his judgment being right,
because they agree with him in denying any reve­
lation from the Lord being given to men; that
the creation alone is all that is necessary for man
to know.
To his words I answer, it is all that such men
have a desire to know; and tbis can be proved
from the scriptures, as well as from Cicero, Mid­
dleton, or Paine. Pharaoh had no desire to know
God, any further than'the creation: it was his
own greatness, and his own cruelty, to shew his
power over the children of Israel, first in murder­
ing them, that they should not increase, next in
his oppression over them, that^he wanted to in­
dulge himself in; and therefore, like these wri­
ters, he despised the revelation from the Lord, or
any warning being sent to him, to free the chil­
dren of Israel from his oppression and cruelty;
and therefore Pharaoh said, “ Who is the Lord,
that I should obe^ his voice, to let Israel go ? I
know not the Lord, neither will I let Israel go.”
And such characters as Pharaoh we may find
throughout the scriptures, which Paine calls the
%ise men in every age, who looked to the crea­
tion alone ; for that was all that was necessary for
man to know.
And now I shall shew what these wise men did,
that despised any revelation from the Lord being
given to the prophets, but trusted to their own
22
Digitized by
wisdom, and followed the imagination of their
own hearts. They made gods or gold and*silver
to worship; they made images of wood and stone
to worship; they sacrificed unto devils, and not
unto God ; they sacrificed their sons and their
daughters unto devils ; and shed innocent blood,
even, the blood of their sons and their daughters.
All these abominable crimes were committed by
men who despised the knowledge of God, or any
revelation given to his prophets. These men had
the visible creation in their view,; but what did
they learn or practise from it ? and what did their
wisdom bring them to, but like Paine and his
companions, who try to bring this present age to
their belief, to reject the scriptures, as being the
word of God ? , In like manner those heathen
nations influenced the minds of the children of
Israel to follow after them in their idolatrous wor­
ship and abominable practices ; for we find that
Jereboam ordained him priests for the high places,,
and for the devils, and for the calves, which he
had made ;—Ahaz burnt his children in the fire,
after the abomination of the heathens, whom the
Lord had cast out. So; if we want to see what
deists and atheists are, we need, not go to Cicero,
or to Middleton, to confirm the opinion of Paine;
because we find, that such men have existed
throughout the former generations, who believed
no power or wisdom superior to their own, and
have used their authority to bring others to their
standard; which we find by Nebuchadnezzar.
In Daniel, iii. chapter, we may see what was
the pride of Nebuchadnezzar, who wanted to im­
press upon the minds of the people an elevated
sense of his greatness, as Paine says his motive
has been to give man an elevated sense of his
own character; and, in like manner, we inay see
in the days of Darius, vith chapter: but what
followed them ? They brought on their own de­
23 '
Digitized by G o o g l e
struction, and kindled the wrath of God and man
against them ; and the power of God was made
manifest. So there is no elevated state, that man
can set up in himself, but the Lord by his power
can overthrow, and prove that there is a God
who dwelleth in the heavens above and amongst
the inhabitants of the earth below; and by his
prophets he hath made his will known, and his
power known. Now these deists,-who boast oftheir
wisdom and reason that they say God hath given
them, do not discern that their own characters
and likeness are placed before them in the scrip­
tures, which they despise. I have brought for­
ward these men, to shew the folly in those deists,
who say, that beholding the creation is all the
knowledge necessary to know of God. What
knowledge was there in these men in viewing the
creation ? I am sorry to see in this present age,
that there are so many in mind and heart hard­
ened in sin to mock the scriptures and the pro­
phets of the Lord, like those before mentioned,
who now join in the same principles of infidelity,
as Paine hath set forth in nis book.
I was deeply struck with a paragraph in the
newspaper, dated May 31st,, 1312, under the
title of a Picture of the Times, in which it says,
“ If is dreadful to find ip a country like this,
which possesses every natural advantage, and
which seems apparently calculated for the happi­
ness of the human race, that so much misery
should be found; the more so when it is considered
that that misery, overwhelming as it is. falls to the
unavoidable lot of the great majority of the people.
The sudden and most exorbitant advance in the
price of every necessary of life, may well confound
our understanding, and strike us with dismay; be­
cause, under this calamitous state of things, we
know not which way to turn, or bow to act.” In
this manner the writer hath set forth all the dis­
tress and misery that is now felt in the land.
24
Digitized by b o o g i e
In the same paper we see the following account:
u Tuesday, Daniel Isaac Eaton stood in the pil­
lory, between twelve and one o’clock, agreeably
to his sentence, for publishing the Third Part ot'
Paine’s Age of Reason. Instead of pelting, as is
usual in similar cases, every individual appeared
more eager than another to cheer and encourage
the unfortunate sufferer. At intervals he ad­
dressed the multitude, who huzzaed him, as if
they had been complimenting a candidate at a
popular election.”
Now compare these two paragraphs together.:
the Picture of the Times, complaining of the- bur­
den, and the scarcity that is in the land; and
then view'the conduct of the public, in caressing
a man for doing all in his power to suppress the
Avord of God; then-what blessings have A
ve any
right to expect from God, to relieve our burdens,
when we see the scriptures despised, and men so
encouraged to write against the word of God ?
Have we uot room to tear, that these crying sins
will bring down the just judgments of God, to
increase the burden and the distresses upon our
nation ? Therefore we have to fear the judgments,
that are begun, will hasten on heavier upon us, if
men do not repent of the evil of their ways r
They complain of their burden ; but not of their .
sins. Let them look to the scriptures, which they
have despised, and they will find, in all ages*
that these sins in mocking and disregarding the
word of God, sent to then) by the prophets of <
bid, brought down the judgments of the Lord .
upon them; and now in these days we see the
same stand together; the scriptures publicly
mocked, and the heavy burden and affliction now
complained of: how clearly do men see the rod*
but do not fear him that hath appointed it, to
have these evils turned away, which they allow
they have now to fear! After enumerating the
25
Digitized by b o o g i e
burdens upon the land, they say, “ Dare we lift
up our eyes to behold the coming prospect? Then
we meet the height of our calamity. Evils infi­
nitely greater still stare us in the face, and horri­
bly advance with rapid step.”
Seeing these dangers and evils together, is it
not time for the ministers to awake, as men out
of sleep, and for the priests to mourn between
the porch and the altar ? Will not these sins of
the people provoke the Lord to anger? What
must the hearts of the people be, that could so
publicly shew theirselves to be at enmity against
the word of God? This proves how fast iniquity
is abounding, infidelity is increasing, and the
truth of the Gospel fulfilling; therefore it is time
for those that fear the Lord to take the advice of
the prophet: Malachi iii. 16.—Joel ii. 17.—Da­
vid, in the Second Psalm.
If we wish to prevent the blow that we see ad­
vancing with rapid strides, let us learn of the
people of Nineveh, least they rise up in judgment
against us. The Lord threatened the people of
Nineveh, by the prophet Jonah, and they re­
pented, and cried mightily unto God, and said,
“ Who can tell if G.od will turn and repent, and
turn away from his fierce anger, that we perish
not.” And God. saw their works, that they
turned from their evil way, and God repented of
the evil that he had said that he would do unto
them, and he did it not. N ineveh repented,
from the warning being given to them ; but we
have had warning long given to us, and now we see
the threatened dangers begin to appear; yet still
the •warning is mockedand depsised; but I fear that
infidelity and unbelief will bring down the judg­
ments of God upon the land.
For I clearly see that the wretched manner the
Calvinists bring forward the scriptures strength­
ens infidelity; as many have told me, that from
26
Digitized by Google
the Calvinistic doctrine, they could not believe
the scriptures, to judge there was a Cod to be the
author of all evil, as represented by them ; and
which doctrine is most shamefully set forth in a
book written against me, by S. Lane, a Calvinist
preacher.
In the title page of his book, he compares me
to Jezebel, in the 2d Book of Kings; but I an­
swer, there is no likeness, that he can prove be­
tween me and her. Jezebel was no prophetess,
but a despiser of the prophets of the Lord, and
caused them to be put to death, even at the time
when she saw the famine in the land, which the
Lord had threatened by his prophets, for the
crimes of Ahab, in worshipping Baal; forsaking
the Lord, and rejecting the word of God, ,sent
by his prophets. The wonderous works of God,
which he wrought by the prophet Elijah, in send­
ing firefrom heaven, did not convince Jezebel; but
she wanted him to be put to death; she also hired
false witnesses, sons of Belial, to stone Naboth
to death, to gain his vineyard. In like manner
Lane hath proved himself to have acted as Jeze­
bel did,.by taking the false witnesses of others to
join with himself in condemning me and the
Spirit that visits me; and he hath clearly shewn
that he is a despiser of prophecies; and is as
much enraged against me, for being visited by
the Lord, to give the warning, as Jezebel was.
Therefore let him see who stands most in- the
likeness of Jezebel. I leave the readers to judge
for themselves.
Lane hath brought forward the false assertions,
published by Hann in 1809, and Vincent, which
I have already refuted in my former publications:
Seventh part Explanations of the Bible, Contro­
versy with the Worldly Wise, parts first and se­
cond. The forgeries and lies, concerning Mary
Digitized by
28
Bateman, are contradicted in a book, entitled,
The Picture of the World.
These false inventions of others Lane hath
again set forth to the public, with his own addi­
tions of falsehood and abuse, which he has very
liberally bestowed upon me: but let him not say
“ he hath contented himself with the naked sword
of truth, a bag, a sling, and a few smooth stones
gathered out of the brook,” when I can prove it
is the sword of malice and false inventions, ga­
thered out of books, and his own falsehoods added
to the others, that he has come forward with, per­
verting the scriptures to dishonour 'God thereby.
After boldly asserting my visitation to be from
the devil, he casts the blame upon the Lord. In
the 2 and 3 pages of his book he saith, “ Jehovah
told Ahab that he would be a lying spirit m his
mouth, that he might go forth and deceive the
people; or he would suffer a lying spirit to enter
his heart, in order to fulfil his (God’s) eternal pur­
pose and unalterable decrees. (See 1 Kings, xxii.
22.) So the Lord has suffered the devil to enter into,
and take full possession of Joanna’s heart, in order
to fulfil his own purpose and eternal decree, in her
final destruction, who will in the pnd glorify God
in her final damnation.”
. Here is the judgment of a man who pretends to
plead for the honour and justice of God; but I
would wish to inquire of such men, what an earthly
judge would say, if a prisoner were brought to the
bar, and the counsellor should begin to plead in
like manner, to cast the whole blame on the judge
for deceiving the prisoner, saying, this man hath
done the deed which the judge decreed he should,
by giving an artful villain power to go in his name
to betray the mat), to fulfil the decrees the judge
had made before in his final destruction ; and now
he would have the honour of passing the sentence
of death upon him. Would not the judge condemn
Digitized by Google
the counsellor for pleading thus ? If not, the juty
must condemn the judge, and acquit the prisoner
at the bar.
In the likeness of this parable, Lane hath
brought forward the scriptures, to make the Lord
an unjust judge, and deny the gospel he professes
to believe. Our Saviour saith in Matthew vii.—
“ Ask and it shall be given you; seek and ye
shall find; knock and it shall be opened unto you;
for every one that asketh, receiveth ; and he that
seeketh, findeth. What man is there of you, whom,
if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? or
if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent ? If ye
then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto
your children, how much more shall your Father
which is in heaven give good things to them that
ask of him ?” I may say with St. Paul, “ By the
grace of God, I am what I am ; and his grace,
which was bestowed upon me, was not in vain.
1 know in whom 1have believed, and my cause is
in the hand of a just and righteous judge.**
But in the case of Ahab we must discern what
he was. I shall place the parable another Way
to an earthly judge, having a criminal brought
before him, that had often broke the laws, often
been reproved by the judge, who shewed mercy
to him, while he threatened him that the severity
of the law should come upon him, if he did not
forsake the evil of his ways; so if the judge’s for­
bearance with him, in shewing him mercy, did
but harden the criminal the more, to go on break­
ing the laws, then the judge would be justified in
passing sentence upon him, and he must acknow­
ledge he was justly condemned.
And this was the likeness in the case of Ahab,
who broke all the laws of God, worshipped idols,
and did more to provoke the Lord God of Israel
to anger, than all the kings of Israel that were
before him; and the Lord sent Elijah the prophet
29
Digitized by
so
to reprove him; and the Lord sent the famine
which he threatened, to shew Abab that the
power was in the God of heaven, and not in Baal,
that he worshipped.
Thus did the Lord try Ahab different ways j
yet his heart was hardened' against the prophets
of the Lord ; and he called them his enemies,
because they were sent to reprove him. But when
he was going up to Ramoth-Gilead to battle
Ahab had no desire to have Micaiah called ; it was
Jehoshaphat’s desire to have an inquiry made of
Micaiah, as a prophet of the Lord; but Ahab said
he hated him : for he prophesied no good concern­
ing him, but evil. Therefore the Lord permitted
Micaiah to answer Ahab, at first, after the manner
of the other prophets; but when Ahab adjured
Micaiah to speak the truth in the name of the Lord $
then he told Ahab how the prophets were deceived,
and what would befal him, if«he went to battle..
But of what use was it to Ahab ? he did not regard,
the words of the prophet; but ordered him to be
taken and put into prison, and to be fed with bread
of affliction and water of affliction, until he returned
again in peace. And Micaiah said, “ If thou re­
turn at all in peace, the Lord hath not spoken by
me." It was but mockery in Ahab to adjure the
prophet to tell him the truth in the name of, the
Lord, and when he had told him the words of the
Lord concerning him, then to put him in prison. In
this he mocked both God and man; therefore it was
for the sake of Jehoshaphat, who first made the in­
quiry, to have Micaiah brought forward, and re­
proved Ahab for despising the prophet—it was for
his sake the truth was told to Ahab, what the end
would be to him, that Jehoshaphat might see why
Ahab was deceived, as his heart was after the false
prophets of Baal; and the Lord shewedJehoshaphat
the truth, by the message he sent to Ahab by
Digitized by Google
Micaiah ; and Jehoshaphat was preserved in the
battle, but Ahab was slain.
Now let men discern the difference between
these two kings: Jehoshaphat relied uppn the pro­
phets of the Lord ; but' Ahab did not. We find in
2 Chronicles, xx chap, when the enemies in great,
multitudes were coming against Jehoshaphat, he
sent to inquire of the Lord; and the Lord answeredl
him by his prophet, that he should not be afraid, nor
dismayed, by reason of the great multitudes; for
the battle was the Lord’s: and Jehoshaphat believed
in the words, and said unto.them, “ Hear me,0
Judah, and inhabitants of Jerusalem, believe in the
Lord your God, so shall ye be established; believe
his prophets, so shall ye prosper.” The chapter
telleth the great deliverence the Lord worked for
them that day, to cause the enemy to destroy, one
another, and preserved those that trusted in him.
This l have explained for the sake of the readers,
who may be stumbled at these texts of scripture,
in the way and. manner that Lane hath brought
them forward, without discerning, in the case ojf
Ahab and Pharaoh, how they first hardened their
hearts against the Lord : for Pharaoh said, “ Who
is the Lord, that I should obey his voice, to let
Israel go ? I know not the Lord; neither will I let
Israel go.” Ahab’s heart was the same: therefore
the Lord gave them up to theii own deceivings.
And this we. mjay find throughout the scriptures:
where men refused to believe his .word, they fete
his power ; 'but concerning those that believed in
the Lord, the tenor of the whole scriptures runs
thus: “ Turn unto me, and I will turn unto you,
saith the Lord: come and let us reason together,
saith the Lord: though your sins be as scarlet, they
shall be as white as snow; though they be red like
crimson, they shall be as wool:—If ye be willing
and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land;
bpt if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured.” ,
34
Digitized by G o o g l e
On these conditions the scriptures stand: but the
decrees of the Lord from the foundation of the
world, which the Calvinists place to Election and
Reprobation, in every age, is wbat they do not un­
derstand. They do not understand what were’the
decrees of the Lord in the beginning; and how
the promise was made in the fall; or for what end’
s
Christ was said to be the Lamb slain from the foun­
dation of the world— That in the dispensation of
the fulness o£.times he might gather together in one
all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and
which are on earth, even in him.” Ephesians i. 10.
13. “ In whom ye also trusted, after that ye heard
the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation ; in
whom also, after that ye believed, ye were sealed
with the Holy Spirit of Promise—Which is the ear­
nest of our inheritance, until the redemption of the
purchased possession, unto the praise of his glory.’’
Here stands the election of being chosen from the
foundation of the world: the decrees of the Lord
were fixed, that whatever arts Satan used to work
in man, to rebel against God, to be at enmity
against his Creator, while Satan’s power remains to
tempt men to sin ; yet the decrees of the Lord were
fixed in the beginning to cut offhis power, and
bring in the redemption of man; which may be
seen from the promise made in the fall, and the
tree of life being preserved for man.
This is the. meaning of e le ction and r e pr o ­
bation, when the Lord conies to elect man to what
he created Mmfbr atfirst—to make him in his own
image at the last; and to cast out the adversary,
who was reprobated from the beginning ; being at
enmity against God, he worketh in men to be the
same, by tempting them to sin against him: but
our Saviour said ne came to seek and to save
that which was lost; and by theJail man was lost:
our Saviour came to take away the sin of the world :
aud he said that the prince of this world should be
32
Digitized by Google
ss
cast out. Then will the election of man be com-
pleated, and the words of the apostle be fulfilled,
“ That in the dispensation of the fulness of times
he might gather together in one all things in Christ,
both which are in heaven and on earth, even in him.”
1 Timothy ii. 4, 5, 6, 7. “ Who will have all
men to be saved, and come unto the knowledge of
the truth: for there is one God, and one Mediator
between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who
gave himself a ransom for all, to be testified in due
time; whereunto I am ordained a preacher, and an
apostle. I speak the truth in Christ and lie not.”
Here stands the election before the foundation of
of the world, that Paul was preaching of, to bring
in the redemption of man, when the due time was
come. The first fruits of the Spirit were given to
the apostles, to have some knowledge of what the
end should be ; and those that were chosen and
stood faithful were like the elect, to be saved; but
we may discern how many fell back, that followed
for a while ; but it is those that endure to the end
who will be saved; and they may be called the
elect of God, when they are fully redeemed by his
dying blood. Then will the words of the apostle
be fulfilled: Romans viii. “ Who shall lay any
thing to the charge of God’s elect ? It is God that
justifieth; who is he that condemned) ? It is Christ
that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is
even at the right hand of God, to make intercession,
for us.” Now, when this intercession is made for
all, that the redemption of man hath taken place,
then it is.God that justifieth : who is he that con*
demneth, ifChrist gave himself a ransom for,all, to
die for the transgression of man, pitying his weak­
ness and knowing his adversary ? Who shall con*
demn when his adversay is cast out ? for then we
shall be made one with Christ, and Christ with us;
to walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit: for
then will men live in him, and he in them. $ut
c
Digitized by b o o g i e
54
now I ask mankind, who say they are the elect of
God, can they come before the-Lord and say,'
that all their words and deeds are justified by the
Lord? If they say this, they deceive theirselves,
and the truth is not in them. How can it be said,
that the Lord will be,clear in judging, and just in
condemning, if he justify every evil in a man, be»
cause he saith he is elected to be saved; and eel the
same time condemn an uprigki mail, who relies on
the mercies and promises of the Lord, and the love of
God which is in Christ jesus, equalwith thosetoho
say they are elected; and have as great faith in the
merits of Christ, in giving his life a ransom for man,
trusting in him for their salvation, relying upon the
promises of the Ix>rd, that whosoever come unto
him that he will in no ways cast them out; that he
came to seek and.to save that which was lost;
that his mercy extends unto all that come unto him
in true faith, according to his gospel ? Now I ask
mankind, what they make of the gospel, if they
judge believers are to be cast out, because they
believe the word of God, that he willeth not the
death of him that dieth, but rather hath pleasure in
them that repent and turn ? Will the Lord,condemna
man fo r a faith like this, and justify the faith i f
another who denies the mercies and goodness of god
to all returning sinners f Then the scriptures must
be null, and void, by the way men place election.
But to understand the scriptures aright, we must
compare spiritual things with spiritual things, and
one scripture with another; then we may under­
stand the meaning of the apostle’s words: Romans
v. 18. “ Therefore as by the offence of one, judg­
ment came upon all men to condemnation ; even
so by the righteousness of one, the free gift came.
upon all men unto justification of life.”—Sothat the
free gift is held out to all; but not accepted of by
all. Our Saviour said in his gospel, I come .that ye
might have life : but they would not come unto hinq,
Digitized by Google
- that they might have life. The invitation of our
Lord, and his mercy to all returning sinners, isheld
out through the gospel to all them that believe:
then, who is the elect, that are looking to him for
salvation ? All stands alike of them that believe;
but election and reprobation standJor the end ; and
where we find the election spoken of in the
scriptures, the redemption is also spoken of.
The first place I have discerned the elect men­
tioned is in Isaiah xlii. 1, 6. “ Behold my Servant
^vhom I uphold, mine Elect in whom my soul de-
lighteth. I have put my Spirit upon him; he
shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles. I the
Lord have called thee in righteousness, and will.
hold thine hand, and will keep thee, and give
thee for a covenant of the people, for a light to the
Gentiles.” Here let men discern who is the Elect,
and for what covenant of the people our Saviour
gave up his life for the transgression of man ; but
when that covenant is fulfilled, then will take place
the words of the prophet, in the Ixv chap. 17, 18,
19, 22. “ For behold, I create new heavens, and a
new earth; and the former shall not be remembered,
nor come into mind. But be ye glad and rejoice
for ever in that which I create ; for behold, I create
Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy. And
I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and joy in my people,,
and the voice of weeping shall be no more heard
in her, nor the voice ofcrying. And my elect shall
long enjoy the works of their hands.”
These are promises to be fulfilled for the elect
in the end.
From the xlii chap, we must discern how christ
stands as the head of the elect, being chosen and
set apart from eternity by God the Father to the
great work of man’sredemption —to set judgment in
the earth, and the isles to. wait for his law ; and in
the gospel our Saviour told his disciples, that the
great work of the redemption of man would be ac-
B 2
35
Digitized by Google
complished at his coming in power and greitglory,
Luke xxi.—Our Saviour, in speaking of the end,
Matthew xxiv. says, “ There shall be great tribula­
tion, such as was not since the beginning of the
world to this time j no, nor ever shall be : and ex­
cept those days should be shortened there should
no flesh be saved ; but for the elect’ sake those days
shall be shortened.”
In this chapter our Saviour speaks of his coming
to save his elect; and in Luke xviii. our Saviour
brought forward the parable of a woman crying to
the judge to be avenged of her adversary, which
from her importunity, the judge said he would
avenge her of her adversary : from this parable our
Saviour said, “ And shall not God avenge his own
elect, which cry day and night unto him ? Though
he bear long with them ; I tell you, that he will
avenge them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son
of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth ?”—
Now this faith is scarce amongst mankind, to be­
lieve that the Lord will avenge us of our adversary,
which is the devil, by our petitions, as the judge
avenged the woman; and yet, according to the
parable, there is that faith in some, to fulfil.the gos­
pel j and these are the elect, that our Saviour said
the days should be shortened for: and when he
comes in the clouds with power and great glory,
then shall he send his angels and shall gather to­
gether his elect from the four winds, from the utter­
most parts of the earth to the uttermost parts of
heaven. Now these are the elect, that our Saviour
was speaking of, that would petition to be avenged
of their adversary, and that he should gather to­
gether in the end; which may be clearly discerned
by the parables, which ourSaviour spoke ofj in Mat­
thew xxv. what he likened the kingdom of heaven
to—the wise virgins waiting, for the Bridegroom;
and n Luke xii.—“ And ye yourselves like unto
S6
Digitized by L i O O Q l e
men that wait for their Lord, when he will return
from the wedding, that when he cometh and
knocketh, they may open unto him immediately.
Blessed are those servants, whom the Lord when
he cometh shall find watching.”
Let men compare the parables, and the elect
mentioned in the gospel, with the words of the
apostle Paul, Remans viii. where he speaks of
the election, waiting for the adoption, to wit, the
redemption of our bodies.
Concerning the salvation of man, it is held out
to all them that believe and obey the gospel, and
trust in the Lord for their salvation, through the
merits of Christ. Romans x. ' ‘There is no difference
between the Jew and the Greek; for the same
Lord over all is rich unto all that call upon him,
for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord
•shall be saved: for there is no respecter of persons
with God.” (see Romans ii.) Actsx. S4,35. “ Then
Peter opened his mouth and said, Of a truth I per­
ceive that God is no respecter of persons; but in
every nation, he that feareth him, and worketh
righteousness, is accepted with him.”
These texts ofscripture I have brought together,
so that men may understand the meaning of
election, how it standsfor the end, when the re­
demption of man takesplaces but the way the Cal­
vinists place election is as fuel to the fire, to
strengthen the arguments of deists "and atheists,
which Paine hath brought forward.
In the preface of bis book he saith, “There is a
set of preachers tells their congregations, that God
predestinated and selectedfrom all eternity a certain
number to be saved, and. a certain number to be
damned eternally. I f this were true, the day ofjudg­
ment is past; their preaching is in vain, Can &
bad man be reformed by telling him, that if he is one
of those who was decreed to be damned before
*7
Digitized by Google
hi was barn, his reformation will do him no good s
tmd if he was decreed to be saved, he icill be saved,
whether he believes it or not ; for this is the result
of the doctrine. Suck preaching and suck preachers
do injury to the moral world. They had belter be
at the plough."—And such doctrine as this preju­
dices men against the belief of the scriptures; aud
which must -be removed before men will be con­
vinced ; and therefore I have shewed the error of
such doctrine.
Mr. Cobbett, in his Weekly Register, June 13,
1812, hath called upon the clergy for a confu­
tation of Paine’s book ; a -part of which I shall
copy. He saith, “ I have not yet heard, that this
Third Part of the Age of Reason has yet been
answered by any one of thisgreat number of clergy.
That 1 shall hear of it, hoxoever, would be a shame
to doubt; for, the church will hardly leave her de­
fence in this case, wholly to the attorney-general,
thespecialjury, and thejudges." After enumerating
the revenues of the church, he adds,—“ Surely
then, wechurch-people in particular havesomereason
to expect, that an answer, besides that of the attor­
ney-general, will be given to this work of Paine's ;
especially after the decision, pronounced upon ,Mr.
Eaton's conduct by the public in London. Our
clergy will hardly tell us, that the work is a con­
temptible thing unworthy of their notice; because
if they do, we shall remind them that the attorney-
general declaredthe work to contain doctrines of the
most pernicious tendency; and that their conse­
quences, if they took root, in the minds of those by
whom they ivere perused, would be dreadful in the
extreme. Thejudge, (lord Elleuborough), who tried
the information, was of the same opinion. There­
fore, I think, that we have a right to expect, from
our clergy, that which will prevent this pernicious
plant from taking root. Nay, 1 think, thqt et>ery
58
Digitized by v^oosie
church-man has a right to call upon the minister of
his own parish for art antidote against this deadly
poison; and accordingly»I hereby call upon mine,
who., though I am absentfrom him, will, I afn sure,
not think me out of the pale of his care, especially
when he considers that I am, here, in the veryfocus,-
as it were, of these dreadful publications. But ini
making this callupon mypastor, I beg leave toapprize
him, that I shall beconvinced by nothing short of a
confutation arising -out o/'fair reasoning, or clearly
established facts.”
I approve thus far of Mr. Gobbett’s call upon
the clergy; as it is tire d-uty of every minister t<r
do all in Iris power to stop the torrent of this-
growing evil; but to call them to confute these
writers against the Bible, ,by clearly established
facts, is out of the power of man to do, unless he
had lived through every age of the world, to be a
witness of the prophecies, how they were given to '
the prophets, aud when thgy were fulfilled ; and
even then his testimony would not be believed in
the minds of those who are.so hardened in unbe­
lief, like Paine, Who declares “ The Old and New
Testament to be impositions, fables, and forgeries
Then how can the clergy convince such men,
that are so hardened in unbelief ? It is out oftheir
, power. If they are convinced, it must be by the
wisdom of the Lord, by giving prophecies in ths*
present day, and fulfilling them, to convince them
of their unbelief; and even then those that are
hardened will not believe, when the truth can be
proved before them, which'I know by experience.
When 1 was at Stockton-upon-Tees, in December
1803, and men were disputing that my visitation
was not from the Lord, I told them of the events
that had taken place, which I had put into the
hands of the ministers, from 1796, to the year 1800;
three methodist preachers were present, who had •
the confidence to say, I told them nothing but
s
Digitized by v ^ o o s i e
Hes; and when I assured them I could bring proof,
by the friends who copied the letters that were
6ent to the ministers, and that the fulfilment took
place, they said they would neither believe me nor
my friends. I then told them what was published
in the beginning of 1801, of the three good harvests
promised, and which had been fulfilled according
to the prediction; but they still persisted in their
unbelief, and said they did not believe the book
was in print in 1801; but that it was published
after the three harvests had taken place, and that
I had dated it 1801 ; and would not be convinced
until Mr. Mackey assured them he had the book
in his possession in 1801, before the harvest took
place; and I told them that my. books were
entered at Stationer’s Hall; therefore: there could
be no imposition.
Another instance of unbelief, where the truth
could be proved before them, was, the fall of Me­
dina, which was foretold and published in 1803,
in a book entitled A Word in Season; and this
was fulfilled in 1805. When an unbeliever saw it
in the book, where it was sold, he said,'“ Well
done, T,ozer ! you have heard ■
of the fall of Me­
dina, and have got this book published, and want
to put it off as a prophecy.”
When the late Mr. Roberts pointed .it out, they
told him, that probably myself and friends had
extensive correspondence to give the most early
information of events, that they might be made
known to the public, and passed oft' as prophe­
cies, before any others could receive the intelli­
gence; forgetting that this prophecy was published
in 1803, and not fulfilled until 1805.
This sheweth the inventions of men: they will
believe a thing that is impossible; but things that
are possible and plain before them, they will not
believe. Now, ifunbeliefis so blind and hardened,
to deny the truth that can Improved before them,
40
Digitized by
how will'such men be but hardened agahist the
scriptures, to-call them inventions and priestcraft,
when the living cannot prove they were in the-
days of the prophets or apostles, to witness the
events that then-took place ?—
Now, if men will deny the one that can be
proved, how will they but deny the other, that
can only be proved by faith, believing the word of
God as standing on record, which hath been from
one age to the other ? Therefore the ministers can­
not convince an unbelieving mind, by their faith,
any more than the believers in the visitation of
the Lord to me can convince the unbelievers, by
their faith, without being enabled to prove the
truth of the prophecies before them: and there­
fore it is the wisdom of the Lord to convince
mankind of their unbelief by the visitation of his
Spirit, that they may know there is a God who
reveals his will to man, by the truth that follows
his words, and which is out of the power of all.
the men upon the earth to do, by the faith that
they profess, without being able to prove they,
have a knowledge of a visitation from the Lord.
Now let us observe amidst all -the preachers in ■
-this place, of different sects and parties of men
yet they have not been able to convince thedei?ts
and atheists that so greatly abound in this city
as Mr* Cobbelt states, that he supposes, when,
Eaton stood in the pillory he was surrounded
by fifteen thousand people at least, from whom
he received every possible mark of compassion
and of applause. Now if fifteen thousand people
wer4 gathered together in this metropolis, to ap­
plaud a man, and caress him that wrote against
the scriptures, how many thousands may we sup­
pose there are in the kingdom of the same mind ?
When we look to the nation at large, we cannot
suppose that every atheist and deist in London
were then gathered together in this assembly; no:
41
Digitized by
for respectable men of the same mind, who live in ’
repute amongst mankind, would not disgrace
theirselves to be seen in this manner.
From this we may see how this pernicious doc­
trine is increasing, like a mighty torrent, amongst-
mankind. But how is this growing evil to be stop­
ped ? Not by the preachers’ telling them that all
the scriptures are fulfilled, when these men clear­
ly see they are not fulfilled; therefore they cannot
open- the eyes of their understanding, by telling-
them all'was finished when Christ died. However,
I shall leave the clergy to answer in their way, and
I-shall answer according to the knowledge and
understanding the Lord hath given me, from what
I have experienced of the truth of the scriptures,
and what knowledge I have derived from them,
whether they believe or not.
A man that is born blind can have no discernment
of the seasons : yet he is brought to a knowledge
of the weather by what he is instructed and taught
by others: that the heat he feels in the summer
proceeds from the sun; and the cold in winter
from frost; and by his feeling he can prove the
truth, and know the change of the seasons. In
like manner we are all spiritually blind by nature,
before we are influenced by the Spirit of the Lord,.
and instructed from the scriptures ; to call upon
the Lord and he will answer; to seek him, and he
will be found of us : but without believing id the
scriptures, and being instructed by them, we can
have no more knowledge of the working of the
Lord, or his decrees, to understand the meaning
of things that are spiritual, any more than a man
that is born blind can understand things that are
temporal: he may feel the heat in the summer,
without having any knowledge of the rising of
t$>e sun to bring that heat upon tire earth, if he
was not taught it by those who can see from what
power fhat heat-proceeded ; he might feel the
severe cold in the winter, without knowing the
42
Digitized by b o o g i e
cause that produced it. These changes a blind
man may feel, .without knowing the cause, from-
whence they proceed, ifhe be not taught by those
that know ; perfectly so is the state of mankind,
in things that are spiritual: when we feel the love
of God shed abroad in our hearts, by the Spirit
of the Lord working with our spirits; but how
should we know from whence that influence pro­
ceeded, without having the scriptures for out*
guide, given by men that had'knowledge at first
from whence they proceeded, by the ways of the
Lord being made known to the prophets, and by
our Saviour’s coming amongst mankind to give
a greater light, and gave a promise to fulfil the
words of the prophets at his second coming ?
But for a comfort and consolation to all true be­
lievers in his Gospel, he promised the assistance of
his Spirit, to strengthen and support thos^e that
trusted in him : ;
iMatthew vii. 11. “ If ye, being-evil, know
how to give good gifts unto your children, how
much more shall your Father which is in heaven-
give good gifts unto them that ask him !” Chap:
xi. 18. “ Come unto me all ye that labour and
are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.”
St. John xiv. 17. “ Peace I leave with you, my
peace I give unto you not as the' World givetfa,
give I unto you.” Chap. xv. 4; “ Abide in me,
and I in you; as the branch cannot bear fruit of
itself, except it abide in the vine, no more can ye,
except ye abide in m e; for without me ye can do
nothing.” Chap. vi. 40. “ This is the will of hinf
that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son,'
_ and believetb on him, may have everlasting life;
and I will raise him up at the last day.”
Matthew xxviii. 20. “ Teaching them to ob­
serve all things whatsoever I have commanded
you : and lo, I am with you always, even unto tfad
end ofthe world.” • .
45
Digitized by L - o o Q l e
• 2 Corinthians iii. 17. “ Now the Lord is that
Spirit; and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there
is liberty.”
Ephesians v. 19. “ Speaking to yourselves in
psalms, and hymns, and spiritual songs, and
making melody in your hearts to the Lord.”
chap. vi. 12. “ We wrestle not against flesh and
blood, but against principalities, against powers,
■
against the rulers of darkness of this world,
against spiritual wickedness in high places.”
Colossians i, 27. “ Christ in you the hope of
glory.”
1Peter, v. 7* “ Casting all your care upon him,
for he careth for you. Be sober, be vigilant; be­
cause your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion,
walketh about, seeking whom he may devour;
whom resist steadfast in the faith.”
d John iv. 13. “ There is no fear in love; but
. perfect love casteth out fear.”
I have proved the truth of these texts of scrip­
ture by experience; that there is joy in believing,
and consolation within, which proceedeth from
the Lord, that the world can neither give nor take
away; and there is love kindled in the heart, by
the Spirit of the Lord working with our spirits,
which casteth out fear. So that, as a blind man
can judge of the weather, in the summer, by his
feeling, without sight, so can I judge of the
truth of the Gospel, from what I have felt, with­
out being in the days of our Saviour, to see bis
miracles to confirm the truth; and as the differ­
ent changes of weather are felt and known, with­
out seeing from whence they come; so are the
different changes felt and known, when visited
by the Spirit of the Lord. It bringeth joy, peace,
and happiness within, and a steadfast faith to rely
upon the Lord, and believe all his promises that
stand on record, that the gates of hell shall never
prevail against us; and this kindleth a love which
44
Digitized by b o o g i e
casteth out fear: but bow soon do we feel the
change, when the Lord leaves us to ourselves for
a while, like the setting sun that is hid from us t
then Satan, as a roaring lion, that is seeking
whom he may.devour, works doubts and fears in
our minds, to blast all our happiness, to chill our
love, by his working fears within us, until the
Lord returns again to visit us; which proves the
truth of our Saviour’s saying, “ Without me ye
can do nothing*” And this I know 'by experi­
ence : but where a man hath no faith in the scrip­
tures, no reliance upon the word of God, he doth
not know from whence the effects of evil pro­
ceed, or how Satan works upon his* mind, to
darken his understanding, to. harden bis heart,
that it is frozen, like the weather, against God
and all that is good; and they will not know
from whence it proceeds, without being brought
to believe the scriptures, and rely upon the word
of God; then they will know that every good
and perfect gift cometh down from the Father of
light, in whom is no variableness, nor the shadow
of turning; but every evil word and work, every
hardness of heart and unbelief, that is in man­
kind, is worked on by the devil, who tempted to
unbelief in the beginning, and so he will go on to
the ending; which we may discern from every
age of the world. Where men give theirselves
up to unbelief, they will do despite to the Spirit
of the Lord : and this present age is like the
former. When our Saviour wrought the miracle
of raising Lazarus front the dead, after he had
been buried, and they found many believed, see­
ing so great a miracle wrought before them; then
the chief priests consulted that they might put
Lazftrus to death; because by reason of him many
of the Jews went away and believed on Jesus;
perfectly so is this present age; for as the Lord
has given a testimony of his coming, by the vi-
45
Di 'itized
tized
siiation of his Spirit, to give prophecies, that they
may know it is from the Lord, (for the Testimony
of Jesus is the Spirit of Prophecy) and many are
become believers, from seeing the truths before
thenv; but we see men, like the chief priests in
the days of our Saviour, inventing all manner of
falsehoods, that the truth may not be believed;
and which I have already proved from the books
published against me.
• In reading attentively through Lane's p u b li­
cation, I can scarce find a single page but con- ■
tains gross misrepresentation, and false inventions
against me, and the spirit that visit me ; so that
in one likeness stand the past ages with the pre­
sent, which proves to me the truth of the Gos­
pel, that it is no invention of men; and proves the
truth of our Saviour’s words, that, as they per­
secuted him, they would persecute those who
bore witness of him.
John xv. “ If the world hate you, ye know that
it hated me before it hated you.—Remember
the words that I said unto you, The servant is
not greater than his Lord. If,they have persecuted
me, they will also persecute you. If they have kept
my sayings, they will keep yours also. But all
these things will they do unto you for my name’s
sake.”
The truth of this I shall prove from the Gos­
pel : St. John xvi. 13. “ Howbeit, when the Spi­
rit’of.Truth is come he will guide you into all.
truths; for he shall not speak of himself, but
whatsoever he shall hear,' that shall he speak;
and- he will shew you things to come.” Here our
Saviour plainly told his disciples, that the visita­
tion of his Spirit should come when the prince of
this world should be judged. Let men read from
the 7th verse to the 12th, and then they may
understand at what time the Spirit of Truth, here
spoken of, was to be. sent, and. for what ends,
and how he testifieth of our Saviour, that he not
46
Digitized by G o o g l e
poly dijed to save those who believed in his Gos­
pel, for their salvation, but, as I have already ex­
plained, to bring in the full redemption of man,
and take away the sin of the world ; and however
great the scriptures are denied, of a visitation
from the Lord, and the power of the devil; yet I
can prove there are spirits invisible, good and
bad, that have visited me, and of both I have a
.clear knowledge by experience, as I have already ,
stated- But this testimony will not be believed ;
who will take my word, without I can bring
proofs why the Spirit of Truth is come to guide
us into all truths, and teach us things to come ?
This I shall prove front the prophecies given
me, whatever false inventions men may bring for­
ward in my name, to make them appear false.
I can prove to the whole world, that there is not
a year since 1792, but some of the prophecies
have been fulfilled, more or less. I shall begin
from the Strange Effects of Faith, 1st Book, page ~
25, what I was warrysd of in 1792, was coming
upon the whole earth, of wars and tumults, pesti­
lence, and famine, going through the lands,
men’s hearts failing them for very troubles, be-:
cause they have/ not known the visitation of the
Lord. Let men weigh these words with what
hath happened since upon the nations abroad ;
but the end is not yet. In 1792, I was warned
that war would break out in 1793, which took
place; the rebellion in Ireland; the mutiny on
.the seas; the event of Italy in 1797 ; the harvest
of 1797; the continuation of the war in 1797,
when men thought there would be a peace; the
harvests of 1799, and 1800, with many other
events I was warned of, before they took place,
aud put them in the hands of ministers, before I
published to the world in 1801. When I published
to the world I was warned that three good har­
vests should follow, if men searched into the wri­
47
Digitized ^Google
tings, which they did, and the three harvests
followed as foretold. When peace was proclaimed
in 1801, I was answered, that the war was not
begun to what it would be; and the distress of
Spain was then foretold. Now let them look to
the events of Spain, and what was foretold con­
cerning them. When they signed'the ratification-
of the articles of peace, April 29th, at Amiens, I
was answered, it was what would bring on a war;
for as the 1802, was like the 1792, peace and
plenty ; so would the 1803 be like the 1793, that
the war would break out again; and the power of
the Beast was given to Bonaparte; and how he
would go on to conquer in the nations abroad.
Here I have mentioned a few of the leading
events, that I prophesied,ofbefore they took place;
and I refer the readers to my books for further
particulars, and leave them to judge for them­
selves, whether I am visited by the Spirit of
Truth, according to the Gospel. But I shall
judge for myself, that it.is the Spirit of Truth
sent to warn us of what is hastening on, that we
may know these are the wars and tumults, that
our Saviour said should take place prior to his
coming to bring in the redemption of man; but as
men say, wars and tumults are common, how are
they to know the wars that bring in the end, that
thej* may lift up their heads that their redemption
draweth nigh, without the warning being given
from the Lord r For this is the meaning of the
Two Witnesses in Reo. xi. It is the Witness of the
Gospel of what our Saviour spoke of the end; and
now we have the Witness of the Truth of his Spi­
rit, to shew men plainly the end is at hand ; and
these Two Witnesses are slain through unbelief.
Let men discern, from Paine’s book, how the
Gospel is denied, and slain through unbelief; and
let them discern from Lane’s book, how the visi­
tation of the Lord, and the warning from his
48
— ------ J3jgihzgdJ^V
Google
Spirit, are likewise slain through unbeliefthe same;
but to understand the meaning of the Two Wit­
nesses, we must come to the promise made in the
fall. Gen. iii. 15. The prophets and apostles
were many, but the witnesses spoken of are but
two; the one was fulfilled when our Saviour shed'
his blood for the transgression of man, that they
might look unto him from-the ends of the earth
and be saved; and his coming again in power
to cast out the adversary that betrayed the woman,
is the o t h e r ; and these two must be joined to­
gether, to bring the olive branch of peace to man;
and as the sword turned one way, to have our
Saviour’s heel bruised, so must the sword turn the
other .way, to cut off the author of evil, and bring
in the tree of life for man, which was preservedrih
the beginning, by the promise made in the fall.
But an inquiry may be made from these words:
“ And when they have finished their testimony',
the beast that ascended out of the bottomless pit
shall make war against them, and shall overcome
them, and kill them.”
To understand this aright men must look ,to
the Gospel, and discern how, through unbelief,
our Saviour was slain in the body, and how his
Gospel was -despised and rejected of men; then
they must look to the words of our Saviour, what
he spoke of giving warning by his Spirit at the ,
end: and is not this slain through unbelief? The
Two Witnesses are as o n e : our Saviour’s coming in
the body wasthe first, and the visitationofhisSpirit,
fo warn mankind that the end is at hand, is thelast;
but being called two, is because it is two different
times, two different warnings, that are given to
mankind', and as the malice was at the first, so
the malice and rage of hell is at the last; for both
alike are trampled under foot by the sons of men,
and counted as a dead letter unto them, having no
life or power, as bpfng:from the Spirit of God, to
D
4»
Digitized by t ^ o o Q l e
90
be fulfilled; yet they will find all the power men*
tioned in the chapter is in the Lord. But there
is no power in me to fulfil the words that are re­
vealed to me ; but let men discern from the past)'1
when I was warned that the Lord would hurt the
harvest by the sun, in 1800, h e had power to
shut the heavens that the rain did not come in the
time I was warned it should not; then let men
judgb how the heavens will be shut when the
Lord brings a total famine upon the land that he
has threatened.
It is said, “ These two prophets tormented them
that dwell on. the earth.” Now let us took to the
Gospel, how the Jews were tormented at our
Saviour’s sayings; and how they rejoiced at his
death, before destruction came upon them; and
there is the same hatred, malice, and fury, in men
now, as though they were tormented to hear of
the visitation of his Spirit in these days, as there
was in our Saviour’s days. For whatever pro­
vokes men to malice, envy, rage, ami fury, is as a
torment to their minds ; or suclrindignation would
not appear; and this indignation is said would
arise from the beast, that ascended out of the
bottomless pit, to make war against them; which
is plainly proved by the malice that is kindled in
the hearts of men against the visitation of the
Lord; and which proves the truth of the apostle’s
words :—“ They crucify to themselves the Son of
God afreslr, and put him to an open shame.”
. This can only he done in the spirit; for our
Saviour died once for all; and it is on account of
the visitation of bis,Spirit that the persecution is
so great against me; as I can prove I lived fifty
years in the world with an unspotted character;
and of good .report amongst mankind, before I
published to the world of a visitation from the
Lord, and many began to believe; then men be­
gan the persecution against me, with every lyings
Digitized by Google
invention, that the truth might not he believed;
ln, 1802, it: was reported, in Exeter, that I hadr
prophesied that fire would come down froth heaven'
uponthe fout quarters of the city and destroy it
and this was feared by many that did not believe.
in my prophecies; which shows how ready they:
are to believe any lies that are invented, but the
truth they will not believe. I published a hand*-
bill, offering a reward to any one who would
bring forward the author of the report . The.
latter end of 1803 I went to Leeds, and staid till
April 1804: my enemies reported, during that
time, I had a child, at Leeds, by a married man;
I was then in riiy fifty-third year; and this lying:
wonder was propagated for truth, and either was
believed, Or pretended to be believed, by many..
Trewman, of Exeter, published in his paper, April
1809, that I had prophesied the destruction of
Batlvwould take place bn Good Friday, and which
he said robbed Bath of hundreds of, its best
visitors. What effect this lying report had on .•
the public I leave; but I can assure him, it had
none on those who had any knowledge of me,, or
my prophecies ; as they knew it never came from
me. After this came forward all manner of .in­
ventions, both in newspapers and pamphlets,
written against me and the Spirit that visits me,
and which I have contradicted. To add to the
number, in 1811, came forward Hewson Clarke,
editor of the Scourge, with gross abuse against
my private character, saying, I attended Car*'
penter’s chapel, called the House of God, dressed
in diamonds, and fell in. love with the candle-
snuffer, a comely youth, and* went away with
him, &c.
But-thesjr false and infamous assertions I shall
leave to my friends to answer; as providence
hath wisely ordered all things in his directions tQ
me, that I need ho assertions of my own to clear,
n 2 .
5 t
Digitized by
my character from these vile attempts to stamp
me with iufamy; as I have been placed wkn
friends who are witness to every action of my
life, during these last eight years; and from whom
I have not been separated; therefore I leave them
to answer for my conduct.
The following is from Mrs. Jane Townley.
“ To Mr. Hewson Clarke, editor of the Scourge,
and late a student at Emanuel .College, Cam* v
bridge.
Sir, July 6, 1812.
In your publication, August, 1911, you
have traduced Mrs. Joanna Southcott’s charac-
ter with the most infamous lies; therefore it is a
duty incumbent on me to clear her innocence by
matter of facts. In April 1804, Mrs. Southcott
came to me in London, and I have never been ab­
sent from -her a single,day since that, time, except
when she went to.Bristol to her brother’s funeral;
and then she was accompanied by Mrs.. Under­
wood. They left London, June 21st, 1809> and
returned to me on t.he 1st of July. Neither .hath
Mrs. Southcott ever gone any where, without Mrs.
Underwood and'some other of her friends being
with her; therefore I can clearly affirm to the
world, that she never went to hear Mr. Carpenter
preach at his meeting, improperly called the House
of God; which clearly proves the falsehood of
your inventions^ neither hath she or her friends'
any intercourse whatever, with Mr. Carpenter.
Therefore you have forfeited the character of a
gentleman and a Christian, by asserting wilful
lies, to injure an innocent character; for you ac­
knowledged to two. gentlemen, that you had no
foundation for what you had published ; but said,
being a' prophetess, she was-fair game for any one
to shoot at. Now .to take you upon your own
grounds, as neither Mrs. Underwood or myselfare
prophetesses, I wish to know what excuse you
5f
Digitized by Google
will make for injuring our characters; for were
there the least foundation for your charges against
her, we must stand condemned for sanctioning
her in infamy, and deceiving the public; and as
I faithfully promised, if I discovered the least de­
ception in Mrs. Southcott, I would announce it to
the world ; therefore it is.not only a duty I owe
to Mrs. Southcott, but to myself, my family,, and
,i,> friends, to declare that her conduct has been ex­
emplary, and that she has in eVery respect inva­
riably acted upon the most strict and upright
principles ; and as a proof of my assertion, not 4
single enemy has been able to substantiate one
accusation they have brought against her. ' T
J ane T oWnley.”
*
*I am witness to the truth of the above state­
ment, having been a constant attendant upon
Mrs. Southcott ; not only at home, but hav£
always accompanied her, whenever she has gone
out; therefore I can prove the charges brought
against her, by Mr. Hewson Clarke, to be false and
without any foundation whatever.
Ann U nderwood.*
Now I wish any candid reader to judge from
whence these floods of lies are cast out against
me; and whether this warring against the Spirit
doth not proceed from the bottomless pit, that the
spiritual witness may be slain through the unbelief
of mankind. But let men disoirn what is to fol­
low, after the prophecies have lain dead for a
while; not appearing to have any life, as coming
from the Spirit of God, to be fulfilled ; but when
the Lord begins to shake the fabric of the
earth, then will the fear come upon those who
mock. However the Revelation may be under­
stood by men, it is a revelation that revealeth all
for the end; like a tree that beareth its fruit in its
season, and when we see the leaves appear, we
begin to expect the bud to follow, to bring the
A
53
blossom and the fruit; byt the budding of the
leaves is first: and the budding leaves have already
appeared; and where men have understanding;
they may discern the blossom and the fruit that are
to follow, from the Revelation, l.chap.— 1 am
Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending,
saith the pord, which is. and which was, and
>vbich is tq come. .. I am. he that liveth^ and was
dead ; and beliold I am alive for evermore, and
have the keys of hell and of death. Write the
things which thou hast seen, and the things which
are, and the things,which shall lie hereafter.” Our
Saviour was the first, being the Lamb slain from
the foundation of the world, by the promise that
w^s made in the fall; and he became flesh, to
dwell amongst men, to die for their .transgression;
but it is in the Spirit that he must come in power to
conquer death and hell; and when this is finished,
the Two Witnesses will be finished ; and then the
Kingdoms of this world will become the kingdoms
of the living God. Rev. xi. 14, 16.—“ The
second woe is past, and behold the third woe
cometh quickly.” The second woe is the troubles
that will come upon man ; when that is past, the
third woe cometh quickly upon the devil; then
the seventh angel will begin to sound, and the
voices will be heard in heaven, saying, “ The
kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of
bur Lord and of his Christ: and he shall reign for
ever and ever. We give thee thanks,. O .Lord
God Almighty, which art and wast and.art to
come; because thou hast taken to thee thy grfeat
power, and hast reigned.” This we ,a*e. assured
from tbe scriptures the Lord will do in the
end.
I shall not at present bring forwafd any more
scriptures to prove my assertions right, of the.
Two Witnesses: the one being the witness our
Saviour bore of himself, when he became flesh and
.54
Digitized by
b T ^ D O g fe —
dwelt with men; and the other, the witness of
his Spirit* that he promised should come in the
end to guide us into all truths, and teach us
things to come. He that denies thes being the
two, let him bring forth his arguments, and shew
Ins strong reasons how he will prove the Two
Witnesses clear any other way; and he that
denieth the visitation of the Lord ,being gived
when the end draweth hear, let; him answer
what our Saviour meant by .saying, that the
Spirit of Truth should be sent; and the meaning
of: the apostie’
s .words, being ready to be revealed
in the last time; and the meaning of theUere*
lation, as to the seven spirits of God being sent
Jo*’th into all the earth ; what ismeant by'the books
being opened in the end; and what is meant by tlie
seven angels which had the seven trumpets andpre­
pared themselves to sound; and what is meant by
the angelflying in the midst of heaven,.having the
everlasting Gospel to preach unto them that distil
on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and
tongue, and people, saying with a loud voice, .Fear
God, and give gloty to him;for the houir of his
judgment, is come; and worship him that made
•heaven and earth, and the sea, and thefountains of
water
As this everlasting gospel is to be preached on
earth, it is on earth the warning must be given
from the Lord. How will men prove it any other
way ? as it is said in the Revelation that the
angels gave the warning, and the Spirit of the
Lord is sent out to warn when the tune of the
end draweth near.
But as many object to the warning being given
to a woman, and judge it can only be given to a
roan; let them answer the meaning of St Paul's
words, “ There is neither male, nor female; for ye
, are aN ®ne in Christ Jesus; and if ye be Christ’s,
then are ye Abraham’s seed, and heirs according
55
to the promise.” It is said, that in the beginning
God created man in his own image—“ in the
image of God created he him ; male and female
created he t h e m a n d our Saviour said in his
gospel, that the woman had wrought a good
work on him, that should be preached in the
whole world, wheresoeverthe gospel was preached.
Let those that reprove answer the meaning of our
Saviour’s,words, why hesoparticularly spokeof the
woman, that she had wrought a good work on him.
Let those that profess theirselves gospel-preachers
answer, why theyput pounder what the Lord in the
beginning, and our Saviour, in his gospel, had
joinedtogether: forour Saviour said, “ Whosoever
shall do.the will of my Father which is in heaven,,
the same is my* brother, and sister, and mother.”
Let them answer why our Saviour condescended to
be bom of a woman, and why h e appearedfirst to
the women, after hrs resurrection from the dead,
and told them to go and tell his brethren that be
was risen. Unto whom was the promisemade in
the- fall? the man or the woman ? Let this be
answered by them that reprove ; for if the scrip­
tures be written for our learning and admonition,
we must compare scripture with scripture, and the
ending with the beginning. We find that the
Lord chose women to prophesy, before our Saviour
was born of the woman; then why should men
suppose the Lord will not visit a woman by his
Spirit, to warn that the end is at hand ? The first
prophecy was given to Eve; and as the beginning,
so. they will find the Lord hath warned of the
ending. It is written, “ The Lord hath chosen
the foolish things of this world to confound the
wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of
(he world to confound the things which are
mighty ; and base things of the world, and things
which are despised, bath God chosen; yea, and
things which are not, to bring to nought things
56
that are, that no fleshshould glory in his presence:
but of him are ye in Christ Jesus. For the wis­
dom of this world is foolishness with God.5
” It is
written, “ He- taketh the wise in their own crafti­
ness^” But how could the wisdom of the world
be counted foolishness with God, if all knowledge
and understanding was given to man ? Then the
Scriptures could not be fulfilled, for the wisdom
of the wise men to perish, and- the understanding
of the prudent men to be hid.
But as men say there wants no'further reve*
lation to be given, let them answer the words of
St Paul: Corinthians vi.—“ Do. ye not know that
the saints shall judge the world ; and if the world
shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge
the smallest matters ? Know ye not that we shall
judge angels ? how much more things that pertain
to this life ?” St. John xvi. 11.—“ Of judgment,
because the prince of this world is judged.” Hout
are the saints to judge the world ? How are the
saints to judge angels? How is the prince of this
world to be judged ?—
If all my inquiries can be answered by the wis­
dom of man ; then I will own there wants no
revelation from the Spirit of the Lord to reveal
these mysteries, -which St. Paul said he saw:but
through a glass darkly: for he saw but in part,
and he prophesied but in part; but he looked for
that which was perfect to come. . - >
Now if any man judges me in an error, let him
come forward and prove his wisdom to be greater
and clearer to explain these things, that I have re­
quired, than they have already been explained to
me, not by the wisdomof man, but by the revelation
of the LORD.
But Lane’s saying I am led by the devil, with­
out shewing any grounds to prove such an
assertion, only his own lying inventions to make
it appear so to those who have never read my.
' 57
"
^
S
a
it
T
". Google
writings, shewetb in him an aggravating spirit,
proving from whence it came; and as. he hath
pointed.out the scriptures, to shew the condem­
nation pronounced on those that loVe to make
lies, he must discern that he hath written his own;
and the readers may clearly discern, that in bring­
ing forward those things, which 1 have already
confuted as not coming from me, he doth not
mention any part in my writings that such things
are said to take place. This lie knew he could
not d o ; but where there was any passage he
could, turn .the meaning of, by puttiug his own
construction upon the words, to make them ap­
pear ridiculous, he hath mentioned what books
they arc to be found in, and added his owtt
meaning to them; as he hath done by the 15th
article of the Church, where he hath added the
word “.chosen,” as he says, “ he (Christ) the
Laihb without spot, who by the sacrifice of him­
self, once made, should take away the sins of the
(chosen) world, &c.” The word chosen, Lane
hath added. Iu this manner he adds to, and takes
from, to make the scriptures appear to have a
different meaning to what they have.
.He. hath brought forward the articles of the
church as a condemnation of those church minis­
ters, who believe in the visitation of the Lord to
me, as being contrary to their profession; but how
will he prove it so ? The substance of the articles,
of die established church are, to believe in the one
true>
and living God;' and to preach the true
Christian faith of the gospel of our Lord Jesus
Christ. And this is our faith and belief, that the
promises of God will be fulfilled, and which the
church is praying for: the Lord’s prayer is often
repeated—“ Thy kingdom come; thy will be
done in earth, as it is in heaven.” Psalm lxvii. is
used in the church service—“ God shall bless us,
and all the ends of the world shall fear him and
.$8
4t\
*
r
39
this is my beliefin the fulfilment of the scriptures.
In the litany we make the following petition,
“ Good Lord deliver us: By thine agony and
bloody sweat; by thy cross and passion; by thy
precious death and burial; by thy glorious resur­
rection and ascension ; and by the coming of the
.Holy Ghost. That it may please thee to strengthen
such as do stand, and to comfort and help the
weak hearted, and to raise up them that fall; and
finally to beat down Satan under our feet; We be­
seech thee to he.ar us,, good Lord.”
Another prayer in the church service : “ O God,
whose uature and property is ever to have mercy
and to forgive, receive our humble petitions; and
though we be tied and bound with the chain of
our sins, yet let the pitifulness of thy great mercy
loose us, for the honour of Jesus Christ our me­
diator and advocate. Amen.”
Another :—“ O God, the Creator and Preserver
of all mankind, we humbly beseech thee for all
sorts and conditions of men, that thou woulde&t be ,
pleased to make thy ways known unto them, thy
saving health unto all nations, &c.”
The Collect for the Sixth Sunday after the
Epiphany:—“ O God, whose blessed Son' was
manifested, that he might destroy the works of
the devil, and make us the sons of God, and heirs
pf eternal life; grant us, we beseech thee, that
having this hope, we may purify ourselves, even
as he. is pure; that when ne shall appear again
with power and great glory, we may be made like
unto him in his eternal and glorious kingdom ;
where with thee, O Father, and thee, O Holy
Ghost, he liveth and reignetn ever one God world
without end. Amen.”
The Collect for Whitsunday :—“ God, who at
this time, didst teach the hearts of thy faithful
people, by the sending to them the light of thy '
holy Spirit; grant us by the same Spirit to have a
Digitized by
right judgment in all things, and evermore to re­
joice in his holy comfort, &c.n Now as we pray
for the coming of the Holy Ghost, let us not re­
ject it: we pray that the Lord will finally beat
down Satan under 'our feet, and beseech him to
hear us; then let us not reject his mercies in
warning us the time is at hand, that Ottr petitions
shall be granted: we own that we are tied and
bound with the chain of our sins, and pray the
Lord, to loose us for the honour of Jesus Christ
our Mediator and Advocate; and we acknowledge
that Christ was manifested, that he might destroy
the works of the devil, and make us sons of God
and heirs of eternal life; we acknowledge his
coming again with power and great glory ; we ac^
knowledge the light of the Holy Spirit being sent
to teach the hearts of the faithfuland we pray
.that by the same Spirit we may have a right judg­
ment in all things; then why should we reject
the visitation of his Spirit, to lead us into the right
way, that we may be prepared to meet him at his
coming, which will be suddenly and unaware, in a
day and hour no one knoweth, hut we are ordered
to watch ?
Here I have shewn from the church prayers,
that the visitation of the Lord to me is agreeable
to the petitions of thechurch, that the Lord is
now warning us of the fulfilment being at hand ;
that he will grant our petitions, to deliver us from
evil, that his wilt may be done in earth, as it is iii
heaven. But from the manner Lane hath brought
forward the articles of the church, to condemn
the church clergy who believe in the visitation of
the Lord, it sheweth plainly that he no more under­
stands wbat he reads in them, than he understands
what he hath read of my writings.
The articles of the church cannot mean one
thing and the prayers another; so that -Lane's
discernment ana Paine's, I see, are both in one
60
Dir^— "
likeness; neither of them understands what he'
reads. Paine hath brought forwardness iii. 22.
and denies its being a prophecy of our Saviour.—
®
v
v
. “ For Moses truly said unto the fathers, A prophet
shall the Lord your God raise up unto you, of
your brethren, like unto me; him shall ye hear in
t all things whatsoever he shall say unto you.” The
following are Paine’s words: “ This passage is in
Deuteronomy xviii. 15. They apply it as a prophe­
cy of*Jesus. What imposition ! The person spoken
of in Deuteronomy, and also in Numbers, where
the same person is also spoken of, is Joshua, the
minister of Moses, and his immediate successor”
To this I answer, that the prophet mentioned
by Moses, whom the Lord would raise up amongst
the brethren, is plainly told did not allude to
Joshua j which we may see from the last chapter
of Deuteronomy. It is there said, “ Moses died,
and Joshua the'son of Nun was full of the spirit
<>f wisdom; and the children of Israel hearkened
unto him, and did as the Lord commanded Moses.
And there arose not a prophet since in Israel like
unto Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face, in
all the signs and wonders which the Lord sent-
him to do in the land of Egypt.” This text of
scripture alone confutes Paine’s reasoning: Joshua
was the minister of Moses, to teach the people to
keep the commandments the Lord had given to
Moses; but 1
k>
w will any one prove that Joshua
stood between God and man, to plead for the
people, as Moses did, to make intercession for
them ? neither was there any prophet that was
raised after Moses like unto him, till we come to
the gospel. There we find in our Saviour the
substance of what Moses was only a shadow, to
be a mediator between God and man. And now
1 shall return to Joshua: Numbers xxvii. When
the Lord told Moses, that he should not enter the
promised land> and Moses intreated tlie Lord tc
01
Digitized by L,oogle
set* man over the congregation, which should, go
out before them, the Lord said unto. Moses,
“ Take thee Joshua the son of Nun, a mania
whom is the Spirit:—and set him before Eleaaar *
the priest, and before all the congregation,
and give him a- charge in their sight; and
thou shalt put some of thine honour upon him, *
that all the congregation of the children of
Israel may be obedient. At his word shall
they go out, and at bis word shall they come
in.” Here Moses told ah the congregation, that
Joshua was to be their leader, and the Lord,
would be with him to fulfil the promise made to
the children of Israel, in casting out the heathen
nations before them, and giving them the pro- <
niised land; therefore Joshua was appointed to
be as a leader and minister tc teach them. And
it is said in chapterxxxii, “ None of the men that
come up out of Egypt, from twenty years old and
upward, shall see the land, save Caleb and Joshua ;
for they have wholly followed the Lord.” To
understand these prophecies aright, we must dis-.
cern that theages to come are called, the brethren;
the past ages, the fathers ; and the fathers died
in tire wilderness, save those two. When Joshua
reproved Achan he called him his son ; but when
he wasspeaking to the children of Israel after they
had possessed the land, he said, “ Now tire Lord
your God hath given rest unto your brethren, as
he promised them; therefore now return ye and
get you ihto. your tents, and into the land of your
possession, which Moses the servant of tire Lord
gave you on the other side Jordan; but take dili­
gent heed to do the commandments, and the law,
which Moses the servant of the Lord charged you.”
. Here Joshua shewed them that he was their minis­
ter and their leader; but did not profess himself
to be that prophet which the Lord should raise -
up unto.them amongst their brethren.
62
Digitized by
Paine's objection to its being a prophecy a t our'
Saviour is, because he says our Saviour was not
bom, according to the bible chronologies, toll
fifteen hundred and fifty-two years after the time
of Moses; whereas, he says, it was an immediate
successor to Moses. Now let the readers discern^
ittthe xxvii chapter of Numbers, it was told die
children of Israel, that Joshua should succeed
Moses, to go out before them to bring them into
the promised land; and after that the prophecy
was given, in Deuteronomy xviii. “ The Lord thy.
God will raise up unto thee a prophet from the
midst of thee, of thy brethren, like untome; unto
him ye shall hearken.” But it was not told who.
that prophet was, that the Lord would raise up.
like unto Moses; neither was the time specified
when it should be accomplished; therefore it
made no difference, whether it was fifteen hundred,
or two thousand years before Christ: if he was
raised up amongst the Jews; it doth not alter ,the
prophecy; for our Saviour was of the house and
lineage of David; and the Lord raised hire up
amongst their brethren, to fulfil the prophecy:
neither was there any prophet that this prophecy
could allude to but our Saviour, who came to b$
the Mediator between God and man. 4.
But here the readers may say, if our Saviour ‘
was a prophet like unto Moses,, then you make
him' no more than a prophet.
To this I answer, the one was temporal,-the
other is spiritual: Moses, as a prophet, was sent
to free the children of Israel from the temporal
bondage they were under by Pharaoh, and to de­
liver them out of his hands; but our Saviour
came to be our spiritual deliverer, to free us from,
our spiritual enemy, and in the end to cut off his
power, as the power of Pharaoh was cut off. And
thus We may discern, from the prophets and the
gospel, how our Saviour is meant spiritually to b®
68
Digitized by Google
our Deliverer and Redeemer, as Moses was tem­
porally to the children of Israel.
I have already shewn how Jesus Christ cameto
bethe spiritual Delivererand Redeemerof mankind;
but as the deists have no knowledge in what
manner the Lord speaks of himself by the mouth
of his prophets, or now his decrees are fixed when
spoken of things ,to come, as though they were
then to be accomplished, it is useless, to enter
into argument with them on those prophecies that
speak of our Saviour in the Psalms of David,
tnough he prophesied of Christ by the Spirit;
therefore this I shall leave, and come to Paine’sin­
quiry, “ Whether those miraculous interpositions,
so confidently affirmed to us by the primitive
fathers, can reasonably be thought to make a part
in the grand scheme of the divine administration, or
whether it be agreeable that God, who created all
things by his will, and can give what turn to them
he pleases by the same wul, should, for the par­
ticular purposes of his government and the services
ofthe church, descendto the low expedient of visions
and revelations.”
To this 1 answer, that when we look to the
greatness of the Lord, we should look to his good­
ness also; tha't his tender mercies are over all his
works; and were not the Lord to condescend in
small things, to teach and instruct us, we could
never attain to any knowledge of the divine wis­
dom and goodness of God, if the Lord did not
condescend to lead us on by small things at first;
and therefore, from dreams and visions, he pre­
pared the minds of men to receive the revelation
of his Spirit. The way the Lord hath fixed all
things in the creation will teach us wisdom, not
to despise small things, when we discern in what
manner the Lord hath ordained all things for us,
and how all begin by small things at first. For
example, the bread we eat, that the Lord hath
64
Digitized b r G o O g l c
,t
given us to support nature, how he hath ordained
that by .a small grain being throw n into the earth,
and seeming to die away ; yet it spritjgs .up and
bearetb grain, to bring an increase unto man : in
like manner we may see from the fruit, what a
small kernel produces a large tree, which beareth
fruit. In like manner we may discern every thing
. * in the creation, that the Lord hath ordained for
! man; all the great increase proseeds from little
things at first: and the Lord hath given wisdom
and understanding to man, how to cultivate his
ground ; how to sow his seed, to prepare for the
harvest to bring an increase to mankind; how to
prune the trees and vines, that they may bring an
^v increase of fruit to man. Now let us compare^
temporal things with spiritual: man is both tem­
poral and spiritual; but what is man when he first
enters the world ? he is without strength, know­
ledge, or understanding; but as he groweth in ■
natural strength, his mind must be cultivated, and
his natural understanding must be improved by
instruction.—Then how is he to be instructed in
t spiritual knowledge, if the Lord by his Spirit had
never revealed any spiritual knowledge to man,
and by signs and wonders, by dreams and visions,
aud marvellous working shewn to mankind, that
there is a visitation from his Spirit ? And it is from
* these thiugs that man is instructed to bring forth
the fruits of the Spirit.—But as my book is near to
a conclusion, I cannot enlarge further upon this
subject; I shall only appeal to the conscience of
those whojoin with Paine in his principles against
the scriptures. Suppose the Bible should be the
word or God, and that Jesus Christ was the Son
of God, what will be the fate of those who not
only mock the scriptures themselves, but'are doing
all their endeavours to lead others into the sam$
' destruction ? how will such men stand in the day
ofjudgment, who have acted with such presump­
tion, through unbelief, and blasted the happiness
of thousands ? But, on the other hand, if any de-
E
65
---- Digitized by
f ' r t •
ceit hath been practised on the scriptures ; yet as
they have been banded down from age to age, and
meii have regarded them, believing that they are
the word of God, can their danger be so great,
if they are deceived by any imposition of man, as
those who act with.presumption to deny the scrip­
tures through unbelief, if they should find them to
be the word of God ? And now I ask what proofs
they have to bring forward, to shew to mankind,
that the ^scriptures are not the word of God?
can they do .this as clearly as I have proved they
are, by my own knowledge and experience? For
though men condemn the scriptures, because the
wisdom of Gpd- doth not appear consistent with
*their wisdom ; yet it is impossible for man to prove
the scriptures, as delivered to the prophets, are
not the word of God.
*r« in d unbelief is sure to err,
1 scans bis thoughts in vain ;
* Q0dis hisown interpreter,
Attd he will make tilings plain.”
That the* Lord in mercy condescends to warn
of dangers by dreams 1 am witness,of; as by a
dream ilot^ only my own life was preserved, but
the whole family,, from the destruction .of the
flames. If the warning had not been given me in
a dr^ap* of the lower part of the house being on
fire, and hail it. remained a quarter of an hour
longer, the flames would have been so great that it
would have been impossible for any of us to have
escaped. (See the particulars; iq page 9 — “ Full
Assurance.”)
The contents of this book taken fxdm Joanna
Southcptt’s mouth by me, A nn U n d e r w o o d ,
July 17th, 1812. Witness,- J ane Towneev.
• ) . . !! J 1
1
1 jf f 1l,li ^ 1
1
1 LONDON.
Printed- b$Marehant and Galabin? Ingram-Coiirt; aiwj sbld b y ’ W. T oef**
' Chapel-Place, D uke-Street, Westminster-Roadj Southwark; also by W.
' Svmonds, GAndy-Lane; and the Miss E vele igh 3>'Sl Sidwell’s, Exeter
r >, H irst, Leeds; J. M iddleton, York; J amrs L ight, Coventry-
Sftreet, Stourbridge, Worcestershire; E dmund „Bakeb, Ilminster j
C. B r a d le y . Digbeth, Birmingham. , - -i ^ :
> / Price One Shilling and Three-pence.J
66
